
Wednesday,· April}, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 118 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
O'Hara responds to Ad Hoc in open letter 
culmination of a process that In the same letter, O'Hara group. In doing so, she distin­and lesbian students in comingGLND/SMC began on March 6, 1995, when established the Ad Hoc guished it from a student club together to lind mutual support O'Hara wrote an open letter to Committee to advise her on or organization, whose pur­and to explore common issuesdenied, 'University the University community how Student Affairs would do a pose, in order to be recognized, within the context of this com­explaining the rationale behind better job of meeting the needs must be "consistent with the munity and the teachings of
group' established the decision of Student Affairs of the University's gay and les­mission of the University and the Catholic Church 
to deny official University bian students. the moral teachings of the •the group's right to receive 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE recognition of Gays and Catholic Church," according to University funds, publicize its 
Assm:iatc News F.diwr Lesbians of Notre Dame/Saint • see REACTION page 3 her open letter released in meetings and use University 
Mary's College. March 1995. facilities for its meetings comes 
I·:stablishing "Notre Dame Student Affairs denied recog­In yesterday's open letter, O'Hara accompanied an ex­through its advisor(s) c;ay and Lesbian Students" as a nition of GLND/SMC because it O'Hara prefaced her responses planation with each of her ac­•the vice president for Stu­Univnrsity-sponsored organiza­found "the group's discussion by naming the "dual goals" of ceptances of the committee's dent Affairs plays a role in the 
tion. distinct from a recognized in its application materials re­the Offiee of Student Affairs: 12 recommendations. And in selection of the advisor(s) "student group." Vien President garding the range of ways in "building an inelusive commu­responding to O'Hara also addressed the of Studnnt Affairs Patricia which gays and lesbians might nity in which our gay and les­Recommendation 5, O'Hara Campus Life Council's concern O'llara responded to the 12 live out their orientation to be bian students feel prized" and listed the characteristics of the that O'Hara solicit input from reeornnwndations made by the inconsistent with the Church "remaining faithful to the new University group: GLND/SMC in order to assure Ad Hoc Cornmittne on Gay and teaching, as were expressions teachings of the Catholic •the group is facilitated by the creation of "the best Lesbian Studtmt Ntwds in her of dissent from Church teach­Church." one or two members of the fac­option" for Notre Dame's gay Opml Letter printed in yester­ing made by some of By placing Notre Dame Gay ulty or administration and lesbian students. ln refer­day's issue of The Observer. GLND/SMC's leadership in con­and Lesbian Students under •the group stands in special ence to the CLC's encourage­
ller responsns were made in versations and correspondence the direet sponsorship of the relationship to the Office of 
n~action to the committee's with our office over the years," University, O'Hara classified Student Affairs 
see LETTER/ page 4

final report whieh was the she wrote. the group as a University •the group shall assist gay 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Ambassador: Estonia's Hellmuth, Tobin take HPC helm 
future remains unstable 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ By ERIN LUM 
A"i't;ull News Ediwr News Writer 
I>nhorah Hellmuth and Mike Estonia, a country which re­Tobin. the new Hall Presidents gained its independence in De­
Council eo-chairs, ran their eember 1991 after more than
first IIIIHJting last night, and 
fifty years of forced an­
outlirwd the dutins and posi­nexation to the Soviet Union,
tions available for thn new 
now looks to its future with adorm presidents. 
justified sense of uneasinessThe mnnting, held at and uneertainty, according toPangborn Hall. was a transi­
Estonia's ambassador to thetional mnnting between thn 
United States, Toomas Hendrikhall prnsidnnts of this year and 
lives. Estonia is independentthe newly nlected presidents and has undergone extreme
for tlw liJW>-97 school ynar. 
eeonomie development al­
"Our job as co-chairs is to 
though it faees threats from The Obse!Ver/Kalie Kroener 
organizn tlw mentings, get 
Russia of being re-occupied, he Estonia's Ambassador to the
spnakers and hnlp you out. 
said. United States, Toomas Hendrik
But we do nend some help 
In a lecture at the Hesburgh lives, spoke at Hesburgh Center
from you," said Hellmuth, 
will also be having elections that we have to have, so it is for International Studies yester­
Center for International Studiesrequnsting applicants for the 
for three members to repre­up to you as to how many we yesterday, lives expressed day.
positions of trnasurer and 
sent IIPC at Student Senate. have," said Tobin. some of the security concerns from the rest of Europe inexecutivn assistant. 
IIPC will also deeide what In other HPC news, Simone Estonia now faces. According twenty years ," he said.
"Wn would like these posi­committees they would like to Barber, president of AIDS to lives, in the past few years, This economic development,tions to he filled by the out­form for the upcoming year at Awareness, spoke to the coun­Estonia has undergone rapid though, has caused strains ingoing presidents, hut if some­next week's meeting. cil about the upcoming AIDS economic growth beeause of a the relations between Estonia
orw has a lot of experience 
"At IIPC, we form our own Awareness Benefit Bash April series of reforms introduced by and its neighbor, Russia.
and inlf~mst, we will be willing committees. This year we had 17. its new government. "What could be more distress­to lnt them run." 
a budget committee and a The benefit will raise money "Estonia is in the process of a ing to Russia than a countryHellmuth and Tobin passed campus improvement eommit­to donate to AIDS Ministry's rapid transformation from be­whieh started in the same eco­out applications for these posi­
tee, but we are looking for AIDS Assist in downtown ing a poor part of the world to nomic situation as them, but
tions to be turned in next 
new ideas this year. The bud­one that stands a very good
wm~k. at which menting they get committee is the only one see HPC/ page 6 chance of being unreeognizable see ESTONIA/ page 4 


Senior Comprehensive distinguishes SMC grads 
By lAURA SMITH said Billy. "Students were cramming have to pass both parts or you have to A"i'tant Saint Mary's Editor and there was very little lasting value." repeat the parts until you pass. We Now, English majors take a Senior took the exam the first week of Spring 
Many things sot Saint Mary's College Seminar course. English· Literature semester, so I spent my Christmas graduates apart l'rom graduates ol' majors develop a reading list and eaeh Break studying." otlwr institutions. One important dis­student teaches a book she selects. En­In spite of the stress, Kilmer believes tinction ol' Saint Mary's graduates is glish Writing majors work all semester her Senior Comprehensive was valu­that naeh one has suecessl'ully com­on an extended pieee of writing, a series able. "I learned a lot. I'm glad I had to 
pl,~ll~d a SPnior Comprehnnsive within of short stories or poems, a play, or a do it. Everything I've learned in four lwr maj(ir diseiplinn. novel. years culminates in the 
Thn Snnior Comprelwnsive n~quire­"This systr.m is much morr, effective," Comprehensive." IIIPnt varins from one discipline to said Billy. "The Comprehensive Nursing majors also take an exam for anollwr. But whether it consists of a requirement allows students to display their Senior Comprehensive. The 375 tost, a study, or a paper and presenta­their full capabilities. The semester­question exam is a simulated Nursing 
tion, all Senior Comprehensives are long experience is well-rounded and Boards exam. Senior Karien Cook took both diflieult and rewarding, according lasting." her exam last weekend. "It's very to studnnts and faculty nwmbers. While most majors have changed their stressful taking my Senior Aceording to Ted Billy, chair of the Senior Comprehensive requirement, Comprehensive so close to graduation. 
l·:nglish Dnpartnwnt at Saint Mary's, the some still consist of exams. The busi­I won't lind out if I passed or not for Snnior Comprelwnsive in most majors nnss department's Senior Compre­three weeks. I know that I might have consisted of an exam when the hensive eonsists of a two-part, live hour to take it again to graduate. Comprelwnsivn was first instituted. But exam. Part one tests general business "I think it's a good thing to prepare for now the nxam is tlw nxcnption, rather knowledge. Part two covers the stu­the Boards, but I don't think graduation than tlw rule. dent's specific eoncentration. should depend on this one test. I would 
"In the English Dnpartment, we found "The test is very stressful," said Kelly 
Reactions," marks the culmination of her

see SENIORS/ page 6
that the exam was not very effective," Kilmer, a senior marketing major. "You Senior Comprehensive. 



4 


Baseball: A family tradition 

There's probably no need for another column heralding the start of the baseball season, but for me it means more than the thrill of the grass and the annual lamentations about the Cubs' pitching staff (wait 'till next year). 
Baseball season is a speical time for me and 
Megan McGrath Sports Writer 
one of the most impor­tant people in my life, my dad. 

My father knows a lot about sports. Try play­ing sports Trivial Pursuit with him -miss one and you don't get your turn back. But baseball has always been special. 
Don't get me wrong, my father and I don't have one of those relationships where all we talk about is sports, and if I didn't follow base­ball we'd have nothing in common. 
My dad and I can talk about anything, and usually do. He laughs at my dumb jokes and I laugh at his. He thinks I can do anything except drive, and he hopes I don't date before I'm forty (sadly, I'm on my way). 
But my dad felt it was important enough to share baseball, one of his great loves, with me. Baseball is where we really connect, and I feel blessed that we have this link. 
Thanks to my dad, I can keep score as well as any one. During the season, he quizzes me on batting leaders and random trivia. 
We love nicknames and obscure players. We chuckle about the Big Cat, the Big Hurt and of course, the Big Unit. We love Lloyd McClendon because he hit a pinch-hit home run in his first Cubs at-bat in 1989, and we remember when Atlee Hammaker was the ace of the Giants' staff. 
I know every possible baseball cliche, except for the ones Keith Olbermann makes up as he goes along. Why be boring and say homer, when you can go yard, dail eight, hit a four-ply swat, or get curcuit clout, to name but a few. 
When a guy hits a shot, its a "frozen rope." Pitchers have "good gas," "yakkers," and when they're going for a "K," they throw "high cheese." Mike Piazza is a sturdy backstop, Kenny Lofton has a good hose,. and Matt Williams is the best in the business at minding the hot corner. 
I have seen more games in person than I could possibly count. I've been to All-Star games and to the World Series. But the best memories come from the days when dad would just decide, hey, let's go to the old ball game. 
Sometimes we were lucky and it was warm 
at Candlestick, but more often than not we 
froze in the wind and fog. But we never left. 
You never leave a ball-game early. You never 
know what might happen. 

I'm not going to draw some cheesy parallels 
and say that through teaching me about base­
ball, my dad taught me about life. My dad did 
both, independently of each other. 
Sports were important, but not as important 
as school (well, unless it was opening day), 
values and family. I always knew my dad 
loved me and was proud of me. 
The support I've always recieved from my 
father is so much more important than the 
tickets he got for me. I'd still love him even if 
he didn't think Albert "Joey" Belle is the best 
hitter in the American League. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  
Maureen Hurley  Production  
Jillian Pagliocca  John Hutchinson  
Jackie Moser  
Spons  
Mike Day  Lab Tech  
Michael Hungeling  
Graphics  

• Wtmw Ar A GuNct: 
Freemen religious beliefs may raise risk of violent end 
JORDAN, Mont. 

The Freemen's religious beliefs, even more than their anti-government politi­cal views, may frustrate federal efforts to get them to leave their barricaded ranch. 
The Freemen's rejection of government and its monetary system ultimately led to the charges on which two of their leaders were arrested March 25, leading to the standoff at the group's 960-acre ranch. 
Among other things. the two were charged with bad check schemes, and 
conspiring to kidnap and murder a feder­a! judge involved in the foreclosure against the ranch. 
But after a week of being confined to the snow-covered ranch, watched by fed­eral agents who have a direct telephone line to the ranch compound, the Freemen are showing signs of leaning more heavi­ly on the racist Christian Identity teach­ings that form the basis of their politics. 
"It's very frightening," said Eric Ward, associate director of the Northwest Coalition Against Malicious Harassment. The Seattle-based human rights group is well-known in the region for keeping Lewistown 
Rally by Freemen i i su~~~~-~~~-.........-..~~"-'--. 8 
0 Helena Detail area Montana j 
Idaho 


and other fringe groups. APNJm. J. Castello schemes. 
"The believe there's a world conspira­cy that has singled them out and that satanic powers will be turned against them," Ward said. "It creates the idea of being crusaders or even martyrs for the cause." 
The Christian Identity movement holds 
·-! that white people from northern Europe are God's chosen, while Jews are the offspring of Satan and blacks are subhu­man "mud people." 
This theology may be backbone of the Freemen's efforts to set up their own government and claim America for "true ciiizens." 
Being cooped up on the ranch rein­forces the Freemen's us-against-them world view, Ward said. 
"It's like a cult," Ward said. "These are people who have isolated themselves from the rest of society. There's no mod­erating influence. They're feeding on one another's fears and paranoia. That becomes an explosive situation for those who have to deal with this group." 
One of the men arrested by federal agents was LeRoy Schweitzer, alleged to be behind the group's bad-check 
Clinton throws fast one 
BALTIMORE 

Pat Buchanan and more than a few lusty boo-birds were in the stands Tuesday as President Clinton threw a soft, slow pitch to open the Baltimore Orioles' 1996 baseball season a day late. Clinton, wearing khakis, an or­ange-and-black Orioles jacket and matching cap, took the mound at Camden Yards after being introduced 

to a roughly even number of boos and cheers. The boos resounded louder. Smiling, the president tossed a harm­less, high lob to catcher Chris Hoiles and, still smiling, strode from the mound to greet Peter Angelos, the Ori­oles' general manager, and Maryland Gov. Parris Glen­dening. The governor also was booed. Presidential spokesman Mike McCurry chalked up the boos to "a longstanding tradition" at Camden Yards, downtown Bal­timore's 3-year-old ballpark. About the only person to re­ceive universal cheers prior to the game with Kansas City was Orioles star Cal Ripken. 
Report: Teen pregnancy on rise in 80's 
CHICAGO 
A new study confirms previous findings that teen-age pregnancy and abortion rates rose markedly in the 1980s. Later statistics from 40 states suggest that those rates declined slightly during the early 1990s, but figures through 1990 are the only definitive national data. The pregnancy rate am~ng the under-15 group was 6.3 preg­nancies per thousand girls in 1980, rising slightly to 6. 9 by 1985 and to 7.1 by 1990, said the federal report pub­lished in Wednesday's issue of the Journal of the Ameri­can Medical Association. "Our rates continue to be high­er than many other developed countries, and 95 percent of teen pregnancies are unintended, so we have a long way to go," said the author, epidemiologist Alison M. Spitz of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Among girls ages 15 to 19, it was 88.8 per thousand in 1980, dipping to 87.7 in 1985 and zooming to 95.9 in 1990, the report said. "In the '80s, there con­tinued to be more than 800,000 teens who became preg­nant each year," Spitz said. 
Teacher fired after showing Italian film 
GOLDEN, Colo. 
A school board has fired a high school teacher for showing an R-rated movie about Italian fascism, rejecting a hearing officer's recommendation and testimony by di­rector Bernardo Bertolucci. Teacher Alfred Wilder didn't apply "good professional judgment" in showing the Bertolucci film "1900" in his logic and debate class, the Jefferson County panel said Monday as it voted unani­mously to dismiss him. Officials objected to nudity, drug use and violence portrayed in the movie, which starred Donald Sutherland and Robert De Niro. Bertolucci testi­fied by telephone in support of Wilder in February. lie defended his portrayal of Italian fascism as an accurate depiction of the atrocities of the time. The case also attracted the attention of the National Coalition Against Censorship. As the board's decision was read Monday, Wilder and his lawyers stormed out of the meeting. "We'll see you in court," attorney Walter Gerash said as he walked past school board lawyers. "It's fascist, it's fascist," Gerash said later. "They ignored all the consti­tutional protections that the fact-finder found." 
European Pepsi cans get new look 
LONDON 
Next to those bright red cans, Pepsi just wasn't getting the attention it wanted. The company is introducing a vivid blue can in Europe and other parts of the world that scraps the familiar red, white and blue logo. Instead, Pepsi cans will adopt a color the company thinks will at­tract more cola-swilling teen-agers. Pepsi, perhaps preparing for another promotional blitz, pointedly did not release any plans for the can in the United States or Canada. But the company did say it would eventually use the new look worldwide. The $500 million campaign that started on Tuesday is part of Pepsi's plan to close the gap with Coca-Cola, the dominant cola outside the United States. With little more growth to be squeezed out of North America -the two cola giants are looking at the rest of the world to increase sales. The campaign flaunts flashy models including Cindy Crawford and Claudia Schiffer and tennis star Andre Agassi. Even Air France's top-speed Concorde supersonic jet has been painted in the new Pepsi color. 


Wedne;day, April 3 
AccuWeather00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 3. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L Ea ESl lTil 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated PIUS 
Atlanta  73  52  Dallas  70  58  New York  56  41  
Baltimore  67  50  Los Angeles 72  54  Philadelphia 53  40  
Boston  50  32  Miami  80  66  Phoenix  81  58  
Chicago  43  37  Minneapolis 37  22  South Bend  43  38  
Columbus  55  50  New Orleans 75  57  Waco  75  64  

Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excc:pt during exam and vacation period!.. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• GLND/SMC 
Blandford: O'Hara gives inadequate solutions 
By JAMIE HEISLER Associate News Editor 
The decade-long struggle for Univf~rsity recognition of c;LND/SMC was prolongml yes­tnrday when Professor Patricia O'llara, vice president for stu­dtmt affairs, issued a response n~jncting GLND/SMC's request to lw formally constituted as tlw University group eontem­platnd in Hneornmnndation 5 of thn Ad lloe Committee's Final Be port. 
Citing the report. O'Hara calls for a new University group to be established which follows the guidelines suggest­

• fOR THE RECORD••• "I do not accept GLND/SMC's call to be formally consti­tuted as the University group ..." -Patricia O'Hara  "The response treats gay and lesbian stu­dents as suspect, persons to be watched at every turn and never trusted." -John Blandford  "Students at our school who feel this is an acceptable response should know that it really isn't." -Jonathan Patrick  

• AD Hoc COMMITTEE 

nd by thn ad hoc committee. While the provisions of the new group follow the outline of the 

Ad Hoc holds mixed reactions 
ad hoc mport, the intent of the The ObseiVer/Mike Ruma 
Last spring, a rally in support of
eommittnn is completely over­
GLND/SMC was held with the By HEATHER COCKS problematic." what she deemed a "narrow"
looknd. according to John 
approval of the Office of Student Assistant News Editor The focus of most member interpretation of the recom­
Blandford, president of 
Affairs. dissent, Hecommendation 5 mendation. "This was her op­
CLNI>/SMC. 
people the choice of an advi­One month ago, the Ad Hoc calls for the creation of a group portunity to reach out to gay
"I found the letter to be 
sor?" Committee on Gay and Lesbian affiliated with the University, and lesbian students, respecting
nxenedingly eynieal in its 
The selection of an advisor Student Needs submitted their and including "one or two mem­them as adults on this campus."
rnsponse to the spirit of the ad 
report to Vice-PrP.~ident of Stu­bers of the faculty or ad­According to Ann Firth, assis­
hoe report. At best the by Student Affairs, with limited input by gay and lesbian stu­dent Affairs 
ministration." tant to the vice-president of
response stuck to the letter [of 
dents, was one of the restric­Patricia O'Hara accepted the recom­Student Affairs, her fellow com­
tlw report! but even at that, 
tions placed the O'Hara, mendation on several condi­mittee members should instead
tlw point and what the cornmit­on new 
University group by O'Hara in marking the tions, one of which was that the feel optimistic about O'Hara'sWn intended were completely 
ignorml." said Blandford. her letter of response. This culmination group, to be called Notre Dame letter. "(O'Hara) has laid out clause is one which has drawn of a year of Gay and Lesbian Students, something that is very work­
In addition, the University 
careful would elect no officers or lead­able," she said, adding that shegroup whieh O'Hara calls for in much reaction from members 
of the gay and lesbian commu­deliberation ers, nor would they sponsor any was pleased with it in its entire­
place of a studnnt group is 
and discus-events beyond their regular ty.
inadequate in its goal of meet­nity who have noted that the ing the true rwmls of thn gay restriction not only denies the sion. Firth group meetings. In her letter, O'Hara ap­
and lnsbian population of the group self-determination but O'Hara's "This group's primary em­pointed Firth the liaison bn­
also requires students to "out" response to their suggestions, phasis should be to educate," tween the group and the OfficeNotre Dame campus, aecording 
published in yesterday's stated Silva. "As I interpret it,
to Blandford. themselves to Student Affairs if of Student Affairs. The job en­they wish to have any input in Observer, received mixed the group can't bring in any­tails frequent contact with the
"Not only does this [new 
reviews from the committee. thing as far as lecturers or appointed faculty advisers, as
group! not ineorporate all of the selection of an advisor. 
"I think she did a nice job with films ... basically, all it feels like well as being a strong figure intlw rwenssary components of a A student group such as 
the majority of the rec­they can do is sit in a room to­what O'Hara termed the "ongo­student group, it's also inade­GLND/SMC, Blandford argues, ommendations," said Anthony gether periodically and drink ing review and evaluation of the
quatn as a support group," h11 would offer more to gay and 
said. "llow can you have a lesbian students than the sup­Silva, an undergraduate student Diet Coke." group as the process unfolds." support group you can trust port available in the University who served on the committee. Graduate student and com­Firth expressed her willingness "Her response to Ree­mittee member Sharon Miller to remain close to the situation
without even allowing those 
see GLND/SMC/ page 6 oinmendation 5, howevnr, I find voieed her disappointment in 
see AD HOC/ page 4 

• STUDENT GOVERNING BODIES 
. .. . . . ... 
Campus leaders split in opinion of response 
fi seroice in memory of 





Meghan Conley 
fi junior at Saint Mary's College Will be offered at cf(egina Chapel on Wedr1esday,fipril3 at 5:15p.m. 
~> 


fi reception for the family and friends will follow the mass. 
Patrick sees restrictions as denial of rights 
ByJAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
Reaction from members of the Campus Life Council has been mixed concerning the denied recognition of 
GLND/SMC as stated in V i c e ­President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's response to 

the Final Preacher Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 
A recent letter, submitted by the CLC, requested that GLND/SMC be recognized as the University group to be constituted as outlined in Hecommendation 5 of the ad hoe report. In her response, O'Hara stated that GLND/SMC would not be the group consti­tuted. 
Jonathan Patrick, as the 1995-96 student body presi­dent, was in charge of con­
throughout the past year and served on the ad hoc commit­tee appointed by O'Hara, as well. 
"The response was a major disappointment," he said. "Every single representative body on campus as well as the ad hoc committee gave her a more thoughtful decision and compromised position. I hope Professor O'Hara is thinking about how this will affect the gay and lesbian students on campus. This has the poten­tial to divide the community and deny them basic human rights." 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the Arts and Letters depart­ment and member of the CLC, was similarly disappointed with O'Hara's rejection of GLND/SMC as the University group. 
"The response doesn't allow any self-determination," she said. "The administration is basically saying 'We'II tell you where to meet, when to meet, and how to mnet. I have a lit­tle trouble with the totally controlled atmosphere." 
While currnnt Studnnt Body Presidnnt Seth Miller was not available for interview, he said in a written statement, "We applaud the work of the ad hoc committee, and we are 
ducting the CLC meetings 
see CLC/ page 6 


Estonia 
continued from page 1 
which has turned their situation around?" Ilves said. "The lesson from Estonia is that good policies, even if they are unpopular, will be effective in improving a society," he added. 
The tension between the two coun­tries, according to Ilves, is a result of these improvements, because "it is threatening to Russia to see that they are following a course of political re­form which is not working." 
With increasing tension and threats of re-occupation from Russia, security is a prime concern for Estonia, lives said. One possible path to security may come if NATO expands into the Baltic states. This possibility, however, seems unlike­ly due to Russia's violent opposition to it and its threats of occupying any of the Baltic states included in the expansion, he said. 

Another alternative is Estonia's inclu­sion in expansion by the European Union. If Estonia were to participate in this expansion, though, it would have to accept some of the European Union's policies and regulations which it does not agree with. According to Ilves, though, this compromise will be "the lesser of two evils and is better than putting ourselves at risk to Russian threat." 
Currently, the Estonian government is involved with organizing and participat­ing in peacekeeping organizations and other security structures, according to Ilves. However, the political future for Estonia relies on the help from interna­tionally powerful organizations such as NATO and the European Union in order to remain independent, he said. 
"We in Estonia, while enjoying our economic success and the fact that we are moving toward a middle-class exis­tence in Europe, are still very con­cerned with and nervous about what may happen with Russia," lives said. 

Ad Hoc 
continued from page 3 
by saying, "I am excited to be a part of what comes next. In being true to my job I believe I can be true to the intentions of the Ad Hoc report." 
Silva noted with concern the heavy responsibility placed upon the shoulders of the faculty advisors. "No one with classes to teach and papers to grade could possibly attend each and every meeting, in addition to the numerous consultations with Ann Firth that will be required," he said. 
Added Miller, "I despair at the thought of designating only two people for the job." 
In the March 1 edition of The Observer, GLND/SMC co-chair John Blandford was quoted as saying that "in the [Ad Hoc committee] letter, there are plenty of loopholes to be found." Silva and Miller were in concurrence with the idea that in some areas, the wording may have led to an interpretation inconsistent with the committee's intentions. Such a problem could be found in their attempt to differ­entiate their proposed group from the previously rejected, entirely student-run GLND/SMC. Silva noted, "If there were any loopholes, it seems they were found and turned into restrictions. Student Affairs ends up with almost total con­trol." 
He added that, although Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students will be spon­sored by the University, the members themseJves should be permitted a greater level of participation. "The group can't run itself without student officers or or­ganization," he said. "We've really lost all control over group activity, which I think will be ultimately less beneficial to the students." 
"No events and no officers. I really feel that this is all over," lamented Miller. 
Firth disagreed. "I hope people will give it a chance. That's all anyone can ask, really." 

Letter 
continued from page 1 
ment of GLND/SMC's "collec­tive participation" as an orga­nization in the University group, O'Hara denied GLND/SMC's request and repeated that Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students will be University-sponsored and "dif­ferent in significant ways" from a student organization. 
In the conclusion of her open letter, O'Hara stated, "Like the committee, I think that the dia­logue surrounding these issues has moved the University be­yond where we were as a com­munity a year ago." 

Director of Notre Dame Public Relations Dennis Moore commented on the "length, detail and care" O'Hara includ­ed in her letter, saying that she "wants the statement to speak for her." When asked if the University has ever had in its history an organization like that outlined in O'Hara's arti­cle, he responded, "I believe that it is the first of its kind." 
Moore also provided a writ­ten response prepared by O'Hara. who was unable to be reached for comment: "Although not everyone in the campus community may agree with all that I have written, I believe that the recommenda­tions that I have accepted pro­vide a foundation upon which we can build." 
"I look forward to moving ahead and directing our own collective energies on the task of implementing the recom­mendations," she said. 
University President Father Edward Malloy and Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp were out of town and unable to be reached for comment. Counselor to the President and Director of Cam­pus Ministry Father Richard Warner was also unavailable for comment. 


INTERESTED MEMBERS OF THE CLASS OF 1999 (NEXT YEAR•s SOPHOMORES) SHOULD PlCK UP AND RETURN APPLICATIONS TO THE SUB OFFICE ON THE 2ND FLOOR LAFUN 

Teaching and 
Research Abroad! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1997-98. 
All freshmen, sophomores, and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Thursday evening, April11, 1996 at 7:00PM in room 126 DeBartolo 
•AGreat Notre Dame rradition o{Winnine Fulbriehts I 
u Louis Farral<han: A Threat to Amer1ca. 11 

Hesburg Auditorium 

call Erin King at 
910. 

AT&T breakup teaches 

GSU honors Brumwell, Murphy

corporate lesson 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN in theology .. Daniel Montiel to the Orienta­
By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
The evolution of corporate businesses will continue to astound tho business world in near future, according to Hon Huseman, who spoke Tuesday at the Saint Mary's Management Club. 
A current branch manager at Lucent Teclmologics, a spin-otT company of the former AT&T Corporation, Huseman, an employee at AT&T for 30 years, spoke to an audience of Saint Mary's busintlSS majors con­cerning the biggest corporate breakup of AT&T in history. 
Covering the history of AT&T, beginning in 1876, Huseman discussed the corporation's praetice of a complete govern­ment regulated monopoly in the telephone industry. 
In 1978, the Carter Administration passed a com­munication bill deregulating monopolies in attempt to foster eompotition in the business world. 
"Tiw Carter deregulation," said Huseman, " was the be-
News Writer 

ginning of the spin-offs and mergers in the corporate world 
The Graduate Student
whose small company spin-offs Council honored two students, we are familiar with today." 
established new committeeAT&T's breakup produced 
chairpersons and passed a new"seven sister" privately owned 
budget in its first meeting
companies throughout the U.S. 
under a new administration
that specialize in serving differ­last night. 
ent parts of the country's tele­The awards for Outstandingphone services. 
Teaching by Graduate Students What is left of AT&T today were given to Gordon
specializes in various de­
Brumwell, a teaching assistantpartments ranging from manu­in biology, and Catherine Mur­facturing communication soft­phy, an independent instructor 
ware to cellular services, 
The awards are given annu­ally to two graduate student­teachers who give outstanding teaching performance. 
The GSC also appointed new committee chairpersons. Ed Wingenbach was nominated to take over the Travel Grant committee. Beth Caniglia, the outgoing Vice President, was appointed chair of the Intellectual Life Committee. Estelle McNair was appointed to Women's Resource, Suzanne Coshow to Quality of Life and tion Committee. 
The final item was the new administration's budget. After long debate, the council finally approved a preliminary budget on a vote of seven to six. 
The primary points of contro­versy involved the distribution of funds to the Travel Grant and Intellectual Life Committees. While these items were not entirely resolved, the council fashioned a "working" budget which they plan to update at subsequent meetings. 
according to Huseman. "Listening directly to an expe­
Panel debates local, national welfare 
rienced professional in the busi· By LESLIE FIELDness sector who has witnessed a 
News Writer

large corporate breakup is the best teacher for students," said Local and national welfare is­Kristen Buraczewski, a junior sues were under debate Monday business major. 
night in a panel discussion that"A perfect example of the con­took place in the Center for
tinuing evolution in today's 
Social Concerns. 

world is just this week two spin­· Rob Ercoline, of Little Floweroff "sister companies" of AT&T Catholic Church, Felicia Leon of 
announced a $30 billion 
the South Bend Center for themerge," said Huseman. "Just Homeless and Wayne Goodling, an indication that the competi­Assistant Director of St. Joetion is still very alive in the busi­County's Division of Family and
ness world for large corpo­
Human Services spoke with arations like AT&T." 
group of students from the 

CELEBRATE THE RESURRECTION 
at 

FIRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
Eustc••• Wcn•shit• Services -Sunday~ Apt•il 7 
7::30 u.m.­ Church Youth-It'd Drama and Special Music.  
Easter Vigil  8:4S u.m.  - Chapt'l Choir. Holy Communion.  
Service  ll :00 a.m.­ Brass and Percussion enst'mble, San1·tuary und Covt'nant Choirs, and Celebration !lingers. 
Samrday, April 6  
H:OO p.m.  Easter Homily: "A Tale of Two Tombs"-Dr. Smith  
Easter lmw~jilst in the Social Hal/8:1.5 a.m.  -10:30 a.m.  
Sponsort•tl by the St•llior High a11d ]u11ior High Youth Croups of First Church  

Nur•ery care throughout the morning. Parking behind the church, at Scottish Hite and Jr. Al"hitwt~nwnt. Or. Ellwood (Woody) Smith, Senior Pastor, Tim Hobinson, Director of Mu•ic/Organist, Cindy Solum, Dire(•tor of Christian Education/Youth Ministries. 
219) 233-94-6:1 




CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We are currently accepting applications for next year. 
FuRNISHED APARTMENTs SWIMMING POOL & JACUZZI TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL, & BASKETBALL COURTS 24 HOUR LAUNDRY & SHUTTLE BUS PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
*Limited Apartments available for your selection* For more information call272--1441 
Washington D.C. Welfare Seminar. The students exten­sively studied the topic, "Welfare: Public or Private Re­sponsibility." 
Each panelist addressed stu­dents' questions on local and national welfare programs. All on the panel felt that more needed to be done to improve the system. 
It was agreed that reforms are not easy, as can be seen through the Welfare Reform Bill, HH4, under debate in Congress now. With the bill, funding would be turned over to the states in the form of block grants. While Leon agrees with state-funded welfare, Ercoline felt that a balance betweP.n the federal and local governments was necessary. 
"Local communities are where answers are found, however we must have some national visions," said Ercoline. 
The efforts made by these groups and individuals show the enormous need for assistance and reform in many areas, pan­elists concluded. 
Latin Expressions Friday
• CORRECTIO~ 
night, showcasing Mariachi 
ln Monday's Observer, a music, which originated in caption misidentified Mariachi and represents Mexico. NO. The Obseroer regrets the er­
Mariachi ND performed at ror. 


-rEE TIIVIES! 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE 
BEGINNING MONDAY, APRIL I FOJt SATURDAY, APRIL 6 AND BEYOND SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 631-6425 
GOOD FRIDAY APRILS, 1996 IN OBSERVANCE OF GOOD FRIDAY, TilE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 


WILL BE CLOSED UNTIL 3:00 PM . 
.i:OO PM SHOTGUN ADVANCE RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE CALL 631-6415 

Attention: 
StudentS~erStorage 
Your Favorite and most secure storage facility has constructed a new building just for you. No hidden fees and ask anyone on campus about us. 
• 
Resident Manager 

• 
Security Entrance System 


• Call Now for Reservations =~~=~~-;::=~.~= 
Located on Douglas between St. Rd. 23 & Grape Rd. 


CLC 
continued from page 3 

encouraged by Professor O'Hara's acceptance of the recommendations made in the report. We have been and continue to be advocates of a support group for gays and lesbians at Notre Dame. 
"Although we are somewhat concerned about the actual mechanics of such a group, we are confident the new group outlined by Professor O'Hara and the Ad Hoc Committee will be successful through the mutual cooper­ation of the Office of Student Affairs and members of our Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian community," Miller continued. "Although there are some difficult times of transition ahead, Student Government is optimistic about the future of the gay and lesbian com­munity at Notre Dame." 

GLND/SMC 
continued from page 3 
group. "GLND/SMC is an essential piece in meeting the goals she [O'Hara] lays out in her response. I'm not saying we're the only piece, but we are essen­tial to creating an environment in which gays and lesbians can thrive and merely survive at Notre Dame," he said. "We are not just a support group. We also hope to give something back, to help educate the campus, and to be a voice for change." 
Blandford views the University group proposed by O'Hara as closely resem­bling one already provided by Campus Ministry in which gay and lesbian stu­dents can meet for support and counsel­ing on the reconciliation of faith and sexual orientation. 
"She [O'Hara] is basically resurrecting a model already tried by Campus Ministry. She is attempting to repackage it and put it in Student Affairs. The ad hoc committee already rejected a model of that type because they saw a need for a student group," said Blandford. 
While members of GLND/SMC believe O'Hara's response falls short of truly helping the gay and lesbian community, the outcome was not unexpected. 
"We're always hopeful, but given the University administration's history, this was entirely expected," he said. "Recognition will come -I don't know when, but it's the right thing. In the meantime, all the committee report and Professor O'Hara's unresponsive response will do is to demonstrate to the community just how unreasonable the administration is being." 
~--~~-----------------------------------------­

Seniors 
continued from page 1 
like to see the Nursing Senior Comprehensive changed." 
Other students are grateful for their Senior Comprehensive experience. Stacey Reding, a senior communication major, analyzed President Clinton's memorial speech after the Ok­lahoma City bombing for her Senior Comprehensive. "I came away with an awareness of the media. I don't read the news­paper or watch TV news in the same way. I'm more critical. I analyze messages keeping in mind the author's bias and motivation," Reding said. 
In December, Reding pre­sented her paper on Clinton's speech to the faculty and stu­dents in the communications department. "When I was done I felt like I had a baby," she said. "I put so much into my paper and presentation. It was redone and criticized so many times. I was so proud of it. 
Then I was done and I didn't know what to do with myself." 
Biology major Katie Rose had an unusual Senior Com­prehensive experience. She conducted her research at the Duke University Marine Lab. She lived on an island owned by Duke and studied glucose levels in crabs. After many revisions, Rose presented her scientific paper at Duke. She will pre­sent her paper again later this month at Saint Mary's. 
"My Comprehensive was a lot of work, but it was worth it," said Rose. "I really enjoyed the hands-on experience. Now when I read scientific research, I can really understand it and relate to it," Rose said. 

For some seniors, their Senior Comprehensive requirement directly enhances their job skills. Education majors' Comprehensive consists of stu­dent teaching and presenting a portfolio to the department. 
"My Senior Comprehensive provided hands on experience in teaching. Preparing the portfolio is useful in job inter­views because I can show prospective employers what I have done," said Bridgette Far­rell, a senior elementary edu­cation major. 
Other seniors receive job offers directly as a result of their Senior Comprehensive. "One of my former students got a job with J. Walter Thompson because they were so im­pressed with her Senior Com­prehensive," said Carla John­son, assistant professor of com­munication. "The Senior Comprehensive in Communi­cation Research is so important because students really need research skills in the job mar­ket and in grad school." 
If underclass students have questions about their individual Senior Comprehensives they should ask faculty and upper­class students in the depart­ment. Jennifer Dyjak, a senior political science major, advised, "Choose a topic you are really interested in for your Senior Comprehensive. If you enjoy your topic then the experience will be a positive one." 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
South Bend. Barber asked HPC to help raise funds. 
"We are a Notre Dame/Saint Mary's organization and we work to promote AIDS aware­ness. We really hope to raise a lot of money, because this is a very important cause," said Barber. 
Tanya Scapanski, co-chair of Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE), also spoke to HPC about their goals and about sexual as­sault awareness week, which isApril14-18. 
Scapanski said, "CARE is a group of men and women who try to educate and increase awareness about rape. 
"Our goal is to give our presentation in every dorm. We put on a play, after which the audience may ask ques­tions of the actors in the roles, or of the actors themselves," she added. 


Attention All Notre Dame Undergraduates! Future Notre Dame Students want to meet you! The Admissions Office has recently mailed decision letters to high school seniors. We expect many, many (at least 400 or so) of these admitted students will want to visit campus and learn about the Notre Dame Experience first-hand from current Notre Dame students. WE NEED YOUR HELP! lwe are asking that each on-campus student help us by volunteering to host a student overnight for one or more of the following dates: Wednesday, April 10 _ Friday, April 19 _ Thursday, April 11 _ Saturday, April 20 _ Friday, April 12 _ Sunday, April 21 _ Saturday, April 13 _ Monday, April 22 _ Sunday, April 14 _ Tuesday, April 23 _ Monday, April 15 _ Wednesday, April 24 _ Tuesday, April 16 _ Thursday, April 25 _ Wednesday, April17 _ Friday, April 26 _ Thursday, April 18 _ Saturday, April 27 _ MJe ask that you complete this form today and drop it by the Admissions Office ( 11 3 Main Building). lf you prefer, you can call Jennifer Carrier at 1-7505 and let her know which dates you would be willing to host. She also will take any questions you have about the program. (You can, if you like, drop this form in campus mail, but please do it now because time is running short.) A final option is to reply by e-mail to the following address: Jennifer.M.Schlueter.l @nd.edu The students in our next Freshman class are calling today to visit very shortly. Any assistance you can give them will be greatly appreciated. On behalf of next year's freshmen, we thank you for your generosity. The Admissions Office 113 Main Building 631-7505  



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 3, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OrFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Eli1.abeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Panicia Carson Man Casey Tom Rol•nd 

News Etlitor ........................ 1\rJJ l'renJergm Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor ..................Mc:-aghan Smith Ad Dcsi~n Manager ...............................JedPcters Spans Editor ....................Timothy Sherman Producuon Managcr.......................Tara Gneshop Al"ccnt Ediwr .......................... .Jncy <:rawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. CarolinC" Blum Controllcr.......................................... Tyler Weber l'hoto Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The ( lh.crver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre 
l>Jmc du l..ac and Saint MJry's College. lr docs nor necessarily renee~ rhc policie~ of rhe administra­tion of cithC'r imliHIIIon. The new\ is rl"poncd as accurately and objectively~ possible. Unsigned edi­torial\ rc:prt."~t'm the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. M;tnaging Editor, N~ws Editor, Viewpoint Fdiwr, AL:cenl Edirur, Phow Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Conunt:mMic5., lcUC'rs and Imide Columns presem the views ofrhe aurhors, and not necessarily those ofTlu· Ob!<!t"rver. Viewpoim !<!p<h.c i!. avaiL1blc wall members ofdu: Notre Dame/Sainr Mary1 s com­munity and ro all rcoldtr!.. The free cxprcs~ion of varying opiniom through lcucrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

6.11-4542 1\usinc" Olllcc 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 6.11-4543 Sy>tems/Markt·ting Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Olllce Manager 631-7471 C>.ll-4540 l'ax 631-6927 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver<iPdarwin.cc.nd.edu 

hlitur·m-t:hief Marugin~ Editm/Vit·wpuint Sport!. New,/Phoro Accent/Saint Marv\ l )ay Editor/Puxh;(tion Ccnerallnform.uion 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Oppresssion characterizes agonizing service project 
Upon graduation I decided to spend a year in a job where I eould give baek to my eornmunily before going to graduate sehool. In my idealism, I perceived it as my eighties version of a "Peace-Corp" type of serviee. Now I marvel about my naivete over the helladous experiences that awaitE~d me. Although I learned more in that one year, and I experienced trmnendous n~ward from caring for chil­dnHJ I grnw to love deeply, I also admit that if given the choice again. fore­knowlndge of the eonsequences would probably not lead me to do it again. 
The "orphanage," or children's home, eared for about fifty children. Most had been abused or neglected by their par­ents. I worked wilh twelve boys, ages three to ten. Sister Hosella, an older Irish nun, worked as my partner and she had a reputation for being quite intimidating. In my interview, the Director even told me that she "liked to do things her own way." My idealism soon took a disillusioning blow as I hE!gan my first day. A numb feeling filled me as I wondered what I had got­tE~n mysnlf into for an entire year. 
Life at tlw home nm:essitated growing up in roldnnss, aloofness, confusion, and most of all, terror. At first I likened it to a military institution. but later more to a concentration camp. Uesides living under the weight of an oppressive, Draconie mentality, the children per­formed all lwusework. Though a believ­er in hard work, I often felt sad watch­ing children work from 5 to 6:30 AM. The vaeuum eleaner virtually always outsized the ehild. Hosella barked eom­mands and sereamed until she per­eeivE~d tlw ehores as perfectly completed (not when I did). I eame to determine that thrm~-year olds just physically can­not make a bed, and this led to their daily beratings. As each second of that year painstakingly ticked away, I real­iZt~d I fae1~d a very foreign mentality. 
Behind this mentality did lie an expla­nation. Hosella had been orphaned at five and raised in an orphanage. She shared with me how physical abuse had bEHlll commonplace. I realized this had been the only family life she had known, and she merely attempted to recreate that world. Lest the reader think she and I shared a hostile relationship, on the contrary, we had a very friendly one. She often brought me gifts and chatted a long time. Part of what made my life so dif'ficult precisely involved the niceness she displayed after the children left for school. I also felt a great amount of compassion for the early life she had lived. 
I can hardly express the agonizing I underwent in handling the situation. Social work classes {and common sense) taught me that "the best interests of the child" took precedent. When I confront­ed her. she usually expressed severe anger and did the same things moments later. Rosella supervised the housepar­ents, so her authority outw~ighed mine. I soon learned that they felt more intimi­dated by her than I did. I continued reporting the severe incidents, and they began sharing with me their frustration about Hosella. The Director even told me that sometimes she wondered if the children might not be better off in their own homes, because "it would be better to be abused by your own parents than a stranger." After agonizing about Hosella, I then agonized over the unre­sponsiveness of the administration. I felt a moral obligation to the children not to quit, as I desperately wanted to, because I saw myself as the only mediat­ing protection. Not a single person had ever of'ficially reported her actions. 
One day another houseparent came to chat. He lent me his book entitled "Why We Can't Wait" by Martin Luther King. I had always admired King, and the Catholic tradition of saints who lived nonviolent lives and suffered redemp­tively for others. This desire for redemptive love inspired me to remain at the home, but King's book helped me to see the daily things I could do to fight the oppressive atmosphere. I grew up as an incredibly shy person so this seemed like an insurmountable task. 
From King I learned that heroes do not necessarily monopolize moral 
courage because it belongs more to average people who in the face of fear and oppression make little daily deci­sions to stand for the right thing. Courage is not necessarily an inherent characteristic. It results from the daily decisions to do what is right, even in the face of feelings of terror. King's fellow workers surely felt terror when facing snarling dogs and hostile firehoses. I have to admit that fear often filled me as I confronted Rosella. But when I did not confront her, my soul would be tortured over watching the most innocent ones of society be treated in inhumane ways.­
My quandary asked what an incredibly shy person should do in the face of an unresponsive system and a situation of intolerable oppression. In the end, the children really answered the question for me through a song they sang. At breakfast, prayer, bedtime, on the bus, they sang, "Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world. Have mercy on us." Their childlike tune often moved me, and Rosella often asked them to quit singing it. Eventually I began to realize that this embodied their cry to God to help them in their dark, cold world where others' sins weighed heavily upon their small backs. 
When I realized this, I understood what King meant when he proclaimed the reasons for "why we can't wait." Telling people to exercise patience after one hundred years of emancipated oppression was "paternalistically believ[ing they] can set the timetable for another man's freedom." King pro­claimed his disillusionment with "the white moderate, who is more devoted to 'order' than to justice, who prefers neg­ative peace which is the absence of ten­sion to a positive peace which is the presence of justice ..." These compla­cent ministers could be likened to the unresponsive administration which pre­ferred the absence of tension to the jus­tice of living up to their own standards of childcare. I realized that those chit­dren should not have to wait any longer. 
The ending of this story appears happy only in one respect. I detailed a 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DonNESBURV 

written list of examples of her abuse. The supervising priest accused me of making it up out of jealousy, so he required that I fulfill my worst night­mare. I had to take my list of abuses for Rosella to read in my presence. I believed I had agonized before. but that day encompassed the deepest agony I will probably ever face. The tension built all day, and her niceness only served to make it worse. That day something inside of me literally died. I felt that little girl deep inside me, other­wise known as my soul, actually go 
-through an agonizing process of death. Hosella quietly read my list and did not respond. I later realized that what had actually died involved the foundation of terror and fear which had always been a defining part of my life. From that moment, I determined to never again allow intimidation, manipulation or fear tactics to influence my decisions! I knew I might still feel fear, but no longer would it determine my decisions. I have thought much about the mean­ing of redemptive love which King taught. Psychiatrist M. Scott Peck teaches that human cruelty may only be eradicated by being absorbed and smothered within a living being, an act of sacrificial love. King always remind­ed people about the consequences of nonviolent action, and that one's response to humiliation and violence served the utmost function. These teachings have helped me to interpret my experiences at the "children's home from hell" with meaning. I came to appreciate the reality of painful conse­quences to redemptive love, but that there really is no higher love for others. Jesus himself left a powerful example by practicing the highest form of redemp­tive love in his death. Dr. King also exemplified the ultimate cost of working for change through his untimely assassi­nation. His life and teachings are an important and challenging legacy which he has left for all Amerieans. Graduate student Kristine Boeke is one of the winners of the recent Marlin Luther King Essay Contest. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I'm cured of my schizophre­nia, but where am I now that I need me? " 
-Graffito, NYC 


ACCE,NT
page 8 
Wednesday, April 3, 1006 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 

What do you want in your Easter basket? 

"An acceptance letter from USC's graduate 
school." 

Andrea Borgatello Senior, Oak Hill 
"A big chocolate bunny." 
Heather Gorman Sophomore, Breen­Phillips 



"The Easter Bunny would put me in jail if he knew what I want­ed." 
John Bellini Freshman, Off Campus 
"Rich Kizer, King of the 
Beach. He's my favorite 
beach bunny." 
Paige Funk Sophomore, Holy Cross 







By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

N 
estled in the green grass of 
delicious chocolates. They 
miniatures to purple peeps. sneaking them into Easter 
They swap hiding place s Brunch. In the dryer. Under the ceiling fan. They just hope that bunny who thinks that the 
At least that's what children grams at the age of four. Be hunts on the internet and will ("E" standing for Easter. of 
Then~ are no longer kets, but a variety to choose there is the Tastes Great Bask would give Jenny Craig a coron clearly the choice for the mo Easter enthusiast. 
Listed here are the delicious facts about the Tastes Great with suggested contents exam 
*One bag of Heese's peanut tures. 
Serving size-live miniatures 
Total fat-12 grams 

*A quarter pound solid milk ch 
Serving size-one third of a pi 
Total fat-12 (36 g if you eat tic) *The Nestle Crunch Spring Serving size-one bar Total fat-9 grams *Marshmallow Peeps (purple or Serving size-live peeps Total fat-0 grams (The 36 going, too!) 
*Sprees Easter eggs 
Serving size-1 0 pieces 
Total fat-0 grams 

*llershey's Solid Milk Chocolate 
Eaa dyelna: a real cr 
By STEPHANIE THOMAS and JULIANA VODICKA Easter Correspondents 

"A's on all my finals and a lifetime supply of Jelly 
Bellies. Thank you 
Easter Bunny." 

Anne Vales Sophomore, Lewis 
"Plastic eggs with jelly beans in them." 
Rick Rembusch Junior, Stanford 


ike all college students the week before Easter, where were we? Meijer, shopping for the perfect Easter egg coloring kit. Bombarded with the arduous task of choosing the right kit, we did what any other intelligent students would do; buy them all 
and experiment. 

After setting up our lab in Breen-Phillips' kitchen, we decided to start with the good 'ole American stand-by, "PAAS." We were amazed at how much egg technology had changed over the years. Good-bye lit;&le 
pellets of color; hello pre-packaged plastic dye containers. Just add water! 
Picking up that magic clear crayon, we dove into memories of earlier years when PAAS was the only way to deco­rate eggs. With bright colors, we fin­ished the task happily and energetically moved on to the next phase of our exper­iment. 
Little did we know, we were entering uncharted waters-Easter egg hell. Aren't the finished products supposed to resemble the advertisements? Our next kit was "20 egg coloring bags." We assumed the simplicity of the name was an understatement. We were wrong. 
The entire process of the kit involved dipping an egg in water then putting it in a bag of your color choice. Fun. Admittedly the final result was pretty neat, all the eggs looked tye-dyed. It is just too bad that we had such a hard time staying awake waiting for them to dry. 
Moving on, we regained consciousness and began "Sparkle Magic." First, we had tQ dye the eggs, then we dipped them in 'sticky solution' and finally transferred them to the 'glitter bag.' After seconds of 
L

_, an 
~

.,... The 
-: '___ : _ physi< 
half o our clothes though. By the time and even the glitter could not m 
Covered in dye, frustrated, am unanimous decision that PAAc 
eggs. It's simple, fun, fast, and in your Easter basket. 
So have fun this Easter, an Easter egg decorating supply goes smoothly and starts yours 
I  
ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, April 3, 1996  page 9  


O's Eas~er Iaske~ 
slt•r BaskPLs all ovPr thn world are ngP from Bunny Munny to HnPsn's Childn•n Pal LhPrn by tlw handfuls, 
mass. riPs with thPir friPnds at Eastnr 'Psk. In llw grill. llanging from thn ~~'Y an~ not tlw orw with thn boring aVI' is still llw Lrit:ky hiding spot. ~~~ to do. Today tlwy urHIPrstand fat I' long. tlwy will havP Eastl'r ngg ~~~~ to till' l·:astPr Bunny via E-Mail. 
faSLPr has­om. First, f· Its contPnh ~ry. hut it is Itraditional 
nd startling l~kl't, along 
•r t·ups minia­
olalt· bunny. C Schultz 
,\'holt' bunny. whirh isn't unrl'alis­
bar 
ink I 
of' sugar will n~ally kPPp you 

ck up 
of us and llw Pgg wnre covnr1~d with es. Although llw fun factor was lal'k­ul trl'llli'IHiously well, and wn were esting variabln. ·I'd in diseovering the world's most 
·. MTwist and Turn." This high tnch .:rilwd in words. D1~signed by Easter in llw spring forceps and painted it 
·otat1~ llw 1~gg. Disaster! Orw by one, 
uin nvPry bnautiful white egg. Our ry this at honw. PscapadP, wn lwlieved that our expe­rld only improve. Wn had bnen sav­
rwatnst looking kit for last, "Egg 1rs with <;Iiller." guess Wf' should hav1~ known beller sidl'ring tlw first stmtl'ncn of the 
t·tions rnad " ... this is a dye process I may stain." It sounded simple 1llgh, plarP four to fivf' drops of oil 1ring into lhn watnr, insl'rt llw Pgg, 
rt'JJHIVI' t:an•fully. ·p was Olll' major prohll'rn. it was ally irnpossihll' to covnr mort~ than 
thl' pgg with oil. II found its way to 
WI' linislll'd, all llw Pggs Wl'l'l~ brown kl' tlwm prPsPntabln. l~xhaustl'd, tlw two or us ranw to tlw is !Ill' only way to d1~coratn l·:astN 
t•nharH'I'S tWI'rything that you'd want 
hippity hop today to your nnarnst )r·e. We hope that your dneoration ing oil' without a scramble! 
Serving size-llershey's says live, but everyone knows that your big chocolate Kiss is all yours ... all 60 tantalizing fat grams. 
Included in the Tastes Great Basket can be gourmet candies, also, which give the basket that extra kick. · 
Now, for the very '90's Less Filling basket. Its contents are good for the heart and waist line, but horrible for the taste buds. The Less Filling basket can encompass many different foods. There is the extreme Veggie Basket complete with sprouts, carrots (a favorite of Peter Cotton Tail's) and fresh green peppers. This is recommended for ehildren who do not like candy and are interested in a career in gardening. Next, there is the Pseudo Basket. This contains all prod­ucts made by Snackwell, fruit and the up and coming Easter classic, Basket Buddies fruit snacks made with real fruit and no preserva­tives. They come individually packaged. Also included in the Pseudo Basket arn Penps. They are shady little guys because they are so 
light and 11ull'y. The fat free label makes these sugar 
coated chicks an ambiguous basket treat. 
Finally there is the "I don't know, I 
just want everyone to be happy and I 
miss the '80's" hasknt. This is a combi­
nation of the thren baskets with an 
emphasis on fun and color. It just might 
be the ultimate basket accompanied by 
the least amount of complaining. 
• Addnd to this basket are chocolate eovered rabbits, Hobin Eggs and ~llltiiiP, maybe even some Whopper eggs. 
These are basknts containing the choco­late 1~gg with your name on it from a gournwt candy store; or better yet hand made and signed by your mom. It is pnrfectly acceptable to toss in sornl' low fat or high fiber treats into this basket. 
No mattnr which one is your basket of ehoiee, be it the Tastns Great, tlw Less Filling, the Pseudo Basket or the "I don't know, I just want evl'ryone to be happy and I miss the '80's" basket, keep in mind that Easter is a celebration of life. Counting fat grams is fine and maybe even necessary. Over-indulgenee rarl'ly, if ever, leads to anything good. But understanding and experiencing a little bit of everything-a llt~rshey Kiss here and some Basket Buddies there is what life's all about. This just goes to show that a balance can even bn found within an Easter basket. Best of luck in your basket hunts, egg coloring and candy eating rituals. And don't forget to leave your door unlocked tonight so the Big Bunny himself can drop off your basket... no matter which one it is. 
f.::, /t$~ ~/J§ c,~ § "\'ry~~v-Q'tf ~  ;;,;,: § ~ -s,$1 'l.i'lJ e·~ ~ f·~ ~~ 4iif "~~  
Time  Very Fast  Forever  PAAS­itively Perfect!  We never knew you could ruin an egg so quickly  Just Right  
Messy  They were  No  No  There was  Hands..  
Hands?  a rainbow of pastels  permanent Damage  more dye on hands than eggs  and hair and clothes  
Fun Factor  We got a great nap; it was so boring  Yea, for the first 5 seconds  Great fun, you can't screw up PAAS  No  Just like PAAS but then you shake them in a bag  
Cool Exira Stuff  No  No  Cute stickers  No  No  
What kind of Mom would huy it?  "OK kids hurry up with those sol can get my hair done  "My child is an honor student at Genius Junior High  My Mom  A dumb one  Domestic Mom that does not mind vacuuming after this  
How did it look?  Really Just plain nifty; UglyLye-dyed  Bright and colorful  Half Really looked pretty! good the rest looked dirty  

• ACCENT SPEAKS ••• 
The Easter Bunny syndrome 
By CATHERINE DEELY 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Chocolate sated even the sweetest tooth. Jellybeans gathered in enough widely varying flavors to give a dentist nightmares. There was marshmallow and caramel and every conceivable shade of pastel... waiting prettily for childish consumption every Easter morning. l can envision it now ... the race down the stairs, the satisfaction in claiming the "supreme" candy quarry and cruelly advertising it to my sister. deliberately oblivious to the fact that the two baskets perched on the kitchen table were absolutely identical. It was Easter, and it was almost perfect. 
But only almost, because each picturesque Easter basket was sorely lacking my ultimate requirement: something cute, cuddly ... and living. 
I was by no means the only child to hopefully request a rab­bit every Easter; the vast majority of you Domers might very well relate. I remain convinced, however, that I was the most die hard. 
Carefully. I would research the price, location, and specifics of my desired long-eared gift, weeks before the holiduy arrived. I read loudly and strategically from "Peter Hahbit" and clung showily to my own stuffed replicas. with shuddering sighs sup­posedly directed at them, but always. "coincidentally," within earshot of my parents: "Oh. I wish you were a HEAL bunny." 
They never listened to me. And yet, I refused to give up the fight. Every Cadbury egg commercial featuring that hopelessly adorable rabbit-the one which inspired my sister's confused conviction for years that rabbits really did cluck like chickens­only added more flame to my fire. Chocolate and brightly eol­ored eggs were mere fleeting indulgences; bunnies were, I fer­vently believed, forever. 
That we had, at that time, two perfectly respectable cats was irrelevant to me. Oh, they were endearing and urnusing-a part of the family-but they could not rflplace the great and aching Easter vacancy left by being rabbit-less. I wanted something small and soft and timid, with an intriguingly ever-twitching nose ... and I wanted it for Easter. 
My parents turned deaf ears to my petulant choruses of "Why caaaan't 1?" "Because," was their perennial, maddeningly parent-like retort. Determined to win my war. I resorted to seeking sympathy via fiction: I began telling everyone that I had a "brand new rabbit"-who lived, I added rather ingenuously, under my bed. Of course, the neighbors were most startled by this news, and reported suspiciously back to the home front. 
The plot backfired: the Easter basket remained devoid of all things live and furry, and I was treated to a "discussion" about making up stories (though the impulse never did die-hence, my journalism career). Exasperated. my mother finally entreat­ed me one day: "Why a RABBIT?" 
Blame it on the commercial icon of Easter himself: the Easter Bunny. With the deluge of greeting cards, stuffed repli­cas. songs and TV specials featuring life-sized perky-eared bearers of goodies, what child could be blamed for wanting a miniature version of the magical messenger snuggled amongst the candy on Easter morning? 
It was that confident innocence of youth-what made Easter so special: white gloves and church, sunshine and flowers, candy and family. And yet it was so brief. Maybe I merely wnnt­ed a piece of Easter-and what better piece than the popular symbol of the holiday itselt'?-to take care of ... and keep ... for as long as a child's sense of time could imagine. 
Eventually, in a moment of fatherly pet-store weakness com­
pletely unrelated to Easter, my sister and I both did get our rab­
bits. They went on to live long and comfortable, if unremark­
able. lives in a hutch in the backyard. 
But you know ... they never did come in baskets. 

r---­
1 I I 
Wednesday, April 3, 1996 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP~IN VOLLEYBALL RecSports will be offering Drop­In Volleyball on Tuesday!! ,Aprll 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8•11 
p.m. 
in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE ,.. Course in'Cludes four · sessions which meet, on Tuesdays from 6:00 to 7:30 

p.m. 
The dates are April9, 16, and 23. Oasses are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and cam­pus lakes. Equipme:ntit§ pro• vided, but participants . are. en. couraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to students, staff, and fac­ulty. Advance registration in the RecSports office is, required. BLUE/GOLD FOOTBALL GAME STUDENT TICKETS ~ There 




will be two Blue/Gold Games at Kruase Stadium tliis year· at · l:~O,p.Jll. on April . ?7· Stud~nts will be ~L. 
d free to theApril20 Blue(GoJdGame, but 1llust pick up a tic~et, in ad­vance between 10 a.m. and 5 
p~m.~''i>A.pril 9~tl, ~t.!P: 
·· ;s Ga:te 10 .· · · · 
o Jticket , ''J>et ID With a limit oftwo (?}IDs per student. A student may . also purchase a ticket (or $8 the day of tl:J,e gRJlle. For the<April 27 Blue((;;old. Game; stqde11ts •Will be required to pay $6 in ad­vance; $8 day of game, with the advance sale beginning at 8:30 a.m. on April15. BOOKSTORE SCIIDULES • Scll,t~dtlles are available today, at fue LaFortune Information Desk after 4;00 p.m. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 10 
•NBA 

Rodman returns, Bulls win 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Dennis Rodman had 13 re­bounds, eight points and no head-butts in a generally well­behaved return from a six­game suspension Tuesday night as the Chicago Bulls beat the Miami Heat 110-92. 
Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen each had 32 points for the Bulls, who avenged a shocking 113-104 loss at Miami Arena on Feb. 23, when the Heat dressed just eight players. 
The game provided a possible preview of the first round of the playoffs later this month. The teams meet again in Chicago on Thursday. 

Rodman, suspended for head­butting a referee March 16, re­turned sporting a new red hair­do. He was held out of the starting lineup by coach Phil Jackson and entered the game to cheers and jeers with 4:02 left in the opening period. 
Rodman picked up his first foul nine seconds later and threw his arms up in an exag­gerated gesture. When he ap­peared to block a shot cleanly but was called for his third foul. Rodman put his hands to his head and walked away. 
The Bulls won for the 15th time in their past 17 games. With a 7-4 finish, they would become the first NBA team to win 70 games in a regular sea­son. 
Alonzo Mourning had 24 points and 13 rebounds for the Heat, who are battling Charlotte for the final playoff­spot in the Eastern Conference. 
Jordan hit his final four shots of the second period to help give Chicago a 54-42 halftime lead. The Heat were never clos­er than eight points in the sec­ond half, and Rodman scored all of his points in the final eight minutes to sustain the Bulls' cushion. 
Rodman declined to talk with reporters before the game. As he sat at his locker, listening to headphones, a television crew from "Dateline NBC" video­taped him for 20 minutes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF REVEREND FUNK no reason to wear shorts in 20 Maybe that Marty guy can hook me Stan Kenton. Henry Mancini, degree weather. up with a job Roberta Flack, Branford and Winton <><><><><><><><><><><><><>
~7.':"'N-:-O~T~IC=E-:-:-S~.......I .__I_F_O_R_RE_N_T_ __. 
Marsalis, and Ed come see a groove so big it All the world is schlock. I find it decidedly inconvenient that THINKING OF PRIESTHOOD? ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Shaughnessy, they've all been won't even fit in your mouf the pizza was delivered to Badin. Check us out at: HOME. to CJF. Have you????? DALLOWAY'S COFFEE "Don't go to class, stay here and go http://members.aoLcornlfrjohnr/ VERY CLOSE TO NO. Colligiate Jazz Festival HOUSE AT ST. MARY'S to bed with mel!" Thanks for the gum Suzanne 
html/voci .html IDEAL FOR SMC·ND EVENTS. April 12 and 13 at Stepan Center WEDNESDAY AT 9:00 · a lonely Dillon boy e·mial: frjohnr@aoLcom 272·6194. Be there!! $NO COVER$ ·i can be fun. really. i can. 
CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF blumdog-NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY top of the world. God speaking .... what's up with "Winner gets a date Here's hoping Mike feels better Positions are now available at 219-291-7153 oh wait it's just chris. with Brad Pitt?" National Parks. Forests & Wildlife BETH MURCHISON La Pula . How was breakfast? How was the SYR Sam? Preserves. Excellent benefits + NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD after four years of never seeing I know that this is going to sound OW! That's my foot you just bonuses! Call: 1-206-971·3620 AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT yourself in the observer. youre now hard to believe, stomped on. ·I hate those color blind toll keepers ext.N55846 SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 immortalised in the personals but apparently the UMPIRES now 
-pb have Crisconie LSF-Bear, 
Kerry-She's Cool, Oh Yeah I NEED SUMMER HOUSING? in a rundown ........ date with King Lear tonight? or I just want to let you know how Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at HAPPY 19th B·DA Y more much you meant to me this week· College Park for rent. to lis, you're such a sweetie. love, random "I'm just gonna sleep on end. There were times I'd send you 
ILOST&FOUNDI CALL X2915 for details. CATHERINE DEEL Ylll your favorite windbag library guy. your couch. Wake me up for class" flying across the room and it 
Remember-all talks turn to.. , nights? brought a smile to my face. And Found: In Turtle Creek parking lot: 5 BR; 605 St Peter lunacy and laughing fits. (What d'ya ADOPTION: don't worry because you haven't Silver Braclet with little suns on it. $925/mo 232-2595 think I was gonna say?) I'm a very happy little girl named seen the last of me yet. Call Brent at 273-6183 Love, Your Pippy of a friend Caitlin who is adopted. I would love oh. the cramps. 
a baby sister or brother to play with. Overalls. Found: Car Key on Quad in front NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? mary beth is a comical genius. My parents are NO grads. Dad's a Eddie pooh-What's wrong with all those hotties? of O'Shag. Call236-9134 and CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK thank goodness she didn't join the lawyer and mom plays with me full What do you guys talk about when leave message. CONDOS evil forces of the scholastic. time. We have a wonderful life, with you close the door? Jillian Marie­
273-1738 plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & Jove Come with me to lnnisfree. Lost: Thin, silver. slip on bracelet Professor, what's another name for for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn nothing. just random stuff like DID I -W.B. with cut indentions. From O'Shagg pirate treasure? collect. (708)355·4970. Confidential and you, basically. to SOH. Call x2875. IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Why, I think it's BOOTY &legaL Class of 1997· 
Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE BOOTY, BOOTY Dolphin-the peg leg I found a religious medallion in HOUSE" or other approved homes. ANTOSTAL IS COMING ... Kiwi-the one-eared wonder Council Applications now available LaFortune last Friday night. If it Grad. -Football games hey baby. what's your favorite mys· Check it out on the web: in Student Government for 96-97 belongs to you, call Rich at 219·277-7003 tery of the rosary? httt://www.nd.edu/-AnTostal heard from heinie lately?? senior year 4·3314 
Available in August The Dodgers' run at the NL pennant and i owe it all to carrie .... Lucas... want to kick your heinie ... F.J.FFFW.S.B.C. found: SUNGLASSES @ CJ'S on 3·4 bedroom house · 2 full baths has begun. Monday (ST. PATTY'S 3/18). Call refrig., stove. washer and dryer, fur· It's only a matter of time now ..... joanne! after all our long, moonlit I don't believe you. Let me see Mindspankers Rule!! Jen @ x4805 to claim! nished. Attached 2 car garage + off walks down the avenue... of your birth certificate. 
street parking. 234-1336 Calif. actress-writer wife & photog· COURSE i'll call you!! I Tuss has Unbelieveable leaping rapher husband wish to adopt new· •smoooooch• I happen to have that right here, sir. ability born. Will provide love, nurturing Would you like to see my baptismal 
.____~_1\_N_T_E_o_.......ll FOR SALE environ., educ., financial security. hey. nothing should get in the way certificate as well? Scrap says "I passed out hardcore" Hollywood Hills home has large of what was meant to be. For Sale: A 1990 Red Two·Door back yard and loving dog. Call Top 121hings heard in 4th grade: Fat Chance wins Dawn Loses MAKE MONEY NOW NOT Chevy Cavalier. In good condition. 81 8/241·5535 collect. Legal & Lisa· 12. This is going to be so bad. let's SOMEDAY! Call Wendy at 273-5818 ConfidentiaL Sorry you missed me last night. I go up there and urinate. It has to be done. You must join 
Rapidly growing I hope you were busy with something 1L Do the Marty, Alison. Dave. the Dark Side. All not cooperating Telecommunications co.needs Waterfront Condos where's townley's door? important. Very important. A nice Elizabeth, Rajen. Joe, Kelly, Jen will be dealt with accordingly Reps in this area. Great financial 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 girl wouldn't stand me up, and I Katie, Matt! They're some dancers. opportunity for full & PIT position. 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 What this country needs is a few know you are a nice girl. Ohhh Yeah! Asexuality club meeting 5:00 pit of Call today! (219) 287·2053 New Decor good women. -Matt 10. Pope Fiction·'Nuff said Flanner Mark Wright Independent Rep & EVERYTHING included Just ask Dallas Cowboy star 9. Rainbow connections Area Coordinator for Excel Close to Notre Dame Michael Irvin not that it's a guilt trip or anything. B. Random Acts Cold Gin always goes down easy 
BEAUTIFUL! 7. Ditto WANTED: Good people to earn NORTH SHORE CLUB tape the shower curtain back up!!! Kenny, 6. Every time I talk I sprinkle star· I can't believe the Homeboy got money by becoming reps for 232-2002 You do an admirable Holtz. dust shout outs in the Accent section! EXCEL Telecommunications. Call really, i love the feeling of sliding on Where'd ya pick that up? 5. Machine-gun laugh 299-1999 evenings. Europe $199 OW a toilet seat covered with vasa-4. Meato·highly deadly cheese I think I'll write a poem 
Caribbean/Mexico $189 RT line .... PC andTS: enchiladas 
& Domestic Destinations Cheapll Ed board? Remember that little 3. Part my hair like the red sea I think I'll buy some flowers EASTERN EUROPE JOBS · IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE I suppose you love the feeling of a thing we have 2. We don't need precussion, we Teach basic English in Prague, PRICES START YOUR OWN foot in your butt too? I EVERY NIGHT? have Marty Basketball clinic Friday court six Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching DAMN AIRLINE! sick, sick puppy ... 1. Hey, Joe looks like Bart Simpson certificate or European languages Air-Tech Ltd. 2121219·7000 sorry. we were celebrating the lib· Shermie is hung over today required. Inexpensive Room & info@aerotech.com why the hell are all of regina's bath· eration from detox. top of the world, God speaking ..... Board + other benefits. For info. http://campus.net/aerotech rooms out of order? oh wait. it's just chris. wahooooo-yeah the ricker is in the call: (206)971·3680 ext.K55841 glorified slush puppies-won't get paper 
86 Honda Civic 4Dr.. new brakes. ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE the raspberry next time. Put some shoes on Dom and call CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • clutch, battery. Very dependable. Happily married, well-educated cou· me gooooo ricker, nice work bein' in the Earn up to $2,000+/month working $800271-1289 pie will give your baby a loving. Timmy Naehring. Yard. paper and all on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com· stimulating, financially secure Sorry about the candle Frankie panies. World traveL Seasonal & 1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo. by owner, home. Confidential, legal, expenses Guess who eats together at the man ricker that was a darn fine full·time employment available. No immaculate, 2 full baths, garage, paid. Call Joni & Shep 800·528-Carnegie Deli Kramer, Happy Belated B-day! quote experience necessary, For more finished lower level, walk to NO, 2344 Bowser from Sha Na Na and Arthur information call 1·206·971·3550 range, dishwasher, microwave, Fonzerelli joanne!! after our long moonlit let it be noted that leslie field is the ext. C55844 refrigerator, w/d, $77,900, 277·8898 It must be tough back Paul Newman's half jewish, Goldie walks down the avenue, of reason that the ricker's alias is 
there...Aiways being harrassed by Hawn's half too COURSE i'll call you!!! used. $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students HOT! HOT! HOT! Lose 20 lbs. by the Ad Manager ... Put them together, what a fine •smooooooooch!• Needed! $$$+Free Travel summer break! New Metabolism lookin joooo. (Caribbean. Europe, Hawaii!) Breakthrough. Results Guaranteed. it's blasphemy, i tell you. blasphe· Jeff: Don't forget that underwear. man alive ricker. where do you Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Free gift with purchase. $29.95 my. Oh what the $%" did I do And the socks, too ..... come up with this stuff. 
Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 cost Calli·B00-334-1664. What the #$%" did I do extC1114 NO baseball-the new tradition What the "&&• did I do Hey Kara, you want some beef? By To get stuck with you the way, I'm sure it would go Nor speech is close nor fingersPERSONAL Coming April12 and 13... You're too wide for drive·thru through the boat One other thing, numb, 
Want to get cash for your old The Collegiate Jazz Festival at And you smell like the shoe tell Bing I said hi. If love not seldom has received Sega games? Call Jonathan 0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 Stepan Center. It's more fun than But I'm too broke to buy something An unjust answer, was deceived. X 1047 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! something that's really fun! new Hey Holly could you take this pic· 
THE COPY SHOP Oh #$%me ture for me? WANTED and NEEDED: GRADU· LaFortune Student Center Black Russian Club· ATION TICKETS. Phone 631-COPY i can be fun. really. i can. Springtime rocks. Don't even think about speaking Tuesday at the secret place. 
call 271·8262. 0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 Spanish to me No boys allowed. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Cone flirts with no-hitter, lifts Yankees to win 
By Cl lUCK MELVIN Assnci;lll•d Press 
CLEVELAND David Cone never rt~ally felt lw was llirting with a no-hitter. 
"I was llirting with disaster," Conn said TUt~sday al'ter he lim­itml Clnvnland to two hils in sevtlll seortdnss innings as the Nnw York Yankees lwat the de­fending American League champions 7-1. 
Conn lwld thn Indians without a hit until .Julio Franco led ofT llw sixth with a singlt~. but he fought with his control all af­ternoon. lin walkt~d six and fre­qtwntly worked from bnhind in tlw count against tlw tmun that lt~d thn majors in runs, home runs and hatting averagn a year ago. 
"This is not a formula I want to ust~ too often," said Cone, who was unahln to hold an 8-0 ltmd against Cltweland last .June whnn lw was with Toronto. "This linnup really puts stress on a pitdwr. I was a little wild, hut no mallnr what I did, I did­n't want to givt~ in and put one down tlw middle. 
'".Julio's a good hitl!~r. That hit broke up the no-hitter, but that was not the most fashionable no-hitttlr to that point, with all those walks and everything." 
Derek Jeter and Bernie Williams homered for the Yankees, winners of five straight season openers and 10 of their last 11. The game was dnlayed one day by snow. 
The Indians finished with four hits. It was their second straight weak showing in games that counted: They were held to one hit by Atlanta's Tom Glavine in the decisive Game 6 of the World Series last October. 
"I don't think Cone strug­glml," Ornar Vizquel said. "He was being smart and careful. lle'd get to 2-1, 3-1, and you'd wait for the fastball, and he might throw a slider to keep you o!T balance. I think you're going to see that a lot against us. l'itdwrs know with our line­up, we can get four or live runs right away." 
Jeter, playing in his 16th big league game, hit his first career horne run and also saved a run with an over-the-shoulder catch of Vizquel's pop l'ly behind 

JAZZMAN's 
BAR & GRILL 
525 N. Hill Street • 233-8505 
presents: 

A SPECIAL FUNKY THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
•Open to all college students with college IDs 
•Featuring Moe & Brendon 

•Plus Djs Lady Meto-D and Tony-Tony playing your favorite 
Booty Call, Tootsie Roll, Hip-Hop & Old School disco music between band breaks 
• Doors open 9:30 PM 

•Upper 
level front entry 18 and over with college IDs (soft drinks only on upper level) 

•Lower 
level rear entry restricted to 21 and over with proper IDs (cash bar) 


•$3 
admission with student IDs • $5 without student ID 

• No one under 21 will be admitted after midnight 
• Save $2.00 with this ad before 11 :00 pm 


• 
Lower level only • jazzman's provides uniform security 


officers both inside & outside with escort upon request • Free admission & treat if it's your birthday. • 
0 


shortstop in the seventh. 
Dennis Martinez took the loss in his ninth consecutive opening day start -six with Montreal, three with Cleveland. lie allowed two runs and live hits in seven innings. 
Cone's performance for a time mirrored what Seattle's Handy Johnson did to the Indians in the first game ever at Jacobs Field, two years ago. Johnson took a no-hitter into the eighth inning of that game before Sandy Alomar broke it up. Cleveland eventually won in extra innings. 
Orioles 4 Royals 2 

President Clinton and Mike Mussina took care of the pitch­ing, and Cal Hipken did the ma­jority of the hitting as the Baltimore Orioles opened the season by beating the Kansas City Hoyals 4-2 Tuesday. 
Hipken drove in three runs, and Mussina allowed two runs and live hits over seven innings in beating Kevin Appier bedfore 46,818 at Oriole Park. 
The game, delayed a day be­cause of rain, got under way 

All my love, Jeannine 
shortly after Clinton tossed a soft strike from the mound to Baltimore catcher Chris Hoiles. Then Mussina and Ripken took over. 
Mussina, who led the AL with 19 wins last season, struck out four and walked two. Jesse Orosco worked the eighth, and Handy Myers, signed as a free­agent during the offseason, pitched a perfect ninth for his first AL save. 
Hipken took care of the Baltimore offense, hitting a two-run single in the first and driving in the go-ahead run in the third. An RBI double by IU. Surhoff mad·e it 4-2 in the eighth. 
Appier, who pitched 6 2-3 no­hit innings against the Orioles on opening day last season, gave up a double to the second batter he faced, Hoberto Alomar. Hafael Palmeiro then walked before Hipken blooped a two-out, two-run single that dropped in front of center field­er Johnny Damon. 
A double-play grounder got Kansas City a run in the sec­ond, ending a string of 46 con­secutive scoreless innings by Baltimore pitchers, including 27 by Mussina. 
The Hoyals pulled even in the third when Mike Macfarlane doubled and scored on a groundout L v Bip Hoberts. A double by B' Jby Bonilla and a two-out single by Hipken put the Orioles ahead in the bottom of the inning. 
Appier threw 107 pitches in five innings, allowing three runs and six hits. lie walked one and struck out seven. 
Heds 4 Expos 1 

Chris Sabo had three HBis in his Hiverfront Stadium home­coming, leading the Cineinnati Beds to a 4-1 victory Tuesday over the Montreal Expos in a game postponed a day by the death of umpire John McSherry. 
The flag was at half-staiT, and the umpiring crew got a stand­ing ovation when it came onto the field. 
Several banners honored McSherry, who collapsed in the first inning Monday and died at a hospital. 
The crowd was about half the size of Monday's 5:~.136 for the makeup, played on what was supposed to be an off-day. Players were still grieving when they took the field for batting practice. 
Fans went easy on the umpir­ing crew, which included Hich Reiker as McSherry's replace­ment. Several times the crowd started to boo calls, then hushed. 
Winner Pete Schourek, who threw seven pitches in Monday's opener before McSherry collapsnd, started the makeup and gave up one run over live innings. Tim Pugh al­lowed onn hit over three in­nings, and Marcus Moore pitched the ninth for his first major-league save. 

'



$}fl* 
Applications for 96-97 Senior Class Council will be available starting April 3. 1996 at the Student Government Office. Applications are due April 12. 1996. 
Committee positions include: 
•Alumni Senior Club 

•Welcome Back Week I Senior Week 
•Class Trips •Publicity 
•Fund Raising 

•Social Concerns I Alumni Relations 
•Around Campus Activities 
•Service •Graduation 
•On and Off Campus Representatives are needed as well 
Any questions? Call 1-S 117 
-~-~­

• Cm.!.EGE BASKETBALl 
Pitino takes Wildcats from probation to NCAA title 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Rick Pitino stepped into a dif­ficult situation when he became Kentucky's basketball coach in 1989. 
The NCAA had just placed the school on a two-year pro­bation from postseason play for re­cruiting and academic violations. Kentucky had finished with a 13-19 
record, the 
Pitino first losing season in the school's storied history since 1927. If the future was bleak, he also had no way to go but up. Pitino inherited only eight scholarship players and none taller than 6-foot-7. And blue­chip high school players weren't exactly knocking down the door to play for the Wildcats, as they had in the years leading to the probation. 
Seven years later, Pitino re­turned Kentucky to the top of college basketball when it de­
feated Syracuse 76-67 for the national title Monday night at the Meadowlands in New 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve: 
Call (219)277·7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 

Make Money Now 
Rapidly growing telecommunications company seeks Reps & Trainers in this area. Positions transferable to other areas of the coun­try. Great financial opportunity for full and part time positions. Call today! 
Michael Summers 
Regional Director 
679-9257 


E U R 0 P E 
LONDON  S27S  
FRRNHFURT  $349  
PRRIS  $309  
RMSTERDRM  $375  
MILRN  $389  

Fares are (romlndlanapolis.eachwaijbasedonaRTpurchase.Faresdo not include (ede~al taxes and passeRI)er (acl/iNes charges. which can tot~ beiUleen S19.9S and Sl1.9S. depending on the desNnation. nordotheijincludedeparlurechargespaiddirecNijtoto~re~ngov· 
emments.whichcantotalbeiUleenSl.OOandSGO.OO.IntiSiudentiO maij be required. Fares are subject to change. RestricNons applij Valid for departures until ll Maij 199G 
EuropaSStromS210 
[i.UIIflllTravel 
~ 

CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On the Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
l-800-2-COUNCI~ 
[1-800·22G-8G24] 
Jersey. 

"It's been a tremendous marriage for seven years," Pitino said on the eve of the championship game. "It's been exciting for me being part of that. Sometimes I think it's not real, sometimes I think it's a make-believe world, but it's also very exciting." 
Kentucky faced a similar sit­uation in the 1950s after win­ning national titles in 1948, 1949 and 1951 under Adolph Rupp. The program was sus­pended for the 1952-53 season by the NCAA following the point-shaving scandals. 
Five years later, Rupp and the Wildcats claimed another national title by defeating 
Seattle. Kentucky didn't win another championship until beating Duke in 1978. 
Pitino came to Kentucky with the reputation for rebuilding programs. He turned around Boston University in the late 1970s, took Providence to the Final Four in 1987 and guided the New York Knicks to a divi­sion title in 1989. 
Kentucky was the ultimate challenge. 
"I think you get back to the top 10 and hope for the best," he said about returning Kentucky to respectability. "I thought it would take five years, for the first recruiting class to get to the junior year." 
Despite the depleted lineup, Pitino's first Kentucky team finished a surprising 14-14 with an up-tempo style that led the nation in 3-point shooting. 

Pitino then signed Jamal Mashburn, a remarkable 6-8 forward from New York, to his first recruiting class. 
"We got Jamal Mashburn to come when we were on proba­tion, and he cut that building process in half," Pitino said. "And then a lot of great play­ers followed because of Jamal." 
In Mashburn's freshman year, the Wildcats finished 22­6 and ranked ninth in the nation. Despite the probation, they had the best record in the Southeastern Conference (14­
4). 
Then Pitino's program really took off. 
Kentucky went 29-7 in 1992, losing 104-103 to Duke, the eventual NCAA champion, in the East Regional final that some have labeled as "the greatest NCAA tournament game ever." 
The following year. Kentucky reached the Final Four, losing 81-78 in overtime to Michigan in the semifinals while compil­ing a 30-4 record. 
With Mashburn taking his game to the NBA, Kentucky slipped to 27-7 and lost to Marquette in the second round of the 1994 Southeast Regional. 


Oh sure, it lOOkS innocent. But it could be wi-red to a no-name company that has no qualms about overcharging broke college students. So, calling card in hand, you dial 1 800 CALL ATT and save yourself some much-needed cash. 
Live off cmnpus? 
Dial 1 800 CALL ATT for Calling Card calls. 
Always get ~-Never get overcharged. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice:'M 
-



AT&T 
Your True Choice © 1996 Al&T 
.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---· 


Softball 
continued from page 16 
tmrrwd. 
Kohata was n~placnd by Knlly Nichols in the sixth inning, who along with sne­ond-garnn pitchers Joy Bat.tnrshy and /\ngPia Bnssolo, dt~rnonstratnd a solid pitching pnrl'ormanct) against Buth~r. 
"Our dPpth in our pitching is rna II y lw Iping us out this ynar," Milh~r said. "We can givP nver·y pitrht)r a few innings of play. Our pitdwrs havn rPally cornn along and arP gnlling· ·slror1glir itiid 
strongt~r." 
In both ganws the Irish took Parly lnads with strong first rnnrngs. 
Kara McMahon began the Irish effort with a single in the first game's opening inning, followed by hits from Jennifer Giampaolo and Meghan Murray for a 2-0 lead. Two additional runs were added in the second, with an HBI single from Dawn Cunningham. Knlly Howe led off' the sixth with a double, and was later driven home off a single from /\my Laboe for a 5-0 victory. 
"Our bats have been explicit lately," Murray explained. "We had a good weekend against Hutgers, which carried over to (Tuesday). We've been going nut and having a lot of fun, which is different from when we lirst started the sea­son." 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 

Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have 11:00AM-2:00PM open for the rest of the year and possibly next year, please call Matt Casey at the Observer Office, 1-5313. 

She's cute as a Bunny and worth all that money 
HAPPY 19TH BI 
CATHERINE 
Love your family and the entire STATE OF RHODE ISUND 


The Observer· SPORTS 

Fencing 
continued from page 16 
placing as high as fourth. Brice Dille finished in 24th place, corning up with much needed wins for the Irish cause. 
"It was a good team perfor­mance overall," raved Auriol. "They fenced well with a lot of heart. We were third last year, second this year, who knows maybe next year-first place." 
A first place finish next year is not out of the question. Of the eight members that attend­ed the NCAAs last weekend, only de Bruin, will not return. The expectations are starting already. 
Baseball 
continued from page 16 
"That guy was baffling us out there," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri of the crafty Holland, who entered the game with a swollen 10.80 ERA. "lie was mally keeping us off bal­ance." 
"lie threw his pitches very well, mixed it up well-he was just pitching smart, plain and simple," said left fielder Rowan Richards, who put the Irish up for good with a double in the pivotal eighth inning. "We were really anxious, which helped keep him in the game, but you can't take too much away from him." 
The Irish's anxiety began to pay off following llolland's de­parture. Third baseman J.J. Brock rallied the Irish with a run scoring single off freshman Jason Kelley in the bottom of the seventh, driving in George Hestovich from second to tie the game at 2-2. 
Then came a seemingly end­less eighth inning which saw the Irish throw a man out at home to preserve the lead be­fore launching an attack which would ultimately put the game out of reach. 
The bottom half of the inning opened up with a leadoff walk to shortstop Paul Turco, prompting Schmitz to make his second pitching change in as many innings. But the move backfired on the Falcons once again, as Hichards followed a Handall Brooks sacrifice with a double past third base to give the Irish their first lead of the game. Scott Sollmann, who was 2-3 with two runs, three 
page 13 

-

NCAA Fencing Championships 

Sara Walsh 2nd Myriah Brown 6th 
3rd 15th 



Luke La Valle Bill Lester 


Brice Dille 
sto en bases and all kin mental abuse on Falcon pitch­ing on the afternoon, followed with a run scoring single up the middle, setting the stage for yet another futile pitching change. 
This time it was Bob Heichow who bore the brunt of the dam­age, as the senior who entered the game with an unblemished ERA on the season would sur­render a walk to Mike Amrhein, a stolen base to Sollmann and a two-run single to catcher Bob Lisanti before escaping the costly eighth in­ning. 
"It's phenomenal what he does out there," said Mainieri of Sollmann, who, in addition to swiping three bases for a personal best 28 on the season, caused a balk and at least one walk. "It's unbelieveable the way he gets in a pitcher's head and changes the whole com­plexion of the game." 
4th 6th 
9th 


24th 


the ninth to eam his third win, which came in relief of starter Gregg llenebry, who pitched a solid 5 1/3 innings of four-hit ball. 
The win was due in large part to the suddenly solid Irish pitching, which for the second straight day allowed just six hits to their opponents. The duo of llerwbry and Shilliday also allowed just two runs to a club that came into the game hitting at a .329 clip while averaging 6.6 runs per game. 
"The story for our team right now has been our starting pitching," commented Mainieri. "It's been outstanding. We're not getting a lot of hitting right now, so if our pitchers don't shut them down like they've been shutting them down, we could be in a lot more trouble. Pitching is the name of the game; there's no question about it." 
It's not too Late... Work Catering for Graduation 

Housing Deadline: 4/4/96 
Sign up: Monday-Thursday 9:30-5:30 Catering Office 
Lower Leuel South Dining Hall 




Call 63 1-5449 
... 
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK • BASEBAll
-

Belles jump out to a successful start 
By DESIREE LEAK 
Sports Writer 
At Manchester College in North Manchester, IN. the sun was not the only thing shining last weekend. 
The Saint Mary's track team displayed an awesome effort as they collected six first place, four second place, and four third place finishes at their second outdoor meet of the season. 
"It was good for us to find that we were very competitive against the teams that were there," Belles head coach Larry Szczechowski said. "The competition inspired us to step up a notch and com­pete at a higher level. It was exciting to see us excel in our events." 
NCAA indoor qualifier, freshman Stacy Davis, earned first place in both the lOOM and 200M races. Davis, along with freshman Sarah Gallagher, senior Jill Jusick, 
and  sophomore  Kristin  
Donahue.  ran  the  4xlOOM  
relay.  

The 4x100 relay brought the rest of the team to its feet, cheering the neck and neck anchor race that resulted in a first place as Donahue edged past her competitor at the fin­ish line. 
"I kept thinking about the three other runners on my re­lay, so l gave it my best shot, " Donahue said. 
Her best shot proved her medal-worthy. Donahue also placed third in the 1OOM dash. 
Freshman Holly Platt received first place honors in the 400M hurdles. Platt placed third in the 1OOM hur­dles and also ran the 4x400M relay. 
The 4x400M relay, including Platt, senior Michelle Wenner, sophomore Alisha Barbee and freshman Carrie Kate Brisco!, finished second. 
"This meet is a great start for the rest of the season," 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOT JOB MARKETS USA 
Free info. (800) 722·0845 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
'96-'97 
•5 
Bedrooms •Furnished •Washer/Dryer 

•Security 
System 


Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 
Platt said. 

Brisco! placed third in the 400M dash, while Barbee took fourth in the long jump. 
Wenner blazed past the competition with a first place finish in the 1500M and a sec­ond place finish in the BOOM. Fellow distance runner Keary Sullivan displayed her best race of the season with a third place finish in the 3000M. 
In the first lOK of her life. freshman Carrie Ferkenhoff ran 39:20:00. Ferkenhoff's time was not only good enough to secure a first place among the women runners, but she finished before all but two men running the race. 
"My first lOK was really en­joyable. I hope to run it at the next meet," Ferkenhoff said. 
SMC also fared well in field events. Junior Paula Kivinen secured second place in the high jump by tying her per­sonal best height of 5'2". Senior Julie Govorko placed third in the shot put and fifth in the discus. 
While both campuses look forward to traveling home to Easter mass and chocolate bunnies. the Belles look to continue their winning ways next week as they visit DePaul Saturday. 
Please Recycle 
the Observer 
Baseball mourns loss of ump 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
No one paid attention to the rock music in the clubhouse. There was no kidding around during batting practice. Cameras were trained on the grim-faced umpires. 
A day after umpire John McSherry collapsed and died, everyone still had a hard time thinking about baseball. 
The Montreal Expos and Cincinnati Reds played a make­up game Tuesday for the sea­son opener that was called off a day earlier. McSherry collapsed behind home plate in the first inning Monday and later died of heart failure at a hospital. 
The Hamilton County coro­ner's office ruled Tuesday that McSherry. 51, died of severe heart disease, including an ir­regular heartbeat. He also had an enlarged heart and a blocked right coronary artery. 
He will be buried following a funeral Mass on Friday at St. Nicholas of Tolen tine Church in the Bronx, N.Y. 
Players, managers and fans were still grieving when the makeup game began Tuesday. 
An unknown person left a dis­play of tulips on a table outside an entrance to Riverfront Stadium. Flowers arrived at the umpires' dressing room. A chaplain gave tribute on the field, and there was a moment of silence before the national anthem. 
The umpiring crew got a standing ovation when it took the field. 
Shaken players who had urged the postponement 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. LCJuis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 
Call 234-0363 273·8986 (24hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
Monday were still subdued when they took the field. 
"Walking through the tunnel and past the spot where they were working on him felt funny," Reds reliever Chuck McElroy said. 
"That was a scary sight yes­terday," said Cincinnati's Pete Schourek, who started both games. "It's going to be in ev­eryone's minds for a while. Hopefully, just the playing of the game down on the field will keep everyone's minds occu­pied." 
They were clearly were on something else before the first pitch. The mood was reminis­cent of the Cleveland Indians' first spring training games after pitchers Steve Olin and Tim Crews died in a boating acci­dent in 1993. 
"It's still just a real somber feeling," manager Ray Knight said, in a voice barely above a whisper. 
Rock music blared in the clubhouse, but no one joked around. 
"We're not discussing it as a whole," Reds outfielder Eric Davis said. "You see people reading the newspapers, whis­pering stuff." 
The four-man umpiring crew -including Rich Reiker, who took McSherry's place -ar­rived at the stadium an hour and 10 minutes before the game. They walked past re­porters without comment. 
"Maybe after, not right now," Jerry Crawford said without slowing. 
Owner Marge Schott, who wanted to continue the game Monday after McSherry col­lapsed, was not at the stadium for the makeup game. Her of­fice said she was out of town and unavailable for 'comment. 
She declined to talk to re­porters as she left the umpires' dressing room Monday. Later, she told The Cincinnati Enquirer how disappointed she was that the game was called off. 
"I feel cheated," she said. "This isn't supposed to happen to us, not in Cincinnati. This is our history, our tradition, our team. Nobody feels worse than 
me." 
The 53,000 fans at Monday's game received rain checks. 

Pick The Taste America Loves! 
Hot Pockets® And Lean Pockets® Are Stuffed Full Of Good Stuff! 
Brand  Br•nd  
o Pepperoni Pizza o Ham 'N Cheese  o Sausage & Pepperoni Pizza Deluxe  
o Turkey & Ham with Cheese  o Turkey, Broccoli & Cheese  
o Beef & Cheddar  o Chicken Fajita  

NO'T~c DA}Vlc 1/f
TRACK & FIELD 
THIS SATURDAY! 
11:30 -Field Events 12:30-Track Events 
OTRE E 
q.~!JizUh 
----vs.---­
WESTERN 
MICHIGAN 
B~ 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
h h, 1\·;.,~tll-•fi<CE lNl\\E. 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE ws~ Of (1'1'-ISTIP.N 'lMDI-
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Spruce up your surroundings but
·nol'l 1\N 1\ne'('II\'T To CotJ­

keep in mind !hal too many com­., /<0'-ONe.' s pf'';S IONS lfJ><•l L 
forts could undermine your motiva­tion to achieve great things. Stay on
1\ti'-NC.,.l.E. ~c_.,,.c. Till 

your toes! If you stick to the rule 
G(/.~11\E.~T Cf 'SP.C.II-1\'IlE~. 

book, competitors will not stand a chance. An economic upswing favors small businesses and limited partnerships. Tear down the barriers that separate you from a sibling or child. Higher-ups are most likely to grant favors early in 1997. Decide what you want most. A March '97 wedding sounds marvelous! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Doris Day. actor Alec Baldwin. comedian Eddie Murphy, actress Jennie Garth. 
MISTER BOFFO JOE MARTIN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Curb a tendency to impose your tastes on those closest to you; they have their own preferences. Be will­ing to make a journey alone if you cannot find congenial companions. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Adopting a generous attitude toward someone will pay rich rewards. Try to eliminate jealousy or envy. A patient, communicative approach will win over close ties. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A day when temptations must be over­come. Those who waste time on frivolous pursuits or gossip will experience regrets. Get better orga­nized al work and home. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Something that seems like an advan­
tage could be anything but. A new proposal is a rehash of a previous 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
proposaL You benefit from sticking
~~~==~~~==~s~=============c~~r----------------­

to what you know best. 
DO YOU 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22):
,......,AY!)E. BUT I'M
THINK HE'S 

Impulse-buying could be a big 
temptation. Your sense of humor is
NOT READY TO
REALLY A 

your greatest asset. You have a
RULE OUT 

prophetic insight into business
VICE. 
"f>.NNO'<ING
PRESIDENT? 
J 


RODENT" YET. •MENU 
Notre Dame 
North Roast Top Sirloin Grilled Sole Stuffed Shells 
Saint Mary's 
Grilled Pork Chops Chicken Primavera 

trends. Keep your overhead as low as possible. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Throw out your usual plans for something more exciting. A roman­tic affair could take off like a rocket. Someone offers a possible solution to a problem. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Cer­tain worries subside in the light of day. II is time to let go of an old heartache. Take a chance on the first really good idea that comes your way. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new friendship opens your eyes to a special opportunity. Movies about travel or adventure hold powerful appeal. Relatives are eager to know how you are. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your finances get a welcome boost. Thank your lucky stars! If you are in a leadership position. do not be shy about pointing subordi­nates in the right direction. 
CAPRH;;ORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your personal finances are highlighted in a positive way. An upbeat attitude is infectious; other people respond with enthusiasm. Maintain your optimism about the future. Stay in touch with your own emotional needs. Relax. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make the most of the next few days; you will shine like a morning star! Positive developments are featured where your love life is concerned. Someone is willing to meet you more than halfway. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your imagination may be working overtime in romance. Do what you can to spend more time with chil­dren. If consider adding to your family, discuss the ramifications with your mate. Avoid neglecting a parent's needs. 
South Meatball Grinder Chicken .Jambalaya Potato Pancakes 

Louisiana Red Beans and Rice 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors.
43 Two hearts, e.g. 50 Romanov leader 
44 Of two minds 51 Full of energy 
46 Creates 52 Barcelona boosters
47 Newsman 




Join The 
Harvey 53 Tapered seam 

48A, in code 56 Forum farewell 
49 Makeup, 57 "'Deed--" informally (Jazz Age tune) 

Observer staff. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
• 
• 
REI'\EMBER. EVERYTHING 
I TAUGHT YOU, Rt>.TI3ERT. 
IF YOU CAN PASS YOUR­
SELF OFF AS A CORPORATE 
VICE. PRE.SI DENT, I'LL WIN MY BET. 
8  YO 1  HEP.,DCOUNT!  IF  ~  
~  YOU  HP\VE P.,NY I55UE.S,  u .!:  
; ~  PUT TOGE11-\E.R AN ACTION PLAN. OUR PEOPLE ARE.  ~ !  
~  THE BEST.  DON'T SPEND  ~  
~  MONEY.  :  
..  
~  

___...JV)..____-4...L..-.;;;..~J...I.;.,.uil.--.l 
47Temple 50 Matador's foe 51 Burns film role 54 Moises, for one 55 Abecedary 
phrase 58 Night sightings 59 Russian soldier 60Lawntool 61 Summer camp 
site 62--libre 63 Henhouse 
DOWN 
1 Joe 2 Barks 3 Downslide 4 Musical gift 5 Least kept up 8 All-Bran rival 7 Drizzle a"What's this?" 9 Secret 

..___;:..,:.;;;;;;;..._j,QJ;;;;;::_ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Blase 6 Horse show command 10 Panasonic 
products 14 Pianist Claudio 15 Diamond Head 
site 18 Cooper's cleaving tool 11 Geese may be 
found in it 19 Mrs. Chaplin 20 Cleo's biter 21 Word with floor 
or peace 22 Arctic whale: 
Var. 24Ampule 25 Griffin of 
"Jeopardy!" 
26 Quick breads 29 Persuade to accept 33 Radio station 
supplies 34 Reasons against 35 Group 
enterprise 36 Setup 37 Kind of deg. 38 Botanical 
opening 39 Make 1-Down, 
e.g. 40 "Later" 41 Cartridge 
content 42 Deck hands 44 One way to put 
things 45 Pond sight 46 City desk shout 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
passages, 
maybe 
10 Churchill sign 
11 Eschew humility 
12 First name in 

gossip ~HHR~IJ!I!IIIJ!I-:::-Ft-fliiii.,_IF+:=-:-r.:-1 13 Harbor-­r.:-i>:t-7-11-ilt':::-t-:'+:-liililiiiillr.~±'t::::-<t-:-t 18 "'Tis a pity" 23 Couples-only craft 24 Middy .,;;,-t~..,;-t-=-1-=-1 25 Heaven-sent help =+-:'-+:-+.::+.:=-t 28 Basketball Infraction 
27 Seven-time A.L batting champ 28 "Le Coq d'Or," e.g. 29 Sugar pie 301963 Ray Charles song 31 Volumes 
32 It's eye-catching 34 Cautious 38 Visit briefly 40 Shalom Tower 
site 


- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Wednesday, April 3, 1996  


• 
• 
• fENCING 

Notre Dame captures second at NCAA's 
Irish finish strong despite only eight competitors 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
Tuesday morning when coach Yves Auriol was asked how his team did at the NCAAs. he an­swered, "Second place." The most common response was, "Oh." As in, "That's all?" 
The expectations of Notre Dame fenc­ing. 
"It was very good considering we only had eight competing," said Auriol. "We did what we had to do, We needed everyone's contribution and got it. It is still a team competition. As a coach you look at the team points. With the guys. they want the individual medals." 
Both women's teams played huge 


roles in the Irish's second place finish. After the men's competition was over, Notre Dame was in 12th place. With high individual placing in both weapons, the Irish pulled up ten spots and finished 60 points ahead of St. John's, who qualified nine fencers. Penn State dominat­ed the tournament and won the national title with 1500 points. 
"Penn State was too good," praised Auriol. "Even with two other fencers we couldn't have caught them. We have to be solid in every weapon to be where they are." 
Sara Walsh finished in second place in women's foil. Walsh was defeated in the championship match by Olga Kalinovskaya. the defending champion. It was the third meeting between the women, .with the previous two matches going in Walsh's favor. 
The third time was the charm for Kalinovskaya, whose experience came through against the freshman. Walsh almost did not reach the final match. She was down at one point 12-6 and then 14-11, only to come back and beat Patricia Szelle from Ohio State, 15-14. 

Classmate Myriah Brown ended the tourna­ment in sixth place. Bothwomen received All· American accolades for their season and NCAA performances in their first seasons at Notre 
Dame. 
Senior Claudette de Bruin finished in third place in women's epee for the sec­ond consecutive year, de Bruin had a dominating match for the bronze medal, winning 15·6 over Spela Pirc of Ohio State to conclude her fencing career at Notre Dame. Sophomore Anne Hoos finished in 15th place in her first NCAA tournament. Hoos finished the season one victory shy of All-American honors. 
"It was a strong rmish for the women," said Auriol about the women's team perfor­mance. "We were very close with St. John's, and Claudette. Anne, Myriah and Sara did the job." 
The sabre. team was again a strength for the Irish. Freshman Luke LaValle ended his first season with a respectable fourth place finish. Sabre captain Bill Lester trailed his younger counterpart in sixth place. LaValle was the vic­tim of some questionable calls in his match for third place. 
"Everyone agreed that there were some ques­tionable calls (against LaValle}," commented Auriol. "He should have got the bronze medal." 
Men's epee and foil faced tougher times against their competition. Jeremy Siek ''strug­gled" through the tournament and ended up in ninth place. Siek beat two of the top foilists at the tournament but lost two matches afterwards to less heralded opponents, which cost him a 
see FENCING I page 13 


Irish stretch streak to seven 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
For awhile yesterday, it looked as if the Notre Dame baseball team's six game win­ning streak would come to an end at the hands of a deter­mined Bowling Green squad. Trailing 2-1 going into the bot­tom of the seventh inning, the Irish had looked rather ineffec­tive at the plate, mainly due to a brilliant effort on the part of Bowling Green sophomore southpaw Joe Holland. Their flawless home mark and pride on the line, it was unclear whether the Irish could fight off the dangerous Falcons, who came into the game sporting a 12-3 mark. 
The seventh and eighth in­nings helped clear up that muddy picture quickly, though, as the Irish knotted the score at 2-2 in the seventh before ex­ploding for five runs in the eighth to secure a 7-2 win over the plucky Falcons. 
Fittingly enough, it was only when Bowling Green head coach Danny Schmitz decided to pull Holland that the Irish caught tire. 
see BASEBALL/ page 13 




Baseball Lacrosse 
vs. Eastern Illinois, April 3, 5:00 p.m. 
at Harvard, April 6 
Women's Tennis 

Softball 
at Providence, April 4, !2:00 a.m. 
at Texas, April 4 
Track 
SMC Sports 

-
• 
Baseball mourns loss of McSherry see page 14 

• 
Cone flirts with no-hitter in return see page 11 


By CAROLINE BLUM 
SportS Writer 
When Notre Dame softball coach Liz Miller opted for lights to be installed at Ivy Field, she had the better of her team in mind. 
"The main reason we wanted to get lights (at Ivy Field) is so the team wouldn't have to rush from class to get to the game," Miller explained. "The lights will help us to be mentally pre­pared for the game. I felt that in the past we were at a disadvantage because we never had more than eight players here for warm-ups. We never had the whole team there to focus and concentrate to get ready for a home game." 
So Tuesday, when the lights at Ivy lit up the field for the first time, the Irish proved to benefit from the addition, trampling over Butler in two games, 5-0, 8-0. 
Senior pitcher Terri Kobata continued to play a crucial force in the Irish victory. strik­ing out 10 of the 17 Bulldogs she faced. Kobata is now 12-1 for the season, with an ERA of .49. 

"I haven't been throwing (the way I did Tuesday) until last weekend," Kobata said. "My rhythm was a little off until about a week ago, so it feels good to finally do it. I'm gain­ing confidence and feeling like everything's coming together." 
Kobata pitched a perfect game in her first four innings, before allow­ing a walk and a hit in the fifth. 
"What can we say? Terri Kobata's just a tough pitcher," Butler coach Jeryl Neff said about their 5-0 loss. "For the first time in 
four years, we got a hit off her (Tuesday). She's tough, and she's tough against any­body." 
This season, Kobata has allowed only eight runners to cross the plate while she was pitching, only six of which are 
see SOFTBALL I page 13 

vs. Western Michigan, April6 
Tennis vs. U. of Chicago Wednesday, April3 p.m. 
• Rodman returns to spark Bulls 
see page 10 







