
... 
Friday, March 1, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 101 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Committee calls for gay student group 
Ad Hoc report faces scrutiny by Student Affairs 
By DAVE TYLER Nt·ws Ediwr 
Tlw llnivt~rsity of Notre Dame should have an ol1kially recog­nized gay and lesbian student group. 
That's among the recom­mendations included in the "Final Heport of the Ad lloc Committne on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" submitted to Vice President for Student Af­fairs Patricia O'Hara and made public in a two page advertise­ment in The Observer yester­day. 
The committee published eight recommendations in its 
final report, the culmination of nearly a year of work. The committee was created last March by O'Hara to study gay 
• see REACTION page 3 
and lesbian student needs at the University in the wake of the uproar surrounding the administration's dealings with Gays and Lesbians at Notre 

Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
After rejecting the Campus Life Council's (CLC) resolution calling for official recogniti<;n for GLND/SMC, O'Hara charged the committee with finding ways, apart from the recogni­tion of GLND/SMC. in which the University could allow Gays and lesbians to come together as a group to explore common is­sues and find mutual support, 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
All in a Day's Work 

Students, homeless live together in Worker House 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Nt•w• Writrr 
L
ying only a half a mile away from Notrt~ Danw is a home which embod­ins the Catholic beliefs of charity, rompassion. rnsponsibility, and understanding. This horne is the Catholic Worknr llouse. a place where homeless l'amilit!s arn givnn the opportunity to improve their livns. 
llowt~vnr. many at Notrn Dame have not hnard of' the house despitn its associa­tion with Catholic beliefs. Those who do might associaw it with radical social goals ofttHl oiTert!d by political Catholic Worker llouses originally established by Dorothy Day. 
Yet. this house dtws not have any politi­cal aims. Tlw house simply attempts to dt~vPiop families in hard times through rom passion and other Church teachings. 
Claire Mc<irath. thn dirnctor of the house, knows that supporting families is anything hut simple. McGrath helps clean. cook, and most importantly, counsel rami­liPs at tJJP hOUSIL 
fo'urtlwr. JWople who would like to live in thP housP are din!eted to McGrath through tlw Center for the llomeless and otlwr organizations, but she has the final say as to who livt~s in tlw house. 
Onct~ in the houst~. families are taught responsibility through "tough love." For tlw most part. tlwy must eook and clean for tlwmsPives in order to learn responsi­bility. All tlw food and elothes in the 
see HOUSE I page 6 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
Audrey and Calvin, below. are just two of the children of families living in the Catholic Worker House. The house was established to offer support for families in times of need through com­passion and other Church teachings. 


Awareness serves as protection 
Students use common sense to avoid danger 
Hdilor's Note: This is the sec­()fU/ in a lu•o-part series ofarti­cles t•.wmining 1Jw recent end t~/' the /Jiil t~t·ase-jire and how lht• return of hostilities affects Notrt• /JwTit' studt•uls lit,ing in !.on cion. 
By MARY KATE MORTON A"odatr Nt·w, Fditnr 
Tlwy try not to think about it. but it is always in tlw baek of tlwir minds. Tlw situation is hard to ignore wlu~n every JWwspaJwr and tt~levision sta-
London, Notre Dame & the IRA 
part 2 of 2 
tion carrit!s accounts of the lat­est bombing or altercation. 
The Notre Dame London Pro­gram students s•~t off for their European adventure in Jan­uary. thinking they would have the times of their lives. 
What they never realized was that their lives could be endan­gered by the end of an 18 month-long eease-fire regard­ing the eonl'lict in Northern Ireland. 
On Feb. 9, the fragile peace 1~ncornpassing Northern Ireland 
and the United Kingdom was shattered by an explosion in the heart of the London business district. 
With the chaos and fear. the blast brought uncertainty for all those affected by the peace process that had been under­way between the sides of the Northern Ireland connict. 
lneluded in this group of peo­ple who must deal with the ramifications of the end of the Irish Hepublican Army cease­fire are the Notre Dame stu­dents studying in London for the semester. 
Junior Amy Schmidt tries not to worry about it constantly. "It's so scary that we try not to think of it all the time," she 
see LONDON I page 4 
sponsor programs to hotter equip hall staff to deal with gay and lesbian student needs, and adopt measures to promote a harassment free environment. 
In issuing the report the com­mittee said it believed its assignment was helpful. 
"While there is still a great deal of work to be done, the dialogue about these issues has 
see GROUP I page 4 

Hammill: Writing shows decline of open sexuality 
By DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
'If all the world is a stage, then all the world is a book, so all the world is a closet,' was one of the intriguing ideas that developed out of forum interaction between speaker Graham Hammill and his audience Thursday afternoon in the Hesburgh Library lounge. 
Titled 'Sex and the Graphic Revolution: As You Like It?' Hammill's lecture examining the roots and effects of psycho-analytic theory was part of the Department of Gender Studies' ongo­ing weekly forum discussion. 
"What psychoanalysis calls sex is a logical extension of what the Renaissance calls sodomy," Hammill, a professor in Notre Dame's English Department, forwarded. 
The humanistic ethics of reading that devel­oped during the Renaissance helped create Shakespeare's Elizabethan/Jacobean writing environment according to Hammill. In turn, Freud's sexual psychoanalysis can find subtle beginnings in Shakespeare, Hammill continued. 
Hammill analyzed Shakespeare's comedy 'As You Like It' to illustrate his points. In addition to including cross dressing, role playing, and soap opera-like love connections, Hammill noted that the female characters of 'As You Like It' also ask for kisses from the bearded audience mem­bers in the play's prologue. 
"It's very interesting because all the actors are men. The general indecisiveness of sexuality increases the excitement," Hammill said. 
Such indecisiveness led to eultural secrecy in the transmission of sexual knowledge, and this is where society finds itself today, aecording to llammill. 
Hammill also cited graphical manuscript writ­ing to show the decline of open sexuality. lie explained that pre-Henaissance scribes' elabo­rate ~:ensual writing contrasts strongly with today's colorless dotted-line notation. 
"The graphic mark is now structured," 1Iamn1ill concluded. 
Notre Dame students livt:. in these flats in London where there are con­cerns over safety after th recent London bombings by the IRA. 
J. 
'I 
l 1. 
! r 
page 2 Friday, March 1, 1996
The Observer· INSIDE 


• V'JtH1U:J Ai AGLANCE 
Flu deaths make statistical blip in U.S. life expectancy


l There's
t 
no place

I 


like home 

I 
I 
i It's coming. It's pres­ence hangs above our 
Lori Allen heads. The key to sal­Saint Mary's vation and sanity dan­News Ediror 
gling before our tired 

eyes. Spring break. ~ In one week (that's seven days from now l folks) spring break will be upon us. Just one 
! 
I 
more week of relentless and perpetual study­I ing. One more week to cope with the almost non-existent social life before we can all fly away from South Bend for just a little while. 
' Spring break. To some these two words can breathe life into a body whose soul has been nearly expunged by the South Bend winter. These stressed individuals dream of basking in an exotic locale, luminous with sunlight. They envision themselves heavily laden with oil stretched out across the white sands of Mexico. If this fantasy even remotely resem­bles your plans, live it up. While some may be traveling to Cancun, and others to Daytona Beach, I will be road trip­ping it to Kansas. That's right. Kansas (it's not a misprint). Atchison, in fact. Why Kansas, you ask? Having grown up on the east coast, Indiana was a big enough shock. When the offer came to travel to Kansas, I felt it was an offer I couldn't refuse. Who really could? We're talking Dorothy and 
Oz here, not to mention the drive through Iowa. 
So now I brace myself for what I am sure will be the epitome of my college experience so far. Questions enter my mind daily. Will I see the yellow brick road? Is the Grand Wizard really that old guy? 
I'm bracing for a real adventure here. Atchison just so happens to be the biggest city in its county, and proudly boasts the birth place of Amelia Earhart. It also serves as home to Cue's Place, a rather infamous bar, which I hear is in the midst of celebrating its 20th anniversary (you can also get tee-shirts there as a momento). 
So while the rest of you are out soaking up rays, I'll be living it up in Kansas. I'm going to tie a pink ribbon in my hair (for fear of being considered the wicked witch of the east) and leave my New Jersey attitude behind as I hit the farms with the best of them. Atchison, here I come. 
Perhaps the best part about my excursion is the road trip. Ten and a half hours in the car with two good friends and one really funny guy from Zahm. 
Everyone deserves a really good road trip in their lifetime. No matter where the road leads, if you've got good company, you can sit back and enjoy the ride. · 
So whether you're going to Cancun or Kansas, make sure to stop and look around. Just because a place is not a major city, or doesn't house tourist attractions, doesn't mean there is nothing to see. Even if you're going home, allow yourself some time to breathe in the life around you. Even if it does smell like a cow. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Jamie Heisler  Meghan Smith  
Jason Dorwart  
Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Brian Reinthaler  Melissa DeRosa  
James Belden  
Lab Tech  
Graphics  Dave Murphy  
Brian Blank  

The Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacnion periods. The Observer is a member of {he Associarc:d Press. All reproduction righ.ts are reserved. 
ATLANTA 

U.S. life expectancy fell slightly in 1993, the first dip in 13 years, but that doesn't mean shorter life spans -just that the projections were skewed by a large number of flu deaths. 
Life expectancy for people born in 1993 was pegged at 75.5 years, down from the 7 5.8 years someone born in 1992 might expect, the federal Centers for Disease Control said Thursday. 
The CDC blamed the decline on two nationwide epiqemics in which 82,820 people died from flu or pneumonia. The outbreaks increased the overall death rate for the first time since 1988. 
"It really appears. to be just a blip, not the start of a trend; 1993 was just a very bad year," said Paula Gardner, a survey statistician with the National Center for Health Statistics in Hyattsville, Md. 
Although the life expectancy figure is given for people born that year, most of those who died were older and weak from other chronic health problems. That shows the need for people in high­risk groups, especially the elderly, to get flu shots, Ms. Gardner said. 

Mortality rates 

Life expectancy in the U.S. fell for the first time in 13 years due to two 1993 epidemics, but researchers say it will rebound. 
Top 10 causes 'Rate %change of death in 1993 
per Since Since 1100,000 1992 1979 
1 Heart disease 145.3 0.7 -27.2 2 Cancer ! 132.6 -0.4 1.4 3 Stroke ! 26.5 1.1 ·36.3 4 Pulmonary 21.4 \ 7.5 46.6 
disease 5 Accidents• ! 30.3 i 3.1 -29.4 6 Pneumonia : 13.5 6.3 20.5 7 Diabetes i 12.4 4.2 26.5 8 AIDS and HIV-13.8 9.5 N.A. 
related illnesses 9 Suicide 11.3 1.8 ·3.4 OMurder 10.7 1.9 
. 4.9 
'Includes accidents and the after·effects. 

Aide to Mrs. Clinton sets up fund Three reported shot at paper mill 
WASHINGTON HAWESVILLE, Ky. 
Hillary Clinton's top aide has estab­
A gunman entered a paper mill's construction site lished a fund to help pay legal bills from Thursday and shot at least three workers, company offi­Whitewater-related investigations. cials said. It wasn't immediately clear how badly they Margaret Williams, the first lady's chief were hurt or if the gunman was captured. The shooter, 
believed to be a truck driver who hauled wood chips, en­of staff, set up a blind trust so that she tered the site in the afternoon and opened fire, said Cathy does not know the contributors. White Baldwin, a spokeswoman for Willamette Industries. He
House counsel Jack Quinn said his 
was not a company employee, said Baldwin, who is basedoffice reviews each donation to ensure at the Willamette's headquarters in Portland, Ore. Thethat it does not come from somebody doing three people hit were employees of a subcontractor thatthe federal government. The developments underscore is working on a $600 million addition to the mill near thisthe burden imposed on President Clinton's staff during small river town. "It was confined to a constructioninvestigations of the Whitewater and travel office affairs. 
area," Tim Moman, an assistant personnel manager atNearly 20 administration officials have hired lawyers. 
the plant, said of the shootings. lie didn't know the condi­
President Clinton's own legal defense fund raised 
tions of the wounded. Hancock County Coroner David $971,941 in its first 18 months, ending Dec. 31. He still 
Gibson said two of the victims were taken to Perry County has $1.3 million in outstanding debts. Hospital in Tell City, Ind., just across the Ohio River. 
Stroh announces takeover Keyes begins hunger strike 
DETROIT 

COLUMBIA, S.C. Stroh Brewery Co., the nation's fourth-largest brewer, 
Republican Alan Keyes said he was starting a hunger
is buying G. Heileman Brewing Co. Inc., the fifth-largest strike to protest his exclusion from the presidential
beer producer. The price of the sale announced today debate Thursday. Keyes, who has finished near the bot­was not disclosed but was believed to be $275 million to tom in primary contests to date, was not invited to partic­
$300 million, industry sources said. Stroh will assume ipate. A South Carolina business council sponsored the Heileman's debts and will issue stock and other securities 
hourlong debate that featured the four leading GOP can­
in exchange for Heileman's stock and bonds. Stroh presi­didates -Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, commenta­dent William Henry said the combination would create tor Pat Buchanan, publisher Steve Forbes and former 
"significant strengths." Heileman's brands include Old Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander. Keyes said undecided Style, Lone Star, Rainier, Schmidt's, Champale and Colt 
voters need to hear his pro-family message. "Is our cri­
45. Stroh's labels include Stroh's, Old Milwaukee, Schlitz sis today a money crisis or a moral crisis?" Keyes said. 
and Schaefer. Stroh has breweries in St. Paul, Minn.; 
"Unless I am on that stage, that question will not be Longview, Texas; Lehigh Valley, Pa.; Winston-Salem, 
raised." Keyes said he was encouraging supporters to N.C.; and Tampa, Fla. It will take over Heileman's brew­
join his fast, which he said would not end until "I get
eries at LaCrosse, Wis.; Baltimore; Portland, Ore.; Seattle; assurances of fair and equitable treatment ... to make 
and San Antonio, Texas. Stroh has about 6 percent of the 
sure the message I represent is heard by the American market share, with Heileman the combined company 
people." The other Hepublican presidential candidates,will have a 10 percent share. That will place it fourth Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar, California Rep. Bob Dornan and 
behind Anheuser Busch Inc. of St. Louis, Miller Brewing businessman Morry Taylor also were not invited to par­Co. of Milwaukee and Coors Brewing Co. of Golden, Colo. 
ticipate in the debate. 

Friday, March I 
AccuWeatherw forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Friday, March 1. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
No figure has been calculated yet for 1994, but provisional figures indicate a rebound in life expectancy, the CDC said. One good sign: infant mortality fell to the lowest level ever in 1993. 
The CDC said the overall death rate, adjusted for age, increased to 513.3 per 100,000 population in 1993, from 504.5 deaths per 100,000 in 1992. 
That reflects 2.3 million deaths in 1993, the highest annual figure on record and an increase of 92,940 or 1.7 percent from 1992. 
The leading causes of death remain unchanged. In order, they are: heart disease, cancer, stroke, pulmonary dis­ease, accidents, pneumonia and flu, dia­betes, AIDS and HIV-related illnesses, suicide and homicide. Heart disease and cancer accounted for almost 60 percent of all 1993 deaths. 
The nation's overall infant mortality rate for 1993 was 8.4 deaths per 1,000 live births. Provisional data show the rate falling to 7. 9 in 1994, largely because of fewer deaths from respirato­ry distress syndrome, Ms. Gardner said. 


4,~,QpQ,Q¢: ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
HIGH L.OW SHOW£RS RAIN T-STOAMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vts Assoctaled Press 
Atlanta 46 36 Denver 49 20 New York 36 28 Boston 36 26 Houston 65 33 Salt Lake City44 22 Chicago 28 22 Kansas City 29 20 San Francisco62 
49 Cincinnati 37 28 Miami 82 69 Seattle 51 
34 Via Associated Press GraphicsNst C 1996 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Cleveland 38 24 New Orleans56 40 Springfield 40 27 
• 
Friday, March I, 1996 The Observer • THE AD HOC COMMITTEE REPORT page 3 
Recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
Student leadership vocalizes 
support for suggested group 
•That a University group of gay and lesbian students facilitated by one or two As.isrJnl News Ediror cations in order to include sexual orien­
By KRISTI KOLSKI tion dause appearing in university publi­
members of the faculty or administration be constituted. tation. As a ymtr of deliberation comes to a This could be the hardest issue to pass. 
•That a standing committee on the needs of gay and lesbian students be created dose for tlw Ad Iloc Committee on Gay "It's a sticky issue but it's important," 
to advise the Vice-President for Student Affairs, to act as a resource for the and Lesbian Student Needs, a new Patrick said. "It's a good foundation for 
Vice-President for identifying ongoing gay and lesbian concerns. · discussion ernnrgns among students all the other recommendations." about whetlwr or not the administration Introducing this recommendation 
•That the University Counseling Center continue to play a vital role in providing
will nmbraen 12 recommendations would make the University legally 
ongoing psychological support for those struggling with issues of sexual 
intHnded to improve relations between responsible to adhere to nondiscrimina­
identity.

the homosexual community and the tory hiring and admission practices. administration. Although the report offered strong rec­
•That Campus Ministry provide forums for gay and lesbian students, where 
Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of ommendations, committee members had 
issues of faith and sexuality would be discussed. Campus Ministry should 
Student Affairs, has said she will to focus on both student and University respond to the ad hoe committee recom­concerns. 
also provide retreats for gays and lesbians. rnnndations by the first week of April. "The report did cater to the University Aeross campus, student leaders ex­a little bit but we have to remember that 
•That the Office of Student Affairs coordinate forums on sexuality, personal presslld a eommon desire for the mea­the essence of Notre Dame is to keep con­
development and faith for the campus. sures to gain acceptance but acknowl­sistent with Catholic teachings," said edged that it would not be a simple Megan Murray, Student Body Vice-Presi­
•That duLac, the Faculty Handbook, and the Staff Employee Guidebook include process. dent elect. 
statements indicating the University's intolerance for harassment based on 
"I hope for the sake of the gays and les­At the base of the conflict is whether 
sexual orientation. 

bians at our sehool and the entire com­the University can offer acceptance to mittee that the administration embraces homosexuals while still following the these recommendations as positive teachings of the Church. •That in orienting new students, faculty, staff and administrators to Notre Dame, steps," said Jonathan l'atriek, Student Currently, gays and lesbians are not 
he officers involved in that process should make statements which articulate Body President and ad hoc committee formally recognized by the Church, and 
the University's desire to welcome and support gay and lesbian members of the nwml)(lr. so has been the case on campus. 
ommunity and which articulate~c;.University'~ intolerance for harassment Although somfl of the recommendations "So far gays and lesbians have been 
ased on sexual orientation . ...,.·..·.·.'.·...... /'•/ n..··. .. ' ·:·. ' 
have alnlady been incorporated, the excluded from the campus social dynam­
"/.".r .. • .\J .. .., 
possibility of acceptance for others re­ic," said Matthew Schlatter, Hall Presi­
•That the Vice-President fo; Student Aff~irs should raise to the University 
mains questionable. dents' Council co-chairperson. "The 
officers the issue of modifying the nondiscrimination clause which appears in
The final rncomnwndation calls for the 
University publications to include sexual orientation. 
university to modify the nondiscrimina­
see REACTION I page 6 


Blandford sees pros and cons Firth: Committee finds 
Expresses concern 
consensus a year later 
over loopholes By BRAD PRENDERGAST nity. 
Associate News Editor "We spent a good deal ofand 'soft wording' time on that one," Firth said. Although the issue of homo­"We were very conscious of
By I>AVE TYLER 
sexuality at Notre Dame was a the mandate )laid down by
New\ l·.Jiwr 
complex concern for the mem­O'Hara at the inception of the bers of the Ad Hoc Committee committee I and we knew we.John Blandford hopns the Ad 
on Gay and Lesbian Student had to work within that man­
Hoc CommillPP on Cay and 
Needs, its members were date in deciding to reeommend
l.nshian Student Net~d's final 
pleased with the recommenda­a support group for the [gay
rPport isn't a ease of taking OIHl 
tions that they developed. and lesbian[ students. So we
stnp forward, two swps back. 
"The report reflects a real took special care in developing
ThP GI.NI>/SMC co-chair is 
consensus of the committee that recommendation."
viewing tlw docunwnt with 
members," said Ann Firth, The mandate, created by
cautious optimism lw said in an 
chair of the committee and as­O'Hara when she established
intr~rvit~w yeswrday. 
sistant to the vice-president the ad hoc committee in March
"This is definitnly a stflp in 
for Student Affairs, "so I'm 1995, asked the committee to
tlw forward direction," 
pleased in that respect." consider three points, among
Blandford said. "J,.inally then~ 
In the one year that it exist­which was the question of how
is an awan•1wss of tlw difficult The Observer/Mike Ruma 
ed, the committee developed the University could sponsor a
lives that gay and lesbians live GLNDISMC Co-Chair John Blandford feels that the committee's pro­
12 recommendations over setting respectful of Church
on this campus." posal is a step in the right direction but more can be done. 
three separate reports, all of teachings in which gay and
t\l tlw same time Blandford is then~ arn a lot of unanswered over a decade," said Blandford. 
which have been forwarded to lesbian students could discuss
wary of sonw of tlw provisions questions." Among these are But Blandford said he is 
Patricia O'Hara, vice-president issues and find support.
in tlw n~port. things like when and where the viewing a lot the report as posi­
for Student Affairs. In recommending the Uni­
"In Llw spirit of Llw law, it's a group would ment, how the tive. "I think the explicit refer­
Of the recommendations, the versity-facilitated support
good step, but in the letter meetings would be condueted, ences to GLND/SMC are a vin­
fifth -which was a part of group, the committee sug­
tlwn~ arn plenty of loopholes to and how officers would be dication of GLND/SMC's work 
yesterday's edition and calls gested that the group "would
lw found," he said. elecwd, he said. on campus." Blandford also 
for the establishment of a stand in special relationship to
or particular eonecrn are the The involvement of the Office said GLND/SMC would be 
University group of gay and the Office of Student 1\ffairs."
firth and twelfth recommenda­of Student Affairs worries "glad to work with O'llara to 
lesbian students to assist those That special relationship
tions because of their soft Blandford as well. "This group help establish a student 
students "in exploring common refers to the fact that homo­
wording, Blandford said. "(The eould be dietated by the same group." 
issues within the context of the sexuality on campus is and has
idea of a studnnt group run by people who have been the pri­Blandford believes that sup-
Catholic Church" -promises been a sensitive issue, and one
tlw Of'firn of Student Affairs) mary adversaries of gays and 
to be a major point of con­
could lw inadequalfl because lesbians on this campus for 
see BLANDFORD I page 6 tention in the campus commu-see FIRTH I page 6 


~­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 1, 1996 
Schmidt. sures that can be taken to Handbook, and the Staff Employee Despite the fears of the stu­protect the students," said Guidebook include statements indi­
London Groupdents in London, Dr. Gutting. cating the University's intolerance Anastasia Gutting, director of As for past London Program for harassment based on sexual
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
the Program, assured that the participants, those who trav­orientation. Further the committee 
said. "But it's always in the students are not alone and eled abroad during the cease­moved us beyond where we were back of my mind. We have to that the Program is well­fire noted that today obviously 
as a community a year ago," the 
take the Tube I London sub­equipped to deal with the situ­provides the students with a report says. ation. different environment. 
way system I to class and O'Hara released a brief state­
that's one of the main targets 'Tve been with the Program "The Program itself was in a ment after receiving the report. 
for violence." for ten years so we know how different position than it is 
"I am grateful for the work of Hecently, the British police now," said Senior Bryan Con­
the committee. I look forward to have focused much of their se­nolly who was in London in the opportunity to re11ect on its curity around the Picadilly 'It's so scary that we the Spring of 1995. recommendations. I hope to be 
"I had a class on the conflict

Circus area. a major tourist try not to think of it able to respond to the report of the 
attraction and elose to the so I thought about it often but 
committee by the first week of 
Notre Dame Program build­all the time. But it's it wasn't a fear, because there April," she said. ing. always in the· back of was a cease-fire. It wasn't a In its final report the committee "Although we don't live near huge problem." proposed the following: central London. our Glasses my mind. We have to For the most part, the stu­
•That a University group of gay 
dents who were in London

are ncar the Picadilly area. take the Tube and lesbian students facilitated byLately, security has closed off during the height of the cease­one or two members of the faculty
[London's subway sys­
places around Picadilly fire used comJilOn sense but it 
or administration be constituted. Circus," said Junior Margee tem] to class and was never an issue at the The group's advisor would be 
llusemann. "We really see forefront of their thinking. 
selected by its student members
that's one of the main
the en·ects when we travel on "We just had to be aware, 
and the Vice-Pwsident for Student the Tube. Stops am elosed all targets for violence.' especially of wearing anything Afl'airs. It would serve as a supportthe time and there arc pre­with 'Fighting Irish' on it. But 
-and discussion group and receive cautionary signs everywhere." other than that, we used the 
University funding. It would also be Prior to the cease-fire in Amy Schmidt common sense any foreigner allowed to advertise and use 
March of 1994, London offi­would use in a different coun­
University facilities for its meet­cials had removed possible try," said Connolly. ings.to addmss the recent violence. The semester has certainly
targets for bombs around the •That a standing committee on 
city, including all the trash The students are part of our taken on a new perspective the needs of gay and lesbian stu­
cans in the Underground Tube program and we do all we can for the Notre Dame students 
dents be created to advise the 
system. to assure that they are not living in London. They have Vice-President for Student Affairs. 
Although these obvious tar­alone and that they know been thrown into the violence 
to act as a resource for the Vice­gets are gone. people must what steps to take while they surrounding the conflict in President for identifying ongoing 
are overseas," said Gutting. Northern Ireland, the fear, the
constantly be on the watch for gay and lesbian student concerns. 
suspicious activity, especially The London Program had inconveniences and the politi­• That the University Counseling 
unattended packages. instructed its participants how cal turmoil. 
Center continue to play a vital role 
"Even though there hasn't to proceed if a problem occurs Though they are well-pro­in providing ongoing psychological 
bnen a bomb in over seven as well as how to alter their tected from the violence, due support for those struggling with 
days, there are reminders everyday behavior. which to the instructions they have issues of Sexual Identity. 
wherever we go. We always involves being more aware of been given by the Program, • That Campus Ministry provide
have to be cautious and aware their surroundings. what they will cannot be pro­
forums for gay and lesbian stu­of our surroundings, If we see "Furthermore, we keep in tected from is the experience dents, where issues of faith and 
anything out of the ordinary, touch with the An1eriean Em­of living as the British and 
sexuality would be discussed. 
we've been instructed to bassy so that they can inform Irish have for decades without Campus Ministry should also pro­
report it immediatnly," stated us of the situation and mea-a cease-fire. 
vide retreats for gays and lesbians. 
•That the Office of Student A11'airs coordinate forums on sexu­
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, 
ality, personal development and faith for the campus. 
•That duLac, the Faculty

and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
N~ww mlild
• 

• lmprowad 
c~~



~~::::!1 

r------~------~------, 
: 99C :$5.99 :S10.99: 
I <*L... .I Larg~ I 2 Lar~e I 
l Br~J ll-Toppmgll-Toppmgl 
I with any I Thin, Hand Tossed I Thin, Hand Tossed I I • I Pizza or Deep Dish I Pizza or Deep Dish I I Pizza order. I Extra I Extra I 
1 Not valid with other offers. 1 Not valid with other offers. 1
••-_...... ______ ..._ ______... 
calls for a heightened awareness of the procedures in place to address such harassment. 
•That 
in orienting new students, faculty, staff, and administrators to Notre Dame, the onicers involved in that process should make state­ments which articulate the University's desire to welcome and support gay and lesbian members of the community and which ar­ticulate the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis on sexual orientation. 

• 
That the Vice-President for Student Affairs should raise to the UnivBrsity officers the issue of modifying the nondiscrimination dause which appears in University publications to include sexual ori­


. entation. 
O'Jlara is not obligated to accept 
the committee's recommendations. 
"These are recommendations 
period. I'm sure she'll be reviewing 
them both alonn and with the olli­
cers of the University," said 
Director of Public Helations Dennis 
Moore. 
The members of thn committne, 
in addition to Firth, arc: 
Pasquerilla West rector, Sister 
Susan Bruno; Theology Professor, 
Father David Burrnll; Assistant 
Director of Campus Ministry, 
Father Hobert Dowd; Grace Hall 
rector. Father Terrence Linton: 
Student Body President . .Johnathan 
Patrick; Student Bod.)· Vice­
President, Dt~nnis McCarthy; grad­
uate student. Sharon Miller; 
Theology Professor, Maura Hyan; 
junior, Anthony Silva; Director of 
the University Counseling Center, 
Dr. Patrick Utz; Director of 
Campus Ministry. Father Hichard 
Warner; and Assistant Director of 
the University Counseling Center. 
Dr. Susan Steibn-Pasalich. 
Q 
Michelle Crouch 


Now•• 
. Hiring!·•




,... l. 


Friday, March I, I 996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Pauley: Interpersonal skills c14eate leaders Trial team 
By SARAI I CORKREAN s1~lves to detect their own per­Pauley said that individual Coleman's findings that a true New~ Writer CI~ption of self and opinion of failure and set backs are a leader has the ability to work 
advances to 

Within an intnrporsonal group, leadership is a trail all nwmhers 1nnhody, according to llr. .John Pauley, Assistant l'rof1~ssor of Comrnunkalions at Saint Mary's College, who spok1~ about lnad11rship and human inLPIIignncl~ with re­1-{anls to lnwlligenen l)uotil~llt, ( 11)1 and 1-:rnotiona I Quotient (I·:Qt at a l.1~adership l>evelop­nwnl lunrlwon yesterday. 
Opening tlw pn~sentation by involving tlw audieneo in the i nd ivid ually ranking personal qualities such as motivation. valw• of Pdueation, and conli­deiH:P; administration. faculty, and stud11nts ranked them-
Deadline for Applications 
and interview sign-ups is 
• • 5:00 pm, Friday, • • 
Interviews will be conducted by appointment on Saturday, March 2nd 


(]~NAILS 
Grand Opening 
r---------------, 
_'i7 

• 
Open: MoN-SAr 
1 15% off with 1 10:00-8:00 
I 1 ND/SMC ID for 1 I 
SUNDAY 
: newset or fill in. :
12:00-5:00 
L---------------~ 
CARE
/,~ •Acr-ylic 
•Manicure $12

Ful.l St•t $:{0 I, ' Ht·lill $211 • Pt~dicure $20 ( • Silk, Lint'n-• Man.& Peel. $30 ' 1 Wn1ps & G1·l • Anwr·ican, 
I 
Full SPt $40 Fr·pneh tip 
H..fill $~5 \ 
:1/J }oh.~ 1/l'f' 1-(lllll'llllll'l'lflllllf dom• /Jy II ~ proji•ssio11alJi"om Cal(fill·11ia . 
. . 
6502 N Grapt> U.oad 
n,. "''SI Huy mul St•rt1in• IHr•rdwnJhw 

271-0503 
COMPLETE NAIL 
leadership ability. 
In the book, "Emotional Intelligence," by Dr. Daniel Goleman, that studios person­IWI executives in a business organization, Goleman's states that it may be "your IQ that gnts you hirnd for a job, but it's your EQ which gets you promoted." 
Pauley discussed interper­sonal realms and how leaders develop out of those groups. "A leader doesn't just attend to the tasks and assign them, but first has members get to know each other and make everyone feel important and that their job will be a factor in the group's success," lw said. 

step in the process of develop­ing effective lr.adership skills. 
According to him, "Leaders have the ability to learn from failure to work towards a solu­tion and arc persistent in all they do." 
Stressing the positive vision Saint Mary's fosters in the. edu­cation of dfwcloping leaders, Pauley noted that students learn interpersonal skills in small groups in the classroom. 
In the cultural models of the past, leaders arc thought of as "aggressive, agenda setting in­dividuals who stand alone and drag everyone along," said Pauley. 
But Pauley concludes with 
The Nolre Dame C>tudent Players Present 


february 28,29 0 March 1 8pm 
Washin8ton Hall 
$3 

with others, listen, and under­stand others. Interpersonal skills arc as important, if not more important than ambition and drive in the work place, he said. 
Reflecting on the prcsenta­tion. Pauley said, "we can now begin to recognize and see leadership in areas never seen or explored before." 
Students agreed with Pauley about the role leaders play. 
"I found his presentation interesting and now realize we arc all leaders in our own way at Saint Mary's," said fresh­man Meghan Nash. ''By relat­ing to others we act in leader­ship roles at all levels." 
Nationals 
By KAREN HILKE 
News Writer 
Last weekend the Mock Trial team competed in the National Qualifying Hegional Compntition hosted by Purdue at the Lafeyette County Courthouse. 
At this, their first of two competitions, Notre Dame faced ofT against the University of Illinois, Eastern Illinois and Purdue University. A total of fifteen teams competed for the top five spots in order to advance to Nationals. 
Notre Dame placed two teams among the top five, qualifying to compete in Nationals. The second team finisiH~d first by maintaining a perfect record in all of their trials. The team consisted of Mike Edney, Mike Tierney, Christina Borealc, Matt Blaschke, Todd Cassidy and Jtlrcmy Murtaugh. 
The first team plaeed second overall with a n1eord of 7-0-1. This team is rnadn up of Co­Presidents Dave lloran and Laura Boeckman as well as Dave Mullin, Molly MeConville, Drew Kinin, Kevin Klau. Mari­bnth Supperoek, and Matt Ma­honey. 
Notrn Dame's third tnam also plaeed very well, with a 5-3 record, r.arning them the sev­enth position. 
This team consisted of Chris Hegan, Todd Donbrowski, Jim Burke, Laura Colleton, .len Dovidio, Hyan llarding, and Kathy Lattanzi. 
Co-President Dave Horan had nothing but praise for this team who he feels, "are as qualified to compete in Nationals as well but because of a rule that stipulates that only two teams from one school can advance to Na­tionals, they will be unable to compete." 
Beyond their impressive record, the Mock Trial team is "a lot of fun, and a great way to gel you to think on your feet as well as gain an understand­ing of the courtroom and law itself," says Dave Iloran. 
The learn puts in many hours of hard work and res11arch, es­pndally when it gnts eloser to cornpntition datns. 
Co-President Laura Boeck­man said that as the competi­tion dates approach the team might practice as rnud1 as 3-4 hours pnr night in order to bn well versed enough in their case and spneches for the com­petition. 
The team receives help from various lawyers in the South Bend area who give them pointers about their technique and style. 
The top. two teams will be traveling to Des Moines, Iowa on March 28-31 to face tlw other Hegional winners from around the country. 
Laura Boeckman was opti­mistic about their expected performance. "Last year we were twenty seventh so we llXJH~ct to bn within the top twenty livn this year." 

Dole camp prepares for New York primary By MARC HUMBERT front, and recent court rulings Associated Press went against his campaign. The bottom line is that ALBANY, N.Y. Forbes and Dole will be the Sen. Bob Dole's camp threw only candidates on the ballot in the towel Thursday in its in all parts of the state. lengthy battle to keep Steve Buchanan, who had been on Forbes and Pat Buchanan off the ballot in just 13 or the the ballot state's 31 congressional dis­f'or the New tricts as of Wednesday, will York He­probably wind up with 2:{. publican No other Hepublican eon­primary tenders are on the primary next Thurs­ballot in New York, where 93 day. delegates are at stake. ' · W e The Forbes camp said deridNI just Dole's decision was designedDoleto slop," to help Buchanan and keep said Dole New York from turning into a campaign lawyer Jeff Buley. Dole-Forbes showdown. "We'rn going to beat them at "The last thing in the world the polls." they want is a head-to-head The fight to keep Forbes contest with Steve Forbes. and Buchanan off the New They're afraid of us," said York ballot gave Dole a black Thomas Slater, Forbes' na­eye on the public relations tional political director.  
WVFI has openings for substitute "dee-jays." For information, call Ben@ 631-6888  

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 



page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 1, 1996 



House 
continued from page 1 
house are donated by mem­bers of the community. 
During their stay at the house, families are also assist­ed in getting jobs for their adults and schooling for their children. Families receive unconditional love from McGrath and her volunteers in order to promote a loving envi­ronment the families may not be used to. 
This love, along with a close contact with the community, remains after families leave the house. 
Volunteers from the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student body are one of the keys to helping the house run smooth­ly. 
Volunteers may help clean or paint the house, but the most important act they perform is 

Firth 
continued from page 3 
that will be closely monitored by the Office of Student Affairs. 
"This group would not be an ordinary student organiza­tion," Firth said. "I think this speaks to the fact that we're dealing with a very delicate topic." 
The ad hoc committee recommended that Student Affairs should appoint faculty or administrators to advise the group during its first year, and in following years, the advisors selected by the group's mem­bers should be approved by the vice-president for Student Affairs. 

Reaction 
continued from page 3 
report is a viable way to address the homosexual com­munity at Notre Dame while staying in the Catholic charac­ter." 
All student leaders expressed a desire that the homosexual community benefit from the 12 recommendations. 
"They must be made to feel that they are an important member of the community," said Catherine McCarren, North Quad Senator. 
She stressed the need for homosexual students to have a place where they can meet with their peers. "They need to have their own support group. Someone at Campus Ministry hasn't been through the same thing," she added. 
In the past year, Campus Ministry has been the leading outlet for individuals in the gay and lesbian community, but does not sponsor any gay and lesbian support groups. 
It keeps more than 
•


memories alive. 

American Heart ft Association...~ 
F1ghtmg Heart Disease and Stroke 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES
-
1-800-AHA-USAi 

This space provided as a public service. ©1994, American Heart Associalion 
talking to different family members. 
Volunteers may stop by only one hour a week, but the con­versation they provide helps different family members cope through hard times and main­tain positive outlooks. 
Kevin Garvey, who is cur­rently taking classes at Notre Dame, became a live-in volun­teer at the start of this semes­ter to provide a permanent support for families and take some pressure off McGrath. 
Garvey is always there to dis­cuss issues with families, make calls on behalf of families for health care needs, and answer calls from families hoping to live in the house. 
During this semester, Mc­Grath and Garvey have insti­tuted two new events at the house to promote its focus on community. 
The first is a Monday night dinner where members of the South Bend community and 
Because the findings of the committee are not binding, the recommendations will be im­plemented at the discretion of the University and the Office of Student Affairs. 
As a result, Firth said she would like to remain involved in the evaluations of the rec­ommendations. 
"We [the committee mem­bers] have invested a lot of time and energy, so I want to be of help in any way I can," she said. "But our reports are just recommendations, so it's up to Professor O'Hara to determine what happens next." 
O'Hara has said that she plans to respond to the committee's report by the first professors and volunteers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's eat and talk to the families. 

Further, Friday Mass at the house begins today. 
Mass will be followed by din­ner and a discussion with priests, professors, and the families. 
Garvey anticipates about 20 people to attend the mass. but emphasized that there is room for many more. 
Anyone interested in attend­ing mass, the Monday Night dinner. or volunteering at the house should call 234-1196. 
Many volunteering times are available, including times when two people can volunteer at the same time. 
Group volunteering allows family members and volun­teers to have a greater in­timacy in discussion with each other. 
"The two families currently living at the house would appreciate the time any volun­teer could give," said Garvey. 
week of April. 

Listening to homosexual stu­dents and faculty describe the difficulties in being gay at Notre Dame was a learning experience for the committee that brought its members together more closely, Firth said, thus allowing them to be more candid with one another in their discussions. 
"By being together as a com­mittee for an entire year, we g·rew in trust and respect for one another," she said. "In the end, we were able to arrive at a consensus. It just kind of happened. 
"It would be great if what we experienced as a group could be experienced on a greater scale by the entire University community," she added. 


GREAT \YALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 

S. (US 3 I in RllsclanJ) ott RanJall'il Inn, South Bend, IN 
• PERU 
Plane crash kills all 123 people aboard 
By LYNN MONAHAN 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 
A Peruvian commercial jet crashed Thursday night in an Andean Mountain canyon in southern Peru, killing all 123 people aboard. 
There were 40 international passengers on the Faucett Air­lines flight, according to an airline statement. The victims included 33 Chileans, two Bel­gians, two Bolivians, two Canadians and one Brazilian. 
Blandford 
continued from page 3 
port groups will bear a marked similarity to the group he co­chairs. "Any campus group is going to be patterned after GLND/SMC so the question re­mains why not GLND/SMC?" he said. 
The committee's work was for the most part honest and deliberate, Blandford said. "I don't think it should have taken a year to complete, but I'm relatively pleased with the quality of the job they did." 
O'Hara's timetable for a re­sponse also causes Blandford 

0 F A M E R C A 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288--3995 

M~F 7:30~7 
"C 0 
~ 
c:

Sat 8~6 
Sun 10~5 e • 
"All major credit cards accepted"
• 0 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
Eighty-three Peruvians died, including the six-member crew. The Boeing 737 was found five miles from its desti­nation of the Andean Mountain city of Arequipa. 
The crew of an Aeroperu commercial flight had spotted the plane "completely in flames" in air, the airport offi­cial said. 
Flight 251 left Lima at 7:10 
p.m. and was due in Arequipa at 8:20 p.m., said Jorge Da­cuna, a spokesman for Faucett, based in Lima. 
some concern. "There's no need to mull it over that long," he said. "It smacks of trying to stall until the end of the school year. The campus should de­mand she do this in a timely fashion." 
"Campus bodies tell her she's wrong, her personal committee tells her to move forward, how much longer do we have to wait?" he asked. 
Despite the forward steps, Blandford said he remains pes­simistic. 
"We are ahead of where we were last year. but we need to remember why the dialogue that emerged was begun," he said. "This is too important to put on the backer burner." 



The Spectrum of the Law 
Tuesday, March 5 
7:00 p.m. 136 DeBartolo A panel of lawyers representing a number of legal careers 
will discuss their career paths. ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
·--------------------·--·-·---..--...---------········-----,.-.. ----------------------------------------­
Friday, March I, 1•>96 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
------------------------~~~~~ ~~~--------------------------------~~­
• BOSNIA·HERZEGOVINA
• ISRAEL 
Hamas ties actions to release of prisoners 
Promises hault of attacks if both demands are met 
A.ssociarcd Prc55 
JEHUSALEM 

The militant Islamic group llamas said Thursday it will stop attacks against Israel for orw week, but demanded that Israel relnase Palnstinian pris­oners and stop its offensive against members of the llamas military wing. 
Tlw statement. relnasnd to the Associated Pres~ by a llamas source, was signed by lzwdine el-<)assam. the mili­tary wing of llamas. 
It said Israel had until the twening of March 8 to mspond to tlw dmnands, and if it did not "it will be considmed that Israel is violating the agree­nwnt." 
Aliza Goren, Ill! advisor to Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the prime minister's oflice had no eornnwnt on llw de­mands. 
Jlamas claimed responsibility for the two suicide bomb at­tacks that killed 25 people, in­cluding two Americans, on Sunday in Israel. 
llamas opposes the Israel­Palestinian peace agreement under which much territory once occupied by Israeli troops now is under the authority of the Palestinian self-rule gov­ernment led by Vasser Arafat. 
Arafat, under pressure from Israel to prevent further at­tacks, this week ordered ar­rests of Barnas activists. 
In a leaflet, Barnas said Sun­day's bombings were in reprisal for the slaying of Yehia Ayyash. the master bomb­maker known as "the engi­neer" who was killed by an ex­ploding cellular phone Jan. 5. 
Israel, which accused him of masterminding a series of bombings that killed 55 people and wounded hundreds, was widely blamed for the assassi­nation. 
Sunday also marked the sec­ond anniversary of the Hebron mosque massacre in which a Jewish settler shot dead 29 Muslim worshipers. 

Please Recycle The Observer 
The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications 
for the following paidpositions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 

Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Brad Prendergast by Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-5323 or 634-2098 
(if• r r \ fcrlfi ~ ~· ~,? ~,':<·r;~\ ~ ~; f;~j: rr~ 
' J \ 1-1 \I IJl ~ IJ,.._. ~( ;: t r;·~ r:-~~ ~l·· ~t\:"[ t:.~ ~. ~t:~ 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

THETOASTOFTHEN.Y. FiiM FESTIVAL! 
•: VILLAMVDiCf "SMART AND FUNNY. 
A'".nr Jusp•r.•ou.< d!ltdor;•J dBbut Asllo,kar "NO EXIr • 
.. N£w vcR~·ntiis "CONFIDENT COMIC STYLE 
m,.td w•th urbit110 rle•erne~s '''de ha•g·!•os, s~oal structurt." 
·•. N£/iroRm "LOVELY, UNDERSTATED 
Wilb d jitr1~i;l $MMtb/~ thSI. 
'•:N vDAIL¥1dWS "A DELIGHTFUL COMEDY! AN AUDIENCE PLEASER!" 
r-.NrwYoP.K"Po5r "GENEROUS, WITTY COMEDY. 
llr.t i•nm wh,; br Mt bullets m8 wester~ 
,n•.l": (llt\i!.t p;,r~~r rtms 
Jt"'l ~1H.~ 
hamilton d'ntlo posey eigemdn ~tull:t 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 


World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
Siege ends for war-torn capital 
ByLIAM MCDOWALL 
Associated Press 

JLIJAS 
After driving across a for­mer front line, until recently guarded by Serb guns and armor, Bosnian Interior Minister Avdo Hebib glanced at his watch. It was 10:03 a.m. 
"The siege of Sarajevo is now officially over." he declared. 
Nearly four years of death a11d privation in the Bosnian capital ended quietly Thursday as the Serb-held suburb of llijas was trans­ferred to government con­trol. 
For the first time since the war began in 1992, the gov­ernment had total control of a road into and out of 
Sarajevo. Four years earlier on Feb. 
29. Bosnian Muslims and Croats had begun voting in a two-day referendum for independence from Yugoslavia, the starting point of their descent into hell. The siege itself began April 6, 1992. 
"We have been waiting a long time for this moment. Too much blood has been spilled in Bosnia, but we have survived to see this moment." Habib said. 
Although the handover of 
Sarajevo siege ends 
The Bosnian government took control of the formerly Serb-held 
suburb llijas Thursday. 
Following Serb withdrawal Bosnlan-Crott/
lon 
Ending the siege 
1995 0 Oct. 11: Cease-fire takes effect. 0 Nov. 23: Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic accepts peace plan. 0 Dec. 20: NATO takes over command of Bosnia peace mission. Q Dec. 27: Government, rebel Serb troops pull back from area around Sarajevo to meet first deadline of peace 

10miles \. accord. 
_, 
10km 
•Breza Serb Republic 1996Visoko'~~· \ Feb. 4: Rebel Serbs withdraw forces
0 

-~ ./ ~ltas Transferred 2129 from Sarajevo suburbs but keep police 
Kisefjak "' in place, marring planned transfer of powers to Muslim Croat federation. 0 Feb. 8: Bosnian Serb army severs contacts with NATO peace force over 
the arrest of two Bosnian Serb senior officers in Sarajevo. 0 Feb. 23: Federation police start patrolling the first Serb-held Sarajevo suburbs. Serb exodus increases. 
APfWm. J. Castello 

llijas -the second of five L--------------------~~~~~~ 

Serb-held districts to be trans­ferred to government authority -was a historic day for the Bosnian government, it was another day of tragedy for the few remaining Serbs packing up to leave. 
By March 19, three months after NATO took over from the United Nations in Bosnia, Serbs are obliged to give up all five Sarajevo suburbs they held throughout the war. 
International officials said only 2,000 of the 17,000 people who had lived in Jlijas remained as police of the Muslim-Croat federation arrived Thursday morning. Most Serbs fled rather than agreeing to live under the authority of their wartime ene­mies -only 127 Serbs told the 
U.N. police they would stay. 
Bosnian authorities arrived in llijas in a cavalcade of official bullet-proof Mercedes, police cars, fire trucks and electric and telephone vehicles. Engi­neers were to begin immediate repairs of electrical and tele­phone lines damaged during the war and by angry Serbs who had left. 
About two dozen residents-Muslims, Croats. and Serbs ­gathered in front of the police station to watch the arrival. Ninety police-50 Muslims, 25 Serbs and 15 Croats-were in the team. 
Although the takeover ap­peared to go smoothly, the Bosnian Serbs claimed that Muslim civilians had beaten up some fleeing Serbs. 
Several hundred Muslims "penetrated the Jlijas area, some women and children have been beaten, some have been robbed, some buses and loads have been intercepted," 
Dragan Bozanic, the Serbs' self-designated information minister, told The Associated Press. 
The Bosnian Serb leadership demanded action from NATO­led forces and international po­lice to stop the alleged beat­ings. 
International officials admit­ted that some returning Muslim and Croat refugees were ha­rassing departing Serbs, but accused the Bosnian Serb lead­ers of manipulating their own people into leaving. 
Signs of the Serbs' bitter flight were evident. A medical clinic, an apartment building and a cluster of stores were .burned out. Many houses were without doors and windows. Wrecked cars had been over­turned and robbed of tires. Personal belongings were strewn about in some areas. 

Did you know... f 
That you could own a condominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $455* per month? 

A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $52,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings d. ':!RO-te


f...VO (! 
~11)~

Nort!J S!Jore Club 
~ ~­
~A tJ 
"'Qsaoi-1­

Models Open Daily Sat. &Sun. 12·5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Monrhl~· po~ymcnr5 ot P. :mJ I h.l)('d on a purchase pru.c of S~ I.91JU wirh 20% down anJ .1,,0-\'ear 7..17~ A.ltM 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March I, 1996 
• .:U i 
Security Council bows to pressure from China 
THE BEST STYLES THE BEST SELECTION YOU'LL FIND IT AT A 
SPRING BREAK FAVORITES FROM 
•DAFFY •O.P. •JANTZEN 
•SASSAFRAS •HOBIE •REBEL BEACH 
•MYSTIC BAY •MORE 
By LOUIS MEIXLER 
Associated Press 
Acceding to China's demands, the Security Council agreed Thursday to sharply reduce the strength of its mission in Haiti and tD cut back the time the force was expected to remain in the Caribbean nation. 
The council voted unani­mously to slash its force to 1,200 soldiers and to extend the mission for four months. 
Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali had recommend­ed that the force be cut from its current level of 4,000 to 1,900 soldiers and that the mission remain for six months. 
China repeatedly delayed votes on a U.S-backed resolu­tion endorsing Boutros-Ghali's proposals, saying the mission was too large and its mandate too long. 
But many diplomats said China was acting out of anger 
Featured, Rebel Beach 2-piece, $42. 

that Taiwan's vice president, Li Yuan-zu, was allowed to attend the Feb. 7 inauguration of Haitian President Rene Preval. China considers Taiwan a rene­gade province. 
China, along with the United States, France, Britain and Russia, is a permanent member of the 15-member council and can veto resolutions. 
The logjam was broken after Canada said it was willing to send 600 to 700 soldiers to make up for the shortfall. The troops would be under U.N. command, but would wear Canadian uniforms and would be paid by Canada. The U.N. force will be commanded by a Canadian. 
The U.N. force will also in­clude 300 civilian police, as recommended by Boutros­Ghali. 
"It will help a little, but the number of soldiers is not that great considering our needs and the ineptness of our po­lice," Haitian Sen. Jean-Robert Sabalat, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in Port-au-Prince. 
U.N. troops were sent to Haiti last March to replace the U.S.­led multinational force that re­stored President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power the previous October. 
Aristide, the country's first freely elected leader, was oust­ed in a military coup. 

----~~--~-----------.............~..-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
hiday, March I, I 996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
•:: , ..,,
.
-...;, .... i;l 
Charter bus collides with oncoming car 
injuring 18, police said today. gers from escaping. not be identified. Faulty rear door Emergency workers worked All but one of the 58 bus The accident occurred when through the night to remove passengers were Jehovah's the car, with apparently one 
remains possible bodies from the bus on a high­Witnesses and their families occupant, crossed to the other way near Bailen, a small town returning from a church-spon­side of the road and collided 175 miles south of Madrid, sored excursion to the Sierra with the bus, which then burst
cause ofdeaths 
said Jose Manuel Fernandez, Nevada mountain range 30 into flames. Associated l'ress police spokesman in the near­miles south. by provineial capital of Jaen. The other passenger was the Spain is ranked as one of the BAII.EN Fernandez refused to com­bus drivers' wife. worst countries for highway 
A ehartor bus burst into ment on news reports that the The drivers of both the car accidents within the 15-nation llames af'tm it collidnd !wad­bus' mar door had jammed in and the bus were among those European Union with thou­on with a car in southern Wednesday night's collision killed. Some bodies were sands dying on its roads each Spain, killing 29 people and and prcv«mted many passen-burned so badly they could year. 
150 miles BRITAIN 
~ 
150 km 
Atlantic ParlsO eEL Ocean 
Bay of SWITf. Biscay FRANCE ITALY 
;J CORSICASPAIN 
·i2 0 Meditttrranean ' (.t Madrid Sea'4~· 
'1•· , ••-...,.'i~I8E~sl@fl~d;l;l~l" 
·;~· 
AP!Wm. J. Castello 


GUESS BARE BASICS 


page 10 

Distrust stands in way of renewed cease fire 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

A secret meeting between Northern Ireland's two top Catholic politicians and IRA commanders revealed the sus­picions that stand in the way of a renewed cease-fire. 
"There is deep distrust that we have to get rid of," said John Hume, leader of the mod­erate party that gets most of the Catholic vote in Northern Ireland. 
The meeting Wednesday took place about the same time the British and Irish governments offered the Irish Republican Army an olive branch by set­ting a firm date for negotia­tions in which the IRA's politi­cal ally Sinn Fein can take part if the IRA resumes its cease­fire. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, who accompanied Hume to the meeting, said he wants the IRA to stop bombing, but thought that "very unlike­ly" unless Britain and Ireland drop other conditions on his party's role in negotiations on the future of the British province. 
Adams said IRA commanders · "were totally skeptical and dis­trustful of the way the British government used and abused" the outlawed group's cease­fire, which ended after 17 months with a Feb. 9 bombing in London that killed two peo­ple. 
The IRA's ruling "army council" echoed that sentiment in its own statement Thursday, which offered no hint of a sec­ond cease-fire. It demanded "an inclusive, negotiated set­tlement without precondi­tions," but did not refer to the Anglo-Irish plan. 
In IRA-Sinn Fein eyes, British Prime Minister John Major and Irish Premier John Bruton should not require the IRA to stop violence or Sinn Fein to renounce it as the price for full diplomatic contacts. 
Major called the IRA remarks "a pathetic response to the hopes and dreams of the peo­ple of Northern Ireland." 
"It's time for them to realize that for 25 years they have be­haved in an appalling fashion. Nobody is going to give way to them, not now, not in the fu­ture, not ever," Major said in a BBC interview in Bangkok, where he is attending an eco­nomic summit. 


Committee finalizes Peace Prize nominees 
By DOUG MELLGREN 
Associated Press 
OSLO 

Taiwan's President Lee Teng-hui has been nominated for the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for his pro-democracy drive. He is among 117 nominees on a final list tallied by Nobel offi­cials this week. 
In keeping with its tradition of secrecy, the Norwegian Nobel Committee refused on Thursday to confirm the nomi­nees' names. 
However, those making the nominations often announce their picks. Lee was nominated along with Chinese dissident Wei Jingsheng and Rudolph J. Rummel, a professor at Hawaii University who has collected evidence of repressive political regimes, by former Swedish deputy prime minister Per Ahlmark. 
In his nomination letter, Ahlmark said: "Almost the en­tire transition by Taiwan to a democracy has occurred dur­ing Lee Teng-hui's presiden­cy," which began in 1988. 
"For the first time in several thousand years of Chinese civi­lization, part of the Chinese nation is today run through elections and an equal voice under political freedom," said the letter, released in Sweden on Thursday. 
Taiwan is planning its first democratic presidential elec­tion on March 23. 
Geir Lundestad, the Nobel committee's non-voting secre­tary, said Thursday that 117 nominations -including 28 organizations -were received this year. 
The known nominees in­clude: President Clinton and his emissary Richard Holbrooke, until recently an assistant secretary of state, for their peace efforts in Bosnia; Mordechai Vanunu, a nuclear technician jailed for revealing secrets of Israel's atomic weapons program; Russian human rights activist human Sergei Kovalyov; and East Timor's Catholic Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo. 
Groups nominated include Russia's anti-war group Sol­diers' Mothers, The Salvation Army and Doctors without Borders. 
The peace prize, worth $1 million this year, will be an­nounced in mid-October, Lun­destad said. The award is pre­sented in Oslo on Dec. 10. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Illustrations Editor 
Contact Garrett Gray at 634-1786 for more information 

------------------·-----.---------~-1 
The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 1, 1996 

"Recruiting the Socially Concerned 
Karen White mans her post at the Center for Social Concern's service and employment informational stand at the Hesburgh Library on Thursday. 
TV execs plan ratings system 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Under pressure from parents and politicians, the television industry promised Thursday to devise a ratings system to warn of violence and sex. "They're handing the TV remote control back to America's parents," President Clinton said. 
The promise to rate thou­sands of hours of programs by the end of the year came during a White House meeting be­tween Clinton and about 30 television and entertainment irrdustry executives. 
Clinton also pressed his inter­est in requiring stations to air at least three hours a week of educational programs for chil­dren. 
Though the broadcasting in­dustry opposes such quotas, TV executives told reporters they are interested in improving the quality of programming. 
"It is not enough for parents to be able to tune out what they don't want their children to watch," Clinton said. "They want to be able to tune in good programs that their children will watch." 
"I think (there will be) more Brady Bunch type of program­ming than cutting edge," said Ted Turner, chief of Turner Broadcasting System Inc. 
TV executives envision a sys­tem like the one used for movies, but they are a long way from agreement on whether cartoons and news magazine shows should be rated and how to rate soap operas. 
A task force of TV executives will begin work Friday to devise ratings criteria and symbols and decide what will and won't be rated. 
"I think it's going to be ardu­ous, be tormenting," said Mo­tion Picture Association of America President Jack Valenti, who is overseeing the ratings effort. 
Industry executives privately insist news and sports pro­grams won't be rated, but Valenti said no decision had been made. 
The system would cover pro­grams on commercial and pub­lic television and on cable. Pro­gram distributors would apply the rating. 
A new law urges -but doesn't force-the TV industry to rate programs. The ratings, 
however, are critical to another r-~P------------• requirement of the law: that I J.a ~~ new TV sets be equipped with -" -VVcCit'\ a 
the v-chip. With a remote-con-· -· trol-like device, a person can ~I·'W""-; J·~.
1

block such programs from ap-, ;
Li#lQc• 

Wednesday  Guest D.J.-D.J. Johnny Mac  
llp.m.  
Thursday  D.J.-·Ljnebacker Dance Music  
Cover Charge Special  
Friday  D.J.-Ljnebacker Dance Music  
.$3.00 Cover Charge  
Saturday  D.J-Linebacker Dance Music  
$3.00 Cover Charge  
21  or over with proper 10  

Drawings every half hour for an authentic "L~nebacker" glass with your choice of beverage~ 
pearing on the TV screen. Without the ratings, the v-chip is useless. 
Vice President AI Gore pre­dicted the system eventually would reduce the amount of violence and sex on television. 
NBC President Bob Wright said his network is preparing for "some fallout" of advertis­ing revenue from a ratings plan. The theory is that pro­grams that carry a tougher sex and violence rating won't be as attractive to advertisers as shows with a benign rating. 
"It's going to cost us quite a bit of money," Turner said. But ABC President Robert Iger dis­agreed. Major advertising groups say they support the plan. 
For years, the TV industry opposed rating programs, say­ing it would violate free speech and reduce advertising rev­enue. 
Under the law, if the industry doesn't create its own ratings system in a year, a government­appointed panel of industry executives would. 


~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, March I, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Pilots confident despite recent scrutiny of F-14s 
Judge orders Bailey to 
ATTENTION JUNIORS 
jail for payment default 
ByRON WORD trafficking case. The govern­INTERESTED IN THE 
Associated Press ment wants Bailey to give back that money and stock.
RIIOBES AND MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 

OCALA, Fla. Bailey's lawyers have said A judge today ordered F. Lee he can't get the stock trans­Bailey to jail for contempt of ferred by U.S. District Judge 
court, turning down the attor­Maurice Paul's deadline, ney's request for more time to which was today. 
Pt·oft~ssor Walter F. Prall~ will have a nteeting to infor1n you of 
dt•mlline dates ami the Fall application process on 

turn over millions of dollars in He had asked Paul for three cash and stock to the govern­more weeks to get the cash ment. and stock. 
Bailey was ordered to sur­Bailey, who was not in court
Tuesday, March 5, 1996 

render Friday morning to ·today, could avoid being jailed serve out a six-month con­if he pays the government
6:00PM 

tempt of court sentence, $700,000 and pays off a $2.3 unless he meets three stipula­million lien against the
101 Law School 

tions laid out by the judge. Biochem Pharma Inc., stock Bailey's legal woes stem currently held at a Swiss bank. from $3 million in cash and In addition, Bailey must return
If you m·t• unahl~ to allt~rul this meeting~ a sheet of information may 
$18.7 million in stock he the stock and provide docu­1..-ohtaiiH.~d in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
claims a former client gave ments detailing all transac­him for legal fees in a drug-tions dealing with it. Bailey's lawyer said an appeal would be liled. 
Bailey -whose clients have included the Boston Strangler. Dr. Sam Sheppard, Patty Hearst and O.J. Simpson ­

NDE I 4TH DAY PROUDLY 
testified he was still trying to come up with the money and secure the transfer of 400,000 shares in Biochem Pharma, a Canadian company, from
PRESENT 


Credit Suisse. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney David MeGee argued Wednesday that Bailey should
• Mini Retreat • 
be sent to jail until he pro­duces the stock, the cash. and documents. 
"His actions demonstrate an affront to this court, ... a disre­gard to this court's orders,"

't_.~:~Sunday, March 3, 1996 
McGee told Paul. 
ERASMUS BOOKS
at the Log Chapel 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock


~ 
oQut-of-Print Search Setvice: $2.00 
•Appraisals large and small
Regina Coll 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232·8444 

Speaking on the Importance of Lent 
By ROBERT BURNS 
AsMJc.:iolll'd l,rcs~ 
OCI·:ANA NAVAL 
AIH STATION. Va. 

The image may seem odd, hut 1'-14 pilot l'aul Onorato thinks of tlw Navy's supersonic lighter as a truck. It's n~liable. lw says, so long as you respect its limitations. 
"You 1:an't just go out there with a knife in your ll~t~th," thn Navy litHtl.enant said Wmlnes­day. 
Tlw 1'-14 Tomcat suddenly is under public seruliny af'ler thrf'n l'raslws in thrc~t~ months that killed four naval aviators and llm~n t:ivilians. Tlw Navy is still looking for links in the l'ostly rash ot' arridtHlts, but until answPrs an~ found it has placed limits on F-14 flying speeds and use of their after­burners. 
At Oceana, amid the pine trees and white sands of south­eastern Virginia. crew mem­bers say they are bothered by any crash but see no reason to worry for themselves. 
"I'm not the least bit con­cerned," said Cmdr. Steve Vtwtsch. commanding officer of Squadron I 02. nieknamed the Diamondbacks, newly returned from a six-month deployment aboard the carrier USS America in the Mediterranean St~a and the Indian Ocean. 
Conlidenee comes from expe­rience. Onorato said an F-14 pilot has logged an average of about 400 flight hours, inelud­ing about 120 in F-14s, before 


It is a supersonic, twin-engine plane designed to attack enemy aircraft from sea level to I 00,000 feet, in all weather conditions and at night. 
LengthWingspan  62ft.8in.(l9.10m)64ft. 1 1/2 in. (19.54 m)  
Range  About 2.000 miles  
Fin.1 nown  Dec. 21, 1970  
Manufacturer  Gnunman Corp.  
Bethpage, N.Y.  

Source: Jane's All The World's Aircraft 
C The F-14. nicknamed the Tomcat, is the Navy's first-line, carrier-based fighter aircraFt. 
C Spots and tracks enemy positions from a far 
greater nmge than other fighters. "L h · · -· d"fl" 
~ aunc cs SIX mtsst1es at stx 1 crcnt targets stmultaneously. whtle trackmg 24 others. 
C Utilized for hoth long-range missions and close­in "dog fights." 
Sweep wings Home bases 
The wings of the F-14 are AII3J7 of the Navy's F-14 designed to autolnatically llcet arc assigned to either: change shape to optimize 
Miramar Naval Air Station. 

performance. At full near San Diego, California 
exten,ion they provide the 
aircraft with maximum lift. Upon executing a high speed dive the wings sweep hark for speed and fan out again to assist in maneuverahility as 


the aircraft comes out of the Oceana Naval Air Station. dive. Virginia 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ...........................John Pocter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.... : ..... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily rdlecr the policies of the adminisrra­rion ofeither insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all reader.!>. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phoro 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax · 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obseiVer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 
A step in the right Setting the record straight 

direction 

In February of 1995, the University made what it thought would be a simple decision to forbid an organization unrecognized by the school to meet in the Counseling Center. GLND/SMC had not only been denied recognition, but was now denied a place to gather. 
We all know what happened next. 
Yesterday the University took its first halting steps towards adequately dealing with a tough problem. Mter a year of research and discussion fol­lowing a divisive campus debate, the Ad Hoc Committee formed to investi­gate the needs of gays and lesbians on campus issued its final report. 
Within the report were eight recommendations to reconcile the needs o gay and lesbian students with the doctrine of the Catholic Church, the most important being the formation of a recognized student organization to serve as a support group for homosexual students. 
The importance of this group cannot be under emphasized, because it fulfills a role that has been unnecessarily vacant for far too long. Moreover, it is stunning. A year ago, would any one have imagined that a committee created by Patricia O'Hara would actually recommend that Notre Dame have a gay and lesbian student organization which adver­tised meetings and used University facilities to hold those gatherings? 
The Ad Hoc committee, headed by Ann Firth, should be lauded for the gravity with which it conducted its business, and the vision it demonstrat­ed in making its recommendations. The report is a brave statement, especially given the restrictions placed on the committee's mandate. 
It is the next steps that are going to be truly challenging. Despite the power of the report, there are many questions left unanswered and many obstacles still to overcome. 
First, there is the question of a timetable. The report offers no dates or guidelines for implementation. O'Hara has said she will wait until the first week of April to respond to the document, which makes it unlikely that any of the committee's advice will be implemented this year. By that time half of the student body who witnessed the debate's beginning will have graduated. 
The report's language is ambiguous. Phrases such as "act as a resource," "special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs," and ''enhancing its outreach efforts" are non-committal at best. How will that language, which dots the statement, be interpreted? 
Lastly, these are just recommendations. O'Hara is under no obligation to implement them. A year ago, she rejected a support group with the name GLND/SMC. Will she accept one under a different moniker? 
Out of this all. though, comes hope. For the first time in over a year, the University has opened doors that seemed forever closed. Let's hope that those doors open wide to let the whole Notre Dame community in. 
on Darwinism 
Dear Editor: 

This is a response to Pieder Beeli's February 6 letter. Eddington, not Einstein, said "The law that entropy always increases -the second law of thermodynamics ­holds, I think, the supreme position among 
encouraged me to read and refute Norbert Wiener's "Cybernetics: or, Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine," MIT, 1948. Heading Wiener con­vinced me that homeostatic (self-regulating) processes in organisms could be explained in purely 
the laws of nature." (ref-mechanical terms. As all erence on request) Since good farm boys know, ani­the law is statistical it is mal excretion increases not likely Einstein held it ' Lord Kelvin was the entropy. It just happens the in such esteem. first of many great still other organisms manage William Thomson (Lord to suek what Sehroedinger
physicists to be perfectly 
Kelvin) thought "will" called "negative entropy" enabled "animated crea­happy with dualistic from the steaming heap. tures" to exert power over If Pieder wants a better
accounts of life and mind. 
matter so that the animal answer, he'll have to ask a body "does not act as a Does Beeli join them in better question. thermodynamic engine." AI Plantinga's "Warrant
thinking all biology con­
(1852) Lord Kelvin was and Proper Function" does the first of many great tradicts the second law or not have 13 chapters. I've physieists to be perfectly just evolution?' heard the argument of ehap­
happy with dualistie ter 12 soundly refuted at accounts of life and mind. several philosophy coloquia, 
Does Beeli join them in thinking all biology con­tradicts the second law or just evolution? 
In physical chemistry in 1952, a member of the congregation of Holy Cross taught me the principles of Donnan's analysis of the work done to maintain unequal concentrations of various solutes on either side of a semi­permeable membrane. 
The same Arthur Donnan carried on a fa­mous dispute with Sir James Jeans, "Nature," 1934, in which Donnan insisted, while Jeans denied, that the total (global) entropy produc­tion of metabolic processes -the organism in interaction with its environment-is positive. Entropy increases and the laws of life are in basic conformity with the second law. I stand with Donnan. 
Vincent Smith, one of the most conservative Thomists ever to teach at Notre Dame, but Popper's falsification has 
played no part in any of 
those discussions. 

No Plantagenet and no agnostie, my knees remain intact: AI, for reasons he never justi­fies philosophically, assumes theistic beliefs and the biological theory of evolution are sub­ject to identical epistemie standards and mea­sures. No "wet noodle," AI has been known to cry "sola scriptura!" 
Since all I want from science is models of increasing empirical adequacy, I part com­pany with AI, Philip E. Johnson and all those who insist that Darwin be brought to trial at the bar of religious faith. 
A. EDWARD MANIER Professor of Philosophy & History 


ANYWA't I'M Ff..Y/N6 IT~ 9J GReATMeeTING fROM auB 70 C.WB 
PE30Pt.e WHO SO!<T OF R£C­70 H&tP PROMOTe OGNIZ& M£l Af..SO, IT 5P&C.IAL... eV8'/TS 1 AUOWS M& 7V Ki3&PAN &Y/3 ON MY !NV&STMENT... 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
tx0J5CM&A 
MOMCNT, GUY'3. IHAV£70 
CAf..L... 7H& 
CH&F•.. 
I 

"Not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious." 
-Brendan Gill 

VIEWPOINT
hiday, March 1, 1996 page 13 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Legal abortion defies Natural Law 
Dear Editor: 
The Universal Law is to love one's neighbor as one's self. But America is suffering for its failures to heed this Law. Legal abortion has rupturod tho ties that bind us, delivering the mes­sagfl that human livos have value only wheu wanted by those more powerful. This has deepened the alienation, anger, rebellion and hopelessness that feed crime and other social ills. "EvHry child a wanted child" has made every child a. condition­al child to immature parents, contributing greatly to postnatal ehild abuse (contrary to popular myth. abused children were wantt}d -for tho wrong reasons -more often than those not abused). Abortion's easy availability has exposed women and young girls to increased sexual exploitation and subsequent coerdon to use this deadly cover-up. It has been disastrous to tho physical. emotional and spiritual health of women, the breast cancer connection alone now killing far more women than illegal abortion over did. A more powerful vehicle for the abuse, subjugation and suffering of women could hardly be imagined. 
Human history is littered with failed attempts to mistreat oth· ers without consequences. How much must it cost us before we concede that the Universal Law is as real and immutable as the laws of physics? 
ALFRED LEMMO 

• 
• LocAL Cou:m 

God answers a child's prayer 
Around the middle of March every year, I "I almost dropped the phone," she said. "I remember Patrick and his prayer for a baby called my husband right away, and he was very brother. excited. Of course the kids were excited. And 
Patrick didn't want to be the baby of the fami­the pregnancy was just wonderful. I treasured ly. "For the longest time, every moment, because it he kept asking for a baby would probably be the last." brother," his mother told Hita had some false labor me. At the time, Rita and toward the end. "I went into her husband had four chil­the hospital on Wednesday,
Carol 
dren, ranging in age from was there for a few hours 18 down to eight. Hila was and carne home. Sunday already approaching her morning was Patrick's birth­
Bradley39th birthday. "Somebody day, and the labor was going has to be the last one, and I just like it had on think you're it," she'd say Wednesday, but it kept up 
to him. 

One day Rita ran into Patrick's Sunday school teaeher. "Before Mass there's a special chil­dren's service. They go through various read­ings for the day, and also have a time of personal petition, or prayers spoken out loud. Patrick's teacher said to me, 'I've been trying to decide for the longest time whether to tell you this, but every Sunday, whenever we have petitions, Patrick prays for a baby brother.' She'd taught Patrick for two years in a row, and all that time he'd kept it up. I think it was his steadfastness that finally made her think she should share it with the family." 
About three months after hearing that bit of news, Hita wasn't feeling well and went to the doctor. The doctor gave her a routine pregnancy test. The same afternoon, the nurse called to tell Rita the test was positive . 
and kept up. We sang "Happy Birthday" to Patrick, he opened his pre­sents, and Mike and I went to the hospital. 
Patrick's baby brother Stephen was born on the same day, on Patrick's birthday, March 17th, St. Patrick's Day. 
"I don't remember that Patrick said much at the timn," Hila says. "lie's a very sensitive kid, and has a strong faith and hope about things. I'm sure he didn't think too much about it. lie expected it. But when we got to realizing that Patrick really had prayed for a baby brother, and the brother was born on his birthday... we were just amaznd. 
"It didn't really hit us until later, when we real­ized that we probably didn't need to think about a little girl's name, had we realized it early on when we were thinking about names and were prepared for either one." 
Defiling ofbuilding indicates moral decay 
Dear Ediwr: 
It may apJWar to innonmt ey~~s that thn University is in thn midst or a considerabh~ rdmilding period. The 1·apitalist Pdifi~·~· COBA stands complete, absorbing shadows ('liSt hy 1ww girdt~rs sprouting up around the Stadium. Tlw Ar('hite('turn building n~ceivos a facelift and a s('afTold sk~~lnton surrounds the Administration Building. On thl' rnmains of the golf coursn rise two nPw single-sex dorms. All of' thesn structural changes 0('('111" bnf'orl' our eyes as wn plod hack and forth to dass. 
llut lwf'on• wn applaud tlu~se renovations. IN us con­sidPr I'Xa('tly what is hning ~·onstJ"ll('lPd. And to do this. WI' must think about what is lll~ing d~~stroynd. 
On thP morning of' Ash w~~dnnsday, wlwn good Catholi('S arl' rnmindnd of tlw nhmwnt to which they shall rl'tUJ"ll, a SI'J"ins of drawings HJlJWili"Pd on the front l'lltran('I'S of O'Shaugluwssy I Jail. Tlw walls of this building hous~~. among others, departments or llistory, Philosophy. Tlwology, and l·:nglish. Several nHlrsns within tlwsn diseiph~s are devoted to cultural, women's, and gender studies. 
On the doors providing access to rooms where these dasses are taught were inverted white triangles, inter­locking signs for female sexuality, and the work "Pride." It appeared that the homosexual community had exercised its right to expression once again. A brave and gay student had escaped from under the thumb of the Administration. 
But the symbols, scribed in white chalk, did not remain there for long, for they were erased by Notre Dame Security. A member of Notre Dame's finest could even be seen taking Polaroid pictures of tlw evi­denct~ as if the perpetrator represented a real criminal threat. After all. how eould the University allow such an atrocious. perverse display upon its very doors? 
The artist responsible must be severely punished. The deliling of a building is a criminal offense. Hut the "ehalker" must not be punished until gender relations on this campus begin to approach a state of normalcy. 
If the University is so concerned about protecting our fragile moral sensibilities from such disgusting displays of sexuality-consisting of triangles and circles-then why have they neglected to remove the word "HAPE" from a concrete barrier lining the faeulty lot near Senior Bar? It could not have been one hour until the chalkings were removed, but the "RAPE" graffiti has managed to remain unblemished since Oetober. Why does the University insist on erasing innocuous sym­bols while turning the other way when it comes to dys­functional relations between heterosexual males and females? 
Yes, ever so slowly, moral decay performs its aeid task across campus. One could even sense the gold leaf of the Dome falling away as Notre Dame Seeurity removed O'Shaugnessy's markings. All around us massive physieal structures rise. But little do we know, or care to notiee, structures of tolerance crum­bling away. 
STEVE JURAS Senior Off-Campus 


Observer manifests ignorance about commencement speaker 
Dear Editor: 
As long as The Observer is staffed by editors who come up with headlines like "Mary Ann Who?", The Observer will be a third-rate newspaper at a second rate school. 
The glaring ignorance of this writer was shocking, even by Notre Dame standards. Mary Ann Glendon is one of the most formidable law professors in this country, and one of the most distinguished Catholic intellectuals in the world. To even com­pare her with William Jefferson Clinton leaves me incredu­lous....lncidentally, this writer, like President Clinton, is a Southern Baptist. None theless, I will be at eommencement, and I look forward to hearing a serious human being deliver a significant address; I am grateful that I will not be subjected to a barrage of campaign slogans from a weak President with questionable moral character. 
MARK JOHNSON COLE Notre Dame Law Student 

ACCENT
page 14 Friday, March 1, 1996 

e 
e 
Ul 1n 
rea 
Habitat for Human it, 

ooNOausr 
Uai'ftl!dly of NIIJI.ft D.une CDqMn Clupterof Habitat for Hu-.anity 5pri"'l""CONilnldion Prujert 
-~~ 
i\.Rihtall!i 
~ ·c· t..umhl.-r {~ On.;trur.'bnn &wr.k_"tfme ~Gmlr.adru:s Chtlb c-.~'l»iM G?JW\Oil ~-·Siln'l Ml."b.l . 
~ll"ilill~& lk>~~ fiu.mllllli Buli;Jd~ M.ah'Jii.ak 
thi~:);Ctlllmcil&~ ~JiO.It\ fit(_!ttatJ. ~ 
~·ii(JI(IAI~.b: Ji.,&a;j~~ 
lllnii.IJtmt~a~G~"t i)ljj~~~;--(_~ 
lllii<~·~.Ai~ ~· :ll~I!C}al~. ~­
IPk~IP:!Billkm.'l!nloJJII!t, 
:9t. ~~l.ll"~G~o/ IHt~ti(Jiuptw 
Uiw!m~ 
lfm.'flll9it \h,("~(1lciC®. 
trlln~k' l[))r~. --­
2 tKu'ft-.2 Wnb SIUdt.airniaw l8JUldismunt ­5500 gilt <ertificak' 
1 
~tiM finisiUng -~~~--, 
IIVAC snb ____j 
-~ ' 
HVAC4uas ~ ........5eWeJ ~lookup i Sl.!OOIJ gift (lt'l'ti6cate !~ .-pprov.al).a!Jmet ~ 
nsoo 
tool~-pmdls{possibfy tnOreJ 
tape~ 
illlt~:-.e~ ~51@ ...-v.-­~CY(l) 
'51-0l.JMI'."~gr.omt 
pota!ln'ey.~~ 
5)~1 
~~.'W~.,._.. 
~GJMmt~ ~~.~~tli~D ~~~ 

By SYLVESTER GORMAN Accent Writer 
N 
otre Dame students have a unique way of transforming bleak circum­stances into thriving situations by combining hard work, creativity, resourcefulness, love, and cooperation. These elements are all imperative for the success of one of campus' largest student organizations, Habitat for Humanity, who only last spring managed to pool its student and com­munity resources together to design and build a house for a South Bend family. The 1996 goal to build another house will soon be a reality, as Habitat is ready to commence construction of a house designed by the Architecture Department that will satisfy the practical needs of a family of three, achieve the design standards of its creators, and cost a minimum amount of money that will be used up in the shortest possible amount of time. 
Habitat for Humanity International is an ecumenieal Christian hous­ing ministry that seeks to alleviate the housing problem of poverty­strieken areas across the world by repairing and building houses for those people who are willing and qualified to be recipients of such help. The organization has chapters all over the nation and in forty-four foreign countries that volunteer labor and money to establish housing for those in need and to uplift the neighborhoods in which the houses are built. Over the course of the past twenty years Habitat has changed the lives of thousands of people. In 1988, the Notre Dame Chapter of Habitat for Ilumainty was estab­lished very humbly. It continued to keep the tradition of making a difference in people's lives. 
Notre Dame's ehapter of Habitat began by helping its affiliate. St. Joseph's County, renovate houses on weekends. The group was very dependent upon the affiliate to guide their actions and delegate 
the workload. The relationship with the eounty was a healthy one, yet Notre Dame students found their role limited by the county's affinity for doing the brunt of their work in the summer when stu­dents were not available to help with the labor. Notre Dame's chapter wanterl to do more than help with repairs and be bystanders of the county's "summer blitzes," so they set out two years ago to gather enough monetary, community, and stu­dent support to build a house from scratch. 
Current President of Notre Dame's ehapter Heather Hughes reflects that the group had the drive to aehieve their goal, but were unaware of the magnitude of such an undertaking. She says, "We weren't ready for all of the challenges that building a house presented. It took a lot more time and effort than we had surmised. The experi­ence showed that we needed greater organization to be more effective." Habitat fig­ured that it would need at least $20, 000 to make their dream a reality. So. they went out to sell their proposal to different groups in order to raise money to fund the con­struction. The largest donation had a stipulation, yet it was very enticing. An anony­mous alumnus offered to match dollar for dollar up to $10, 000 the amount of money 

Habitat for Humanity 1994-1995 
Income: 
Donations: Personal Donations $17,256 In-Kind Donations Hall Presidents Council 1,000 Residence Halls 475 ABC Supply Co. $1200 Local Parishes 250 Alcon Building Products 60 Notre Dame Alumni Clubs 100 American Seamless Gutters 80 Grant from NO Sources 2,500 ARI Rental 10 NO Club Alocations G.W. Berkheimer Co. Inc. 342
800 Big C Lumber 500
Fund raisers: 
Casteel Construction 1280$1,980
Christmas Fnd Drive Deluxe Sheet Metal Co. 1361
178
Stand at Football Game Dye Plumbing and Heating 1934
682
JPW Catering Eckler-Lahey Lumber 250
910
Build AThon ERSCO 612
387
Dance AThon Furrow Building Materials . 1000
3492
House Fundraiser Henderson and Crull Inc. 20
930
ICC Grant Heritage Tools and Fateners 30 Ideal Consolidated Inc. 3200
$30,941
Total Kaser Concrete 1500 Lankford Electric 3400 M.A.B. Paints 315
Expnenses: 
Pella Windows 515 Quality Dining 
Permits $240 Temple Tree Service 630 
SB Water Works 25 Lowe's 6000 
Target Stores 50 Big C Lumber 700 
Termigard Termite Transit Mix 1713 
& Pest Protection Inc. 500 Furrows 200 
Transit Mix 1400 Pella Windows 1611 
Triangle Drafting Company 30 Joy's Johns 400 
Northest Neighborhood Center Kaser Concrete 950 
Habitat For Humanity 1000 of St. Joseph's County 50
Bradbury Brothers 2000 Kitchen Wholesales Inc. 2000 
Ren Hen Turf Farm 525 Building Materials 407 Chainsaw Rental 84 Total 
$20,664Utilities 110 Rental Company 280 Lightfixtures 210 Appliances 3000 Paint Supplies 500 Drywall Supplies 200 Furnace 600 Momper Insulation 400 
Copy Expenses 50 Habitat Books 127 Envelopes 70 Total Income ,_ $30,941 
Stamps 145 
Total Expenses $28,748
Labels 15 Catering 32 
Dinners 225 Balance: $2,193 Contractors 4500 Construction Management 1350 
Total $28,748 





I 
1na 




Friday, arch 1, 8 p.m., Joyce Basketball Arena 
/

l 
~ 
\) 


'\ \ 
Clockwise (from left): Frank Diorio (125 pounds)lBob Lalor (170), Rick Rogers (155), Mike Farrel 
(175) and Dan Zepf (125) 

These senior veterans will make their first finals appearance Friday, but it's not enough to just be there 
T 
he harshest criticisms always come from with­in. They evolve from the depths of a boxer's soul, whispered by an alter ego that laughs at failure and applauds defeat. the bite of a snake until thay control the boxer's mind and die~ tate his thoughts. 
Visions of a losing decision haunt the boxer's mind until he sees it in his cereal in the morn­ing and on the bag he punches in 
By MIKE NORBUT hand raised, much to the applause of the crowd. 
The thoughts serve as good motivation. 
"As soon as my bout was over last year, I started thinking, 'I'd do this differently, I'd do that dif­
The voice grows in intensity as the afternoon. But they're not ferently/" Frank Diorio said. the years roll by, repeating the even visions of his own decision. "This year, I feel a lot more Instead, it's a faceless man in relaxed and confident."
simple words "next year" with trunks of no-color having his see DREAM I page 4 



0 

page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, March 1, 1996 

t should have been Frank "Da Cream of" 
Diorio, but that probably wouldn't have con­
veyed the right image. 
Diorio, a southpaw, is a puncher as opposed to 
a boxer, and likes "the street fighting" style. as 
Zepf puts it. He'll voluntarily take a punch or two 
in order to get inside so he can throw his wide 
hooks. That means a lot of toe-to-toe action, 
which could make for quite the crowd pleaser. 
Though he claims differently, Zepf. the only 
other lefty remaining in the Bouts, is much the 
Norbut --Diorio split 
130 pounds 
Michael "The Admiral" McCurdy vs. my "Go Ahead and Sign Your" Wi --....... 
"1;?5 i10tll1dS 
Frank "The Jersey Don" Diorio 
vs. 
Dan "Psycho" Zepf 

W
elcome to the big show, boys. Whoever wins this bout has a chance to go unde­feated for all four years. The loser may be lost in the annals of history as one of many three-time champions. 
That may be a lot of pressure to put on either of these two freshmen, who have boxed impres­sively on their way to their first Bengal Bouts Final. But a lot is on the line. 
Only eight freshmen in the history of the Bouts · have been four-year champions. A win Friday for either of these two would be the first step. 
The last boxer to do it, Jeff Gerber (class of '94), must have come back in the form of 
Norbut --McCurdy unanimous 


135 pounds 
Toby "Bam Bam" Biolchini vs. Matthew Bardol 
iolchini, the president of the Notre Dame 
Boxing Club this year, has not yet had to 
step foot in the squared circle, yet he's bat­


g in the finals. Ah, the powers of the presi­dency. 
Actually, Biolchini has adavnced through a bye and a walkover due to injury, but that matters little now. 
One adavantage, though, might be that Bardo! has not had the opportunity to see Biolchini in a live fight situation, whereas Biolchini has had two chances to break down his opponent. 
He might be a bit weary of what he saw from Bardo!, a fellow senior. Rather lanky, Bardo! doesn't appear to be a 
Norbut --Biolchini split 

140 pounds 
Ted "The Ragin' Roman" Pagano vs. Doug "The Kid" Pollina 

E
xpect all of Stanford Hall to be out in force when this bout is announced. Pollina, a sophomore, is a definite crowd favorite, which should work to his advantage come Friday's final. 
Pagano is the seasoned veteran, but he had some trouble in his semifinal bout, a split deci­sion win over Tom Cranley. Cronley held a reach advantage in the bout, which forced Pagano into a roundhouse style, throwing wide hooks instead of straight jabs. 
lie's the top seed for a reason, however. It was his power that earned him a knockout in the quarterfinals and his stamina that gave him the win Tuesday night. 
Norbut --Pollina unanimous 
same way. As a third-year veteran, he's a very patient fighter that waits for the opening rather than forcing the issue. He almost invites the opponent in before letting the combinations fly. 
Don't expect too much defense in this matchup, mainly stemming from the reason that they haven't had to worry about it yet this year. They each have only fought one time, and both earned knockouts in the second round. Stamina could be a rPal issue in this one. 
Make sure you're there on time for this one. It could be the closest bout on the card. 
Sherman--Diorio KO (3rd) 
heavy hitter. Oh, but looks can be quite deceiv­ing. Just ask Dennis Joyce, Bardol's opponent in the quarterfinals. 
Bardo! rudely introduced Joyce to his right hand via a wild hook that snapped Joyce's head back. It was one of the bigger punches of the tournament through the quarterfinals. Bardo! was not quite as active in the semifinal round, but his power was still quite evident. 
Bardo! is not the quickest boxer around, but he likes to dance and move his hands. This could be a distraction for an unexperienced boxer, but Biolchini has been around the block before. 
It's just a question of how tense he is in his first bout. 
Sherman--Bardol split 
Pollina never throws one punch by itself. llis jabs are always followed by a strong right, which in turn is followed up by a tough left. It was Pollina's left that earned him a knockdown of James Gilmartin in the first round of his semifi­nal bout, but it was his constant punching that kept Gilmartin away. 
Their styles are pretty similiar. So, depending on your outlook, that could be good or bad. Both like to chase their opponents, which means some good slugging early on and in the third round. 
But, on the other hand, it could make for a lot of gloves hitting each other and nothing really landing. Whatever the case, it looks to be a close bout, the victory going to the boxer who can throw, but not necessarily land, more punches. 
Sherman--Pollina split 
McCurdy, whose form and skill is uncharacteris­tic of a freshman. The lanky boxer has a good reach and uses it to its full advantage, keeping his opponent away. He will occasionally throw his right, but he relies mostly on his jab and good defense. 
Will is perhaps the craftiest boxer in the finals, with a good slip move and a deceptive right hand. His good balance and quick moves have made up for his short reach thus far. He also shQws remarkable ·control for a first-year boxer, especially with a large crowd yelling "Kill him Tommy!" in the background. 
Look for a big contrast of styles in the second bout of the evening. 
Sherman--McCurdy unanimous 
F
red Kelly said after his semi­final win Tuesday, "When you get in there. some peo­ple have heart and s-'-'' 

thing can happen." tably wouldn't affect good thing too, thoug m as much as it Both boxers have 1 10Uld a long-time 
talent. Dicello uses h 1ember of the Bouts. 
ness and parrying : Any man named get inside and Ia Irish Stout" probably combinations. Kelly n't be too afraid. 
uses a stiff jab and ~elly will have the follows it up with a ·each over Dicello in compact right. the matchup. lle'll Neither are afraid to,. have to use it to its go to the body. upmost to win. 
The clincher in 
Watch for some this matehup is the good body shots. 
Norbut --Dicello split Sherman--Kelly split 
T
here is nothing pretty talent and talk. about Cabreros' oppo-Kelly, on the other hand, nents after a visit to his does all his talking with his beauty parlor. nor is there gloves and thus far. he's anything quiet about been pretty loud. Kelly's fighting style. Combos fly when 
Cabreros doesn't Kelly is around, some-have the c:onsummate thing he learned from boxer's body but the his working in out in skills and smarts com-an old boxing gym in pensate. icago. If anyone 
Quick in the ring and can stay with with the gloves, the junior is Cabreros, Kelly's punching one of the more notable char-ability and cnduarnce acters, both for his B t h C b should allow him to 
u c a reros do so. Norbut --Cabreros unanimous Sherman--Kelly split 
155 pounds 

Rick "The Dragon" Rogers vs. ~~ohn "Place Your Bets" Kmetz 



R
ogers has incredible 
defense, but that eould turn 
out to be his downfall. llis wrong anticipations of Charlie Algier's punches in his quarterfi­nal bout nearly cost him the victo­ry. 
Hogers, however. has a quiek jab and makes good use of combi­nations, able to throw many punchns and get out quickly. 
Kmetz lights in spurts. lln'll jab 
Norbut--Kmetz split Sherman--Kmetz unanimous 
Dicello legacy. lie's a returning champion and a captain of this year's group. lie's also a skilled hr.vnr )(all" is a newcomer, so it 
and then suddenly run a flurry at his opponent, back­ing him into the ropes. showed this year that he win both, the boxer's bout and t h e swinger's. brawl. 



hiday, March I , 1996 
16ll pounds 
ip "Off the Old Block" Farrel 
vs. 

"The Polish Prince" Siko~~ 
I' 
ikora has aln~ady shown that ll lw ran pull ofT the upset with 'his semifinal win over Hyan 
'ns. IIis straight jabs and good nhinations have already gotten n farther than some people ught he would. urrell has not yet stepped in 
~ ring this year. recPiving a first l 111d bye follownd by a sncond I 111d walkov1~r wlwn his oppo­
Jt, Bob Biolehini, eouldn't go. he sophomore has finals expe­nt:e, having lost to Bob Naticchia at 175 pounds a year ago. lie's a lillie quicker this year, having lost 15 pounds and being in betwr shape. 
One thing that may help Sikora is Farrell's tendency to bleed. He got a nasty cut over the bridge of his nose in the quarterfinals last year, and had several stoppages during his next two fights because of the blood. Blood isn't the decid­ing factor, but it can help to cloud a scorer's judgement. Look for Farrell to come out fast. 
Norbut --Farrell split Sherman--Farrell split 


I hristofon~tti, much in tlw and good balance. If he has a mold of Cabn~ros, is far and weakness, it may be his punching laway a morn talnntl~d fighter power. Despite bloodying semifi­~ thn majority of the nal opponent John Mele, the big 
tal Bout liPid. ~~punch has been missing from his raptain, he is one of arsenal. That's not to say it isn't LhrPP rPturning cham-there though. s still fighting. And ,~ · It will be Hoy's task to make ood reason. ~ sure it stays hidden. 
•~ junior is one of -.,.., '··· • The other thing Hoy ~uiekest punchers . has to do is simpler 
tJHI. Combine this .f. ' 1 -throw punches. a high degree of • ' ·~ ·~ Hoy seems to have 
n.tcy and you gel a good boxing instincts !Prous fighter. ' ·· but has proven to be l overly quick on his -gunshy. If he expects to 
tlw former kiekbox11r \compete with Christoforetti, pnnsates with his: 'he's going to have to unload. n of the ring J h Ch . fi . everything he has. 
o n nsto orettt Norbut --Christoforetti unanimous Sherman--Christoforetti unanimous 
170 pounds
Bob "The Whaler" Lalor vs. ·~ 8t "Take Two of These &Call 
aIn the Morning" Maciariel·~~ 

~,here's a marketing adage · that gons somnthing along · tlu~ lirws of "We'll sell you wholt~ seat, but you'll only I the edge." For this fight, Ill igh t not PVIHl nl~ed the 
11. l·:xpect a slugfnst. ~or, the top send. has strug­
a hit in thn •mrly rounds. but SPnior is lwrn for a n~ason. p wilh llw jahs, Lalor has ~ WPII in setting till' tnmpo. 
Maciarello will do his best to change that and he will probably be successful. lie will come with fists-a-flyin' from the opening bell. trying to turn the bout into a brawl. lie did so with a more athletic Erik llenderson, so it won't be a problem dragging Lalor into a hard-hitting contest. 
The kny determinant in this bout will bn the effectivt~ness of Lalor's jabs. Thny must keep Madarinllo outside. 

Norbut --Lalor split Shcrman--Maciariello unanimous 
The 
Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
175 tltJttnds 
1i 
Mike "Double Barrell" Farrell vs. Matthew Dowd 

P
eople scratched their heads after Farrell beat Norm Reznoska on a unanimous deci­sion. The explanation is easy--he played good defense. Farrell does a good job of keeping his head away from his opponent until they make a mistake. Then he unloads with a IHI't hook. 
Dowd has shown good control so far in his pre­vious two bouts, though you ean expect his hands to drop considerably after two two-minute 
Norbut--Farrell unanimous 



185 pounds 
Brian "The NuHy Irishman" Gaffney vs. Dan "Iron Man" Cunningham 
G
affney's nickname could not be more appropriate, as the freshman's fighting style is definitely frenzied. It's also worked. Gaffney often resembles a windmill dur­ing a hurricane in the ring and it has served him well. Coming at his opponents with a wide vari­ety of looping hooks and wild uppercuts, Gaffney doesn't give his opponent any idea of what's up next. He might not even know himself. 
But with all the offense, there is a definite ten­
Norbut--Gaffn.ey unanimous 
I
t's rare for a fight in the upper weight classes to be such a contrast in styles, but this show­down fits the bill. Mantey, who won a title as a freshman and is looking to return to the win­ner's erich~ as a junior, is, first and foremost, a boxer. Oliphant mom fits the bill of a relentless puneher without much regard for defense. Something will give. 
Imposing physieally, Mantey prefers to pick away at opponnents rather than sit back and 
Norbut--Mantey split 

rounds. His best chance of scoring points will lw in the first two rounds. 
Farrell is hungry, to say the least. lie was a second seed at 170 last year but was up.;et urwx­pectedly by Todd Murphy. This is his first chance at the finals, so it has to count. 
Dowd's key will be throwing his combinations and avoiding Farrell's hook. Farrnll did not show the straightest of punclws in his semifinal win. 
Sherman --Farrell unanimous 


dency to leave more than a few very inviting openings. Mike DeBiasi was able to exploit a few, Cunningham will have find a few more. 
Cunningham has shown the ability to do so. Combining his puches has been a strong point for him and he will need to continue to win. 
Cunningham may very well be able to frustrate an overly fired-up Gaffney, but it's tough to box when you have arms flying at you from all differ­ent directions. 
Sherman--Gaffney split 


190 pounds 
Mike "Bad Print" Mantey vs. Ken "Jesus Loves Me" Oliphant 
whale away. This style has served him well, but one wonders if he'd be better off putting his strength to a little more use. 
Oliphant will give him the ehance to do so, if his last fight was any indication. 
Quick and hard-working, Oliphant stood toe-to­toe with a stronger Chuck Ferrando and out­punched the puncher. 
The senior has the physical tools to be a suc­cess. But Mantey has the experience. 
Sherman--Oliphant split 

200 pouna·s 
Troy "C-Bass" Phillips vs. Cory "Win at Any Ex-" Spence 


C
am Neely would love Phillips' nickname, 
though the sophomore would probably like 
the words, "Kick his (butt)" inserted in front of it. 
Phillips is a physical presence in the ring, but he has the skills that many big boys lack. He's quick on his feet and throws straight pnches at his opponent. 
Norbut--Phillips KO (3rd) 


O
n paper. this showdown appears to be 
physical mismatch. While Donovan doesn't 
twen look to be six feet tall, Hegan stands 6-foot-5. Clearly, a reach advantage will be in the corner of the Irish Guardsman. 
If Donovan has an advantag•~. it may be that Hegan has yet to sen action in the ring, due to a 
Norbut--Regan KO (3rd) 
Spence should have a large "cheering" section Friday night, but he's going to need more than megaphones against Phillips, a defending cham­pion. Spence is in good shape, though, and showed very good power against his semifinal opponent, John Donovan. 
One punch either way could end it in this bout, but you can count on Phillips to parry Spence pretty well. 
Sherman--Phillips unanimous 
.....

Heavyweights 
Tim "The Sauce Boss" Regan vs. Shannon Donovan 

lack of heavyweight eontenders. 
Still, Began's sheer size and power may be too much for even a gutty Donovan to overeomn But if someone will give it his all, Donovan is your guy. 
Donovan's big weakness is his tendeney to wind up with his right. It eould be exploited. 
Sherman --Regan KO (2nd) 
r-----------------~---­
page 4 
Dream 
continued from page 1 lie better. Diorio, along with some of 
his fellow senior veterans, are putting all their eggs in one basket this year. Not only are they traveling into the unchartered territory of the finals, but 
it's their last chance to get a jacket that reads, "Bengal Bouts Champion." 
"For me, this is the big hump," Bengal Bouts captain Bob Lalor said. "Last year, I lost by a split decision in the semifinals. This year, luckily, I won. I want to win it all." 
Lalor has heard the voice more than anyone. A four-year veteran of the Bouts, he was stonewalled in the semifi­nals the previous three years. It only increased his resolve to succeed. 
"This year I conditioned myself," he continued. "I spent long rounds on the heavy bags and running sprints. The third round last year was what killed me. But this year, I scored more points than both my opponents in the third round." 
Whether it's conditioning, calming oneself down or even just reading a book on boxing, something different has managed to get each senior over the hump. 
Toby Biolchini has just had to take a stroll over it this year. The Bengal Bouts President hasn't even had to fight this year after getting a bye in the first round and a walkover in the semifinals. 
Biolchini has had hard luck over the past few years, including falling in the semifinals a year ago. After finding out that his semifinal opponent, Joe Leslie, wasn't able to go because of a broken hand, it would seem that he wouldn't really complain. But in the spirit of the Bouts, Biolchini would rather box than get a jacket the easy way. 
"This is what we worked for all year," Biolchini said. "As a senior, I'm missing my opportunities in two of three possible 

... 
~'ij~ .
-~­
...& i­

• ?'~ /~ 
/if~'\'' 

The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Friday, March 1, 1996 


nerves are tight, the confidence is there. 
''I'd say I'm more anxious than ner­vous," Zepf said. "The waiting's the worst, but once you're in the ring, it turns to excitement." 
''I'll be ready Friday," Diorio said. ''I'm more conditioned, and experience is worth its weight in gold." 
But nothing is worth more than a championship. 
fights. But, this is the card I've been dealt. Hopefully, it'll all work out." 
Whether they earned it without break­ing a sweat or by winning two split deci­sions like Lalor, the Jinalists have gotten over the hump. But the hump isn't even half of it. 
"Basically, it's none of it," Diorio said. "For a lot of boxers, just stepping in the ring is enough. For me and other se­niors, there's something more." 
Diorio is only a second-year veteran, but he has possibly the most unique Bengal Bouts experience. As a senior last year, he thought it was it when he bowed out in the 130-pound quarterfinal to future champion Eric Garcia. But when graduation plans didn't work out, Diorio had a new outlook. 
"When I found out about not having enough credits, the first thing came to my mind was I could box again," he said. "My dad thinks I purposely worked it that way so I could have an­other shot." 
He's made the most of it so far. He'll have to face another first-year Jinalist and senior veteran, Dan Zepf, in the finals. Both earned knockouts in their first fights of the year in Tuesday's semi­finals. Remarkably, they were the only two knockouts of the evening. Even more remarkable is the fact that they're the two top seeds in the 125-pound weight division. 
"This year, I didn't want to leave it up to the judges," Zepf said after finishing off Matt Peacock in the second round. "(Diorio's) a brawler that likes street fighting. I'm sure it will be a crowd 
pleaser." 
Zepf, who has boxed since his sopho­more year, always dreamed of being in the finals. Now, though, it's just not enough. 
"There were only four guys in my weight class to start," he said. "I wasn't planning on finishing second. My fami­ly's coming in too. I wouldn't want to lose with them here." 

Losing is not an option for any boxer. but there's a clock on the seniors that's ticking with the cruelty of that little voice inside their heads. For Rick "The Dragon" Rogers, it's been almost 15 years of development, starting with learning the art of Ketsu-Ka, a mixture of five different forms of martial arts. 
Rogers has by far the best defense of anyone in the Bouts, but he always lacked the intangibles of a champion in each of his past three years. In his mind, it was just focus. 
"I've had an easier schedule academi­cally this year, which has allowed me to focus more on boxing," he said. "I sparred a lot, and I think that's what gave me the number one seed." 
Top seed or not, the clock is ticking with the cruelty of the voice inside each boxer's head. But, even though the 
The Irish Extra Staff 
Editor: Mike Norbut AModate Editor: Tim Sherman Photographers: Mike Ruma, Dave Murphy, Kevin Klau, 
RobAnch 
Lab Technician: Mike Ruma 



ACCE-NT
hiJay, March I, 1996 page 15 

Makes a Difference 
that the group could raise. This gave the organization ineentive to explore a maximum amount of fund-raising potential. With the lwlp of' II PC, various innovative fund­raising ttvents, and in-kind donations from community organizations and businesses, the ehaptilr surpassed what was originally eoneeivtld as an immodost goal. The most Stllllnss act of' student charity and solidarity to help raise funds was wlwn student waitllrs and waitresses for Junior Parent's Weekend wonl buttons whieh indicated that their paydwcks wtlrtl going toward Habitat for Humanity. By doing this, tlw group was increasing both awaroness and tlw morwy in their colTers. In last year's drive toward eonstruction, tlw group nstahlishml itstllf as ingenius and capahiP of' being fairly indllpendent of outside help with the Pxception of' sonw funding. 
Orw uniqtw aspect of' Notnl Damn's program is its indeptlndtmt:tl from its affiliate. Orw mem­bPr rr.epntly discovenld that them anl only a handful of' srhools in thP nation who have fortunate enough and motivallld tlnough to lw able to say they have built an Pntirl' house from tlw ground on up. NotrP l>anw's rhaptPr is the only one of. its kind that ran boast indepllndenee from rontrol of' tlw afTiliatP. i\t otlwr -;rhools. tlw groups arP dirnetPd hy thP af'liliaws. and tlwy have littiP say in the largPr dPrisions that go into building a nPw housP. Also, NotrP Dame's ehaptPr is tlH' only onP in tlw nation that had Pnough foresight to rhalleng1l the tradi­tional nwthod of' raising funds for f'uturn projPrts. Basically. in tlw old frame­work. tlw morwy raised for a projPrt is not eapable of' lwing rPgPnPrattHI for tlw chapter's use. Morwy !larned from tlw intllr!lSt-f'rPe mortgage payments goes dimetly to tlw afliliatn for otlwr PJHIPavors. Board membtlrs at Notre DamP dPPmlld that this proeess caused unnecessary amounts of' work to raisP morwy for future projeets so tlwy dPridPd to direct the mortgagtl payments toward tlwir own accounts. This idtm of' recyrling funds and allowing tlw prPS~lnt group to f'f'lld ofT of the r.f'forts of the 
I. 'J 
pnlVilliiS yPar is a revtllutitlnary etlnrept that is sure to be ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Pmulatl'd hy otlwr schools. With rPspert to innovation, This weekend is the beginning of the construction process, and Monk Malloy will kick thPrt' is no otlwr rhaptPr in tlw country like Notrn Damn's. ofT the "Blitz" with a blessing of the house at a candlelight service at 6:30 pm on 
l.ast ytlar's major projert was a success dnspitn all of the unexpected pitfalls that the Friday. Members of Habitat are geared up I'm· the work that is ahead of them and also organization nncountnred. There were weather prob-more prepared for the inevitable frustrations of building a house. They IPms, funding uneertainties, overeonf'i-even plan to labor over Spring Break while many other students head dPnctl, and a gennral misconenption south. The group has plans that extend beyond the present project as about all of' tlw dPtail that goes into well. Hughes would like to see even greater participation from stu­building a houst~. This year's projnet dents and more work done in the neighborhoods surrounding Notre is surP to capitalize upon the expe-Dame. She says, "''d like to see a Fall Break trips to other sites. in riPnt:PS gairwd from last year. the future. Some kids don't get into Appalachia, so Habitat ean prck lluglws says. "W11 have a better up the interest that Appalachia can't handle." The organization has idPa of' what we am doing, and we made great strides in becoming a social service force in the South know what to look out for. We Bend area in only a few years, and it hopes to continue this new tra­know how not to fall behind sehed-dition in years to come. Katie Warzon notes, "It's amazing how uln. and through last year's twen-much it's changed. I'm excited about the continuity it will create tual suecess, we realize that it isn't from year to year. The support for the families has been incredible." a fantasy anymonL" The board Habitat seems to be headed in the right direction and more than has expandnd and has made the adequately represents what Notre Dame is all about. 
group mueh more organized than in the past. They are delegating authority more effective­ly. they have created a database to facilitate communica­tion amongst members and workers, a llabitat homepage has boen established, and more literature on the organi­zation has beon distributed. Hughes says, "We have made ourselves more visible, and we have more members more involved than before." 
!\ family has been carefully chosen to dwell in the houstl, just as it was last year. Like the Kariuki family who resides in the house Habitat built last year, Mitzi Garner and her two sons will have to put in at least two hundmd "sweat hours" alongside Habitat and community workers. The "sweat hours" are an integral part of the program. Tho way in which the family is a part of the building process makes the program a more cooperative venturn and produces friendships betweon volunteers that aw special and lasting. The Kariuki family appreciates thn benefits of making manual contributions to their home. Sam Kariuki says, "For my family and I, it was amazing to sne sueh hard work show results so quiekly. We bt~gan with strangers on a vacant lot. In a short time, we ended up with a house and many good friends." The Kariukis frequPntly eat dinner with their new friends and also niTer consullation for the present undertaking. The involvmnent of the family separates llabitat from similar organizations that are purely charitable. Hughes says, "It's not a handout. It's a helping hand. It's great that we still kePp in contact with Sam and Betty and the kids." 



Friday, February 23, 1996 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Come to Corby's at 10:00 this Saturday to see the way cool 
STOMPER BOB & THE 4x4s 

SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $1 09 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-771 0 
For anyone interested, the Morrissey FilmFest is currently accepting student films. For more information, call Andy at X3501. 
Will babysit in my home in Granger. Crafts, stories, play time, hugs. Fenced yard. 272-2554. 
Friday 9:30 Saturday 7 & 9:30 
INDIAN IN THE CUPBOARD 
Carroll Auditorium Free Admission 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST 
NAVY BLUE BLAZER, SIZE 41L 

at ALUMNI-KNOTI FORMAL on 2/9 at Senior Bar If you have it, or informtion about it , please call Brian x 1173 
LOST· at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's Formal: long navy blue wool woman's coat and men's navy blaz­er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on Friday night. Please call x-1407 
Please Help! 
I lost my long black coat at Senior 
Bar on 2/23. Please call if you 
know where it is. Thanks. 
Laura 

x1553 
FOUND I accidently picked up the wrong jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at x4010. 
LOST I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer pullover at Bridget's. If you found it please call Eddie at x401 0 
LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING ­
dark blue stone. Great Sentimental 
Value! II If found please call Amy at 
4-4836 
Help. I've lost my mind. 
WANTED 

ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
Part-time work. $10.25/start. 
Flexible hours around classes. All 
majors. Scholarships/Internships. 
CALL 282-2357. 
...HELP!!!... I need a ride to ATLANTA for Spring Break. Will help with gas and tolls. Call Carrie ar 284-4201 . 
...1 need a RIDE TO FLORIDA for 
spring break; wil pay for gas, etc. 
Please call Michael at 4-1155.*.. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time.employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 ext.C55843 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED 
TOP$$$ PAID 
(800)269·5849 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· 
Positions are now available at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1·206-971-3620 
ext.N55845 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD · Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929·4398 ext C1114 
Call (219)282-3518. Free information. Earn money from your dormitory room! 
L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a year of service creating community with persons who are developmen­tally disabled. Responsiblities include: assist in creating a home; develop relationships with mem­bers; and assist in personal care and community living. Requirements include a desire to live with, learn from, and relate with mentally disabled adults. Benefits include room, board, health insur­ance, and formation in the spirituali· ty and philosophy of L'Arche. To apply, contact Dottie Klein, 700 Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211; (904)725-7740. 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55844 
Anthony Travel, Inc. looking for 
part-time student assitance. 
Approx. 1 0 hours/week. Stop by 
our office in LaFortune or call 631­7080 and ask for Mary or Pat. 
ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR 
TRADE 
ND FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA · 
(TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.) 
2773097 
Responsible babysitter needed for 
2 and 6-year-old. Any major block 
of time 9:30-5:00 M·F. Great loca­
tion 10 miles south of ND. Call 
299·0051. 
FOR RENT 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO ND. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 
272-6194. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 
232-2595 
NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­
MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­
MINIUMS-SUBLETIING FOR 
MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. 
CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH 
AT 273-1738 
2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER ONLY . BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 
Room For Rent 
Nice Neighborhood. $300/mo. 
255·9005 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED· ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
FOR SALE 
H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card x3692 
For sale: Mac LC computer with 
color monitor, stylewriter printer, 
Hayes modem. Like new. $500.00 
OBO. Call Dave at 233-2588 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. 
5 minutes to ND. 
REDUCED TO $149,500 
Call Karen 272-3653. 
Waterfront Cor.dos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 
MUST LIQUIDATE Selling TV, stereo, and speakers call JOE-239· 7959 
TICKETS 
2 Blackhawks Tix for Sophomore Class Trip Sunday March 3 call Dan x2118 
WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536-3431 
PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
Ta'i Chi at Rockne Sundays 1 0· Noon. Info? John 4-3536 
PANGBORN'S PRICE IS RIGHT IS TOMORROW NIGHTI Come on down for your chance to win fabu­lous prizes! 7:00 pm Stepan 
Come see Matt Guide and Pat Babka as Bob Barker and Rod Roddy in Pangborp's Price is Right! Sat. March 2 Stepan 7:00 pm 
Knott Hall Casino Night is coming!! Get Friendly With Your Favorite Knott Angel To Get An Invitation! Saturday, 3/2 8:00pm 
Going to Pittsburgh area over 
break? I have space for 2, Call 
x1777. 
Driving down at least as far as Austin-San Antonio? Desperately seeking ride to SA for Spring Break! Willing to $, drive. Call me, Paulina. 4-2985. 
ATIENTION!! 
IF ANYONE KNOWS OF SOME· 
ONE WHO TAPED THE BILLY 
JOEL LECTURE ON Jan30, 
PLEASE CALL x4122. WILL PAY 
BIG BUCKS$$$ 
Tony Rutland and Jerry Braswell roll as the greasiest of all, pretty boy Dante Calabria and his fellow heels get smeared by 24. Twelve three-pointers for the Demon Deacons (sounds like the Tar Heels when they used to be good, ?five losses in their last eight games??) 
JS-Don't EVER dial that num­
ber...EVERI 
MELANIE­
I recall using the verb 'attracted' not 
'obsessed'. It doesn't matter any­
way; my interest has waned to indif­
ference. So now that my thoughts 
are available, any worthwhile sto­
ries for next week? 
-DUTCH 
Today is the greatest day I've ever known. It's been fun. Good luck, Joey. Hello 307, you've got me back. Now the question is, what to do with me? Hello Baywatch, here I come. I want my bowling shirt. Now. 
Potter, 
Breakfast on Sunday? 
Let me know. 
Love, your Belgian Waffle. 
And you'll say to yourself, "Hey, that John Lucas is a pretty good guy." 
Enthralling Conversation 
Guaranteed in exchange for ride to 
Harrisburg, PA or nearby on Friday 
March 8 after 1:05 pm. Will pay 
share of tolls, gas, etc. Please call 
Erin ASAP x3777 
RIDE DESIRED: 
FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ back to Campus on March 17th. Will pay share and keep driver entertained for hours! Brian x1173 

Hey Accent Staff, Thanks for all the help this semes­ter. You've made this place pretty fun. I couldn't have stayed sane without you. (Although I must admit, I still finding myself bordering on insanity pretty often.) Special thanks to: Sarah Cashore Amy Crawford Joey Crawford Dan Cichalski Ash leigh Thompson Angie Kelver Welcome to the staff: Mary Beth Ellis, Melanie Waters,JR Yanchak, Sarah Dylag, Rachel Torres. Let's hope the tradition continues. Good Luck Joey. I hope George Lucas and Elizabeth Shue come through for you. 
Here's a story about a fish named Ditka. Ditka was a lonely fish in a lonely fish tank. But then he was purchased by some weird guy named Lucas. Lucas brought him here on the day he sat behind the desk for the first time officially. Ditka brought light into our lives. Ditka was a good fish. Sadly enough, Ditka died early Friday morning, the night Lucas gave his chair and desk and office to some girl frorn Michigan City who works in a steel mill. Ditka will be sadly missed by all The Observer stall. RIP Ditka the fish Feb 1995 -Feb 23, 1996 
AMY -Here is your ad! 
To my dearest and sweetest fellow club member (and I'm not just going to whisper it) 
Good Luck this weekend! You'll do GREAT!!! 
Love, Massimo 
Jebidiah Springfield says: A noble spirit embiggens even the smallest man. 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
SAW SAW SAW SAW SAW Ok I finally am getting around to it. Please campus mail me all your personal thoughts-Ok anything you want to put in a SAW scrapbook-It might take me a while but I'm putting one together. Send Now! 233 Sieg-Ellen 
Do you have a ride home for SPRING BREAK yet? 
Place a classified ad in The Observer!!! It's inexpensive and effective! 
REVEREND FUNK 
<<<><><><><><><><><><><>>> 
JAZZ MAN'S SATURDAY NIGHT come & get a free funk injection 
ATIN: IDIOT WHO PUTS STAR WARS DIALOG IN PERSONALS EVERY DAY 
Please call me and tell me who you are so I can come and beat the hell out of you. Ron x401 0 
Good Luck Tonight Dan "Iron Man" Cunningham & Pat "Take 2 Of These & Call Me In The Morning" Maciarelli 
We're proud of you! -Tearn Transfer Cheering Section 
EMILY LORD 
& friends 
Kevin Flerning, Jim Maher, Ed Wolf, 
singing your favorite songs! 
Saturday March 2, 10:30 pm Club 23 
Holly, what's the deal? The campus will certainly love the sunshine this weekend ... 
Happy Birthday!!! Ba. 
thinking of you en Chief (aka Katie)­
Ta. (Oh no!!!) Maybe next time? 
Peas & Carrots w/Anita forever 
.........LAST NIGHT ......... 
ND Student Players Present The Nerd 
By Larry Shue 8:00P.M Tonight At Washington Hall 
Tickets are $3.00 at the door .......**LAST NIGHT***** ..** 
Look Ron at 4010 We'll keep putting the Star Wars quotes in as long as we please. We know where you live. Be afraid. Be very afraid. We know the power of the Dark Side. 
Out on the street tonight the lights growing dim the walls of my room are closing in but its good to see your smiling face and to hear your voice again I wanna sleep beneath the peaceful skies by the river bed with the wide open country in my heart and these romantic dreams in my head Because we made a promise swore we'd always remember No retreat baby, no surrender Like blood brothers on a stormy night with a vow to defend no retreat baby no surrender 
Ron, use the force Ron 
The Saint Mary's Observer staff needs PHOTOGRAPHERS! Please help! Even if you are just a beginner we can still use you. Please call Caroline Blum at 631­4349 or 284-4349. 
CARRIE ELIZABETH RATKE TURNS 21 ON WEDNESDAY!! LOOKOUT! 
Hey News Department' Thanks so much to all of you for all your hard work and help over the past two years .... You've made my job a lot of fun ar.d I leave here more sane than Krista. The news department is back where it belongs-klckin' butt. Keep up the proud tradition and be sure to help Steve Myers out with his investigative reporting. Thanks to everybody. 
Heather, Maureen, Bill, Deborah, Jamie, Gwen, Bmd and Liz-Best of luck. you're gcing to need it. No retreat, no surrerder. 
-:)ave 

DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE? Join the Saint Mr -y's Observer stall. We want Y· u. Call Caroline Blu•.l631-4540 or 284-4349. 
Garson­I'll write a classifi :d about all of the stunts we pulled 11st night for Monday. 
-Watrialls 

We're sorry. Dul to celebrity confi­dentiality claims ' 1e are unable to release the dorm phone number or address of Tim C.Jrbett. Sorry to all his fans. 
-SWWT ~ 
Hey Johnson-:.len are scum. Why? They just < •e. It might be genetic, but I wo' •dn't know, because I'm not · Bio major .. Don't worry. It'll all be 100d. 
Quiet Man, Yea, that whole v 1nning thing?Don't forget to do that. Timbo 
GET IN SHAI I~ FOR SPRING ' REAK!! 
••••••••Aerobath' ,••••••••••••• 
Sunday, Ma' .h 3 from 1Oam-;Jm (classes start . Jery hour) at Stepan C ·nter 
$3 for UNLIMITE 'classes 
Come work out v th your favorite varsity athletes/! ~iversity offi· cials! 
DOOR PRIZES!' 
All proceeds ben fit Home Management Se tices. 
Sponsered by B. lin Hall. 
Gamblers­! week til LONDON!!! love. JAW 
We've made so many memories...every night! Putting together an entire issue, EVERY NIGHT! When our computers failed us, almost EVERY NIGHT! And we'll never forget our EVERY NIGHT late nights, getting 4 dozen 25 cent hot dogs at midnight and frantically trying to make deadline, EVERY NIGHT! 
EVERY NIGHT!!! 
Page 22 in yesterday's Scholastic was just SO original!!! 
Hello?!?l? I read page 8 of Thursday's Scholastic in Wednesday's Observer. Hmmm. Seems like the key to "investigative reporting" is to read the Observer 
Waterfalls, so much for your big test today . Hope you get home in time to take it. How many people did you tell about that $50 night? c 
Corbett-Take my school ID again and your're toast 
Sharon ..... You know you had a blast at PU two weekends ago ..... and you really liked my rendition of La Bamba in the back seat of the brand new, undrivable car ... .it's okay because we had Hollywood there, too. We must return one day to live it up ..... CHRIS CHRIS CHRIS CHRIS ....... CHRIS CHRIS CHRIS 
The time has come!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The Legends will finally go public as they make their debut in Bookstore Basketball. The Legens' Groupies will be out in force to support those famous frosh as they chase the Bookstore Championship. (We are sorry to announce that after review by the Bookstore Basketball Rules Committee, the Lengend attempt to add NBA superstar Brent Price to the lineup was denied>) Don't let this unfortunate decision affect the loyal support of ND's Fab Five Freshmen. GO LEGENDS !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!! 
GUADASTUMPY!!!!! GuadaTard ... 1can't wait until Saturday. You just don't understand how excited I am about the men coming to visit. We WILL have a blast! Pooh bear is almost on his way ..... and I'm a little piggy 
*OINK..OINK..OINK.. 
Winnie the Shmoo!! Can you woo woo woo? I really wish you wouldn't be so mean at lunch ..... lt's okay, as long as you J-UUUUU­UUUU-ICE!!!! 
Public Service Announcement: Any photo appearing in the Observer under the title "File Photo" was most likely taken by the one, the only Dave Murphy, and chances are that it was Brian's fault that he did not receive proper cresit. 
Hey Adam, Check out your cool photo on page 
23. Congratulations on a job well done. Oh, and the cheese fries were pret­ty good too. 
BRENT PRICE RULES!!!!!!!!!!!! BRENT PRICE RULES!!!!!)!!!!I! BRENT PRICE RULES!!!!!!!!!!!! BRENT PRICE RULES!!!!!!!!!!!! BRENT PRICE RULES!!!!!!!!!!!1 
Despite being denied his life-long dream to participate in the magic that we all know as Notre Dame Bookstore Basketball. Brent Price will continue to play abd star for the Washington Bullets, even though they may be a step or two below Legend caliber. So get out there and support the best player in the NBA and join the Brent Price Fan Club today (while there is still room!) 
I wish I owned a KRAFT CHEESE & MACARONI factory ... l think I would be just about the coolest per­son in the world if I did .... .Would you still be my friend if I were a big ol' box of Kraft Cheese & Macaroni?? I think I would if you were a cheeser .... 
Sharon, I just wanted to inform you that I talked to CHRIS yesterday ... AWWW YEAH! 3 Points for me!!!! 



How to Plav What You Can Win 
• 
Use the Manager's Phone Card from MCI to $1,000,000 IN CASH AND PRIZES! call and play the game. 

• 
Compete on the League Level (25 teams per • Each team consists of 18 players ­league), Divisional Level (6 divisions in U.S.) and 6 pitchers (3 starters + 3 relievers), a player 

National Level. at each of the eight fielding positions, an extra

• 
Prizes include: 


OF, 2 extra IF and an extra catcher. 
-Dodge Viper'" • See "Scoring Formula" below. 

-13 Dodge"' Trucks (new contest every other week) 

• All teams restricted by salary cap.
-Trips to the 1996 All-Star game and World Series'" • You can make up to two "roster changes" per week.
-Satellite dishes • Big Screen TV's -Sports memorabilia and merchandise • Scores and standings updated daily ­available by phone, fax or mail service. 
• Complete details in game books. 
FANAnCS ONLY I STAYS. INC BASEBALL SCORING FORMULA 
HllTING PERFORMANCE, PITCHING PERFORMANCE, HEWING PERFORMANCE, 
rm; QE E"~·~ J:QJl:IIS ~ J:QJl:IIS TYEE QE E"~X J:QJl:IIS 
GRAND SLAM 6 PERFECT GAME 25 ERROR ·1 
HOME RUN 4 NO HIDER 10 ROUTINE 0 
TRIPLE 3 WIN 6 GOOD 1 
DOUBLE 2 SAVE 6 OUTSTANDING 2 
SINGLE 1 SHUTOUT 3 
RUN 1 INNINGS PITCHED 2
What You"ll Receive tor $99_95 
RBI 1 STRIKE OUT 1 STOLEN BASE 1 LOSS -3 J
-Includes Entrv to '96 Fantasv Baseball 
BASE ON BALLS 0.5 BLOWN SAVE ·3 AT BAT ·0.2 HIT ·1
• Soft shelled Arctic Zone'" tote cooler. 
SACRIFICE 0.5 EARNED'RUN ·1 
~ 

HIT INTO DBL PLAY -1 WILD PITCH ·1 ~-~ 
·~.....~ ........,..

• Fanatics Only shirt and basftball cap. 
HIT INTO TRPL PLAY ·1 WALK -1 
r

STRIKE OUT -1 HOLD 3
• Stats Book from STATS, Inc."' 
CAUGHT STEALING -1 
('95 Stats, '96 Projections). 
• MCI I FOX Sports Pager Certificate.• CALL NOW! 
How to Join
• Game book with league rules, player rosters, 
1-800-215-1660 
• Call the 800 number below and pay just $9995 plus $995 S & H for an entire season 
salary cap info and line-up cards. 
• Manager's Phone Card from MCI with one 

of baseball fun. We'll rush you your fantasyhour free phone time -for exclusive use with kit and merchandise.
Fanatics Only Baseball. 
• NO HIDDEN COSTS and NO CHARGE
• Access to STATS, Inc~ Baseball Info Line. 
FOR ROSTER CHANGES. 
• 
Join with friends and compete against them all season. 

• 
Fantasy League Commissioners -call 


(800) 215-1660 "Commissioners Only Hotline" about discounts for entering your entire league.
or send check or monev order Fanatics Onlv P-0-bOX 3937 Englewood, co 80155-3937 

'Cu11omer Will rece1ve an MCII FOX Sports Pager Certi!ICale valued Ill up to 566 to use towards Sports Now pag1ng serv1ce 101 el!ller a purchase or lease opttOn 
No vurcha•• n.c••a.ny to play lan1111y conletl por110n of Fanal1c1 Only Ffmlasy aaseba!l Allamate mall·ln means ol enTry does notmcluda the f'dnBIICS baseball hat t-shirt. t2·pack cooler and MCI 1 FOX Sports Pager Certificate Nor does 1t mcluda the rule book. player roster or MCI phone card For 1nlormatron on the allarnate ma1l·1n maan1 Otantry. sand 1 aell-ltddressad stltmped 
•to en¥al0pa wrlh yow 'IHIUOII1, rncludrng your name. addreu. city. state, Zip, telephone number and Sacral Securrly number. hand·prlnted on 1 3 X 5 card to Fanallt.S Only, P 0 Bo~ t444 Young Amerrca, MN 55594·1444 Resldants of WANT may omit return postage Thrs contest begrns 3t.W96 and ends altha and ot regular uason You must beaUS raartlant 18 or older to play VOid tn LOUIIIUna and where prohtbrtad Thera 111 • llmll oi!Wo game klls and two entrras per partrc1pant You ITlBY return lhe entire set wrthrn thrrty days lor a lull refund. so long as you huve not actrvAted your PIN Number and matarrals are rn unused condrtron Odds ot wmnrng depend upon skrll at entron\ par1ormanca ol pteyar~ ol1d numbar at ontnaa fmpKlyarra olhca111 and drrecrora of Fanatics Only thflrr 11g&I\CIII atllltat111 anC1/or sub11tl1artes. compan1as engaged rn the conduct otthrs contest and their rmmecliate tamllres are r1ot elrgrble to play In the event of a tre lor a league or nallonal pnze. the Winner will bathe contestant wrth the hrl)hest score the pr&vrou& week Tl1rs conleatrs not altll~ated wrth MLB MCI 11 a IIQIIlarttd ••n.orc• mctrll ol MCI 
Cnmmuf'liC.IIIIOnli Corporat.un · 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 1, 1996 

O'Donnell returns Hampton runs to West Coast 
home to play for Jets 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 

The man who took Pittsburgh within a drive of winning the Super Bowl is now the quarter­back of the team with the NFL's worst record. 
Neil O'Donnell made it official Thursday. He took $25 million over five years, including a $7 million signing bonus, from the New York Jets, returning to the area where he grew up rather than staying with the team he nearly led to a championship. 
He joins a team that has spent the first fortnight of free agency in an uncharacteristically aggressive style. 
The Jets, 3-13 last season, enticed O'Donnell by signing tackles Jumbo Elliott and David Williams to shore up an awful offensive line. They are likely to take wide receiver Keyshawn Johnson of USC with the first pick in the draft to augment a receiving corps whose leader was Wayne Chrebet, a rookie free agent. 
It was an agonizing choice for O'Donnell. a native of Madison, 
N.J. who grew up rooting for the New York Giants. 
The numbers with the Jets were agreed upon Tuesday night and he seemed then an hour away from signing a deal. But even with Pittsburgh's num­bers far below New York's ­they reportedly never went above three years at an average of about $3.5 million-he final­ly opted for the Jets. 
"I gave Pittsburgh every op­portunity to sign Neil O'Donnell," O'Donnell said. "It was a tough decision. It really was. When you're one drive away from winning it all, you want to keep it intact." 
"The salary cap changes ev­erything," said his agent, Leigh Steinberg. "The salary cap breaks up happy marriages." 
Even with the Jets' moves, they are considerably farther than one drive away from a title -even one in the AFC East, which they haven't won since 1969. But O'Donnell will have time -at 29, he's just entering what is normally the prime of a quarterback's career. 
Last season, he completed 246 of 416 passes for 2,970 yards and 17 touchdowns with just seven interceptions. 
After he returned from a bro­ken thumb sustained in the Steelers' opening game, he led them to 10 victories in 11 games, the only loss coming on a dropped pass on what would have been the winning touch­down. 
One of the casualties of the signing was Bubby Brister, the backup quarterback, who was released by the Jets to make room under the $40.7 million salary cap for O'Donnell. 
Ironically, it was O'Donnell who ousted Brister from his starting job in Pittsburgh five years ago. 
Also gone will be Boomer Esiason, the 35-year-old in­cumbent who came home to New York three years ago only to find himself sink into the Jets' Jongterm problems. 
Esiason, who preceded O'Donnell at Maryland and re­cruited him there, has already cut his ties to the team and will probably end up as a backup somewhere before heading for the television booth. "I think the world of Boomer," coach Rich Kotite said. ''But you have to separate the professional from the personal." 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
New York Giants running back Rodney Hampton and the San Francisco 49ers have reached agreement on an offer sheet which would give the free agent $16.4 million over six years, including a $3.6 million signing bonus, the San Francisco Chronicle reported today. 
The newspaper, quoting sources familiar with the nego­tiations, said Hampton, 27 and with five straight 1,000 yard rushing seasons, would sign the offer sheet as soon as it is pre­pared, probably by Friday. 
The 49ers will have to make some moves to keep the deal under the NFL salary cap. Players vulnerable to release include defensive end Dennis Brown, left tackle Steve Wallace and center Bart Oates. 
Hampton was classified by the Giants as a transition player, which means New York will have a week to match San Francisco's offer to keep him. 
Although Giants coach Dan Reeves has said he .wants Hampton to stay, the 49ers are betting New York won't want to spend the money, given that they Tyrone Wheatley in the first round and also have veteran Herschel Walker under con­tract. 
Carmen Policy declined to go into specifics about the 49ers' offer to Hampton, who would solidify a never recovered from the free agency loss of Ricky Watters to Philadelphia prior to the 1995 season. 
dled Dwight Clark and Hampton's agent, Ralph Cindrich. 
that the two sides were working on a six-year deal that would include a record signing bonus by the 49ers. The biggest sign­ing bonus awarded to a San Francisco player currently is the $2.85 million received by top draft pick J .J. Stokes last year. 
"We are not structuring a deal that has a lot of gadgets, gimmicks or poison pills," Policy said Wednesday. "We are not an organization that be­lieves in that style of operation. ... We do believe that the deal we ultimately sign will not make sense for the Giants to match because they are in the fortu­nate position of having depth at that position." 
Meanwhile, the 49ers an­nounced that the Tampa Bay Buccaneers matched their offer sheet of four years, $2.4 million to Michael Husted, retaining their place-kicker. 
However, Tampa Bay did not match San Francisco's four­year, $1.4 million bid for re­ceiver and special teams stand­out Curtis Buckley, and he is now a 49er. 
Policy also said the 49ers re­main interested in reaching a deal with free agent defensive end Leslie O'Neal. The organi­zation has identified running back and pass-rush specialist as its two most pressing needs. 
Last class for April exam begins:

great scores••• 
Saturday, March 2 @ 9 am 


·---------· 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score

Kaplan helps you focus your GRE studies and build your confidence so you can get a 
KAPLAN

higher score. 

ACE Cordially invites YOU to see him at 
CUSHING this Fri. &. Sat. 811 0:30p.m. 
and SUNDAY 2p.m. And yo, it only costs 
$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00!!! 
WVFITalkBiock 
Sunday Nights ------------------------------> 4.00-5.00 Campus Issues 
---..--------------------------> 5.00-6.00 
0.P. AND DENNIS 
------------------------------> 6.00-7.00 SPORTS-TALK 
This Week's Guest: 
Derrick Mayes 
(this time for sure) ------------------------------> 7.00-8.30 
Poetrylanguage.Tboujlt 
This Week's Guest: 
Henry Weinfield 
program of liberal studies 
640AM 


FriJay, March I , 19% The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• 
Belle's outburst earns fine Healthy Cone looks 
By RONALD BLUM there doesn't have to be nega­and could not immediately be A.o,,ociatl·d Press tivism." reached. 
to put Yankees on top
!\ source familiar with the ne­"NBC Sports has always sup­
NI~W YOHK gotiations, speaking on the con­ported Hannah and we fell Associated Press Cleveland in the first game," 
This limn. i\lbert B1dle's tantrums brought him a record line. 
Tlw temperanwntal Clevoland Indians outfielder was ordered Thursday to pay $50,000 fi1r his profane tirade toward NBC n~porter llannah Storm during llw World Series. 
It was tho biggP-st fine ever assessml a basnball player. and acting eornmissioner Bud Selig had thrnatmwd to suspeml Belle if lw didn't agn~n to the t1~rrns of tlw punishnwnt. 
"Tiw l'ine is without any prneed1~nl in Llw history of basn­ball and totally unjustified," said Bnlle's ag.mt. i\rn Tnllem. "I lad we been able to have this matter lward by an impartial arbitra­tor. tlwrn is absolutdy no way WI~ would have agnwd to this resolution. 
"But givm1 the fact that the prosecutor and Llw judge and Llw jury wen~ all tlw same per­son. we had no choice but to accept tlw lwst deal and not risk lH'ing susJH'IHII~d for any games during tlw s1mson." 
S1~1ig is trying to polish base­hall's imago in Llw aftermath of Llw 2:!:~-day strike. 
·· Bas1~hall has lwen through sonw very dillicult Limes," Selig said. "Wn 11n1~d not to eompound it in any IH~gative fashion when dition he not be identified, said the Indians will cover a substan­tial portion of Belle's fine, which will be paid to three charities .. 
Cleveland general manager John llart and Belle refused comment at the team's training site in Winter Haven, Fla., but Belle issued a statement through the team. 
"For a number of reasons, I have decided not to contest the action," he said. "Principal among them is my desire to per­mit the Cleveland Indians to focus on the task at hand ­preparing for the upcoming sea­son.... 
"I very much regret the inci­dent and the ill feelings it has generated. At no time whatso­ever was the presence in the dugout of any individual re­porter the cause of my actions. 
"I was upset with the sheer number of them in the dugout and not any particular one. But having said that, many of them were simply doing their job and it was not for me to decide they should not be there." 
Belle's tantrum came before Game 3 of the World Series last Oct. 24. Selig, who was about to begin TV negotiations with the networks, was embarrassed by the incident. 
Storm was traveling Thursday 

r----------------------, r----------------------,
Unlimited Tanning 1 Month Unlimited Until March 10 Tanning
for for
$15 $35 

includes: Beds & Booths includes: Beds & Booths 
Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 
L----------------------~ 
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
Voted: AREA'S BEST fANNING CENTER 

University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 



major league baseball has acted appropriately today," the net­work said in a statement. "We are glad that this puts the issue to rest and we look forward to good relationships with major league baseball and its players in the future." 
The players' association had threatened to file suit in an at­tempt to force the matter before Nicholas Zumas, the sport's independent arbitrator. However, Selig claimed it was on-the-field discipline and not subject to Zumas' review. By the time the union could get the matter before a judge, Belle would already have served any suspension. 
"I don't condone what Albert did, I don't agree with what he did, and I don't like what he did, but I think $50,000 is an awfully stiff fine," Indians manager Mike Hargrove said. 
Belle, 29, often refused to speak with reporters last sea­son. He hit .317 with 50 homers and 126 RBI, but his surly con­duct may have cost him the AL Most Valuable Player award, won by Boston's Mo Vaughn. 
Belle also was involved in an offseason incident in which he drove his car after teen-agers who had thrown eggs at his Ohio home on Halloween. 
When he called police to report the incident, Belle said, "You better get somebody over here because if I find one of 'em, I'il kill 'em," according to a tape of the call. 
Ti\MPA Fla. 
New York pitcher David Cone will be looking to put some ru­mors to rest when he starts the Yankees spring training opener. 
Since last year's American League playoff series with Seattle, Cone has battled specu­lation he injured his arm against the Mariners. 
"I've heard whispers," Cone said. "If pitching in the first game doesn't answer those questions, nothing will, I guess." 
Cone, the scheduled regular season opening day starter, will get a sneak preview of the op­ponent as the AL champion Cleveland Indians provide the opposition in the first-ever game at Legends Field. 
"Not an enviable task to face Cone said. "The mentality should be it's just another work­out, but the pride factor takes over. No one wants to go out there and get 1~mbarrassed. especially with full stands and a new stadium." 
While many will critique his Friday numbers, Cone has a dif­ferent agenda. 
lie said, "Everybody is always going to look at the numbers, even if it's the first spring train­ing game." Cone said. "In reali­ty, April 1st is what I'm really worried about. Whatever it takes to be mady on that day is most important." 
The Yankees face a fight with 
-· 
the likes of Boston and Baltimore in the AL East. Still, Cone likes New York's chances of finishing on top. 

Knight, Cincinnati welcome return of Davis 
Associated Press 
PLANT CITY, Fla. 
Eric Davis thinks he can rekindle the success of his glory days for the Cincinnati Reds. But manager Ray Knight still regards Davis as just a backup outfielder. 
"I've had guys tell me I was their idol growing up," Davis said of some fellow Reds in camp. "Mike Kelly told me that. 
[}hJ~ <1l [ihll) 
®1}~ 
~r»ll~w 
February 25, 1996 Message • Our Lady, Queen ofPeace • 
"Dear Children! Today I invite you to conversion. This is the most important message that I have given you here. Little children, I wish that each of you become a carrier of my messages. I invite you, little children, to live the messages that I have given you over these years. This time is a time of grace. Especially now, when the church also is inviting you to prayer and conversion. I also, little children, invite you to live my messages that I have given you. during the time since I have been appearing here. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
*For more information on Marian Apparitions and devotions, check out the Children ofMary homepage. 
I said, 'Hey, I'm not that old."' 
But at 33, Davis' days in the highlight films probably are behind him. 
"The best-case scenario for Eric would be the worst-case scenario for me," said Knight. "It would mean Kelly and (Curtis) Goodwin had failed. 
"I know we're a better team if those guys come on and Eric complements them. I'm think­ing of him as an extra outfield­er." 
Davis never regained the form he showed before lacerat­ing a kidney trying to make a sliding catch for the Heels in the 1990 World Series. But Knight remembers him as he was in the 1980s. 
"I thought he had a chance to be the best in the game," Knight said. 
At times Davis was outstand­ing-he hit for power, stole bases and made spectacular catches -but he was always susceptible to injury. The kid­ney problem was the last straw. 
"That set me back four years." Davis said. 
"It got me into a lot of bad habits offensively. People kept telling me my hands were too low (at the plate), but I wasn't physically able to get my hands up. 
"Nobody really looked at what was wrong with me. Everyone wanted to push what happened in the World Series to the side." 
... 
CINEMARK THEATRES 

•Mr. Holland's Opus (PGJ U:5o, 4:oo. 7:oo. 10:oo 
~-· 
•Bed 
ut Roses (PGl 12:55, 3:oo. 5:10, 7:35, H:45 •Beautiful Girls (R) 1:2o. 4:05,7:10, 9:40 

•Sense 
and Sensibility (PG) 1:15, 4:15, 7:15, 10:05 

•Belure 
and Aher (PG·13)* t:oo. 4:30, 1:20. 10:1o •City Hall (R) 1:40,4:40,7:40, 10:15 


• Untorgenable (R) 1:25,4:10,7:30. 10:10 
•Laving Las Vegas (R) 1:30,4:20, 7:a5, 8:50 
•Black Sheep (PG-13) 1:05,3:15.5:25.7:45.8:55 •Twelve Monkeys (Rl 1:45,4:35, 7:25, 10:15 
$3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM dO PASSES· SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 1, 1996 

Injuries mar Cavaliers' victory 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

This wasn't the way the Cleveland Cavaliers wanted to show off their depth. 
John Crotty scored 19 points, helping the Cavaliers overcome the loss of their starting back­court in 95-86 victory over the slumping Milwaukee Bucks Thursday night. 
The Bucks lost their fifth con­secutive game and 1Oth straight to the Cavaliers despite facing a backcourt of Crotty and Bob Sura after guards Bobby Phills (sprained leg) and All-Star Terrell Brandon (bruised tail­bone) sustained frightening injuries in the first half. 
--Brandon briefly lost feeling in his extremities after a hard fall less than a minute after Phills sprained his left ankle and lower leg in the first period. "Bobby is very, very sore. His leg is wrapped and he is on crutches," Cavaliers coach Mike Fratello said. "I don't think this is something you can come back from in one day. "Terrell landed on his back and lost sense and feeling in his arms and legs," Fratello said. "He got it back and tried to go, but he couldn't. I hope and pray they are both OK." Fortunately for Fratello, his bench stepped up with 60 points, including 16 by Dan Majerle and 12 by Sura. "We got a tremendous lift from guys off the bench. Sura, Crotty, Tyrone Hill, everybody, they kept us close in the first half so we could regroup," Fratello said. Crotty, who replaced Brandon, hit 7 -of-8 free throws in the final three minutes after the Bucks had cut Cleveland's lead to 75-73 with 5:09left. "He's been telling me he's a shooter," Fratello said. "He's a gym rat. Nobody works harder. 
-·...;. 
... The people in this locker room have great character and a tremendous sense of pride." 
That's what's missing from the Bucks, coach Mike Dunleavy said. 
"We came out and played a terrific first quarter. The sec­ond quarter was OK. The third quarter was terrible. Our team needs to come out with pride, individual pride," Dunleavy said. 
Sura, who replaced Phills, hit a big 3-pointer to make it 78-73 with 4:50 left and the Cavaliers weren't threatened again. 
"I knew with Bobby and Terrell being out, I had to seize the moment," Sura said. "Our bench is pretty strong, but I wouldn't want to make this a habit." 
Phills and Brandon were injured in separate incidents in the first quarter and the game was stopped for about five min­utes both times. 
Phills, averaging 15.4 points, sprained his left ankle when he banged into Keys with just under two minutes left in the period. He was carried to the locker room by teammates Antonio Lang and Donny Marshall, and taken to St. Joseph's Hospital for X-rays, which were negative. 
Doctors said the sprain was caused by his leg getting twist­ed. 

Brandon, the Cavaliers' lead­ing scorer with a 19.5 average, fell hard while going for a rebound less than a minute after Phills got hurt. He returned briefly in the second quarter but after two minutes, called timeout, handed a refer­ee the basketball and gingerly walked off the court to the lock­er room. 
"He wanted to get back out there right away," Fratello said. "But after running up and down the court a few times, he felt the numbness again." 
The Cavaliers didn't say how long Brandon or Phills would be out. 
Cleveland took control with an 11-2 run to open the third period for a 53-4 7 lead. 
"We have to stop playing catchup ball," Robinson said. "It's all about concentration." 
Notes: The Cavaliers went 10­2 in February ... Robinson, averaging 20.6 points, had just 2 points by halftime and fin­ished with 13 ... Ferry and Baker tangled several times in the third period and Ferry picked up a technical after being whistled for an offensive foul ... The Bucks had played three previous times on Feb. 29, winning all three ... Milwaukee hasn't beaten the Cavaliers since Dec. 30, 1993 ... All-time, the Bucks hold a 77­47 lead in the series. 
ACE Cordially invites YOU to see him at 
CUSHING this Fri. &. Sat. 8 I 10:30p.m. 
and SUNDAY 2p.m. Andyo, it only costs 
$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00!!! 


*ATTENTION * 

TO THE PERSON OR PERSONS WHO TOOK THE GUMBALL MACHINE FROM CJ'S FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1996: 
The money from the GumBall Machine is donated to the Homeless Shelter 

Apparently you needed it more than they do! 
CJ's is offering a $50 GIFT CERTIFICATE for information leading to the recovery of the machine and person's involved 
Contact Ricky Joe at CJ's Pub with any information 
$$$$$$ 


Indiana to a 94-85 win over Golden State. The Pacers never trailed in winning their fifth straight. 
"I feel fortunate we won," Indiana coach Larry Brown said. ''I'm proud of this team. We've got a tired team, and a win like this is very impor­tant.'' 
Pierce scored nine points in a 13-3 burst by the Pacers to start the fourth quarter. 
"He's instant offense," said Indiana's Rik Smits. "He still knows how to score." 
Most of Pierce's points came on the break in the fourth period. 
"I just wanted to get out and run," Pierce said. "They 
''Every time I get a chance to start, it's a good feeling," Antonio Davis said. 
B.J. Armstrong scored 21 for Golden State and Joe Smith had 15 points and 11 rebounds. 
"We made a couple of runs, but we couldn't get over the hump. We're trying to come together after making a trade," Warriors coach Rick Adelman said. 
"We were right there for three quarters," Armstrong said. "Early in the fourth quarter, we made some sub­stitutions. We came out and couldn't execute. Right now we need to bring these guys along as quick as possible." 


WE'RE SEARCHING FOR THE NEXT 
A~ Ynamaa UUYA 
who will compete in the nationally televised 
MISS USA Pageant 
State pageant will take place on May 25!!!., 1996 
Contestants compete in interview~ evening gown and swim wear. Open to unmarried women ages 18-26 • No performing talent required • Call 219)477-6603 for Free Entry Information 
or send your name, address, date of birth, phone number and snapshot to: 
MISS INDIANA USA PAGEANT 249 Barberry Lane Val IN 46383 
Win thousands in Scholarship, cash & prices! 


The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
Cincinnati holds court against rival Memphis 
over l.ouisville. returned to the floor. Bobby Jackson's 3-pointer with Cincinnati Jed by as many as 6. 7 seconds left made it 65-61 
Tlw schools have a rncent his­11 points in the first half and No.5 Purdue 67, and Roberts capped the scoring tory of' playing for eon ference pushed its advantage to 40-27 Minnesota 61 with two more free throws with championships. Cindnnati beat when Fortson scored four points 5. 9 seconds remaining. Mnm phis th nH~ eonsec uti ve to opm1 the second half. Chad Austin scored 22 points, Minnesota shot only 35 per­yt~ars -I1J1J2-IJ4 -in the But Memphis intensified its induding four on free throws in cent from the field, including a championship ganw of the deft~nse and rallied behind the final 41 seconds, and No. 5 horrendous 23 percent in the <;real Midwest Tournament. Wright, who became more ag­Purdue clinched at least a share first half (7 -of-30). Mt~mphis lwat Cincinnati last gressive despite the foul trou­of its third straight Big Ten title The Boilermakers struggled s1~ason to elinch the Great bles. Wright scored six points in Thursday night with a 67-61 early, committing six turnovers Midwt~st n~gular-snason title. a 1(,-2 run that put Memphis win over Minnesota. and making only three of their 
l.ike most of t.hn ol.hnrs, this ahead 47-46 with 13:06 left. The Boilermakers (24-4, 14-2) first 15 shots in the first 11 min­onP went down to tlw linal min­Neither tnam could pull away won their 10th straight game utes. However, Minnesota had utes. Burton's favorite t.inw. al'tt•r that. and have won 20 of their last 22 its own troubles. 
Af'll~r his :l-poinwr from tho Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins overall. Minnesota opened an early right wing put Cineinnati alwad was uncharacteristically quiet 'A win in one of its two 13-9 lead on a Jacobson 3­h7-h4. MirlwPI Wilson's l'ollow­on tlw lwneh. avoiding a tech­remaining games or one Joss by pointer but Purdue tied the up ba~kl'l I'Ut it to h7-CJ(,. Art nical foul for the first time in Penn State in its thme remain­game three times after that l.ong hit OJW fret~ throw for threl' games. Huggins had four ing games would make Purdue before moving ahead to stay 18­Cincinnati. and Damon Flint t1~rhnicals in tlw last five gamns the first school to capturo three 17 on two free throws by llerb hlorkl'd .Johuson's driving shot and was njeeted from the win outright Big Ten conference Dove. lo prPsPrve llw lt~ad. ovPr Tula11e on Sunday. championships since Ohio State The Boilermakers went on to 
Burton hit two fret~ throws Thn Cincinnati mascot wasn't in 1%0-62. a 29-19 halftime lead by with I H Sl'ronds )pfl for a (,1)-(J(, so wtdl-mannered. When Minnesota (15-12, 7-8) has outscoring Minnesota 16-4 in lt>ad. and .Johnson's :1-pointnr MPmphis returned to tlw floor lost 14 straight games at the final six minutes of the half. atiPIIIJll hil 1111' front of tlw rim. at halfti11w to warm up, the cos­Mack11y Arena and 22 of its last Justin Jennings made two free Jo'ortsofl rPIJOUIHIPd and hit OIIP lummi Bnarcat mascot tried to 23 at Purdue. throws to start the spurt with frl'l' throw wilh four ~PI'OJHls hn~ak up tlw TigtHs' Todd Fost11r, who scored 10 6:07 to go, tying the score at 15­ll'l't. shootaround so Cincinnati's points, made thren 3-pointers in 15. A free throw by Foster, who 
Ci Ill' iII flit ti OUI rt>hou IHII'd danen tPam could perform a the first eight minutes of the finished with 10 points, gave 1\lt>mphis 4h-27. a sign of tlw late routi1w. second half to giv11 Purdue a 44-Purdue a 16-15 edge with six TigPrs' front-linl' wl'aknPss. Stweral Memphis players jok­34 l11ad. Minnesota, however, minutes left and Dove's free lo'ortson. a (,-fool.-7, 2(,0-pound iflgly shoved tlw mascot at first, battled back to within 59-55 on throws with 4:42 remaining put )JOWI'r forward. roaliiPd fn~nly but M ic:luw I Wi I son angrily two free throws by Sam the Boilermakers ahead to stay. through llw 'l'igPrs' injury-dn­kicked at it when it refused to Jacobson. Jackson added 16 points for piPtt~d front Iilii'. MPmphis ltHtvn. M1~mphis' coaches and A free throw by Porter Minnesota. missl'd harkup forward Chad tho ol'lirials intorvened, and the Hoberts and two by Austin with AIIPII, who ton· a kni'P liganwnt danel' tl'am lnft moments later 40.3 seconds remaining put No. 16 Virginia Tech 70, last Sunday in a 57-54 victory wlwn Cincinnati's players Purdue up 62-55 before Xavier 61 
Jacobson, who had 18 points, 
____________ ----, made a 3-pointer with 30.7 sec-
In their final home game,r onds left to bring the Golden Shawn Smith said VirginiaNAILS BY JODY 1 Gopherswithin62-58. Tech's four starling seniorsI Austin then made one free finally remembered how they won 25 games and the NIT title
IReflect your itnage with eleuant nail!J throw with 28.3 seconds left 
~ I and Hoberts put Purdue ahead last season.I Bring in this ad and receive 1OCJ-1> OFF any nail service 65-58 with 13.8 seconds to go "We just had to get back to I Call for llll a 1tment I with a pair of free throws. playing good defense like we did 
~----------------------------------------------­
, , 

'CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 258-5482 
Call or write for free infomliltional packet 
last year," Smith said aftnr the 16th-ranked Ilokies defeated Xavier 70-61 on Thursday. 
Virginia Tech held Xavier to 35 percent shooting and 17 points bnlow their scoring aver­age while overcoming a sluggish start that Jet the visitors take a six-point lead in the first half. 
"It would have been a terrible way to have gone out if we had lost on senior night," said Travis .Jackson, who matched his career high with 17 points in his final horne game. "The game actually felt a lot Hke last year." 
Smith seored 14 points and Ace Custis had 13 points and 12 rebounds for thn llokies (21-4 overall, 12-3 in Atlantic 1 0). 
"If I had to single out one guy who really stnppnd up tonight, it would be Travis," Virginia Tech coaeh Bill Fosler said. "But all four s11niors did a whale of a job. A perfect seniors' night." 
In the last two minutns of the first half and the first 10 min­utes of the second half, Jackson hit seven straight shots, seornd 15 of Virginia Teeh's 19 points and blocked two shots. 
The llokies fell behind 22-16 after going four minutes without scoring a point and seven min­utes without a field goal. 
But after making only four of their first 24 shots, the llokies went on a 14-0 run to close the half and Jed 32-24 at the break. Virginia Tech then opened the second half by scoring five straight points and Xavier was unable to get any closer than 10 points until the final minute. 
"Obviously, the defining point in the game came with five min­utes in the first half," Xavier coach Skip Prosser said. "When you're playing on the road against a Top 20 team, it's very difficult to recover from a run like that." 
The run not only helped the llokies improvn to 32-3 in final home ganws, it left Fostm· espn­cially proud of his tnam. 
"It was emotional on tlw beneh tonight," Foster said of his first full ree1·uiting class. "My goal was not to cry. I really Jove those kids and I havr bt\ml through a lot with them. I'm sure there have Lwen a few times I've gotten on thmn and they probably wanted to kiek my rump, but that is what makes a family." 

WVFI is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Paid Positions Include: 
Assistant Station Manager  Sports Director  
-Responsible for overall management of the station  -Coordinates WVFI sports broadcasts  
Director of Personnel  News Director  
-Charged with the duty of managing station  -Coordinates WVFI news programming  
announcers  Music Director  
Advertising Director  -Reviews and supplies all music for airplay  
-Creater of all WVFI propaganda in various media  Chief Engineer  
Non-Paid Positions Include:  -Oversees technical aspects of daily operation  

Remotes Director  Staff Liason  
-Processes remotes requests and booking  -Enhances the relationship between staff and  
Saint Mary's Coordinator  announcers  
-Liason between Saint Mary's College and WVFI  Production Manager  
-Responsible for all announcements and related  
promotion  

• Applications now available at Lafortune Info Desk and Saint Mary's Haggar College Center Info Desk. ·All applications are due March 8th by 3:00 pm in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
WVFI does not discriminate against applicants with no previous WVFI general broadcasting or music experience 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 1, 1996 

Irish look to keep momentum 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spons Writ~r 
The Notre Dame baseball team travels to New Orleans this weekend, hoping to leave with three victories and something even more vital to the success of this team: 
Consistency. 
The Big Easy will be anything but easy on the Irish this week­end, as the host Privateers have burst out of the gates with a 6-1 start. including four victories over ranked teams on the young season. Their early perfor­manee has earned them a #28 ranking in this week's issue of Collegiate Baseball. 
"New Orleans has an out­standing ball club," commented 
---
Irish head eoach Paul Mainieri, who played for the Privateers in the late seventies. "They're one of the best kept secrets in col­lege baseball. They have an out­standing pitcher in Steve Stanson, and they're swinging the bat well." Stanson, who will face off against Notre Dame's Christian Parker in the first game of this series on Friday. owns a 1-0 record and a 2.03 ERA this sea­son, and has struek out 16 in 13 
1/3 innings. The Privateers as a whole have compiled a 4.22 ERA to go along with a .315 batting average. At the plate, the Privateers will be led by outfield­er Joe DiSalvo, who is batting .467 with a team-high 14 hits and 6 doubles, and first base­man Miguel Rivera, who is bat­ting .310 with 2 homeruns and 8 RBI. 
If the Irish are to achieve suc­cess against the Privateers this weekend, they will have to do something they have yet to do in the six games so far this week­end -establish consistency, both at the plate and on the mound. 
In order to achieve this bal­ance, Mainieri will toy with his starting lineup this weekend, moving freshman catcher Dan Wagner to the DH spot when captain Bob Lisanti is behind the plate. This move means that utility man and cleanup hitter George Restovich will have to move from DH to first base, and Mike Amrhein will have to make the shift from first to left field, Amrhein's natural position. Mainieri will also move right fielder Rowan Hichards to the leadoff spot, and drop second baseman Randall Brooks into the number nine spot. 
The Observer/File Photo 


"We've had trouble scoring in the first inning," said Mainieri. "And we've also had trouble get­ting a lot of production out of the bottom of the order. I think these changes should help us solve these problems, and give us more power throughout the lineup." 
The Irish will look for contin­ued production from power bro­kers Restovich and Amrhein, who have emerged as early offensive leaders. Restovich is currently hitting .333 with a homerun and seven RBI, and Amrhein is batting at a .320 clip with five RBI and a team-high 17 total bases. 
Mainieri is especially pleased with Amrhein's production at the plate so far this season, say­ing, "Mike Amrhein is a legiti­mate Division one power hitter. He's awesome at the plate. He's going to strike some fear into opposing teams with his bat, and I think he'll be the real force in our lineup battin~ third." 
The Irish will also look for more consistency from their pitching staff, which has strug­gled early on and now possesses an ERA hovering around 6.00. 
"Darin Schmalz was fantastic last weekend, and he did that for us last year when pitching in big games," commented Mainieri on the junior, who threw a com­plete game shutout against Navy last weekend. "What we need this weekend is for Christian Parker to become more consis­tent. He has shown some flash­es of brilliance this season, but he needs to become more dependable. I also know Craig Allen is a fantastic pitcher, but he's struggled with his location so far this year. Once he gets into a rhythm and a groove, I think he'll be just fine." 
Parker is 1-0 with a 3.38 ERA so far this season, and Allen is currently 0-2 with a 7.50 ERA and five walks in six innings. 
Junior second baseman Randall Brooks will look to spark the bottom of the Irish lineup at New Orleans. 
B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA US 31 NORTH 
~ 

Delivery 273-3890 Lunch and 

_....~­
Regular Hours 


NORTH 273-3890 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun-Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 
Bruno's Weekly Special One 20" Pizza -One Topping 
$6.60 

**Plus a Free Order of Breadsticks** 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 28 
this year. Five of their twelve opponents were ranked in last season's final poll. 
The Irish waste no time by playing one of the top teams in the country this weekend. Loyola also ended last season by losing in the quarterfinals of the NCAA Tournament. They finished the year ranked sev­enth in the nation. They begin this year ranked one spot high­er. 
"Loyola is an outstanding team. They are also a well-
coached team. They are very competitive every year," stated Corrigan. 
At the attacker position, se­niors Brian Gilfillan and Kevin Mahoney and junior Will DeRiso are expected to lead the Irish. All three players are poised to play the best lacrosse of their careers. 
Midfield leaders will include tri-captain Erickson, Burke Hayes, Jimmy Keenan, Greg Glenday, Mike Maroney, and the highly improved Tony Heid. 
On defense, the Irish expect strong performances from tri­captain Bialous. Todd Rassas. and sophomore goalie Alex Cad e. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Classes begin on March 4,5 

great scores••• 

+7.2 points* 
---------t 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 

Kaplan helps you focus your 
LSAT studies and build your 
confidence so you can get a 
KAPLAN 
• As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 

higher score. 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: Associate Accent Editor Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Joey in 314 Lafortune by 7PM Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-4540 
SAVE A LIFE FOR FREE! 
~~? 
• Join the Bone Marrow Donor Registry • 
1()~? 
• Friday, March 1, 1996 • From 8:00a.m. until6:00 p.m. • 
1()~? 
• LaFortune Ballroom (2nd floor of LaFortune) • 
Sponsorl'd hy: Thl' .llinority J>re-.lll'dical ,'-,'ocil'ly f.llP.liSJ 
MYTH: Bone marrow is extracted upon registry 
FACT: A simple blood test is all that is required to be placed on the 
national registry 
MYTH: There are already enough registered donors FACT: The chances offinding a bone marrow match are similar to winning the lottery ... THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH REGISTERED DONORS! 
273-3890 

YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
ALL WELCOME
((STILL THE BEST" 

----·------------~-----­
Friday, March I, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
want to do even better. We've Like Kozacik, the fourth el­worked much harder since we dest team member junior Anne
Irish softball to SMC 
found out (about the ranking). Underwood has played for the continued from page 28 We want to prove to people that team each of her three years. we are worthy of the rank." "This year is a little hard be­
challenge nation's best 
Yes, even the Saint Mary's In the fall, the Belles wel­cause we don't have any se­
1\y MIKE DAY nior starter Joy Battersby also Spnns Writer looked strong in a 2-1 loss to Indiana as she limited the 
The rust has been knocked oiT, and the eobwebs have lmen slwd. Now, il's time to w~t seri­ous. 
Arter struggling last weekend in tlw OJH~ning tournanwnt of tht~ st~ason, tlw Notl'l~ Dame softball tmun is confidPnt that tlwy will lm abiP to turn things around this wnt~ kP nd at the NSCA l.t~adofl' Classic. 
The Irish ddeated Northwf~stPrn 1-0 in the stmson op!HWr before they proc1~nded to lost~ to Arizona State (11-2). Wisc:onsin (10-'J), and Indiana f2-1) in tlw following rounds of llw Arizona Stall~ Tournanwnt. Notn~ J>anw hopes to rebound today against Princeton and llawaii. 
"We havon't had a lot of work outdoors lmntuse of tlw weath­N," said Irish lwad coarh l.iz MillN. ''\Vith the experient:e at Arizona last weekend, we should he ready to make the a.djust.m~;nt and play lwttPr at 
(,eorgm. 
With 24 toams COilljWting this weekend at Columbus, c;eorgia, tlw Irish will havP to rely on thPir starting pitrhing to be stwcPssful against tlu~ nation's dill'. Of Llw two doZf'n LPams, 15 WPt't~ rankPd in llw final I1JIJ5 liSA Today Top 25 poll. 
Stmior Terri 1\ohata earned thP staff's lotll' victory of the yPar last Friday against the Wildrats, allowing just four hits in sevPn shutout innings. Despite coming up on tlw los­ing erHI of a pitrhing dtwl. ju-Hoosiers to just four hits and one earned run in six innings. 
Hounding out the starting ro­tation for Notre Dame is fresh­man Angela Bessolo. Despite allowing nine runs in six and two-third innings last weekend, the Irish bt~lieve that the new­eomnr will be the final piece of a solid rotation. 
"We are confident with who we have on the pitching stafl'," said Miller. "Each girl gives her best and is capable of hav­ing a dominating performance each time she goes out." 
As for the offense, Miller is hardly concerned about what should be one of the country's top hitting teams. Even in two of their three losses, the Irish out hit their opponent by a sub­stantial margin. 
l.ed by Jennifer Giampaico, Meghan Murray, Jenna Knudson, and Katie Marten, the Irish hit .30(, as a team in tlwir first four games of the season. Giampaoio currently l1~ads Notre Dame in batting average (.500). slugging per­eentagt~ (.5H3). total bases (snvnn) and on base percentage (.571). 
Knudson tops the squad with four runs batted in, while Murray !wads into the weekend sporting a .455 hatting avllrage and a whopping .571 on base pPrenntagt~. 
"The girls have worked hard during the ofT season, and I think that will begin to show this wlleknnd," said Miller. 


tennis team often wakes up these days and thinks ..."wow." 
After f'inishing their 1995 spring season 9-13, with their two senior captains injured and remaining seven players caught dumbfounded in the crossfire, coach Katie Cromer looks proudly upon her team and their ranking this year. 
"Everyone on the team this year is really team-oriented," she said. "They each under­stand the importance of their role. They realize that a point from our number six player is equally as important as a point from our number one player. And everyone is really support­ive of each other, which makes my job easier." 
Cromer and her team have been preparing for their season opener this weekend at Hope College. Although llope is ranked 10th in the Midwest eompared to the Belles' fourth, Cromer expect tough competi­tion. 
"Hope is one of our toughest matches of the year." she in­sisted. "The match will be a good test for us. They will show us what we need to work on be­fore our spring break trip in Hilton !lead." 
In their last matchup, the Belles fell to Hope 8-1. Their number one player ranks 11th in the Midwest, while the Belles' number one, captain Kate Kozacik, ranks 20th. 
But being ranked nationally does have its downfalls. 
"Our ranking is almost a pres­sure to us," sophomore Jen Brahler commented. "Now we 
~ 





,W 
Schedule for March 
domingo, 3, de marzo de 1996 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, c.s.c. 
Spring Break 
domingo, 24 de marzo de 1996 
1:30 
p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 

domingo, 31 de marzo de 1996 

1:30 
p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, c.s.c. 


Todos Estan Invitados 


,__ -~----······ -···-·····-··----.._........._......-....-------·-···--··-----·---................---······-----------....-..... ·---· -------...... 
comed the return of juniors McArdle and Sorota who were out venturing other avenues last year. Both played on the team their freshman years, which they admit were very different from this year. 
After readjusting to the team, McArdle has worked her way up from the number seven spot in the fall sea~on to the number four singles spot. 
"Ashley has made the biggest turnaround," her coach said. "She has the knowledge, and she has the skill level. She pushes the number five and six players up, which really helps our depth." 
McArdle shares the number two doubles spot with teammate Brahler. Juniors Kozacik and Sorota lead the team in the number one doubles spot, and as the top two singles players as well. 
"Our juniors really appreciate where they are on the team," Cromer said. "Most of them saw little playing time as freshmen, so they realize they have to fight to stay where they are. They've seen what can tear a team down, and what can build a team up." 
niors," she explained. 
"But Kate and I realize that as captains we have to lead the team. We will work to keep the team spirit up and keep every­one going." 
The only downfall for the Belles' spring season is the loss of freshman Rachel Blanchard, the team's former number three singles and number one doubles player. But the Belles have had plenty of time to adjust in the last two months of practice. 
"It was a tough loss," McArdle said. "But ideally it just messed up our doubles play. We have compensated. Because we have great depth and unity, we have been able to adjust and work with our new partners easily." 
In January the Belles added four freshman to the team, Caroline Graham, Morey Graham, Courtney Wagner, and Betsy Gemmer. 
"The freshman have really gelled well," Cromer said. "They have been able to adjust to the team and get to know the upperclassman." 
The Belles receive their first chance to find out just how great change can be this Saturday at I lope College. 

1996 SMC Tennis Schedule 
DATE LOCATION TIME Sat. 3/02 at Hope College ·1:00 p.m. 
Sat. 3/09 ­Sun 3/17 Thu, 3/21 Sat. 3/23 Fri. 3/29­Sun 3/31 Wed 4/3 Wed. 4/10 Sat. 4/13 Thu. 4/19 Sun. 4/21 Tue. 4/23 Thu. 4/25 
Spring Break Hilton Head Island, SC SAINT JOSEPH'S CALVIN COLLEGE at Washington University 
UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO at Hillsdale College at Wheaton College at Midwest Invitational Madison, Wisconsin Valparaiso University at Kalamazoo College 
3:00p.m. 
1:00 p.m. tba 
3:00 p.m. 3:00p.m. 
1:00 p.m. tba 
3:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 



~ presents: 
~b_sJA SATURDAY NIGHT 1 \, I J X',_~! \
DOUBLE HEADER ~c;
.. ~o , I

'--y 
. . l : 
. I 'I

Featuring: 
GREEN lANTERN AND REVERNED fUNK 
Only at JAZZMAN'S can you see and listen to two of your favorite campus bands under one roof on the same night! 
MUST BE 21 OR OVER WITH PROPER ID'S: $3.00 cover with Student ID's $5.00 cover without Student ID's 
• Doors Open at 9:00p.m. • 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
.. 
page 24 

The Observer • SPORTS 
.. 
Wo01en 
continued from page 28 

record in the conference, they had to accept the #3 seed. This happened because they are in the same division of the Big East (Big East 6) with UConn. Thus, Providence, who finished with a 9-9 conference record, has the #2 seed. 
The girls' plan for the week­end does not include trekking halfway across the country (to Connecticut of all places) just to make a good showing and then come home. They plan on go­ing a little further, as in all the way. 
"We're expecting to go up there and win the whole thing," said junior forward Beth Morgan, who led the Irish in scoring throughout the season with an average of 21.2 points per game. 
These were not the words of a timid basketball player, but of someone completely confident in her team's ability to win ev­ery game they play at the University of Connecticut's Gampel Pavillion. 
But what if one of those games happens to involve na­tional powerhouse UConn, who finished 27-3 overall and 17-1 in the Big East this season? 
Do the Irish not remember the two defeats handed to them this year by the Lady Huskies, 87-64 here and 86-79 at UConn? 
Said Morgan, "If things go as expected, it should be us and them Tuesday night. We played well last time (we played the Huskies), and this would be a great opportunity, considering that we would be playing for the conference tournament. We'll win." 
Pretty bold words, eh? 
Don't Get 
Left Out In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! 
Plus Gas For Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool & Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 
Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORU 
1JlLLAC3E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
Wait a second, that would be Tuesday night, meaning that there must be games in be­tween. In fact, the Irish would have to play two other games before even getting a chance at the Huskies in the champi­onship game. They know that they must take it one step at a time if they are to be able to ac­complish their ultimate goal of winning the Big East Championship. 
Their first test pits them against the winner of the Syracuse/West Virginia game. The 'Cuse comes in as the #6 seed, while the Lady Mountaineers stand as the 11th seeded team in the tournament. Experience lends one to believe that Syracuse will be the Irish opponent on Sunday night. The game begins at 8 p.m. 
The Notre Dame squad han­dled each of these teams with ease in their respective contests this season. On January 10, the Irish defeated the Orange(wo)men at home by an 80-51 margin. In that contest, Morgan fired in 32 points while Katryna Gaither grabbed 13 boards. 
Last Monday, the Irish trav­eled to West Virginia and de­feated the Lady Mountaineers by a score of 73-55. In this contest, Gaither had a double­double with 20 points and 14 rebounds. 
Said Morgan, "We played re­ally, really well against both those teams this year, but it means nothing now." 
Despite these seemingly-easy victories, the Irish obviously acknowledge the fact that they 

cannot take their success for 
granted, and they cannot un­
derestimate their opponent, 
whoever it may be. 
"The slate is clean for every­body now," declared Morgan. "We know that everybody will be gunning for us, so we've just got to play our game." 
In order to prevent one of these upstart teams from gun­ning them down, the Irish must play with the intensity that has marked their play all year, especially since the Christmas break. In fact, since their January contest at Seton Hall, the Irish have won 14 of their last 17 games. 
More importantly, they must execute every time down the court, and on both ends. The emphasis must be on the "Big 
D." 

As hard as the coaches can try, it is the players who will be the ones to pull this thing off. Those that must continue step­ping up as they have all year are Gaither, who finished with a 20 point per game scoring average, while pulling down a team-high 9.1 rebounds. Molly Peirick led the team with 5.6 assists per game, while Carey Poor put forth another solid ef­fort with 9.1 points and 6. 5 re­bounds. 
This is what they have want­ed since Day 1. and now the Irish have a real chance to ful­fill one of their greatest basket­ball wishes. They know what they have to do, and they know the obstacles in the way (name­ly UConn), but they are brewing with a confidence that could just take them all the way. 
ACE Cordially invites YOU to see him at 
CUSHING this Fri. &. Sat. 8 I 10:30p.m. 
and SUNDAY 2p.m. And yo, it only costs 
$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00!!! 

COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Pre (erred Rrj{istry 

Stay at the Moose Krause House or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To rc~t'n'c: 

Call (219)277-7003 • Fax (219)273-2455 
1996-97 Student Government Position 
APPUCA110NS ARE DUE 
TODAYI 

MARCH 1 BY 5:00P.M. In the Student Govemment Office the 2nd floor of 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Beth Morgan will have to have to have a big weekend offensively. 


The original, directed by J. Lee Thompson $2 Adults, $1 Students 

~l0~~w DZJ~Ga' 
•?'~· 
Tickets $3 at

March 2No 
the door or LaFortune

7 P.M. Stepan 
Bob Barker says COME EARLY to get name tags! 

friday, March I, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Irish look to future in season finale against FSU 
By MIKE DAY ones making post season plans, from the beginning," said Urick. Bales, Brett Bruininks, Garry Gruber. "We've been together Spnm Wrircr while the Irish think about what "It was just a matter of time Gruber, Jay Matushak, Wade for four years, and we've seen went wrong and how they can and him showing faith in our Salzman, Davide Dal Grande, this program through the good 
This is hardly the way they corrm:t it. play starting all the way back in and Coe will make their final times and the bad times. It's would havn nvnr imagined "We obviously wish that our the first day of practice." appearance in a Notre Dame disappointing that it had to end going out. season went beyond this week­While the aforementioned trio uniform. this way." 
Tlw senior members of the end, but we know that we put will be representing the Irish "It is a day that I never 'Disappointing' doesn't begin Notrt~ Danw hoekey team will forth our best effort all season for years to come, seniors Chris thought would come," said to summarize it. he playing their final game long," said junior center Tim Saturday night at the Joyce llarberts. Cm1tnr. and tlwre is virtually "Wn were unable to beat the 
Fencers take stab at NCAA's 
nothing at stak1~. teams that we should have lndnml. pridn is just about the lmaten, and WI~ 1:ouldn't main­
By WILLY BAUER been gaining her confidence ries with 50, with Stone, 46,only thing on tlw I inn in tlw tain much consistency all sea­Sports Writer lately and has been fencing and Lee, 45, dose behind. soason firwln against Ferris son long." 
well." "Qualifying two from the epee
SlaW. Dnspite struggling the
at After a long team season, The women's foil team is team is a question," said Auriol After taking part in the CCII/\ offensive end for mueh of the 
Notre Dame fencers are now headlined by captain Mindi about the chances of sending
playoffs in each or their previ­season, thn FSU defense has looking out for themselves as Kalogera, and the freshman trio two epees to the NCAA's. ous thre11 yl'ars, Irish snniors made significant improvnments 
they participate in the NCAA Sara Walsh, Myriah Brown and "Brian Stone had a good tour­will Slwnd thPir final spring over the eoursn of the year. qualifiers this weekend. Nicole Mustilli. Brown and nament last year. It is less 
hrnak at honw thinking about Sophomore Jeff Blashill has 
"There are some fencers who Walsh each tallied 80 victories pressure fencing individually
last Saturday's hack breaking made himself into one of the 
do better as individuals than in over the season while Kalogera than for the team. The big
loss to Bowling (;rnml and what. )!~ague's better goal tendflrs added 71 and Mustilli linished man.
team competitions," said coach question is thn second 
might have hm·n. after struggling through hard Yves Auriol. "It is a different with 69. All four were among Lee and Dille must fence like 
"It's frustrating not being in limns a year ago. competition. The fencers do the major reasons the women's they don't havn anything to tlH~ playoffs in our s11nior sea­If the Irish are to salvage 
not have to worry about the foil team was undefeated this h1se." 
son." said senior dPI"Pnseman tlwir dignity and reaeh double 
team and can concentrate on season. Jeremy Siek, Paul Capobianco 
.len~my Con. "It's tough to digits in vietories, they will have themselves." Three men from each weapon 
and Stephane Auriol will be the lwlit>ve that this will lw our to depend on their freshmen. Seventeen Irish fencers, eight class will be accompanying men's foil's reprnsentatives.linal ganw at Notn1 Damn. Still, Th n~e newe om e rs have 
women and nine men, will trav­their women teammates. Siek ended the season with a it would be nin~ to go out with a enwrgml as the future of Notre el to Columbus, Ohio for the Sabremen Bill Lester, Luke 66-6 record, and has only lose 
win." Damn hockey team, and Brian chance to extend their seasons LaValle and Chris McQuade one match in his last 26. 
Whiln Fnrris Statn is no better Uri!:k, Aniknt l>hadphale, and a month longer. They will com­each will show off their individ­Capobianco was second on the than llw Irish in l!lrllls of talent Benoit Cotnoir hope to show 
pete against fencers from the ual skills. Lester has not lost a team in victories with 50. levPI, llw Bulldogs Wl'l"ll abh~ to that tlw futurn is now. Midwestern Conference. Last match since the February 4 Auriol won 33 matches this sea­take rare of husirwss wlwrr they · "Wn knew that we could con­weekend the Irish won the match with University of son, and saw more action as 
had to. Thus, tlwy will be tlw trihutn in Coach Poulin's system team championship in the MCC. Pennsylvania, a streak of 40 the season came to a close. 
Each women's team will send matches. McQuade also has "This is the most important four team members. Captain been almost unstoppable as of meet of the year," stressed Claudette de Bruin, Anne I Ioos, late, boasting a 24 match win Auriol. "It shows how much
last chance 
Ashley Shannon and Maria streak. LaValle finished his in­pressure they can take." Thieneman will represent the augural Irish fencing season From the Midwest region, live
to prepare for 
epee team. de Bruin, Hoos and with a 64-8 record. men's and women's foil and Shannon each had over 70 in­The team that has given sabre and four men's andthe April test dividual victories this season. coaches Auriol and Mike women's epees can qualify for Call: 1-800-KAP-TES "Claudette and Anne lloos Sullivan fits, epee, sends their the NCAA championships. A 
Last class begins on: 
have a good shot (at qualify­best fencers; Brian Stone, maximum of two fencers from
get a higher score

Sunday, March 10@ 1 pm ing)." praised Auriol. ''I'm ex­Phillip Lee and Brice Dille. each team can qualify per pecting a good finish. lloos has Dille led the epee team in victo-weapon.
KAPLAN 

4 ·GOOD REASONS To CALL THE HUDDLE 
FoR DELIVERY 
, ,
r r

$5.99 DEAL $4.99 DEAL
I I I I 
Any Large 14" Piz::.a Only $5.99 

Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4.99 
I I I I
The Best Pi::.z.a at the Best Price 

Now, That's a Deal! Call /-6902 
Call1-6902
I I I I 
COUI'ON t<:XPIKES 5/20/96 

COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
I------------1 I------------1 
..

$10.99 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pi::.zas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-/iter Coke Product Only $10.99 I I Pizzas for Only $9.99 I Call 1-6902 Cal/1-6902
I I I I 
COlii'ON t<:XI'IKES 5/20/96 COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
L .J L .J 
• 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
I

We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. 
l 

We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
1 
I 
page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 1, 1996 

Depleted Irish face 'Cuse 
Orangemen repre­sent final chal­lenge in inaugural Big East season 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Having his whole team healthy and ready to play was becoming a bit too common­place for Notre Dame coach John Macleod. One knew that the stretch would not last. 
Sure enough, the Irish locker room is again beginning to look like a hospital ward, as Notre Dame will travel to Syracuse for its final regular season game without 40% of its starting line­up. 
Freshman center Phil Hickey has missed the last two games due to a thigh contusion and will not play against the Orangemen. 
Compounding Notre Dame's problems, sophomore forward Derek Manner is listed as doubtful because of illness, and forward Pete Miller is out for the season with a separated shoulder. 
Injuries have been a major cause of MacLeod's angst this season, as the team has dressed all its scholarship play­ers in just two contests. 
"When you take (Manner and Hickey) off the team, you lose a whole lot more than the stat sheet will indicate," said MacLeod. "Those players bring intangibles to the team." 
The rest of the depleted Irish squad will have to step in and provide those intangibles if Notre Dame has any chance of defeating Syracuse in front of 25,000 rabid fans in the Carrier Dome. 
The Orangemen (21-7, 11-6) have wrapped up the fourth seed in the conference tour­nament, and barring an Irish upset on Saturday, will be Notre Dame's first opponent in Madison Square Garden. 
'Cuse is led by 6-9 power for­ward John Wallace, who has posted all-America numbers in his ·senior campaign. Wallace averages 22.3 points and 8.9 rebounds per contest, and is connecting on 43% of his three­pointers. 
"At 6-9 Wallace can take his defender away from the basket and then put the ball on the floor and drive by him," said MacLeod. "If you back off he can step back and shoot the 
_,. three. He's an exceptional player." Wallace's supporting cast has performed better than expected this season. Syracuse is a tall team, with no starter shorter than 6-4, which creates an im­
posing front to the Orangemen's zone defense. 
Point guard Lazarus Sims has been a surprise, leading the conference in assists, while center Otis Hill provides the in­side muscle to complement Wallace. 
In contrast, Notre Dams is small along its front-line, espe­cially without Hickey and Manner. Freshman Gary Bell will make his second straight start, and classmate Antoni Wyche, a natural off-guard, will likely see more time at small forward. 
Bell recorded his second dou­ble-digit scoring performance of the season against Miami, pouring in 10 points while grabbing six rebounds. 
"With all the practice that Gary has missed, he gave a very good account of himself (against Miami)," said 
MacLeod. 

Notre Dame has had success in the t:arrier Dome. The Irish resumed aseries with Syracuse from 1988.-92, with the road t~am winning each contest. Most recently, the Macleod-led Irish stormed into the Dome in 1992 and scored the most points ever by a Syracuse op­ponent, edging the Orange 101­98. 
* * * 

Big East membership has started to reap benefits for Notre Dame on the recruiting front. 
Derick Lalazarin, a 6-7 swingman from Tustin, Calif., is rumored to have verbally com­mitted to play for the Irish. 
Lalazarin, one of the highest scoring players in Orange County, was a teammate of cur­rent Irish point guard Uoug Gottlieb. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
ACE Cordially invites YOU to see him at CUSHING this Fri. &_Sat. 811 0:30p.m. and SUNDAY 2p.m. Andyo, it only costs 
$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00$2.00!!! 


TRAVEL EMERGENCY KIT 

Available at 



hiJay, March I, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
r -; ,.... . j._...... ; ~~. ••• ~ ...,,. 1.. ,,~ tl. ~-· ..... J •" 
• \ r'. 1 I 11' ·' •; T• r'•'. ·•­!i "' ' .... tt , •.,. 
MISTER BOFfO 
' ' . 
:·t "' ... '' ~ 1r4 ~.~' ,.tJ '. ~..,•I'·... ' ' . ., .. ~~~ ~\1-· 1 ·.. r .111' f~ ~-\'. · 
4

·' I -tll't" t [ .' o\l •• , -~olnf 1;..;.•• 
t• •. 
·~~~--·;.·~fl'.. '1f..• ':
· .r;,..~·. r...,~, !'• ":' ·.• ·~--. 

f .. ,.w-: ! ... , r. 
~;,. ~.fe.,..;. ); ~.fll-. 

JOE MARTIN 

page 27 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXO.N 
• OF INTEREST 
Today from 2:30 till 5:00 p.m. Ernesto l.aclau and Chantal Mouffe of the Institute for Advanced Studies from Princeton University with Fred Dallmayr of the Government Department & Kellogg Institute will be giv­ing a seminar entitled "The Return of the Political" in the C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The chairperson of the event is Guillermo O'Donnell of the Kellogg Institute. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the Department of Government & International Studies. 
Flip Side, the group that provides something other than the usual social scene, is sponsoring an Oldies Dance on Friday, March 1 in the LaFortune Ballroom from 10 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. The cost is $1 for members and $2 for non-members. Questions? Call John (ND) 4-1419 or Erin (SMC) 284-5507. Everyone is welcome! 
"Kicking and Screaming" will be playing tonight and tomorrow night in the Cinema at the Suite, at 7:30 and 9:45 p.m. The cost of the movie is $2. 
The Mlchiana Bicycle Association (MBA) will be having its Third Annual Swap Meet on Sunday, March 3 from 1 to 4 p.m.• set-up time is at noon. It is being held at the South Bend Turners Club on 53666 Ironwood Drive in South Bend. Buy. Sell. Swap. Area bike dealers will have displays with new items. Bring your unwanted biking gear to sell or swap. Tables will be available. Any questions: Call 271-0735. 
Win football tickets for 1996. Buy raffie ticket in dining halls March 4-6. The tickets are $5 apiece. Only 1500 are being sold. Proceeds will benefit There Are Children Here. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Batter Fried Perch  Clam Chowder  
Vegetable Crepes  Grilled Salmon Fillet  
Marinara  Broccoli & Cheese  
Baked Ziti  Dynabites  
Saint Mary's  
Swordfish Fillets  

Boneless Pork Rib Sandwich Macaroni and Cheese 
• 

DILBERT 
I'VE BEEN A.SKEO TO 
SCOTT ADAMS
,---------------.0·-------------. 
~ I'D LII<-E TO BEGIN ~ 

FACILITATE "THIS f-\£.£.\ING. ~ WIT\-\ A. RAW DISPLAY g I A.LONE WILL DETERMINE i 0~ r-".Y POWER. 'fOU ~ WHO C.AN 5PEAK. ~ f-\AY NOT 5PE~K-. l 
c ~ 
.... 
.... 
0 
u 
~ 


~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~ ~ 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Hewlett­46 Extent of Packard damage
1Chou-­
products 47 "Yanks" star6 Winner's prize, 30 Where Forrest 48 Soviet premiermaybe Gumpserved Kosygin10 Winner's prize, 31 Book before 50 Pinguidmaybe Amos 52 Vaudeville 

13 Entertainer born 32 Family member, singer's prop
1/20/1896 
informally 531980film 16 Concert finale 
351975film starring 

11 Partner of 
co-starring 13-Across 13-Across 13-Across 58 Electromotive 18 Game-winning force pioneer
3&0utdated cry 59 Word for
39 Fancy feather 19 Warwick's river 13-Across
sources 20 Raise 60 First degrees
40Common 22 Estate division caustic, 61 Receives 24 First name in chemically 62 Canvases frontiersmen 41 Not hither 26 Blast furnace 42 Ninnies 
DOWN

input 43 Start of a 271847 sea children's 
1 Kind of cream adventure rhyme 
2 Relative of King2&Smooth 44 Force in Bosnia 
Saul 3 Mauna-­4 Five-time Derby 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE winner 5 "Uncle!" 6 ---de-sac 1 Longtime 

"What's My 17-Across, and burst 51 Arab name partLine" name others 42 Treschic 54 Game finales,a Bell sound 25 Plant once for short

43 Pal of Pooh
~~E:tgrgrnt'l.. e Olden slave considered a 55 Relations


~RR~~.::: 10 13-Across, for a 44Bigwheelmedical 56"Tenthousand
famous 45 Pacific greeting 

saw--a
panaceaexample 48 Snicker

27Latch--glance":
11 Yoke 47 Say "I told you Wordsworth28 Poet's spring12 Ones in sashes so!" 57 Election victors29 Chief exec

14 Help-wanted abbr. 
31 Explorer Cabrillo 15 Exchanges 
32 Zoo beasts 

Get answers to any three clues 
21 Diet. content 33 "--and Only" 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
22 Gian Carlo 34 Grayish 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Menotti hero 38Shimmied 


HEY, WALLY ... DIO '<OU EVER 

HEAR OF AIHING 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Have the courage of your convic­tions. Instead of wasting your ideas on negative people, stan a novel or screenplay. Let your imagination run wild as you write. Someone from your roman!ic past could reappear this summer. Be apprecia!ive if thi~ person has a positive influence on your actions. A long-planned reunion puts you in touch with old friends. Be honest about who you have become and what you hope to accomplish. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Harry BeIa­fonte, director Ron Howard, actress Catherine Bach, legen<!ary band­leader Glenn Miller. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A great day for cultivating new business allies. Postpone travel and delay sign­ing contracts. A longtime relationship has lost a lot of its original luster. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pour your creative energies into pro­jects that will dazzle and amaze. Behind-the-scenes maneuver.; could prove very profitable. Elegant attire adds to your appeal. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A lener or phone call brings welcome family news. Seeking other view­points will broaden your undentand­ing of a business maner. Share your conclusions with influential people. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): An interesting social or romantic situa­tion could have you walking on air. New pairings are favored. A sur­prise move helps you win over a supervisor or client. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan your work schedule carefully. Elimi­nating unnecessary meetings or appoin!men!s will make you more productive. Let your fun-loving side shine through tonight. Hosting a small party at home this weekend holds special appeal. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need more data before making an imponant decision. Concentrate on routine tasks today, taking in stride any last-minute changes. Plan to spend pan of the ~eekend alooe a! home if you crave solitude. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A puzzling work situation is about to be cleared up. Do not expect imme­diate results from a fibless program. Ask your doctor about something that is bothering you; you probably have nothing to WOfT)' about. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You always seem at your best when dealing with the public. The empha­sis this weekend is on paying atten­tion to your personal affairs. Con­centrate on building nurturing fami­ly relationships. 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Financial worries subside when you take certain practical steps. A decision you make now will have a favorable effect on your career. Honesty strengthens an alliance. Keep your car in good condition !o prevent costly repain;. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be alert to the advantages of cooper­ating with business contacts at a dis­tance. Put the finishing touches on a project started yesterday. Skeptics will come over to your side. Refrain from borrowing money from friends. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be prepared to deal with the afteref­fects of a decision that was announced yesterday. Listen patient­ly, but insist everyone stick to the facts. Socializing is favored tonight. Avoid getting entangled in a friend's financial dealings. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The upbeat theme of good fortune continues. Show your business acu­men by contributing fresh ideas at a meeting. Start-up plans meet with grea! approval. Know where your bread is bunered. Do favors for helpful allies. 


-.­

SPORTS 


Friday, March 1, 1996 
Big East Tourney offers glimmer of hope 
1st Round  Quartertlnals  Semifinals  Championship  
March 2  March 3  March 4  March 5  
(1) Connecticut  
(8) Rutgers  

By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
"Only the strong survive 
sounds like a movie title. It is a 
statement that has almost 
reached the point of cliche. In 
the case of the Big East Post 
season Classic, it aptly applies. 
That long-awaited weekend has finally arrived. After en­during a physical regular sea­son in which they finished 20-6, with a 16-3 mark in conference play, the Notre Dame women's basketball team is ready to 
-
show what they are made of. They want the world to know 
-
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Katryna Gaither and the Irish hope to have a third chance against Kara Wolters and UConn. 

Irish have tough act to follow •sMc'".•ms 
By TODD FITZPATRICK at Notre Dame, many observers might expect this to be 
Great Expectations 
Sporrs Writer a rebuilding year for the men's lacrosse team. They would be wrong. After losing seven starters and eleven letter winners, The 1996 Irish team is the most highly touted squad By CAROLINE BLUM 
including two of the in the history of the Notre Dame lacrosse program. The Irish are currently ranked 12th in preseason polls ers 
ever to compete released by Face-Off Lacrosse and Lacrosse Magazine. 
tournament when they face No. 6 Loyola
li!II!E~-~~~~i~~~~~~~~~a They wm begin their march to the NCAA
this Saturday at the Loftus Sports Center. 
l 

• 
.. 

.. · -• 
'----------------·-··w_<_-~_·-_~~_-""'_·:·._-;-:..:..:--:---'---~-~e-~-,,-=~:-'~-p~-et~e;s 
Burke Hayes is a key to the Irish in the midfield. 

"I think we're coming around. There have been a lot changes since last season, but this team is forging its own identity," 
commented Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan. 
Sinre losing senior All-Americans Mike Iorio and Randy Colley at the end of last season, Corrigan has emphasized the con­cept of "team" play more than ever. Although the Irish are made up of many talented players, the scoring and defensive responsibilities will be distributed more equally. 
"We're not asking any one guy to step up and score 85 points like Randy did," Corrigan said. "We have to stop teams defensively. There's more than one way to skin a cat in that respect." 
Sharing the duties as captains this sea­
sons are a trio of fourth year Irish players. They are defenseman Todd Bialous, mid fielder Brian Erickson, and mid fielder Greg Glenday. 
Notre Dame's ultimate goal this season that Notre Dame women's bas­ketball program is now a force to be reckoned with. 
Expectations on the part of the Notre Dame team are sky­high as they get ready for their first ever appearance at the Big East Post season Tournament, which begins Saturday and lasts through the championship game on Tuesday night. 
The opening game for Notre Dame will not be until Sunday, because they have a first-round bye. Despite finishing the regu­lar season with the second-best 
see WOMEN/ page 24 

1996 NCAA BIG EAST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP 
(9) Boston College 
(4)Miam> (13)Pinsburgh (5)Villanova 
(12)St John's 
(6)Syracuse 
(11 )West Virginia (3) Notre Dame 
(7) Seton Hall (1 0) Georgetown 
(2)Provldence The Obaerver!Bnan Blank 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Something seems differ­ent. Maybe it's the absence of their graduat­ing seniors. Or the return of juniors Nancy Sorota and Ashley McArdle. A healthy team? 
Or... a national (16th) ranking? An undefeated, 
S-0 fall  season  record?  
The  fact  that  they're  
ranked  fourth  in  the  
Midwest?  

see SMC I page 23 

in the NCAA Championships last season. fi To earn a bid for the tournament, the Irish  • J JOUr-page SeCttOn ueVOte  tO  
will play a very chsaeleleLAngcinRgOscshseEd/upleagaeg2a2in  the .66th annual Benual Bouts  
6'  

will be to improve on its quarterfinal finish ee .1.rts Xu'a Or a specta 
The Observer/Adam Andres 

SMC junior Ashley McArdle will be expected to lead the highly Belles tennis squad. 
S • h E +-fi • [
T 

Men's Basketball Men's Tennis 
• Men's hoops visit Syracuse 
at Syracuse, March 2, 4 p.m. 

at Illinois March 2, I p.m. 
see page 26 

i 
Women's Basketball 
Women's Tennis 
I 
at Big East tournament March 3, 8 p.m. 

vs. Kansaas State March 2, I 0 a.m. • Fencers set for NCAA qualifiers 
vs. Syracuse-West Virginia winner 

Baseball
t .. 
at New Orcleans March I, I p.m. see page 25 
Hockey 

SMC Tennis 
• Hockey season reaches finale 
vs. Ferris State, March 2, 7 p.m. 

vs. Hope March 2, I p.m.
r 
I see page 25 
I 






