

Tuesday, February 27, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 93 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hammonds ticket claims Class of '97 election 

Run-offstands despite last minute recount 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
News Wri1rr 
lltHtding into Monday's elec­tions to dt~termine student body class oflicers and stml!mt stma­tors, all one could predict was that Mark Leen and Joseph l.ang would win Senate seats, as l.enn and Lang ran unop­posml in Districts Three and Four. respeetively. 
As expncted, contests for sophomon~ and junior dass of­fices will be determined Wednesday, when a run-off vote will take place. Peter Ce­saro, Mieheln Costello, James Farrnll. and Erin llf~rlihy will squan~ off against Jay DeCoons, Kann1 llilh, Jon lland, and Dan Mullnn in the raee for sophomorn class offien. 
This was thn tightest racn, and a reeount was donn late Monday night at thn requnst of eandidate Dmuwtte Weiss. The Ct~saro ticket garnered 242 votes vNsus the 24<) votes for the l>eCoons tieknt. To avoid llw run-off. the winner must 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Two student-run organiza­tions grew closer to the culmi­nation of an effort to bring about change in the world of on-campus computing on Feb. 
19. Student Government's De­partment of Intellectual Life and the Graduate Student Union's Graduate Computer Committee, with the support of the Office for Information Technologies, released an extensive survey to the student 
by students. Jeff Squyres, the chairman of
Spreading holiday cheer 
Christopher Mullins and Jessica Ward signed students up for the X-Mas in April program yesterday. 
the Graduate Computer
Sign-ups will continue today in the Hesburgh Library from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Committee and one of the au­thors of the survtly, said he hoped the poll would bring about positive change in the clusters and computing in gen­eral. 
"There are really two goals with this survey," Squyms said. "First, we want to learn about the general computing trends of students on campus. Sec­ond, we want to lind out how satisfied students are with the level of service." 
The groups decided ncar the end of 19<)5 to circulate a sur­vey, but it took until now to put it together. 
"Different writing problems and questions had to be worked out over the last few 
see SURVEY I page 4 

Statistics show rising number of female smokers 
Editors Note: This is the final part of a thrPe part series exploring the use of tobacco at ."iaint Mary's College. 
By MAUREEN HURLEY and LORI ALLEN 
Saini M•ry's News Edium 
You'v1~ eome a long way, baby. 
Aeeording to health officials, Virginia Slims' slogan reigns true, as the trend in women smoking has moved through history from a form of social rnhnllion to llll inernasing social habit. 
Statisties from tlw Amcriean l.ung Assoeiation of Northern Indiana state that the age when Amerieans begin smoking is getting younger, especially among females. 
In light of this fact, in a recent Observer poll, 67 per­eent of Saint Mary's women surveyed stated that they have tried smoking, with 38 percent dBclaring themselves as regular smokers. 
llowever, 44 percent of those who say they are not regular smokers consider themselves "social smokers," who only smok11 in bars, at social gather­ings, or with friends. 
On a national scale, the U.S. Department of llealth and Hu­man Services cites 23 percent of women in America as smok­ers, steadily gaining toward the 2H percent of men smoke. 
Smoking is becoming a major women's health issue, as re­search in the past decade has explored this increasing trend towards women smoking. 

Its If
-
The death rate for women has gone up 452 percent over the years since women started smoking as much as men do. Furthermore, lung cancer cur­rently causes more deaths for women than any other cancer, according to the American Can­cer Society. 
Coupled with gender issues, health officials state that start­ing smoking during high school or college is an added risk fac­tor. 
Individuals who start smoking between ages 15 and 24 are 10 to 14 times more likely to die of lung cancer than the nonsmok­er. 
The American Cancer Society states that many students do quit after college, noting a trend that education level af­fects smoking rates. According to statistics, this is shown by a consistent decrease in smoking rates in groups with a higher level of edueation. 
"Smoking is disgusting. I don't understand why anyone would even start," said Amy Johnson. "It smells, it's gross, and you can't breathe." 
One anonymous smoker said, "I started to smoke because, basically because I was a stupid teenager who didn't know any better at the time. I have no strength to quit now, and I know I should. Smokers are rightly discriminated against." 
However, smokers on campus cite various reasons for starting the habit, and reasons why they plan to continue smoking. 
According to the American Lung Association, most women begin smoking in social situa­tions or for social reasons. 
"I just like smoking. My old boyfriend smoked, and so did all of his friends and all my friends," said Jill Fenster­maker. 
Others view it as a habit. "It's just something to do with my hands, an oral fixation, I guess you could say," said Niki Janci. "I never really thought about the health effects." 
Many misconceptions exist that lure women to smoking. According to Surgeon General 
see SMOKING I page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, February 27, 1996 

• ~NSIDE Cou.nvlN 

Education's Folly 
Since it began, the Republican primary race Bill Connolly has focused on the News Copy Editor issues of jobs, workers' rights, and taxes. Left behind is the issue which provides jobs, improves workers' rights. and promotes an understanding of tax­ation: education. 
This issue is the key to improving all of America's woes. An efficient educational sys­tem leads to a more informed public with citi­zens who can better serve their country and themselves. Yet. all of the key candidates for the presidency, including President Clinton. have ignored or only touched on the issue. 
It's not like the educational system has improved, or even remained mediocre. Indeed, it is falling apart. Since it is at the core of America, the nation is breaking down along with it. Educational statistics tell the tale. In "The Index ofLeading Cultural Indicators" by William Bennett, the folly of the American public school system is revealed. For example, while expenditures on public education have increased more than 200 percent since 1960, SAT scores have declined 73 points. Further, there seems to be little correlation between spending on educa­tion and achievement. The top state in SAT scores. Iowa, ranked 27 in the nation in expenditures on public schools in 1993, while the top state in expenditures. New Jersey, ranked 39 in SAT scores. 
At the same time. discipline in public schools has gotten much worse over time. In 1940, the top disciplinary problems, according to teachers. were talking out of turn, chewing gum, and running in the halls. By 1990, the top problems included drug abuse, alcohol abuse, rape. and robbery. 
The United States spends more each year per student on public education than Canada, Italy. France, the United Kingdom. and Japan. Yet the lack of proper education and disci­pline leaves American students behind stu­dents from the rest of the world. 
Why has our educational system sunk to such a level? One of the main reasons is the increase of non-teaching staff as influenced by larger and stronger unions. Other reasons include the lack of a core curriculum between communities and the lack of community sup­port for the growth of schools. 
The best way to improve the system would be to allow parents to choose between public, religious. and private schools through tax credits. This would allow poor familiP~ to send their children to better schools. As a result, the competition between public and private schools would increase, forcing public schools to cut the unnecessary bureaucracy which currently overloads the system and takes away from what is most important: the growth of the student. Most importantly. tax credits would ease the burden on poor par­ents currently struggling to get their children through religious schools. For instance, in many inner cities, single parents often carry three jobs just to keep their kids in efficient religious schools. Tax credits would allow these parents to work less and pay more attention to their families. 
The current system is wasteful and forces poor families, especially minorities. to work even harder than they should to pay both the tax for public schools and the tuition for the private school their child is attending. This change must occur soon, or else the core will continue to rot until America falls apart. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TonAv's STAFF 
News Heather Cocks Maureen Hurley 
Lab Tech Katie Kroener 
Sports Megan McGrath 
Production
Kathleen Lopez Belle Bautista Tara Grieshop
Graphics Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excqn during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A Gut-wE 
Israel mourns increasing number of bombing victims 
JERUSALEM With the wounds of two suicide bombings 
Israeli terrorism 
still achingly fresh, Israel had more tragic deaths to mourn today: An Arab-American 
Alist of attacks by Muslim militants in Israel since the signing of the first 
lsrael-PLO peace agreement in September 1993:
smashed his car into a Jerusalem bus stop, 
killing two people before bystanders shot him 
n 
Apr. 6, 1994: Palestinian parks car 11 Oct. 19, 1994: Palestinian suicide 
dead. 
rigged with explosives next to bus in bomber kills 22 Israelis, wounds 
Alula, in northern Israel. Nine Israelis 48 in bus explosion in Tel Aviv. 
killed, 45 wounded. Militant Muslim Hamas claims responsibility. 
Police commanders who rushed to the 
scene with hundreds of officers initially said 
group Hamas claims responsibility. 
0 Nov. 12, 1994: Palestinian suicide 
n 
Apr.13, 1994: Palestinian blows bomber on a bicycle in the Gaza
they were dealing with a terror attack. But 
they later said the driver apparently lost con-
himself up on bus in Hadera in central Strip kills three Israeli soldiers.
trot of the car and tried to brake, noting 
Israel. Six Israelis killed, 25 wounded. Hamas-related group, Islamic Jihad,
there were long skid marks on the street. 
Hamas claims responsibility. claims responsibility.

...,......---.....
In addition to the two dead. 22 people were 
13 Dec. 25, 1994: Palestinian blows
( 0
hurt. Police were questioning the two 
himself up on bus in Jerusalem,Damascus
bystanders who had opened fire on the dri­
wounding 121sraells. Hamas claims ver. but it was not immediately known 
responsibility.Mediterranean ) 4:---Heights 
I Golan 
whether they faced possible criminal 
11 Jan. 22, 1995: Two Palestinians
1
charges. 
' blow themselves up at the Beit Lid 
junclion in central Israel, killing 21
The incident underscored the raw tension 
Sea SYRIA /
A'-\~'J 
Israelis. Islamic Jihad claims
in Israel a day after Muslim militant suicide 
responsibility.
bombers blew themselves up in back-to-hack 
f i West . -~· 
IJ Apr. 9, 1995: Two Palestinians blow
attacks on a Jerusalem city bus and at a 
Tel Aviv EJb \~ ~ank Jordan River 
themselves up outside two
hitchhiking post for Israeli soldiers in the 
Jewish settlements in the Gaza Strip,
coastal town of Ashkelon. 
killing seven Israeli soldiers and an"lil4·mi../,, 0. Amman 
Gua ·.·~ ,/ f i JORDAN 
American. Hamas and Islamic Jihad
A witness to today's car crash said a black 
claim responsibility.
Strip ~· ( . ....AL~
Fiat Uno ran a red light at a north Jerusalem 
/\) \ DeadSea 
liJ July 24, 1995: Palestinian suicide
intersection at high speed and then smashed 
. . "' \ Jerusalem ~ 
bomber blows up bus in Tel Aviv,
into the crowded stop, a gathering point for 
killing six Israelis, wounding 28.
\ \ ISRAEL I/ .--S-Y-RI-A..,.?-·..·""/""~-.~---,
Jewish West Bank settlers returning home 
Hamas claims responsibility.
\ /' ·-:;t;r~ .""" (
from jobs or studies in Jerusalem. 
1iJ Aug. 21,1995: Palestinian suicide
\ -. •?-;)Jf!AO·, .IRAN
'The driver got out of the car and shouted 
bomber blows up bus in 
EGYPT i '.. .~;:0;1\>~;~· 
Jerusalem, killing tour Israelis and one
"Allah is Great" and then someone shot 
\\\\.. 1 .. , SAUOI~::.r "";, 
· American, wounding more than 100.
him," said a witness who would only give his 
/ , ARABIA/ • f 
Hamas claims responsibility.
\ r ·-\.\.r·-.,_/~--:~~ ·. ml Feb. 25, 1996: Palestinian suicide 
first name, Eli. 
', / EGYPT·<_.-'~rat>lan
Jerusalem police commander Arieh Amit 
, I -<. -···· Sea 
bombers blow up bus in Jerusalem
said the driver was a U.S. resident who was 
50 miles 
and soldiers' hitchhiking post in coastal
~~L G~lf of Aqaba/
visiting the West Bank town of Ramallah and 
ES .· r·--I' 
city of Ashkelon, killing 24 Israelis and 
50km 
an American,wounding more than 80. Jerusalem rental company. 
had rented the car for a week from a 
) !1 -~-;uoiAFi:.\;;A 
Hamas claims responsibility. 
Clinton honors the Braves Industry responds to Internet Act 
WASHINGTON PHILADELPHIA 
The 1995 World Series champion 
A coalition that includes computer industry giants 
Atlanta Braves toured the White House Microsoft and Apple filed a federal lawsuit Monday to 
on Monday and accepted belated con­overturn a new law restricting indecency on the Internet. 
gratulations from President Clinton for The lawsuit seeks to overturn the Communications 
their "great season and magnificent Decency Act, which imposes a $250,000 fine and up to 
World Series victory." The Braves, six years in prison for transmitting indecent material that 
whose first invitation to the White children could find it on the Internet. The Citizens 
House last year was canceled because Internet Empowerment Coalition argues that there are 
of the crisis in Bosnia, interrupted their less restrictive means to protect children or other users 
spring training in Florida to travel to Washington for the from offensive material. 'Enforcement of the act has 
two-hour tour. reception and recognition ceremony. been blocked temporarily by another lawsuit, filed by a 
"The Braves have shown us the best side of professional coalition led by the American Civil Liberties Union. The 
sports, perseverance and hard work and a commitment law defines indecency as "any comment, request. sugges­
that has endured over seasons," said Clinton. "There tion. proposal, image or other communication that, in 
really does seem to be a spirit of teamwork that has context. depicts or describes, in terms patently offensive 
worked for this team." The Braves won the champi­as measured by contemporary community standards, 
onship last fall in six games over the Cleveland Indians. sexual or excretory activities or organs." 
Simpson takes the stand Deadbeat dad, militia surrenders 
LOS ANGELES COUSHATTA, La. 
O.J. Simpson arrived today for his eighth day of tes­A doctor wanted on deadbeat-dad charges surren­timony in two wrongful death lawsuits, and attorneys for dered Monday after a six-day standoff during which he the victims' families began questioning him. Simpson's rallied right-wing militia members to his home for fear marathon deposition testimony behind closed doors con­FBI agents would kill him. Lynn Truman Crawford, 42. tinued as plans were laid for his lawyers to question for­was taken to Shreveport for a hearing on charges of fail­mer Los Angeles police detective Mark Fuhrman. A ing to pay $70,000 in child support since 1985 in judge in Idaho arranged for Fuhrman's deposition to be Missouri. The standoff began Feb. 21 when federal held at a secret site in that state on March 10. Sources agents and sheriffs deputies went to arrest Crawford at say Simpson wants to face Fuhrman during the question­his mother's rural house. Crawford refused to recognize ing. In West Los Angeles today, Simpson was being ques­the agents' authority. Authorities forced open a door to tioned by attorneys for the mother of Ronald Goldman send in a dog, but Crawford's dog attacked the police and lawyers for the estate of Nicole Brown Simpson. canine and a deputy, the FBI said. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATHJNAl WEATHER 
Thesday, Feb. 27 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperalures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 27. 1Os Lines separate high lemperature zones for the day. 
A· 
~' 
FRONTS: 
~ ..A....A.... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Pressure
[Louisvillej72a I 
rt'}  HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
KY.  ~  VIS A.Noctated Press  
' ' '''  Atlanta  65  58  Chicago  25  23  Moose Jaw  -3  -15  
Baltimore  63  49  Dallas  51  34  Nashville  47  45 
4,~,~4.f~8 ~  ~ £(1  Boston  51  40  Ft. Lauderdale85  68  Philadelphia 58  45  
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Su nny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy  Calgary  -11  Las Vegas  52  31  Princeton  56  43  
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet  Charleston  77  60  Milwaukee  26  24  Yonkers, N.Y.56  .43  


-----~--------------~ 
Tuesday, February 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 

ForuDI exaDiines woDien's rights 
Delegates explore recent changes in roles, stereotypes 
By DONNA MIRANDOI.A News Writer 
Women and men from throughout the world gathered in Bnijing , China for the Fourth World Conference on Women September 4-14, 1995. With over 50,000 participants, this was the largest event in the his­tory of the United Nations. 
Sister Mary Turgi represented the Sisters of the lloly Cross as a partieipant in this world-wide event, and spoke about her experiences Monday afternoon in llaggar Parlor. 
Turgi, a former Saint Mary's faeulty memlwr and current soeial organizer of Covington Community Center in Covington, Km1tueky, explained the two meetings whkh eomprised the Forum. 
The first group that met was the Non-Governmental Organi­zations INGO). Over 30,000 rep­resentatives, mostly women, met in an open meeting whieh was held from Aug. 30 to Sept. 8. This was the group that cap­tured the most media attention, and where the most sharing of eultures and ideas took place, said Turgi. 
The "offkial" UN conference 
was held from Sept. 4 to 14. 
This was a formal eongmgation 
of 5,000 ollidal government del­
egates. 
"Tlwse delegates were not necessarily women, or people who knew very much about wonwn's conc!lrns," stated 




The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: 
Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Brad Prendergast by Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call 631-5323 or 634-2098
.... 
student manager and 
~JVIO 

Apply for the best job on 

bartender campus 
applications 
PICK APPLICATIONS UP AT now THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE.
available! 
MANAGER DEADLINE! March 1 BARTENDER DEADLINE! March 27 
Turgi. 
During the overlapping time of the two meetings, the accredited NGO representatives had two missions. 
"These groups needed to ob­serve what the delegates were doing, but most importantly lobby the delegates. The groups would meet and decide what was or was not going well and strategize to influence their own delegations," said Turgi. 
Turgi said, "We knew it wouldn't be easy. We did what we had to do. We got together to celebrate women and to strate­gize for what came next." 
The job of the UN delegates was to approve the document, "Platform for Action." The plat­form not only addressed stereo­typical concerns of women such as reproductive health and vio­lent crime, but for the first time, the UN stated publicly that there is discrimination against women and that many times the dis­crimination starts in the womb. 
The document also acknowl­edged that women do contribute resources to the economy. 
"Women do much unpaid and uncounted work which is not reflected in a country's GNP. This idea is pivotal in welfare reform. Many countries say that women are not "working" and have no economic value. People who contribute to the economy should therefore be entitled to social serviees from the govern­ment," said Turgi. 
The UN declared that wom­en's rights are indeed human rights. !Iuman rights take prece­dence over religious and cultur­al customs. Therefore, practices such as genital mutilation and women dying on their husband' s funeral pyres will now be seen as in violation of the UN's defmi­tion of human rights. 
Turgi came away from the fo­rum with many lasting impres­sions and memories. She re­members the incredible sense of determination and organization of the women, especially since the site of the conference had been changed to 30 miles out­side Beijing only weeks before the conference. 
There was a deep sense of community and eagerness to communicate with each other despite language barriers, ac­cording to Turgi. The wide ranges of women of different cultures and economic back­grounds that came together to celebrate each other's customs and ideas is something Turgi will always remember, she said. 
Turgi concluded, " It is impor­tant for young women to keep the global movement strong. We need to realize how similar the lives of women outside of the US are to our own. Issues of women from East Asia aren't very dif­ferent from ones which are important here. It's a matter of being connected to women all over the world and ultimately, enhancing all of humanity." 

Auction proceeds surpass goal 
By DEREK BETCHER football players at the event, News Writer Oehm stated, was also well-re­ceived. 
With the final proceeds dou­Former star Tony Rice and bting those of last year's several of the team's current fundraiser, Saturday's Fifth seniors were present Saturday Annual Auction to benefit evening. South Bend's Center for the "They just came on their Homeless was labeled a suc­own good will to mingle with cess by its organizers. the bidders and sign auto­
"It was extremely success­graphs for the people who ful," said Tammy Oehm, the attended. The Center really event's coordinator. "We appreciates their help," Oehm 
exceeded our goal of raising said. $100,000." "On the whole, we had phe­
Oehm noted that the auc­nomenal volunteers. We had tion's hottest items were two quite a few from the Notre armchair quarterback pack­Dame administration that ages donated by Lou Holtz and helped out. I can't say enough the Notre Dame Football about what a big help they 
Office. 
. \)Ala,. 
page 3 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Exhibit debuts 

The display, "Africa at the Crossroads" was unveiled yesterday. The exhibit, displayed on the second floor of Hesburgh Library, will run for three months. 
were, too," she added. 
While nearly 450 people were on hand for Saturday evening's bidding at the Century Center, Oehm said that the day's silent auction saw some items slip away for reasonable prices. 
"There were a lot of bar­gains at the silent auction. There were definitely some people who got deals on movie scripts and Hollywood auto­graphs," said Oehm. 
Proceeds for the event were entered into the center's regu­lar operating budget. 
"That money will be used to buy food and pay for other daily expenses," Ohern said. 
The packages entitled their purchasers to choose any home football game for 1996, and on that Saturday attend the team mass, dine at the team's pre-game meal, watch the game from the sidelines, and mingle in the locker room following the game. 
"Those went for $10,000 apiece," Oehm said. The presence of Notre Dame 


• CORRECTION 

Yesterday's election preview article failed to include the platform of a ticket in the sophomore class election. 
Jay DeCoons, Karen Hilke. Joe Hand and Dan Mullen promise class trips, a battle of the bands, a sophomore class retreat, a class dinner. and a class directory organized both by name and by dorm, among other plans. 
Their ticket has advanced to the run-off, to be held Wednesday. The Observer regrets the error. 
HEY 


UNI0RSitLUicy 

page 4 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Griffen's team picked up 427 votes versus 220 votes for the Duda ticket. 
The race for senior class offi­cers was won by the ticket of Bill Hammonds, president; Mike Schwartz, vice president; Dirk Koester, secretary; and Erin Purtell, treasurer. 
Their platform, which stress­es an injection of new ideas, proved to be popular with their classmates. The Ham­monds ticket also wants to plan a Senior formal and class trips. 
The Hammond group de­feated the ticket of Mike Eger, Brian Zavislak, Tom Kali, and Peter Harrison 502 to 342. It was the second failed attempt to be a president this month for Eger, who unsuccessfully ran for Student Government President earlier this semes­ter. 

In the race for off-campus co-presidents, the ticket of Mike Irvine and Brendan Tobin defeated Sorin residents Alex Saksen and Michael Sweeney 206 to 130. Irvine and Tobin stressed the impor­tance of better parking for off­campus students. 
Tobin and Irvine were de­lighted about their victory and emphasized their desire to help their classmates. "We live off-campus this year. so we think we will be more able to deal with the parking prob­lem," said Irvine. Tobin added, "We encourage all off­campus students to contact regarding their concerns. They can e-mail us or call us. We are open to suggestions." 
The picture of the student Senate race was less blurry than the races for the sopho­more and junior class offices. In District One, Shane McRann Bigelow scored a convincing victory over Ryan Cox, defeat­ing him 426 to 157. In District Two, Sorin Hall resident Mike 


SIDoking 
continued from page l 
reports, many individuals wrongly believe that smoking reduces urges to eat, and, in turn, many people are reluc­tant to quit in fear of gaining weight. 
"I started smoking last year when I was dieting; not for health reasons, but to lose Gaffud defeated Caroll Hall sophomore Pat Belton 277 to 245. 
Gaffud hopes to personalize all future commencement cer­emonies, a hot topic of debate as of late. He also wants to improve communication be­tween students and adminis­tration. 
Gaffud's victory was sealed by the high level of support he received in Sorin, which had the highest voter turnout in District Two. ''I'd like to thank all the guys in my dorm for voting," he sa:id. 
The winning candidates all expressed o'ptimism with re­gards to achieving the goals on which they campaigned. Senior class vice-president Elect Mike Schwartz, who is currently ju­nior class president, expressed a desire to increase the amount of trips to sporting events in Chicago. 
"With the funds availible, we should get tickets for Bulls, Blackhawks, White Sox, and Cubs games for class trips." Schwartz also indicated that a class formal "will not be hard at all" to accomplish. 
In light of the close vote in the sophomore class election, the run-off should shape up to be very interesting. 
The Peter Cesaro ticket will continue to run on what they describe as a broad and com­prehensive platform. Included in this platform are increased participation in service pro­jects. 
Michele Costello, who is run­ning on the Cesaro ticket as a vice-presidential candidate, said, "For example, we want to start a project with the Boys and Girls Club in which we would assist in painting a mural at the club along with the kids." 
A tutoring program is an­other planned service project by the Cesaro. Costello said, "Our candidate for treasurer, Erin Herlihy, has already been working on a tutoring program with local schools. We want the class to get involved and 
weight, and I haven't quit. I enjoy it," said Sarah Thieneman. 
Despite statistics against smoking, Saint Mary's policies give women the right to smoke in designated areas in the din­ing hall and residence halls. "I don't think smokers are dis­criminated against at Saint Mary's, but definitely in certain public places," said Thieneman. 

God gives each person one lifetime. What are youdoing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame tor college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
The Observer • NEWS 
expand it to a four year pro­gram." 
The Cesaro plan also includes a class barbecue and volleyball tournament at the beginning of the school year. "Our platform motto is some­thing for everyone. We want to increase involvement," Costello said. 
She also pointed out that the nearly 1200 freshmen who voted indicated that members of that class are willing to get involved. 
Grace resident Jay DeCoons sees his ticket as being "unique." the Sophomore class president-hopeful said, "Each person on our ticket is from each quad. We see this as an opportunity to unify the campus. Each member of our ticket would personally hear the concerns of the residents of their respective quad." 
He plans to immediately im­plement new ideas, like a Sophomore class directory. It would list students both alpha­betically and by residence hall. "We would also like to increase class retreats. It has been so successful so far, so we want to give everyone the opportunity to go on a retreat by increasing the number of retreats, " DeCoons said. 
Both the Matt Griffin and Rick Duda tickets in the junior class race stress unity on cam­pus. 
Duda's ticket is hoping to in­crease social activities and op­portunities to take part in ser­vice organizations. 
They also plan a "battle of the bands" fundraiser and party at the Indiana dunes to welcome students back to school. The Griffin team also looks to increase service work opportunities and plan to increase mailings to students abroad. 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Last week, the Graduate Computer Committee distributed about stu­


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
dent computer and network usage. 



Survey 
continued from page 1 
months," said Squyres. "We [Squyres and Jeff Catalina, the other author of the surveyI had to coordinate the GSU [Graduate Student Union]. Student Government and the OIT [Office of Information Technologies]. Meanwhile, the Laboratory for Social Research checked over the way we asked the questions." 
The results of this survey will 
Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
be incorporated in the five-year plan for campus computing that is currently being assembled by the OIT. 
"The OIT is very excited about students taking the initia­tive in providing opinions about the computer facilities," said Squyres. "It is very important to students in that it is a chance for them to essentially sit down with the administrators and tell them what should be changed for next year." 
A computerized version of the survey is also available at: http://www.cse.nd.edu/survey/ 




,_.___ ___________ _____ 
Tuesday, february 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Film airs to heighten awareness 
Special to The Observer 
In a continued effort to in­creanso awarenBss on cam­pus, People in Suppott (PinS) and the English Department of Saint Mary's College will pre­sent a special showing of The Celluloid Closet tonight. 

Basnd on Bito Russo's 1981 book of the same title, this documentary on homosexual images in the movies will be shown tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Hoom 105 of the Science Hall on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Using a eentury's worth of film clips, it traces Hollywood's coded portrayals of the homosexual and the subtexts perceived by gay viewers, according to People Magazine. 
Providing commentary in the featured mm are actors, writers, and directors includ­

ing  Tom  Hanks,  Shirley  
Macl.aine.  and  Susan  
Sarandon.  

The Hollywood Heporter calls the film a "lucid, lovely yet profound account about how the movies have con­sciously and consistently denegrated homosexuals since the early silent films." 
"Hollywood, that great maker of myths, showed straight people what to think about gay people and gay peo­ple what to think about them­selves," said Lily Tomlin, nar­.rator and co-executive pro­
ducer of this film. 

A discussion will follow the presentation of The Celluloid Closet. 
• MEXICO 
Capital city suffers from crime epidemic 
By BILL CORMIER that of many big U.S. cities, the epidemic Roderic Camp, a political scientist at Associated Press has stunned residents. Tulane University in New Orleans and a The timing of the criminal surge coin­frequent visitor to Mexico City, said the MEXICO CITY eides with the nation's economic crisis. desperation of those hurt by the crisis 
Mexico City's crime wave swept up Jesus Economic woes have thrown 1 million seems to be fueling crime. Navarro when a man jammed a pistol into Mexicans out of work and pinched the "I've always felt much safer in Mexico his ribs and told him to get in his minivan paychecks of many others. . City than in Los Angeles, New York or with his wife and two toddlers. Now it is being blamed for helping to Chicago," he said. "What has really in­
"Daddy, who are these people?" his 3-fuel the carjackings, burglaries, bank creased in Mexico City is robbery and even year-old daughter asked. heists and muggings that have soared robbery with the use of weapons: carjack­"These arc friends of mine," said since 1 ')94 in the federal district of Mexico ings. accosting people on the streets." Navarro, 33. "And we're going for a ride." City. Mostly. the criminals have stayed away 
Ouring that 45-minute trip last Between 1994 and 1995, premeditated from foreigners. As in many foreign coun­September, the three gunmen robbed the murder rose 9.6 percent to 1,204 cases -tries, the U.S. Embassy advises travelers family of $100 in pesos, a costly Swiss more than New York's 1,182 homieides. to watch their valuitbles and avoid deso­watch and a gold necklace. They then Home burglaries shot up 41.3 percent to late highways at night. dumped the family unharmed on a dark 6,822 cases, and business robberies were But few foreigners have been targets street and sped away. The van was later up 30.4 percent to 8,784 cases. and the embassy has not changed its found wrecked. Non-violent auto thefts more than dou­advice since the crime wave hit. 
Mexico City-long considered relatively bled to 35,116 in 1995 -still well shy of Nonetheless, headlines such as safe, considering it is home to 8.5 million New York's 71,803 grand larceny auto "Shotgunned to Death" and "They Broke people -has seen a sudden upsurge in thefts. But Mexico also saw a 69.8-percent the Bank Open With Hammers" are daily (Time over the past 14 months. Although jump in violent auto thefts -to 21,382 grist for tabloids. Ambulances rush daily the level of crime is still nothing to rival cases in 1995. to scenes of stabbings and shootings. 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 
Peace talks fail to produce resolution 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

Talks between IRA support­ers and the British govern­ment, aimed at ending bomb­ing attacks and creating a framework for peace negotia­tions, broke up without agree­ment yesterday. 
The two-hour meeting be­tween British civil servants and tlw IHA-allied Sinn Fein party was the first since the Irish Hepublican Army broke its 17­month cease-fire with a bomb­ing in London on Feb. 9. 
Sinn Fein had sought a guar­anteed starting date for negotiations. Britain said that would be unrealistic unless the lRA first guaranteed a lasting cease-fire. 
"The British government was not prepared to give us a spe­cific date when all-party peace negotiations would begin," Sinn Fein chief negotiator Martin McGuinness told re­porters outside Stormont, the government seat east of Belfast. 
McGuinness, a reputed for­mer IRA commander, called the situation "very grave in­deed." 
Sinn Fein first sat down with a team of British civil servants in December 1994, three months after the lRA stopped its quarter-century campaign of violence against British rule. Those talks bogged down when Britain demanded that the Catholic-based IRA start dis­arming as a "confidence-build­
ing  measure"  for  the  
province's  majority  
Protestants.  

Monday's meeting coincided with the arrival of another bat­talion of British soldiers in Northern Ireland, where the IRA has yet to strike, raising overall troop strength there to about 17,500. Soldiers resumed limited foot patrols in Catholic parts of Belfast on Friday. 
Security for the British royal family also has been stepped up following reports that an IHA man killed by his own bomb in London on Feb. 18 had maps and other documents suggesting the lRA may have Queen Elizabeth II or her rela­tives in its sights. 
The British never identify the civil servants who meet with Sinn Fein, but Quentin Thomas and John Chilcott have usually been among them. 
Sinn Fein's delegation includ­ed Gerry Kelly, who was con­victed of IRA bombings in London on March 8, 1973, that killed one person and injured about 250. 
...: ..:,, .. . ~  -====-= ~-­-­-------:,.. li -­..­1/ j'l .2. l _l_lf II I Ill! =-·· -=~­-'­--:f! \ f. I -~-. -. -1mL.Jt1'<l' -:.I~ ~~~iil11 l" -1111.; ~·-· . -r-1' ., 10 /?\. HI \\ I I.I I .'j~jj:ll~ I  
·­[i  Copyright © 1992, Cartoonists & Writers Syndicate WALTER HANEL Frankfurter Al/egemeine, Bonn GERMANY  
Would you like to be an HN/AIDS Peer Facilitator for the Notre Dallle/Saint Mary's Collllllunity? Ifso, there will be an organizational meeting at 7:00p.m., Tuesday, Feb. 27 in the C.S.C. Lounge. Any questions? please call Anne at 4-3731.  

page 6 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
U.S. foreign policy faces harsh criticis01 
GOP candidates attack Clinton s diplomatic record 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a few short days, a deadly mix of missiles and bombs has jarred President Clinton's for­eign policy, darkening a season of optimism with crisis and un­certainty. The Middle East, Northern Ireland and Cuba ­all had been on the plus side of his presidency. 
Now, the eruption of blood­shed by Muslim fanatics, IRA bombers and Castro's MIG pi­lots has thrust Clinton's foreign policy into the political crosshairs. 
"President Clinton doesn't have the foggiest notion of how to deal with our enemies," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole charged after the downing of two small planes carrying anti-Castro Cuban Americans. Those are stinging words in Florida where politics can be inseparable from a get-tough­on-Castro stand. Other GOP ri­vals had harsh criticism as well. 
Even before the Cuba flareup, Clinton's foreign policy was un­der attack. Pat Buchanan has led the charge with his America First banner, vowing to impose tariffs on imports and build a fence along the Mexican border. 
Further, Buchanan says it would be a "terrible, terrible mistake" to send American troops to the Middle East to serve on the Golan Heights, en­forcing a hoped-for peace set­tlement between Israel and Syria, as Clinton has suggested. 
Generally, foreign policy is not a burning topic in presiden­tial races. Americans expect their presidents to stand tall on the global stage and deftly han­dle foreign policy problems. However, people start paying attention when American sol­diers start getting killed. That was the administration's fear in sending troops to Bosnia-an­other move sharply criticized by Dole and others. 
That's not to say candidates don't try to exploit a situation such as Cuba or other foreign policy problems. 
"People will try to make hay out of this, just like Bill Clinton did with George Bush over 
Haitian  refugees,"  said  
Michigan  State  University  
political  scientist  James  

Granato. "In any campaign you want to accentuate the differ­ences or the perceived fail­ures." 
Clinton attacked Bush for turning Haitian refugees away 
SWDENrs, FAUJL1Y, STAfF 
Don't Pass Up This Opportunity Fast growing telecommunica­tions Co. looking for Reps in this area. Must be a motivated self-starter looking for fun and money! Enjoy working with others and being your own boss. Full or part time. Finally, get the rewards that match your efforts. Call today for more information! 
Michael Summers Regional Director 679-9257 

from U.S. borders. But after he was elected, Clinton embraced Bush's policy. 
After a rough start for his administration, foreign policy has been a source of pride for Clinton, one that he talked up in last month's State of the Union address. 
The White House handshake that Clinton engineered be­tween PLO chief Vassar Arafat and the late Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin has a prominent spot in Clinton's campaign video. 
Sunday's suicide bombing in Israel shattered a six-month lull in terrorist attacks. It came at the opening of Israel's cam­paign for national elections May 29 and could give a boost to opponents of Israeli­Palestinian peacemaking. 
Similarly, IRA bombings in London have seriously threat­ened the peace process. And the downing of the civilian planes by Cuba ended a period of relative calm between Washington and Havana that had seen slight progress on refugee issues and other mat­ters. 
In the Middle East and Northern Ireland, though, it may be that the setbacks are temporary -a bump in the road. With Castro, the United States has little or no influence despite decades of pressure. 
The administration says for­eign policy requires patience, discipline and steady leader­ship by the world's sole remaining superpower. 
'The alternative, of course, would be to not care and to just pull up the drawbridges, come back home and be isolationist," White House press secretary Mike McCurry said. "And in­deed, we've got some people who try to make that argument in this country." 


Clinton steps up sanctions 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Clinton slapped new sanctions on Fidel Castro's "repressive, violent, scornful" government Monday for down­ing two civil­ian U.S. air­planes. Republicans said the pun­ishment was too mild and a c c u s e d Clinton of "coddling Castro." 
The president suspended charter travel to Havana, de­manded reparations for the vic­tims' families and gave quali­fied support for a Republican­backed bill that would intensify the economic crackdown. 
Under pressure to respond swiftly to the attack against pi­lots of an anti-Castro Cuban­American group, Clinton said the incident "was a flagrant violation of international law." 
"It is wrong," he said, "and the United States will not toler­ate it." 
Cuba said the shooting oc­curred over its airspace, and that its pilots were provoked. "This is not something that oc­curs out of the blue," said Ri­cardo Alarcon, president of Cuba's parliament. 
The broad economic, diplo­matic and political steps Clinton outlined were intended to isolate Castro's government further and inoculate Clinton against soft-on-Castro broad­sides from his Republican ri­vals. 
But what he did was limited: He needs approval from Congress or the United Nations to implement some proposals, and the president did not fully repeal a series of steps he took last year to ease Cuban sanc­tions. 


One presidential rival, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, said Clinton "laid an egg." 
"After months of moving the wrong way -toward coddling Castro -the president has yet to understand that the only way to deal with Castro's tyranny is with real firmness and pressure," Dole, R-Kansas, said. 
Still, Dole said, while Clinton did not go far enough, "I sup­port these measures as steps in the right direction." 
In a brief statement to re­porters, Clinton said he decided to: 
• 
Ask Congress to compen­sate victims' families from $100 million in frozen Cuban assets. The United States wants the United Nations to press Cuba for reparations, as well as to impose international sanctions. 

• 
Suspend U.S. charter air travel to Cuba. Clinton loosened restrictions in 1995, and 


120.000 people flew to Cuba from the United States. 
• Expand Radio Marti, the 
U.S. propaganda network that broadcasts in Cuba. 
• 
Order additional restric­tions on travel in the United States by Cuban officials who live in America. He also imposed further limits on U.S. visits by Cuban officials. 

• 
Seek compromise with Re­publican lawmakers on a bill that would dramatically expand sanctions. But he did not ad­dress the major sticking point: his opposition to a GOP provi­sion allowing Cuban-Americans and others to sue in U.S. feder­al courts for compensation from companies that buy prop­erty expropriated by the Castro government. 


"Saturday's attack was an appalling reminder of the na­ture of the Cuban regime -re­pressive, violent, scornful of international law," Clinton said. 
Press secretary Mike Mc­Curry called the sanctions "a price for outrageous behavior." 
Though aides have said a mil­itary response is not being con­sidered, Clinton said, "I am not ruling out any further steps" against Castro. 
Republican reaction was swift and negative. 
"President Clinton's response today was tragically insuffi­cient," said Rep. Lincoln Diaz­Balart, R-Fla. 
Rep. Robert Menendez, O­N.J., a son of Cuban immi­grants, welcomed Clinton's ac­tions but said "while those things are all good, the presi­dent simply didn't go far enough." 
Clinton's decision followed a 75-minute meeting with his top foreign policy advisers. His po­litical team invited Cuban­Americans to the White House for high-level meetings, hoping to avoid political backlash just two weeks before the Florida primary. 
Republican presidential hope­ful Steve Forbes accused Clin­ton of accepting "the illusion ... that you could make a deal with Castro." 
"I hope that Bill Clinton has finally recovered from it," Forbes said. 
The White House, knowing Florida could be vital to Clin­ton's re-election chances, bris­tled. "The president was swiftly responding to these events be­fore any Republican opened his ... mouth," McCurry said. 
* REMINDER * 
STUDENT LEADERSHIP AWARDS 
We ask your assistance in identifying student's deserving ofrecognition 
All nominations need to be turned in no later than Friday. March 1 to: 
AWARDS SELECTION COMMITTEE 3I 5 LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Chinese ~ American 


h~ GREAT loe;~~~itaL~~~:e\VALL Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~C~;stne 
Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 · \'lltl'll Bl'"'
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 
l )riL"nt.d Hnt,\llr,\111Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 

in ~liLhi.tn.t h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend ,\lrd1iww l\'oH' (next to Randall's Inn) 
TuCiiday, February 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Runaway satellite ruins ten-year shuttle project 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Assm:iateJ Press 

FLOHIDA 
Like a child watching a he­lium balloon slip from his hand, scientists looked on in distress as a half-ton satellite being towed by space shuttle Columbia broke loose and floated off into the black void, dangling 12 miles of frayed and curled cord. 
For those who had devoted years and even a deeade to the nlectrieity-generating project, it was a cruel blow, all the more so because everything was going so well up until the acddent. 
"A lot of things were disap­pearing there," astronaut Jeffrey lloffman. a llarvard-ed­ueated Ph.D. in astrophysics, said Monday. "We all did have a lot of hopes. We got about halfway there in terms of being able to deploy the satellite and to just whet people's appetites for the incredible scientific in­vestigations that could bn cov­ered. Scientists have lost a Jot, and I deeply feel for them." 
In a split second Sunday night. the cord and the instru­nwnt-packed satellite were gone forever, a $400 million­plus experiment now just spaee junk. 
NASA flight director Chuck 

Hours/Commitment 
Internships Require 
Applications Available Applications Due 
Shaw said it would be too dan­gerous to send the shuttle after the Italian satellite -the spaghetti-thin cord could wrap itself around the spaceship. 
The junk poses no hazard to Columbia and its erew for the remaining 1 1/2 weeks of their mission, and it will re-enter the atmosphere and burn up within a month, officials said. 
NASA officials refused to speculate what went wrong. But Hoffman reported that the frayed end of the cord remain­ing aboard Columbia looked as though it had been charred and melted. 
The cord -made of braided copper. nylon and Teflon ­broke off inside a tower that was heing used like a fishing rod to cast the satellite into space. 

Italian scientist Marino Dobrowolny said the insulation may have been stripped away, exposing the copper wire. Data on the ground showed the equivalent of a spark or dis­charge, which may have oc­curred as the copper passed near metal on the deploying equipment, he said. 
NASA immediately im­pounded all data associated with the U.S.-Italian project and established an investiga­tive board. 
Columbia and its seven astro-
NASA officials refused to speculate on what might have ~one wrongpending a complete mvestlgation. 
Source:NASA; Avladcm Week and Spaoe
Technology magaz:lne 

AP/Carl Fox 
nauts were safe the entire time. It could have been much, much worse: If more of the tether had remained attached to Columbia, the cord could have whipped back and become entangled with the shuttle. 
When Hoffman shouted the alarm. there were a few mil­
E-1·&.-*1·8#·94 ·& ; M ··h&·*S+··=·%1--i·=·mif:M·W·:.a:.:.:.;,t;.g.gw.:.:.:.:.g.sm•wg..;.:.z.:.:.:...:...g.:.a..:.;.g.:...g...:.:.:;.;.:.s.s.}S-:.:.:.:...:...g.:.g.:.:.:.:.:w.:...:.:t 
The Center for Social Concerns Invites Applications for 
Student Internships 
For the 1996-97 Academic Year 
Approx. 10 hours per week Plus participation in reflection, academic meetings 
Center Interns will participate in Fall and Spring Leadership Issues Seminars, and receive a scholarship 
• 
Demonstrated experience in CSC Programs 

• 
Initiative 


• 
Creativity Monday, February 26, 1996 at the CSC Thursday, March 7, 1996 


Areas of Focus for Center Internships • Multicultural Concerns 
• 
Research 


• 
Post Graduate Service 


I .......,;,.,:. ..·.·.·..............·>··: .. 

...............·.·.•,•.•.·.·.·.·..·.·.·.·.·.·.·..... 
.. .·.•·.·..•.,•,•,•,•,,•,•,,•,,•,•,•,•,,•,,,...,,,.,•,•.•,•, ..........·.·,•,,•,•...·.....·.·.·...·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·,•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•.•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,·.·.·.···· 
·.·.·.·.·.·.·• 

liseconds of "an adrenalin 
rush," shuttle commander 
Andrew Allen said. But within 
a second or two the astronauts 
realized they did not need to 
fear for their lives, given the 
location of the tether break 
and the speed at which the 
satellite was drifting away. 
Three of the crewmen, in fact, 
were asleep at the time. 

"I got up in the morning and 
when I came up on the flight 
deck and saw the disappointed 
faces of my colleagues, I knew 
something wasn't quite right," 
pilot Scott Horowitz said in a 
space-to-ground news confer­
ence. "They said, 'Look out 
the window," and the tether 
was gone. 

"It was kind of like one of 
those really bad sinking feel­
ings. You're hoping to wake 
up to this beautiful sight of 
this tether all the way up 
there and then do all this sci­
ence, and there it was gone." 

Depending on the cause of 
the problem. this could be the 
end of space tethers for the foreseeable future. Scientists had hoped to prove with this flight that tethered satellites could be used to power space­craft and drop packages to Earth. 
Until the accident, the teth­ered-satellite system had been working better than expected, generating up to 3,500 volts of electricity as the metal ball and the cord swept through Earth's magnetic field. 
U.S. and Italian scientists were overjoyed; after all, the first time the tethered satellite flew in space, four years ago, the cord jammed at 840 feet, and the combination generated a feeble 40 volts. 
Then came Hoffman's star­tled shouts, not quite five hours into the experiment and with only a half-mile of tether left to be unreeled. As he yelled, "The tether has broken!" flight con­trollers and scientists stared in disbelief at their computer screens. Tether tension had dropped to zero. 
"I felt bad," Dobrowolny said, "but then I recovered rather quickly because even though it was only five hours, we collected an enormous amount of data." 
Nobie Stone, a NASA scientist on the ground, said the tether's success up that point made the loss particularly painful. 
"I have a black Lab at home and if you take a piece of meat and you go by real fast and you get his attention, he looks at it but he really hasn't realized what he's missed yet," Stone said. 
"If you hold it in front of him, he begins to drool all over the place because he has some anticipation.•• 

Please Recycle 

The Observer 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN YOUTH MINISTRY 
Come and learn about an organiztion that recruits, trains, places and provides on­going support for youth directors. Over 30 salaried year-round youth director posi­tions available throughout the Midwest. 
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 29, 1996 4:00 -5:00 p.m. Coffee House Center for Social Concers 


-tz~ ~ 
i~
,............-Youth Ulnl•lry 

500 Blake Road South, Minneapolis, MN 55343 (612) 935-3147 TentYM@aol.com 


SO HONORE HOOPS 
,, 

~ J r 
·~J 




------------------, 
page 8 The Observer· ELECTION NEWS Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
Dole changes tactics in search of victory
Murdoch offers free 
air time 

By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associa£ed Press 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associa£ed Press 
MARIETTA, Ga. 
Tired of coming in second, Sen. Bob Dole put a new cam­paign team in place Monday, saying his polls had been too rosy and his ads too negative. 
"I want to start winning," he asserted on the eve of three Western primaries. 
But Dole aides conceded it was unlikely the politically weakened Senate majority leader could expect a sweep on Tuesday in the Arizona, North Dakota and South Dakota pri­maries. 
Campaigning in Georgia, Dole scanned the political cal­endar for comeback prospects WASHINGTON 

Rupert Murdoch pledged Monday to provide free air time on his Fox TV network to leading presidential candi­dates this fall, including an hour on election eve. He challenged the other net­works to do the same. 
Calling candidates' depen­dence on political advertising "a cancer in our system which we must tackle," Murdoch deplored candi­dates having to devote more time to raising millions need­ed for TV spots. 
Murdoch said that on Nov. 4, Fox would devote one hour of prime time -a half hour each for the Republican and Democratic nominees ­for what he called a "straight and clean chance" to address the American public. 
Murdoch said discussions were under way with Fox's more than 200 affiliates, which could refuse to run the segments. 
However, he predicted the vast majority of them would agree to carry them, even if they do so "kicking and screaming." 
Murdoch said he was offer­ing the uncensored free time because "I just believe in it." But critics said he has other motivations. 
"It's purely a scheme by Rupert Murdoch to get free digital spectrum. He's always making a major announce­ment to do something 'nice' when he wants something from the government or oth­ers." asserted Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Media Education, a TV watchdog group. 
Murdoch denied such a 

link. 
Fox and the rest of the TV 

industry are fighting a pro­
posal by Senate budget writ­
ers to make them pay for 
extra channels they'll need 
to provide higher-quality dig­
ital television. Under current 
law, they get them free. 
''I'm going to take what he 

did at face value," said Rep. 
Edward Markey, D-Mass. 
But, he said, the more Fox 
and other networks do in the 
public interest the "better 
case they'll have to fend off' 
the budget writers. 
Fox also would give the 

candidates up to 10 minutes 
of time to address 10 issues, 
which would be identified by 
the public. The spots, 
Murdoch said, would air 
three to four weeks before 
the general election during 
prime time, which runs from 
8 p.m. to 11 p.m. ET. 
Fox also is prepared to 

offer additional free time to 
presidential candidates but 
only if ABC, CBS, NBC and 
othP-r networks agreed to do 
so, Murdoch said. 
CBS declined to comment, 

NBC did not immediately 
return a phone call for com­
ment. and an ABC spokes­
woman said her network is 
already providing ample 
time to candidates in its 47.5 
hours per week of news pro­
grams. 
The value of one hour of 

prime time on the Fox net­
work would be about $1 mil­
lion, Murdoch estimated. 
while his campaign announced the series of personnel changes, including naming a new chief strategist and a new pollster. 
"We're getting into a very important month here," Dole told reporters. "The changes have been made and we're moving on. That's it." 
Asked by a reporter in Marietta if Americans could expect to see "a different Dole" as a result of the shakedup, Dole wisecracked, "Flavor of the week." 
Dole conceded he needed a win badly to stop commentator Pat Buchanan's surge. ''I'm tired of coming in second," he said, explaining the staff changes. 


-
Oh sure, it lOOks innocent. But it could be wired to a no-name company that has no qualms about overcharging broke college students. So, calling card in hand, you dial 1 800 CALL ATT and save yourself some much-needed cash. 
-Live ojJ campus? Dial 1 800 CA:LL ATT for Kim' Calling Card calls. Always get AI&T. Never get overcharged. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Grwice:'M 
One result of the shakeup: new, more positive ads de­signed by the new chief strate­gist, Don Sipple, will begin run­ning in primary battleground states as early as Tuesday. 
"Changing campaign man­agers is not Senator's Dole problem," former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, another of Dole's opponents, said at a rally in Marietta. "Senator Dole's problem is that he doesn't seem to have one idea about where to take the coun­try." 
The staff reshuffling came af­ter Dole defeats in New Hampshire last Tuesday and Delaware on Saturday. 
For Tuesday, Dole campaign officials were not optimistic about either Arizona -with 39 winner-take-all convention del­egates, the biggest primary prize to date -or South Dakota. 

On Saturday, South Carolina holds its first-in-the-South pri­mary. A Dole defeat there, es­pecially if he loses Tuesday in Arizona, could deal a lethal blow. 
Dole continued to blame his poor showing in early primary states on the multimillion-dol­lar negative ad campaign waged by publisher Steve Forbes. 
"Sooner or later we've got to get out of these states where he has spent a lot of money. Sooner or later, we'll be out of money," he said grimly. 

AT&T 
Your True Choice 
© 1996 A1&T 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, february 27, 1996 
page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME Oi·FICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 01'J'JCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager joseph Riley 
News F.Jitor .............................. David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Poner Viewpoinr Editor ............... Meaghan Smirh Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons F.diror ............................ Mike NorbUI Producrion Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Af.:ccm Etlitor ........................ Krina Nannl"ry Sysrcms Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saini Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Dircctor .......... Pere Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Oh.ervcr is 1he indcpendem newspaper published hy 1he students of 1hc University of None Dame du L.u: and Saint Mary's Collt'ge. h docs nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of th( administra­tion nf either im.tinuiun. The news is rcportcJ as accurately and objcclively as po~siblc. Unsigned edi­wri.lh rcprC'~C'nr rhr opinion of rht· majoriry of rht" Ediror·in~Chie{ Managin~ Editor, News Edhor, Vit'wpoint Editor, An:ctll Editor, Photo EJiror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comme.·ntotrir~. lcuN~ and Imide Columns present the views of the awhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vicwpninl 'pace is available Ill all members uf 1he Noue Dame/Saint Mary's com­munuy oantJ tn .til rC'~ule.·r;, Thc frt'c expression of varying opinions through lcuers is C'Ocouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines EJi10r-in-Chicl 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Man.~o~ing Edlt,,r/Vicwpnint 631-4541 Adveni,ing 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 SySicm>IMarkcling Dcp1. 631-8839 New.JI,hut() 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 A~.:ccnr/Saint Mary's 631-4540 F•x 631-6927 llo~y Ediror/Produoion 631-5.103 Viewpnin1 E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu ( ;cncrallnflHmation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• AND IN TillS CORNER 

Zapped: Elimination ofaffirmative action leaves little hope 
At the dose of last week, the governor of Louisiana, Mike Foster, abolished af­firmative action in his state. 
What a way to end Black History Month. 
I can't lwlp but sec a developing "con­servative" trend in "racial relations" in the United Statns. 
First, thn llepublican-controlled Congress demanded President Clinton eliminat1~ affirmative action. 

Matthew Apple 
Next, the California Board of Hegents vott~d to cancel the long-standing state university affirmative action recruiting policy, provoking wide-spread but inef­feetual student protnst. 
And now, in the state that gave us Mardi Gras, jazz, and Dixie Voodoo Lager, a white, Hepublican governor has outright eliminated a program whieh costs a miniscule three million, amount­ing lo about orw percent of thn Louisiana state budget, for "financial reasons." 
Affirmative action has had its share of controversy over the past thirty years, but never before has the entire eoncnpt come under such eoneentrated fire. The majority of attacks claim to be in the interest of "fairness" in aeademia and the business world. 
In conjunction with the anti-minority rantings of canny politicians which not only take advantage of barely sup­pressed "white" sentiments but also enllanw them to dangerous proportions, this furor over allirmative action seems lllladed toward a nationwide LA-Watts nwnaetnwnt. Some people on both sides apparently want open confrontations, perhaps finding violence easier than eonstructive dialogue. 
I myself have somewhat mixed feel­ings about the way affirmative action works today. Recent proposals that the scope of affirmative action be aug­mented to include all families under a certain eeonomic level seems fair to me. Though there are plenty of white fami­lies living in poverty, there are many, many more blaek families living in much more dangerous conditions, and these families would still benefit the most from a new "economic action" program. 
This "reformation" of ·affirmative action ought to quell the argument that the coneept "discriminates" against whites -that is, if anyone in office bothered to take reformation seriously. No one in Washington seems interested in doing anything but attacking and slashing these days. Good-bye, Great Sodety. 
On the other hand the supposed "degrading" nature of affirmative action confuses me. There is no question that many families need help. My family needs help. We rarely get any, but if we arc offered it, we take it. This does not mean that we believe it utterly impos­sible to get ahead and therefore have stopped even trying; it simply means we reeognize that we need all the help we can get. 
Personal pride should not get in the way of practicality. The government cannot bn held responsible for how peo­ple feel about themselves. That's what parents are for. 
I've been told that affirmative action somehow "insults" black families by implying that they are otherwise unable to succeed in the "white world." Some elaim that oiTering "undeserved" oppor­tunities to black families enforces lazi­ness or a mass "victim" complex. Some believe that affirmative action discour­ages self-reliance and lowers self-eonfi­dence, making black families too depen­dent upon the government. 
Thn way I see it, the most important aspect of affirmative action is not the precise numbers of minorities who are accepted into positions they might not otherwise receive, but the intangible. 

Affirmative action's real benefit is the attempt to change cultural attitudes. At first it was deemed necessary to force companies to accept blaeks as equals. It may be true now that this supposed coercion is no longer necessary, that equality is more a reality than it was 

' A ffirmative Action's real fihenefit is the attempt to change cultural attitudes.'  


thirty years ago when affirmative action began. 
Yet if this is true, why is there little change in the structure of American society? Why are there still racial dividers thrown up around the U.S., seemingly at random? Why are even blacks insisting that they prefer to seg­regate themselves, denying that people of different "races" can live together as equals? 
I have to wonder why people still insist upon dividing themselves into neat and tidy categories as if they were mere objects and not human beings. I see nothing wrong with ethnic pride, but there's no reason why we should use our cultural differences as an excuse to hate each other. 
Has affirmative action indeed been a failure? Even though it seems obvious that things have improved drastically since the mid-'60s, I honestly can't say for sure that affirmative action is in part responsible. 
What affirmative action does do is pro­vide a feeling of hope where previously there may have been little or none. Why else would 7,000 people protest in Baton Rouge? Obviously, they felt strongly enough about affirmative action to orga­nize against its dismissal. 
Again, some would probably argue that these protesters were "weak" for demanding "whitey" give them money. I say that the outright banning of affir­mative action, marginal though its mon­etary benefits may be, appears as yet another slap in the face from the white man in power. 
Even if the Louisiana governor is not racist, even if Foster believes he did the right thing, by completely and suddenly eliminating the program instead of re­forming it, he makes himself appear racist and sets an unsettling precedent. 
The fact that ex-presidential candidate and KKK-Ieader David Duke supports Governor Foster does not help matters any. 
No amount of legislation can change people's cultural attitudes, and simply giving away undeserved job opportuni­ties on the basis of "race" may be unfair and/or unethical. 
Still, it strikes me as odd that in a country where nearly half the popula­tion is called a "racial minority," well­respected universities can crow about a whopping 6 percent minority student population. And I have to wonder how many of those 6 percent were sought for academic reasons instead of money­making sports reasons. 
There remain few hopes for economi­cally disadvantaged youth of any color. Most hope to be the next Michael Jordan or Deion Sanders, blessed with the ath­letic ability to occupy people's minds with meaningless statistics rather than real problems this country faces. 
With the affirmative action precedent set by Governor Foster, hopes for nearly unattainable sports careers may soon be the only hopes left. 
Matthew Apple is a creatiL'e writing grad student at Notre Dame. Contact him at matthew. t. apple.J @nd. edu or http://www. nd. edul-mapple. 

.. ,.,,. GARRY TRUDEAU 
.... " • ~ \· ~: .:..:1 ~
.D 

TH/3/XOR lVN!GHT. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The law is not thrust upon 
man; it rests deep within him, to waken when the call comes." 
-Martin Buber 


.. 
. .,. 
. .
of 




for campus men: 
Hot Scott Ken Doll 
:.:,:/<;,_ Grape-Ea~e~~\f.! Hot-n-Cold·.~·. 
Fun Fred. Bobsession Hot Orgo Man 
D~ckboy 
Sunshine Theo Man 11 God" Posterboy 
Bandanama 
'·tl t>' 
South4t·Q~ci ..............,...~~
·· 
Rock;::Joc 
<.;,:::-; 
for camous women: 
'' ,..~;':iii~::B~:~ ' ,,,,;;~,.;;;;~~:;:;:,;;:;;;;;;;;;;;·..•/•
oJ' ·" "'' 
Choir !lirl Hat g•rl Boots and Skirt Hoover What's My # Girl Barbie Stretch El Presidente Bookstore Babe L'il Hottie 


ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, February 27, 1996 



these people. There's no pestering, no phone calls, and no random visits to their dorm room. It's always just someone that I like," she says. 
Many engage in social stalking as a means to learn more about a potential SYR or formal date. According to S.C., she and her friends engaged in an extensive search for the true identity of a Morrissey "Mystery Man." Weeks of research and surveillance were successful as the gentleman later escorted one of her friends to their SYR. 
"It was a long and involved process, and it probably would have been easier just to have asked him face-to-face without all of the research and investigation," she says. 
According to G.S., his initiation into obsessive love began when an interest in an architecture major spurned him to visit her at her stu­dio. "It all began when I went somewhere knowing that special someone would be there," he says, "at that point I knew I was cross­ing the line." 
Many social stalkers employ a complex web of "spies" and available biographical information in compiling the personal profiles of their figures of interest. Friends were cited by all as the most useful means of learning about a person's daily schedule, eating habits, and social activities while the dogbook and student directory were named integral components to any social stalker's arsenal. 
Some people use the phone... 
system enable the pursuers to senior even admitted to silently! of times, just to hear her voice c 
However, the most seasone sophisticated means of investi sends spies to her love interest' already going to the dance, th know whether or not there was 
According to G.S., attention t mining a person's name and a pie may not, such as if a girl is the back or some sort of dor girl in class, I just pay close a her name." 
Other students have employ ting to know their loved ones. several young men pretending telephone surveys. "We've a which bars they like to freque out that night and where they'd 
Though obsessive Jove calls 

-~------------------------A-------~----~~----­

ACCENT

Tuesday, february 27, 1996 page 11 

-lab ad,mirers, a look at quited love 

can not only lind out where he lives, all. It's also nice to have a photo to 
adds. e also condueive to scoping with the ntnr, the llesburgh Library, and the 
ost social stalkers cite the dining hall ing an open. densely populated arena Most social stalkers agree that deter­times is both a necessary and useful 
provides the potential for random 1rism. glancn at hnr love's tray reveals vol­
hat he eats, and where he usually ion to the type of food he eats so the ptl of food and stand by him in line," 
n dtwised a complex systtlm of seoping sitting amongst the protection of the Dining llall. According to D.B., the ng of the dining hall into a Carwsian rows of tahlns from the salad bar are 1lt1S leading from the cereal center to tt'd nunwrieally. lie and his friends' tlwrnatically predse, reminiscent of attlnship" ganu~. "You're at dinner, you say to your friends, 'lley, cheek 
In many ways, aspp,ets of ev­eryday Domer liv­ing encourage

d and 
and even aid such amorous pur­all--at suits. Snap-a­scam, world-wideay!' web availabilities at eampus com­puter clusters, anonymous'Becky, aeeess to voice mail, and the gopher computer 
learn more about the pursued. One calling his love's voice-mail hundreds n the greeting. d of soeial stalkers use even more ration and research. Becky usually s SYHs or formals. "If I have friends .y can check out his date and let me a love connection." 
fine detail proves beneficial in deter­dress. "I notice things that other pea­wearing a shirt with her last name on associated gear," he says," If I see a ention to the roll call in order to hear 
I nvm1 more developed means of get­Nicoln* and her friends have called to be psycholo~-,ry students conducting nd them if tlwy're twenty-one and so we'd know if they would be going 
he," she says. I[Hlll a wide variety of methods and 
approaches, nearly all social stalkers have one commonality-their lovP is totally secret and always from afar. 
"The biggest fear is that they will find out you're stalking them. I would simply die if it ever got out," Becky adds. 
G.S. agrees. ''I'm afraid to be set up with a few of these ladies," he notes, "I've looked at them so much that I'm afraid they'll say 'Hey, you're the one who's always staring at me."' 
Though most social stalkers remain physically distant and entirely seeret admirers, some take their crushes a step further. Ann's * aiTeetion for a prominent member of the men's basketball team has made her a die-hard ND hoops fan for the last two years. "Last week I made my friend take at least five pictures of his butt," she admits. However, unlike her comrades in arms, her unrequited pursuits have brought her up close and personal with the man of her dreams. "On a crowded Thursday night at Senior Bar last semester, I walked by and brushed my hand ever so lightly across his back. He never noticed." 
But self-proclaimed stalkers find the cycle a difficult one to break, often moving from one unrequited relationship to another in a destructive spiral of lust, love and loneliness. "I know it's wrong and I know I should stop, but stalking is all I've got," Becky states. G.S. agrees, "Soeial stalking has become a substitute for love, even though it's not a substitute by choice." 
Moreover, according to Becky, obsessive love adds an exciting dimension to her humdrum academic routine. "For awhile last year I wasn't stalking anyone, but it was just boring. There was no one to look at, no one to think about, and no name to scribble in the margin of my notebook. Having someone to like makes going to class more fun," she says. 
For the social stalking community on campus, the love-lorn contin­ue to take it one day at a time, constantly looking ahead to futur~ pursuits and helping others find love. "Now people come to me If they want to know information about a particular girl on campus," 
G.S. adds. 
*Names have been changed to protect the obsessed. 

• MEDICAL MINUTE 

Taking the bite out of sunburns 
By LIZA NYKIEL 
Accem Medical Correspondent 
Believe it or not, there's a mere two weeks before spring break arrives. Preparations will be underway before you know it. Whether you're jetting off to Colorado to slalom down the cool, white slopei or to Cancun to lie passively on the hot, sandy beaches, one essential item you'll need is sunscreen. 
If you don't feel like sitting on the beach under an obnoxiously big straw hat, sunscreen can be the only piece of weaponry in your arsenal against a week of unnecessary pain and agony. Getting a sunburn could really put a damper on your spring break plans, so in the event that you fry that first day, I've ineluded the advice of some experts. 
Any type of burn, whether it's from the toaster oven or the UV rays of the sun, can cause HUGE amounts of pain. The old standby aspirin can help relieve the pain, itching and swelling of mild to moderate burns. Two tablets every four hours will be a big help, so says University of Nebraska dermatologist and assis· tant professor of internal medicine Rodney Basler, M.D. 
The same dosage of Tylenol will work, as long a..'> your stomach can tolerate it. Anticipating the pain once you've initially gotten out of the sun and sensing that in four hours you're going to look like a cooked lobster, you can take the aspirin before the pain starts. This way, you might be able to take the edge ofl'the agony. 
Since you've actually burned your skin, the skin is inflamed, and much much hotter than normal. as any­one who has been burned can attest to. Try cooling the pain with one of the following methods. Standing right in front of a fan to heightens cooling. Cold water is the good 'ole standby. Dip a doth into a bowl filled with water (and maybe a few ice cubes) and lay the cloth over the burn. Repeat every few minutes as the cloth warms up. Skim milk is very soothing, says Dr. Schreiber. Mix 1 cup skim milk with four cups water, and apply compresses for 15 to 20 minutes. 
Oatmeal water can also be relaxing. Wrap dry oat· meal in cheesecloth or gauze, and run cool water through it. Discard the oatmeal and soak compresses in the liquid. An alternative to compresses, especially if you were bathing in the nude, or perhaps with a rather skimpy bathing suit, is a cool bath. Add mor~ liquid to keep the temperature of the water at the desired level. A cup of vinegar or a few sprinkles of baking soda can soothe and relieve. 
Afterwards. be sure to just let yourself dry off natu­rally-don't towel yourself off. as that will irritate the skin even more. Go easy on the soap, as soap can dry and irritate skin. Don't be thinking about soaking In that cool bath-water, as soap will only dry your sink out even more. 
Although these compresses and baths can be relax· ing, they can make your skin very dry. Moisturizers are the key to keeping your skin happy. Put your moisturizer in the fridge to cool it off. Look for hydrocortisone in. your topical moisturizers of choice, such as Cortaid or Cortizone-5. Aloe vera is also a good ingredient that aids in the healing process. If the burns that you've inflicted upon yourself starts to blister, and inside the blisters a greenish or brownish fluid collects, you may have contracted an infection. Use an over-the-counter antibacterial ointment such as Polyspol:in or Bacitracin Sterile. Drinking lot of water is also very important, as the burn can severely dehydrate you. 
Aside from being susceptible to the damaging effects of those sun rays, some people are sensitive to certain substances that make them even more defonseless against the sun, often developing burn-like dermatitis. There are certain drugs (i.e. antibiotics, tranquilizers, anti-fungal medications) soaps or cosmetics that have been found to "photosensitize" people. 
In addition, oral contraceptives, diuretics and even PABA-containing sunscreens can have this effect. Even common foods can trigger a bad reaction. Recalls Dr. Rodney Baster, "Two young women I know tried to lighten their hair with lime juice. They didn't realize what a potent photosensitizer lime juice can be until they developed terrible dermatitis every place the juice had run down their face and arms." 
Liza Nykiel is a senior biology major trying to keep her mind offspring break. Obviously, that plan is working real well. 
-. 

-
--. 

r 
j I 
I 
I 
page 12 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
I I 
~ Key, Gooden set to make their return for Yankees 
Associated Press include David Cone, Kenny Red Sox manager Kevin "I know Kevin and I have a Marge Schott said. 
Rogers and Andy Pettitte. Both Kennedy said he gave Canseco respect for each other. Oliver signed with Milwaukee When Jimmy Key and Dwight are eager to see how their permission to miss Sunday's Sometimes conditions happen as a free agent, and hit .273 
Gooden take the mound 

comebacks are progressing. workout two weeks ago. Until that have to be taken care of. with 12 homers and 51 RBis in Tuesday, it may be the biggest Key hasn't pitched in a game this weekend, Kennedy thought Kevin is very understanding." 97 games for the Brewers in moment of the spring for the since May 16, 1995, his last Canseco might have to miss two Reds 1995. 
New York Yankees. 

outing before undergoing days. Cincinnati signed free-agent Berryhill, 32, underwent re­After throwing in two batting shoulder surgery. Gooden is Still, the issue of preferential catcher Joe Oliver to a one-year constructive surgery on his practice sessions last week, Key making his first appearance treatment for Canseco was contract and released catcher right elbow last week is expect­and Gooden will continue their since being suspended in June raised. The slugger was also Damon Berryhill to make room ed to miss the entire 1996 sea­comebacks in the Yankees' in­1994 for violating baseball's given permission to miss the on the 40-man roster. son. 
trasquad game in Tampa, Fla. 

substance abuse aftercare pro­team's first full-squad workout Oliver's deal is worth Cardinals 
New York manager Joe 

gram. last Tuesday because of a char­$500,000, including incentives. Gary Gaetti seemed destined Torre, who expects both two 
It's another hurdle," Gooden ity golf tournament commit­"I feel like I'm at home," said to be with St. Louis. pitch two innings, has been 
said. ''I'm looking forward to ment the previous day. Oliver, 30, who spent parts of Almost 18 years after beingimpressed with what he's seen 
it." Kennedy, who managed six major-league seasons in drafted by the Cardinals, the 
of Key and Gooden so far in ''I'm just continuing to throw Canseco when both were with Cincinnati before being team he grew up following as a camp. Now, however, he'll see and trying to build-up arm the Texas Rangers, said he released in 1994. youngster, Gaetti is anxious to them in game situations for the strength," Key said. "The arm does have a close relationship Oliver was accompanied at a begin his first season as a first time. 

feels good." with him and admits that he news conference in Plant City, National Leaguer. 
"I really don't forsee any 

Red Sox does treat veteran ballplayers Fla., by Jose Rijo, Eric Davis, "It's real exciting. I'm just re­problems," Torre said Monday. 
Jose Canseco was back at differently. Chris Sabo, Hal Morris and ally thankful for the opportuni­·--"Then again. pitching to hitters Boston's camp in Fort Myers, "Players like Jose, Mo Barry Larkin -the other re­ty to come over here and be 
is different than throwing on Fla., after missing one day be­Vaughn, Roger Clemens, have maining players from the Reds' part of this," Gaetti said from the side or throwing batting cause of a "legal" problem. earned a special measure of 1990 World Series champi­the Cardinals' training camp in practice." 

"I hope I don't have to miss respect," Kennedy said. onship team. St. Petersburg, Fla. 
The Yankees are planning to any more time," Canseco said. ''I don't know if it's preferen­"We got 1990 back, and they "This is one of the highlightshave Key and Gooden as part of "It was no big deal." tial treatment," Canseco said. better get it done," Reds owner of my life." 

a solid rotation which will 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  FOR SALE-MACINTOSH APPLE  Hey single guys and girls! Have  B­ 
NOTICES  TOP$$$ PAID (800)269-5849  Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  POWERBOOK 520C, only 2-3 months old, includes Clarisworks  you watched MTV's Singled Out and pictured yourself in the winner's  That's what you get for trying to be funny. Never do that to a drunk girl  
Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  4.0 software and a COLOR STYLE­ circle? If so, come be a part of  again. -T  
SPRING BREAK!  ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4396 ext  WRITER 2400 PRINTER. Only  Notre Dame's own version by join­ 
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  Part-time work. $10.25/start.  C1114  $1500 o.b.o. For more info. call  ing our dating pool. Stop by the  "I don't really remember, but .. ." -7B  
BLOW IT!  Flexible hours around classes. All  Jarvis@ X2159  Lafortune Info desk between  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  majors. Scholarships/Internships. CALL 282-2357.  FOR RENT  H P 4BG sci calc w/ chem app card  Monday, Feb. 26-Thursday, Feb. 29 and fill out a contestant question­ Happy (belated) Birthday JEN GEORGE!!!!!!  
- $359 Florida $109  x3692  airs. So get ready to strut your stuff  aka Ginger or G-Spot.  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  on March 28!  Hope you enjoy these next 22 years  
1-800-426-771 0  Positions are now available at  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  JUDAY CREEK gem.  as much as the first!!!!  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  Lewis Hall Grab 'n Go bags will  Have a wicked awesome time!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Grad. -Football games  with a 17 x 25 home office  be on sale 2126&2127 in both  Love, your friends in Siegfried and  
Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  219-277-7003  & 3-car garage.  dining halls. Don't miss out on  God Shammgod  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  ext.N55845  $154,900.  chocolate chip granola bars!  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Call Karen 272-3653.  "I'll be there for ..." yeah. whatever.  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring­ TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­ HOME.  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English  VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC.·ND EVENTS.  TICKETS  rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing  Sometimes it helps to have an open mind.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and  272-6194.  environ., educ .. financial security.  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  S.Korea. Many employers provide  WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL  Hollywood Hills home has large  You know you're watching a bogus  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  room & board + other benefits. No  FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$.  back yard and loving dog. Call  awards show when "Homicide"  
From $429! Save $100 On  teaching background or Asian lan­ BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  doesn't win anything.  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ guages required. For more informa­ 219-291-7153  (908)536-3431  Confidential.  
breaktravel.com  tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843  HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY  
1-800-678-6386  Wanted: Student skilled in the use  HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595  PERSONAL  1!1 Congratulations !!I ... 1996 Mr. Stanford...  DEBBIE CIALLELA!!!! The Roach will rule on herb-day,  
Spring Break! Panama City! 6 Days  of computers to teach computer  Chad Smock  esp. now that she is an old, old  
Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to  techniques to unskilled computer  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  "One of the coolest guys I've ever  woman. Maybe, just maybe, no  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  user. May work some nights and  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  met. and man can he SHAKE it!" ­ one will pick on Roachella today.  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  weekend. Joseph L. Matthews,  MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­ THE COPY SHOP  Random 4th floor person  No. doubt it! The Linebacker  
Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  home phone 288-2978, office  MINIUMS-BUBLETIING FOR  Lafortune Student Center  awaits...  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring­ phone 288-0629.  MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST.  Phone 631-COPY  Has anyone seen the Bill Clinton  
breaktravel.com.  CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Rickshaw? Inquiring minds want to  The next time you see sports hap­ 
1-800-678-6386  PART-TIME PROFESSIONAL  AT 273-1738  know.  pening and want to be anonymous  
SECRETARY  FAX IT FAST!!!  about it, don't call from a campus  
For anyone interested, the  COMPUTER LITERATE  Sending & Receiving  SAW SAW SAW SAW SAW Ok I  phone. It's kind of obvious.  
Morrissey Filmfest is currently  SUSAN 271-8376  at  finally am getting around to it.  
accepting student films. For more  2 BDR APT@ COLLEGE PARK  THE COPY SHOP  Please campus mail me all your  Bubba  
information, call Andy at X3501.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER  Lafortune Student Center  personal thoughts-Ok anything you  
Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  ONLY.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  want to put in a SAW scrapbook-It  Tyler, pull yourself together.  
to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  FAX IT FAST!! I  might take.me a while but I'm  
SOPHOMORES  Room and Board! Transportation!  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  putting one together. Send Now!  CONGRATULATIONS  
Don't Forget.... Sophomore Hoops  Male or Female. No experience  WIN FABULOUS PRIZES!  233 Sieg-Ellen  Hammonds  
tonight from 8-12 in Stephen  necessary. Call (206)971-3510  Meet the Barker's Beauties!  Schwartz.  
Center.  extA55844  Room For Rent  Come to Pangborn's Price is Right!  Little girlie in the blue jeans so tight  Purtell  
Nice Neighborhood. $300/mo.  Sat. March 2 Stepan 7:00pm  Driving alone through the  Koester  
ILOST & FOUND I  Anthony Travel, Inc. looking for part-time student assitance. Approx. 10 hours/week. Stop by  255-9005 THE POT A TO HOUSE 8 BED­ COME ON DOWN! ??WANT TO GET INVOLVED??  Wisconsin night You're my last love your my last chance  lets hear it for experience and new ideas!!  
our office in LaFortune or call 631­ ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Recyclin' Irish is looking for some  don't let 'em take to the Cadillac  Becca wants a C-0-0-L, R-1-D-E-R!  
LOST  7080 and ask for Mary or Pat.  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  dedicated people to act as officers  Ranch  
NAVY BLUE BLAZER. SIZE 41L  CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA  for the 96-97 year. Application  Come  
at ALUMNI-KNOTI FORMAL  ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR  2773097  forms are available at , and must be  The End Times are nigh ....  
on 2/9 at Senior Bar  TRADE  returned to. 222 Admin. Bldg  Revelation ....  The tattoo appears again. Where  
If you have it, or informtion about it , please call Brian x 1173  ND FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA ­(TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.)  FOR SALE  (Purchasing Dept.) Forms are due 2128/96 by 5:00 PM for the offices  Fire, brimstone falling from the sky Seals opening up in the heavens!  will it show up next?  
2773097  of Pres, VP, Sec, Treas.  Cats and dogs living together!  BUBBACOME  
- WANTED  Responsible babysitter needed for 2 and 6-year-old. Any major block  Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000  Knott Hall Casino Night is coming!! Get Friendly With Your Favorite  We're there ... we're right there .... First Dikta, now Lucas ... Things fall apart the center cannot.  Snyder's Pretzels. What a bargain. That is a bargain for me. I think  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­ 2 Bedrooms from $80,000  Knott Angel To Get An Invitation!  hold  that I will buy some.  
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  tion 10 miles south of NO. Call  New Decor  Saturday, 3/2 8:00pm  Gone! All gone I tell you!  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ 299-0051.  EVERYTHING included  The horror ... The horror  Treacy-We've got some phantom  
panies. World travel. Seasonal &  Close to Notre Dame  Tim Corbett-Campus Legend or  tickets we want to sell, cheap.  
full-time employment available. No  -Call (219)282-3518.  BEAUTIFUL!  one week wonder??? Will See!  Hello Boland!!  What's your number in London?  
·­ experience necessary. For more  Free information.  NORTH SHORE CLUB  We miss you. Megan and Tara  
information call 1-206-971-3550  Earn money from your dormitory  232-2002  Meghan (Math Wiz)  "She really knows how to pick  
ext.C55843  room!  It was EIGHTEEN hours!!  them." -Papa G  It was Snoopy until! threw up.  

Tuesday, February 27, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NHL 

Great One close to being Blue 
Associated Prc:u for the opportunity to win a Vancouver. 
gold medal in the 1998 And the Toronto Sun report­The St. Louis Blues may be 
Olympics. ed Sunday that Gretzky's trade on the verge of landing Los 
He would also like to add an­to St. Louis was "on the verge

Angeles Kings superstar 
other Stanley Cup to his collec­of completion late (Saturday)Wayne Gretzky. The only thing tion of four, which is the rea­night." The Sun added that lert to clinch the deal, accord­

son he is on the trading block "some last-minute technicali­ing to reports, are the financial 
these days. ties could delay its announce­arrangements. 
Gretzky is unhappy with the ment until Tuesday."

The "hockey part" of the 
way things are going in Los To acquire the NHL's career deal is already complete and 
Angeles, and has asked the leading scorer, the Blues ap­the players have been agreed 
Kings to either upgrade the parently will part with three 

upon, ESPN reported Sunday. 
team so they have a chance to prospects -Roman Vopat,But a new contract for 
win a Cup or trade him to a Patrice Tardif, Craig Johnson Gretzky must be worked out, 
team that is a contender. -and a first-round 1997 draft ESPN said, and that could be 
Gretzky will be a free agent pick.the most difficult part. It 
after this season, and if the Both Blues general manager­

appanmtly was the reason a 
Kings don't sign him they will coach Mike Keenan and Blues trade wasn't made earlier 
risk losing him without com­star Brett Hull say they would between the Kings and New 
pensation after the season. be delighted to see Gretzky in York Hangers. 
Kings general manager Sam a St. Louis uniform. (;retzky was expected to play 
McMaster denied that any deal When asked about Gretzkyfor the Kings Monday night 
had been made with the Blues as a player, Keenan said, against Winnipeg. 
regarding Gretzky, but did ac­"He's sure able to control the "At this point, he is definitely 
knowledge: play when he has the puck.playing," Gretzky's agent, 
"We have spoken to the St. You can obviously see that." Mike Barnett, said Monday 
Louis Blues about a lot of our When asked about the morning. players in the last week, process of trying to acquireThe Hangers had mporl!ldly 
including Wayne Gn~tzky. We him, Keenan said: "It's onlyofftlred the Kings l.ue 
have stated before that we frustrating if you allow it be. Hobitailln and Hay Fnrraro and 
would entertain trade offers It's kind of beyond our control. about $2 million in cash for 
for any of our players, includ­For most people in the league,Tlw Grtlat One. But the deal 
ing Wayne Gretzky." it's been kind of fun because fnll through wlwn Grntzky pre­
McMaster made the com­they're not involved." sumably wasn't able to come 
ments in an interview Sunday Added llull, a longtime to tnrms with tlw Hangnrs on 
with The Canadian Press from friend of Gretzky's: his eontrad. 
Winnipeg, Manitoba, where "I've thought about WayneCmtzky is making about $6.5 
the Kings play the Jets tonight. being in a Blues uniform ever million this Stlason. lie likely 
Meanwhile, ESPN reported since I was 21 years old." would want a thrPn-year deal 
that a deal involving Gretzky Gretzky has 829 goals and worth $21 million to remain as and the Blues might be 1,757 assists for his career, hoekny's highPst-paid player. 
wrapped up as early as both NHL records. This season (;retzky has PxprllsStld a 
Tuesday and that he would be he has 15 goals and 65 assists desirtl to stay in the sport for a 
in a Blur.s uniform for their in 61 games.fnw morn years. particularly 
garnn Thursday night at 

Bouts 
continued from page 20 
semifinals against defending champion Andy Dicello. 
Glennon reaggravated a shoulder which he had separat­ed in the past, and had to fight the entire third round Sunday by punching with just his right hand. 
"The doctor asked me how I felt and I said 'OK,'" Glennon said. "But I'll have to wait for sure until (Tuesday) morning to see if I can go." 
For the remaining semifinal­ists, now is when it starts to get a little tougher. Because of the general inexperience of the boxers this year, the second round tends to become uncharted territory, especially with the finals in sight. 
"With the exception of a few upsets, you kind of knew who was going to win in the first round," Biolchini said. "But the semifinals give you your share of great fights." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ROWING TEAM: There will be an all team meeting at 8:00p.m. on Tuesday, Feb. 27 in 221 of Hayes Healey. Bring your checkbooks to finalize spring break payments and plans. Questions? Call Jenn Laynd, NDHC secretary, 271­7937. REC SPORTS: Hecsports is offering interhall Women's, Campus, Indoor. and Co-Ree Indoor Soccer, interhall 12" men's, women's, and gradu­ate/faculty/staff softball. The deadline is Feb. 28 and all 
The closeness of most of the quarterfinals emphasizes this fact. For many of the boxers, the main differences will be both mental and physical fatigue. 
Probably one of the closest bouts of the evening should be Lucas Molina and John Kmetz in the 155-pound division. Molina, whose punches are as quick as they are hard, con­trasts with his opponent, who calmly disposed of Mike Lofino in the first round Sunday. 
One of the last bouts of the evening will feature sophomore Troy Phillips, the 195-pound champion a year ago, in the 200-pound class against Dan O'Rourke. Phillips earned a knockout in the second round when the two fought a year ago, but you never know what can happen over a year. 
"They're both strong guys, and I know Dan has worked really hard this year," Biolchini said. "It'll be intflresting to see how they do in the ring." 
The same can be said of the remaining 57 boxers. 
captain meetings are on Feb. 
29. Cnll631-6100 for times. VOLLEYBALL TOURNA­MENT: RecSports will be sponsoring a Co-Hee Volleyball Tournament on Saturday, March 2, from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. The registration deadline is Feb. 29. Play will take place in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Call 1-6100. INTERHALL SPORTS: All off-campus women Inter­ested in playing lnterhall soc­cer please contaet Bridget at 273-2284. 
-

Look for the Computer Survey in your mailboxes this week, take about 10 minutes to fill it out, and help make Notre Dame a better place. Or ... if you don't feel like writing out your answers, fire up Netsacpe, open the 


IACTIONIBIB• 

-

STUDENT GOVERNMENT WWW URL listed below and take the survey on-line! 


http://www.cse.nd.edu/survey/ 
If you have any questions, please contact Student Government at lx7668! 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
·.f'
•NFL 



Dallas loses another 'boy 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Another day, another lost Cowboy. 
Linebacker Dixon Edwards oefected from the Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys to the Minnesota Vikings on Monday, and it wasn't totally unexpected. 
Minnesota will pay Edwards $10 million over four years, including a $2.5 million signing bonus. 
"It's ridiculous the way money is being thrown around," Dallas coach Barry Switzer said. "It can certainly

-fracture the esprit de corps of a team. The day of loyalty to a team is over. They go play for the dollar." Edwards saiq he had no regrets about leaving Dallas, which traditionally has spent less money on linebackers than other defensive players. "It was fun, but it didn't seem like it was tough for Dallas to 
O'Donnell wooed by Jets, Steelers 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. 
Neil O'Donnell, whom the New York Jets are attempting to sign as the cornerstone of their rebuilding program, may now be leaning toward return­ing to Pittsburgh, the team he led to the Super Bowl. 
While the Jets hope to have O'Donnell signed this week, talks have been heating up between the quarterback and the Steelers. 
Steve Gutman, the Jets' presi­dent, continued to be optimistic -to a point. 
"Negotiations regarding Neil O'Donnell are hot. They may even be red hot," Gutman said Monday. "But there's no way to say now how they're going to come out and when." 
O'Donnell's agent, Leigh Steinberg, said Monday that he's willing to wait for further offers from Pittsburgh. He also continues to talk with the St. Louis Rams. 
The problem for the Jets is they were 3-13 last season while the Steelers won the AFC title and came close to beating Dallas in the Super Bowl. 
Those close to O'Donnell say he probably would take less to sign with a team that has a good chance of winning now rather than in the future. 
O'Donnefl is believed to be seeking a contract averaging around $5 million a year and the Jets are offering more than $4 million. 
Pittsburgh's latest offer was $12.4 million over four years, but Steinberg said talks were continuing and it appeared the Steelers might be approaching $4 million a year. 
Pittsburgh's attraction to O'Donnell is its success. Coach Bill Cowher has been talking to O'Donnell daily in an effort to lure him back. 
The Jets offer O'Donnell a re­

-
turn to the New York area ­he grew up in New Jersey. They also have added Ron Erhardt, his offensive coordinator in Pittsburgh, and are trying to sell him on their aggressive stance in free agency. 
They unveiled one of those free agents Monday, left tackle Jumbo Elliott, signed from the New York Giants for $14.8 mil-
see me leave, so it's not tough for me to leave," Edwards said. 
Edwards is the third Dallas defensive starter to leave this offseason, following cornerback Larry Brown, the Super Bowl MVP, and defensive lineman Russell Maryland, both of whom signed with the Oakland Raiders. Switzer said he wouldn't be surprised if line­backers Darrin Smith and Robert Jones also left. 
When asked if he thought Dallas would be able to keep Smith, Switzer said, "I doubt it. There's just too much money out there people are willing to pay." 
The Cowboys can match any offers to Smith, and it would cost another team a first-round draft pick to sign him. 
"We'll just have to see on Darrin," Switzer said. Switzer said the Cowboys are paying the price for winning three Super Bowl titles in four years. 
"We're paying for our success now," the coach said. "We knew it was going to happen. 

lion over five years, including a done or move on to other signing bonus of close to $5 things," said Gutman, who million. might attempt to deal for 
The Jets are also trying to get things done quickly, perhaps before Pittsburgh can come up with a deal that will approach theirs. 
"We've either got to get it 

Have aWonderul Birthday! 
By the way, 
Joke's On you Since U Hate AcronyniS! 

This is nothing unexpected." 
The Cowboys have lost 21 starters to free agency in three years. 
The Cowboys only have about $2 million remaining under the salary cap and owner Jerry Jones will likely renegotiate running back Emmitt Smith's contract. Jones paid out $40 million in bonuses to keep most of the offense intact but the famed defensive depth of the Cowboys is being hit hard. 
"We just have to find some players in the draft or at the low, bottom dollar of free agency," Switzer said. "This is not a great year for college linebackers, either." 
Safety Brock Marion and offensive lineman Ron Stone are two other restricted free agents on the Dallas roster. 
Other unrestricted free agents include quarterback Jason Garrett, punter John Jett, cornerback Robert Bailey. safe­ty Scott Case, center Dale Hellestrae and special teams star Bill Bates. 

Washington's Gus Frerotte if he can't sign O'Donnell. "There are a lot of issues that 
· require action for us. If we don't sign Neil, it's not the end of the world for us. Nor is it for him." 
DMISSION WEDNESDAY 
Featuring an: 
AN OLD SCHOOL STEPPING, DISCO INFERNO & ICE HOUSE PARTY 

• With Lady Melo-"D", Playing Your Favorite Old School, Jungle Boogie, Disco, and Blues Music for a Blast Into the Past 
~~:. ......, ·-...y····.. --i: ,., _.,,,,,:r--"'?=:::·-_ ~~''"'"" -j,::.,:==...-.... -----~------rii:F=­
WEAR YouR DANCING &PARTY StfOEs '"' 
.. ·4 ·"'«.. cc··· ~'···· .. 
Cash Prizes to Best Dance Teams 
THURSDAY NIGHT: STOMPER BOB & THE 4X4'S 

fREE ADMISSION ALL NIGHT: DOORS OPEN AT 9 P.M. 
n 1:o continue dispite injury 
PHOENIX Gre~ri wasn't about to 

a few ~~sing teeth force to miss playing in his . consecutive game. 
havjng ll.is two front nocked out from an thrown by the Knicks' 

• · R. Reid in Phoenix's win on Sunday, with amask play Monday ag~~tPll6 Utah Jazz: extended secutive . players. 
tfll~Jtlird longest Randy John Kerr's 

Are you wondering about your future? Have you considered a vocation? 
Do you want some answers? 
Members of four religious orders will share their insights about these questions and more. 

VVhen:VVednesda~ 
February 28T11 , 10:00 PM 

VVhere: PVV's Chapel 
PLEASE IoiN Us 
.,.,.EII,.IOII 

SOPHOMORES!! 
Applications for the JPW 1997 chairperson are available at the Lafortune Information oesk. Return completed applications to 31 s· Lafortune, Student ActivitY office. 
The Deadline is M 
28th s· ondoy, February 
. •gn up for on interview when you t .
urn m your application. In regards to any questions. 


Reid was to miss the Knicks . game Monday night against the Los Angeles Lakers and Wednesday's game against Sacramento. 
"He ought to be fined and suspended," Suns coach Cotton Fitzsimmons said Monday. "Any time you take a cheap shot at somebody and put somebody out of commis­sion, there definitely should be a fine and suspension. 
The.se guys don't even notice/a rme. You and I would notice the money, but they don't:~ 
Suns trainer Joe Proski rigged"a mask to protect Green's'mouth, and Green, who missed the team flight to Salt Lake, caught up with the club later Monday. 0\ 
Green was in his second season with the Los,Angeles Lakers when the streak began Nov. 19, 1986, during a game 
San Antonio. 

------~--------~-----.----------------------------­
Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Kansas avenges loss to Missouri 
By CRAIG HORST 
Associ~ted Press 
LAWRENCE, Kan. 

.Jaeque Vaughn, the Kansas assist specialist who has sud­denly turned into a scorer. had 17 points Monday night and the third-ranked .Jayhawks turned back a Missouri challenge early in the second half for an 87-65 win. 
Kansas (24-2 overall, 12-1 Big Eight) had a 53-35 lead trimmed in half when the Tigers scored the first nine points in the first four minutes of the second half. But Vaughn hit a 3-pointer and made a free throw as the Jayhawks pulled away. 
Vaughn, who scored 20 points in Kansas' win over Kansas State last weekend. was backed by 16 points from Scot Pollard. 
Missouri (16-12. 6-7) was unable to handle Kansas' press and fell behind 68-47 with about 14 minutes left after Pollard finished off a three-point play. 
Sammie Haley led the Tigers with 12 points and Julian Winfield and Jason Sutherland added 9 each. Missouri, whose chances for an NCAA tournament bid were further damaged, fin­Ished with 24 turnovers. 
The Tigers, who handed Kansas its only conference loss this season, may now have to win the Big Eight's tournament to make the NCAA field. 
Kansas used a 16-5 run late in the first half to open a 51­35 halftime lead. Billy Thomas made a 3-pointer with 2:35 left in the half as the Jayhawks' lead swelled to 46· 27. 
The Jayhawks' defensive pressure and physical inside play continually frustrated the Tigers. Missouri coach Norm Stewart and center Simeon Haley were both assessed technicals in the half for protesting the officiating. 
Departing Kansas seniors Sean Pearson and Calvin Hayford, honored before their final home game in Allen Field House along with T. J. Whatley. provided an immedi· ate spark. 
Pearson scored the first bas­ket on a driving layup after the tipoff, and Rayford stole the ball on Missouri's first possession and drove the length of the court for a layup. 
But despite 12 first-half turnovers, the Tigers hung with Kansas and gained a 17­17 tie with just over 13 min­utes to play on a 3-pointer by Sutherland. 
FISHER REGATTA 1 9 9 6 

::::::~:::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:=:~:::::::::::~:=:=:~:=:=:~:::::::::~:;:::~:;:::::~:::::~:=:=:~:=:;:;:::; 
. . 
IS coming... 

SA-rURDAY APRIL 13 
Regatta WebSite: 
http://www.nd.edu/~fisher/regatta/ 

Questions? Call Kevin (x 1940) or Bill (x30J7) 
Sponsors: ( 'ucn-t'ula Notre [)mue Alutnni Assoc. Macri's Deli Mishawak.'l Papa Jolrn's Pizza Macri's Deli Downtown Subway Sandwiches and Salads Noire I >amc Food Service United Limu 
Losing program abandoned 
By MELANIE BURNEY 
Associated Press 
CAMDEN, N.J. 
The losingest team in college basketball history is no more. Hutgers-Camden's provost eliminated the men's team on Monday after 108 straight de­feats. 
The Division III Pioneers went 0-24 this season, their fifth straight losing season. Their last win came when they beat Ramapo College, 74-73 on Jan. 18, 1992. 
"Losing 108 games -I can tell you that is demoralizing,'' Provost Walter K. Gordon said. "You've got to be in a situation where you have the hope of winning." 
Gordon made the decision to eliminate the losing basketball program, despite objections by athletic director Wilbur "Pony" Wilson. The team has had three coaches since the streak began -including Wilson. 
"I was against it," said Wilson. "That is not the solu­tion to the problem." 
Wilson took over as coach this season, but stepped down in January, citing health prob­lems. He lost 50 pounds and his wife got worried when he would yell out the names of his players in his sleep. 
The losses continued under Ray Pace, an assistant who replaced Wilson as head coach. Pace played for Rutgers in the 1970s, scoring more than 1,000 points over two seasons. 

The Pioneers reached a new milestone Jan. 27 when loss No. 100 came in an 84-53 defeat by William Paterson. The team went 0-10 under Pace. 
The losing streak thrust the small, urban college into the national spotlight. The previous record for consecutive losses by an NCAA men's team was 47 consecutive defeats, held by Rutgers-Newark, which went winless from 1983-85. 
Gordon said the losing bas­ketball team received more notoriety than the academic program at Rutgers-Camden. The college has about 4,900 students. 
"The broader base of society doesn't give high grades to peo­ple who lose on an ongoing ba­sis," Gordon said. "We're just talking about winning every now and then. You've got to be competitive." 
Wilson said Rutgers-Camden should have focused on rebuild­ing -instead of eliminating the men's basketball program. He led the team to the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics District 31 champi­onships in 1972 and 1976. 
"Records are made to be bro­ken," Wilson said Monday. 
However. Gordon said it seemed that an end was not in sight for the losing streak, especially since the college has no plans to offer athletic schol­arships or lower entrance stan-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Illustrations Editor 
Contact Garrett Gray at 634-1786 for more information 
ATTENTION: WAYWARD '96 GRADUATES (UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE) 
Notre Dame Volu_nteer Programme 
Jarrl"aica 
Is Now accepting Applications for Volunteer Positions in Kingston, Jamaica 
POSITIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR STUDENTS IN ANY DISCIPLINE 
• 
Business (MBA's) • Religion 

• 
Science • Engineering 

• 
Liberal Arts 



Check out the Application and detailed information at the 
Center for Social Concerns 
Deadline for Applications 
and interview sign-ups is 
• • 5:00 pm, Friday, • • 
Interviews will be conducted by appointment on Saturday, March 2nd 

dards for athletes. 
"I think four years is a reasonable amount of time to try to win a game," Gordon said. "There are times in life situations when you should give up." 
The Pioneers could have won a game last season on a technicality after the New Jersey Athletic Conference ruled that Howan College used an ineligible player and would have to forfeit its 85-56 win. 
Wilson opted to keep Camden's record winless, say­ing he didn't want a "gift." 
"A student currently enrolled in the college has never seen us win a game," said Gordon. "A student who played for the last four years has never played in a winning game." 
Gordon said Hutgers-Camden may add a sport to replace the men's basketball team, possibly crew or volleyball. The college now has 13 intercollegiate sports. 
Carolina mascot slain 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH. N.C. 
The ram mascot for North Carolina's football team was probably killed when a major artery in its neek was severed, an autopsy found Monday. 
The ram also received as many as 10 stab wounds to the chest and neck, had a large gash on the abdomen and had his left front limb hacked away. said Rich Miller. an assistant professor of patholo­gy at North Carolina State's College of Veterinary Medicine. 
Preliminary results found the knife wounds were delivered with enough force to have frac­tured a rib. 
"It's difficult to imagine why anyone would malieiously attack an animal like this," Miller said. 
Rameses the ram was found dead Sunday morning on his caretaker's farm after serving as the latest in a seven-decade line of mascots for only a year. 
North Carolina mascots have been targets of pranksters since the rams were intro­duced in 1924. 
In the past. students at rival schools kidnapped them before big games, but the animals have always been returned safely. 
Sheriff Iindy Pendegrass told The Herald-Sun of Durham his office has "some suspicions" regarding a motive and sus­pects. 
A white ram with horns painted sky blue, Rameses: would lead the football team onto the field at the start of each game along with a cheer­leader escort. 
Robert Hogan's family has kept the rams since the tradi­tion began in 1924. lie told The News & Observer he is convinced the killing is not sports related. 
Husty Rogers was one of many North Carolina alumni repulsed by the ram's death. 


Tuesday, February 27, 1996 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
Fencing 
continued from page 20 
Sara Walsh and Myriah Brown were almost unstoppable, com­bining to win 41 matches. 
"There were no surprises this weekend," said captain Mindi Kalogera. "It was a good way to the end the team season." 
"The women's foil team were again at the top of their game," added assistant coach Mike Sullivan. "They don't just win, they dominate. The women's foil team has an attitude the whole team can use. They take it as an insult to lose three touches." 
Notre Dame's other dominat­
ing fencing team, sabre, also 
contributed its normal results 
to the team tournament. 
Captain Bill Lester was unde­
feated and has not lost a match 
since the team's meet in 
Boston. Teammate Luke 
LaValle almost equaled Lester's 
performance, but lost two of his 
twenty-three matches. 
Women's epee had a little 
harder time than its counter­
parts, as they lost to 
Northwestern but bounced 
back to win the rest of its eight 
matches. 
"It went pretty well," said 
Claudette de Bruin, who had a 
24-3 record during the tourna­
ment. "We had a lapse against 
Northwestern. We fenced ev­
erybody who will be (at the 
qualifiers this weekend). It was 
a good indication of what this 
weekend holds." 
Jeremy Siek had maybe the 
toughest match of the weekend 
facing men's foilist Thurston 
Becker from Wayne State. Siek 
lost five touches to four to the 
fencer that was ranked number 
two in the world two years ago. 
"Jeremy fenced really well," praised Auriol. "He did really well against the German from Wayne State. He lost by one touch and had one question­able call against him." 
Siek's loss to Becker was his only one of the weekend, but proved fatal as the foil team lost to Wayne State 5-4. and the combined men's team fell 16-11. Otherwise, the men's foil team fenced well. Paul Capobianco, John Tejada and Stephane Auriol came up with some clutch victories for the team in its eight other tri­umphs. 
"We needed to win a few 
bouts (against Wayne State) 
and we didn't," explained 
Sullivan. "They knew if they 
dominated our epee team they 
could beat us. Our foil team 
lost a match or two that they 
shouldn't have." 
Siek's crew were not the only 
one's to fall prey to Wayne 
State as the men's epee team 
was crushed, eight matches to 
one. 
The trio of Brice Dille, Phillip 
Lee and Brian Stone tallied a 
majority of the team's victories, 
leading the team to a 7-2 
record for the weekend. 
"The epee guys have been 
struggling all year," comment­
ed Sullivan. "Lee and Dille 
were up against some tough 
fencers from Wayne State." 
This weekend Notre Dame 
spnds its best three fencers 
from each weapon to the NCAA 
qualifiers. From that competi­
tion the top four or five from 
each weapon advance to the 
NG\A championships. 
\'There are some fencers who 
do better as individuals than in 
team competitions," comment­
ed Auriol. "It's a different 
competition. You don't have to 
worry about the team, you only 
have to worry about yourself." 


By TIM MCCONN Spons Writer 

The warmups are officially over now. It's time to get ready for the real thing: post­season play. 
Before the Notre Dame wom­en's basketball team could start to set their sights on their first ever Big East Conference Tournament -that begins March 2 -they had to take care of some last minute busi­
ness. 

The Irish had to travel to West Virginia Monday to com­plete their stellar regular sea­son. Complete it they did. Their 73-55 shellacking of the Mountaineers gave the Irish a 20-6 record overall, 15-3 in the Big East. This also allowed them to finish their third con­secutive 20-win season. 
The Irish started out the 
game with a 16-6 run, and 
never looked back. By the 
half, they had built a 32-24 
lead behind Katryna Gaither's 
14 points in only 13 minutes of 
play. 

The Mountaineers gave it 
their best shot to stay in the 
game. They shrunk the Irish 
lead to eight by halftime, and 
got it down to four when 
Talisha Hargis' layup made 
the score 36-32 with 18:25 
left. 

Despite these efforts, they 
could not sustain their level of 
play in the second half. 
Following a Jeannine Augustin 
steal and Beth Morgan layup, 
which made it 38-32, the !rish 
began their run. They raced 
out to an 18 point lead with 9:11 remaining. The lead eventually got as high as 22 points, as the Irish shot a tor­rid 71.4% from the field in the last 20 minutes. 
The team finished the game shooting 60.4%, including five of 10 from three-point land. 
West Virginia's Lisa Szymczak tried to keep her team in it. She lit up the Irish for 25 points and 11 boards. 
Notre Dame played the spread-the-wealth game again. Gaither and Morgan, as usual, led the Irish in scoring, with 20 and 19 points, respectively. Gaither shot 75% from the field, while she also con­tributed 14 boards for her 11th double-double of the sea­son. 
Mollie Peirick had eight points and eight assists, while Augustin also dished out eight assists. Reserve Stacy Fields pulled down live rebounds. 
Notre Dame will greatly benefit if their supporting cast continues to produce as they have been all season. This kind of play keeps opposing defenses honest, and their presence prevents the other teams from concentrating too much on leading scorers Morgan and Gaither. 
Also, if the Irish want to have a legitimate shot at win­ning the Big East Tournament, they will have to cut down on the turnovers. In the contest with the Mountaineers, they gave the ball away an eye-pop­ping 31 times. 
Teams like UConn will not be 
handled as easily as West 
Virginia or Pitt, and the Irish 
cannot afford maintain this 
trend. 


Applications are now available in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
APPLICATIONSARE DUE FRIDA~ MARCH 1 BY 5:00P.M. 
[I] 
[ill]

JOIN TEAM CONNECTION IACTION I[ill 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 





Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK 
Irish shine against talented field 
By JAMES BELDEN 
Sports Writer 
Competing against the elite brings out the best in every­
ontL 
The Irish proved the old adage correct this weekend as they had a strong showing against some of tlu~ world's best track and field athletes at tlwir Alex Wilson Invitational. 
"We hosted a meet that was comparable to the NBA All Star ganw in terms of talent," coaeh Jon l'iane statnd. 
Notrn Dame's legendary "Hoeknt" Ismail had his five year 55 meter dash record 
~~~~--~~--~ 
Senior Mike Fleisch earned a second place finish at this Alex Wilson Invitational against internationaly strong competition. 
dl~ U®[f DNESS!!! 
pto the IONAL FINALS & GAME TICKETS!!! Must be present to win at 






Basketball Movie Night 

February 28 
La Fortune Ballroom HOOSIERS 8:00 p.m. 
HOOP DREAMS 10:00 p.m. tickets will be distributed before Hoop Dreams with the drawing to be held after 
broken by Diarra Gusmare. His 
6.14 shattered the old mark of 
6.22 and was the second fastest time in the world this year. 
The LaGrange track club sent some competitors who posed an incredible challenge to the Irish squads. 
"Potential olympic runners from Suriname, S. Africa, and Kenya train with the LaGrange track club. They truly are some of the best in the world," Piane exclaimed. 
The Irish men and women combined for six first place vic­tories. Kelle Saxen took the high jump with her leap of 5-8, and Erica Peterson won the 500 meters with a time of 1:13.46. 
Kristen Dudas won the wom­en's 3000 meters with 10:00.6, and the women's 4X400 relay beat the competition with their 
3:48.20 time. 
Berit Junker again met the provisional qualifications for the NCAA's with her victory in the women's 800 meters. She ran a time of 2:08.49. 
"Berit is a great one. She's really made great strides this year. and she has become a better competitor," Piane praised. 
Lamarr Justice took first in the triple jump with his leap of 48-11. and Brian McQuaid won the men's 500 meters with his time of 1:05.06. 
Senior standout Mike Fleisch ran into some tough competi­tion in the shot put from Steve Albert, who kept him from tak­ing another first place finish. 
"Albert was thirty-one years old and he was just huge. He came to the Alex Wilson to at­tempt to qualify for the indoor USA Track and Field Championships," Fleisch said. 
The Irish now have their sights set on qualifying more individuals for the NCAA's. The men will look to add more while competing in the IC4A's. 
The Irish are sending seven­teen competitors to the IC4A's and all of them have the opportunity to keep their sea­son going a little longer with strong performances. 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
six for 16 on the weekend while collecting 13 total bases in four games. Darin Schmalz outdueled Navy's Tom McLemore for seven innings, mixing speeds and hitting his spots to the tune of a live hit, no walk shutout. 
"Darin Schmalz just threw a masterpiece," Mainieri said. "The pressure was all on him, and he responded like a cham­pion. He pitches inside on hit­ters as well as any pitcher I've ever had." 
Saturday saw the Irish wage a slugfest with Mainieri's for­mer club, Air Force, who put up a valiant struggle before falling to the once again offen­sive Irish by a 12-8 mark. 
Down 7-2 in the third, the Falcons exploded for four runs in the bottom half of the inning against freshman Chris McKeown, and eventually knot­ted the score at 7-7 on a Trey Hodges sacrifice fly in the fifth. 
The Irish refused to let the Falcons jump out front, howev­er, as they answered with live runs in the top of the sixth to put the game out of reach. Freshman left fielder Allen Greene broke the tie with a leadoff homerun to right field, and J.J. Brock, who had four RBI in the game, slapped a two run double into left field after the Irish had scored on an error and a passed ball. 
In addition to Brock's perfor­mance, the Irish got four RBI from first baseman George Restovich, who collected a triple and a three-run homerun in the win. Fifth year senior Rich Sauget also aided the Irish cause, coming in for McKeown to throw two and a third innings of one-run ball. 
"I had seen them do that for six years," said Mainieri of Air Force's aborted come back. "I knew they wouldn't give up. We got the offense when we 
Watch for Friday's special Bengal Bouts pull--out in The Observer 
MARDI 


CHEZ MARJTAIN 
.: ,.,"· •· 

series of T ucsdA!J evening lectures on C4t~lic thought 
Prof. MAry ~eys, on "A Fruitful T cnsio:l .J>ctwecn 
.· 

Univcrsalit!:J and PArflcuiArit!:J: 
' 
" 

John Paul II at the United Nations 
·'~~t: ~?' ~ : 

TucsdAy, FebrUAry~2.1~ 1;30 p.m. MArifAin Center, 714 'Hu~n l.Jbr.vy 
needed it though, and Hich Sauget did a great job out of the bullpen." 
The explosive Irish offense, which tallied 27 runs on the weekend, was at its most ane­mic in Sunday's finale against Memphis, as they could muster only three hits in a 4-2 loss to the hometown team. Memphis starter Lonnie Glass threw live and a third innings of two hit ball. 
Notre Dame scored their only two runs of the game when Mike Amrhein ripped a two run double off reliever Chad Harville in the sixth inning. Harville got Restovich and cen­ter fielder Rowan Richards to strike out to end the inning, and the Irish bowed out quickly in the seventh. 
Senior Craig Allen took the loss for the Irish, dropping him to 0-2 on the season. Allen, who pitched four innings before turning the ball over to freshman Alex Schilliday, was touched for three runs in·the first two innings on homeruns by David Miller and Ben Pennington. 
"We had a chance to go undefeated in the tournament," commented Mainieri. "We ran into two quality pitchers from Memphis, however, and their pitchers simply beat our hit­ters." 
While the close loss to Memphis ended the weekend on a somewhat sour note, the Irish weren"t left hanging their heads. The three wins leave the team at .500 after their first two weeks of play, and they have shown signs of bril­liance on the offensive end while receiving an outstanding inning from a pitcher who had struggled in his first outing. 
"Overall I'm pleased with our performance this weekend," commented Mainieri. "We just need to get better on the mound, and we need to become more consistently aggressive at the plate. Overall, you ean't be terribly unhappy about winning three out of four." 

--------~-----------~ ­page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
• MEN'S TENNIS ,i,/ 
Men drop three·at Louisville tourney 
ByJOE CAVA TO Sports Writff 
After getting off to a quick 6-1 start, the Notre Dame men's tennis team has hit a wrinkle in the middle of their tough schedule. 
Over the weekend the team competed at the USTNITA national team indoor tennis championships in Louisville. This tournament features some of the top teams in country. such as national powers Georgia, USC, and Florida. The Irish went into Kentucky with a 6-1 record and came back 6·4. 
In the first round the Irish battled number three Georgia but fell 5·2. The young dou· bles team of freshman Brian Patterson and sophomore Jakub Pietrowski won their third match of the season in three attempts, beating the Bulldogs' second-ranked com­bination of Eddie Jacques and John Roddick 8-6. 
The teams of Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun team as well as Ryan Simme and John Jay O'Brien dropped their match­es 2-8 and 8-9 respectively. 
On the singles side the Irish earned points in the number one and two slots. Sprouse defeated another top oppo· nent. this time the nations' eighth-ranked player in Georgia's John Roddick. 7·6, 6·3. In the second singles position Pietrowski battled Jamie Laschinger in a gruel­ing three set match 2·6, 6-4, 7-6. 
Simme and O'Brien were defeated by the 18th and 46th players as Georgia displayed depth that has them ranked in the top five. 
The first consolation round matched the 16th-ranked Irish and 13th-ranked Fresno State. 
The Bulldogs took a doubles point as Pietrowski and Patterson lost their first. match of the season. 5-8. Kelly Gullet and Bryan Juinio clinched the doubles for Fresno State as they took just ten games to defeat O'Brien and Simme. 
Senior Pun won the only point for the Irish as he defeated Gullet in the number six singles position. The third ranked player, in the c()l;llltry, Fredrik Giers, edged Pietrowski 6-4, 7-6. 
Silpme's and }>atters1>n's matches went the distance as their opponents needed three sets earn the ppints. SiiJlme fought with Blagr Pertrov as they split the rrrst two sets 6­
4. 4-6, before Pertrov took over and won the third and decisive set 6-0, 
Both Sprouse's a.nd O'Brien's matcheti Vl(t~re ,st.l.S­pended after the BQlldogs scored their fourth point, resulting in the 4,.1 final. 
The 13th place>contest saw a rematch of the Kentucky and Notre Dame match earli­er this year. The Irish and Wildcats have split their last six meetings, all with. a score of 4·3. Notre Dame took the earlier match-up in dramatic and thrilling fashion, but Kentucky got their revena-e as the Wildcats defeated the Irish 4-3. 
Kentucky got off to the quick start this time as they won the doubles point. The Pun and SproQse duo took tough loss as Marcus Fluitt and Dan Spanet edged them 9-7. The Wildcats also got a doubles win at number three as Cedric Kauffmann and Ludde Sundin beat Simme and O'Brien 8-3. 
Patterson and Pietrowski pushed their record to 4-1 as they overcame Ariel Gaitan and Patrik Johannsen 8-3. 
Sprouse suffered another set-back to Kentucky's Cedric Kauffmann, ranked seventh in the nation. Both of the seruor captain's losses this sea.son are to Kauffmann. 
The Irish received great play from the lower part of their lineup as seniors Pun and O'Brien won both their matches in three sets. 
Pietrowski pushed his record to 6-2 as he ove.rcame Fluitt 4-6, 6-4, 6·3, one of the best servers in college tennis. 
Nationally ranked Ludde Sundin outlasted Ryan Simme in one an extremely close and well played match 6-7, 6-3, 7­
5. Wildcat Dan Spaner nipped Patterson in another tough and well fought match 7·5, 7•5. 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidpositions: 
Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Day Editor (2) 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Caroline Blum by Friday, March 1st. Questions? call284-4349 or 631-4540 
• WOMHtS TENNIS 

Key injury fails to stop Irish 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 

The Irish have earned them­selves a vacation. The women's tennis team has had a tough past couple of weeks, facing six nationally ranked teams and coming out victori­ous in five of the matches. 
This past weekend Notre Dame, along with the other top fifteen teams in the nation, was at the National Indoor Team Tennis Championship. The Irish showed the nation its depth after injuries allowed several new faces a chance to play this weekend. 
The Irish faced a tough first round opponent in top-ranked, undefeated Florida. The Gators overpowered the Irish 8-0 with a solid line-up featuring many nationally ranked players. 
"Florida was a solid team," stated head coach Jay Louderback. "I think that we played well. They just hap­pened to play a little bit better." 
Unfortunately in this match the team suffered a casualty. The top singles player for the Irish, senior Wendy Crabtree, aggravated her achilles' ten­don. Crabtree should be ready to play in future matches. 
In Friday's consolation match, the Irish took on No. 12 South Carolina and dismissed the Gamecocks, 6-2. With the loss of Crabtree the Irish moved freshman sensation Jennifer Hall to number one singles. Hall showed that she was a force to be reckoned with in her 6-1, 6-3 defeat of Heather Greene. 
Senior Holyn Lord played at the second spot for the Irish and came from behind to beat Celine Regnier, 7-6, 6-2. The other freshman on the team, Marisa Velasco, had a solid performance as she beat Tobi Rakic, 6-3, 6-3. 
Sophomores Kelley Olson and Molly Gavin also had strong outings for the Irish as they beat their opponents in two sets. 
The Irish performed well in doubles. The number one dou­bles team of Crabtree and Lord dominated their South Carolina opponents, 8-1, capturing the match with the win. 
"We were worried about this match and the one after it, because both teams were ranked ahead of us," stated Louderback. "In the end, we came through because of the big wins from Molly Gavin and Olson. Also Lord came up with a big win because she came from behind." 
Then on Saturday the Irish took on the sixth-ranked California Bears. The match was tight all the way through, with a split in the singles matches. Notre Dame finally clinched it by capturing two out of the three doubles matches. 
"Cal was a tough team," stat­ed Louderback. "Gowen came up with a big win, and Gavin played as good as I have ever seen her. With those victories, we got back in the match." 
The Irish earned wins at the one, four and six singles spots. Hall defeated Amanda Augustus 6-2, 6-3 at number one singles. Then Gowen came through with a close win against Francesca La'o, 7-5, 6­
1. At number six, Gavin quick­ly put to rest Marisa MacLennan, 6-1, 6-0. 
The doubles matches were once again the key for the Irish. The team suffered a tough loss at the top spot as Crabtree and Lord were defeated 9-8. The Irish quickly rebounded with second-ranked Gowen and Hall defeating Nicole Elliot and MacLennan, 8-4. Olson and Velasco secured the team victo­ry, by coming up with the close win over Kristina Donahew and Stephanie Tibbits, 9-8. 
"Overall, this was a great weekend," Louderback said. "We had a tough schedule these past few weeks. This weekend was positive, all of these new players have gotten some playing time and played well for us. This weekend helped us with our depth." 

Billy Joel ... Greg Louganis ... NCAA Tournament Trip ... 
These and other events this year were brought to you in part by Student Activities 
Want to help plan events next year? And get paid for it? 
Three positions for programming assisiunts are available for 1996-97 for students who are creative, disciplined, and have leadership abilities. Be responsible for improving campus life by bringing comedians, lecturers, and entertainers to Notre Dame. 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and should be returned by March 8th. 
Interviews will be conducted March 19th and 20th ... Please remember to sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Call Gayle Spencer with questions @ 631-7308 
Tuesday, February 27, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~-­
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
'[)t.s Sl\01>1' NA1E.l!le. Wor<l>E.II.S 
No.,~\.jrE. A 'T,;._--------~~ ''Hnp,'liie.rc Aoo 
OF TKe.lfJo~Lb w.o~ We.s... 0~<~-~· f·'-5~ T'jre. 
"\)A.Ci':SU.:SII 1 f'/aw A/'101liE.R Or~ E.. .. 
A Col-otJ ... 

MISTER BOFFO 
http 'IWW\V w1~nc1 nct.'u!tCrs..'boffoibofTo hun 
1 J"U5T GOT OUR. CONSULTI>.t.lT'5 REPORT. 
HE'S IDENTIFIED 

DILBERT 
Now T'1PE. "Com;' 
"[)oT1TIIE.N ''P•C..I ~ ·v.e.w," l:>oT... 
J 
JOE MARTIN 

SCOTT ADAMS 
~============~~~----~~~~~ 


WOULD 
11-\A.IE 10 
'<OU LIK.E 
DWELL ON THE 
TO HEt..R 
NEGATIVE. 

CROSSWORD 
~ 1 RECOMMEND T\-\t..T :::. g WE BUILD A. TRt>.CKING g ~ DA.TA.BASE.. ~ 
55 Soupy Sales faceful 581995 kids' film 62 Shoebox datum 63 Green land 64 Charlie Chaplin persona 65 Rime 66 -and crafts 87Wimp 
DOWN 
1 Field entrance 2 Govt watchdog grp. 3 Road to ancient Rome 4 Suffix with beat or peace 5 Pained look 
&Smooth, musically 7 Fe, in chemistry 8 One with a Claus in his contract? 9 "Wait a---!" 


ACROSS 1 Start of an auctioneer's windup 6 "Fairy tales" 10 Grump 14 Moving about 15 --Stanley Gardner 18 Bobcats of college football 11 1983 De Niro film 20 Musical ability 21 Lament 22 Meth­amphetamine 23 Toward sunup 24 Scintilla 26 1981 Sidney Lumetdrama 
33 Petite's opposite 34 "Losing My Religion" rock 
group 35 Birch or larch 36 Bambi's aunt 37 Bridge feats 39 Fed. air quality 
org. 40 Book alter John 42 Charged particle 43 More sensible 451951 Hepburn-
Bogart adventure 49 Mortgage 50 Magician Henning 51 like a $3 bill 54 Arias 


HAPPY RIRTHDA Y! IN THE access to prominem people. Voice NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: your gratitude if friends show you a New communicalion rechniques will good lime. help you share your message wilh a VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): wider audience. Think big and you Your partner or closesl friend holds will go far professionally! Financial the key to setlling a dispule. An backing will become available if increase in financial activily is indi­you presenl a s1rong case. An inheri­cated. Accept what cannol be tance or business windfall could helped. You need to learn from your make money worries a lhing of !he mislakes, then move on. past Listen to whal is being said by LIBRA (Sept 23-0cl. 22): High­people who have known you a long er-ups lake nolice when you show­time. You need to be more praclical case your talents. Learn from a par­where romance is concerned. ent's experiences. Friends are eager CELEBRITIES BORN ON 10 get together and celcbrale. THIS DAY: actress Joanne Wood­SCORI'IO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): A ward, consumer advocate Ralph misplaced irem is fou-1d in old clolh­Nader, actor Grant Snow, presiden­ing or behind a piece of furniture. lial daughter Chelsea Clinton. Keep a diary of imjlorlant family ARIES (March 21-April 19): events. Be supportive of relatives Your creative flair and praclical who have dedicated !heir lives to a know-how aUracl positive feedback. noble cause. Avoid taking risks with olher peo­SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. ple's money; rely on experts' 21 ): A brainstorming session wilh advice. Behind-lhe-scenes develop­allies could result in a clever idea or menls prove lucky for you. useful agreemenl. Tum your allen­TAURUS (April 20-May 20): lion to your private life. Lovers will Keep spending under control. Posi­see eye-to-eye. tive influences help you solve a per­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): sonal problem. Evening could be !he Your enlhusiasm is conlagious now. happiesl time of the day. Nurture O!hers are ready lo help you do good romance.· works! Take someonc's "friendly GEMINI (May 21-June 20,: advice" with a grain of sail. Trusl Take the lead 1oday and get lhing' your strong inner voice. A love rela­going just the way you planned. lionship will gradually deepen. Some interesting developments will AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A take place !his aflemoon. Find ways music program or holislic heahh lo economize. You want more treatmenl captures your allenlion. money coming in lhan going out! Mainlain your composure even if co­CANCER <June 21-July 22): Be workers get hoi under lhe collar. All willing to change your plans. A bets are off where a business deal is loved one's needs oulweigh your concerned. Avoid watching !he clock. own. Pur your inleresls on hold and PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A lend a hand. Friends offer 10 help discussion which could have far­out in an emergency. Show your reaching effects, should not be posl­heartfelt appreciation. poned. A parent greatly influences LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Guard your lhoughls and aclions. Some­againsl mix-ups which could result one's romantic intentions need ID be in annoyance or extra expense. Keep clarified. Accepl well-intentioned pushing a pel cause while you have advice wilh good grace.  
..  II OF INTEREST .On Feb. 28, 1991 President George Bush suspended the ground war in the Gulf War. There will be a prayer service at 12 p.m. Wednesduy at the Field House Mall to remember those who died in the war and those who workded to bring peace in a variety of ways as well as to pray for more creative non-violent means of resolving conflict. John W. Borkowski from Hogan & Hartson in New Orleans will present a seminar tmtltled "Contemporary Legal Issues of Race in Public Education" today at 4:15 p.m. in Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. Ralph R. Premdas from the University of the West Indies will be presenting a lecture entitled "Elections and Communal Conflict in the Caribbean: Conse­quences of a Change of Government in Trinidad and Tobago" today at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Cen­ter for International Studies , Tonight at the Cinema at the Snite "Waiting for Fidel" and "Easy Rider" will be playing at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. respectively. The cost is $2.  
II MENU Notre Dame North South Marinated Flank Chicken Romano Steak Sandwich Stir-Fry Vegetables Grilled Tilapia Noodles Pasta Alla Carbonar Sliced Carrots Saint Mary's Call 284-4500 for menu information  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


to Purse item 26 Skirt fold 
11 Korea's 27 Ponderosa, e.g. 
Syngman--­
28 More than12 Gofer peeved 
13 Hopalong 29 Coin in Cannes
Cassidy portrayer William 30 Dancer Castle t8 Rocket's front 
3t "Dances With t9 Bone: Prefix Wolves" home 23 Our lang. 
32 Pine (for) 24 Detail 
37 Equine parent 
25---law 
38 Cut of beef(electricity 
principle) 41 Private, often 

IJ IJ~ 'lf IF~ !A IMJ llj If~ !A IL .(S IH Women's Soccer Campus Soccer Tournament IH Men's and Women's 12" Softball Campus Co-Ree Indoor Soccer Graduate/Faculty/Staff Softball 
ENTRY DATES: FEB. 21  -FEB. 28  .. Dinner  of Champions..  
631-6100  Jo  ce  May 2, 1996 Center Concourse  


43 Looks into the sun, e.g. 44Sept. predecessor 48 Boxer's weapon 47 Embellishes 48 ---me tangere 51 Gala 52 Mishmash 
53 Sphinx site 54 Barbecue bar 55 Like--in a 
pod 56 Tenets 57 Spot 59 Grassland eo Slipup 61 Dernier --­
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 





SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, February 27, 1996 
Bengal Bouts semi-finals up for grabs 


Anything is possible on this evening's card 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 

Toby Biolchini wanted to get to the finals. But not this way. 
The senior and Presidflnt of the Bengal Bouts will not be boxing until the finals Friday night after his opponent for tonight's semifinals, Joe Leslie, was not allowed to fight. 
"This is what we worked for all year," Biolchini said. "As a senior, I'm missing my opportunities in two of three possible fights. But, this is the card I've been dealt. Hopefully it'll all work out." 
Leslie suffered a broken hand in his 135-pound quarterfinal victory over Brian Norton Sunday. He was promptly scratched from the Tuesday card, leaving only 28 bouts in the 15 different weight classes. 
·When it's all said and done, though, the number may still drop to 27. Senior Dan Glennon, who injured his left shoulder in his 145-pound quar­terfinal win, may not be able to continue to the 
see BOUTS/ page 13 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Johnny "Too Tall" Mele will face defending 165 pound champion John "You Won't Last as Long as My Name" Christoforetti in tonight's semi. 
\.h Annual Bengal Bou
66 

Semifinals fs 

I~G~t Bouts····· 

Damon Affinto vs. Fred Kelly-145 lbs. Lucas Molina vs.John Kmetz-lSSlbs. 
Troy Phillips vs. Dan O'Rourke-200 lbs. 

Sophomore Lucas Molina (left) will battle second-seeded junior John Kmetz in the evening's 155 pound semi-final bout. The bout is expected to be one of the highlights of the night's card. 
~~~~~~====~~==~------------~ 





Hot bats overcome Armed Forces 

games; blasting Army 12.~3 "All through()ut the lineup
Irish take three 

before sque~ing by l\la~ .k9 ~-yerybqdy just swung the batoffour in Armed in the seqp~q. gam~ or ttie · wen,;· commented head 
x night .... .. ... . }'aufMainieri. "We Services Classic "" Th alot more aggressive at 
dispatc plate than we had been in Army bebind series against Georgia
By DYLAN BARMMER 

a ~W~hlt Tech, and it showed." ..
Sports Writer 

o f fen sj v ~ i: Perhaps the Irish were a l!t· assault!J.nd a tle too aggressive in the open-
Three out offour ain't bact:. The Notre Dame baseball gutsY · five f , "illg game, as they .needed team won three straight games inning. four Parker every bit of offense they could at the Armed .Services Classic hit perfo~-squeeze together t() sink the in Millington, Tennessee tbis mance on the mound from Midshipmen. The only ruilof past weekend, hef()re falling 4-S()phomore Christian Parker. th~ game came on a first 
···~ 
2 to Memphis in the final game Against the Cadets the Irish inning moon shot over the left on Sunday. came out on. th~. attack field fen(:e by Irish first base­
The weekend started off well throughout the lineup, a,s manMike Amrhein, who went for the Irish (3-3),1as they won seven different players drove back to back seven•inning in at least one run. 


Men's Basketball Men's Tennis vs. Miami, February 28, 7:00p.m. 
vs. Michigan State, 
• 
Fencers dominate 
in NCAA tune-up 
By WILLY BAUER felt the team is not performing Sports Writer at its best," said coach Yves Auriol. "I hope the team is not 
It went exactly as planned. 
fooled by trophies."Notre Dame's fencing team "It was a long competition," repeated as Midwestern 
explained Auriol. "When youConference champion last fence teams who aren't at your weekend at 
level and then fence tougherthe Joyce 
fencers you lose some concen­Center, and 
tration." are prepar· Once again the women's foil ing for this team was at the top of its weekend's game. The team swept its nine 
NCAA quali­
opponents with relative ease byfiers. 
an average score of 14-2. "After the tournament I 
see FENCING/ page 16 
• Tennis takes on top teams
a) 

'C 
see page 18

February 28, 3:30 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 

Baseball
at Big East Tournament, Storrs, CT 
• Irish host Alex Wilson Invite
..... 
March 2, TBA 

at New Orleans, March I, I :00 p.m. 
... 
ri:J 
see page 17 
Hockey 

SMC Sports 
Tennis vs. Hope, March 2, 1:00 p.m. • Women's hoops beats West Virginia 
vs. Ferris State, March 2, 7:00p.m. 
~ 
see page 16 







