
Monday, February 12, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 87 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students dodge bullets on St. Louis 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
Three Notre Dame students were shot at in the 700 block of N. St. Louis St. ow1r the weekend, accord­ing to Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­tor of Notre Dame Security. 
The incident oceurred at 3:30 a.m. on Feb. I 0 whnn a driver pulled into the middle of an intersection and fired eight shots at a ear belonging to Walsh Hall sophomore Susan Mau. Six shots struck the vehicle. No one was injured in the shooting, hut the occupants of the car were a hit shaken up said Mau. 
"It doesn't make you felll too good," shfl said. 
Mau and f111low sophomores Pat McCarthy, of Alumni flail, and Meg llogiJrty, of Walsh 11<~11. were travel­ing south on St. Louis St. approach­ing an intersection when they saw a ear headed west toward the inter­section. The approaching ear had a stop sign, while Mau's ear did not. 
"They didn't think the car was going to slop," Hurley said, "so they stopped." 
The otlwr car disregarded the stop sign and stopped in the middle of thn intersection. The driver of the vehide carrying the Notre Dame students asked the driver of the sus­poet ear to move. That driver exited his car and began yelling. lie then drew and gun and began firing. 
Bulhlls struek a headlight, the front bumper, the roof, the radiator and two lodged in the hood. The dri­ver of Mau's vehicle threw the car into revnrse and backed away. 
llurley urgtld studnnls to use cau­tion in the area of St. Louis and St. Peter's stnHJts, and to travel on wtlll-lit main thoroughfares, in 

St. Louis Street was the scene of an altercation early Saturday morning that resulted in gunfire. 
familiar residential areas. 
"Off-campus students should be partieularly careful when traveling to and from their residences," he said. 
No suspects are currently in cus­tody. Authorities are looking for a blue, mid-size, four-door vehicle. 
Despite the dangerous nature of the incident, Mau was able to laugh it ofT Sunday. Mau's run-in contin­ued an unlucky streak for her Walsh Hall room. Mau said her roommates have been involved in two other automobile accidents this year. 
"We're a little accident-prone around here,·• she said. 
Liz Foran contributed to this report. 


Dole expects to take Iowa caucus, Forbes falling 
ByTOM RAUM 
A.,.«JLiJtcJ l'r<'" 
SIOUX CITY. Iowa 

On tlw eve of the Iowa cau­cusns. GOP candidates hop­scotdwd llw statfl Sunday, wurting tlw one-out-of-live He­
publicans that polls suggnsl are undeeid­od. 
With Bob Dole's lead apptlaring to stabilize. thn rtlaI 


f o r m n d Dole around who would lw second. 
As tlw rivals moved from town meetings and rallies to TV talk shows, publishing heir Stev11 Forbns emerged as ev­oryone nlsn's f'avoritn target. 
"Forlms is falling, dnspite his massivn amount of negative ads," assnrttHI former Te,n­rwsstHJ c;ov. Lamar Alexander, who ho(H~d to b1m1Jfit from any Forbes dnelirw. 
Texas Snn. Phil Gramm, trail­ing in tlw single digits but in­sisting he not be counted out, ridiculed Forlws f'or eomplain­ing about anonymous phone ralls against him: "lie can dish it out but he can't take it." 
Dole tried to take the high road, declining to criticize Forbns directly. But his cam­paign continued to air ads on Sunday calling the publisher "untested ... and more liberal than you think." 
The Senate majority leader said he was content with polls showing him with a lead in the high 20s, far behind the 37 per­cent he finished with in 1988 when there were more candi­dates in the raee. 
"I want to finish first. We hope it's a strong first," he said during a visit to a Des Moines diner. "And somebody else will finish seeond and then we'll go on to New Hampshire where somebody will finish second," Dole said 
Despite personal appear­ances, the pre-eaucus day was mostly fought over the airwaves -both on live television inter­view shows and with a blizzard of radio and TV advertising. 
Forbes, who has spent about $4 million in Iowa, even bought 30-minute spots which were running on TV stations on Sun­day around the state. The "infomereial." ealled "Steve Forbes: A True Vision and an Honest Voiee," included testi­monials from prominent Amer­icans, elips of him as a child and a taped three-year-old trib­ute from former President Heagan. 
Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad, a Dole supporter. predicted "a huge turnout" at Monday's precinct eaueuses -predicting up to 150,000 voters. up from 
Clinton uses .power of incumbency to stand apart 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associat~d Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
As Hepublicans warred over Monday's fractious Iowa cau· cuses. President Clinton wielded a weapon Sunday that he alone carries into the 1996 campaign: incumbency. . Unopposed in the Democratic caucuses, the president wrapped up a two· day Iowa swing with a plea for a more civil political dis· course. "We should not use elections to divide," he said at a Drake University rally. "We should (use) elections to move the country forward." 
110,000 in 1988. Good weather was forecast across the state. 
Forbes told a luncheon in suburban Des Moines he was under "vigorous, vicious" at­tacks from his rivals as aides worked to play down expecta­tions for his showing. 
Asked what would be an ac­ceptable finish, campaign man­ager Bill Dal Col said: "Anywhere in the top four." Forbes himself said, "Alii want is a credible showing." 
The trip underscored the president's strategy of trying to rise above the Republican· eat-Hepublican world of pri­mary politics and savor the advantages afforded a cam­paign headquartered at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. 
The president, who came to Iowa with a newly signed farm-loan bill, ate brunch Sunday with victims of' the 1993 Midwestern floods to give voters a reminder that his administration helped ''Iowa put itself back togeth­er" after that disaster. 
As the president devoured 
see CLINTON I page 4 
A new poll by the Des Moines Sunday Hegister showed that 46 percent of likely GOP caueus goers now view Forbes in gen­erally unfavorable terms ­increase in 20 points since the question was first asked in poll published Dec. 3. 
A day earlier, the paper pub­lished a poll showing Dole with a 28 percent lead, with Forbes second at 16 percent, conserva­tive commentator Buchanan with 11 percent, 


Traveling show starts at Snite 
Special to the Observer 
Two traveling exhibitions opened Sunday, Feb. 11, at the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibition entitled "Milton Avery: Works on Paper" on loan from the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., will run through March 24, 1996. 
The exhibition includes prints of American artist Avery's fa­vorite subjects-his family and friends, the landscapes he stud­ied during his many summer work sessions, relaxed nudes, and animals. In addition to dry­points, lithographs, woodcuts, sketchbooks, and a monotype, there are original drypoint plates and a carved woodblock which Avery used for some of the prints. 
According to Earl Powell, Ill, director of the National Gallery of Art, Avery's prints have long been overshadowed by his impressive body of paintings, and this exhibition provides a rare and intimate examination of his printmaking teehnique. "We are pleased to be able to share through our National Lending Service some of these enticing works," Powell said. "They reveal a little-known aspect of Avery's oeuvre as well as the creative role that printmaking played in the de­velopment of his aesthetic vi­sion." 
Avery was born in Sand Bank 
see SNITE I page 4 



----~-------------------~-----­

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 12, 1996 
t 
I 
• INSiDE COlUMN 


The meaning of Valentine's 
Day

;...._____ 
Go ahead, call me bit- Dan CichaJski  
ter.  I may seem like  Accent Copy Editor  
Scrooge for hating a hol­ 
 
iday, but I think every­ 

one is entitled to at least one day a year he or she can loathe. And there are plenty from which to choose. For me, it's Valentine's Day. 
Some may brand me as resentful for dislik­ing the Day of Loooove, but I have my rea­sons. It's not that out of my twenty Valentine's Days I've had only reason to cele­brate twice. I just don't understand why we must set aside one special day in the year to celebrate love. In the timeless words of David Letterman, "For me every day is Valentine's Day." 
I don't treat my friends any differently on February 14 than I do on August 17 or December 3. I make it a point, more than once a year, to let those I love know it and show them how much I appreciate the rela­tionship we have, whatever the context. When I did celebrate Valentine's Day those two years, it wasn't different from any other occasion I had celebrated with this girl: gifts, flowers, dinner. 
Valentine's Day was fun back in grade school. Way back. It was enjoyable in second grade, when Mom would take you down to the local pharmacy to pick out a box of Valentine's cards. There was always one Special Person, of the opposite sex, for whom you'd pick out that valentine with a special message. You might add your own line to that one, or create a closing like, "Love, Your Good Friend..." 
When Valentine's Day came, you waltzed into school with your stash. At the Valentine's Party, with all the heart-shaped cookies and Candy Conversation Hearts ("You're Cool"), you and your classmates traded Valentines. Then came your Special Person. You pre­pared yourself. The Exchange. Your Special Person took hers and smiled, then thanked you before continuing with her deliveries. You looked down in your hand: A small, white envelope with your name printed on it. Inside, a smiling Snoopy with a cute message, possibly a rhyme, "When I count my friends, you're in the top ten! Happy Valentine's Day!" 
Okay, so things didn't go quite like you had planned. But that's the beauty of it: there are no commitments in the second grade. No boy or girlfriends to impress. So your Special Person had a different Special Person; that's okay. You're young, you've got time. Your love will come, and you'll need all the time you can to prepare for when those Valentine's Days will matter. 
I'll celebrate this holiday with some of my best friends, to whom I've grown a lot closer in recent months. And I'm sure that some day I'll like Valentine's Day again. I'll be married and look forward to sharing the day with my wife. Years later, I'll see myself in the second grade through the eyes of my child as he or she looks for that one card for the Special Person. But until that day comes, I'm going to continue being my thoughtful, charming self. I'm going to keep the spirit of February 14th alive throughout the year, until we realize it's just another over-commercialized holiday and what we're celebrating on Valentine's Day should be observed every day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Tmuw's STAff 
News Viewpoint Krisri Kolski Meaghan Smith Jillian Pagliocca Production Sports Kristi Kolski Tim McConn Mike Norbut 
Accent Graphics Catherine Deely Tom Roland Kristin Trabucco Andrea Jordan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ[s are reserved. 
• WORUl AT AGUNCE 
New twist for Valentine's Day-romance in cyberspace 

SAN FRANCISCO 

A box of chocolate.s, a glass of wine and the warm glow of the computer monitor. Face it, not everyone has a date for Valentine's. But on Black Wednesday the on-line chat rooms of the Internet services will be packed fuller than a bar on New Year's Eve. If love doesn't seem likely to strike between now and Valentine's Day, there are a few places to drop in on-line that might take some of the sting out. Avoid any list of romantic getaways, chocolates and flowers the on-line services are trying to sell -they're just reminders that you don't have anyone to send them to. Instead, check out America Online, where that paragon of romantic indignation -Miss Piggy -will be offering advice to the lovelorn at 8 p.m. EST in the auditorium. Still not ready to just sit down with a good book? The Cyber Love Shack goes live at 9 p.m.in New York, which AOL guarantees will be the "coolest, WILDEST show in the history of the Internet." Hyperbole aside, if you do happen to meet someone in one of the chat rooms but later decide you were better off alone, you can drop in on AOL's cyber-version of Dear Abby, NetGirl, where all such on-line woes will be aided. Over at CompuServe, just type ·~go Cupid" to find chat rooms and on-line meetings set up specially for the day. If the idea of talking to a bunch of strangers doesn't appeal, at least you can express your feelings for your one, true love -your pet. Just send an e-mail to Cupid and CompuServe will send a real Valentine -snail mail on paper -to Fluffy or Spike. "That's for really lonely peo­ple," spokeswoman Daphne Kent said. Over at the upstart of the on-line world, the Microsoft Network, the Lover's Lounge Open Chat invites users to give their best and worst pick-up lines. 
Pope delivers lecture on lost morals 
CARACAS, Venezuela 

With nearly a million Venezuelan faces before him, Pope John Paul II lashed out Sunday at materialism and selfishness, saying their struggling, oil­producing nation must shun such mod­ern-day "idols" and live by Christian ideals. On the final day of his weeklong pastoral tour of Latin America, the pope said a society afflicted by violence and 


political corruption needs the message of the Roman Catholic church. "Today's idols, among others, are ma­terialism and selfishness, with the corollary of sensualism and hedonism, of violence and corruption·," the pope said at an open-air Mass, attended by at least several hundred thousand people. Officials put attendance at 1 million. "The church transmits to everybody the strength of the Gospel that is able to transform human relations in a way that human beings learn to love one another and forgive one another," he said. 
Four prisoners cut out of center 
CENTRAL FALLS, R.I. 

Four prisoners cut through a fence and climbed over razor wire to escape from a privately operated federal detention center, and two remained at large on Sunday. One of the fugitives, Paul Lowe of Lowell, Mass., was considered extremely dangerous, police said. Lowe was awaiting trial after he was arrested in December and accused of abducting a woman at gunpoint during a car­jacking, driving her to New Hampshire and raping her. "He can steal a car or break into a house in seconds. He's a professional criminal and a danger to be on the street," said Lowell Police Capt. Dennis Cormier. It was the first escape from the Donald J. Wyatt Detention Facility, which has been open for just over two years and is operated by Cornell Corrections. Also still at large was Dennis Dussault of Pawtucket, awaiting trial on federal weapons charges, police said. 

Monday, Feb. 12 Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 12. 


OHIO 
llndianapoli3 25° I 

ILL 
• 
.........,.... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressura ~ 
H L ffi tSSI [Til 0 ~ 8 i:)-L__..! U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS PLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VUI Associated Press 
Atlanta 51 26 Dallas 70 35 New O~eans 65 40 Baltimore 2B 17 Denver 61 27 New York 27 17 Boston 22 10 Los Angeles 7 4 57 Philadelphia 28 16 

,,,,, ,,,, ·.;.·.;: 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 32 12 Miami •70 60 Phoenix 70 56 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 56 26 Minneapolis 35 13 St. Louis 47 27 


4l~~~~~~~~ 
.. 
Park employees shot by madman 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. 
A man who fatally shot five park employees, then killed himself, had long shown signs of erratic, threatening be­havior, according to his disciplinary file. City officials said Satll{day that they first became aware of Clifton McCree's behavioral problems in October 1994, when workers be­gan complaining about him. That and a failed drug test led them to fire McCree from his beach-cleaning job on Dec. 9 of that year. McCree had left behind a note after Frid!ly's massacre, saying the shootings were "to punish s?~e of the cowardly, racist devils" responsible for firing h1m. McCree was black; the shooting victims were white. "Clifton has said on many occasions, 'If you mess with my job: I will take you out,"' read one complaint in his file. Two complaints were filed by former co-worker Lelan L. Brookins, who was wounded in Friday's shooting and was in serious condition Sunday. "Nobody gave Cliff McCree a hard time because he told everyone he had a gun in his car and they believed him," said Brookins' sis­ter, Alice Brookins Hirst. 
Bombing doesn't stop London presses 
LONDON 
An IRA bombing kept two newspapers from using their London printing facilities, but The Observer and The Guardian were not silenced. The explosion in a parking garage Friday destroyed tons of newsprint and damaged the east London printing press used by both papers. The press is just 200 yards from the site of the blast. But the Observer, a weekly newspaper, printed its Sunday edition on its presses in the northern England city of Leeds. The Observer normally prints more than half its run of 450,000 copies at the east London plant. And while the Observer's daily affiliate, The Guardian, suspended print­ing on Friday, it continued to report on the aftermath on the World Wide Web portion of the Internet. The Guardian's printing operations were getting back to nor­mal Sunday, but officials said they did not know when they would be producing a normal newspaper again. 

Monday, February 12, 1996 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Seeking solitude 
Taking a moment to say a prayer yesterday, this Notre Dame stu­dent stopped at the Grotto on the day of its centennial celebration. 
STUDY 


ABROAD 
Semester, Summer 
and Year Programs 
Ecuador • Spain England • France Canada • Mexico Chile • Italy 

1:' 
1 
183 
Ballroom Dancers Starting Today, 
FEBRUARY 12 

Classes will now be held in the csc·on Mondays 


~ ~-~ ~-------­

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 12, 1996 



Beach Barbie tops '96 toys 
By JOYCE M. ROSENBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
This year's Toy Fair almost has the feel of a college reunion -most of the toys on display are familiar faces dressed differently or pack­aged into new formats. And many are much more sophisti­cated. 
Barbie, for example, is on CD-ROM, allowing girls to design outfits and then print them out on special fabric to make the clothes. 
Barbie herself will be more limber -as Twirling Ballerina Barbie, her ankles bend, and as a ·gymnast, she does splits. She and Ken also will be dressed as Eliza Doolittle and Henry Higgins from "My Fair Lady," and as starship Enterprise crewmembers for the 30th anniversary of the "Star Trek" TV series. 
The most prominent action figures at the fair are old fa­vorites like Batman and the "Star Wars" characters. But there are a few eye-catching twists, like Michael Jordan as an action figure teamed up with Bugs Bunny. 
No one knows what will be the top-selling toy of 1996, but a visit to several manufactur­ers' showrooms does reveal several trends: More toys are 


Clinton 
continued from page 1 
scrambled eggs, greasy bacon and fried potatoes, an aide an­nounced that he· was consider­ing a trip this week to Portland, Ore. The purpose: Highlighting administration efforts to help Oregon put itself back together after last week's flooding in the Pacific Northwest. 
Good response to natural dis­asters makes good politics. 
"The people they sent out were great;" said Jesse Klues­ner, standing up to a chilly wind for a peek at Clinton as he left the brunch. "I mean, take a walk around. Homes that were in terrible shape before the floods have been leveled and 


Snite 
continued from page1 
(later Altmar), New York, in 1885. As the sole male provider in a household of nine women relatives, he worked evenings in order to attend art classes during the day. 
Avery worked in printmaking throughout his career, produc­ing a total of 60 different im­ages, 46 of which are included in the Snite exhibition. 
Also opening on Sunday at the Snite Museum is an exhibi­rebuilt. The place looks great." 
Huge crowds swarmed presi­dential rallies in Iowa City, Ma­son City and Des Moines, giving the Clinton-Gore campaign smiling backdrops for local news shows and future cam­paign ads. 
Though the crowds were mostly Clinton supporters, many people lined up for hours outside rally sites for a chance to see a president in the flesh. Harry Truman was the last White House resident to visit Mason City. 
The president's GOP rivals, meanwhile, were drawing 600 people in Fort Dodge, 200 in Clinton and 300 in Mason City over the weekend. 
Presidential trips traditional­ly draw heavy local media coverage. 
bon will provide the seu,ing tor an interdisciplinary conference jointly sponsored by the Snite Museum; Notre Dame's De­partment of Art, Art History and Design; the Sophomore Core Course; the William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies; the Creative Writing Program; the Depart­ment of Special Collections; and the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar tee­ture series. The conference will consist of lectures and readings by Mazur and Pinsky, who will discuss their collaboration with each other as well as their col-

behind anonymous phone calls negative calls. It merely con-tion entitled "Dante's 'Inferno': laboration though space and that misrepresent the candi-ducted small-sample public Prints by Michael Mazur." time with Dante. 

Iowa 
date's position on abortion, the opinion research." Organized by the University The Hesburgh Memorial Li-flat tax and gays in the military. In Salt Lake City on Sunday, a of Iowa Museum of Art, the ex-brary's Special Collections de­
continued from page 1 
It has accused Dole of hiring a former employee of the com-hibition consists of 38 prints partment is mounting an exhi-
That same poll showed 19 Utah telemarketing company_ pany, Michael Berry, told a and eight studies for prints bition of its own historic collec­
percent of likely GOP caucus the Provo-based Western Wats news conference the surveys crafted by the renowned print-tion of illustrations from 
goers were undecided. Center-to place the calls. were meant to sway support maker Mazur in close col-Dante's "Inferno." The exhibi-­
With just a day to go, the The Dole campaign has said it from GOP rival Steve Forbes. laboration with the poet Robert tion, entitled "Ways into the 
Forbes and Dole campaigns con-hired the firm to do some pub-He said telemarketers placed Pinsky, who recently completed City of Woes: Illustrations to 
tinued to spar over phone calls. lie-opinion research but Dole calls to over 6,000 residents of a translation of Dante Alighier-Dante's 'Inferno"' will run from 
The Forbes camp has accused spokesman Nelson Warfield Iowa, New Hampshire and Ari-i's 14th century poem. Feb. 5-May 10 in the library's 
the Dole campaign of being said: "This company never did zona. From March 6-8, the exhibi-Rare Books Room . 
I I I I 



iI GENERAL STUDENT BODY iI 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
= I f 12 = I 
I I I I 
; 'r.oteV• 00p.m. ;I
I 

: I OOp.m. : I 
; I atthe ; I 
I i III I i 
I ~I 
I lliill I 
; 1ACTION 1
ITm m ; 
I STIJDENT GOVERNMENT I 
I I 
I I 

Monday, February 12, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 



RetreatDates 
Forms Available Questions Cost 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 (4:00PM) to SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24 (6:00PM) 
At the Campus Ministry Offices thru THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22 
103 HesburghLibrary, 1-7800 or 1-5056 
0MPUS 

$10 MINISTRY 


K1~tre Dame FRESHMAN RETREAT 
· a two-day, overnight retreatforfreshman 
·guided by students, faculty, and staff 
· an opportunity to deepen your understanding ofyourself, your transition to life at Notre Dame, and your hopesfor your life at Notre Dame and beyond. 
Explosion fails to free twenty trapped in tunnel 
By BRAVEN SMILLIE 
Assodatt'J Prrss 
FUHUBIHA, .Japan 

Heseuers blasted the side of a mountain with dynamite Sun­day in an attempt to reaeh some 20 people trapped in a eollapsed highway tunnel, but the explosion failed to dislodge the boulder, about the size of a 20-story office building. 
!lopes were fading late Sun­day, monl than 36 hours after the accident, that anyone would be found alive. Hesidents of this small, northern Japanese fishing village could only wait as rescuers prepared for a second blast attempt. 
The giant slab of rock peeled off the mountain and crashed through the tunnel roof early Saturday, apparently crushing a bus carrying 19 people, in­cluding teen-agers on their way to nearby Sapporo for an an-

C)3"Ya 

~~al~~chelor 
Where LeMans Hall Lobby When THuRsDAY, FEB. 15, 7:00PM Admission Free, $1 to bid 
Sponsored by:
---tit­
LaMans Hall Council SAINT & Bengal Bouts MARY'S Proceeds go to 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
Holy Cross Mission in Ban ladesh 

Sea of Japan 
Kutchan • Sapporo Expressway 

nual snow festival. 
The attempt to topple the boulder into the sea with a blast of 550 pounds of dyna­mite only crumbled the lower portion of the rock into dust, leaving the rest of the rock intact and upright. 
Rescuers were planning an­other blast Monday morning that they hope would allow them to dig through the rubble. 
Military specialists had gotten far enough into the tunnel to spot the bus's mangled bumper and a battered license plate. 


Help slow to reach rural areas 
By MARTHA IRVINE 
Associated Press 
BIRKENFELD, Ore. 

Stranded for days by bloated ri-vers and washed-out roads, rural Northwesterners are find­ing their self-reliance tested by the region's worst flooding in decades. 
As rivers receded ever so slowly Sunday, brigades of emergency workers fanned out to assist flood victims in cities and suburbs. But in the North­west's backwoods corners, neighbor had to rely on neigh­bor. 
Jeff and Tami Bellingham were driven from their farm­house last Wednesday by the flooding Nehalem River in northwestern Oregon. They saw no rescue officials until Sunday. 
Left on their own, they built a hay-bale levy around their house, rescued neighbors in a rowboat, saved 26 horses and cleared a debris-blocked high­way -only to watch fire de­stroy their home early Sunday. 
·By Sunday afternoon, there were no tears. 
"We passed that point a long time ago," Tami Bellingham, 38, said wearily. Neither could say what might have started the fire. 
So it went throughout rural Oregon, Washington, Idaho and Montana. The same raging waters that poured through homes also chewed up roads and downed utility lines, cut­ting off thousands of residents from the outside world. 
In the evergreen thumb of the Cascade Range that pokes into Oregon's northwestern corner, winding two-lane roads often 
McNary DamI John Day Dam Dalles Dam 
OREGON 
Willamette riVer1

(11 dams on tributaries of the Willamette river were able to hold back water) 
hug the banks of mountain creeks and rivers. 
Highway 202, which passes the Bellinghams' place, crosses and recrosses the Nehalem River. Usually a sparkling, boulder-dotted stream, it's now an ugly brown band ripping through canyons. 
Up to 200 homes along the river were destroyed or badly damaged, one officia.J esti­mated. 
"It's a lot worse than we ever imagined," said Ron Youngberg of the St. Helens Rural Fire Department. "The Nehalem kicked their butts." 
Near the river's mouth on the Oregon coast, Tillamook County dairy farmer Steve Neahring lost at least 100 of his 175 Hol­stein and Jersey milkers. Some drowned; some had to be shot after getting chilled to the bone or breaking their legs in pan­icky struggles in flooded barns. 
As Neahring maneuvered a front-end loader to stack muddy carcasses through the weekend, more than 20 friends and neighbors pitched in. A deli near the beach in Manzanita donated lunches; farm wives supplied food and thermoses of coffee. 
"It's everybody helping ev­erybody," said LaHayne Wood­ward, who lives on the dairy farm across the river from Neahring's spread. "This is when you find out what good neighbors you have." 

A mile downriver along the main street of Nehalem, popu­lation 230, cleanup proceeded. 
Alberta 
IDAHO 
AP 


---~-------~--------­
--~----------­page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 12, 1996 


Catholics, Protestants pray for a cease-fire 

By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 

BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland united in prayer for peace Sunday and waited anxiously to see if vio­lence would tear them apart once more. 
The IRA's decision to end its 17-month cease-fire with a deadly bomb in London threat­ened to restart Northern Ire­land's cycle of violence. But across the religious divide, priests and ministers called for calm. 
"Father, we pray that the moment of madness will not destroy all the hopes," Pastor Jack McKee told his youthful, sometimes tearful congregation at Elim Pentecostal Mission, one of more than a dozen Protestant churches along west Belfast's Shankill Road. 
"We pray fnr Gerry Adams," McKee said of the leader of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party, a figure reviled by Shankill resi­dents because of his past sup­port for attacks on pro-British Protestant militants who live there. 
"We may all hate what he stands for," McKee said. "But we must pray that the leaders of Sinn Fein, and the leaders of loyalist (pro-British) paramili­taries, will not surrender to the hawks within their own ranks. We need to pray that they will not take Northern Ireland back into the abyss." 
He said he was sure that the 
first Catholic or Protestant 
killed would mean a death war­
rant for someone on the other 
side. 
SPECIALIZING 

Southern Italian \..UUI\.Jtuu 
PreP.ared by Francesco Family
An Authentic Taste Italy
Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
Hours 

Welcome Junior Parents! 
Mon-Thu 
4-10 

1213 Lincolnway West Frl & Sat. 4-11 
Mishawaka 
Sun closed 

(Francesco was chef at ND for 30 years!) 
IRA bomb 

threatens peac 
By SUE LEEMAN Associated Press 


LONDON 

Polic~ searched Sunday for clues to the identities ofiRA bombers who attacked a Lon­don business district and the top British official on Northern Ireland vowed that the peace process "will never die." -. . . 
But while both Britain 'and. 
Ireland scrambled to get the 
search for pt;tace back on 
track, both sides were stick­
ing to old positions that bali 
previously led nowhere .....·. 
In the Docklands bt.tshl.ess 
district of east London: pollee 
forensic teams and the anti­
terrorist squad searched for 
evidencE! that might ~elp 
them identify the bombers. 
Police issued ~ drj\wiug ofa ·blue flatbed. truck ·soUght Itt 

connection with the bombing .. 
The vehicle was seen s~ortly 

before the blast parkedunder · 
a bridge where the ~losion 
occurred. · 
The explosion Fd 
parking garage ldlleed<t}Vo 
people and injured dozens~ 
many by flying shards s 
and metal. Five 
including a 55-ye(lr.;9t ~a 
in critical· condition, reqJ.aitted
hospitalized Sunday. · · · · 
·Police saY the bo~b, 
believed to have been packed 
into a van. eontainecl qp to 

half ~· ton of homeJtl;~de.+ 
explostves. Insurance asset>-' sors have estimated damageat about $125 million.·· · " · · 
The explosion came an hour 

after the IRA. complaining of 
the slow pace. of the p~aee 

process. announced U was 
calling off the 17-month~old 
cease-fire it had declared in 
its 24-year struggle for a unit­
ed Ireland. the IRA claimed 
responsibility for the bombing 
on Saturday. .w 

Northern Ireland Secretary 
Sir Patrick Mayhew said the 
bombing left the peace 
process "very seriously 
injured. But it is not terminal­
ly injured and we are g()jpg to 
keep it.goin·g.,_, · .....,;;;:!~~::=.:~·''' 

"Never is this process going to be allowed to die," he tol(l British Broadcasting Corp. television. 
"Lord, don't let it be," whis­pered Anne McWilliams, a mother of two who sat, head bowed, in the back row. 
A half-mile away, beyond the wall of concrete and steel that separates Catholic from Protestant in west Belfast, wor­shipers at Clonard Monastery read a special prayer for peace and reconciliation. 
The Rev. Paddy O'Donnell read from Jesus' sermon on the mount and emphasized his instruction, "Reconcile with your brother first and then come back and make your of­fering," otherwise "you will go to prison." 
The scripture had special meaning for a parish that in­cludes many prominent IRA supporters, who are split over whether they should resume violence. 
·"The bomb is a symbol of hurt and devastation in London, and the buildings with things hanging out the windows are a symbol of the peace process in tatters," said Claire Cassidy, lead vocalist in the Clonard choir. 
"It's also a monument to John Major's lack of imagina­tion," she said, reflecting wide­spread Catholic anger at the British prime minister. 
Britain had demanded that the IRA show its cease-fire was permanent by starting to dis­arm before Sinn Fein entered negotiations with Protestants. The IRA refused, considering such a move equal to surren­der. 
Pro-British militants, who laid down their weapons six weeks after the IRA, have so far stuck to their cease-fire. 
Northern Ireland's conflict may reignite 
North>' 
Sea 
0 Oct. 5, 1968: Catholics clash with police. 
0 Aug. 14, 1969: Britain orders troops into Northern Ireland. 
0 Dec.20,1974: Temporary cease-fire. 
0 Jan. 17,1975: Cease-fire ends. 
0 Dec. 15, 1993: Britain and Ireland 
issue '1ramework for peace.• 
0 Aug. 31, 1994: The IRA declares 
. a cease-fire. 
0 Oct. 13, 1994: Protestant 
paramilitaries announce acease-fire. 
0 Nov. 17,1994: Irish Prime Minister 
Albert Reynolds resigns. 
0 Jan.15, 1995: British soldiers end 
daytime patrols in Belfast. 
0 Feb. 18, 1995: Officials say all peace 
plan issues are resolved. 
Q Feb 9,1996: Abomb injures dozens 
in a London business district an hour 

after an Irish network broadcasts an IRA 
statement that the cease-fire is over. 

Brief histoey of the con111ct'"\­
A 1920 act of British Parliament split Northern Ireland from Ireland. When 

Ireland became a dominion in 1921 and later a republic, Northern Ireland, with its Protestant majority, chose to remain part of the United Kingdom. The Catholic population charged they were discriminated against in the voting rights, housing and employment. Violence and terrorism persisted for decades. 
APM/m. J. Castello 

Saint Mary's Student Body Presidential and Vice Presidential Debate! 







-fit­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
MONDAY, fEBRUARY 12 

7:30PM 
Haggar Parlor 
.r--------------------------------------------------~~------­





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 12, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: 1'.0. Box Q, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, None Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager...........................John Potter Vinvpoint Editor .................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Nnrhut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Act:ent Editor ....................... Krista Nannery Systems tv\anagcr ............................ Scan Galla van Saint Mary's Edhor .................... Patti Carson Obsctver Marketing Dircctor .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ohserver is the indepcndenr new>paper puhlishcd by the srudcnts of the Univcrsiry of Notre I>amt' Uu Lu: and Saint Mary's College. h doe!! not necessarily rdlecr the policies of the administra­uon of either institution. The news is rcpon:cd as accurately and objccrivdy as possible. Unsigned C'di~ tori•l, represent the opinion of the majnrity of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, l~ncrs and Inside Columns prc:!IC'Ot the vi~s of the aurhors, and nm necessarily those uf The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and wall rcoadcrs. The free: txprcssion of varying opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 llu...incss Office 631-5313 ManJging Ediwr/Vicwpoim 631-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spurts 63 I-4S43 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncw!J/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631·4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-530.~ Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu <;tn(rallnfurm;.ttion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• THE WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Frontier justice rules the United States 
There is something profoundly amaz­ing about being able to walk down an empty urban street at four o'dock in the morning and not be in imminent danger of losing your wallet or life. Needless to say. this is an experience that can not be had in any American metropolis, where fflllr of crime imposes a de facto curfew on most honest citizens. But in many of 

the capitols of Western Europe it is pos­sible --indeed a matter of routine --to walk the nighttime streets with a mini­mum of fear. While sociologists can probably point to a myriad of deep-root­ed societal reasons to explain this U.S.­European disparity, I think that the obvious reason for Europe's fear-free streets, namely the lack of privately owned handguns, should not be over­looked. 
America has the most violent and heavily armed "first world" society on Earth. Waking up to news of at least one murder committed with a handgun is a daily occurrence in every m'ajor Amerif:an city. Violent death is the lead­ing cause of mortality among black mains ages 18-35. At least in our cities, violence has nearly lost its ability to shoek and dismay us and is instead regarded as inevitable. Murders of all typns, from the premeditated to the spontaneous. are disgustingly common­place. 
.Just how desensitized our society is to the horrors of violence was brought honw to me during my recently condud­ml smnester in London. It was quitn a revelation to be in a country where mur­der actually is a source for public out­rage and dismay. It was fascinating to see crime which would be treated as a back page story in the metropolitan sec­tion of the New York or Los Angeles papers given lead article status in the London press. Without getting into the institutional failures, from the education system to the welfare state, that have precipitated the violent reality of U.S. society, the most obvious difference between U.S and Western European crime patterns remains that American criminals are armed with handguns while their European counterparts are not. I must confess that I am something of a newcomer to belief in gun control, but having experienced the .security and safety of life in a country devoid of handguns I no longer believe that there is any rational justification for public ownership of these weapons. I am not implying that Western Europe is crime free, quite the contrary it is riddled with pickpocketery and petty theft, but the lack of handguns insures that these crimes remain non-lethal. Meanwhile handguns are a tangible tool of much evil in our society; crimes which should not be violent in nature are easily trans­formed into blood baths, people who are not criminally inclined become murder­ers through the combination of a gun and a fit of anger, while the number of accidental gun deaths continues to sky­rocket. 
I am not going to bore you by quoting the standard litany of anti-handgun sta­tistics --you've heard them all before. But the evidence that these concealable weapons cause more problems than they solve is overwhelming. The most common argument for civilian owner­ship of a handgun is "personal protec­tion" yet a recent FBI inquiry found that in only one percent of shooting involving a handgun is it being used for self­defense. 
We have all heard stories about a 7-11 robbery that goes bad and results in the clerk being shot in cold blood. Tales of irrationally angry friends and acquain­tances shooting each other over some perceived injustice are common. Reports of children finding their par~ ents' firearm and accidentally killing themselves or a playmate are chilling yet frequent. The fear of being shot for 
'We have all heard sto­
ries about a 7-11 rob­bery that goes bad and results in the clerk being shot in cold blood. Tales of irrationally angry friends and acquain­tances shooting each other over some perceived injustice are common.' 
cutting someone off on the freeway is real. The image of inner city youth gangs engages in fire fights is embedded in our national conscience. Yet none of these substantive evils would be possi­ble, or at a minimum as frequent. were it not for the pervasiveness of handguns in our society. 
I am quite familiar with the arguments against gun control. having only until recently been among the opponents of anti-handgun legislation. As we have seen, the central notion that handguns serve a legitimate defensive purpose is questionable at best. What's more, non­lethal defensive weapons from4om pep­per sprays to stun guns are commonly available and known to be effective. 
A second major point cited by enemies of gun control is that "criminals will always be able to get guns" and that leg­islation would only deprive law-abiding citizens of firearms. The European experience flatly contradicts this. By making gun related offenses into serious matters and by severely punishing crimes committed with guns, the British and many of their EU partners have managed to marginalize the "black mar­ket'' gun problem. There is no reason that the U.S. could not follow this model in attaching a stigma to violent crime. 
Finally. there is the old Jeffersonian argument that an armed citizenry is the final safeguard of a democracy aga•st tyranny. While arguably anachronistic. this line of reasoning is confirmed by our history deserves to be taken serious­ly, which is why I have confined my anti­gun rantings to concealable weapons. I have no intention of arguing for legisla­tion that makes possession of sporting rifles and shotguns illegal. Private own­ership of such weapons is a part of our national heritage and does not pose a risk to society. In other words, it is fair­ly difficult to rob a convenience store with a deer rifle. A second amendment based defense of private gun ownership clearly applies to rifles and shotguns, but it is less obvious with regards to handguns --hardly the weapon of choice in "a well regulated militia." 
When I returned to my home in Texas this December, I was greeted with the statistic that there are now 44 million guns in my state for its 16 million inhab­itants. What's more, a new state law making concealed weapons permits uni­versally available was about to go into effect. Frankly, I find this return to the days of "frontier justice" frightening. It is embarrassing to admit that I felt safer on the streets of London, Paris, and Frankfurt than in my hometown, but until such time as the United States enacts responsible legislation to control concealable weapons it is an admission that I must make. 
Chris Kratovil has just returned from a semester in London and is the author of the recently published novel Primary Colors. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooN~ssuRv 
To: Roland Hedley
Assume you're famil­J 1fJtJ::fffc!
iar with "Primary 
..• t<IAR CRIM&S
colors," the novel 
PlfiC£!
based on the ' 92 Clinton campaign. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There's a fine line between stupid and clever." 
-from the movie Spinal Tap 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, February 12, 1996 page 8 

Editor's note: The profiles below were compiled by the Saint Mary's Observer staffbased on candidate interviews and campaign platforms. They have been arranged alphabetically. 

Leigh Ann Hutchison/ Amberly Hershberger 
• 
Campaign slogan: "Vote for the perfect double dip" 

• 
Our favorite ideas: Access to Moreau tunnel door after 5 p.m.; increase safety on Douglas Road by adding more lights for illumination; newsletter to off-campus students 

• 
We've heard it before ... Better publicity for all campus events 

• 
Good luck: Bringing WVFI to FM status, and getting support for Star Search at Dalloway's 


• 
Notable quotes: Hutchison on number one platform goal: "One definite thing we'd like to do is better publicity for campus events. Our big goal right now is to have a table tent each week, covering clubs, sports and campus events. In accordance with that, a newsletter will be mailed to off-campus students." Hutchison on promoting the Belles: I think we need to have an incentive program to get students to the games. We need better publicity. I know a lot of people went to the last basketball game to see Marv and support our team, and that made me really happy." Hutchison on experience: ''I'm proud to say that, as junior class president, we've accomplished all of our goals on the platform we ran with. We did everything we set out to do and more .. We've raised our class from broke to a really good standing." Hershberger was unavailable for comment. 

• 
Brief campaign analysis: The good ideas are there, but implementation is questionable. While the presidential candidate seems qualified and competent, can she deliver? We need to hear from her vice-president, who was unavailable for interviews. 



Emily Miller/ Jennifer Ligda 
• 
Campaign slogan: "Your winning ticket for leadership" 

• 
Our favorite idea: Form support groups for freshmen; have joint student government meetings between BOG, RHA, SAB and SAC 

• 
We've heard it before ... Improve communication between student gov­ernment and student body 

• 
Good luck: Expanding SURV. Hasn't this been tried before? 

• 
Notable quotes: Miller on apathy: "Communication is a key part of our platform. A lot of people are claiming there is a lack of involvement, and there's apathy, and I just don't think that is true. I just think we need to communicate what's going on, and keep the students better informed." Ligda on the College mission: "I believe Saint Mary's fulfills its mission. The mission statement is very important, and knowing from the clubs I've worked on in the past, it comes in a lot of the programs we plan." Miller on unifying organizations: "The BOG, RHA, SAB and SAC all seem to be very separate boards with separate leaders. We don't all work together enough, and I'd like to see more of the different boards coming together. Miller on the future: "I think e'4!'Jry year, the student government tries to reinvent the wheel. Starting all over, it takes almost the entire first semes­ter to get going. I think it's important to emphasize that that we don't want to start all over next year. We just want to continue what we've been working up to for the past three years." 

• 
Brief campaign analysis: The candidates are articulate, and extremely qualified. However, their bureaucratic experience prompts us to wonder if they'll work to please the students or the administration. 





Jen Turbiak/Beth Ann Miller 
• 
Campaign slogan: "Running with a vision for the mission" 

• 
Our favorite ideas: Off-campus lounge relocation; gigantic dining hall calendar; mid-semester course evaluations 

• 
We've heard it before... Expand campus communication, promote cul­tural awareness through knowledge 

• 
Good luck: Reducing graduation requirements to 120 hours 


• 
Notable quotes: Turbiak on vision: "I was abroad my sophomore year. I think that has been a very big key in my understanding of the Saint Mary's community because I've had the time to leave it and come back... through that experience, I've not only come to appreciate Saint Mary's, but I also have a vision for the future. It's neat because I left as a freshman and came back as a junior, and things have changed both socially and academically. I came back with a lot of enthusiasm." Miller on spirituality: "I think some­thing that is so profound here is the sisterhood. I think people sincerely care about one another and look out for each other." Turbiak on promoting Saint Mary's: ''I'd accentuate all that Saint Mary's offers, not only in the academic realm but also in the spiritual realm, because it is a Catholic institution." Miller on experience: "Serving as BOG exec­utive secretary gave me a well-rounded knowledge of the student goverment at Saint Mary's, and has made me famil­iar with how it's run." 

• 
Brief campaign analysis: Turbiak's confidence coupled with Miller's behind-the-scenes efforts make this the strongest ticket. Lowering graduation requirements, however, might have Sister Madeleva rolling in her grave . 


• EDITORIAL 



Demand substance in tonight's debate 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
It's election time again. 
And I'm so glad things haven't changed since high school. 
Last week, each of the candidates sat down with the Saint Mary's Observer staff for an interview regarding their future as Saint Mary's Student Body President and Vice President. 
In those sessions, I learned one valuable les­son that I shall carry on with me for the rest of my life. 
Administrators, students, faculty and staff. Listen up. This is innovation at its finest. 
Communication is the key to anything. Put out a newsletter, and the apathy problem is solved. Hang up a calendar, and people will get involved. Essentially: if you post it, stuff it in their mailboxes and put it in print, they will come. 
Not like there's the possibility of an underly­ing problem or anything. 
Smiling big, all the candidates talked about how wonderful Saint Mary's is; essentially, what a veritable utopia our campus is. 
It was politics as usual. 
Here's the deal. I love Saint Mary's.· I left home, 1000 miles away, to come here. I know there's a rich tradition, a comfortable atmos­phere, supportive faculty and strong acade­mics. I couldn't ask for a better school. 
But if I really needed to hear how fabulous my college was, I would have made a visit to the admissions office. 
The candidates need to realize that there are issues. There are major problems that need to be solved. And, as our panel of reporters questioned the candidates on the issues, more often than not, the responses were twisted into another "I love Saint Mary's" speech. 
There is a strong feeling of being in "in the shadow of the dome.» There is a tremendous amount of apathy with regard to attendance at Saint Mary's athletic and student activity events. Were the grievances the former RHA board brought to light fully addressed? Can students really make a change on campus? Do we offer enough service opportunities to fulfill our mission as a Catholic College? Why are some of my freshman friends considering transferring? Is something missing? 
A lot of our questions weren't answered. 
Tell us something we don't know. 
Tell us what's wrong with this campus, then tell us what you'd do to change it. 
Take a stand. 
Students: I urge you to attend the debate. Press the candidates on the hard issues. Make them answer questions like how they will make our campus better, rather than how they project the perfect admissions office model. 
If we are truly the confident, independent, 
strong Saint Mary's women the candidates 
describe us to be, we should expect, demand, 
and receive a little more than the classic, 
rehearsed, sugar-coated answers. 


Observer endorses Turbiak/Miller ticket 
Communication, or actually the lack thereof. This is seemingly the most pressing issue on the Saint Mary's campus, according to each of the three tickets running for student government. Each ticket took care to extensively express this concern in interviews with Tlw Observer. 
And from those interviews, it is ()bvious to The Observer that, of the three tickets, Turhiak!Miller appears to be the most logical choice. minus some con· cerns about reducing· graduation requirement hour~. A charismatic twosome, these· women exhibit leader• · ship skills coupled with original ideas, and improve­ment on old ideas. Part oLtbis ticket's platform is .t() reduce the number of hours required to graduate from 128 to 120. While it is supposedly in the long term plans for the college anyway, these two want to help the process along. All students welcome the idea of less homework, but The Observer wonders if this is as much of a concern to students. as Turbiak/Miller think it is. And should it be a concern that the student gov· ernmenttackles? 
This ticket also touched on more important issues like relocating the otT-campus lounge to make it more accessible. Through their research, they came to find 
that the lounge is in Macteleva only ~ecause that par· cticular building used to be the most encompassing building class-wise. But now that the snack bar has been·remodeled and ~ince the bookstoreis.in Haggar, it seems logical that it tnight make a better home for the off~campu:; lounge. This ticket also seeks to improve ~omnmnication (an old ide&) bqt address\ld ·~ · a new way. A gigantic dinillg hall calenda:r might work, in addition~o a Cl!,len<ia,r stuff'edin ~ampus pub~"· lications. ../:.;.; ..... ,.;;:; 
Itwas also inipressive '!,hat Tur])iqk/Miller researched nearly every idea on l;lleir platfol1l!. in te.rms offeasihil­icy and. cost. . They rtiri with a "vision for the mission of the· college'~ iP. ad<iition to plans for improving and implementing older ideas. 
The Miller/lJgda ticket certainly exhibits the Ul.Qst confidence and the greatest.. amount of leadership experience, Their ext~nsive leadership record merits consideration. What remains questionabl(;l in their campaign, however, is the originality factor. It is understandable that these candidat(:}s want to avoid overpromising.. Their realistic approach to student government is;~dmirable. But at the same tiJ;Ue, their campaign is 't.!l'ther jmmediate, focusing mostly on ·issues that will aflect students only in the near future. It would be comforting to see a few new ideas to ensure some vision for the college. While this ticket's efforts to expand SUIW may show some vision on its part, it is nothing we·· haven't heard before. But per~ haps they'll show us otherwise. 
The Hutchison!Hershberger ticket does have good ideas involving the future of the student body. The increase of publicity on campus, gaining access to the Moreau tunnelaftet 5 p.m., and the implementation of 
· better· campus security are all ideas that sound great on paperq,yBut the question remains: How? Is it really feasible to· get more lights installed on Douglas Road? Will weekly table tents really solve the communication problem that is seemingly so prevalent on campus? Will Star Search at Dalloway's really help relations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students? These are all nice promises, but are they realistic? However, Hutchiso11 did accomplish all platform tasks as junior class president. Maybe she'll surprise us. 
The Observer endorses Turbiak/Miller in the 1996-97 Saint Mary's student government elections, but encour­ages students to challenge and consider all tickets at the delmte this evening in Haggar Parlor at 7:30p.m. 


Monday, February 12, 1996 page 9 
• MOVIE REVIEW 

'Broken Arrow' right on target 
"Broken Arrow" who conspires with outside interests and l>ireeted by John Woo steals two nuclear warheads, threaten­Starring John Travolta, Christian Slater ing foul play unless the U.S. government & Samantha Mathis comes up with big money right away. The bad guy is in total control, so some­one needs to overcome overwhelming
*** 

(nut nr rnurl odds to bring him down, right? Voila! 
Enter Christian Slater. By MARK TORMA Slater's Hiley Hale is the other pilot on Accent Movi< Critic the Stealth Bomber that Deakins hijacks. 
I
When he's foreefully ejected out into the Utah sky and onto Monument Valley, usnd to be a eynic, but like the Samantha Mathis's park ranger finds Monkt1es say, now I'm a bP.liever: him, and they join forces, bringing jus­John Travolta really is the epitome tiee to the world and living happily ever of cool. That said, now I ean get on with after (or am I getting ahead of myself?). my rnview. Let's faee it-the story itself isn't what Wtdl, not yet. In "BrokHn Arrow," we've eome to seH. We go for the excite­Christian Slatnr, Samantha Mathis, ment. Frank Whalley and former J{aider Howie And there's plenty of that right from Long are what I saw. but John Travolta the start. The story involves a liberal is what I watched -diligently, and with dose of explosions, loads of ereative evnry ehanee I got. If tlwre are any cyn­gunplay, and more eonveniently leaking ics rmnaining out there, I'll aeknowledge gas tanks than a crooked Amoco station. that Mr..fohn T. rnquirHs a rather sub­What's more, I was awed by the special 
John Travolta and Christian Slater combine 
jtH~tive analysis, but let me state my effects as they're piloting the Stealth 
danger and cunning as Stealth Bomber 
ease. Bomber in the early scenes; that was 
pilots caught up in the search for a missingIn neither "Pulp Fiction" nor "Get visually exeiting all by itself. nuclear weapon in "Broken Arrow." Shorty" was Travolta eonvincing that he Unfortunately, tlw weaknesses soon 
ranger is female. I learn something newwas "eool" us we know it. and not just a reared their ugly heads as well. 
every day. 

retrtHtd from a diseo movie; I think by Incredibly uninspired lines pepper the At one point, while absconding withnow Wll need an up-to-date version. screenplay (any good ones go Travolta's two valuable nukes, and in a moment ofWith "Broken Arrow" I think we've got way), and while there aren't too many 
severe ego-stroking, Howie Long tellsit: tlw old mastnr of modern malH chic is times when disbelief must be suspended, Travolta, "Vic, you da man!" -andback in action in a big way. right in the middle of the film its Travolta agrees. He knows he's da manBut the movie was more than just admirable continuity ends abruptly, and in this movie, the one that makes it allTravolta, so I'll gnt to the point: this the aetion fast-forwards through a cou­happen, the straw that stirs the drink.
movin is a good time. And JT's a big rea­ple of' hours and several modes of trans­Do not Jet it be said that John Travolta
son why. llis Vie Deakins is cool, but portation -very disturbing. 
can't carry a movie; here was a movie tolw's so much fun to wateh only because Director John Woo might have thought be saved. and he saves it.
lw's also evil, crazy and as devious as that would wake up the audienee if they If you don't go for the Travolta-style of most good movie villains must be. I hope had been put to sleep by Slater, who cool, though, be wary. There isn't muchl'v11 madn it dear by now -this is John gives a work-a-day performance in a 
else of any substance, besides some
Travolta's movie, twen though others role that demands morn. His well-worn 
technological sophistication and a
with significant roles do app!Htr. glare is nowhere near as expressive as it "Pyrotechnics 'H Us" approach. I have tol·:vllrybody nlsn is rnally just so much should bn, unless he's as turned on by 
say, however, that "Broken Arrow" is a
morll spacll on tlw semen. John Travolta as he is by Samantha rollicking ride for those of us who eager­Nt•vnrtlwltlSS, that space does nnaet a Mathis. The interaetion of her distressed ly engage in flights of faney. Hight now Istory linll (wriltlln, ratlwr obviously, by femme and Slater's lean, mean lighting want to be an insane, disgruntled, mas­tlw same word-erafter who wrote machine also taught me a valuable Jes­termind-of-an-air· force pilot... I wonder"Sp!Hld") which deserves treatment. son: as far as government officials go, if I can g~lt that in before midterms? 
l>tlakins is a frustratnd Air Foree oflicer military officer is a male job and park Photos courtesy Richard Foreman 
• ,.1-YftST!Vl\1 PRFVIfW MacLeod brings touch of Canada to SLF 
By J.R. YANCHAK lished in the 1969 edition of "The that time period. !lis stories have 
Accent Writer Best American Short Stories," a appeared in "The Best American considerable honor for a Short Stories" twice and "The Canadian. Some of you lucky Yearbook of the American Short 
F
or those of you who sub­English majors may even have Story" numerous times. MacLeod seribe to the common belief professors who remember stands as the only Canadian ever that the only interesting MacLeod from his days here. to appear in the former publiea­things ever to come out of Canada Family tradition is apparently tion. Several "artist in residence" are beer and hockey, the strong in the MacLeod family. and "resident short story writer" Sophomore Literary Festival is One of the author's six children is appointments followed as his out to prove you wrong. Canadian a graduate student at Notre Dame teaching career took him from author Alistair MacLeod will be working toward his own PhD in Notre Dame to Indiana University delivering a reading of his award­English and Creative Writing. to his eurrent position as a full winning writings during the Alex MacLeod is also following his professor of English at the Monday installment of the father's example and penning his University of Windsor, where he Festival: own north-of-the-border-flavored teaches the next generation of 
According to Notre Dame stories. Alex will also be deliver­Canadian wordsmiths. English professor William ing a presentation at the SLF as a Three collections have spanned O'Hourke, "It's always good to student reader. the author's career, and each has reach out to Canadian writers. The style and power of the been met with critical acclaim There is a lot of' interchange elder MacLeod's work are per­from both critics and fellow writ­going back and forth, but we haps best revealed by the follow­ers. "The Lost Salt Gift of Blood" often don't treat them as interna­ing quote: "No one else has your was the first and included "The tional as they are." fingerprints and no one else has Body." The book was nominated 
If broadening international per­your voice. I am interested in get­for the People's Choice Award for spective isn't enough of a lure, ting words down that convey best book published in the United how about Domer spirit? what it is like to be living a cer­Kingdom in 1991. It was also MacLeod has a long history of tain kind of life in a certain kind selected as one of the best new association with the NO commu­of place in a certain time in histo­books of 1988. "Birds Bring Forth nity. He was awarded a PhD in ry. I believe that a writer should the Sun" followed that initial vol­English Literature from the tell the truth about what he or ume, and "Island" is his most University in 1968. While a grad­she knows in a creative manner recent published work. All three uate student here, he taught that is not necessarily holding up have been translated into six lan­English and creative writing, and to life." . guages and circulated throughout authored what was to become Primarily a short story writer, the world. MacLeod is currently one of his best-known and criti­the elder MacLeod's body of work at work on a novel tentatively eally-regarded stories, "The has spanned three decades and titled "No Great Mischief if They 
Boat." The story later was pub-garnered much attention during Fail." 




ACCENT
page 10 Monday, February 12, 1996 
• ACCENT PROFilE 

• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Notre Dame's 'Piano Man': Mitch Silver 
By CATHERINE DEELY 
Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he similarities are uncan­ny. Both hail from the rock n' roll grass roots of Long Island, New York. Both possess disarming smiles and a self-effacing sense of humor. Both were blessed with a rare gift for making music ...and both dazzled the crowd packed into Stepan Center on January 31. 
One of the above is, of course, the legendary Billy Joel. The other is Notre Dame law stu­dent Mitch Silver. 
Mitch Silver catapulted into campus spotlight after sharing the stage with Joel during the superstar's recent lecture tour stop at ND. However, Silver's link to the piano ... and to Billy Joel...has actually been in place throughout much ofa lifetime. 
The inspiration has never dimmed. Although Silver was never a music "major" accord­ing to the official sense of the word, his time as an under­graduate student at the State University of New York at Binghamton was filled as much with notes of the musical vari­ety as with those of the class­room. He soon found his niche as a rehearsal pianist for school musicals; he and a friend also formed a casual group dubbed the "No Good Nicks." 
He entered Notre Dame in the fall of 1992 ... not as an aspiring musician, but as a law student. "Law is what I feel like I'm sup­posed to be doing, while music is what I'd like to do," Silver elaborates. ''I'm getting my law degree. Of course, I've always been involved in music; I'm always looking for a back door entrance ... you never know. But it's good to have something practical to fall back on." 
Despite the pressures of law school life, Silver has ensured that time remains for his music. lie has touched upon compos­ing, writing a variety of songs ranging from a witty "post­Christmas carol" to a rock n' roll ballad named and written for Teresa, his girlfriend of five years. Silver had not played before an audience since arriv­ing in South Bend ... that is, of course, until he played. onstage with the man who has been an integral part of his life for as long as music itself has. 
Growing up fifteen minutes 
from the hometown of the 

Piano Man, and developing a devotion to the same instru­ment, led to an admiration so strong that Silver credits Billy Joel for much of his own musi­cal accomplishment. His face lights up as he recalls the Joel concert-his first ever-he made it to at age fourteen, where he managed to snag the last seat in the last row of the Nassau Coliseum. The experi­ence was powerful enough to lead to six more shows over the years; he made it to the front row last year. 
When Silver first heard that his idol was coming to Notre Dame, his response encom­passed everything from ecstasy 
'w.1en it's the person you most want to talk to in the world-what do you ask?' 
Mitch Silver 
to understandable anxiety. "As soon as tickets went on sale, I felt a little pressured...like this was my one chance," he recalls. The news that Joel would be taking questions added to the stakes. "When it's the person you most want to talk to in the world-what do you ask?" 
Once the night finally arrived, and Silver found himself at the front of the crowd once more, sheet music for nearly all of Billy Joel's songs in hand, he had a very special type of inquiry in mind. As the lights swept over the audience and a vocal group of supporters helped to single out Silver as "the next question," he took his gamble. He introduced himself, explained where he was from, what he could play, and what the man before him had meant in his life. 
And he asked Billy Joel if he could possibly join him onstage for a song. 
Silver had known his wish was not guaranteed. "He was perfectly in his right to say no; it was a big risk," Silver himself states. But Billy Joel did not say no, and before Mitch Silver could fully realize the magni­tude of what was happening, he was seated on the stage, where he belonged-behind a piano. The strains of "Scenes from an Italian Restaurant" soon filled Stepan, with Joel's vocals backed solidly by Silver's accompaniment. For Silver, who had always played along with the CD at home, imagining himself joining his hero, it was a dream come true and more. 
Though Silver didn't miss a beat once his fingers touched the keys, "I was surprised I could perform in shock," he laughs. "I was just in a zone. It was like I was playing in a dream." 
Silver finished the song amidst the enthusiastic cheer­ing of the thrilled crowd. The excitement, he was to find, had not ended when the music did. "Who was that?" everyone wanted to know. 
"I hadn't calculated the atten­tion at all!" he exclaims mod­es.tly. ''I'm taken aback by it. But if people want to know about me, I'm very flattered." 
He is also exceedingly grate­ful to Joel. Silver sent a lami­nated copy of the South Bend Tribune issue featuring the story to Joel. along with a heartfelt letter. "(During his lecture, Joel) said that if he hadn't become a musieian, he would have been a teacher. I told him, 'You were a teacher to me-and one of the best I've ever had."' 
Silver still hopes to obtain a recording of the evening as a memento, although efforts to do so through Joel's record com­pany have so far proven fruit­less. He also hopes to play for audiences again in the future. ''I'm always open to play some­thing," he says. ''I'd like to do more." 
Those who know Mitch Silver 
best were delighted by his turn 
of events-but not surprised. 
''I'm the type of guy who has 
strange things happen to him. 
I'm like Forrest Gump, my 
friend says," he smiles. 

His expression grows serious as he reflects on it all. "I see life as a journey, and I'm always looking forward to new experi­ences," he comments. "But what this has shown me ... I'd just like to tell people that, no matter how crazy a dream is, I can say with authority: stick with it." 
As Billy Joel himself might say, "Don't look for answers ...just take your chances." The possibilities, Mitch Silver has demonstrated, speak for themselves. 
I
t appears as if John's fate is sealed. Pronounced guilty by a I·· "trying to be just, but Stefano is blackmailing me" judge, he is to die in the gas chamber. Stefano told the Judge it was either him or John -who can blame the Judge for choosing John? Amazingly enough, Aremid's legal system is so incredible that John's execution will take place in 48 hours. Kristen was devastated and ran to John; however, it was Marlena's hand that John held. As for John's run-in with the courts of-Aremid. we think he should have found himself a more competent lawyer than Mickey Horton. 
We all breathed a sigh of relief as the Lady-in-White finally got the diary back from Stefano. Unfortunately, Stefano realized the "missing book" was important and went to the 'lady's cham­bers, trashed her living area and took back the diary. He reviewed the diary and found out that Tony was framing John, yet he still let the judge convict him. Oddly enough, Celeste found some morals and was disgusted with Stefano's choice. In a more typical move, she let John's verdict stand and didn't tell anyone about Tony's plan. 
Hope's luck is not very good right now either. Jude's holding her captive in a "Misery-esque" fashion in a cabin deep in the woods. She did manage to free herself from the bedpost to which she was handcuffed. Unfortunately, her feet were bound alittle more securely. 
Jack and Jennifer have run off to the Cayman islands to­gether. Do not get too excited Jack fans, they are on a mission to find information about Jude St. Claire. Their plan is to be­come bank tellers at the bank indicated by the numbers inside the matchbook. During one of their training exercises entitled "Dealing With Customer Phone Calls," Jenn received a phone call from, guess who, Jude, who is desperate for money. Unfortunately for Jude, and not to mention Peter, Jenn thinks she recognized Jude's voice. 
•·· Meanwhile, Bo, with his hair straight and his sideburns long, feels as if Hope's "death" was all his fault. Why? Because he didn't tell her he loved her earlier. If he had, then they would have been together. Has he forgotten that Hope was the idiot who ignored Bo's warning of a possible avalanche where she was skiing? Sounds like a classic case for either of Salem's fine psychologists. With Marlena busy and Laura in search of a new pitiful man who is grieving about his wife (now that Jack is in the islands with Jennifer), it looks as if Laura will have to help. 
Jonah fmally convinced Austin to forget about New Year's and work on getting back together with Carrie. Unfortunately, when he went to find her she was snuggling with the dreaded Lucas. This story line is getting old! 
~ Erin Kelsey and Christina Fticsar 

GENERAL HOSPITAL 
Well, it was another wild and crazy week for those folks in Port Charles. Lily and Sonny managed to tie the knot after Lily panicked, thinking she was forcing Sonny into a marriage he didn't want (imagine that). After Sonny's reassurances of devo­tion, the vows continued. I wonder if Brenda noticed the word love was never mentioned. Lily and Sonny's reception at Luke's was crashed when Mac, Katherine and Kevin showed up in search of Luke. Seems Lucy had run off to San Antonio, follow­ing her visions of Damien eating ribs. These dashing heroes 
·knew someone had to help her, and Kevin decided the they were the ones to do it. Luke disagreed, wanting to leave Kevin behind due to his lack of experience in the damsel~in-distress area. Mac agreed, but Kevin would not budge. So he flew down to San Antonio inctependently, while Mac and Luke, enlisting the help of Edward. took the Quartermaine corporate jet. It didn't take a genius to figure Lucy would be at the most expensive hotel in the area, and they all met up there. 
Speaking of Edward, he was seeing red when Lois and Jax forced him to decide whether owning Eddie Maine or owning Yaggi Pharmaceuticals was more important. Edward decided on the company. so Eddie Maine is back in the arms of Lois, right where she (and he) wants him. Jax. however. came out of this very attracted to Mrs. Ashton and refuses to seal the deal unless she spends a weekend alone with him so he can prove he is the man for her. She leaves Ned a note and goes off with Jax. desperate to close the deal. Ned is furious and calls the airport, demanding to know Jax's travel plans. 
Meanwhile. after a brief pause in the story line, Monica's "secret admirer" gifts have started to show up again. Who this is remains a mystery, although I'm placing my bet on Reginald. After poisoning Katherine Belle without anyone finding out, this secret admirer stuff is just small potatoes. Speaking .of food, Monica and sometimes·best-friend Bobbie chowed down on a pie in the Q kitchen. The scene turned ugly fast, however, when· Bobbie tried to apologize one more time for trying to sleep with Alan. Monica admitted she was still angry and the pie started to fly, literally. Don't worry, the scene ended with the two laughing and making up. 
The ever-cheerful Jason broke Keesha's heart by telling her he didn't love her anymore. Keesba seeks comfort with AJ while AJ seeks comfort in the bottom of a liquor bottle, and drives himself drunk to Kevin's office, where they have a confronta­tion. Kevin tells AJ he doesn't let people love him. and h.is keep­ing the secret about the true circumstances of Jason's accident 
,is just adding to that. AJ admits he needs help, and Kevin thinks it's time for rehab; That's it for Port Charles' trials and tribulations this week. See you next week with more on those folks we love so much. 
-Jennifer Rubow 
..,.. 

Munday, February 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• NBA ALL-STAR GAME 
-. 


Jordan leads East to victory 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 
Back in the All-Star Game for the first time sinee 1'J'n. Michael Jordan simply did the usual -make surn his side didn't lose. 
.Jordan had 20 points in just 22 minutes, didn't play the fourth quarter and helped the Eastern Confnrnnen lwut the Western Conference 129­11 S Sunday. 
l.cHtding to tlw game, .Jordan had a let a few hints drop that he was out to avnnge the Eastorn Conforonen's 27-point loss last season. llis 10 third-quarter points wnrn enough to give hiin the Most Valuable Player award for the second time in his earner. 
"This wnnkend turned out to lm a great week­tmd, and I had a good time," Jordan said over tlw boos of fans unhappy that he didn't play the lin<tl pnriod. 
In tlw third, however, Jordan put on the kind of show expected of him, helping the East turn a (, l-5S halftinw lead into a double-digit blowout. II is pnrfornHtnen, howt~ver bl'ief, was the only bright spot in an All-Star Game with more air halls and turnovers than stellar play. 
But just as .Jordan reinvigoratnd the league by his return from retirement last March, he saved this game from mediocrity. 
Them he was driving through the lane, picking up a perfnet bounce pass from Anfernee llardaway and soaring in for a dunk. There he was eurling around the right side for a one­handl!d jam. 
Tho basket with 4:14 remaining in the third 
quarter was his last of the game and gave the East an 88-71 lead. He hit 8 of 11 field goals, making his first four shots of the game and had four rebounds. 
Orlando's Shaquille O'Neal led the Eastern Confnrence with 25 points and 10 rebounds. His teammate, Hardaway, added 18 points . 
For the West, which had won three of the last four All-Star contests, hometown favorite David Hobinson of the San A~tonio Spurs had 18 points and 11 rebounds, leading a brief comeback for his team. 
Down by 22 at the end of three quarters, the West opened the fourth quarter with six straight points and pulled to 111-103 on Mitch Hiehmond's fastbreak layup. But Hardaway hit two straight 3-pointers, only the third and fourth for the Eastern Conference, to stretch the lead again. 
In all, it was a lackluster game 
The first half was just plain sloppy, with a total of 27 turnovers. The West had 17 of th11m, lead­ing to 28 points for the East. Too many no-look passes went into the seats instead of into a team­mate's hands, and too many would-be alley-oops were simply oops. 
Jason Kidd, a first-time All-Star and the Dallas Mavericks' first-ever starter, was dazzling when he was in the game. 
lie connected with Seattle's Shawn Kemp on a behind-the-back pass that Kemp took in for a thunderous dunk on one play. On another, he passed to Clyde Drexler under the basket and the Hoekets guard sent a nifty touch pass to Charles Barkley on the wing for a layup. 
Kidd had five assists in the first quarter. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. w 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  LOST: Pair of red/gold glasses at Senior Bar last Thurs .... any info call  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  1 BDRM in 3 bdrm apt. Mostly fur­nished. $200/mo + 1/3 electric.  TICKETS  Mclnerney/Wolsfeld -what a great platform!  - 
Alex the Blind x1717 .... girls don't  basic conversational English  Downtown. Call Alisa or Vanda  
NEED ANOTHER STUDY BREAK?  dig guys that run into walls  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and  237-1840  Macbeth ticket, Feb. 24 2:30, $11,  
come to Cushing this  S.Korea. Many employers provide  277-3203.  TYLER-DO YOUR OWN DAMN  
SUNDAY at 2 PM for SUB's showing of "Hew to Make an American Quilt"  WANTED  room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa- Irish Co. B&B Registry Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  PERSONAL  WORK I Why, oh why, is the news editor so  
$2  IMMEDIATE OPENING  lion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  lazy?  
PART TIME SALES POSITION  JPW -Grad. -Football games  OoOoOo0oOoOoooooooooo  
SPRING BREAKI  NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS  TUTORS for Elem. kids!  219-277-7003  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII  News once and for all puts sports in  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  $5.00 PER HOUR  Every Wed. 2:1!i·4:00pm  THE COPY SHOP  its place ....  
BLOW IT!  APPLY FAN FAIR. UNIVERSITY  Call Heather@ X4135  LaFortune Student Center  56 seconds!  
Organ1ze group-TRAVEL FREE  PARK MALL  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Phone 631-COPY  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  HOME.  ooooooooooooooooooooo  Have you ever had trow thrown  
$359 Flor1da $1 09  Driving to New Orleans for Spring  THE STUDENT UNION BOARD  VERY CLOSE TO ND.  your way?  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  Break and need someone to share  IS ACCEPTING  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  BALLROOM DANCERS!  
1 ·800·426· 771 0  the ride with x0979  APPLICATIONS! II  272-6194.  WE NOW MEET ON MONDAYS IN  EXHIBITION:  
If you are interested in: planning  THE CSC! TONIGHT  Tyler's dinner will be on display on  
Cancun & Jama1ca Spring Break  SUMMER JOBS  concerts, running the movie series,  6:30 BEGINNERS MAMBO  Mel and Mary Kate's bath mat for  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  designing cultural arts events,  TURTLE CREEK SUMMER APT  7:30 ADVANCED WALTZ  the next few days.  
Guarantee! 7 N1ghts Air & Hotel  PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP ­ bringing in comedians and lectures,  SUBLET 1 BDRM IN 2BDRM APT  ALL ARE WELCOME!  Admission: $2.  
From $4291 Save $100 On  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  planning Antostal, the Sophomore  PARTLY FURNISHED $270/MO  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring·  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz  +1/2 ELECTRIC. JUNE THRU  J.B.-­ 
breaktravelcom  1·800-786·8373  Festival, SUB WANTS YOU I!II  AUGUST CALL JOHN@634-4131  PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls  Corn  
1·800-678-6386  ---------­ In addition, SUB needs controllers  NOW! Only a Buck!!  I love it corn.  
-----------· Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for  to help handle money. graphic designers to create advertising, and  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  ........................................  It makes my toenails tingle! J/K-­ 
Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  anyone interested in PR or rela- Sophomore Literary Festival  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  299-1999 evenings.  tions.  Student Reading -Tues., Feb 13 @  Lois and Clark  
$2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  SUB is the largest organization on  HOMES FOR RENT  8pm, Hesburgh Library Auditorium  Lois and Clark  
Beaches·Near D1sney) $1691  ????????????????????  campus with opportunities for  232-2595  Hear your fellow darners read their  Lois and Clark  
Daytona $1391 http://www.spring- NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM- everyone, INTERESTED??? Come  own work: Luisa Heredia, David  Lois and Clark  
breaktravel.com.  MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO  get an application in 201 Lafortune  Old studebaker home,  Griffith, Kathleen McManus, Alex  Lois and Clark  
1·800·678-6386  SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED- or call1-77571!1  new interior, close to downtown.  Macleod, Rachel Wacker, Douglas  RULES!!II  
Can you dunk? SportsChannel, TCI  ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE ·AUGUST.  APPLICATIONS DUE FEB 16  safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect for 3­4 students + appl. $625/ mo. 289­ Metz, and Jessica Maich ........ * ......................................  Greg Bieg and Dave Bradley are  
Cable and Notre Dame want to see  CALL 273-1738.  77281vmsg  looking for a young whipper snap- 
you give up your best jam at the  ????????????????????  SUMMER WORKII  HAPPY 21ST ERIN AND JANINE  per to hang out with them and be  
Michiand Slam Dunk Challenge, this Wednesday night at the Joyce  Help! Anyone who has recordings  Landscaping Spend your summer landscaping  FOR SALE  HOPE YOU HAVE RECOVERED! LOVE AM. 233  their Stewart, like the guy from Beavis and Butthead. The job is  
Center Fieldhouse. Preliminary  or pictures (or negatives) from the  with Fath Management Company,  easy--you only have to sit and  
competition starts at six o'clock with  Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch  one of the largest property manage- Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp­ watch videos and play Saga all day  
the three w1nners being announced  Silver (I played a song on stage)  ment firms in Greater Cincinnati.  Receiver with Dual Tape Deck.  For the last time! Here are some  and night. The pay is good as well-­ 
at the end of that evening's Irish  277·2174  Full-time positions available. Hours  100 Watts of tunes! Call John at  reasons to vote for Kevin Glynn and  A jar of Sloppy Joe's anr1 some chili  
women's basketball home contest.  are M-F 8-4:30. No experience nee·  232-2955 today!  Patrick Belton ...  if you can stand it lor more than an  
Those w1nners will return the follow- EX ND STAFFER & WIFE WISH  essary. Dependability and reliable  1. We'll open up a fashion store at  hour. If you are at all interested in  
ing Wednesday and compete at  TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER.  transportaion required. Interested  1984 FORD TEMPO  St. Mary's and call it "SMC Chic."  being that person, give them a call  
halftime of the Irish men's basket·  NON-SMOKERS. NO PETS. REF- candidates should apply at Aspen  5-spd manual transmission  2. We both fence, so if anyone tries  at 273-0391.  
ball game for the title of Michiana's  ERENCES. CALL (941 )425-4404  Village Apartments, 2703 Erlene  96,000 miles, good heater, always  to take over the school. we'll fight  
Best Jammer and a spot in the  OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL- Drive. or call 662-3724 for an  dependable  $800  'em.  The Hundred Day's War has begun!  
Slam Dunk finals at a CHICAGO  BERRY FL 33860  appointment.  Call Chris today at271-02711  3. Patrick can represent the off- Ante up there children! You know  
BULLS HOME GAME. It's free for  Pre-employment Drug Screen  campus students since he lives in  Walter Morrissey is going to win it.  
everyone to participate. For more  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING- Required.  JUDAY CREEK gem.  Carroll.  
information or to enter. call the  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Fath Management Company  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  4. We would vote for you in a  My name is Ron, and I'm a  
Notre Dame Sports Promotions  on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com- E.O.E  with a 17 x 25 home office  minute.  whooped up individual. I like to  
office at (219)631-6095.  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  . & 3-car garage.  5. Campus improvements  spend cash. I like to eat like a bird. I  
ILOST & FOUND I lull-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550  FOR RENT  $154,900. Call Karen 272-3653.  (drainage, b-ball courts. computers in Security Building), a·program to bring teachers and students togeth­ enjoy every minute of II. John Lennon said, "I don't believe  
ext.C55843  THE POT A TO HOUSE 8 BED­ '89 BERETTA,  er outside the classroom, regular  in the Beatles, I just believe in me."  
REWARD$$ Lost detachable face- ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console,  exhibitions of student talent, a study  I could be the walrus.  
plate for PIONEER CD car stereo.  BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES  cruise, front·wheel drive. air.  of sexual assault on campus, and  
Lost on 2/3. Should be in black  TOP$$$ PAID  CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA  Excellent condition, new front tires  an all-campus charity formal in the  Watch out Shermy, they're watch- 
plastic case w/ "PIONEER" written  (800)269-5849  2773097  & exhaust system, and new shocks.  spring.  ing you. The Feds are everywhere  
on it. If found PLEASE call Mark @ 634·34891  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ......................................  Call654-7439 (local call).  Vote early and vote often!  and they have one goal·-to find you somewhere you shouldn't be .  
LOST on South Quad/Badin  Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR SUMMER ONLY.  GORGEOUS RED 1989 MAZDA RX-7 CONVERTIBLE, LOADED,  HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH II! •• "'* •••  I'm not gonna stop eatin' ersters,  - 
royal blue Adidas hat  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  $800/MONTH (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  LOW MILES, MINT CONDITION,  PLACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY  just 'cause you stay oysters.  
Sentimental Value Pis call x 2493  bonuses! Call: 1·206-971-3620 ext.N55845  CALL SARAH OR'JILL X2907 ...........................................  GARAGE KEPT, FACULTY OWNED-$14,500-234-6332.  CLASSIFIED ADS-NOWII • •••••• * *  But we know, we need each other so we better call the calling off off.  

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 12, 1996 
• fOOTBAlL 

Johnson show goes to coiDbines 
Mayes ranks near top ofstellar class ofreceivers 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Keyshawn Johnson used to hand helmets to football play­ers. The former Southern Cal ballboy, who went C?n to star­dom with the Pac 10 school, is ready to start catching footballs in the NFL. 
Johnson is being touted by some as the likely top draft pick in April. a seleetion held by the New York Jets. He met with representatives of the Jets this weekend at the NFL scouting combine, as well as many other teams, and said he doesn't have any preference over who selects him when the draft begins April 20. 
''I'll play for anybody. I don't care who it is," he said during a break from the tedious three­day routine of the combine. "If New York wants to take me No. 1, then I will be more than glad to go to New York. If the Raiders want me to stay in California, I'll be glad to go with the Raiders.... I. don't want to get caught up in saying that I want to go to this particular team, because that's not the case." 

The 6-foot-4, 210-pound Johnson will bring impressive credentials to whatever team selects him. As a senior, he caught 102 passes for 1,434 yards and seven touchdowns. He ended his college career by making 12 receptions for 216 yards as the Trojans defeated Northwestern in the Rose Bowl but said he doesn't believe that performance boosted his stature among NFL scouts and coaches. 
"I hope it helped. How much higher could I be rated? I'm rated pretty high," Johnson asked. "All I could do was drop. I just went out to play for my team. I didn't play to raise my level of possible draft picks. I went out there to win the game." 
Wide receiver is reportedly one of the strongest positions in this year's draft. The prospects 

-

The Observer/Eric Ruethling Keyshawn Johnson is head and shoulders above the rest of the receivers working out at the combines. 


PLAZA 
lly n~iL s~~.~ 
-'t ((i· ..r":i,._-H-..:....--.-.
1ll 
~ 

~~Y\iOr CLa55 YLd.Y 
AILIL IPlli.CO> CCill ill IIJ)§ JML&.NID> 1r A IBID><O> 

-TICKETS $3, BUY AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK OR AT WASH. HALL 1/2 HOUR BEFORE SHOW 
BRING YOUR VALENTINE ON WED. TAPE FRIENDS ON THURS. 

include Eric Moulds of Mississippi State, Michigan's Mercury Hayes, Bobby Engram of Penn State, Notre Dame's Derrick Mayes and Terry Glenn of Ohio State. 
"It's a rich draft," Johnson said, adding that he's trying not to become involved over talk that he might be the first wide­out to be the No. 1 pick in the draft since Irving Fryar achieved the distinction in 1984. "Those ratings don't mean anything. You guys in the media who write it, don't really know anything. All they do is write what they hear. 
'Th<> people who have to pick the players know.... I can't say that the Jets say I'm No. 1, and the Jaguars are saying I'm No. 1 ... I don't know who it's com­ing from," he said. "Of course you have to be excited about the fact of being number one. That's a long term goal for a lot of kids who dream of playing professional sports." 
During the combine, Johnson met with Houston coach Jeff Fisher. 
It wasn't the first time they met. Fisher was one of th_ose Johnson handed helmets to when he was a ballboy at Southern Cal. 
"Hanging around the campus, growing up in LA, and meeting different people, it happened to pop up one day that they intro­duced me to some of the play­ers, and to some of the coaches, from there on I was a ballboy," Johnson said. 
The Oilers are one of the teams seeking help at wide receiver as they look to a future with Steve McNair at quarter­back. Haywood Jeffries was the team's top receiver with 61 catches last season and Johnson laughed when he was asked if Fisher might be carry­ing his helmet in the future. 
Are You Prepared? 
WeAre. 

• 
Limit of 10 Students per Class 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 


• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


~i:iNCETON 
.,.REVIEW 

(Cl~ s~ February 17th~) 
Call Today! 800/865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton 
University or the Educational Testing Service. 
f~ 



North INDIAN TANDOORS & South INDIAN CURRIES




HA LAEAR 
Delicious Meats, Fish & I I ~ I _ J I _ Vegetarian Platters ~,(}. ~ Imported Indian & Other Wines & Beer DINE IN • CARRY OUT • CATERING • RESERVATIONS DESIRED Dinner Tues ­
::EC• ..:Jf@ 


The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Derrick Mayes has impressed scouts with hi.s performa':lces at the combines in Indianapolis. He's projected as a high draft cho;ce. 
love. 
Mom. Heather. Mike. Phil. Lucki 
&MO 

Join the Student Managers Organization!!! 
Receive free books, Free Basketball Tickets,and be on the sidelines ofhome ND football games 
Come to an informational meeting Monday, February 12 at 8:00PM in the Loftus Football Auditorium 
Any Questions?Call the manager's office at 631-6482 

"Where The Aroma Of Gentle Spices Awaits You" . Featuring 
Monday, February 12, 1996 
-·-The Observer • SPORTS page 13
---_________:_ 
---~-­

-
• :lAvts CuP TENNIS 

U.S. sweeps Mexico, advances Colts, Infante discuss 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press 
CAHLSBAD, Calif. 
The United States, whose wealth of tennis tal­Bnt allows it the luxury of changing Davis Cup players from round to round, swept Mexico on Sunday and faces a tougher test against the Czech Hepublic in April. 
Michael Chang, who started the sweep by beat­ing Leonardo Lavalle on Friday, downed Alejandro Hernandez 6-0, 6-2 on Sunday. Todd Martin, who beat Hernandez on Friday, edged Lavalle 3-6, 7-6 (7-1), 6-4 Sunday as the Mexicans won their only set of the five matches. 
The Unitnd States clinched the first-round vic­tory a day earlier wlwn Patrick McEnroe and Patrick Galbraith beat Lavalle and Oscar Ortiz in doubles, essentially turning Sunday's singles into exhibition matches. 
With live players ranked in the top 14 interna­tionally, tlw United States, the defending Davis Cup champion, has considerable options. 
Chang is ranknd No. 5 and Martin is No. 14. Mexico's highest ranked player was Hernandez, 
1 
$?]JJ 
-~ ...-.~...,.•••••4 T ~:-~.!:Z:.!!~?J ~........., Power \tacimo~h i2(X)Power Pavback Rebate 1.~• •. 1,_,,,,.:J~ ff)!<,' \f,l<llll<•'b ~ "' · 1,1, II ''•'I hi ~l/ U !Ill \f.Jf'< 1 lfi•l• .tr ~·kl\' •IIIJ/ vr 1•till< ,, • 

an 18-year-old ranked No. 205. 
Team captain Tom Gullikson plans to use eight to 10 different players during the course of the Davis Cup this year if the United States continues to advance, but has not said who wiii be in­cluded. 
He indicated that No. 2 Pete Sampras, who led the United States past Russia in the Cup final last year, will pl·ay some this year, but that top­ranked Andre Agassi is leaning toward the Olympics instead. 
No. 8 Jim Courier is a distinct possibility for the 
U.S. squad in the second round against the Czech Hepublic, likely in Prague, April 5-7. 
While the United States was shutting out Mexico over the weekend, the Czechs were sweeping their first-round matches against Hungary. 
"The next (matches) will be more difficult," Chang said. "(Petr) Korda's a shotmaker, he can hit winners all over the court. And (Daniel) Vacek's a good player, too. Playing over there, it won't be that easy." 
Whatever the makeup of the U.S. squad for that round, Chang qoesn't figure to be on it. 
"We had a long talk Saturday and a brief one today," Infante said. "I thought the talks went well. ... We decided we're going to wait until we're finished with the combine and then meet again." 
The combine, which brought more than 300 NFL hopefuls here to be tested and meet with team representatives, ends on Monday. 
After leading the Colts to the AFC championship game in his fourth season as coach, Marchibroda was let go Friday after he refused a one-year contract extension. 
Asked if he would accept a one-year contract, Infante smiled and responded, ''I'm not going to get involved in hypo­thetical questions at this point." 
Tobin was not available for comment and Infante said he didn't know if the team had any other possible candidates. 
"Obviously, I'm interested in the job," Infante said. "I didn't sense any problems in my talks with Bill. I hope he didn't see any." 
Marchibroda, who produced the Colts' most successful sea­son since they left Baltimore in 1984, came within one play of Super Bowl after playoff upsets of San Diego and Kansas City. 
"I've been in this business too long to be surprised by the turn of events here, but I cer­tainly didn't expect it," Infante said. 
"On Wednesday, when we were having a news conference about (defensive coordinator) Vince Tobin becoming the new coach at Arizona, the news came out about Ted's contract situation and you sensed some­thing might be happening." 
The Colts had been in the playoffs only once since 1978, and their most recent post-sea­son victory was in 1971. This past season, the Colts advanced to the AFC title game, losing to Pittsburgh 20-16 when a des­peration pass into the end zone fell incomplete on the game's final play. 


STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
' PER PERSON DEPENDING ON IJESTINATION I BREAJ< OAT£S /lENGTH Of STAY. 
•~soG.;.SUNC114S·E 
TOLL Fl!55 IIIIFOIIW.TION & 115SIR1\t.TIONS 01 SUIIf OYER TO 0411 liTE A't 

Three more reasons to buy a 
Macintosh this semester. 

PowcrBook 
+ Printer Pa\back' 
It<;;• nwtl .,,;J~'"' ,;~, -~\1' \fo<~•;l:;vrfr>lH<t/~.• .l: U/~·~~ {!llf<i<l14t/ 1!11/> \I:JB./'JN.it· J-<tttlt-H 

coaching opportunity 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The NFL scouting combine is slowing talks that may lead to Lindy Infante becoming the next coach of the Indianapolis Colts, Infante said Sunday. 
Infante said he met with Bill Tobin, the Colts' director of football operations, both Saturday and Sunday to discuss the vacancy created last week when team officials decided not to retain Ted Marchibroda. 
Infante is the former head coach of the Green Bay Packers. 
He was out of the NFL for three years before being hired last season as the Colts' offen­sive coordinator. 

" 
.............. 
Perfonna 
+ Printer Pavback 
11~;<,, 11~· J•U'! ;,,1..-rif .-'..\1 'f;;.~bfrm~.-~''f'k {<fl!ll<~ II 1~?1 J•!lfli,N.·l ~ 1/f>..t\I qtt.ilifwv; 1\-<jn•..,w 
ltdm~ fpr J ).!fl"Jt dnlon J wmputn and prunni .~ wmpktr ~r~tcm ttur\ tJSlll) u~t J.nd pcrft'ft fnr J.ll your ~{hool need~) \tdl. no nrnl ro look any lurthn llnJmt· whtk ,upplic~ l.t\1 \nu lJn rcwll' up 111 a S~lll matl·m rdlJit'~ wht·n you hu~· !>dt'l:lrtl combinJ!Ior~ oi .-\ppll' .\l.mnto~h computrr!>. moniwo a.nd pnnlt'" Chnl PUt the IJtnt m:\ppk Cornputtr~ on CJmpu~ Tlwr lure t'\rnthm~ tor )\)U to t.tkr homt: thr ptl\\'l'f to maKr any Mutlrnl. btulty <•r ~taffs lik 
cl.,acr Notre Dame Computer Store 
Lomlt·d in Romn 112 \lath and Computt•r Uuildin~ 
Notre Dame, Indiana .J6556 
219-631-7477 or on tlw Wc.·h at http://www.nd.c.·du/-ndmat'l 




page 14 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 12, 1996 

Coming soon to your mailbox: the new ALUMNI NEWSLETTER with the annual ballot 
Because, as asenior, you're considered part of the great Notre Dame Family of graduates. As a senior, your first year's contribution to the University and your inclusion in this year's football ticket lottery are already accomplished. And as asenior, you are eligible to elect new members to the Alumni Board of Directors. 
That's why you'll receive a ballot with this issue. You're asked to vote for seven of the candidates. One will represent you by virtue of being an At-Large (young alum) member, and one will represent you as a Regional director.... 
11

11.We'A. 114~ ""'\ -~ ~ /J 4 • Off~~!nit ~~~r ~~\ ~ B1~il~~~:~n~ni
'"'/fl ~ yryrr:7 ~· ····· ·· ,. receive a Notre Dame memento of your senior year. If you prefer, you can drop the ballot in campus mail. Either way, be sure to vote. The work of the Alumni Board influences the effectiveness of the Notre Dame Family everywhere-and that means you, wherever you are, for the rest of your life. 
Remember, you'll receive The ALUMNI NEWSLETTER-· free-as long as the University has your current address. When you're settled "out there" after May, be sure to update Notre Dame with your home and business address, phone, fax and e-mail numbers. Keeping us updated means you'll keep info like football ticket applications coming to you! 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 201 Main Building 631·6000 


-• COllEGE BASKETBALl 

No. 1 UMass remains undefeated 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 

AMHERST, Mass. 
With only nine wins to go for an unbeaten reg­ular season, top-ranked Massachusetts is still getting better. 
The Minutemen crushed Temple 84-55 Sunday with a smothering defense and 26 points from Carmelo Travieso, who made eight 3-pointers. And they did it with only 10 points from star cen­ter Marcus Camby. 
The margin was one point less than the Minutemen's largest of the season and came just 10 days after a 59-35 win at Temple, their biggest Atlantic 10 rival. 
"They've hit us on two great days," UMass coach John Calipari said. "Those two games are probably two of the top five we've played all year." 
The two blowouts came against a team that had beaten Kansas, now ranked third, and Villanova, ranked sixth. 
"This is a great UMass team," Temple coach John Chaney said. "They're the very essence of what a team should be." 
UMass (23-0, 11-0) is trying to become the first team to go through a season without a loss since Indiana in 1975-76. 
"If we lose along the way or we lose the con­ference tournament, that's OK," Calipari said. "We're here to win the (NCAA) tournament." 
Temple {12-10, 8-3) was led by Marc Jackson with 13 points and 14 rebounds and Derrick Battie with 12 points. 
Travieso tied a school record for 3-pointers and led all five UMass starters in double figures. Donta Bright, Dana Dingle and Edgar Padilla had 13 points each. Padilla added nine assists, while Camby had five blocks and four assists. 
"Marcus Camby is as good a passer as he is a scorer or anything else," Calipari said. 
"You can contain Camby but when you've got balance like UMass it just doesn't work," Chaney said. "You've got to hope the other guys shoot bricks, but they don't." 
The Minutemen were rested after having two days off from practice last week following three road games in six days. It showed as they played relentless defense, attacked the boards and dove after loss balls. 
''I'm not sure if we can play any better than that," Calipari said. "This should squelch the rumors that we're tired." 
Travieso made 9-of-12 shots, and UMass sank 52 percent of its shots while finishing with 11 steals, eight blocks, 25 assists and just six turnovers. Temple had 15 turnovers and eight assists. 
Travieso, who made five 3-pointers in the first half, said, "after the third one, my release felt pretty good and I knew I was going to have a good game." 
The Minutemen led 36-29 at halftime but opened the second !:alf with an 18-3 run as they had five steals in the first nine minutes. That made the score 54-32 and they led by at least 19 the rest of the way. 
"Defense is always the key for us," Dingle said. "We were only up seven at halftime. We figured if we step up our defense the offense would get going." 
Travieso made his last 3-pointer with 3:00 to go, giving UMass an 80-50 lead. Twenty-two sec­onds later, Calipari sent in five substitutes. 
The 'owls had gotten back into the game with an 8-1 run that ended the half as the Minutemen squandered a 14-point lead. But UMass came out in the second half With a pesky defense that frus­trated Temple, which missed 9 of its first 10 shots. 
"We struggle when the ball is in the hands of the guards," Chaney said. "We have more self­inflicted wounds than anybody else." 
The Minutemen opened the half with a basket by Bright and two by Padilla. 
Johnny Miller made a 3-pointer for Temple, but UMass got the next 12 points, including five by Travieso. Camby ended the spurt with a dunk with 11:53 left. 
···. Simon got credit for a steal ..,..---~--=:.-M when he picked up the loose PHOENIX ball at the top of the Bearcats' !iC Lute Olson, a free throw circle, took one 

sure tbi get his SOOth viC~ dribble and heaved it with two ;;tory sometjln~Jbi!:!Jleason, got handsf' 11t by a long shot: · "''' ··• ''We've had some big wins 
''l sppt itoff one foot,· b{;Jt I at the tail end,· but never from wason balance," Miles Simon that distance." said Olson, saiq Sijnday after he ban~ed 500-190 in his 23rd season, in a 65·footer at the buzzer including one at Long Beach Sunday to give the 16th-State and nine at Iowa. ra~e<J\Vildc~ts a,79~76 vic· , He improved to 3-0 against tory over No. 5 CinCinnati. ''I '" Cincinnati, the last two taking didn't just he&,ve i~ up,, I trleq . place in 1993 and this year as to make the s)lQt."· ;Jt part of the 7Up Shoo tout. 
I~ISh:ltonwasjlist 3'"of-ll from}; The Wildcats (18-4) led 41· the field unt~lhis. ~ircus shot, 38 at halftime, and Olson said which followed aCincinnati strong play without center iqpQunds pass wHh 3.8 sec~ Ben Davis, who had two fouls onds left that Danny Fortson and played only four minutes couldn't h dle, in the first half, was the key, 
and 


Monday, February 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLL!GE BASKETBALL 
Despite abscence of Kingsbury, Iowa runs roughshod over hapless Hoosiers 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER  and were outrebounded 49-33.  gas. The Hoosiers checked into  
Associated Pre>S  "We came out and played  another hotel 1 hour, 15 min­ 
great today,"  Iowa's  Ryan  utes later.  
IOWA CITY. Iowa  Bowen said. "We knew it was a  Iowa coach Tom Davis felt the  
First indiana got run out of its  big  game  for  us.  being  on  interruption in routine may  
hotnl. Then the Hoosiers got  national television. We wanted  have hurt Indiana. Knight dis- 
run out of the arena by Iowa.  to play well and that's what we  agreed.  
No. 19 Iowa shut down Big  did."  "That didn't have anything to  
Ten scoring leader Brian Evans  Indiana (14-9, 7-4) had all  do  with  us,"  he  replied  
and got a big lift from Kenyon  sorts of problems. The Hoosiers  brusquely. "Any questions on  
Murray oiT the bench in beating  suffered  through  scoring _the game?''  

Indiana 76-50 Sunday. droughts"of 4:53 in the first half 
Murray, who asked to be and 6:22 in the second and they taknn out of the starting lineup, got into foul trouble, forcing lml Iowa ( 17-6 overall. 6-5 Big coach Bob Knight to abandon Ten) with 16 points and got two his much-loved man-to-man ol' his basktlts during a 9-0 sec-defense and play zone. ond-hall' run that gave the It was a rough weekend all llawkeyes control. the way around ~or Indiana, 
It was Iowa's most lopsided which had to evacuate its hotel vietory over Indiana since a 91-Saturday night when a mixing hu win in 11J79. The 50 points error in the swimming pool were a season-low for the caused a release of chlorine lloosiers, who shot 34.7 percent 
---'---------'------------------,first-half shooting with defense 
The Obser,T.er'
" , 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 

Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged to apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Ca/11-4540 with uestions. 
Pick from a bouquet of balloons, each containing a special discount of 15°/o, 20°/o or 25°/o off your entire purchase. Plus, enjoy 2 for 1 admission when you and your "sweetie" tour the College Football Hall of Fame. 

7 through February 14 

111 South Saint Joseph Street • South Bend 800/871-2865 or 219/235-5700 Open Daily 9am-7pm • Free Parking • Free Admission 
Knight had little else to say in a postgame press conference that lasted two minutes at the most. 
"Our inside people did not play well," he said. "We got outrebounded badly. We just did not see things very well as the second half progressed. It was a game that the more we got into it, the more thoroughly we were beaten." 
Iowa overcame 28.6 percent 
and rebounding to win for the second time in as many games without starting guard Chris Kingsbury, suspended for three games for unsportsmanlike be­havior. 
Russ Millard added 15 points for the Hawkeyes and Andre Woolridge scored 14 to go with nine assists. Jess Settles had 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
"Even if Chris had been in there, we needed to come out in the second half of the (Big Ten) season and just play hard," Murray said. "We weren't happy with how we finished the first half. We got back to basics. 


PhOto courtesy ollndiana sports lnlormalion Big Ten scoring leader Brian Evans was held to half his average Sunday. The senior had just 13 points in Indiana's loss to Iowa. 
We're working hard out there and we're having fun." Evans, averaging 26.7 points over the last three games and 
21.9 for the season, finished with 13 points. Seven came after the game had been decid-· ed. He got only four shots in the first half and was 4-for-10 for the game. 
Iowa used a variety of defens­es against Evans, includiP.g a box-and-one. Bowen started out on the Indiana ace and was fol­lowed by a succession of play­ers -Murray, Woolridge, Mon'ter Glasper and Kent McCausland. 
"I had nightmares all night about him coming out and hit­ting a three right off the bat," Bowen said. "Last year at their place and then again this year, 
MARDI SOJR CHEZ MARff41N 
'' X~ t._ • 
~~ ,.' 
"-. I ~ ' 

A series of Tuesday evening lectures o~·t:l;~~~i~ thought. 
,>, 
-
it seems like if he makes two or three wide open shots, he really gets it going and then when you get on him, he still makes them. 
"We wanted to stop him from getting one right away." 
Indiana's No. 2 scorer, Andrae Patterson, picked up two quick fouls and played only 
4:33 in the first half, then got two more quick fouls and went to the bench again at the 16:27 mark in the second half. He fin­ished with 11 points and fouled out with seven seconds left. 
Helped by 14 offensive re­bounds, Iowa Jed 31-25 at half­time despite making just 10 of 35 shots. Indiana stayed close in the opening moments of the second half, trailing 36-29 after Baris Mujezinovic's layup with 
16:27 left. 

--~----~--~-~---~-------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 12, 1996 
• WOMEN'S BASKHBA!J. 



Irish back to their winning ways 
Stretch run in focus as Notre Dame rolls past Georgetown 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
So far, the Irish have made good on their word. 
Following their defeat to a lowly Rutgers team last week­end, the members of the Notre Dame women's basketball team vowed to not allow complacen­cy to set in and affect their play, especially against mediocre teams. 
Their first test of this promise came Wednesday against Pitt, and they passed with flying col­ors. The Irish dominated an outmanned Panther team, pummelling them 90-51. 
The next step in this series of tests came Saturday against a more talented Georgetown team. The Irish, despite the fact they easily defeated the Lady Hoyas 92-61 three weeks ago, knew they had a tough task ahead of them. 

"Georgetown is a very athlet­ic team. They're very quick, and they will get in your face and put pressure on you," said forward Beth Morgan. 
The 24th ranked Irish did in­deed get the job done. They defeated the Hoyas again, this time by an 81-63 margin. Their record now stands at 15­6 overall, 11-2 in the Big East. 
Coming out of the gate, the Irish knew they had to go out there and take care of business, and they showed it. Midway through the first half, Notre Dame had held the Hoyas to a miniscule 6 points. Also, at one point in the first half, the Irish had built a 26 point lead. When the first twenty minutes had expired, Notre Dame had a 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Mollie Peirick had six assists in Notre Dame's 81-63 win over Georgetown. 


44-20 lead. 

The second half was much of the same story. Although Georgetown was able to cut the Irish lead to 13 points on sever-• al occasions, they could never find a way to make a serious run and get back in the game. It seemed that every time they tried, Morgan would drive a nail (actually, a jump shot) right through the hearts of the Hoyas, killing their comeback attempts. 
"Beth Morgan was a real key for us and came up with some big shots when we needed th!":n," said Irish coach Muffet McGraw. 
Morgan finished the game with 24 points and 11 rebounds, which gave her the second double double of her career. The Irish also had two other scorers in double figures. Center Katryna Gaither accounted for 21 points and 12 boards, while forward Carey Poor contributed 10 points and 9 boards. Mollie Peirick had six Monday, February 12, 1996 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
his strokB to hit three of four foul shots down the stwtch. 
The loss wasted a strong effort from Notre Dame's front line, as Garrity {26 points, 10 boards) eombined with freshman Phil Hiekey {13 points, six rebounds}, who made his first college start. to neutralize Hamilton. 
"Hickey's a good player, and he knows how to use his body," praised Hamilton. "Notre Dame has a lot of big kids who aren't too mobile, but thny are very stable and tough to push out of the way." 
The Irish established this inside presence early in the eontest, taking the ball to the basket with more authority than in recent games. 
Notre Dame was especially proficient at the end of the half, when stellar interior passing led to three dunks and three layups, trimming a nine point defieit to three. 
lliekey was the eatalyst, tallying four of his points and adding a look-away dish for an assist to Hyan Hoover. 
"Phil, for his first start, played very well for us," said MacLeod. "lie's big, strong, and can 
The Observer • SPORTS 

score, so they have to contend with him in the post." 
However, the Irish never received the help from the perimeter needed to complement the 
inside play. 
Mired in one of his worst shooting slumps of the season, Hoover, despite scoring 15 points, never got untracked from behind the arc, con· necting on only two of his ten three-point at­tempts. 
Without his shooting, Notre Dame's offense lost its cohesion in the s-econd half. 
"Aside from Hamilton, they had some matehup problems inside," explained Garrity. "But at times our offense became stagnant and people were standing around; that's when there was nothing happening." 
St. John's looked even less orchestrated on the ofl"ensive end, but the difference was Brown, who bailed the Red Storm out numerous times in the seeond half with three-pointers as the shot cloek wound down. 
"We got ahead by three and had some momen­tum, but (Brown} hit some three-pointers that just killed us," said Garrity. 
"I was very happy that we made the shots down the streteh," added St. John's coach Brian Mahoney. "That was a very good win, especially on the road." 
page 17 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Notre Dame forward Derek Manner attempts to guard the Red Storm's Felipe Lopez. Lopez held Irish marksman Ryan Hoover to 15 points. 


Hockey 
continued from page 20 
didn't get it." 
The Irish more than played the Wolverines off their feet on Friday evening at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame goaltender Matt Eisler and the entire defensive unit held the explosive Michigan offense, who entered the game averaging nearly six goals per contest, in check for most of the evening. They limit­ed the Wolverines to just two goals in the first two and a half periods. 
However, the Notre Dame of­fense was all but nonexistent after defenseman Garry Gruber tied the game at one with 11:04 remaining in the first period. The Wolverines put the clamps on an anemic Irish attack and secured the 4-1 victory when leading goal scorers John 

What does marketinghave to do with 


public accounting? 
(the answer mayshock you) 
Ell ERNST & YOUNG LLP and 
Beta Alpha Psi 
p.-ent 

"Why I ditchedthe advertising 
business to devotemyselfto 


marketinga Big 6finn.'' 
Phil Anderson 
Director of~eting Ernst & Young <lticago 

Thursday,Feb~ 1s, 1996 
Jordan Auditorium 6:;10p.m. 
All business maio~ wel~me Food and Soft Drinks lOllowmg 
Madden and Jason Botterill found the back of the net later in the game. 
"Their key players stepped up when they needed to, and that's the mark of a good team," said Poulin. 
"Offensively, we created scoring chances but just didn't take advantage of them. If you're going to beat a good team, you have to capitalize on those type of opportunities." 
Eager to break a six game losing streak to Bowling Green on Saturday, the Irish charged out of the gates in a hurry before a .second consecutive sellout crowd of 2,667. 
Notre Dame took a 1-0 lead on Jamie Morshead's seventh goal of the season. It came with 
11:06 to remain in the first pe­riod. 
After the Falcons tied the game at one, the Irish struck back just 12 seconds later when Chris Bales received a pass from right wing Tim Harberts and powered the puck past Bowling Green goaltender Mike Savard for his first goal of the year. 
"It was good to see different guys contribute and step up at different points of the game," said team captain Brett Bruininks. "Tonight we didn't play with the same intensity and emotion· for the first two periods. 
"We had several people step up at different points, but we just didn't get it done in the end." 
The Falcons dominated the second period, reeling off a pair of unanswered goals to take a 3-2 lead early in the period. Eisler, who played perhaps his best weekend of the season, recorded a remarkable 32 saves on the night but couldn't make up for a lackluster offen­sive output. 
The Irish, dormant for nearly 34 minutes, tied the game with 
8:17 left in the game when se­nior center Jamie Ling notched his team leading 12th goal of the campaign off an assist from sophomore left wing Steve Noble. 
Notre Dame had their chances in the final minutes of regulation and in the early going of overtime, but true to their nature, they were unable to capitalize. 
Bowling Green, on the other hand, seized their chance and the victory when center Curtis Fry slapped the puck past Eisler with 51 seconds remain­ing in the extra period. 
And for the umpteenth time this season, the Irish found their window of opportunity slammed in their face. 
"The effort was good for the most ·part, but it didn't show in the results," said Poulin. "This was a weekend where we need­ed points to help our playoff outlook, and unfortunately. we didn't get them." 
Indeed, it's beginning to sound like a broken record. 

Ballroom Dancers Starting Today, 


FEBRUARY 12 
Classes will now be held in the esc on Mondays 
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 12, 1996 
-
ByJOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 
This afternoon at 2:00 p.m. the Notre Dame men's tennis team will discover if they are one of the elite teams in college tennis. The 16th ranked Irish will face their toughest foe of the season in the 10th ranked Louisiana State Tigers. 
The Irish have already been tested twice this year and have come out on top in both occa­sions. Both the then-no. 23 Golden Gophers from Minnesota and Boise State visit­ed Eck Tennis Pavilion and were handed defeats, 5-2 and 4-3, respectively. 
Senior captain Mike Sprouse and sophomore Jakup Pietrowski have paved the way for the team's success. Sprouse and Pietrowski are both unde­feated in the top two singles po­sitions. Junior Ryan Simme, who was at no. 1 last year and no. 3 this year, continues to im­prove after his foot surgery in October. 
Freshman Brian Patterson and seniors John J. O'Brien and Jason Pun have filled out the rest of the lineup with a lot of heart, effort and talent. The most losses any of these players has is one and they have stepped up in the big matches. This has created a very deep Irish squad with high caliber play from top to bottom of the lineup. 
O'Brien, who plays for the Puerto Rican Davis Cup team and was participating in a match in Bogota, has missed practice this week. He is antici­pated to be in action this after­noon. 
LSU has been a team that the Irish have not been able to fig­ure out in the past. Last season LSU defeated the Irish in con­vinceing fashion and they have everyone back. 
"They beat us pretty bad last year and they are the same team,"· Sprouse commented. "But, I think that we are a much better team than we were last year." 
Jose Bragga, an All-American 
IIIII CIIITIY Ill IIIIAIFAIT llliiiTIY 
The Preferred Registry 
Reserve luxurious rooms or pri­vata homes for JPW a Graduadon. 
or 
stay at the Moose Krause House when available. Resarvadons avaDable NOW! 
To reserve: 
Call (219)273 7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish face biggest test yet in LSU 

and pre-season top ten player, leads the Tiger's attack. Gus Fernadez, who also spends some time in the no. 2 slot, was victorious over both Sprouse and John J. O'Brien last season. 
Another thorn in the Irish's side has been Ryan Ideta, who is undefeated against the Irish. Last season he battled Sprouse and defeated him twice. The Tigers don't drop off past the top three singles positions. Zak Blan_chard is in the same class of players as his teammates playing in front of him. 
"LSU is probably the most emotional team we play," coach Bobby Bayliss commented. "They are definitely a national presence and will be a threat for the title this year." 
"They play with a lot of fire and enthusiasm which can be attributed to their coach Jerry Simmons. He is one of the bet­ter college coaches." 
One of the biggest advantages for the Irish is that the match will be at home with a roof over their heads. LSU usually plays in the ,heat, which fits their slow pace and their strong ground stroke game, while the Irish have played most of their matches indoors and prefer a quicker tempo. 
The most important aspect of the match, however, will be the confidence of the team, which has been at a high level with their quick 4-0 start. 
"We have to go out and believe in ourselves," Sprouse explains. "Having confidence 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame sports information 
Freshman Brian Patterson's efforts thus far is a big reason why Notre 
Dame is ranked 16th in the nation. 
and being relaxed are probably the two most important things for us." "The key is how aggresively we can play and still be in con­
trol," Bayliss observed. "We cannot let them control the tempo of the match. If they do, 
then we will probably be in for a long day." 
With a win the Irish could creep closer to the top ten. The Tigers provide a great opportu­nity to do this. 
"We will definitely find out where we are after this match," voiced Bayliss. "We have been tested twice, and have come out pretty well." 
Monday, February 12,1996 
Attention All Clubs: This space is for you! Turn in applications to reserve a portion of this advertising space at the Club Coordination Council Thursday before the ad runs. 
Club Council Needs You! Club Council always 
needs volunteers. Come help us determine where your money should go. 'Stop by and see what we are all about. 
ttention Ballroom Dancers: Starting today classes will be held in the CSC on Mondays. 
17li.<> service is provided /'oryou by the Club Coordimdinn Council. 6314078 206 LaFortune 
St.X 
continued from page 20 
SMC turnovers within the final minutes of the game, coming back from a five-point deficit to win by ten. 
"Albion really turned it on at the end," said Howells. "Any risk they took turned out in their favor." 
With six games remaining on their schedule, SMC heads into the next two weeks facing stiff competition, including power­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jaz~ Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Mopday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register. in advance in the ReeSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call · 1-6100. Open to all ND stu­
dents. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7 p.m. in LaFortune. All levels wel­come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236-7266. 
Sailing Club Meeting: Sailing Club meeting on Tuesday, Feb. 13, 7 p.m. in 120 Hayes Healey. General Meeting for anyone in­terested. Any questions, call Melanie Schroeder at 4­2147. 
house Calvin College at home Tue., Feb. 13 at 7 p.m. Known for aggressive play and outstanding recruiting, Calvin, number 21 in the <;ountry, is always a tough game for the Belles, said Limb. 
However, Saint Mary's hopes the home court advantage will help them close the chasm be­tween their wins and losses. 
"We have to get off of this number six," Howells said. "We will. When we do, the other wins will come easier. Right now we just have to focus on the small picture." 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I CaII 234·0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ _ City--------State _____ Zip._______ 
~---~ -~----~--~-----·~----~ -­
Monday, Fehruary 12, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


JOE MARTIN 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Beginning 5 Served perfectly, in tennis 9 "Can't take 
14 Supermarket section 15Sub -­(secretly) 
16 Apply thoroughly, as lution 
17 Monopoly corner square 18 Sudden rush of air 19 Lasses 20 "JFK" co-star 23 Race driver Yarborough 
24 "It must be him --shall die" 25 "Spoon River Anthology" poet 33 Service club members 34 Put on, as clothes 35 Burn soother 36 Summer clock setting: Abbr. 37 Most arduous 41 Burger cover 42 Audio feedback problem 44 Architect I. M. 45 Orchestra members 47 "The Cowboys" actor, 1972 51 Farming: Abbr. 52 Communist Karl 


30 Middle of a shadows 59 Beer container "Prelude to a sleeve 50 Fir tree 62 Last letter, inKiss" 31 Where Jeanne 53 Coffee, slangily Lcndc:fl
1.2 Tykes d'Arc died 13 Nav. rank 
32 Taste or feel 21Swamp 38 Mimicry 
Get answers to any three clues 

39 Electrical unit 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Baez 40 Yankee 
25 Tribal V.I. P. 5656 (75¢ each minute).
manager Joe 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r--=~~~~=--.0~~~~~~~~
2  ~  
j  BUT I CAN'T PRY  :  
~  MYSELF  AWAY  FRO~  c  
;  TI·U5  1"\0ST  ~  
~  ~  
~  EXCELLENT  BUTi­ ~  
§  WAR.MlNG DEVICE..  ~  
0  •:.  
,  
! ·;;  
::> ......  

53 "Great Balls of Fire" singer 59 Couric of 
"Today" 60 Blunders 61 "The Wizard 
63 Cowgirl Dale 64 Daft &5 "What's to 
become--?" (words of despair) 
&6 Soirees 67 Flower stalk 68 Used Miss 
Clairol 
DOWN 

1 Modifying word: 
Abbr. 2 Stool or stoop 3 Hodgepodge 4 Where a movie 
reel is stored 5 Historic county of Scotland &Grand-­
Dam 1 Existence: Lat. 8 Biblical fruit 
9 Knights' clothes 
10 Spanish girl of old song 29 A Stooge 49 Come from the none 

43 Sweet potato 46 Material for engraver's blocks 48 Evil woman 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Make a career move without funher delay! Someone is prepared to bend over backwards to help you. Enjoy the tall stories that others tell, but do not invest in their projects. As sum­mer approaches, tempers could flare over division of funds or property. Keep a cool head. Your personal magnetism guarantees that you will always have many friends and admirers. A romantic involvement deepens early in 1997. Could this be the one? 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: author Judy Blume, singer Chynna Phillips, naturalist Charles Darwin, sportscaster Joe Garagiola. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have to meet cenain peo­ple more than halfway. Offer com­promise solutions whenever possi­ble. Discussing your plans for the future with partner could lead to some practical suggestions. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An excellent day for signing con­tracts or renegotiating agreements. Cwb a tendency to act on impulse. A legal matter wiU soon be settled in your favor. Try to fulfill a loved one's special request. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Aanery will work wonders with the right person. Take advantage of cur­rent trends instead of trying to fight them. The largest profits will come from direct sales. 
CANCER (June 21-luly 22): Taking a leadership role in an imponant crusade should be reward­ing. An opportunity to travel sud­denly arises. Do not risk your new prestige by quarreling with someone prominent. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A per­
manent domestic change may be for 
the best. A combination of hard 
work and good luck will help you 
make record financial gains. Protect 
your good name. Be conscientious aboUI paying bills on time. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A business reorganization requires a willingness to change. Devise a practical game plan. Working har­moniously with your partner will strengthen your relationship. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful not to offend people whose support you need. Your love of humanity could lead to a new carttr. Give free rein to your creativity. An absorbing hobby will bring many hours of pleasure. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Focus on the immediate goal of increasing productivity. Delegate responsibility to capable associates and patiently train those who lack experience. A writing project could be a source of extra income. Plan a special trip. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work for better conditions at place of employment. Letters should be answered without delay. Make "do it now" your slogan during this active period! Taking other people's opinions into account helps you form enduring alliances. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Ingenuity solves a domestic problem. Career advancement is easier than in the past Psychic expe­riences interest you. If looking for­ward to a pleasant social event, dress up for it. Romance takes on deeper meaning. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think twice about signing your name on a legal document. Someone may be spreading false rumors. Take a courageous, principled stand. No one is perfect! Be less critical of your family and friends. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your ideas may be light years ahead of the competition. Take steps to protect them! Unconventional prod­ucts and services may have more value than you realize. Give them a fair hearing. Romance sizzles. 

• OF INTEREST 
Toastmasters International will be meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LeMans Board Room. Guest speakers will be giving advice on how to interview. Come and hear how a '95 Saint Mary's alumna got her dream job. 
"Minorities In Academia," a presentation by Dr. Arnold L. Mitchen, Executive Director, N.C.E.O.A. of Washington, D.C. will he given on Feb. 14 at 7 p.m. In the C.C.E. Auditorium. The lecture will be sponsored by the Candax McNair Program. Interested faculty and students are invited. Refreshments will be served in the adjacent lounge at 8 p.m. 
Self Assessment: The Key to Successful Career Decisions is a three-session workshop for students beginning the career search process. Sessions will be held on Feb. 14, 21, 28, from 4 to 5:30 in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Students are encouraged to attend all three sessions and must register by Feb. 13 by calling 631-5200. Presented by Judy Goebel, Career and Placement Services and Dominic Vachon, University Counseling Service. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North Spaghettini Puttanesca Cod in Salsa Polish Sausage Sandwich  South Garden Quiche Baked Cod Jardiniere Italian Blend Vegetables  
Saint Mary's  
Swedish Meatballs Grilled Fish Steaks Veggie Taco in a Hat  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
•. 









SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 12, 1996 
Unusual Suspect 
Reserve guard lights it up from outside as St. Johns knocks offNotre Dame 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame had an answer for Zendon Hamilton. The person it could not counter was Derrick Brown. 
St. John's reserve point guard came off the bench to pour in 19 points, including five back-breaking three­pointers, as the Red Storm (9­11, 3-9) came from behind to oust Notre Dame (7-13, 2-10) on its home floor, 7 4-66. 
Brown's outside presence was complemented by the in­domitable Hamilton, who twisted and turned his way through the Irish defense to the tune of 28 points. 
Their output was enough to overwhelm a cold-shooting Irish team that, after fighting back from a 33-30 halftime 

-... 
• tiO&r\£Y 

deficit to take a four point lead with ten minutes to play, could never deliver the knockout punch. 
"We've done that a lot this year -battled and battled and battled and just couldn't fin­ish," said Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. 
The Irish had an opportunity to provide a dramatic finish to this game after closing to with­in three on Pat Garrity's three­pointer with 50 seconds left. 
Following Brown's two missed free throws seconds later, Notre Dame had the ball and a chance to heighten the suspense, but a barrage of errant three-pointers and Derrick Manner's missed layup sealed the victory for the Red Storm as Brown regained 
see IRISH I page17 

Irish lose despite strong efforts 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 

They're past the point of moral victo­ries. 
Giving a good effort in defeat is just not worthy of writing home about any more. Making a talented opponent work for a win no longer makes the earth shake. 
For, they have been there and done that. 
The Notre Dame hockey team, in des­perate need of a victory to keep their faint CCHA playoff hopes alive, played admirably -this weekend in defeat, but that's exactly what it was: defeat. Second place Michigan plodded to a 4-1 victory over the Irish on Friday before Bowling Green came from behind to win a 4-3 thriller in overtime on Saturday. 
"We put ourselves in a position to win both nights, but we just had too many breakdowns that were difficult to over­come,'' said Irish coach Dave Poulin. 
"In the long term, we can draw posi­tives from this weekend... but in the short term, we needed a victory, and we 
see HOCKEY I page17 
• SMC BASKHBAll 

Stuck on six: Saint Mary's losing streak continues 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Sports Writer 
Six: An ostensibly unassum­ing number, it remains a sig­nificant digit for the Saint Mary's College basketball team. 
Attempting to break a losing streak that has arrested their record at six wins for four con­secutive contests, the Belles dropped their eleventh game Saturday at Albion, 65-75. 
With defeats multiplying faster than victories, the team's frustrations culminated after Thursday's loss to !USB. According to senior center Barbara Howells, a team meet­ing before the game against Albion re-established the Belles' priorities. 
"We had a really good talk," said Howells "We had more confidence in ourselves. Coach (Marvin Wood) had more confi­dence in us, and we actually saw that (Saturday) night." 
Sophomore Julie McGill said that, with such restored confi­dence, SMC improved its pass­ing game and executed its offense more efficiently. 
Specifically, according to senior guard Michelle Limb, freshman forward Sheila Sandine ignited the Belles' offense, contributing 25 points. 
"Sheila just played great tonight. I knew if I passed her the ball, it was going in," said Limb. 
Coach Wood agreed, "It was by far (Sandine's) best game. We had 31 points at the half, and she had 18." 
Though the Belles led throughout the game, they could not finish in the second half. Albion capitalized on 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Goaltender Matt Eisler put up a valiant effort against Michigan, only to com~ up short. 
Men's Tennis Women's Tennis 
• Men's tennis to face off against l.SU 

vs. LSU, February 12, 7 p.m. 
vs. Tennessee, Feb. 15,7 p.m. 
see page 18 


Men's Basketball 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Villanova, February 14,7 p.m . • Women's basketball rolls over Hoyas see page 16 
vs. Pin, February 13,7:30 p.m. 
• Hockey SMC Basketball 
at Western Michigan, Feb. 13, 7 p.m. 
vs. Calvin College, February 13, 7 p.m. 
• Kingsbury-less Iowa buries Indiana see page 15 








