
Friday, November 15, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 54 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By TIM SHERMAN In addition, University President Father Sports Editor Edward Malloy refused comment on the 
With 98 career wins at Notre Dame, Lou Holtz is the second-winningest coach in Irish history. He needs just eight more vic­tories to pass the legendary Knute Rockne and move into the top spot. 
But there are published reports speculat­ing that the 59-year old Holtz will not get the chance as he will not return to coach the Irish in 1997. 
ESPN's Keith Olbermann is reporting there are a whirlwind of rumors on cam­pus surrounding an imminent resignation of Holtz. 
The Observer contacted numerous mem­bers of the team but each either denied the speculations or could not offer comment. 
matter. 
As aired on last night's SportsCenter and published on ESPN's web site, ESPNET Sportszone, Holtz may make an announce­ment as soon as the middle of next week. 
Olbermann proceeded to give a laundry list of items that indicate Holtz's 11-year stay may be ending soon. 
The seven events given, as "reported by reliable sources close to the school or the athletic department or both," contained two particularly intriguing scenarios. 
The first reported that the University's Board of Trustees "canceled long-standing plans this week and headed to the campus 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Head football coach Lou Holtz leads the Irish from the sidelines during a recent 
see HOLTZ I page 5 
game. Rumor has it that Holtz will not return to this position for the 1997 season. 
Friday Feature 

Over half ofND, SMC students find spouses under the Dome 
By JOHN DE BOY 
News Writer 
B
ells are ringing for graduates of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Wedding bells, that is. According to a statistic released by the Notre Dame Alumni Association, as many as 55 to 60 per­cent of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates even­tually go on to marry other Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni. Additionally, recent trends seem to suggest that graduates of the two schools, when com­pared with other young people, tend to be less fearful of marrying at an earlier age. 
According to Charles Lennon, executive director of the Alumni Association, the percentage of alumni who go on to marry fellow college graduates is probably somewhat higher at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's than it is at other colleges and universities. 
"I would think it would be higher at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's because of the homogeneous student body that we have here," Lennon says. "There are more Catholics here, so that figure [55 to 60 percent] is probably higher here than it is at state schools, although it would probably be similar at other Catholic schools." 
Others, such as Notre Dame senior and husband-to­be Steve Dirnberger, feel similarly. Dirnberger, who 
see MARRIAGE/ page 4 


Lights go on at stadium tomorrow 
Here comes the bride, all dressed blue and gold? 
•


1n... 


The Observer/Katie Kroener Upon recent completion of a $700,000 construction project funded by NBC, permanent stadium lights will be used for the first time tomorrow. 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
Darkness will cast its shadows no longer on Notre Dame football players and fans. Tomorrow, for the first time, permanent lights will be used during the game against Pitt to illuminate Notre Dame Stadium. 
The project, a $700,000 enterprise by NBC, became a supplement to the major construc­tion on the stadium after a decision last June. In past years, temporary lights have been used for games played late into the sea­son, as it begins to get dark earlier in the afternoon. Lack of daylight makes playing dangerous and televising the game difficult. 
Due to the increased height of the stadi­um's facade, temporary lighting is no longer feasible. 
"Due to the complexity of putting tempo­rary lights in as the season draws on, there wasn't a good reason to do it. Since we've 
see LIGHTS I page 4 

Catholics recall Bernardin's grace 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin's quiet charisma put a human face on the Catholic Church, in the process bridging the gap between the Church and other religions. 
Such were the reflections offered by Catholics nationwide after yes­terday's announcement that Bernardin had succumbed to pan­creatic cancer, three months after he had said he would die within a year. 
According to Scott Appleby, a professor of history at Notre Dame and director of the University's Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, Bernardin was a leader by example in the American Catholic Church in the years after the Second Vatican Council. 
"He will be remembered for his consensus-building, collaborative and collegial style-all the 'C-words' of Vatican II," Appleby said yesterday. "He was known as a reconciler. He could find the good in (people who disagreed in the Church) and bring that good togeth­er and synthesize it." 
Bernardin, 68, the senior Roman Catholic prelate in the United States and leader of Chicago's 2.3 million Catholics, died at his home, surrounded by friends 

see DEATH I page 5 
Football Weekend Social GatheringThe Morris Inn Patio Center for the Homeless Alumni Tours (C.H.A.T)
Meet at the Main Circle Marching Band Rehearsal Step off -Main Building 
Band Steps off for Pep RallyBand Building PEP RALLY! JACC Arena, enter Gate 1 0 

Marching Band Rehearsal 
Loftus Sports Center The Alumni Hospitality Center welcomes all alumni and friends 
Joyce Center, North Dome PomPon Squad (1 0:00) and Cheerleader (1 0:15)Performances 
Notre Dame Bookstore PomPon Squad (10:40) and Cheerleader (10:50) Performances 
JACC North Dome Glee Club -Notre Dame in Review Joyce Center, North Dome Shenanigans Performance Joyce Center, North Dome Marching Band Concert Main Building (Step off at 12:45) Women's Soccer vs. Indiana Alumni Field Marching Band Pre-game Show at the Stadium BEAT PITTSBURGH! NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

t 
..I 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
What every woman needs 
Welcome back to the inside column's two part series on complaining. To recap, Lori's column dealt with why we complain. Today, I'm going to take complaining to a new level and illustrate the various 
Kaiser Meany
ways of bitchery by tak­
ing one subject and mak­Saint Mary's Accem 
ing it the focus of today's Editor 
column. My topic? The 
Bra. 
I know you've seen it....or else heard about it. The bra. The million dollar bra that is made out of diamonds. The bra that Claudia Schiffer is modeling on the cover of the Christmas Victoria's Secret catalog. The ulti­mate push up bra. 
At first I thought it was a farce, but upon investigating the inside cover I realized it was true. This is an actual bra, custom made from "over one hundred carats of real diamonds, and literally hundreds more in semi-precious stones ... " My mouth went dry. Do you know how many people could be put through a year's worth of college for a million dollars? That's not the worst part. Think of how unpractical this piece of lingerie is ..... 
First of all, it's made out of diamonds and gems, and is probably adhered together by some kind of super glue or metal thingie. Oh, that sounds really comfortable. Ladies ... when you wake up on a cold winter's morning and have to get dressed for work, wouldn't a cold, hard diamond bra be the last thing you would want next to your skin? Wouldn't it chafe? Diamonds cut glass ..... what if you get a defec­tive Diamond Studded Miracle Bra® and it punctures your skin? 
I can't even entertain the thought of how you would accessorize with this. Diamond Studded Miraele Bra® and khakis? Diamond Studded Miracle Bra® and your favorite turtleneck? And what if it gets dirty .... you can't exactly throw it in the sink with some Woolite. right? 
However, I realize that anyone who could alford to spend that much money on a bra doesn't have to get up to work in the morning. Ever. Heally, if anyone has this much money to spend on a push-up bra, why not just save a few hundred thousand and have surgery instead? Are people blind to this bargain? 
You'd have to flash someone to show this acquisition ofT. Wouldn't that lose it's token coolness after a few days? The thrill is gone once you get used to the fa~t that you're wearing expensive jewelry on your chest and not around your neck. Stuff like that doesn't impress your pals at Spago for very long ..... 
However, if anyone is interested in purchas­ing one, my friend Megan works at Victoria's Secret. I'm sure she could cut you a deal with her employee discount if you ask nicely. You could walk away with a Diamond Studded Miracle Bra® of your own for the low, low price of $700,000. I tell you, they're practi­cally giving them away. 
What was the point in Lori and I stretching this complaining thing over two days? Do you remember watching shows like Family Ties and Dilfrent Strokes as a kid'? Do you remember the cliffhanger two part episodes? The show ended just when the conflict was actually getting good but promised to return with a resolution next week. Either you'd miss one of the two parts and have spent your life pondering the outcome, or you'd watch both parts and realize that it was never as good as you anticipated. Man, what a let­down that was. Lori and I felt the same way. That was always our biggest complaint. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Brad Prendergast Ethan Hayward Michelle Krupa Graphics Dave Freddoso Brian Blank 
Sean Smith Lab Tech Sports Bret Hogan Tim McConn Production Accent Michelle Krupa Dan Cichalski Ann Goodwin Ashleigh Thompson Heather Cocks 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam 01.nd vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 15, 1996 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Police prepared for violence in Florida 

Clinton looks for defense secretary 
Hoping to cobble together a new for­eign policy team with a GOP touch, President Clinton is focusing on Republican Sen. William Cohen in his search for a defense secretary, an offi­cial says. The senior administration official, speaking on condition on anonymity, said Clinton is expected to leave today for a 12-day overseas trip_.~----­without making a final decisions on his foreign affairs apparatus. But he has narrowed significantly the field of candidates for secretaries of defense and state. Cohen emerged as the most prominent candidate Thursday night, but aides cautioned that Clinton had not cemented his thinking on the matter and probably would not final­ize the choice before next month. Until now,wisdom had CIA director John Deutch the most likely replacement for departing Defense Secretary William Perry. 
Reaction sucks air from Biosphere 2 
WASHINGTON 
Biosphere 2, the costly experiment in creating a closed, self-sustaining ecosystem in Arizona, failed because the concrete walls ate up oxygen and left humans inside with barely enough to breathe. What was supposed to be a glass-enclosed copy of a pristine and smoothly function­ing Earth evolved into a place choked with carbon diox­ide and nitrogen, replete with uncontrollable weedy vines. Cockroaches, ants and katydids thrived. "It was the boldest attempt ever" to create a closed ecosystem, said David Tilman, a University of Minnesota scientist, but it failed miserably. "This suggests that there are areas of nature that are sufficiently great mysteries that we don't know how to manage them or make them bet­ter." "This is very humbling," he said. Tilman and Joel 
E. Cohen of Rockefeller University and Columbia University in New York, wrote an analysis of the Biosphere 2 experiment for the journal Science. 
Teen convicted of killing friends 
EASTON, Pa. 
A 19-year-old man was convicted of murdering two high school girls as they ate at a popular Lehigh University meeting spot. Christopher Bissey burst into tears Wednesday as he was found guilty of two counts of first-degree murder. Jurors were to begin considering today whether he should be sentenced to death or life in prison. Jennifer Grider, 17, and her childhood friend, Mary Orlando, 15, were shot to death in in Bethlehem in June 1995. The murders stunned the working-class neighborhood where the girls grew up around the corner from each other. "I think justice was served in this case," prosecutor John Morganelli said. Defense attor­neys declined to comment. Bissey's relatives clutched one another after the verdict was read. The defendant sobbed softly while his mother, Darla Hunsberger, cried and his father, Sam Bissey, wiped away tears. Melanie Grider, Jennifer's sister, wept as she said, "My sister is smiling." 
Network changes transplant priorities 
BOSTON 
People suffering chronic liver failure, like that caused by heavy drinking or hepatitis, will no longer be first in line for transplants. The Richmond, Va.-based United Network for Organ Sharing, which sets nationwide poli­cies for organ transplants, approved the change at its annual meeting in Boston today. The change will purge hundreds of chronic liver patients from the top of the waiting lists, leaving a relatively small number of acute patients. The change will take effect Jan. 20. Chronic conditions include alcohol-induced liver damage, viral hepatitis, biliary disorders and genetic liver disease. Supporters said they weren't trying to blame alcoholics or intravenous drug users, who often get hepatitis from dirty needles. The idea is to make a patient's chances for survival the top priority. "We're trying to select out the smallest group of patients who could benefit the most," said James Wolf, UNOS' director of medical all'airs. 

• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 15. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


l·--~--/.:.. -·····--··-·-········· H.w:~ L,~(~. 
I 

Friday ~ 42 Saturday ~ 48 Sunday ~ 49 
( ;~:mJ.:·~:· 

Monday ~ 49 Tuesday ~<1 47 
l tv-.J'"'' .
\_; "·v 
Baltimore 46 19 Elk Lick 48 22 New York 47 29
~,~,~9-c@Q ~ ~ u 
Bismarck 22 15 Green Bay 40 34 St. Louis 53 43 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 42 25 Helena 27 14 San Francisco 60 49 
Via Associated Press Graph~esNet 
Chicago 51 36 Honolulu 84 72 Witch ita 56 54 

31­

37+ 37 
A#j;i; 
34 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
. [Z]

30 H L Ea &'S:I ITil 0 8 i:)eJ.u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V141~tedPrus 
~%~\.. 

Anchorage 34 15 Denver 37 22 Kennebunk 36 15 
~---~----~ 


Friday, November 15, 1996 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
The Glee Club practices for this week's Alumni Reunion Concert. Over 200 past members are expected to join the men in song today. 
Over 200 alumni to join Glee Club tonight 
By T.J. THORNTON News Writer 
Tonight's 8 p.m. Glee Club concert at the Stepan Center will resemble any other as the audience will traverse many miles to see the group per­form. With the audience, however, will come over 200 Glee Club alumni to join the current members for a reunion performance, an event that occurs only once every three years. 
Mike Lazarra, president of the club, lists the last such event as "the best concert I have been a part of," noting that the Glee Club's close ties with its alumni and the sheer number of performers make these rare gatherings particu­larly special. 
The Stepan concert is the culmination of the Glee Club Alumni Weekend, which also includes the football game, a banquet, and a tour of the College Football Hall of Fame. Current Club member Mike Anderson cites the events as a "bridge between present and past," and says that members especially look forward to reuniting with recent gradu­ates, and meeting a group of people who share similar favorable memories. 
Great excitement exists among Clubbers about singing with the alumni for the second half of the show, and the "brotherhood" the club seems able to maintain among cur­rent and alumni members­something sure to be rein­forced this weekend. 
Renowned composer David Clark Isele and long-time Glee Club conductor Carl Starn will be joining other members of the 81-year-old organization in a performance featuring traditional club songs. 
Stepan's doors open at 7:15 for tonight's event. Tickets are $2 for students, and senior citizens, $3 for all others, and available both at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NO noted for healthy menu 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR includes vegetarian and low fat entrees." News Writer As to the issue of the cost difference in pro­
According to a Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine study, Notre Dame ranks among the top three post-secondary schools for availability of healthy menu options in the din­ing halls. 
Outdone by only Duke University and the University of Pennsylvania, the choices avail­able to students at Notre Dame were judged healthier than those available at such schools as Stanford, Georgetown, Harvard and Yale. The three military academies, West Point, Naval Academy and Air Force, fared the worst in the study, finishing in the last three spots. 
"It's always nice to be recognized for what we've done, but I question the methodology of their [PCRMJ process," said David Prentkowski, director of Food Services . "I think its a weak study. It's good to rank at the top, but we're more concerned that students are satisfied." 
viding low fat or no fat options to students, Prentkowski said that there was no real addi­tional cost in providing those choices. 
"The [additional] cost comes in providing a wider variety of choices, more than in what those choices are," he said. 
He went on to explain that while Food Services realizes that it will never be able to provide a custom designed menu for each indi­vidual on campus, they can try to meet the needs of the major groups of students' wishes. 
The renovations scheduled for South Dining Hall should only add to the wide variety already available. While the purpose of the changes is to deal with the shift in the number of students who dine regularly at South as a result of the construction of the four new dorms, Food Services is taking that opportunity to expand the menu and add more choices. 

Prentkowski went on to explain that the weight given to the results of the study are limited for several reasons. The first is the size of the survey group. With over 4,000 col­leges and universities in the United States, a sample size of 43 schools is hardly representa­tive or thorough. 
As a result of the small sample size, the schools that finished last appear to be the worst in the country when in reality they may be in the top 50 out of over 4,000 schools. Conversely, the value of a top ranking may be less meaningful in that schools that were not included in the survey could have outranked the top schools if given the opportunity. 
Another perceived weakness of the study, as pointed out by Prentkowski, is the actual con­tent of the study. The data for the survey was based on one menu provided by each universi­ty. Such a sample could be misleading because it only represents one particular day instead of a consistent availability of healthy options, and because the schools with the widest variety of options would always score better. 
Schools like the military academies, which serve their meals in a family style manner would not fair as well because their dining programs, by design, provide fewer options. 
Regardless of the possible flaws in the design of the study, it did serve to draw atten­tion to the variety of choices that students at 


Notre Dame receive. The Observer/Katie Kroener 
"We've tried to evolve to meet the needs of This University's Food Service employee works to the growing University," said Prentkowski. provide a menu that was recently commended as one "Variety is the issue," he continued "and that of the healthiest in the country. 

LOCATIONS or Sack Lunches Opening Sept. 19 Great for any 402 Dixieway N. 54570 Ironwood Rd. occasion including Roseland (Ironwood & SR 23) TailgatersPh: 272-7480 Ph: 243-9272 
(24 hour notice please) 
Fax: 272-7490 Fax: 243-9274 

-----------------------, r--------------­
1 

C---Sch-lotzs_tty>_i>_D_e_li)
( Schlotzstty> Deli) 
50¢ OFF Any Small $1.00 OFF Any 8" or 12" Crus sandwich or Pizza or Any Sourdough 75¢ OFF Any Regular Sandwich, Bag of Chips, and Sandwich Beverage Combination 
(Not valid with any other coupon, discount or daily special. (Not valid with any other coupon, discount or daily special. Hurry! Offer expires 10-12-96) Hurry! Offer expires 10-12-96) 
-------------------------------------~ 
The multi-level nite club offering the best in off-campus tun and entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can go party on the next floor. 
Friday November 15 
SI<ALCOHOLII<S 
7 PIECE BAND WITH HORNS 
Doors open at 9PM 2dance floors DJ's between band breaks 21 and over with r10 Nt.l\ 1 wEEK: 

THUSRDAY Nov 21 FRIDAY Nov 22 SI<A-FEST PARENT WEEKEND 3 BANDS SI<ALCOHOLICS 2-MOON RECORD RECORDING 
BRING A PARENT PARTY BANDS FROM NY 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 15, I996 





Marriage 
continued from page I 
recently became engaged to Nikki Gauthier, a Saint Mary's senior, says that students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's often find a common moral ground that can help foster serious romantic relationships; and that. he says, may make it easier to lind a partner earlier in life -before leaving college and entering the work force. 
"I think a lot of it has to do with coming to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's and realizing that there are people here who have many of the same morals and values that I have, or that other people here have," Dirnberger says. "A strong relationship, as far as looking toward marriage is concerned, is based on one's faith. Here, where many people have similar morals and a simi­lar faith, it's easier to find somebody you're compatible with." 
But others close to the cam­pus dating scene believe that the high rate of marriage between graduates of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's may be more attributable to factors outside of the relationships themselves, such as the stu­dents' general lack of exposure to people and places beyond the borders of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
John Dillon, director of Notre Dame's Marriage Preparation and Enrichment program, says that the Alumni Association sta­tistic may be a result of "the somewhat isolated geographic environment that the schools are in." 
In addition to the high rate of intra-community marriages among graduates of the two schools, many contend that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students tend not to be too apprehensive when it comes to marrying young, an observation that goes against trends revealed in most national sur­veys. 
Statistics from the U.S. National Survey of Families and Households, for example, indi­cate that the percentage of 25­year-olds who are married has declined sharply from almost 80 percent in 1965 to just over 50 percent today. 
But Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, says that the num­ber of young people at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who are willing to make a lifelong com­mitment has grown since the late '80s. 
"I think there are a lot more people here getting married at a younger age than there were seven or eight years ago," Warner says. "Our people seem to be getting married a bit younger than they used to. While many say that young people are afraid to make a commitment these days, that doesn't really seem to be the case here." 
Dirnberger says that his deci­sion to get married at 22 is sim­ply the result of having met the right person at a young age. "My original idea was to be married when I was in my mid 20s," he says. "But if you fall in love and want to get married at a younger age, there's really no point in waiting longer." 
Currently, Notre Dame's Marriage Preparation and Enrichment program, a division of Campus Ministry, sponsors retreats and workshops for engaged couples as well as spe­cial programs for serious cou­ples who are still unsure about 


Lights 
continued from page I 
added the high outer structure, it [permanent lights) will be more effective and efficient. This will be less costly over time," Jeff Cerney, project manager for CASTEEL, said. 
NBC found that with the extended framework of the sta­dium, higher cranes and more units of temporary lights were needed to sufficiently light the field. With live years remain­ing in the network's contract to televise all home games, it would have been financially inefficient, at $60,000 to $70,000 per game, to continue renting the lights. 
According to Bubba Cunningham, associate athletic director, "putting in permanent lights is in their [NBC's] long term best interests." 
The lights have been designed to be as unobtrusive as possible. The principle bank of lights are mounted on the facade of the new press box, and lights at the four corners of the stadium are mounted on horizontal structures angled toward the field to minimize the addition to the stadium's profile. 
As the lights will supplement afternoon game viewing, the University contends that no night games will be played in the stadium. 
"One of the benefits of our television contract with NBC is the assurance it provides that Notre Dame home football games will be played during the day and will not be moved to prime time for broadcast pur­poses," Father E. William Beauchamp stated in a June 25 press release. 
Please RecYcle The Observer 


The mission of 
OMSA focuses on 
providing for students 
of color the necessary 
tools to achieve the 
wholistic college 
experience 
through cultural 
awarene~s. social 
interaction and career 
planning. 
Accordingly, we encourage and assist students in the 
utilization of all academic and leadership opportunities at the University. 
210 LaFortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 Office: 219-631-684I Fax: 219-631-8139 E-Mail: ND.omsa.1@nd.edu 
University of Notre Dame 
Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 

the future of their relationships. 
Among the more popular pro­grams intended for engaged partners seeking sacramental preparation for marriage are Campus Ministry's Marriage Preparation Retreats. Held five times each year at the Fatima Hetreat House on the Notre Dame campus, the two-day retreats emphasize open com­munication and dialogue between engaged partners. 
Additionally, Campus Ministry sponsors a half-day program for couples in serious dating relationships who, according to Dillon, "are wondering where their relationships are going to go." The workshop -entitled "What's the Future of this Relationship?" -is offered once each semester and includes presentations on the stages of relationships, deci­sion-making, and other issues. The spring semester workshop will be offered on Feb. 23, 1997. 
Anyone interested in further information on any of Campus Ministry's marriage prepara­tion programs can eontact John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242. 
u.s. 31/33 North at Darden One mile north of campus 
Monday through Saturday 9:00 to 9:00 Sunday 12:00 to 5:00 
Rediscover North Village Mall For ''One Stop Shopping,, 
Locally-Owned business serving Michiana for over 20 Years 

Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Holtz 
continued from page 1 
for emergency meetings." 
However, Dennis Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations, said that the Board would not be rushed back to campus to discuss a coaching situation. 
A second issue brought up in the report dealt with Holtz's pursuit of Rockne's record. According to Olbermann, "fac­tions in the University would happily stage Holtz a grand 

.a_ ·~usfi'st9lO.lrly,lax,litle,l:9'lseexdtmi.See
'"" 
farewell party for the sole rea­son of keeping him from breaking Knute Rockne's school record for victories." 
In the past, Holtz himself has 
indicated  that  breaking  
Rockne's  mark is not  his  
objective.  

But would that be mean he would resign? 
"There have been rumors about me forever," Holtz told Olbermann Wednesday. 
"I just want to win the last three football games. 
''I'll tell you, I still have a strong desire to coach and I have more enthusiasm than I've ever had. I'm really look-

Death 
continued from page 1 
and family. 
On Aug. 30, he announced the cancer had spread and had become inoperable. But he con­tinued with his regular duties until he retired from day-to-day activities two weeks ago. Earlier this week, he wrote to the U.S. Supreme Court, urging it not to allow doctor-assisted suicide. 
University President Father Edward Malloy remembered Bernardin's depth of ability in his pastoral ministry. 
"Cardinal Bernardin's pas­.toral acumen was transcended only by his personal holiness," Malloy said. "Throughout his public ministry, as priest, bish­op and cardinal, he exemplified the pedagogy of Jesus." 
Bernardin was on the Notre 
Dame campu~ in 1983 to 
receive an honorary doctor of 
laws degree, and again in 1995 
to receive the University's 
Laetare Medal. The medal, 
established in 1883, has been 
commonly regarded as the 
most prestigious honor given to 
American Catholics. " 
"Cardinal Bernardin was a 
loving, gentle man who led by 
moral persuasion and personal 
example, never by force or 
fear," said Cardinal John 
ing forward to the future." 
According to Olbermann's colleague and National Football League analyst Chris Mortensen, that future may be elsewhere. 
Mortensen reported that Holtz informed his assistants that there was a "90 percent chance" he would not be coaching at Notre Dame next season. 
He feels Holtz wants another shot at coaching in the NFL after his first stint, with the New York Jets in 1976, was a failure. 
The Observer failed to receive any sort of confirma­
who sometimes criticized Bernardin's more liberal views. 
Bernardin was born in Columbia, S.C. He was ordained a priest in 1952 and served in Charleston, S.C., before being appointed auxiliary bishop of Atlanta in 1966 at age 38. Two years later, he was elected gen­eral secretary of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and the United States Catholic Conference. In that post, he oversaw the reorganizing of the episcopal conference according to norms established by the Second Vatican Council. 
He was the principal architect of the American bishops' 1983 letter, "The Challenge of Peace: God's Promise and Our Response," which argued against the use of nuclear weapons. 
"That letter was important both for what it said and how it said it," Appleby said. "It was directed to all of good will based on natural reasoning, not on any particular religious basis." 
In this way, Bernardin served as a "bridge-builder" between people of different back­grounds, Appleby said. 
"He looked to the larger American public," Appleby said. "He believed in a fully integrated, pluralistic society ... For him, the common experi­ence of humanity was finite, sinful and weak, but it was also 

ooaerfor delai'" """" ....._ __,"""' 
r---~~~==~~n;;u;~;;~·~;;~;;;;;;~o~·~c;o~n~n~o;r~o~f~N::ew:_Y~or~k~,~a~fr~i~e~n~d--~o~n:e~o~f~h~o~p~e~·.T~h~a~t~w::a:s~t:h:e~b~a~s~is 



MAND NG 
tion of the Mortensen report. 
In addition, the rumor that a closed-door team meeting was called yesterday by Holtz to discuss the situation was explicitly denied by two Irish players. 
On the air Olbermann admit­ted his story may be proved incorrect. 
"Despite this pile of circum­stantial evidence, it could all be bosh, and the new millenni­um could see Holtz and Touchdown Jesus working together," he said. "But some­thing is going on." 
Exactly what that something is remains to be seen. 
of the unity of the common human experience." 
Bernardin's last major under­taking was the Catholic Common Ground Project announced earlier this year, an effort to open dialogue with Catholics who dissent from Church teachings on issues such as birth control and ordi­nation of women. Some conser­vative Catholics criticized the project, but others applauded his tolerance. 
"The project was a nice metaphor for what he stood for as a bishop and a priest. He was working toward overcom­ing disagreement. He wasn't a fiery orator, but he had a cer­tain kind of charisma." 
At no other time was Bernardin's grace and humility more evident than in 1993 dur­ing a widely publicized lawsuit, in which he was accused of molesting a teenager. The car­dinal denied the charge, and the young man later recanted and reconciled with Bernardin. 
"He forgave the guy and embraced him," Appleby said, "and even more than that, he forgave the media. He was a person who, if you met him, you knew you were in the pres­ence of someone real." 
Appleby met Bernardin when the archbishop first came to Chicago in 1983. The cardinal spoke at a lecture organized by Appleby in 1985 when Appleby was teaching at St. Xavier College in Chicago. 
Appleby said the selection of Bernardin's successor could set the tone for the Church in the coming years. 
"A great deal depends on the leadership of the Church that is coming on the horizon. We're at a point of generational change," Appleby said. "It will be critical to see if (Bernardin's successor) emulates his style." 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
NAACP: 
Improve race climate 
The Associated Press 
BALTIMORE 

The NAACP will launch a campaign to sell off Texaco stock if the oil company doesn't reach "a swift agreement" to improve its racial climate, the civil rights group's leader said Thursday. 
Kweisi Mfume, the NAACP's president and chief executive officer, also called for an immediate settlement of Texaco's a $520 million race discrimination lawsuit filed by black employees. 
"If a swift agreement is not reached and Texaco is unwill­ing to address the root causes of the problems there, we will work with our broad-based coalition to target Texaco's stock," he said. 
Texaco representatives did not answer calls to company headquarters Thursday evening. 
Company executives are accused of using racial slurs against blacks in a secretly recorded 1994 conversation about evidence in the suit. 
The Rev. Jesse Jackson first called for a stock divestiture, after a meeting Tuesday at company headquarters with Texaco Chairman Peter Bijur. 
Jackson also called for an 

immediate boycott of Texaco 
gasoline and services, and said 
picketing would begin at 
Texaco gas stations Saturday 
unless the lawsuit was settled 
before then. 
Mfume, who also met Tuesday with Bijur, did not call for a boycott. Instead, he said he got assurances the company would report back in 30 days to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on steps it would take to improve Texaco's racial cli­mate. 
Mfume stepped up the pres­

sure Thursday by calling for 
quick action to improve 
Texaco's racial climate. 
He said the NAACP wants 

Texaco to set up a program to 
ensure better job opportunities 
for blacks, and to foster an 
atmosphere of tolerance and 
sensitivity to minorities. 
The NAACP also wants 

Texaco to help blacks purchase 
company distributorships. 
------~------­
page 6 Friday, November 15, 1996
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
GIVEAWAY YOUR COAT.....AND SHARE THE WARMTH. 

Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. When you turn in your coat or jacket at a designated collection point, including the Hammes Bookstore and the Center for Social Concerns, Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame will donate it to someone who can really use it this winter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25°/o off a new GEAR for Sports jacket at the Hammes Bookstore. Share the warmth and the spirit of Notre Dame! 
PR~JECT 

WARMTH 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Sponsored by: 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's
Hammes Bookstore 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry 

Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


U.S. drops charges against accused Russian spy 
By JEFF DONN 
Associated Press Writer 
WORCESTER, Mass. 

Accused of breaking the unwritten rules of the spy game, the Justice Department dropped charges Thursday against a retired KGB agent who freely admitted trying to steal "Star Wars" secrets for Russia. 
The CIA and State Department decided prosecut­ing the former spy was not in the national interest after Russia repeatedly threatened to retaliate. 
"We were upset with CIA only in that they changed their minds," said a Justice official in Washington who spoke on con­dition of anonymity. "They should have told us this from the begnning." 
Vladimir Galkin, 50, was freed hours after Russia issued yet another public protest of his Oct. 29 arrest in New York. 
Galkin was accused of offer­ing $30,000 in 1990 and 1991 for reports pertaining to the Strategic Defense Initiative, a charge he openly admitted to ­
Gunman attacks Michigan Ford factory, kills worker 
By B.J. REYES 
Associated Press Writer 
WIXOM, Mich. 

A man dressed in camouflage fired shots today at a Ford Motor Co. plant outside Detroit, killing one person and wound­ing two. He was arrested after holding police at bay for hours. 
The gunman remained on Ford property for hours, firing at police. Authorities were quite worried that he may have been holding hostages. But that turned out to be wrong, Wixom Police Sgt. Clarence Goodlein said. 
The man opened fire after a confrontation with two Ford assembly line workers. 
"He came into the cafeteria and started shooting. He was spraying bullets all over the place," Ford spokesman Bill Carroll said. Goodlein did not release identities of the dead worker. Authorities believe they know who the gunman is, but said they don't know his connection to the Ford plant or the workers he allegedly shot. 
after being released Thursday. 
'It was an attempt, but I did not receive one bit of informa­tion," Galkin said outside the courthouse. 
CIA Director John Deutsch was not aware of Galkin's impending arrest when lower­level CIA officials approved it, the Justice Department source said. 
Deutch later argued for dis­missal of the charges out of concern that Russia might retaliate by expelling U.S. diplo­mats believed to be spies. 
"After further consultations within the government, the CIA has concluded, and the State Department has concurred, that the national interest would best be served by dismissing the char.ges," a Justice state­ment saia. · 
Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service accused the United States of breaking the unwrit­ten rules of espionage by giving a former spy a visa, then arresting him when he arrived. 
A warrant for Galkin's arrest was issued the same day his visa was approved, and he was taken into custody at Kennedy International Airport, where he arrived with a delegation from Moscow as a representative of the Russian-American company Knowledge Express. 
Two Justice Department offi­cials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they were unaware of any unwritten codes regarding former spies. But Russian officials said Galkin was entrapped because the United States knew his back­ground: He had mentioned his former work as a Soviet and Russian agent on his visa appli­cation. 
Clinton travels to Asia for talks 
By LAWRENCE KNUTSON 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton will meet with China's president during a 12-day trip to Asia, seeking increased stability in the two countries' often stormy and turbulent relationship. 
"Over the past year, I believe we've turned a corner in the relationship and dealt with some very difficult issues," Samuel Berger, the deputy national security adviser, told reporters Thursday. 
The visit, in the Philippines, will be Clinton's fourth with Chinese President Jiang Zemin at neutral locations. Berger said there remain no plans as yet for more formal state visits in each other's capitals. 
He said Clinton also will press other Asian leaders for con­crete progress on more liberal trade policies during the trip's centerpiece event, a meeting of leaders of Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum countries. 
Clinton leaves Friday for a weekend vacation in Hawaii, then flies to Australia for a state visit. He attends the APEC 
The Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies 
is delighted to announce its courses for Spring, 1997 
3856  COIG 102:01  Beginning Irish II  MWF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
3857  COIG 301:01  The Irish in Their Own Words  MWF 11:45-12:35  Peter McQuillan  
3868  ENGL 300V:01  Literature in a Divided Ireland  MWF 1:55-2:45  Kathleen Hohenleitner  
3878  ENGL 372A:01  Modern Irish Literature  TH2:00-3:15  John Waters  
3901  ENGL 470B:Ol  Joyce and Baldwin  T H 3:30-4:45  Cyraina Johnson-Roullier  
3902  ENGL 470F:01  Irish Poetry After Yeats  T H 5:00-6:16  John Waters  
3917  ENGL 540A:01  Shakespeare and Beckett  MW 3:00-4:15  James Robinson  
3919  ENGL570:01  Modern British and Irish Poetry  T H 4:30-5:45  John Matthias  
3548  HIST 327:01  Irish History II  MWF 9:35-10:25  James Smyth  
4336  HIST 328:01  The Great Irish Famine and Its Impacts  T H 11:00-12:15  Kevin Whelan  
3616  HIST 573:01  Ireland in the Age of Revolution  MW 3:00-4:15  James Smyth  
4369  HIST 642:01  Sources and Resources for Irish Studies  T H 2:00-4:00  Kevin Whelan  
2056  soc 374:01  Irish Americans  TH 11:00-12:15  Patrick Sullivan, CSC  

(400-/eve/ and 500-/evel ENGL courses are "by permission"for non-majors) 
We would also like to invite students interested in the Undergraduate Concentration in Irish Studies to meet with Professor Seamus Deane at 7:30p.m. on Thursday, November 21st in 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Information about the program and sign up opportunities will be announced and made available at that meeting. 
meeting in Manila, where he meets with Jiang, then follows with a state visit to Bangkok, Thailand. 
Discussing the Clinton-Jiang meeting, Berger emphasized the progress the United States and China have made in the last year on a range of con­tentious questions, including Chinese naval maneuvers in the Taiwan Strait, and an agree­ment protecting U.S. intellectu­al property. 
"We can work together and work through our differences, as great powers must," Berger said. 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback & Paperback books in stock 

•
Out-of-Print Search Service:$2.00 

•
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 



We're At 
We care. From the day you 
move in, our friendly, profes­
sional staff will give you great 
service. Great location, great 
service, great prlce ..•Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 

24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORlJ DlLLAC3EfA 
Mon.·Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 

--­ --­ 
----------~­ --~  ~----~--~-­ 
page 8  The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS  Friday, November 15, 1996  

HRW: Police often beat, 
NATO seizes arms in Bosnia 

torture, kill street kids
By TEDDIE WEYR Associared Press Wrirer 
CELIC, Bosnia 
U.S. and Russian troops seized a huge number of Muslim weapons and ordered a Bosnian army unit to shut down today, accusing it of being involved in the worst violence in Bosnia since war ended a year ago. 
NATO-led troops hauled away two Bosnian army armored personnel carriers and packed six large peacekeeping trucks with weapons and ammunition confiscated from the Bosnian Army's 254th brigade, NATO officials said. 
The brigade was located just west of Celie in northeast Bosnia. 
Maj. Brett Boudreau, a NATO spokesman, said the weapons will all be destroyed at a near­by U.S. base. 
Peacekeeping troops and U.N. police also raided a Bosnian Serb police station at nearby Koraj, seizing one automatic weapon, some grenades and a ease of ammunition. 
The weapons clampdown fol­lowed Muslim-Serb clashes Tuesday that left one Muslim dead in the village of Gajevi and showed that peacekeepers may not be leaving Bosnia as soon as they hoped. 
In Washington today, NATO Secretary-General Javier Solana said the United States was expected to provide one­third of the follow-up NATO force for Bosnia next year. 
After meeting with Vice President AI Gore, Solana told reporters the overall force would come from 30 countries and involve up to 30,000 troops. 
His "best guess," he said, is that 6,000 to 10,000 Americans 

Muslim weapons seized 
NATO-led U.S. and Russian troops hauled away two five-ton trucks and two armored personnel carriers from the Bosnian Army's 254th brigade just west of Celic.tlfter a pre­dawn raid, Thursday. 

will be part of the team that replaces the present 60,000­member force. 
Boudreau, the NATO spokesman, said starting Saturday, a broad area around Muslim-controlled Celie will be turned into a demilitarized zone enforced by NATO-led troops. 
The peace force also ordered the 254th brigade to shut its base near Celie by Nov. 23 and to remove the few weapons remaining there, he said. 
The action followed what Boudreau called the brigade's involvement in fighting Tuesday as some Muslims tried to return to their former homes in Gajevi. The village lies in a demilita­rized zone between the Serb and Muslim-Croat halves of the country. 
Boudreau said NATO troops saw the brigade's chief of staff encouraging refugees to go to Gajevi and saw members of the brigade laying military tele­phone cable between Gajevi and Celie. 
A senior Bosnian army offi­
cer, speaking on condition of 
anonymity, said his soldiers 
rpay have been in Gajevi, but 
only as Muslim-s wishing to 
return home. 
Today's raids in Celie and Koraj were taken "to break the chain of provocation and reac­tion," Boudreau said, warning of "severe consequences" if there was any repeat of the Gajevi clashes. 
The weapons confiscated from the Bosnian army includ­ed nearly 200 rifles, two armored vehicles, thousands of rounds of ammunition, several small anti-aircraft guns, 82 machine guns and five grenade launchers. 
On Wednesday, hundreds of Muslims who claimed homes in nearby Koraj, on the Serb side of the zone, protested at a checkpoint near Celie manned by Russian and American troops. They dispersed after the mayor of Celie appealed to them to leave. 
Koraj was a predominantly Muslim town before the war but it is now in Serb territory beyond the demilitarized zone that contains Gajevi. 
Following the Gajeyi clashes, international mediators sus­pended refugee resettlement plans across the entire 2 1/2­mile-wide separation zone. They insisted that all weapons be cleared from the zone and accused both sides of serious violations of the peace agree­ment. 
Most weapons are banned in the separation zones, but the weapons taken by the NATO­led peace force today appeared to be outside that zone. 
In Paris today, international donors pressed Bosnia's three­man presidency to shore up the country's fragile peace or risk losing aid. 
By DONNA BRYSON Associated Press Writer 
NEW DELHI, India 
The weakest of India's poor are preyed on and sometimes killed by police, a U.S.-based human rights group said Thursday. 
Human Rights Watch said the homeless children, including 15 killed in custody between 1990 and 1994, were victims of police "lawlessness" that could have been curbed had recom­mendations made in 1979 by India's own National Police Commission been enacted. 
"Why hasn't anything hap­pened, and how much longer will children continue to be vic­tims?" said Sidney Jones, Human Rights Watch's New York-based director of Asia projects. 
In a study released Thursday, Human Rights Watch said police officers have blocked the proposed reforms, which include mandatory judieial investigations into accusations of serious police misconduct. 
AN. Sharma, spokesman for the Home Affairs Ministry, which oversees police, had no immediate response. 
Rita Panicker, a social work­er who runs education and other projects for street chil­dren in New Delhi, said chil­dren routinely are attacked by police who accuse them of stealing, or who want protec­tion money. 
"We can tell horrifying tales of children who lost their hear­ing because of beatings. There have been cases where chil­dren's legs have been broken," she said. 
law by enforcing a shoot-to­kill policy that caused the deaths of more than 500 free­dom-seekers during 41 years of communism. 
Krenz and the three former Politburo members have been on trial since January on manslaughter charges for their role in the border policy. 
Krenz challenged the ruling, saying, "I have said from the beginning that federal German justice officials do not have jurisdiction to judge officials of another country," he said. "I will therefore not accept any decision of this court, whatev­er it is." 
On Wednesday, the Berlin court also jailed Klaus-Dieter Baumgarten, a former deputy 







EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
IRISH  Friday  12noon ·9pm  
EXPRESS  Saturday  8am· 9pm 
HOURS  Sunday  9am .J pm  


LaFortune Student Center {219)631-8128 
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 
----------------c-­
Friday, November 15, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 


Macri's is now hiring: 

• 
Servers 

• 
Hostesses 

• 
Cooks 


• 
Busers 


Flexible scheduling for students Competitive wages -good tips! Located on the Transpo Line Macri's is a Great Place to Work! 
Stop in at Macri's NEW Location for an application today! 227 University Drive 277-7273 


Go Irish ... ... destroy Pitt! 
Visit our brand 11ew location... 
Trivia • 7 ft TV Screens • Seating for Over 300 Extra Large Booths • Mouth-Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Friday, November 15, 1996 
Distinguishing college and professional athletes 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY

• 000NESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
"The past has been a 
mint of blood and sor­row. That must not be true of tomorrow." 
-Langston Hughes 


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabe'h Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advenising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Vicwpoin1 Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spans Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Managcr.......................Tara Gricshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .......................Michad Brouiller 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tylcr Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du L.1c and Saint Mary's Collcgc. h does not necessarily rcAcct the policies of rhc administra­tion of either insticmion. The nc'Ws. is rcpom:d as accur:udy and objectively as possible. Un.sign.c:d edi­torials represent the opinion of th< majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Phmo Editor, Spores Edicor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the: authors, and not necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­rnuniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Spans News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 

• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
The front of the T-shirt read, "I Bet My Money on the Irish." The back, "Then Again, So Does Boston College." Let's face it, I wasn't going to Boston without one of those to wear around. If you get killed, you get killed, but you taunt BC as much as you can. They have it com­ing. I was there in 1993 and although I have no recollection whatsoever of any field goals, I keep reading about one and 

Christopher Regan 

I'm beginning to think it might have happened. Not since Florida State took a team trip to Foot Locker has a Notre Dame opponent done something as funny as what BC pulled last week. If you didn't go, you'll never understand­you really had to be there. 
You had to be there to read their own students papers, where students rallied around their team by printing the "Top Ten Signs BC is Shaving Points." (My personal favorite: "Despite the team's record, it has been invited to play in the Las Vegas Bowl.") One student editorial­ist remarked that the BC team had jobs waiting for them in the Clinton White House, should they be expelled. There were two factions on campus, the team and the rest of the students. They were not in this thing together. 
One of BC's own players remarked, "It's not only us, we were just unlucky enough to get caught." Similar feelings are probably the norm at FSU, and Lawrence Phillips said it was "bad luck" when he got caught beating up his girl­friend at Nebraska. Everybody's Doing It, So Why Can't We? 
I went to a pretty small Catholic high school. We weren't Milan or anything, 
Observer Phone lines 
631-4 542  Business Office  631-5313  
63I-454 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
63I-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  63I-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
63I-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

but we routinely got crushed by public schools in just about every sport. My senior year we had a solid basketball team, but we still lost to our biggest rival, McQuaid. When I was a freshman, my folks sent me all the clippings about how that team did in 1994. One headline "Bishop Kearney defeats McQuaid at home for the first time in over a decade," still hangs over my door. 
That team had live good players. One or two came off the bench but no more and never for long. To make a long story short, they beat every team in the state but one, and that by a single tenth of a second as a lay-up that would have given them the game didn't count. I saw some of the playoffs while I was home for Christmas and it was some of the most exciting basketball I've ever seen. They were games you could watch for a dollar. These guys did not go on to big time college ball. If they had come here, they would be first-rate Bookstore play­ers. 
College basketball has been more fun than the pros for years now_ They play hard in the regular season. They make mistakes. They are required to dribble when they take more than, say, four steps, even if there's a highlight film dunk in the works.Most of all, they seemed to be guys you could identify with a little. They don't make 7.5 million dollars a year or dress up like women in their spare time. 
Pro sports grew up a long time ago. Roberto Alomar, Bryan Cox, Derrick Coleman, Howard, Shaquille O'Neal, Jeff George-that's just this year. Most peo­ple have written off the pros, but I'll tell you what: College sports have grown up too and if you think they're going to be the same in live years, youfre wrong. They have slipped away, and high school sports are next. 
Notre Dame played what media called "The Eight Million Dollar Game" against Air Force last year. This year, with a bunch of good teams fighting for the last Bowl Alliance spot, the news stories don't lead with Steve Sarkasian's great 
Vl~LL, Lr:0~.W£ B~TT~R GEt T~~ CABIN~\ WORKING ON A N~'N CoURS~ .. ­
year at BYU or UNC with New Year's Day pos­sibilities for the first time -since 1950. They're treating it like a lottery and behind the sportsmanlike commentary of the coaches, so is every one of the conferences involved. 
For a few years now, the 1+---~..__....­
idea of paying college athletes to play has been circulating. Do not be sur­prised when it is adopted. Just imagine how much more money Georgia Tech would have pulled in if Stephon Marbury had stayed four years. It would be worth many times more -in scholarship money for needy students, they'll tell you -than what it would cost to get Stephan a Lexus, an apartment and extra money with which to gamble. 
Certain college athletes will not be paid any time soon. They are mostly women, but they are also the baseball team. College baseball just doesn't have the same pull as football and basketball. We have a brand new stadium we can't fill. Why? The best college-age baseball players are in the minor leagues. Maybe that's where the college football and basketball players who want to be paid should play. 
But, there are no minor leagues for football and basketball. Not true, of course; colleges serve as minor leagues for the NFL and the NBA. They are being used by billion dollar businesses and make no mistake about it -they like it. It's been big money for them, too. They've been crying lately over players coming out early, they don't like to see students deprive themselves of an edu­cation. Some of them mean it and some of them are crying over athletes depriv­ing them of their athletic department income. 
The solution is pretty simple: The pros have to be forced to set up minor leagues for football and basketball, just like baseball. When they do that, ath­letes that want to "concentrate on their sport" (if that's what's most important to them) can go do just that. There will still be intercollegiate football, it just won't be half filled with pro prospects biding their time until the draft and half college students who like to play sports. It will be all college students who like to play sports. 
Why would the pros set up the leagues? They won't do it voluntarily, that's for certain. They could easily be forced to do it, though. All colleges have to do is admit students without respect to their level of athletic accomplishment. No more recruiting. No more scouting. The football team should field the best 22 guys who would have come to Notre Dame anyway. Same goes for Nebraska. 
That might save college sports from suffering the same fate as the pros. If you think itfs not the right thing to do, remember that it would be easier to pass the new Stadium through the eye of a needle than for a rich University to enter the Kingdom of Heaven. 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, November 15, 1996 page 13 


Clinton's second term will be challenging 
• COLLEGE DEMOCRATS 
For the first time 1944, the Democrats have recaptured the White House for a sec­ond consecutive term. One can scarcely say though that the Democrats have recap­tured the hearts and souls of Americans, which they lost 28 long years ago when Nixon won the presidency, effectively killing liberalism as a popular ideology. The '96 election was hardly a ringing endorsement of the Democratic Party -President Clinton failed to topple 50 percent of the popular vote, and Republicans maintained majorities in both the H"ouse and Senate. However, the Republicans can elaim no major victory themselves -their candidates abandoned Bob Dole in the closing weeks of the election, they lost ten seats in the House, and their leader, Newt Gingrich, remains the most unpopular politician in America 
Professor Sam Best stated, "The '96 election raised more questions than it answered." He is absolutely right -it certainly will not go down in history as one which solved a major problem with policy or government. But it may go down in his­tory as one which forced both parties to reevaluate the tenets of their ideologies and their support bases. For Republicans the election begs the question of where to go next with their rejected conservative revolution, a question which a Democrat cannot speculate on. What I can say for sure, however, is that the election results pose one stark question to Democrats: What is it that you believe? 
While Clinton was busy stealing the center of American politics, many members of the Democrats' traditional liberal base, including myself, became disenchanted with the Party. In his first term, Clinton signed the welfare "reform" bill, ending the feder­al guarantee of assistance to the poor which was instituted under FDR (back when liberalism was on the cutting edge of American politics). Many Democrats considered the signing of this bill to be an embarrassment to the ideals of the Party. Welfare, however. is just one issue where Clinton sold out the traditional platform. In his State of the Union Address two years ago, he declared the era of big government to be over, and in Wednesday's New York Times he was quoted as saying that he may not try to prevent a balanced budget amendment from being sent to the states for ratifi­cation. These arc issues that never split Democrats in the past -but now Clinton is co-opting the ideals of the rival party, leaving many of us shaking our heads. 
President Clinton is not alone, however. "New" Democrats are coming out of the closet in droves, abandoning the fundamental Democratic stances on major issues. This phenomenon cannot be explained in a column as short as this one. For Democrats, Clinton's second term will be about who controls the Party in the future -the "New" Democrats or the traditional ones. Since it was an election year. Democrats bound together for the sake of maintaining the presidency. But in the next two years before the mid-term elections, we are going to see a Democratic Party divided about where it is headed. Many of us are calling upon the President to reunite the Party under the ideals upon which it was founded. Many others are call­ing upon him to continue guiding it to the center of American politics. 
While many say that Clinton's showing in the popular election is a call for him to continue with his centrist course of action, I firmly disagree. The President's liberal support was tenuous at best, and Dole captured the undecided vote nearly two to one. The best thing that Clinton can do for the Democratic Party, and more impor­tantly for the country, is to reaffirm the true ideals of FDR's and LBJ's Democratic Party. The true Democrats out there can only hope that he does. 
NOTRE DAME COLLEGE DEMOCRATS 
(AJ ll'ritten by]. P. Cooney) 
• COllEGE REPUBliCANS 
A week and a half ago, America voted to maintain the status quo in our govern­ment, that being a Democratic President with a Republican House and Senate. What should we expect from the 105th Congress together with President Clinton? To prepare ourselves for what is to come, let us first recap the Clinton years to this point: 
In January of 1993, backed by 44 percent of the electorate, Bill Clinton became the 42nd President of the United States. He began his first term with a very liberal agenda. He began by trying to tackle a social issue like gays in the military and failed miserably, while receiving a letter of resignation from General Colin Powell in the process. Next cam the largest tax increase in U.S. history, along with strong opposition to a balanced budget from the White House. Finally, an overzealous health care proposal collapsed in the Congress, signifying another failure. 
In November of 1994, in a gesture which seemed at the time to represent the beginning of the end of Bill Clinton as President, Americans shot down Clinton and his liberal agenda by voting in a Republican House and Senate, the first of its kind in roughly four decades. With gung-ho freshmen teaming up with unified incum­bent Republicans in Congress, Clinton's legitimacy as President seemed in doubt. However, Clinton used the Republicans' stubbornness to his own advantage during a budget standoff which resulted in a government shutdown. In the process, he also managed to paint the Republican Congressional leaders as the right-wing extremists who were responsible for the shutdown (all of which hurt Dole greatly in the 1996 campaign). 
But Bill Clinton had one more act up his sleeve, that being Dick Morris, his politi­cal advisor. As the 1996 election drew nearer, we saw Clinton speaking less as a liberal and more as a centrist. He and his fellow Democrats staked their claim for the center instead of the left, given that the word "liberal" now has a negative con­notation for the American voter. We saw Clinton sign legislation curbing welfare and immigration, while suddenly agreeing to balance the budget. 
What do I expect from the President in his second term overall, specifically the next two years? I see him returning to his leftist origins because he runs no politi­cal risk in doing so, now that he has been re-elected. Also, if Al Gore is to continue Clinton's legacy in 2000, it cannot be under a centrist ideology because that would not match his record as a liberal. 
What should the Republican Congress do in the meantime? First of all, they have to change the public's image of Newt Gingrich, the most visible of the Congressional Republicans. They have to do this mainly by loosening the party's ties to the Christian Coalition and people like Pat Buchanan. Ties such as these allowed Clinton to portray himself as a moderate while painting Republicans as rightist Bible-beaters. In advising the Republicans to rid themselves of the religious right, my main piece of advice is this: Forget the abortion issue, even though you may have a legitimate argument. The political reality is that the Supreme Court is not going to overturn Roe v. Wade, no matter how much Republicans want to see it done. If Republicans form 1997 to 2000 can get this through their thick skulls, WE WILL WIN BACK THE PRESIDENCY IN 2000 -mainly because Gore is heatable with a more conservative electorate like the one we currently have. 
NOTRE DAME COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
(As written by Ted Bassani.) 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 

'96 election brings two more years of the same 
As expected, the election was just another day. 
Although I had predicted that Bill Clinton would be re-elected, election night did not progress as I had 

Gary Caruso 
expected. Clinton's win at 9 p.m. Eastern Standard Time threw my schedule off. I had predicted that he would be declared the winner at 9:30, so I lost a half hour... kind of like Indiana not turning back its clocks with the standard time change. 
The half hour differential rushed me through an evening of parties with Democrats and Labor groups. It was an anti-climactic evening despite the joyous Clinton win and the disappoint­ing Hepublican hold on Congress. It was like trying to arrive at an exclu­sive party just late enough to be fash­ionably late, but actually arriving a day after the event. 
Several lessons can be learned from the 1996 elections. First. the voter turnout was low because Dole started out a dud and maintained a dull appearance throughout the campaign. Clinton supporters knew that Clinton would win, so they stayed home. Dole supporters knew that Dole would lose, so they stayed home. Perot supporters knew that Hoss was a nut. so they stayed home. 
The election reminds me of the Notre Dame-Pittsburgh game this wnekend. Does anyone in the universe expect Pitt to win? Well, then, stay home and don't bother to watch on television. That makes as much sense as the electorate did on election day. 
The second lesson is that the American public is satisfied with a divided government as long as grid­lock is avoided. Back in the day when Gerald Ford was the Republican leader in the House, he compromised with the Democrats. It ultimately lead to systematically guaranteeing that Republicans would remain a minority party... that is until Newt Gingrich decided that warfare was the way to win control of Congress. Newt was right. but the American public hated the rancor of Newt's crowd that lead to gridlock. 
Currently, about twenty Republicans oppose Newt for Speaker of the House until the ethics investigation sur­rounding the Speaker is concluded. However, Newt has no serious opposi­tion, so he will remain the leader of the Republicans in the House. It is interesting that the House will actual­ly be less conservative while the Senate will become more ideologically hard core conservative. 
If history is any indication, expect Newt to remain partisan and for grid­Jock to creep into play in about three months. 
An important factor coming into play next year is that President Clinton will be the first president to have a line item veto during the bud­get process. For the first time, he will squeeze out the "fat" or "pork" the Republicans offer on the budget plate. It ought to be a just reward for the conservatives who for so long demanded the line item veto when Reagan and Bush were in the White House and Democrats controlled Congress. As Nelson on "The Simpsons" laughs, "IIa, ha!" 
Finally, the winners and losers in this year's process are everyone. We won some and lost some as the split of party control and the close votes in several races indicated. The religious right lost some clout but managed to maintain its strength in some Congressional districts where they probably decided the outcome. The AFL-CIO also managed some clout in several races where they concentrat­ed their efforts. 

I think it is unfair to characterize organized Labor's efforts as a failure merely because Congress did not switch back to the Democrats. First, it was Labor's first national effort, which they stumbled through... some­thing like the early years of the Christian Coalition. Secondly, the campaign financing problems the Democrats faced in the final weeks of the campaign played a significant role in keeping Clinton at 49 percent and returning some Republicans to office by extremely thin margins. 
What does it all mean? Who knows. We will have at least two more years of the same ... which Americans seemed to think was just what they wanted. Maybe we should have saved those millions of campaign dollars and unwanted "infomercials" by can­celling the election... at least for two more years when voters will surely be more upset about something and demand more of a change than they did this year. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (lUE) in Washington, D. C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com. 



ACCENT
page 14 Friday, November 15, 1996 
Impressions 

0 
Degas 
I
By ASH LEIGH THOMPSON works arranged by a combina­seams of the tracing paper are p u r ­A<sociate Accent Editor tion of date and subject matter, visible, emphasizing the con­chased some canvases are displayed cept of reworked images. No by Van f the myth Edgar Degas cre­amidst sculpture to demon­concrete feeling as to the order Gogh. ated for himself was an strate his unity of theme. of Degas's revisions can be And for accurate one, then this Eager viewers with romantic detected, but one can certainly t h e reclusive, solitary genius has notions of sharing an intimate sense the constant reinvention. muse­never he11n so publicly exposed moment with Degas must be Some rooms contain a series u m as he is now. forewarned: hundreds of your of five or six paintings of the goer of llis most intimate expression closest strangers will share this same exact subject, perhaps today? during his later years of inver­moment with you. The gal-each from a slightly different While sion, his art, are angle, revealing n o currently on display 
Degas's almost obses­original for all to see. And sive attempt for per­Degas while Degas earned fection. Room five works respect and renown contains sculpture are on as one of the lead­placed alongside can­display, 
will all leave the museum feel­ing Impressionists vases with the identi­as with any popular, commer­
ing enlightened and maybe
of his time. he cal image, achieving a cialized exhibit, the tour emp­even a little inspired. 
showed very little mirrored effect. It ties into a gift shop, complete 
Degas may have rotreatedof his later work, almost seems as if with posters, T-shirts, post­
into himself towards thn end offailing to partici­Degas uses himself for cards, coffee table books, and his life, but he surely could notpate in a single inspiration. even mouse pads. 
help but remain an inlluentialexhibit during the Whether the strokes For art lovers who still crave force within his artistic commu­last thirty years of were created by pas­more, there are a series of 
nity. "Degas: Beyond
his life. It is to this tels, charcoals, oils or unique free and paid programs Impressionism" proves that hisperiod of his cre­his own fin&er paint­surrounding the event, lasting 
presence will remain among
ative process that ing, a closer look at until December 6. Most are ours.
the Art Institute of the canvas shows lectures, but Degas-related 
Chicago chose to what seem like rapid videos, operas and ballets seem 
For remaining tickets to the
dedicate its exhibit, blurs of color. Step inventive complements to the 
exhibit, call the Art Institute at
"Degas: Beyond backward, and the exhibit. The museum even 
312-443-3680.

Impr11ssionism," strokes dissolve into offers "Invite Degas to Lunch," 
that will continue deliberately placed which allows ~;::---c;--~:;--------:.--------------:---..--., to run through pieces of genius. downtown January 5, 1997. Texture in both his Chicago 
Undermining the canvases and sculp­businesses exquisite sense of tures is a key element, to bring beauty and harmo­as is color. This later exhibition ny that a Degas period reveals a more talks to the work can inspire in mature artist, ener­workplace. its viewer, the getic and concentrat­Regardless atmosphere at the ed on a few specific of its minor Art Institute proves themes. Every canvas faults and far from tranquil. reflects this; Degas's inconve­
Two Dancers. c. 1893-1898. Pastel on paper. 70.5 x 53.6 em. Jate work seems to be
While nearly all the tickets for niences, the this special exhibit have been especially expressive, Degas exhib­sold. either to Art Institute leries are crowded and warm, exploding with both emotion it remains members or early subscribers, and the safest route through and color. an incredible the hopes of obtaining a ticket the exhibit seems to be as part His artistic attention focuses temporary have resulted in long Jines of of the clump of headphoned art on the female form, in just addition to impatient frenzy. Those privi­lovers pulsing slowly through about every describable state the Art leged with tickets are ushered each doorway. or position, striking the viewer Institute. through a single file line into Putting distractions aside, as incredible. Ballerinas occu­Available to the entrance hall, where for however, walking through py the first several galleries, many, the four dollars, viewers can pur­each room seems like a person­followed by bathers, women exhibit has chase headphones with an al tour of a studio. Degas combing hair and finally, b e e n hour-long cassette that (1834 -1917) composed many Russian dancers. A final room arranged in explains the history of the artist of these works using a complex even includes landscapes, an enjoyable and his works in detail. system of drawing on tracing which also imitate the female and under­
The exhibit, which contains paper. Some of these portraits form. standable almost one hundred paintings, were originally colored in with The exhibit ends with a read­format. pastels, drawings and sculp­paints or pastels, while others ing room containing hooks fur­Children as tures, is co-organized by The were formed by layering these ther explaining the work of well as National Gallery, London, and sheets of tracing paper, adding Degas and his contemporaries. adults, The Art Institute of Chicago. multiple images to pre-existing They reveal that his works novices and Laid out in ten rooms with ones. In some works, the were sketched by Gauguin and experts alike, Four Dancers, c. 1899-1904. Pastel on paper. 64 x 42 em. 



1 I 
1 
1 
ACCENTFriday, November 15, 1996 page 15  
Shake it u a1  
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON performance and instruction. "She was amazing.  
Associate Accent Editor She makes the human body an art form," Frigon  
said.  
Finger cymbals rang, hips gyrated, sequins shook Anyone who witnesses a belly dancing performance and bottoms wiggled. As the first notes of east­cannot help but notice its fluidity and intricacy. It ern music spiraled out of the stereo, every Notre also emits a subtle sensuality and eroticism that  
Dame and Saint Mary's student in attendance knew it seems misplaced within the confines of a predomi­ 
would not be a regular evening in LaFortune. They nantly conservative, Islamic culture. Belly dancing  
were right; it's not every night that the administration dates back to ancient biblical times, however, and  
pays for you to learn how to belly dance. seems to have become absorbed as an integral part of  
Although there were neither nomadic tribesmen nor the Mideastern and Mediterranean cultures.  
Gamal explained that such  
dances originated in India and  -­ 
gradually moved westward as  
gypsies migrated as far as what is  
today Morocco. The techniques  
fall in two groups, folkloric and  
oriental, with the former embody­ 
ing regional interpretations and  
the latter representing a univer­ 
sal classical form. While the  
technique remains generally the  
same from country to country,  
the cultural influences and music  
vary greatly.  
Some were originally per­ 
formed as fertility rituals or as  
"zars," movements executed by  
young girls to scare off the evil  
spirits believed to be hiding in  
their hair. Now, they are mainly  
performed for entertainment pur­ 
poses. It is not uncommon to hire  
a belly dancer to entertain at a  
wedding, though Gamal explained that no respectable The Observer/Katie Kroener Jd h · d h The Observer/Ashleigh Thompson •1Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students experiment with torso isolation, a funda­famt Y wou want t etr aug ter South Bend resident Leila Gamal brought her exotic art mental aspect of Belly Dancing. towfohl~ol w the career· f form to La Fortune Ballroom for a free workshop. 1 e recent pressure rom cer­ - 
gypsies in attendance Wednesday night at the Student tain Egyptian Islamic fundamentalist sects has affect­wealth and respect. It's a good thing, too; the averageUnion Board event. dozens of students watched Leila ed the demand for belly dancing in that country, both flowing, sequined costume is imported from Egypt and Carnal (whose real name is Laura Skarich) as she in the east and the west, belly dancing retains the can cost around $1000.flawlessly performed the 5,000 year old art. potential to be an economically viable profession, and As part of the workshop, Gamal invited students toShe explained that belly dancing differs from other some dancers like Sohair Zaki have earned both ask questions, leaf through copies of Arabesque maga­types of dance with how it exactly mirrors the spirited zine, play with her finger cymbals music that accompanies it. Isolation movements in the and check out her compact discs.torso comprise many, but not all, of the movements, as Students wishing to pursue the dis­do floating arms and twisting hips. A few enthusiastic cipline under her instruction could dancers soon complained of awkwardness and sign a mailing list, or can contact cramps. Needless to say, the dancing was harder to the Student Union Board office todo than it looked. obtain her phone number. Students were asked to stand with their bare feet While some sat speechless, oth­parallel underneath their hips for equal balance. ers felt encouraged. MorrisseyAfter feeling their connection with the floor, they were sophomore Pete Wurst comment­then guided through a series of isolated movements, ed, "I came because I love tocontorting legs, arms, hips, stomachs and buttocks. dance. I didn't think it was asSpread out across the crowded ballroom floor, men hard as I thought it would be.and women alike moved to the foreign-sounding We're going to show this off at themusic, laughing at their own ineptitude and generally Beaux Arts Ball this weekend!" just having a good time. Whether all students felt equallyMore than a dozen techniques were taught by as confident was difficult to assess,Carnal, who eventually occupied the dance floor to but most seemed to enjoy them­demonstrate her mastery of the art's intricacy. selves. As they contentedly wig­Born and raised in South Bend, Gamal has traveled gled out of the ballroom, studentsthroughout the United States and the Middle East, allowed the music to continuepracticing and performing her art form. First trained twirling around them, and a fewin the art of belly dancing in 1978, she has mastered probably wondered when theirsuch techniques as shimmying and camels, which she next opportunity for exotic dancing describes as "liquid energy down the spine." The Observer/Ashleigh Thompson would arise. After all, with winterWhile she enjoys performing, she admits that her Students follow Leila Gamal across the Ballroom dance floor, practicing their starting, this campus can use allteaching is under higher demand. Amy Frigon, a newly-learned techniques. the heat it can get.Lewis junior in attendance, appreciated both Carnal's  

• SruFFTo Do 
Not Just Books Book Sale 
The St. Joseph County Public Library will hold its annual fall book sale this week­end. But it won't be just books. Magazines, records, COs, video, and audio cas­settes will also be available for purchase. The sale will be open from 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. on Saturday, November 16, and 1:30 p.m. to 4:30p.m. on Sunday, November 
17. The library is located at 304 S. Main Street in South Bend. 
Coffee and Soul 
The Soulful Bowlfull, Notre Dame's only jazz quartet, will be performing at Lula's coffee house this Saturday, November 16, beginning at 8 p.m. Lula's is located on Edison, across from the Linebacker. 
Love Stinks: A Dramatic Look at the Downside of Relationships 
Catherine Friesen will perform three short dramatic pieces at Goshen College next weekend. The senior theater major's performance includes Bertolt Brecht's "Jewish Wife," Samuel Beckett's "Rockabye," and Sam Shepherd's and Joseph 
Chaikin's "Savage Love," a collection of poems. The selections focus on human relationships in times of loss, leaving and love. Friesen's performance is entitled "Between Us." 
The November 23 performance begins at 8 p.m. and admission is free. Call (219) 535-7571 for more information. 
AquaArt Exhibition 
Cynthia Morgan's "River Waltz" will be exhibited at the South Bend Regional Museum of Art from November 23,1996, through January 5, 1997. The exhibition consists of an autobiographical theme combined with metaphorical water refer­ences in an attempt to "create a place for the viewer to reflect on their own histo­ry," according to Morgan, Assistant Registrar of Collections at the Minnesota Museum of American Art. 
The site-specific installation of the work is centered around a white organza skirt covered with ruffies and pockets, each containing a glass of water. A sound piece with a glass harmonica and other glass and water sounds accompany the installa­tion. 
The Regional Museum, located at 120 South St. Joseph Street in South Bend's Century Center, is open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and noon to 5 p.m. Saturday and Sunday. The suggested donation for nonmembers of the Museum is $3. For more information call 235-9102. 
• 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
Olajuwon crucial in comeback win over Pacers 
By MICHAEL LUTZ 
Associated Press Writer 
HOUSTON 

Charles Barkley and Hakeem Olajuwon enjoyed the victory, not the paee. 
llakeem Olajuwon seored 9 points in the final 4:32 and blocked Reggie Miller's layup in the final seconds Thursday night as the Houston Hockets rallied for a 90-88 victory over the Indiana Pacers. 
The Hockets lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in an exhausting double over­time game on Tuesday night, and trailed the Pacnrs most of the night before rallying. 
"I think we were tired, obviously, one of our weaknesses is age," Barkley said. "You could see we were tired out there
--
so this is a great win. We played very sluggish tonight." "This was a wakeup call for us," Olajuwon said. "We can't continue to play these kinds of games. We should try to make it easier on ourselves." Olajuwon scored 21 points and got 12 rebounds for the Hockets, who trailed 85-76 with 4:32 left. Plagued by foul trouble, Olajuwon snapped an 88-all tie with a baseline jumper with 20 seconds left. The Pacers had a chance to tie, but Olajuwon blocked Miller's shot and players for both teams wrestled for the 
loose ball near midcourt as the buzzer sounded. 
"When the game is on the line, you look for opportunities like that," Olajuwon said. 
Barkley ran up and bear hugged ref­eree Ed Middleton after the wild finish. 
"I didn't know if he was saying it was over or he was going to put some time on the clock, but after all night he final­ly got one right." 
Barkley had 25 points and nine rebounds for Houston, the first time this season he failed to get double figures in rebounds. Matt Bullard added four 3­pointers to help the Rockets rally. 
Travis Best matched a career-high with 23 points to lead the Pacers and Miller added 13 points on 4-of-18 shoot­ing. 
"Nobody can hang their heads after playing this type of game," Best said. "Everybody is upset the most because this could have been a nice win. Hopefully, we can bounce back and win some games. All of a sudden calls go the other way." 
Miller wasn't too pleased with the officiating either. 
"There was no way the refs were going to foul Hakeem out of this game," Miller said. "It's comical what the refs in this league are doing to us. I don't care what Rod Thorn (NBA senior vice president of basketball operations) does. We had this game in the bag." 
The Rockets led 47-46 at halftime before the Pacers went on a 14-4 run to take a 72-63 lead after three. 
Bullard made a pair of 3-pointers during a 10-run in the second quarter that enabled Houston to rally from a 40-33 deficit. 
"I feel very fortunate to win this game," Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. "We didn't play good basketball until the fourth quarter but our guys were scrapping the whole game and it's a gutsy win for us." 
SONICS 94 CLIPPEHS 78 

Gary Payton scored 25 points and Shawn Kemp had 20 points and 15 rebounds Thursday night to lead the Seattle SuperSonics to their fifth straight victory, 94-78 over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Sam Perkins added 16 points off the bench for the Sonies, who have won 13 straight over the Clippers, including nine in a row on the road. 
The Sonics, who entered the game with the NBA's third-highest scoring average at 101.6, were the seventh team held under 100 points by the Clippers in their first seven games. Los Angeles took the court with the league's second-stingiest defense,. 
Malik Sealy's three-point play with 
3:05 left in the third quarter narrowed the gap to 64-55, the first time the Sonics' lead was under double digits since the second quarter. 
Loy Vaught's layup and a 20-foot jumper by Darrick Martin reduced the deficit to 64-59 with 1:49 left in the third, but Perkins made his third 3­pointer 26 seconds and Los Angeles got no closer. 
TIMBEHWOLVES 100 MAVERICKS 90 

The Minnesota Timberwolves have a winning record for only the fourth time ever, and Flip Saunders already is get­ting greedy. 
After Doug West sparked a 13-0 run at the start of the second half to help the Wolves rally for a 100-90 victory over the Dallas Maverieks on Thursday night, Saunders was more interested in how mueh better he believes his team's record should be. 
"We very easily could have been 5-2 or 6-1," Saunders said, referring to a 1­3 road trip in which the Wolves lost on a shot at the buzzer in overtime and wasted a nine-point, fourth-quarter lead in another game. 
"The one thing about this team, we don't have a sense of urgency when we fall behind. We don't panic, and that'll happen if you believe in your defense." 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
- NOTICES  Paid house & dog-sitter for 12125­1/6. Large house close to campus.  REGGAE D. J. 234 0705  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  $$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  All undergrad, grad and faculty interested in presenting their work at the 1997 Sophomore Literary  
2 medium size. sweet dogs to walk,  ALL HOME GAMES.  Festival are invited to audition on  
VFW 624  feed, and keep company. 287­ 2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  PLEASE­ 272-6551  Tues, Nov. 19 at 8pm in the  
Friday night dinners-4:30-8  3054.  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­ NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune.  
Dancing -9-1  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ SISTER NANCY MILLER  n. d. tickets for sale  Please prepare a 5-10 min. reading  
All members & guests welcome.  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  6306  257-0996.  271 1635  and submit a written sample of your  
214 U.S. 33 N.-Next to Knight's  basic conversational English in  work. ?'s call Meg at x3025.  
Inn.  Prague, Budapest. or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European  FOR SALE  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­Check our price 674-7645.  ADOPTION IS A  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  languages required. Inexpensive  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  CHOICE OF LOVE.  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Room & Board + other benefits. For  Dell Laptop Computer  MEGHAN @232-7839  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers  Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  info. call: (206)971-3680  Like new, '96 model.  No std -pref. side In  act of love. Your child will be raised  
Package mcludes 2 meals + 3hrs.  ext.K55843  Orig. cost: $2000.  Desperate for Rutgers tix!!  Peter 1-800-7 46-3755  to know this. Caring couple wish to  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  Sell $1500.  $$ Will Pay $$  share our love, laughs. and lives  
Sun (800)763-5606.  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 8MB, 100 MHz  Please call Amanda at  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­ 
Positions are now available at  Call 233-5114.  (301 )314-8671  Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer.  tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  National Parks. Forests, & Wildlife  or send email to  name and number  talk and see if we're right for you  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  DAVE MATTHEWS BAND  adew@wam.umd.edu.  and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­ 
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  8 GREAT SEATS LOW PRICE  1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill@ 412­ 800-213-3960.  
CALL291-9462 FOR INFO.  N55849  Call Soon!! x1251 ask for Tom  HELP!  661-0459 or 1-800-545-0482 ext.  
Student needs Rutgers GA's  753  ND's jazz quartet  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ COUCH n"L X 35"W ASKING  for family.  THE SOULFUL BOWLFULL  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  $125.00 288-6529  Call Mark at x1487  GA.s FOR SALE GA.s  seen us at Acoustic?  
Meals. Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  ...................PITT, RUTGERs , USC ,  in need of more?  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  month. Room and Board!  House for Sale by Owner  Rutgers student ticket needed.  GA.s CALL. ....272-7233.  SATURDAY NOV 16  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ Transportation! Male or Female. No  1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded  Please call x3755.  LULA'S  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  experience necessary. Call  Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3  SALE:  
(206)971-351 0 extA55848  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  NEED 3 RUTGERS TIX  Two GA's for PITTSBURGH.  Maud- 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  attached w/ breezeway. 1112 baths,  Call Mike 4-4131  Contact 277-1530.  Aren't you that crazed girl improvis­ 
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ ing her poety. dancing upon the  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  Mazatlan. Sell 15 trips and travel  ment. ale, disposal. all appliances,  I Have 2 Pitt Student Ga's!!l  Need Rutgers GA's?  shore, her soul in division from  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  free plus cash. Lowest Price  Security System.Completely  Call x1049  3 for sale@ 277-9957  itself?  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ refreshed to sell. asking 88,500.  -WB.  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  ages available. Call Sunbreaks.  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday.  NEED 2 Ga's or conv Stud Tix  ##########################  
1·800-678-6386  800·446-8355.  Call219-295-8727  Big Reward  For Sale  
call Christian x3592  2 Pitt student tickets  Chestnut House B&B.  
Spring Break Panama Cityl  Part Time Nanny Needed.  TRANSFERABLE $1000  4 Rutgers student tickets  St. Joseph, MI.  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Flexible hours. Call 273·2713  VOUCHER ON AMERICAN  NEED 1 RUTGERS STD TIX  call Jenny @ 687·8435  Elegantly decorated home over­ 
Hotel, Location. Pricel 7 Nights  AIRLINES $800 OBO  CALL MICHELE @X2984  ##########################  looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  MARCO'S PIZZA  2719387  mins. from ND.  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring·  Marco's Pizza is now hiring Drivers  Tickets needed: 2 Pitt GA's, call  Afraid of cold weather?  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri·  
breaktravel.com 1-800·678·6386 ILOST & FOUND I  for our 100th location. Delivery dri­vers earn $5·$6 per hour plus tips and mileage reimbursed daily ($12· $14 total). Full of Part-time.  TICKETS NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Eric at 271·9069. NEED-Pitt stdt or GA tix Call Anne 289·4922  Then don't suffer thru another cold game! **SELL me your RUTGERS tix!** My beau is coming in!  vale baths. full breakfasts & hers d'oeuvres served fireside. (616) 983·7413.  
We are located 1 mile from campus  ALL GAMES HOME  Call Sarah @ 243-9019  ***SLF IS COMING.***  
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY  at SR 23 and Ironwood. Call for  AND AWAY  NEED Rutgers stdt tix Call Matt  Start preparing early by coming to  
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED  immediate interview.  232-0058  232·3609  FOR SALE ON FRI Pitt GA call  the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov.  
SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND,  243-1111  24 HRS.  283-0397  21 in the LaFortune Ballroom,  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT  BUY -SELL ·TRADE  NEED Rutgers stdt & GA tix Call  from 8-10 pm. Come to listen or  
X3677.  FOR RENT  TICKET-MART, INC.  Anne 289-4922  TIX 4 SALE I stud Pitt; 2 GA Rutgers  sign up in the DH to read or play music. All are welcome.  
For Sale: 2 GAs for Pitt and  x2626,2597 lv. offer  
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  WALK TO CAMPUS  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Rutgers. 287-1449 eves/weekend.  ATTENTION LONDOMERS .......  
LOST: brown leather London Fog jacket @ library on Nov. 6  2·3-4·5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232·0061.  FOR SALE: 2 Pitt GA's  PERSONAL  Kern. Kratovil and O'Brien Invite you to  
Call x2653 HUGE REWARD!!!!!!!!!  Eagered to SELL!  the ROB "BASS" VEGA party!  
7 MO. LEASE 1197-7/97  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  call X1414  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  November 16th at Jazzman's-Be  
College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  GAMES 235-3394  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  there. Cod and Salsa may  
LOST· Columbia ski parka near the  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  Need a GA or Student ticket for  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  appear...  
Main Building. Brown, green and  ceil, porch. furniture avail.  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  Rutgers game. It's for my little  The highest quality full-color  
black. I really need this back. If  BEAUTIFUL!  219-232-2378 a.m.  brother. Call 4·2340. Ask for Frank.  copies are now available at  STOP the MADNESS I  
found, please return. Dan· x3214  273-2580  288-2726 p.m.  THE COPY SHOP  what's up with Security randomly  
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  LaFortune Student Center  locking the gates blw C1 and Turtle  
WANTED  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND·SMC EVENTS.  TIX for every home game. Call (301) 445-3955  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Phone #631-COPY  Creek and Campus View?  
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ 232-0058  Hey Jeff,  Kim. she's in the old country.  
NEEDED 1 ROOMATE!TURTLE  ENDS.  !@#$%A&*(})(*&A%$#@!  24 HAS.  Don't forget your underwear  always thought she was a sweel,  
CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  I NEED PITT TICKETS !I!  BUY • SELL· TRADE  genteel girl, until I heard she had  
2059  243-0658.  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  TICKET-MART, INC.  Where IS my underwear?  gotten into boxing. BOXING? Why  
GA...  Kim? Why'd you go and do that?  
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  Rooms for Rent F·Ball wknds.  CALL 4-4217 ...  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST,  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  in home 2 mis. N. of campus cont.  !@#$%A&*())(*&A%$#@!  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  who is going to see ole JD with  
(813)360-2243.  brkfst inc/ 277-8340  232·0061.  LAFAYETTE  me??  

---·--~--~~-------~-~---~---­
Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

Dear Alumni and Friends, 


I I I I I 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an I 
I I
invitation to come together and celebrate I I 
I 
I I _.,--I
the Eucharist this weekend I 
I I I I 
I 
I I I I 
Pittsburgh Football Weekend November 16 and 17, 1996 I 
I 
I I I I I I I 
I 


ISaturday Vigil Masses J I I 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 

Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 


Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00, & 11:45 a.tn. 
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 Parish Crypt 9:30 & 11:00 a.lll. ­
r--------------_.._,....____~-----------,_--~-----------.­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL • COLLEGE fOOTBALl 

Smoltz open to possibilities Fitzgerald runong 
By PAUL NEWBERRY city to be surrounded with some pen (if he signs with another Associated Press Writer of the best pitching you'll ever team)," Smoltz said. "They're 
Butkus award finalists 
see. it really should be split up. going to cry that they made ATLANTA It's almost like everybody is say­every effort ... but I was just not 
John Smoltz could not have 
picked a b£1tter time to have the 
best season of his career. 

The NL Cy Young Award win­ncr will start listening to offers from other teams Friday, mind­ful that he would like to remain with the Atlanta Braves but realistic about his opportunity to move on. 
''I'm a person who never clos­es any doors," Smoltz said. "I really believe things will work out (with the Braves). I do. But I've also seen a lot of things that have taken a turn." 
In today's ·expansion-diluted game, Smoltz may receive the highest annual average salary ever for a pitcher. The 29-year­old right-hander likely will com­mand at least $7 million per season, and he would prefer at least a three-year deal. 
"I think my career is ahead of me," said Smoltz, who is coming off a $16 million, four-year con­tract. "I've always maintained that age 29 to 38 is the peak of a pitcher's career. Some people don't realize I am 29. I hope to pitch another eight years." 
If he docs, it would be hard to top the season he just had. Smoltz led the majors with 24 wins and 276 strikeouts, along with a 2.94 ERA. He added four more wins in the postseason before the Braves were beaten by the New York Yankees in the World Series. 
"I never thought I would reach the level I'm at now," he said. "But there's not a surplus of pitching. Pitching is at a mini­mum.... We're spoiled in this 
world snack on every day. 

ing, 'It's about time they got 
their due.'" 

The Braves, obviously, would like to re-sign Smoltz. But they hope to keep their payroll around $50 million, and they know that any monetary stan­dard set in these negotiations will rear up during talks with Greg Maddux and Tom Glavine, eligible for free agency after next season. 
"They've got a tough business decision in front of them," Smoltz said. "Whatever they do with me, they're talking about two more pitchers. And there's no guarantee that if I stay, the other two are going to stay." 
General manager John Schuerholz hopes the Braves will be able to pull off another negotiating coup, like they did in December 1992 when they signed Maddux for $28 million over five years -even though the Yankees offered $6 million more. 
"We understand that it will cost some money, though I don't necessarily agree with the pro­jections," Schuerholz said. "And once you get to a certain level of income, other things become important, like the quality of an organization and its commit­ment.'' 
Smoltz agreed, saying he wants to be with a team that has a realistic chance of winning, but he doesn't like the tone of Schuerholz's comments. He feels like the Braves want him to sign for less out of loyalty to the organization. 
"I know what's going to hap-
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
"VERY SEXY, VERY LUSH, VERY DANGEROUS AND VERY, VERY DECADENT." 
"I was more knockl'LI out of nw scat hr tht' surprisl' than in 'The Crying (:ame·: · 
-\liiiiM"I"tll\·t,l '"',;t·.\tr.. t'W.I.\U~!II 

"Mesmerizing and Elegant(~· Pen•erse! formidable intcns1t) :tnd hauntin~t hc:aut~: ,,... '""~ ""''"''"'"' 
"Utterl)l Ril'eting!" 

willing to take less like Greg Maddux. That part is a little unfair. 
"I've never been in this situa­tion. I feel like everyone is bank­ing on me to do the right thing. But I've got to look out for my­self. I've got to look out for me and my family." 
Smoltz is a native of Michigan and his father has made it clear he would like to see his son pitch closer to home. But Smoltz loves Atlanta and said he will continue to live in the city, even if he signs elsewhere. 
"You won't see me make a de­cision that's based purely on money," he said. "I can honestly say that. If it happens to be where I end up, it's not the sole reason I'm going there." 
Smoltz plans to take an active role in the negotiations, which will lengthen the process. 
He can envision himself spreading out rosters on his liv­ing room floor, trying to decide which team has the best chance of winning. 
Associated Press 

ORLANDO, Fla. 
Canute Curtis of West Virginia, Pat Fitzgerald of Northwestern and Colorado's Matt Hussell were nominated Thursday for the Dick Butkus award as college football's top linebacker. 
The three were chosen from a field of 11 semifmalists by a 25­member committee of sports writers and commentators mak­ing the selection for the Downtown Athletic Club of Orlando. 
The award will be presented Dec. 14 at Walt Disney World. 
Last year's winner was Kevin Hardy of Ilinois, now with the Jacksonville Jaguars of the NFL. 
"Just to be named with those two guys is an honor," said Curtis, a 6-foot-3, 260-pound senior who has 54 tackles and 14 1/2 sacks this season for the nation's No. 1 defense. 
WVU Coach Don Nehlen said Curtis was "just amazing. He's done everything for us... From the coaching standpoint, he's won our best defensive player in nine of our 10 football games." 
Fitzgerald, a 230-pound senior, has 69 solo tackles, two interceptions and a fumble recovery in 10 games for Northwestern. 
"For the last two years we've had an outstanding defense here, and I've just been another member of it," said Fitzgerald. "I'm really proud of our de­fense." 
Northwestern Coach Gary Barnett said the best way to de­scribe Fitzgerald was that "everybody wants a linebacker that will lead you into a war... But the difference, I think, be­tween Pat and most guys, is that Pat rrot only will lead you but he probably will lead all the plans and the strategies and knows all the ins and outs. He's probably the most cerebral player I've ever coached." 
Russell said he's had great teammates and coaches. 


277-1166 


Within walking distance ofND Campus! No appointment ever needed! 

EARN WHILE YOU LEARN 
Without losing valuable study and social time! 
Varsity Clubs of America, South Bend Chapter, offers Notre Dame students a quick and easy way to earn extra cash. 
If you think your parents or a family friend may be interested in exploring the benefits of vacation ownership at Michiana's deluxe all-suite hotel, you may be eligible to 
earn $500! 
The next time you have visitors, stop by VCA at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka to see what we have to offer. 
-For more information, contact Dennis Morrissey, Notre 
Dame Class of '93, at Varsity Clubs of America, 277-0500.
FRIDAY, NOV 15 AND SATURDAY, NOV16 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 15, 1996 
This display was made possible by the combined efforts of the Observer Marketing, Ad Design, and Advertising depart­ments. Contact Amanda Pontarelli for more informa­tion. Graphic design by Amanda Pontarelli, Bryan Meyer, and Brant Gauthier. 

"· 0-t:~ e
' f 

c • • 
.
e 

• contln 

• 
. . .plus our Daily lunch specials, 4 big TV screens, and multiple dart 
~---------------------------------------­
Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS
• RWANDA 
U.S. troops reach Africa for humanitarian mission 
By HRVOJE HRANJSKI 
Associated Press Writer 
KIGALI, Rwanda 

The first of what could be 4,000 American troops arrived in Hwanda's capital today in advance of a multinational opemtion to feed and help send home more than 1 million refugees in Zaire. 
The 43-member team, led by 
U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Edwin P. Smith. is to assess the security needs for the U.S. troops that are to take part in the Canadian-led humanitarian operation in central Africa. 
Beside Canada and the United States, other Western nations expected to participate indude France, Britain, Spain, Italy and the Netherlands. The United Nations said seven African countries will take part, including South Africa. 
While President Clinton has attached certain conditions to the U.S. troops' involvement, he agreed in principle Wednesday to dispatch a force, spearheaded by U.S. Army paratroopers from their base in Vincenza, Italy. 
Among the conditions placed on U.S. participation in the multinational force were that thn American troops. totaling 3,000 to 4,000, stay no longer than four months so that there is a finite date to the mission. 
Officials from Canada, United States and other countries were to meet at the United Nations this afternoon to final­ize details of the operation. 
Once the parties reach agree­ment, the Security Council will authorize the deployment, a decision that diplomats expect as early as tonight. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said the U.S. paratroopers would secure an airfield in the eastern Zaire city of Goma, a principal deliv­ery point for humanitarian supplies. Zairean rebels control the airport. 
Rocket fire hissed today above Goma, the Zairian town bordering Rwanda, as Zairian rebels battled with Rwandan Hutu militias near their Mugunga refugee camp 10 miles from the lakeside town. 
No injuries were reported, and by noon the artillery was quiet. 
Shelling prevented the distri­bution of food, however. As relief is delayed, thousands face starvation or death from disease. 
Hebel leader Laurent Kabila has vowed to retaliate against the former Rwandan soldiers and llutu militiamen at the camp who pounded Goma with shells earlier this week. 



Aid to refugees: Is it impossible? 
By SUSAN LINNEE 
Associated Press Writer 
NAIROBI, Kenya The premise sounds straight­forward enough. 
At least 1 million Rwandan Hutu refugees, displaced by fighting from their camps in eastern Zaire, desperately need help. 
Food, water and medicine are available. But aid agencies can­not reach the refugees to dis­tribute the goods without pro­tection. 
France offers troops, and Spain and several African nations follow suit. Britain says perhaps. and Canada offers to lead. 
The United States, under pressure to offer its unique capacity to airlift troops and materiel over long distances and to build small cities overnight, signs on to the plan. 
But eastern Zaire is not a dis­aster area created by a hurri­cane, cyclone, tornado or earth­quake. This disaster has been made by men -men with hearts full of revenge, armed with political agendas and guns. They include armed Hutus who participated in the slaughter of a half-million Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994. 
Whether the international operation can go ahead suc­cessfully will depend to a great degree on the cooperation it gets from former Rwandan sol­diers, Hutu gangs and Zairian rebels. 
From indications so far, the international military force intends to avoid conflict with these armed groups. It wants to work out accommodations with them, and does not intend to shoot its way into the region. 
Instead, it wants to concen­trate simply on feeding refugees and opening a corri­dor back to Rwanda. The corri-
Happy 
21st 
Birthday 


R.O.T.C. 

(Jimmyl) 

Shop hoursfrom 8:00 am -5:00pm 7days 
Home Football Fridays open until 5:30pm 
Open during game time 
dor could allow a permanent solution to the problem through the return of the refugees to their homeland. 
The force's mandate, accord­ing to U.S. officials, will not include disarming Hutu militia­men who live among the refugees, or even separating them from their convenient human cover. 
But it is precisely those militi­amen and former Rwandan sol­diers who, through intimidation and propaganda, have been keeping the refugees from returning home. 
Unless the refugees go home, the assistance delivered under international protection may just buy time for the refugees to dig in and create new camps of discontent in Zaire, leading to another disaster. 
The refugees already have come under attack from Zairian rebels, known as the Alliance of Democratic Forces for Liberation (Congo-Zaire), who 
The U.S.forc:es'first mission is to secure 011 airfield in GoltUI and open a three-mile , corridor from the city !;i to the Rwandan border. 
Kigauo·.·* 
A 43-rrnnnber American survey team landed 
Thursdcly in Kigali. 
RWANDA 
are firing on the armed Hutus among them. 
The rebels now control a slice of eastern Zaire includ­ing the airport at Goma, which the United States is to secure as a base for humanitarian opera­tions in North Kivu province. 
No one knows how these rebels will view the arrival of 
U.S. troops. Laurent Kabila, their leader, already has said his men would shoot any French soldiers on sight because of France's support for the former Hutu government in Rwanda. 
The French are to secure and operate the airport at Bukavu in South Kivu province. Kabila's men now control that airport as well. 
Under the plan President Clinton is expected to approve Friday, the U.S. troops would secure Goma airport and a three-mile stretch to the Rwandan border. 
On Thursday, rebels would 
not let reporters near the air­
port, where the airstrip is big 
enough to handle large trans­
port planes. 
As far as the rebels are con­
cerned, the airport is in "liber­
ated Zaire," part of a territory 
Kabila says will grow as the 
army collapses -assuming 
that no outside powers jump in 
to prop up Zaire's disintegrat­
ing state. 
But authorities in the capital, Kinshasa -1,600 miles to the west -and presumably President Mobutu Sese Seko, convalescing in his villa in the south of France -still consid­er G·.•I11.t \'1-rt of Zail c. 
".,.. 



VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
SATELLITE SHOP IN THE JOYCE CENTER OPEN HOME FOOTBALL FRI'S & SAT'S 
Ashworth -Nike -Gear -Cutter & Buck -lzod 

...------------------~---------------------~~--­
Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NFL 



· t Dolphins aim to 
Hanspard preaches VIC ory . 
By MARK BABINECK pen to be one of the country's fall after two strong seasons at 

run over Oilers 

Associated Press Writer top rushers, a rare combination Tech, a school he chose over of speed, vision, agility and more prominent programs such By MICHAEL LUTZ victories this season. LUBBOCK, Texas power that has wreaked havoc as Notre Dame, Nebraska and 
Associated Press Writer "It helps our offensive line as 
The artificial turf at Texas on opposing defenses. Colorado. far as pass protection, because Tech's Jones Stadium is merely Getting him to take some Some were surprised when HOUSTON teams are now also looking for a flat, green pulpit as far as credit for his football success is Hanspard, from the Dallas-area Last week, Dan Marino the run instead of just teeing Byron Hanspard is concerned. nearly as hard as tackling him. suburb of DeSoto, chose what became the first NFL quarter­off on the passing and coming 
After each home game, he "God blessed me with the tal­was a middle-of-the-road foot­back to pass for 50,000 yards up field," Marino said. "It's gathers teammates and coaches ent and the ability to play the ball program at a school sur­and complete 4,000 passes. So helped the defense, because we around him on the field and de­game of football," said rounded by the cotton fields of why are they talking about the can control the ball more and it 
livers a spiritual message, just a Hanspard, a tailback who was West Texas. Miami Dolphins running game keeps them off the field." brief, informal sermon. averaging 194 yards rushing -His explanation: "The spirit in this week? With Houston's run defense "The Lord has blessed me second in the nation -going my heart directed me to Texas "Running the football has al­on a collision course with with the talent to play football, into the Red Raiders' game with Tech" one day while he was ways been a part of our Miami's running game, neither 
and I use it to uplift him," said Southwestern Louisiana this taking a shower. offense, we just haven't been as side intends to change tactics. Hanspard, who embraces every weekend. Regardless of where football successful doing it until this "For us to be successful, we chance to praise God in the "I can't go out there without takes him, Hanspard said he'll year," Marino said. "Running have to have balance in our of­
wave of attention he's received doing the work, without lifting keep preaching the gospel for the football helps us in a num­fense regardless of what the 
as one of college football's top weights and training. I can't do the rest of his days. He believes ber of ways." opponent does," Johnson said. running backs. that, and that's what it's all the exposure -and money -The Dolphins' rookie back­"We don't want to go into any The faith that brought him to about. Once God gives us talent, pro football can bring may add field of Karim Abdul-Jabbar game and be one-dimensional. 
Texas Tech has driven him dur­it's up to us to use it." more to his message. and Stanley Pritchett will get a "For that reason, even 
ing his three years here on the Hanspard's calm in the face of "Whenever God blesses me, I severe test Sunday against the though the Oilers play great -­windswept plains. For nearly football's violent blur is a mar­love to bless him back," he said. Houston Oilers (6-4), who have run defense, we still have to be two years, he has preached vel to many of his teammates. "The Lord has blessed me in or­the NFL's No. 1 defense vs. the able to run the football." part-time at Lubbock's He's not a rah-rah guy, though der (for him) to be blessed. The Oilers realize that stop­
run. Community Baptist Church and his self-evident peace inspires Whenever it's time for me to The Dolphins (5-5) aren't ping Miami's run will force the testified to his love of Jesus some of his mates in the huddle. leave and go further my career, among the NFL's elite running Dolphins to turn to Marino, wherever and whenever he can. "It's amazing, but no matter I'll go and that's what I'll do." attacks (87.6 yards per game), who is almost 100 percent Even playing in a town where what's going on in the game, Whether to go pro is God's but a big chunk of coach Jimmy recovered from his ankle 
there seems to be a church on he's always the same," offen­decision, Hanspard said. But Johnson's renovation plan this injury. every corner, Hanspard fully re­sive lineman Ben Kaufman said. Tech coach Spike Dykes, who season was to put more bal­Some choice, but the Oilers alizes that few would care what Hanspard, a junior, burst into shares a close relationship with ance into the Miami offense, won't change their basic defen­he had to say if he didn't hap-the Heisman Trophy race this his star, joked that he might long famous for it's Marino-led sive scheme. hover outside Hanspard's show­passing game. "The biggest change in them er and whisper "Texas Tech" "We started the year with is their running game," Oilers through the curtain to convince Marino in the lineup and we coach Jeff Fisher said. "They 
him to stay. were able to run effectively did that to take pressure off During football season, against most everybody," Dan and they will continue with Hanspard limits his sermons to Johnson said. "When Marino that. Maybe we'll have to put
"The Best Tan 
once a month at Community was out of the lineup, all of a the ball back in Dan's hands." 
Baptist, located on Lubbock's sudden our running game dis­That could be painful,Under the Sun" poorer east side. He is also a appeared.'' because Marino ranks No. 2 in • • • • • • • • • • member of Lay Ministers for Marino is back from a broken the NFL in passing and is com­Christ International, a nation­ankle sustained Sept. 23 at ing off a superb performance 
• Beds, Booths & Euros wide evangelical organization Indianapolis, and so is wide re­against the Colts. At one point that counts the Green Bay 
ceiver Fred Barnett, who comes in that game, he completed 13
• Open 7 Days AWeek 
Packers' Reggie White among off his biggest game since passes in a row.
• Convenient Honrs 
its membership. recovering from preseason Marino definitely has the
• Student Discounts 
Hanspard, 20, credits his par­knee surgery. Oilers' respect. G!lilrantttd Sa65faction! ents for pointing him toward The Dolphins gained 111 "It's going to be a great chal­
Jesus, but says his true religious yards on the ground against the lenge, because he's one of the conversion came about later. Colts and had an offensive ratio greatest quarterbacks in NFL256-9656 "It wasn't until Jan. 25, 1993, of 35 runs and 25 passes. The history," cornerback Darryl!
Gk-\1! k Mtlooa 
NutK·Mur that I totally dedicated my life to Dolphins have rushed for over Lewis said. "He's always capa­Jesus Christ," he said. 100 yards in four of their five ble of exploiting a defense." 
NowAppearin~At Parisi's 




LIVE 

Sunday Night From 6:30 to 9:30 


In The 
Dining Room 

Italian Cuisine with an Irish View 1412 South Bend Avenue Sourl1 Bend, Indiana 4(i)17 (219) 232 -4244 
••@] 
MICHIA A's NEWEST LAsER' TAG 





ENTERTAINMEN~/ 
2022 South Bend Ave. 
GaEAT FuM Foa P1o~  ·-AGitf  
Now O~~Avs A WJEK~  Parties Availale  
,-­ ___ -UtJN-~THUR 4 PM-1D--PM FR14P-11PM  243-8163  

SAT-SUNf2 PM-11 PM 
Next door to Coach's Sports Bar 
----~--~----~ -----------~-­
·~----------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
•NBA 

Tark the Shark back on the college hoops scene 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Wrirrr 

FRESNO, Calif. 
While Shaquille O'Neal and the Los Angeles Lakers are play­ing a preseason game, fans sud­denly take their eyes off the action to watch a bald, 66-year­old man rise from his seat. The crowd begins applauding as the man, dressed all in black, heads toward an exit. 
In Fresno, the aura of Jerry Tarkanian is such that he can overshadow one of the NBA's biggest names playing on one of its most popular teams. As big a celebrity as he was in Las Vegas, Tarkanian draws even more attention in the town where he attended college. 
"lie's the focal point, there's no question about it," said guard Chris Ilerren, who trans­ferred from Boston College to Fresno State to play for Tarkanian. "Him being the focal point takes some pressure off us." 
This year, Tarkanian's team will bn drawing a lot of atten­tion, too. 
The basketball coach with the best winning percentage in NCAA history, Tarkanian is about to begin his second sea­son at Fresno State, his alma mater. 
Last year, he took over a team with just two winning seasons in a decade and led it to a 22-11 record and the NIT quarterfi­nals. This year, the Bulldogs are ranked 14th in the preseason poll and loadnd with talent. 
Fresno State returns its top five scorers and top six rebounders from last season, including Dominick Young, who led the nation by making an average of four 3-pointers per game last season. 
New to the team arc Herren, once considered among the na­tion's best prep point guards, and Terrance Hoberson, a 
J 

-
I ~ " 

three-time Parade Magazine All­American in high school. 
"I think we're a much more talented team than we were a year ago," said Tarkanian, whose career record of 647-133 translates into an 82.9 winning percentage. The late Clair Bee is second on the career list at 82.6 percent. 
"There are some real quality people in that group of newcom­ers," added Tarkanian, who won an NCAA championship at UNLV in 1989-90 and has led teams to 20 or more wins in all but one of his 25 college sea­sons. 
Tarkanian returned to college coaching last year for the first time since being forced out at UNLV in 1991 amid the contro­versy that has been his constant companion. 
Both Long Beach State and UNLV were placed on probation under Tarkanian, and he waged a long court battle against the NCAA after it sought to have him suspended. 
Tarkanian remains a demand­ing coach, driving his players through brutal practices and instilling the concept of defen­sive intensity that has become a trademark of his teams. 
"The only goal I've ever had is that my team plays hard. I want every player to prepare himself physically, mentally and emo­tionally to play as hard as he can," he said. "I enjoyed last year's team. I enjoyed watching them grow. I think they learned how to play hard." 
Tarkanian also managed to relax a little bit during games last season, though he still chewed on towels while pacing in front of the bench. 
"I was much better than I'd ever been at UNLV and Long Beach," he said. "Things both­ered me last year, but they did­n't tear me apart like they used to. I used to not be able to talk to anyone for two days after a loss. I was that bad." 
Along with Young, returning players include 1995-96 leading scorer Kendric Brooks (19.4 points per game), Darnell McCulloch (11.3) and Rahsaan Smith (10.5). 
Roberson, a 6-foot-7 forward who sat out last season because of aacademic problems, was considered the highest-profile recruit ever to sign with Fresno State. He is one of only four players chosen a three-time Parade All-American, following 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 

Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 


jfall QJ:oncert 1996 
Lotti Bach Handel Me:pdel::;sohn Liszt 
8:00p.m. Wednesday, November 20 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
\ta\ian Food, Prime Rib &Steaks h Homemade Pizza
Fres , . Wednesday is Ladles Night Thursday Karaoke 9-1 
.··.·· 

~\'l', "'·'-" Ch~ckN~guhtt C\ub'
I Y '-'\1 Squeakers_ ' , & · 
f\..'fr.:-.'\\. \ L"tve Mustc, O.J. s 
• tli\ .J; '"'-'\~\J\ ' .Fun!
\ . \ ~, . \ M\shawaka 
\ 507 E. McK\n ey, ry out and
\ 

Call us for car 0007 additional info 255· 
Patrick Ewing, Kenny Anderson and Alonzo Mourning. 
Herren has battled back from personal problems and injury. His college career began at Boston College and nearly ended in the first game. A wrist injury in the opening minutes of that game required surgery. 
He spent the Boston winter in a full-arm cast and killed time by partying with friends. 
"I was just hanging out with the guys doing normal college things," he said of his six months off the basketball court, during which the 6-foot-3 Herren ballooned to 225 pounds. "Chris Herren was not strong enough at that point to stop doing the things I shouldn't 
Saint Mary's College Deportment of Communication, Donee and Theatre presents 
have been doing." Herren looked to Tarkanian to turn around his life. 
"He's the type of guy that's been down the road that have," Herren said. "He's had some troubles. A lot of his other players have, too." 
Herren was always known as a slashing point guard with an adequate shot. He shot 300 jumpers a day this summer and got down to 192 pounds. Now, Tarkanian said, Ilerren "reminds me of a young Jerry West." 
Fresno State has a rough non­conference schedule in December that includes games at Massachusetts, Texas and Louisiana State. 
PATRICK MEEKJSON 
--You Are Loved-­
Happy 21st Birthday 'Napoleon' 
Edward The 
... Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 at 8p.m.; Nov. 17 at7:30 p.m. little Theatre 
Come learn the strategies that have helped students of all disciplines take final and comprehensive exams ... 
Exam.-Taking Strategies in Graduate School 
Presentation and discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon, from the University Counseling Center, will cover: 
• 
Overcoming "Academic Choking" and performance anxiety; 

• 
Techniques to improve concentration and performance; 

• 
Organizing thoughts under pressure; 

• 
Avoiding the "Anxiety Contagion" spreading through your program. 


Date: Sunday, November 17th Place: Fischer-O'Hara Grace Community Center Time: 4PM-5PM 
Come learn what works from students who have already succeeded in your program! 
Sponsored by Fischer-O'Hara Grace Residences, the University Counseling Center, and Campus Ministry. 


-----------~~~----------~----------~---~ --~-~-------~--~ 
----~-~ 
l 
~ ~ 
4 4
Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
. 4 • 






"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 

I I 
4 
4 4 
I 
4 4 
~ 
I I 
4 
I 
~ 
I 
4 4 4 4 4 
-4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 
~ ~ 
4 4 
~ 
4 
~ 
4 
I 
4 
I 
I 
4 
Joyce Center: ··on the Concourse" (Enter Gate I or 2) 
•
FieIdh0 use (Enter Gate 3) 
~ 
4 4
Tent: Located outside Gate 10 I 4 
I 
4 
Open 10 a.m. on Friday Open 8:00 a.m. on Saturday Open 10:00 a.m. on Sunday Ooyce Center Only) 
-----~---~-------------­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
• BASEBALL 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Six recruits ink letters of intent Gonzalez surprised 
Special to the Observer the top prep pitchers in the ing off a summer season in Miami area and consistently which he hit .525 in 99 at-bats, The University of Notre Dame throws his fastball, curveball with 18 home runs and only four 
by AL MVP award
baseball team has signed six and changeup for strikes. An strikeouts. A talented all­
promising high school seniors to national letters of intent, head coach Paul Mainieri announced. 
"This class has to rank as one of the finest recruiting classes in Notre Dame baseball history. We have filled our needs with players of outstanding ability who will contribute a great deal to the success of the program," said Mainieri. 
The six signees include righthanded pitchers Aaron Heilman (Logansport, IN) and Danny Tamayo (Coconut Grove, FL). infielders Ben Cooke (Cleveland, 011) and Michael Restovich (Rochester, NY) and versatile players Camron Hahn (Louisville, KY) and Alec Porzel (Naperville, lL). 
Heilman should provide an added dimension to the Notre Dame pitching staff due to his sidearm delivery. A leading member of the Logansport High School baseball team, the 6-4 Heilman also is know for throw­ing strikes consistently and keeping the ball down. 
Tamayo is considered one of excellent student as well, the 6­2, 215 pound Tamayo was run­ner-up for 1995 state player of the year honors at Ransom Everglades High School after leading his county with 133 strikeouts in 7 5 innings, plus county-best offensive numbers in batting (.562) and RBI (42). 
Cooke is noted for his highly­rated baseball skills, fundamen­tal baserunning and an ability to hit from both sides of the plate. After graduating next spring from St. Ignatius High School, Cooke is expected to compete for time at any of Notre Dame's middle infield spots and could emerge as one of the young leaders of the Irish program. 
Restovich is the third member of his family to join the Irish baseball program, following in the footsteps of his father George, Sr. (1966-68) and broth­er George (1994-1996), one of the leading players on last sea­son's team that won 44 games. The younger Restovich has been tabbed as one of the top young players in the nation and is com-around athlete who considered pursuing a Division-I basketball scholarship, the 6-4, 220-pound Restovich is a candidate at catcher or first base who boasts the valuable combination of power and bat control. 
Hahn is the most versatile of the recent signees and could see time behind the plate, at first base and in the outfield. Noted for his strong throwing arm, solid fielding skills and hitting ability, Hahn joins Restovich as two of the more highly-touted Irish recruits in recent years. 
Porzel is the latest Chicago­area product to sign with the Irish and could emerge as Notre Dame's centerflelder of the fu­ture due to his speed, athleti­cism and good throwing arm. 
"For us to receive early com­mitment from players of this level is a credit to the efforts of our assistant coaches and cur­rent players, who give of their time to educate the prospects during official visits about the special qualities of our universi­ty and our baseball program." 
Did you know... f 
That you could own a condominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise inveshnentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends Beautiful waterfront settings "'-c;,RO~


f\.'» ~ 
~~~ 

North Shore Club 
'!'­
~ ~ $ 
~SHO~~'-i

Models Open Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Momhly payment~ of P. and I. based on a purchase price of $55,990 wuh 20% down md a JO~yrar 7.375 A.R.M. 

You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
Do you have Asthma? 
-You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINANCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.00) 
To be eligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 7 0 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 
Healtlt\(Advance
Institute 
' 

By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Juan Gonzalez of the Texas Rangers beat Seattle's Alex Rodriguez by three points Thursday, matching the second­closest victory margin ever in voting for the AL Most Valuable Player award. 
Gonzalez, who hit .314 with 47 homers and 144 RBis, got 11 first-place votes and 290 points. Rodriguez, who hit a league­leading .358 with 36 homers and 123 RBis, received 10 first­place votes and 287 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
"All year, people talked about Alex as the No. 1 contender for the MVP award. Right now, I'm surprised myself," Gonzalez said. "I never talked about win­ning MVP because a lot of guys had great numbers." 
It was the closest vote since 1960, when Roger Maris beat New York Yankees teammate Mickey Mantle 225-222. The 

AVEDA.. 
~€~US 

Excel Hairsazon 
is proud to announce 
closest AL MVP vote was in 194 7, when Joe DiMaggio of the Yankees beat Ted Williams of the Boston Red Sox 202-201. 
Gonzalez called winning the award "a wonderful moment in my life," saying it was better than his consecutive home-run titles in 1992 and 1993. 
"You feel like the best man in­the world," he said during a telephone news conference from home in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico. 
Gonzalez, 27, was second in the AL in RBis and fifth in home runs despite missing 28 games. He was on the disabled list from May 9-June 1 with a torn left quadriceps muscle. 
He credited his conditioning program for his statistics, and said a 50-homer season isn't out of the realm of possibility. 
"Nothing is easy in this game. Nothing is impossible, too," Gonzalez said. "I will continue working hard. You never know, next year or 1999, if I hit 50 homers. The big thing is staying healthy, because I have the abil­ity." 
has joined our staff oftalented stylists. He comes to us with 14 years of specialty & corrective Hair Color experience to meet your hair care needs. 
Holiday Special Through December $3s.oo Full Set, Gel, Nails with Kris 
54053 N. Ironwood • 277-1174 (Between St. Rd. 23 & Douglas) Mere minutes from Notre Dame! 

IGH SCHOOL HIGH (PG-13) 1:10. 3:1o, 5:1o, 7:50,9:50 ET IF OFF (R) *1:15, 2:15, 4:1o, 4:50, 1:20, 7:56, 10:05, 10:25 
RGER THAN LIFE (PG) too, 3:15, 5:30,7:45,10:0 
FlY AWAY HOME (PG) 7:40, 9:55 HE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES (PG·13)* 1:15, :45, 4:20, 4:35, 7:15, 7:30, 10:15, 10:20 Times valid through next Thursday 
*No passes ., 
Friday, November 15, 1996 
Big East 
continued from page 1 
challenged every Big East oppo­nent so far this season. Notre Dame's conference mark of 7-3­2 will not hurt the team in the way of confidence as they head back to the East Coast. 
In fact, the previous matchup with the Huskies was a signifi­cant confidence-builder earlier in the season. 
On September 20, Connecticut paid a visit to Alumni Field and battled the Irish in an extremely hard-fought game. Notre Dame was able to control play to some extent and had their chances to put the Huskies away. Tony Capasso, who has been nothing short of spectacular as a tri-cap­tain this year, allowed his sec­ond half penalty kick to slip wide of the goal, preserving the 1-1 tie for Connecticut. 
The Huskies advanced to the semifinals by a first round tri­umph over No. 7 Seton Hall in Connecticut. Rounding out the favorites who prevailed in their first round home games, No. 1 St. John's defeated No. 8 Boston College and No. 4 Rutgers knocked off No. 5 Syracuse. Rutgers will be hosting the semi­finals and finals of this year's tournament. 
If the Irish can get past 

Connecticut, they will be looking for revenge, regardless of who they face in the finals. Rutgers was responsible for handing Notre Dame its first Big East loss of the season; the final score was 1-0 and the game removed the Irish from first place in the conference. 
Notre Dame was able to man­age a tie with heavily favored St. John's when they came to town early in the season, but there was still a feeling of missed op­portunity following that game. 
The contest was scoreless going into overtime and the Irish came out firing in the. They took a 2-1 lead into the second half of the extra session and held that advantage until there were just nine seconds remain­ing. The Red Storm scored a fluke goal to tie the game as Irish keeper Greg Velho slipped coming out to play the ball. 
Needless to say, the Irish would love a shot at redemption. 
After all of the hard work and effort put forth by the Irish this year, they owe it to themselves to take the Championship that would have belonged to them in the regular season, had it not been for mishaps and fluke plays against the only three teams that remain between them and the post-season title. 

''Get Pilastered'' 
A Masquerade Ball, open to all, sponsored by the College of Architee ture 
Beaux Arts Ball '96 
Friday, November 15 
9PM~l:30AM 
featuring: Sabor Latino 
LaFortune Ballroom 
Admission: $3 AlAS Members $5 Non,members 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
mr 

PI(J~H[ Of DOHI!~ OH!l 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Konstantin Koloskov aims to be head and shoulders above his Big East competition this weekend. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
GeoKqfneyResicR. Wa~t~ten Jones
& soprano pianist 
Sonc;s OF ALexandRe G~techanznov 
Onf! ll!L"""' e.,r'f" 

it:~&;~f B J1f•k··-& .,t er 
2:00 p.m. Sunday, November 17 Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public. 


Interdenominational Thanksgiving Prayer Service 
"We Lift Our Hands In Praise!'' 
Tuesday Evening, November 19, 1996 
7:30PM 

Keenan..Stanford Chapel 
Thanksgiving Reflection by 
Dr. Randall C. Zachman, Department of Theology 
Music by 

Saint Mary's Women's Choir Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 

All are welcome to give thanks and praise! (Z\MPUS

MINISTRY 

-


~----~-----­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
thing of trying to prove our­is not to leave Elzey as defense­selves." Petrucelli said. less as she was in the first
Soccer 

Indiana head coach Joe game. Kelley knows that will Kelley wasn't watching the be no easy task. 
continued from page 28 
NCAA bids too closely when "They're (Notre Dame) about they were released and did not athletically and technically bet­
factor until the quarterfinals, 
realize Notre Dame was No. 2 ter at every position," Kelleybut that fact lends no comfort to until he opened the newspaper said.
Notre Dame. 

the next morning. When asked if he planned to
"I was shocked." Petrucelli 
"Now that we're not playing make adjustments on offense or
said. "I never even thought 
the No. 1 seed, we've got noth­defense, Kelley responded, "Ithat was a possibility. It's just ing to worry about," Kelley think we could do a little betterstrange." 
joked. "I was shocked too. I in both areas."
"We were surprised by it," 
still think Notre Dame is the Coming in as a huge under­
Vanl.aeeke added. "I'm not 
best team in the country." dog this weekend, Indiana willsure why they did it. I'm not 
The Irish looked like it during have to slow down the Irishsure anyone else knows. I think their f'irst meeting with the offensive attack if that's possi­it will give us that much more Hoosiers in September. Notre ble. Notre Dame's ability tofire going into the tournament." 
Dame prevailed 5-0 and outshot control the ball broke down theHaving expected to be the No. 
Indiana 32-1. If not for the play Hoosiers in the first game. 
1 seed. Petrucelli was searching of Hoosier goalie Merit Elzey, "People think we're going tofor a plan to keep his team from the Irish would may have had get killed," Kelley said. "I wantbeeoming over-confident. 
ten goals. to do more than survive. I wantlie needs to search no longer. 
Elzey currently boasts an im­Notre Dame to walk away with
"I don't have to motivate pressive 1.33 goals against the feeling that these guys
them because the NCAA com­average mark, having shut out aren't too bad. It'll be a goodmittee already did it for me," all three opponents in the post­feeling for these girls to comePetrucelli commented. 
season as Indiana grabbed the away having played with thisIn past years, Notre Dame has automatic NCAA berth by win­team."
relished the role of the under­
ning the Big Ten tournament. As for the Irish, Petrucelli
dog. Last year, the Irish won The No. 7 seeded Hoosiers wants to again focus on a de­the national championship after upset No. 1 Wisconsin 1-0 to fense which gave up three goalsbeing seeded No. 4. 
win the title game. to Connecticut in the Big East"We're back to the same old 
Naturally, the Hoosiers' plan final. This week, the coaching staff planned to spend more time with the defenders in practice. 
"We shouldn't give up three goals to anyone," he added. "We've got to get better in the back." 
The players in the buck won't be burdened if the Irish main­tain possession of the ball as they did in the first meeting with the Hoosiers. 
"We have to keep a rhythm in our attack," Petrucelli said. "When we have the ball, we're dangerous." 
"I think Notre Dame is better this year," Kelley added. "They have a better purpose." 
Not a better purpose, only a newer one. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE 
The Observer 
Senior Amy VanLe3:eke_ and her teammates were obviously 'surprised' OBSERVER by the1r No. 2 seedmg m the NCAA tiournament. 
11.._,1. VI'VJ ,....,._.... __ • -· ~-·-·••
.....:~) ........ t.-1\69 .. ifli -~'-... ~:..;J 
L_------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
fa c e i t . w1nter isn't that l o n g • e e 
-

1 



2 months for 
Ok, I hear you. "Mr. Advertisement, why should I join a health club when I have a gym on campus?" Well College Student, it's simple really. Because we're not a gym. We're a health club. The best in Michiana for that matter. Besides having over 25,000 pounds of free weights, we have daily aerobics classes in the Boom Rooms, Cardia Center for complete cardiovas­cular fitness, and one-on-one personal training just to name a few. Drop in for a free tour of the place. Walk around. Kick the tires. Better hurry though, offer ends November 25th. We think you'll like it here. 
~~ 
piNNACLE 
/1. 1 II I. : 11 C C I. U ~. 
Your Total 
Wellness Complex 


PINNACLE athletic club 
205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545 Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Preseason NIT offers early test for Irish 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Bohman will stalk the front­Sports Writer court again after averaging 5.4 points and 2.6 rebounds last 
The Notre Dame women's year. And even at 5-4, .Jeannine basketball team is coming off Augustin is one of the team's one of its best seasons in school strongest defenders. Mollie history. Last year's squad fin-Peirick, a junior guard, led the ished 23-8 and defeated Purdue team in assists (177) while scor­to claim its first-ever NCAA ing 7.1 points per gamn. tournament victory. The strength of this team 
What is special is that this should be their ability to rack year's squad, which returns up points. Last season the Irish four starters, should be even threw down 77.9 points per better. The Irish will find out game, while finished second na­how tough they arc this after-tionally in field goal percentage noon when Katryna Gaither and (.495). Co. tip off the Preseason NIT Although the momentum of against Kent, the winner of the thn Irish women will bn largely Mid-American Conference dictated by their success in the Championship last season. tournament, the focus of the 
"The Preseason NIT is a great season has to be Connecticut, opportunity for us to start the the mother team of women's year off against great competi-college basketball. Until the tion," said 1Oth-year coach Irish defeat the lluskies or win Muffet McGraw. "We feel fortu-a string of NCAA tournament nate to be playing in this tour-games, they will nevnr bn con­nament when we have such a sidered one of the elite. veteran team returning." McGraw realizes this. 
Indeed. standing out among "We are going to f(>cus on tak­the starters are 6-0 senior ing one game at a time and try guard Beth Morgan (20.2 ppg in to play consistently throughout 1996), already the best player to the year," McGraw asserted. don a Notre Dame uniform, and "We want to be playing our best the 6-3. Gaither (19.8 ppg), who basketball in March." has broken records of her own. With Morgan shooting and These two may be college bas-Gaither crashing the hoop, the ketball's most indomitable duo, sky is virtually the limit. but they are not alone. The winner of the Notre 
The destiny of the team actu-Dame-Kent matchup will face ally lies on the shoulders of the the winner of the Illinois State­seniors as a whole. Rosanne Iowa contest on Sunday. 
SARAH, 

Happy20th Birthday 
to the best big 
sister anyone 
,:~< 

could ever ask for. I love you and I will always 
.up to you. 
Love, 
Kristy 
Brian Braun OFM Cap 
of 

Cap Corps 
(Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps) 
will be on campus at the 

Center of Social Concern 
to interview about volunteer opportunities 
On Tuesday and Wednesday, November 19 and 20 
Available from 8 AM until 8:30PM 
Please call the center (219) 631-5142 to make an appointment. 

Cap Corps Midwest With domestic and international opportunities 1-888-375-3092 
or stop by the Center ofSocial Concern November 19 and 20 
~--~--­
Friday, November 15, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• VOllEYBAll • MHJ' S INTERHAll 
Irish one win away from title Otters want bite out 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will look to conclude their march to the regular season Big East Conference crown this weekend as they need just one win over either Connecticut or St. John's to clinch the title. 
Although the squad is unde­feated in conference play, their march this season hasn't exact­ly been a walk in the park. 
Their mark of 17-9 finds them under .500 out of the con­ference (8-9) which has dropped them out of the coach­es top twenty-five for the first time since the 1992 preseason poll. 
Injuries to starters Jen Rouse (thumb) and Angie Harris (knees) have made things even more complicated as it now ap­pears that their seasons are in jeopardy. 
"They gave Jen a new cast and it won't come off for three weeks," head coach Debbie Brown explained. "As far as I understand the doctors have recommended to Angie that she sit out the rest of the year." 
Three weeks will take the Irish into NCAA tourney time as the first round game is sched­uled for December 4th. 
Usually the Irish walk all over 
Big East foes, as they have yet to lose a match over the past two seasons in the conference. However, neither the Huskies nor the Red Storm will lie down at the feet of the Domers. Both are fighting for their lives as a loss would likely put them out of the Big East tournament pic­ture. 
"It's a critical situation for both Connecticut and St. John's," observed Brown. "I think it is a must-win situation for both teams so from that standpoint the emotional level will be very, very high." 
UConn, 17-11. is locked up with St. John's and West Virginia at 5-4 in conference play. Last year ND swept the Huskies behind the hitting of junior hitter Jaimie Lee, who totaled 15 kills in a 15-11, 15­8, 15-5 triumph. Senior middle Huskie blocker Jen Halusek stabilizes the front line and was an All-Big East selection from a year ago. 
"UConn has somewhat played to the level of their opponent," mentioned Brown. "Against better teams they have played better and I think the have the capabilities to play very well against us." 
St. John's boosts a 22-5 mark but needs wins over both West Virginia and the Irish if they hope to see the post-season. In last year's contest, Harris 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
racked up 14 kills as the Irish weathered the Storm 15-0, 15­6, 15-4. 
Stepping in for Rouse and Harris will be sophomore Lindsay Treadwell and senior hitter Jen Briggs. Briggs has thrived in filling in for last year's all-district performer as she is currently ranked fifth in kills per game with 3.82 in Big East contests. 
In the middle the athletic 5­10 Treadwell and junior Molly McCarthy will fill the shoes of 6-5 Rouse. In her freshman campaign Treadwell lead the squad in hitting but has been used in the backrow for the majority of this season. Freshman phenome Mary Leffers will be looked to to solidify the blocking as her 6-4 frame has placed her second in the conference in blocks per game. 
Captain Jenny Birkner also stabilizes the Irish attack as she has been a model of consisten­cy this season as well as her three previous years. The senior continues to rewrite the Notre Dame history books as she has a chance to rank in the top-five of five different stats: kills, assists, aces, digs and blocks. 
"We have a different lineup but mainly we have been doing things to cut down our errors, particularly hitting. I think we have made progress with that and we have tried to have shorter more intensive work­outs to stay fresh." 
After this weekend's matchups the Irish setters will only have the Big East tourna­ment and the Banker's Classic in Stockton, CA where they will look to pick up their first win over a ranked opponent when they face tenth-ranked Washington State. 
'J\ we inspiring ... a record attendance ... you left hundreds ofus 
of Crime in semi-final 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON  to upset the nearly untouchable  
Sports Writer  Off-Campus team.  
On the offensive, there is no  
In this Sunday's interhall  question that Sorin will take to  
football semifinal game, it's a  the skies this Sunday. The  
case of domination versus  passing game has functioned  
determination, motivation  well all season, and if success­ 
against momentum, and power  ful could seriously hurt the  
versus finesse as the Off­ Crime's chances for victory.  
Campus Crime face the Sorin  However, Sorin's passing suc­ 
Screamin' Otters for the right  cess will depend heavily on the  
to play the Flanner Gamecocks  ability of the offensive line to  
in the 1996 IH Football  contain a very effective Off­ 
Championship game at Notre  Campus defensive front seven.  
Dame Stadium.  This should prove to be the key  
Off-Campus, who's only  match up of the game.  
defeat has come at the hands of  Sorin's defense will be equal­ 
Morrisey, is about as close as  ly challenged. As stated  
any team in this league to  before, the Crime can go both  
being a "complete" team. Most  ways on offense and can do so  
of this team has championship  excellently. In fact, the passing  
experience as members of the  game is probably the second  
Planner team and look forward  best in the league. If the Sorin  
to returning for a shot at the  secondary, one of the league's  
championship.  elite, can shut down the  
The Crime's offense is a dou­ Crime's passing game, Sorin  
ble-edged sword, capable of in­ will have won half of the battle.  
flicting heavy damage in both  This means that the defensive  
the rush and the pass. QB  line, which has been streaky at  
Scott Lupo has a rifle for an  times, must come up huge this  
arm and has run the option  Sunday in order to secure a  
well all season. The receiving  victory.  
corps is solid, but they will be  There are a few intangible  
facing their biggest challenge  factors to consider this Sunday  
of the year against the vaunted  ··  as well. Sorin has been cast as  
Sorin secondary. \  an underdog for most of the  
The offensive line should  season, and loves to play up to  
have no problem in protecting  this role. Off-Campus is on  
the Crime's running attack,  amission, as most of the team's  
which will need to turn it up a  players want another shot at  
notch if the passing game is  the championship that elluded  
unable to get off the ground.  them last season. Mother  
On the other side of the ball,  Nature will also play a big fac­ 
Off-Campus has probably the  tor. A game played in wind  
best overall defense of the  will severly limit a passing  
three teams remaining. The  game, which could severely  
defensive line should have min­ hamper Sorin's passing game.  
imal trouble in keeping the  If the field is muddy, the  
light Sorin rushing attack in  Crime's running game will be  
check.  virtually non-existent.  
This game's outcome will  The victor this Sunday will be  
come down to the defensive  the team that will rule the skies  
backfield however. After a sea­ over Stepan Field North. If Off­ 
son of facing lightly regarded  Campus can limit the Sorin  
passing games, the Crime's  pass, then the Crime can walk  
secondary will face the best  away with a huge victory. If  
passing offense in the league,  Sorin can pass over the Off­ 
in the presence of the  Campus secondary, then things  
Screamin' Otters aerial attack.  will become very interesting  
Sorin, the surprise team of  indeed.  
the 1996 season, will rely on  Either way, the Planner  
the success of its unconvention­ Gamecocks and Notre Dame  
al game plan if this team wants  Stadium await the victor.  

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
raving about your visit for days!" 
University of Rochester 
Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Student Center inforrnation desk for $3.00! When: Tuesday, November 19th What time: at 8:00P.M. here: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
,....-------------------------------------------­
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 15, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

Poulin, icers see Ferris State as 'must-win' for Irish 
Good start necessary for Notre Dame 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

The Notrn Dame hockey team (3+ I, 2-2-I in the CCIIAJ hosts the Ferris State Bulldogs for an important Central Collegiate I Iockey Association game tonight at 7 p.m. at the Joyee Center. The Irish hope to shrug ofT a 6-1 whipping at the hands of Boston College last weekend and record a victory, which would give the Irish two predous points and some breathing room in the CCIIA standings. 
"This is a 'must-win' game for us," stated freshman defender Nathan Borega, whose physical play has contributed heavily to Nore Dame's victories. "They're below us in the standings. and this is the type of game that we have to win to earn maintain our position in the league. Right now, there are several teams bunehed within one point of eaeh other, and a vietory and two points would give us some breathing room." 
ranked Miehigan State to a dedding third game in the open­ing round of the CCHA playoffs. 
They've also added a talented freshman class that has been deseribed as "one of the best re­eruiting dasses in Bulldog his­tory", and expeetations for the Bulldogs this season are high. 
The Bulldogs are led by senior defenseman Andy Roach, who last season earned All-America Second-Team recognition by the American Hockey Coaches Association and First Team AII­CCHA honors. 
"Ferris State always plays hard the whole game," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "They go at it right at the beginning, and we'll be right there with them. This will be an excellent hockey game." 
Getting off to a good start is critical for Notre Dame tonight. This season they have been plagued by slow starts. They al­lowed 5 first-period goals against Michigan, 3 to Boston College, and 3 in th first nine minutes to Bowling Green and lost two of those games. "We're going to come out hard and get in the game early," prophesised Borega. 
At 6-2 and 225 pounds, Borega early, or being quieter before the game and thinking about what we have to do, then so be it." 
Appalachia Setninar Task Force  
lfhe Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking one member to join the Appalachia Task Force for the spring semester 1997 and the 1997-98 school year. This is a three semester commitment. The Task Force consists of seven undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experimental learning as a means to enhance higher education; there­fore, we are in need of an interested, enthusiastic, and committed person to join us.  
Applications: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday, November 22, 1996 For further information: M.]. Adams, 634-3880, Lauren Stein, 634-3690, or Rachel Tomas-Morgan, 282-2209  


Special teams will also be criti­cal. Generating goals on the power play has been a problem for the Irish at times, but con­stant work on this facet of the game has produced better re­sults. The Irish also need to play solid defense and not allow easy shots on the goalie. Coach Poulin has not announced who will start between the pipes. 
"He waits until the day of the game, so that way everyone has to prepare thoroughly," noted Karr. 
Karr and junior Matt Eisler have split time the last two games. 
Five games into the flegling CCHA season, Notre Dame stands at 2-2-1. 
"We're happy with what's hap­pened, but we could have done better," said Borega. "We're very optimistic about the rest of the season." 
The rest of the season begins tonight, with a game that the Irish should win. But like Karr said, and like the football team painfully discovered against Air Force, there are no easy games. 
"Every team in the CCilA can play," Karr warned. The team would do well to keep these sim­ple words of wisdom in mind. 


Friday, October 4, 1996 The Observer • TODAY 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-

GIVE STUFF 15 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
IF 'YOU WERE. HIP-ED, WHAT WOULD BE YOUR LONG-RANGE CAREER 
GOA-L? 



L-------------~-AL__J 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 Lee side? 1 Belvedere, for 31 Practically still one 
37 Alpinist 6 Relief work? 
38 Sales 15 Part of the 
39 --Enterprisestratosphere 40 Fire exit? 

16 Hope/Crosby film of 1947 
41 Suffix with fruit names

17 Yuppie's salary, perhaps 
42 Like some 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~.!.!f.!:!.f2..flllll! ~...!...j.~!:::4-!~ ~..!..+::::<+"'-1-"-1 

11111!-=+=+=+!:::..fl• ~~+==r+=-~ 
~~~~=-~-~ .:...&.:.::.~-=~~+!-!-! ~~-=-i..:.:..l.:;:. ....~'+=~~ 
A=+~~"+='f!--F-1-=-l H~.!..+::::..j.:~ 
'-=-I....:...J..:.J..=->.:::.J 
,. 
0 0 
0 -' .. 
@J 
,.
"' 
.. 
..0 
I­I­
0 0 
"' 
.. 
E 
,;, 

!1---____1~-----t 

59 Tickle pink 60 Ones going along 61 Test-tube glass 
DOWN 
1 Business orgs. 2 Hospital addition 3 Pete Wilson, e.g. 4 Have--miss 5 Flat rate? 6 Suffix with boot 7 Folks 8 Faith developed 
in Iran 
9 Redolence 10 Gambler's game 11 Message in a 
bottle? 12 Steamed 13 Children in an 
escuela 
14 Theatrical title character who's never seen 
18 Chicago team 22 Sunshade 23 Which: Fr. 25 Do another hitch 26 Biblical mother 
from Bethlehem 27 Improvise 28 Commends 29 Academic 
su!Jject whose name means "pebble" 
30 Slug, old-style 32 In one piece 33 Row 
I'D HAVE YOUR JOB IN 51~ 1"\0NTHS. IN 
A. '<EAR. YOU'D BE WORKING FOR 1"\E., YOU BIG PILE OF DIN05~Uf\ DUNG. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester
Community. Name ____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address _______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City _______________ State ____ Zip____________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.!: 
~ 
t 
"' 
HTHERARM. 
LET'S GO. 
) 


Puzzle by Martin Ashwood-Smith 
34 Wolf pack member 
35 Posts 

36 European language 42 Big name in opera 43 They put on a whale of a show 44 Government paperwork 45 She played Jezebel, 1938 46 At cock's crow 
48 "--example " 49 "Hey you!" 51 Put one's foot down 53 Award for a lord?: Abbr. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
photographers and 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
editors.
50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
-
54 Both Begleys 55 Mr. Potato Head item 56 Angers season 57 Wild West 

Wanted: Reporters, 
moniker 

... 
position of strength; insist on meet­ing face-to-face with people at the highest levels. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus your attention on loans and investments this morning. Still waters run deep. Romance is ecstat­ic, filled with intimacy and shared secrets. Respect other people's pri­vacy and they, in turn, will respect yours. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to routine tasks today, paying close attention to detail. Open up new channels of communication. Tasks involving science and psychology have special appeal now. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Avoid jumping to conclusions. Intensive research will yield huge dividends in the near future. Finalize family Thanksgiving plans. If enter­taining friends at home tonight, keep things simple. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your creative talents will flour­ish if you team up with the right partners. Take the initiative when dealing with someone who is shy. Plan a potluck supper and invite a group of good friends. 
CAPRICORN rDec 22-Jan. 19): Much to your relief, a lost object is found. New understanding develops when you admit your mis­takes. Joint ventures look lucrative; reinvest the proceeds. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be more assertive in career matters. Meditation is the key to reducing stress. Examine discount merchan­dise with special care. An evening phone call brings welcome news from the folks at home_ 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Leave nothing to chance where business or romance is concerned. Others trust you to do the right thing. Pay attention to an authority figure's body language when attend­ing an important meeting. 

decision. An older individual has played a tremendous role in your life. Express your appreciation in a tangible way. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Progress comes when you think about what you hope to get out of life. Business negotiations intensify. Deal from a 
19 Olympian: Abbr. 
20 Herculean 
21 Besides 
22 Taper? 
24"... --saw 
Elba" 26 Emulate the birds and the 
bees 27 Fight (for) 28 Good buddy 
political support 45 Gala affair 
46 Martians and Venusians 
47 ---Magnon 
48 Peeved, after "in" 
so Nafta signatory 
52 Like 501 to 502? 58 Raked over the 
coals 


SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 

• 
• 
S
ftA~_,.-;: rvR-1~/ATA, ·.· 

vs. Indiana, 
District Meet, Sunday, I p.m. 
Saturday 
at Connecticut, Saturday Saturday, 2 p.m. 
vs. Connecticut,
GLANCE 
Friday, November 15, 1996 
Men's Big East Soccer 
•Ch ships 
THE 


1111 
~ (4) Rutger,_ ; 
' AtFl~ 
Nov,·,js &.17 
-~(3)~_-·_-·.:· ;_e
... 
~ .. f. 
V. ';
t . { 

THE OBSERVER I Brian Blank 
Big East title within sight 
Given this squad's proven
Irish must character and heart though, the above is not a likely choice. They exhibited just how tough
first survive 
they could be last Sunday in a thrilling 2-1 come-from-behindsemifinals victory over Georgetown in the snow at Alumni Field. The win
By BRIAN REINTHALER advanced the team to their cur­
Sports Writer 

rent position in the Big East tournament.
The men's soccer team has a The alternative to resting onchoice to make this weekend as their laurels is an exciting one.
they travel to Piscataway, N.J. 
At the present moment, Notreto compete in the "final four" of Dame is just two wins away
the Big East Championship 
from a Big East title and anTournament. 
automatic berth in the NCAATheir first option is to look Championship Tournament. Aback, with satisfaction, on a trip to the "Big Dance" in 1996 
season that has been a vast 
would mark the third time inimprovement on the 9-10 effort four years that head coach Mikeof a year ago. They can settle Berticelli has led the Irish to thefor a single conference tourna­NCAAs, the first as a Big Eastment win in just their second team. 
year of league play and gr~­The task at hand for theciously bow out of the 1996 B1g Domers is to attack the HuskiesEast Championships when they 
in the same way that they haveface the University of Connecticut on Saturday . 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
It will be an emotional weekend for senior midfielder Chris Mathis, who knows this is his final chance to capture a Big East crown . 
• 
Hockey team prepares for Ferris State see page 26 

• 
ND Baseball team signs recruits see page 22 



page 2 Friday, November 15, 1996 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 1  2 3  4 OT  Tot  RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds Avg  TO  lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  lg  
Notre Dame 59  74 62  70 0  265  Denson  99.9  144  799 5.5  7  47  Smith  36  43.8  0  65  
Opponents 25  52 35  33 3  148  Edwards  47.6  83  381 4.6  8  41  
Farmer  43.6  34  349 10.3  4  81  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  lg  
TEAM STATS  NO  Opp  Kinder  40.5  51  243 4.8  2  28  Farmer  6  14.3  0  24  
First Downs  184  130  Rossum  6  37.8  1  99  
Total yards  3515  2429  PASSING  Camp All  Pet  Yds TD  lnt  lg  Denson  5  19.4  0  35  
Total yards per game  439.4  303.6  Powlus  103 182  56.6  1406 7  4  48  Spencer  2  23.5  0  27  
Total offensive plays  585  526  Jackson  4 6  66.7  65 1  0  28  
Avg. yards per play  6.0  4.6  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Rushing yards  2044  1175  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg TD  lg  Cooper  2  
Rushing yards per game  255.5  146.9  Johnson  22  366  16.6 1  48  Cobbins  1  
Rushing plays  396  315  Chryplewicz  20  229  11.4 3  31  Edison  1  
Avg. yards per rush  5.2  3.7  Mosley  17  248  14.6 0  45  
Passing yards  1471  1254  Edwards  16  179  11.2 2  39  DEFENSE T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Passing yards per game  183.9  156.8  Tatum 39  26  65  1  0  1  1  
Passes completed  107  98  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP FG  Sat  Pts  Cobbins 40  20  60  0  0  2  2  
Passes attempted  189  211  Edwards  10  1-2  0-0 0-0  0  62  Dansby 24  26  50  0  1  1  3.5  
Passes intercepted  4  8  Denson  8  0-0  0-0 0-0  0  48  Maiden 26  22  48  0  1  0  0  
Fumbles/Fumbles lost  24/15  12/9  Sanson  0  0-0  28-316-8  0  46  Berry 26  21  47  1  1  3  7.5  
Third down conversions  49/105  37/114  Farmer  4  0-0  0-0 0-0  0  24  Guilbeaux 31  14  45  0  0  1  1  
Percentage  47  32  Covington 33  11  44  1  2  4  0  
The Backup running back Robert Farmer is  Fourth down conversions Percentage  4/8 50  4/5 80  FIELD GOALS Sanson  Tot 6-8  
averaging more than 10 yards per carry.  Cengia  0-1  


SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  
Pitt  41  
Opponents  76  
TEAM STATS  
First Downs  
Total yards  
Total yards per game  
Total offensive plays  
Avg. yards per play  
Rushing yards  

Rushing yards per game 
Rushing plays Avg. yards per rush Passing yards Passing yards per game 
Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost Third down conversions Percentage Fourth down conversions Percentage 

2 3 
59 36 117 95 
Pitt 
134 2574 286.0 594 4.33 
1395 155.0 354 3.94 1179 131.0 106 240 
7 
20/10 44/132 33 4/14 29 
4 48 66  OT 0 7  Tot 184 361  
Opp  
213  
4185 465.0  
676  
6.19  
2101 233.4  
413  
5.1  
2084  
231.6 155  
263  
5  
23/6 58/129  
45  
7/17 41  

RUSHING 
West Scholters 
Williams 
Duck 
Schneider 
PASSING lytle Gonzalez Zimmerman 
RECEIVING Hoffart Butler Jones Schneider Anderson 
SCORING Scholters Ferencik Hoffart West Anderson Yds/GmNo 67.1 124 69.6 92 20.0 19 21.7 23 10.4 25 

Comp Att Pet 77 170 45 Yds Avg 604 4.9 487 5.3 100 5.3 87 3.8 83 3.3 
28 1  58 8  48 13  
Rec 28 20 16 10 5  Yds 513 183 202 47 55  
TD 8 0 3 3 3  2XP 0-0 0-0 1-1 0-1 0-0  

Yds TD 873 7 298 2 8 0 
Avg TD 18.3 3 9.1 3 12.6 1 4.7 0 11.0 2 
1XP FG 0-0 0 20-21 4 0-0 0 0-0 0 0-0 0 
TO 
3 8 0 1 2 
tnt 4 3 0 
lg 46 18 24 13 17 
Sat 0 0 0 0 0 lg 31 67 21 14 16 
lg 43 46 8 
Pts 48 32 20 18 18 FIELD GOALS Ferencik 

PUNTING Cochran 

KICKOFF RETURNS Tot 4-8 
Poteat  
Scholters  
Anderson  
Whitmill  
INTERCEPTIONS  
Whitmill  
McGhee  
Jenkins  
DEFENSE  T  
McGhee  48  
Coakley  28  
Humphrey  29  
Jenkins  30  
Hornack  23  
Graham  17  
Brown  19  
Gibson  18  

No 58 
No 13 10 26 1 
No 2 1 1 
A Tot 25 73 25 53 20 49 11 41 11 34 11 28 8 27 9 27 Avg 44.0 
Avg 26.4 25.8 25.8 18.0 
FC 0 3 1 0 1 1 0 0 
Bk 0 
TD 
0 0 1 0 
FA 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 lg 80 
lg 46 43 50 18 
PBU 3 0 2 2 0 0 3 0 Sac 1 1.5 1 0 0 1 0 2 

Photo courtesy of Pittsburgh Sports Information Panther tailback Billy West has amassed a team leading 633 yards on 124 carries. 

Papa Predicts ... ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1995-1996 Observer ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana 

~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1994 Best of Michiana ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1995 Best of Michiana 
NOTRE DAME: 
Pitt: 

[ilvoted 'Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana 
r-ra,.--, r-c;m-ea-"y-, 
I Pa .·k I I ~·!~J;/ I
Your Paoa is now hiring: IFour ing I I La,(~~ ··l.f(OJ?.Pin9, I 
•Delivery-orivers • Order Takers I 1 1 .:.·Stix 1 
Hours: 

•New for SMC store 
Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m. -3 a.m. Sunday: 12 p.m. -1 a.m. 
~-----------------------------~--------~--~--~--------~~--~~--~--~----~......................~--~............~~........~....~--~--<4-­

Friday, November 15, 1996 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5 at Vanderbilt W14-7 Sept. 14 PURDUEiW35-0 Sept21 at TexasW'27-24 Sept. 2~ OHIO.STAtE 11~29 Oct. 12 WASHINGTON W54~20 Oct. 19 AlR FORCE I m20 Nov. 2 Navy ({)ublin}. W54•27 Nov. 9 at Boston College w48~21 Nov. 16 PITTSBURGH Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 at USC 

11th 
season at Notre Dame 

Career record: 214-94-7 At Notre Dame: 98-29-2 Against Pittsburgh: 6-2 
~ NOTRE DAME-
ho.:  
No. Name  Pose  Ht.  WI.  YR  
1 2  Deke Cooper Kinnon Tatum  WR ILB  6-4 6-0  205 FR 224 SR  
3  Ron Powlus  QB  6-2  212 SR  
4 5 6 7  KoryMinor Emmett Mosley Lyron Cobbins Jarious Jackson  OLB FL ILB QB  6·2 5·8 6..() 6·1  235 so 184 SR 246 SR 218 so  
8 9  Eric Chappell Raki Nelson  QB WR  6-5 6·1  220 FR 178 FR  
10 Mike Perona  QB  6·2  197 SR  
11 Jay Johnson 12 Mario Strayhorn 12 Scott Cengia 13 Bert Berry 14 Ivory Covington 14 A.J. McGunigal 15 Allen Rossum  '  WR FS K OLB CB QB CB  6·2 6·1 5·10 6·3 5-10 6·3 5·8  170 FR 210 so 180 JR 245 SR 168 JR 190 SR 178 JR  
15 Paul Rogers 16 John Shingler 17 Hunter Sm~h  QB QB p  6-2 6-1 6·2  220 SR 231 so 210 so  
17  Mark McKenna  QB  5·8  194 SR  
18 Cikai Champion 19 Jim Sanson  SE K  5-10 5-11  183 SR 185 FR  
19 Wayne Gunn 20 B~on Joyner21 S nnon Stephens 21 Kevin McDonnell  ss FS WR K  6·2 6-2 5·10 5-11  210 so 180 so 179 so 180 so  
22 Jay Vickers 23 Autry Denson 24 TyGoode 25 Randy Kinder 26 Lee Lafyette 26 Matt Mammolenti  RB TB CB TB CB TB  6·1 5·10 5·11 6·1 5-10 5·8  205 FR 189 so 189 JR 204 SR 188 FR 165 SR  
27  Bobbie Howard  ILB  5-10  228 so  
28 Ken Barry 29 A'Jani Sanders  FB ss  6..() 5·11  224 JR 182 so  
30 Jarvis Edison  FS  6-4  219 JR  
31  Robert Fanmer  TB  5·11  227 SR  
33 34  Ja1me Spencer Ronnie Nicks  FB DB  6-0 6·1  247 so 215 FR  
35 Scott Palumbo  p  5·11  189 SR  
35  Robert Phelps  CB  6..()  185 SR  
36 Tim L~ch  DB  5·9  170 JR  
36 Chris  achtel  p  6-0  211 SR  
38 PauiGrimm  DB  5·9  169 JR  
39 Benny Guilbeaux 40 Kevin Carretta  ss TE  6·2 6·1  202 so 239 SR  
40  Brendan Fanrell  OLB  5-11  230 FR  
41 42  Joe Babey Atton Maiden  ILB NG  6-2 6-4  222 SR 271 SR  
43 44  Bill Wagasy Marc Edwards  OLB FB  6·3 6-0  225 SR 237 SR  
45 Joey Goodspeed 45 Chns McCarthy  FB K  6-0 5-11  230 FR 213 JR  
45  Phil Sicuso  DB  5-11  175 so  
46  Bill Gibbs  FS  5-10  171 SR  
47  Bill M~oulas  ILB  6-1  229 JR  
48 Renaldo Wynn 49 Joe Thomas  DE ILB  6·3 6·2  275 SR 226 so  
50 David Payne 51 Melvin Dansby 52 Alex Mueller  OL DE OG  6-1 6-4 6-6  284 so 288 SR 275 so  
53 55  Lamont Bryant Shetton Jordan  DE DE  6-4 6·3  253 so 241 so  
56  Kurt Belisle  DE  6-3  251 JR  
57  Rick Kaczenski  c  6-4  264 SR  
58 59  Mike Burgdort Matthew Kunz  TE ss  6-1 6-1  222 SR 216 JR  
60 Antwoine Wellington 80 Sean Rogers 63 John Fanrell  LB OT c  6·2 6..() 5·10  230 FR 292 SR 253 SR  
64 John Merandi  c  6-3  273 FR  
64  Mike Denvir  TE  6-4  246 SR  
66 Jeff Kilburg 67 John Wagner  c OT  6-4 6-7  283 SR 320 so  
68  Matt Brennan  OL  6-5  270 FR  
69  David Quist  NG  6·5  290 SR  
70 Tim Ridder  OT  6-7  297 so  
71 72  Jerry Wisne Leon Hires  OG OL  6-7 6-{i  285 so 280 FR  
73 74  Mike Doughty RobMowl  OT OL  6·8 6-5  313 SR 290 FR  
75  Chris Clevenger  OT  6·8  290 SR  
76 Jeremy Akers 77 Brad Williams  OG DL  6-6 6-{i  300 SR 250 FR  
78 79  Jon Spickelmier Mike Rosenthal  c OG  6-3 6-7  267 JR 310 so  
80  Malcolm Johnson  SE  6-5  203 JR  
81  Lewis Dawson  WR  6-0  180 FR  
82 83 84  Mike Gandy Deveron Harper Albert Jones  TE!DE 6-4 CB 5-10 WR 5-11  235 FR 175 FR 183 SR  
85 Antwon Jones  NG  6·3  258 so  
86 Dan O'Leary 87 Jimmy Friday  TE DE  6-5 6-2  230 FR 240 so  
88 Bobby Brown 89 John Cerasani  SE DE  6-3 6-4  185 so 258 so  
90 91  Lance Legree Darnell Sm~h  LB DE  6-2 6-5  248 FR 276 SR  
92  Joe Fenrer  LB  6·3  230 FR  
93  B.J. Scott  DL  6-4  250 FR  
94 Justin Orr  WR  6-2  235 SR  
95 Corey Bennett 96 JimJones  DE DL  6·1 6-4  251 JR 260 FR  
98 Pete Chryplewicz 99 Jason Ching  TE DL  6-5 6-4  265 SR 270 FR  

The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 
Following in the footsteps of Jerome Bettis, Ray Zellars, and Marc Edwards, sophomore Jamie Spencer seems destined to carry on the tradition of great fullbacks at Notre Dame. However, it was supposed to begin next year. But with Edwards lost for the regular season with a knee injury, the future is now for the tal­ented Spencer. 
Pittsburgh linebackers Rod Humphrey, Curtis 
FULLBACK 
33·Spencer
45·Goodspeed 
FULLBACK 
20·W8SI 
39·Beasley · . 
~~ 
24·Stltultera 
2D-West 
Jamie Spencer vs. Panther linebackers 
McGhee, and Ernest Coakley are the team's top three tacklers. Senior Jason Chavis provides depth off the bench. The group realizes that containing the running game is the key to beat­ing Notre Dame. While Spencer has excelled as a runner in limited playing time this year, his first true test will come Saturday against Pitt. With less than two dozen carries under his belt, Spencer will have to grow up in a hurry. 
page 3 
PITISBURGH SCHEDULE 
Aug.31 WEST VIRGINIA l 0-34 Sept. 7 KENT W52-14 


8th 
season at 
Pitt 
John Majors 
Career record: 184-136-10 At Pittsburgh: 44-44-1 Against Notre Dame: 4-5 
1 Darnell Dinkins QB 6·4 220 FR 2 Rasshad Whitmill DB 5·11 190 SO 3 Steve Kalmanides PK 6·0 185 JR 4 Chuck Brown DB 5·11 185 SO 5 Eric Casperowicz DB 6·0 205 JR 7 Myke Duck RB 5·8 190 JR 7 Scrooge McDuck RB 2·2 43 CPA 8 Matt Lytle QB 6·4 225 SO 9 Jake Hoffart WR 6·11 98 JR 1 0 Pete Gonzalez OB 6·1 205 JR 10 Speedy Gonzales OB 4" 12 oz JR 12 Tony Zimmerman QB 6·3 205 FR 14 Mike Merchant DB 5·10 165 FR 14 Natalie Merchant VOC 5·8 160 FR 14 10,000 Maniacs GRP 18·6 598 C·Ya 15 John Jenkins DB 6·2 185 JR 16 Leon Murray QB 6·3 195 FR 18 Melvin Porter WR 5·9 150 FR 19 Jim Williams DB 5·11 190 SR 20 Billy West RB 5·10 205 JR 21 Chiffon Allen WR 5·10 170 FR 21 Chiffon Prom Dress Off 5·3 115 FR 22 Karim Thompson RB 5·11 200 FR 23 Curtis Anderson WR 6·1 190 SR 24 Duane Chulters RB 5·7 180 JR 25 Demetrious Harris RB 5·10 190 SO 26 Seth Hornack DB 5·10 180 FR 27 Deshane Mallard DB 5·11 175 JR 29 Greg Bethea RB 5·10 195 FR 30 LaFann Williams RB 6·0 185 FR 31 Hank Poteat RB 5·10 185 FR 32 Chris Sneider FB 6·1 240 SO 34 E.G. Varoutsos DB 6·1 190 SO 35 Curtis McGhee DB 5·10 180 JR 36 Tony Thompson RB 5·10 235 FR 37 Chris Ferencik PK 5·10 185 SO 38 Nate Cochran P 6·5 230 SR 40 Darius Wesber LB 5·11 225 SO 40 Hootie and Marino OLD 5·11 225 SO 43 Nathan Kirby LB 6·1 200 FR 45 Julian Graham LB 6·3 240 FR 47 David Keller FB 5·9 204 FR 48 Paul Fath LB 6·4 250 FR 49 Jason Moore LB 6·2 190 FR 50 Trey McCray DL 6·2 240 FR 51 Roderick Humphrey LB 6·1 225 JR 52 Jason Minehart LB 6·3 260 FR 53 Ken Kashubara LB 6-4 230 SO 54 Andrew Grischow OL 6·3 270 SO 55 Jared Miller DL 6·3 250 SR 56 Reggie Thomas OL 6·5 280 JR 57 Brian Minehart OL 6·5 285 FR 58 Jason Chavis DL 6·2 245 SR 59 Jason Dugger OL 6·4 285 SO 60 Jeff Craig OL 6·5 295 SR 61 Ethan Weidle OL 6·6 285 FR 62 Kenny Pegram DL 6·2 275 SO 65 Tim Robbins OL 6·5 280 SR 
6.6 Raheem Johnson OL 6·3 280 FR 67 Calvin Robinson DL 6·4 265 FR 67 Calvin Klein DIV 5·3 120 SR 67 Brooke Shields Fine 5·9 125 FR 67 Andre Agassi Bald 5·9 185 JR 
68 Bill Craver OL 6·3 300 SO 70 Frank Moore DL 6·3 275 JR 71 Mike Schultz OL 6·5 290 SO 72 Jason Sepkowski OL 6·2 275 JR 73 Rodney Epps OL 6·1 265 SR 74 Ben Kopp OL 6·4 275 FR 76 Jon Marzoch OL 6·3 280 JR 77 Tony Orlandini OL 6·5 300 JR 78 Justin Wade DL 6·4 295 FR 80 Ernest Coakley LB 6·2 210 JR 82 Andy Molinaro WR 6·1 180 FR 84 Juan Williams TE 6·1 238 JR 85 Tim Robertson TE 6·3 220 FR 86 John Jones TE 6·4 240 SO 87 Mark Butler WR 5·10 175 SR 88 Kirk McMullen TE 6·4 255 FR 89 Vital Joseph WR 6·3 205 JR 89 Unimportant Joe WR 6·3 205 JR 90 Maurice Harris DL 6·4 255 SR 91 Djems Don LB 6·3 230 FR 91 Jem VOC 5·1 90 FR 91 Truly Outrageous ADJ NA cartoons 92 Marlin Young DL 6·2 254 SO 94 Demond Gibson DL 6·4 300 FR 95 Phil Clarke LB 6·0 230 SO 96 Chris Oilba DL 6·3 275 FR 97 Jason Soboleski DL 6·4 255 JR 98 Mike Mohring DL 6·5 280 SR 

r 

page 4 The Irish Extra • THE COVER Friday, November 15, 1996
f 

Alle11 Rossum has blossomed into a solid cor11erback and a top returner 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY While Ismail excelled on the a tall guy any day." offensive side of the ball, hav­Indeed, Rossum has been a ing compiled 1565 yards in runner all his life. As a fresh­
T
he comparison is per­receptions, Russum's job is to man, he wasted no time mak­haps un~ai~, ~ut _at ~he stifle players like Ismail. Over ing himself known on the track same time It IS In­the past two seasons, Rossum team, earrting All-America evitable. Like Haghib Ismail, has faced the best, and the honors at the NCAA indoor he plays two positions. Like tallest, including Terry Glenn, meet with a seventh-place fin­Ismail he would barely pass Andre Cooper, and for a time, ish in the 55 meters. the required height mark to Keyshawn Johnson. In fact, And as a junior in high ride the roller coaster at most the 5-8 Rossum had Johnson's school, Hossum ran the fastest any amusement park. And at number on more than one time in the nation in the 100 times, it seems that Allen occasion, breaking up three meters with a 10.02. His suc­Hossum can run faster than passes intended for the All­cess in track brought him the whipping wind. American in one half. immediate notoriety in foot­
!lis blazing 4.2 speed in the "My sophomore year was all ball. 40 is actually better than very tough," Rossum insists. "I love track. Before I ever Ismail's 4.28 mark when the "It didn't matter if it was Terry played football, I ran track," Hocket streaked the sidelines Glenn or Keyshawn Johnson he asserts. for Notre Dame. because everyone came pre­
And so far this year. Rossum pared to play Notre Dame. Allen Rossum lives a dual 
The Observer/Dave Murphy
has zipped for two touchdowns Glenn was tougher because he lifestyle in more than 
Above, Allen Rossum displays why he is one of the nation's top return 
on kick returns -a 99-yard was smaller and faster. I one respect. He is a 
men, dashing past Washington's Dave Janoski for a big gain in a 54­kickoff return against Purdue, could keep up with Keyshawn. student, and an athlete. He is 20 blowout victory over the Huskies and a 57-yard punt return He was a big target." a football player, and a track Below, Rossum, with the help of teammate Benny Guilbeaux, brings down Ohio State receiver Michael Wiley in Notre Dame's 29-16 loss to
against Washington. Ismail Although he was burned by star. He is a cornerback, and 
the Buckeyes.

himself would be proud. The the towering Cooper at times a kick returner. He is Hocket returned a total of six in the Orange Bowl, Rossum undoubtedly Notre Dame's kieks for touchdowns in his ca­enjoyed one of his better most exciting speedster since reer. The ever-confident games with six tackles, a sack Raghib Ismail. Hossum has only four to go, and two passes broken up. His On the other hand, Ismail but chuckles at any compari­height has made him a tempt­never returned two intercep­son. ing target on occasion, but tions for touchdowns, as 
"It's a great honor to be Hossum compensates with his Rossum did, nor did he score mentioned in the same sen­speed and glove-tight cover­two points on a blocked con­tence with a caliber player like age. version attempt, as Hossum Ismail." says Hossum of his "If I was a basketball coach, did against Texas last year. hero. "I watched him when I I might be concerned [about One of Russum's finer was growing up in the late his height)." says secondary moments occurred against 80s. Anything could happen coach Tom McMahon. Washington in 1995. · when he had the ball. "Sometimes problems arise if Notre Dame led 22-21, but Everybody stood up when he he has to jump for a ball, but Washington had the momen­had the ball, but what I liked the biggest thing is that he can tum and closed to the Irish 33­about him was that he was run, so he'll rarely get beat. yard line with less than a never real flashy." I'd rather have a runner than minute remaining. 
On the next play, Husky quarterback Damon Huard overthrew his receiver on a sideline pass, and Rossum grabbed the ball, then shot down the sideline for 76 yards to score the clinching touch­down. 
"It was a turning point in my career, and a stepping stone to the rest of the games," says Hossum. 
The coaching staff realized that Russum's speed was a real weapon and started to put him on return assignments late in the '95 campaign, but he didn't step into the spotlight until the opening play of Notre Dame's 1996 home stand against Purdue. 
On the Friday night before 
did just that. He received the feeling in the world.
the game, Coach Lou Holtz 
ball on the one-yard line and Everybody jumps up and the
talked to his players at Loftus 
ran 99 yards for the opening place goes crazy." 
Center, going over piece by 
score. Since then, he has Spoken and performed like
piece the events of the game 
never looked back. He darts Ismail himself. During the
that would take place on 
straight for the eye of the hur­Holtz era, Notre Dame hasSaturday. 
ricane, toward where the returned 12 kickoffs, 12 punts,
"We call it relaxation," says 
chaos lies, hoping his speed 14 interceptions and five fum­
Rossum. "We lie down on the 
will propel him through it. bles for touchdowns (com­
turf, and he goes over the 
"Whoo!" yells Hossum, when pared to only one punt and
plan. We'd be lying there for# 
asked what it feels like to fly three interceptions for oppo­
by defenders. nents).
make us feel like we were 
"Once you catch the ball, you Allen Rossum has and willthere for two hours. 
got to find where the enemy is. embellish those numbers. As
'"On the opening kick, 
The best bet is to get to the it is, he only needs to return
Hossum re·ceives the kick and 
endzone as quickly as possible. one more kick before he ties
returns it for a touchdown,' 
When you get into the open Ismail's and Tim Brown's sea­
Coach Holtz told us, and I kind 
and you finally hear the son records. Just give the manof chuckled at that." 
The Observer/Rob Finch crowd, you know you've made the ball.
On the following day Rossum 
The flamboyant Allen Rossum pleads his case against Washington. 
it and it's the most amazing 


~r--~----------~--~------------------------------------------------~~--~----------------------~-------._. 
Friday, November 15, 1996 Irish Extra • THE MATCH-UPS 

IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE... 

T
here's no reason to beat around the bush. If the 11 guys who call them­selves the Pittsburgh defense had any less of a pulse, they'd be confused for a morgue. I Jell, that might be a little too gener­ous for the line of corpses that will encounter the Notre Dame offense on Saturday. 
Assuming the Irish offense doesn't decide it is time for an encore to their last home game against Air Force, this one should be ·quick and painless. After all, the Panthers give up 40 points per game, including 52 to that well-renowned offensive juggernaut from Temple. 
"Defensively. they are a little undersized at the linebacker position," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
lie could say that again. A telling statistic is that a convert­ed defensive back, 5-foot-10, 190 pound linebacker Curtis McGhee, leads the Pittsburgh defense in tackles. Fellow line­backers Ernest Coakley (53 tack­les) and Roderick Humphrey 
(49) have been solid but unspec­tacular for the Panthers this season. 
After rolling up 426 yards on the ground against Boston College. look for the Irish to have another field day against · an overmatched opposition. Tailbacks Autry Denson, Randy Kinder, and Robert Farmer com­bined for 321 yards and four touchdowns a week ago and might even surpass those totals on Saturday. 
"The running game has really picked it up the last two games," said Denson. "Everybody is get­ting involved, so we've got fresh legs nearly every play." 
If all goes according to plan, quarterback Ron Powlus will throw less than a dozen passes and will take his leave early in 
~t ·· .. espite an offense that 
:i includes two quality tail­

backs. one of which who ran for 1.358 yards two seasons ago, Pittsburgh's offense is less than impressive. The Panthers have been held scoreless three times this sr.ason. 
Pittsburgh's two impressive point totals, 52 and 53, were against unimpressive Kent and Temple, respectively. 
One thing in Pittsburgh's favor, however. is a considerable break since its last contest to fine tune its offensive attack. 
"They have 16 days to prepare for the University of Notre Dame," lloltz noted. "I have never had a team have that long to prepare for us unless it was an opening ball­game." 
If the Irish perform at the level they are capable of playing, no amount of time to prepare will make much of a difference. 
"I think we are falling into a rhythm," Holtz said. "Several weeks ago, I commented we weren't into a rhythm. It was dis­tressing. We seem to be in one now." 
In the first 2 1/2 quarters of the Boston College game, the Irish defense allowed 21 points. But Notre Dame rebounded to shut out the Golden Eagles in the final quarter and a half. One of the biggest plays was a fumble recovery and touchdown run by nose guard Alton Maiden. 
Similar plays by Maiden, Melvin Dansby, Bert Berry and the rest of Notre Dame's front seven have pleased Holtz lately. But what about the Irish secondary? 
"I think we are getting better in the secondary," Holtz said. "But we still have some problems there." 
One of Holtz's biggest concerns is the frequency of missed tackles. 
Pittsburgh will test the Irish secondary with 

••• PANTHERS ON THE OrFEft.JSIVE 
their sophomore quarterback Matt Lytle. 
"Since they changed quarterbacks and went to Matt Lytle, their offense has really had a good spark," Holtz said. "He is a good scrambler. He runs the ball well, and runs a lot of play action passing." 
Pittsburgh's biggest weapons on offense are tail­backs Dwayne Schulters and Billy West. In 1994, West ran for more than 1,000 yards to earn the Big East Offensive Player of the Year. The Panthers' offensive line, however, has not played well enough this season to complement its talent­ed running backs. 
erratic; Conversely, Powlus is about as solid a.S they -come eve11 ifhe can't hit a. receiver: on the run. 

the third period. Holtz should have the opportunity to unveil backup Jarious Jackson to the college football world for what would be the first extensive playing time of his career. 
In addition to Jackson, Irish fans will get another glimpse of the future as sophomore full­back Jamie Spencer replaces the injured Marc Edwards in the backfield. Spencer faces the huge task of trying to fill the shoes of the senior captain and the team's leading scorer. 
''I'm not going to try to be him," said Spencer. "I just want to contribute the way I know I can. We will defintely miss Marc Edwards." 
Saturday might serve as a coming out party for Jackson and Spencer. And the Pittsburgh defense will take its role as the gracious host. 
-Mike Day 

~----..--~·~~--~~-.------------~--~--------~~~~~.-~.-------------~----------------------------~-----·-~--­
page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT Friday, November 15, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Time must come now for future Notre Dame stars 
I
t is a yearly battle cry that seem­
ingly has lmcorne a September tra­
dition for devout follownrs of Notre 
Dame football. 
This year, it began as soon as the devas­tating yt~llow flag fell after Autry Donson's late punt return against Ohio State. 
"Tiwre 's always next vear," fans bot­low ir; desppration as soon the Irish lose a 


contost ancVor nation-

Sporrs E ditor
al championship 
hopos. 

"We have a lot of guys corning back," 
they say. "Screw this year. It's over. 
Play the freshman. "We have to think 
about'IJ7." 

It is a somewhat dangerous attitude, 
concessionary in nature. For many Irish 
faithful. it really doesn't matter how 
many games are left or who they're 
against; what matters is getting the 
underclassmen ready for next year's 
chase of the national championship. 
While this thinking isn't all that appropriate in the middlo of October with teams likP Washington and a cer­tain military academy based in ·Colorado. it actually may help the Irish 
in the long run this week and next. 
Maybe 1995's Northwestern squad 
and that certain military academy based 
in Colorado (it still hurts to think about 
it, lnt alone say it) should serve as a 
reminder nnver to overlook a team, but 
tlw Irish have to lind a way to get key 
younger players signilieant playing time. 
It's now (and next week) or never for 
guys like Jarious Jackson, Lamont 
Bryant. Bobbie Howard, etc. to get an 
extended taste of Division I football. 
Pittsburgh and Hutgers may be two of 
college football's finer sacrificial lambs 
Uust don't say that to BC or any book­
ins), so Lou lloltz has the perfect oppor­tunity to lind time for the younguns. 
But that time should not all come in the fourth quarter when Pitt's second and third-stringers are reveling in their time in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Though he seems like he's been here for an eternity, Ron Powlus' time may very well be soon coming to an end if the right NFL scouts come a callin'. 
Likewise, Renaldo Wynn will be play­ing on Sundays a year from now. 
Everyone knows that there are guys like Jackson and Bryant out there to take their respective places but no one knows what they'll do when it counts. They don't even know what it takes yet to compete at the kind of level ND aspires to. 
The Panthers may not quite be at that level but inserting them while the game is still somewhat in the balance shouldn't hurt. It will help, though. 
Holtz will never know just how dan­gerous Jackson can be until he plays behind a cohesive line and in the same backfield as Denson and Jamie Spencer. Sure. Bryant may be able to bull-rush a slow, overweight walk-on guard but get him in on a consistent basis to square off against a starter. 
The point is: the earlier in the game the better. 
For example, take a look at inside linebacker Howard. He is the heir apparent to the graduating Kinnon Tatum, but aside from a freshman year start against Purdue (led in tackles) and '96 goal-line appearances, Howard's game experience is limited. That has to change, starting tomorrow. 
Antwon Jones, Shelton Jordan, Alex Mueller, and Joey Goodspeed will all be playing critical roles for the '97 Irish. Their audition is now. 
If not, Irish fans may start warming up for next September. "We have a lot of guys coming back," they'll say. "Screw this year. It's over. Play the freshman. "We have to think about'98." 

•  THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF  Barmmer and Mike Day  
Editor: Tim Sherman  Graphic Design:  
Associate Editors:  Dave  Chris Mullins  
Treacy and Joe Villinski  Statistician: Jim Belden  
Assistant Editors: Dylan  Production:  Heather Cocks  


r-----------------------------------~-.-----·---~------------------------~--------~ ------------~-----------.~~--------------------~ 



12. Tennessee 6-2 . 13. Northwestern 8-2 
.1 

14. Notre Dame 6-2 15. Washington 7-2 16. Michigan 7-2 17. LSU 6-2 

J;i, 18 Miami 6-2;r') 19. Syracuse 6-2 ~ · .: ;~: ~~~~~i~ Tech ~~~ 22. Army 9-0 23. Wyoming 9-1 
~ 24. Virginia 6-3 
;J
25. Southern Miss. 8-2 ~ OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES 
~ 


ABC*  
Penn St. at Michigan  Noon  
Oklahoma at Texas A&M  3:30p.m.  
3:30p.m.  
North Carolina at Virginia  3:30p.m.  
UCLA at Arizona  3:30p.m.  
CBS*  
Virginia Tech at Miami  3:30p.m.  
TBA (SEC matchup)  3:30p.m.  

* regional coverage, check your local listings The Irish Extra • THE NATI 0 N page 7 
Race for Alliance berths begins in earnest 
By TODD FITZPATRICK team that handed Colorado its Sports Writer only loss? Or is it the team that blew a 16-point lead at #9 Kansas State at #6 Northwestern and was stunned Colorado by Purdue? Penn State hopes 
Not only do the Buffaloes it's the latter. want to keep their alliance Sophomore quarterback Scott bowl hopes alive, but they also Dreisbach must lead his offense want to preserve their perfect to a better perfqrmance than conference record. If Colorado he did last week. In that con­defeats Kansas State, and test, the Wolverines could Nebraska beats Iowa State, muster only three points at then the Colorado-Nebraska Purdue. game on November 29 will be a Penn State's biggest threat on battle for the championship of offense is tailback Curtis Enis, the Big 12's North Division. who has the ability to score on 
Kansas State, however, would any down. Defensively, the love to be the spoiler and posi­Nittany Lions are strong tion itself as a serious con­against the run, so Michigan tender for alliance bowl consid­may try to beat them through eration. On offense, the the air. Wildcats' strengths are on the line. Jason Johnson, Kendyl #6 North Carolina at #24 Jacox and Ross Greenwood will Virginia open holes for Kansas State's Thanks to an 8-1 record, talented tailbacks. North Carolina is in a position 
Colorado's offensive attack is to earn an alliance bowl bid if it led by quarterback Koy closes out the season by win­Detmer. He'll need to have a ning its finaltwo games. Up to big day to ensure a Buffalo vic­this point, the Heels' only loss tory. has been a 13-0 defeat at the 
hands of No. 3 Florida State. 
#11 Penn State at #16 Although tailback Leon Michigan Johnson is a force on offense, Will the real Michigan team defense is by far the strength of please step forward? Is it the this squad. The stinginess of 
this unit has been proven time and time again. Holding an offensive juggernaut like the Seminoles to only 13 points is quite a feat. 
The Heels' defense will have to be at its best to get past the Cavaliers. Virginia possesses one of the most lethal weapons in college football, and his name is Tiki Barber. His ability to break any game wide open is something that even North Carolina's defense must respect. 
#21 Virginia Tech at #18 
Miami 
These conference foes are competing with Syracuse to earn -the Big East's alliance bowl bid. So this matchup is huge for both teams, not only in terms of prestige but also financially. 
Miami head coach Butch Davis has managed to keep most of his players out of trou­ble and keep his team in the hunt for a Big East title. He and his players need this win as they get ready to play at Syracuse in two weeks. 
Virginia Tech's. offensive fire­power is provided by Jim Druckenmiller. 
Photo courtesy of Virginia Tech Sports Information 

With a shot at the Big East title at stake, Virginia Tech's Dwayne Thomas will lead the Hokies at Miami. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Colorado Colorado Michigan Michigan Virginia Virginia


Tim Sherman Dave Treacy Mike Day Sports Editor Miami Associate Sports Va. Tech Assistant Sports Editor Editor 

Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Colorado 
Colorado Michigan 
Penn State Virginia Virginia
Dylan Barmmer Todd Associate Sports Assistant Sports Fitzpatrick
Va.Tech Va. Tech 
Editor Editor Sports Writer 
Notre Dame Colorado 

-
Penn State N.C. Va.Tech 
Notre Dame Colorado Penn State N.C. Miami 

Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports Information 
After a disappointing effort in last week's 9-3 loss at the hands of Purdue, Michigan will need better play out of their offensive line when they host Penn State on Saturday. 
:> 


\ 

The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
''on the campus'' 
Call for our illustrated catalog 1-219-631-6316 Open Monday-Saturday, 9am-5pm 
Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday 9am-7pm; Saturday 8am-6pm 







