
Friday, November 8, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 49 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND ' 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Committee discusses no-confidence resolution 
Senate awaits theology vote on Malloys hiring 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
The Faculty Senate voted last night to remand a resolution regard­ing the hiring of a visiting theology professor by University President Father Edward Malloy. 
The resolution was returned to the Senate's Academic Affairs Committee for further examination until next month's Senate meeting. 
The committee added a preamble and a resolve clause to Vice Chair Jean Porter's resolution from last month. The resolve clause reads, "Be it further resolved that a presi­dent who makes such decisions [as the hiring in question] does not deserve the confidence of his facul­ty." 
A vote on the resolution was post­poned pending a meeting of the the­ology department on Monday. 
The original resolution was hand­ed over to the committee last month in an effort to obtain more informa­tion on the topic. The committee requested information from every­one involved in the hiring. Most of the responses they received, accord­ing to the committee's report, insist­ed that the information requested was confidential and could not be released to the committee. 
"We do not want to see this issue go on all year," said Sonya Jordan, chairwoman of the Academic Affairs Committee, protesting the move. 
"This will give time for consulta­tion," said Robert Blakey, the O'Neill professor of law. "We should talk with one another instead of going around with shut ears." 
The theology department is expected to vote during its meeting on Monday on a resolution that con­demns the hiring of the visiting pro­fessor. "We should wait to hear the vote of the theology department on this issue," said Blakey. "They may decide to vote in favor of the candi­date." 
The Faculty Senate's motion to 
see SENATEl page 4 
Friday Feature 

Sonya. Jorda~ (low~r left corner) _an~ other members of the Faculty Senate's Academic Affairs Committee Will contmue an ~xammat1on of a resolution criticizing a recent hiring in the theology department. Above, Father Richard McBrien delivers his opening remarks to the Senate last night. 



Saint Mary's 

Grad school not for the hesitant search stays 
By JILLIAN PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
S
o, you want to go to graduate school. If the prospect of a six to eight year time commitment and dismal employment opportunities after graduation have not suc­ceeded in dissuading you, then your profes­sors will be willing to help. Don't expect any encouragement from them if you're uncer­tain about post-graduate plans. 
"I don't encourage people to go to grad school unless they've already decided to," explains Gail Bederman, assistant professor and director of graduate studies in history. This sentiment is widely shared by adminis­trators across the humanities disciplines at Notre Dame. 
Associate Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in philosophy David O'Connor echoes, "We tell people very can­didly that if they're not good enough to get into the top dozen programs to seriously consider not going." He continued, "It's like being a professional athlete. It's very hard to make a living. A student can be a top starter in a program like Notre Dame's football team. but wouldn't necessarily make it into the NFL. It's the same in the philosophy department." 
Explicitly, even if a student manages to gain admittance to graduate school, this is no indication that he or she will be able to find employment. Because of the surfeit of PhD recipients that are glutting the market each year, university programs are not tak­ing measures to increase their enrollments. 
"It's irresponsible for [graduate] programs to expand [in light of the unemployment rates]." Bederman said. 
Notre Dame's graduate program has remained static in its number of enrollees in the past few years. There are currently nearly 1,500 graduate students, three-quar­ters of which are in PhD programs. 
Despite the bleak picture painted by many academics, not all the recommendations are negative. "It's not impossible. People do go 
see PHD I page 4 


Temp. Positions  21%  9%  42%  15%  
.. Admin. Positions  2%  "3%  2%  0%  
Nco-Academic  

Degree-Related  1%  
Non-Related ···  7%  
Unknown  10%  

9%  23%  39%  
9%  6%  20%  
24%  7%  3%  

Source: Notre Dame Graduate Studies THE OBSERVER/Brian Blank 
ND seeks to create a more marketable doctoral student 
By JILLIAN PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
"Going to grad school is ... like getting a law degree or an MBA. It's a career decision that involves career training," says associate professor of philosophy David O'Connor. But what good is career train­ing if there are no careers available once you finish it? 
Aware of the discrepancy between decreasing job opportunities and increasing number of doctoral degree earners, Notre Dame's Graduate School is searching for solutions. 
According to Vice President for Graduate Studies and Research James Merz, "The answer is not necessarily to stop training people at the PhD level." Instead he sug­gests a broadening of degree requirements, to ensure that graduates acquire a more eclectic and thus marketable degree. This measure, along with shortened time periods for degree acquisition, would be ideal, Merz said. 
"One solution high on the list of priorities for the provost [Nathan Hatch] and me is the formation of centers or insti­tutes where grad students can 
see SOLUTIONS I page 4 


on schedule 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
The search for the 1Oth president of Saint Mary's College is proceeding on schedule, according to Shelly Storbeck, vice president and managing director of A.T. Kearney, the consult­ing firm hired by the College to aid in the search process. 
"We are definitely on track," she asserted in a meeting last week which updated the College community on the progress of the search. 
However, competition in the search will be tight. Candidates will not be the only ones com­peting as Saint Mary's searches for the next indi­vidual to assume its helm. 
Institutions bid against each other for top prospects, and numerous colleges and universi­ties are engaged in presidential searches analo­gous to Saint Mary's. 
Thumbing through The Chronicle for Higher Education, numerous advertisements grace its pages listing open positions, searching for the perfect individual to take over their colleges and universities. 
"What every search committee is looking for is God on a good day," Storbeck said, of the high degree of selectivity involved. 
Specifically, Saint Mary's is seeking out a can­didate who will bring "an outstanding record of achievement in academic and spiritual leader­ship; management and community building; resource generation and allocation; development of diversity; external relations; governance and personal effectiveness," according to a September advertisement placed in The Chronicle for the presidential position. 
"Your challenges are enrollment, development and keeping alive the mission of a Catholic women's college," Storbeck stated. 
However, those desired qualities and that wish list is not unique to Saint Mary's, as many col­leges with similar characteristics to the College are also seeking presidents to take over next year. 
"Looking through the Chronicle of Higher Education, Saint Catharine's [a co-ed, Catholic 
see SEARCH I page 6 

Friday, September 8, 1996

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
No sibling rivalry 

here 

I ean remember it 
Kathleen Lopez 

like it was yesterday, 
Sports Copy Ediwr

the dawning of a friendship. Despite the faet that we differ in age by almost ten years, we are the best of friends. 
It was a rather warm day 1 recall, and was strutting my stuff in a tee shirt, poly­ester shorts, and my best Mighty Mouse san­dals. I had to ride with my mother to drop ofl' my sister and her friends at the movies. Then she did it -my sister invited me to go, and I still remember the movie to this day. It was "E.T." 
Hight then, I thought that I was all that, beeause I got to hangout with a bunch of. junior high sehool kids. From that point on, my sister and I became tight. 
Often times brothers and sisters tend to be embarrassed of their siblings, but my sister use to take me with her everywhere. During the school year, she would take me to sehool and piek me up from my baby-sit­ters. In the summer, she would take me with her to the pool with all her friends. She was always happy to take me along. 
Everyone goes through stages in their life. Unfortunately, I went through a stage where I did not eare about anything. There was a time when many questioned whether or not I would graduate from high sehool. My sis­ter, along with my family, forced me to snap out of it. 
During my senior year of high school, I ehose to give up one of the time honored traditions to witness my sister graduate from law sehoul here, at Notre Dame. She turned right around and went home with me to attend my high school graduation. It would not have felt right for either of us to miss the other's big day. 
My family made the big trek up here for the Washington game, and my sister came also. For one weekend, she was my room­mate and I have never had so much fun. 
She went and partied with my friends and 
I. The moment will live in my mind forever, beeause it was the first time I have ever seen her danee on a window sill. Not to mention, I got to see many of my guy friends drool over how beautiful she is. Also it was my ehanee to show everyone how cool this pnrson is -the one I have been bragging about. 
When my friends say that my sister and I are two of a kind. I get a huge smile because it is a tremendous compliment. 
As more and more problems arise, and as friends come and go, my sister has remained eonstant. She is there to offer her adviee, her jokes, and her wisdom. I am always reeeptive to what she has to say because she is my best friend. Without her guidanee, I am not sure if I would survive sehool. 
And in these past few weeks of turmoil, she remains patient. Some people prefer to not talk to their family for as long as possi­ble. On the other hand, my sister and I ean barely go a day or two without talking to eaeh other. 
Many pnople say that they do not get along with their siblings, and I think to myself what a shame that is. Without her, I know that I would not be where I am today. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Derek Betcher  Jed Donahue  
David Freddoso  Production  
Sean Smith  Brad Prendergast  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Brian Rcinrhaler  Ann Goodwin  
Mike Day  Accent  
Dave Treacy Viewpoint  Ashleigh Thompson Graphics  
Ethan Hayward  Brian Blank  

Tho Obs<rvcr (USPS 599 l-4000) i> puhlishcd Monday through Friday c:xcepr Juring exam and vacation period~. The Observer is a member of lhc Assodarc:d Pres~. All reproduction rights arc rcscrv('d. 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Fierce storm kills more than 400 in southeast India 


HYDERABAD, India 
A cyclone struck southeastern India, killing at least 400 people, destroying 10,000 homes and wrecking thou­sands of acres of rice fields, officials said today. At least 1,500 people were reported missing. 
The storm, packing winds approach­ing 100 mph, struek the coastal state of Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday night. 
"Except for houses made of briek and eement, nothing is standing there," the top state official, Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu, told reporters after surveying the devasta­tion by air today. 
The storm wrenehed power poles from the earth and flooded roads and train traeks, state chief secretary M.S. Rajaji said. 
The death toll could go even higher as relief teams reach remote areas, officials said. Telephone lines were washed out and information from some storm-hit areas was unavailable. 
Many of the fatalities occurred when the mud walls of 
Doctors: Yeltsin making progress Bayh readies to leave statehouse 
MOSCOW INDIANAPOLIS 

President Boris Yeltsin made strong 
Gov. Evan Bayh, who will give way to Governor-elect progress today in his recovery from Frank O'Bannon in January when his second term is heart bypass surgery, standing up and complete, is as popular as ever with Hoosiers, but state walking around his room and surpris­law forbids governors from serving more than two ing doctors with the speed of his terms. "This is a job I love doing," Bayh said Wednesday improvement. Presidential press in an interview with The Assoeiated Press. 'This is going spokesman Sergei Yastrzhembsky said to be a big transition for me and it's a part of life, and I doctors who examined Yeltsin for embrace it." Bayh spent part of Wednesday eongratulat­about 90 minutes found the president's ing O'Bannon on his victory against Indianapolis Mayor 
recovery was going well with no unexpected develop­ments. "The president is active. lie's sitting, standing up, walking inside his room, and had breakfast," Yastrzhembsky told a press briefing. Doctors decided to keep the president in intensive care for at least another 24 hours. He has been pressing to move from the Moscow Cardiological Clinic to the nearby Kremlin hos­pital, which has presidential offices and a homier atmos­phere. "The president insists that he be transferred to the familiar, customary walls of the Central Clinical Hospital for psychological reasons," the spokesman said. Yeltsin's rapid recovery will boost hopes that he will soon reassert his authority, ending a four-month erisis during whieh top aides have squabbled openly. 
Families of Pan Am victims settle 
LONDON 

Families of most of the British victims on the Pan Am flight that exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, have agreed to an out-of-court settlement from the airline's insurers, a spokesman for the families said Wednesday. "This does not bring us great joy -you cannot eompen­sate with money for the loss of someone you love," said Dr. Jim Swire, whose daughter Flora was killed by the 1988 terrorist bombing of Flight 103. She would have turned 24 on Thursday. Insurance companies are offer­ing each family about $850,000, said Press Association, the British news agency. That's less than the compensa­tion the families of some U.S. vietims have already received. The explosion aboard the New York-bound jumbo jet over Lockerbie, Scotland, on Dec. 21, 1988, killed all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground Two Libyans have been indicted in the bombing but have never been turned over to U.S. authorities for trial. So far, Pan Am has paid an estimated $500 million in dam­ages, and about 20 more cases are pending, according to lawyers for American victims. 
houses collapsed on the victims. A few others drowned in the flood waters, Rajaji told a news conferenee. 
A passenger ferry sank with 42 peo­ple on board in the Godavari Hiver, he said. There were no survivors. The vic­tims were traveling to a nearby village when the boat capsized in the swollen river. 
Worst hit was the eoastal city of Kakinada, 300 miles east of the state capital, Hyderabad, where the storm dumped 8.8 inches of rain. 
With more rain in the forecast, the government moved thousands of people to schools and storm shelters and orga­nized three relief camps to feed the homeless. Authorities asked naval heli­AP/Carl Fox eopters to determine the extent of the damage and ordered army soldiers to be on the standby. Hajaji said at least 250 villages were under water and many eommunities on the Bay of Bengal were inundated 
by 12-foot-high waves. Hundreds of thousands of acres of riee crops were 
destroyed in the two districts, Rajaji said. 
Stephen Goldsmith in Tuesday's gubernatorial eleetion. His adviee: "Get plenty of sleep." While O'Bannon begins to prepare for his inauguration in January, Bayh said hn looks forward to spending more time with his two young sons and a life in the private sector. ''I'll go to work," he said. "I will be doing something else. I love publie ser­vice, and I love the state of Indiana. Working in the pri­vate sector will be a new ehallenge." Bayh did not say what he planned to do in the private seetor. Whatever it is may be short-lived. The governor is widely expected to run for the U.S. Senate in 1998. The seat, currently lwld by Republican Dan Coats, was once held for three terms by his father, Birch Bayh, who lost to Dan Quayle in 1980. 
Volkswagen confronts Nazi past 
BONN, Germany 
It's no secret that Adolf Hitler masterminded the 
Volkswagen Beetle -the affordable "people's ear." So 
in the spirit of openness about its Nazi past, Volkswagen 
paid $2 million for one of Germany's most respected his­
torians to write a book about it. Ten years later, the 
book is out-but Europe's biggest car maker is wonder­
ing if its good intentions are going to hurt its business. 
"Volkswagen and Its Workers During the Third Reich," 
by Hans Mommsen, has renewed discussion of VW's use 
of slave labor during World War II. Complete with pho­
tos of Der Fuehrer admiring a Beetle model, it is the 
most comprehensive -and potentially damaging-his­
tory ever written about the Nazi-era birth of the compa­
ny. Chapter after chapter details how Volkswagen manu­
factured hardware for the Nazi war machine using slave 
laborers. The book says Volkswagen founder Ferdinand 
Porsehe, Nazi party member and grandfather of current 
VW chairman Ferdinand Pieeh, was "morally indif'fer­
-ent" to the slave laborers' misery. "Porsehe walked 
through these crimes like a sleepwalker," says the book. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions ami high temperatures 
\."'...--·/''·~:...........................fi H 
I  ;;·····......  
Friday  c:::1  44  30  
Saturd~ ' Sunda~l Monday  ~ ~ ~  40 25 37 27 43 ~,~+'27  
Tuesday  .~  49  32  

\5 "\\"''-·-vf~r' 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. B. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
....,........., ...&...&... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
c 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

4,~,~9'@8 i) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIS Associated Press Graph1csNet 
Baltimore 67  43  Juneau  39  36  Phoenix  85  55  
Boston  65  50  Kennebunk 58  48  Philadelphia  67  46  
Bismarck 40  20  Miami  88  71  St. Louis  52  32  
Chicago  39  27  New York  67  50  San Francisco 76  50  
Helena  50  34  Norfolk  75  56  Salem, Ore  61  41  


----------~~~~~~~~-~-~--~­
Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 

Asian American gr consolidate for faslil 

what you want," she said. 
What Sanford wanted was to go back to school and continue where she had left off some 40 years earlier. Having already obtained a degree in journalism from Tulane University in 1951 and taken part in the MS pro­gram in television writing and production at Iowa State University in 1953, Sanford returned to school with hopes of learning photography as a sup­plement to her writing. In 1988 she received her BFA in photog­raphy from Ohio University and in 1990, at the age of 60, she received her MFA 
Since then, Sanford has enjoyed a whirlwind of exhibits, reviews and lectures. Her exhibit at Saint Mary's included photographs of women living out the careers which they have dreamed of but never attained. 
Touching on recent topics such as the election, Sanford chal­lenged women to break the stereotypes inherent in their age. Reflecting upon the presidential candidates' wives, Sanford asked why, when there are so many intelligent women in this coun­try, are there still no women candidates . 
"Rather," she said, "we see smart women standing in the uniform of designer suit and perfect hair, along side or slightly behind their husbands." 
Sanford found her visit to Saint Mary's to be especially important. 
"Young women need to know to be strong and to learn about the responses to aging in women. They need to realize they can't be the woman I was 40 years ago," she said. 
Thanks to Sanford, now they do. "I have learned that aging is a gift and an opportunity to explore those yet untapped dreams of our lives," reflected Saint Mary's junior Liz Edwards. 
Sophomore Kelly Galassi agreed and added that Sanford's work "provides a reality that's not often portrayed." 
It has taken Sanford this long to become comfortable with her­self. She says that she now real­izes that all of the experiences she has had, whether good or bad, have become a part of her. 
Of this growth she speaks confidently: "I am myself at this ag~; and I have never been so free. 

By KELLY BROOKS 
Assistant News Editor 
The catwalk at tomorrow night's Asian Allure will. ?e more than a display of fashiOn­ably dressed models and Asian culture. It is also a debut of sorts for the Asian American clubs at Notre Dame. 
Asian Allure marks the first time that all of the Asian American groups on campus have programmed an event together. The Asian American Association (AM), the Korean Student Association (KSA), the Vietnamese Student Association (VSA), the Filipino American Student Organization (PHASOJ, the. Hawaii Club, and Troop ND all plan to participate in this first annual fashion and cultural show. 
"In the four years that I'v~ been here, I've never seen an event where all the Asian clubs came together to work;'' said Vu Nguyen, co-president of AM. 
"The goals of it [Asian Allure] were to first, promote Asian culture and second, to plan an event where aU thl:) clubs could work together," he added. 
"I think this first event is huge. It's the largest project AAA has undertaken in my years here," added Steve Nam, co-president of KSA. "[f suer, cessful, it will lead to a lot more similar programming 
and a lot more }nvolvem among mom~ers. __ , i __ • Planning began w1thtn -_ 
atthe begill!ling of the•"•·,,_,.....,..,A 1 year. Co~ptesidents N­and Hoohy Yoon were _ by an Asianfashion · attended at Northern ............."'. University and Bl!.tck -~"·-o~c·c::·•J 
and Latin Expr~ssi Notre Dame's campus. 

The show is divided into parts -a fashion_ culturalshow. rmrtv•oEte dentS Will model IJIIJ>Ult"'' 
J. __ Riggips. •·-•• LimiMdi and KSA, VSA, 
Cl:uh, invited 
f9~ID .-<! VUJ'>"'• /v1 
model'u·raditUJinaJ "We 

Sanford shares her passion 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
News Writer 
Elise Sanford, the photogra­pher whose exhibit, "The Stuff of Dreams," has been displayed for the past month at the Moreau Art Gallery at Saint Mary's, spoke to a group of stu­dents and faculty Thursday evening. 
She addressed not only her work, but also the social effects of aging as seen in women. Her theme reflected a passion and cause with which she is deeply involved not only as an artist, but also as a mature woman in her 60s. 
Despite her efforts to remain active in her community while she was raising her children, Sanford was unsuccessful in her attempts to re-enter the professional world. Although she continued to interview and to write, she had not kept abreast of computer technology and the economy. She believes that she may have also been a victim of "ageism." 
She had "hit a brick wall." 
"It is at this point that women do one of two things," Sanford explained. "They either react inwardly by going into depres­sion, or outwardly by beginning a journey of exploration and become adventurers." Sanford said that the reactions are the result of either fear or courage. "Fear locks us up inside, but courage lets us live free." 
For Sanford, the realization of her own aging at first caused depression, but then she became courageous. "There comes a point when you need to deal with who you are and 

You vvant to be the f~irst to______ 
Macintosh. More flexible than ever. We don't know how you'll fill in the blank. 


That's why we make Macintosh computers so flexible. To help you be the first to do whatever you want to do. And with word processing, easy Internet access, powerful multimedia and cross-platform compati­bility, a Mac· makes it even easier to do it. How do you get started? Visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 

©/996 Apple !.illll{llliel: file. All l'(~hls resenwl .1{1/>le. !be Apple tow>-.l!ac a11d .1/acilllosb tm' r~~islem/lmdeJ~t~rks o{Apple ;:oJ~~~~~~J;"·-All .l!acill/o,,fJ cr1mputas fll'l' dt'.,·i,v,ut•t! to be acn·ssiiJie to ;1/(/;riduals u#b disahili~r. HJ team more (I ..\. ou(rJ. cal/800-000-808 m m 8( 0-n-) 
••1!1 





LIVE 
Sunday Night From 6:30 to 9:30 In The Dining Room 

Italian CUisine With an Irish View 1412 South Bend Avenue South &nd, Indiana 4fx517 (219) 232 -4244 

••1!1 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 8, 1996 
which students are applying. In other Senate news: Subcommittee is consideringFaculty members are·encouraged • A motion to change the a resolution in support of the 
Solutions Senate
to contact colleagues at these time of Faculty Senate meet­College Democrats and is institutions to "put in a good ings from 7 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. working on other aspects of
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
word" for these candidates. was defeated by a margin of student rights. become involved in a larger Finally, faculty members conduct remand the resolution con­20 votes. • The Administrative scope of activity with faculty mock interviews with soon-to-be tained instructions to edit it if • The Alcohol Abuse Committee considered plans members of diverse interests," he graduates to prepare them to any changes were deemed Subcommittee announced for discussions of equal continued. These institutes would compete against the hundreds of 
necessary by the committee plans to investigate a opportunity in hiring proce­enable students who plan on others applicants who will be 
in the face of the theology Harvard University survey on dures of female professors. entering industry to be exposed applying for the same positions. 
binge drinking and possibly • The Benefits Committee to a variety of disciplines at once, So where did the "glut" department vote. 
The committee then will ask the professor who con­reported a switch in the health enabling them to receive a more spurring these measures come 
bring the resolution, along with ducted the survey to come insurance policies that would well-rounded, and thus more from? According to research con­
and conduct a more focused eliminate Cigna, replacing it marketable, education. ducted by the Modern Language Blakey's dissenting views, back 
to the Senate at next month's one at Notre Dame. with another agency such as One measure that the Association, the surplus of recent 
meeting for a fmal vote. • The Student Rights Blue Cross/Blue Shield. 
University has recently imple­doctoral graduates is the result of mented is the creation of a new the large number of students ones who are only economi­ing to complete his master'sposition in Career and Placement admitted to PhD programs 'in the 
cally motivated." In other degree before applying to

PhD
Services for an assistant director mid-1980s. The enlarging of doc­
words, students are getting PhD programs. He believes

for graduate student services. toral programs at that time was a continued from page 1 conflicting messages from this will give him more expe­Hussell Kitchner, who assumed response to an improving job their professors. rience, and thus make him athat position just last week, plans market and optimistic expecta­to grad school and they are Michael O'Malley, a senior more attractive candidate to 
on tackling the issue of post­tions that a large number of 
getting jobs," says Kucich. English and Arts and Letters graduate schools.
graduate placement from a retiring faculty members and an Bederman feels the same Pre-Professional major, O'Malley is considering tak­reverse angle -that of prospec­influx of undergraduates in the way. "If students are passion­received negative advice from ing the "safe route" andtive employer·s. Instead of coming years would open up 
ate about research and some sources and positive applying to medical school
increasing pressure on students positions for these PhDs. 
they're going to do it anyway, advice from others. where he will be "guaranteedto lind employment, he hopes to However, the late 1980s reces­I'll help them," she said. In "One professor said there a high-paying job." 
"cultivate prospects who have sion was not foreseen. Pressure fact, the history department was a job crunch, but that it "There are no out-of-workroutinely not even thought about was put on students to complete· has enjoyed relative success was exaggerated. He said that doctors," he said. 
hiring PhDs," and inform them of their degree in the least amount in placing its doctoral stu­there are jobs in smaller col­Greg Kucich, associate pro­the merits of Notre Dame doctor­of time possible, exacerbating dents. Since 1989, 33 stu­leges and that the glut may be fessor in English, is responsi­al students. Like Merz, he sup­their increased graduation rate dents have received their doc­over by the time I graduate," ble for advising Englishports the idea of offering a from 1990 to 1992. Coinciding toral degrees, 21 of whom O'Malley related. undergraduates as they con­broadened graduate curriculum with a drop in the number of now have full-time academic Other professors discourage sider applying for graduatefor those students who think they open positions, this increase in appointments. students from entering PhD school.
might want to enter industry graduates was the start of the 
This percentage surpasses programs directly out of For serious candidates, heupon graduation. unemployment trend that contin­the national average for undergraduate school. recommends such preparato­The English department has its ues today. 
placement of graduates. "I've been told by profs that ry measures as reviewing for own innovative measures. Greg Fortunately, stability is project­According to one report, his­if you want a lucrative career, the Graduate RecordKucich, associate professor of ed in the market's future. Merz tory PhDs have less than a 50 you shouldn't go to grad Examination, enrolling inEnglish, is responsible for assist­noted that a cycle of highs and percent chance of securing an school right out of college," graduate courses as an
ing graduate students in the lows has been in place since 
academic position. said senior English major undergraduate, and getting toEnglish department as they World War II, and that the recent Professor Donald Amy Schmidt. know professors so that they
approach the job market. At low would not continue. 
Sniegowski, director of Sniegowski, as well as can write well-informed rec­Notre Dame, the entire depart­Optimists argue that an improv­undergraduate studies in the Barbara Green, acting direc­ommendation letters. 
ment is involved in helping ing economy, a large number of English department, express­tor of graduate studies in The New York TimesEnglish graduates who are enter­retirements and growth in the es a concern that those "stu­English, encourages students Magazine contributed to thising the job market. A letter in college student age group will dents who are clearly cut out to consider entering a mas­report.
support of each candidate is com­even out the imbalance. 
for graduate school [are being ter's program as a trial peri­
piled by the department as a 

discouraged from attending od before applying for a PhDwhole and sent to each institution The New York Times Magazine 
Go Irish!

graduate school]. It's just as program.
that candidates are applying to. and the Modern Language wrong to dissuade these peo­Nicola Mastroianni, a grad­A list is also circulated among Association contributed to this 

Beat B.C.

ple as it is to encourage the uate student in Italian, is opt-faculty members of institutions to report. 
ass EITZ 1996 Basilica of e Sacred Heart Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Will preside and preach Music by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir  


Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Service remembering famine set Cabinet shakeup 
Observer StaffReport Congregational Church will pre­The Irish potato famine was side. The service is non-denom­one of the most devastating The Shamrock Club of Notre inational and non-political. events in the history of man. In 
off to quick start 

Dame is sponsoring a Kassie Misiewicz, of Notre just three years one million 
Catholic/Protestant commemo­rative service of the Irish Famine of the 1840s. This ser­vice, which coincides with the International Day of Observance, will be held from 7 
p.m. to 8 p.IlJ.. on Saturday at the Community Congregational Church, 19671 Cleveland Road. 
Father Richard Conyers of Holy Cross Parish, South Bend, and the Rev. Pastor David D'Arcy of the Community 
Air Force set to perform 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC Color Guard, Drill Team and Rifle Team will give Veterans' Day performances Monday at 
Westside  Middle  School  in  
Elkhart.  
Each  year  the  Westside  

Middle School holds an annual Veterans' Day tribute for its students and the community in order to encourage patriotism and veteran awareness. Over 40 veterans from South Bend and its surrounding areas will be honored this year. 
The Color Guard, commanded by Shawn Pulscher, will post the colors. The Drill Team, headed by Kara Thiede, will perform an unarmed trick drill. Lastly. the Rifle Team, lead by Matthew Gaston, will execute a rifle routine including various spins and tosses. 
The AFROTC's Arnold Air Society will also participate. 
Dame's department of commu­nications and theater, has agreed to provide student actors who will re-enact stories about the trials of the famine. 
Mass will be followed by a potato and coffee get-together. Musical entertainment will be provided by Irish harpist Cindy Shelhart of Notre Dame. Stories of the Irish people in the time of the famine will come from Irish story teller Ronald Dunmore. 
me 
Acadi:J!DY 9f 
Religion's 1 Excellence in
ReligiOn. :'}\:= 

Appleby and 1\{~y })a honored by the acade The. Fundan1entalism P,r9j
five-volume study ofgiOb Pi 
gious _resurgen9e _ii1 th~ ,_-_---_ ,_,_-,-,,,, century. Appleby and MitttY'"' 
Excel Hair Salon is proud to announce 


Stova A. Dreher SEBASTIAN 
has joined our staff oftalented stylists. He comes to us with 14 years ofspecialty & corrective Hair Color experience to meet your hair care needs. 
Holiday Special Through December $3s.oo Full Set, Gel, Nails with Kris 
54053 N. Ironwood • 277-1174 (Between St. Rd. 23 & Douglas) Mere minutes from Notre Dame! 


"The Race Issue at Notre Dame: Who's the Victim? .,. Phase II" 
Tuesday, November 12 
9:00, 10:00PM

0MPU5 
Center for Social Concerns 

MINISTRY 
people died, and a million and a By TERENCE HUNThalf more left their homeland to 
Associated Press Writer

emigrate to other countries. A significant portion of the exodus 
WASHINGTON

died while making their jour­
The anchors of Presidentneys. Saturday's event com­

Clinton's national security team

memorates the sufferings of -Warren Christopher andthose men, women, and chil­
William Perry -led a snow­dren. 

balling exo­

It will be free, but a collection dus of at least
will be taken for the Hope 
six Cabinet

Rescue Mission and the Center 
officials

for the Homeless in South Bend. 
Wednesday in a sweeping second-term staff shake up. 
Commerce 
'"'""''"""-c-1-in..,.t_o_n Secretary Mickey Kantor told Clinton he intended to resign to return to California. Energy Secretary Hazel O'Leary, out of favor, also was quitting, officials said. 
Transportation Secretary Federico Pena and Housing Secretary Henry Cisneros were expected to leave, as well, administration officials said. White House officials were wag­ing a behind-the-scenes cam­paign for Attorney General Janet Reno to go; she wants to stay. 
As the president returned tri­umphantly to the White House from victory celebrations in Arkansas, Washington buzzed with leaks about resignations and speculation about succes­sors. No formal announcements were expected before a Cabinet meeting on Friday. 

'u-.. H<~<><> ;,;;,:r;:,..,,nm>,.. 
Clinton brushed aside ques­tions about his staff, telling reporters on Air Force One "we 

~?;·, just want to savor what hap-
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p r e s e n t s 
An ,4metlCttlt eentennlat eetehatlolt 
performed by Faculty Member 



Wllllam e~~;,¥ 
with works by 

:::.-'-)






IS;? • 
<:._____.........___ ·. ( d William Grant Still,(:~ ( }1 Virgil Thomson, Roger Sessions, ~~ Howard Hanson and Peter Mennin 
l 

Sunday, November 10 2 pm Annenberg Auditorium The Suite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
pened yesterday." 
There were varying reasons for the staff reshuffling. Some, like presidential senior adviser George Stephanopoulos, made no secret of the fact they are worn out. Outgoing chief of staff Leon Panetta is considering run­ning for governor of California. Some officials -O'Leary, Reno -were nudged toward the door. In general, Clinton wants to reinvigorate his presidency. 
Christopher, 71, and Perry, 69, are highly regarded but, after countless trips to world trouble spots, have tired of the job. 
Kantor, a political warrior who helped engineer Clinton's 1992 victory, is bored at Commerce. He was believed to be interested in becoming White House chief of staff or attorney general, but now is said to have dropped those ideas. 
Reno upset the White House overseeing Waco and Whitewater. Popular in Washington, she is not consid­ered a team player. Recognizing she would be tough to shove aside, White House officials are waging campaign of leaks against her, noting her battle with Parkinson's disease. Her doctors say she has a mild case and it is not a problem. 
Labor Secretary Robert Reich is welcome to stay, officials said, but appears inclined to leave. Reich told associates he'll talk about his future over the week­end with his family, which has moved back to Boston. 
Pena wounded himself by mis­
handling the ValuJet crash. 
Chicago Mayor Richard Daley's 
brother, Bill, is a possible suc­
cessor. Cisneros, while popular 
with Clinton, is under investiga­
tion for allegedly concealing 
information about payments to a 
former mistress. 
Republicans, strengthening their grip on the Senate, will have veto power over all Cabinet replacements. That raises the possibility that Clinton, in a bipartisan gesture, would install some Republicans in high administration positions. 
"It's a chance for him to reach 
out and be very bipartisan and 
even appoint some Republicans 
in a way which indicates a real 
willingness to work together," 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich 
said. 

Moderators: Prof. James Bellis, Dept. of Anthropology Chandra Johnson, Campus Ministry 

Next door to Nick's Patio
Everyone is Welcome! 
Within Walki Distance om Cam us! 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 8, 1996 
Big bucks won 9 of I 0 races 
By JOHN SOLOMON 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Spend more, win more. For 
congressional contenders, it 
was a rule to live by this year. 
Nine of 10 candidates who 
were able to follow it walked 
away victorious. 

The large House freshman 
class was living proof. The bet­
ter fund-raisers managed to 
build moats around once-vul­
nerable campaign castles, 
while the few who lagged in 
dollars ultimately fell to better 
financed challengers. 

Republican Jon Fox kept his 
House seat in suburban 
Philadelphia by a mere 10 
votes in unofficial returns after 
outspending his Democratic 
challenger two-to-one and 
beginning the final three weeks 
of the election with a $370,000 
advantage in cash on hand. 

Georgia's Saxby Chambliss, another freshman locked in a tight race. emerged with a vic­tory after outspending his Democratic opponent four-to­one. Hhode Island Democrat Patrick Kennedy had an easier re-election after outspending his challenger $1.1 million to $12,400. 
But Chicago's Michael Flanagan, a "giant killer" in 1994 when he toppled House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Hostenkowski, found himself on the short side of the money -and the vote. Flanagan was ousted by a Democrat who outspent him two-to-one. 

And North Carolina lost two Republican freshmen, including former Raleigh police chief Fred Heineman who was out­spent by more than $150,000 by eventual winner David Price, the Democrat that Heineman ousted two years earlier. 
In another ouster, Hepublican Chris Cannon out-

Confusion fouls up motor voters 
By DAVID WILKISON Associated Press Writer 
NEWAHK, N.J. 
"Motor voter" legislation got millions of people registered around the country, but bureaucratic foul-ups and voter confusion kept some of them from the polls. 

"If there isn't problems with that thing all over the country, I'd be shocked," said Morris County Clerk Alfonse Scerbo. "I think it's the dumbest thing Congress ever came up with." 
Scerbo said more than 200 people who claimed they had filed their paperwork with the New Jersey Division of Motor Vehicles were not listed on voter rolls. 
Brnnna McCamey of Morris Plains had to appeal to a judge before she could cast her ballot Tuesday. 

"It's frustrating because you hear a lot about .getting young people active in voting and then this happens," the 22­year-old woman told The Star­Ledger of Newark. "It's dis­couraging." 
When Graham and Andrew Hayward tried to vote, poll workers could not find their names anywhere. The brothers said they filled out voter regis­tration papers when they moved from Florida last year. Arter being turned away at the polls, they appealed to a judge and were allowed to vote. 
E I e c tion Big 


~-~ :!~::!~:,
contenders who spent more 
won their races. 
Votes won 
52,922,689 ($4.02 per vote) 
Losers' spending {as of October 15): 
$89,916,703 
Votes won 
32,368,88/ ($2.78 per vote) 
House spending 

Number or winners who spent more 
on campaign than losers: 
397 of428* (93%) 
Se11ate spe1Uli11g 

Number of winners who spent more 
on campaign than losers: 
27 of33* (82%) 


-QWj.i.;·'--···~ 
• lkns not include undecided roces iE,ii!f> " 
AP/ Amv Kranz 
spent Democratic incumbent William Orton about three-to­one on his way to capturing a Utah seat. 
Hepublicans were quick to cite their money advantage in many races as a key reason they maintained control of Congress despite a $35 million campaign by unions designed to aid Democrats. 
"Our members went out and raised the resources," said Hep. Bill Paxon of New York, who chaired the House GOP fund-raising committee. 
Paxon said the committee increased its aid to candidates sixfold -to $32 million -this election, and Speaker Newt Gingrich raised more than $100 million on his own for 
-c~~~·you'RE INVITED 
VETERANS' DAY JOINT MILITARY RETREAT CEREMONY 
Monday, November 11 (ND's Army, Navy, & Air Force ROTC units pay tribute to America's military veterans) 
Starts -4:30 p.m. at the South Quad Flag Pole (weather permitting) or Stepan Center (inclement weather site) 
~I 


at SAINT MARY'S 

Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 

Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
candidates. 
With a half-dozen races still 
undecided Thursday, a comput­
er analysis of election returns 
and Federal Election 
Commission records showed 
that House candidates who 
headed into the final three 
weeks with the most in com­
bined spending and cash on 
hand won 93 percent of the 
time. 
The House winners on aver­
age spent $4 for every vote 
they got-the losers $2.80. In 
all, winning candidates out­
spent the men and women 
they defeated $212.9 million to 
$89.9 million. 
With a few notable excep­
tions, big spenders fared 
almost as well in the Senate, 
winning 82 percent of the 
time. One race, in Oregon, was 
still too close to call. 
The figures were nearly 
identical to the past several 
elections, a fact that some cite 
as evidence the frequent dis­
cussion of campaign finance 
reform has generated little 
change in candidates' reliance 
on big money. . 
"If this election cycle shows 
us anything it is that without 
cash you are not going to mount a viable race and your chances of winning are some­where between slim and nil," said Ellen Miller, executive director of the Center for Responsive Politics, which stud­ies campaign finances. 
Nebraska businessman Charles Hagel, a Republican making his first bid for elective office, knocked off Democratic former Gov. Ben Nelson in a Senate race after spending $1 million more than his counter­part. 
In Senate contests in New Jersey, Massachusetts and Iowa, Democrats with slight to modest edges in spending pulled away from their GOP opponents. 


Search 

continued from page 1 
liberal arts college in 
Springfield, Ky.] just began 
their search process. We're 
ahead of track," Storbeck said. 
Therefore, Saint Mary's early 
start gives the College an 
upper hand in finding the best 
candidate to assume the helm 
of the College, according to 
Storbeck. 

However, numerous colleges, including Saint Catharine's, with similar characteristics to Saint Mary's have announced open presidential slots in The Chronicle in recent issues. 
According to listings in The Chronicle in the past two months, liberal arts colleges in the midwestern region seeking presidents include Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Franklin College of Indianapolis. Catholic colleges include Mount Aloysius in Pennsylvania and Our Lady of the Lake University in Texas. 
In addition, two Catholic women's' colleges -the College of Notre Dame of Maryland in Baltimore and Mount Mary College in Milwaukee -are also search­ing for an individual to guide their institutions into the 21st century. 
Analogous to the competition between colleges for students, the open slots advertised weekly in The Chronicle make it necessary for the College to actively convince candidates that they are the perfect match for the institution. 
"We hope that each of you realizes how important you are in this process, not only to 'sell' Saint Mary's College to the right candidate, but also to ensure that the new president, once selected by the Board of 


!RECYCLE THE OBSERVER~ 

N.A.A.C.P. Third General Meeting  
Sunday, November 10TH  
Everyone is welcome • •to JOtn ••• At LaFortune Student Center In Montgomery Theatre @ 3PM (Exec. Committee @ 2PM)  

Trustees, can lead effectively 
with the support of the entire 
community," Sister Hache] 
Callahan wrote in a memo to 
the College community dated 
Nov. 1. 

Callahan assumed the role of 
chair of the Presidential 
Search Committee following 
her five-year tenure as Board 
of Trustees chair. 

According to Storbeck, Saint Mary's has an upper hand against other colleges in the presidential search process, primarily due to their early start on the search process. 
That advance planning can be credited to College President William Hickey, who informed the Officers of the Board of Trustees in the Board's summer 1995 meeting that he intended to announce his resignation in April of 1996. 
This forewarning allowed the Board to set a time table and course of action for the search process before Hickey even made the announcement to the College community, Callahan stated in April. 
Assuming a "very proactive approach" through the search process, recruitment strategies have included placing adver­tisements in The Chronicle and sending out over 500 lettors soliciting nominations to all Catholic colleges, women's col­leges and other selected insti­tutions. 
In addition, over 250 phone calls to prospective candidates soliciting nominations have been made, according to Storbeck. Hight now, there arc 50 to 60 "confirmed candi­dates" in the running, accord­ing to Storbeck. 
Storbeck maintains that, while the committee hopes to have a successor to Hickey named by spring, no definite deadline has been set. 

Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer ·INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• PAKISTAN • NIGERIA 
Ousted prime minister threatens president 
By KATHY GANNON Associated Press Writer 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 

A day after her rule came to an abrupt and inglorious end, . a defiant Benazir Bhutto on Wednesday warned the man who fired her to prepare for a light. 
"I don't allow people to kick me out. Win or lose, I fight," she said in an interview with The Associated Press at her official residence, where she has spent the last 24 hours under army guard. 
On Tuesday, her former ally, 
President Farooq Leghari, dis­
missed her and accused her of 
a litany of wrongs -sponsor­
ing police hit squads, condon­
ing runaway corruption and 
bringing the ccoriomy to the 
brink of bankruptcy. He placed 
her in "protective custody" 
and arrested her husband on 
corruption charges. 
Authorities lifted her house ·arrest Wednesday, and permit­
ted her to visit a detention 
house where she had been told 
her husband was being held. 
But she waited through the 
night without seeing him. 
"She was told every 10 min­
utes that he would be brought 
to her. But until early this 
morning, they have not been 
allowed to meet," Ms. Bhutto's 
spokesman, Shah Mahmood 
Qureshi, said Thursday. He 
said the former prime minister 
was calm and in good spirits. 
Many Pakistanis believe the 
president may use the charges 
to bar her from politics. She also may face criminal charges. But Ms. Bhutto dis­missed the allegations as the machinations of an ambitious politician. 
"My hands are clean," said Ms. Bhutto, who accused the president of trading their 20­year friendship for power. 
Leghari has promised to hold elections on Feb. 3, nearly two years ahead of schedule. The interim prime minister and Cabinet ministers he appointed met for the first time Wednesday, vowing to curb corruption and government spending and organize free and fair elections. 
"He should have waited two years and let the people decide," Ms. Bhutto said. "Why didn't he wait? Power, power, power." 
She promised to fight her dismissal in court, and said she would win if forced to run again for office. 
Before he was elected presi­dent in early 1995, Leghari had been one of Ms. Bhutto's most trusted lieutenants. He needed her backing to be cho­sen president by the members of the national legislature and four provincial parliaments, which are elected directly by the people. 
When Ms. Bhutto's first gov­ernment was dismissed in 1990 after only 20 months in power -again amid corrup­tion charges -Leghari stood by her. Together they led street protests, and marched on the capital to demand their return to power. 

Plane missing with 141 aboard 
Associated Press nothing definite would be
Search for jet 
known until daylight. LAGOS, Nigeria ADC, one of several privateA Nigerian jet carrying 141 commercial airlines operating

hampered 
people was missing Thursday domestic flights in the west after losing contact with air African country, said Flight 086 traffic controllers en route to was carrying 13 2 passengers

by darkness 
Lagos. A search was under and nine crew members. way. It did not indicate what the

200 miles 
NIGER The Aviation Development weather was in the area where
E2J 
200 km (" Corp., owners of the missing the plane disappeared or say if Boeing 727, said the plane lost the pilot had reported prob­contact with the Murtala lems. Mohammed Airport in Lagos at While the state-run Nigeria 
5:05p.m. (11:05 a.m. EDT) Airways has a reputation for when it was about midway inefficiency and lax safety stan­through its 50-minute flight dards, owing to its management from the southern city of Port by Nigeria's corruption-riddled Harcourt. government, the country's pri­"I just hope, by the grace of vately run airlines have had 
God, that nothing bad has hap­relatively good safety records. pened to the aircraft," said one The last major crash involv­official of the airline, speaking ing a private, commercial air­on condition of anonymity. line occurred in June 1995, "Our men are all over the when a Harka Airline planeplace" searching, he said. skidded off a rain-soaked run­
Darkness hampered the way at Lagos airport and burst search, raising the possibility into flames, killing 16 people. 
• ZAIRE 


Rebels reject American peace role 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON international community to set multinational force can come Associated Press Writer up the safe corridors they and facilitate the gradual want," Kabila told reporters return of the refugees," 
BUKAVU, Zaire Wednesday from his headquar­Chretien said Wednesday. 
Rebels who seized parts of ters here. The U.N. envoy headed to eastern Zaire have rejected an Mobutu, meanwhile, gave his central Africa today on a peace American or European role in backing to the proposed peace­mission, flying first to Nairobi, any peacekeeping force and keeping mission and the cur­Kenya's capital. pledged to continue fighting rent cease-fire. Chretien, Canada's ambas­until longtime ruler Mobutu "Mobutu was very clear and sador to the United States and Sese Seko is ousted. very categorical," U.N. envoy a former ambassador to Zaire, 
Only soldiers from neighbor­Raymond Chretien said after says he accomplished what he ing African countries should an hourlong meeting with the came to France for: a commit­take part in a multinational Zairian leader in Nice, France, ment from Mobutu to try to force designed to bring relief to where the president has been maintain peace in Zaire so a more than 1 million refugees convalescing after prostate multinati'onal force can go into trapped by the fighting, said cancer treatment. the country as soon as possi­rebel leader Laurent Kabila. "He said Zaire will do every­ble. 
"We have a cease-fire, and thing possible to maintain this The United States and 
we have offered to allow the period of calm so that this European countries have been considering a request from African leaders for a U.N.­sponsored force to set up safe havens for Rwandan Hutu refugees in Zaire, provide them 
'93 • '94 • '95 • '96 
with food and medical aid, and escort them home to Rwanda.
Voted Area's Best 
A U.S. official in Washington,
Tanning Center 

speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed that the United States is weighing a
$25.00 Special* '96 for $59 
French proposal to send American troops for logistical
Unlimited Tanning until
2 California 36 Tanning 
support.

December 31, 1996 
Struggling to find effective
Bed Sessions 
for$96.00 

ways to help the refugees,
+ 

European Union officials called 
2 Dual Reflector Non-Unlimited tanning bed 
on the displaced Rwandans

Quartz Facial Bed Sessions packages may be upgraded for 
today to overcome their fears
+ $2.00 per session. 
of retribution and return

2 VHO Euro Capsule You may prepay 10 upgrades 
home.

Sessions for $15, ho~ever, the~e 
Meeting in Brussels, the 15­

upgrades exp1re at the t1me
*one offer per person please 

nation EU also said it would
your unlimited package expires. 
pressure the U.N. Security Council to approve plans for
Fun Tan Inc. Fun Tan L.L.C. 
humanitarian corridors with

University Commons 526 W. McKinley Ave. 
military protection to get food (219) 272 -7653 (219) 256 -9656 
and medicine to the needy as soon as possible. 


Did you know... ? 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just 
minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise inveshnentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 


• 
Beautiful waterfront settings .-.~RO~


f.'» ~ 
~11)~
North Shore Club 

~ ~ §~­~SHO'i-~~
Models Open Daily Sat. &Sun. 12-5 P.M. 

(219) 232-2002
Mon.-Fri.l0A.M-6P.M 

(800) 404-4275 
• Monthly payments of P. and I. based on apurchase price of$55,990 wirh 20% down and a30-year 7.375 A.R.M. 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Donee and Theatre presents 
Edward The 

Albee's[ 

Nov. 14, 15, 16 at 8p.m.; Nov. 17 at 7:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
,.. 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, November 8, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ..... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ........................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ..... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager.. . .................. Jed Peters Sports Editor ....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor... . ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet 
Saim Mary's Editor ................ Caroline Blum Controller.......... . ............................ Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrimrion. Th~ n~ws is r~poned as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, 
Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Ediror, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr rhe views of rhe amhors, and nO[ necessarily those ofThC' Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.\ @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame administration's responsfl to our National Coming Out Day celnbration once again demon­strates that coming out as lesbian, bisexual. and gay "members of the Univnrsity community" means stepping out from cramped darkness and walk­ing directly into a brick wall. If that pic­turn seems exaggerated, it is only because we have all normalized the homophobia that poisons our immediate <ttmosphere. Let's be concrete: the administration is a professional maehinn, and its moves, caleulated to appl~ar well-meaning, are those of high­ly-trained lawyers. We ask you as fellow members of this community to question the good intentions of the following offi­cial positions and actions: 
1. 
Du Lac stipulates on page 69 that a demonstration must be "registered in writing," not that it requires adminis­trative approval. Nowhere in the lan­guage of du Lac is there mention of demonstrations needing oflicial permis­sion. As such, the administration took great liberty in manipulation its own rules when the Assistant Vice President for Hesidence Life Bill Kirk refused to "approve" the registration letters sub­mitted by both Co-Chair Sean Gallavan and College Democrats for the National Coming Out Day celebration. 

2. 
The administration denied Sean Gallavan's right to free speech and assembly as "an individual member of the community" based upon his affilia­tion with GLND/SMC, a federally-recog­nized, tax-exempt, non-profit organiza­tion. Does leadership of, or membership in, an unrecognized group nullify a stu­dent's rights as a "member of the University community?" 

3. 
When the administration was "unable to approve" the College Democrats' registflred intent to co-spon­sor the celebration, it demonstrated that it actively censors events based on their content -despite Bill Kirk~s as­sertion to the contrary. Page 7 3 of du 


Lac states that only recognized student organizations "have the privilege of sponsorship of activities." Du Lac never clearly stipulates that an unrecognized student group cannot co-sponsor an event, and if it did how just would it be? 
4. 
Why did we ever attempt to comply with du Lac and the whole procedural game in the first place? Two reasons" first, we wanted to try to work within the University bureaucracy to improve our relations with the administration, if at all possible; second, before we sub­mitted our registration, Gayle Spencer, Assistant Director of Student Activities, having read an ad for a picnic (which was all it was at that point), threatened to have us "removed from the premises, forcibly if necessary" if students held an (informal) picnic at Stonehenge without their written approvaL Her calculated threat may have been a scare tactic or it may have been a warning, but we had no choice but to take her at her word.. Furthermore, we did not want to have our group divided by administrative intimidation into those willing and those not willing to be arrested for celebrat­ing their sexual orientation. 

5. 
College Democrats is not the first of our allies frbm which the administration has withheld first amendment rights. In a letter dated February 8th, 1995, the administration threatened Amnesty International and Pax Christi (a Christian peace organization) with "unrecognized status" for holding a rally in support of GLND/SMC, without first registering it with the Office of Residence Life. 

6. 
While Patty O'Hara's cover letter in du Lac specifically ."welcomes" gay and lesbian students, the very next page's non-discrimination policy contradicts this rhetoric. This policy contains no protection against discrimination based upon sexual orientation. The adminis­tration has discrimination based upon sexual orientation. The administration has made no proposal, and given no time line, for the adaptation such a non­



discrimination clause that includes sex­
ual orientation. 
7. The section of du Lac pertaining to Rights, Responsibilities and Policies (p. 12-14) curiously contains no student rights. In 1993 the administration removed the Student Bill of Rights from du Lac. The officials thus effectively gut­ted the power of all members of the University community, including the ho­mosexual and bisexual community. 
The administration believes that because the University of Notre Dame is a private institution it has the legal right to regulate free speech and assemble. Even if it does, is that ethical? We do not understand how the administration can rationally justify suppressing its les­bian, bisexual, and gay students in the name of Catholicism. As far back ass 1976, the National Conference of Catholic Bishops stated that "HomosexuaL .. should not suffer prej­udice against their basic human rights. They have a right to respect, friendship, and justice." Perhaps clergy rather than lawyers (Patty O'Hara and Bill Kirk) should interpret Catholic doctrine. 
The administration has violated not only the human rights of lesbians, 

bisexuals, and gays, but those of the College Demo~crats, Amnesty International, and Pax Christi. Administrative silencing is as pervasive as it is calculated. The censure of GLND/SMC just happens to be more bla­tant than that of others. Only through student, faculty, and staff solidarity and mobilization can we reclaim our endan­gered freedom of speech and the recog­nition of all of our human rights in this hierarchical institution. 
We deeply appreciate the support of College Democrats and all our allies, including Amnesty International, Pax Christi, Gender Studies, and the Women's Resource Center. To all those within the administration who in their own ways fight for justice -we recog­nize and thank you very much. To all those isolated and closeted members of the lesbian, bisexual, and gay family, we pray for you and in your name fight for equal rights and an inclusive non­discriminatory policy. 
SARAH CORSON 
SEAN GALLAVAN 
GLND/SMC Co-chairs 
•  DooNESBURV  
lrl/UI&, tuHY lirJ '1W HAV&llJt/!it3MARiJUANA? I 7HOUGHT THERE WASA 91NTH&­TICV~/ON,,  7HAT'3!IJH'I PROP 21515 S(:} IMPOJ<TANT! IAJITH A txK:!Ql?'5 PERM/5­5/0N, I'lJ BE. AL­I..OWW 70 GROW Ma?ICINAL MAR­IJUANA IN MY Otf/NHOM&l  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
7H& tf/1/XJtu:SIAJAU<­THE31<&'5 
lOAJ?I30P ROOMl 
\ 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"The smallest deed is greater than the grandest intention." 
-Laura B. Randolph 


VIEWPOINT

Friday, November 8, 1996 page 9 
• LETIERS To THE EDITOR 
'We the people of Notre Dame, in order to form a more perfect...' 
Dear Editor: 
In the wake of a national election, much debate has recently emerged regarding the importance of voting and the rights of indi­viduals. In order to exercise our rights, we collaborated in Core class to compose our own personal Declaration of Independence to the University of Notre Dame. While the age-old topics like parietals came up, one subject emerged that we are determined to act upon: the addition of modern artwork to the campus without student consent. 
In recent years, a plethora of new sculp­tures and outdoor art has popped up around the Notre Dame campus. A quick stroll around campus will reveal fabulous old statues of Father Sorin, Moses, Jesus, and others, side by side with a large black heap of metal in front of the Snite and a withered branch in front of DeBartolo. Touchdown Jesus, from his place on the side of Hesburgh Library, overlooks a large orange metal sculpture in front of the building on which he resides. Many of us were shocked by the sculpture in front of COBA described in class as "that thing with the hand, and the feet and the guillotine." We've all strolled from O'Shaugnessy to DeBartolo and wondered what that blue and red thing that spins is, haven't we? 
The problem with the artwork is not the art itself but that it is strikingly out of place among the ancient trees and statues of the campus. These new sculptures have been called everything from "odd" to "interest­ing" to just plain "ugly". But the problem lies not with the sculptures themselves but with their location. For art to be appreciat­ed, it has to be viewed in the proper set­ting. If Michelangelo's "David" were a stat­ue in front of a strip club, it would hardly be appreciated in the same way! The mod­ern art on the Notre Dame campus is impressive in its own right, but not in this setting. To place the three shiny silver 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
sculptures among O'Shaugnessy, DeBartolo, and Notre Dame Stadium puts them out of place and as a result deprives them of some of their artistic beauty. Art of that nature can be appreciated, but not in the arena of this campus. 
Notre Dame is a university which prides itself on tradition. Be it in the classroom, on the athletic field, or just on campus some­where, there is an aura, an electricity, that encompasses this campus which sterns from years of success. Tradition is the fun­damental feature of the character of Notre Dame, and it can be reflected in the age-old artwork that has rested upon this campus for decades, not in the modern art which has recently arrived. We need look no fur­ther than Our Lady on the Dome, the object most closely associated with this university, to realize what art should comprise on this campus. The Golden Dome represents the class and tradition of Notre Dame, two qualities which are not found in modern art. 
Our greatest problem lies in our lack of formal protest. We have not been repre­sented in the selection process of this art, and we have said nothing about it. Until now. If you feel the same way as we do, take a second to send e-mail telling us so to: gbarlin@darwin.cc.nd.edu. If enough people feel strongly about something, it is only a matter of time until their feelings are transformed ihto action. It is our right as tuition-paying students to have a say about the appearance of our campus. To mimic our Founding Fathers, let us rally around the cry of "No artistic representation with­out student consultation!" Let's replace the art that has no connection to Notre Dame with artwork that we can appreciate, art that is a reflection of ourselves. 


Euthanasia in the 21st Century and beyond 
Surllng can do you in. Now you can kill yourself on the Internet. Let me explain. Northern Australia has the world's first voluntary active euthanasia law. It allows a terminally ill patient to kill himself with or without the aid of a physician.On Sept. 22, in Darwin, Dr. Philip Nitschke hooked 66 year-old can­cer patient Bob Dent up to a machine 
Charles Rice 

Dr. Nitschke invented, which enabled Dent to give himself a lethal injection by entering computer commands. 
"Once the intravenous line is put into the patient... then it's a simple matter of the patient pressing the response to the questions on the screen," Nitschke said. 
The program, called "Final Exit," asks the patient 22 questions, the last of which is: "If you press 'Yes,' you will cause a lethal injection to be given with­in 30 seconds, and you will die. Do you wish to proceed?" 
Nitschke described his device as a "slicker" version of the suicide device used by Dr. Jack Kevorkian who has been present at the deaths of at least 43 people since 1990. The software and instruction kit for Nitschke's death machine will be available soon on an Internet home page he is developing. The machine can be built for around $160. 
Nitschke is developing another death machine which would use carbon monoxide and an oxygen mask, enabling people to kill themselves without need­ing someone to insert intravenous tubes. 
"When people get too old and frail," said Nitschke, "it can be very difficult to get access to veins and gas is a much easier way to go. 
The fact that assisted suicide will soon be legalized in the United States and elsewhere is a foregone conclusion. The Supreme Court will soon review deci­sions by two Circuit Courts holding unconstitutional laws in Washington and New York prohibiting assisted suicide. The Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, held that there is "a liberty interest in choos­ing the time and manner of one's death" that outweighs the state's interest in for­bidding assisted suicide. 
"We see no ethically or constitutional­ly cognizable difference," said Judge Stephen Reinhardt for the 8-3 majority, "between a doctor's pulling the plug on a respirator and his prescribing drugs which will permit a terminally ill patient to end his own life." The ruling by the Second Circuit, in New York, was based on the narrower ground that the New York statute denied the equal protection of the laws by permitting patients on life support systems to hasten their death by withdrawing those systems and denying the right of patients not on life support systems to cause their death by lethal drugs. The odds are heavily in favor of the Supreme Court approving some form of assisted suicide. Public approval of Dr. Kevorkian generally runs at about 70 percent or higher. Jurors in Pontiac, Michigan, who acquitted him in one of his trials, asked for his autograph, had their pictures taken with him and made arrangements to meet him for dinner. 
Dr. Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, warns that we are on a slippery slope. 
"Let nobody think that this is an argu­ment about putting to death people with terminal cancer," Dr. Caplan said. "That will last about five minutes. Then it will move to, 'I don't want to be alive with Alzheimer's disease. I'm not terminally ill, but by the time I am I will not be able to ask for help in dying."' Or, he said, there would be people saying, "My mother always said she didn't want to be kept alive if she had Alzheimer's dis­ease." 
Predictably, the "right to commit sui­cide" will be extended to an incompetent person for whom the "rational" decision will be made by others. Such decisions are now legally made with respect to the withdrawal of food and water from incompetent patients. And the extension to active euthanasia is predictable. If you were a terminal AIDS or other patient, would you not prefer, as a "ra­tional" choice, a painless exit by injec­tion rather than a prolonged and painful death resulting from the withdrawal of food and water? And if such a patient, or an infirm octogenarian, declines to choose death when such is the "ratio­nal" choice, would not that irrationality indicate his incompetence so as to allow others to make that "rational" choice for him? 
We are nearing the pit at the bottom of the slippery slope. Opponents of abor­tion have argued that the depersonaliza­tion and legalized execution of the unborn child would lead to similar treat­ment of his grandmother and his defec­tive elder brother or sister. But the roots of euthanasia are deeper than abortion. 
With the contraceptive pill in the 1960s, man assumed the role of arbiter as to whether and when life shall begin. In contraception, as John Paul II pointed out, men and women "claim a power which belongs solely to God: the power to decide, in a final analysis, the corning into existence of a human person. They assume the qualification not of being cooperators in God's creative power, but the ultimate depositories of the source of human life." (Audience, Sept. 17, 1983). 
But if man is the arbiter as to whether and when life shall begin, there is no inherent reason why he should not act as the arbiter of when it shall end, as in abortion and euthanasia. Moreover, the contraceptive ethic is premised on the idea that there is such a thing as a life not worth living and that man has the right to enforce his own judgment in that regard. If he enforces that judg­ment as to prospective life through con­traception it ought not to be surprising if he enforces it as to existing life through abortion and euthanasia. 

By 2050, one American in 20 will be age 85 or over and one in five will be over 65. The fertility rate in this country has been below the replacement level of 
2.1 children per woman continuously for two decades. In 1990, there were 10 times as many children below 18 as there were adults over 65. By 2030, there will be slightly more people over 65 than under 18. (Samuel Preston, "Children Will Pay," N.Y. Times Magazine, Sept. 29, 1996) We should not be surprised when the secular, contra­ceptive society turns to euthanasia as a remedy for the problems caused by the increasing proportion of old people which itself is a result of contraception. 
In Evangelium Vitae, the Pope described euthanasia as "one of the more alarming symptoms of the 'culture of death,' which is ... marked by an... excessive preoccupation with efficiency and which sees the growing number of elderly and disabled people as intolera­ble." (No. 64) Moreover, "Suicide is always as morally objectionable as mur­der ... To ... help in carrying it out through so-called 'assisted suicide means to cooperate in, and at times to be the ... perpetrator of, an injustice which can never be excused, even if it is requested." (No. 65) 
John Paul summed up the choice that each of us must make: "We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, death and life, the 'culture of death' and the 'culture of life.' We find ourselves not only 'faced with' but necessarily 'in the midst of' this conflict: we are all involved and we all share in it with the inescapable responsibility of choosing to be uncondi­tionally pro-life. (Evangelium Vitae, No. 28). 
Professor Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
-· 
...---------_..-------------~---~--· 



ACCENT 
Friday, November 8, 1996

page 10 


a 
earest 

By LESLIE FIELD 
Accem Copy Ediwr 
S
aint Mary's Senior Dad's weekend. 
Few events are looked upon with 
more excitement than this and few are looked back on with sweeter memo­ries. As seniors are inevitably concern­ing themselves with matters of the future, the matters of the past seem to conjure up pictures of days gone by. The tattered green photo albums from the mid-1970's tell stories of fathers with their daughters -stories of heroes with the apples of their eyes. 
Somehow, the hands of a father hold­ing his daughter at her Baptism are the hands of a life's guide. Turn the page, 
and they are the same hands which are pushing an elated three year old on her new swingset. These are the same hands which, of course, assembled I.v,• 
the swingset bolt by bolt. (Unfortunately, they buckled the two inch wide white belts and tied the Mike Brady ties. too!) ..... 
Thern was always such excitement ­when Daddy came home from .ft work. Sometimes he honked the .. horn when he pulled into the dri-• veway. And he always set his keys -._ down on the washer or dryer ~ which echoed through the house. With stuffed animal in hand, 
-z.0 
daughters would run to their dads, their dearest pal, and jump up into his arms. They were • sun) to be greeted with delight. ~ 

:ha:~~edin ~~~As many Saint Mary's fathers gather this 
morning. 
b~~me h~cr~~~~ weekend to spend time with their senior daugh­
dads became • fl t 
great encour-ters, one senlOr re ec S Upon 
agers. They 
were always Remember, its what's on the inside that available for long division help and had 
matters." Dads simply know how to creative ideas for science 
bring comfort and a sense of what projects. They talked to w!~ is important to their daughters. you about the And what could be
0 

imp?rtance of dl 
things I i k e • hard ~ 
A special toss in the air, a rhyme, 
the sound of a special nickname ­this was all part of a daughter's world with the father who added so much joy 
to her life. Hides in the station wagon to 
Baskin Hobbins, Goldie Locks before bed, ping-pong after dinner, Monopoly on Saturday night, and trips to the sur­prise store were a part of an almost magical life with this real life super hero. 
Father's Day was always filled with great anticipation. It was a day when special construction paper was used to make the biggest. brightest card possi­ble to say, in the boldest of letters, "I Love You, Daddy." And, for some rca­son, it always received the most appre­ciative and sincere response a gift could receive. (Not that the new putter wasn't a hit.) 
Getting rides to school from Dad before work in the morning was a treat. He would always give your friends a ride, too. Some mornings, without your mom's consent, he might have even swung by McDonald's for Egg McMuffins. And daughters were proud of their dads in their suits and ties smelling of their trademark aftershave-the same one he put on you as you 
~ 
w r k' '~~'I 
0 14 2
per s e-
lb verance and .. dedication. But they also understood the need to be a kid. They still do. Your soccer games and piano recitals were their final four and Bach. Your paper mache mask was their Mona Lisa. You were their young artist, athlete and scholar because you were their little girl. Your dreams were theirs and your tears were theirs. They still are. 
Some of those tears were from falling off pogo balls and ten speeds while some were from more serious matters, like seventh grade pictures. It was hard to be glamorous with braces, perms and Esprit sweatshirts, but who could blame a girl for trying? When the pictures came back looking different from what was expected, dads were always the first to tell their daughters things like, "Well, I think these are the best pictures I've ever seen," or, for the more realistic fathers, "You look fine, honey. 
more important than obtaining the coveted·A drivers permit? 
~-~ Dads drive ~ith 
"'-. their _. daughters ~ around ~ church 
,.._... 
•
e park­
• ing lots



:::La:: 
desert­e d
q,· 
streets 
"' 

th d I' d
e goo 0 ays. 

dads hope to repeat. But, nevertheless, 
they are troopers, each one deserving of 
a large plaque -or at least a cold beer. 
As junior and senior year approached, 
thoughts turned towards SAT's and col­
leges. Dads have very solid, practical 
advice to give on these matters. But 
they want their daughters to pursue 
their own dreams. They have always 
wanted to offer them the world, perhaps 
not on a silver platter, but on one made 
of care and love and based on the ideas 
of just thinking and ethical decision­
making. 
And as these big decisions near and 
letters of various response start filling 
mail boxes, dads continue to encourage . 
They are willing to sacrifice for their 
daughter's benefit. They are happy to 
give so that their daughter can receive. 
And when they drove, for the first 
time, down the tree-lined avenue, they 
knew that their efforts were not in vain. 
They assembled lofts with bravery, car­
ried futons with ease, and ato tho dining 
hall food as if it were Tavorn on the 
Green's finest. 
Through the~c f<l"Ur years at Saint 
Mary's and Notri!Dame, daughters have 
remained their dad's little girl while 
becoming one <tf ~heir host friends. 
Through tew !Hfd ~-pers:-ph~ics•and 
rhetoric, they have remained their 
daughters most profound supporters. 
And as these women enter the world,
--..,__ . they can be proud oi the person they have supported for all these years. That person is, after all, a shining reflilction of her dear dad. 
Senior Dad's Weekend 1996 
Tentative Schedule of Events 
Friday. November 8. 1996: Casino Night, Angela Athletic Facility 9 p.m. -Midnight 
Saturday. November 9. 1996: Party with your Plaid Dad 
3:30 p.m. EST Notre Dame vs. Boston College, Haggar College Center 
Sunday. November 10. 1996: Liturgy, Church of Loretto 9:45a.m. 
formed November 1 through 3, and 8 through 10 in Member admission for Zisla's Recent Paintings is
• STUFF TO DO 
the Umble Center. Play performances will start at 8 free, but a $3 donation is suggested for nonmembers. 
p.m. on Friday and Saturday and 3 p.m. on Sunday. MUSIC FESTIVAL SHOWCASES INDIANA BANDS FREE INTERNET ClASSES Admission is $5 for general audiences and $3 for The Broad Ripple Music Festival will take place on 
Free Internet courses will be offered at the Main students and those over 65. Tickets are on sale at the Friday, January 31 in support of Indiana's original Library, 304 Main Street, South Bend, on Tuesday, Student Development Divison at 535-7543, or the music scene. Money raised will go to the building of November 12. and Monday, December 9. Umble Center Box Office at 535-7395. kiosks in the Broad Ripple area. 
The classes will be held at 3 p.m. and again at 7 Bands interested in participating can drop off a tape 
p.m. both days. Telnet, Gopher and the World Wide SOUTH BEND MUSEUM EXHIBITS CHICAGO ART or compact disc along with band bios at The Vogue Web will be emphasized. There is no preregistration South Bend Regional Museum's Warner Gallery pre­Theater, and at Nuvo Newsweekly. Promo-packs can required and the classes are free and open to the pub­sents Chicago artists Laurie Palmer's Shaping Time also be sent to 5868 E. 71st. Street, #164, lie. and Thomas Skomski's Sculpture until November 24. Indianapolis, Indiana, 46220. 
Members of the Regional Museum are admitted free, A $3 processing fee must also be included in the ORIGINAL POETRY READINGS while a $3 donation is suggested for nonmembers. form of a check or money-order made out to B.R.V.A. 
Assistant professor of English and published poet Museum hours are 11 a.m. until 5 p.m. Tuesday Submissions must be received and/or postmarked no Todd Davis will read his original compositions on through Friday and 12 p.m.to 5 p.m. Saturday and later than December 1. Goshen College campus on November 12. Sunday. 
The poetry readings will begin at 7 p.m. in JAPANESE CULTURE IN SCULPTURE Newcomer Center, Room 19. Admission is free and ZISlA EXHIBITION OPENS IN SOUTH BEND Toshiko Takaezu, professor emeritus of Princeton the event is open to the public. Well-known area artist Harold Zisla's one-artist University and renowned ceramist, will present 
show will be on display in the Art Gallery of the South "Ceramic Sculpture" until December 4 at the Goshen GOSHEN THEATRICAL DEPT. -PYGMALION Bend Regional Museum through November 17 featur­College Art Gallery. The Gallery is located on the Georgo Bernard Shaw classic Pygmalion will be per-ing works that date from 1995 to the present. lower level of the Wilma and Harold Good Library. 
------~~---------------------~----------------.----------..~----..------~----~--------~~------~........ 


ACCENT

Friday, November 8, 1996 page 11 





unn Winter 
By MEGHAN 0' BRIEN 
Accent Writer 

South Bend temperatures plum­
et, Notre Dame and Saint 
ary's students rush to their clos­ets to get out their winter jackets. But beginning November1, members of the Notre Dame community started taking out their old jackets for a different reason. 
Instead of bulking up in their win­ter attire, they donated their old jackets and coats to the Center for Social Concerns for Project Warmth, a pilot program that redistributes the jackets to those in need. 
"The project gives coats to people in need and educates people about the problem of homelessness," says Jim Paladino, an Associate Director from the Center for Social Concerns, who has helped coordinate the project. Donors receive information concerning homelessness which Paladino hopes will "challenge people to look at the underlying prob­lems." 
The President of GEAR sports. whose son is current­ly a Notre Dame student, creat­ed the pro­ject and present­ed the idea to t h e 
esc. 
who 

The South Bend community runs a local coat drive sponsored by the First Horse Bank, Viker Cleaners and Channel 22 every year. In previous years, they have collected almost 
13,000 coats. "We're going to try to make this a yearly

GIVE AWAY YOUR event," says sopho­more Suzy Tompkins, whoCOAT...AND also help run the program. She adds that
SHARE THE 
if Project Warmth is a


WARMTH. 
success, it 

for sports, the student gov­ernment, the Alumni 
Association, St. Michael's Laundry and the University of Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore have all joined efforts in sponsoring the 
event. 
"This project is unique because it crosses over several boundaries," says Paladino, who adds, "There is a sense of com­munity and sharing involved which is the true Notre Dame spir­
it." 
Donors are awarded a coupon that saves 25% on purchases of Gear sportswear at the Hammes Bookstore. GEAR for sports is also sponsoring an inter-hall com­petition which awards the resi­
dence hall with the greatest percent­age of participation with a cash reward of $1000. The second run­ner-up receives $500. 
Paladino says that some residence halls have already filled containers with coats. Project Warmth collects jackets in each dorm of Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's, and various locations on campus includ­ing LaFortune Information desk, the Student Government office(2nd floor LaFortune), the Bookstore, Alumni Association office and St. Michael's Laundry. All collection sites will
) 
record student name, 10 number,1 gift certificate number and residence hall. Because of this system, residents 
of a dorm do not necessarily need to turn in their coats at their own dorm. On football weekends, even the Stadium and the Joyce Center will have drop-off locations! 
"This is a chance for the Notre Dame community to get involved," says Paladino who explains that this is the first time a project of this kind has been attempted at Notre Dame. He hopes "to raise aware­ness about poverty and 
homelessness in the area." 
may spin off into its own organiza­tion in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Paladino says the pro­ject may even expand into other 
runs many other commu­nity service projects out of its headquar­ters in Kansas 
c i t y ' 
donated 
300 new jackets to the cause. 
Project Warmth will dis­tribute the jackets, which are cleaned by St. Michael's Laundry service free of charge, to areas in South Bend, an Indian Reservation, St. Agnus and Precopio inner-city parishes in Chicago, and Appalachia at the conclusion of the drive. 
The drive ends December 3, giving people time to bring back jackets and coats over break. 
In 1993 there were 39.3 million people living in poverty below the official government level {15.1% of the population), which was the largest number of indi­viduals suffering poverty since 1962, according to fact sheets given out at Project Warmth table tents. 
Project Warmth, which is helping Notre Dame give back to the community, urges everyone to "give away your coat and share the warmth." 


:·.·. -.· in America 
.·,,·~-~bl/f,~· 

Jn 19~3, the bottom 20% of 
households received only 
3.6% of US income, while the . top 20% amassed 48.2%, the 
widest gap since 1947.
*_;:

In 1992, 21% of all children were poor, with 46% of African-American children and 39% of Hispanic children living . in poverty. The child poverty rate in the US is fourtimes the 
.·: ..,.. ·· .. ·. ·.•;/iffi!;· ··:_,_: 
average of WesterwEuropean countries. 
:~~~:~/: . . . ~iff, 
*'"·· 

The fastestgrowing seg­m$nt of the homeless popula­tion is that of families and chil­dreti. 
* 
The percentage of all full-time workers earn­ing poverty wages 
increased from 15.2 to 16.3 between 1980 and 1990. 
.. 
------------1 
Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
.... 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALl • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
LSU to host Alabama 
By MARY FOSTER Associated Press Writer  Anthony McFarland. "They pound away at you and then pound away some  
more. It's easy to see what they do. It's  
BATON HOUGE, La.  hard to stop it."  
This time there will be no complicated alignments, no high-flying passing game, no fast-strike quarterback and­receivers. LSU and Alabama know  No. 11 LSU (6-1, 4-1) has averaged almost 237 yards a game rushing, 189 yards passing and ranks first in the con­ference in rushing yards a game.  
exactly what to expect Saturday: a con­stant pounding. It's been 27 years since LSU beat Alabama in Tiger Stadium. The future of the streak rides on the productivity of each team's running game. "Your defensive play starts with stop­ping the run when you play Alabama," LSU coach Gerry DiNardo said. "That's true every week but especially against  LSU counts on Kevin Faulk, No. 2 in the SEC in rushing with an average of 121 yards a game, and Rondell Mealey, No. 2 in the conference in scoring, to provide most of their rushing attack. "They're a very good football team, those running backs make a big differ­ence," Alabama coach Gene Stallings said. "They're two exciting running backs, and that team has been moving  
Alabama. I think the matchup that will somewhat dictate the results of the  the ball and scoring points." Alabama has the No. 3 rusher in the  
...:-_.  game is how well both teams rush the football."  SEC, Dennis Riddle, as the big guy in their ground game. Riddle has averaged  
LSU's only loss was to Florida with Danny Wuerffel and a blowout offense.  89.9 yards a game since taking over the starting spot in the fourth game of the  
Alabama lost  to  Tennessee where  season.  
Peyton Manning throws the football. Neither LSU's Herb Tyler nor Alabama's  "Dennis has proven himself," Tide offensive coordinator Woody McCorvey  
Freddie Kitchens offers that kind of  said.  
threat:  Faulk, Mealey and Riddle have scored  
No.  10  Alabama  (7-1,  4-1  10 touchdowns apiece, nine of them on  
Southeastern Conference) averages 350 yards per game, 167 of them rushing yards. They have run 382 times in their first eight games, passed it 199 times. "We know they're going to come at us hard," said LSU defensive tackle  the ground. "Everyone would like to come out of this game looking good," Mealey said. "For the running backs that means run­ning hard and finding holes. If we can do that, and they can't, we'll be OK."  


Torre receives honor, brother leaves hospital 
By TOM WITHERS it." 
Associated Press Writer Torre's World Series story became even more dramatic when his older NEW YORK brother, Frank, underwent a heart 
The way his luck is running, Joe Torre transplant the day before the Yankees should get on the next plane bound for captured the title by defeating the Las Vegas. That or make sure he's in Atlanta Braves in Game 6. Saturday's $40 million New York State On Thursday. just hours before Joe lottery. Torre learned he had been selected 
The guy can't lose. along with Oates, Frank Torre walked 
Torre's storybook first season as man­out of the hospital, his new heart work­ager of the New York Yankees was ing line. capped Thursday when he was voted "I feel like a new man," Frank Torre co-winner as AL Manager of the Year said before leaving Columbia­along with Johnny Oates of the Texas Presbyterian Medical Center. Rangers. Later, the Torre brothers went to 
"It's really magical," Torre said. "It's Yankee Stadium where they had a pho­unbelievable." tograph taken on the field along with 
Torre has been repeating those same one of the doctors who performed words a lot lately in the celebratory Frank's heart transplant. aftermath of the Yankees' first World "Another special day," Joe Torre said. Series title since 1978, and his first as "Another day we can remllmber for either a player or manager after more more than one reason." than 4,000 big-league games. Torre's award is the second of the 
The 56-year-old Torre is discovering postseason to go to the Yankees this that the best things life are indeed week following shortstop Derek Jeter's worth waiting for. unanimous choice as AL Rookie of the 
''I'd turn in my MVP, my batting title, Year. The club should get No. 3 next anything you would want me to give you Tuesday when Andy Pettitte figures to from personal goals just to enjoy this," win the AL Cy Young Award. Torre said. "I think he deserves it," Pettittn said 
" ... There's a bizarre plan out there of his manager. "lie did an unbelievable somewhere and I'm glad to be a part of job." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NEED APT/HOUSE NEAR  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
NOTICES  CAMPUS OVER XMAS Parents visiting for 2 weeks  ND·SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK·  NEED BC TIX! As many as possible  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties. Taxes! Great  
email jmuller@ nd.edu  ENDS.  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  232-0058  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
VFW 624  if you can help.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  or (617) 828-1069  24 HAS.  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­ 
Friday night dinners -4:30·6  243-0656.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
Dancing -9-1 . All members &  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  
guests welcome. 214 U.S. 33 N.  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  REGGAE D. J.  !@#$%"&'())("&"%$#@!  TICKET-MART, INC.  TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST,  
Next to Knight's Inn.  (6 13)360·2243.  234 0705  I NEED PITT TICKETS!!!  PART I EST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  
Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  LAFAYETTE ..... ROCK ON  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  GA...  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  OR NEXT FALL NEAR CAM­ CALL 4-4217 ...  232-0061.  oh, and he's such a tax stud  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  Sell 6 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ !@#$0/o"&'())("&"%$#@!  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  6306  n. d. tickets for sale  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!!  271 1635  CLASS OF 1998  
Sun (600)763-5606.  www.springbreaktravel.corn  ATTENTION: 5 Bedroom, 1 1/4  Please call X3886.  Miss your friends that are study­ 
1-600-676-6366  bath, 2000 sq. fl., 2 car garge, 2  Buy/sell NO Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ ing abroad? Send them a note in  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  story house for rent close to cam­ ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  Check our price 67 4-7645.  the Class Council Care Packages.  
Breakfast Inn has space available  pus. $1000.00 per month. 5 people  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  Drop them off at the Class office  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  Participants needed for studies in  ($200.00 per person). Rent  NEED 3 PITT STUDENT GA's  (213 LaFortune). Include name and  
private baths. $70 -$90,  memory, language, & perception.  Negotiable. CALL 255·3251.  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's  Call John @ 243-1935  address on the envelope and we'll  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473  Call Rob X3014  make sure they get there!  
Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-600-41 6·9467  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS -Teach  FOR SALE  PLEASE- Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers No std • pref. side In  
basic conversational English in  NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  Peter 1-800-746-3755  Do you know  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  69 JeepWrangler-2 sets tires &  SISTER NANCY MILLER  LARA WAL TEAS  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  teaching certificate or European  doors,4"1ifl kit, hard & bikini tops.  257-0996.  1 pair BC-Notre Dame football tix  ADAM WEILER  
Meals, Free Parties. Taxes! Great  languages required. Inexpensive  100K $5000/best -289-6849.  Nov 9 Best offer 617-730-9747  KEVIN CARRIGAN  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  Room & Board + other benefits. For  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ GRETA ZANDSTRA?  
Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­ info. call: (206)971-3660  COUCH 77"L X 35"W ASKING  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ TICKETS WANTED. NO Alum  Come see them in  
breaktravel.com 1-600·676-6366  ext.K55643  $125.00 288-6529  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  needs 4 ND-BC. Not a scalper. Call  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  
MEGHAN @232-7639  Anton, 617·327-6146 days, 617­ WOOLF? Nov 8 and 9-?PM Lab  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ INDOOR TOWNHOUSE SALE  327·6146 eves.  Theatre Wash. Hall  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Positions are now available at  EVERYTHING MUST GO!  PARENTS HATE YOU?  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  Tools, X-mas decor, like-new purs·  Sell me their Rutgers TIX  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  es and shoes, brass, wicker, furni­ Make FAT cash  Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer,  WOOLF?  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  ture, houseware. Cool items at  Call Jerry at 4-1796  name and number  an evening of sex, alcohol, and Fun  
Guarantee! springbreak1ravel.com  N55649  LOW prices. FRI & SAT  and Games  
1-600-676·6366  7am-6pm 1627 Turtle Creek Ct. Off  Need 5-6 USC tickets. Please help.  NEED STUD or GA PITT TIX  Nov 8&9 ?PM Lab Theatre Wash.  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT •  Edison Rd. at Vaness.  Call X4006. Ask for Cyrus.  PLEASE CALL X 0902  Hall  
Spring Break Panama City!  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location. Price! 7 Nights  Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per month. Room and Board!  TICKETS  Desperate for Rutgers tix!! $$Will Pay$$  I have a conv. GA for PITT. Please buy it! Katie 243-9172  Hey Gorgeous, Thanks for being there.  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $1391  Transportation! Male or Female. No  Please call Amanda at  Love,  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­ experience necessary. Call  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  (301)314-8671  2 PITT GAs 4sale -Call 243-9357  me  
breaktravel.com 1-600-676-6366  (206)971-3510 extA55B46  ALL GAMES HOME  or send email to  
ILOST & FOUND I  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  AND AWAY 232-0056 24 HAS.  adew@ wam.umd.edu. I Need PITT Student or GA's. Call  1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill @ 412­661-0459 or 1-800-545-0482 ext.  dearest Brad, We invite you to remove the large pole from your body cavity at your  
Mazatlan. Sell15 trips and travel  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Greg at 273·1 007  753  earliest convenience .....  
MISSING: EUREKA TENT. FOLD·  free plus cash. Lowest Price  THANKS!!flf!  
ED IN GREEN BAG. VERY  Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ TICKET-MART, INC.  PIT&RTGRS  Nora and some of the culprits  
•  LOVED.REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN. AMY@634-3525.  ages available. Call Sunbreaks. 600-446-6355.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  2 PITT GA'S FOR SALE x 0781  2 MARRIED STU BOOKS BEST OFFER  SARAH BRADY,  
THANK YOU.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  $$ I need Pitt GA's $$  232-2586  Life on the fourth floor would not  
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY  FOR RENT  232-0061.  Call Wendy@ x1360  GA.s FOR SALE GA.s  be the same without you. Who else would get high off the fumes  
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND,  WALK TO CAMPUS  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394  Need tix for Pitt  """'"'"'""''PITT, RUTGERs, USC . GA.s CALL ....272-7233.  of Sage? Love,  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT X3677.  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS  Call Hank @ xt.1648 4 USC TICKETS FOR SALE -CALL  PERSONAL  Mike Flowers Pops P.S-Are you gonna be the one who saves me?  
7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  618-274-2990 M-F 6am-6pm  HODGE & LEAVE A MESSAGE  
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  291-3672  FAX IT FAST!!!  Who will awaken to excess H20  
LOST: brown leather London Fog  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  Sending & Receiving  this weekend? Someone's room­ 
jacket @ library on Nov. 6  ceil, porch, furniture avail.  219·232-2378 a.m.  Rutgers student ticket needed.  at  mate has it coming, so BEWARE.  
Call x2653 HUGE REWARD!!!!!!!!!  BEAUTIFUL!  288-2726 p.m.  Please call x3755.  THE COPY SHOP  
273-2560  LaFortune Student Center  watch your holes  
TIX for every home game.  4 SALE: 2 Pitt GA's  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
WANTED  Four Bedroom Home Close to ND  Call (301) 445-3955  Call w/ best offer: 277-9957  FAX IT FAST!!!  to those who did not let the glitter of their hair shine by the light of the  
ATTN: Native Japanese speaker. Tuitor needed. $6+hr.  Safe with use of all utilities and kitchen privileges. $275 per month  HELP! Student needs Rutgers GA's for family.  $$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.  !!!PHISH HEADS!!! Need an extra for Auburn Hills? I have one!!! Call Shrooms at  halogen lamp, your time is coming. (and you call yourself a gymnast?)  
Call 243-9376 lv mssg.  Call Paul @ 232·2794  Call Mark at x1487  272-6551  284·4329.  we wrote this cause you're gone  

Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
-



GIVEAWAY YOUR 
COAT.....AND SHARE THE WARMTH. 

Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. When you turn in your coat or jacket at a designated collection point, including the Hammes Bookstore and the Center for Social Concerns, Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame will donate it to someone who can really use it this winter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25°/o off a new GEAR for Sports jacket at the Hammes Bookstore. Share the warmth and the spirit of Notre Dame! 
PR.JECT WARMTH 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Sponsored by: 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's 
Hammes Bookstore 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry 

-page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 8, 1996 


Rockets hold on to undefeated record 
Hawkins sparks Supersonics 
By MEL REISNER to 101-96 with a 3-pointer with first nine in the second and Associated Press Writer 26 seconds to go, and their first four in the third. Schrempf, who was fouled on The second Phoenix cold spnll PHOENIX the in-bounds pass. missed both was disastrous-nine consecu­
Hersey Hawkins scored 24 free throws. But Hawkins was tive missed shots while the points and made two critical solid when he got his turn sec­Sonics went on a 17-0 run that free throws with 9.9 seconds onds later. started with Payton's :~-pointer left Thursday night, lifting Seattle started the third quar­to make it 30-23 Seattle at the Seattle to a 103-98 win over ter with a 52-37 lead, and the end of the first quarter. Phoenix. the SuperSonics' fifth Suns never got closer than 15 Manning scored Phoenix's straight victory over the Suns. points throughout the period. first points of the period with 
Gary Payton, who added 25 But Chapman banked in a 6:50 left in the half. points and seven assists, sliced shot and made a 3-pointor, through the Phoenix defense for then grabbed a defensive re­an important layup with 1:27 to bound for a long assist to play, helping the Sonics hang Manning during a 9-3 Phoenix on. run in the first 2:38 of the final 
Hawkins added 12 rebounds, period as the Suns pulled with­and Detlef Schrempf had 17 in 84-74. points and 13 rebounds for the Sonics. When Sam Cassell made two 
Shawn Kemp scored 16 for free throws with 6:35 to play, Seattle, but fouled out with 1:43 the Sonics' lead was in single to play. digits-87-78 -for the first 
Danny Manning had 23 points time since early in the second and 11 rebounds for the win-quarter. · less Suns, who are off to an 0-4 But Kemp made a three-point start for the first time in 11 play, and Schrempf a free years. Wesley Person had 17 throw in the next 39 seconds as points and Rex Chapman Seattle opened a 91-78 advan­scored 10 of his 12 points in the tage. fourth quarter. The Suns missed their first six 
Chapman cut the Seattle lead -shots in the first quarter, their 
Call or stop by today and v.e"ll shaw you haw great living at Hockal)" Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORl.] 

VlLLA~Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
NUnY•NUnY•NUnY•NUnY•NUnY•NUnY•NUnY•NUnY• 
• 

c
t 

z 
::::» 

z ~ 
• 

c
t z• 
::::» 

z ~ 
•• 
t c z 
::::» 

~ 
z 

•
• 

c
t z 
::::» 

~ 
z 

• 
t • z 
::::» 

z ~ 
•
M G c 
• z 
i bet you can find him at CUSHING this thursday @ !0:30pm c
t 

friday or saturday @8/10:30pm c'mon who wants to join me?
::::» z i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty 
=• 

-
-
Associated Press 
DENVEH 
Hakeem Olajuwon seored 12 of his season-high 36 points in overtime as the Houston Hockets remained unbeaten, defeating the Denver Nuggets 11 0-108 Thursday night. 
Olajuwon, who h~ft the game briefly in the third quarter with a bruised right elbow after colliding with Denver's Antonio McDyess, made all four of his field-goal attempts and all four free throws in ovl:'rtime. 
Houston improved to 5-0 despite playing over.time with­out Charles Barkloy. who fouled out with 44 seconds left in regulation. Barkley fin­ished with 16 points and 15 rebounds. 
Dale Ellis made six 3-point­ers and seored a season-high 33 points for the Nuggets, who have lost their first three home games for the second straight year. 
Ellis added 14 rebounds and Mark Jackson matched a season-high with 16 assists. 
Matt Maloney's 3-polnter gave Houston a 97-94 at th~J start of overtime before Olajuwon took over, scoring the Rockets' next 12 points. 
After Saninas Marciulionis brought the Nuggets within 109-108 with a 3-pointer, Mario Elie sank a free throw with 15 seconds left to put Houston up 110-108. 
Denver had a chance to tie, but Bryant Stith's desperation shot bounced off the front of the rim. 




Magic top Nets 
Associated Press meet the Magic again Saturday in the conclusion of a two-game TOKYO series in the Tokyo Dome, usu­
"No Shaq. No Problem," said ally a baseball stadium. Nearly the sign waved by one 40,000 spectators watched Japanese fan. Thursday night's game. 
At least as long as the oppo­Anfernee Hardaway, who led nent is hitting only 37 percent the Magic with 23 points, was­of its shots, and turning the ball n't buying the no problem the­over. ory. 
Despite their cold shooting, "We didn't play a good the New Jersey Nets stayed game," he said. "It wasn't the even with the Shaq-less way we wanted to get it, but we Orlando Magic until early in the still got it." third quarter. Rony Seikaly, the center ob­
Then an 11-0 run featuring tained from the Golden State turnovers, fast breaks and six Warriors to try and help fill the points by David Vaughn put the hole left by Shaquille O'Neal's Magic ahead to stay. They went free-agent departure to the Los on to win I08-95, evening their Angeles Lakers, scored 10 of record at 1-1. his 13 points in the fourth 
Nnw Jersey is. 0-2 and will quarter. 

:M··l¥J···C¥J···®··
<C910\<!3o<\9it,e) : 
• IRISH IMPORT SHOP • 
l$13 Edison Plaza • 
I 643 Edison Road • Next to Jamison Inn • • 243-1400 • 
• I 0 % off any purchase ~ • with this ad • 
~-·t¥3···e$(1···~··
The 39th Annual 
EBONY FASHION FAIR 
.l/J,~~)~/1/,.; 
THE GREAT FASHION MIX 
..Ytr'/1--J~/'~d~ 
>-, -n-~~·~, ><~·--··_.,...,.............,c. ._..._•......_~.,.._"·"··'" ..-•-----··~ -~~•"A"<'~>-...,...,.~, 
Women in M.O.T.I.O.N. 1 
· Tuesday, Nov. 12, 1996 8:00p.m. '1 South Bend Century Center ij General Admission $20.00 
For Tickets: Call 234..3267, or Night of the Show Ticket Office Open -~ 6:00p.m ... 8:15p.m. ... Benefit of: 
W.l.M. Scholarship Fund 
WIN A ROUND~TRIP AIR TRANSPORTATION FOR TWO TO ANY DOMESTIC U.S. DESTINATION SERVED BY AMERICAN AIRLINES AND/OR AMERICAN EAGLE 
(Includes 1 year subscription to EBONY/EM or 6,month subscription to JET) 

Friday, November 8, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BOXING 
ByTIM DAHLBERG Asrociated Press Writer 
"' LAS\fEtAS 
He's been prodded and probed by doctors at the Mayo Clinic, and kept un:d~rthe wary eye of Nevada>lloxlng regulators while training. By all accounts, Evander Holyfield is as healthy. as he can be for his fight with Mike Tyson. 
The tests, though, don't an­swer the question that most dogs the 34-year-old former heavyweight champion these days: Is Holyfield a shot fight· er? 
That figures to be answered in the ring Saturday night, when Holyfield will go in as an 11-1 underdog in a fight for Tyson's WBA heavyweight title that was originally sup­posed to take place fivij years ago. 
If the answer is yes, it could spell disaster for Holyfield in what might be his last chal­lenge for the heavyweight title. If it is no, Holyfield might have the best chance of any fighter to beat Tyson since James "Buster" Douglas pulled off his mammoth upset. 
Holyfield is so confident he knows what the answer will be that he guarantees the out­come of Saturday's fight> 
"I guarantee that there will be a new champion," Holyfield said. "As far as I am concerned, it has already been made. I just have to be patient and wait unti\; tp~ fight to cash in." ·. 
Holyfield will earn some $11 million for the opportunity to fight Tyson, who pulled out of their scheduled November 1991 bout with a shoulder in­jury and went to prison on a rape conviction before the fight could be rescheduled. 
The money, though, might 
be secondary to the need 
Holyfield still feels to prove, 
himself by joining Muhammad 
• 
himself WBA.an Bowe;
He rATlrA.n. 
· inito tvto,on~r 
nosed a • .,.,, u .... 
h~art pro.· tha,t it ously as it fust "'"'"""'"' 
Holyfield's c 
S\lffered a,sp9ul before the Moorer was sick before the Bowe fight fed Nevadaboxing regulators to.keep a Cl(.)$~ eye on him in tr~ining ca1llp {his 
time around; · · · · · 
Urban Outfitters 
• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Big Sweaters


* • Hip Huggers • Unique Cocktail Dresses • Silver Rings -Hemp Jewelry 
~------~.-------~
We Buy Used Levi's  10%0 with student ID  HOURS: M-F: 10 ­7 Sat: 10-6  Now Open Sundays 12-4p.m.  

Just 2-5 mi North of IN state line
THE 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza
smE 

687-9123


CO., INC. 
·-&lBO'~ 

• SMC VOLLEYBALL 



Belles take aim at milestone 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Belles want to get their 20th win. Going into their last game on Saturday against Goshen, the Saint Mary's College volleyball team (19-13) is focused. 
Although the team has been without competition this week, the Belles have been working hard in practice to get ready for their final match of the season. 
"We are really keyed for this game," said head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "There has been good intensity all week." 
The team spent Monday reviewing the matches from last weekend's Quadrangular and evaluating individual strengths and weaknesses they saw from that play. 
"That was really helpful," said junior outside attacker Meg Kelly. 
The rest of the week was spent playing scrimmages and conditioning. On Saturday, the Belles expect to be challenged by Goshen's middle hitter. 
"We have been working on our offense this week with the middle hitter in mind," said Schroeder-Biek. "We are focus­ing on this opponent, not just that it's the last game." 
The competition that the Belles have faced this season has prepared them for their final game against a tough Goshen team. They have played the top three teams in the region: Ohio Northern, Bluffton, and Calvin and came within points of beating each of them. 
"All of them could have gone either way," commented Schroeder-Biek. 
'The key on Saturday will be to put it all together for the last game," said junior defense spe­cialist Kelly Meyer. "We need to stay focused and give it everything we have." 
The two teams square off at 
1:00 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility located on the Saint Mary's campus. 

Aztecs snap Cowboys' streak 
By BERNIE WILSON Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO 
Billy Blanton's 11-yard quar­terback draw with 38 seconds left gave San Diego State a wild 28-24 win over No. 16 Wyoming Thursday night, end­ing the nation's longest winning streak at 12 games. 
Blanton moved the Aztecs 72 yards in seven plays and 61 seconds and got the last 34 yards himself. He ran for 23 yards on third-and-5 from the Wyoming 35, with the bulk of the run coming thanks to a big block by receiver Leandrew Childs. 
Blanton's TD run was the seventh lead change overall and the third in the final 10:42 in the game featuring two of the nation's top offenses. 
Wyoming still had a final shot at remaining undefeated, but the game ended when line­backer Craigus Thompson broke up Josh Wallwork's pass to David Saraf in the end zone on first-and-10 from the Aztecs 26. 
San Diego State, the first vic­tim in Wyoming's winning streak last Nov. 11, improved to 6-2 overall and, at 4-1, kept alive its Western Athletic Conference Pacific Division title 
Husn 
hopes. Wyoming (9-1) remains atop the Pacific Division at 6-1. 
This is the first season of the expanded WAC, and the Pacific and Mountain Division winners meet in Las Vegas on Dec. 7 for the conference title. The win· ner will be eligible for one of two at-large spots in the al­liance bowl scenario. 
Wyoming's 34-31 victory at San Diego State last year ended the Aztecs' WAC title hopes and spoiled their first top 25 rank­ing in three seasons. 
The Cowboys had beaten the Aztecs four straight years and five times in six meetings. 
Blanton had given the Aztecs a 21-16 lead when he found Nate Jacquet in a crowd at the back of the end zone for a 24­yard TD with 10:43 left. The conversion pass failed. 
The Aztecs then got the ball back when defensive end Kabeer Gbajabiamila forced a fumble by Len Sexton, which linebacker Tim Sulick recov­ered at the San Diego State 15 with 7:43 left. San Diego State punted, and Wyoming came right back, with Marques Brigham going 2 yards over the top of the pile for a 24-21 lead with 1:39 left. 
Brigham accounted for 48 yards in the 74-yard drive, in­cluding an 18-yard pass from 
~[1//MJ&.ff..-j:JIJ;it~------····Ell·II•·II··11'll!ilooillll··•·'·IJco.. 
TREK·CANNONDALE·ROLLERBLADE 







STOREWIDE SALE 
Mon-Fri 10:00 -7:00 Saturday 10:00 -5:00 

Hus_n
r.t.rtllf*l.'f..-t:JIJ;it~JJ.-tmm•mll·lm··II·111·'111·11·IE·II··El·'iE·"II·Ill 
Wallwork on second-and-5 from the San Diego State 31. Wallwork, ranked second in the nation in total offense, was 4­for-4 on the drive for 34 yards. Saraf caught the conversion pass. 
Wallwork was 27 -of-39 for 319 yards and two TDs, Blanton 33-of-44 for 366 yards and two touchdowns, with two interceptions. Childs had 11 catches for 152 yards and one TD, and Will Blackwell had eight for 101 yards. 
San Diego State outgained Wyoming 520 yards to 419. 
Wyoming's Marcus Harris, the nation's leader in receiving yards per game and second in receptions, had 10 catches for 91 ards. San Diego State's George Jones rushed 27 times for 105 yards. 
Wyoming led 10-9 at halftime after Wallwork's 22-yard TD pass to Sexton with 59 seconds left in the second quarter. 
Blanton threw a 23-yard scoring pass to Childs midway through the third quarter for a 15-10 lead, but Wallwork found Saraf for 3 yards and a 16-15 lead with 3:54 left in the third. 
Despite starting consecutive drives from the 50, the Wyoming 42 and the San Diego State 47, the Aztecs had to set­tle for field goals each time. 
New 1997 \blvo964 
Or 
3.9% 
Fmancing UpTo60 Months With SO Down 
Ask for KeotA~ 
259-1981•674-6112 ext334 
Minutes FtanUP Mall, CcmerOf Jeffen;on And CedRr, Misbawaka 
"Plus first, security, tax, title, license excluded. See dealer for details. Prior offers excluded. 


Friday, November 8, 1996
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS
-
• HOCKEY 

leers seek revenge in visit to Boston College 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team travels to Boston College to take on the Eagles in a non­Central Collegiate Hockey Association game. Notre Dame (3-2-1, 2-2-1 CCliA) is coming off an important, come-from­behind win against Bowling Green. 
Who will start between the pipes for the Irish is debatable. Two weeks ago. the answer to that question would have been easy. It would have been the same answer that's been given for the last two years: junior Matt Eisler. Since the tremen­dous weekend of Oct. 25-26, in whieh he tended 120 minutes of shutout hockey and dominated the game against Ohio State University, Eisler has struggled. Against top-ranked Michigan, he was burned for 5 first-peri­od goals. Though most of those goals were due to lapses in the Irish defense and not to faults of Eisler. his confidence was shaken nonetheless. 
The next night, against Bowling Green. he was pulled in favor of the relatively inex­perieneed sophomore Forrest Karr after letting up three goals on the Faleons' first shots. 
"Changing goalies is similar to taking out your best piteher in baseball," reflected head eoach Dave Poulin. "You don't want to do it too quickly and yet Eisler didn't seem to be on tonight. Often times it also fires up the team and helps to slow 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Drop-In Volleyball HecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball tonight and Tues., Nov. 12, Dec. 3. and Dec. 10, from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyet~ Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. Late Night Olympic Steering Committee -If interested in serving on the Late Night Olympic Steering Committee, please call Kara at 1-8237. 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
FRIDAY, NOV 8 AND SATURDAY, NOV 9 
7:30 and 9:45 o.m. http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
momentum. It worked for us tonight, but it is a gamble and a decision you have to be confi­dent in making." 
The line of sophomore Aniket Dhadphale, junior Lyle Andrusiak. and freshman Joe Dusbabek has performed ex­ceptionally lately. 
"That line has been on a tear the last couple of weeks." agreed Poulin. 
Part of the reason for their success may have been Andrusiak's move to center be­fore the Ohio State game. Prior to this, he had netted only one goal in his last 39 games for the Irish, but since then he has racked up three assists and one goal in the last four games. 
"Since I've moved to center, I've been much more comfort­able," said Andrusiak. "Aniket and Joe have been great line­mates. I just try to keep my feet moving and driving to the net. The three of us are always out there talking and communi­cating -it's gotten to the point already where we almost know wher~. the other guys are going to be. 
Coming into the season. Notre Dame's freshman class was touted as one of the best in the country. Before any action oc­curred, Poulin remarked, "We've definitely upgraded our talent. Every one brings a lot to the team." 
And the freshman have deliv­
ered in stellar fashion. 
Dusbabek sCored Notre Dame's 
first goal of the season, which 
initiated the come-from-behind 
Off-Campus Volleyball -If interested in playing off-cam­pus interhall volleyball please call Greg at 273-9553. Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come, first serve basis, 
. and will be sold at Moonlight Madness on Saturday. Basketball Clinic -The Notre Dame women's basketbafl team will be holding a free basketball clinic on Sat., Nov. 9 at 10:30 a.m. in the Joyce Center. 
gram. The man exudes confi­dence and charisma, and his ability to attract players and personnel to the program is phenomenal. The talented freshman class demonstrates this. as does the addition of goalie coach Darren Pang to the Notre Dame coaehing staff. 
With Poulin behind the bench and talented players in front of him, the years of frustration and failure in Notre Dame hockey could be history. 
win against Western Ontario. Freshman center Troy Bagne assisted Tony Lorenz's goal against Western Michigan, working the puck to Tim Harberts who sent a pass to a streaking Lorenz. Another freshman, Ben Simon, shares the best plus-minus ratio among the Irish forwards at +2. Freshman defender Tyson Fraser owns the best plus-mi­nus ratio at +3. Nathan Borega has contributed mightily in the defensive end with his physical play. 

With a talented freshman and sophomore class, Notre Dame seems headed towards a bright future. But the most encourag­ing evidence for success in the future lies, appropriately, in Poulin. He brings a wealth of knowledge and a personal track record of success in hock­ey, captaining Notre Dame as a senior and playing for twelve years in the NHL. to the pro­

The Observer/Jed Donahue 
Craig Hagkull and the Irish have a tough test ahead of them tonight when they travel to Boston College. 
Headed for BC? Looking for a pre-game party or a place to watch the Irish? Join us at 
THE ORIGINAL SPORTS SALOON 
THE OFFI~IAL NOTRE DAME GATHERING SPOT! 
Located at the corner of Exeter and Huntington across from official NO head-­quarters, the Copley Marriott. 
Don't miss the pep rally at the Marriott Friday at 6 
p.m. or the tailgater at 
~~-Lions Hall on campus Saturday at 1 p.m. (admission fees required) 



Go Irish! 




Friday, November 8, 1996 
Men 
continued from page 20 
game and stay focused. 
"We have a good friendship," explained Velho. " It is always helpful to have other team members fighting for the same position. That situation bene­fits everyone." 
Before making the decision to attend Notre Dame, the Longwood, Fla. native was re­cruited by a number of other schools including the University of Connecticut, Florida International, American University, and James Madison. When asked if he still thinks he made the correct choice, Velho quickly responded, "Yes, I think I made the right decision. I came to Notre Dame because I wanted a good academic school with a good soccer program. I'm looking forward to the next couple of years." 
Greg was named to the Big 
East Academic All-Star Team 
and plans on declaring a 
Finance major in the College of 
Business Administration. 
Right now, however, the goal­
keeper has more immediate 
things to look forward to. 
Namely, the Big East Championships. The Irish, by 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Garrity, Miller lift Irish in exhibition thriller 
Observer Staff Report 
In exhibition play last night at the Joyce Center, the Notre Dame basketball team over­came a sluggish start to defeat Northwest 80-78 in double overtime. 
Leading the way for the Irish was forward Pat Garrity with a game high 19 points despite a 6-for-17 shooting night. Also contributing for Notre Dame were forward Keith Friel and guard Pete Miller with 13 and 11 points respectively. 
After falling behind 30-24 after one period of play, the 
OF AMERICA 
Daily· Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for 
this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288~3995 
M,F 7:30,7 
• 
Sat 8,6 Sun 10,5 
"All major credit cards accepted" 
CHARGE BY PHONE 
Irish rallied back with solid play at the defensive end. Although they were outre­bounded 50-40, Notre Dame limited Northwest to just 40 percent shooting from the field. 
At the offensive end, Miller and Garrity took charge in the final minutes of the second half to force an overtime period. Miller's three pointer with 1:55 remaining in regulation nar­rowed the gap to 64-63. Junior swingman Derek Manner then forced the overtime period by hitting one of two free throws with 31 seconds left. 
virtue of their No. 3 seed in the tournament, will host their first round match. Ironically, they will face the Georgetown Hoyas, the only team that they were able to beat in the last five games of the regular sea­son. The Irish scored a come­from-behind, overtime victory on October 23 in Washington 
D.C.. 
When asked if he thought the team might have gained some needed confidence with that win, Velho answered, "Yes, I think so. We came back from down 1-0 (two weeks ago), but it's going to be a tough game. They are strong up front at the forward position." 
This season's defensive play has been the key element in the team's third place Big East fin­ish. Velho said that his per­sonal improvement came from the strength of the backfield and the fact that the team got out of the blocks quickly. He was referring to Notre Dame's 6-1-1 start, as well as their 5-0­2 record in their first seven Big East contests of 1996. 
"(It was important) getting off to a good start," said Velho. "The great defense in front of me (allowed me) to focus more on the game." 
The sophomore should prob­ably be taking a little more 
"0 
0 
0 
3: .
c 
~ 
The Observer • SPORTS 
credit though. One of the keys to solid defensive soccer is a goalie who is vocal and under­stands the game. Velho fits both of these requirements and his leadership and field vision are what allow the Irish de­fense to anticipate most of their opponents' moves. 
The early season success was highlighted by strong perfor­mances against nationally ranked conference rivals. 
"St. John's-was a big game," noted the young goalie, refer­ring to Notre Dame's 2-2 tie against the then No. 6 ranked Red Storm. " The UConn game (was also important). We played well and it put us on a good note for the rest of the season" 
The Irish also tied Huskies who were ranked No. 21 at the time of the game. 
In just his second year at Notre Dame and first season as a full-time starter, Velho has proven that he can handle the pressure of collegiate soccer in one of the most competitive conferences in Division I. On Sunday he will lead the Irish into battle as they begin their drive to win that conference. 


WoiDen 
continued from page 20 
Obviously the Irish possess that human quality. Just listen to midfielder Holly Manthei. 
"We definitely showed them we could create scoring chances, but we didn't play our best game," she said. 
Villanova best be prepared for Manthei's idea of an encore. Against the Wildcats, the junior registered six assists, giving her 37 on the season, setting a new women's collegiate soccer sin­gle-season mark in that cat­egory. 
After struggling for a few games, Manthei's resurgence can be attributed to an adjust­ment made by head coach Chris Petrucelli. Its success was apparent as Manthei blew by numerous Villanova defenders last weekend. 
"She's (Manthei) just in a groove right now," Petrucelli said. "We've adjusted to give her more room to work with on her side." 

I"C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ will not only give the Irish a 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents boost, but the opportunity for 
Petrucelli and company to pop 

~b enb MUSIOVE ~~~i~~~~o that includes a happy
_ 
""" 
GREGORIAN CHANT FOR MARY & CHRISTMAS DAY c.; ~~ .-~-~~-·-------------,=~~~=---· _:::.:__ llllffi1111~
I" . "'_:_:::h:-. -..-..,,.._ _ _.. ...,._I.!' rw-~f·" 1ft .. --I
·'\· ·-+.. ___ -·----..-~"-----·---·'r •••· lf811t11.:(0/)K,jpJUUII ct 111ttbtt OlliiG tAtO fRitiM t'C lr I IIOftn. lwlflf.offif. 
1 
I ·• . ~:~~~~;~=-=·+;~~~-=-!.; -i}·,:~~~~-".....,. ·­
..~~ .tDUllllll& -~~1!!"~~t 611116 l_lli!l~ _£!!'~ IJOOIC !!t'llll tr.Jf 
E-~-{""~-·~--..··-·-· ..-.!-~~-·.-lkvttrt~unuoti\.Jlu 
::.:_,, • .~--.--"""---------·--11-.._--------•....... rrom rata11s-<&~ous 

~cbola ;flmusicorum 
9:30p.m. Wednesday, November 13 Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 
page 17 

Big East Soccer 
On the line is a berth in the NCAA Tournament. 
"(Our chances oO getting into the NCAA's without winning the Big East are pretty slim," ex­plained Velho. "We need to win the Big East to get into the tournament." 
Well, the Domers have their work cut out for them. They will have to win three big con­
"It was team effort to get me in the clear and help get me back on track," Manthei added. 
Villanova will need to also make adjustments in order to get back on track. During their previous meeting, the Wildcats opened aggressively, even uti­lizing an off-sides trap to con­tain the Irish offensive jugger­naut. 
Neither of the strategies worked. Notre Dame's superior speed allowed them to break the trap and get behind the Villanova defenders. Co-cap­tain Cindy Daws tallied a hat trick to lead the fiesta of goals. 
Because of the Irish offensive firepower displayed last week­end, Petrucelli expects the Wildcats to make an attempt to slow down the game. 
"They may come in more de­fensive," he said. 
Chamberlain realizes that's exactly what his team needs to do. 
"We have to play much better defense, both individually and as a team," he added. 
As for Notre Dame's defense, the Irish will be without the 
Our little "punkin" turns 21 tomorrow. 



Happy Birthda Phil 
Love, Mom, 
Dad & Steve 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of.Print 
Search SeiVice: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
1HE BIG




EAST 
THE OBSERVERJBrian Blank 
ference contests in a row if they want to be called Big East Champions. There is one thing that is almost guaranteed though. Notre Dame will prob­ably not have to score too often to achieve that goal. Greg Velho and the young Irish de­fense will come to play no mat­ter what the opponent has to offer. 
services of junior Kate Sobrero who is recovering from a knee injury she suffered in practice and aggravated again during a game. If the Irish advance to Sunday's 1 p.m. championship game to meet the winner of Connecticut-Rutgers, Petrucelli expects Sobrero to play. 
To fill the spot, forward Amy VanLaecke will move into the back where she saw time last season. Freshman Jenny Heft will then start at VanLaecke's vacated forward position. 
Forward is the direction in which Notre Dame hopes to keep moving. Despite the ear­lier rout, the Irish will have to avoid underestimating the Wildcats. Petrucelli does not see that as a problem. 
"We're a pretty determined group," Petrucelli noted. "I don't think the results of past games affect our preparation. The pressure's on them to change their game plan." 
If everything happens as it should, the Irish will battle Connecticut in a rematch for the Big East Championship. Notre Dame prevailed 2-1 ear­lier this year as the Irish de­fense shut down a potent UConn offense. 
"Both teams score a lot of goals," Petrucelli said. "It'll be up to who can shut who down." 
Last year, the Irish defeated Connecticut in the title game and used it as a springboard to win their first national champi­onship. While things are dif­ferent this time around, the game can still be used for a similar purpose . 
"I think the tournament's im­portant going into the NCAA's," Petrucelli said. "We want to gain momentum and confi­dence. It'll be another boost for us in terms of doing well in the tournament," Manthei said. 
Capturing the tournament 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 8, 1996 
__.... 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame hopes to overcome critical injuries 
By JOE CAVA TO 
Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame volleyball 
team, time is running out. 
They have fallen from a pre­
season No. 6 ranking to the 
twenty-fifth slot in the polls. 
Their regular season schedule 
indudes just two more ranked 
opponents which represent only 
two more chances to reestab­
lish thmnselves. 
One of those opportunities comes this weekend as eigh­teenth ranked George Mason will visit the Joyce Center this Saturday. The home team has a full slate for this weekend as Big East foes Hutgers and Seton llall frame the Patriots. These matches also mark Notre Dame's last regular season home matches but they will likely host an early round match of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The Irish will usc the Scarlet Knights and Pirates as stepping stones to the regular season confenmce title as the two op­ponents have combined for a dismal 1-13 in conference play. These matches also give the team chances to improve, ac­cording to Brown. 
"It is an opportunity for us to really focus on what we are doing on our side of the net and to eliminate our unforced er­rors so we can get into rhythm and play well. I do think we want to play a lot of people this weekend so some of the fresh­man or some of the people who haven't had extensive playing time get to get in there." 
While the Friday and Sunday matches should not be nail­biters, the Saturday match could be a battle to the bitter end. Pat Kendrick has her squad at the impressive mark of 20-2. but their schedule is not quite as impressive. Those two losses came to the Washington Huskies and Long Beach State. Seventeen of their wins have been sweeps led by their outstanding team hitting percentage of .325. Combine that with the recent injury to 6­
5 blocker Jen Rouse and the 
day-to-day status of hitter 
Angie Harris, and the Irish will 
have their hands full with the 
Patriot missile attack. 
House will be out of action for 
an indefinite period of time, 
handing the team yet more ad­
versity. 
"If you lose a teammate for a short time or maybe for the season, it is something the team will have to adjust to," Brown observed. "It is a pretty tight team and they (her teammates) feel really bad for her. She is still going to be as much a part of the team as she can." 
"We have had so many changes this year I don't think it will affect us that much," sophomore and Rouse re­placement Lindsay Treadwell predicted. 
On the other side of the net, George Mason imports six for­eign players. Among those ath­letes are three players average over three kills per game; Harris is the sole Domer who can say the same. The guests also have four hitters who have a hitting percentage better than .300 compared to just Carey May for the home team. Thus, Brown needs to have her ham­pered squad on top of their game for this all-important con­test, although she is more con­cerned about her team. 
"We played at a level higher this past weekend and the im­portant thing is that we keep getting better. Then we will be in position to have a good (NCAA) tournament, and that is what is most important. We've had a lot of adversity and as long as we keep getting better, that is what we have to focus on. 
"I think that since we did play better last weekend it will be important to see if we can play ranked teams," Treadwell added. "Beating up on Big East teams isn't that impressive." 
To counter the Patriot attack the Irish will look to freshman Mary Leffers, who earned Big East Rookie of the week honors last week. The 6-4 Leffers is 
Bar O'Fun 
-
~ Saturday, November gth ~ 9:00 a.m. · 2:00 p.m. 
~Senior Alumni Club 
• GAMES • PRIZES 
'', ;''\ 
Sponsored by Saint Mary's Senior Board 
All Welcome!! 

averaging 1.51 blocks per game and has led the squad in blocks in over half of the team's matches. With Rouse out of ac­tion, sophomore Lindsay Treadwell and junior Molly McCarthy will try to fill her shoes on the front line. 
"Lindsay is more of an offen­sive threat and Jen is more of a defensive threat with her block­ing," Brown explained. "Lindsay and (setter) Carey (May) have been doing extra work so they are connecting pretty well right now." 
To compensate for the loss of height the home team will try to exploit Mason's weaknesses. 
"They are not a great passing team so we feel that we can take them out of their offense with tough serving (Notre Dame was ranked as high as fifth in service aces)," Brown assessed. "If we cause them to go outside a lot, Lindsay will do a great job of blocking. When they pass 
LEEPERS (R) in DTS 12:40,3:50, 7:00, 8:10, 10:10 ICHAEL COLLINS (R) 2:30,5:45,7:15,9:00,10:15 
RGER THAN LIFE (PG)* 1:00,3:15, 5:30,7:45, 10:00 
OMEO AND JULIET (PG·13)'1:20, 4:00,7:05,9:45 ET IT OFF (R)' t15. 2:15. 4:1o. 4:50. m. 7:55.10:05, 1o:25 
Times valid through next Thursday *No passes 

well they have all the options available which makes it hard on the middle blocker so if we can serve tough that will help her a lot." 
"I have played there some this year so it won't be a shock," Treadwell mentioned. "I think I will have to talk a lot more because they aren't used to me, so communication will probably be the main thing." 
This Sunday, Notre Dame will honor its seniors as the match against Seton Hall will mark the last regular season home match for the class of '97. Hitter and two time captain Jenny Birkner has made her mark in the history books, amassing over 1,000 kills and 
TUESDAY: 

Karaoke-Over 4000 songs 
WEDNESDAY: 
DJ starts at 10PM. 
Win prizes all night!!! 
THURSDAY: The Hottest spot in town!!! FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
DJ Dance Party 
digs, becoming only the fourth Irish player to do so. Classmate and middle blocker Jcn House has been a key figure in NO's blocking scheme this season with her height. Hitters Kristina Ervin and Jen Briggs have provided excellent depth and filled in well for an Irish team that has been tested often with the high number of injuries. Ervin's backcourt play is one of the best on the squad and Briggs can put it away with the best of them. 
"We will have a program to recognize and honor the se­niors for their contributions and everything that they have given to the program," Brown announced. 
between 
and Douglas on 
US3J-33 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good times for all! 

A~~ays open 'til 3AM 
open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 


NEED A HREAK<f! 
Sunday n2,rnll•c played at Alumni Field 

MIKE PETERS 

.------------------~­
Friday, November 8, 1996 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
NlCP>..L PROWE.55. 

~-=,+=,:-t-:,:~ ~~rEjll.[[~t!~ 25 Assyrian's foe 26 National competitor 27Sawbucks 
HOW ABOUT "LOOI<-INC, FOR WOI"\AN WHO LIKES 1'\00NLIT WALKS SO I'Ll 1-11\VE MORE Til"\£ 
~LONE WrTH t"\'( COI"\PUTE.R"? 
53 60's TV host Robert 57 Raised strip 
sa National personae non gratae 
60 Unrelenting 61 Nights of old 62 Garr and 
Hatcher 63 Port authority headquarters? 
DOWN 
1 Univ. subjects 2 Quite the 
bookworm 3 Penny, maybe 4 Exile site 5 Connect with 6 Suffix in many 
sports names 7 Famous deadpan comic 
8 Con 
9 They've joined the family 10 Not on the level 11 Naturally belong 12 Hard fall 13 Links transportation 141sn't free and clear 21 Climb 23 Blather 
29 Buccaneer's base 
31 Undesirable blackjack hands 
33 Flag 
34 Sport played to three points 
35 Drippy 37 Breakfast fruit 39 Persisted 42 PC key 43 Marine 44 African amulet 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 ED LEADER 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTI II>AY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: New financial freedom allows you to launch the proJect or your dreams. Although your workload increases. you are delighted. A partnership that begins next molllh will mean higher profits throughout I<J97. Be kind but firm With Jo, ell ones who try to make deciSions for vou. Your intu­Ition is the hcs1 euide to success. A return to the land could be the stan of an exciti n~ new Iifc. The "best" rumi.tntic partner is the one who 
appreciates your talents. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DA \": acu·css Katharine Hep­burn. songwriter Bonnie Raitt. ~ingcr Patli Pt1gc, astronomer Sir Edmund Hallcv. 
ARIES (~farch 21-April 19): A lucrative project gets the green light from those 1n alllhonty. A raise or promotion is possible. A night out may he .JUSt what you and your 
loved unc nl"ed now. Focu~ on each 
other. 
TAURUS !April 20-May 20): Good financial luck sterns from a chance encounter. Reassess your goal~ if thmgs are not going the way vou like. Do not untlcre~limate the 
ctleu your mate's attitude has on you. Learn to think positive' 
GEMINI !May 21-June 20): Adopt a more professional approach to your work. Strengthening group ties will aid your career. Experi­enced friends can be especially help­ful; follow their advice. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CAl\'CER (.June 21-July 22): Sharing resources will help solve a 
problem at work. Keep all business dealines straidHforward. Your 
A.NO "f'\U~T LtKE TO 
DP>..NCE:' THAT'S 50 I romant~c partne; may be overJoyed by recent success.
WON'T GEi A FLABB'<, 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Say ··yes'" to people who want to help your career. r\ \'Old those \VhO waste 
UI'\COOI\DlNAIE.D 
P>..PPLrCANT.
I DON'T CALL THEt"\ "APPLICto.N\5" ON 
THE FtR~T DI\TE.. ...,.,,...,-,-....__._..:;x:~~ 


45 Become more 52 1890's Vice serious President-­47Worn-out 
P. Morton 54 Give a face lift
48 Kind of secretary 55 Creepy look 50 Some Spanish 56 Being, to Brutus paintings 
59 Of the same 51 Once, once mind 

Resume looking slightly empty? Join
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

The Observer Production staff!!! 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the 

Call Tara 1~5303
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
ain't nuthin' fat-free about s.u.b. 

your time. Daily progress is more important than pic-in-the-sky promises. Remain positive if your love life hits a snag. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be prepared to revise a project. Heed experts' advice. A hobby or favonte pastime may be consuming too much of your time. Let family har­mony prevail. Your hopes for the future are well-founded. 
LIBRA (Sept. 2:1-0ct. 22): The emphasis today is on doing one thing at a tnne really well. A young person's presence is a blessing in disguise. Welcome this individual"s enthusiasm and fresh ideas. 
SCORPIO COct 2.1-Nov. 21 J: 

'You will accomplish more by work­ing solo. Changing circumstances will support your desire to do so. Activities go1n!! on behind the scenes work to your aJvantage. 
SAGITTARIUS CNov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A request is likely to be grant­ed. Your self-confidence impresses others. Expect to have more control in your professional and personal relationships. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19 ): Remaining open to new ideas will help you establish a sound foundation for future tinancial secu­rity. Your word i~ your bond. Read the fine print before signing legal documents. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Cooperating with others will help you meet a deadline. Stay on course by ignoring distractions. Your actions speak louder than words. Send overdue letters. 
PISCES (Feb. llJ-March 20): Take a low-keyed approach to busi­ness negotiations. Others will drop their guard if you let them set the pace. Teamwork will increase prof­its. Forget past gnevances and coop­erate. 

keep smiling. 

• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "Schindler's 
List" symbols 1070's vogue 15 Section of the 
globe 16 What a marriage may produce? 17 Ready to run at 
Pimlico 18 Author Hite 19 It's full of traps 20 Betting aids 22 Commercial 
symbol 24 Athletic wear 25 Sock necessity 28 Fats Domino's 
real first name 30 History, basically 
32 One of the Brontes 33 Break beverage 36 Popular 70's talk show 37 Initials at sea 38 Passes up 40 She has one 
41 Breakfast restaurant, for short 
43 Two-sided 44 Pineapple, to a G.l. 46 First appearance, as of dawn 47Turn-­(upset) 49lt's right on your map 51 "Here Is Your War" author 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
tonite & saturday 
8 & 10:30 @ cushing, of course 



SPORTS Weekend 
page 20 Friday, November 8, 1996 
• WOMEN'S SoccER 
Big East rivals prepare for journey to South Bend 
No. 1 seed Notre Dame .hosts league tournament this weekend 

By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
In preparation for this week­end's Big East Tournament at Alumni Field, Villanova wom­en's soccer coach Shelley Chamberlain decided to watch a video. 
Instead of viewing an uplift­ing flick, Chamberlain had no choice but to scrutinize a hor­ror movie. 
There were no monsters nor 
witches. Only a plethora of 
problems. 
Before Chamberlain's eyes was the scary tape of the Wildcat's most recent visit to Alumni Field. Just last Sunday, No. 1 Notre Dame trounced Villanova 10-1 to clinch the Big East regular season crown. 
Now, less than a week later, Villanova returns to the site of that humiliating defeat as the No. 4 seeded Wildcats will at­tempt to provide the top-seeded "Irish with a challenge this time around. the game will take place at 11 a.m. on Saturday. 
After reviewing on tape what he saw first-hand, Chamberlain realizes that will be no easy task. 
"We shouldn't give them so much respect," Chamberlain said. "You can see on the tape how much room we gave them to work. We just have to relax and play our game." 
Helaxing may not be so much of a problem as creating a win­ning mentality. Coming off such a crushing loss, where the Wildcats were never in the game, does not make another trip to South Bend enticing. 
"It was demoralizing," Chamberlain said of last week's loss. "We're wounded." 
Wounded, but still ready to fight. 
"We're working at it and talk­ing positive," Chamberlain added. "They're human too." 


~ 
at Boston College, Today, 7 p.m. 
X 
Notre Dame Meet, 

The Observer/Mike Ruma As a freshman, Irish forward Jenny Heft has made her mark-at the offensive end for the defending national champions. 
Women's Big East Soccer Championships 
(1) Notre Dame _ 
Saturday, Nov. 9 11 :00 AM I 


(4)Villanqya · _ 
Sunday, Nov. 1 0 1:00PM


(2) Connecticut 
(~r~~r ~~~9 1:00:J 
H •
9 

THE OBSERVER/Bnan Blank 
November 9, Joyce Center 
Irish basketball win exhibition 
vs. Rutgers, 

see page 17
@ November 8, ?p.m. 


• 
• Tyson, Holyfield prepare for Saturday see page 15 


Friday, November 8, 1996 Irish Extra • STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
FI GH T I NG 

SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  2  3  4  OT  Tot  RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Notre Dame  52  60  48  57  0  217  Denson  92.0  121  644  5.3  6  47  Smith  31  43.5  0  65  
Opponents TEAM STATS First Downs  22  45 24 NO 160  33  3 Opp 109  127  Edwards Farmer Kinder  44.7 35.9 35.9  76 31 40  313 251 178  4.1 8.1 4.4  7 2 1  14 38 28  KICKOFF RETURNS Farmer Rossum  No 6 5  Avg 14.3 40.2  TD 0 1  Lg 24 99  
Total yards  2971  2046  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yds  TD  tnt  Lg  Denson  4  19.5  0  35  
Total yards per game  424.4  292.3  Powlus  94  165 57.0  1288  7  3  48  Mosley  2  19.5  0  21  
Total offensive plays Avg. yards per play Rushing yards Rushing yards per game Rushing plays Avg. yards per rush Passing yards Passing yards per game  510 5.8 1618 231.1 338 4.8 1353 193.3  445 4.6 985 140.7 281 3.5 1061 151.6  Jackson RECEIVING Chryplewicz Johnson Mosley Edwards SCORING  4  6 66.7 65 Rec Yds Avg 20 229 11.4 19 331 17.4 15 192 12.8 15 173 11.5 TD 2XP 1XP  1 TO 3 1 0 2 FG  0 Lg 31 48 34 39 Sal  28 Pis  INTERCEPTIONS Cobbins Edison Tatum Rossum Cooper Minor  No 1 1 1 1 1 1  
Passes completed  98  79  Edwards  9  1-2  0-0  0-0  0  56  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Passes attempted  172  164  Denson  7  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  42  Tatum  37  26  63  1  0  1  1  
Passes intercepted  3  6  Sanson  0  0-0  22-25  6-8  0  40  Cobbins  38  19  57  0  0  2  2  
Fumbles/Fumbles lost  21/12  8/6  Farmer  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Maiden  24  22  46  0  0  0  0  
Third down conversions Percentage Fourth down conversions Percentage  45/94 48 3!7 43  32/97 33 3/3 100  FIELD GOALS Sanson Cengia  Tot 6-8 0-1  Dansby Wynn Berry Rossum  17 26 22 21  26 16 20 20  43 42 42 41  0 0 0 0  1 0 1 0  1 0 3 2  2 4.5 5.5 0  
Guilbeaux  26  13  39  0  0  0  1  






EAGLEs

···••······•N"'·' 

SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  2  3  4  OT  Tot  RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
BC  36  50  62  48  0  196  Walker  91.3  190  822  4.3  7  22  Makecki  35  43.4  1  63  
Opponents  66  55  62  70  0  253  Cloud  33.6  62  302  4.9  1  26  Olson  1  34.0  0  34  
TEAM STATS First Downs  BC 212  Opp 167  Lee Watson  37.3 9.3  34 4  149 65  4.4 16.3  0 0  16 28  KICKOFF RETURNS Washington  No 7  Avg 21.1  TD 0  Lg 35  
Total yards  3282  3354  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yds  TD  tnt  Lg  Watson  '10  20.7  0  31  
Total yards per game  364.6  372.6  Hasselbeck  151  283  54  1846  9  8  46  Crittendon  13  18.0  0  32  
Total offensive plays  698  616  Mutryn  17  39  44  180  1  2  22  Hemmert  2  13.0  0  23  
Avg. yards per play Rushing yards Rushing yards per game Rushing plays Avg. yards per rush Passing yards Passing yards per game  4.7 1235 137.2 372 3.3 2047 227.4  5.44 1434 159.3 400 3.6 1920 213.3  RECEIVING Harding DiCosmo Walker Watson SCORING  Rec 32 29 23 20 TO  Yds Avg 349 10.9 481 16.6 161 7.0 350 17.5 2XP 1XP  TO 3 0 0 1 FG  Lg 39 43 15 46 Sal Pis  INTERCEPTIONS Maye Porter Cirino Blount Tolelree  No 2 2 2 1 1  
Passes completed  169  120  Matich  0  0-0  18-18  14-20  0  60  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FA  PBU  Sac  
Passes attempted  326  216  Walker  7  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  42  Maye  53  38  91  0  0  3  1  
Passes intercepted  11  8  Harding  3  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  18  Porter  65  23  88  0  1  2  0  
Fumbles/Fumbles lost  15/3  19!7  Pollack  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Coline!  41  20  61  1  1  0  6  
Third down conversions  44/134  53/132  Cloud  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Storz  28  29  57  0  1  0  1  
Percentage  33  40  Hasselbeck  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Gianacakos  22  27  49  1  0  0  0  
Fourth down conversions Percentage  7/22 32  8/15 53  FIELD GOALS Matich  Tot 14-20  Tolefree Reckley Blount  32 24 26  8 11 7  40 35 33  3 2 0  0 0 2  1 1 1  1 1 2  

Tailback Omari Walker is averaging 91 yards per game and has 7 touchdowns. 
-.-----··~-... .~ -.. ' 1'\ ~ 
It's time;tfi dib.~\j?;;;I "The Most Popular . ' Number on
4


with your 
Campus"

Papa.,.. II 
··.fi01 

... Dine-In anl;l 
Delivery now at both Location~!.w, 
''Papa John's and ND Football-the tradition continues ... '' 
Papa PrediCtS... ~oted "Be•t Delivered Pizzo" The 1995-1996 Observer ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana NOTRE DAME: 4~, 
[ilyoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1994 Best of Michiana 
Boston colle e: 13 ~oted "BeJtDel/veredPizza"1995 BestofMichiana ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana 
r-ra-r-:-, rGamed-, 
I Pa <1:· . . k I I ~, ., . I
Yolwl Is now 
•Delivery rivers • Order Takers 
I . · / ..~· I I , ..-Sttx 1 

Hours: 
*New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m. -3 a.m. 
Sund~y: 
12 p.m.-1 a.m. 
I (.. .~95 I I ~~. QOO
•Pizza Makers 
L~·----.J L-·~---.J 
Notre Dame: 271­
formerly Cactus Jack's 
1 177 

271-Saint Mary's: 
North Village Mall

PAPA 

Friday, November 8, 1996 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5  at Vanderbilt W14-7  
Sept. 14  PURDUE W35-0  
Sept. 21  at Texas W27-24  
Sept 28  OHIO STATE L16-29  
Oct. 12  WASHINGTON W54-20  
Oct. 19  AIR FORCE L17-20  
Nov. 2  Navy (Dublin} W54-27  
Nov. 9  at Boston College  
Nov. 16  PITISBURGH  
Nov. 23  RUTGERS  
Nov. 30  at USC  


11th season at Notre Dame
Lou Holtz 
Career record: 213-94-7 At Notre Dame: 97-29-2 Against Boston College: 3-2 

No. Name Pus. HI. WI. YR 
1 Deke Cooper WR 6-4 205 FR 2 Kinnon Tatum ILB 6-0 224 SR 3 Ron Powlus DB 6-2 212 SR 4 Kory Minor OLB 6-2 235 so 5 Emmett Mosley FL 5-8 184 SR 6 Lyron Cobbins ILB 6-0 246 SR 7 Jarious Jackson DB 6-1 218 so 8 Eric Chappell DB 6-5 220 FR 9 Raki Nelson WR 6-1 178 FR 10 Mike Perona DB 6-2 197 SR 11 Jay Johnson WR 6-2 170 FR 12 Mario Strayhorn FS 6-1 210 so 12 Scolt Cengia K 5-10 180 JR 13 Bert Berry OLB 6-3 245 SR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 168 JR 14 Tony McGunigal DB 6-3 190 SR 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 178 JR 15 Paul Rogers DB 6-2 220 SR 16 Todd Dvorak K 5-10 175 so 16 John Shingler DB 6-1 231 so 17 Hunter Smrth P/WR 6-2 210 so 17 Mark McKenna DB 5-8 194 SR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-11 185 FR 19 Wayne Gunn ss 6-2 210 so 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 196 so 20 Byron Joyner FS 6-2 180 so 21 Shannon Stephens CB 5-10 179 ,so21 Kevin McDonnell K 5-11 180 so 22 Jay Vickers RB 6-1 205 FR 
23 Autry Denson WR!fB 5-10 189 so 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 189 JR 25 Randy Kinder TB 6-1 204 SR 26 Lee Lafyette CB 5-10 188 FR 26 Matt Mammolenti TB 5-8 165 SR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 so 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 224 JR 29 A'Jani Sanders ss 5-11 182 so 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 219 JR 31 Robert Farmer TB 5-11 227 SR 33 Jaime Spencer FB 6-0 247 so 34 Ronnie Nicks DB 6-1 215 FR 35 Scott Palumbo p 5-11 189 SR 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 185 SR 36 Tim Lynch DB 5-9 170 JR 36 Chris Wachtel p 6-ll 211 SR 38 Paul Grimm DB 5-9 169 JR 39 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-2 202 so 40 Kevin Carretta TE 6-1 239 SR 41 Joe Sabey ILB 6-2 222 SR 42 Alton Marden NG 6-4 271 SR 43 Bill Wagasy OLB 6-3 225 SR 44 Marc Edwards FB 6-0 237 SR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB!LB 6-0 230 FR 45 Chrrs McCarthy K 5-11 213 JR 45 Phil Sicuso DB 5-11 175 so 46 Bill Gibbs FS 5-10 171 SR 47 Bill Mitoulas ILB 6-1 229 JR 48 Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 275 SR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 226 so 50 David Payne OL 6-1 284 so 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 288 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 275 so 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-4 253 so 54 Ed Casieri LB 6-1 230 so 55 Shelton Jordan DE 6-3 241 so 56 Kurt Belisle DE 6-3 251 JR 57 Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 264 SR 58 Mike Burgdort TE 6-1 222 SR 59 Matthew Kunz ss 6-1 216 JR 60 Antwoine Wellington LB 6-2 230 FR 60 Sean Rogers OT 6-0 292 SR 63 John Farrell c 5-10 253 SR 64 John Merandi c 6-3 273 FR 64 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 246 SR 65 Matt Griesbach OG 6-1 258 JR 66 Jell Kilburg c 6-4 283 SR 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 so 68 Mall Brennan OL 6-5 270 FR 69 David Ouist NG 6-5 290 SR 70 Tim Ridder OT 6-7 297 so 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-7 285 so 72 Leon Hires OL 6-6 280 FR 73 Mike Doughty OT 6-8 313 SR 74 Rob Mow! OL 6-5 290 FR 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 290 SR 76 Jeremy Akers OG 6-6 300 SR 77 Brad Williams DL 6-6 250 FA 78 Jon Spickelmier c 6-3 267 JA 79 Mike Rosenthal OG 6-7 310 so 80 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 203 JR 81 Lewis Dawson WR 6-0 180 FA 82 Mike Gandy TE/DE 6-4 235 FA 83 Deveron Harper CB 5-10 175 FA 84 Alber! Jones WR 5-11 183 SA 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 258 so 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-5 230 FR 87 Jrmmy Friday DE 6-2 240 so 88 Bobby Brown SE 6-3 185 so 89 John Cerasani DE 6-4 258 so 90 Lance Legree LB 6-2 248 FR 91 Darnell Smith DE 6-5 276 SA 92 Joe Ferrer LB 6-3 230 FR 93 B.J. Scott DL 6-4 250 FR 94 Justin Orr WR 6-2 235 SR 95 Corey Bennett DE 6-1 251 JR 96 Jim Jones DL 6-4 260 FA 98 Pete Chryplewrcz TE 6-5 265 SR 99 Jason Ching DL 6-4 270 FR 
The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 


Last week against Navy, the Irish secondary struggled mightily, allowing 218 passing yards to the anything but pass-happy Midshipmen. The Irish are currently ranked 33rd nationally in passing efficiency at 107.27, and could be exploited again this weekend. 
The Eagles enter Saturday's contest averag­ing 227 passing yards per game, thanks largely in part to the dangerous trio of Anthony 
TAILBACK 23·Denson 31-Farmer 
FULLBACK 44-Edwanls 33·Spencer 
RIGHT GUARD 
77-Williams 
70·Ridder 
FLANKER 5-Mosley 
18-Charnpilln 

* Boston College lineup subject to change in light of suspensions. 

WIDE RECEIVER 11-0ICosmo 15-CoS$!Zil 
CORNERBACK 
14·Covlngloll

1t}Harper RUNNING BACK 33-Walker 21-Cioud 
·. ,......,... 
~QUARTERBACK 12-Mutryn 
RIGHT TACKLE 
76-AIIord 
64-laRose 
STRONG SAFElYWILL c. 
39-GIIbeaux 2-Tatum 29-Sanders 27-Howard 
OLB 
13-Berry 
CORNERBACK .
53-Bryant 15·Rossum ·--;), 21·Stevens · 

Irish Defensive Backs vs. Eagle Receivers 
DiCosmo, Dennis Harding, and Kenyatta Watson. Each of the three has at least 20 catches, and are covering more than 11 yards every time they haul one in. The unit, however, lacks big-game experience, and have yet to prove that they can make the plays in such games. Omari Walker is also a threat out of the backfield, having already amassed 23 recep­tions this season. 
CORNERBACK 28-Tolelree 
~-BullOCk 
STRONG SAFETY 10·Cirino 27-0avis 
CORNERBACK 
25·Spelghl 
I
27-Davls 
page 3 

BOSTON COLLEGE SCHEDULE 
Aug. 31 at Hawaii W24-21 
Sept. 14 VIRGINIA TE . . ":45 
Sept. 21 :.20 
Sept. 28 -28 
Oct. 5 34 
Qtli,14, 4-17 
cr 

Oct. Oct. 31 Nov. 9 Nov. 16 Nov. 23 at Miami 
3rd season at Boston College 
Dan Henning 

Career record: 15-17-1 At Boston College: 15-17-1 Against Notre Dame: 1-1 


··•···~••pstQII 
No. Name Pos. 
1 Steve Everson WR 5-10 162 JR 
2 Tim Hasselbeck QB 6-2 200 FR 
3 Jamal\ Anderson RB 5-8 190 so 
4 Kenyatta Watson WR 5-10 180 SR 
5 Michael Bullock WR 5-9 163 FR 
6 Jermaine Walker WR 5-9 160 so 
7 Matt Hassetbeck OB 6-4 209 JR 
9 Chris Hackett KIP 5-10 181 JR 
10 Pedro Cirino RB/DB 6-0 185 FR 
11 Anthony DiCosmo WR 6-2 199 FR 
12 Scott Mutryn QB 6-3 205 so 
13 Willie Wright DB 6-2 211 so 
14 Eric Olson QB 6-2 290 FR 
15 Ted Kalmbach K 6-1 174 so 
16 Rob Tardio TE 6-4 234 so 
17 Steve Capra RB/DB 6-0 180 FR 
18 Dennis Harding WR 6-1 178 so 
19 Dave Robbins OB 6-1 200 so 
20 Quinton lee RB 5-10 182 FR 
21 Mike Cloud RB 5-11 196 so 
23 John Matich PK 6-2 194 FR 
24 Rupert English .DE t--: 6-1 243 SR 
25 Kiernan Speight ol.; 5-a 166 so 
26 Shalom Totefree DB 5-9 177 JR 
27 Tim Davis DB 5-9 185 FR 
28 Carlton Rowe RB/DB 5-10 187 FR 
29 Brandon King WR 5-11 187 so 
30 Pat Phetts DB 5-10 185 FR 
32 Malcolm Williams LB 6-2 251 FR 
33 Omari Walker RB 5-10 212 JR 
34 Ron Bose p 6-0 191 so 
35 Jason Smith RB/DB 6-0 190 FR 
36 Greg Bartlett DB 6-0 193 so 
37 Bill Varrichio DB 6-0 .196 SR 
38 Charlie Smith DB 5-10 183 JR 
39 Paul Cary LB 5-7 149 JR 
40 George While DB 6-2 185 FR 
41 Bobby Edmonds ILB 6-1 227 so 
42 Adam Grace LB 6-3 245 FR 
43 Jason Matecki p 6-2 210 so 
44 Daryl Porter DB 5-9 189 SR 
45 Donovan Yarbough LB 6-1 228 so 
46 Brian Maye LB 6-3 227 SR 
47 Andrew Krauza DE 6-3 236 so 
48 Ryan Burch TE/DE 6-4 250 FR 
49 Joseph Mickens RB/DB 6-0 185 FR 
50 Paul LaQuerre OL 6-3 280 FR 
51 Erik Storz DE 6-2 226 JR 
52 Mike Siravo LB 6-0 206 JR 
53 Jerod Funke DL 6-4 254 JR 
54 Ryan Recktey LB 6-3 202 FR 
55 Frank Chamberlin RB/LB 6-1 215 FR 
56 Jermaine Monk LB 6-2 226 so 
57 Neil Koenig LB 6-1 210 FR 
60 Andy Mitcham OL 6-4 273 so 
61 Jonathan Miles OL 6-5 273 so 
63 Damien Woody OL 6-3 281 FR 
64 Noah LaRose DL 6-6 276 so 
65 Michael Cook OUDL 6-5 290 FR 
70 Dan Oriskovich Ol 6-3 293 SR 
71 Mark Nori OL 6-4 294 SR 
72 Butch Palaza OL 6-4 274 FR 
73 John Coleman DL 6-2 279 SR 
7 4 Doug Brzezinski DL 6-4 296 so 
75 Adam Myers Ol 6-3 272 JR 
76 Darnell Alford OL 6-4 316 FR 
77 Tim Zeglin DL 6-7 265 so 
78 Brian O'Connor OL 6-4 295 SR 
79 John Hostetler c 6-3 273 JR 
80 Mike Guazzo TE 6-4 210 FR 
81 Phil Mrazik TE 6-7 213 FR 
82 Robert Ellis TE 6-5 220 .FR 
83 Scott Dragos TE 6-3 243 JR 
84 Ramon Johnson WR/DB 5-10 177 FR 
85 Dan Collins Dl 6-4 245 so 
86 Bryan Arndt TE 6-4 241 FR 
87 Derrick Crittendon WR 5-9 177 FR 
88 Adam Newman TE/LB 6-5 225 FR 
89 Todd Pollack TE 6-4 237 JR 
90 Markell Blount ILB 6-2 215 JR 
91 Michael Hemmert TE 6-3 241 JR 
92 Nick Gianacakos Ol 6-4 269 SR 
94 Greg Fisher DL 6-2 242 so 
95 Chris Hovan DL 6-4 255 FR 
96 Marcus Bembry DE 6-2 250 JR 
97 Pat Kneib DL 6-3 255 FR 
98 Mike Willetts OL 6-4 259 FR 
99 Stalin Coli net DE 6-6 259 SR 
Mike Colucci WR 5-10 179 SR 
page 4 The Irish Extra • THE COVER Friday, November 8, 1996 
By DYLAN BARMMER A~anr Sporn Ediulf­
r ~,here is one thing that comes to your attention 
when you cross paths with Notre Dame wide 
-receiver Malcolm Johnson. 
The man is very tall. 
"I was always the tallest -the tallest and the skinni­
est," says the 6'5" junior about his youth. 
The skinny part is not so applicable now. Johnson has added 20 pounds to his lanky frame since he first stepped foot on campus three years ago, growing from a painfully thin 185 to a chiseled 205. 
But Malcolm Johnson's body is not all that has grown 
tremendously since he first donned the Blue and Gold. 
So has his confidence. 
"Coach Holtz makes practice really intense, and if you can't handle it, you're not going to get on the field," says Johnson, whose 331 receiving yards on just 19 catches currently leads the team. "When I came in, I wasn't ready for the pressure. He (Holtz) is going to put a lot of pressure on you so that when game time comes, you'll feel very confident in your abilities. I can say now that I feel that way." 
But it wasn't always this way. In fact, just about half a year ago, it wasn't even close. You see. Malcolm Johnson wasn't yet The Man. In fact. he was something very different. 
He was Mister Nobody from Nowhere. 
"When I took this job back in April, I inherited a bunch of guys who had never really played," says first­year receivers coach Urban Meyer. "Malcolm's name never really came up when people talked to me about the receivers." 
Last spring, Johnson wasn't only an unknown, he was even somewhat of an outcast. 
Johnson was suspended for several practices by Holtz for violating university rules last spring, and not surpris­ingly, the suspension was a bitter pill to swallow for the eager would-be-receiver. 
"It was a bad situation," says Johnson of the suspen­sion. But out of the pain came learning. 
"I learned you have to follow the rules, you have to do everything right," said Johnson. "I shouldn't have put myself in that position, but things happen. and Coach Holtz isn't going to make any exceptions for anyone on tho loam." 
_Holtz didn't make any exceptions for star running back Hant\x J<jpder, who was suspended for the Orange BoWl 'garritrlf'Oe to ofl'-field problems, and he certainly wasn't about to make any exceptions for a guy who had logged about as much playing time as Hudy in his Notre Dame career. 
"It made him realize that rules are rules," said Holtz of the suspension. "I think Malcolm thought there was a gray area there, but there isn't room for any gray area. I think it also made him realize how much football meant to him." 
It also made him realize how much Notre Dame meant to him. 
"I think, more than anything, the suspension helped me focus on how much I love the team," said Johnson. "Sometimes it's easy to say 'I don't want this,' and 'I don't need this' and 'I could do better elsewhere,' but being removed from it for awhile helped me realize this is the place for me, and I love this place too much to not try and make my mark here." 
And make his mark he has, and more than anyone, possibly including himself, may have expected. 
Just in time, too. 
"I can't be more pleased with his development,'' com­mented Meyer of his suddenly solid receiver, who has made that mark with numbers like a 17.4 yards per catch average. "He's to the point where he really believes in what we're doing. It's staggering what he's done (since fall practices)." 
on Towering Malcolm Johnson rises to new heights 
The Observer/Mike Ruma With the Irish in desperate need of someone to help fill the shoes of now-graduated Derrick Mayes, Malcolm Johnson, shown here catching a pass against Ohio State, has stepped up to help fill the void. With 19 receptions for a team high 331 yards, the 19-year-old junior has exceeded all expectations. 
"I felt like it was urgent, that it was now or never," said Johnson of his sudden emergence. 
That emergence began immediately this season, when Johnson, whose inconsistent play in practice had left him behind now-starting tailback Autry Denson at the receiver spot, hauled in four receptions for a team-high 69 yards in the Irish's 14-7 win at Vanderbilt. Two of Johnson's catches came at crucial moments in the even-tual game-winning drive of the 'Nashville Nailbiter'. Johnson has been in the starting lineup ever since. 


"I think it was the turning point, at least in Coach Holtz's eyes," said Johnson of his performance in that game. "It just gave him confidence in me. If he f(Jels he can trust you, he'll put the ball in your hands and let you go do your thing. I think playing well in that game helped gain his trust, and I couldn't be happier about that." 
Neither could lloltz. "He's got a great work ethic," said Holtz of his newest weapon. "He's doing a wonderful job." For as much as Johnson has accomplished so far this season, everyone involved with the football program 
..
knows that he has yet to peak. 
"He's matured tremendously, and given us a great effort this season," said Holtz. "But his best football's ahead of him." 
"He's going to be a great player," mused Meyer. "But if he's going to become a great player, he's got to learn to be a little more physical, and he's got to knock his time (4.56 in the 40) down a little." 
"It was just a matter of time before he startnd con­tributing," said senior flanker Emmett Mosley, whom Johnson calls the "emotional and spiritual leader" of the Irish receiving corps. "It's his turn to take the torch and run." 
Johnson himself fenls no difl'erently. 
''I'm glad I've been able to step up and put my foot in the door, but really, I feel like I haven't even scratched the surface," says Johnson, who doesn't tum 20 until next August. 
"I think I waited my turn, and my chance is now." It took awhile. but Malcolm Johnson is finally whnre he feels he belongs. He is finally beginning to catch on. 

r-----------_.------------~----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, November 8, 1996 Irish Extra • THE MATCH-UPS 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
T
he Irish arsenal has ripped ofT over 50 points in two of the last three games. This one should be no different. Ron Powlus is finally slam­ming the door on the crit­ics -he needs only four more touchdown passes to oust Rick Mirer from the top career spot (41), and don't rule it out this week­end. 
"I hope we can pick up offensively from where we left in the Navy game, but we have to be more pro­ductive in throwing the football," cited Coach Lou Holtz. "Our receivers blocked well, but were not productive when we threw the ball to the wide receivers." 
Meanwhile, the Irish ground game ate up Navy for 303 yards, and the key tomorrow will not be Autry Denson, nor will it be Randy Kinder. The man is Marc Edwards. Last year, Edwards tram­pled a befuddled BC defense for a career-high 167 yards. 
Last game, Edwards scored three touchdowns. He'll be even tougher to The Observer/Rob Finch 
Marc Edwards will try to revive a rather disappointing season by attempting to
stop on Astroturf, especial­
match last seson's 167 yard, 2 touchdown performance against BC.
ly behind the starting 
offensive line of Rick Kascenski, Jeremy Akers, Brad Williams, Mike Doughty and Chris Clevenger. 
The depleted BC defense should provide little problem for Edwards and Co., although the stubborn Eagles held the Irish to 20 points last year. leturning mainstays include StaHn Colinet, 
After bouncing back in impressive fashion in last week's victory over Navy, the Irish defensive front seven will encounter a more conventional Boston College offense this Saturday at Alumni Stadium. 
haos has run its course, and with it, order 
has finally been restored for the Notre Dame 
defensive unit. In other words, for the first time in a month, the Irish will have an opportunity to defend a conventional offense on Saturday instead of the vaunted option attack. 
It's not that Notre Dame did not make the neces­sary adjustments in last week's 54-27 victory over Navy. They did indeed rebound defensively to stifle Midshipmen quarterback Chris McCoy after watch­ing Air Force's Beau Morgan run wild on them three weeks ago. . 
But the Irish are not shy in admitting they are not completely comfortable against the option. In fact, they welcome Boston College's conventional offense with open arms. 
"We had problems defending it (the option), espe­cially against Air Force," said safety Dcke Cooper. "There's a lot to account for when you play against the option. It'll feel good to get back to playing a more typical college football offense and not worry about the other things." 
While Boston College docs operate in the pro-style set that the Notre Dame defense has been craving, the Irish may still have something to worry about on Saturday, provided the Eagles have not made any phone calls to Las Vegas this week. 
a 6-6, 260-pound senior defensive elbow, and could be joined by fel­lineman, who has sacked the low, gambling teammates by the quarterback six times; senior end of the week. All in all, about safety Darryl Porter (78 tackles); five Eagles have accounted for and noseguard Nick Gianacakos, over half the team's tackles, and who will challenge Notre Dame's one, Maye, is injured. Things Rick Kascenski. don't bode well for Boston 
BC's leading tackler Brian Maye College. 
(91) is out with a dislocated -T. Ryan Kennedy 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Boston College boasts one of the nation's top run­ning backs in Omari Walker, who has amassed 853 yards on the ground to go along with nine touch­downs. Quarterback Matt Hasselbeck has also had his moments, throwing for 1846 yards and nine scores. 
"They have a well-balanced offense with a good quarterback and a solid running back," said line­backer Bert Berry. "We know we'll see their best on Saturday, so we'll have to be prepared. We can't afford to have any letdowns against a team like Boston College." 
The biggest problem Notre Dame defense faces could be containing the Eagle passing game. Boston College's receiving corps might just be the strength of their team, so the Irish secondary won't be able to hide behind the front seven this week. 
Cornerbacks Ivory Covington and Allen Rossum struggled last week against the Midshipmen, and Navy didn't possess the same arsenal that the Eagles will bring into Alumni Stadium. 
"Now, we've got to switch gears and go face a one-back offense, three tight ends, motion, shifting, things of that nature," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "So we're going to have to adjust to that." 
.[]
. . . . . . . . . : . 
··•···········.· .. 

Despite Powlus' quiet numbers. the tri-captail1 con­· tinues to be solid in the air. Hasselback has aver..: aged 205 yards a game, but a pick a game as well. 
1111 

Running Backs 
~ D
Iriilh runners ·must display consistency after a big game against Navy. Walker shines for the Eagles, but BC has few other threats in the backfield. 
.
[]. 


.NJ? ?prps must c,ontinue to perform during the few 
time.§'they;re called upon. Speedy Eagle trio of 
Watson, Harding • and DiCosmo will be flying. 
. . . ­

M< • • ·••.·.. 1·..·.··.. ...·.·..·.·..·.·;·"··.·.··... ·· .;.. ·.···.·.·.··.· ···.··,.!
~.·

\W~e.Ltile'· · •··.~ .•..... ·.·: .··.·•······· 

.LI'Ulu...._ 
but a repeat per­
. .· "def'el).~ye ey~s.• 
allowed '42 sacks. · 
..
·[].·•·.········.·.··.······.. 

Now that Wynn poses a scoring threat, this unit 
can't be much more threaternng. g~~ i)pponents 
ar(l ayeraging ahnost 370 yards of total offense. 

DThere's no comparison. The hits of Minor and Tatum on the Midshipmen could be heard across the Atlantic. These guys still pretty much rock. 
D. 
. 
Lll 
~ 

Bestd.f:)s Rossurn> another Irish unit plagued by inconsistency, espeCially on coverage. Watson is liable to break a big one at any time. 

D
Holtz will need to have the Irish prepared coming 
•

ofl'~-~}J()rtened'practiceweek; .. Henningnow has to deal 'With not only a poor season, but also scandal. 
• ~~~~ D 
Playing in Alumni Stadium is never a treat, but the Irish ar1.3 to bowl hopes. The Eagles' sea­


..-----------~----~---~ 
page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT Friday, November 8, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Take a chance on BC 
legations of gambling and point­shaving and who knows what else tre nying around Chestnut llill. and yet the news should shock no one. 
It  was.  perhaps,  r--------,  
expected  within  a  ~  
Boston College athlet­ 
ic program that can  
hardly  pass  a  day  '  
without scandal controversy.  or  ~1};­ l  
This is not good for  .</f . ·  .\~....  
Notre Damn.  For the  '/;"  .  1  
first  time  in  four  

T. Ryan
years, the Irish are in 
a position to blow the Kennedy daylights out of the Sports Writer 
Eagles. 
Lou lloltz wants it. Bon Powlus dreams of it after what went on two years ago. Now a scandalous veil will forever hang over this one. 
"This means that every time Ron Powlus beats the BC secondary we will wonder if the Eagle cornerbacks are slow, or perhaps dishonest," wrote the Boston Globe's Dan Shaughnessy last Monday. 
Tlw writing was on the wall from the moment Boston College dropped a dud to Pittsburgh last Thursday. llow can a team that rips off 500 yards of total offense. as HC did against Pittsburgh, manage to score only 13 points and lose? Time is out for Coach Dan !Ienning. 
I lost all respect for Boston College athletics and its hammerhead support­ers long before this. From the fans and the athletes to Chet Gladchuk. the ama­teur athletic director. the Eagles from Chestnut llill never learned how to win when they ripped ofT baek-to-back foot­ball victories against Notre Dame, and defeated the No. 1 North Carolina bas­ketball team in between. 
After the 41-39 win in 1993, BC offen­
fa c e i t . 
winter i s n ' t that L o n g . 
e e 

o1n 
2 months for 
Ok, I hear you. "Mr. Advertisement, why should a join a health club when I have a gym on campus?" Well College Student, it's simple really. Because we're not a gym. We're a health club. The best in Michiana for that matter. Besides having over 25,000 pounds of free weights, we have daily aerobics classes in the Boom Rooms, Cardia Center for complete cardio vas­cular fitness, and one-on-one personal training just to name a few. Drop in for a free tour of the place. Walk around. Kick the tires. Better hurry though, offer ends November 15th. We think you'll like it here. 
I~

PINNACLE 
1\ T H 1. :t1 C C I. U 3. 
Your Total 
Wellness Complex 
-


PINNACLE athletic club 205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545 Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 
sive lineman Pete Kendall began the charade with a ridiculous, "Who's laughing now, ESPN?" What ensued was demolition of Coach Tom Coughlin's car and Alumni Stadium's goalposts, and all of this after an away game. 
In 1994, after BC won in resounding fashion 30-11, the same classless BC crowd spit on Powlus and Co., then initi­ated an intoxicated free-for-all in which there were nine arrests and numerous tires, tisticull's, and assaults on some of the sixty police officers on hand. 
Lou Holtz declared he had never seen his players treated so poorly, while Powlus fumed for a week over the deba­cle. 
Meanwhile, the incompetent Gladchuk, in an editorial in The Heights (BC's weekly newspaper) two weeks ago, prefers pretentious ignorance to confrontation. 
"Traditionally, our student body has been terrific!," he wrote. "What makes BC so special is our ability to achieve goals, while respecting the ambitions of all." It's no wonder current New York Islanders coach Mike Milbury ripped Gladchuk for his dishonesty and bolted from the place. 
Holtz once stated that no matter what the critics say, he has never met anyone who didn't respect Notre Dame football. Tomorrow, Holtz will again meet over 40,000 angry Bostonians who hold no respect for the Irish. 
And so the Notre Dame juggernaut rolls into Chestnut Hill with something big to prove, perhaps a lesson to teach. Last year's 20-10 triumph was like the pregame show, the opening band, or the ceremonial pitch to the offensive blitzkrieg that awaits the miniature BC defense. 
Someone ought to tell the Eagles to hold the point-shaving. Powlus, Kinder and Co. won't need it. Bet on a blowout though. 

•  THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF  Barmmer and Mike Day  
Editor: Tim Sherman  Graphic Design:  
Associate Editors:  Dave  Chris Mullins  
Treacy and Joe Villinski  Statistician: Jim Belden  
Assistant Editors:  Dylan  Production: Tara Grieshop  

MARINE OFFICER . PROGRAMS 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors are eligible for Marine Corps Officer Programs that have no on-campus requirements. 
• 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

• 
NO OBLIGATION 

• 
SUMMER TRAINING PAY $1,600 -$2,700 


GROUND, PILOT OR LAWER GUARANTEED 
MINIMUM SALARY -FIRST THREE YEARS $24,789 -$30,069 $26,889-$32,237 $33,051-$40,021 
FOR AN APPOINTMENT WITH A MARINE OFFICER SELECTION OFFICER CONTACT CAPTAIN DOUG BROWNE, CLASS OF 1992 AT 
1-800-945-3088 

If' 
We're looking for afew good men and women. 
------------------~----~--­
Friday, November 8, 1996 
TEAM 
1. Florida (59) 
2. 
Ohio State (5) 

3. 
Florida St (2) 



12. Brigham Young 

4. 
Arizona St (1) 

5. 
Nebraska 

6. 
Tennessee 

7. 
Colorado 

8. 
North Carolina 

9. 
Michigan 

10. 
Alabama 

11. 
LSU 


13. 
Kansas State 

14. 
Penn State 

15. 
Virginia 

16. 
Wyoming 

17. 
Notre Dame 




18. 
Northwestern 

19. 
Washington 

20. 
Southern Miss. 

21. 
Miami 

22. 
Auburn 

23. 
Iowa 





24. Syracuse 
25. Virginia Tech 

RECORD POINTS Prev 
7-0 8-0 7-0 9-0 7-1 6-1 7-1 7-1 7-1 7-1 7-1 9-1 8-1 8-2 6-2 9-0 5-2 7-2 6-2 8-1 6-2 6-2 6-2 5-2 6-1 
1667 1 1582 2 1564 3 1477 4 1406 5 1344 6 1218 7 1204 8 1133 9 1086 10 
902 12 
858 13 
813 14 
810 15 
684 16 
646 17 
583 19 
518 11 
439 21 
341 23 
336 22 
298 24 
269 25 
233 
137 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES East Carolma 86, Army 82, West V1rgmi 39, California 7, Texas TEch 5, Air Force 2, Rice 2, Utah 2, Clemson 1, Colorado State 1. 
CJM 
The Irish Extra • THE NATION 
ACC battle set in Char­lottesville; Wildcats look to rebound 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
#8 North Carolina 
at #15 Virginia 
Despite having to hold off a feisty N.C. State team last week, the Tar Heels are still in position to make a run at the top five. Up to this point, their only loss has been a 13-0 defeat at the hands of No. 3 Florida State. 
Although tailback Leon Johnson is a force on offense, defense is by far the strength of this squad. The stinginess of this unit has been proven time and time again thus far. Holding an offensive juggernaut like the Seminoles to only 13 points is quite a feat. 
The Heels defense will have to be at its best if it hopes to get past the Cavaliers. Virginia possesses one of the most lethal weapons in college football, and its name is Tiki Barber. His ability to break any game wide open at any time is some­thing that even this North Carolina defense must respect. 
#10 Alabama at #11 LSU The Crimson Tide is still reel­ing from its near-upset of 
Tennessee two weeks ago. The Tide controlled the game until the fourth quarter, and then let it slip away. They will make every effort not to repeat that as they travel to Baton Rouge, LA to play the Tigers Saturday. 
Defense has, for the most part, not been a problem this season for the Tide. On the other side of the ball, however, they still have question marks. The running game is still their forte, but passing has been inconsistent. 
Everybody in the stadium will know in whose hands Coach Gerry DiNardo is going to try to get the ball: Kevin Faulk. The sophomore tailback has rocked the SEC this season. 
#12 BYU vs. Rice 

rely on his arm, and has done an admirable job doing so. 
Going into the season, the Cougars most likely thought this game would be a Iaugher. However, after last week's upset of then-No. 20 Utah, the Rice Owls are gaining national recognition. With only one con­ference loss thus far, the Owls have a serious chance at win­ning the Mountain Division if they can pull off another upset. 
#18 Northwestern at #23 Iowa 
Just as they were gaining reputation for their courageous comebacks, the Wildcats took a step back last Saturday when the were pummeled 34-9 by the Nittany Lions of Penn State. 
Gary Barnett and his crew will have to move forward if 

ABC* 
Ohio St. at Illinois USC at Stanford Texas A&M at Baylor Clemson at Virginia Tennessee at Memphis 
CBS 
Notre Dame at Boston College 
* regional coverage, check your local 
This is a game of starkly con­trasting offenses. One team runs a passing-oriented offense, while the other has implemented a Wishbone attack that emphasizes the run. 
Once again, BYU possesses one of the most high-octane passing attacks in the nation. This season, the Cougars are led by quarterback Steve Sarkisian. Playing with a young backfield, he has had to they hope to stop their slide. This should not be a problem, as quarterback Steve Schnur and tailback Darnell Autry are once again having career years. 

Iowa must be licking their chops, knowing that the 'Cats are vulnerable this week. The Hawkeyes handily defeated Penn State earlier this season. Thus, by the transitive proper­ty, the Hawkeyes should have what it takes to beat the 'Cats. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 

Ohio State receiver Michael Wiley will try to provide an added spark when the Buckeyes travel to Illinois. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 

Tim Sherman Sports Editor 
Record: 23-12 

Joe Villinski 
Notre Dame N.C. Alabama 
BYU 
Iowa 
Notre Dame 
N.C. 
LSU 
Rice 
Dave Treacy Associate Sports Editor 
Record: 24-11 

Dylan Barmmer 
Notre Dame 
Virginia 
Alabama 
BYU 
N'Western 
Notre Dame 
Virginia 
LSU BYU 


Mike Day Assistant Sports Editor 
Record: 23-12 
Todd 
Notre Dame N.C. 
LSU BYU 
N'Western 
Notre Dame Virginia 
Alabama 
BYU 
Associate Sports 

Photo courtesy of USC Sports Information Iowa Assistant Sports Fitzpatrick
Iowa N'Western

After falling to Washington last Saturday, quarterback Brad Otten and Editor Editor Sports Writer USC will try to keep their bowl hopes alive this week against Stanford. Record: 21-14 
Record: 25-10 Record: 17-18 
.. 

-
The Road T ~i p
page 8 Friday, November 8, 1996 
The History 
·­

B 
nstnn is a spread-out city. 
Here's a list of some of the bet­
ttlr bars nnd restaurant..<> in th(~ wr.stllrn part. F1~w are within walk­Ing distanen, but the Boston T sys­tem (mass transit over/und(•rground rail system) ean get you there. Tlwse arc popular eateries of the area and are close to the T stops. 
Restaurants 
College Sub Shop ll:W' 2197 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 
Chef Choy's !louse l!'jj" 354 Chestnut Hill Aw.. Cllweland Cirde 
HoggifJ's Bmw and Grillt~ ll'oW' 356 Chestnut !·fill, Avn., Brighton 
(;round Hound 1(-il'' :181 Chestnut IJill Ave., Cleveland Cirde 
Boston Markt~t n.w· 1940 Bmtcon St., Cleveland Cirde 
Presto Pizzeria Hostaurant ~!it' 1936 Beacon St., Brighton 
Pino's Pizza ll~ 1920A Beacon St .. Brighton 
Eaglt>s Deli HPstaurant ~~~ 191 R Beacon St., Brighton 
Vinny Testa's I& 1700 Bnaeon St. Brighton 
Bluestono Bistro u:ir 1799 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 
Sunset Grill and Tap ~· 130 Brighton Ave., Allston 
(West of BC: Car needed.) CheestJcakt> Factory I& Attrium Mall, 300 Boylston St.. Chestnut Hill 
Johnny's Luncheonette ~, 30 Langley Rd., Newton Cl'lllre 
Bars 
Cityside at CIPveland Cirde tr:il" 1960 Hearon St., Cltwflland CirdP 
Mary Ann's (across the street from Cityside) ~· BC>amn St., Cleveland Circle 
Our House ll'll. 1277 Commonwealth Ave., Allston 
Arburkles ~ 1249 Commonwealth Ave .• Allston 
Nortlwast Brewing Company (it's new and across from Arburkles) llS' Approx. 1250 Commonwealth Av1~ .• Allston 
Great Seott ~~:~· 1222 Commonwealth Ave .. Allston 
The KPlls llir' 161 Brighton Ave., Brighton 
·---~c.r~.--~~-~\--~+--'F0i;:~ 
Date 9/15175 12/29/83 11/7/87 1117/92 11/20/93 
10/8/94 10/28/95 

Site  ND  BC  
.Foxboro Stadium  17  3  
Liberty Bowl  19  18  
Notre Dame Stadium  32  25  
Notre Dame Stadium  54  7  
Notre Dame Stadium  39  41  
Alumni Stadium  11  30  
Notre Dame Stadium  20  10  

The Screamin' Eagle 
In 1920, Reverend Edward McLaughlin wrote a letter to the Boston College newspaper, The Heights, saying, "It is important that we adopt a mascot to preside at our pow-wows and triumphant feats. And why not the Eagle, svmbolic of majesty, power and free­dom? lts natural habitat is tlw high places. Surely the Heights is made to order tor such a selection." Two live mascots were given to the college 
that year but died when one escaped and the other broke its beak trying. Another live eagle wa.s given to BC in 1961 and kept at the Franklin Park Zoo between football games. In 1966, the bird (Margo) died of a \oirus and the status of the eagle as an endangered species rnadt.' it politicallv incorrect for RC to replace it. So t'hey went with the costumed varietv, which can <;till he 
seen today, roaining the sidelines of BC football games. 
Tlw BC ..:olor~ Wl!l'U sel.xtc•J J,v tlw ;;lll!lenl.:; in tiH.' l$80:>. 'TEe Papal m;m••'l'l al'l(l },~<)J(l.~~·as <lVl'rwl~<.:lmin;;:lv at.:(L!(lh!t1. I Ill! firsl appt•a r;u1c·.c ,·,r tlw ('ul,>t·::-w;ts ) n ban1wr mJ.Ie bv wc•men atk•ndint: th.: l\ t: w 1.: n ~ L{n d C(l n s e n·a to ,:y o f }v\nsic {!,)cateJ twar BC tlwn) that tl1eu fl,.w al evt•rv colle~<.: l'venl 
until it rnyskriou::dy aisappt><~red. 
This page was made possible through the efforts ofDan Cichalski (layout and design), Ed Leader(Paul Revere artwork), Will Beelcman (BC bar hopper and closet ND 
an), the BC Media Guide (all thai informatkm), the number 4 (touchdowns Alltry Denson will have Q'f Saturday), and the letter "W" (for "win"). 
Stuff about where you are 
Location: Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts Colors: Maroon and Gold Enrollment (1995-96): 14,695 
8,894 undergraduates 4, 180 men (47%) 4,714 women (53%) 

Motto: "Ever to Excel." Founded: I 863 as a small college for boys Stat of the day: BC is the largest of the 28 Jesuit 
colleges and universities in the country 












