
Friday, January 26, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 76 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

I
t was a moment in time indelibly etched in the memories of all who watched or heard of it. When the space shuttle Challenger burned up in names in the high Atlantic sky on the morning of Jan. 28, 1986, America stood in shock, com­phltely horrified. 
This Sunday marks the tenth anniversary of the disaster that killed all seven crew members aboard, including a schoolteacher, Christa McAuliffe, from a sleepy town in New llampshire. And as the country pauses to remember the vic­tims of the tragedy, the question is raised: 
What went wrong? 
• see Where were you? page 6 
Tlw Challenger catastrophe came at a moment when NASA had the complete confidence of all. "NASA gave us pride. It had made the United States the winner in the race to the moon," said Tim Keel, a researcher of the Challenger disaster The Observer/ Mike Ruma and a stair nwmbnr of the llesburgh Library. Library staff member Tim Keel studies a copy 
of the Presidential Commission on the Space see SHUTTLE/ page 4 Shuttle Challenger Disaster. 

Ten Years After 
Shuttle disaster remains on the minds of both faculty, students 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST As"JCiate News Editor 
NASA file photo 

In January 1986 the space shuttle Challenger exploded shortly after lift off because of a faulty 0-ring. All s~wen crew members died. 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
A matter of reflection 
Two students observe one of the many currently controversial murals in the Golden Dome which portray Columbus' landing in the "New World." 
Conference holds developDient of leadership as goal 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 

Cheryl Mabey told a story of 16 women who comprised the first group to be awarded student leadership schol­arships to Mount Saint Mary's College 25 years ago. These women had a profound effect on her, and on the future of the college as a whole. 
"They trans-~------------------------~ 
formed the college in ways that they weren't aware of," she said. 
Program coordi­nators hope par­ticipants of this weekend's "Play of the Mind" confer­ence will have the same effect on Saint Mary's College. 
Last night, the conference opened as Mabey deliv­ered the keynote address, "Women in leadership: a special legacy." Mabey serves as the executive director of the women's leader­ship program at 

Mount Saint Church ofLoretto~!? 
Mary's College in •--------llli-liliillli"llliliilil'" 
Los Angeles. 

Mabey focused on the ways, currently, in which women h'old advantages as leaders. "No matter how imaginative you are, or how clear your goals are, you cannot begin to comprehend your future possibilities," she told the conference's student, alumnae, ad­ministration and faculty participants. 
The "Play of the Mind" launches a three-year program funded by the Improvement of Postsecondary Education (FIPSE) grant, which is intended to develop collaborative leadership on campus. Mabey described the conference as a "cutting-edge endeavor" through which Saint Mary's will "create a national model for other colleges." 
College President William Hickey recognized the stu­dent participants as women who "express desire to actively change the face of the campus. To do that, you just need to be someone who cares about this place 
see SMC/ page 6 


Senior Bar hosts Black '4 7 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 

Notre Dame has become one of the more sought after venues for musicians in the last month. Following Billy Joel's appearance on campus Tuesday night, Irish band Black '47 will roll into town on Wednesday for one show at Senior Bar. 
The band, on a major U.S. tour pro­moting their newest album, had not made Notre Dame an original stop on their travels across the country. Last week. their agent, John McDonagh, con­tacted the Notre Dame Northern Ireland Awareness Group and relayed a mes­sage that the band had expressed an interest to play on campus as they stopped in Chicago for a scheduled per­formance. 
The Group responded favorably, believing that the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities would be receptive to an informal concert. 
"Both Black '47 and the Northern Ireland Awareness Group felt that a Notre Dame show would be a natural fit," said President Brian Foley. "Given 
saint mary's college 
Play_ of 

the Mind 
schedule of events today 
6:30 p.m Opening presentations 
"Exploring Saint Mary's Cultures" 
Carrol Auditorium 
tomorrow 

9 a.m. -5:30 p.m. Six sessions on "Encompassing leadership" 
Regina North Lounge; 

Bp.m. Open microphone 
Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse' 
sunday 

9:45a.m. Closing Liturgy ·. 
the band's strong social message and their Irish style, we feel that this is one of the better events sponsored by the Group in the past few years." 
Black '47 has a strong tradition of tackling social issues in their music and actions and especially of addressing the tumultuous years of violence and politi­cal turmoil in Northern Ireland. Many of their songs center around the various stages through which the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland have passed in the 20th century. Their latest album, Green Suede Shoes, includes Bobby Sands MP, a song 15 years in the making. According to band leader Larry Kirwan, "With the advent of a fragile peace in the North of Ireland, the song finally, and painfully, evolved." 
Other Black '47 albums have focused on great Irish political figures such as Michael Collins and Paul Robeson and have included traditional Irish folk songs like Danny Boy. 
"Black '47's overall message about oppression, human rights and freedom complements the Northern Ireland Awareness Group's mission of educating 
see BAND/ page 6 

-------~-------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 26, 1996 

• Wo~to AT A GuwcE 
Utah carries out first execution by firing squad in 19 years 
The rules 
of the 



game 
It's here at last. The Caroline Blum nation's most watched 

Saint Mary's Sports 
and enjoyed sporting 
Editor

event. But unlike Notre Dame football games, you can't find a good party by walking around green field. Super Bowl Sunday can and will be an unforgettable experience if you obey the following guidelines: 
• 
This year you must watch the second half. 

• 
Watch Kevin Greene try and fit a helmet over his shaggy hair. 

• 
Drink beer. 


• 
Pretend you are from Dallas or Pittsburgh. 

• 
Relax. Over four million other students are blowing off their work tonight too. 


state-sanctioned murder. 
• 
Place an overly-large wager on the game. If it looks like you're going to lose 

Peres discusses peace talks with Kohl Arson masks murder of two elderly 
the bet, go into hysterics and start crying. 
• Dance your hiney off at the quint party MUNICH, Germany BARRINGTON HILLS, Ill. 
in Sorin. Guaranteed to be the best Super 
Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres 
Marvin and Kay Lichtman's brick mansion was like a Bowl party on campus. briefed German leaders Thursday on museum, full of crystal, dolls, tapestries and works by• Pay attention to Deion Sanders. He's 
peace talks with Syria, but said he artists like Rodin and Remington. On Thursday it was a going to try to look like a 'damn fool out 
stopped short of asking for German burned-out shell, Marvin Lichtman lay dead, and his wife there.' troops to help enforce any peace deal. of more than 40 years was also believed slain. Police 
• Eat chicken wings. With hot sauce. 
"It's not on my agenda," Peres said. suspect someone killed the elderly couple and then set a • Root for the Steelers. They're baaaad. 
"First, we have to have peace." The fire that burned nearly as hot as a crematorium's -so • Clear out all the furniture in your room, Israeli newspaper Maariv reported this hot that a partial skull was all that remained of the victim open up all the windows, put on your winter week that Peres was proposing a U.S.­investigators believe was Mrs. Lichtman, 75. 
coat, and invite your entire section in. 
led international force to police the Golan Heights should Investigators said robbery might be the motive and were Stand up while you watch the game and Israel return the territory to Syria, and was planning on checking into reports the self-made millionaire and his have the Notre Dame Victory March playing 
asking Chancellor Helmut Kohl to contribute troops. wife kept large amounts of cash in the three-story home in the background. If you want to get really 
After meeting with Peres, Kohl said the matter "is not an in this well-to-do suburb northwest of Chicago. But "the crazy, have the clown of the section put on issue to discussed publicly at the moment." "There are extent of the fire has hampered our ability to see what, if a neon-orange glove and hold his hand up many ways in which Germany and Europe can be helpful, anything, is missing from the home," said Gary Del Re,during commercials. (Hey, is it football sea­but it is the decision for the Israeli government and our commander of the county Major Crimes Task Force. 
son already?) 

American friends," Kohl said. German Defense Minister Lichtman, who was 78, made his fortune as owner of • Pretend you're from San Francisco and Volker Ruehe said he and Peres "talked about the very Gateway Supply Co., a plumbing and heating supply busi­cuss at the Cowboys. If they make a good 
good cooperation between the armed forces of our coun­ness he operated from 1950 until his retirement in 1984. play or score a touchdown, throw objects at 
tries, and about the peace process and what European Lichtman was a "prince" who shared his wealth, giving the TV and scream at the top of your lungs. 
countries can do to stabilize the peace process." Syrian­$5,000 to a local police officer who had cancer, neighbor• Watch the commercials. You wouldn't 
Israeli negotiations resumed last month after a six-month Katherine Twork recalled. 
want to miss a new crave like three frogs interruption.
croaking the name of your favorite beer. 
• Don't fear. Diana Ross will sing the 
Misprint ups value of Nixon stamp New toll-free code coming soon 
National Anthem instead of Kathie Lee 
Gifford this year. (Will the nightmares ever WASHINGTON WASHINGTON 
stop?) 

Now, aren't you sorry you didn't run out any buy some Coming soon to a telephone near you: 1-888. The 888 • Take a look, or two, at Troy Aikman in Richard Nixon COIJ!.memorative stamps? Some of the prefix goes into use March 1 for toll-free calls. It will not tight silver pants. 
slow-selling 32-cent stamps may be worth as much as replace 800 numbers, but rather will be an additional • Ok, ok, and the Dallas Cowgirls in barely $8,000 apiece because of a misprint, according to Linn's code. The Federal Communications Commission adopted anything. 
Stamp News. The newspaper for stamp collectors a plan Thursday for introducing the second toll-free ex­• Dance around to the half-time show. 
reports that the printing error was found on 160 stamps change. The agency's top telephone regulator, Gina • Buy a keg of Budweiser and a keg of purchased by an unidentified northern Virginia resident. Keeney, cautioned that the 800 and 888 codes will not be Bud Light and have your own Bud Bowl. 
On the stamps, Nixon's portrait is split like an image on a interchangeable. "Let's say you dial 1-800-555-5555,"• Pay attention. Dallas and Pittsburgh television with a faulty vertical hold and his name is she said. "If you dial 1-888-555-5555 that's going to be a have won four Super Bowls each, so the printed upside-down. Such errors can occur when different place. The new 888 number is comparable to an winner will tie the 49ers for the most Super stamps must be run through more than one press to print area code." The FCC is adding the 888 code because the Bowl wins in history. Does that scream a second color. If one or more sheets gets put in the pool of available 800 numbers is expected to run out byexcitement or what? 
.wrong way, the printing error occurs. The most famous the spring. The agency said just 600,000 such numbers • Start the wave. When it really gets such case is the upside-down Curtiss Jenny plane printed remain available. By using the 888 prefix. telephonegoing, sit down and insist that the wave is in i918. More recently an upside down candlestick stamp companies will have about 7.5 million new numbers to meaningless and stupid. 
was discovered in 1986. The Nixon stamps were issued sell, the FCC said. Beginning Feb. 10, AT&T, MCI, Sprint• Always look like you're having fun. You in April following a tradition of honoring former presi­and other telephone companies that provide toll-free ser­wouldn't want the whole world to think that dents in the year following their deaths. The stamps have vice can begin taking reservations from companies for you were a bore when Ed McMahon comes 
not proven widely popular, however. specific 888 numbers. 
to your room with that one million dollar 
check. 

• After you've watched the greatest Super Bowl of your life, get ready for your second wind. A special one-hour Friends is on 

Friday, Jan. 26 AccuWeather., forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Jan. 26. 
afterwards. 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmlAv's STAFF 

News Jamie Heisler Accent 
llndianapoli3 37" I

Joey Crawford 
ILL 
•

Sports Tim Sherman Production Jim Belden Melissa DeRosa Brian Reinrhaler Jackie Moser 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Graphics Lab Tech 
ti'".."i. B ISS! [Til 0 ~ El -l) ~ U
Brian Blank David Murphy 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ViaASSOC/BfedPress 

Atlanta 54 48 Dallas 54 23 New Orleans 55 50 
Baltimore 50 38 Denver 39 08 New York 48 36 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 
Boston 53 33 Los Angeles 67 45 Philadelphia 48 34 exc~pt during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of 
Chicago 18 15 Miami 80 70 Phoenix 66 40
rhc Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Columbus 33 32 Minneapolis 18 10 St. Louis 27 21 






~-~ ---· ----~-~------­
Friday, January 26, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Hillary Clinton retreats
Clinton OKs bill with AIDS clause 
By JOHN DIAMOND Associdtcd Press 
WASIUNGTON 

President Clinton has dedd­ed to sign a $265 billion dflfense bill despite objections to a provision forcin service members with the A(()S virus out of the military. 
Reluctant to veto a sec­ond bill that would raise military pay, Clinton aeeepted Defense Secretary William Perry's recom­mendation to approve the measure. 
A White House memo, a copy of which was obtained Thursduy by The Associated Press, indicates the president will work to change the "remaining objectionable pro­visions" in subsequent legisla-
Clinton 


Low tobacco tax increases use 
By A.J. HOSTETLER Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Eight of the 10 states with the lowest taxes on cigarettes have higher than average rates of adult smokers, according to the government's first snapshot of tobact:o use in each state. 
Tho report released Thursday by the Centers for Disease Con­trol and Prevention examined the latest data on smoking, smokeless tobacco, tobacco's lwalth costs, tobacco taxes and state legislation. 
In Virginia, which had the lowest tobacco tax of 2.5 cents pm paek, 23.4 percent of adults smoke, higher than the na­tionul average of 22.9 percent. 
The other seven low-taxing, high-smoking states were 
BW-3 is Now Hiring for the Following Paid Positions: 
• Management 

• Bartenders 
• Cocktai I Waitress 


• ·Security (doorman) 
If You are interested in a job that offers very flexibl 
hours for your school schedule, competitive wages, and a fun work atmosphere, stop by 123 W. Washington and fill out and application. (1 block west of the Hall of Fame) 
-11.0--. 
~Z: t·· 

lion. bill adds $7 billion in military 
After last month's veto of an spending beyond what Clinton earlier version of the bill, con· requested. · gressional Republicans re-In addition to the AIDS mea­moved two provisions opposed sure, Republicans added by Clinton and weakened a spending provisions to expand third. the B-2 bomber fleet, build 
The Senate was expected to transport ships and increase pass the bill Friday and send it research into missile defense. to Clinton. The bill also provides 2.4 
White House press secretary percent military pay raises and MikP.. McCurry confirmed Per· other perquisites for uni· · 
. t•y's recommendation on the formed forces at a time when bill and told reporters at a Clinton has dispatched thou­briefing: "I believe the presi-sands of U.S. troops to Bosnia. dent will accept that To avoid another veto, Re· recommendation." publicans agreed to delete pro· 
McCurry said other mea· visions that would have re· sures Cl.inton opposes include quired construction of a U.S. a bau on abortions at overseas missile defense system by military hospitals. ship con· 2003 and restricted the presi· tracts earmarked for yards in dent's power to place troops the home states of influential under U.N. command. lawmakers, buy-America A requirement that Clinton requirements that Perry says go to Congress for approval of could raise Pentagon costs and even small-scale troop deploy­"a lot of micromanaging of the ments was turned into a non· Defense Department itself that binding resolution reflecting we think is unwarranted." .,,.Jwthing more than congres· 
The defense authorization "''slonal wishes. 
Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Wyoming, Tennessee, Indiana and West Virginia, according to the CDC study. 
The study was based on sur­veys from 1992-93, the latest years for which the government has figures. Tax information was taken from 1995, but the states with the lowest taxes have not raised them in years. 
Washington state had the highest tax on tobacco, 81.5 cents, after raising it from 34 cents in 1993. 
The survey showed 22.3 per­cent of adults smoked in Washington before the latest tax hike. Utah, with a 26.5­cent tax, had the lowest smok­ing rate of 15.1 percent. Nevada had the highest smok­ing mte, 30.3 percent, but only the 22nd-highest tax, 35 cents. 
Rounding out the low-taxing 10 were Georgia, with a 12­cent tax and 21.7 percent smoking rate, and Alabama, where the tax was 16.5 cents and 20.2 percent smoke. 
The study "gives decision makers and policy makers at the state level the information to act in an informed way." said Michael Eriksen, director of the CDC's Office on Smoking and Health. 
There are now 46.8 million adult smokers in the United States. 
Tobacco use kills more than 400,000 people each year and costs $50 billion annually in health care, according to the CDC. 
The agency was careful not to draw conclusions about the data, but in Washington Thurs­day, anti-smoking groups seized the opportunity to call for more tobacco controls. 
"States which have not moved to curb tobacco con­sumption by raising excise taxes are paying the price, both in revenue and lives," said Dr. Michele Bloch, chairwoman of the Tobacco Control and Pre­vention Subcommittee of the American Medical Women's Association. 
in preparation for trial 
By JOHN KING Associated Press 
LEBANON, N.II. 

Hillary Rodham Clinton left the tangled Whitewater affair behind for a few hours of nos­talgic retreat into happier cam­
paign memo­ries, on the eve of her unprecedent­ed appear­ance before a federal grand jury. 
"It's not a 


first I'm Hillary Clinton proud of," Mrs. Clinton told WMUR-TV. 
Under oath, Mrs. Clinton will explain to a grand jury Friday what she knows about long­missing Rose Law Firm billing records that suddenly turned up in the White House resi­dence. 
But Thursday was devoted to a morale-boosting political trip to New Hampshire. 
She spoke first to an enthusi­astic crowd of political support­ers, then to an admiring troop of Girl Scouts who peppered her with questions about how difficult it was to balance her professional, personal and political lives. 
"Some days it feels good and other days it is kind of hard," she said when asked how she likes being first lady, lamenting that "the political climate in our country today is kind of difficult." 
Mrs. Clinton couldn't escape the Whitewater controversy eompletely. "No," she said flat­ly when asked by a reporter if she was nervous about testify­ing. In interviews with several New Hampshire media outlets she pledged to cooperate fully with the grand jury. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Mrs. Clinton was prepared to "go there and satisfy 23 real Americans that she's telling the truth." 
For most of the afternoon, Mrs. Clinton enjoyed a respite from questions about her work as a high-powered Arkansas attorney. 
Instead, it was Mrs. Clinton, political wife and first lady. on display, with only a few indi­rect hints of how controversial a public figure she has become. 
Addressing a supportive crowd at Keene State College, Mrs. Clinton gave a reprise of her husband's State of the Union address and fondly re­called earlier campaign trips to New Hampshire. Bill Clinton la­beled himself the "Comeback Kid" after he placed second in the state's presidential pri­mary, and Mrs. Clinton said: "Today, you make me feel like the come-home kid." 
In Lebanon, she was ques­tioned not about Whitewater but about her favorite child­hood authors, her school and career path, and how she man­ages to be an attentive mother. Without referring to her own 
· powerful administration role, she told the Girl Scouts not to be afraid to embark on nontra­ditional career paths. "I think the important thing for women's lives today and for girls thinking about their own future is to work for the oppor­tunity to make whatever choic­es are right for your life and not be constrained by what other people think you should do," Mrs. Clinton said. And when a young girl asked what the proper response was when a boy insulted her hair or looks, Mrs. Clinton offered an answer that reflected her re­sponse to Republican critics. Don't get too upset, she said, because "half the time the peo­ple who are saying it don't even know much about you. They are just saying it to try to get your goat." There were a dozen televi­sion cameras on hand for her remarks, and photographers jostled for pictures. Three Republican hopefuls campaign­ing in the state got scant atten­tion, by comparison. The enthusiastic reception at Keene was guaranteed in ad­vance -the 600 tickets were distributed by the Clinton-Gore campaign. Many in the crowd wore Clinton campaign buttons and others had buttons with a pho­tograph of Mrs. Clinton and the caption: ''I'm Keene on Hillary." "It's ridiculous that she has been subpoenaed," said Kim Murdoch, a sophomore and Clinton's campus campaign co­ordinator. "I think it wouldn't be such a big deal if it wasn't an election year." 



page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 26, 1996 
Shuttle 
continued from page 1 
"But the accident caved in an entire institute and the belief in the can-do spirit of NASA that had been exemplified by the Apollo 13 rescue mission," Keel said. "We had grown accus­tomed to NASA's safety. After Challenger, we were terribly troubled." 
A defective 0-ring 
A presidential commission traced the cause of the firestorm that engulfed the shuttle to the failure of the right solid rocket booster. The two 0-rings on the booster had been designed to seal the joint that connected the four sections of the booster, thus preventing the leak of any gases. But the cold weather on the morning of Jan. 28 stifTened one of the 0­rings, preventing it from seal­ing the joint. 
The temperature at the time of launch was 36 degrees, the day's high. "That was the cold­est launch that NASA ever at­tempted," Keel said. "On that morning, the launch pad was covered with ice, and the emer­gency slide-basket was com­pletely covered, too." 
Due to the ice, officials de­cided to suspend the launch countdown several times, fi­nally moving the launch to 
11:38 a.m. from its original 
9:38 a.m. time. Unusually high winds that day also caused con­cern. 
At 58 seconds into the flight, the gas leak from the defective 0-ring became extremely pro­nounced, possibly exacerbated by a severe wind shear, Keel said. 
For the next 14 seconds, the leak grew into a sustained 
Don'tGet 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! 
Plu5Ga5For Cooking &Hot Water 


Efftciencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
Call or stop by today and we'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
rHICKORlJ 
DlLLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

streak of fire, which itself cre­ated leaks in both the hydrogen and oxygen tanks. At T-plus 73 seconds, the mixing of hydro­gen and oxygen created the massive firestorm immortalized by the photographs of the disaster. 
At that moment, radio trans­mission. from the Challenger ceased. 
And yet, the shuttle itself did not actually explode. "There was no evidence of any shock wave [which would have ac­companied any explosion]." Keel said. "At Mach 2 with the mixing of gases, aerodynamic stress caused the break-up of the orbiter." 
After the firestorm 
Photographs revealed that the cabin, where the crew was located, broke away completely intact, and evidence indicates that the crew did not die in the firestorm: The manual oxygen tanks worn by crew members Michael Smith, Ellison Onizuka and Judith Resnik were found to have been activated when NASA collected the shuttle's debris scattered in the Atlantic Ocean 19 miles off the Florida coast. 
"The oxygen tanks were ds­
elrR£
uoN'J~' MIS~ 

Powerhouse Comedy Jam featuring 

lt~1ri11M llr~ltlfttrtl S\TI,,i~l ''S111~1II 
&11tlre Hel111 
llttlll~lll t~11rr~I\T 
Sat., Jan. 27 8 p.m. Stepan 
Admission: $4 students, $6 gen. adm. Tickets on sale at LaFortune Box Office 
signed only to be used if some­
thing happened while the shut­
tle was still on the launch pad," 
Keel said. "The astronauts 
would not have activated the 
tanks unless someone had 
thought about them after the 
explosion. And because they 
could only be activated manu­
ally, the shuttle's computer sys­
tem could not have activated 
them for the astronauts." 
'The cabin's impact with the 
ocean surface, three to four 
minutes after the eruption, 
probably killed the crew, pro­
vided heart attacks did not do 
so first. Autopsy reports of the 
individuals have never been re­
leased. 
"The astronauts were experi­encing 200 'Gs' of force when they hit the ocean," Keel said. "That is far in excess of what any human can survive . through. It's like a glass bottle 
hitting concrete." 
NASA shuttle reforms 
In the aftermath of the disas­ter, allegations arose that the engineers and managers on the project knew of the 0-ring defect. Since 1981, NASA had had a history of 0-ring prob­lems, with something, albeit somewhat minor, going wrong on nearly every shuttle missioD during1 those five years. 

Engineers at Morton Thiokol Co., in Utah, manufacturers of the 0-rings and the boosters, reportedly told their superiors and mid-level NASA managers of the possibility of failure, Keel said, but the engineers' docu­mentation of the possible prob­lem was so poor that their ar­gument was rejected. 
The top-level NASA man­agers, in charge of deciding whether a launch went through, apparently never knew of the 0-ring defect. As a result of the miscommunication among officials, NASA now re­quires more than 1 million sig­natures to clear a shuttle for launch. 
Other reforms made as a re­sult of Challenger included adding a third 0-ring and pro­viding the rings with heaters to control the temperature all the way up until one minute prior to launch. Also, NASA now for­bids the launching of any shut­tle when the temperature is below 41 degrees. 
In the end ... 

But the most tangible efTect of the Challenger disaster was the collection of memories that people across the nation devel­oped. Whether at school or at work, people even today re­member exactly where they were and what they felt when they heard the news. Through­out the day of Jan. 28, teachers suspended classes to let their students watch the news re­ports on television, each stu­dent thinking in the back of 
their mind that their teacher could have been the one to per­ish in the disaster. 
In New Hampshire, the resi­dents were hit hardest by the loss of one of their very own. "We didn't know how to react," said Sean Geary, a Stanford Hall junior from that state. "All of New England was in shock." 
Tim Keel will give a lecture entitled "Loss of the Space Shuttle Challenger: An Illus­trated Analysis" at 7 p.m. Sun­day in 102 DeBartolo. The lec­ture is free and open to the public. 
To commemorate their com­patriot, the residents of New Hampshire have named a plan­etarium in McAuliffe's name. and the state celebrates her birthday every year. The Christa McAuliffe Planetarium 
is located in Concord. N.H. 

l ji 1; 


r-----------------~---------~----~-----­
Friday, January 26, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Delaware carries out first hanging since '45 
Nicaraguan gunman takes aim 
ried about violence ahead of 
100 miles 
the Oct. 20 election. Today's
Presidential 
e::::s
attack was the first report of 
100km 
election violence. 
Carihh<'all &a
candidate 
Nicaraguan authorities are also concerned about the possi­bility of violence in connection
escapes harm 
HONDURAS

with Pope John Paul II's Feb. 7 By FILADELFO ALEMAN visit to Managua. 
Associated Press Alarmed by a spate of bomb­ings of Roman Catholic church­MANAGUA, Nicaragua es and organizations since last 
Gunmen shot at leading pres­April, Nicaragua has mobilized idential candidate Arnoldo Ale­thousands of security forces for man on the campaign trail to­the pontiffs nine-hour visit. day, missing him but killing a Authorities did not suggest 
bodyguard. any links between today's vio­
Three other people were lence and the papal visit ­wounded in the assassination John Paul's first to Central COSTA RICA attempt, which took place America since Sandinista sup­about 10 a.m. in the mountain porters heckled him during a signed to guard Aleman, 


community of Quilali. 85 miles 1993 tour. 
Caldera said. 
north of the capital, Managua, Aleman, a former Managua A popular conservative, Ale­Radio Corporacion said. mayor, told Radio Corporacion man helped Violeta Chamorro's A Nicaraguan journalist cov­he would not be cowed by the coalition win the 1990 electionering the campaign said the 15 attack. 
that defeated President Danielgunmen reportedly wore uni­"Nothing will keep me from 
Ortega and his Sandinistas,forms bearing the red-and­the electoral campaign," he who ruled in the 1980s. He
black insignia of the former declared. 
went on to become ManaguaSandinista National Liberation Aleman, candidate of the con­mayor, a job he held until mid-Front army, and radio reports servative Liberal Constitutional­1995.
said authorities suspected for­ist Party, was traveling in a ve­
Former Sandinista soldiers
mer Sandinista soldiers. hicle in a caravan when a and former U.S.-backed Contra
But National Police Chief group of armed men on foot rebels continue to roam theCmdr. Fernando Caldera said ambushed the convoy as it 
north, and are often blamed forthe attackers had not been crested a hill. 
attacks on one another and onidentified. The shots killed one of about residents.
Nicaraguans have been wor-15 national police officers as-

By THERESA HUMPHREY 
A<Sociared Press 
SMYRNA. Del. 

Billy Bailey, in his younger days, was known as a hard­drinking hothead. At 49, he stood in the cold in the glare of the lights, without his dentures or his thick glasses, and was hanged for murder. 
It was Delaware's first hang­ing in 50 years and the third in the United States since 1965. 
Bailey went to the gallows early Thursday, nearly 17 years after he used a shotgun to kill an elderly couple in their farmhouse following a liquor store robbery and a day of drinking. 
At 5-foot-5 and 215 pounds, Bailey somehow looked small as he stood 15 feet above the ground on the outdoor gallows constructed just for him 10 years ago as his execution date drew near. 
Asked by the warden if he had any last words, Bailey said, "No sir." The trap door was sprung at 12:04 a.m. 
With his face covered with a black hood and his legs bound at the ankles, his limp body twirled in the air. 
He was pronounced dead at 
12:15 a.m. "He was a little guy, scared, no teeth, the wind whistling around him," said Edmund D. Lyons, his lawyer, who was among the witnesses. 
Bailey was condemned for the 1979 murders of Gilbert and Clara Lambertson, before Delaware changed its method of execution to injection. 
He could have chosen injec­tion but picked hanging because "the law is the law." 
For the first time in Delaware, family members of the victims were allowed to witness the execution. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
((~~ 
Pnm n ... 
rt'r fim11 f r. r..crr 
The New Number on Cam
n0 fii fran·~ 
U!t flm11 h'J r.~rfl 
Domfran'~ 
rt't flmll f.n ""'" 
Domfr.o'~ 
U;'t Um11 f:n r.1dl 
Domfr.o'~ 
rt!t ffmn f.tJ t:lrff 
Domfr.o'~ U~t ffm11 f.t1 rAif · 
IJomfr.o'~ ....____. 
~ 
rr·r f fm11 rr; r.I)Jf I 
r. r f I 
, ... (j Iii rli(j r : -~­
r---------,r---------,
rr 99¢
II  $5 75•  I II I  .II  
I  Lg. 1-Topping  I I  I  
I Thin Crust I I L.---------..1 Ir---------,1  Tw·1sty Bread  I I  

$6 99
I 1 1 with any Pizza : 
I • I I I 
1 Lg. 1-Topping 1 1 order. 1
1Not valid with other offers. No Coupon 1
I Zesty Deep Dish 1. 
L.nec., Please mention when ordering . .J
L.--___... 
. rt ' '· .:. v·'' Iii 
f:.:rn nnr J...
rr•...--:~ ..__~_.... ... · 
rsun-Thu Open 'till 1 AM J~~ . Fri-Sat ' 
Open 'till 3AM~~ 
------~ -------­
Friday, January 26, 1996

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Students\i'' 

SMC Samper considers resignation 
continued from page 1 visas are being canceled nor try and the justice system." Columbian does the U.S. have any such A referendum, even if ap­
enough to work in collab­
plans. He added, "There is a proved. may not end Samper's
oration with others to make 
political crisis under way and woes; it would likely take 
change for the future of this in­president faces we are going to await the re­months to organize and would stitution," he said. 
sults" of legal inquiries. not affect the government'sWhat sort of campus prob­bribery charges U.S. Ambassador Myles probe into his campaign. 
lems need to be addressed? 
Frechette said earlier that the Some critics said the vote "The beauty of the program 
By CHRIS TORCHIA United States was considering would be unconstitutional, and is that there is no set agenda. 
Associated Press revoking a "great number" of an ex-president warned it
The Challenger explosion The idea is to get people talk­
visas. A lawyer for Fernando might lead to armed uprisings.
occurred on Jan. 28, 1986, at ing about the quality of life at BOGOTA, Columbia Botero, Samper's 1994 cam­"A popular vote of that kind11:39 a.m., a time when chil· Saint Mary's, and hopefully Saying it would be "an act of paign manager, alleged would engender a confrontationdren across tbe countrywere ideas will emerge promoting 
cowardice" to resign, President Wednesday that Samper him­close to civil war in which it'sin school. Students at Notre opportunity for collaborative Ernesto Samper suggested self solicited drug money. possible the armed forces
Dame and Saint Mary's recall interaction that, we hope, will holding a referendum to decide "Of course, it was Samper would have to intervene to re­the moment when tlley heard lead to this change," said whether he should leave office who made 'the order," attorney store peace," said Alfonsothenews. · Hickey. over charges he accepted drug Fernando Londono said. "Only Lopez Michelsen, who was 
• "It was a snowy day. 1 According to co-director 
money during his campaign. two people on the campaign president from 197 4 to 1978. 
was on the school play­Patrick White, students "put 
In a televised address had that power, Samper and Meanwhile, Samper's supportground with a few other guys mind and heart to think of the 
Wednesday, Samper said step­Botero, and it wasn't Botero." within his own party and gov­playing football," said Kevin quality of life at Saint Mary's." 
ping down would promote a In a poll by Bogota's El ernment continued to slip. OnRini, a Stanford Hall resident This discussion takes place to­
"dangerous situation" and a Tiempo newspaper, 62 percent Wednesday, a leader of his rul­,from Cleveland. *"When I morrow, during a series of ses­vote would let the nation decide said they believed Botero and ing Liberal Party urged him to went inside~ I saw tl1at.ev~ry sions from 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. 
his fate. 20 percent believed Samper. step down, and Francisco
TV in every classroom'was in the Regina North Lounge. "Colombians have the right, 
Eighteen percent were unde­Posada, his ambassador to
on,;\tl asked 'What'& going Topics range from "Uncovering and above all the obligation, to 
cided or did not respond. The Venezuela, resigned. on?' and 1remembered some leadership" to "Collaborative participate in the solution to poll had a margin of error of 4 Ambassador Carlos Ueras de
girl turning and saying, 'The visions." 
this problem," Samper said. percent. la Fuente, in Washington, told aspaceship exploded.'., 
Samper's support has eroded Colombia's business leaders, Colombian television news pro­

• "I was inmy sci¢n rapidly since his jailed ex-cam­who warn the growing scandal gram that he was also consider­
Band paign chief said this week the will hurt the economy, urged ing resigning. Last year, president was aware the Cali Samper on Wednesday to step Colombia's envoys to Great
continued from page 1 
drug cartel funded his 1994 down temporarily while prose­Britain and France steppedsaid Tim Bellaire, of,,Ql 
election bid with millions of down because of the crisis. 
the campus about the situation cutors investigate. 
N.J.. "The wholeid 

in the North of-Ireland," said dollars. "He is seriously weakened in Botero, a former defense
welid. It didn't feelri 

Foley.Although the band is on a The U.S. State Department the exercise of his authority," a minister who was arrested in 
, ~~~was inmy fo,,,,,',•,','' denied a report today in The August, said he became in­
major US tour, they discounted group of 15 national business
Classroom. l didn't 

the price of this show, and tick­Washington Post that Washing­associations said in a statement. creasingly frustrated because ets will be $4. ton was canceling the visas of "It's clear ... that he has wanted he felt he was being made a herly Kurgani , "The band felt it was impor­six top military officials for al­to hide the truth from the coun-scapegoat.
Schaumburg, ill. 
leged links to drug traffickers.

tant to share their message and
t11at a teacher had die4;'' ,,,,,,, The officials included Gen.
music with a receptive audi­
gmmjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjJrn
' • "l was in fourth grade 
Camilo Zuniga, head of the

ence and so are charging one­
·music class. The teacher 
armed forces, the newspaper

third of the price," stated Foley.
was going over som~Jbil'lg, 
said.

"In that sense, they were will­
about musical beats; when 
State Department spokesman

ing to make the fmancial sacri­
we heard the news/' <said 
Nicholas Burns said today no

fice."
Doug Zwilling, of Cleveland. 

ame
"Half the class started laugh~ ing at us, until the. te~cb~r 
ncounter
yelled at us: 'If your teache,r had been the one to diei then you wouldn't be ll:'ughi right now/ Th ····•· st~~d bawling." 

A WEEKEND 
Alternative Dance Music 

LARGE DANCE FLOOR 
Friday & Saturday 
8 PM-JAM 
$5.00 Cover 
Call Anytime 
638-7998 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP 
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 

RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opporlunlry, In diDIDgUIP wllh olhera, lo del!pt'n )'OUr und•ralandlng of your..rt, your valuu, your relationship wllh Chrl•l, )'OUr e11perlence of Chrletlan c:om~nunlty and service. 
MARCH 1 -3, 1996 
January 29-February 2 
Before 4:00 p.m. -February 2 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$25.00 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 16~ 17~ 18 
Sign ups are: Sat 1127 9:00a.m.-6:00p.m. Sun 1/28 10:00a.m.-3:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 
friday, January 26, 1996 
Forbes' ad caiDpaign 
•

narrows pniDary gap 
By TOM RAUM think, in the short term. I think Associarrd Press in the long term, at least I hope in the long term, it backfires," 
WATEHLOO, Iowa Dole told reporters. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob "l think people in Iowa ... Dole, hit with negative ads from know me pretty favorably here. his rivals and questions about I don't think they're going to his ability to compete with believe all this stuff. But some Prflsident do." Clinton, eom­Dole reiterated his demand plained that both Forbes and Texas Thursday Sen. Phil Gramm make public that the GOP their past income tax records. race seenwd lie said Gramm has only re­at times like leased a return for 1994. "running for Forbes has declined to release the mud­any of his tax records. wrflstling "When Forbes has a fund­champi-raiser, he takes his wife to din­onship." ner and writes a check," Dole 
Dole also conceded that his cracked before an audience of earnpaign's own polling showed several hundred Iowans at a his numbers slipping against town hall meeting in a civic millionaire publisher Steve center. Forbes. But he predicted Dole also spoke Thursday at Forbes' rally would fizzle. the South Dakota School of 



Dole said a negative advertis­Mines and Technology in Rapid ing campaign by his rivals, and City, where he repeatedly chal­particularly by Forbes, seemed lenged Forbes to release his tax to be eutting into his lead -as returns and accused him of try­shown by recent polls. ing to buy the election. 
In fact, polls have shown "Every now and then, some­
By JEANNINE A VERSA
Forbes closing the gap with body comes along with a big 
Associated Press
Dole in many states, including wad of money. And we have a Iowa, with its GOP caucuses on candidate with a big wad of 
WASHINGTON

Feb. 12. money," he said. 
Plans by MCI and media mag­

An Iowa Project poll of 300 During a question-and-an­
nate Rupert Murdoch to deliver
likely caucus goers released swer period in Iowa, one 
television and other services
Thursday found Dole supported woman in the crowd, Linda 
directly to homes via satellite
by 26 percent and Forbes by 18 Jansen of Cedar Falls, told Dole 
moved a crucial step forward
percent. All other candidates he had been "lambasted" on 
Thursday. MCI won the last 
wern in single digits in the Jan. the airwaves by Forbes. She 
remaining license to do so.
22 survey, which had a 6 per­later said she thought it was 
With a bid of $682.5 million,

centage point margin of error. hurting Dole's chances. 
MCI came away the winner of a 
Dole said he was not too con­Forbes has accused Dole of 
Federal Communications
eerned. voting for tax increases, of vot­
Commission auction. 
"Our own tracking polls show ing to raise his congressional 
MCI and Murdoch's News

we'm going down a hit-we're pension and of conspiring with 
Corp. are teaming up to devel­
hanging in there at about 31 or Gramm to engineer a 1990 
op a range of consumer and
32 p1~reent. I think you're going budget agreement that includ­
business services for television
to sne a deeline in the .Forbes ed a large tax increase. 
as well as for computers. 
(numbers)," he said. "Millions of dollars of nega­
"This new venture is a per­

lie blamed Forbes' surge in tive advertising-it's terrible. I 
fect marriage of MCI's sales
tlw polls on his negative ads. might not even vote for my­
and marketing skills, customer
"It gives him an advantage, I self," Dole joked. 
base and billing capabilities 
Co-Rec Volleyball Half Court 3 on 3 Basketball (M&W) Nerf Football Co-Ree Water Polo Wiffie Ball Indoor Soccer (M&W) Target Golf Ultimate RecSports Challenge Table Top ·Pentathlon Broomball (M&W) Kickball Racquetball (M&W) Kayaking Monster Dodgeball 
The Deadline for Entel"ing a Team is Monday, .January 29. 
Friday, February 2 

$1:00 Donation at the Door 
7:00PM -4:00AM Joyce Center 

Be a Real Champion, 
631-6100 

Support Special Olympics! All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre D{lme Alumni Association 
with News Corp.'s expertise in entertainment and information programs," MCI Chairman Bert Roberts said. 
"Working with MCI, News Corp. will leverage its leader­ship in the worldwide enter­tainment and information busi­ness to bring exciting new video and information services to American consumers," said Murdoch, chairman of News Corp. 
News Corp. owns the 20th Century Fox film studio, the Fox TV network and an on-line computer service; publishes books, magazines and newspa­pers; and creates TV programs. 
Experts say MCI's direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, ser­vice is at least three years away. That's how long it typi­cally takes for a company to get 
the high-powered satellites needed for the service launched. 
Last year, MCI said it would invest $2 billion in News Corp. in part to provide entertain­ment and news globally over computer networks and on television. 
The FCC auction lasted about a day and a half, beginning with three bidding companies but ending with two. MCI and a unit of EchoStar Satellite Corp. Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's largest cable company, dropped out of the auction on Wednesday. 
EchoStar recently launched a satellite to provide DBS service in the United States, and the company already holds a DBS license. EchoStar offered $650 million in Thursday's bidding. 

Pan Am makes attempt to reenter travel market 
Associated Press forced it into bankruptcy earli­
er that year. 
NEW YORK Under the proposed deal, 
Pan Am, the defunct airline Cobb would be chairman and whose distinctive blue globe Shugrue would be presidentlogo remains one of the the and chief executive, Cobb said. world's best known trade­Shugrue didn't immediately marks, may be coming back. return phone calls. 
Former Pan Am executive The new Pan Am would be a Martin Shugrue and Miami real domestic carrier, offering in­
estate developer Charles Cobb ternational connections and are reportedly close to raising fares about half the price of ex­$30 million to fund the new isting airlines. 
venture. Initially it would serve Miami, 
Cobb, who paid $1.3 million New York, Los Angeles, in a bankruptcy court auction Chicago and San Francisco -a for Pan Am's name, said he al­far cry from the days when Pan ready has invested several mil­Am pioneered international air 
lion dollars in the new airline. travel. 
Pan American World Airways The operation still needs to closed in December 1991 after get federal government ap­years of losses and heavy debts proval. 
Summer Internships for Undergraduates The Environmental Research Institute 
ajoint activity of the 
University of Notre Dame and Argonne National laboratory 
in collaboration with the 
center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control . . 
is pleased to announce acompetition leading to the award of three summ~r mternsh1ps at the Argonne National Laboratory lor the Summer of 1996 w1th afollow-on research appointment for the Fall. 
The applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, be . enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, must have co~pleted their 
Junior 'fear by the Summer of 1996, and must be registered to 
return in the Fall of 1996. 
For more details please contact the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
Deadline for application: Ma!cf!.1, 1996~ 


'­
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 26, 1996 


Task for,cewstddies l~liilic,3::Violence~;~
-~ 
~~~~L SNIFFEN 'Sl~'" ,,,,.,,c~~=rea::~~J:?i1 a~~·! +v but no nationa WASHINGTON s,eniorla\V en£or~~ An 18-montb investigation of said; f'ftoW$ver, W~ violence against abortion clin~, , ag'ed Jpyyi,rtu;all 
ics gathered evidence toward ha.JldftjJof~olv solving a handful of arson Evir,t~nc~is,•t<f cases but found no direct evi;'*'''~thil,l,,~oJ!t.~~,to+e;d.~r 
deuce of a nationwide 'conspir~'*']uJ"iet:~.wljere the~arEiO acy, law enforcement.otllcinJswi oc~::urr~g;'satd ·· 
said Thursday. ;t woul .. ····.· As a result, the JustiCe DJFT},}ttlons 
partment's clinics task force ,is ::. · T~e ,ft)gJoJ!al ,, shifting strategy: to· focus on .···. more··in .line widi' regional arson pr~~u~cutioJ}a;;u;J t)Pa:rt instead of on the single grapd Lti .··••·· an e!Jlp
jury sitting in sub,n·):)aii'+lfiJurl . with .. 
Alexandria, Va., since la~e J~:SPOiJsipilities•. Thfi 1994. The grand jury ls dis-'4'1nent tlsu@y br' ··· · banding March 26, when jts,.uca$es ~st<~n9 
term ends. ·· n: those convicted' Attorney General Janet Reno:¥ac~om:pljc~s arl:f;\ promised to continue pursuing r<ret(lrn for,l~ni~U~Y:;· evidence of conspiracy in anti·80Lc The ~epartriun:tt abortion violence and prote<;t~.. .(~el it-:wa~teq_Jh ·· 
ing clinics "as vigorously as; wqjch hear possible.'' W'' T!" ''if:W41fii!fl,''witnes·'.. 
Abortion protesters said th~ ; , Tile !~ .. }. change in tactics vindicates 'dsp~aldng on their criticism of the investig~~4;: anonymity~ sa~9 . ,....··•'····'' ..·,··· ..,..,.. 
tion. Advocates of abortion' fonnd ''that so1ne .• . . :were. rights worried that the federal , moving toward, SOll\e'~~d stufl' effort might be dwindling but ,, ,,wln~n .the · expressed hope that arsonists i;J"'ii'grandj ·· would indeed be prosecut~di'ffiib~en ~Ga.re(l.,o.
soon.+ .·.... · · · ···· , pr::p.~t~:" ·· •·· .·· · 
Infant death prompts charges 
Associated Press 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. 

Prosecutors are considering neglect charges against the parents of a baby allegedly beaten to death by his uncle. 
Five-month-old Kyran Powers died Tuesday after a brutal beating at the hands of his un­cle Stephen Powers, prosecu­tors say. 
Vanderburgh County Prose­cutor Stan Levco said he is ex­ploring possible charges against Kyran's parents, Tammy and David R. Powers, 
for leaving the child with his children in the care of Stephen uncle. Stephen Powers, 20, was Powers. under a court-imposed protec­He now stands accused of tive order banning contact with beating 5-month-old Kyran af­Tammy Powers. ter the baby would not stop cry­
Stephen Powers, 20, had ing. The baby died Tuesday at never been accused of abusing Riley Hospital in Indianapolis. the children, prosecutors said. John Martin, David Powers' But both he and David Powers brother-in-law, said the couple had been charged with batter­had adequate warning that ing Tammy R. Powers and were Stephen Powers was disturbed. banned from contact with her t'He was saying a few days by court order. before this happened that 
Nonetheless, the trio contin­'someone should just take me ued to live together. On Mon­out of this world,' burning him­day, police say, Tammy and self, trying to slash his wrists," David Powers left their three Martin said. 
Scientists discover new strain of hepatitis virus 
By PAUL RECER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Researchers have isolated a previously-unknown hepatitis virus, but experts aren't sure if it poses a health danger or even if it can cause disease symptoms. 
In a study to be published Friday in the journal Science, a large team of scientists report that a virus identified as hepatitis G, or HGV, was isolat­ed from the blood of patients with chronic hepatitis. 
"We have shown some asso­ciation of this virus with chron­ic hepatitis," said Patrice Yarbough, director of research at Genelabs Technologies in Redwood City, Calf., where much of the work was done. "The implication of this finding is still not known." 
Dr. Harvey Alter of the Na­tional Institutes of Health, a coauthor of the study, said that although the virus "is a newly discovered agent, it probably has been around a long time." 
Alter said that sophisticated laboratory techniques capable of detecting the virus are only now becoming available. No antibody test of the type used to identify other hepatitis virus­es has been developed for HGV, he said. 
The researchers showed that HGV is present in 10 percent to 20 percent of people who have chronic hepatitis that cannot be attributed to other causes. At least 14 other viruses have been linked, directly or indi­rectly, to hepatitis, an inflam­mation of the liver. The disease also has been associated with some types of bacteria, fungi and protozoa, and to alco­holism. 
Five distinct viruses, called 
Hepatitis A through E. have 
been identified as causing 
acute viral hepatitis. The seri­
ousness of infection varies from 
virus to virus, and from patient 
to patient, but many chronic 
carriers never experience seri­
ous disease. 
Hepatitis G. said Alter, was 
found in some patients who 
also were found to have 
Hepatitis C. 
Alter said is not known if 
HGV poses a serious public 
health problem or even if infec­
tion by the virus should be 
worrisome to a patient. He said 
more studies are needed on 
this question. 
The research showed that 
HGV can be transmitted 
through blood transfusions, but 
Alter said "the odds of getting 
a c~~e of this virus are very 
low. 
Blood donated for transfusion 
is tested now for a number of 
diseases, including the AIDS 
virus and three types of hepati­
tis virus. Whether there will be 
a need to add tests for the new 
HGV is "a matter of debate," 
said Alter, because many of the 
carriers of HGV probably are 
also infected with other hepati­
tis viruses. Potential donors 
shown to have antibodies to the 
other viruses are prevented 
from donating blood. 

Some patients infected with Hepatitis C also were found to have Hepatitis G, said Alter. These patients would have been rejected as blood donqrs -because of their Hepatitis C 
infection. 
In screening11,400 approved 
blood donors. he said, the re­
searchers found traces of HGV 
in less than 2 percent. 
Just how much of a problem 
HGV could pose for blood 
transfusions is not known, 
Alter said, but there is a good 
possibility that the virus poses 
no threat at all. 


INVITATION: 
Of special interest to Urban Plunge Students: Come and talk with gang members from Cabrini Green and Dearborn Housing Projects in Chicago 
at the Center for Social Concerns 4:30 -5:30 pm Saturday, January 27 (before the W.Va game) 
AT CUSHING: FRIISAT 8:00/10:30P.M. 1/26-27 SPECIAL SUNDAY SHOWING 2P.M. $2.00 (What more do you want from a brother MAN???) 
These men can speak candidly about their experience as gang members and answer questions 
(open to all) 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 26, 1996 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Luca.< Managing Editor Business Manager Suunnc Fry joseph Riley 
Nc:ws Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................john Potier Vic:wpoint Editor.................. Michacl O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spans Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saim Mary's Editor, ....... , .......... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 

• IAM Nor APOTTED PlANT 
Time to let race issues die 
The Oh•erver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre l>amr du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion uf C'ithc:r institution. 'l'he news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­wriod!t repre.-.cnl thc opinion of the majoriry of du~ Edimr-in-Chirf, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Ace<nt Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcucr:r, and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those nf The Ob!!crver. Vit·wpoim space is available w all members of the Nmre Dame/Saim Mary's com­munity ;md to all rcaJcr.r.. The free C"xpression of varying opinions through lccters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editnr-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediwr/Vicwpuilll 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Al.ccnt/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/J>roductiun 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu (;enerallnformariun 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• EDITORIAl 
When students talk, no one listens 
Imagine the following scenario: Student leaders propose an innovative idea. Administrators listen politely, smile and tell stu­dent leaders how important their input is to the University. Weeks later, student leaders arc told that their innovative idea is either not feasible, unworkable or simply impossible to imple­ment. Soon a committee is formed to gauge opinion, study the issue and produce a report. But the report doesn't really matter because regardless of its contents, administrators have made up their minds and will never agree. Student leaders graduate soon aftm, leaving no one to follow up on their innovative idea. 
Dons this sHquence of events sound familiar? It should, espe­cially to mmnbnrs of the Campus Life Council debating the merits of coresidentiality. Onspite the recommendation of a 1988 task forcn that eornsidentiality be considered for any new dorms con­strueted on the Notre Dame campus, Bill Kirk of the Office of Student Affairs, recently rejected a CLC proposal in favor of the issue. Kirk's reasoning: a new living structure would be too complieatml and even "foolish" at this time. Now, the CLC is studying tlw issue further. but few are under any illusion about the outcome. 
The l'a<:t is, sexual segregation doesn't work. Granted, the sin­glll-snx dorm systnm has created years of valuable experiences and a wealth of tradition. But sometimes tradition masks prob­lmns-namely, ignoranee and disrespect between the sexes. At no time was this more obvious than last year's hall note incident. 
Strangely, Notre Dame men and women can function well together in other parts of the world, but not in South Bend. Londomers have been living together in flats for years, as well as students in Australia, Innsbruck and even the Peace House. All seem to be well adjusted despite their coresidential experiences. 
But Kirk and Student Affairs continue to ignore the benefits of a change, instead arguing that co-ed dorms are inappropriate bflcause of an "increase in complex student situations." If Kirk mnans the sexual assaults, poor gender relations, date rape and parietal violations that are now common, coresidentiality could be a solution to these "situations" rather than the problem. 
Others fear the end of the traditions. Be it interhall athletics or SYHs, there is no reason those customs can't continue. Coresidentiality eould increase constructive interaction between the sexes and tear down many of the gender barriers and myths that eharaeterize the Notre Dame family. 
Whether or not you support coresidentiality, there are larger issues at play. We are told that "student voice" is important to the University, but strangely, if students hadn't brought up coresidentiality this year, the issue would never have been raised, let alone debated or implemented. Other student con­cerns arn treated similarly; in other words, repeatedly ignored. 
We are told that students are the heart of Notre Dame. But in reality, no one has less control over the future of thi~ institution. If student opinions are going to continue to be meanmg~ess, the administration should just cut the charade and tell us nght now. Otherwise, we're just wasting our time. 
Seems like we've been talking poenaed by the FBI for threat­a lot about race these days with ening to kill President Bush). the O.J. trial and the Million The problem was that I some­Man March (and Ms. Likely's times felt pre-judged (because columns). I heard one commen­of my beliefs) by people who tator remark, surprised, that had never met me. "race is still the central issue in My experience was, of course, American politics." different from that of blacks ­
It cannot be denied that for for one, I could have decided to many blacks, race remains one remain silent, while race is of the most important facts of immutable -but it helps me to life. It goes a long way to defin­imagine how blacks must feel, ing who here or they are elsewhere. and how Once you they relate feel as if to the rest people are of the Charles prejudging w or 1 d. you, com­Granted. fort is no But from Roth longer a my obser-natural vations, response to 
that does not reflect race's importance to most Americans. l think race issues are primary only for segments of the black population, and perhaps a few smaller groups such as Laotians and some native American tribes. 
Why is race not a big deal for me, aside from the fact that people at NO generally look like me? We are always more com­fortable around people with whom we share similarities, for the same reason that we're comfortable around those we know. Because we feel as if we're unlikely to be rejected. 
This will probably sound strange to you, but where I went to college, I felt uncom­fortable as a "practicing" Catholic and a pro-lifer. It wasn't that I had some problem with the people around me, strange as they might be (the anarchist downstairs, whose mohawk was green some days and orange on others, was sub-
other peo­ple, even with your friends. 
l would never deny the power of latent racism, lurking in the subconscious, or simply hidden behind a smiling facade. But race as a transcendental issue is dead, or dying -and rightly so -because no one believes that race ought to be how you judge other people. 
Race is not dying away as a reality. Race is only one way of grouping people, and people will always be members of dif­ferent groups. Group loyalty in a dorm, or in a family, or in a university, is one of the things that makes life interesting. Diversity is generally a good thing (and, I should add, we could use more of it at NO). 
But, as Yogi would say, there's groups and then there's groups. The problem is that it's easy and natural to put too much emphasis on membership in one group, and to neglect one's membership in the larger group --humanity. 
Race-awareness becomes an ideology when it is used as the lens through which the rest of the world is understood. For instance, when someone says, "pale-skinned savage white devils have been the cause of pain and misery for all indige­nous peoples and cultures," a race-based ideology is clearly driving that view of history. Because it is a wrong ideology, it fails to account for the pain and misery caused by the Mongol clans invading Europe, or by turks invading the Balkans, or by Arab use of African slaves, or by the thou­sands of wars and conflicts between non-whites which occurred prior to any contact with whites. 
As the world gets bored with that species of liberalism which I would call consumerism, the old, failed ideologies try to fill the vacuum. Ethnic national­ism, mercantilism, and fascism are all on the comeback trail. We must fight them back -no, shame them back -into the sordid lairs from which they crawled. It's the same with race-ism. 
To transcend one group membership, we must appeal to a shared interest outside that group. This is why a race divi­sion is, or should be, an impos­sibility here. Catholicism and Christianity claim to transcend race: "in Christ there is no east or west." Whatever differences we have in perception, whatev­er differences we have in back­ground, should pale in compar­ison to the ideas we share, the most important ideas possible: God, good, salvation, sin, resur­rection. 
Chuck Roth is an unemployed third year law student. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 

• QuoTE Of THE DAY 
"There comes a time in a 
man's life when to get where he wants to go -and there are no doors or windows -he walks through a wall." 
-Bernard Malamud 
---------------------------------------------------------, 
:ACCENT
page 10 Friday, January 26, 1996 

If you were 
...., 

w "" 

ith the resurgence of the typically gray South Bend weather, depression often becomes a com­mon phenomena. Admit it, The Bend has its charm, but if we get anymore weather like th1s, we might as well be in Alaska. When you hear people say things like "I saw the sun today," you know you need an escape. To get our minds off those chi.lly temperature readings, campus is offering at least two activities this weekend to ease those winter blues. And if those fail, well, just warm your thoughts by imagining yourself on a desert island. Accent asked a whole bunch of important people what they'd take with them (movie, book, person) if they were stranded on a desert island equipped with a television and VCR. -(Lou Holtz was unable to answer our questions because he was recruiting and "probably had more important things on his mind." More important things than sun and relaxation?) The current temperature 

in Tahiti? 85 degrees. and sunny. (Note: Before you die, someone will you this question during a job inter­'~· Think now.)· 
trapp·e·d 
j 
~ ~ ~ 
. 


GOING CUCKOO AT NOTRE DAME 

By KRISTA NANNERY 
Accent Editor 

W
ould you rather be insane or in jail? In "One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest," Randle Patrick McMurphy chooses the asylum. He even feigns insanity in order to gain admittance. 
Admittance to the St. Edward's production of "One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest," directed by St. Ed's junior Adam Hicks, should be a lot easier. No straight jackets or shackles are required. 
The production, which opened last night at Washington Hall and stars sophomore Drew Rausch as McMurphy, is based on the novel by Ken Kesey. The St. Ed's production draws from a combination of literary and cinematic elements. Hicks, who loves both interpretations of the work, picks and chooses between the different versions and creates something entirely new. Dan O'Brien plays McMurphy's new friend Billy Bibbit and Mario Villalba is the Chief. 
McMurphy enters the asylum, assuming they will let him out when they discover he is not nuts. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Nurse Ratchet, played by Misty Goad, rules the roost with an iron fist and is determined to remain in total control. McMurphy realizes he's going to have to be smart and thus befriends everyone and begins to plan his escape. He also manages to liven up the place in the process, throwing a party before he attempts his break-out. 
Hicks said "For me, McMurphy's struggle against the establishment represents such issues as the struggle for individualism in a conformist society and the potential hazards of institutional­ization." 
In the past, The St. Edward's Hall Players were well funded. This year however, financial matters proved tight. The players petitioned the Club Coordination Council and formalize themselves in order to raise the needed funds. The Players' production of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" certainly proves the money was well spent. 
Hicks has noticed a marked growth in participa­tion and attendance at the productions. "This year we had over 80 people audition. We were able to assemble a very strong cast, essential because the play hinges on everyone working together as an ensemble," he notes. 

Friday, January 26, 1996 
;ACCENT 

page 11 

rt is Ian d• • • 

Student Film Festival Offers Artistic Repose 

FATHER EDWARD MALLOY University President Book--the Bible Person--A sage Movie--"A Man For All Seasons" 

CHRIS PETTRUCELLI Women's Soccer Coach Book--"Ball Four" by Jim Bouton Movie--"The Outlaw" with Josie Wells Person--"Eve, my wife." 
PATTY O'HARA 
Vice President of Student Affairs Book--" A Tale of Two Cities" Movie--"Rainman" Person--David Letterman 
CINDYDAWS Soccer Player Book--A joke book Movie--"Just Cause" Person--Demond 
MARY PAT NOLAN Saint Mary's Director ofAdmissions Book--Leon Uris'' "Redemption" ("It's the 
next item on my list of books I don't have 
time to read.") Person--Harrison Ford Movie--"Casablanca" 
DENNIS MCCARTHY Student Body Vice President Movie--"Escape From Alcatraz" with Clint 
Eastwood Person--Martha Stewart ("Because she could make the island feel like home!") 
Book--"Swiss Family Robinson" ("The book would be practical because Martha and I would want to start a family.") 
ASHLEY SCHARFF Soccer Player Book--"Where the Sidewalk Ends" Movie--"The Fox and the Hound" Person--Mike 
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he Snite Museum opens their doors this weekend to aspiring Student tilmmakers of Notre Dame when it houses the 7th Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival. The film fes­tival offers a chance for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to explore more of what is done on campus. 
Ted Mandell of the Communications and Theatre Department argues, "This campus doesn't always promote the arts as it should." He further adds, "The Student Film Festival offers a more accessible artistic venues, it cross­es over student culture and high culture. Film is a very personal art form, but it is in the form of entertainment." 
A number of students that have previously par­ticipated in the Film Festival have gone on to participate on some major projects. Andy Cris (1994) recently worked on the set of "Sense and Sensibility." Caroline Brock (1991) was the loca­tion manager for Clint Eastwood's film "A Perfect World." Chad Tomasoski premiered his film at the Notre Dame Film Festival that would go on to win the Canadian International Film Festival in the Experimental Video category. 
The film festival offers a variety of genres, including dramas and black comedies. Mandell comments, "It is always interesting to see what styles succeed and what does not." One of the films to watch out for in this year's crop is Brian Faiola and Kevin Loncar's story of a boy who longed to be an American Indian. The story gets rather complicated, but the talented duo handles it skillfully. 
Many of the actors and actresses starring in these films are either students of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's or they are residents of the Michiana Area. One of the stars of the films, who wished to remain anonymous, states, "The students directors handle themselves very pro­fessionally. They are not afraid to order us around. There is some real talent out there." 
This year's festival promises to continue the tradition of presenting tine. professional-looking films. The cost is a mere two dollars So go to the Snite on either Friday or Saturday at 7:30 or 
9:45 p.m. to journey into the minds of COTII majors...and bring your popcorn. 
RALPH MCINERNY Professor of Philosophy and author of the Father Dowling mystery series Book--"1 am tempted to give Chesterton's answer about the book, namely, 'How to Build a Boat,' but in the interests of origi­nality I will say 'Treasure lsland'--which cannot be reread too often." Movie--Father Dowling reruns Person--Ben Gunn ("Because, while half mad, he has salted away enough goat meat to fuel lots of re-readings of 'Treasure Island.'" 
JONATHAN PATRICK Student Body President Movie--Best of"Gilligan'B Island" 
Book--"du Lac" Person--MacGyver ("He'll find a way to get me home.) 
RONPOWLUS Football Player Book--"Misery" Movie--"Rocky II" Person--Kathy Ireland 
JOHN LUCAS 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Book--"Private Parts," Howard Stern Movie--"The Empire Strikes Back" Person--Marcel, the monkey from 
"Friends" and "Outbreak" 
JAMEYSOTIS ND L~prechaun Book--The Bible Movie--"A Charlie Brown Christmas" 
Person--Jesus 


.. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 26, 1996 
• Cou.EGE BASKETBAll 

Johnson steps to fore as UConn Bullets rout Rockets 
streaks to their 17th straight win 
By JEFFREY BAIR 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Rudy Johnson scored 16 points and fourth­ranked Connecticut tied a school record with its 17th consecutive win, defeating Pittsburgh 69­63 Thursday night in a Big East conference game. 
The Huskies (18-1, 8-0), who haven't lost since Nov. 24 against Iowa, tied a school record set by the 1952-53 and 1953-54 teams. They will try to set a new mark Sunday against Virginia. 
Ray Allen had 14 points on 5-of-15 shooting and Kirk King had 11 rebounds for Connecticut, which outrebounded the Panthers 42-32. 
Garrick Thomas had 16 points for Pitt, which lost its fourth straight and its fourth in five games since upsetting Georgetown on Jan. 9. The Panthers took No. 1 Massachusetts into overtime Tuesday but lost 79-71. 
Pitt (8-7, 3-4) failed on four consecutive opporunities to tie the score midway through the second half when Connecticut had leads of 53-52 and 55-52. 
Andre Howard, a member of Pitt's heralded freshman class, missed two shots during that stretch. 
Johnson, who has scored 40 points in his last two games, had 13 points for the Huskies in the first half, including two dunks in the first 2:10. Connecticut made 60 percent of its shots for the half, compared with Pitt's 37.5 percent, and led 38-30 at the break. 
After missing the Huskies' 70-point win over Central Connecticut State Tuesday, 7-foot cen­ter Travis Knight appeared to favor his broken left thumb in warmups and had four first-half turnovers. 
A doctor will insert a pin in the thumb Friday to stabilize a chipped bone. Knight, who is right-handed, should be able to play against Virginia. 

The Panthers looked sloppy early but rallied and led 17-12 at 12:31 behind Thomas' 11 points, including three 3-pointers. 
Connecticut responded with a 14-4 run, including Doron Sheffer's 3-pointer to take a 22-21 lead at 7:08. 
Pitt appeared to be most effective when using a full-court press and two point guards, Kevin Willard and Jerry McCullough. They and other Pitt guards forced Sheffer into eight turnovers. 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 
The Washington Bullets dressed nine players and were without Chris Webber and Mark Price as they prepared for their second game in two nights. 
To make matters worse, the competition Thursday was the two-time defending world champion Houston Rockets. 
A blowout seemed certain, but it was the Bullets who administered the beating. Brent Price scored 19 of his 25 points in the decisive first half and six other Washington players reached double fig­ures in an improbable 120-85 rout. 
"They played great and we played horribly. I'm not real happy about it, but it happens in this league," Houston coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. 
"If they played like that every night, they'd have one of the best records in the league," Rockets center Hakeem Olajuwon said. "They played like a championship team -they worked together and shot the ball very well." 
The Bullets made 15 of their first 19 shots and never trailed in handing Houston its most lopsided loss since a 38-point blowout in Portland last Feb. 
6. It was the most points scored against the Rockets this season. 
"This was a great win for us," Brent Price said. "It says a lot about our team, the way we stepped up after finding out that Chris and Mark weren't playing. Of course, it helped that we were home." 
Calbert Cheaney scored 20 points and Gheorghe Muresan had 17 points and 13 rebounds for the Bullets, who had lost two straight and five of six. 
Tim Legler had 16 points and Juwan Howard 14. 
Price made half of the Bullets' franchise-record with 12 3-pointers. He also had nine rebounds and eight assists in 41 minutes. 
Olajuwon eclipsed the 21,000-mark in career points, scoring 22 on 10-for-23 shoot­ing, but it wasn't nearly enough to prevent the Rockets from suffering their fourth loss in five games. Olajuwon has 21,010 points since join­ing the NBA in 1984. 
The Rockets shot a dismal 33 percent and were 3-for-18 from 3-point range. Clyde Drexler, named to the Western Conference All-Star team earlier in the day, was 3­for-1 0 from the floor and fin­ished with nine points. 
"It's a game where we hope we learn from it and don't let it happen again," he said. "We looked like a tired club." 
It was Houston's fourth game in five days. 
Led by Price, the Bullets shot 62 percent in scoring a season-high 71 points in the first half. Washington led by 23 at halftime and 93-62 entering the final period. 
The Rockets made only 21 of 56 shots in the opening three quarters. Washington, on the other hand, sank 10 of its 16 3-point shots during that span. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. · 
L.___N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  _JI ILOST & FOUND I  Summer Camp Employment Minnesota co-ed summer recre­ational camp seeks qualified indi­ 1980 Toyota Celica (supra) for sale, runs good, looks good, loaded, $875;  Bangin' Bed 1.... Because you can't reach. 2. South Shore!  WE DRINK! AUDITIONSII!!!!!!I!!!!!!!AUDITIONS  
viduals to work as cabin counselors  VCR+TV $100;  3. Can I do anything for you?  The Nerd  
• • Spring Break • •  LOSTIIIII  who can also instruct in various  call 272-7645  4. It smells like  in this room!  Sat 1/27 and Sun 1/28 7:00p.m.  
TO MAZATLAN, MEXICO from  I.D. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  activites. Representative will be at  5. Soars through the air like an  204 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
$399. Airf7 nights hotel. Free night­ Reward for return. Please call, sen­ SMC LeMans on Feb.1 from 1 0-2  LASER PRINT AND CHECK E­ eagle ... shwoo, shwoo!  No preparation necessary.  
ly parties/discounts. Call Ron 800­ timental value.  and at NO Dooley, O'Hara Lounge  MAIL FROM YOUR OWN ROOM!  6. Just lift your butt a little.  sponsored by  
288-0328  Call Chris, @ 1662  on Feb.2 from 10-2. Questions?  MAC CLASSIC, LASER WRITER  7. Do you want my number?  Notre Dame Student Players  
Call Camp Foley at 218-543-6161  LC, & MODEM. $700. 272-4649  8. I still smell like Drakkar.  ACTING OPPORTUNITIES!!!I\1111  
Switched: If you have the wrong  or email at sbfhouse@uslink.net  9. Where's the Sangria?  
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T  turquoise double-breasted jacket from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give  ????????????????????  TICKETS  10. Alka Seltzer!?!  I think we need a Bridget's beat  
BLOWITI  me a call. I have yours.  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ writer. Interested, BB?  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  Andy  X1765  MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO  Need 3 or 4 GA's for W. V.  Mentalist  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  SUBLET -lWO BATH, lWO BED­ Call Ted x3381  $$$  NOELI!I  
$359 Florida $1 09 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  WANTED  ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE -AUGUST.  Come let Craig Karges of Leno and  NOELl!! NOEL!!!  
1-800-426-7710  CALL 273-1738.  Need 2 GAs for W.Virginia game.  Letterman fame read your mind and  NOEL!!!  
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­ ????????????????????  Call Karen x2371.  mystify you with his powers.  NOELl!!  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  Appearing Friday, Jan. 26 at 8 p.m.  We're gettin' out the stick! II  
Cruise! 7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  FOR RENT  Need GA for W.V.  at the Library Auditorium. $$$$$$$$$$$FREE$$$$$$$$$$$  And tonight....  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  Korea. Many employers provide  Call Leigh X4179  Brought to you by your friends at  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring­ room & board + other benefits. No  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ SUB!  The countdown is on... five days  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  teaching background or Asian lan­ ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  1 or 2 tickets to Billy Joel  until JENNIFER HALL IS 21 !II  
-.·  guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  appearance Jan.30. Call277-6392.  Stressed? Need to find your cen­ter? Tai'Chi/Kung Fu Club at the  Adam, you know what the penalty is  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  J55842  2773097  Offer: 1 or 2 MACBETH  Rockne, Room 301, Sundays 10­ for violating a game of (I Never ....  
Specials I 111"'o Lowest Price  TICKETS for Sat. Feb. 24 in  Noon.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  exchange for Thurs. (prefered)  Info? Call Dee Ann 1-5382.  Amy,  
From $429! Save $100 On  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 219-291-7153  or Fri. tickets. Please call Claudia  Woof! Woof!  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ Positions are now available at  (x-4088). Leave a message.  Love Liz and Adam  
breaktravel.com  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  HOMES FOR RENT  St. Edward's Hall Players  
1-800-678-6386  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  232-2595  proudly present:  WE DRINK!  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  I need tickets for the St. John's  One Flew Over  
N55844  1 bedroom in 3 bedroom home  game February 11. Call Jim at 287­ The Cuckoo's Nest  Given the choice, I wondered who'd  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  Female preferred  4966.$$  Thurs., Fri, Sat. 8 p.m.  he'd choose, Nicky or Raki.  
Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to  Use of all utilities  @ Washington Hall  Problems.  
Best Barsl 7 Nights In Key West  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ 300.00/mo. -Close to campus  CASH FOR BILLY JOEL TIXI  Tickets available at LaFortune Info  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Safe neighborhood  Top Dollar for your tickets!  desk or at the door.  It took long enough, but the  
Beaches-Near Disney) $1691  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Call Paul 232-2794  Call Chris 256-9728 anytime.  wardrobe is finally whole again.  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring­ month. Room and Board!  How ethereal. And I thought the  
breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386  Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call  TRUE BEAUTY 3 MILES TO CAMPUS  PERSONAL  Grab 'n Go Bags are coming! This is your chance to make a  yellow sweatshirt was going the be the ransom.  
(206)971-3510 ext A55843  237-9718  difference and earn a special  
***14 SPRING BREAK***  0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  bonus for the rest of the semester.  Yo 927-8, here's a penny for your  
:..  SHOPPING DAYS LEFT! It's not the SIZE of the ad that mat­ ZAPPA FANS I am writing the entry on F.Z. for the  FOR SALE  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP  Bags will be on sale in both dining halls starting Jan. 31.  thoughts. It must have reeked of Eye-talians.  
.ters ... it's the VALUE of the pack­ Dictionary of American Biography. I  LaFortune Student Center  Brought to you by Lewis Hall.  
agel Call Leisure Tours for the best  want to listen to some of his albums  For Sale: 93 Honda Accord LX  Phone 631-COPY  Copy t~diting, photography, tennis ­ 
. travel packages to South Padre  before beginning library research .  22K. 4-door, auto, air, cruise, cas­ 0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  Walt Nasty Dog @ Jazzman's  she does it all.  And never, ever  
Island and Cancun. 1-800-838­ If you have any FZ albums and  sette.  Saturday.  complains about it. What a trooper.  
8203.  would be willing to let me tape  Excellent condition; faculty owned.  Hey Yonkof, Why don't we just  
@@@@@@@@@  them, please call277-9071  631-7555.  make it a CASE of Bass Pale Ale ­but of course it's up to you because  Adam, you know what the penalty is for violating a game of (I Never ....  Kickball Dreams II debuts next Friday. Don't miss it.  
Saturday night  WANTED: Good people to earn  FOR SALE!  you're the one that is gonna have to  
Stamper BoB  money by becoming reps for  1985 MERKUR XR4TI  buy it and I wouldn't want to break  Amy,  I heard Late Night Olympics has a 4  
& the 4X4's  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  85 K MILES  your budget or anythingI!  Woofl Woof!  mile run. Anyone interested? Ooke)  
at Bridget's  299-1999 evenings.  CALL HEINER @ 232-7939  -Mugsy  Love Liz and Adam  

Friday, January 26, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Wildcats hang on 
By BOB BAUM 
Associa1ed Press 
COHVAI.LIS, Ore. 

Ben Davis scored 18 points and .Joe McLean added 16 Thursday night as 13th­r a n k e d Arizona held on for a surprisingly tough 66-59 victory over Onlgon State. Olson


T h e Wildcats ( 14­3 overall, 4-2 Pac-1 OJ beat the Beavers (3-12, 1-5) for the 12th straight time and the 23rd time in their last 24 meetings. 
But it was far from the absolute domination that ev­nryone expectnd, especially since Omgon State was without leading scorer Rob Williams and two other players for disi­plinary reasons. 
The game wasn't decided until Davis sank two free 
throws with 11.2 seconds to play. 
Arizona led by as many as 20 points early in the second half, but the Beavers rallied to cut the lead to 60-55 when J.D. Vetter's 3-pointer from the cor­ner capped a 15-2 Oregon State run with 2:19 remaining. 
McLean made one of two free throws to boost the lead to 61­55, then Oregon State botched several efforts to get closer. 
The Wildcats didn't have a field goal in the final 10:12. Reggie Geary's two free throws with 8:13 to go made it 58-40 before Vetter's 3-pointer start­ed Oregon State's unexpected comeback. 
Sonny Benjamin, who scored a career-high 19 points, scored seven straight Oregon State points during his team's late surge. 
The Wildcats had nine turnovers in the final 10 min­utes and finished 20. 
Vetter added 14 points for the Beavers. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

hx (21 8)277-2455 

R.oai. b_Vb_~Y F~IDAY AT 
tv11CUIANA'6 LAQL;"b.6T NIL;"UTCLUE> 
~~~-~-'tlaad 
fRIDAY JANUARY 26T!J 
THE 


fi/NDROif 
No COVER BEFORE 8! 
222 S. Michgan Downtown South Bend---234-5200 


Utah, Cincinnati survive scares, Virginia Tech beaten badly 
Associa1ed Press 
Brandon Jessie scored 18 points and No. 10 Utah beat Texas El Paso 68-54 Thursday night in the Miners first game since coach Don Haskins suf­fered a heart attack. 
Haskins, who has coached at UTEP for 35 years, had a mild heart attack Saturday and underwent triple-bypass surgery. He is not expected to return to the bench this season. 
Jessie was a dominant force on an unusually quiet night for Keith Van Horn, Utah's leading scorer. But he was only one facet of a powerful offense that overwhelmed UTEP with hard drives to the basket and strong outside shooting. 
Mark Rydalch added 17 for Utah. Van Horn, who came in averaging 20 points, finished with 10, nine of which came in the second half. 
Carl Davis led UTEP with 14 followed by Mark Ingles with 11. 
Utah (15-3, 7-1 Western Athletic Conference) won its sixth straight game and sent UTEP (10-7, 2-6) to its fifth straight loss. 
• ,I ..:,.t-

Engagement Rmgs 7~
1

10%-15% OFF! ' '\II" Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. lfushington, Chicago,IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Catnlog 
Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog a/ http: !/www.sapeck. comAapeck 
IIIII CIUIIITIY BEl I BIEAIFAIT RECIITIY 
T/~e Preferred Registry 

R111ervud luxurloul room• or privata homa1 lor l'fJ/SMC lpec:jiiiV811f W18111111111: JPW/Grld./Foolbll 
To raerva Clll (21 81277-71103 

Cincinnati 71 DePaul 61 
Danny Fortson, shackled most of the game by DePaul's sagging defense, led a deci­sive spurt in the closing min­utes as No. 5 Cincinnati pulled away to a 71-61 victory Thursday night. 
Cincinnati (13-1, 4-1 Conference USA) had to rely almost exclusively on its 3­point shooting against the Blue Demons' tight zone defense until Fortson, its leading scorer, took over. 
Fortson had a three-point play, another free throw and two putbacks in a 16-6 run that put Cincinnati in com­mand, 66-5 7, with 3:19 left. He finished with 17 points, 10 of them in the final 7:25. 
DePaul (7-10, 0-6) lost its seven straight overall and its lOth in a row to Cincinnati. 
DePaul crowded the middle to stop Fortson, who had averaged 29 points in his last six games. 
That left the perimeter open, and Cincinnati exploited it by hitting a season-high 13 3-pointers in 30 attempts. 
Darnell Burton hit seven 3s and tied his career high with 24 points, and Damon Flint added 18. Bryant Bowden led DePaul with 17. 
DePaul, which hasn't beaten Cincinnati in four years, came out inspired and ran off a 13­3 lead. 
The Blue Demons calmly passed through Cincinnati's traps, worked for open shots and hit them -6-of-8 in the first five minutes. 
DePaul also accomplished its main goal defensively: stopping Fortson, who man­aged just five points in the first half. 
But Cincinnati once again showed its offensive balance by turning its 3-point shooters loose. 
The Bearcats hit just one 2­point field goal in the first half. The rest were 3-pointers -seven in all. 
Twenty of Cincinnati's 32 shots in the half came from 
behind the arc. 
Burton and Flint alternated 3-pointers in an 11-2 spurt midway through the half that gave Cincinnati a 21-20 lead. DePaul took a 33-31 lead into intermission after Marcus Singer hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
DePaul's lack of depth showed late in the first half and again in the second. 
Juan Gay and Charles Gelatt, two top players off the bench, missed their seventh consecutive game because of academic suspension, and 3­point specialist Peter Patton has been slowed by a sprained ankle the last six games. 
Coach Joey Meyer had even less to work with after for­ward Brian Currie, the Blue Demons' third-leading scorer, picked up his third foul with 
6:26 left in the first half. Jermaine Watts, the second­leading scorer, fell and strained his left wrist less than a minute later, but played the second half. 
Currie fouled out and Bowden played the final seven minutes with four fouls. 
GW64 VT47 

Kwame Evans scored five of 
his 13 points during an early 
second-half spurt which shut 
the door on a Virginia Tech 
comeback bid as George 
Washington upset the eighth­
ranked Hokies 64-4 7 
Thursday night. 
The Colonials (10-4 overall, 
4-1 Atlantic 10) never trailed, 
jumping out to an 18-8 lead 
with 9:21 remaining in the 
frrst half, then stretching that 
to 12 points three times over 
the next 5 1/2 minutes. 
Virginia T~ch (12-2, 5-l) 
mounted only one serious 
threat. going on a 10-0 run 
and pulling to 27-25 on a 
short jumper by Ace Custis 
with 35.6 seconds remaining 
in the half. 
However,George 
Washington scored the final 
basket of the half. 

World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 

page 14 Friday, January 26, 1996
The Observer • SPORTS 

Mountaineers to test IrishWyche diagnosed 
. ·.......t•.•TE.···· ... •W'.·.··•;;:tll.!l[.j·ll!li!til§Mfj::•... i.&':;~;" 
By TIM SEYMOUR so many players in double fig­more physically active at the Sptcial to the Ob$etver Pleurisy is an inflamma:~pn 
Associate Sports Editor ures." Joyce. of the wall of tile htng ~nd 
Five Mountaineers have "When the offensive rebound­NOTRE DAME, Ind. Wyche is not expected to miss 
Head coaches John MacLeod cracked the double digit barrier er is allowed to wipe you out,Univers.ity of Notre Datn,e any action be~ause ofJhe.. £()n~ 
of Notre Dame and Gale Catlett in points per game, led by · it's a problem, and we're goingfreshman guard Antoni Wyche dition. He is being treated with of West Virginia were under no guard Cyrus Jones (14.4) and to have to respond," said was diagnosed with a case of medication and will be exam~ 
delusions that their inaugural 

forward Damian Owens (14.2). MacLeod.
pleurisy in his right lung this ined aga\n on Friday morning. 
seasons in the Big East would 

Such balance has been one of ''I'd much rather have themafternoon after he suffered Wyche was transported from be easy. 
the struggles for the Irish say that we're a physical team
breathing problems during· a. Notre Dame to St. Joseph's 
However, rather than suffer­

throughout the season, as only than a soft team." ing through lopsided losses, the forward Pat Garrity and guard Saturday will mark a return practice session. Medical Center. 
Gottlieb 
continued from page 20 
elementary maneuver, has a certain panache when execut­ed by him. 
And don't think he doesn't know it. 
"I believe that I can pass as good or better than anyone else in the country," he says in a straight-forward manner. "That's something I've known since high school." 
"Sometimes Doug throws passes that people aren't ready for, but they are the right pass­es," explained classmate Phil Hickey. a recipient of several of Gottlieb's 80+ assists this sea­son. 
Recently, though, the rest of the Irish have started to catch on. In the waning moments of Notre Dame's victory over Rutgers, Gottlieb was able to penetrate and slip a pass through two defenders to an expectant Derek Manner, turn­ing a crucial possession into an easy bucket. 
Such plays are beginning to ·become the rule rather than the exception, according to Gottlieb. 
"At first I wasn't used to the starters, so it took some adjust­ment," he explains. "Now Ryan Hoover (Notre Dame's leading outside threat) knows that when I drive, no matter where I am, I'll get him the ball. 
Setting up his teammates is only one portion of his job description, though, and Gottlieb has had to work on the other, less developed facets of his game, especially his ball­handling and shooting. 
"When I'm in the game, I have to have the confidence to shoot when I'm open," he admits. "I think too much about my shooting. That's why I pass so well, because that's 
more  of a  reaction than  a  
thought."  
Ballhandling has  been  a  


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1996-97 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, is not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to john Lucas by 4:00 p.m., Friday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the position or application process, contactjohn Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
more successful endeavor, mainly because he has battled tooth and nail with junior defensive specialist Admore White in practice. The learn­ing curve from those sessions has benefitted him greatly in the pressure cooker that is Big East defense. 
Running the point involves more than making the pretty passes and taking care of the ball, though. Luckily for the Irish, Gottlieb is the Napoleon of floor generals in more than just stature. 
Gregarious by nature, he has had no problem asserting him­self on the court, something MacLeod wants him to do more of. 
"When Doug barks out direc­tions, people respond," said MacLeod. "The team respects his intensity and dedication. He's shown a lot of moxy out there." 
"We all look to Hoov for lead­ership, but he's been defensed so hard that he has to look after his own game first, while Pat leads by example," says Gottlieb. ''I'm the more vocal leader out there."' 
Actions, though, speak louder than words, and Gottlieb's dis­tribution skills show that he is no passing fancy. 
coaches have instead had to cope with the greater frustra­tion of knocking on the door of major upsets, only to be turned away at the last minute. 
For one school, the luck will change this weekend. 
Catlett's 7-9 Mountaineers (2­6 Big East) travel west to visit the Irish on Saturday at 7:00 at the Joyce Center, hoping to par­ley recent home-court success into a road victory. 
West Virginia's conference record is not indicative of just how close the Mountaineers have come. 
They have taken both Georgetown and Pittsburgh to overtime and dropped a 69-67 heartbreaker against Villanova before finally finishing strong to knock off Syracuse. 
"We had a stretch where we played the four toughest teams in the league," said Catlett. "Now the players have gotten a chance to catch up with them­selves, and we've had good preparation time." 
"West Virginia's record is 7-9, but it could be 11 or 12 wins because they've lost a lot of close games," MacLeod said. "They're a team that can stretch you out defensively from the perspective that they have 
Birthday
ean! 
Years! 

Ryan Hoover average above seven per game. 
"We're starting to get produc­tion out of Pete Miller (who has averaged 11 points in the last two games). and we need more out of Derrick Manner" said MacLeod. 
"They started to come through against Miami when the defense tightened up on Hoover. But in terms of bal­ance, what you want is what West Virginia has." 
What West Virginia also has is rebounding prowess, some­thing that the Irish lacked against Miami. Saturday's game will provide the Irish a chance to reassert their mettle, both physical and mental. 
While the Mountaineers have struggled away from home this season, the Irish have been 
ON CAMPUS Junior Parent Weekend ~P[(IAL february 15-18, 1qqb 
Come early; stay late; same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $40.00 per parent, whether you stay two, three, or four nights. Roqms are available Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. For reservations, call 2 I 9-63 I-75 I2. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recrutt someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SoUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 2~010 
to action for freshman center Phil Hickey, whose early career took a strange turn when he didn't make the trip to Miami because he was uncomfortable with air travel. 
Hickey's presence will be a welcome addition in the lineup, as will his imposing 6-11, 265­pound frame. 
He has been a force on the offensive glass for the Irish, with 25 offensive rebounds in limited minutes. 
Health is also a concern for the Irish. Only freshman Gary Bell is out of the lineup, but both Derek Manner and Marcus Young are still attempting tore­gain their pre-injury form. 
"Neither Derek nor Marcus is back to where they were before the injury," noted MacLeod. Young has missed eight games. 
lt·s a Nightmare­A Virtual NIGHTMARE! The Baby is 21 ••• HaPPY Birthday 
Jamie 
1(}cz4 ~~ eued 'Pwte, ~. Z'ad, &/Itt! 



Friday, January 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
--------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------~~-­
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Terry Lorenz and the Irish need to step up the defensive intensity. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame hopes to build momentum heading into the home stretch of the CCIIA schedule. 
"We take a lot of pride in our defense, so the Michigan game was pretty frustrating," said senior defenseman Garry Gruber. "They were in a bit of a zone, and we couldn't do much about it. Hopefully, things will be different this 
B E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 BPS 
weekend." 
Gruber, junior Brian McCarthy, freshman Benoit Cotnoir, senior Jeremy Coe, junior Ben Nelsen, and the rest of the unit have struggled to maintain consistency for three periods. They will have to ele­vate their game to contain a Cadet offense, led by Joe Sharrock (28 points) and lan Winer (28 in 17 games). that averages 4.36 goals per game. 
It's anyone's guess as to who will start for Notre Dame at goaltender. Senior Wade Salzman floundered against Michigan after putting together a string of solid games against Ohio State and Illinois-Chicago. Sophomore Matt Eisler, who started 12 of the team's first 14 games, should also see exten­sive time between the pipes. 


"Wade has played well for us in the opportunities he has had." said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "We haven't given him or Matt Eisler a lot of sup­port behind them. That is an area that we will have to im­prove in these final 13 games." 
The Irish offense, led by se­nior center Jamie Ling (24 points) and freshman right wing Brian Urick (17), will have their hands full against an Army corps trained to defend the net in addition to the coun­try. The unit is the top scoring defense in the country, giving up just 2.09 goals a contest. 
Ling, who recorded two as­sists and the game winning goal in Friday night's 5-4 victory over UIC, is just four points away from reaching 150 for his career. He will become just the 13th player in Notre Dame his­tory to achieve that feat. 
"Even when we have had problems, he has been consis­tent for us all season long," said Urick. "He has set me up with some easy scoring chances, and it has helped me adjust. Now we need to carry it over against Army." 
Opportunity has knocked. Now it's up to the Irish to kick open the door. 

• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CXlJ Hardback and 

Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $200 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
>:::::;. :_.. ·..: ·. 

~~·i·siJMMEil SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE 
ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and 
course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC m SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Ryan Simme returned in yesterday's match, winning 7-6, 6-4. 
Notre Dame netters starting out strong 
ByJOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
After blanking the Ohio State Buckeyes 7-0, the Notre Dame men's tennis team continued their winning ways with a con­vincing 5-2 win over the No. 23 Minnesota squad. 
"This win has got to help our confidence a lot," head coach Bob Bayliss commented. "I am really concerned with the first half of our schedule. In our first ten matches, eight will be in the top twenty at the end of the season." 
Included in that group will be No. 17 Kentucky, No. 10 ·Louisiana State, and No. 3 
Georgia. 

In yesterday's match, senior captain Mike Sprouse defeated last year's midwest and Big Ten champion Lars Hjarrand. Sprouse took three sets to over­come his opponent, 6-3,2-6, 6­4. 
"Mike played a very coura­geous match today as he beat a great player," praised coach Bayliss. 
Also contributing in a big way was Jakup Pietrowski, who won in straight sets (6-3, 6-4) at the number two singles slot. Coach Bayliss remarked, "Jakup stepped up to the plate today, and came up with a big victory. He served big, returned well, and was more aggressive than he has been in the past." 
Another courageous perfor­mance was turned in yesterday by junior Ryan Simme. Before his 7-6, 6-4 victory, Ryan had not played a set, as he had just 
B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
Hours: 

Delivery 
'Till I AM Sun­

273-3890 
Thurs Lunch and 
'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat
Regular Hours 
Lunch 11-2 

5UPERBOWL SPECIAL 
I• 14" 2 toppings~ $1.62 PLUS TAX I· 14" cheese or pepperoni -$6.67 PLus 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 
273-3890 
273-3890 
begun hitting the ball two 
weeks ago. In the third singles 
slot Simme defeated Eric 
Donley, as strong player who 
will probably crack the top ten 
in the midwest this season. 
Simme had surgery on his foot in October, and was forced completely out of action until January. 
"The foot felt pretty good today, it has been getting better and better everyday. It felt great and was a lot of fun to play in competition again," noted Simme. 
Simme, with the aid of trainer Mike Bean, spent a lot of time recuperating in anticipation of yesterday's somewhat unex­pected return. 
In the number five singles match Senior J. J. O'Brien defeated a very talented fresh­man in straight sets 6-3,6-1. 
"Today J.J., a veteran, played a young player and that was exactly what it looked like. He just schooled him all day," lauded Bayliss. 
The two singles losses were tough to swallow as freshman Brian Patterson and senior Jason Pun dropped their matches, in the No. 4 and No. 6 singles slots respectively. 
"We felt we could have won those two matches," Bayliss ob­served. "I just told them today just wasn't our day today, but we will win those matches later on down the road." 
On the doubles side Sprouse and Pun won a very tough match over the Golden Gophers No. 2 and 3 players, Ben Gabler and Eric Donley, 9-7. 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call CALL AHEAD FOR 
631-6986 WEEKEND ORDERS 
------~----­
-~~--·--...,.._----~--­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 26, 1996 

• AUSTRALIAN OPEN • VOU.EYBAU. 
Chang upsets Agas,si to advance ND assistant moves on 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE,Australia 

Defending champion Andre Agassi ran out of miracles at last Saturday when human backboard Michael Chang over­came a rib injury to reach the Australian Open final. 
The top-ranked Agassi, who clawed from behind in four matches and won three five-set­ters, played indifferently as a nearly flawless Chang beat him for the first time in a Grand Slam event, 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (7-1). 
Chang, who will be seeking his first Grand Slam champi­onship since he won the French Open at 17 in 1989, will play the winner of the other semifi­nal between Boris Becker and Mark Woodforde. 
Unhampered by strained rib cartilage, Chang served 13 aces against the best returner in ten­nis, and made only 22 errors to Agassi's uncharacteristic 60 on a wind-whipped afternoon. 
"If you're No. 1 in the world, it doesn't mean that you're safe anymore," said Chang, the No. 5 seed. "Obviously you have to 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Downhill Ski Trip-RecSports will be sponsoring a Down Hill Ski Trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, January 26. Transportation provided. Register in advance by January 24, at RecSports. For informa­tion aboutfees cal\1-6100. 
Campus Bowling League­RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League that will com­pete on Thursday nights between February 1 & March 
7. Register your 3 person team in advance at RecSports by January 31. For more infor­mation calll-6100. 
Martial Arts-The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute is starting beginner classes for the spring semester. Practices are Thursdays from 6:30-8:00 in 
be out there playing your best tennis." 
Agassi hit lazy drop shots that floated into the net, and he slugged wild shots that soared at times 10 feet wide or long. He made no effort for some balls that might have been within his reach, as if he had nothing left after so many comebacks. 
Chang, despite the rib injury, had fresh legs as he advanced to the final without losing a set in any of his six matches. 
He hit serves at up to 122 mph, but many of his aces were much slower, well-placed slices that caught Agassi by surprise. 
Agassi struggled all match to hold serve, never more than in the ninth of the second set, which went to deuce 11 times before Agassi finally held with the second of his three aces. 
Seven years after Chang be­came the youngest men's Grand Slam winner in history, he'll have a chance to win another major. 
He wrapped up the first set in 26 minutes with help from Agassi's 15 errors. 
In the second, trailing 3-0, Agassi looked as if he were about to turn things around af­ter he stopped for several min­utes to watch two swallows cir­cle near him, then shooed away a cricket with his racket. If Agassi was also trying to slow down Chang, the tactic worked for a while. 
Agassi then won six straight points, breaking Chang with a spectacular drop shot and a forehand passing shot down the line and then holding serve at love. He broke again to 3-3. 
But Chang broke back im­mediately when Agassi hit an easy smash long and then net­ted a backhand. 
Serving at 3-5, Agassi saved three set points and finally won on his ninth game point, but Chang served out the set. Agassi hit a forehand return long on set point. 
Agassi quickly gained a ser­vice break in the third set, go­ing ahead 3-1 on some strong shooting and a double fault by Chang. But after he held for 4­1, Chang held and then broke for 4-3 as Agassi belted a fore­hand approach shot long. 

Room 301 Rock and Sunday 6:00-8:00 Room 219 Rock. For more information call Kyle 4­3282. 
Interhall Football-The Interhall football equipment return will be held on January 24 from 3:00-5:00 at Jake Klein Field. 
Racquetball & Volleyball-The RecSports Office is offering Campus Raquetball Doubles, Interhall Team Racquetball, Co-Ree Volleyball and Grad!Fac/Staff Volleyball. The deadline is January 24. Please call 631-6100 for date and times of captain's m~etings. 
Equestrian Club-There will be a meeting January 24 at 7:00 in room 222 of the library. Be prepared to pay for your lessons. 

By BETSY BAKER 
Spores Writer 
In the last year, the Notre Dame volleyball program has seen some of its best member:s come and go. 
All-American outside hitter Christy Peters graduated. Senior Shannon Tuttle sus­tained a career-ending injury. 
Just recently. senior Brett Hensel played her last game for the Irish as they lost to Oral Roberts in the NCAA regionals. 
Once again, the Irish will say good-bye to one of the key components to their success as assistant coach Steve Schlick has accepted a head-coaching job with California Polytechnic State University. San Luis Obispo. 
"I think it's a great opportu­nity for Steve," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of her assistant. "He is going to be a great head coach. Cal Poly made a smart hire." 
Two of the main factors in Schlick's decision to accept the head coaching position were the completion of a Masters Degree in Administration in 1994 from Notre Dame and the fact that he originates from the west and his family currently resides in Arizona. 
"Being part of Notre Dame was something I wanted to do for a long time," Schlick com­mented. 
"But my whole family lives out there and after I finished my degree, I started thinking about returning." 
Schlick came to Notre Dame from Arizona State in 1991. During his five seasons with the Irish, Schlick helped com­pile a 143-37 record, including four appearances at the NCAA tournament. 
His main responsibilities with the Irish laid in scouting opponents and preparing the team before a match and working with the blocking and defense during the match. 
"The program has pro­gressed tremendously in the four years that I've been there and I have gained dramatically from my experience at Notre Dame," Schlick said. 
Cal Poly offers Schlick the opportunity to take some of that experience and transform it into the leadership of a pro­gram with a great tradition in collegiate volleyball. 
"We are very anxious to wel­come Steve to Cal Poly," John McCutcheon, Director of Athletics, commented. 
Cal Poly will enter one of the most competitive conferences in college volleyball next sea­son, the Big West, and has high hopes of what he will bring to the program. 
"The program there was ranked number one in the na­tion in 1984 and '85. There's definitely a strong tradition," Schlick noted. 
"I hope to reestablish it and get it back on its feet." 

r , , 

CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
SPECIALIZING IN LONG-DISTANCE WEDDING PLANNING 
CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
219 258-5482 Call or wrice for free informational packet 
The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call 631-4541. 
OQII•.31Y is proud of its food quaBty. 
Store Hours Daily 
11:00 AM -lATE 
232-2BW-3 
(2293) 
FUU MENU SERVED UNTIL CWSE EVERYDAY FUUMENUFOR TAKE-OUT ALSO 
Menu For Children Ages 12 aocl Under 
bw-3 
Catch the
Grill t'l Pub® 
big game Tuesday on one of 20¢ Wings our 20 TVs 
The "Real Wing" (not just an appetizer but a meal all its own) -BLAZIN'-WILD-HOT-HOTBBQ-MEDIUM-CURRY-MILD-SWEET­BBQ-HONEY MUSTARD­
bw-3® FAMOUS BUFFALO CHIPS Natural Cut Potato Slices -REGULAR-with CHEESE-BASKET-with CHEESE-BASKET with BUFFALO BREATH CHILl & CHEESE-CAJUN STYLE 
SANDWICHES bw-3® BUFFALO r, ~ 
•Beef-On-Week 
Real Beer Battered Onion Rings ~---wl \)"

•Burger-On-Week 
-REGULAR-BASKET-CAJUN STYLE-· -· •Chicken-On-Week 


SOUTH OF BUFFALO bw-3 SPECIALTIES SAlADS •BuffaBto •bw-3 dogs•Pocket Pizza • •Blue Nachos 

•Danner Salad •Buffalo Breath Chili 

WE ACCEPT ALL 
•Taco S~ad •Buffalo Breath 
MAJOR CREDIT 

•Chil!gnlled Nachos 
CARDS

Chacken 
•Chicken Fajitas 
•Steak Fajitas 

. The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Po1nt guard Jeannine Augustin (11) will lead Notre Dame's half-court 
trap tommorrow as the Irish travel to Miami for a Big East match-up. 
An ND Education Gives You All Kinds of 
Breaks! 
Happy Birthday, Rob 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Big East bullies look to curb the 'Canes 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
With two straight wins under its belt, the Notre Dame women's basketball team trav­els to Miami for a match-up with the Hurricanes tomorrow night. 
Notre Dame continued its winning ways last night by defeating conference rival St. John's 66-53. The Irish have won all but one game during January to preserve their first place standing in the Big East conference. They have also improved their overall record to 13-4. 
Miami's Big East record is less than stellar. Before last night's late game with West Virginia, the Hurricanes were 3-5 in the conference. But Miami's team consists of many great individual athletes who could burn the Irish if they are taken for granted. 
"We haven't talked much about their team, but the coaches told us that Miami is very quick and athletic like Georgetown," commented Irish guard Jeannine Augustin. 
The Hurricanes consist of three starters who have season scoring averages in double fig­ures. Sophomore forward Octavia Blue leads her squad in 
Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished •Security Systems •Washers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 

Call Pat McKelvay at 258-9996 
scoring with 14.8 points per game. She also pulls down an average of 6. 7 rebounds per game, which leads the team. Along with Blue, Miami will pri­marily look for Desma Thomas and Jennifer Jordan to provide much of the team's offense. 
"We're going to go with a half court trapping defense," said Augustin. 
The Irish coaches and players hope this defensive style will successfully contain Miami's talented athletes. 
Another key to an Irish victo­ry this weekend is intensity. The Irish have struggled lately to maintain a high level of intensity for two consecutive halves. Head coach Muffet McGraw and her staff have done an excellent job motivat­ing the Irish during the halftime break of their two previous games. In both cases, the Irish struggled early but dominated in the second half. 
"Sometimes we come into a game, and we're just not ready mentally. But in the second half we get stronger," explained Augustin. "Coach pretty much lays it on the line." 
If the Irish remain focused for fourty consecutive minutes, Notre Dame's talent should be too much for the Hurricanes to handle. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 
1-4543. 
page 17 

Poor 
continued from page 20 
"Carey is definitely the emo­tional leader of this team," echoed McGraw. "She gets ev­erybody fired up, and she works so hard in practice and on the court. She's certainly earned the title of captain." 
Poor is one of two seniors on a young Irish team, making her role as co-captain all the more natural. 
Fellow senior Stacy Fields cites her experience and, natu­rally, her work ethic as among her greatest qualities. 
"If you asked any of the play­ers or coaches on this team, they would agree that she works probably harder than anyone else," said Fields. "She's also been through a lot, which makes her a true leader and captain. We've gone through a good number of ups and downs together." 
Those ups and downs in­cluded a hard freshman year for Fields and Poor, as they were part of an inconsistent Irish club that went 15-12 and lost in the MCC tourney. 
"Coming here, you don't know what to e·xpect," said Poor. "Freshman year was hard for Stacy and I. Since then, we've improved a lot, and I think we are really starting to gel now. This is the most uni­fied team I've been on during my four years here." 
While her work ethic has not changed since she first arrived three years ago, Poor has improved certain aspects of her game, notably her free throw shooting and her rebounding. 
While Poor's free throw per­centage continues to hover around 80%, perhaps it is her improved rebounding which is most impressive. 
With a 6.3 average, Poor is approaching that goal, but there remains a larger mission in her mind. 
"We want to make it to the NCAA's," said a suddenly seri­ous Poor. 
"In order to reach that goal, we're going to have to keep playing the Big East teams tough." 
With a current 8-1 league mark, the Irish are sticking fast to this goal as well, and as they head into the final stretch run of the season, they can be sure of at least one thing: 
Carey Poor will continue to work hard to make the Irish the best they can be. She simply wouldn't have it any other way. 
~~~L--~ 
e Notre Dame Marketing Club Presents: 
Mr. John McDonough 
Vice-President of Marketing Chicago Cubs 
Friday, January 26 Jordan Auditorium ( COBA) 
4:30PM 
...... 
-
-----~---------­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, January 26, 1996 
• fENCING 


Fencing marathon on Key regional contest to provide tap at the Joyce Center early season test for ranked Irish 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
Before settling down and watching the Super Bowl, Notre Dame's fencing team must endure a grueling day-long fencing meet in the Joyce Center. 
The meet involves seven uni­versities plus Notre Dame in a marathon meet that could last eleven hours. The men's team faces six schools and the wom­en's team goes head-to-head with seven. Some coaches do not feel the feat can be pulled off. Visitors include Tri-State University, Case Western, Mount Mary College, Purdue, Ohio State, Northwestern and Lawrence University. 
Coach Yves Auriol decided this week on a roster move, switching freshman Nicole Mustilli from the foil to the epee team. In her first meet last week in Northwestern Mustilli was 22-1. Mustilli placed third in a national youth competition at Penn State in October with the epee. 
The move enabled Auriol to balance out the epee and foil teams. Mustilli teams with Notre Dame's only women's epee All-American senior cap­tain Claudette de Bruin. 
Even with the move, the foil team stays strong with senior captain Mindi Kalogera and freshmen Myriah Brown and Sara Walsh, who was unde­feated last week at Northwestern. 
"It will be interesting to see how Nicole performs. It will be an interesting experience for her," said Auriol. "She is strong in both the epee and foil. Her addition to the epee team makes it very strong." 
Possibly the toughest chal­lenge for the women's team is Ohio State, ranked twelfth in the nation last year, and Northwestern, nineteenth last year. Both teams have bal­anced squads. The Buckeye's strength lies at foil and the Wildcats with the epee team. 

''I'm looking ahead to Boston and Duke and using this week as a tune-up," said Auriol. 
"I don't know if the upcoming weekend will solve our prob­lems but we can make the ad­justments to get ready for our big meets." 
For the men's teams, chal­lenges also arise. Lawrence University from Wisconsin boasts the individual National Champion in the epee. Their arrival does not bode well for Notre Dame's epees that are depleted by injury. 
"To be honest, our men's epee team is not that strong," said Auriol. "Facing the National Champion there is the possibility that all three of our epees could lose. They need to concentrate. There is room for improvement for each squad. I need to see more of the men's foil team to see its progress." 
Notre Dame faces Tri-State University at 8:00 am Saturday morning and ends with Lawrence University with the match starting at 4:00 pm. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
The women's tennis team will be looking to extend their winning ways, this Sunday against the University of 
Illinois. This weekend's match is going to be an important regional game for the Irish. 
" T h i s 

Sunday  is  Lord  
definitely  
going  to  be  tough  for  us,  

because Illinois' facility is large and tough to play in, it is nothing like ours," stated women's tennis coach Jay Louderback, "Plus, Illinois always plays extremely well at home." 
The team is riding high after their victory at the Federated Insurance Court Classic. 
In addition, this weekend marks the return of senior Sherri Vitale will be back at 
Please Recycle The Observer 

GR£AT \VALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 
South Bend, IN 

the no. 5 singles spot for the Irish, she was absent at the last match due to her taking the GMAT. 
"I just would like to do well," stated Vitale, "Our goals over­all are basically to do good, and hopefully go farther than the round of sixteen this year in the NCAA." 
The key match-up this week­end should be between the no. 1 doubles teams, according to Louderback. 
The Illinois team is one of the top in the region, while the senior duo of Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord returns after a stellar 1995 campaign. 
The two doubles teams have not played each other yet this year. 
Also the Irish are looking for continued support from the freshmen, who thus far have done their fair share. 
Frosh Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco play no. 3 sin­gles and no. 4 singles. They have contributed heavily this year to the teams high rank­ing. 
"We have two really great freshmen on the team this year, and they will definitely help us go far," Vitale stated. 
Velasco, the no. 4 singles seed, has yet to lose a match this whole year. 
"This match, I am going to try to work the net, and be aggressive," stated Velasco. "This should definitely be a good warm-up match for all of us, because Northwestern is coming up next week. I defi­nitely think that we will do well and win this weekend." 
Crabtree summed up this weekend's match best by say­ing, "This match will be a tough regional match for us. Granted Illinois lost seniors this year, they will still be tough. They are not as good as they were last year, but I still know that they will be extremely hard to beat." 
Following this weekend, the Irish have a home match against another regional rival from Illinois, Northwestern next Thursday. 

T~o Days 'till 21, Tracey! 

Happy Birthday T-Ran! 
Now oPen! 

Your 1sr StoP Over the State Line Just North of Dairy Queen 3114 S. II th St./ U.S. 31/33 Niles, Ml 684-4866 
Hours----------------------­Monday -Thursday I 0 am -I 0 pm Friday -Saturday I 0 am -Ilam 
• Open Superbowl Sunday 12 pm • 12 am • 
Get Ready for SuPerbowl SundaY! If you foreot anYthine. we·re oPen all daY SundaY! 
WHAT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 26th FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 


friday, January 26, 1996 GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
T'm TE'-'-'"',l.\"-N11-ct:., !Me.'RE (::\E."Tnl"~ Too !)ofT A-. A Sp~c,E.S. AL'-TI-\I:."SE. AoiiP.rH.~3 
IM TE.C.t't<O'-OV\'i \-\1\~E. ju-.~ fl\lll>E 
Us \NEAl( lr< Til£ fLEW ... 
I 

lfltNI< AeovT lT -­0Nc.E1 lf.J£ C.III'SE.'t> \:>..... TilE fi\ tG.\\T '"I 
'SP.~~Ei"oo1t11\GER ... 
ON 
~.,..! 
\ 
The Observer • TODAY 
DAVE KELLETT 

WtTt' OuR 'BM.E \\AMOS lrl£ Bczou(,HTliiE fY\It.IIT"\ "BEM>r To lfle. Gi~•uND_I . 
I 

!'VE. P.t.DUCE.O '<OUR 
.. "' " -' ~ ~
SE.RVKE. COSTS BY GIVING PRODUCT DISABLES THE THEY .A.5K
0 

OUR PRODUCT THE TECHNICA.l-5UPPOR.T 
~
"' CUSTOMER'S E-MAIL i A. FRIEND 
DON'T HI\VE. GROUP AN UNLISTED 
'" THEY CAN'T E.VEN WRITE. u TO E-MAIL 
FRIENDS.

"' 
... 0 " "' 

PHONE. NU 1"'\BER. ... . , ~
TO '<OU FOR HELP! REALLY? 
u. 
I USE 

;;
( " ::> ! IT. 
~ " \ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 G.E. bought it in 47 "Potemkin" 1986 locale
1 Place for a bucket 
32 Peppard TV role 50 Responded like Simba
11 After-35 On -(from · 
afterthought the barrel) 52 Worked in whiteface
14 Driver's rest 36 Paul's singing partner 55 Practiced
15 Sole protector 16 Kind of boat 37lncline 
56 1963 Chiffons hit
17 Marble tower 38 British verb site ending 
61 Trick 
18 Low-voiced 62 Too-willing
39 Me, to a griever? ladies witness 
40 Walked heavily

19 Limb extenders 63 For example41 "Smoking or
21 Threatening 64 Ride and others
---?It 

words 42 Jack of rhyme
25 Originate 
DOWN
44 Haw alternative

26 Creek constrictors 45 Flying eagle of 1 World banking 29 Cries of pain the 1850's org. 30 The Beatles' 46 Dark meat 
2 Brown beverage "I'm a--" option 3 Card catalogue abbr. 4 "Be prepared" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE and "Semper fi" 5 Branch shelter 6 Decided on 
7 On a roll 22 In the distant 34 Dutch city 53 Red rind a Addams Family past 43 Have the same 
contents 
tense, e.g.

cousin 23 Overran 54 Chip's 

•
0 

fo-ND A. FLA.W lN '<OUR z WI-\Al' lf 
PEO?l£. Wl-\0 U!:>E
0 

SCOTT ADAMS 

0
,. 

9 New beginning  24 Search dogs'  45 Recovered  chipmunk chum  
10 Shady ones  target  48 Look favorably  57 Be off guard  
11 Goliath, e.g.  26 Decide by  (upon)  58 Hellenic H  
12 Like most bowl  chance  49Tendon  59 Commerce  
games  27Window  51 The i's have  regulator: Abbr.  
13 Cecil of  washer's  them  60 Foreign money  
cartoons  problem?  
15 Dick's running  28 Much  Get answers to any three clues  
mate 20 Spilled the beans  32 "Nothing-­truth ..." 33 Calendar abbr.  by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).  

page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
.. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
New financial gains spell sweet 
security! Set aside funds for a com­
fortable retirement. Your many 
experiences have made yo.u an inter­
esting conversationalist. Try putting 
your adventures and insights on 
paper. A newcomer hangs on your 
every word. Make it plain when you 
are joking. A friendship could grad­
ually take on romantic overtones. Be 
kind hut tirm if you want things to 
remain platonic. Avoid raising false 
hopes. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actor Paul Newman. 
actress Eartha Kitt. hockey great 
Wayne Gretzky. guitarist Eddie Van 
Halen. 

. ARIES (March 21-April 19): A 
little more initiative on your part 
should open the door to membership 
in a special circle. Your plans are 
taking a new turn. A promotional 
campaign gets off to a flying start. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your plans should he kept secret to prevent interference. Stock market and real estate proposals sound promising. Your mate or partner shares some intriguing news. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A cautious, conservative approach works best today. A plan's success depends on your discretion. Innova­tive methods help you stay ahead of the competition. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Shared hopes and prayers lead to fulfillment. Do not argue with a dectsion that will ensure good rela­tions all around. Constructive action is a guarantee of splendid results. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A good working relationship is complicated but not impossible. The key is to focus on the positive feelings that exist. Make love a priority in your life. 
VIRC;o (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A 
mes.age may not make sense. Find 
out more details before making a 
final decision. An exhilarating trip 
may he on your agenda. Salespeople 
will do extraordinarily well. A 
bonus or raise is likely. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Plan 
ahead so that you can handle any 
small emergencies that might arise 
today. Your mate or partner will 
back you to the hilt. Changes that 
arc forced on you will ultimately 
help you out. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Avoid office intrigues-your posi­
tion or authority could he at stake. 
An older person offers excellent 
advice: follow it to the letter. Cer­
tain personal plans may have to he 
postponed. Be a good .~port . 
SAGITTARIUS <Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Your mental processes are 
sharp today. Zero in on a complex 
problem. Guard your resources: read 
the fine print before signing con· 
tracts. A loved one is highly opin­
ionated. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A great day for travel and busi­ness. Extra money can be made with hard work. Do not count on finan­cial speculation for quick cash. A family member confronts you with a tricky problem. Be patient. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Drive carefully, especially during the early morning. You need to obtain as much information as possi­ble before making major purchases. Your mate or partner could have a short fuse. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Backstage wheeling-and-dealing can vault you into a position of greater power. You know to use other peo­ple's talents to your advantage. An on-again, off-again romance will test your patience. 
• OF INTEREST 

Ice Skating with Flip Side: The group that provides something other than the usual social scene is sponsoring ice skating at the Ice Rink at the JACC. The cost is $1 for members and $2 for non-members. Skate rental is not included. Skates are limited, so come early! Skating is from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. Everyone is welcome! 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South 
Cheese Enchilada Mississippi Fried Spanish Rice w/ Beans Catfish Tuna w/ Lemon Polish Sausage 
Sandwich Vegetable Calzone 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlets Brown Rice Broccoli Spears 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
').. 
... 
.. SPORTS 
page 20 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 
The working Poor 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Sometimes, words can be deceiving. Given names don't always serve to accurately de­scribe a person or place. 
Consider the case of Notre Dame women's basketball player Carey Poor. Not a fa­vorable adjective by any means. the senior forward's surname certainly does not do justice to her multiple abilities on the court. 
In fact, a more fitting last name may be something along the lines of "Consistent" or "Clutch." 
Or maybe "Tireless." 

In many senses a blue-collar performer, the six-foot senior from Celina, Ohio is a vital cog in the 13-4 Irish machine, due in equal parts to her talent as well as her enthusiasm. 
"She brings a lot of enthusi­asm to the court," said fellow co-captain Beth Morgan. "She's a real emotional leader, both in the locker room and on the court." 
For her part, Poor rec­ognizes the impact she has on this team, saying, "I think I provide a real emotional lift when I step on the court." 
Along with that emotion and leadership come some pretty impressive numbers. In addi­tion to ranking third among all Irish players in scoring with a 
9.6 points per game average, Poor is second in rebounds per game (6.3 and field goal percentage among all starters (48.6%). and third in free throw percentage (78.4%). 
There is no questioning the fact that Poor has worked, and worked hard, to get where she is today. 
It is this tremendous work ethic, along with her leader­ship abilities, that led head coach Muffet McGraw to name Poor a team captain for the second consecutive year. 
see POOR I page 17 
Irish set to battle Army 
By MIKE DAY night's conference showdown with Sports Writer Bowling Green. 
~ 
Opportunity knocks. 

Coming off a humiliating 11-1 loss to Michigan and in the midst of a race for the last seed in the CCHA playoffs, the 6­14-3 Notre Dame hockey team finds itself in an interesting situation this weekend. 
Army (15-5-1) marches into town tonight for a pair of non-conference games that have absolutely no bearing on the CCHA standings. Thus, the Irish will have the opportunity to experiment and adjust in preparation for Tuesday 

"Hopefully, we will have the chance to have some fun and get two wins at the same time," said junior left wing Tim Harberts. "It was kind of a roller coast­er ride last weekend with the win over UIC and the loss to Michigan. We need to get a couple of wins under our belt before Bowling Green." 
One can bet that the Irish defense will be ready after allowing 11 goals to Michigan last Saturday. Redemption and self respect will be on the line as 
see HOCKEY I page 15 
Fencing 
Notre Dame Invitational 
January 28 
January 27 7:30 p.m. 

Women Basketball 
at Miami January 27 
Women's Tennis 
at Illinois 

Men's Basketball 
January 28, 9a.m. vs. West Virginia January 27, 7 p.m. 


• 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Jamie Ling and the Irish have their sights set on Army this weekend. 

....... 
Hockey 
vs. Army 



~ • 2-0 women fight Illini 
see page 18 

• Schlick heads west 

see page 16 

• Men's tennis gets revenge 
see page 15 







