

Monday, December 9, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 66 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
The Observer/Joe Stark Members of the Army ROTC donned full camouflage, complete with face paint and foliage, for the annual Patrick M. Dixon challenge. 
ROTC members face off in Dixon Challenge 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA for preparation and leadership of their pay off. The Alpha company juniors News Writer respective platoons through each sta­worked overtime to prepare for Dixon tion. All platoon members were tested challenge with separate platoon meet­Alpha Company earned bragging on proficiency in the task at hand. ings, squad meetings, and packets of rights this Saturday. Both platoons of Alpha Company information for everyone," cadet First 
The annual Patrick M. Dixon Sergeant Shane Bigelow said. Challenge competition between First Platoon, Alpha company Army ROTC platoons took place won the first station of camou­
'The grenade assault course was my
at l'asquerilla center Saturday flage. Led by Bigelow and morning. The competition favorite event because the officers in cadet Sergeant James between five stations is Dougherty, platoon members
charge were so spirited. It was cold out­
designed to t1~st cadets on were graded for properly apply-information taught at a weekly side but we were so motivated that it ing camouflage facial paint, lab throughout the semester. absence of shiny objects, and
didn't 'really matter.' 
Cadets arrived at 7 a.m. in adequate foliage coverage. The 
full camoul'lage uniform, _______________S_h_a_n_e_B_i.::.g_e_lo_w platoon received extra points including face paint and for camouflaging teeth and foliage. Moved indoors due to cold dominated the competition, taking using burlap pieces to blend parts of weather. the competition included awards for all the stations. Delta their uniform. camouflage, the William T. Brooks Company won the physical fitness "Camouflage was the best part; we Hand Grenade Assault Course, Drill phase and Bravo Company won the met at Pasquerilla West beforehand and Ceremony, Tactical Common inspection phase of the competition, and made sure everyone blended. We Tasks, and weapons assembly stations. which was held earlier in the week. 
Junior-year cadets were responsible "It was nice to see the hard work see ROTC I page 4 
Two ND students awarded Rhodes Scholarships 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Editor 
"Shocked," was the common reaction for the two Notre Dame students named Rhodes Scholars for 1997. 
"My first reaction was definitely aston­ishment, then excitement," said scholar­ship winner Eva Rzepniewski. "I was happy to be able to come back and report good news to all those who had support­ed me -my family, my friends and espe­cially my professors." 
Rzepniewski, a physics major and resi­dent of Pasquerilla West who plans to study condensed matter physics at Oxford, was especially thankful to Professors Furdyna, McGlinn, and McAdams who she said provided her with tremendous support and wrote her excellent recommendations. 
Geno Fernandez, a seminarian with the Congregation of the Holy Cross who resides in the Old College, was also among the 32 Americans named to this year's class of Rhodes Scholars. Fernandez, who will be graduating from Notre Dame a year early, plans to work on a Masters degree in philosophy in an effort to "try to create a dialogue between the traditional, or Catholic, interpretation of ethics and the modern view." 
After a rigorous selection process including applications and interviews at the university, state and regional levels, Fernandez and Rzepniewski's selections are a tremendous honor for Notre Dame. Harvard University had the most winners with five, followed by Georgetown with three, and Cornell, Yale and Notre Dame with two. 
"I really felt honored. The other 11 people were really great people and it came down to who was 'on' in the inter­view," said Fernandez of his selection from the 12 finalists in the Midwest region. 
Promoting campus awareness... 

CARE aims for rape prevention 

Editor's Note: This is the first in a three part series dealing with the issue of rape on the college campus. 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor and ANN KEARNS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
What you don't know can't hurt you'? When it comes to the issue of rape, in particular on the college campus, what you don't know can very well hurt you. 
Hape is a serious federal offense that many colleges try to pretend doesn't happen on their campuses. College brochures speak highly of "sprawling lawns" and "acade­mic success." but very little about the number of rapes that occur each year. In many cases. this lack of information basically offers a false sense of security. 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) provides the women of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame who have been raped the sense of security that has been brutally taken from them. 
CAHE is an organization that women can turn to when they do not know where else to go. The volunteers at CAHE are trained individuals who listen to rape victims and set them ih the right direction. in addition to offering them much needed guidance and courage. 
"CARE's goal is to educate, to let people know that rape can be prevented. We try to inform people that this does occur, and what can be done to prevent it," said Adrian Duran, co-presi­dent. 
"When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss," is a presentation CARE holds at the start of each new school year. This presentation is given during the Saint Mary's Freshmen and Transfer Orientation weekend, and also in all of the Notre Dame dorms. 
The presentation is adapted from Brown University's rape awareness program, and con­sists of four students role play­ing a situation where date rape occurs. 
The students are in a dorm room setting where they are drinking and playing cards. This party, however, is quickly over when one of the male stu­dents takes advantage of his date, and rapes her. At the close of the play, the actors stay in character to answer ques­tions from the audience. One of the most commonly asked ques­tions is directed to the rapist regarding his state of mind dur­ing the rape. 
The number of reported rapes per year on Notre Dame's cam­pus has increased since 1993. Both in 1993 and in 1994 there were two reported rapes, while in 1995, four women reported that they had been raped. According to Adrian Duran, co­president of CARE, however, only one in ten rapes is even reported to Security. 
Rape still remains prevelant on college campuses across the nation. According to CARE sta­tistics, "one out of eight women will be raped during her educa­
see RAPE I page 4 

Close call 

The Observer/Mike Ruma With seven saves in the NCAA championship game against North Carolina, senior Jen Renola kept the Irish alive through double overtime. 
See Story Page 20 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, December 9, 1996 
•INSIDE COLUMN 



Appreciating -what -we have 
On this day last year a group of 29 students 
left India, completing the "Semester Around the 
World." This inside column was written for 
those who weren't lucky enough to get the 
chance to go and to 
encourage thoso who am 
thinking about going 
abroad. You will never 
regrnt it. 

On your side of the world it is 9:30p.m. Tuesday evening. The usual Domer would just be settling in their room for the evening to study, watch TV, or scrounging around for those tiny eopper pieces that can buy a pitcher at Bridget's. However, on our side of the world, it is 6:30 a.m. and my watch is ringing my wake-up call. Its ring is almost drowned out by the traffic noise that has already started outside our window. The diesel buses are so loud that you would think there was a drag race going on. Uttle open-aired cart<> called rickshaws arc in full force taxing people around as the typical India morning starts. 
Realizing that it is pointless to try and go back to sleep, I crawl out of my bed for a morning run. A<> I put on "The Shirt" my mind wanders back to South Bend and the fact that my room­males would now be toasting their beer and hopefully drinking one for me. No longer notic­ing the mildew-sweat smell of India on my clothes, I grab my walkman for the accompani­ment of Dave Matthews and head out the door. 
A<> I leave the safehavcn of Hotel Sealord, I look to my right and see that our friendly beggar has already laid out his mat and placed his coins strategically around him, his only arm out­stretched. As I look to the lel't to venture across the street, my eyes are met instantly as the 20 people who had just gotten up from their beds (a mat on the sidewalk), to look at the white American student who has dared to wear shorts out'\ide. Ignoring the stares, I dodge the buses and cow droppings. As I pass, talk quickens, pri­vaey no longer exists as every move we make is observed, analyzed, and discussed. 
I hit play on my headphones and enter my own world for the treasured moments that allow my mind to enter solitude. Looking out to the waterway I was running along brings me back to nmlity a<> brown men wearing only a white cot­ton sarong and turban slip their wooden fishing boats through the water with a long pole. They gather their fishing nets and then slip into the murky water themselves to place the nets in the proper fishing position. They are baek in the boat a'\ quickly as they were out, hardly causing a ripple with their 85 pound bodies. They have no worries about how many fish they will catch tomorrow. they an~ only worried about eating today. 
It is then I feel guilty about having tailgating withdrawal and Yo Cream dreams. When this semester is over. I get to return to life as you know it, to get in my car, cruise to Taco Bell and not think another thing about where my meals are going to come from. For the population of India, well they will still be fishing and begging and living their simple yet happy lives that are so routine. 
I think of the day when I can run in the unpol­luted air around the lakes and stop at the Grotto to pray for the beggar outside Hotel Sealord. Until then I pray that I will learn to be humble and remember the gift<> that I have that so many people in this world are without. Ufe will never be the same for the 29 of us. we will always remember the lifestyles of a third world country that taught us one of life's most important lessons. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TOOAY'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech Bridget O'Connor Karie Kroener Alison Koenig Production Sports Maureen Hurley Brian Fremeau Tara Grieshop Accent Graphics Ashleigh Thompson Sue O'Kain Viewpoint Ethan Hayward 
The Ob>crvcr (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday CXi,;Cp[ Juring exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc A!oo!lociatcd Press. All reproduction riglus are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Indonesia plane crash claims 17 lives 

JAKARTA. Indonesia 

A small plane crashed into a faetory in northeastern Indonesia Saturday, killing 17 people. One passenger survived. 
A 40-ycar-old man was being treated for serious injuries from the crash of the PT Dirgantara Air Service flight, the official Antara news agency report­ed. 
The pilot, co-pilot and 13 passengers were killed instantly when the plane crashed into a gas factory about 2 miles from the air­port. A young girl died on the way to the hospital, but 
Mother Teresa faces declining health 
CALCUTT
A, India 

Mother Teresa appeared tired and her condition deteriorated slightly Sunday, as doctors tried to cure her pneumonia so that they could concen­trate on her heart ailment. "Mother is still not out of danger and physicians remained concerned," said a medical bulletin at the B.M. Birla Heart Research Center. "Today she appeared L--.3lolt..LC:;.:;......-"-_J fatigued." But the 86-year-old Homan Catholic nun has remained attentive to her charity work, meeting with nuns to give them instructions concerning her Missionaries of Charity order. A hospital statement Sunday said her bronchial pneumonia was worsening, despite "aggressive respiratory and antibiotic therapy." Her kidneys, however, were functioning, doctors at the hospital said. Mother Teresa was hospitalized Nov. 22 after suffering a mild heart attaek. She underwent an angioplasty on Nov. 29 to remove blockages in two arter­ies, but her recovery has been hampered by lung and kidney problems linked to the poor functioning of her heart. 
Blizzard sparks New England blackouts 
THOMPSON, Conn. 

More than half a million customers had no electricity Sunday in New England after a fast-moving storm piled nearly 2 feet of snow on the region. 'Til tell you right now, I'm not very pleased," said Mary Tyler of West Dummerston, Vt., who had to make her Sunday morning coffee on a wood-burning stove. Not everyone had the luxury of a stove. "It's getting cold in this house," Kim O'Grady of Thompson, Conn., said Sunday afternoon as she bundled up :with several shirts, two pairs of sweat pants and big, fuzzy slippers. "We can't flush the toilets, the refrigerator door remains closed ... I'm dying for a cup of coffee," said O'Grady, who was told her local utili­ty did not expect to restore power to her house until Monday evening. The storm sped northward along the East Coast on Saturday, pouring rain from the Carolinas north to New York City and spreading snow during the night across most of New England. It was blamed for one death, that of a Connecticut fireman who touched a downed power line while fighting a blaze. About 22 inches of snow fell on parts of Vermont late Saturday into Sunday morning, the National Weather Service said. Around 16 inches fell in parts of Connecticut and Maine, with about a foot in New York's Catskills. In Massachusetts, 16 inches fell at Worcester, on top of 7 dropped by another storm on Friday. Just 40 miles to the cast, Boston got 1.4 inches of rain. 
it was not clear whether she was a passenger. 
One employee of the facto­ry was killed, and three oth­ers were injured. 
Rescue officials said the engine caught fire shortly after the Casa-1 00 plane took off from the Syamsuddin Noor airport in Banjarmasin on the island of Borneo, about 560 miles northeast of Jakarta. 
The pilot had reported the engine problems before the plane took off for Sampit, 120 miles northwest. The cause of the engine l'ire was not known. 
Woman accused of selling niece for $24 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
A woman was eharged with trying to sell her 5-ycar­old niece for $24 to a woman. who found the girl sit­ting outside a bar. Christina Blair told police she had just noticed the girl sitting outside the Gaslight Lounge late Friday when a woman walked outside carrying a bottle of beer. The woman, Jennifer Burroughs, 26, said neither she nor the girl had eaten for four days and that she couldn't afford to take care of her anymore, police said. She told Ms. Blair she didn't know where the girl's mother was, and had no idea what to do with the child. She then offered to sell the girl for $20 plus cab fare, police said. Ms. Blair said that she gave the woman $24 and then called police. Ms. Burroughs, the girl's aunt, was being held Sunday in lieu of $20,000 bail on a felony charge of unlawful sale of a child. The girl was expected to be returned to her mother, Hhonda Burroughs Mezyk of Orlando, police said. She had left her daughter with the aunt for the weekend while shn and her husband went on vacation, and ended up learning about the incident involving her family from news reports. 
Preacher to face criminal charges 
OWINGSVILLE, Ky. 
A Bath County preacher who spent seven weeks in hiding with his teen-age granddaughter rather than force her to see her estranged mother has returned home to face criminal charges. Cecil Standifer brought his 14-year-old granddaughter Traci with him when he returned to Bath County Thanksgiving night. He refused to disclose where he had been since a warrant was issued for his arrest in October. The warrant was issued after Standifer and his wife. Annette, failed to show up in court to answer allega­tions that they defied an order requiring Traci to visit her biological mother in Indiana. The day after his return, Standifer turned himself into the Bath County sheriffs office and posted a $2,500 bond, according to Bath Circuit Court officials. "Traci needed to be back in school," said Standifer, the minister of Carver United Baptist Church in Magoffin County. Traci has lived with her grandparents since she was about 5 months old. When her father, Handy, died of cancer in January 1995, the court granted custody to her grandparents and visitation rights to her mother, Rosemarie Lentz of Plymouth, Ind. Traci, however, has repeatedly refused to see her mother. Her grand­father has continued to back her up. He spent a week in jail in August for failing to abide by a court order forcing Traci to visit Lentz. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 

Monday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Transgene Research Center announced 
By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
Notre Dame has announced the establishment of the Center for Transgene Hesearch, to be directed by Francis Castellino, Dean of the College of Science. 
Transgene therapy, as defined for the Center, is genetic manipulations in the whole animal. Castellino and his staff will study the conse­quences of those alterations. Interactions in a living animal are considerably more com­plex than those in a test-tube culture of cells. 
The Center is presently focusing its studies on blood­clotting and clot-preventing enzymes. The experiments use lab mice, whose genome is more completely understood than that of most species. Mice are also good hosts for artificially introduced human gene sequences. 
The experiments use gene deletion, the replacement of a sequence of 12,000 out of a total series of one billion genetic bases, or .0012% of the total genome. It's a very exact procedure requiring "a tremendous amount of tech­nology," says Castellino. 
The deletion of a single sequence takes over two years; researchers must iso­late the gene, sequence it, knock it out, and replace it exactly with non-active bases. 
The knock-out and replace­ment must be done in the embryonic stem cells. The embryo is then closely moni­tored through its development. Sometimes the embryo will not survive full term, which indi­cates that the knocked-out gene was vital to fertilization, implantation, or embryonic development. 
If the animal is born with­out any defects, then the gene deletion can be tested for its reaction to various diseases and conditions. Animals will sometimes develop compen­satory mechanisms where there is a lack of genes. 
The other use of transgene therapy is in drug develop­ment, where the production of a particular enzyme is target­ed by researchers. Once the production of the enzyme is understood, various drugs that alter the enzyme's production can be tested in the altered animal. 
In this sort of research, there are animal rights to be considered. "This kind of experimentation is found to be supremely ethical," said Castellino. "Notre Dame has one of the finest animal care facilities on any university campus." 
Make a Differ-.ence With 
0 0 0 

OCCUPATIONAL TH~ERAP\' 
Improve You1· Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and mental activities for individuals who are challenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and m;.:inrain health. 
Join a Rapidly Gmwing Profession 
According to U.S. Department of Labor statistics, occupational therapy is among the fastest growing health care professions, with the number of available positions totaling 55,000 nationally with an expected increase in new positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
Study With the Health Care Team at Midwestern University 
Midwestern University's College of Allied Health Professions offers a 30­momh, entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a Master of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 23 weeks of full-time clinical experience.You will work closely with students in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of our interdisciplinary approach to therapy education. The University, \\'hich is located in Downers Grove, Illinois (a western suburb of Chicago) also administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. 
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 




ND supports homeless families 
By KAT RADEMACHER News Writer 
The fifth annual employee Christmas party for homeless children and single parents took place Saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Stepan Center. The event was organized by David Woods, the director of Support Services at Notre Dame, and Pat Trost, the department secretary. 
The employees of Support Services volunteered their time and money to help out and host this gathering for the children from the Center for Homeless and the single parents from St. Margaret's House. 
Woods and Trost recalled that the idea for the party began when employees inquired about doing something special at Christmas time. When the employees were asked by their supervisors what would make them feel better about their role at Notre Dame, the employees expressed inter­est in helping those less fortu­nate than themselves. 
The Center for Homeless had been in operation for about one year at the time, and the idea of a Christmas party for the cen­ter's younger guests seemed quite natural. 
Due to the increasing popu­larity of the party, it was held in Stepan Center for the first time this year. There was a turnout of 110 children and 30 single parents. Several activities, such as face painting, cookie deco-

The Observer/Joe Stark Notre Dame students helped employees of Support Services in host­ing their fifth annual Christmas party for homeless families. 
rating, making crafts, and play­ing games, were available for the children to participate in. 
The children visited with Santa Claus and had their pic­tures taken with him. Each child was given a personalized gift. Support Services also arranged for clowns to enter­tain, a magician to perform, and Shenanigans to sing. 
Woods and Trost felt that the party was definitely a success. 
The excitement on the chil­dren's faces was a second affir­mation of that sentiment. 
When asked what they thought of the day, the children eagerly showed off their gifts and said they had a lot of fun. The children and single par­ents' reactions proved that the generosity of the Support Services employees is a worth­while effort to help those less fortunate. 
"" 

r-----------------'-----~-­
' 

MIDWES"(ERN UNIVERSITY OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROGRAM 
Please send me the following information (Check all that apply): 0 OT Program Catalog 0 OT Program Brochure 0 Admission Application 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip 

Undergraduate/Graduate College 
Projected Enrollment Date 
Phone 

Return to Office ofAdmissions, Midwestern University; 555 31st St., Downers Grove, IL 60515 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, December 9, 1996 
Republicans: 'undercurrent of fear' threatens econo01y 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Pr(ss Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The economy remains solid, and the Clinton administration expects the stock market to eontinUfl reflecting that despite Wall Street's rough ride last week, Treasury Secretary Hobert Hubin said Sunday. 
But the Hepublican House's chief financial policy maker. Budget Committee Chairman .John Kasich, questioned that rosy outlook, speaking of "an undercurrent of fear" pervad­Ing the economy. 

Stock prices on Wall Street and around the world took a short-lived dive after Federal Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan questioned in a Thursday night speech whether "irrational exuber­ance" has inflated stock val­ues. 
But Hubin, interviewed on NBC's "Meet the Press," stressed that the bull market 
dominating the 1990s is based on a sound economy. 
Rubin said it's not his place to predict market directions but offered: "I think that over time markets do follow funda­mentals, and we've had very good fundamentals in this country for four years. Grounded, I might say, in good policy." 
Hubin said he and Greenspan "have talked about markets from time to time," and he was aware that Greenspan 
might raise questions about the current market at some point. 
But he said there was "cer­tainly not an attempt by the government" to cool off the rapid market rise that has worried some economists. 
He said the crucial question in the future market course is, "Can the president and the Congress get together and do the kinds of things that arc needed to do to carry this recovery forward?" In partieu-Jar is the need to reach a bal­anced budget agreement. 
A leading administration economist, Franklin Haines, director of the Office of Management and Budget, expressed optimism that a bal­anced-budget deal is indeed reachable with the deficit at its lowest level since 1981, he told CNN's "Late Edition." 
"It's an important moment, and it's important because we've gone a long way," Raines said . 

tical skills needed in a combat situa­
• BElGIUM

tion. The four tasks were to set up
ROTC 

an operate a radio, operate a field telephone, employ and aim a clay­
continued from page 1 

NATO, Russia to form alliance 
more mine, and apply a pressure looked like trees when we were dressing to a wound. 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH late spring, that is expected to start the done," Amanda Fitzsimmons said. Senior cadet Lieutenant Sarah Associated Press Writer process of expanding the 16-nation alliance. 
After properly disguising them­Lokiec received high marks for her What irks Moscow is NATO's plan to wel­selves, platoons moved to the second command of the radio task. Due to BHUSSELS, Belgium come some of Hussia's former allins -per­station, the William T. Brooks Hand weather, the station was moved Early next year. Hussia and NATO will haps even former members of the Soviet Grenade Assault Course. Held out­inside to a classroom. In order to start trying to build a new relationship by Union -and the possibility that NATO mayside because of space requuire­recreate the outdoor atmosphere of turning successful military cooperation in move troops and weapons even eloser to ments. cadets were tested on speed a field situation, Lokiec removed all Bosnia into a long-term political achievement. Hussia's borders. 
and form as they advanced through furniture from the room, dimmed The good news is that Moscow is pleased The most commonly mentioned candidates a course of hand grenade obstacles. the lights and played nature music. 
with the experience in Bosnia, where its for NATO membership are Poland, the Czech Motivation of fellow platoon mem­Platoons were required to move into 1,500-man brigade in the NATO-led force Republic and Hungary, all former Warsaw bers was also considered in the rat­the room tactically and form a 360 deftly handled one of the hottest spots along Pact members. 
ings. First platoon of Alpha degree perimeter of security while 
the former confrontation line between As to moving troops and weapons, NATO Company won the course. certain cadets set up the radio. 
Muslims and Serbs. says that's not in the cards -at least not "The gnm1tde assault course was The weapons station was the final The bad news is that Hussia's dim view of now. Why, officials say, would they send my favorite event because the ofli­stage of the competition. Cadets NATO expansion plans has not changed one troops into eastern Europe when they are cers in charge were so spirited. It were graded on knowledge of how to whit. drawing down everywhere else? 
was cold outside but we were so set up and perform a functions 
NATO expects negotiations on some sort of A charter between NATO and Hussia motivated that it didn't really mat­check on an M-60 and M-16 charter with Russia to begin in January. It would outline such things as how consulta­tor," Bigelow said. machine guns. Platoon sergeants wants to finish them before a North Atlantic tions will be conducted, areas of' cooperation.Junior year cadets were under maintained security and designated Treaty Organization summit, probably in and new structures for liaison. 
pressure at the Drill and Ceremony sectors of fire for each cadet posi­station. A junior cadet was chosen tion. 
also that a lack of communication is theat random to march their platoon The Dixon Challenge Competition root of date rapes. 



Rape
within an alotted space using a des­ended with a brief awards ceremo­"The majority of date rapes stern from aignated list of commands. While it ny. Winning platoons received rib­
continued from page 1 communication problem. The rapist
appeared easy, it was the first time bons for their respective events and doesn't hear no." 
many juniors led cadets. Many pla­platoons from Alpha Company were tiona! stay." There are many myths that revolvetoon members were equally inexpe­recognized as overall winners. 
Duran believes that the first step to find­around the subject of rape, the most widelyrienced at taking orders. The "I thought it went well because of ing a solution is to create and maintain an known being that "women are rapedmajority of grading focused on exe­the senior planning and team work. 
environment where open communication of because they ask for it." CAHE's mission iscution by the platoon while the eom­Dixon Challenge forces you to the problem is possible. to assure that this statement is false. 90%rnandcr was rated for voice, proper remember what you have learned in "People assume it doesn't happen, or if it of all rapes are planned and premeditated. 
step, and accomplishment of the lab and apply it to situations as a 
does happen, it's not their problem," said "One rape a year is too many," statedtask. Second platoon, Alpha team. I'm also pleased things went Duran. "People aren't willing to talk about Duran, reiterating CAHE's focus. 
Company took first place in Drill and so well despite the weather," cadet it." "I hope that what CAHE is doing is goingCeremony. Battalion Commander Matthew Duran not only believes that communica­to help make peopl'e aware, to educateThe fourth station focused on tac-Audette said. 
tion is necessary to rectify the problem, but them," said co-president Cara Stirts . 

• CORRECTION 

Notre Dame Accounting Association 
An article in last Wednesday's edition on the Faculty Senate should have said the Senate's next meeting will be Jan. 16. 
presents:

The Obserz•er regrets the error. 





ARTHUR ANDERSEN
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
A casual question and answer session with employees
George Frideric Handel's 
from audit, tax, and consulting
~ESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra Sophomores: Get ahead of the game and find out what you can be doing now to prepare yourself for next year's internship search!! 
8:00p.m. 
Juniors: Did you miss the last Arthur Andersen presentation? 
Thursday, Decemb~r 12, 1996 Get the following questions answered:Friday, December 13, 1996 • What are the do's and do not's of interviewing? 
Washington Hall 
• How can I prepare for my interviews with the Big Six? Open to the public. 
• 
What does business casual dress mean? Admission: $6 General; $3 Students & Senior Citizens 

• 
What will my interviewers be looking for in their questions about my Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 


academic life? 

• And several other questions that you may have regarding getting a summer internship
Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Seniors: Are you anxious about starting your life in the real world? Learn important information: 
• What should I expect to be different about a full time job that was not evident in my internship? 
• 
Can the firm I've accepted with help me find an apartment? Lunches starting at .... $4.25 

• 
What if I don't have a job yet? What are the opportunities available in Dinners starting at .... $5.95 


the Big Six? ? D gth 6 OO

When. Monday, ec. , : p.m.
Banquet rooms available up to 200 

Where? Jordan Auditorium Food? Free PIZZA & SODA!!!
GREAT \VALL Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend All students that are interested are encouraged to attend 
(next to Howard Johnson) 
Monday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
•IsRAEL • PERU 

Arafat de01ands halt negotiations American prisoner 
By JACK KATZENELL 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
An Israeli official accused Palestinian 
r-.----.-.--~--.,..---..... leader Yasser Arafat on Sunday of making new demands that would set back two months of.....,.......,.......,..._ negotiations Arafat over security arrangements in the West Bank town of Hebron. 
Arafat's office, however, blamed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's govern­
• JAPAN 
ment for holding up a Hebron deal by trying to change the Israel-Palestinian agreement signed by the previous Israeli government. 
David Bar-Illan, a Netanyahu aide, said Arafat sent the prime minister a message that "con­tained many demands, most of which meant the reopening of all the agreements that have been reached by the negotiating teams of both sides." 
Bar-Ill an would not disclose the specific demands, other than to confirm that one con­cerned issues not connected with Israel's eight-month over­due troop withdrawal from most of Hebron. Netanyahu has insisted on improving security 
By PETER LANDERS 
Associated Press Writer 
TOKYO 
Crown Princess Masako said Sunday in her first solo press conference that the conflict between ancient palace ways and her self has caused her "hardship." 
The frank statement by the Harvard-educated former diplomat marked the first time she has acknowledged what observers have long suspect­ed: that Masako at times feels stifled in her tightly controlled role. 
"At times I experience hardship in trying to find the proper point of balance between traditional things and my own personality," the princess told palace reporters in remarks relayed by the Kyodo news agency. 
The press conference was held to mark Masako's 33rd birthday, which falls on Monday. She married Crown Prince Naruhito on June 9, 1993. 
As is typical of press conferences by members of imperial family, reporters submitted questions to the Imperialllousehold Agency in advance. 
It is nearly four years since the former Masako arrangements for the 500 Jewish settlers who live amid 130,000 Palestinians in Hebron 
allowed family visit 
before going ahead with the 
withdrawal. 
A statement from Arafat's office Sunday said: "There is still no agreement on Hebron. The negotiators still have not agreed on some issues. The Palestinian leadership insists that there be no changes in the agreement. Israel still wants changes." 
Israel has withdrawn from all the Palestinian cities in the West Bank except Hebron. According to the existing agree­ment, it is also to withdraw from rural areas in three stages. 
relief and a cause for concern. Ms. Berenson is serving a life



Princess struggles with tradition 
sentence in Peru's notorious 
than 4,000 miles for a half­hour visit with Lori, whom they could only see in dim light over a table divided by two layers of screening. 
"This is the worst year a par­ent could have," said Mark Berenson, who has struggled with nightmares and depres­sion over his daughter's impris­onment. 
Rhoda Berenson said, "It's one year in which we've aged 10." 
Although her parents say their daughter has not been physically abused in the prison, she lives in conditions her father calls "brutal and designed to produce a slow death." 
Ms. Berenson and another woman prisoner share a 6 1/2­by-1 0 foot cell in which there is no heating and the only water available is ice-cold and spar­ingly distributed by guards. 
The glassless windows allow little sunlight but plenty of merciless wind that whips up off nearby Lake Titicaca. Her bed is a concrete slab, her toi­let a hole in the floor. 
She gets just 30 minutes a day outside of her cell for exer­cise. 
She has a perpetual sore throat, and recently battled the flu. The food is usually cold and insufficient and she has diges­tive problems, especially with legumes, a stable of the prison diet, her parents said. 
According to the Peruvian news media, the cold is so severe at Yanamayo that over time the prisoner's health weakens, a fear the Berensons have for their daughter. 
Many inll)ates suffer depres­sion and other mental distur­bances, according to former inmates and guards at the prison. Some depressed prison­ers cry and throw themselves against the bars when not med­icated. 


• 
Personalized Study Plans 

• 
Over 105 hours in class 

• 
Over 500 practice passages 

• 
Over 36 years of MCAT experience 

• 
The perfect balance of content and strategy 



By LYNN F. MONAHAN 
Associated Press Writer 
PUNO, Peru 
After 11 months confined to a frigid prison cell on a wind­swept plain high in the Andes Mountains, Lori Berenson got an early Christmas over the weekend: a visit from her par­ents. 
Carrying gifts -including books, New York bagels and home-made chocolate chip cookies -Rhoda and Mark Berenson were allowed to see their 27 -year-old daughter late Saturday for the first time in a year. 
What they saw was at once a 

Owada became engaged to Naruhito, heir to Yanamayo prison for terrorists. Japan's throne. Sunday's press conference was A secret military court panel the first time she has spoken to reporters without convicted her earlier this year the prince at her side. of treason for aiding leftist 
Before marriage, Masako was a trade specialist guerrillas. at the Foreign Ministry. "Her fingers were sort of 
She appears in public now almost entirely for grotesque ... sort of deformed," ceremonial occasions and rarely speaks on any her father said. The constant subject. cold, at an altitude of nearly 
Reports in foreign media have questioned why 12,000 feet, has left her hanQ.s she has been so reticent about speaking in public cut, bruised and swollen. or engaging in any activity beyond purely ceremo­Ms. Berenson bundles herself nial appearances. Masako did not elaborate on in layers of sweaters to ward what sort of "hardship" she has suffered, but she off the cold, which can drop to did display annoyance at the reports. near zero Fahrenheit at night. 
"I believe we have seen cases where (foreign She had clearly lost weight and journalists) have come to extreme conclusions, was hoarse from chronic laryn­and sometimes they cite as examples things gitis. which do not in fact exist," she said, without elab­But her mood was good and orating. her parents said they recog­
Foreign media have speculated that the palace nized the "same old Lori" they is putting a lid on Masako's activities, partly due to knew as she was growing up in traditional Japanese notions about the duties of a New York City. wife -the usual word for "wife" literally means "She didn't look terrible. She "in the house" -and partly from fear that had long hair, long beautiful Masako might outshine the less-glamorous prince. hair. She will always be beauti­
ful to me," Mark Berenson said, breaking into tears in a Puno hotel room after visiting the nearby prison, 525 miles southeast of Lima. 
After being barred from see­ing their daughter for one year, the Berensons trekked more 

Ifyou see news happening, call 
he Observer at 1-5323 

Some employers promise you the world. 
We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
University of Notre Dame for college graduates 
interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross 
Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 

1-800-KAP-TEST 
(219) 631-6385 
www.kaplan.com 
-

page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, December 9, 1996 
...... 
• Zlr:be ~nnual '!Cbristmas ~ale •VARSITYSHOP
• • ...., . • • 
• select merchandise • 
• Joyce Center 
Fieldhouse •· Gate 3 • ''On the Concourse''·· Gate 1 or 2 • 


•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

•
• 

Varsity Shop Hours: 
• Monday through Saturday 11 :00 a.m. -5:00 p.m . 
VARSITY SHOP • Sunday 1 :00 p.m. -4:00 p.m. •
•
•
•
•
•






'···································' 
Monday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• ZAIRE

• YUGOSLAVIA 
Serbian Court rules against opposition party 
ByNUUtl<PORUBCANSKY not bode well for appeals of Associated Press Writer nullifications of elections in? other cities. BELGRADE, Yugoslavia Wh&n the commission 
The Serbian Supreme Court appealed on Thursday; the 
ruled against opposition par-opposition assumed it would 
ties who say Slobodan give Milosevic an opportunity 
Milosevic robbed them of an to defuse the daily protests 
election victory in Belgrade, a that regularly bring 100,000 
verdict likely to people onto the 
ignite even more streets. 
d e t e r m i n e d 'The Serbs are They are the .protests by thou-largest and most 
sands of demon-fighting in s u s t a i n e d 
strators bent on the name of all protests against 
driving Milosevic l h . t Milosevic since 
from power. peop es W o resls he came to 
The opposition dictatorship., power in 1987. 
reported that On Sunday, 
eight protesters 100,000 people 
were arrested Jack Lang were on~ the 
over the weekend, __________..:;:,. streets again. 
making 40 in the past week. Former French culture minis­
One of those arrested was ter Jack Lang, a member of 
badly beaten, opposition offi-the European Parliament, li:mt 
cials said. them their first significant 
Even though Serbia's conflict Western support. declaring 
was deepening, it appeared that "The Serbs are fighting in 
that Milosevic was more likely the name of all peoples who 
to be headed for a long strug-resist dictatorship." 
gle of tactics and politics · Lazarevic said the election 
rather than turning police commission would appeal the 
loose on demonstrators. Serbian Supreme Court ruling 
Radomir Lazarevic, the chief to the. federal courts of 
of the Belgrade election com-Yugoslavia, the federation of 
mission,' told reporters that the Serbia and small Montenegro. 
Supreme Court had rejected Milosevic's opponents said 
appeals that would have rein-the issue was no longer who 
stated election victories in ran Belgrade, but who ran 
Belgrade. Serbia. 
The court did not give rea-''What will prevail: The pea-
sons for its ruling, Lazarevic pie's determination, or 
said. The Belgrade election Milosevic'spatience?" asked 
commission's appeal dealt only Zoran Djindjic, leader of the 
with the capital city, but did opposition Democratic Party. 

Zairian troops loot, attack cities 


Rebel forces vow to topple 31-year regime 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON Associated Press Writer 
BENI, Zaire 
Rebels surrounded Bunia ­the last government-held town in eastern Zaire -on Sunday, and local residents said pan­icked Zairian troops looted busi­nesses and attacked civilians. 
Ten people were killed, Information Minister Boguo Makeli said in the capital, Kinshasa. He blamed "out-of­control elements" in the Zairian army for the turmoil in Bunia, a northeastern trading center near Uganda. 
Makeli did not give details of the violence, but said the dead included six civilians, two sol­diers and two foreigners, whom he did not identify. 
The rebels gained control of all roads leaving Bunia, where at least 3,000 government troops have retreated, said Kihungu Lubino Tsongo, a judge in Beni, 100 miles south of Bunia. 
A rebel commander in Beni, identified only as Commander Bonnanee, said the rebels had approached but not yet taken Bunia. He refused to give fur­ther details. 
The rebels' eastern flank is vulnerable to Ugandan rebels hiding out in Virunga National Park. The two rebel groups clashed overnight Friday and Saturday. 
Bunia residents said by radio that Zairian troops were looting businesses, especially targeting those owned by Greek mer­chants and members of the Nande ethnic group. The sol­diers accuse the merchants of supplying local militias, who are mostly Nande and have· fought on the side of the rebels. 
The residents, who did not want to be named because they feared for their safety, said the soldiers have killed Nandes found on the streets in apparent revenge for the rebels' success­ful sweep through eastern Zaire in recent weeks. 
"The soldiers wanted to start attacking the Nande here, but their commander stopped them," said Jean-Baptiste Batida, a resident of Beni. "Now it appears they are out of con­trol in Bunia." 
Because of the rebel success­es, Zairians and international observers have taken more seri­ously rebel leader Laurent Desire Kabila's vow to topple President Mobutu Sese Seko's corrupt, 31-year regime. 
Mobutu is in France, conva­lescing from prostate cancer surgery at his villa near Nice. Recent visitors have said Mobutu appears to be ailing. 
"The president told us that he wished to return to his country but that physically, he couldn't," said Georges Rioux, an aide to 
U.N. envoy Raymond Chretien, who met with Mobutu last week. 
Meanwhile, France denied Sunday that it had decided against sending troops to Zaire -refuting Cooperation Minister Jacques Godfrain who a day earlier had told a French news­paper there was "no question" of sending troops to Zaire. 
The Foreign Ministry said France's position on "the implementation of U.N. resolu­tions on Zaire, notably that concerning the deployment of a multinational force, has not changed." 
Businesses began to reopen Sunday in Beni, and residents began to emerge from hiding 


Several major changes are on the horizon for in the Architecture school's market research. campus computing. We in the OIT know that The cluster is now located in the basement. 
& 
lines are long in the computer clusters and that The hours for the Architecture cluster will be students without access to ResNet have found similar to Hayes-Healy hours. it difficult to connect to the network via modem. We have tried to answer the challenge Hayes-Healy cluster closing ofproviding productive resources for all stu­At the end of the Fall semester, the Hayes­


resnet 
dents, which prompts us to make the following Healy cluster will be permanendy closed due improvements. Please give us your feedback by to the building's renovation. The cluster cur­sending email to cctalk@nd.edu 
rendy houses 42 Power Macintosh 7200 com­puters, which will be redistributed to other 
Sorin and Walsh halls will public access areas. be connected to ResNet early! Sarin and Walsh halls are being brought online New cluster in Riley Hall earlier than scheduled. On December 3, 1996, A newly remodeled fine arts graphics lab in these halls will be connected to ResNet. The Riley Hall, room 211 opens in January and 
clusters 

update 
Installation Fairs, where you can get help set­will contain 16 of the Hayes-Healy Power 
ting up your computer to run on the network, Macs. The Riley cluster, which is open to all will be held on December 3-4 for Sorin and students, will also contain a Sun Walsh residents. 
SPARCstation and printers. 
Nonnetworked residence halls receive Existing clusters computers in the spring expand Macintosh count In an effort to provide ResNer access to stu­Several Macintosh computers that currendy dents in non-networked residence halls, com­reside in Hayes-Healy will be added ~o the puters will be placed in public areas in Planner, existing number of Macs at CCMB GOIS and Morrissey, and Howard halls. Macintosh and Fitzpatrick clusters. Windows computers will be available begin­ning in the Spring 1997 semester. Software on IBM computers upgraded these computers will be limited to network All IBM computers in the campus computer software (e-mail, Web browser, Usenet news­clusters will be upgraded over Christmas 
reader, FTP, telnet, and tn3270). No other Break. All classrooms and DeBartolo podia are software (e.g., word processor, spreadsheet) included in the upgrade. The new computers will be available on these computers, so that feature 166 MHz processor, 32MB RAM, they can be used primarily for Internet access. 1.6 GB of hard disk space, 6x speed 
CDROM, 2MB video RAM, and 17-inch 
Architecture reopens color monitors (first time ever!). with Windows computers The Architecture computer cluster is scheduled to open in January, when the building renova­tion is complete. The cluster, which featured Macintosh computers when it closed in May of 1995, will reopen with 28 new IBM Pentium computers. The change from Macintosh to Windows computers was prompted by findings 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, December 9, 1996 
• AFGHANISTAN 
Advisory panel agrees to disagree 
Taliban military forces 
administration, and they'll far more than its proceeds each
Three plans decide what to do." year. 
Member Gerald M. Shea Without corrective action, it
landing of U.N. plane proposed for demurred. He said the report will be broke by 2029. At that 
offers "nonrecommendations" point, payroll taxes will cover 
By ZAHRUDDIN ABDULLAH 
Associated Press Writer 
KABUL, Afghanistan 

Taliban fighter planes inter­cepted a U.N. aircraft carrying a rebel leader from neighbor­ing Tajikistan on Saturday and forced it to land at a military air basr. in western Afghanistan, a Taliban spokesman said. 
"They didn't get the proper permission and we were within our rights to force them to land," said Abdul Niazi, a Taliban spokesman in the Afghan capital Kabul. 
The aircraft was forced to land at Shindand Air Base, sev­eral hundred miles east of Kabul. All those on board were unharmed. They were appar­ently being held, and it was not clear when they might be released. 
Niazi said Tajikistan's oppo­sition leader Syed Abdullo Nuri was on board the aircraft, along with eight other people, some of whom were Iranians. 
Nuri was on his way to Kunduz in northern Afghanistan to attend peace talks with Tajikistan's President Emomali Hakhmanov to try to end a civil war in the former Soviet republic, said Akbar Torahjanzada, a spokesman for Nuri. 
The peace talks were to be held on Monday, he said. 
Niazi said the U.N. aircraft which had left Mashhad, Iran, was forced to land after it entered Afghan air space over llerat without first getting per­
• Government troops MDostum's forces Hezb·e·wahabat (Shiite Muslims) 
Taliban rebels (Sunni Muslims) 

AP 

mission. 
Ilerat is controlled by the Taliban, while northern Kunduz is ruled by an anti­Taliban alliance that includes northern warlord Rashid Dostum and ousted Afghan President Burhanuddin Habbani, who is an ethnic Tajik. 
Observers in Kabul said the Taliban suspected that Habbani, who is in Iran, may have been on the aircraft, which is why it was intercept­ed. 
In recent public statements the Taliban has accused Iran of supporting the anti-Taliban alliance, which controls rough­ly one-third of Afghanistan, while the Taliban rule the remaining two-thirds. 
While Iran has denied help­ing the anti-Taliban forces, it has strongly criticized the harsh version of Islamic law that the Taliban is imposing in those parts of Afghanistan it controls. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
rs..................."""""..."""""""~=---""""'"'''"'"'"""""""""""·~ 
= Spring Break 97  
Complete Packages From $429 Free Covers, Free Day Parties Discounts at shops and side excursions  CANCUN Book now and Sunbreaks will throw in 15 FREE Meals!! Make your reservation today Space is Limited!!  
**** SprlnJf llrt>nk 97 (:ma<•t>rl t'<•!divnl Call For Info ****  
Sunbreak Student Vacations Lowest price for Info call 1~800-446-8355 Guaranteed!I I Http://www.uresource.com/sunbrcak liZ tt**=TTeTe%"1l~U'Z.'Z. - 



Social Security 
By JENNIFER BROWN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
For 2112 years, members of a federal advisory panel on Social Security argued, disagreed and argued again. Still without con­sensus, the group presents this month three opposing plans to save the doomed system. 
Some panel members said Sunday that's what they were supposed to do. Others disagree. 
"We were charged with com­ing up with general approach­es," said panel member Sylvester Schieber. who sup­ports a plan to restructure the program to rely on individual investment accounts. "Now the report goes to Congress and the because the proposals differ so widely. 
"I think it absolutely was a total failure," said Shea, assis­tant to the president of the AFL-CIO. "If we had been hon­est with each other, we would have closed up shop last December and sent a letter to Secretary Shalala that the council was unable to reach agreement." 
Donna Shalala, the Health and Human Services secretary, appointed the Advisory Council on Social Security in June 1994 to find ways to keep the system solvent over the long term. 
The amount of money the gov­ernment collects for Social Security this year will exceed by $60 billion the amount it must pay in benefits. But starting in 2012, as the baby boomers start retiring, the fund will pay out only 76 percent of promised benefits. 
Disagreements within the 13­member panel left it divided into three factions. 
• 
A five-member segment, including Schieber. wants to replace Social Security with a two-tier system of "personal security accounts." Hetirement benefits would vary, depending on the success of each worker's investments. 

• 
A six-member faction led by former Social Security commis­sioner Hobert Ball supports keeping the current system but diverting into stocks 40 percent of Social Security tax collodions from 2000-2015. Because the stock market has historically provided higher returns than bonds, supporters argue that would end the trust fund's cash crunch. 


Burton named investigation chair 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON Rep. Dan Burton, a crusty Republican with a 
reputation as a conspiracy hawk, acknowledges that as chairman of a key House investigative panel, he cannot be a lightning rod for political broadsides. 
In the past, Burton has peered behind every lamppost for White House scandals. He said he thought former Clinton aide Vincent Foster may have been murdered and the body moved to taking a large delegation to France for the 50th anniversary of the Normandy invasion. 
But Burton, 58, said in an fnterview that he aims to be evenhanded as he takes on the task of heading the Government Reform and Oversight Committee -the lead House panel that will investigate ques­
tionable donations to the 'The pe:ception of Democratic Party. That could be a tough transi­
me ... IS an ax­
tion for the 16-ycar !louse veter­
wielding serial killer.' 
an, one of the most virulent anti­Clinton Hepublicans on Capitol 
Dan Burton Hill. 
"Since I have bnen a lightning 
the park where it was found. He even staged a mock reenactment of the shooting at his home, to demonstrate that diplomatic guards near the Virginia park should have heard gunshots. 
He worked himself into a lather over Whitewater before many Americans knew the word. He singed Hillary and Chelsea Clinton for the cost ol' their 1994 trip to Norway for the win­ter Olympics. He rapped President Clinton for 

rod, I think I need to play the role of a fair chairman, and maybe minimize my role in questioning (witnesses) so the lightning rod problem is minimized," Burton said. 
"The perception of me ... is an ax-wielding ser­ial killer. I would describe myself as an individ­ual congressman who felt compelled to pursue truth aggressively," he said. "But as chairman. people will be pleasantly surprised with the bipartisan approach I'm going to take." 
~~W WiLCo 
This coupon expires 12/1 2/9G 
._ ...-.---..------..--.-----~ 
Tracks 
TRACKS has 
has 
used 
posters,
cd's 
and 
jewelery, 
we 
imported
bU)!quality 
clothing.
used cd's 
stickers,
for 
cash 
insence
or
d z3 
trade 
and more! 

te 1\0a In Campus Shoppes
sta 277-8338
on www.networkmichiana.com/tracks 

VIEWPOINT 
Intelligence not always relative to education 
•  DOONESBURV  GARRY TRUDEAU  • QuoTE OF THE DAY  
11/!3 HA~ 7D MOV/3 7H& tulflB<­FIILL OVER A801JTSIX FC&T, 8lJT Yal GE-T 7H!3 GCNB?AL­PICTUR& ... I  'THAISIA/H&R& YOU COM& /N. I'M 60/NG TO NE&I? (}{fl[J()OR. 5CULP!ZJR!3 &VERYBfTA'3 M4S­Stvt::, MUSCULAR.. ANI?8RIJTAti,Y COO/.. A9 THe H0/.156 nst:iFI  "The test of first-rate intelligence is the abil­ity to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function.'  

Monday, December 9, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ............. , .......... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager. ........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Pecers SPorts Editor .................... Timorhy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the stud ems of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insriturion. The-news is reported as accurardy and objeccively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Phoro Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoim 63 I -4 54 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Production 63 I -5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE DISCOURSE 
A few years ago, a very controversial book was published concerning intelli­gence. The Bell Curve is a massive tome that attempts to correlate intelligence to factors such as ethnicity. It is fair to say that the book was not well received by many; there have been claims that the data upon which the major arguments 

Sean Seymore 
are based are not scientifically sound. Nevertheless, I have decided to pur­chase the book. Even though I may not agree with what is presented, I am always interested in knowing how oth­ers think. Reading a part of the book has sparked my interest in the subject of intelligence. 
Americans are obsessed with intelli­gence. Many persons can accept being called lazy, arrogant or spoiled; but call­ing someone "dumb" or "ignorant" is usually considered a grave insult. Nowhere is the sensitivity toward intelli­gence more evident than in education. When a teacher or guidance counselor tells a parent that his or her child is "slow" or an "underachiever," those are fighting words! Parents will ask for a second opinion or even place their chil­dren in another school, but they often refuse to accept that their child is not as smart as other children. When family members or neighbors ask why Jill or Johnny is not doing well in the class­room. the answer is most often, "There is an adjustment problem." No one wants to say that their child is not intel­ligent. Nowadays, it is common to see a bumper sticker proclaiming, "My Kid is an Honor Student at ABC Elementary School" on nearly every minivan. Intelligence brings honor and distinction to a family; anything less is an embar­rassment. 
The American obsession with intelli­gence, however, is hurting the educa­tional system -from kindergarten through college. In most primary and secondary schools, there has been the longstanding tradition of placing the "smart" kids in separate classrooms, or if funding allows, placing them in a sep­arate school.altogether. As kid who attended one of these "smart" schools, I can definitely say that there are several inherent advantages, namely challeng­ing and rigoro'us coursework. My high school was a college-preparatory high school; 100 percent of the students are admitted to college, and 99 percent eventually enroll. However, the school only admits about 50 students each year. So, what about applicants number 51 and 52? Are they less intelligent than applicant number 50? The fact that they did not gain admission has nothing to do with intelligence. If the school could a!Tord to accept a larger entering class, 51 and 52 would be in it. By default, they must attend a comprehensive high school. When it is time to apply to col­lege, there is no doubt that applicants from the college-prep high school have a clear advantage. 
There is no doubt that intelligence is of immense importance in the college admissions game. It is true that many "smart" kids aspire to attend an Ivy, a Public Ivy, or a comparable private school; but it is false to say that such schools have the best and brightest young minds in their classrooms. For example, there is no doubt that a -size­able percentage of every elite school's entering class is reserved for children of alumni. I am not convinced that these kids are always on the same level acade­mically as the general applicant pool. 
Furthermore, I firm­
ly believe that the 
children of alumni 
who make multi­
million dollar dona­
tions to a school find 
their way into enter­
ing classes, regard­
less of their high 
school records. It is ''-"'-··r""' 
also unfair to 
assume that it is in 
the best interest of 
every intelligent kid 
to attend an elite 
institution. For 
example, suppose 
there is an intelli­
gent kid that wants 
to study agriculture 
or ornamental horti­
culture. I do not LC.::c..::::.:.::_:..:...::.._ __!.==--th__!.a!!!!!!tsat beside me in honors seminar at 
believe that Harvard would be _ a good choice. Furthermore, there are plenty of smart kids who, even with financial aid, cannot afford to attend an elite school; therefore, State University is the best and only choice. 
It is undeniable that all colleges are not the same. Quite simply, some col­leges are definitely more academically-
sound than others. However, students at quite a few non-elitist schools are unfairly labeled as less intelligent than their counterparts. Nowhere is this more evident than at the great land-grant uni­versities of the South, for example, Georgia, Tennessee and Florida. So, very often, the first thing that comes. to 
mind when these schools are mentioned 
is football. I believe that the Civil War notion that Southerners are less intelli­
gent than Americans from other parts of the country still lingers in the backs of many people's minds. When comedians want to impersonate an ignorant per­son, do they not often imitate a Southerner missing several front teeth with very strong drawl? Last year, a girl 
page 9 
--...,.. ® 

Tennessee was named a Rhodes Scholar. During Tennessee's nationally­t le ·sed "ootball 1• g th'IS season she
e VI ames , was featured on the University's allotted commercial. This has shown two things: first, that Tennessee can produce a 
Rhodes Scholar, and second, intelligent 
students do attend public universities in the South. 
The fact that students who attend cer­tain schools and colleges are often con­sidered more intelligent than others has another unfortunate consequence. Since most students that attend such institu­tions come from similar backgrounds, some may try to derive a very untrue relationship between wealth, class, and 
intelligence. Unfortunately, Americans treat intelligence just as they do wealth 
and class; an intelligent person looks 
better and feels satiated as long as there are plenty of less intelligent persons. around. 
Sean Seymore is a graduate in inor­ganic chemistry. He can be reached at sean. b. seymore.l @nd. edu . 
-F. Scott Fitzgerald 



-------~~-­
ACCENT
page 10 Monday, December 9, 1996 
Jingle Bells~ Jingle Bells. • • 
By MIKE McMORROW er in the day, but we'll forgive the movie for that mild Interest to the movie and is not in the least bit witty. Accent Movie Critic blunder). · The Sinbad character is a disappointment. As stat-There are so many ways to read this unfocused ed before, the audience is never fully sure whether he 
M
any a moon ago, our generation obsessed with movie that it provides a problem for a reviewer. In is the friend or the con-man. At f1rst, Sinbad comes little action figures of He-Man. Transformers, one sense. it is simply a conventional children's movie across as an amiable, energetic man. But then revtmls and GI Joe. Every Christmas, children would with the well-intentioned, but nevertheless lousy, that he is more interested in getting this damn toy nag thoir parents to make sure they knew precisely father, the fed-up wife, and the hurt kid, with than with acting in true Christmas spirit. But by the which figures they wanted most, and would make redemption in the end. But in another. much more end (and if you see the film, you'll know what I mean,) sure to tell them much in advance so the figures creative sense, it can be read as a satire on the you'll be asking yourself, "Has he learned his lesson would not bo sold out when they would go to buy "action figure movement." Many parents are obsessed or...?" Maybe there is an obvious answer, but the tlwm. These recollections provide substance for many wlth pleasing their toy·obsessed kids at Christmas, movie sure doesn't mnke it clettl'. humorous conversations with ti'iends, sharing nostal-and the movie sort of makes fun of them. Yes, this is And, finally, we have this climactic scene in a gk mmnol'ies about such "aetion figures." cynical. and not ideal for a children's movie, but it is parade. Giving it away would be unfair to those who 
But seeing "Jingle All The Way" does not do much at least more original. And more interesting. plan to go to this movie, but let me just say you will for these memories. Sitting through this movie,one But the movie never defines its direction, and there-not be alone if you find yourself wondering, "What 
~e~tltin~ng~hlmse~"Waslroa~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wasTHATallabou~"We'veseen 
ly this stupid when I was 8 years old?"  !  Arnold pregnant in "Junior," seen him  
The film begins with a family whin­ing about "the father who is never homo in timo to soe his kid shine." The arena this time is karate. Arnold  '"  ,,o· · .'fl!!lltft _  ::; ~:  as a kindergarten teacher, seen him battle evil robots ...but never would we have dreamed of seeing him like this! I really did not care for "Jingle All  
Schwarzenegger, in the role of the hopeless father, miSses his kid's  .,·v..·:.  --...·... ·· ... ,  .. ~  The Way," and I spent a lot of time afterwards reflecting on how it couJd  
karate performance because he is  have been successful, or if that was  
busy at work, and gets a traffic ticket for speeding when trying to make it in  ·.·~.·.·=.~.~.:,~­~•""'·  even possible. I talked -about the satire element before, but in order for that  
time.  to have worked, the idea has to he  
This sets up the movie for another  consistently present throughout. And  
scenario on  a much larger scale, in  by the finale, it's a far-fetched idea. As  
which the hapless dad must leave  it stands now. we go from soupy to  
early on Christmas morning to get a  satire to  Mighty Morphin' Power  
"TurboMan" action figure. which he  Rangers (I apologize to the producers  
forgot to  traek down at an  earlier  of that piece of trash for not putting  
date.  the Trademark in) wannabe.  
Now, here's the whopping, surpris- But when looking at the  names of  
ing cateh: TurboMan appears to he  the producers and the director of this  
the hottest item in stores since the  movie, I'm not all that surprised at the  
invention of Nintendo, so of course  results.  Levant's  films  include  
daddy dearest is out of luck. In the  "Beethoven" and "The Flintstones,"  
meantime, the hopeless father meets a  neither of which I would heartily ree­ 
postal worker, played by the potential­ ommend; both show a preference for  
ly very funny Sinbad, in the same posi­ easy slapstick over genuine human  
tlon on Christmas morning at the mobbed entrance of the toy store.  Arnold Schwarzenegger stars in "Jingle All the Way."  courtesyofTwenti9thCanturyFox  comedy. One of the producing hands is Chris  
This is the beginning of a rivalry. or  Columbus, who of course was integral  

frifmdship (tho movie nover makes this point clear) fore we have very little to work with; we're left vvith a to the "Home Alone" projects and was behind last between the two characters. So Schwarzenegger goes big mess at the end. This movie starts very slowly. summer's poor ''Nine Months." I have yet to sne a on a wild goose chase to find a TurboMan -a chase and never really picks up. One wishes the director, really solid movie come from either of these peopln, which includfls a garage full of "Santas gone bad," Brian Levant, could have left out some of the feel-so it's hard to expect much here. (with a hysterical cameo by James Belushi), a show-good, sappy family scenes. along with a tasteless sub· But if you decide to check this out, let me say this: 1 down with a police officer, and climaxes in a parade plot involving the perfect-father next door neighbor really think Billy Zane ("Tho Phantom") looks a lot scene (which was actually supposed to be much earli· coming on to Schwarzenegger's wife. This adds no better in a red suit than Arnold does. 
·oavfight• Breaks Through as Stallone Shines 
By JOSHUA BECK Accent Movie Critic 
t first glance, "Daylight" is exactly 
what it appears to be: another 
Sylvester Stallone action thriller. 

Sure, we're all used to seeing him kill the bad guys and get the ladies, and his sole purpose in life is to strike baek ""ll.gainst impossible odds. This time, however, he's not cruising through some Vietnam war zone or braving a moun­tain to rescue a woman; no, this time 
he's fighting back against the tunnel. 
What's the tunnel, you say? It's noth­
ing more than an underground roadway 
connecting New York to New Jersey. 
ilowevcr, il' something were to go terri­
bly wrong (i.e. ears exploding and the 
tunnel collapsing), both cities would be 
in a heap of trouble. To take it a little 
further along those lines, let's say there 
arc survivors trapped inside. Now what 
do you do? Easy: you call in Sly, the 
master of overcoming impossible situa­
tions. This movie is good -not only 
because it's dassily filmed and directed, 
but also because Stallone is at the head 
of the aetion. llis mission: to rescue at 
least a dozen survivors from the tunnel. 
The good thing about this film is that it's not trying to hold anything back and it doesn't have any secret, hidden plot to spring out at the unaware audiences. It does, however. have action (lots of it), suspense, lots of surprises. and of course, Sly Stallone. This movie really isn't any different from any of his oth­ers, butone does notice one thing while watching it. The situation in the tunnel could actually happen. In fact, that's how one feels through most of-this movie. There was not anything fake or umealistie about this film until the end. But that's better left for the viewer to decide. 
Under the direction of Hob Cohen, this movie takes off and never hits the explode, setting off a chain reaction of ground. There is particularly good plot explosions that echo back through the development, and the characters are tunnel and burn everything in their way. delved into as well as the movie pro-In terms of special effects, this might gresses. Plus, the filming is magnificent be the best that they get. The New York with some exceptionally good_..,...,_.~.....-........ shots, including a moving picture of the tunnel at the beginning. In any Stallone movie, the special effects have to be just that-spe­cial. This is another reason why "Daylight" shines. With the explosions of cars, the random tires bursting throughout the tun­nel, and the actual collapse of parts of it, you're left wondering how they could have done it bet­ter. However, you won't ever fig­ure it out, because they accom­plished it in the best way possi­ble. 
As said before, nothing is held back in the plot. From the begin­ning, it is evident where the movie is headed. How the situa­tion is resolved is what makes the movie what it is. One thing to be said about this film is that the entire situation is quite morbid. The film begins at sunset in New York, but winds down to the dark night. The tunnel is crowded as . . Courtesy of ~nive~sal City Studios always as people try to make it to Sly Stallone stars 111 th1s communter s nightmare. 
wherever they're going. Suddenly, a group of thugs decide to rob a jeweler outside of his store and take his car. Then the fun begins. 
The car is chased by the police and the robbers take that inevitable turn into the tunnel. However, they have no idea that further inside travel several trucks with illegal explosive substances being transferred somewhere on the other side. As the thugs' reckless driving con­tinues, they move closer and closer to the trucks, until finally they collide and all hell breaks loose. The trucks side of the tunnel then collapses. People hurry to the site to help, including a cab driver named Kit Latura (Sylvester Stallone). As the situation worsens, Latura, who was actually head of the Emergency Medical Services before a scandal forced him out, decides to redeem himself by going down into the tunnel to rescue the survivors. How he gets down there is incredible, and how he tries to get the dozen people out is even more extraordinary, as many dis­astrous surprises impede their escape before the tunnel eollapsns. 

Although the beginning is spnetaeular in terms of film shots, the soeond half lacks in that department, but this may be due to the fact that the tunnr-1 is a more confined space. In terms of spe­cial effects, however, the film holds nothing back in making you think they're real. which most of them are. Cohen directs this film beautifully, as the plot is well-developed and the char­acters fight their own personal battles inside the tunnel. 
However, this movie tries to express the idea that in a disaster, people are able to pull out the most extraordinary resources in order to get themselves out of their situation. The actual premise of this movie is not implausible, as we have seen many disasters throughout America (i.e. the San Francisco earth­quake and the Oklahoma City bombing). Although the situation was not caused by a natural disaster or a bomb, it makes one think what would happen if the tunnel actually collapsed. 
Moreover, this movie is about the quest of one man to redeem himself from his past, as we find that Stallone's character led men unknowingly to their death in a poorly constructed building. It is also about the abilities of trapped people to come together to improve their situation. The acting is impressive, especially by Stallone, whose acting throughout his career has been at the least believable. Another notable per­formance is by Amy Brenneman ("Heat") as a down-and-out playwright who also becomes trapped in the tunnel. All in all, this movie is a big winner, and it just goes to show that with age, some actors' movies get better and better. If this is the case, then Stallone is in his prime, and the only hope is that he keeps entertaining audiences during his golden age. 
,..
;ACCENT
Monday, December 9, 1996 page 11 
To See or Not To See... 
By RACHEL TORRES "Hamlet" usually proves to be a favorite Shakespearean play, so needless to say, Assistant Accent Editor Branagh was working with one of the most masterfully written pieces of all time. Branagh stayed true to the text, and his production preserved the integrity of 
K
enneth Branagh: The man is a genius. He has charged movie screens every­Shakespearian style. The set designs, the costumes, the music, and the cast all where with his productions of "Othello," "Henry V," "Much Ado About came together perfectly under Branagh's direction. Nothing," "Mary Shelley's Frankenstein," and now "Hamlet." Branagh stars Kate Winslet is a wonderful Ophelia. She plays classical characters well; Winslet 
into this film. Since he first saw "Hamlet" on stage when he was 15, Branagh has 
co-starred with Emma Thompson in  
Jane Austin's "Sense and Sensibility."  
Richard Briers is hilarious as Polonius.  
His character is not a blatantly comical  
one, but his annoyances are played out  
subtly as he notes, "Brevity is the sbul of  
wit," and continues to be verbose; oblivi­ 
ous to his effect on others.  
Julie Christie is a believable Gertrude,  
and gratefuly Branagh did not play her  
character as suggesting any incestuous  
relationship with  Hamlet like  Mel  
Gibson's version did.  
The role of steadfast Horatio  was  
played well, in addition to the evil  
Claudio.  Robin  Williams  and  Billy  
Crystal show up for some very amusing  
cameos,  as  does  Jack  Lemon  and  
Charelton Heston.  
Of course, Branagh as Hamlet could  
not be any better.  Branagh is an amaz­ 
ing talent, and his intense energy almost  
explodes  right  off  of  the  screen.  
Through his most excellent portrayal,  
EvPrything about "Hamlet" is awe­inspiring. Branagh literally called out all of the stops to pour his heart and soul  Courtesy of Castle Rock Entertainment Kenneth Branagh stars in and directs an all-star international cast in his adaptation of Shakespeare's classic "Hamlet."  one can certainly tell the method to Hamlet's madness. Although not everybody is an English major and might not appreciate  

Shakespeare, movie watching does not get any better than this. 
wanted to participate in a production of it. He has made it part of his life's work, and is grateful now that "we did it exactly the way we wanted to do it." 

Days ofour Lives 
By JENIFER KOCH and JULIE BARBOUR Accent Days of our Lives Correspondents 
W
hoa, Whoa, WI10A!!! Days fans, can you believe the activity?. It seems the Days writers have finally gotten on the ball and busted out with. s.ornegood material. We have a two-week summary to give everyone so please excuse the fact that is really condensed. · .•.. . 
First we have Peter, Jack and Jen. We thought we only had Jen and Jack, but through the miracle of modern drugs, Peter survived and was takenfrom his cof• fin before it was buried six feet under. As if being bl.lried ever St(lppe(i a soap character. Yes, folks, Stefano pulled another miraculous scam. Ht)l gave Peter a drug that only made him seem dead (urn, Juliet, anybody?) and thep he ~eplaced · Peter's body with Daniel Scott's. (Conveniently; Daniel fell out. qf'a ~e<i{):U!! story window during a meeting with Stefano.) Peter was brought back 1:() ~t~fatl,o's h~de­out to recover; his secret was safe until Stefano kidnapped Laura: Laura now knows the truth behind everything: Peter's attempt to kidnapJen~ f;tefano's sur· viva!, and Kristen's fake pregnancy. Stefano has plans for Lao/a.•so We ca.njlist pray she escapes. Peter may even help her; he doesn't seem happy about the cur­rent circumstances, Peter had no knowledge of Stefano's plans; .• He actually attempted to call Jen but Stefano stopped him. Peter is still interested In Jen's well-being and he knows Jen would be crushed if she had to live without her mom 
again. .. ·· 
Next we have Bo, Hope, Billie, and Franco. Bo and Hope were searching for Jill when Hope slipped into the freezing cold water. Lucky for her, Franco was within earshot of her screams and rescued her before she drown. Dr.· Mike treated Hope for a minor case of hypothermia and a big bump on her head. (Somebody should have told Mike that the bump was just her hair. ) Like we predicted a couple of weeks ago, Jill was carted by Bo a record number of times; the clirnax was reached when they were merely a curtain apart. Yes folks,Jill.was in ~e bed next to Hope's and no one noticed but Franco. Of course Bo I<Mw.toJook at the hospital if Billie would tell him she spotted Jill there. We deep down Billie wants to tell Bo but Kate insists she keep it a secret in day Bo will return to Billie. Our best prediction is that Kate is are working to get Billie back together with Bo, It has blackmail on Kate; maybe Sami found Franco's naCK'·UP cen 
As for Sami... she is playing a good game. She <1n1· ·\t;v; Thanksgiving dinner at the Kiriakis mansiOn. · restraining order on Carrie, but everyone is still sm;pi<~i(l'l then had Kate promote Carrie to a Titan V.P., .· her out of town for six months. Sami's plan seemed he would go with Carrio. Sarni, however, rises Will as he'll have to choose between his son and Carrie. · 
Last, but not certainly not least, are John.. M<l.rlena au'"'·""·• got busted on Thanksgiving when she didn't recognize ·• her way out ofit hut not before Marlena's suspicions were got a hold of Kristen's medical record to trace any m•scrf1:oa;nc found was an inconsistency in Kristen's blood pressure.• Or maybe go find your friend Laura, who witnessed nancy pillow. We smell a breakthrough in this storyline, so 
Well, Days fans, there is a time when everyone rnust say . .. ... ·.. ·· . . is our time. We hope you had as much fun readi:og our articles as we ...... ·......·. . .. them. It has also been an interesting semester ofe-mail messages;. keep ~.elil coming if you'd like! Remember, keep watching. Have faith in our soap, w~ are sure the writers are working through their slumps. · . 
E-mail your last hurrahs to Jenifer.L.Koch,6@nd.edu or 
barb2 883@saintmarys. edu. 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Hospital Corre$pondent 
B
USTED!!! Miranda catc.h,es Brenda reading her precious letters and goes bal­listic. Brenda parries nicely and.. then thrusts horne with, "You may sleep with the letters, butl sleep with hirn.'' She makes it very clear that she won't play dead and will insteadfight for her 'marriage, Miranda, however, wants to know how secure the marriage is NOWif007 ~~stosneak in to read private correspon­dence. . · .... . · · ·· · 
Sonny reaches out to Brenda~onth(;l etsary()fStone's death, but the former Ms. Barrett is sq wrapped up th<J,t $.what·day•it is, Sonny wanders the town. alone in gdet, Jhen.toa~ts · ·· Ja;sqn, .and Mi.ke. lie. tops off the evening by offeting (:;Ina:'a:J ·· e dollars• an hour, plus tips, so she .can pay for ~c~~~l;Jf{e , 
Hobin comes holX!e t i>ortCb.arles for· Christmas; instead; she is going on eabout HIV. The celebrations occur early; al}d R<;lbiD: ... . .•. ,.. 
Jax is not happy tlt<it Bt~t) IE!tters: Consequently, his new bride wonders ifhe~ htisban We•wayhedid Miranda's. Jax has to rneet With his, old lov ; Brenda "overhears" their con­versation and is greatly upset In ge, she invites Justus over to see if her marriage is legaL .If Ja-x; cf.tri · certificat(}Jhat his father faked, life will go much eii.Sier;if riot, !v1H:anda .. ilfhave the second marriage con­
tested. · ·· ·· Ned finally has the evidence off the board of ELQ. When Justus attempts to derail his you can't complain after you've sold your soul to the family """v~,·.,. to Sonny: double bubble toil and trouble. Look out; Sonny had a ton of viqj;tnl'q shows up to play pool and get some dirt on . . . . .. . so!>ner ,11 Brenda shows up for info on HER rival. I think the. Sonny nuuaJtng up -when she was out-Side the bar, he held ;.....; !~htrlP• Stefan. proposes· .. he knows everythingabout her· · · Bobbie· ignites his pas­. using her. Luke and 
yvithout telling her 
to::trrl!l.CCI.:soa>u. opera land­
~ •. ·,-~~·"~"'"'"'· ptornises tobe 
·t.h,ere will l>e no 

on:•miti!ht. he he behind the garne? she is the responsible . .. The garne begins to two and two together­grave means her rnother is she goes road-trippin' with 
>1"6>!).il;t(lgprtme time episode this Saturday 
r 
~------~-------~·-----~ ---­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 9, 1996 
·~ 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 

Irish struggle in conference debut loss to Friars 
By DAVE TREACY 
A<sociate Spons Editor 
The Big East hasn't gotten any friendlier. as John Macleod and the Notre Dame squad found out at Providence last Saturday. 
In fact, its just as aggressive as it always was. And Notre Dame still doesn't know how to handle il 
The f'riars' (5-2) pressure de­fense kept Notre Dame's (2-2) game plan from even taking root in the eontest, and forced the Irish into turnover after turnover in an 82-59 shellaek­ing in the Providence Civic Center. 

"We were going to break the press and get them into a half­I -court game," recalled Pat Garrity of Notre Dame's strat­egy going into the match-up. "We were supposed to make four or five passes and run 
some screens, but to tell you the truth I can remember maybe five times where we were setting screens and run­ning our motion offense." 
Garrity, as usual, was Notre Dame's lone threat, leading his squad in points (20) and rebounds (8). Forward Derek Manner was the only other player to score in double fig­ures (11) for the Irish. 
Notre Dame was ineffective against the press from their first possession, losing the ball early and often as they coughed up 23 costly turnovers for Providence's efforts. 
"Maybe they didn't expect us to press," was Providence top­seorer (27) Jamel Thomas' only guess as to his opponents' for­tune. 
Actually, the full court press was Macleod's biggest concern heading into the game. Unfortunately, his worry was right on the money. 
''I'm sure we'II be pressed as we move through these games, and we're going to have to han­dle the pressure and attack and do a better job." 
Notre Dame needs more than just press-breaking abilities to cure this ill. When Garrity pro­vides the sole force for the squad, the Irish simply don't play well. 
''I'll tell you what, that Pat Garrity is one of the top players in this league," Thomas offered. 
But even the best actor needs a good supporting cast. The Irish, including Garrity's 5-11 shooting day, hit only .350 from the floor. At the foul line, only Garrity's 10-11 performance kept the Irish percentage up as the rest of the squad tallied 1-7 from the stripe. 
Glaring offensive ineffective­ness at the one-guard and cen­ter positions again plagued the team's performance. Senior Admore White's play at the point prevented the offense from kicking, as he scored only two points on 1-5 shooting, and committed as many turnovers as assists (3). Notre Dame's three centers {Matt Gotsch. Marcus Young, and Phil Hiekey) contributed just two points and three offensive boards, com­pared with Providence starter Ruben Garces, who alone dropped in ten points and col­lected three offensive rebounds. 
The freshman class has con­tinued to provide some sparks for the Irish, but haven't yet lit the lire. David Lalazarian's in­tensity has won him some substantial playing time, as the forward recorded 24 minutes on the floor, second on the team to Garrity's 37. lie re­sponded with seven points, his first single-digit total of the sea­son, and seven boards. Guards Keith Friel and Jimmy Dillon were on the court for 21 min­utes each, more than starters White and Pete Miller, who played a mere six minutes and had no points. 
Some scoring bursts brought the squad as close as 26-20 in the first half, but Providence entered the loeker room after increasing their lead to 42-24. Despite Notre Dame's early sec­ond half initiative in bringing the lead as close as a 12-point differential, the Friars topped the Irish with a 29-8 run to close the game. 
Notre Dame will have a chance to get their game back on track against New Hampshire in the JACC on Tuesday night. The Irish do not play another conference opponent until their January 2nd meeting at home against the Syracuse Orangemen. 

I 

Favre, Freeman lead Pack over bumbling Broncos 
By BARRY WILNER won consecutive division crowns. league's leading rusher, was held to 54 Green Bay capitalized on two huge Associated Press Writer With six-year veteran Bill Musgrave yards. breaks to open the seoring. Aaron making his first NFL start in place of The Paekers (11-3) had their share of Craver's fumble, forced and recovered GHEEN BAY, Wis. Elway, the Broncos stagnated and saw sloppiness, with penalties, poor passes, by Sean Jones, set up the Paekers at They shook hands before the game. their nine-game winning streak end. turnovers and drops. But they also had the Denver 41. Then Steve Atwater's Then John Elway watched Brett Favre Still, at 12-2 they already have home­their quarterback, and he has an interception live plays later was negat­carry the Green Bay Packers to a divi­field advantage throughout the AFC emerging star at receiver in Freeman. ed by a holding call against Atwater. sion title. playoffs, which is why Elway sat it out. Last week, Freeman returned from a Chris Jacke kicked a 33-yard field goal. It was feared that with Elway nursing He couldn't haved liked what he saw broken left forearm. Playing with a Musgrave looked eool enough moving a hamstring injury. the game could as Denver slipped to 2-8 when he's cast, he had 10 catehes for 156 yards. the Broncos to the tying field goal, turn into a rout, and it did. missed games. The Broncos had five He added nine receptionsfor 175 yards Jason Elam's 40-yard kiek. That was 
Favre had four TD passes, while successive three-and-out series, and three touchdowns Sunday. about all he did. Antonio Freeman and Green Bay's although one resulted in Jason Elam's Dorsey Levens added a career-best Much of the first half was a defensive aggressive defense stood out as the 39-yard field goal following Tyrone 86 yards rushing as the Packers won battle, hardly surprising with the No. 2 Packers elinched the NrC Central title Braxton's interception early in the third their 15th straight home game. No and No. 3 ranked units in the llmgw~ on with a 41-6 victory Sunday. period. They had no first downs in the wonder they want to be here in the field. But with Denver's defense 
It's the first time in 29 years they've third quarter, and Terrell Davis, the January. constantly at work, it wore down. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notte Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
···so SHOPPING DAYS LEFTI NOW IS THE TIME TO GUARAN­TEE THE LOWEST RATES AND BEST HOTELS FOR SPRING BREAK. LEISURE TOURS HAS PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN. JAMAICA AND FLORI­DA. 800-838-8203 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ Cancun Jamaica Bahamas Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf & Sun (800)763-5606. 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals. Free Parties, Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Prices WORDS...TO GO Term Papers, Dissertations. Resumes, Free Pick-Up and Delivery Available. Competitive Rates, 299-7224 

Hey! Want to wish your friends a MERRY CHRISTMAS?! Place a classified ad! Ads placed by Tuesday at 3 pm will appear in Wednesday's issue. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: SllVER RING WITH RED STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!! PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331. 
LOST: 1 Tennis Bracelet Shaped in X's and O's Lost between the library and Lyon's If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE call JAckie @ X2900 Michiana's largest night club and newest restaurant is now seeking competant, hard working individuals to fill several positions within our growing company. Positions now available are: Hostess. Banquet and restaurant servers, bus per­sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All positions are ideal for students. If interested, contact Heartland and The Old Chicago Steakhouse at 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. 
WANTED: MALE HOUSEMATE FOR NEXT SEMESTER. ACCOMMODATION 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS. 631-5118 
need roomate for spring sem. Turtle Creek-t. house interested? call Jeff 271-9433 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595 
FOR RENT: GRANGER 3-4 BED­ROOM HOUSE! FULL BSMT, 2· CAR GARAGE $825. 51844 CHERYL DR. 272-6877 
FOR SALE 
BED, COUCH, & ANS MACH ASKING $125, $75, &$20 2719387 
GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT! Name a star for someone special. $33 Call (800)701-7201 Ext. 14 
FOR SALE: POOL TABLE-$300. DP STAIRSTEPPER-$90. BODY BY JAKE WITH VIDEO ­$50. 
00000000000000000000000000000 IRISH ACCENT Looking for a unique gift idea? has its LAST show of the sem. Custom Color Copy Picture TONIGHT at 9PM in LAFUN Calendars are now available at BALLROOM. Admission is THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune ONE DOLLAR. DON'T MISS Student Center. Just bring in your IT-you may be tested on it! favorite pictures and create a mem-(Well, how do you know you won't? arable calendar!!! Choose from You don't! You NEVER know!) three formats: COMEDY. WE FEEL IT'S THE 
(1) 
12 Picture Monthly Flip RIGHT THING TO DO. 

(2) 
1 Picture Monthly Tear-Off 

(3) 
1 Picture Full Year View. FIN 360/361 HOTLINE 00000000000000000000000000000 We are here to help with questions 


and problems RIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST-Call x1-8432 Day or Night MAS-I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL NOON ON FRIDAY 12120, AND MY PREGNANT? WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO COME Consider the loving OUT ON SATURDAY-PLEASE option of Adoption. HELP! THANK YOU Caring, devoted couple Call Brian 287-4876 wish to share our Jove. 
laughs, and lives with an Exams stressing you out? infant. Call tor profile Holiday anxiety? and more info: Andrea 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring·  CALL 272-3753 AFTER  COUNSELINE can help!  and Lee: 1-800-213-3960.  
breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386  Furnished room available for '97.  3:30 OR LV. MESSAGE  Call Mon-Thurs. 4pm-12am  

 $300/mo. 5-min drive. VERY  AND WILL CALL YOU BACK.  to hear professionally taped  "Need a ride home to New York"  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  NICE!  materials at  1-7793  •tor X-Mas (Albany area)"  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  232-7175.  FOR SALE: WOODBRIDGE  Will help with driving & expenses.  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  basic conversational English in  1-BEDROOM CONDO WITH CAR- See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone- Can leave Dec. 20-22.  
Soon-Save $501 Save $150 on  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  I am in desperate need of a  PORT $59,900 RODGER PENDL,  book for a list of tapes.  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  teaching certificate or European  subletter for spring semester! It's for  C&E 272-6877  Sponsored by the UCC and Psych  Call Steve@ 232·7324  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  languages required. Inexpensive  a big apartment near campus. Call  Club.  
 
1-800-678-6386  Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680  Peter, 234-4779.  PERSONAL  Mel and C:  P.C.­You'll pay for that, oh yes, you'll  
Spring Break Panama City!  ext.K55843  REGGAE D. J.  Toledo?! You are crazy and psy­ pay...  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  234 0705  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  cho! DMB groupies!  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS I  Luv,  a word to the parents-it was ME  
$1291 Daytona-Best location $139!  Positions are now available at  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  E  who wrote that classified about a  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring- National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM- The highest quality full-color  ring. Sorry if it induced an irregular  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Preserves. Excellent benefits+  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ copies are now available at  LUCAS!I  heartbeat. all in good fun. happy  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  6306  THE COPY SHOP  holidays. P.S.-1 think Dave is  
"FREAKED OUT" over linals?  N55849  LaFortune Student Center  Pregnant and considering adop­ nice! II patricia c.  
Then come see the professional  STUDENTS-FIGHT THE URGE!  Phone #631-COPY  lion? Loving couple wish to adopt a  
lunatic -HARLEY NEWMAN  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Campus View Apartments are dirty, smelly, and ramshackle-that pool is  ........................................  white newborn. Home Study com­plete and approved by Catholic  you'll grow to like me.  
Friday the 13th· December  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  closed all the time, and the rent is  Ride needed from FLORIDA (I'll be  Charities. Call lisa and Jim 1-800­ I already like you ....  
8 PM. -LaFortune Ballroom  month. Room and Board!  outrageous! Do yourselves a favor  in W Palm, but can get to any­ 442-3213  
Only $3 to see the FREAK!  Transportation! Male or Female. No  and rent elsewhere; the conve­ where) to South Bend after  One big happy family ..  both ME's  
experience necessary. Call  nience just isn't worth it!!!  Christmas, anytime before school  THE PERFECT ND CHRISTMAS  an SE and an EIC.  
HARLEY can:  (206)971-3510 extA55848  starts.  Promise to entertain, share  GIFT? "A WELL BALANCED  {And I'm sure a BM and a SMCE  
"Eat Nails  HOUSE FOR RENT, TWO  $ and driving, and make an other- MEAL," ALL THE BEST OF FOUR  weren't too far away)  
'Walk on Razors  ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES­ BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  wise boring trip most enriching! call  FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCA- An SMCAAE and a certain VE in  
...  "Play with Electricity "Break boards with his head  TER AND DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE?  NEWLY REMODLED-4/5 BED­ROOM, FULL BASEMENT. AVAIL- Brian 287-4876 ......................*·················  L YPSE. ON SALE AT HAMMES AND LAFORTUNE INFO DESK  the house. Don't forget the ADM and a NCE. What about the PD?  
WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS  ABLE SUMMER/FALL 97'.  Where did the AE sleep, anyway?  
Sponsored by the  AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL 4­ INCLUDES APPLIANCES, MONI·  I would have thought a Chiappetta  P.C.  Oh, merry, merry Christmas!! Bring  
Student Union Board  4843  TORED SECURITY SYSTEM.  frame would have a high tolerance  Dont worry bout a thing ....  on the BASEMENT!!!  

page 13
TheOb 
' \ 
\ 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 9, 1996 
freshman Jen Grubb . 

• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
The Irish had a difficult time
Soccer 

getting shots off throughout the continued from page 20 entire game, unlike the 'Heels
Belles triumph over Pilots 
who led with an 18-7 margin. 
By KATHRYN COUSINO defense, the Belles still execut­Currently she holds five school Saint Mary's Spons Writer ed their plays. Head coach records with: 476 season David Roeder foreshadowed the points, 1533 career points, 
The Saint Mary's Basketball win after two key executions by 208 season rebounds, 626 team went one for two this past Sheila Sandine. career rebounds, and 87 season weekend in their own Only for a short time halfway steals. Houndball Classic, gaining their into the second half did the "Her success came from her first win of the season on Lady Pilots obtain a small two ability to read the other team's Friday night against Bethel point lead. Solid defense by the defense," credited former head College. Belles stole back their lead coach Wood. 
They were unable to capture which was never to be touched "She was a great student of their own tournament, though, again by out hustled Bethel. the game with a great work with a tough loss to 'university Key hustlers of the day in­ethic that led her to be the of Indiana-South Bend on cluded captain Marianne Banko best," he added. Saturday. and junior Brenda Hoban. "You would never have 
The final 79-76 triumph over Banko with 17 points and 15 known she was the star be­the Bethel Lady Pilots was rebounds and Hoban with 19 cause she never bragged," said highlighted by great perfor­points and 11 rebounds were friend and past teammate mances from the entire Belle literally all over the floor Friday Barbara Bowles. "She was lineup. Saint Mary's came out night. always the leader by example." strong in the first half against Between diving to save balls WheJll asked about her suc­Bethel by racking up an early and wrestling to steal the ball cess afi!U how she achieved it all seven point lead just minutes away both Banko and Hoban Taubenbheim responded that into the game. provided intense determination she never thought about scor­
"We produced more offoose to earn their win. ing or records. "I just wanted to in the beginning of the game," The Belles, who have not won be the best player I could be," confirmed Sheila Sandine, a their own Roundball Classic she replied. "My goals were to key player in Friday night's since 1992, will have to wait do what was best for the team." success. The game's highest until next year for another And that she did indeed. As a scorer, Belle point guard Darcy chance after they lost to a great senior she switched positions to Nikes, led with 22 points. At defensive team, Indiana point guard at the request of one point in the first half Nikes' University of South Bend 65-88. her coach because her team aggressiveness in the key Yet, all was not lost Saturday needed her there. allowed her to retrieve her own as one of Saint Mary's greatest Taubenbheim also gave credit rebound and score for two. basketball players, .former Belle to the SMC squad this year Aiding Nikes was Nicole Giffin Jenne Taubenbheim, was commenting on their fantastic who, with 13 rebounds and recognized for her outstanding job this season. "I can definite­seven points, set Nikes up performance in her four years ly sympathize with their not so numerous times with great at Saint Mary's. The current good record," she stated from passing. Belle team hopes to find inspi­her past experience. "When 
Yet in the second half, despite ration and motivatioh in they come together more," she Bethel's best rotation at Taubenbheim's successes. said "they will find their way." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Roberts initiated the strike when she broke away down the right side and sent the ball into the box. 
The majority of regulation was a defensive struggle for the Irish, as they played the major­ity of the game in their own territory. Forward Cindy Parlow constantly attacked the Irish defensive front. Parlow was slowed by an injury in the two previous meetings this year. . . 
"We couldn't keep possession long enough to get anything started," said Irish sweeper, 
Renola was the main factor 
keeping the Irish in the game, 
registering a tournament high 
seven saves. In the previous 
four tournament contests, she 
registered eight total. 

"I didn't come out with a vic­tory," said Renola. "It doesn't ·matter how well I played. I'm 
concerned about the outcome." 
This was the second straight 
Championship to go into over­
time. 

UNC lifted its winning streak 
from being the first team to 
ever beat them three times. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma North Carolina senior, Debbie Keller, headed in the game-winning goal for the Tarheels' win over the Irish in the second overtime. 
Work faster with it. Power Macintosh' 5400 120 MHz/16MB RAM/1.6GB/8X CD-ROM Simplifyyour life with it.15" buill-in displaw'keJ'board NOW$1499 Communicate to the worldwith it. Apple' Color StyleWriter' 2500 U/1 to .?Jar~60 dl!i NOW $240Have fun with it. Get $150 backwith it. Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. Right now Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebate when you purchase aMacintosh' personal computer and an Apple' printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to get your Mac: amachine that features some of the Apple' StyleWriter' 1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anything 360x360 dpi 8/W you'll encounter in your class schedule. So get to your campus computer NOW$99 store and pick out your Mac. It'll help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price.  
Notre Dame Computer Store  
Monday-Friday 8am-5pm  Power Macintosh' 7200 120 MHz/16MB RAM/l.ZGBtllX CD-ROM/15" display/keyboard Now $2,116 
Computer/Math Building, Room 112  
http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndstore/  
While Supplies Last  

@1996A/l{Jle Computer. Inc. All rights resen¥id. A/l{Jle, lh' Apple logo, Mac, Madntosh, Perjorma, Pou~r Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarlts ofApple Computer, Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer 11alidfrom Not•ember 2, 1996, through january 19, 1997, u•hi/e supplies last midsubject to availability. 7b qual­ify for rebate. printer. computer and an Apple monitor (ifsold separateM must be purchased on the same in11oice. Offir good on any Macintosh desktop computer u'l/h any Apple printe~ Void where prohibited by law. See partidpating resel/er for further rules and detailr. All Madntosh computers are desigtted to be accessible to indil'iduals u'ith disability. 7b Jearn more (U.S. onM. call 800-600-7808 or m 800·755-0601. 
Monday, December 9, 1996 

Heisman hopeful Warrick Dunn will have to lead Florida State once more in a Sugar Bowl re-match with rival Florida. 
(11-0) against No. 4 Ohio State (10-1). 
The biggest bowl loser was
College Bowl lineup 
No. 5 Brigham Young, which 
Division 1-A games Ail times EST 
lost an $8.5 million payday by 
being excluded from an alliance
Bowl Site Date Time TV Matchu~ 

Las Vegas  Las Vegas  Dec. 19  9p.m.  
Aloha  Honolulu  Dec. 25  3:30p.m.  
Liberty  Memphis, Tenn.  Dec. 27  3p.m.  
Carquest  Miami  Dec. 27  7:30p.m.  
Copper  Tucson, Ariz.  Dec. 27  9p.m.  
Peach  Atlanta  Dec. 28  8p.m.  
Alamo  San Antonio  Dec. 29  8 p.m.  
Holiday  San Diego  Dec. 30  8p.m.  
Sun  El Paso, Texas  Dec. 31  1 p.m.  
Independence Shreveport, La.  Dec. 31  3:30p.m.  
Orange  Miami  Dec. 31  ?p.m.  
Outback  Tampa, Fla.  Jan. 1  11 a.m  
Gator  Jacksonville, Fla.  Jan. 1  12:30 p.m.  
Cotton  Dallas  Jan. 1  12:30 p.m.  
Citrus  Orlando, Fla.  Jan. 1  1 p.m.  
Rose  Pasadena, Calif.  Jan. 1  4:30p.m.  
Fiesta  Tempe, Ariz.  Jan. 1  8p.m.  
Sugar  New Orleans  Jan.2  8p.m.  

ESPN ABC ESPN TBS ESPN ESPN ESPN ESPN CBS ESPN CBS ESPN NBC CBS ABC ABC CBS ABC 

x-chooses first between WAC champion and Washington: Holiday Bowl gets the other team. 
-~ -~--­

The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 
Bowl alliance gives Florida second shot at FSU, shuns 5th ranked BYU 
By RICHARD ROSENBLATT alliance matchups in the Fiesta Associated Press Writer and Orange. "We feel very fortunate to NEW YORK have the consensus No. 1 
The rematch nobody except team," Sugar Bowl executive Florida wanted is official: Top­director Paul Hoolahan said ranked Florida State will have Sunday. "Obviously, anyone to beat the Gators again, this who watched the first game, it time in the Sugar Bowl on Jan. was a hard fought battle. And 2, to win the national champi­we expect the same thing in the onship. Sugar Bowl." 
Florida State (11-0) beat In the Fiesta, it's No. 7 Penn Florida 24-21 in Tallahassee on State vs. No. 20 Texas on Jan. Nov. 30, and Seminoles coach 1, while the Orange Bowl pits Bobby Bowden winced at the No. 6 Nebraska against No. 10 thought of playing coach Steve Virginia Tech on Dec. 31. Spurrier's Fun N' Gun offense a "The idea was to put the two second time. best teams available together, 
"I don't want no more of and I think we did that with the them," Bowden said the day Sugar Bowl," alliance chairman after the game. and SEC commissioner Roy 
Sorry, Bobby. It's a done deal, Kramer said. along with the other bowl In the non-alliance Rose Bowl, it's No. 2 Arizona State 
game. 
Also, No. 9 Tennessee was in the alliance mix, but apparently lost out to Nebraska after a day-long discussion among alliance executives. 
The Cougars, 13-1 after a 28­25 overtime win over No. 22 
Big Ten #4 vs. Big 12 #4 Wyoming in the WAC title game, were passed over despite being the highest-ranked team available after the Sugar Bowl picked the Seminoles and Gators. BYU is set to play No. 14 Kansas State in the Cotton
SEC #3 vs. Big Ten #3 
Bowl. 
''I'm obviously disappointed," BYU athletic director Rondo Felberg said. "I think BYU clearly had a team and a sea­son that deserved to be in the alliance." 
Ninth-ranked Nebraska (10­2), stunned by Texas 37-27 in Saturday's Big 12 champi­onship game, dropped out of contention for a third straight national title but still made the alliance. 
"We feel fortunate to be sit­ting here talking to you today," Nebraska coach Tom Osborne said. "Our objective was to get through that game and we played a team kind of on a roll. And we didn't get it done. Everybody took it pretty hard, of course. I think a little time off will serve us well." 
The alliance selections were based on several factors, including ranking, strength of schedule, TV appeal and fan support. Those factors portably worked against BYU. 
Texas qualified for the al­liance as Big 12 champs, along with ACC winner Florida State, Big East champ Virginia Tech and SEC winner Florida. The at-large choices were Penn State and Nebraska. 
The exclusion of the Cougars could create a stir as WAC commissioner Karl Benson said he was considering legal action against the alliance. 
The  rest  of  the  bowl  
matchups  were  announced  
later Sunday.  

and continuing classes will be offeredTn both disciplines sec­ond semester. the continuing classes require prior experi­ence in the particular disci­pline. Sign•ups begin Tuesday•. Jan. 21 7:45a.m. at RecSports. A noon~time Yoga dass will also be offered. Contact x5965 for details. 

• Stylists specializing in a wide range of styling 
for dances & special occasions • 
Apply Now­Interviews Begin Dec. 2 
• 8 weeks devoted to service-learning 
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship 
• 3 elective credits 
Applications available at the 

Center for Social Concerns from Hall Reps (names on posters) See your hall rep. for details 
-~­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 9, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

Deadlock with ranked MSU broken in final seconds 
By CHARLEY GATES National Team earlier in the intercepted the clearing these situations. We're a young middle, juked Marvel, and Sports Writer week, and who has had a bril­attempt and fired it into the team and we're learning." flipped a backhander high into liant junior hockey career, it open net to cut the Spartan The lesson on how to win the net to score what would 
Confidence. That's what this was his first goal in an Irish lead to 3-2. Just two minutes games in the third period was prove to be the winning goal. weekend's Central Collegiate uniform. But the Irish lead later, McCarthy flicked home a applied the following night "When I got the puck at the Hockey Association games was tenuous and lasted only for multiple-rebound shot after a against Alaska-Fairbanks at the blueline," said Urick, "I just instilled in the Notre Dame seven minutes. Spartan center major pileup in from the MSU Joyce Center. Notre Dame fell wanted to get a better angle, so hoekey team, says head coach Mike York, who was also net to tie the game. behind, when Nanook Jeff I cut in on him [Marvel). And Dave Poulin. "We lost a lot of named to the Junior National But the heroic comeback fell Trembecky scored from right in then I knew I had to put it high dose games, but I kept telling team. put back a rebounded short, as Spartan Mark Loeding front of the net for a power­into the net." them they could do it. But at shot from defenseman Chris slid a shot at Eisler that hit the play goal and a 1-0 lead. But Junior Lyle Andrusiak added some point they needed to see Bogas to knot the game at 1. right post and trickled into the Jess than two minutes later, some cushion with his slapshot results." The hosts built up a lead in net with just 54 ticks left on the Simon scored his second goal in goal from the left cirel11 that 
The results came both Friday the second period. At the 9:29 clock. as many games, flicking the increased the lead to 3-1. and Saturday night. On Friday mark, two Irish players collided "I was very happy with the rebound from a Joe Dusbabek "I was happy with the overall night. Notre Dame battled back at the blue line, giving the way we played," said Poulin. "I slap shot into the net to tie the effort put forth tonight," said to tie the #8-ranked Michigan Spartans a 2-on-1 break. York think one-goal games come game. The stage was set for Poulin. "Coming off a good, State Spartans before losing took advantage of the situation, down to one team knowing that the Urick heroics. Urick took a tough game against Miehigan heart-breakingly in the end in passing the puck through the they can do it. Michigan State lead pass from McCarthy and State, there's always the front of a boisterous, sellout crease to Bryan Adams, who has been in these situations and skated in on a break away on chance for a letdown, especially erowd in East Lansing. But, one-timed a shot past Irish ju­knows how to win; Notre Dame Nanook goaltender Chris coming home to play. But the playing a national powerhouse nior goaltender Matt Eisler for doesn't yet know how to win in Marvel. Urick cut through the guys played very well." in their own arena evenly for a 2-1 Spartan lead. The 59 minutes was encouraging, Spartans added to their lead in 0 000000000000000000000000.00 0 despite the fact that the Irish the closing moments of the sec­0 0 lost in the final seconds. ond period by converting on 0 
0 
On Saturday night, Notre the power play. York again set 
0 0 
Dame dominated Alaska­up the goal, passing the puck 
0 0
Fairbanks and skated to a 3-1 from the left to the right circle, vietory, moving baek into a tie where Sean Berens flicked a g PJJ~::CICJ1~:::G,E.S g
for sixth place in the CCIIA wrist shot into the left side of standings. "This definitely the net. 0 0 gives us confidence," said The Irish battled back to tie 0 0 sophomore Brian Urick. "This the game, on goals from sopho­win will be a nice one to build more Craig Hagkull and senior 
g ¥ ·..a g
on for the rest of the year." defenseman Brian McCarthy. The Boys of Winter got ofT to Hagkull capitalized on an egre­g ~o:n.-S-t;op ~gh-t;s ga quick start against the gious mistake by Spartan goal­Spartans, when freshman cen­tender Chad Alban. Alban 
ter Ben Simon gathered a wandered out of the crease to g §olU[tlht lB\emudl = (C~auntCClUUnt g rebound from sophomore chase a puck at the boards to 0 0 Aniket Dhadphale's shot and his right, and when he got con­
o § onuntlht lB>eJnudl = Jf ~aunnt <<lltL CC<<ll o 
sent home a backhanded shot trol of it he flipped it towards 
0 0 
at the right side of the erease the center of the ice. Jlagkull 
0 0
for a 1-0 lead. It was one of the quickest goals for the Irish this seas<in, coming at 1:08 of the 


~~~-:--=--~~ g!lfa:t!Jf:JII~Jim!I'~QJ... Which do you prefer? g
first period. For Simon, who was named to the Junior 0 0 
g ANTHONY TRAVEL g
Celebrate a 

o 0 LaFortune Student Center 0 o 
0 0
friend's birthday 

~.......~..................~~ 0 631-7080 0 
FREE Partlec 0 0 
FREE MeaIa 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

with an 

For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College • Furnished Apart~nents has offered thott'ialldo; ofstudent<; the chance 
for agreat education. But there's one thing apartments available for 
we haven't been able to offer: a place to 
• Central air 
stay on campus. 

your selection. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 • Swimming pool/Spaacademic year, Holy Cross will have alimited 
For more information 
.unount of residence hall space available. • Tennis, volleyball & Atwo-year, transfer intent college with HOLY call 272-1441 
basketball courts 
astrong libcrJI art-; foundation, small chL•;ses 
CJ{OSS and an intimate, personal setting, lloly Cross COLLEGE 
• 24 hour laundry 
Some apartments still
has helped put many students on the road Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308

to asuccessful college education. With our • Shuttle bus available for January 
Notre Dame. IN 46'i56-0.W8 new resident facilities, we can serve our (219) 239-8400 
Fax (219) 233-7427 

• Flexible lease plans
studenl'i even better. occupancy.
E-\lail: bcmdmis@gnn.com 

Web Site: bttp.!!home.natisofl.com!ho~vcross
Q lluty Cro~' Colll'!l:t' · l')l)h 

~-----~---..----~-------~~ 
Monday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll • fOOTBALL 
Wolverine comeback, dunk stun Blue Devils 
By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press Writer 
OUHHAM, N.C. 

Hobert Traylor's game-win­ning dunk with 6.2 seconds left Sunday may have given No. 7 Michigan the team's most important win in two seasons -a stunning 62-61 comeback victory over No. 10 Duke. 
The thundering dunk by the 300-pound center cost Duke just its second non-conference loss at Cameron Indoor Stadium in 105 games dating to 1983. Another Big Ten team, Illinois. pulled off the previous win last December. 
It was was a statement­maker for the Wolverines. 
"We are trying to get rid of the old Fab Five talk," said Michigan coach Steve Fisher, referring to the team led by Chris Webber and Juwan Howard that took Michigan to the Final Four as freshmen in 1992. "I love the Fab Five to death. That's why I'm here. But this is not the Fab Five. This is a new era, a new group of guys. 
"They are establishing a little bit of what they want to be viewed as and how they want to be viewed," Fisher added. 
The hulking Traylor, a major concern for Duke coming into the game, was the key in a closing 16-3 run, giving Michigan the victory in one of tho toughest road venues in the nation. 
"I really thought he was exceptionally tired but fought through it," Fisher said of his 6-foot-9 center. "He was big, big in every respect down the stretch for us." 
The Wolverines (5-0) trailed 58-46 with 10:37 left, but the Blue Devils (5-2) turned the ball over eight times down the stretch and managed only three free throws the rest of the way. Duke didn't score in the final 6:29. 
"We are all responsible," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said of the loss. "We know how badly we looked on the offen­sive end of the court, especially in the last five minutes of the ball game. 
"That's something there are no excuses for," he added. "If you don't execute, and you don't do the job, and we as coaches don't give them enough that they can do, then we as a program accept the responsibility of that loss. To Michigan's credit, they did exe­cute down the stretch. We kept pumping life into them." 
Trajan Langdon's pass with 32 seconds left missed a cutter and went into the hands of Michigan's Maceo Baston, set­ting up Traylor's final basket. 
After a 20-second timeout, the Wolverines worked the ball around the perimeter before Travis Conlan gunned a pass into the 300-pound Traylor, who drove the lane for his one­handed stuff. 
Traylor said the play was designed to free Baston, who had scored on a slam with 47.8 seconds left. But the Blue Devils sensed the same play might be coming, so they dou­bled Baston, leaving Traylor free just below the foul line. 
"I turned around, looked at the basket and I was like, 'Wow,"' Traylor said of how open he was. " ... They just for­got about me." 
Duke never got off a final shot, with Jeff Capel losing the ball in traffic as time expired. 
"It's really upsetting because 
we  dominated  that  entire  
game,"  said  Duke  senior  
Carmen Wallace.  

Purdue's Colletto joins Irish 
By MIKE DAY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

If you can't beat them, then join them. That's the phi­losophy that former Purdue head coach Jim Coll.etto has adopted after consistently los­ing the battle for the Shillelagh Trophy (given to the winner of the NO-Purdue game). 
On Saturday, new Irish head coach Bob Davie came one step closer to completing his first coaching staff, announcing that the 52-year-old Colletto will replace Dave Hoberts at the helm of the Notre Dame offense. 
After an up and down six year tenure with the Purdue Boilermakers, that included six consecutive losses to Notre Dame, Colletto will join the Irish coaching ranks as the new offensive coordinator. 
"I am very pleased that Jim Colletto has decided to join our football staff at Notre Dame," said Davie. 
After a disappointing 3-8 record with Purdue in 1996, Colletto resigned as the Boilermakers' head coach. However, it didn't take long for the well-renowned offensive guru to bounce back in a big way. 
"At the end of the season, I knew I still had a lot of coach­ing in me," said Colletto. "I said l would look for a high profile program which had a chance to win a large number of games and a national cham­pionship. Notre Dame certainly fits all that." 
While many wondered what offensive style Davie would employ as the new head coach, it became clear that Notre Dame would continue to use a run-based attack but with a bigger emphasis placed on the passing game. And given Colletta's impressive resume, it 
~~AMERICA, your deepest identity and truest character as a nation are revealed in the position you:::take toward the human person. The ultimate test of your greatness is the way you treat every human being, but especially the weakest and most defenseless ones." .. John Paul II, Detroit, 1987 

Pholo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information The Irish football program welcomed Jim Colletta, former Purdue head coach, as its new offensive coordinator Saturday. 
appears that Davie found exact­ly the man he was looking for. 
"The biggest compliment you can pay to a coach is to say he has earned the respect of his opponents," said Davie. "And there's no question that was the case anytime we played his teams." 
With 31 years of experience, Colletto has earned the respect of his peers and a reputation as one of the top offensive minds in the sport. During stints at UCLA (1980-81), Arizona State (1985-87), and Ohio State (1988-90) as offensive co­ordinator, Colleto appeared in six bowl games with his units ranking among the best in thefifth year, Colletto should give the Irish some flexibility in planning for next season. 

As the head coach from Cal State Fullerton from 1975-79, Colletto utilized the option attack with smaller, quicker personnel. .. 
However, he has also seen his Boilermaker squads average over 225 yards through the air with talented drop-back passers such as Jim Everett and Rick Trefzger. 
"A lot depends on the play­ers," said Colletto. "It's all based on who's playing and what those players can do." 
With Roberts rumored to be considered for several head coaching positions, a vacancy 

Then Wouters and her jump serve stepped to the line and pushed

V-ball 
things to game point. After a couple 

continued from page 20 of side outs, Belman forced a fifth 
game with an ace. 

ting. In the rally scoring format of the 
Lee was also a defensive presence decisive game, Buekeye Brianne with a team high 15 digs. In the Spiers helped to get her team out to middle sophomore Lindsay a 3-0 lead before a kill by Lee. Treadwell was very effective as she Behind a Birkner kill and block from had 19 kills on .436 hitting while Birkner and LetTers, the Irish were also adding ten digs. The captain right there with a 3-3 score. Jenny Birkner turned in a typical Coach Stone then turned to the performance as she put 15 to the nation's leader in kills per game, floor and had 15 digs. Hitter .len Wouters, to take over, which she Briggs was also in double digits with did. Wouters had a kill for a side 11 kills and 11 digs. Defensively out and that put the ball back in the Kristina Ervin racked up ten digs hands of her serving. She pushed while rotating in with Mary LetTers things to 4-11 before a Birkner kill who had ten total blocks at the nets. stopped the bleeding. The Irish 
The first two games saw the Irish refused to quit but •time just ran out continuously frustrate Ohio State as as OSU could just side out and win Notre Dame didn't allow them to put the contest which they did. together a streak of more than two The Irish have gone 2-5 in five 
points in a row. The second game game matches and had lost a match saw much of the same, as hitter earlier in the year where they were .Jaimie Lee was putting everything up 2-0. They have simply had trou­
she saw to the ground early on her ble finishing ofT opponents all year way to a career high 25 kills. The long. Irish had held OSU's major ofi"ensive "We needed to keep our heads in 
weapon in check as freshman Mary it and I think we had confidence that Lnfi'ers blocked Vanessa Wouters on we were going to win throughout numerous occasions to take her out the match," sophomore Lindsay 
of her game. Treadwell mentioned. ''I'm not sure 
"We wanted to have Mary match­if we let down or they picked it up to up with Vanessa," Brown said of her that level. That's hard to say." freshman. Coach Brown also assessed the sit­
"Mentally, I wasn't there yet," uation, "I think it was a little bit of Wouters acknowledged. "But, we both, they forced us to earn our have done this before against Penn points later in the match. I thought State. I though we could go to the intensity was there but the Florida or we could go home and it aggression wasn't. We just got wasn't time to go home yet." tentative." 
After a ten minute break between The season concluded with the games two and three, the match Irish at a mark of 22-12. This sea­took on a different tone. The Irish son Brown saw more tallies in the still had the visitors out of rhythm as loss column than in any of her five OSU only hit .122 in the game. The previous years under the Dome. But Irish did only minimally better as after the game she said that she had they hit .189. It took a couple of the most fun coaching this year. She rotations before the scoreboard got certainly had her fair share of chal­
lit, but when it did get lighted it was lenges as this campaign was full of by the Buckeyes as they got out to a turmoil from day one. 9-2 advantage that the squad Carey May disloeated her shoulder eouldn 't overeome. and missed the first half of the sea­
"The third game is always the son. The season also toughest," Lee explained. "It is a ended with two of their tough game to come out if you are starters in dress clothes as up 2-0 and it is also tough if you are Angie Harris had knee down and the pressure is on." surgery and .len Rouse dis­
"They still weren't playing that located her thumb. well so I think we missed our best "It would have been nice chanee in game three," Brown to see us healthy so we noted. "That game was the key." could have had some spe­
In the fourth the Buckeyes started cial substitutions and so to get into a groove and made the we could have gotten real­Irish earn every one of their points. ly comfortable," Brown As a team they improved their hit­stated. "We had great ting to .250 while the Irish percent­depth and if we wouldn't age sunk to .111. have had that depth we 
Things were knotted up at seven a would have had a horren­pieee but then OSU started to put dous season. If the things some points on the board and got that happened to this team out to a 7-10 lead. The resilient happened to any other Domers then evened it at 10-10 ofT a team in the country, I don' block from Lee and Treadwell. t think they would have re-
Marketing Club Meeting! On THURSDAY, DECEMBER 12, 
8:00PM there will be a Marketing Club Christmas Party at 
BW3's. Questions--call 1-9330. 

Habitat for Humanity Meeting:Important meetting for 
all members will be held on TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, at 7:30 
PM in the CSC, to discuss our Christmas fundraiser. Try to 
make every effort to attend. 

Interested in Taekwondo? join us for beginners classes 
on MONDAY 12/9, WEDNESDAY 12/11, and MONDAY 12/16 
from 7:00 to 8:30PM, Rm#301 at the Rock. Questions? call 
Anita 1-6869. 

La Alianza: On December 11, las Posadas will be cele­
brated. Starting at 7:30pm outside of Cavanaugh, the 
procession will begin at Siegfried. There will be ethnic 
food. Everone is welcome. 

Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
Red-hot shooting earns Big East win 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
The hallmarks of the 1996 women's basketball team -sharp shooting and the ability to rebound from adversity -persisted last Saturday when Notre Dame throttled Providence, 91-75. 
But instead of jumping on Katryna Gaither's back, the Irish utilized a balanced offensive assault and jumped all over the Friars from the outset. 
Hosanne Bohman compiled a earnor-high 17 points; Mollie Peirick enjoyed such a day as well, with 18 of her own. The stars, Beth Morgan (17) and Gaither (16), loomed in the background on this 
The Observer/Rob Finch day; partieularly Gaither who fell into foul trouble 
Senior Jen Briggs contributed 11 digs 
immediately and recorded her second-lowest out­
and 11 kills in her final performance for 
put of the season.
the Irish against Ohio State. 
Though Gaither playnd only 14 minutes, nnabling the rest ~f the team to step up, the deadly accuracy sponded like we did." 
of the Insh guards also contributed to the most"We lost more games than l have well-balanced attack of the season.
before, but it was still the most fun "Our guard play was really good," said Bohman.
I've had. It was really a great team, "We ended up shooting 61 [percent] in the lirstthey worked really hard and I think half, which is amazing, and 55 [percontJ on thethey will come away from this sea­
game."

son with great memories." 
Still, Bohman acknowledged that the season
Those with probably the deepest hinges on defense first and how it performs.
memories are the class of '97, one of 
"We were disappointed with our defense on
the most successful classes in Notre Saturday," Bohman continued. "We know that
Dame history. Seniors Jenny 
defense is what is going to win games for us downBirkner, .len Briggs, Kristina Ervin 
stretch."
and .len Rouse eame in four years Indeed, Notre Dame's demise against unranked ago and helped to bring the program Purdue last Thursday was its 40-point meltdown inwhere it is now. 
the second half to the Boilermakers. Tho Irish, the"They have given a ton to the pro­seventh-best team in the nation, should drop in thegram," Brown said. "They are such polls considerably after Thursday's loss. More im­good people to have on the team portantly, however, tliey rebounded from a toughthey just come into the gym every­loss and now stand 1-0 (7-2 overall) in the Big
day ready to work. Birkner had 
East.

been a great leader for four years, Benny the Bull from the Chicago Bulls willevery day she has just worked. 
attempt to inject some fun into the exciting season
"(The seniors) provided good 
tonight at the Joyce Center, when Notre Dameexamples not just on the court but plays host to 20th-ranked Wisconsin in the annualalso ofT. They are all very good stu­"Jammin' the Joyce." For the Irish, the tests seemdents and have been a terrific ex­
to never end.
ample for our young players. It was Free tickets are available at local Papa .John's
really a special elass." 
and other local merchants. 



S~tbuurJ~yoooDecen.nlber JL 41th JL~f((]) 1r>£une Bc(n1]lr((])((])rn 

8:00PM 9:00PM 9:30PM 
10:00 PM Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
11:00 PM A Christmas Story 
iree -Admissiun plus... 
*hoi chocolale and cookies* *soda and popcorn* 
... wkc ~I hrc:tk ror i.l liulc llolidoty Cheer! 
You have a\\ week \0 stuUy, ... 
~~~~ b,1Sludeulllclivilie1


------~-----~ -~-~----------­
~---~----­
Monday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
DILBERT 


CAIBE.RT, EVIL 1-\.R. DIRECTOR 
,. 

MICE I />.LICE., MIC.E.. ..
~--~~--~--~--------~2 
..J 

COMPI\NIE5 t>.RE
0

THE. MANDATORY UNPf\lO 
<( 
I!!J 

DESIGNED TO M.A~IMlZE
OVERTIME I5 IMMORAL. 
"',.
.. 

STOCKHOLDER VALUE,
IT'S OESTRO"YING THE 
c..
,_
,_ 

NOT EMPLO'tEE
0

QUALITY OF MY LIFE.. 
I-\P...PPINE~5.

ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Do everything you can to make fam­ily life rewarding. Jobs open up in teaching, social work and the arts. Your income receives a nice boost as 1997 gets underway. Purchase major appliances in February. A fal­tering relationship could end in April. Postpone nonessential home repairs until June. Your popularity will grow over the summer. Go all out to achieve your career goals. Start at the bottom if necessary; you will soon earn a raise or promotion. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: golfer Tom Kite, singer Joan Armatrading, football player Dick Butkus. director John Malkovich. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Pressing too hard at work will only stir up dissension or cause a finan­cial setback. Avoid demanding more than you are prepared to give. An emotional romantic partner must be handled with kid gloves. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your keen analytical skills help you uncover the root of a financial or career problem. Put aside self-criti­cism and cultivate your optimistic nature. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Protecting your financial resources will dispel recent worries. Be more subtle when dealing with a tempera­mental employer or co-worker. Making intelligent concessions helps you resolve your differences. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A 

SCOTT ADAMS tendency to tilt at windmills could 
account for slow career progress. 
Spend time in quiet reflection.
u 

M.AYe,E THE. HEAD OF
c 
Focus on establishing good relations 
with someone in a position to help you. 

1-\UMAN RESOURCES 
51-\0ULD B£ A 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be cir­cumspect when talking with people
HUMAN. 
in authority. It would be a mistake to 
back a venture until you have

PRIVATEL'< I REFER
\ 
reviewed all the facts and figures.

TO M.Y5ELF A~ THE 
DIRECTOR OF 015­GRUNILED CAT TOYS. 
JEANE DIXON 
Delay taking action while examin­ing a problem from every angle. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A comprehensive savings and invest­ment program will eventually pay big dividends. Meanwhile, stick to your budget. Make a gift of your services to a recently married cou­ple. 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Care­ful thought is advised before you lift a finger. You need to complete pro­jects already underway in order to meet end-of-year deadlines. Ro­mance has you guessing. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Getting along with people should be your top priority now. Kind words and deeds help calm jangled nerves. Be subtle when trying to make an important point. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Complete an essential task before fatigue or other distractions intervene. Financial backing can be found for truly important projects. Read agreements with care before affixing your signature. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Romantic pursuits enjoy favor­able influences. Tedious tasks seem easier. Unexpected income will raise your hopes. Help a loved one going through an emotional upheaval. Offer suggestions only if asked. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your energy reserves will carry you through this busy day. Avoid being judgmental. Accept additional responsibilities graciously but insist on being remunerated. Keep your sense of humor when around gloomy associates. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of important tasks early in the day. Misguided optimism could cause complications. Go all out to repair a deteriorating relationship. Admitting your faults will help you mend some emotional fences. Culti­vate new friends. 


CROSSWORD 
41 Coffee alternative 

1 Friendly 
5Pro-­(perfunctory) 42 Catnapper 10Vegas 
43 First month of calculation 
theaiio 14 Lip balm 
44 Bed-and­ingredient 

breakfasts 

15 Ryan or Tatum 46 Kids' indoor ball
16 Urban unrest 
material

11 National monument 47 Poem inscribed 
dedicated 
on 17-Across, 10/28/1886 
with "The" 20 Show respect for 50 Draft org. 21 Dress 
51 Place for thieves 22 Fairy tale villain 
52 Send out

25 Spies' org. 54 Lawrence of
26 PC key 
Arabia portrayer29 4 7 -Across poet 35 Farce 

58 Cry of delight 

37 "-Like It Hot" G2 President who 38 Clear the dedicated blackboard 17-Across 
67 Take it easy 68 Adhesive resin 69 Huron, for one 70Watcher 71 "The Divine 
Comedy" poet 72 Examine closely 
DOWN 
1 Do the dishes 2 Palo--, Calif. 3 Horse with a 
gray-sprinkled coat 4 "Ditto" 5 Enemy 6 Songstress Yoko 7 N.B.A. official s--demer (seasickness) 9 Silverstone of "Clueless" 1o Lunch box treat 11 Grime 


.!:.J~~~-!.+~:..!..1  inflammation 18 Prod  32 Utterly destroys 33 Computer  55 Waiter's load 63 Tax return preparer, for short56 Seep out  
19 Burned brightly 23 Apt. divisions 24 Strong feeling 25 Make pure  operators 34 Feudal workers 36 First planet: Abbr. 40 Piece of pasta  57 Finished 59 W.W. II females' service grp. 60 Durante's "-­DinkaDoo"  64 Actor Chaney 65 Abbr. after a telephone number 66 Eustacia of "The Return of the  Wanted: Reporters,  
26 German city north of Cologne 27 "Rise and--!"  Total45 48 Gave a longing  61 Idyllic place  Native"  photographers and editors.  
28 Seven-time A.L.  look  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle  
batting champ Rod  49 Small, medium or large  are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).  Join The Observer staff.  
~.:.;..j~~==-+=-+~  30 Prayer  53 Turnpike tabs  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
responses  54 Give a longing  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
31 Elvis -­Presley  look  50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Biblical verb 13 Eye 
Don t forget to check out The Guide on-line. 
http:/jwww.nd.edu/"--studegov 
Brought to you by the Student Government Department of Information Technologies 
Also, be sure to check out the Women's Resource Center, e located inside the Student Government office 
WATCH FOR MORE INFO FROM THE WRC, COMING SOON!
UIII¥11111Y no Nn1U [}.uU 
'"nO HI (,n .. ON"I~I 
-
... 
-----~--~--~ ---­
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, December 9, 1996 
Notre Dame  0  0  0  0  0  
North Carolina  0  0  0  1  1  

1 2 OT OT Final 
So close 
-
.: ( 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Freshman Kara Brown overcame pre-game jitters to play one of her best games of the year, constantly disrupting the North Carolina attack in Notre Dame's double overtime loss in the NCAA Women's Soccer Championship. 
Tarheels, Keller one-up Irish in double overtime 
American women's soccer."
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Check tomorrow~ Observer 

"I feel that they outplayed us,"
Spotts Wrirrr 
for complete coverage of the 

said Irish head coach Chris A sold-out crowd of 8,800 watched 
Petrucelli. "Am I surprised? Yeah,
NCAA championships. 

but how can you be surprised when contest agains Portland, when senior Heels over the Notre Dame Fighting UNC wins the title?" Jen Renola put her head in her With 9:04 left in the second over­. a sight reminiscent of Friday night's 
Irish, 1-0, in double overtime, for hands as the Pilot's second goal car­their 13th NCAA Championship title time, Tar Heel forward Debbie omed into the net. Keller drilled in a header off of for­
in 15 years. This time when Henola held her "We played a tremendous game," ward Rake! Karvelsson's header to head in disbelief, she had just wit­said UNC head coach Anson score the only goal of the 120 nessed the winning goal sail in over minute battle. Sophomore Tiffany
Dorrance. "Both teams had hnr reach. This one lifted the chances. It was up and back. Today University of North Carolina Tar was a wonderful showcase for see SOCCER I page 14 
at Princeton,
• vs. New Hampshire, 
J a)
• 
December 28, 4 p.m. 
December I0, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Men's Diving at Longhorn 
.. 
vs. Wisconsin, 
~ 

Diving Invitational, 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
......
ATA 

January 5-7 
Women's Swimming 
~

• 
Basketball at Olivet 
• and Diving at Hawaii, 
Gt;ANa 

College, December 10, 
December 30 

~ 
7p.m. 
~ 

• VOLLEYBAll 
Buckeyes oust Irish from NCAA's 
By JOE CAVATO Spores Writer 
It was a match that can be likened to the rest of the season for the Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team. They were just one game away from advancing to Florida and the round of six­teen, but instead the Ohio State Buckeyes ended the Irish season and an era as seniors .lenny Birkner, .len Briggs, Kristina Ervin, and .len House have played their final match in a Notre Dame uniform. 
The Darners jumped out on top of the twelfth ranked team in the nation to a take a two games to none lead in the best of five match. The home team could not put the Buckeyes away as they dropped the final three and were eliminated from the NCAA tournament by a final of 8-15, 11-15, 15-11, 15-11, 15-8 which ended theca­reers of the Irish seniors. 
"I thought it was a very tough match." head 
coach  Debbie  Brown  commented.  "They  
impro;,ed their  play an d made some  adjust­ 
ments.  

"Momentum is a funny thing in volleyball," Buckeye coach .lim Stone observed. ''I'm surp Debbie knew she wasn't out of the woods and we knew that we weren't out of it." 
"We knew our team eould pull togP.tlwr in a big match," commented Buckeye blocker Sherri Helman who had 27 kills on .353 hitting. 
The Irish offense was run by junior settPr Carey May who had 66 assists while playing with an injured pinkie finger. May looked to .Jaimie Lee who came through with 27 kills on .32:~ hit-
The Observer/Rob F1nch 
Irish captain Jenny Birkner capped off a fabulous NO career with 15 kills and 15 digs in a losing effort. 
•Men's basketball falls to Friars 
see page 12 
• Hockey 1-1 on weekend 
see page 16 




