
Monday, November 18, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 55 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Special Mass
'Stonehenge' boasts little-known history 
will remember 
Despite controversies, 


life, work of
fountain honors casualties for lOth consecutive year 


Bernardin 
Observer Staff Report ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
A memorial Mass for Cardinal Joseph Bernardin will On Oct. 17. 1986, a Mass was held to ded­
be held at 5:15 p.m. today at icate the Clarke Memorial Fountain, a new 
the Basilica of the Sacred 
campus landmark dedicated to honoring 
Heart. Notre Dame's war dead. 
University
Even before this dedication. however, the 
President 
fountain had been unofficially christened 
Father Stonehenge, a nickname that has proven 
Edward much more lasting and recognizable than 
Malloy will its official title. 
preside.
This fall, the memorial celebrates its lOth 
Bernardin, anniversary. The date calls to mind not only 
the arch-
the fountain's historical significance and its 
bishop of Bernardin controversial origins, but also the moments 
Chicago
of re11ection, study and recreation that it 
since 1983, died from pancre­has brought to students. 
atic cancer Thursday at his home. He was 68.
T
he Clarke
THE HISTORY 
The archbishop was known
Memorial
The idea for a memorial to honor the 
for his quiet charisma and
Fountain,
roughly 500 Notre Dame men killed in ability to bring people of differ­
aptly dubbed
World War II, Korea and Vietnam was orig­ent religious beliefs to a com­
"Stonehenge" by
inally conceived by then-University mon ground.
Notre Dame stu­
President Father Theodore Hesburgh. "Cardinal Bernardin's pas­
dents, has been a
llesburgh felt that this memorial was toral acumen was transcended
fixture on the cam­
"something we've neglected all these years only by his personal holiness," 
pus since its dedi­
-partly because of Vietnam." Malloy said Thursday.
cation in 1986.
Hesburgh approached renowned archi­"Throughout his public min­
Above, Army offi­
tr.ct and 1956 Notre Dame graduate John istry, as priest, bishop, and
cers and ROTC
Burgr.e, whose works include the Statue of cardinal, he exemplified the
members partici­
Liberty's Liberty Park and South Bend's pedagogy of Jesus." 
pated in a candle­
Century Center. and suggested the peace Bernardin received a hon­
light vigil on
memorial idea. Hesburgh came up with the orary doctorate of laws degree 
September 19,
fountain concept after noting the aesthetic from Notre Dame in 1983 and
commemorating
qualities of a fountain he had observed in received the University's 1995
POW/MIA
Geneva. Switzerland. 
Laetare Medal. The medal has
Remembrance
Burgee and his partner Philip Johnson been commonly regarded as
Day. 
the most prestigious honor
see STONEHENGE I page 4 given to American Catholics. 


Thefts persist in ND libraries 
By HEATHER COCKS away from the area, no nations, the number of laptop Associate News Editor description of potential sus­thefts reached eight. pects could be given," Hurley Junior Brian Tracy, one of 
Approximately one month said. the victims of that crime wave, after the last reported incident, A book bag and coin purse was on the first floor of the three more thefts in campus were reported missing by two Hesburgh Library, his laptop libraries were reported other students who had been safely stowed in its carrying Thursday, according to Chuck working in the Law School case. Hurley, assistant director of library. Hurley stated that all "I got up to get a drink, and Notre Dame Security. three occurred under similar wasn't gone more than a few 
After a 20-minute hiatus from circumstances. minutes," he recalled. "When I working on his laptop in the The thefts allegedly took got back, I looked around for Law School library, one student place between 11:15 a.m. and 2 the case, but it was gone." returned to his study carrel, p.m. Thursday. Initially, Tracy was hopeful 
only to find the desk alarmingly During the week of Oct. 14, after he got the impression that
The Observer/Joe Stark 
Tracy Randolph, accompanied by members of the band "VIBE," sang 
bare. when most students were 
this weekend at the "Biak Images Talent Show." 
"Because the student was cramming for midterm exami­see SECURITY I page 4 
"' • RES!DFCE HAll AssociATION 

Milos implements change, creates strong council 
By LESLIE FIELD Milos, current RHA president, for president and won with a Colleen McKenna and Tracy Along with the rest of the News Writer has played a pivotal role in ticket consisting of Christine Schultz resigned, leaving the executive council, Milos rebuilding and redefining RHA. Riesenberger, Kimberly new Board without advisors. accomplished her goal of After the surprising 1995-96 A junior biology major, Milos Fleming, and Meg Cernok. "This was scary," Milos said. increased communication by Residence Hall Association brings experience and motiva­Milos began putting her Over the summer, Milos improving relations with the (RIIA) Executive Council's tion to the group of over 40 goals into action upon taking learned that Kim McNulty and Board of Governance (BOG) November 1995 resignation, students representing Saint office last spring. Jill Aitchison would be Regina through weekly attendance at many Saint Mary's students Mary's five residence halls. She amended the constitu­and LeMans's new hall direc­their meetings. Milos receives wondered what type of direc­She was formerly RHA's tion, adding section four, part tors and, consequently, RHA's weekly minuets from the tion the association would fundraising chairperson under three, which defines the action new advisors. Milos met with Student Activities Board (SAB) take. last year's president, Laura to be taken upon an RHA exec­them immediately upon her as well. This year, she also 
One year later, RHA has Richter. utive council vacancy. She return to campus this fall. "It has the opportunity to meet managed to find a new direc­When Richter announced her also stated that, "The first and was a very good feeling. Jill is with the presidents of other tion which aims to maintain council's resignation, Milos foremost thing that we needed a very intelligent, grounded governing boards and with better communication among stepped in as vice president to do was to open up the lines person. She is an excellent advisors at a bi-monthly presi­all four governing boards, stu­during the interim. Unopposed of communication." motivator," Milos, a LeMans dent's round table. dents and advisors. Nikki in the election, Milos later ran This was not a simple task. resident, said. 
see RHA I page 5 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, \lovember 18, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Frightening, yet enlightening 
1wasn't sure what to expect as I drove home 
last week for my second concert. I was pretty 
sure, however, that Thursday night's Pantera 
performance would at least be something new. 
I started actually worrying about how "new" things would get when I Derek Betcher 
saw that security felt the 
need to search concert Assistant News Editor 
gocrs. I hadn't wanted 
to look too out of place, so I had left my white 
Notre Dame shirts in South Bend and decided 
to dress aIa Beavis. I didn't think a dark 
Metallica tee-shirt and new goatee-attempt 
should be grounds for concern, but I was par­
tially proud that event security thought I 
looked like a threat. In retrospect, they were 
probably too scared to search other ticket 
holders. Based on the contraband displayed 
during the show, I'd say security had over­
looked everything short of firearms and small 
explosives. 
In the lobby I began to see a lot of truly scary people. The situation worsened when I real­ized that the words "floor GA" printed on my stub were Ticketmaster's term for "pit." My fellow pit-dwellers were a distinct group. I try to avoid drawing conclusions from others' appearances, but I feel pretty safe saying there weren't many achievement-oriented people at the Pantera concert. 
I was surrounded by people you just don't run into on the way to DeBartolo. There were a good number of long-haired Megadeath roadie looking types, some tattooed skinheads, and plenty of dazed young burnouts. The majority, however, struck me as being the angry, on parole, ''I'll bea-t your head in" type. 
I was out of place. I dreaded the moment 
when someone would think, "Look at the skin­
ny college dork, let's tear his clothes off and 
throw him into a wall." This was a rational 
fear because tearing clothes off and throwing 
them on stage is popular for Panteraphiles. 
Another thing the "pit crowd" did to reaffirm my evaluation of them was to tear the floor up and throw the wood planks on stage. Since the concert was in a CIIL arena, they shouldn't have been surprised to uncover hockey ice; nevertheless, exposing that surface really hampered efforts to dance constructively. 
When the cheap seat holders flooded the pit sparking a brawl-capades with security, I took off to whimper in a corner. After Pantera played some of its best melodies, like "F***ing Hostile," I remember distinctly thinking, "This is what hell must be like." 
After a few more songs, my inhibitions relaxed, and I left my hiding place to bond in the pit. I even learned the Pantera dance. There are two versions, but I didn't like the "vomit and elbow people in the head" method. Instead, I recommend the "move around like you're trying to stomp on flaming cockroaches while being attacked by killer bees" dance. 
I even cheered for the three Bs that Pantera's vocalist told the crowd were the guiding principles in his life. After sharing his feelings on "beer, bong hits, and bad lan­guage" and drinking whiskey out of a plastic cup, I remember thinking that Phil Anselmo is one classy guy. 
In any case, I left the concert more open­minded, and I'm positive South Bend would be livelier if it could hear these guys. Those sen­timents aside, I'm not holding my breath wait­ing for Stepan Center to welcome Pantera. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Heather Cocks  Production  
Laura Petdle  Heather Cocks  
Allison Koenig  Tara Grieshop  
Sports  Accent  
Brian Fremeau  Rachel Torres  
Viewpoin(  Graphics  
Ethan Hayward  Sue O'Kain  
Lab Tech  
Kevin Dalum  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. AJI reproduction rights arc reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

French government fights TV violence with ratings system 
..............,....................................... .............,.....!
PARIS Last month network heads smiled at what
French TV ratings
French TV channels are launching on TV channel TF1 's vice president Etienne 
Television networks In France
Monday an on-screen ratings system to alert Mougeotte called "responsibility on the side viewers to sex and violence in programs, a of the broadcasters." He said the objective move the conservative government calls self­"is to protect the children." regulation rather than censorship. But, as the leftist daily Liberation report­
Part of a wider government campaign ed, the networks had "a knife to their against violence in the media, the ratings throats" to accept the ratings, which were system will use symbols shown at the lower to begin in January until Prime Minister right-hand corner of television screens to Alain Juppe pushed Bourges to start sooner. signal violent or sexual content. 
"I don't believe this will make a differ­The four national networks involved will 
ence," said Jean Conquer, 63, a retired rate each show themselves, but with the 
marine engineer in Nantes. "Most of the government keeping a watchful eye: broad­
time children watch TV without their par­cast licenses are renewed only with official 
Symbol only appears at tht ents anyway. The signs will just incite their beginning ofthe program. 
curiosity.'' "It's better to have self-regulation," said 
blessing. 

Juppe has not blamed televised violence Herve Bourges, president of the Superior 
for violence on the streets, but he has not
l a"' ~=:~~~~\on
A a· needed; not tackled France's record 12.6 percent unem­Council for Audiovisual, France's broadcast­
L.l.. . . ~ ~ suitable for 
· ·· : · children ployment, seen by many as a eause of judge." 
ing regulator. "We're not the gendarme and Symbol remains on under t 2. crime. "In periods of social tension, televi­corner ofscreen duri11g 

sion ignites all the critics," Liberation said. 
Each network will assign programs to one 

enti~ program. 
France is increasingly drawing the line for that parental guidance is suggested; an 
of four categories. A green circle signifies its media. 
Adult 
orange triangle means the program is not 

programming, On Thursday, a French court sentenced
1 
not suitable
recommended for children aged 12 and two rap singers to jail time for insulting

for children under; a red square indicates the program is under t6. police during a concert and banned them 
intended for viewers aged 16 and above; and Svmbol ~mains on corner of from performing in public for six months. sCrren Juring entitl.' program. 
Dr\ 
programs for all ages will show no sign. Days earlier, TFl canceled a detective French TV is an eclectic combination of series episode that a police union consid­
Source:APreseereh APIT.Tso 
high-brow literary talk shows, soap operas, ered offensive. Two weeks earlier, the cable game shows, American action-movie reruns and at least channel Canal Plus suspended its popular satirical one erotic movie per week. Topless women are fairly "True News" show for a month, after Bourges said a common on TV, although racy shows have gradually dis­skit depicting Juppe's assassination "legitimized violent appeared from the airwaves. acts." 
Hackers release upcoming U2 songs 
LONDON 
Hackers have distributed two unre­leased U2 songs on the Internet, possi­bly after tapping into computers at the Irish rock group's recording studio, the Sunday Times said. The songs, "Discotheque" and "Wake Up Dead Man," have appeared on Internet sites in at least four countries, the newspa­per said. The songs are to appear on an 


album scheduled for release in the spring. Since their illicit appearance on the Internet, the songs have also been copied onto compact discs, the Times said. The bootleg COs are going for $10 at street markets in Ireland and Britain. The Sunday Times said the record company is trying to shut down the Internet sites. Conventional, low-tech theft of the songs has been ruled out, the newspaper said. Band managers are investigat­ing the possibility that hackers tapped into computers at U2's Dublin studio. 
Send in the chaplain 

NORTH ANDOVER, Mass. 
Standing in a dirt parking lot with a lion cage a few steps away, the Rev. Jerry Hogan was asked by a ~;ircus per­former to hear a confession. No problem. Hogan remem­bers the big cat, which was close enough to hear 'every­thing said: "It's a good thing he couldn't talk, because he could've broken the seal of confession." The vicar of a bustling Catholic congregation in North Andover, near Boston, Hogan is on the road more than 100 days a year as the official chaplain for more than a dozen traveling cir­cuses. "I Jove my priesthood and I Jove the circus," the 50­year-old priest said. "Here I am being able to do what I was called to do, and sometimes I'm at the circus. To com­. bine both professions, it's exciting." Hogan is the third offi­cial circus chaplain for the U.S. Catholic Conference, which also provides clergy for migrant farm workers. 
New scholarship favors virgins 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A University of Arizona alumna wants to give scholar­ships to American Indian women -especially if they're virgins. No deal, says the school, which wants the pro­posal rewritten before it will accept. "We can't dictate morals," said Frank Felix, the university's director of scholarship development. An information sheet distrib­uted to high schools this fall said the proposed $250,000 Sally Keith Scholarship fund would be available to Indian women who are residents of Arizona. Applieants would be judged more on personality than grades, and "prefer­ence will be given to a girl who has been able to say 'no' to sex," the sheet said. Sally Keith got the idea after learning about the high number of teen pregnancies in Arizona. "I thought if I could find one girl every year and influence them to look ahead in their life rather than get involved in a pregnancy, that would be something won­derful that I'd love to do," she said. The scholarship would pay for four years at the University of Arizona; the other particulars have yet to be determined. 
Nudist wins harassment lawsuit 
SAN DIEGO 
Getting down to the bare facts has not been a successful business plan for Elbert Poppell in conservative San Diego County. His nude social club in Solana Beach got him arrested for prostitution. His nude spa in San Diego was raided and he and his patrons were thrown in jail. La Mesa refused to let him open a nude church. Three other towns kicked him out. He fmally filed suit against the city of San Diego in federal court, charging malicious prosecution, harassment and violations of his right to run a business. A jury agreed, awarding him $200,000 -more than he asked for-and last week U.S. District Judge John Rhoades turned down the city's request for a new trial. The jury found that Thad's Social Club, where for a fee cus­tomers could "disrobe, socialize and dance in the nude and/or engage in sexual acts," was the target of a vendetta. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 18. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\~'!/;___ "'Hm ;;1.~{, Mondat ~ ''47 27 

~~2t!' ~:2s
Tuesdat ~ Wedne~day~ 37 22 

FRONTS: 
Thursd~y ~ 35 20+ 

............................ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure



Friday' 22 

H L Ea ESl [D) 0 [Z] 8 (} !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
(Y./\f"~·~,,~··\, ,·. 

Vl.l Auoclaled Prell 
Albuquerque 66 37 Dallas 77 49 Miami 79 69 Atlanta 68 52 Denver 65 35 New York 50 39
4-~-~A.~Q (f ~ u 
Baltimore 53 40 Fairbanks t4 -2 Philadelphia 51 36 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 46 39 Honolulu 85 73 Phoenix 82 50 
Vis Associatsd Press GraphicsNet 
Chicago 44 33 Los Angeles 74 57 Seattle 40 29 
-----~~ -----~----------:-~---­
-----------l 
Monday, November 18, 1996 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 





Cornish: Science 'integral' in Dante 
By JILLIAN PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
Dante's use of astronomy in his medieval epic poem, "The Divine Comedy," was "integral" to his purposes as writer and moralist, according to Alison Cornish, a University of Michigan professor who lectured Thursday after­noon. 
Titled "Stars as text in Dante's poem," Cornish's lecture focused primarily on the instances of astronomy employed by Dante in the middle third of "The Comedy," Purgatory. Cornish, a professor of Romance languages and literatures, gave her talk in the Hesburgh Library's Department of Special Collections. 
Introduced by Ted Cachey, associate professor in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, as "one of the most important new voices in the field," Cornish expressed that she was "happy about what the Dante program is doing at Notre Dame." 
In order to dispel some scholars' claims that "the [Divine Comedy] is marred by so much science," Cornish used diagrams and quotations to explain the importance of astronomy to the poem. 
In response to these attacks on the poem, Cornish explained that the metaphorical use of astronomy by Dante enables the reader to conceptualize the poem's discussions of good and evil. 
Cornish also expressed her disagree­ment with those readers of Dante that label the use of astronomy in "The Comedy" as "gratuitous," and instead called it "integral" to the poem's effica­ciousness. She conceded that "difficulty, annoyance, fascination, and curiosity" are all present in interpreting the poet's use of cosmological metaphoring. 
"In western culture, reading is a metaphor for life. One helps you under­stand the other," said Cornish in creating an analogy between the writing of litera­ture and Dante's references to astronomy. 
Pointing to the circular structures of both the Inferno and Paradise, and also to the final word in each of the three can­tiche, "stars," Cornish noted that these devices help the reader to conceptualize the poem and its geography. 
The poet's repeated descriptions of the position of the' sun also aid the reader in determining the location of the pilgrim in Dante's fictional world. Using Dante's clues concerning the position of the sun and moon, the reader is able to place her­
. self in reference to it, and "connect the dots." 
Cornish also noted that Dante was not alone in his integration of astronomy in literature. Medieval writers, explained Cornish, were expected to be knowledge­able in all the disciplines, not just in liter­ature. 
Written in the beginning of the 14th 
century, Dante's poem describes a pil­grim's journey through Inferno, Purgatory and Paradise and the sundry souls, mon­sters and angels that he meets there. 
Believed to have been largely inspired by the sixth book of Virgil's "Aeneid," "The Comedy" details the pilgrim's rescue (who not coincidentally shares a name with "The Comedy's" author) from a sinful life in his undertaking of an adventure through the underworld. Although origi­nally written in Italian, the poem has been widely translated and interpreted by his­torians, theologians, philosophers and grammarians throughout the world. 
Cornish received her bachelo-r's degree in English at the University of California at Berkeley, her master's degree in Medieval Studies at Cornell University and her doc­torate in Italian at Stanford University. 
Cornish's lecture was the third in a fall semester series made possible by The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies and the Medieval Institute highlighting eminent Dantists and their works in progress . 
The lecture series' spring component has as its umbrella the "history of the book" and will feature Paul Gehl of the Newberry Library who will speak on "Looking good: the marketing of books in 16th century Italy" on Feb. 6, and Lina Bolzoni of the University of Pis11., who will lecture on "Images of the printed book and the arts of memory" on Feb. 27. 
The Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies is delighted to announce its courses for Spring, 1997 
3856  COIG 102:01  Beginning Irish II  MWF 9:35-10:25  Peter McQuillan  
3857  COIG 301:01  The Irish in Their Own Words  MWF 11:45-12:35  Peter McQuillan  
3868  ENGL 300V:01  Literature in a Divided Ireland  MWF 1:55-2:45  Kathleen Hohenleitner  
3878  ENGL 372A:01  Modem Irish Literature  T H 2:00-3:15  John Waters  
3901  ENGL 470B:Ol  Joyce and Baldwin  T H 3:30-4:45  Cyraina Johnson-Roullier  
3902  ENGL 470F:01  Irish Poetry Mter Yeats  T H 5:00-6:16  John Waters  
3917  ENGL 540A:01  Shakespeare and Beckett  MW 3:00-4:15  James Robinson  
3919  ENGL570:01  Modem British and Irish Poetry  T H 4:30-5:45  John Matthias  
3548  HIST 327:01  Irish History II  MWF 9:35-10:25  James Smyth  
4336  HIST 328:01  The Great Irish Famine and Its Impacts  T H 11:00 .• 12:15  Kevin Whelan  
3616  HIST 573:01  Ireland in the Age of Revolution  MW 3:00-4:15  James Smyth  
4369  HIST642:01  Sources and Resources for Irish Studies  T H 2:00-4:00  Kevin Whelan  
2056  SOC 374:01  Irish Americans  T H 11:00-12:15  Patrick Sullivan, CSC  

(400-level and 500-level ENGL courses are "by permission"for non-majors) 
We would also like to invite students interested in the Undergraduate Concentration in Irish Studies to meet with Professor Seamus Deane at 7:30p.m. on Thursday, November 21st in 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Information about the program and sign up opportunities will be announced and made available at that meeting. 
Student Government can help with The Guide on-line! 
Just log onto our homepage at http://www.nd .ed u/-studegov 
for exclusive information about professors, work load, exams and cours.e evaluations. lA,
~ Your be5t weapon for DART (8e5ide5 the redia( button.) 
• 
Paris  $202  
Amsterdam  $289  
Rome  $299  
Madrid  $265  

~~.D!l~~._ONA~22 
f.ws 00 f«>T Nlt.DE FECERAL TAXES OR PfQ; lOT~ I!£TWEEN $3­$45, ~ON DESTIWION OR DEPN!TlR: DiARiES PAD DllCTLY 10 ~GOYEitMNTS. FNES 1Jf. SUUCT TO OW«iE WTIDJT NOOCI. 



[i.ilh§llTravel~ 
National' Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624) 
http:llwww.ciee.orgltraveu.tm 
EUROPASS FROM $210 


Monday, November 18, 1996
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 

Stonehenge 
continued from page 1 
transformed Hesburgh's ideas into the design that, several years and $400,000 to $500,000 later. would become the Clarke Memorial Fountain. Funding for the pro­ject came from two sources: an original financial gift by 1964 Notre Dame alum­nus Thomas ShuiT, and a later donation by the late Mrs. John Clarke of Chicago. The latter donation was made in memory of Clarke's husband, a former member of the University's Business Administration Advisory Council. Mrs. Clarke herself was an officer in the Army Nurse Corps during World War II. 
Construction of the fountain began in January 1986 and completed the following summer. The 20-foot high limestone columns were quarried in Bedford, Ind., and special permission from the governor was required to truck the enormous slabs to Notre Dame; some of the slabs were the biggest ever quarried in southern Indiana. The base of the fountain is granite, and the live-foot-in-diameter ball in the center of the fountain is composed of granite imported from Italy. 
0HIGINS OF CONTROVERSY 
Even before its dedication, the fountain was the subject of heated discussion and controversy. Its resemblance to the real Stonehenge was immediately apparent, and Burgee says the resemblance between his design and the Neolithic monument are not coincidental: "Stonehenge is our oldest, most traditional, and least con­trived monument. It was a forebear or inspiration for (the fountain)." 
Aside from providing the fountain with a convenient nickname, however, the Stonehenge comparisons also point to a controversy that has dogged the fountain since its inception. In the opinions of many, the fountain does not necessarily conjure up images of peace. Father Joe Ross, the present rector of Morrissey Hall who led a protest against the fountain dur­ing its dedication Mass, notes that most students at that time felt it was more rem­iniscent of a graveyard, and certainly lack­ing in the uplifting content one would expect from a peace memorial. 
It is important to note, however, that Ross' protest at the dedication Mass did not stem from the fountain's design so much as it did from two other causes: its inscription, 'Pro Patria Et Pace' (For Fatherland and Peace), and the militaristic content of the dedication Mass itself. 
Ross' peaceful 35-person protest, run by Pax Christi and an organization known as Women United For Justice and Peace, objected to the inscription because they felt it encouraged a patriotism that can work against peace and can be seen as contradictory to Christian beliefs. 
"That's precisely the problem for Christians -you can't be for fatherland and for peace... Christians have to be, (for example), for Iraqis too," Ross said. 
Ross also objected to what he felt was too much of a militaristic content at the dedication Mass. A large number of mili­tary personnel attended the Mass, includ­ing all ROTC students, but organizations like Pax Christi were omitted, and a fly­over by an A7 jet was even scheduled. 
Ross objected to this "militarization of the Mass" and saw it as a "sort of strong use of the liturgy for something it's not sup­posed to be used for." 
Both Burgee and Hesburgh feel that such objections to the memorial are immaterial and that the fountain is only meant to be seen as a monument honor­ing the dead. Burgee defends his design against charges that it is too imposing and he points to its symbolic content as evi­dence of its function as a peace memorial. 
The granite ball, Burgee states, is a ref­erence to the world, and the water is a universal symbol of the generation of life. The reason for the black marble base is to mimic the presence of the water during the winter. 
The rough granite slabs, he says, were used not to symbolize warfare in any sense, ·but were used because of their awe-inspiring natural aesthetic value. "They were sculpted by God." 
Despite what its appearance may lead some to conclude at first glance, Burgee says that the fountain is a monument to peace, not to war. 
Hesburgh shares this view, noting that Notre Dame's veterans "were not war­mongering people, but they served their country." He hoped that this memorial might ease minds just as the Vietnam memorial in Washington, D.C., has. 
"Today, I think that many people, including myself, have some serious ques­tions about Vietnam, but not about the kids that went there...they died heroical­ly," Hesburgh said. 
Hesburgh·also defends the dedication Mass, of which he was the celebrant. Despite the military presence, the Mass itself served to underscore the point that the fountain should be seen as a symbol of peace, not war, he said. 
A World War I poem quoted in the homily summed up the monument's intrinsic concession: " ... to banish war, a warrior you must be." I-lesburgh conclud­ed the Mass with the words, "The Mass is ended, go in peace. Notice how many times that word has been said here today." 
TODAY••• 

Ten years later, Ross still has objections to the fountain. However, it is apparent that despite their differences of opinion, both he and Hesburgh agree on the mean­ing behind the memorial, even if the memorial itself may fall short of perfectly embodying that meaning. 
They agree that there can be no contro­versy over the fact that whatever the ideo­logical underpinnings of our nation's wars, Notre Dame men have fought and died in them, and they deserve to be remembered for making the ultimate sacrifice. 
The Clarke Memorial Fountain, in its ten years of existence, has served as a serene spot to study or reflect and a great place to run through in the heat. It has been likened to a collection of tombstones and a prehistoric monument. But through all of this, Hesburgh hopes that its original intent is not lost or misinterpreted. 
"I want it to mean peace in the long run of history -peace that can mean giving one's life at times. As time goes on, and people study on it, or get water splashed on them by it, they will remember... that we all must work for peace in our country and in our lives." 

Security 
continued from page 1 
Security had a few leads. 
"They said something about problems this summer with students from a school in Michigan, and I guess they wanted see if this was relat­ed," Tracy explained. 
Thus far, no thefts has been formally linked to any students from that school. The name of the school has not been released. 
In addition, Tracy had credit cards in the case, which the culprit attempted to use. Video footage of the attempt provid­ed no help in making an identi­fication. 
Now, six weeks later, howev­er, Tracy has heard nothing, and his optimism has dwin­
died. 

"It's just gone," he said. 
In an effort to remind stu­dents not to leave their belong­ings unattended, Notre Dame Security had posted warning notices on billboards all over campus following the thefts in mid-October. 
After recent instances, which ended a month without any such items reported stolen, it appears to Hurley that stu­dents have gradually returned to a state of complacency, assuming that the rash of thefts was no longer a con­cern. 
"Students should always monitor their belongings at all times," Hurley said. "We haven't found a common denominator among the thefts, so it's possible that they are unrelated. Be careful," he warned. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 

MEMORIAL MASS FOR JOSEPH CARDINAL BERNARDIN MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996 
5:15PM 


BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Father Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. Will preside and preach 
Monday, November 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Faulty space probe may crash in Australia 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press Writer 
HONOLULU 
A Russian space probe was expected to crash to Earth in east-central Australia last evening, carrying small gener­ators that in an "extremely unlikely" worst-case scenario could release a small lethal plutonium cloud, the Clinton administration said. 
The rocket failed to break out of Earth's atmosphere on an unmanned mission to Mars. 
"The information that we've been given by the Russian space agency is very reassur­ing," said Robert Bell, senior director for defense policy at the White House National Security council. He added that the generators "were designed to survive great heat and sur­vive great stress on impact." 
The probe lifted off Saturday night from the Baikonur Cosmodrome~ in Kazakstan. The first three stages fired properly, according to the space tracking center in Evpatoriya, Ukraine. The prob­lems arose when a booster rocket on the fourth stage failed to ignite, the Interfax news agency said, quoting one of the mission directors, Vladimir Molodtsov. 
"Based on tracking data developed over the last 16 hours, the U.S. Space Command now estimates the spacecraft will re-enter the Earth's atmosphere just after 8 
p.m. EST tonight, with a pre­dicted impact point in east-cen­tral Australia," the White House said in a statement issued here, where President Clinton is vacationing. 
Ironically, word of the expected crash came one day before Clinton was scheduled to fly to Australia on the first leg of a 10-day tour of Asia-Pacific nations. 
The president, making his first visit to Australia, was due to arrive in Sydney in the southeast region of the country on Tuesday night, with subse­quent stops in nearby Canberra and Port Douglas on the north­eastern coast. 
Most of the spacecraft will burn up in the atmosphere before it crashes to Earth, said Bell. However, he said there are "two penetrating vehicles that were designed to with­stand great re-enetry pres­sures" and that they were expected to survive. 
Of some concern were four small radioactive plutonium­powered energy generators, or "batteries." In a worst-case sit­uation, the canisters could break up in the atmosphere and create a small radioactive cloud. 
"If some cloud of dispersal were formed at a lower altitude and were inhaled by humans, it could be lethal," Bell said. 
Bell said the amount of pluto­nium was small: about 200 grams, the size of about four pencil erasers. 
"So any vaporization into the atmosphere is going to be a very confined space;" Bell said. 
The expected impact site is not close to any major popula­tion centers, he said, but there are small villages in the area. 
Russian space authorities have informed NASA that the four energy generators will survive re-entry and not break up upon Earth impact, the White House said. 
"In short, Russian space authorities believe there is no danger of nuclear contamina­tion," a White House statement said. "Nevertheless, in what is considered to be the extremely unlikely event that one or more of the batteries break open, the United States is prepared to 
Do the hokey-pokey and shake it all about... 

. The Observer/Joe Stark Warren Kub1~schek. led a folk-dancing session at Saint Mary's College on Friday evening. He will hold dances on Fnday n1ghts at 7:15p.m. in the Clubhouse. 
RHA 
continued from page 1 

In addition to improving communication, Milos felt that additional chairwoman posi­tions were necessary to fullfill RHA's goal of increasing all campus activities. 
A quality of life board con­sisting of five women has been developed to work on the all­campus dances, Little Sibs weekend (now called Sib Fest) and athletic events, such as this year's athletic pep rallies. 
"We renovated chairwomen positions to try to create a more efficient organization," Milos said. "We had one of the most successful Little Sibs weekends in the history of the event. The attendance rate was its highest ever." 


If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool qualify, these merit-based L.EADERSHIP year the scholarship is in scholarships can help you ~ effect. Find out today if paytuitionandeducational 
you qualify. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

As a way of recognizing out­standing leadership and accomplishment on campus, RHA developed a program rec­ognizing one advisor, student, program, and resident advi­sor, as well as a spotlight every month. "This gives us an example of how wonderful this college is," Milos stated. 
She pointed to the first ever all-campus formal, which will take place in February, as an example of an event which RHA will sponsor in an effort to increase fun and unity on campus. The first all-campus dance took place last year. Students will not have to be there until 10:30 p.m., an extension of the previous limit of 10 p.m., because of RHA's push to change dance policies. Also included in the new dane~ policy is an advisor and chairwoman co-signature requirement on all dance con­tracts. 
Milos and this year's RHA decided to give the women of each residence hall an oppor­tunity to create their own mis­sion statement. Milos feels that this creates an even clearer sense of what each hall stands for, while also bringing resi­dents closer together. 

In order to keep Saint Mary's RHA aware of other schools' varying issues and policies in their resident hall associations, representitives from RHA spend some week­ends with the N a tiona! Association of Resident Halls and the Great Lakes and Universities and Colleges Resident Halls (GLUCRH), where representatives meet to discuss hall issues and exchange ideas. 
Saint Mary's student repre­sentatives were at a GLUCRH meeting in Indianapolis this weekend. Milos encourages involvement on this level. She is proud of Saint Mary's strong representation at these regional and national con­frences. 
"I think that we are very unique in comparison to other schools. Not all colleges are a part of this, and I think we show ourselves to be a very proud school Our leadership stands out. We have such a positive aura about us. We really show our pride toward Saint Mary's," Milos said. 

Monday, November 18, 1996
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Finally, you wont mind being carded. 

N(J'N wfteflvyou vtstyUW" Vis~r: cct.ril you'Usct.ve ~i:J ct.-t -tltese tlvrces. 

Its everywhere you want to be: 
r----------------, 



'frll!~ ~A'l!:~
7 $200RMORE 
OR SAVE 52 ON ANY PURCHASE OF 510 OR MORE. 
Yumllreol yourself lo something losly lor less when you pay with your Viso cord ol porlicipoling Mrs. fieldslocolions. love 14 on ony purchase of 120 or more. Or sove 12 on any purchase of 110 or more. Olfervolid Augusl1, 1996, through January 31, 1997. 
lenns and COIIdillons: (ulilicate 1~empt101'1 ~~liM! ·~hly of Ml~ fllkh OllervalidAilgll\t 1, 1996,throughJo~ucnyll, 1997olpati1UpatmgMn Freldsrelollloca IIOI!SOfwtultsuppitts!miOnece~tilrcoleperMiorne•pei'YI\II ln)ather~McallllriU~ 
fraud NorvalnlwithonyotheJOifer Va~dwhereJllohrbrttd.taJed.Oirntmtedbylow Valrd onlywlltnyouiNiyouiVI\IIcaldAppluabletau\11111\1­be pard by beo1er Only ndeemuble mthe US. (osh I'Oiut l'1S4 1/100 cenl Viia Reward~ ito itrvue mar~ of YM .s"a lntl!fnctronoiServrceAssooatron ~ 
L----------------~ 
r--~-------------, 
LIMITED 
ENJOY THE BEST 

IN AMERICAN FASHION. 
love 110 on ony purchase of 165 or more. Or sove 120 on ony purchose of 1100 or more. limply present this cerlilicole ond poy with your Visa· cord ol The Limited. Offer volid August I, 1996, through Jonuory 31, 1997. 
TtrntlandCOttditiotls: (erlificGteredemplloni\solelythere\I)CIM!bi[ilyollhelimlled 
OllervolidAuqll\11,1996,1hroughJanuoryli.I997Yaltdloronepurtha~onlyondmll\1 be prewnted ol the time of puJ~ha~ (on not be 1M!! towrd the pun hoWl allhe Limited Gilt Cenilkate\. Offer YOI!d an~~~~ meHhandM Mot volid With any other oftef .,;.. oehtr uw 1omtitutes ltoud Void where prohibit&d. loud. OllesiiK!ed by law Valtd only when you 11\e yourVisa!ordlppiKobletalHmLrStbepotdbyberuer ­Only redeemoble mthe U.S. (ash value 1/100 tent Ytsa 'VIS4 lewa.tdskoservil:emarkaiVisolntllnattanaiSenice 
.#h 

Assouaftonltdi288 ~ 
L----------------~ 





rfAKE-i5%0ff 
ANY SINGLE ITEM PURCHASED AT 

STRUCTURE 
Structure invite~ you lo lake 15% off the purch1110 ol ony single item when you pay with your Visa cord ond present this certificate. Structure Style is oulhenlic dressing for real life. Our relaxed fil allows you lo look good while feeling comfortable ond confident. Offer valid November 1, 1996, through Jonuory 31, 1997. 
:-l'l'Hl1CTL 1~1·.: 

leunsand(onditiOIIS.Certiliroleredemphonrssolelythe rl\fii)INbiLiyo!Sirvrture Oller 
walidNovemberl, 1996,throvghJanuory31, 1997otSrrurlurestOfesonly On~ane1ertifi 
caleordisioontmcrybeuwdperpunhosa TM!ertifiwte~nolredeermblelorcash,nortstl 
'l!llidtowordanypnVIOUS!ypurthmedllllfthondrse(lfllhroteronnolbeappl.edlothepur 
dtaWI olgih rerlllmrtes or on r&dlined merthondM. Assoc111tes of ~lrllllure and It\ alliltates 
ore not Wgtble to rMerve !his drs!aunt Good only lor pur rime of product 1ndirated Hoi YOiid 
:~,,:;~ ·~:·:;'•;,:;• 0~~".~:, •::":::dv,~'d :,~' Pll.,llhlibll,,l,ldll.llllol•l•ldll.o
111' 
Applicable taus must btl pol~ by beoter .only redHmoble in the 
US Cash value 1/lOOtenl VMRewordsJsawYHtlllOf~oiVI\0 
lnlt~nollonaiServlttAssouation 'i.TR71!1 
L----------------~ 

OIL CHANGE AND/OR SAVE 10% 
ON ANY BRIDGESTONE OR 
FIRESTONE TIRE PURCHASE. 
Poy with your Visa cord and gel on oil change for only 112.99! Or save 10% on the regular price Ibased on the store's catalog/POl sysleml of Bridgeslone or firestone lires. To redeem this offer, present this cerlificole when you poy al ony of the over I, 300 company·owned firestone Tire & Service Center locations. Mention code PIOO #03468 for oil change offer and code PIOO #03476 for lire offer. Offer volid August I, 1996, through Jonuory 31, 1997. 
lermsondCot~dlllans:CertilicoleJedempttonl!solelyrlterespom~btliryolfireslone 
Offer ~olid Augmt I. 199~.tluoogh JoiiUOfy 31, 1991 Good only lor pur1how al oil 
<hongeservicesond/ortireslndicotedortampony·OWBedFirestonente&S.Ivke{entlls 
Sowing! based on 199Sa~ef~notiono1Sflbngprices O~thongealler good lormosl 
Yehidesandindudes.m~tallattonolneworlhhtr, relillwirhuptoSquarl\olkendol 
10W30oil,onddmsislubmahon(ilapplttoble) llwsprKeimludesoildisposollll Tire 
ofllftntludesperlormanceondhghttrlf(ktodlllk Nolvohdwrthanyalhetoffera!ldcan 
notbeU\edtoteduceoutsrandingdebt Vaidwhereptohtbtted,taud.orresltictedbylow 
VnlidonlywhenyouuwyourYISII tord Aw~MaDietoles ­
mLrSI be paid by beore1 Only redeemable 1n the U.S Cosh l'IS4 
Yalue 1~100cen1 Yl\a Rewordsisaser'IICeiiiOI'k aiYISO .:"a. 
lnlefAOIIOAOISefviteAuOiiohon ~ 
L----------------~ 

r----------------, 
• !~S~9~2U 
. FORS169. 
love 1360 on the Microsoft Office Pro 95 CO· ROM Iregularly-priced ol 15291 when you use your Viso cord ollnsighl -Americo's dis· count source lor computers, hardware, ond software. Microsoft Office Pro 95 includes Word, Excel, Powerpoinl, Schedule, ond Access. To ploce on order or receive oFREE cololog, caiii·B00·91/.3246, 24 hours odoy. Reference code 11701B·Y when ordering. Offer volid August I, 1996, through November 30. 1996. 
Ten111 lndCondltionl:{ertillloteredemphiH!rssolttythtrt\pllmlbtlttyaltnstghiDIIIIt 
Ollerwal,dAugulr1.1996.thtDIIghltD'Iember30.1996Vat.donlywtthphatacapyaltur 
rent\tudenttDOnlyoneordl!perper\GIIOoesnotlncludeslupjllngchafgesAnyothOfuse 
ramltlulel lroud Not vol1d Wllh any other aHer V01d wh01e prahiiNted laud. or reslurted 
lr,lawVal!danlywhenyauuSfyout'frsarord•pp~lablt ­
taus must be putd by bea1er Only redeemublt 1111he US. VISA 
andCanado(otbvaluei/IOOceniVI\IIRA'Dfd\naSfl~ vicema•kofVIIalnternallono!Sm~teAnOI.tOIIDA ' 
L----------------~ 

-~----~-----~---~-·-----------._....
-------~~----------­
Monday, November 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 


Israel adiDits more Palestinians 
Associated Press Israel's delayed withdrawal really committed to peace with 
from Hebron, the last major city Israel." 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip it occupies in the West Bank. Israel imposed the closures on 
Palestinians applied for per­In Gaza, Palestinians lined up the Palestinian territories in mits to enter Israel on Sunday at a labor ministry office to fill February after a series of sui­after the Jewish state further out applications for new cide bombings in Israel left 63 eased restrictions that have entrance permits. people dead. Since then, the barred thousands of Palestinians "I think the Israeli govern­restrictions periodically have from their jobs for months. ment step is a good one, but it is been eased and tightened. 
Israel announced Saturday not enough," said Khaled The Palestinians say the that 15,000 more Palestinians Abdullah Ghani, a 39-year-old Israeli closure costs their fledg­from the West Bank and Gaza father of five who has worked ling economy $6 million a day. Strip would be allowed to enter. construction jobs in Israel for 15 In Jericho, talks resumed on That would bring the number of years. Hebron, where 500 Jewish set­Palestinians allowed to enter He urged Israel to let tlers live among 130,000 Israel to 50,000, about the same Palestinian workers sleep at Palestinians. Israel's scheduled level as before September clash­their workplaces to save hours March withdrawal under the es in Palestinian areas that of travel every day. Israel-PLO accords was delayed claimed 79 lives. "Nobody my age will plan any after the suicide bombings, then 
Israeli and Palestinian nego­attacks," Ghani said. "We need by the election of conservative 
tiators, meanwhile, began a sev­to build trust between us and Prime Minister Benjamin 
enth week of talks Sunday on them. We were and are still Netanyahu. 
thought about next summer? Consider:
111111

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS 
(ND Students Only) 
• $1,700 Scholarship 
• 3 Credits 
• 
8 Weeks or Service-Learning 

• 
In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 


Information Meeting: 
Monday, November 18 7:00 -7:30p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
pplication Deadline: 
Apply Early.... January 22 (turn in earlier!) Interview Early. . . Pick up applications at the esc 
Pick Your Site Early ... 
Junior Interviews Start December 2 Interviews Start December 9 

'~we inspiring... a record attendance ... you left hundreds ofus raving about your visit for days!" 
University of Rochester 
Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Student Center 

information desk for $3.00! 
When: Tuesday, November 19th What time: at 8:00 P.M. Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
mr 
Plnu~r Of DO~Iln G~U 


-~----------------~~-, 
Editor-in-Chief Eliubeth Foran Business Manager Matt Casey 



U.S. prisons disgrace of criminal justice system 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller..........................................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nm necessarily reflect the policies ohhe administra­
tion of either instirudon. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chic:f, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint &firor, Accem Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letcers and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNi~poinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE DISCOURSE 
A few weeks ago, I make my first trip to the west coast. I went to visit a friend, a fellow Tennessee alumnus who is in the graduate chemistry program at Stanford. On the second day of my visit, we ventured up the peninsula to San Francisco. While crossing the Golden 

Sean Seymore 
Gate Bridge, I looked toward the bay and saw the most awesome sight: Alcatraz. 
I have been fascinated by Alcatraz since childhood. Even though its cell blocks have been empty for over thirty years, it is still considered the pride and joy of the American penal system. It housed many of the nation's most noto­rious criminals, and never allowed a successful escape from its rocky shores. No other penal institution is revered like Alcatraz. 
America's prisons have become the disgrace of the criminal justice system. These institutions have failed in their three-fold mission to punish, to rehabili­tate, and to protect society. 
An individual is sent to prison primari­ly as a punishment for violating a law. For example, society has mandated that felonious assaults, use of illegal drugs, and sexual misconduct are all intolera­ble crimes that warrant a prison sen­tence. In theory, punishing criminal behavior should involve removing the perpetrator from a criminal environ­ment. 
However, felonious assaults, use of illegal drugs, and sexual misconduct 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

routinely occur within prison walls. Prisons are in fact full of criminal activi­ty. 
Many inmates become drug abusers during their confinement. New inmates often join a prison gang immediately upon confinement,because if the individ­ual is considered weak, the individual is more likely to become a victim of brutal­ity and sexual confinement. Thus, how can a prison punish effectively is it is infested with crime? Prison crime is unique because it is indirectly sanc­tioned by the criminal justice system. Everybody knows what actually takes place within prison walls, yet such behavior is rarely corrected. Furthermore, illegal drugs and weapons are not produced within prisons; some­one must transport the materials inside. 
Most persons have probably aban­doned the notion that the prison envi­ronment can rehabilitate a criminal. The high rate or"recidivism supports the adage, "Once a criminal, always a crimi­nal." Rehabilitation is a complex puzzle; several pieces must come together. First, the disposition of each prisoner must be considered; not to mention that what works for one prisoner many not work for another. Even though it is easy to stereotype criminals, they are unique individuals. 
Unfortunately, since the worth of an inmate in American society is minuscule to nonexistent. Second, prisons must have programs in place to facilitate rehabilitation. For example, many pris­oners cannot read and write at the sec­ondary-school level. Since America teaches that education is the key to upward mobility mobility, why are pris­oners not encouraged to earn a high school equivalency diploma? At parole hearings, the parole board is always asking the question, "If we release this individual, can this individual become a productive part of society?" 
It is hard enough for an average 

American to make an ,-.,-,..,-...,-----.,.-=---;-;;-o::;-:c---,-=:--:-:-;;--:---cco-:----:-~....,..,......,~­
honest living with a high school diploma; it must be impossible for an ex-convict. Instead of constructively reha­bilitating inmates, prisoners reinforce nonproductive behav­ior. For example, even though inmates are mostly illiterate, they are usually athletically fit. There is never a lack of athletic facili­ties within prison walls especially weight rooms and basketball courts. 
Americans go to sleep each night with the impression that the criminal justice system is protecting society by confining criminals in the state peniten­tiary. However, prisons are not infinitely large, and are now overcrowded. Even though some states are building more prisons, the fact is that new prisons are costly to build, staff, and maintain; not to ;mention that the rate of criminal sen­tencing in America will forever surpass the rate of prison construction. Therefore, to alleviate overcrowding and to ease the burden on the criminal jus­tice system, tow programs are now com­monplace: early release and plea bar­gaining. 
Even though early release is most pro­nounced in states like Texas which have severely overcrowded prisons, even an average American knows that a person sentenced to life in prison may only serve fifteen years. The plea bargain however, has become the savior of the criminal justice system. When prosecu­tors agree to "make a deal", they ease the stress on a system that is extremely overburdened. Some would say that if it 
Monday, November 18, 1996 
NOW I'MlW ~lOGITLP CWtf R7 ANYTUI~ ... 
were not for plea bargaining, the crimi­nal justice system works most efficiently when criminals are both given bargain­ing power and are often able to avoid serving the full sentence dictated by the law is quite intriguing. 
The failure of the nation's penal sys­tem to fulfill its three-fold mission should concern every American. However, the fact that criminals are held in such high disregard causes many Americans to place prisons low in their priority lists. Undoubtedly, complacency is partially responsible for the failure of the system. However, those things that Americans hold so dear -security, jus­tice, and protection -all depend on what takes place within prison walls. 
Sean Seymore is a graduate student in inorganic chemistry. He can be reached at sean. b. seymore.J @nd. edu and his column appears every other Monday. 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"under a government 
which imprisons any 
unjustly, the true place for a 
just man is also prison." 
-Henry David Thoreau 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, November 18, 1996 page 9 
• lEITERs To THE EOITOR 
Observer's visiof! of graduate students 'inaccurate, misleading' 
Dear Editor: 
The vision of graduate studies presented in your recent articles (The Observer, Nov. 8) was inaccurate and misleading. The articles cite one faculty member, who compares graduate school to the training one receives in law or business school, and that the experience is not worth it if one fails to gain entrance into a top ranked pro­gram. 
The first statement is inaccurate for most indi­viduals in graduate school simply because they found their liberal education incomplete after undergraduate studies and found graduate stud­ies a proper avenue of gaining further insight into their chosen field of study. One cannot underestimate their passion and commitment to science, art, or the social sciences because they are willing to forsake many of the comforts associated with a high-paying, high-prestige profession in law or business. 
This statement is also inaccurate because the skills one picks up in graduate school are sec­ondary to the wisdom that such individuals pur­sue. A graduate student would have to be naive, and rather stupid, to choose that path because he or she thinks medieval manuscript transcrip­tion and reading texts of political philosophy are useful or marketable. Instead, he or she more likely sees the value of such skills as means for an end that cannot be found in law or business school. Only the most cynical scientists and only those in liberal arts who think that scholarship can be reduced to the posturing of the most recent literary and theoretical academic fash­ions have such a view. But this is not the true purpose of a graduate school. 
• THE WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
The second statement compares graduate school to playing Notre Dame football. The arti­cle maintains that it's tougher to make it to the pros if one plays for East Wyoming Community College, for example. This might be true but in some cases that great coach, or that incredible teacher, works at East Wyoming Community College. 
Because top graduate schools have in many cases lost their vision of what graduate educa­tion is about, forming the minds and souls of its s~dents, many thoughtful students go to lower­ranked graduate programs because that is where the top teachers are. The bean-counters who construct the surveys and variables that rank programs fail to account for the deeper needs and goals of graduate students that these teachers provide. 
These articles are both misleading and irre­sponsible. It is necessary for undergraduates who are considering graduate studies to be aware of the dreary job prospects. However, they must also learn that graduate studies involves more than "career training," and that it might satisfy more noble needs and desires that students might have. The vision of graduate education presented in these articles both does a disservice to undergraduates, and contributes to the general decadence, malaise, and sophistry that plagues contemporary academia. 
-JOHN VON HEYKING 
Graduate student 
Department of Government 



They're out to get me! Everyone's after me! 
One of the things about attending a 60-6 football game is that one has a lot of time to do things other than watch the less-than-dramatic contest unfolding before you. Personally, I've always found observing the crowd as, or even more amusing than trying to feign excitement on every down as Notre Dame beats up on bum-of-the-week 
Christopher Kratovil 


opponents like Pitt. 
Apparently I'm not the only one of this opinion; while looking about the stands on Saturday, I couldn't help but notice the head protruding from behind the north end zone scoreboard. Initially I assumed that this was probably some minor NBC official -like everyone's friend with the orange glove -or per­haps an assistant coach of some sort. But then I noticed that this protruding head appeared to be staring right back at me through a pair of binoculars. 
Okay, I thought to myself, if I were sta­tioned up on the scoreboard, I'd proba­bly want a pair of binoculars to watch the game with, too -and, hey, even minor NBC functionaries can get bored during blowouts, so that must be why this character is scanning the crowd. All that logically established, I returned my attention to the game (I use that term loosely). 
About ten minutes later, I again glanced at the scoreboard and noted that Mr. Protruding-head-with-binocu­lars was still up there and seemed more interested in what was going on in the student section than on the field. Odd, I again mused, but it was a really dull game after all, and the antics in the stu­dent section can be fairly amusing. 
A third look towards Touchdown Jesus some time later yielded the same result; a guy with binoculars staring in my gen­eral direction. This was starting to get mildly disconcerting -didn't this man have some sort of job to do up there? Was this some kind of voyeur, stalker, wacko, assassin or other type of unde­sirable? Hey, I've read both Black Sunday and The Sum of All Fears, and my imagination was starting to run wild; should I alert a security guard to the fact that Abu! Abbas was on top of the scoreboard and was apparently plotting to blow up the student section? 
I was sufficiently concerned with the situation that I mentioned it to my com­panions -after all, I feel a person has a right to know when he or she is in dan­ger of being murdered by a terrorist's bomb. 
"Oh, Kratovil, you're just being para­noid," I was assured, "that's just Bill Kirk or one of his flunkies up there try­ing to find troublemakers in the student section. They're up there every week." 
Paranoid? I'm the one who's para­noid? Admittedly, I do worry about alien abduction and enjoy discussing the Kennedy assassination, but if my stadi­um companion is accurate in his evalua­tion of of the true identity and function of the protruding head, then it's time to set an Oliver Stone movie here on the Notre Dame campus. 
There's already practically a one-to­one ratio of fans to those thug-like "ush­ers" (where do they find those people? But that's another column ... ), and it's practically impossible to reach one's seat without showing a valid passport, a couple major credit cards and a birth certificate, so what possible need is there for a spy up in the rafters? 
Perhaps the logic is that since Notre Dame Stadium is already one of the least "fan-friendly" facilities in the coun­try (they have this incredible ability to make you feel like a criminal just for trying to get to your ten inches of ply­wood bleacher on time), why not com­plete the effect by actively spying on the fans? 
Well, despite my belief in aliens, I was having trouble swallowing that the Notre Dame administration would actu­ally hire some rent-a-cop to sit up there and vector "ushers" towards cup-throw­ers, crowd-surfers and other threats to public order. But then halftime came about. The obligatory marshmallow fight ensued and, God forbid, apparently an NBC cameraman was struck by one of the deadly projectiles. 

Suddenly, a knot of some sort of uber­ushers, clad in trenchcoats rather than 
'Notre Dame is not a diffi­
cult place to be para­noid -trust me I know this. There are TV cameras on top of LaFortune and rumors that certaih rectors keep dossiers on their residents. We have ... a replica of Stonehenge, one of the most mysterious struc­tures in the world, sitting in the middle of a quad. 
yellow jackets and walkie-talkies, appeared and headed straight for a stu­dent sitting and seemingly minding his own business a couple of rows behind me. 
"Son," said the leader of the elite corps of slightly less geriatric ushers, "you don't want to get NBC mad at us, do you?" (Apparently implying that a $35 million TV deal could be jeopar­dized by a single hurled marshmallow.) "You throw anything else, and you're out of here." 
The student protested that he hadn't done anything, to which the usher responded, "We're watching you ­we've got cameras on you." And with that the super ushers departed as quick­ly as they had appeared, no doubt with several hotspots to quell elsewhere in the stadium. 
Now obviously I don't know if my friend the protruding head had anything to do with sending those representatives of the Ministry of Love towards the chap behind me. I don't even know if the accused student was responsible for the atrocity towards that poor cameraman. But regardless of the facts of this partic­ular incident, the whole situation seemed like something out of a B-grade espionage flick. Let me see if I've got this straight; we've got students being mugged on the campus perimeter, bicy­cles disappearing everyday and armed robbers bursting into the ND Avenue apartments, but meanwhile the adminis­tration has developed the ability to trace the trajectory of individual marshmal­lows in the stadium? 
Notre Dame is not a difficult place to be paranoid -trust me, I know this. There are TV cameras on top of LaFortune and persistent rumors that certain rectors keep dossiers on their residents. We have all those bizarre, intimidating security guards in the girls' dorms (who may or may not be related to the stadium ushers), and a replica of Stonehenge, one of the most mysterious structures in the world, sitting in the middle of a quad. Additionally, we live in Indiana, the state with the highest level of per capita UFO activity in the country, There's also the small matter of the Radiation Building , and, needless to say, we attend an institution that main­tains its own in-house secret police force. 
So perhaps against this backdrop of legitimate campus paranoia, that chap on the top of the scoreboard seems a lit­tle less out of place. Upon reflection, I guess I'd be rather surprised if ND didn't pull an Orwellian stunt like that. The part of my mind that believes there was only one gunman in Dealey Plaza and that only a weather balloon crashed at Roswell, New Mexico, holds out hope that that was just some timekeeper or assistant coach who had lost interest in the game up there. But be that as it may, I don't think I'll be throwing any cups next week against Rutgers; Big Brother is watching you, unless of course you have a GA ticket. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every Monday. 

~ -------~--~­
-·­


page 10 Monday, November 18, 1996 
• Now PLAYING 
A Looney Slatn Dunk 
By JOSHUA BECK invading aliens from outer space. What more could Although he will never be renowned for his acting, this Accent Movie Critic you ask for? movie treats him as if he's a god of some sort. And The movie starts out following Michael Jordan's base­who knows? Maybe he is in a way. Although the 


It All 
N, 
only did . she star in "The Mirror Has Two she alsl> directed and produced it. Jeff tsrltog·esresurfaces from wherever he's been hiding 
finally ... a new romantic comedy. FolloWing 'AJ::?It·lbiit "The Fabulous Baker Boys," and delivers a 
he same lines as such legendary films of this meJmolrab..le performance. He may remind you of Bill 
enre as "Sleepless in Seattle," and "When ..,!'!1-ll"~'inmanyways, Harry Met Sally," comes "The Mirror Has Two Faces;" ..,.. r.·;,...,....."'··· stars as Rose's mother Hannah, a self· a touching romantic comedy that explores the modern vu!>l:!~:~~u woman for whom external beauty is life's myths of beauty and sex and how they complicate ltis interesting to remember that relationships. ·herself personified a screen beau-
Barbra Streisand and .Jeff.' Bridges star tyinher film heyday. She also provides a as Rose Morgan and Gregory Larkin: two bit of deadpan comic relief. Mimi Rogers people who come together on comfort-does a great job as Rose's sister Claire, able, If shaky, common ground. Rose who thoroughly believes their mother's teaches a course in Romantic Uterature empty philosophy. Pierce Brosnan still at Columbia University, yet ironically looks great as Rose's simple~; but never­doesn't have any romance in her own life. theless rich and handsome fantasy lover, She seems to have accepted the fact that Alex. she. will never marry, yet she longs to The production team stressed that it have someone who really knows and wll.S impossible to create "The Mirror Has understands her. Two ·pace.s"wfthout re-examining per-
Enter Gregory Larkin (Jeff Bridges.) sonal concepts of beauty, romance, and Gregory teaches mathematics at love, and how greatly they are influenced Columbia, and has been hurt by passion-by sUck magazine and TV ads in tradi· ate relationships in the past. He longs for tional film love stories. This is not your a new relationship based on friendship traditionallove story, yet it i$ compelling and respect. nonetheless; 
Through an act of deception typical of Screenwriter Richard LaGravenese Rose's near-normal sister, Claire (Mimi relates, "We are bombarded with adver-Rogers) Greg and Rose meet. They are tisements, movies, and television com-decidedly different In every way. but find mercials in which impossibly perfect peo· one another somehow compeJling. ple bear fabulous music when they are Hose still lives at home In the shadow of attracted to each other. Normal looks, her sister, Claire, and her overpowering normal attractions, normal emotions mother. Hannah {Lauren Bacall.) She has .. ·.· . Court&syoiTriStarPIOIOf$8 rare] lacking." LaGravense captures a no energy left for the dating ritual, which Rose (BarbraStrel~nd) enduresa lflil=~•rn,miillritlt~'AXrnA~Ill~rt;~ul;i,,H:;·;·annah (~a,ur~n: , sense of ''normalcy" in the relationship
she likens to a job interview. Bacall) and Gregory (Jeff Bridges) in Has Two Faces. that develops between Rose and Gregory 
Gregory, on the other hand reacts over-.·.· .. · ........ inawonderful romantic comedy. reacts to women the way our culture instructs. talented cast Physical beauty and wearing various faces have wield· ,, Streisand is was composed with information from ed exceptional power over humans through the ages. t:ipne q£t'Qe 

I
don't know about you, but I had a system for every Saturday morning when I was a kid. My biological dock would wake me promptly at 5:59 a.m. so I could effectively, in one minute, drag my younger brother out of bed. run down the hall past my sleeping parents to the kitchen, grab a box of Frosted Flakes and other necessary breakfast items, and then meet my brother in front of the TV. We would then proceed to have three bowls of Tony the Tiger's gold mine while watching the best cartoon ever to appear on television: Looney Toons. Nothing will ever compare to watching the immortal Bugs Bunny foil Elmer Fudd or seeing Sylvester the Cat trying to teach his son how to catch little Tweety Bird. We would sit for hours, rivet­ed to the set. Sure, other cartoons came on after­wards, but they just weren't the same. Looney Toons was the ONLY one we woke up for. 
Those days are long gone, yet just when I thought I had outgrown that Looney cast of characters, they return once more. Yes, it's true: the Looney Toons that you've grown to love are now back in a full-length fea­ture film. The immortal bard of animation, Bugs Bunny, and his cast of friends return for another romp on the big screen. Now their home is threatened by invading aliens... and whom do they pick to help them? None other than the greatest basketball player alive, Michael Jordan. What follows is a repast l'or the sens­es, something to remind you of those days long gone when you sat in front of your T.V. and wished that the show would never end. It's also a treat for the children today who represent what we used to be and who remind us of the little kids we all still have inside. Let's face it: This movie has everything. It has animat­ed animals, the best basketball player ever to have lived, the most famous rabbit to ever "exist," and ball career after retiring from basketball. Meanwhile, in distant outer space, an alien amusement park pro­prietor (voice of Danny Devito) is forced to find a new attraction. He orders five of his little alien advisors to fino the Looney Toons and bring them back. The tiny UFO's find the characters in a pretty auspicious place (they're under the ground.) and take them hostage with the help of guns that are bigger than they are. But Bugs Bunny is NEVER beaten, and he challenges the aliens to a basketball game in order to win back their freedom. 
There's only one problem --neither team can play basketball! So the aliens decide to steal the talent from five NBA players, namely Patrick Ewing, Charles Barkley, Muggsy Bogues, Larry Johnson, and Shawn Bradley. The UFO's then grow to huge proportions while developing extraordinary basketball skills and the Toons are forced to find someone to help THEM win. Enter Air Jordan. By essentially kidnapping him from the surface, the Toons persuade him to help them in their predicament. What follows is a rough-and­tumble game of basketball with everyone involved, including Wayne Knight, Bill Murray, and the five biggest aliens to ever hit the screen, otherwise known as the "Monstars." ' 
Only an invidual devoid of senses could say this movie wasn't entertaining. Jordan, as always, is a dominat­ing presence on the court and on the screen, but the Looney Toons make the film what it is. The animation is extraordinary, and although meshing animated characters with human beings on the screen isn't exactly a technological breakthrough (think "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?") it's never been done this well before. The Looney Toons are still as funny and love­able as they were when I was a kid. Although it may be dubbed a children's movie, "Space Jam" entertains everyone as it brings out the child in all of us. Although Jordan is the main human character, perfor­mances by Wayne Knight of "Seinfeld" as his publicist and Bill Murray as his usual laconic self add laughs to the movie and show that not just the Toons can make us hysterical. 
Although the movie features the best-loved animated characters of all time, the person who really receives the glory of the film is none other than Michael Jordan. 
movie isn't a long Nike commercial (Thank God!) as some anticipated, it does certainly focus quite a bit of attention on his 
Airness. Well, he ,--------------, 
probably deserves it. nte man has done more in the game of basketball than anyone else and he probably won't be appearing in any other screen gems any time soon ... although "Space Jam 2" is definitely not out of the picture. This movie has class and nothing was spared in the course of making it. The reason "Space Jam" has such a big marketing cam­paign is that so much money was spent putting it together. The subtitle of this movie should be: "There's Nothing That Can't Be Done." Almost every player in the NBA has some part in the film, and ironi­cally, Michael Jordan 
is the best actor out of c__
____________j 
all of them, although . CourtesyoiRockyW1nder/RetnaLTD. his performance prob-Michael Jordan SUits u~.for a 
't . h' different type of play tn Space
ably won wm 1m an Jam." Academy Award. But with this guy, anything is possible. Although "Space Jam" won't be the movie of the year, it certainly enter­tains with the help of the two biggest stars of their fields. So go see it and relive some old memories...and for God's sake, don't forget the little kid inside of you. 
Joshua Beck is a sophomore English and communica­tions major from Houston, Texas 
Football 


Irish ~return' to home domination 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
At Friday night's pep rally at the Joyce Center, Lou Holtz ~schewed his custom­ary introduction of the start­ing offense and defense in favor of recognizing the spe~ cial teams' units. 
He must have known some­thing. 
The next day, the Irish punt return team, propelled by the sheer speed of Allen Rossum, broke the game open with three punt return touchdowns in the second quarter. Notre Dame never looked back as it raced to a 60-6 victory over an over­matched Pittsburgh squad. 
Rossum's two returns of 55 and 83 yards set the tone in a quarter in which the Irish racked up a modern-day record with 40 points in the quarter. 
"Once I see open field, I know I'm going to score," Rossum said. "I guess I broke a record (most kick returns in a season). I just give credit to the group in front of me. They do a terrific job." 
While the returns stole the 
see RETURN I page 2 

Rumor reflection 
midst the excitement of watching the Pittsburgh 

ffensive juggernaut on Saturday, larger issues came to mind. 
Why doesn't Jenny McCarthy come to any more games? 
If the Panther offense were to scrimmage the Panther defense, would the 
,---------, winner still have any pride?. 
There was a lot of time between punt returns for reflection. 
Of course, these pathetic Joe Villinski attempts to Associate Sports elicit a chuck-Editor le from you at lunch can't hide the biggest issue of all. A topic so huge, so explo­sive, that athletic director Michael Wadsworth and Notre Dame executive vice president Father William Beauchamp field­ed the majority of questions out­side the locker room. 
And none of those questions involved their thoughts on Allen Rossum's performance or Pitt's use of the quick kick. 
The only information desired from the University officials was head coach Lou Holtz's status next year. 
Information request denied. 
Wadsworth and Beauchamp both respect Holtz's privacy and were not about to ignite a press riot by divulging any juicy details. 
The only man who knows is the one that's supposed to know. 
Since the dawn of time, a per­son's thoughts have always been their own. Watching the Holtz situation break down this week makes you think otherwise. Obviously Holtz would rather wait until the end of the season to announce his plans, but media pressure has not made that pos­sible. 
"I would like to wait to the sea­son's over, but with all the talk, I'm sure Mike, Fr. Bill, and I would sit down on it," Holtz said after Saturday's game. 
So now everyone's going to get the answer. Probably this week. Rest easy Irish fans. The Notre Dame media hoard is out in force. Feel fortunate that you root for a school where a huge national media interest reports 
see INSIGHT} page 3 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz discusses rumors regarding his future at the university following a 60-6 Irish victory over Pittsburgh on Saturday. 

-----~---~-~---~-----------~----~------~ --------­
page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Irish rout allows for look at both the past and future 

By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
Saturday's 60-6 shackling of Pitt provided Irish fans a glimpse of' the future, and the 

future  looks  a  lot like the  
past.  
With  10:37 remaining in  

the third quarter .Jarious Jackson took the helm with most of the second unit. The 

future Irish quarterback relinquished control of the field over nine minutes, 93 yards, 18 plays, and seven first downs later. The drive brought to mind images of the old Notre Dame under the direction of Tony Rice. 
Jackson engineered a drive in which 12 of the 18 plays were for gains of four or more. It was a classic ball control drive, one that epito­mized the type of drives Rice and company thrived on for two years in which they lost just once. 
The drive in the third quar­ter included twelve runs, two passes, and three options while five different NO b<}ll carriers marched their way down the field before Robert Farmer's score ended the misery of the outmatched and demoralized Pitt defense. 
On the day Jackson went 4­7 for 58 yards and a touch­down as he also picked up a key first down on fourth and two to keep the drive alive. 
''I'm really excited about next year," Jackson 
exclaimed.  "With  Jamie  
(Spencer)  and  Shannon  
(Stephens)  and  Bobby  

{Brown) or whoever we have at wide out it should be exciting." 
For one of those players the future is now as sophomore Jamie Spencer has been thrust into the starting full-
Return 
continued from page 1 
headlines, the Irish offense was just as efficient throughout the game. Dave Hoberts' unit racked up 565 yards in total offense, including 245 in the explosive second quarter. 
"That second quarter was nice," said Ron Powlus. "The returns were great and we just got it going. We kind of put out their fire with the punt returns." 
After a scoreless first quarter, Rossum got the 14th-ranked Irish (7-2) on the scoreboard with a 55-yard burst at the 12:42 mark. Picking the ball up at his ankles, the junior eluded two Pitt tacklers, cut right, and sped past Panther Curtis McGhee along the side­lines. 
"I was surprised I caught it," Hossum admitted. "I made one move and head­ed outside. I was blessed with some speed." 
A few moments later, the Irish found themselves in the end zone again on the strength of a 32-yard catch by Pete Chryplewicz and a 40-yard TO gallop by Jamie Spencer. 
Then it was the Hossum and Autry Denson show again. With 5:30 remain­ing in the half. Hossum fielded a Nate Cochran punt at the 17 -83 yards later the Irish led 26-0. 
After a quick three-and-out, Denson took advantage of Hossum's fatigue. The sophomore tailback handled Cochran's punt on the right side, broke all the way to the left through a pile of Panthers, and raced 7 4 yards for the score. 
"lie (Rossum) gave me a chance to run one back," Denson said. "I was confident from the first run that if I got a chance, I could break one." 
Denson's classmate and fellow Florida transplant Bobby Brown got his shot at glory on Notre Dame's next possession. Powlus hit a wide open back slot with the injury to Marc Edwards. The 245­pound fullback continued to showcase his talents. Everyone knew that Spencer's size and strength were his biggest assets, but he brought even more com­parisons to Jerome Bettis with his speed on a forty yard scamper in which he was untouched and won a track meet with the Pitt sec­ondary. 
With the injury to Mike Rosenthal, Tim Ridder earned his first start of the season at guard and showed why he was such a highly touted recruit. Ridder pun­ished Pitt's front line in help­ing the Irish ground attack to a 332-yard performance. 
After disappearing for a couple of weeks, freshman receivers Shannon Stephens and Raki Nelson got into the action. Stephens tied for the team lead in receptions as he snagged three balls for 62 yards which included a 37­yard strike in which Pitt's scantily clad cheerleaders were closer than a defensive back. 
Fellow receiver Bobby Brown also narrowly missed six as he broke free for a 49­yard sprint down the sideline in which he was literally one step from the endzone. Brown's 6-3 frame has been pivotal in the Irish rl\nning attack but he had yet to break one until Saturday. 
Also seeing significant play­ing time was freshman full­back Joey Goodspeed who is now the second man on the depth chart. Goodspeed broke free on a kickoff return for 44 yards and he scored the first touchdown of his career as he corralled a Jackson strike for a 22-yard score. 
"It was a great pass by Jarious, there was no way I was going to slow down," Goodspeed remarked about his juggling grab. 

"I thought coming into my freshman year it was going to be a learning experience, I didn't think I'd be scoring touchdowns. But, I still have a lot of work to do." 
Indeed, these young Irish talents have a lot of work to do. From the looks of things, a lot of that work will be chalking up marks in the "W" column. 
Brown in the right flat and Brown dashed towar,d the end zone, only to step out of bounds at the 2. Tailback Randy Kinder took it in from there, making Notre Dame's halftime lead 40­0. 
"They were just a much superior team out there in every way," Pitt coach Johnny Majors said. "They have great speed (on punt returns), and speed kills." 
With the commanding lead, Holtz had the opportunity to see some of his youngsters, notably sophomore Jarious Jackson. 
Not really given a chance to shine, Jackson simply ran the offense with efficiency. Jackson ( 4-of-7, 58 yards) mixed in the options nicely and let freshman fullback Joey Goodspeed and senior tailback Robert Farmer do the lion's share of the work. 

Goodspeed opened the scoring in the second half with a 22-yard run after a screen pass, and Farmer rushed 17 times for 124 yards in the final half. 
Farrner, who finished with 140 yards on the ground to lead the Irish attack, scored his second touchdown of the game late in the third quarter to cap an impressive 18-play, 93-yard drive that chewed more than nine minutes off the clock. 
"The offense is clicking, we're tough to stop," said sophomore ·right guard Tim Bidder. "We fired off the ball well today. The backs know what we're going to do." 
And the offense knows what the defense is going to do -dominate. 
Sure, the total yards accumulated by the Irish were impressive (565). but the defense fared just as well, limiting Pitt (3-7) to 244 yards and just a fourth-quarter touchdown. 
''I'm very proud of the way our foot­ball team played today," Holtz said. "We're in a rhythm and we're playing well right now." 
The Panthers can attest to that. 


Monday, November 4, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Awesome Ross urn does go all the way 
1 

Notre Dame's special teams took center later was even more impressive. Pitt's
Collaborates with stage as Allen Rossum and Autry Denson punter Nate Cochran boomed one over combined for three punts returned for Rossum's shoulder to the 17 but Rossum touchdowns. slipped through their coverage and was
Denson to ignite 
Coach Holtz claims he can't tell the gone. At the half Rossum had accu­future but he must have known something mulated 138 yards while the Panthers 
when he announced the special team units had 110 of offense. as opposed to the starting units at the Pep "I think I can break one every week," rally Friday night. commented Rossum who now appears to 
second quater 
scoring outburst 
After a stagnant first quartel,' in which be chasing the Irish scoring title for the nothing of noteworthy happened, year with Edwards' injury. 
By JOE CAVATO 
Awesome Rossum opened the gates which When Denson went back to receive the 
Sports Writer 
lead to a flood of Irish touchdowns and a next punt, Pitt fans, coaches and players 40-point quarter. With 12:42 left in the must have breathed a sigh of relief. How­It's one of the most exciting plays in all half Rossum opened the scoring with a 55-. ever that was short lived as Denson of sport. Your fortunate if you see a cou­yard flash to the endzone. It was the third crossed the field and fought of a couple of ple a season. If you see a couple in a time this season Rossum was the first to tacklers for a 74-yard score. 
game it's remarkable and leaves the 
light the scoreboard. Against Purdue he Surprisingly the Panther's next posses­crowd breathless. But, to see three in a took the opening kickoff 99 yards and he sion did not end in a ND punt return. Irish quarter, much less in eight minutes, is was at it again when he opened the scor­safety Benny Guilbeaux provided Pitt with 
j

simply special. 
ing with a punt return in the Air Force their best punt coverage of the day as heAll those in attendance were certainly 
game we'd all like to · picked off a Lytle pass which gave the ball 
' I

witnesses to a historic half hour in which 
Rossum's encore nn•·•r.~m to Ron Powlus and company as opposed to 
-j Rossum or Denson. "The guys in front of me, they do a great 
l

job. Practice is when I get confidence," explained Rossum. "If I can see the re­turns develop in practice, I know they will be their in the game." 
I 

One of those guys in front of Rossum was senior tight end Kevin Carreta who 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

spoke after the game about the sprints to 
The man of the day strikes a pose in what the south endzone. turned one of many celebrations for 
"It's got to be devastating, as a team to Rossum on Saturday.have three punts returned for a touch­down in a row. The first two we blocked Their speed also rewrote the record well and Rossum's speed took care of the books. Rossum set the record for most rest. But, the last one was all Autry." kick returns in a season with four (3 punt 
Carreta also spoke about coach Holtz's returns, 1 kickoff return). He eclipsed decision to announce the special team Raghib 'Rocket' Ismail (1989), 198 7 players Friday night. "We thought that Heisman winner Tim Brown (1987), and they would be the best kicking team we Nick Rassas (1965) who each had three in would see all year, particularly kickoff a season. Rossum also tied Brown's return. So, I think he was challenging us." record of two punt returns in a game. 
Interrupting Rossum's fun was Pitt's Notre Dame's 231 punt-return yards in a coach Johnny Majors decision to use the game breaks the previous record of 225 quick kick when Cochran blasted one into versus Beloit in 1926. the end-zone on third and fourteen. Usually special teams will not dominate 
"I love a good quick kick and I think it a game or capture the spotlight. But on was my best call of the game," MajorS this record setting day those whose efforts 
uos••rver.•Hoo i 

remarked. "Their speed really killed us usually go unnoticed shone, and that today." made it truly special. 
• STATISTICAlLY SPEAKING 
Insight

1 2 3 4 F Notre Dame (14) 0 40 13 7 60 
continued from page 1 Pittsburgh 0 0 0 6 6 
misleading rumors about your coach. 
Pittsburgh Notre Dame (14) 
ESPN reported Thursday night that Holtz told his 
First downs 16 28 
assistants there was 90 percent chance he would not
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
Rushing 9 20 
be back. Maybe it's just me, but shouldn't that per­
1. Florida (54) 10-0 1660 1 
Passing 7 8 
centage be at 100 before the bastion of sports journal­Penalty 0 0 
ism decides to start the feeding frenzy? 
2. Ohio St. (7) 10-0 1580 2 
Maybe Keith Olbermann was in a cornfield in Iowa
Rushed-yards 39-101 55-332 
when he heard the voice, "If you report it, everyone
3. Florida St. 9-0 1568 3 
Passing yards 143 233 
will too." And they did. Some even recognized the
Sacked-yards lost 5-47 0-0
4. Arizona St. 10-0 1485 4 
absurdity of the rumors, while still printing them at the same time. 
Return yards 6 279 
Passes 14-30-2 13-21-0
5. Nebraska 9-1 1412 5 
"The controversy and the way it has surrounded me 
Punts 9-45.2 2-37.5 
is just overwhelming," Holtz said. "The vultures were
6. Colorado 9-1 1336 6 
Fumbles-lost 3-2 2-2 
out."

Penalties-yards 4-20 4-25
7. Penn St. 9-2 1197 11 
It's like playing that telephone game. The rumors
Time of possession 27:01 32:59 
go in someone's ear and undergo a metamorphosis by
8. Brigham Young 11-1 1192 10 
the time they come out of the mouth. 
INDIVIDUAL STATS

9. Tennessee 7-2 1026 12 
"Psssst."
Rushing 

"Lou Holtz won't be around next year. Pass it
Pittsburgh-D. Schulters 13-45, Poteat 8-44, B. West 8-43, Dinkins 1-0,
10. Notre Dame 7-2 972 14 
down."
Gonzalez 2-minus 4, Lytle 7-minus 27. 

"Did you hear that. That guy just told me Holtz is
11. Northwestern 9-2 959 13 
· Notre Dame-Farmer 22-140, Denson 12-104, Spencer 5-58, Carreta 3-9, 
announcing his resignation on Tuesday. Pass it
Goodspeed 5-5, Kinder 2-4, Jackson 2-4, Powlus 1-3, Barry 1-3, Stephens 2­
12. Washington 8-2 872 15 
down.".
2. 

"You're not going to believe this one, but a reliable
13. North Carolina 8-2 862 6 
Passing 

source just shared with me the fact that Notre Dame 
Pittsburgh-Lytle 12-20-1-97, Gonzalez 2-7-0-46, Zimmerman 0-2-1-0, Dinkins 
administration is forcing Holtz to step down. Pass him
14. Kansas St. 8-2 799 9 
0-1-0-0. 
down." 

Notre Dame-Powlus 8-13-0-171, Jackson 4-7-0-58, HSmith 1-1-0-4.
15. Alabama 8-2 772 8 
"Quick, somebody call Security. The student section 
Receiving 

is passing our head coach over their heads to the top 
16. Syracuse 7-2 713 19 
Pittsburgh-Hoffart 6-76, Jones 3-24, Butler 3-21, McMullen 2-22. 
of the stadium." 

Notre Dame-Stephens 3-62, Chryplewicz 3-60, Brown 1-49, Goodspeed 1-22, 
The thing that everybody doesn't get is that Holtz
17. Virginia Tech. 8-1 677 21 
Farmer 1-13, Carretta 1-10, Mosley 1-9, Berry 1-4, Spencer 1-4. 
just does not view his resignation as big of a deal as
18. LSU 7-2 659 17 
his constituents. 
Attendance: 59,075 

"I don't think it's that big a deal whether I stay or
19. Virginia 7-3 476 24 
whether I go," Holtz added. 

Problem is, his decision means the world to
20. Wyoming 10-1 381 23 
• SCORING SUMMARY 

reporters and fans alike. Problem is, it shouldn't.
21. Michigan 7-3 327 16 
People will write and think what they want. All you
Second Quarter 

can do is listen to what the man says and then allow
Notre Dame-Allen Rossum 55 punt return (Jim Sanson kick), 12:42
22. Clemson 7-3 185 
him the time to make his decision.
Notre Dame-Jamie Spencer 40 run (PAT failed), (4 plays, 80 yards). 9:35 
"People think that there's a problem and there is no
23. West Virginia 8-2 170 
Notre Dame-Robert Farmer 1 run (two-point conversion failed), (5 plays, 54 
problem," Holtz said. ''I'm not saying that I will be
yards) 6:31

24.1owa 7-3 139 
here next year because I don't know. People knew I 
Notre Dame-Allen Rossum 83 punt return (Jim Sanson kick), 5:30 
was going to resign eventually when I took over the
25. Miami 6-3 126 18 
Notre Dame-Autry Denson 74 punt return (Jim Sanson kick), 4:13 
job. I want to leave it on a solid foundation." 
Notre Dame-Randy Kinder 2 run (Scott Palumbo kick), (7 plays, 64 yards), 
Holtz loves this place and is not going to do anything
1:31

Others receiving votes: Auburn 65, Army 
to jeopardize its future. People are already getting in 
Third Quarter 

a huff about the effect his decision will have on
59, Southern Mississippi 43, Texas 15, 
Notre Dame-Joey Goodspeed 22 pass from Jarious Jackson (Chris McCarthy 
recruiting. If people don't believe that Holtz has plans 
kick), (7 plays, 37 yards) 12:17

Utah 14, East Carolina 13, Michigan St. 9, 
to handle a possible transition, either whack them 
Notre Dame-Robert Farmer 16 run (PAT failed), (18 plays, 93 yards), 1:28 
over the head or ignore them. 

Navy 5, Houston 4, Texas Tech. 2, Rice 1. 
Fourth Quarter 

So what's everyone all worked up for coach? 
Pittsburgh-Jake Hoffart 32 pass from Pete Gonzalez (two-point conversion 
"You want to know something, don't ask the mon­
failed), 14:53 

key, go to the organ grinder," Holtz replied. 
Notre Dame-Kevin Carreta 2 run (Kevil McDonnell kick), (7 plays, 43 yards) 
· You can bet the local South Bend organ grinders got 
3:18

The Observer/ Sue O'Kaln 
a few calls Saturday night. 


.... 

-
• The Observer/Rob Finch 
Ta1lbac~ Randy Kinder hops over the block of fullback Jamie Spencer during one of his two carnes on the day. ­
Notre Dame 60 ~ittsburgh 6
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Notre Dame tailback Robert Farmer continued his torrid play of late rushing for 140 yards on 22 carries and two touchdowns. ' 
November 16. 1996 Notre Dame Stadium 


• GAME NOTES nity during his first three years at
ROCKET REDUX 
N o t r e D a m e , ·s e n i o r t a i I b a c k 
Junior Allen Rossum was the story for the Irish in their 60-6 Robert Farmer has come of age 
during the second half of the sea­
thrasing of Pittsburgh. Rossum 
After scoring twiee last week,
broke punt returns of 55 and 83 son. yards in the second quarter. In Farmer added two more scores the process, he broke the Irish this week to go along with 144 
yards. 120 of them came in the
record for kick returns for touch­downs in a season. Combined with 
second-half. his previous two (one kick vs Purdue and a punt against Air 
POWLUS PONDERING
Force, Rossum passed the previous With Holtz on the front of evnry­mark of three held by Nick Rassas 
(3PR, 1965), 'Tim Brown (3PR, one's mind, the crucial decision of 1987) and Raghib "Rocket" Ismail Ron Powlus has taken a baek seat 
(2KR, 1PR, 1989). "I guess I broke for the moment. But Powlus is still a record," Rossum said after the thinking about it. 
With another year of eligibilitygame. "The feels pretty good. I remaining, ·the senior signalcaller
admired those guys (Brown and 
Ismail) in the late '80's." is up in the air about whether to return to the Irish or head for the 
SAINT WHO? NFL. 
"It's 50150," said Powlus on
On the strength of Rossum's two returns in the second quarter, the whether he's going to decide to 
stay or go. "My decision is inde­
Irish broke a modern-day record 
pendent on Coach Holtz' decision.
with 40 points in the quarter. The last time they scored more was way back in 1912, when they tal­NO DISTRACTIONS 
lied 45 against Saint Viator's. One thing the Irish have this sea­"When we're clicking, we're hard son is the unique ability to avoid to stop," said sophomore right distractions. 
guard Tim Ridder." A trans-Atlantic trip to play Navy could have been a hindrance but Notre Dame dominated. The
KINDER TROUBLE 
Senior tailback Randy Kinder Ireland trip was full of nothing but positives.
aggravated an old injury when he separated his right shoulder. It The same can be said of the happened on his two-yard touch­squad yesterday. 
With all the media and· fan atten­
down run in the second quarter. 
"I was kind of banged up, last tion to Holtz' situation, the cohe­sive Irish stayed together and
week," said Kinder. "It's separat­ed but not too bad. I'll miss a absolutely dominated. 
"There's going to be media atten­week but should be back for USC 
tion here," said tight end Pete
(in two weeks)." 
Chryplewicz. "The media creates a difficult situation, but that's your HARVEST TIME job. Our job was to go out and After not getting much opportu-win. 
Monday, November 18, 1996 
•Now PLAYING 

Courtesy of Rolling Stone 

Liam Neeson rallies the crowd in "Michael Collins." 
'Collins' is Smashing 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Accent Movie Critic 
N
eil Jordan's latest offering, "Michael Collins," begins and 
ends with a bang, literally. 
The movie is the story of Collins, the founding member of the Irish Republican Army. It begins right after his death with a speech about carrying on from "Joe," Collins' clos­est lieutenant. It then picks up right in the middle of the Easter Rising of 1916 with the British storming a Sinn Fein held Irish parliament building. This building is destroyed so many times during the course of the movie that it is surprising that it is still standing today. 
The scenery in this movie is fitting with most of the storyline. Dublin is dark and dirty throughout most of the film, with very few scenes both above ground and in daylight. The scenery, however, reflects the dark secrecy that the Sinn Fein parliament had to endure in order to avoid being captured and tried by the British for treason. 
Alan Rickman, a more than capable actor, turns in a brilliant perfor­mance as Eamon DeValera, the seemingly power-mad president of Sinn Fein that eventually rose to the position of president of the Irish republic in 1 9 5 9 . Rickman, w h o m Hollywood seems to love to type­cast as the "bad guy," is as cold hearted as ever. He uses Collins as a weapon to achieve independence from Britain, then turns against him when Collins returns from London the treaty that set up the Irish Free State. 
Liam Neeson does a great job as Collins. His forceful and yet humble delivery of speeches gives an insight into the nature of the man behind the legend. He turns in gut-wrenching scenes when his friend Harry Boland, a member of the renegade IRA fac­tion, is shot by Collins' own Free State Army. His performance is also particularly memorable when he goes to Cork to meet with his old commander, De Valera, who has betrayed and gone against Collins. 
The film is absolutely filled with great performances from other sea­soned veterans. Aidan Quinn gives life to Harry Boland and Stephen Rea plays the brooding, nervous member of the Royal Irish Constabulary who gets Collins started on collecting files on the British agents. 
The only performance that is not worth the price of admission is turned in by Julia Roberts. She looks beautiful. So, as "Kitty," the woman who drove Collins and Boland apart, she does a capable job. However, she does not have an Irish accent, nor can she fake one. The worst of it comes when, near the beginning, she tries to sing for her family, Boland, and Collins. The editors of the film could have taken her out of the Irish farmhouse and dropped her down in a house in the northeastern United States, and her accent would fit right in. It is an attempt, and she does do a better job than in the bomb of a film, "Mary Riley." In that movie she was supposed to be Scottish. She used the same accent in both movies. Strangely, it doesn't work here either. 
Some of the movie was obviously shot on location. The courtyard of Dublin Castle, as well as the streets of Dublin, look much the same as today, without the modern cars. However, some of the most beautiful scenes of this movie come near the end. The the rolling hillsides of Cork, where Collins is ironically shot (he was born there) is green and flower­ing, quite offsetting the violence and murder that has happened up to that point in the movie. 
One almost overlooked character is 
Joe (the audience is never informed 
as to the character's full name,) but 
he begins and ends the movie with a 
speech to 
Kitty about 
how to carry 
on in 
Collins' 
absence. He 
also quietly 
t a k e s 
Boland's 
place at 
Collins' side, 
serving as a 
trusted lieu­
tenant. 
It is a very 
long movie, 
two and 
one-half 

hours, but except for a couple of slow 
parts in the plot where the relation­
ship between Collins and Roberts' 
character is explored, it is definitely 
worth sticking around for. It keeps 
the facts that are known about the 
topic straight. Even though the audi­
ence does not know that DeValera's 
faction of the IRA is actually the larg­
er of the two, the movie portrays the 
violence between the two sides of the 
Civil War of 1922 with horrifying 
accuracy. 
The movie ends with a quote from 
DeValera's reelection speech of 1966 
in which he indicates that history will 
remember the glory of Michael 
Collins at the expense of DeValera. 
This movie proves his point eloquent­
ly and passionately. 
"Michael Collins" is well directed, 
well shot, and well acted. Overall, it 
is a movie that may bring Academy 
Award nominations to Rickman for 
best supporting actor and Neeson for 
best actor. Nominations could also 
be handed out to the costume and set 
designers of this visually enthralling 
film. 
ACCENT IS LOOKING FOR YOU!!! 
If you would like to write cool things for ACCENT like movie reviews, music reviews, and other interesting stuff, please call l-4540 RIGHT NOW!!! 
-~----·=-•p·a~g·e·l-2~•----··----~--~---------T-h~e-O_b_o~~~-OR_T_S~-----------M-on-d-~-.-N-o-~-m-~rl8,19% 
t •NBA 
Bucks' Flitch nears IOOOth loss 
By JOHN NADEL played well the last eight min­with a season-high 31 points. Associated Press Writer utes or so. They didn't get too Rookie Ray Allen added 23, many good looks at the basket, equaling his career high, and LOS ANGELES and we stole the ball a few Armon Gilliam had 11 points 
For at least one more game. times." and 17 rebounds. Perry also Los Angeles Clippers coach Bill The 102 points were the most had 11 points. Fitch is one short of the 1,000 this season for the Clippers, , "We couldn't make a shot mark in career losses, and who went ahead for good by down the stretch, and if we did happy to still be at 999. scoring the final six points of make a shot, we couldn't get a 
lie knows he 'II get to 1,000 the third quarter and the first stop," Robinson said. "We did a soon enough -perhaps during four of the final period, turning poor job down the stretch with a three-game road trip that a 79-74 deficit into an 84-79 our defense." begins Wednesday night in San lead. The Bucks, who have lost Antonio. The only points the Bucks three straight games, led 52-50 
"It's taken a lot of good play­scored after Newman's jumper at halftime and were on top by ers to keep me around in spite came with 25.3 seconds left as many as seven points in the of that," Fitch said after the when Eliot Perry was credited third quarter before the Clippers used a strong finish to with a basket on a goaltending Clippers battled back. beat the Milwaukee Bucks 102-call against Stanley Roberts. Neither team led by more 94 Sunday night. "I don't think "We're definitely getting bet­than eight points in the game. I'll be around for 2,000." ter," said Roberts, who came "We had numerous oppor­
Fitch, a two-time NBA coach ofT the bench to score 17 points, tunities to put it away, and we of the year who had triple­grab six rebounds and block just didn't," Bucks coach Chris bypass surgery Aug. 9, has three shots. "We started slug­Ford said. 
Hardaway out 2-4 weeks 
Associated Press "As suspected, we found a 
tear of the lateral meniscus 
ORLANDO. Fla. (outside cartilage)," said Dr. 
The news was not as bad as James Barnett, who per­it could have been for the formed the procedure at Orlando Magic. Florida Hospital. 
Arthroscopic surgery per­"It was a very small part of furmed Sunday on Penny the cartilage which was torn, Hardaway's left knee con­so we feel very good about his firmed cartilage damage, prognosis. He has absolutelyhowever the all-star Magic no other abnormalities in the point guard is only expected to knee." be sidelined two-to-four In four games this season, weeks. The team originally Hardaway has averaged 21.3 thought he might miss up to points, 6.3 rebounds and 5.3 six weeks. assists. 
Suns new coach Ainge loses debut to Lakers 

By WALTER BERRY with a 28.5-point scoring aver­coached more games, 1,895, gish and slow before we picked "The Clippers hung tough, as 
Associated Press Writer age. "They were doubling
than anyone in league history. it up in the fourth quarter. We they've been doing all year. 
down really quick and not evenHis 896 wins rank fourth, picked it up and played hard They keep coming at you de­PHOENIX giving me a chance to dribble.
behind Lenny Wilkens, Dick with no fouls. That's the way fensively and they do a good Different coach, same result "This is the worst kind ofMotta and Jack Ramsay. we should do it the whole job." 
for the struggling Phoenix team to play -guys who
Fitch, 61, is in his 24th sea­game." The Bucks played without Suns. haven't won a game, at homeson as an NBA head coach. A dunk by Roberts with 3:02 leading scorer Yin Baker, who Danny Ainge lost in his debut and with a new coach. YouRodney Rogers scored 20 to play put the Clippers ahead is sidelined due to an injured as an NBA coach, and the Suns know they're going to come outpoints and Malik Sealy added 95-92. Two free throws by right hip. Baker, averaging 23.4 
dropped to 0-9 Sunday night smoking."
18 Sunday night for the Sealy with 2:28 to go and a points per game, is listed as with a 102-88 loss to the Los Eddie Jones scored 18 pointsClippers. who outscored the jumper by Loy Vaught with day-to-day. 
Angeles Lakers. and rookie Kobe Bryant fin­Bucks 9-2 after Johnny 43.6 seconds left clinched the "It's a big adjustment be­The Suns tied an 11-year-old ished with a season-high 16Newman's jumper with 5:05 victory. cause you know you're going franchise record for most con­points. hitting four of theremaining cut the Los Angeles Vaught had 12 points and 10 automatic points and re­secutive defeats to start a sea­Lakers' 10 3-pointers. 
lead to one points. rebounds and Eric Piatkowski bounds," Robinson said con­son. They are the only winless Michael Finley had 20 points"You know you've got guys added 10 points for the cerning Baker's absence. "And team in the league. fo'r Phoenix, which has yet tothat can score." Rogers said. Clippers, who snapped a two­I think he would have helped "It's a lot more frustrating score 100 points in a game this"You've got to have people who game losing streak. our inside play against Stanley when you're the head coach­season.
can play defense. Our guys Glenn Robinson led the Bucks Roberts." 
and a lot more work," said Phoenix. down 71-60 enter­Ainge, a first-year assistant ing the fourth quarter, closed with no previous coaching to 71-66 with 10:10 to play on 
experience who took over the Finley's jumper, Robert Horry's Suns when Cotton Fitzsimmons layup and Rex Chapman's bank resigned after Thursday night's shot. 
Warriors rally to beat Spurs 
Associated Press during which the Warriors outscored the Spurs loss at Vancouver. But a 7-0 run by the Lakers33-16 for a 76-63 lead. 
SAN ANTONIO "We're just not playing with -with Byron Scott hitting a 3­
San Antonio closed within 97-89 with 1:16 to 
Latrell Sprewell led an 18-0 burst in the third play on Maxwell's 3-point field goal. any confidence. But this will pointer, Jones sinking an 18­quarter Sunday night that sent the Golden State Armstrong, who had 14 points in the fourth end. We need a shot in the foot jumper and O'Neal swish­Warriors over the San Antonio Spurs 102-92. quarter, made four free throws to keep the arm. Maybe when we get a ing a baseline jumper -made 
Sprewell scored 10 points in the decisive run, Warriors ahead. couple guys back from the it 82-69 and the Suns never got capping it with a 3-point shot for a 69-51 lead The Spurs set a franchise record by taking 10 injured list like Kevin Johnson closer than seven from there. with 5:13 left in the third period. 3-point shots in the first quarter, making two, in or Mark Bryant, we'll get a "I was afraid of this game 
Sprewell finished with 20 points and reserve taking 24-15 lead. The Warriors did not have a lift... because when there's a new 
The Lakers, 7-3 and off to coach there's really a big burst 
B.J. Armstrong had 24. Joe Smith added 17 basket in the last 6:50 of the period. Notes: The points and Chris Mullins 15 for the Warriors. game marked the return of center Will Perdue their best start since 1991-92, of energy that goes into that 
San Antonio, which has lost five of six games, and Del Negro to the Spurs' lineup. Perdue had scored 18 straight points bridg­program for a couple of ing the first and second quar­weeks," said Lakers coach Del
got 17 points each fron Avery Johnson and missed the first eight games of the regular sea­Vernon Maxwell. Vinny Del Negro had 16. son with a fractured thumb. Del Negro had ters. Shaquille O'Neal had 16 Harris. "Shaq' was a marked The Warriors trailed by as many as 13 points missed the last two games because of tendonitis points and 13 rebounds before man inside and Phoenix did a in the second quarter and were behind 4 7-43 at in his left knee and a sprained left ankle ... San leaving the game with a slightly nice job early." 
sprained right foot. Ainge juggled his starting
halftime. Felton Spencer's jumper put Golden Antonio came into the game last in the NBA in State ahead 49-4 7, and it was tied at 51 before points per game at only 80.8.... Golden State ''I'm not looking to be the lineup, starting 6-foot-9 A.C. leading scorer anymore," said Green at center against the 7-1
Sprewellled the big run. came into the game last in the NBA in points Sprewell scored 15 points in the third quarter, allowed per game at 103. O'Neal, who entered the game O'Neal. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m.' All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
L...__N_o_T_Ic_E_s_---~1 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights $129! Daytona-Best Location $1391 Cocoa Beach Hmon $169! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
WOMEN OFFICER MARINES TO 
DISCUSS CAREER OPTIONS! A 
PANEL OF FEMALE U.S. MARINE 
OFFICERS WILL DISCUSS THEIR EXPERIENCES IN THE USMC, FOLLOWED BY A QUESTION & ANSWER PERIOD. 7 P.M., TUES­DAY, 19 NOVEMBER, MORRIS INN, ALUMNI ROOM. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: (800)945-3088. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST:SILVER RING WITH RED 
STONE. REWARD IF FOUND. 
CALL ELAINE @ x4331 
FOUND: One Notre Dame Sweatshirt between Fisher Hall and South Dining Hall. Call Mike x1862 
Wanted 
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague. Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55843 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55849 
NEEDED:1 ROOMATEITURTLE CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634­2059 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6.000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 extA55848 
Spring Break 97 Cancun or Mazatlan. Sell 15 trips and travel free plus cash. Lowest Price Guaranteed! Food anci Drink pack­ages available. Call Sunbreaks. 800-446-8355. 
Part Time Nanny Needed. Flexible hours. Call273-2713 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
REGGAED.J. 234 0705 
2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­PUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306 
Rooms lor Rent F-Ba/1 wknds. in home 2 mis. N. of campus cont. brkfst inc! 277-8340 

FOR SALE 
House for Sale by Owner 1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3 Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths, 1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ment. ale, disposal, all appliances, Security System.Completely refreshed to sell. asking 88,500. Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. Call219-295-8727 
TRANSFERABLE $1000 
VOUCHER ON AMERICAN AIRLINES $800 OBO 2719387 
TICKETS 
I HAVE RUTGERS 50YD. LINE TIX. CALL TONY X3556 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 
24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
$$$$$$ 
I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
272-6551 

Buy/sell NO Pitt & Rutgers tickets­Check our price 674-7645. 
Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers No std -pref. side In 
Peter 1-800-746-3755 

GA.s FOR SALE GA.s """"""'"""PITI, RUTGERs , USC , GA.s CALL. ....272-7233. 
Need Rutgers GA's? 3 for sale@ 277-9957 

Afraid of cold weather? Then don't suffer thru another cold game! "SELL me your RUTGERS tixl" 
My beau is coming in! Call Sarah @ 243-9019 
Need 4 Rutgers GAs Katie x3572 
PERSONAL 
Sing it Barbara!! 
'"SLF IS COMING .... 
Start preparing early by coming to the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov. 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom, from 8-10 pm. Come to listen or sign up in the DH to read or play music. All are welcome. 
Saturday, Saturday, Saturday 
ONLY ... 
ROB "BASE" VEGA LIVE, 
in his first stateside appearance 
at Jazzmen's Niteclub 
Doors open at 10 pm sharp Another fine production by Kern, Kratovil and O'Brien, L TO. 
One Night Only! II
................................ 
J­
ln case I forgot to tell you. I had a great time Friday, and 1 love you the mostEST! -Pooh 
Roxana, 
Your name within my heart. is like a bell, with every stroke, the heaven your name has found. I'm but a chronicle remembering, all that you are. 
Christian 
Where are the dang Snyders pret­zels these days? I'm going through withdrawal and I've got a 12 page pull-out to do. 

-~---~------~
--~----------~~--.---------------~--~---­


Monday, November 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Steelers' defense tops Jaguars Costly NY turnovers 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 

The Pittsburgh Steelers' de­fense has withstood adversity all season. So they decided it was about time to start creating some. 
The Steelers (8-3) kept Jaguars quarterback Mark Brunell under constant siege Sunday, turning three of his four turnovers into touchdowns in a 28-3 victory decided mostly by Jacksonville's awful field position. 
Pittsburgh's lOth consecutive home-field victory marked the return of Yancey Thigpen, who caught two touchdown passes in his first start this season. The turnover-causing defense largely responsible for the Steelers' advance to-the Super Bowl last season showed up again, too. 
"It was a rear end-kicking," said Jaguars tackle Leon Searcy, who played for Pittsburgh last season. "We got our rear ends handed to us. That's why they're consistently in the playoffs. They make the big plays when they count. Once you have to play catchup against them, that's when they bring the house." 
The week . before, the Steelers' defensive players argued among themselves as the Cincinnati Bengals created a succession of big plays in a 34-24 upset. It was the first bad game by a defense that had to replace the injured Greg Lloyd and Ray Seals the week before a season-opening, 24-9 upset loss in Jacksonville. 
Student Government's Financial Aid Dept. wants YOU!! 
If you're interested in: 
• 
Finding scholarships and aid for others while helping yourself 

• 
Getting involved in Student Government 


Join us at the Student Government office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. 
FREE PIZZA!! If you can't make the meeting, c-all Mark at 4-3677 


$ Off 
No double discounts. Present coupon to receive discount. 
Valid for your entire family. Offer expires January 31, 1997. 

University Park Mall 
277-3770 
"We challenged our players, because we knew this group has a history of responding to adversity," defensive coordina­tor Dick LeBeau said. "We went from playing probably our poorest game of the season to playing our best. We showed them some new things, some new blitzes and we had pres­sure on (Brunell) all day." 
Brunell, the NFL's leading passer, never had a chance. He was sacked six times for 54 yards in losses and, constantly in a rush to get rid of the ball, lost two fumbles and threw two interceptions. 
"He never knew what was coming," Steelers linebacker Chad Brown said. 
Carnell Lake, charging in untouched on a safety blitz, returned one of those two criti­cal fumbles for an 85-yard touchdown that made it 21-3 in the third quarter and ended the Jaguars' only sustained drive. 
Brunell went 5-for-5 as Jacksonville drove from its 23 to Pittsburgh's 7 to start the second half, but Lake was never picked up as he blitzed through the right side of Jacksonville's line. Michael Cheever had moved to right guard only a few plays before following an injury to Rich Tylski, filling in for the injured Brian DeMarco. 
The Jaguars also were in a five-receiver set, so there was no running back to pick up the onrushing Lake. 
"Big games are coming up for this team, and we've got to start making big plays," Lake said. 
To Jaguars coach Tom 


Any Haircut 
Adult Cuts reg. $9.95 Kids Cuts reg.$].95 
(12 and under) 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

Great Haircuts. Great Prices. Guaranteed. 
Coughlin, that big play es­sentially ended the game. 
"It was a huge, huge emo­tional letdown," Coughlin said. "You're knocking on the door, thinking you're going to get at least a field goal, and they get seven points. And our inability to deal with their blitz down after down was our downfall." 
Brunell's first fumble, forced by Jason Gildon and recovered by Joel Steed at the Jaguars 3, set up Jerome Bettis' touch­down run on the next play. That made it 14-0 and came barely a minute after Mike Tomczak's 12-yard scoring pass to Thigpen put Pittsburgh in front 3:44 into the second quarter. 
Tomczak had his worst start of the season, going 7-for-24 for 109 yards and an intercep­tion, and NFL rushing leader Bettis (21 carries for 53 yards) was held to fewer than 100 yards for only the third time all season. But it hardly mattered. 
Five of the Jaguars' first six drives started inside their 17­yard line, and they didn't move the ball inside the Steelers 40 until just before Mike Hollis hit a 40-yard field goal on the final play of the first half. 
At various times, the Jaguars faced third-and-32, third-and­34 and third-and-39. 
"They were flying at us all day," Jaguars tackle Tony Boselli said. "They were like a bunch of sharks tasting blood." 
Even when the Jaguars (4-7) finally put together a sustained drive to start the second half, it proved disastrous. Lake's score drained Jacksonville's offense of any confidence, and Brunell (28-for-47, 215 yards) was in­tercepted by Deon Figures at the Steelers 27 on Jacksonville's next possession. 
"We picked the wrong time to play a bad game," said Rison. 
preserve Indy victory 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The Indianapolis Colts found a way to win because the New York Jets always find a way to lose. 
The Colts forced five turnovers, four on intercep­tions of Frank Reich, and beat the New York Jets 34-29 Sunday._ Richard Dent also sacked Reich for a safety, and Eugene Daniel had two inter­ceptions, returning one 35 yards for a touchdown as the Colts snapped a four-game los­ing streak. 
The Jets (1-10), who rank last in the AFC in takeaway­giveaway ratio, recovered three fumbles by the Colts (6-5) and led 29-26 early in the fourth quarter after a 32-yard pass to Jeff Graham, his career-best third touchdown reception of the game. 
But after an Indianapolis punt and a personal foul on New York, the Jets started the next series from their own 6. On third down, Dent caught Reich in the end zone, his 131st career sack, and the safety pulled the Colts to 29-28. 
Aided by two pass interfer­ence penalties on New York, the Colts then moved to the Jets 19, where Cary Blanchard's third field goal, a 37-yarder, put them ahead with 8:10 left in the game. Blanchard kicked his fourth field goal of the game, a team record-tying 11th in a row, with 1:24 to go. 
The Jets, out of timeouts, reached the Indianapolis 45 before Reich's desperation pass to Keyshawn Johnson was bat­ted down in the end zone as the game ended. 
The Colts lost their three fumbles in the first half, in­cluding one when Victor Green caught Lamont Warren from behind at the end of a 53-yard run. 
Warren, who scored the Colts' first touchdown early in the second period, lost the ball at the Jets' 18. The ball then bounced into the end zone, where Rick Hamilton recovered amid a scramble of players for a New York touchback. 
On the previous series, Reich passed 52 yards to Graham for the first New York touchdown, but Nick Lowery's extra-point kick was deflected by Ellis Johnson. It was only the sixth miss in 559 attempts during Lowery's 18-year career. 
Then, after Warren's fumble with 2:50 left in the half, pass­es of 13 yards to Wayne Chrebet and 44 yards to Johnson took New York to the Indianapolis 17, and Graham made his second TD reception 26 seconds before halftime. 
The first Indianapolis fumble, by Marshall Faulk on the open­ing series of the game, set up a 23-yard field goal by Lowery. With Paul Justin at quarter­back, the Colts tied the game on a 25-yard field goal by Blanchard. Harbaugh returned on the next series, and the Colts took a 10-3 lead on a 1­yard run by Warren on the first play of the second quarter. 
Graham's first two touch­down catches gave the Jets a 15-10 lead at the half, but the Colts went ahead 23-15 on a 4­yard touchdown pass from Harbaugh to Marvin Graham and the interception return by Daniel. New York made it 23­21 on a run by Adrian Murrell. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 18, 1996 
•NBA 
Overtime field goal Pack looks to rebound tonight 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN championship 38-27 win. defending Super Bowl champi­Associated Press Writer He gets another shot when ons until it's proven otherwise. the Dallas Cowboys (6-4) play We're still a barometer for By ROB GLOSTER The game was played in mis­IRVING, Texas the Packers (8-2) on Monday other teams. It has to be in the 
seals win for Vikings 
Associated Press Writer 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Scott Sisson sat on the side­

lines and wondered if he'd get 
a second chance. When he did, 
it turned into personal redemp­
tion and the end of the 
Minnesota Vikings' four-game 
losing streak. 
Sisson, who missed a 38-yard attempt late in the fourth quar­ter, kicked a 31-yard field goal with 3:07 left in overtime to boost Minnesota's playoff hopes with a 16-13 win Sunday night over the Raiders. 
"All I could do was sit back and hope I'd get another shot," said Sisson, who also kicked field goals of 22 and 25 yards for the Vikings (6-5). "It was a replay. It was almost like you could rewind the tape." 
The Raiders (4-7) lost in overtime for the second straight week. They were de­feated 20-17 at Tampa Bay last week. 
Sisson's winning field goal was set up by a 16-play, 71­yard drive that lasted 8:34. The key plays included a 12-yard pass from Johnson to Andrew Jordan and a 12-yard run by Scottie Graham. 
Oakland won the coin toss and received the ball first in overtime, but had to punt. The Raiders never got the ball back. 
"We're in a playoff race. We're seventh in a six-team race," said Vikings coach Dennis Green, whose team is in second place in the NFC Central. "Once we get to the top six, we have our destiny in our hands again. When we lost four in a row, we lost control." 
Minnesota, which led 10-0 after the first quarter, also had an 82-yard scoring pass from Brad Johnson to Jake Reed. 
Terry McDaniel had a 56­yard interception return for a touchdown and Cole Ford kicked field goals of 41 and 26 yards for the Raiders, who are 0-6 this season in games decid­fld by less than a touchdown. 
"I think it would be easier if we were blown out," said Raiders tailback Harvey Williams. "But it keeps going that way. It's right at the end when it gets away. It's weird." 
M E D I M E r R 
erable weather ranging from a light mist to a downpour. The 62,500-seat Oakland Coliseum appeared to be half-empty at kickoff. The official attendance was 41,183. 
Johnson, filling in for the injured Warren Moon, was 20­for-33 for 275 yards with two interceptions in his third NFL start. Leroy Hoard, signed by the Vikings Jess than two weeks ago, had 108 yards on 20 car­ries. 
Jeff Hostetler was 14-for-27 for 139 yards for the Raiders. 
The Vikings dominated the opening quarter, holding the Raiders to 22 yards while building a 10-point lead. 
Their first drive, which ended with Sisson's 22-yard field goal, lasted 18 plays and 8:42. 
Their second drive was con­siderably quicker -on the third play, Reed beat McDaniel on a slant and avoided a tackle by safety Lorenzo Lynch before running alone to the end zone on the last play of the quarter. 
The Raiders went to a no­huddle offense in the second quarter, but it did little good. The Oakland defense provided some points, however, when McDaniel stepped in front of Cris Carter and went untouched for the touchdown that pulled the Raiders within 10-7. 
Oakland tied the game in the third period when Ford, who missed chip-shot field goals that doomed the Raiders to losses the previous two weeks, connected on a 26-yarder. 
The field goal was set up by Pat Swilling's sack of Johnson at the Minnesota 1, forcing the Vikings to punt from their end zone and allowing the Raiders to start the series in Minnesota territory. 
The Vikings came right back with a 70-yard drive that Jed to Sisson's 25-yard field goal. Johnson had passes of 27 yards to Reed and 20 yards to Carter on the 10-play drive. 
Then it was Oakland's turn, tying the game 13-13 on Ford's 41-yard field goal. The key play on the 12-play drive was a pass interference call against Minnesota's Jeff Brady on third-and-5 at the Oakland 37. 
I X® G R 0 U P 

Join Medimetrix Group for pizza and soda and an informative presentation on the dynamics of the healthcare industry and the opportunities avail­able at our national healthcare management consulting firm. 
•Our 
information session is November 18 at 7:00p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune Student Center. We will be interviewing on campus on November 19. 

• 
U ni versi ty of Notre Dame Alumni Presenting Include: Terri Clarke, Eric Armbrecht, Rebecca Hellmann 


It's nothing personal against the Green Bay Packers. Troy Aikman just seems to have his best games against them. 
"He's been awesome against us," Packers coach Mike Holmgren said. "It's hard to set your defense against the run and Emmitt Smith because Troy will hammer you." 
Aikman has a 6-2 lifetime record against the Packers, completing 73 percent of his passes for 1, 939 yards and 11 touchdowns. 
Last year, Aikman was 24-of­31 for 316 yards and two touchdowns in a 34-24 regular­season win, then burned Green Bay on 21-of-33 for 255 yards and two touchdowns in the NFC night. 
"I have no idea why it's worked out this way," Aikman said. "I just seem to have my best games against Green Bay. It seems like we almost make a lot of big plays. It's hard to fig­ure." 
The Packers have lost seven consecutive games against Dallas and thought they got lucky on Thanksgiving Day 1994, when Aikman was out with an injury. 
However, backup Jason Garrett produced a big game for a 42-31 win. 
"I guess until they beat us, all this will weigh on their minds," Aikman said. "The way I look at it this time is that we're the back of their minds whether they admit it or not." 

Despite the Cowboys' 20-17 overtime win at San Francisco, Aikman said, "we're still behind the 8 ball." 
But the clutch victory could have some carry over blessings. 
"I think Green Bay saw the San Francisco game, and it may have made them a little ner­vous about us," Aikman said. "We know we'll have to play at the top of our games to beat Green Bay." 
Especially if Brett Favre is on his game. 
"Brett is just outstanding," Aikman said. "I like watching him play. I like his en­thusiasm." 
Krieg surpasses sack record 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Derrick Thomas made NFL history again, and again Dave Krieg was the victim. 
It was Thomas who set a sin­gle-game NFL record by sack­ing Dave Krieg seven times in 1990, when Krieg played for Seattle. 
On Sunday in Kansas City's 14-10 victory over Chicago, Thomas threw Krieg for losses twice in the fourth quarter, making the 17 -year veteran the most sacked quarterback in NFL history. 
Krieg began the game tied with Fran Tarkenton with 483 sacks in his career, and avoid­ed the Chiefs' pressure until the fourth quarter. 
Thomas rushed in from the right side to pull Krieg to the ground, making Krieg the record-holder. 
On third down, Thomas ran Krieg down again, forcing the Bears (4-7) to punt. · 
After the Chiefs (8-3) failed to move, they punted the ball back to the Bears, and Krieg's block­ers gave him time to move the ball to the Chiefs 19. 

But safety Mark Collins in­tercepted Krieg's pass to Bobby Engram in the end zone with 
3:59 left, preserving the victory in a game that saw the Bears' rushing attack stopped cold. 
All the scoring came in the first half as the Chiefs held the Bears, who ran for 356 yards their two previous games, to just just 35. 
After the Bears took a 7-0 lead on Raymont Harris' 14­yard run, the Chiefs came back with a 20-yard TO pass from Steve Bono to Chris Penn and a 10-yard scoring burst by Kimble Anders for a 14-7 lead .. 

'Offer expiresjanuary 19, 1997. No paymenl ofinleresl or principal wiJJ be Tl!tfUiredfor 90 days. lnleresl accruirfi during Ibis 90-dayperiod wiU be added /o /be principal and wiJJ bear inleres~ wbidJ wiJJ be induded in /be repaymi!nl scbeduk. For e:romple, /be monlb ofOclober 1996 bad an inleresl role of12.15% wilh an Annual l'8rcenlage Rate (APR) of13.93%. A mon/hly paymenl of $32.86 for /be Power Mac" 5260 SJ$1em is an eslima/e ba:'ed on a lola/loan amoun/ of $1,913.83, wbicb indudes asample jJurr:hase price of$1,799 and a 6% loan originaOOn foe. lnlmsl is variable bared on /be Prime. Rate as reported on ./be 5/h business day of/be 1111J111b in Thewall Streetjournal, p/w aS{JrtiiJd of3.9%. Monlb/y paymenl andAPR shown assumes defermenl ofprincipal and does no/ tncllllk s/a/8 or /ocaJ sales lax. 71Je Apple CompuJer liJtm ~xi:' an 8-year loan lerm wilh no prepaymenl penally and is subjed /o cmJiJ ll{JfJI'OVa/. Monlbly paymen!s may vary depending on aduaJ romputer SJ$1em prices, lola/ loan IJIIWunls, s/a/8 and loco/ sales /axes and a clxmge in /be monlbly variable inleresl role. ©1996 Apple CompuJer; Inc. All rigbls reserved Apple, /be Apple logo, Mac andMacinlosiJ are regislered lrodemarlrs ofAfrJie Compuler; Inc. Power Mac IS a lrademali of Apple Compuler. Inc. All MacinlosiJ compulers are designed to be accessible 1o individuals wilh ditllbility. 7b learn more (US. only), caU 800-600-7808 or TTY 
8()()-755-060/. 



Monday, November 18, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Irish still unbeaten in Big East play 

By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 
This weekend the women's volleyball team won one title and they hope to earn several more by this week's end. 
With their 15-12, 15-2, 15-10 win over Connecticut and 15-6, 15-12, 15-11 win over St. John's, the Irish clinched the second straight regular season Big East conference champi­onship and a number one seed in the Big East tournament. Later this week they hope Jaimie Lee can earn player of the year honors and Mary Leffers can notch the rookie of the year award. 
The wins also pushed their record to 19-9 overall and 11-0 in Big East play. The Domers are now 24-0 against the Big East since joining the confer­ence. Twenty-one of those wins have come by way of sweep and they are 72-5 in total games in that span. 
Additionally, they have won 27 straight league contest games after dropping two to Villanova on October sixth. 
The Irish enjoyed their third best hitting percentage of the season (.349) under the direc-· tion of setter Carey May who had 42 assists against the Huskies. 
Lee continued to make her case for Big East player of the 
year as she totaled eleven kills 
and just one error for a per­
centage of .520. 
But, freshman hitter Mandi 
Powell has been stealing the 
spotlight lately as she filled in 
for injured Angie Harris and 
racked up 14 kills with a .357 
percentage. 
Usually, senior Jen Briggs fills 
the slot of Harris, but she was 
limited to just playing in one of 
the three games and had two 
errors on eight attacks. Powell 
got the start and took advaq­
tage as she had a personal-best 
in the kill department. 
Last year's Big East player of 
the year, ND captain Jenny 
Birkner, continued to roll as 
she had 12 kills and just two 
errors on 21 attempts for a per­. centage of .476. 
The outside hitter has now hit 
a combined .408 in her last five 
matches. 

Birkner continued her fine 
play against St. John's as she 
along with 13 digs. Briggs got 
her chance to fill in for Harris 
as she weathered the Red 
Storm for a team high 18 kills 
on .250 hitting. The St. John's 
match marked the fifth time in 
the last five weeks she has led 
the squad in kills. 
Lindsay Treadwell, who has 
been taking the place of injured 
middle blocker Jen Rouse, 
came up with a solid all-around effort. The sophomore had 13 kills on .296 hitting, ten digs, and a team high five blocks. 
The Irish just hit .238 for the mateh but May turned in a 59 assi:;;t performance with just one ball handling error. May also displayed her defensive skilh; as the came up with 13 digs. 
This weekend the Irish will look to sweep through the Big East tournament and win that crown for the second year in a row. They have earned the top seed as the host Pittsburgh Panthers will have the number two seed. Both the Irish and Panthers will have a first round bye. 
The Irish will be challenged by either Syracuse or Connecticut in the semifinal this Saturday. 
Holtz 
continued from page 20 

The general consensus is that Holtz will make his an­nouncement one way or the other at his regular Tuesday press conference. 
"I promise this, I will sit down with Father Bill (Beauchamp) and Mr. Wadsworth as soon as we can, in fairness to Notre Dame," he answered to re-



Saint Mary's College 
PILGRIMAGE TO 
EL SALVADOR 
SPRING BREAK MARCH 8-16, 1997 

This pilgrimage will be to the martyrs sites in El Salvador: Four North American Women (including Jean Donovan), Oscar Romero, Jesuit Martyrs and otlters. 
* * TWO RLST CREDITS "'~ * -~­

SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
DAME, IN 


MANDATORY INFORMATION AND SIGN-UP SESSION: 
DATE: Monday, November 18th, 1996 
TIME: 5:00 -6:00 p.m. 
PLACE: Haggar College Center, Romn 303 
Pizza and drinl~s served! 
CENTER FOR SPIRITUALITY, 284-4636 * * LI M ITED 5PACE AVA I LA 8 LE * 
* 
page 15 

TheObserver/MikeRuma Off-campus' quarterback eludes the oncoming pass rush in their interhall playoff victory yesterday over Sorin. 
peated questions, dodging like a pro. More importantly, at the same time acknowledging that a decision needs to be made, and that he will be a part of it. 
But, of course, anyone with a bit of savvy would wager that the meeting of the minds has already taken place. It's any body's bet on what the result will be. The safe money is on a peaceful departure. 
However, if, like all of the actors have acknowledged, the job is Holtz's as long as he wants it, then the decision to make is his. 
Holtz's assistant coaches and players maintain ignorance. It's hard to speculate if they're truly in the dark or not. What is important is that the media circus did not affect the team's focus, and that is a tribute to their head coach. 
Like Puck in his final solil­oquy, Holtz commands· the stage at the present time. 
Perhaps the bowl game will be his curtain call. 
•NBA 
Trail Blazers' offense 
balanced, Pacers fall 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Arvydas Sabonis scored 18 points and Cliff Robinson made four free throws in the final 17 seconds Sunday as the Portland Trail Blazers held off the Indiana Pacers 88-83. 
Portland led by 12 ·points with 6:32 remaining, but Reggie Miller and Travis Best scored 6 points each in a 12-0 run as the Pacers rallied to tie it 79-79. 
Sabonis countered with a hook shot and Aaron McKie's 3-pointer put the Blazers back up by 5 before Best made a high-arching layup over Sabonis to bring Indiana within 84-81. 
After a miss by Robinson, the Pacers had a chance to tie it, but Miller couldn't handle a pass from Best. 
Robinson then sealed Portland's win at the free­throw line. 
Rasheed Wallace added 17 points and Robinson had 16 for the Blazers. Miller led the Pacers with 30 points and rookie Erik Dampier had 13. 
Dale Davis added 10 points and 13 rebounds for Indiana. 
Miller had a hot start. making five of his first seven shots in the first half-including 3-of-4 from 3-point range. 
A trey by Miller capped Indiana's 12-4 run to end the first half, giving the Pacers a 44-39 lead at the break. 
But Sabonis scored 10 points in the third as the Blazers began to pull away and entered the fourth leading 65-60. 
~ 

Indiana made only 5-of-18 1 shots in the third quarter, and I remained cold to open the final I period by making only one field I 
. I

goal in the first five minutes as 
~

the Blazers built their 12-point 
j

lead. Notes: The Blazers have played five of their last six 
l 

games on the road. Eight of Portland's first 11 games have been on the road.... Indiana just returned from a three-day swing through Texas where it 1 went 1-2.... Wallace, who ~ I entered the game with a league-leading .659 field-goal I percentage, was 7-of-14 from the floor. ... Indiana has yet to l win consecutive games this 
1
season. 


-~ ---~---~~­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 18, 1996 
Title 
continued from page 20 
campus last night, and arriving with them was the Big East Championship trophy. 
"We thought (going into the weekend)." said sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho, "that we had a good chance of win­ning." 
The Irish defeated Connecticut and nationally­ranked Rutgers on Saturday and Sunday, respectively, to clinch the title and win an auto­matic berth in the NCAA Championship tournament. 
The Darners got off to a strong start on Saturday, as they posted two first half goals despite being outshot by the Huskies. After freshman Andrew Aris put Notre Dame on the board, forward Ben Bocklage received an opportu­nity on a direct kick from 35 yards out. The sophomore, who has been known to score goals from long range, used his strength once again as he beat the !Iusky keeper to extend the Irish advantage to 2-0. 
Connecticut made a valiant attempt at a comeback, firing 19 second half shots, but goalie Greg Velho was up to the chal­lenge. The sophomore made six key saves in the half and allowed just one goal (with Jess than a minute remaining} to help the Irish hold off' the Huskies and advance to the finals. 
"He came up huge," said cap­tain Tony Capasso of Velho. "Later in the game we went into a bit of a shell and save after save he just kept coming up big. The key was that he didn't allow any rebounds." 
In the other semifinal contest, the Scarlet Knights eliminated St. John's. This set up a matchup that Capasso was excited about. 
"All season we had a check­list of teams that we owed one to from last year (and this year)," explained the senior midfielder. "It was nice to finally get Rutgers." 
Aris and Bocklage once again led the charge as the Irish came out "to get" the Scarlet Knights. With just over five minutes remaining in the first half, Aris made a run down the right sideline and beat his defender to the outside. When he reached the endline, Aris crossed the ball back to center of the field in front of the goal. Bocklage was charging toward the net on an angle from the left side of the penalty box. Upon meeting the pass, he stepped over the ball, allowing midfielder Konstantin Koloskov to blast a shot past the Rutgers goalie, giving Notre Dame the only goal they would need to capture the Big East title. 

"It's a great feeling," said Velho who added three more saves against Rutgers. "(It was an big win) especially because it gets us into the NCAA's. We were (one of) the only teams that needed to win the tourna­ment to make the NCAA's. That gave us an edge." 
"This is where we wanted to Qe all year," said Capasso. "Now we get to go to 'the show' and try to win the big one." 
The Irish have truly perse­vered throughout the 1996 sea­son, especially considering their late season slump. They have reached their goal despite their fair share of adversity, includ­ing fluke goals that have foiled potential conference wins and injuries to key starters Scott Wells and Brian Engesser. 

They may have already exceeded the popular expecta­tions, but they now have their own personal goals to fulfill. 
"We (seniors) do not want lose in the first round like we did our first two years (1993 and 1994)," said Capasso. "We want to leave a mark on this program." 
Next weekend, the Irish will try to extend their season once again and prove that they still have the marks of a champion. 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 
-R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Habitat for Humanity: 
Habitat for Humanity will be holding a general meeting Tuesday, November 19 at 7:30p.m. at the CSC. All members are asked to attend and anyone interested in joining Habitat is invited to come. 
Campus fellowship: a charismatic group on campus??! Christians from ND, SMC, HC, IUSB, and elsewhere meet every Friday 7:30p.m. to 9:30p.m. in the ND room of LaFortune. Anyone with a hunger for Christ is welcome. 
call Kristin Krause 284 5237 
or Mark Esparza 634 2195 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
Summer Grants for 

on International Issues 
informational meeting 
for interested students 
< 

Wednesday, November 20 
Room 1.1.8 DeBartolo Hall 5:00p.m. 
grant competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies travel and expenses up to $3,000 
further information available from Prof. Michael Francis-Hesburgh Center 3 I 2 
Monday, November 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Continued scoring droughts plague Irish losses 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
Visiting Ferris State University used a proficient power play and an outstand­ing performance from freshman goal­tender Mike Szkodzimski to defeat the Notre Dame hockey team, 5-1, in Central Collegiate Hockey Association action on Friday night at the Joyce Center. The Bulldogs s went 3 for 7 on man advantages, and Szkodzimski stopped 38 shots to lower his season goals-against average to 3.13. The Irish fell to 3-4-1 overall, 2-4-0 in the CCHA. 
Good teams win the games that they should win. Ferris State was tied for last in the CCHA, and the consensus was that this was a game that the fourth­ranked Irish should win, thereby earn­ing two vital points in the standings. But Ferris State had different ideas, scoring three times in the second period to blow the game open and clinching it with two power-play goals in the third period. 
Notre Dame's scoring drought contin­ued. Over the past 120 minutes of hock­ey. dating back to the Boston College game, they have mustered only two goals. "At some point, you just have to play," said Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin. "We've talked about a lot of things, like scoring, but at some point you just need to go out and score. As the game goes on, the opposing goalie 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
I I 
gets more and more £onfidence and it becomes harder to score. " He added that scoring has a great deal to do with mentality. "A lot of it is psychological. When you think you're going to do it and you expect that you'll do it, you do it." 
"Our offense just wasn't clicking," added senior captain Terry Lorenz. "We got a lot of chances but just couldn't put them in." 
The Irish and the Bulldogs skated to a scoreless first period, though Notre Dame dominated the action, playing physically and reeling off 21 shots to the Bulldogs' 9. In this sense the Irish ac­complished one of their goals -to play hard and not surrender a lead in the first period, a trend that has gotten the team in trouble in past games. "I think we did a good job in the first period," agreed Poulin. 
In the second period, Bulldog fresh­man Brian McCullough slapped a shot at junior Irish goaltender Matt Eisler, who made a nice save but bobbled the rebound. Ferris State right winger Geoff Bennetts put the rebound high in the net over a fallen Eisler to give the Bulldogs the lead. Midway through the period, Ferris State generated a two-on-one break. Senior defenseman Dusty Anderson zoomed in from the left and passed the puck between the circles to sophomore right wing Joel Irwin, who quickly got off the shot before Eisler had a chance to adjust, thus giving the Bulldogs a 2-0 edge. A power play goal near the end of the second period gave Ferris State a 3-0 lead, much to the cha­grin of the 2,214 fans packed into the Joyce Center. 
About halfway through the third peri­od, with the Irish working with a 5 on 3 advantage, senior right wing Tim Harberts slapped home a rebound from sophomore defender Benoit Botnoir to cut the lead, 3-1. 
Ferris State had a similar two-man advantage and generated two goals to close out the game. 
One problem for the Irish was the plethora of penalties committed in the third period, which impaired a come­back. "We couldn't stay out of the penalty box," lamented Lorenz. "That hurt us." 
"Some of those calls were question­able," observed Poulin. "One was for 'spraying snow at the goalie.' That's an interesting call to make in the third period of an important game." 
On Sunday afternoon, the Irish losing streak continued to three games (includ­ing four of the last five) as they fell to visiting Mankato State, 4-3 in overtime. Again, this was a game Notre Dame should have won. Mankato State just earned status as a Division I one pro­gram one year ago, and they were miss­ing three of their premiere players. But they used timely goals and solid defense to earn the win. 
In this seesaw battle, Notre Dame fell behind in the first period but then tied it in the second when freshman right wing Troy Bagne wristed a shot low and to the left of Mankato State goaltender's outstretched glove. But the visitors net­ted two short-handed goals to take a 3-1 lead. Notre Dame then tied it, on goals from freshman right wing Joe Dusbabek and Lorenz, and forced overtime. Fifty­five seconds into the extra stanza, how­ever, Mankato State junior Dave Smith beat Karr with a slap shot from the left circle for the gamewinner. 
The same problems plague the Irish; and this concerns Poulin. "You're always going to make mistakes in hock­ey," he gravely said. "That's just a part of the game. But when the same mis­takes occur repeatedly, they must be addressed very seriously." 
First, slows starts have been a prob­lem. In nine first periods this season, Notre Dame has scored 2 goals on 67 shots and has surrendered 12 goals, -in­cluding one yesterday afternoon to Mankato State defender Jason Krug. 
Second, special teams has been very suspect thus far this season. The effi­ciency of Notre Dame's power play hov­ers around 13%, a mark which must improve if the Irish are to win games. In yesterday's game, two goals were scored during Irish power plays, but both were by outnumbered Mankato State. Sophomore standout right wing Tyler Deis of Mankato State, scored two short-handed goals within 27 seconds of each other in the second period to give Mankato State a 3-1 lead. "Those were the result of two mental errors," said Poulin. "To go minus two on your own power play is very bad." 
Third, the inconsistency of play trou­bles Notre Dame. At times, the Irish seize control of the game and maintain it. But these bursts are followed by dan­gerously long lulls. "When something sparks us, we get really fired up and dominate things," observed sophomore right wing Brain Urick. "But we just need to do that for 60 minutes.'' 
'It's not okay to play furiously hard for parts of the game," said Poulin. "As a coach, I want to see that more. It's not like we're not good enough to dominate -we do dominate many times. We just need to do it for longer stretches. " 
What went right this weekend? "We battled back today to tie the game," said Poulin. "That shows fight and zeal. And I'm encouraged by the play of some of our guys, like [Nathan] Borega, [Tyson] Fraser, and [Joe] Dusbabek. And Forrest Karr had a strong performance in net." 
"We're just going to keep hammering away," said Poulin. "That's how we're going to overcome this." 
"We'll go over everything,' said Urick. "Especially the power plays. That was the difference today. We just need to tighten up in every facet of the game. 
Like Poulin has said, it's time to stop saying it and time to start doing it. 

The Standing CommitteE~ on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites you to hear g:ay and lesbian students, friends and family members share their experiences. 

... 

zw 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 18, 1996
I
I IU goalkeeper, junior Merit Another bright spot for the Elzey. Irish was another freshman,
Rout 

"The offensive was clicking Jenny Streiffer. Streiffer had really well today," said Heft. two goals in yesterday's con­continued from page 20 
Heft obtained two more goals test. She had a spectacular the fourth straight time the in the same style, and her fel­goal eight minutes into the sec­Irish have obtained a bid in the low freshman Kara Brown ond half. Brown sent a cross in tournament. assisted her on both. Thus far front of the goal, and it "Notre Dame and North into the season, Heft has sup­appeared to be out of the reach Carolina are the two elite pro­plied the team with twelve of any of the Irish offense. Out grams in the country," said goals. of no where came a streaking Kelley. "There is no one else "It felt great," remarked Heft Streiffer, who made a diving that good or that solid. It will about leading the team to victo­header, baffling the IU keeper. be difficult for anyone to stop ry. Brown had three assists and a them." The Hoosier team put up a goal today, and has 13 assists 
Slow starts plagued the team gallant effort against the this season. Streiffer has earlier in the season, but the aggressive Irish offense. IU's knocked in 21 goals for the Irish seem to have solved that defensive effort was highlighted Irish this season. 
problem in post season play. by the goalkeeping of Elzey. Senior Kate Fisher scored one 
Just seven minutes into the She withstood 23 shots from also, and junior Holly Manthei 
game, senior Cindy Daws con­the top-ranked team. She also had two assists. This season 
nected with senior Amy doused many offensive se­Manthei has assisted in 41 
VanLaecke, who eluded the IU quences by Notre Dame. goals. 
defense and drilled it into the Offensively, Indiana did man­Besides the soggy weather, 
net. This gave the team the age to get on the board. Just a the Irish had to withstand sev­
lead, which they sustained minute into the second half, eral blows by the Hoosiers. 
throughout the game, and they Hoosier senior Amy Freiderich Yesterday's matchup was a 
built it from there. broke down the sideline and physical one with the ref calling 
The story of the game was dished off a past to junior Kris very few fouls. Two yellow Irish forward, Heft. Heft fre­Fosdick. Fosdick managed to cards were distributed to two quently sparks the team off the angle a shot past Irish keeper players, Manthei and IU for­bench., yesterday was no senior Jen Renola. ward, sophomore Tory Dolan. exception. She scored the first "They were motivated," said "They're idea was to take us of three goals when she maneu­head coach Chris Petrucelli out of our rhythm by playing 
about the Hoosiers. "They con­physical," said Petrucelli about
vered past three Hoosier Freshman phenom Jenny Streiffer added two goals (including a diving defenders and angled a shot by tinued to keep their focus." IU's game plan. header) in yesterday's trouncing of Indiana . 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Early run boosts Irish University of Notre Dame 
to WNIT tourney win 

Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 
ByT. RYAN KENNEDY ting the Preseason WNIT Sporrs Writer record for fewest points allowed. The smothering 
The Kent Golden Flashes defensive effort caused Kent to were anything but brilliant as misfire from all areas of the Notre Dame rolled to a 66-41 floor, including 6-for-24 shoot­victory in the opening round of ing performance in the second the preseason WNIT last half. Friday. Trailing 3-2 in the Freshman Neile Ivey posted a early going. the Irish women stellar debut with seven points then rattled off 20 straight and eight assists in the rout, points to pummel the Golden while Beth Morgan scored nine. Flashes. In other women's basketball 
It was Kathryna Gaither's news, both Gaither and Morgan game from the outset, as the were named Preseason All-Big senior All-American lit up the East first-team selections. Flashes for 25 points on phe­Notre Dame was picked by the nomenal 11-for-17 shooting. league's he~d coaches to finish 
The mission of But the story of the day was de­second behind Connecticut in 
OMSA focuses on fense. their Big East division. 
providing for students The Irish women held the Look for full coverage of the 
of color the necessary Flashers to 29 percent shooting Irish's upset of 6th ranked 
tools to achieve the and forced 34 turnovers in set-Iowa in tomorrow's Observer. 
wholistic college 
experience through cultural 
awareness, social 
interaction and career 
planning.

tj.~J;,}JA~6·~·~..-.~~·~·~··~..~-'~"~..~·'~"~ 
Accordingly, we
TREK· CANNONDALE • ROLLERBLADE 
encourage and assist 
students in the 

utilization of all 
academic and 
leadership

Full Service De~artment 
opportunities at the University.
Free Pick Up &Delivery 
210 LaFortune 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 Office: 219-631-6841 
Mon-Fri 10:00 -7:00 
~aturday 1 0:00 -5:00 
Fax: 219-631-8139 E-Mail: 
ND.omsa.l@nd.edu
tj.~~~j~ ' ., 
Class of I 999 
CLASS DINNER 



... 
December 3 • 6:00-8:00 p.m . LaFortune Ballroom • Skalcoholiks 


Monday, November 18, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

Hey!! Don't forget to check out The Guide on-line! 
http://www. nd. ed u/-studegov 
Brought to you by the Student Government Department 
..

e of Information TechnolOgies 
UNIVlUITY o• NllTU DAM I STUJUNTf:nvoaoo.. OOIT 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Help comes from people in high places. Original ideas will bring fame and fortune-in 1997. Turn to family members in an emergency. Both creative endeavors and social affairs will keep you busy next spring. Negotiate a real estate deal in midsummer. Vacationing near a lake or ocean will prove especially invigorating. You ponder going back to school next fall. Play fair in love. Do not expect more from your romantic partner than you will give in return. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Linda Evans, football player Warren Moon, come­dian Imogene Coca, Metallica gui­tarist Kirk Hammett. 
ARIES (March<21-April 19): Your assets grow, thanks to a clever investment strategy. Discuss special plans for your career or business. Less experienced types will be impressed by your shrewdness. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Scrutinize the fine print before sign­ing a legal agreement. Do not let someone's dark mood undermine your confidence. Be a pillar of strength to your partner. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A diet and fitness regimen enjoys favorable influences. Tennis, cycling or aerobics will help you shape up. Revamp a financial plan. Paying close attention to detail will save you time and money. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your communication skills impress your co-workers. So111eone may

YOUR BODY LA-NGUAGE 
offer you an executive position. Be cautious on the financial front. The

TELLS ME THAT 501-\HHING 
romantic picture will brighten when you show more initiative. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Deter­mination is the name of the game. When higher-ups give you free rein, 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Corn bread 
13 Extra playing periods, for short 
-::-1-:-t-:-t::-:t~ •~t-:-t-:-t 17 "That wiII do! " -.....:....t-'--1~ 18 Slowly, in music 
--t--t--t--1 23 Lined up 
perfectly 25 High I.Q. society 26 W.W. If soldier 
27 Draw out r=:i-7-t-;:-t-:::1''=' -~t-:-1=1 28 Netted 
H-:--t-:-t-=t-:::t::=-11111~+=-t:-:-1 30 Headband ---+-+-+--+---t 32 Baseballer Tony =+-:-+=+.=+:::-! 33 "See ya!" =+-'-'+=+,-+.:-t 34 Easter egg 
colorers 
E 
0 
u 
.; 
'g 
E 
!
·;:: 
i :> 

70 Jekyll's alter ego 71 Nothing, south of the border 72 "See, I did it!" 
DOWN 
1 Cafe au-­2 Sonja Henie's 
hometown 3 Attorney Melvin 4 Upstate New 
York city 5 Blue chip co. 6 Portland's 
state: Abbr. 7 Wedding cake 
layers 8 Well-known Hun 9 Evita's country: 
Abbr. 10 Greenish blue 11 Ronny Howard 
TV role 
Ul"\ ... I LIKE MAKING POPCORN IN THE. 
36 Barber's razor sharpener 38 Canape picker-upper 
41 Actress Wright or singer Brewer 
42 Churchman 47 Phonograph's inventor 49 Little perfumed 
bag 52 The "I" in IV 54--donna 

DILBERT 
CA.TC>ERT: EVIL 1-\.R. DI"ECTOR 
~--------------------------_, 

55 Arith. 62 Taj Mahal site 56 Do what you're 63 Ed.'s told documents 
57 Actor Pitt 65 --outa living 59 Egg on (get by) 61 Sir Geraint's 66 St. Augustine's 
wife state 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
--~------------------------­

JEANE DIXON 

go for the gold' Others v.ant 10 board your success train. Launch a long-range venture. 
VIRGO (Aug. 2:\-Sept. 22J: Get better organized at work. Putting your sound financial ideas into prac­tice will bring handsome rewards. Pursue an unusual opportunity in education or business. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Act­ing on impulse _is foolhardy: others could judge you harshly. Although an employment situation is not ideal, you would be wise to remain a while longer. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Money matters demand attention. Look for ways to improve an invest· ment portfolio. Call your broker only after studying the financial pages. Record your aspirations for future reference. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): New philosophies and ideas are worth investigation. An appreciative attitude will bring astonishing results on the home front. Let loved ones know that their needs come first now. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Your creative powers reach new 
heights. Showcase your talents to 
attract the attention of prominent 
people, then accept the best offer 
you receive. In your leisure hours. 
reach out to those who love you. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Seek expert advice before signing a 
long-term agreement. Instead of 
choosing sides in a family dispute. 
play the role of peacemaker. Athletic 
activity helps relieve tension. Invite 
a loved one to join you. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Harness your managerial talents in 
b,usiness or the arts. If launching a 
new business, take advantage of the 
Internet to promote your services. A 
humanitarian gesture will win the 
approval of a prominent individual. 
HE'l', WALLY, lS THERE. ANYTHING 
YOU STILL LIKE ABOUT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Wolf, in Juarez 5 Little bit 9 At the acme of 
13 Desert caravan 
stops 14 Londoner, e.g. 151984 film"-­
Man" 16 "Au revoir" 19 Hot, so to speak 20 Framework 21 Gypsy Rose's 
last name 22 "--Plenty 0' Nuttin'" 
~ 
24 Close loudly 26Jewel 29 Belonging to us 31 Ancient 35 Dangerous 
March date 37 Firearms 39 Mosaic, e.g. 40 "Au contraire" 43 Autumn color 44 Energetic one 45 Declare 
positively 46 Winnie-the-Pooh companion 48 Speaker's 
platform 50--gratia artis 51 Prefix with cure 53 Harvest 55 Attack riotously 58 Warble GO Yell 64 "Au courant" 67 Shipbuilder's 
wood 68 Word-of-mouth 69 Mideast leaders 

.---------------------~----~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Football 
1996 
Notre Dame Irish blow by,60 · blowout Pitt
Pittsburgh 
6 






SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, November 18, 1996 
• fOOTBALL 
Holtz's future at Notre Dame left to speculation 
By DAVE TREACY letic director Mike Wadsworth thing, ask the organ grinder, sooner or later. has fulfilled all those expec­Associa[e Spons Edimr and executive vice-president not the monkey. I'm just the "For his own reasons he tations, so the decision is Bill Beauchamp, probably do. guy at the end of the chain. wants to stay with his sense of entirely his." 
Behind the Lou Holtz rumor After all, if he is leaving, there's People play the music, I dance timing," the athletic director How much more blunt can maelstrom there is actually serious work to be done. But and pass the cup around," offered. you expect a man to be? some discernible information. wllile executive lips are pursed Holtz offered. He did not say that the For his part in what has now Well, maybe not facts, but at for the most part at the present In other words, don't look at University would make an become a comedy-of-sorts. least suffi­
time, what they have said offers me, folks. Like I have any say announcement, just the football Holtz is riding the waves like a ciently reli­an indication that this is Holtz's in the matter. coach. When he's ready. surfer in the pipeline. The able specula­stage, and these officials are · Well, that's pretty hard to "At the end of last year, we questions surround him, but he tion. merely actors. believe when considering the agreed on a set of expectations glides through them with a joke 
The people Holtz himself has maintained words spoken by Beauchamp that we thought should be part and a smile. And promises that who should that the decision is not neces­and Wadsworth, both of whom of the job," Wadsworth soon enough, the curtain will know Holtz's sarily in his hands. Rather, he said after the Pitt game that recalled. "We said, 'Lou, as end the scene, and possibly the future at has tried to put the focus on they believed that the coach long as these expectations are whole show. Notre Dame. '--------".......,'----' those around him. has made up his own mind, and met, you can continue to coach namely ath-"If you want to know some-will let everyone else in on it until you want to resign.' Lou see HOLTZI page 15 
• SOCCER 

Kicking around the competition 
-
r
i • 
... 
Men win first Big East title 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Spons Wrirer 
The marks of a champi­onship team are often its desire and determination to exceed popular expectations. This year's men's soccer team has done that and intends do a great deal more. 
At the beginning of the sea­son. head coach Mike Bertieelli and the Irish play­ers decided that they were not going to allow last year's disappointments limit their goals for 1996. They chose to aim higher than anyone thought they should. 
Before the first regular sea­son game, Berticelli explained that the team was not only setting its sights on qualifying for the Big East tournament, which they failed to do last year, but that they intended to win the conference cham­pionship and earn an invita­tion to the NCAA tournament. Not many people considered these to bP realistic goals. · 
This weekend, however, Notre Dame journeyed to Hutgers University for the second time this season and, this time, returned with what they had set out to attain. The team arrived back on 
see TITLE I page 16 
SPCJR'Is· 
ATA GLANCE· 



Indiana routed by champs 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sporrs Wrirer 
Last week, thP top-ranked women's soccer team called on the efforts of a freshman reserve, to spark them to a 4­3 victory over the UConn Huskies. Freshman Jenny Heft knocked in the winning goal. and sealed the Big East title for the team. 
Yesterday on the rain­soaked Alumni Field. Heft turned in a speetaeular re­peat performance in her first ever NCAA tournament game. She scored a hat trick, and lead the team past the University of Indiana Hoosiers, 8-1. 
Heft is the second Notre Dame player to chalk up a hat trick in a NCAA tournament game. The only other player to do so was sophomore ST!.annon Boxx. Boxx regis­tered hers last year against Wisconsin. 
"We lost to a first class and quality team," remarked Indiana head coach Joe Kelley. 
This game marked the first NCAA tournament appear­ance for the Hoosiers in the history of their women's pro­gram. Yesterday's game was 
see ROUT I page 18 
a) 

• Volleyball unbeaten in Big East 
at Bowling Green, November 22, 7 p.m. ~ see page 15 
Big East Championships 
•Hockey drops two over weekend ·­
November 23 see page 17
..e: ~ 

L_ 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------­
Notre Dame 
Observer 107251343 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
039630 

Box: 43 
Volume: 30 
Issue: 56 
Day: Tue 
Date : 11/19/1996 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 

-----~----------­

Tuesday, November 19, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 56 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPA ER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Holtz to leave squad today DART phone lines 

By TIM SHERMAN. just as quickly. But for now, Sporrs Editor the focus is clearly on Holtz. The 11-year coach of the 
One game is about to offi­Irish informed the team of cially end and another is his decision yesterday after­ready to begin. noon before the squad took 
According to all indica­the practice field of Loftus tions, the intense scrutiny Sports Center. and media circus that has According to those present ensued regarding Notre at the meeting, Holtz Dame coach Lou Holtz's instructed members of the future with the Irish will end team not to discuss the deci­tomorrow. sion to leave with members 
The 59-year old Holtz will of the media. announce at his regularly "He's going to make an scheduled press conference announement tomorrow," that he is indeed stepping said leading receiver down as coach of Notre Malcolm Johnson. "That's Dame. all I can say." ~ 
The final decision came as His teammates took the a result of a Monday meeting same approach. of Holtz, University executive "Our team meetings are vice-president Father confidential," said Kinnon William Beauchamp and Tatum, Notre Dame's leading Athletic Director Mike tackler. "If he (Holtz) want­Wadsworth. ed us to talk to the media, 
"They have reached a deci­he'd let the media into the sion and it will be announced meetings. So, I have no com­at 1 p.m tomorrow," said ment." John Heisler, Notre Dame Holtz, himself, continued to Sports Information Director. steer clear of explicitly stat­
Talk of Holtz's departure ing his intentions. has quickly mounted in the "I will talk about that past few days and talk of his (future) at the appropriate sucessor is bound to build time," Holtz said. 
Vision of Virgin connec:ts ND to past 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN One of the spheres appeared to News Writer open, revealing a lady sitting on a stone by a dried spring. The lady had 
Between the Basilica of the Sacred her head in her hands and appeared Heart and the Notre Dame sacristy to be weeping bitterly. A moment stands a small statue of the Virgin later, the lady rose, beckoning the Mary entitled "Our Lady of La two children towards her. Salette." On the wall hangs a plaque The children later described the reading "Statue of Notre Dame which Lady's costume in detail. According was the last earthly object which to John Gallery in his book entitled Father Sorin gazed on before his Mary vs. Lucifer: The Apparitions of death." As we shuffie in and out from Our Lady, Mary was wearing "a Sunday Mass, this statue affords little white robe studded with pearls, a reason to stop and muse. After all, gold colored apron, and roses of there are myriad images of the many colors at her feet." Hanging Virgin Mary across campus. But this from her neck was a heavy gold particular statue of St. Mary, howev­chain in lace fashion, hemmed by er inconspicuous, has perhaps the roses, and a peculiar gold crucifix. A closest link to the founding of Notre hammer was near the left hand on Dame. 1846. Maximin Giraud, age 11, and the crossbeam and a pair of pincers 
Melanie Mathiew, age 14, were tend­
near the right hand. 
The hidden story ing their cows when Melanie noticed Our Lady commenced weeping for 
Our Lady of La Salette is the first a bright light at the bottom of a God and for the world and the com­modern apparition of the Virgin ravine. As Maximin later recounted, ing punishments from God for the Mary as she appeared to two peasant "The light was incomparably more ingratitude of man. Of all the sins 
children atop a mountain in La brilliant than that of the sun," form­Salette, France, on Sat. Sept. 19, ing two spheres. see STATUE I page 6 

back in service 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 

The DART phone lines, which enable students to register for courses, will be back in service today after a temporary shutdown due to mechanical problems. 
According to Harold Pace, University registrar, the problem, which resulted in modification of the regis­tration process, was due to a faulty wire. 
"We think we found the problem [last] night around 5 p.m. It seemed to be a physical break in the wire that leads the DART computers to the mainframe," Pace said. 
According to Pace, the obstructed connection between the DART system and phone lines made it impossible for students to reach the mainframe to reg­ister for courses. 
Students were requested via voice-mail to visit the registrar's office during specific times to register for courses. Pace said that the meetings went well, but that the system should be operative this morning. 
"Everything went very smoothly [yesterday.] We registered all of the students who had to be registered, but if everything holds together, the system should be up immediately," Pace said. 
God bless us every one ... 

Science-related jobs as difficult to come by as any 
By LAURA PETELLE 
News Writer 

C&EN's help..wanted ads hint at signs 
Is science program
of hiring recovery 
You always ~new you would go to college, major in phi­losophy, graduate, and go directly into a job in your major. 
hiding the facts?
Volume of "positions open• advertising, column·inches8 
Back up, start over. Almost no one would believe this 
1,400 
By LAURA PETELL~ the overwhelming view of science grads. It is also one that 
scenario for an Arts and Letters graduate, but this is still 
NewsWrirer

1,200 
is simply not true anymore. "It's a very difficult job market," Francis Castellino,
1,000 
Dean of the College of Science, said. "Any one week can change the field so dramatically."
800 
Gerald Jones, Chair of the Physics Department, agreed 
staff: The note wa.S ~!tache ...·.. ·. ·... e l!.rticle ".Jobs that the job market is "tougher across the board." 
.in Labs Grow Scarce" artd·accused that the.·"fac~
600 
ulty•removed it immediately upon tead.ing it to today's job market? Should professors stop encourag­
So does that mean that a degree in science is irrelevant 
(within one hour of its post) in order to hide it ing first year students to enroll in the College of Science? 
from the undergraduate and graduate students" Should advisors stop encouraging their students to pursue 
and concluded that "if I [the writer] use my advanced degrees in the sciences? 
name, I would get in big trouble from [sic] the Absolutely not, said Harry White, the chemistry depart­
department." .
0 
Was the article something the College of
ment's corporate relations consultant. "The market is 
aColumn·inches pvlliisheo during consecutive periods of four weells eactl. 
see JOBS I page 4 

'--1994____J ·~-1995----' '-1996---l 



---~ 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Words 
•
rtng true 

Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, a gentle man of peace and love, has prematurely been called away from his work, which included the recon­ciliation of Catholics divided on issues. 
Bernardin meant more 

to American Catholics  Liz Foran  
then many at this  Editor-in-Chief  
University may realize.  

Steadfast in his faith and in his work, he remained a leading figure in Catholicism to his last breath, and will linger as a modern day role model for years to come. 
He advocated traditional Church teaching, including opposition to abortion and artificial birth control, the death penalty and euthana­sia. One of his last stands was to implore the Supreme Court to reject arguments for doc­tor-assisted suicide. His ardent belief in the dignity and value of all human life spawned his leadership in opposition to the arms race. 
Bernardin was criticized at times for his lib­eral views. Upon learning of his impending death, Bernardin immediately sought to bring something good from the tragedy by propos­ing increased dialogue between the Church and Catholics who dissent from some of her teachings. 
Areas for increased discussion, according to Bernardin, included artificial birth control, the marriage of priests and the ordination of women. lie may not have agreed with their viewpoints, but he was tolerant of concerns and always a patient listener. He saw the value of drawing a sometimes divided flock together. 
He was described as a mediator and a trol,l­bleshooter. He called for Catholics to come together and to tolerate each other's views. He did not want the Church or its people to be allied with a single issue or political party. 
Bernardin's words speak to the Notre Dame student population, which election surveys have shown to be predominately conservative Hepublicans. Students cited most often the issue of abortion as the primary or only rea­son for voting for the Dole/Kemp ticket. Issues that should also be of concern to Catholics, such as economic justice and equality of edu­cation, were overlooked in favor of one moral issue. It is possible to be pro-life and a mem­ber of a political party other than the Hepublicans. 
Tolerance on this conservative campus of the views of dissenting Catholics and those who seek change within the structure are often ignored or vehemently opposed. As a leading Catholic university, Notre Dame should be willing to at least listen to, debate and make statements about concerns of Catholics who are seeking honest change. These Church members are speaking out because they care, because they want to rec­oncile with the Church. They are not leaving in disgust or taking the easy way out by not practicing their faith. 
Objecting is difficult. It invites criticism and can lead to shunning. Giving the cold shoulder to those who care about their faith and their Church is detrimental ~ the institution of Catholicism. 
Bernardin recognized this. !lad he not died so suddenly he may have made more of an impact in the area of tolerance between Catholics and their brothers and sisters. But the fruit of his work will hopefully prosper. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Jackie Moser  
Michelle Krupa  Chris Uhart  
Sports  Accent  
Brian Reinthaler  Melanie Waters  
Lab Tech  Leslie Fields  
Kevin Dalum  Graphics  
Peter Cilella  

Tho Obsorv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday exccpr during exam and vacalion periods. The Ob~rvcr is a member of tho Associat<d Pross. All «production rights aro roscrvod. 
COMA, Zaire 
A British-based company supplied arms and ammunition to the former Rwandan government after it began slaughtering a half-million of its own people in 1994, according to docu­ments that Hutu militias left behind when they retreated in eastern Zaire. 
The documents, made available to The Associated Press on Monday, indi­cated the Hwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of machine guns, mortars, grenades, ammunition and other military hard­ware from the company, Mil-Tee Corp., between April and July 1994. 
Some shipments appeared to contra­vene a U.N. embargo on exporting arms to Rwanda, imposed in May 1994 following acts of genocide by the for­mer Hutu-led government against minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus. 
A U.N. Commission of Inquiry has been investigating a British company for allegedly supplying arms to the ex­Hutu government or its militia allies after they fled to Zaire, it was reported earlier this month. It could not be learned whether Mil-Tee is that company. 
The continued arms trade in the volatile region has drawn sharp protests from international human rights groups, which allege that the French government also supplied weapons to the retreating Hutus after the 1994 genocide. France denies it. 
Aristide 'serves people' of Haiti 
JACMEL, Haiti 
Each time Jean-Bertrand Aristide 
leaves home, he is besieged by hun­
dreds of destitute Haitians, many 
thrusting hand-lettered envelopes at 
him in the belief that he alone can 
solve their problems. Nine months out 
of the presidency, Aristide still com­
mands an unmatched devotion among 
. . 
Haiti's poor. It is a following that many ·· ·. 
Haitians expect to sweep him back to power in the next 
elections in 2000. "He's the only one," Benz Monald, 28, 
said during a rally by Aristide's Lavalas Family political 
coalition in the south coast city of Jacmel. "Aristide is 
going to come back." The current president, Rene 
Preval, is also a member of the coalition, but no matter. 
"I am the one responsible for the family," Aristide said 
in a recent interview. But he remains typically evasive 
about plans to run again for office. "We need to consult 
the millions of people," he said. 

Millionaire launches 'Solo Spirit' 
ST. LOUIS 
Millionaire adventurer Steve Fossett, known for throw­
ing caution to the wind, has announced another attempt 
to be the first to circle the world in a balloon. Fossett, 
52, picked Busch Stadium, the home of the NL Central 
champion St. Louis Cardinals, to promote his second try 
at an around-the-world flight. He plans to launch his 
hot-air balloon "Solo Spirit" from the stadium sometime 
in the next few months. "Ballooning is the oldest form of 
aviation, yet it is the area of aviation for which no one 
has made an around-the-world flight," Fossett said at a 
news conference Nov. 14. "We think it's the greatest 
unachieved goal in aviation." Two other teams will 
compete with Fossett to grab the title during the winter 
ballooning season, which runs until Feb. 15. Fossett will 
fly solo in an unpressurized cabin. This will make the 
flight even more challenging, Fossett said, because he 
will not be able to fly as high and will have to rely on 
oxygen and heaters to complete the flight. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Tuesday  c::::::1  45  32  
i  
Wednesday c::::::1  38  28  
Thursday  4·:·.:::·.:::·  35  24  
Friday  ~  37  23  
[  
Saturday  ~  39  27  
j """'J''" ,-".... ,.}t./ ....._/  v  

4,~,~8G8 ~ ~ u 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 46 38 Honolulu 84 69 Phoenix 83 56 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Chicago 41 32 Los Angeles 68 59 Seattle 42 32 
British arms scandal 
The Rwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of weapons and military hardware from a British company, contravening a U.N. embargo on exporting arms to Rwanda. 
Arms were flown from .... 
• NATiONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast fOr noon, Tuesday, Nov. 19. 20s 
Belgium's Sabena, Germany's Lufthansa and Hussia's Aeroflot, according to the documents. 
They were delivered to the Hwandan capital, Kigali, and then later -when government forces fled into neighboring Zaire -flowq to Coma and Kinshasa, the Zairian capital. Payments were made through Belgium, France and Egypt, the documents said. 
The documents included demands by Mil-Tee to the Rwandan government for overdue payment of $1.9 mil­lion. 
Indians protest Miss World pageant 
NEW DELHI, India 

Miss World contestants are expressing bewilderment at the violent opposition to their beauty pageant in India, where one man already has burned himself to death in protest and more threaten to. "This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi," exclaimed Miss Costa Rica Natalia Caravjal Lorenzo. "This is the land of peace." Critics of the pageant, being held this year in India, have staged often-violent protests for nearly a month, saying it is against Indian culture, dehumanizes women and pro­motes the use of cosmetics and plastic surgery. Opponents trashed a showroom of a corporate sponsor last month and staged an 800-person sit-in Sunday on a road at the pageant site of the southern city of Bangalore. Last week, a protester fatally burned himself while shouting slogans against the pageant. Organizers have tried to defuse protests by moving the contest's swimsuit competition to the Seychelles Islands. But a right-wing group has vowed to wreck the Nov. 23 finale through more self-immolations. 
Border crossers swallowed by wave 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas 

A large wave "swallowed" a group of people apparent­ly trying to wade across the mouth of the Hio Grande from Mexico, and at least four of them drowned, officials said today. Authorities searched for bodies today along the beach between the river's mouth and Brazos Santiago, an inlet separating Padre Island from the Boca Chica peninsula. Witnesses said they saw about 10 peo­ple at the river's mouth about 20 miles of Brownsville on Sunday, said Chief Deputy Joe Elizardi of the Cameron County sheriff's department. "They were walking on a sand bar on the Mexican side. When they got to the end of the sand bar, this large wave came in and swallowed them up," he said. He said authorities believed the group was trying to reach the U.S. side of the river. Two men put out in a boat from the Mexican shore in a res­cue attempt, but the vessel capsized in the waves. Both men reached shore safely, Elizardi said. Three bodies were recovered. 
Public pressure led the South African government on Nov. 6 to announce it was suspending arms shipments to the new, Tutsi-led Rwandan government. 
The documents were found in a bus, part of a wrecked convoy abandoned by retreating Hutu militias in Sake, 18 miles west of Coma. The Hutu militias, remnants of the former Rwandan army that fled Tutsi forces in 1994, were fleeing from Zairian rebel troops swe~ping through eastern Zaire. 
The documents indicated Mil-Tee is based in Douglas, the Isle of Man, off England's northwest coast, and in Hove, 50 miles south of London. But it is not listed in telephone directories and could not be reached for com­ment. 
The arms were flown out of London's Heathrow Airport; Tel Aviv, Israel; and Tirana, Albania, via such carriers as 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AcouWeather, Inc. 

Pressure H L HIGH LOW VIII Auocl.tllld Press  ED E::Sl SHOWERS RAIN  [Til 0 T-STORMS FLURRIES  IZ3 § SNOW ICE  ~ ¥ SUNNY  ~ L..J. PT: CLOUDY  ,.-/\ c.__j, CLOUDY  
Anchorage Atlanta Baltimore  20 68 51  6 49 34  Dallas Denver Fairbanks  80 70 3  56 34 ·12  Miami New York Philadelphia  81 48 50  66 38 35  




A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
•Today... 
~--~ 

ROTC Programs 
The second edition -the last of a two-part series on financial aid -features the ROTC programs at Notre Dame and the relationship between the Development and Financial Aid offices. 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
ROTC offers additional resources for financial aid 
Increased scholarship money tied to endowment 
Cadets receive more than just a scholarship 
Editor's note: ROTC scholarships are a unique financial aid resource. Neither a loan nor a scholar­ship in the traditional sense, they definitely merit some further investigation. 
By JUSTYN HARKIN Department Page Editor 
When junior Jeremy Scarlett was a sophomore in high school, he realized that paying for college was not going to be easy, especially if he wanted to go to a private school like the University of Notre Dame. His father told him. as many fathers do, that Notre Dame was out of the question. He couldn't afford to send him there. Still, Scarlett turned down two less expen­sive state schools and even refused two full scholar­ships from other institutions in order to go to Notre Dame. 
How did this student manage to finance his educa­tion? He did what everybody at Notre Dame wishes they could do: he asked his uncle for the money. 
This particular uncle (Sam, as he likes to be called) has some pretty deep pockets. In fact, he currently accounts for over seven million of the available $67,000,000 offered by Notre Dame's Office of Financial Aid. Calling Uncle Sam generous, however, would be a bit misleading because there are special terms and conditions to that scholarship resource. After all, the United States Armed Forces are not going to pay your tuition for nothing. 
While the actual terms and conditions may vary between the three, the Army, Navy, and Air Force all offer ROTC scholarships at Notre Dame. The basic terms dictate that an ROTC cadet be commissioned as an officer upon graduation and serve at least four years in active duty and four years in the military reserves. All of the programs are the same in terms of the service commitment, and they all offer a $150 stipend, or subsistance allowance, each month. 
Scarlett mentioned that he researched each pro­gram and chose Army over the other ROTC scholar­ship for which he had qualified because it most suited his needs and ambitions. He credits his brother 
• THE MONEY'S COMING••• 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Student tuition and fees account for only 45 percent of the University's income, but Notre Dame is still expect­ed to generate substantial amounts of 
financial aid money. While students worry with how the University dispenses these funds, Notre Dame's Development Office concerns itself with bridging the gap between money that 

comes in and money Reagan that could be spent. 
The Development Office collected over $70 million in gift income in fiscal 1994-95, a significant amount of which was earmarked for financial aid. 
"For the past several years, there's no question that enhancing financial aid has been our top priority," said Dan Reagan, director of development. 
Having collected $940 million since 1960, much of which has been either placed into endowments or spent directly on scholarships, the Development Office has established itself as a key figure in the aid process. It is responsible for bringing in the sup­plementary funds that enable scholar­ships. 
"Certainly the donors have the free­dom to designate their funds," Reagan noted, "But most of them are thinking financial aid, and financial aid is what we talk about the most." 

Current figures state that nearly a quarter of all charitable donations Notre Dame receives are appropriated for financial aid. The significance of that role is not lost on the Office of Financial Aid 
"Certainly, big donations take time to assemble. Theirs is a major undertak­ing," Jim Russo, director of financial aid, said. 
In trying to meet Colloquy 2000's goal of being able to meet the financial need of all admitted students, the Financial Jason, ND '9<~. as being the person who helped the most in his decision. Jason Scarlett accepted an NROTC scholarship from the Navy, but warned Jeremy to be <careful in selecting his program. 


"The Army covers 80% of my tuition," says Jeremy, "and it is the only program that will grant me a leave of absence after graduation to attend medical school." Indeed, not all of the programs offer such flexibility. 
Captain Rusty Pickett, director of the Naval ROTC program at 1\otre Dame, clarified that the Navy will not grant such a leave of absence unless the cadet qualifies for .a special scholarship program such as the Rhodes or Fullbright scholarships. However, the Navy does boast a program allowing a select number 
Growth of the Endowment (1976-1996) 
1200 
en 1000 
.... 
~ 
0 
0 
800 
-
0 c en 600 
g 
~ 
400 
E 
200 

1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 

Aid and Development offices have made attracting endowment contribu­tions their focus. 
Both Russo and Reagan noted the importance of endowment funds, because of the steady reliable flow of its income. 
"The good news is that an endow­ment is there forever," Russo said. 
'"Forever' is a lot of students." 
Increasing endowments will be the key to increasing scholarships in future years, according to the financial aid of individuals to attend medical school at the Navy's expense. Colonel Runge of the Air Force ROTC men­tioned a similar program for medical school minded cadets. 
One aspect of the Air Force ROTC that is unique to the other ROTC programs is that a student may actu­ally be assigned to a major or course of study. 
"The Air Force tends to want technical majors," says Runge. He adds that while "we do have people who are majoring in [subjects like] economics and business, the emphasis is on technical majors." Because of the nature of the Air Force scholarship terms, if a student wishes to change his major he also runs the risk of losing it. 
It is important to note, however, that unlike a other scholarships and grants, ROTC scholarships are not need based and their availability depends upon the needs of military. A ROTC scholarship candidate typ­ically applies in high school, although students can apply for two and three year scholarships up till the end of their sophomore years. 
As Lieutenant Colonel O'Brien of the Army ROTC revealed, "each applicant is evaluated in terms of the whole person. Things we consider include GPA, lead­ership potential, extracurricular activities, in addition to what we see during the interview process." 
The ROTC scholarships for all three programs are competitive, and the service commitments are very real. Scarlett is happy with his decision, though. He comments that "while [the service commitment] takes away some freedom, it is also very safe. No ROTC cadet ever has to worry about a job after gradua­tion." In fact, it is because of this very aspect of ROTC that inspires some students to participate on a non-scholarship basis. 
The service commitment of such a student naturally will lessened, but the cadet will graduate a commis­sioned officer just like the scholarship cadets. For example, an Army ROTC cadet will graduate with the rank of Second Lieutenant and will make about 26,000 dollars a year with several promotions sched­uled for the future. 
ROTC may be difficult, and it may not be for every­body, but then again so is Notre Dame. 
A statistic provided by USA Today contributed to this article. 
office. Russo acknowledged tht endow­ments trade quick pay offs for long­term stability. 
Regardless of the conservative nature of this type of financial planning, schol­arship will continue to grow as the Development Office continues to receive endowment funds. 
"Endowment enables better plan­ning," Reagan added. "Does it attack the need as immediately? No. But it's there in perpetuity and that's the beau­ty of it." 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
dents looking 
Interdenominational 
new and used cars 

Thanksgiving Prayer Service 
Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
''We Lift Our Hands
$1000ff 

A Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series 

In Praise!'' 
Jobs 
continued from page I 
tight," he says, but a science degree opBns many doors, espe­cially for students with manager­ial, business, or computer skills. 
The perception of a shrinking job market in the sciences is largely driven by the lack of "pure research" jobs available. On Sun., Oct. 20, AP wires car­ried a story entitled "Jobs in Labs Grow Scarce," which addressed the decrease in pure research jobs and the increase in industry jobs available to sci­ence grads. 
The article, posted in the Stepan Chemistry Building, upset at least one student, who wrote to The Observer in an anonymous note that "the pro­fessors tell us graduate students that there are plenty of jobs and encourage undergraduates to enter into science. After reading this article, I think that is totally wrong." 
While the industry is not in a boom cycle, there is certainly no lack of jobs for science grads. 
"Up until about two or three years ago some of the national professions societies [in the sci­ences] were predicting a stronger job market than has come to pass," Jones said, adding that this has caused some bitterness among science PhDs. 
John Duman, Chair of the Biology Department, said that "the difficulty comes from these episodes of cutbacks in govern­ment funding for basic research." 
Duman stresses, however, that there are still research jobs available. Alexander Hahn, Chair of the Mathematics Department, agreed that there are pure research jobs available for those who are willing to pur­sue them. 
It has always been difficult to get a tenure position in an area where there are as many as one hundred applicants for every 
Program "The Election, leadership and Public Policy" 

The Meaning of the 1996 Election 
Who will build the bridge to the 21st century? 
Mickey Edwards-Harvard's Kennedy School of Government former GOP member of the House of Representatives. 
Richard Berke-political reporter for 
The New York Times. 
Wednesday ,. November 20th .. 7:30 PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by: The Departments of American Studies, History, Government & International Studies, and The Hesburgh Program In Public Serlvce. 
opening. Many PhDs spend a few years as a postdoc, a research scientist who has com­pleted his or her doctoral work, but who has not yet found a teaching or research position. 
While the average number of years spent as a postdoc is ris­ing, this may be due to the fact that the scientific fields are becoming more and more spe­cialized, requiring more study and research to become an expert. 
What about students who do not want to spend several years as a postdoc in pursuit of an eventual teaching or research position? 
"It's an era of science and technology," Duman said. There are opportunities everywhere for both bachelor's and PhDs in industry, especially in small companies who specialize in areas such as biotechnology, bio­pharmaceuticals, computer tech­nologies, chemical manufacture, and various environmental con­cerns. 
Alexander Lappin, Chair of the Chemistry Department, said that science opens up opportunities for students. 
"The student should think about adding breadth to the core," Hahn said. 
Duman agreed that an under­graduate should design his or her curriculum carefully: "The courses and opportunities are here." 
White stressed the importance of internship and real-life expe­rience. Hahn also emphasized the importance of having skills outside the realm of science. 
As in any other field, a worker in science must be able to com­municate and work effectively with others. 
"We will see amazing things over the next twenty to seventy years," Duman said. Hahn added that students need to be pre­pared to make "the adjustment to the shifting reality" of the job market because "as one area weakens, another appears." 
Hahn commented that, unfor­tunately, it is difficult for univer­can be learned on the job by intelligent and disciplined indi­viduals. 
"Broaden your horizons," Hahn recommended. "The job market has contracted but to say there are no jobs is a gross exaggeration. And opportunity favors the prepared." 
sities to change their curriculum to adapt to the changing job market: "It's clear that the edu­cational community, from research universities on down, have to be aware of the trends going on which will cause shifts in the job market and adjust to those shifts." 
At the same time, he said, the universities must not become technical training schools. 
Castellino agreed that "we are not training people for jobs; we are educating people." 
A scientific education is what prepares students for a wide variety of jobs; specific training 


Today') Tuesday') November 19 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude') C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
Tonight 
7:30PM 

Stanford..Keenan Chapel 
Thanksgiving Reflection by 
Dr. Randall C. Zachman, Department of Theology 
Music by 

Saint Mary's Women's Chior Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 

All are welcome to give thanks 

0MPUS
and praise! 
MINISTRY 

~~---------------~---------­
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Group sets calendar for upcoming holiday plans 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Earth Day. Mardi Gras. SMC Tostal. St. Patrick's Day. 
Most students know little about these holidays, much less how to celebrate. Many students have yet to plan for Thanksgiving, even if it is only one week away. 
Fortunately, the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board is hard at work planning celebrations for Thanksgiving, as well as for future holidays during the sec­ond semester. 
Coordinator Lori McKeough began filling in the official SAB calendar with confirmed events from each of the various com­mittees. The Student Activities Board will be sponsoring two musical groups, two comedians, three lecturers, and events with holiday themes. 
In other SAB news, board members are in the process of proof-reading the final draft of a survey that will be submitted to students in the next few weeks. The board intends to collect feedback on how they can better serve the students and the over­all College community. 
SAB hopes to receive a large number of completed surveys back from students. The larger the sampling of the populous, the better the board will be able to accommodate the school's wants and needs. To encourage student participation, SAB is offering free CO's to the first one hundred students who return their surveys. 
Director of Student Activities, Georgeanna Rosenbush, sat in as adviser for the meeting. The office of Student Activities is currently trying to fill the posi­tion of assistant director, who is the regular adviser to SAB. 
Rosenbush complimented the board's work thus far this year. 
"Compared even to last year, your efforts are noticeable. Every year (student government) just gets better and better." 
Rosenbush continued to cite the board's overall strength and ability, and her hopes for the continuance of high caliber pro­gramming. 
Sltllivan shares job experience 
By SARAH CORKREAN News ·writer 

Returning to the Saint Mar:y's campus to share her insights and work experiences in her career as a pharmaceu­tical sales representative, Sarah Sullivan, last year's stu­dent body president, presented a leeture on the pharmaceuti­cal industry. 
Sullivan is currently a pro­fessional representative in Human Health specializing in_ osteoporosis for Merck & Co., Inc. Merck is the largest phar­maceutical market which, holding a significant amount of the world's pharmaceutical business. 
Sullivan discussed her role as a sales representative in the South Bend area and sur­rounding communities. She makes frequent stops at local hospitals and clinics for lunch­es with doctors and specialists informing them of new advancements in medications and answering the concerns of 
S]ide 
conltinued from page 1 

Science wanted to hide from its students? 
No, said Francis Castellino, Dean of the College of Science: "I gave that article to the grad students in my lab." 
Alexander Lappin, Chair of the Chemistry Department, said 
THE PAUL M. AND BARBARA llENKELS VISITING SCHOLAR SE!RIES, The Creative Writing P'rogram, 
and 

The Department of E:nglish 
Proudly Present 
Award Winni~n.g Poet 
Paul Zimmer 
Reading Tonight!!!! 
TLULce§dlSLy5) Ncorvcemlbxeir JL9)t1bl5) 7~3(()) PM 
Workshop 
WedliDlce§dlSl.y)l Ncorvcemlbxeir 2(Q)t1bl5) 9)~3(()) AM Room 119 O'Shaugness~r Hall 
All are welcome 
her clients. 
Sullivan spends a lot of her time researching medical jour­nals searching for answers to the questions of clients. 
"The homework never ends," Sullivan said. "Everyday I research a new area of a topic to answer a doctor's question. By researching every topic on osteoporosis, I get exposure to every aspect of the medical field pertaining to the topic." 
As a biology major and chemistry minor at Saint Mary's College, Sullivan always thought about going to medical school. With the com­mitment and time medical school demands, Sullivan wor­ried that she wouldn't be able to practice the way she wanted to with the complications of insurance policies and regula­tions. 
Sullivan then decided to stay in the medical field and start with sales to get exposure to different medical environ­ments and get doctors per­spectives about the future of 
that the article discussed the issues accurately and that he wouldn't advocate pulling it. Harry White, the Corporate Relations Consultant for the Chemistry Department, had a copy of the article in his files to share with students. 
Sophomore Science Pre-pro­fessional major Nicole Seibert said that because she's a sophomore "we haven't really talked about jobs yet" and that medicine. ''I'm worried about the direction medicine is head­ing," Sullivan said. "Change isn't popular, but change has to be made to focus on the patient, not the insurance poli­cies." 
Having trained for three and a half months over the sum­mer to acquaint herself with Merck's line of osteoporosis medications, Sullivan is excit­ed about the challenges she faces in the business of sales. With the added benefits of a flexible work schedule, inde­pendence and creativity, Sullivan is trying to find her own style of selling by carving a name in the profession. 
"Being new in the area of sales, I'm driven by the fact that how I manage and market myself as a Merck representa­tive, has an effect on people when doctors give me feed­back of how the patients feel using medications I sell," Sullivan said. "I see action and it is a personal challenge to keep the action going." 
she has not used the career counseling services in the col­lege but she knows it is there. 
Junior Biochemistry major Tim Cordis said, "Science is tough, period. I knew that com­ing in." 
Then why was the article pulled? Probably routine main­tenance; nothing can be posted in Stepan Chemistry Building without an approval stamp from the secretary's office. 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 
Call234·0363 273·8986 (24hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
,...___ _____,..______ 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NE==---c~_:_::_S__________TI_u_es_d_:ay,_,_N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_I_9_,_19_9_6 
prophecies did come true. In Melanie and Sorin, we know that congregation of the Holy Cross La Salette, O'Connor said, "No 1830, there was a revolution in the priest paid a visit to (now part of Notre Dame) at one wants to be reminded of
Statue 
France involving much of the Melanie's convent in Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix, Le Christ's crucifixion." 
continued from page 1 
committed by man, Mary focused upon two sins of the first three commandments: honoring prayer on Sundays and refrain­ment from profanity. According to Mary, "these two things are what makes the hand of my Son so heavy." 
Mary prophesied that if people did not mend their ways "the potatoes will continue to rot in the field and there will come a great famine." And according to Father Ed O'Connor, "she warned of a flood of bad books ... there would be a World War, and that the Pope would have much to suffer as the church would see a fall from grace." 
The Lady then confided a sepa­rate secret to each of the chil­dren, after which she said, "Well, my children, you will make this known to all My people." She then rose above the field in an orb of light and disappeared. 
The cross and gold lace chain 
According to Ervin Lovas and other patrons of the apparition at La Salette, the hammer and pincers on the cross are "the instruments of Christ's crucifix­ion." The La Salette Fathers, members of the religious follow­ing of La Salette, contend that the hammer symbolizes the cru­cifixion of Christ by the sins of men while the pincers recall how the nails were extracted. As Lovas said, both "remind us of our obligation to expiate the sins of the world through repara­tion." 
It is widely agreed that the gold chain around Mary's neck symbolizes the "chains of idola­try" as mentioned in the Lord's prayer. It seems like Mary is bound by the sins of man: his materialism, sex, heresy, drugs, and other false gods. 
The Notre Dame connection As it turns out, Our Lady's know world at the time. During the rise of industrialism in France, people did work through the week, including Sundays, and religious instruction was suppressed. ' 
But more relevantly, the famine of which St. Mary had spoken was indeed the potato famine that ended up affecting not only France, but the whole of Europe and Ireland. Gallery esti­mated that a million people died of famine in Ireland alone caus­ing many to emigrate to a place none other than good old South Bend. 
As related in a feature article in the Nov. 8 edition of the South Bend Tribune, families like the D'Arcys, Devines, and Martins of South Bend are direct descen­dants of ancestors fleeing the Irish potato blight of 1850. In fact, the preponderance of Irish Catholics in Northern. Indiana helped establish the Irish roots of Notre Dame. 
The statue 

The apparition occurred just five years after Father Sorin sailed for America to found his University of Notre Dame du Lac. From a letter dated to Jan. 20, 1880, exchanged between Castellamare, Italy. When the written account of the apparition was published in 1879, Sorin wrote to Melanie to verify its authenticity and received back a confirmation along with several copies of the document. 
In a later letter addressed to a Reverend Father, Sorin mentions that he knew Melanie and was "profoundly impressed" with her accounts. In fact, he was so impressed by the apparition that he kept a statue of the Lady (characterized by the peculiar cross) in his room. As written on the plaque in the Sacristy, wit­nesses confirmed that this was the last object on which he looked before he died. 
In 1848, just two years after it took place, the apparition was accounted in detail by the then Superior General, Father Moreau, in his bulletin Estrennes Spirituels. In Volume II of Basil Moreau's biography of Father Moreau entitled The Dark Night, "as soon as [the interpretations] became known, Father Moreau devoted a good deal of attention to the apparitions at La Salette... and as far as can be determined, Lourdes interested him less." 
Father Moreau paid a visit on Dec. 8, 1863, to the cradle of the Mans, France. There he invited Maximin Giraud, the other peas­ant child (now grown), to give an account of the apparition to the Council. In this way, Moreau became deeply involved and influenced by the prophecies of the Lady at La Salette. 
Why is it so little known? 
The apparition of La Salette has not been forgotten by all Catholics. In fact, this particular apparition is the only one for which a religious order was founded, namely the missionar­ies of Our Lady of La Salette. 
Nevertheless, the apparition is little remembered among the general public. There are several reasons. As Father O'Connor said, "At La Salette, Mary wept. At Lourdes she smiled." In the same token "At Lourdes, she healed people while at La Salette there were no miracle healings," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor further explained, "Generally the people are more attracted to someone who is cheerful than someone who is weeping." Even today, revela­tions of the Virgin Mary are syn­onymous with miracle healings. Alluding to the hammer and pin­cers on the cross of the Lady at 

In the same token, the church experienced a great upheaval upon learning of the prophecy of its own "fall from grace." Wealthy and corrupt bishops of the time didn't want to popular­ize the fact that the Church was in need of reform. In fact, according to Gallery, it was not until five years after the appari­tion, on Sept. 19, 1851, that Pope Pius IX declared the "Apparition of La Salette is a true and certain fact... and that a church and house of refuge for pilgrims shall b_e in,!mediately begun on the site... 
According to an article by Dom Bevenot in Heritage Magazine, it wasn't until 1852 that "work was begun on the great romanesque basilica we see to­day." Built on a mountaintop nearly 6000 feet up, it is very often shrouded in cloud, and completely unapproachable dur­ing the snowy winter months. 
The apparition of Our Lady of La Salette remains obscure to many, both in place and memo­ry. Though the Grotto may be the preferred sanctuary for prayer and reflection, Our Lady of La Salette holds a place in the history and spirituality of Notre Dame. 

WHATYOUSHOULDKNOW WHENAPPLYING TO LAW SCHOOL 
Presented by a panel of Notre Dame Law Students 
Tuesday, November 19 • 8:00p.m. Moot Court Room, 220 Law School 
w 

~r Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society """ 
Student Government can help with 
The Guide on-line! 
Just log onto our homepage at 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/ -studegov 
for exclusive information about professors, work load, exams and course evaluations. 
dA,

~ Your best weapon for DART (Besides the redial button.) 
-----~-------------------~------­

VIE'WPOINT
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Gricshop Accent Editor .......... ~ ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent rhc: opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and to all readers. The free expres~ion ofvarying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CoRNER••• 
Notre Dame and the Web: Let the censored speak 
obscene, adj. 1. offensive to modesty or decency; mdecent; lewd: obscene pictures. 2. causing, or intended to cause, sexual excitement or lust. 
"...graduate student and computer con­sultant. ..(who wished to remain anony­mous) noticed Apple's homepage and alerted..." 
Matthew Apple 

pornographic, n. obscene literature, art or photography, esp. that having little or no artistic ment. 
" ... was reported to Rapagnani a few weeks later by a party who wishes to remain anonymous." 
offensive, adj. 1. causing resentful dis­pleasure; high!}' irritating or annoying. 2. unpleasant or disagreeable to the sense. 
3. repugnant to the moral sense. 
"'Who does it and how it's done and what happens isn't relevant,' he says. 'Notre Dame is taking care of its busi­ness."' 
indecent, adj. 1. offending against recog­nized standards of propriety or good taste; vulgar. 2. not decent; unbecoming or unseemingly. 
The United Nation Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, 
Article 19: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions w1thout interference and to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers." 
vulgar, adj. 1. characterized by igno­rance of or lack of good breeding or taste: vulgar ostentation. 2. indecent; obscene; lewd: a vulgar work; a vulgar gesture. 
" ... this does not concern the First Amendment in any way ..." 
Theodore Schroeder: "Obscenity has no objective existence. It is neither a quality that inheres in or emanates from a book, picture or play. On the contmr}', obsceni­t}' is wholly an attitude or predisposition of the viewing and accusing mind, which is only delusionally read into, or ascribed to, that which is accused of being obscene." 
Excerpt from "Responsible Use of Information Technologies at Notre Dame," somewhere in Du Lac and on the internet: "Impermissible uses (some of which may also constitute illegal uses) include, but are not limited to, tlie follow­in~: [emphasis added] 
• Posting or sending obscene, porno­graphic, sexually explicit, or offensive material 
"• Posting or sending material that is contrary to the mission or values or the University." 
Quis custodiet ipsos custodes (Juvenal, The Satires, VI, 347)-"Who guards the guardians?" 
Anonymous Notre Dame parent: "I didn't send my daughter to Notre Dame to be subjected to perversity!" 
adult, adj. 1. having attained full size and strength; grown up; mature. 2. of, per­taining to, or befitting adults. 3. a. intended only for adults; not suitable for children. b. pornographic. --n. 4. a per­son who is fully grown or develoJ?ed or of age. 5. a person who has attamed the legal age of majority. 
The Bengal Bouts: boxing fights arranged for on-campus public displays by ana for a university with a mission whereby male members of the communi­ty between the ages of 18 and 22 are per­mitted to batter each other senseless "that weak bodies may be nourished." 
"'You have to understand how commit­ted Notre Dame is to protecting its image ... "' 
Lenny Bruce: "And you know why we got this -this is really wei1rd -the cen­sorship? It's motivated by bad early toilet training." 

Excerpt from text on the Notre Dame www server file listing Personal Pages at http://www.nd.edu:801PersonalPagesl: 
"The University of Notre Dame recog­nizes the .value and potential of personal publishing on the Internet, and so allows and encourages students, staff, and facul­ty to experiment with producing personal WWW pages. However, the University can accept no responsibility for the con­tents ofthose pages [emphasis added]. 
"The links from this page are the per­sonal home pages of Notre Dame stu­dents, staff, and faculty. While these pages do not in any way constitute offi­cial Notre Dame content, we hope you find the information in them useful, or at least entertaining. The views and opin­ions expressed in the pages below are strictly those of the page authors, and comments on the contents of those pages should be directed to the page authors [emphasis in original text]." 
disclaimer, n. 1. the act of disclaiming; the repudiating or denying of a claim; disavowal. 2. a person who disclaims. 3. a statement, document, or the like that disclaims. 
Excerpt from "Telecommunications Act amounts to censorship,'' the Observer, Feb. 14, 1996: "In deference to the free­thinking spirit of the CDA [Communications Decency Act], I have reserved a special Anti-Censorship page on my own homepage. Be warned: this page will contain a few graphic images and son~ lyrics which some may consider "vulgar' or simi?,lY "uncouth" and most definitely "unPC. ' I do this not because I particularly approve of juvenile pantings over naked men and women, but because I can do it. It is my right, as a U.S. citizen and as a human being." 
"...whenever someone from outside the Notre Dame community views your page, they see nd.edu in the address ... " 
Letter dated October 15, 1996: "Further, I am concerned that the juxta­position of links to your teaching materi­als and these photographs would create 'an intimidatmg, hostile, or offensive University environment' for your students as described in our University policy on sexual harassment... In my judgment, 
you essentially invited this outcome by the way you designed your homel?age. This is impermissible and, in my Judg­ment, wholly irresponsible warranting the actions I have taken." free will, 1. free choice; voluntary deci­sion. 2. Philos. the doctrine that the con­duct of human beings expresses personal choice and is not Simply determined by physical or divine forces. 
Excerpt from my personal statement to the Office of Residence Life, dated November 10, 1996: 
"The day after my AFS privileges were frozen without prior warning, Professor Kantor, Vice President and Associate Provost, hand-dellvered a letter,... In this letter, Professor Kantor allegea that the file contained 'offensive, sexuall}' orient­ed photographs of nude male and female figures accompanied by a vulgar narra­tive.' 
"In fact, the file contains the following: 
"The word WARNING! in bold capital letters and large font set to 'blink' repeat­edly; 
"A lengthy amount of text designed to fill one f7" computer screen top to bot­tom, explicitly explaining that the file had been created for the purposes of advocat­ing the First Amendment and rereating my personal distaste for materia whicn encoura~es the objectification of human beings ... 
Voltaire: "Though I may disagree with what you say, I will defend to tbe death your right to say it." 
degustibus non est disputandum ­"There is no disputing about tastes." 
(Unidentified quotes taken from the Scholastic, Nov. 14, and numerous phone conversations. Word defmitions courtesy of Webster's EncJiclopaedic Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language, 
excepting a personalized definition of legalized and evidently Catholic-approved thuggery.) 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English department who, as the constitution does not apply to private universities, must enjoy the right to free­dom ofexpression at an off-campus inter­net provider: mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 



page 8 Tuesday, November 19, 1996
ACCENT 

MTV invades Chicago's Hard Rock Cafe in search of road 
turned around and countered,  fabulous house.  n  
"Stand by. Rolling. So you think you're too normal to be on 'The Real World'?" With cameras and microphones in  cosmopolitan citl London. San Frar.MUSICTELEVISION. relaxing in the co(ning on the hotte!  
our five faces, we tried to be as  have earned fame, laru  
witty as possible, realizing this might just be our five minutes  MTV programming (i.e.: Vee-jay Eric who  
of fame.  We expressed our brilliant insight concerning diversi-·  Heal World"-New York), while others a  
ty as the key to the show, and knowledge that everyone  national lecture circuit.  
couldn't look like the cover model for Grunge magazine.  And what does MTV get in return'?  Millil  
Applications for both "The Real World" and "Road Rules"  in weekly to watch every aspect of these pe  
were then distributed  the a~  
to  anyone  mat oj  
between the  all se84  
ages of 18  else is~  
and 25, ask- the  o/  
ing  such  Moriss  
other  Notre  original,  the  
Dame students.  thought-provoking  Camer1  
Even  though  questions  as  "What  word 1  
was your most embar­ recon  
phone;  
ing category, we  "What  is  your  best  small1  
just couldn't com- quality?  Your worst?"  fessiol  
pete with the gentle- and "Why would you  for he1  
man standing in front  make an interesting  sions '  
of us, who had four huge,  roommate?"  thougl  



metal spikes emerging from As a matter of fact, every t his bottom lip, four nose pierces. three eyebrow rings and at why would we make of the I least 15 different earrings between both ears. His apparent good roommates? privacy fetish probably proved equally intimidating to the MTV execu-Because the show usu-may be tives that periodically circulated among the crowd. ally lacks a wholesome you see 
They walked up and down the line, sizing up the crowd, and Catholic character? TheObserver/AshleighThompson thing's announced that by· remaining in the line, we were agreeing to Because we scored once a allow our likenesses and voices to be used in an upcoming competitively on the HC?ards of Y.oung adults gather~d at the Hard Rock Cafe in downtown Chicago on undoub MTV documentary on the making of "The Real World." To be SAT? Geographic Fnday, hopmg to earn a place 1n the cast of The Real World or Road Rules. With : aired as the first episode of the Boston season {the site of the diversity? Maybe this to m a] 
own dorm room or computer cluster. 

To start your singing extravaganza, with· a sound card or a MIDI adapter that is external synthesizer. You will use your display the lyrics oftbe song. Instrument Digital Interface. It is a electronic musical instruments (such as ers, computer soundcards, etc.} can cmnrrttq other. The information on howthe song is MIDI file. 
If you have a PC, it is highly re.,.......... , wavetable synthesizer sound card as OpJJOS1~ thesizer. Wavetable soundcards have.,...,~~.,.,.,.. ings) of real instruments instead of their by FM synthesis. For Macintosh users, the into the computer. For more informationBy JASON HUGGINS tainment in which a live per&Q.Jl ~ings a song with a pre­
requirements, peruse the
WorW Wid~ Web Corre$ponde.m recorded accompanimentthatc~ · · playedback.by various www.teleport.com/-labrat/karfaq.shtml.
karaoke devices c~led<karaoke m · 
In the beginning there was only one file
Besides back he ac;cf>Inplmiment, the karaoke 
midi files: .kar. This flle format was uestgn19CI
this point in the semester. the traditional beer-and-machines the in-time with 
oud-music parties are getting old. As evidenced by the the music. ...·..... ""'"''"· orches-Corp. Even though this nle format is now ttendance at Keenan's Discomania on Friday, patties tra. This apan and company. it is still a prevailing file format in 
domain market. There are numerous fiJe
wiUt cool themes are becoming more and more popular with has would-be party-goers. One such theme my section has been Internet that are making these rues and 
puter karaoke player supports this file ,.,..,.....,,.,.
thinking about is having a karaoke night for our next party. club numerous shareware utilities written that
It's fun. but how do we do it? By using the Web, ofcourse! This Most people have seen. heard, or used karaoke equipment into a or play a .kar me. One such shareware program is. the 

. . 

at some time. in the last few years; Karaoke is aform of enter~ 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accem Editor 

ile the idea of joining the real world haunts like a 
ightmare for some, becoming part of MTV's "The 

Real World" may seem like a dream. Perhaps that's why almost 2000 hopefuls flocked to Chicago last Thursday and Friday, eager for their chance at stardom. Maybe that's why my friends and I jumped in a car of our own, complete with a full tank of gas and a carload of excitement. 
We honked and screamed and wondered which one of us would certainly be chosen, yet as we pulled up to Chicago's Hard Hock Cafe, we fell silent. Hoards of people meshed into a seattered line that spanned at least four bloeks, in what proved to be the largest response to an open eall that Music Television has ever received in its history. In the 20 degree weather, it was going to be a long wait. Thank goodness there was a lot to show for which we were auditioning), this documentary would reveal all stages of the show's production. Camera crews pulled Mr. Face Piercing out of the crowd to have a cute, pseudo-natural conversation on tape with Mr. Three-piece Suit. 
The obvious visual contrast the crew was attempting to force yet pass off as sponta­neous appeared almost obnox­ious, and as the Director passed us by in the line I shouted, "What? Are we too normal to be on 'The Real World'?" This challenge _pro­voked his attention, and he 
was the only part of the experience that was Decisions undoubtedly get made because o sonality trait or spec MTV executives noti the fact that I think you're their show pi bling as a job• But the chanc make whatever p tion occurs complel title of the show mi ticipants' lives are 1 world hardship. ~ approximately eigh an exciting metroJ paid, within the wal 


-------~ --·· ~­
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 9 

arriors and real roomies 
it. The as the par­but a real arranges for le to live in all expenses 
a humongous, been in such s New York, Q and Miami, clubs and tan­aches. Some on regular d on "The ally on the 
a viewer, you 
by what 
hear, but one 
sure, at least 
everyone we 
to use a. 
FM syn~ 
........ n ..''" record­produced card is built... tho hardware FAQ at 
ever knew insane with envy, we stood in line for an hour. Then two. Then three. We huddled together, trying to keep warm, and were comforted by visions of our house in "The Real World"-Boston. The roommates will be working at a youth community center, and this is where we thought we had our true advantage. Knowing that they couldn't pick people who would trauma­tize the chil­dren, our con­fidence grew when reflect­ing upon our relatively conservative appearances. All we had to do was sit and wait for the intervie'h to convince MTV of 
what  we  alread~  
knew.  
Several  MTV  inter­ 

viewers waited inside, but a5. 

the onslaught of perspectives fun­neling on to Ontario and Clark Street grew, the intense, per­sonal interview process apparently dwindled to six people seat·· ed around a table, with an interviewer asking two o.r three of them a single question. With this consolation in mind, we didn't feel so depressed when quitting time eventually rollec. around just as we neared the restaurant entrance. MTV per-­sonnel announced that they were getting kicked out of the Hard Rock Cafe, and that they would accept all remainin~: applications and photos. Handing the casting agent our appli·· cations and photos felt like throwing them in the garbage, but since that minute possibility of getting a call still existed, we smiled as walked into the warm Hard Rock Cafe. 
My comrades and I slumped around the table and ordered beverages, attempting to alleviate our frostbitten bodies while contemplating our day. We felt tired and a little disappointed, but had a lot of fun during the one-of-a-kind experience, if foJ:­no other reason than escaping South Bend for the day. 
When "The Real World"-Boston cast members grace our television sets iri several months, the five of us will probably laugh and remember the day we tried to make this dream our reality. At least our absence from the cast won't be for lack of trying. The warped and wonderful characters will experience their own self-absorbed trials and tribulations for all of America to see, and I'm sure somewhere along the line, I'll watch and think that I could've taught them something about the what the real world really is. 
-------------------------------------------------~~-------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 10
The Observer • SPORTS 


Capitals defeat league-leading Panthers in Miami 
By JOHN PACENTI like we did last game we came Red Wings 2, Coyotes 2 the third period when he was from in close midway into the Associated Press Writer in here," Allison said. awarded a penalty shot after opening period. Bondra set up the Capitals' Darren McCarty scored with being pulled down from behind MIAMI first goal at 6:02 of the opening 1:43 remaining Monday night by Ward. The Bruins made it 2-1 when 
The Washington Capitals did period when from to lift the Detroit Red Wings to But Hudson, playing his first Moger redirected Ray something Monday night that Washington's zone -he put a 2-2 tie with Phoenix Coyotes. game for Phoenix after being Bourque's shot past Terreri at no other team has done this the puck on the blade of Brendan Shanahan also recalled from the Phoenix 14:35 of the first period. season. They made the Florida Krygier. scored a goal and assisted on Roadrunners of the Bourque fired a shot from along Panthers look bad. the game-tying goal for the Red International Hockey League on the right boards and Moger, 
Chris Simon scored twice, and Krygier, who was racing Wings. Sunday, fired the puck directly positioned in front, tipped the Todd Krygier added a goal and down the right boards, beat Jeremy Roenick and Chad into Osgood's right pad. shot inside the right post. an assist to lead Washington to Florida goaltender John Kilger scored first-period goals Osgood, who has stopped all Seconds after a Boston power its third consecutive victory Vanbiesbrouck stickside with less then a minute apart for the three penalty shots taken play expired early in the second with a 4-2 win over Florida. the slapshot for a 1-0 lead. Coyotes. who are winless in against 'him during his four­period, Troy Mallette's goal 
Washington made it 2-0 at nine of their last 10 hom'e year career, made 21 saves for made it 3-1. 
The Capitals outshot the 8:12 of the first when Andrei games (1-6-3). Detroit. San Jose closed to 3-2 on Panthers 20-7 in the first pe­Nikolishin flipped out a pass Phoenix goaltender Nikolai Tony Granato's goal midway riod and took a 3-0 lead. from behind the goal line and Khabibulin made 34 saves. Bruins 4, Sharks 2 into the period. 
"It felt pretty weird on the Bondra redirected it to Simon Shanahan set up the game­Moger's second goal, with whole," Florida's Scott in front of the net for the score. tying goal when he gained con­Sandy Moger had two goals 1:43 to go in the third period, Mellanby said. "It was foreign The goal extended Simon's trol of the puck to the left of the and an assist and Bill Ranford made it 4-2. territory. You couldn't help but scoring streak to four games. net and skated toward the made 31 saves Monday night as Rick Tocchet returned to the pinch yourself and say this isn't The Washington scoring crease. Khabibulin made the the Boston Bruins continued Boston lineup after missing two us." surge didn't stop there. The initial save, but McCarty batted their dominance over San Jose games with a sprained shoul­
The loss was only the third of Capitals took advantage on the in the puck from the top of the by beating the Sharks 4-2. der. the year for Florida (11-3-5) power play at 12:12 of the first crease. Steve Heinze and Troy and its first by more than one when Sergei Gonchar picked up Roenick gave Phoenix a 1-0 Mallette also scored for the Flames 5, Rangers 3 goal. Washington, which start­a rebound and put it by lead at 9:28 of the first period Bruins, who won their third ed out 1-5, moved over .500 for Vanbiesbrouck, who was with his third goal in two straight game. The Calgary Flames snapped the first time this season at 10-screened by Krygier and his games. The victory also extended out of their slump with a big 9-0. own defenseman. Kilger extended the Coyotes' Boston's unbeaten streak third period Monday night. 
"Instead of fighting to get to lead 40 seconds later when he against San Jose to 10 games Theoren Fleury scored twice, .500, our goal is to get to the Florida got one back with one-timed a Bob Corkum pass (7-0-3). The Bruins and New including the go-ahead goal in top," said Capitals center Jason 1:48 left in the first period past Osgood from between the York Rangers are the only two the third, as the Flames rallied Allison. "We are not satisfied to when Scott Mellanby scored his circles. teams the Sharks have never to beat the New York Rangers just to make it to the middle." first shorthanded goal in his Shanahan's short-handed beaten. 5-3. 
Florida's comeback efforts 11-year career to cut the lead goal at 14:47 of the first period San Jose goalie Chris Terreri, With the score tied 2-2 in the were thwarted by Washington to 3-1. pulled Detroit within a goal. playing in his first game since third, Fleury scored his second goaltender Olaf Kolzig, who Simon made it 4-1 at 6:29 of Shanahan faked right to draw injuring his wrist Oct. 20, made goal of the night on a power made 27 saves and stopped the third on a breakaway, just Khabibulin to the ice and fired 23 saves. The Sharks are win­play at 7:07, blasting a slapshot several one-on-one breaks. getting it by Vanbiesbrouck into the open net. less in their last four games (0-from the blue-line past goal­
"I thought Kolzig was the dif­with a slow-rolling backhand. The Red Wings appeared to 2-2). tender Mike Richter. ference," said Florida coach Florida's Radek Dvorak finished tie the game when right wing The Bruins scored three Three minutes later, Fleury Doug MacLean. "He made six the scoring with his fourth goal Mathieu Dandenault blasted a unanswered goals after San assisted on Jonas Hoglund's or eight unbelievable saves." of the season with 3:22 left in 40-foot wrist shot at 15:33 of Jose had taken a 1-0 lead on goal on a 2-on-1 break. 
Simon and Krygier, who the game. the second period. Viktor Kozlov's spectacular goal "We really dug down in the didn't play when the Panthers Krygier has seven points in But video goal judge Don in the first period. third and came up with a big beat the Capitals 4-2 on Nov. 7, his last five games, while Simon Moffatt disallowed the score, Kozlov, braking in down the effort to get us these two made the difference Monday has three goals since coming to ruling left wing Tomas right wing, faked defenseman points," Fleury said. "No ques­night. the Caps in a Nov. 2 trade with Holmstrom was standing in the Don Sweeney out of position tion, this win will give us a lot 
Also making big contributions Colorado. crease as the puck went in the before firing a rising wrist shot of confidence starting this for the Caps were Peter Bondra "He has been a real addition net. over Ranford's left shoulder homestand." and Andrei Nikolishin, who to our hockey club," coach Jim Phoenix center Mike Hudson 7:19 into the first period. James Patrick and Dave each had two assists. Shoenfeld said of Simon. "He had a chance to extend the Boston tied it when Steve Gagner also scored for the 
"We didn't want to start out has been playing well and his Coyotes' lead midway through Heinze pushed his second Flames, who were 1-5-1 in 
confidence level is way up." rebound attempt past Terreri their previous seven games. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
Meals. Free Parties. Taxes! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $4191 Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights $1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391 Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
WOMEN OFFICER MARINES TO DISCUSS CAREER OPTIONS! A PANEL OF FEMALE U.S. MARINE OFFICERS WILL DISCUSS THEIR EXPERIENCES IN THE USMC, FOLLOWED BY A QUESTION & ANSWER PERIOD. 7 P.M., TUES­DAY, 19 NOVEMBER, MORRIS INN, ALUMNI ROOM. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: (800)945-3088 

ILOST & FOUND I 
FOUND: One gold necklace between LaFortune and Hayes­Healy. To claim call George x3669 
WANTED 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (8 13)360-2243. 

EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55843 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55849 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55848 
NEEDED:1 ROOMATE!TURTLE 
CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634­
2059 
Part Time Nanny Needed. 
Flexible hours. Call 273-2713 -
FOR RENT 
I 

REGGAE D. J. 234 0705 
2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306 
Rooms for Rent F-Ball wknds. in home 2 mis. N. of campus cont. brkfst inc! 277-8340 
FOR SALE 
NEW SINGLE BED WITH FIGHT­ING IRISH COMFORTER, FRAMED N.D. POSTER, T.V. WITH STAND VACCUUM CLEAN­ER, N.D. WINE GLASSES BLUE AND GOLD DISHES, VARIETY OF KITCHEN ITEMS CALL 277-7829 
Macintosh Power Book 520 with 
color screen, modem included & 
portable color Hewlett Packard 
printer for SALE!!! 4-1266 Mary. 
House for Sale by Owner 1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3 Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths, 1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ment. ale, disposal, all appliances, Security System.Completely refreshed to sell. asking 88,500. Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. Call219-295-8727 
TRANSFERABLE $1000 
VOUCHER ON AMERICAN AIRLINES $800 OBO 
2719387 
Rutgers GAs for sale: up to 6 seats together; (219) 250-3150 
########################## 
FOR SALE: 4 Rutgers student tickets call Jenny @ 687-8435 
########################## 
!II!!I!RUTGERS GA FOR SALE! II!!!!! .....Call Nicole @ 4x28or···· 
2 RUT. GAs 4 SALE X2626,2597: lv.offer 
For Sale 2 Rutger GA 243-9384 FOR SALE-2 GA's and 1 student ticket for Rutgers. Call 634-4985 with best offer. 

I NEED 2 GA's FOR RUTGERS 
CALL MIKE 243-9403 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. 
BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 
ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
$$$$$$ 
I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
272-6551 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­Check our price 674-7645. 
GA.s FOR SALE GA.s ""'"'"""'""PITI, RUTGERs , USC , GA.s CALL. ....272-7233. 
Need Rutgers GA's? 
3 for sale@ 277-9957 
Need 4 Rutgers GAs Katie x3572 
3 DAVE MATI.BAND TIX OR $65 FOR A RUTG. STU. GA CALL ED @1350 
I NEED TWO RUTGERS G.A.'S. URGENT!! CALL NEIL 243-9219 
SALE: RUTGERS STD.TIX. 273­8262 & 243-8161. 
Sale: Two GA's for RUTGERS. Call277-1530. 
• •NEED 2 G.A.'s FOR USC• • • •please call 243-0760. • 

4 SALE: 3 RUTGERS STUDENT TIX DINA 43144 
PERSONAL 

Looking for a place to eat with your parents this weekend? Come to Guido & Murphy's Italian Restaurant!! Formerly "the Works" but now much better!! Call 232-4414 for reservations. 
DANCERSDANCERSDANCERS BALLROOM DANCERS COME AND LEARN THE FOXTROT AND REVIEW STEPS LEARNED EAR­LIER THIS SEMESTER! WHEN: TONIGHT I 6:00-8:00 IN STEPAN CENTER ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Roxana, 

Some ask, "Is it possible? That I'm a lover?" Answering I say, "Fool! I love Juliets! But am I Romeo? No! I am only a moth that stumbles at a star. 
Cyrano 

Mail Starved Demers in lnnsbruck crave correspondence!! lnnrain 33 A-6020 lnnsbruck Tirol, Austria Europe 
•••SLF IS COMING:•• Start preparing early by coming to the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov. 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom, from 8-1 0 pm. Come to listen or sign up in the DH to read or play music. All are welcome. 
They closed down the auto plan in Mahwah late last month. Ralph went out looking for a job, but he couldn't find none. he came home too drunk from mix­ing Tanqueray and wine Got a gun dshot a night clerk now they call him Johnny 99. 
To all of you, especially Lauren, 
Carol, PAS and STUDS, my eternal thanks for supporting me in these past dark days. To those of you (excluding MS) who betrayed my trust, pray to whatever God you believe in tonight. 
"ANONYMOUS" 
THANKS ST. JUDE FOR FAVORS GRANTED. TKS 
Connolly, how do you feel today? Remember this time last year? The horrid smell of smoke infested clothing. The day after. it's fun being 21 isn't it? Welcome, pall! I --------Joseph Hyder of 304 Keough doesn't flush. Ask him why! --------To repeat: Freshman Joe Hyder of South Bend DOES NOT FLUSH!! 
needed: a sports writer to cover fencing for The Observer. please call 1-4543. 
STANLEY-i have what U R looking 4. Rendez-vous 1900 hours @ the new Juice Bar. -IRIS 
To my posse: 0-Ball, ll., Mike D, Special K, and Mo .... Peace Out! II -C-note 
Hi everyone You're glad you are not us!l!!ll!llll 


------------~---------------~-~~~-------------------------, 
-I I 
I 
I 
,I 
I 
I 
I 
l 

Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 Experience the Extra~ordinary ;4 7~ Z)~ ~ 1~ eued p~ ~~~w-Ill Tuesday. [M)~@lf ~ ®\!Gu 8:00 p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall ~~ t6 tpJ«-4 S~ri~ ''Mentalist Extraorclinaire•• Ticl<ets on sale at the L~aFortune Information Desk Tickets are $3, but you cctn get a r?Itlr~rn one from any Student Prograrnmer! If you know who we are!  

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
• NFL

Record 
continued from page 16 
Boniol, 'Boys kick around Packers, 21-6 
her achieve her goal. The freshman has been stretching longer, doing breathing exer­cises, and working to add dis­tance to her stroke. Progress has already been made. Samreta started out the season with sixteen reaches per length and now that's down to fifteen. 
Time is really on Samreta's side in a two-fold way. The swimming season has just be­gun and Samreta is only a freshman. If she keeps up her current pace with each meet, it will be only a matter of time before the record book will need to be changed again. 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
counted, hitting seven of its last nine field goals to seal the pro­gram's biggest victory in years. 
"To play as well as we did against a Final Four caliber team this early in the season is really encouraging," comment­ed Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "We controlled the tempo from start to finish. We went up against a good team and showed that we are a good team as well. We played with a great deal of poise." 
Please Recycle The 

Since losing 38-27 here in the NFC title game last January, the Packers had been pointing to this game as a chance to demonstrate that they had passed the three-time Super Bowl winners at the top of the conference. 
Instead, they lost by double digits for the seventh time in seven games in Texas. 
The Packers came in severely handicapped on offense ­without Robert Brooks and Antonio Freeman, their top wide receivers, and tight end Mark Chmura. 
All were injured and sorely missed against the NFL's lead­ing defense. 
Night Olympic g Committee interested, please 
Kara at 1~8237, 

ookstore Basketball ­,Applications for commis­sioners are now available in the Student Government of­fice, They must be turned in by Friday, November 22. 
Bengal Bouts • . 

mandatory meeting for all interested in participating in the Bengal Bouts will be held Wednesday, November at 4:00p.m. in the boxing · m of the J.A.C.C.. stions contact. John 
ri!Ot,l\tnt·P.tti at 243-9287. 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
IRVING, Texas 
The Dallas Cowboys have beaten the Green Bay Packers in some notable shootouts the past three years. 
Chris Boniol's foot was the only weapon they needed Monday night. 
Boniol, who was in bed with the flu for two days last week, tied an NFL record with seven field goals as the Cowboys beat the Packers 21-6, their seventh straight win over Green Bay in four seasons -all at Texas Stadium. 
Boniol's first five field goals 
Observer 

Summer Grants for Undergraduate Research on International Issues 
Informational Meeting For Interested Students 
W~clim~$cl~y~ Nov~mm1b~Ir 2({]) JRoomm Jl Jl ~ ][))~lB~Ir1tCO)RCO) 5~ (())(()) IPM 
Grant Competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Travel and  Further information  
expenses up  available from Professor Michael Francis  
to $3,000  Hesburgh Center 312  

I'm proud of," Boniol said. ''I'm not excited about what hap­pened after the fact, but how many times do you get to kick seven field goals?" 
The Cowboys (7-4) pulled into a second-place tie with Philadelphia in the NFC East. Dallas trails Washington by one game, and has two games left against the Redskins. 
Green Bay (8-3) lost for the second straight week, but re­mains in good shape in the NFC Central, two games ahead of Minnesota. 
But the loss meant more to Green Bay than just a game in the standings. 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 

Ex-Irish recruit arrested again 
Associated Press 
ST. ALBANS, W.Va. 
Marshall athletic department officials said Monday they were investigating a scuffle between record-setting wide receiver Randy Moss and his ex-girl­friend. 
Coach Bob Pruett and athletic director Lance West said no decision had been made about whether disciplinary action would be taken against Moss, who has 1,173 yards receiving this season and two previous brushes with the law. 
Moss, 19, and Elizabeth Offutt, 21, of St. Albans, were charged with domestic battery after a scuffle Sunday at Offutt's home. She also was came on Dallas' first five pos­sessions. The last two came in the second half, the final one a 28-yarder with 20 seconds left in the game to tie the mark shared by Jim Bakken and Rich Karlis. 

Right before the record-tying kick, Dallas quarterback Troy Aikman took a knee and the Cowboys called timeout to get Boniol onto the field. 
After the kick, the teams milled around, with the Packers apparently angry about Dallas adding a needless score. Reggie White appeared the most upset as he jawed with Cowboys re­ceiver Michael Irvin. 
"I feel good, it's something 
charged with destruction of property. Both are free on bond. 
The charges carry a sentence of up to a year in jail. 
Police reports indicated nei­ther Moss nor Offutt was seri­ously injured. 
"We're still trying to gather information on it," Pruett said. "Randy's part of our family. Any time any member of your family has a problem, you try to stick by them and support them. To be fair to everyone in­volved, I don't think we need to make any comment or any de­cisions until I get all the facts." 
Marshall has been ranked No. 1 in Division I-AA all season and probably will be seeded first by the NCAA in the 16­team playoff field. The playoffs begin Nov. 30. 
Moss caught at least one touchdown pass in every game for Marshall (11-0), breaking the 1-AA record of 10 consecu­tive games with touchdown re­ceptions, set by Mississippi Valley State's Jerry Rice in 1984. In March 1995, Moss was arrested for beating a fel­low DuPont High School stu­dent. His probation on that charge was revoked in June after he smoked marijuana, and he subsequently was kicked off Florida State's team. 
A judge released Moss from jail prior to this football season, and he was no longer on proba­tion when he attended Marshall this fall. 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
rm 

Plnunr 01 
~on1~n ann 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MEN'S SWIMMING • WOMEN's SWIMMING 
Irish confident despit(~ d€~feat Fresh01en strong in 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA and improve in all parameters lost." Sports Writer of their swimming, but were Indeed, Notre Dame has im­unable to defeat the Panthers, proved with every meet that 
conference victory
"There are two types of excellence in swimming," stat­ed swimming coach Tim Welsh. "One is time and the other is place. We have achieved excel­lence in the first regard and are confident that we will have success in the second regard soon." 
This statement applies to the Notre Dame men's swimming team, which suffered a tough loss, 180-115, at the hands of Big East rival the University of Pittsburgh last Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The team continued to swim faster times who are favored to place either first or second in the Big East this year. 
Although the margin of defeat was the largest of any of their losses this year, the Irish re­mained positive, and for good reason. According to Coach Welsh, "One of our objectives was to measure ourselves against what might be the fastest team in the Big East. I am encouraged by the im­provement of the team from week to week and am pleased with the way we swam against Pittsburgh even though we they have swam this year. 
Appalachia Setninar Task Force  
~he Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking one membe1 to join the Appalachia Task Force for the spring semester 1997 and the 1997-98 school year. This is a three semester commitment. The Task Force consists of seven undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experimental learning as a means to enhance higher education; there­fore, we are in need of an interested, enthusiastic, and committed person to join us.  
Applications: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday, November 22, 1996 For further information: M.J. Adams, 634-3880, Lauren Stein, 634-3690, or Rachel Tomas-Morgan, 282-2209  

There were some individual highlights for the Irish in this loss. Matt Rose, narrowly de­feating teammate Steve Whowell, took first place in the 100 meter breaststroke while Herb Huesman placed first in one-meter diving. Rose also placed second in the 200 meter breaststroke and Scott Zumbach finished second in the 200 meter butterfly and the 400 meter individual medley. Ron Royer took three second­place finishes in the 200 meter medley relay, the 50 meter freestyle, and the 100 meter freestyle. Other Irish swim­mers who placed in the top three in events included Chris Fugate, Jeff Page, John Lubker, Robert Fetter, Tyler Maertz, and Rob Lambert. 
The loss to a tough Panthers squad dropped the Irish to a 2­3 record, a record that is de­ceiving because this has been a successful year so far for the Notre Dame men's swimming team. 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team gained momentum with a win over Big East foe Pittsburgh at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Friday. 
The Irish started out strong by winning the 200 meter med­ley relay. 
Despite one relay team's dis­qualification, the team of Allison Brooks, Shannon Suddarth, Liz Barger and Courtney South finished three meters ahead of the leading Pitt team, opening up a nine point lead. 
They continued to dominate, leading by thirty-one points after five events. Notre Dame never trailed against the Panthers. as they claimed every non-diving event. Pittsburgh's Jaime Tomazich won both the one and three meter diving events. 
Three women placed first in more than one individual 
University o:f Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
Univt!rsity of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 
Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
jf~lll QConcert 1996 
Lotti Bach Handel Mendelssohn Liszt 
8:00p.m. Wednesday, November 20 Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 
Student Govern1ne~nt's Financial Aid Dept. wants YOU!! 
If you're interested in: 
• 
Finding scholarships and aid for others while helping yourself 

• 
Getting involved in Student Government 


Join us at the Student Go\irernment office on the 2nd Floor of l.~aFortune on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. 
FREE PIZZA!! If you can't make the meeting, call Mark at 4-3677 

event. Linda Gallo placed first in both the 1000 freestyle and the 500 freestyle. Courtney South won the 100 and 200 freestyle while freshman Shannon Suddarth won the 200 breaststroke and the 400 individual medley. 
The freshman swimmers won many of the events in the meet. Allison Hollis claimed first in the 100 backstroke and Brittany Kline won in the 100 breaststroke. 
Other freshmen winners in­cluded Laura Shepard in the 50 freestyle and Leticia Herrera in the 100 butterfly. 
"The freshmen played a major role," South commented on the performance this Friday. 
"We have about nine fresh­men on the team, and they swam really well. They were excellent in our wins last weekend and they really stepped up against the Panthers." 
Notre Dame's women's squad, having won their last three meets, now improve to 3­1. 
The Irish dive into action again when they play host to the Notre Dame Invitational Dec. 5-7 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS. 
Thinkofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
i semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I I~ITI=n II~A()
'Vi ~= i i..i.....F i-ii 'i i'V' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
Uoununr <>f N<>Ul Duu
_.,.,.,.,r,.,v,.•.,,.,, 
' 

~----------------~--------------------------------------------------~----------­

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
---· 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Harriers dominate District IV 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 

It's like deja vu. 
The Notre Dame men's cross­country team is again peaking at the right time, as the team won the 1996 District IV meet in Champaign, Illinois on Saturday. Last year the Irish finished third at the Big East fi­nals, second at the District IV meet and finished off the sea­son with an eighth place finish at the NCAA's. 
The Irish dominated the field by finishing four runners in the top 10. When Tim Englehardt finished in 31st place, the vic­tory was sealed for the Irish who beat out defending cham­pion Wisconsin by three points. After struggling in recent weeks, Notre Dame returned to the form the team had in the beginning of the season when the Irish were consistently fin­ishing three runners in the top­10. 
The day belonged to the first four runners who qualified for the Irish. Jason Rexing re­peated his Big East finals per­formance, finishing in second place out of 240 runners behind Michigan's John Mortimer. A trio of Irish run­ners filled out the top-10. Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling and Joe Dunlop finished eighth, ninth and tenth respectively. The three runners were separated six-hundredths of a second. 
"I guess we are vindicated for our fourth place finish at the Big East championships," joked coach Tom Piane. "We ran very well. I have been to a lot of dis­trict meets, 22 in fact, and I had never known so early in a race that we had qualified for the NCAA's. I knew at about 3,000 meters that we had qualified because we had our four guys running really well. I didn't know we would win the meet until 6,000 meters." 
Dunlop was clearly a pleasant surprise for Notre Dame. He saved his best performance for the last and most important meet of the season. Dunlop had continually been the fourth Irish finisher in meets but this was easily his highest finish of the season. 

"He's the linchpin of the team," Piane said of Dunlop. "Honestly, I knew Joe could run very well. lf he runs well, the team runs well. Rexing, Seiling and Althoff ran the way they have all year nut Joe Dunlop was the key for us. He ran ex­tremely well and Tim Englehardt ran terrific also." 
Now the men set their sights on Arizona and the NCAA meet, which will be held on Monday, November 25. The Irish ran well there early in the season, finishing in eighth place against an array of teams similar to those that will be represented next Monday. 
The two top teams look to be Arkansas and Stanford. The top-ranked Arkansas Razorbacks are the defending national champions and return the same team as last year. 
"After this weekend we are very excited about the meet," said Piane. "We are awfully positive coming off the meet. Antonio Arce ran very well at last year's finals and I hope he can bounce back and do that again." 
Gender Studies Critical Issues Roundtable 
AIDS Education: 
Resources and Challenges in the Notre Dame/South Bend Community 
Presenters: 

•Deb Stanley, AIDS Ministries --South Bend 
•Sylvia Galvan, AIDS Ministries--South Bend 
•Scott Baker, AIDS Awareness/SWAT-Notre Dame 
•Steve Newton, Rector, Sorin Hall --Notre Dame 
Moderator --Tony Silva, Gender Studies Concentrator 
WEDNESDA~ NOVEMBER 20 4:30 = 6:00 140 DEBARTOLO 
leHers ab 
Do you have ajunior abroad? Drop off a Lafortune by Thurs. 
Buy yours at 213 Lafortune
we will mail Hfor you! 
Today from 7to 9pm 

Tut.:sJ.t_l. ~ovember 19, 1996 Thf: Observer • TODAY page 15 MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 



MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

CATBE.RT: EV[L H.R. DIRECTOR " 
\-\E.'S B~NNlNG POPCORN! i
~==================~-Jg 
FIRS\ IT WA:, TOB.b.C.C01
TO: ft..LL E.MPLO'fE.E.S 
11-\E.N PERFUME, NOW
THE. SMELL OF POPCOR.l\1 
\HIS ... THERE'S ONLY
lN T~E OFFICE. IS 
ONE POLLUTANT LEFT. 
O~PROFESSIONAL ... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Network'' 55 Pay 1o play. w1th sat1nst 
""up··

1 Movie souvenir 
31 Birds at sea 56 Mrs Chaplin

5 E. coli 
32 Was in debt 57 Three-time

watchdog: 
PGA
33 Ktnd of soup

Abbr. 
tournament
34 Duds

a Neil Simon's 
champ
35 Algebraic

"--Suite" 
58 Pastry chef, at
grouping

13 Moon goddess times
37 Halcyon

14 Unaccompa-59 Resort near Mt.
38 Prefix with 

nied Jackson
lateral 

15 Arthur Miller's so Swarm
39 Swiss river

salesman 61 Law, to Lucius
40 Marx and

16 Genesis son 62 "Laugh-In" 
Malden 17 Opposed to, in 
name
41 "Pulcinella" 

dialect 
composer 18 Do penance 
45 Biblical verb DOWN 19 Noted Ballet suffix Russe dancer 46---Day 1 Eastern European
22 The "A" in vitamins ThomasA. 47 Eighth in a 
2 Bottom brass Edison Taylor series 3 French 23 ---Cat (winter 54 J.F.K. terminal 
articles vehicle) architect 4Chopin compositions 5 After-dinner ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE sipping 6 Sixth-century 
date 7 And, e.g.: Abbr. a Mapped out 9Many 
10 Run--(go off ..,.=+;:;+::::+==t=~ course) 
H-=:+7+:::..1"'.,..,::,:+:::+=+=-~-=+=+7-t::±:-1 11 Off the wall 
8877+-=+=---•.::::=+=+:::-+=-...., -7+:':+::-+.::::-1 12 Chemical suffix 14 "Get it?" 20 Local 
legislators: Abbr. -=+='++±::-! 21 "The best-­to come" ..:....~.CJ.::...J..:...:....• 24 Pitchfork part 
) 
25 Surgical procedure, for short 
26 Hebrew prophet 27Wonder 28 Explosion's 
cause 29 Shade of green 30 Candied items 31 Holder for 
needles and things 35 Frazzled comic strip heroine 36 Puckster Bobby 37 Womanizer 

Sign up for a fitness class in thek~~ office today. All classes are half price. 


39 Spannirg 4913omb 
50"--bitten, · twice shy" 
40 Baby be uncer 
42 Go over again 51 l=ly high
43 Maelstrom 

Wanted: Reporters, 
52 Sweater, 
44 Lay to re1st 
usually 47 Alphabe-tic run 53 Word on a lock 48 Copyca: 54 l_anguage suffix 

photographers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

and editors. 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-51356 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunc ay crosswoms from fhe last 

Join The Observer staff. 
50 years: HI88-7-ACROSS. 

R"""'"-7-~ 
A healthy body malkes for a strong mind. 
tlt\1'1'\ IIIK I HIM\~ II\ 1111'. NEXT YEAR OF YOliR LIFE: Keep up the good work. You are doing great' Home life will hold real charm next month. There is no place you would rather be for the holi­days' A career decision you make in January will result in rewards and honors next fall. The future of a romantic alliance depends on your willingness to make a true commit­ment. Fame and fortune could fol­low the signing of a book or enter­tainment contract. Do not neglect tried-and-true friends. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Jodie Foster, fashion designer Calvin Klein, sportscaster Ahmad Rashad, actress Meg Ryan. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): When someone behaves erratically, take the hint. Distance yourself until the cause is known. Solo projects enjoy highly beneficial influences. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional undercurrents are felt at work or home. Others may be reluc­tant to reveal their true feelings. Talking openly about your hopes and dreams with loved ones will encourage them to do the same. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make the most of every minute at work. You are on a roll! Do every­thing possible to further important goals. Your words and actions sway others. Use your influence wisely; be an advocate for harmony. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):

SCOTT ADAMS 
Business allies admire your drive. Ration your energy; tackle top prior­ity projects first. Use shortcuts only if certain that you can get the same results. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to the straight and narrow when around conservative people. Concentrate on 

v.ork alrcad) Ill pn•grc"'· po-..tpun ing a pel project until a more appru priat~ time. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22J Rely on your instinct' when dealing with new people. Efforts to obtain financial hacking for a major ven· turc are favored. One-on-one meet ings prove most effective. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Rev yourself if you are not feeling at your best. Letting your co-worke" take the lead in t;.usiness meetings will give you an opportunity to learn from their mistakes. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Studying your finances will let you find ways to improve them. Profes­sional advice pays off. A close rela­tionship offers you lasting security. A dream can come true if you con­fide in a friend or relative. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Tempers flare over budget 
restrictions or a change in financial 
policy. Tum your creative or artistic 
ideas into a source of income. Nur­
ture your friendships. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Repaying a loan with interest 
will give you a feeling of accomplish­
ment. Take advantage of a unique 
chance to travel. A fascinati!lg new­
comer adds excitement to yourtife. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Someone who courts you is mainly 
interested in your assets. Come to 
terms with the truth and stop playing 
the fool. Home-study courses will 
increase your business skills. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be 
realistic. Others may be too busy to 
give you much assistance. Concen­
trate on projects you handle alone. 
Reserve judgment. if confused by 
your partner's activities. Withhold a 
decision until more facts and figures 
are available. 

Be sure to bring your student/staff ID with you whenev•~r you are using any of the athletic facilities on campus. 631-· 

_... 
• 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Gaither buries Hawkeyes 
Seniors lead No. 20 Notre Dame to early seson upset ofIowa 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
The season is hardly two games old, yet Notre Dame is spinning the world of women's basketball on its fingertips. 
The Irish women won a landmark game .}unday night, handing the sixth­rankea Iowa Hawkers grim defeat, 61­50, in their own Carver Hawkeye arena to advance to the semifinals of the Preseason WNIT. 
The shocker was Notre Dame's third­ever victory over a top-10 opponent, but the Irish will have ample opportunity to expand that figure tonight against fourth-ranked perennial powerhouse Tennessee in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
Once again, Katryna Gaither owned the floor, torching Iowa for 27 points and 14 boards. 
"One thing I wanted to do was go hard 
The mens soccer team will face UNC-Greensboro on Sunday in the first round ofNCAA tournament play. 
/ 

*1. Washington. nta Clara 
lifornia *Fresno State · 
*Cal State Fullerton 
LA 

*Southern Methodist 
1996 DivisiOn 

to the boards," explained Gaither. "On offense, I just wanted to go inside." 
Gaither took over the game from the very start of the contest, scoring eight of the team's first 10 points and swinging the momentum to Notre Dame for an 8-0 early lead, one it would never relinquish. 
The senior star picked up where she left off in the second half. Gaither scored to boost the Irish lead to 10, then seconds later connected on one of two free throws, but followed her missed shot to complete a three-point play. 
Iowa head coach Angie Lee was quite impressed with Gaither's performance. 
"She's incredible," Lee said. "Talk about somebody who doesn't quit. She doesn't quit." 
Things became sticky though as the Hawkeyes cut the lead to 34-33 with 
15:35 left in the game. Instead of buck­ling under the pressure, -as they may have done in days past, the Irish, led by Beth Morgan and Gaither, buried their victims with a 15-3 run over the next seven minutes. 
Notre Dame then caught fire when it 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

see HOOPS 1page 12 Senior center Katryna Gaither poured in 27 points as the Irish advanced to the semifinals of the preseason NIT by beating sixth-ranked Iowa. 
Finals t----. Richmond, Va 
Dec. 15 

_ ___. Creighton 
*Virginia George Mason 
Fordham *St. John's 
·,; 

Semifinals 1----~ Richmond, Va rmy Dec. 13 *4. William & Mary 
*3. N.C. Greensboro 
·-···-----··-· __ ,,,,_,_,,.,_ Notre Dame 
*N.C. Charlotte 
ChaJieston (S.C.) Boston U. *Harvard 
Hartford _4fJ§!hode Island .. ,."__:_sowlin.g Gre Ailliiiimii&Wetrolt Me *India l'lm!l~f Evansvill *Rutgers Cornell South Flo *2. Florida Int. 
Observer File 
The Notre Dame fencing team made a very positive showing at the Penn State Open this past weekend. Performances such as that _of fre~hman Magda Krol, who defeated the defending national champion in the epee, bode well for lnsh nattonal tttle hopes. See tomorrow's Observer for in-depth coverage. 
vs. Rurgers,

-NCAA T'ournament November 23, 12:30 p.m. 
at UNC-Greensboro 
:.a:
NCAA Tournament 

Sunday, I p.m. 
-
vs. Wisconsin
(•'
-Sunday, 1 p.m. 
• SMC SWIMMING 

Freshman phenom smashes record 
Samreta begins assault on SMC record book 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Get out the record book be­cause a change needs to be made. A 13 year old school record has been broken -by 
a fresh­man. 
In Thursday's home swim meet ver~ sus Calvin College, S a i n t 

Mary's Samreta newcomer Michelle Samreta set a new record in the 100 breast­stroke with a time of 1:12.23. The old record of 1:13.98 had been held by Gail Casey since January 1983. 
Even more amazing was the fact that Thursday's meet was the first time Samreta had ever swam this event in college. 
"It was a goal for me throughout the day," said Samreta. "It's my personal best time in the event." 
"She did a great job," said co-captain Tara Thomas. "Th~. team is really happy for her. 
Saint Mary's head coach 

Angela Addington predicts more records will be broken by the freshman in the future. 
"It's a matter of her being in the pool and going in mentally tough," commented Addington. "There is the adrenaline factor of the meet that just isn't there at prac­tice. [In Thursday's meet] the girl in the Jane next to her was pushing so hard." 
Addington also pointed to the drive factor which makes athletes work hard and break records at the result. 
"Michelle has that drive. I expect her to go to nationals and have a good showing there. She has that much drive and dedication," said Addington. 
Already Samreta has shown that she is a contender for breaking the current school record in the 200 breast stroke. 
"It's my next goal," said Samreta. 
On November 9 in a meet against the University of Chicago, Samreta swam the 200 in 2:46.05. Then five days later against Calvin she shaved over four seconds off that time and swam to victory with a time of 2:42.03. Now she has exactly two seconds left to go in order to topple the current record. 
Addington is working with Samreta in practice to help 
see RECORD I page 12 

Big East Championships @ November23 see page 12
at Bowling Green ~ November 22, 7 p.m. 
~ 
aJ 

'C •Harriers win District IV meet 
see page 14
..... 

ri:J • Cowboys extend streak against Pack


' 
I • 





