
Monday, January 29, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 77 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Coats views shelter as model 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
Out of the hundreds who pass through the door of the Center for the Homeless every year, several were able to share their experiences with Senator Dan Coats (H-Ind) who visited South Bend's Center last Friday. 
Executive Director and Notre Dame graduate Lou Nanni in­troduced Coats to a panel of guests, all of whom had been through the Center's program at one point in their life. All praised the Center as being "the reason they were able to turn their life around and al­lowed them to get back their self respect." 
Pannlist Carnell Harris, who eurrently works at Notre Dame, asked Coats why it has taken so long for other cities to implement the same type of programs the Center has drawn suecess from. 
"I believe we should let com­munities know this model works beeause several com­munities are now struggling to implement these types of pro­grams. Providing effective lwlp to those in our eommuni­ties ean be done," said Coats. 
"We need to tell people about this plaee and establish 


The Observer/Melanie Laflin 
Children at the South Bend Center for the Homeless present Senator Dan Coats with gifts following his Jan. 26 visit. 
training programs," comment­ed Coats. 
Panelist Barbara Lee, who is now out of the Center and working on a sociology degree, spoke on how the Center "pro­vides support from every side." 
"I was once a bundle of pain and now I think to myself, 'I can do almost anything," said Lee. 
"At the Center we are simply 
see SHELTER I page 4 

Columbus murals to stay, explanatory text added 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associato News Editor 
Following protests made by Native-American students and other minorities about what they considered to be racial in­sensitivity depicted in the Main Building's Columbus murals, the University agreed to a three-pronged approach to ad­dress the students' concerns. 
Although the murals will not be removed, contrary to the wishes of the Native American Students' Association of Notre Dame (NASAND) and other mi­nority student groups, the Uni­versity will implement the fol­lowing: 
• A text placing the murals in their "proper historical con­text" will be permanently mounted as a plaque with the murals, according to Patricia O'Hara, vice-president of stu­dent affairs. 
"We will appoint a person with appropriate academic cre­dentials to develop [theJ text... that will properly contextualize the murals, similar to what you might find in a museum," O'Hara said. 
see NASAND I page 4 

Gang members discuss tales of present, future 
By GREG VANSLAMBROOK 
News Writer 
Two separate worlds were apparent as Notre Dame stu­dents interacted with young people from Chicago housing projects Saturday at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Students filled the Center's multi-purpose room for the question and answer session with a panel of Chicago resi­dents. Seven were residents of housing projects often associ­ated with Chicago gangs. Also on the panel were two Catholic Brothers who work closely in the gang scene. Questions from the students were aimed at get­ting a better view of people from such a different back­ground than most Notre Dame students are used to. 
One insight that emerged was the intrinsic role of gangs in 
see GANGS I page 4 


Annual 'Play of the Mind' explores campus issues 
By MAUREEN HURLEY project spurred by a $214,000 Sai111 Mary's News Editor grant from the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Posters covered Saint Mary's Education (FIPSE). Student H11gina North lounge this week­groups were given six topics mHI, with topies ranging from developed by the faculty sehoul identity to diversity to participants in th!~ fall's "Think s tud11 n t apathy. They were Tank." Those to pies -women "bluHprints to enact ehange," deliniflg themselves; health and according to Margaret Homan. responsibility; diversity; fadlitator of Saturday's "Play of Catholic identity; lifestyles and tlw Mind" nvtmt. social life; and teaching and 
As last weekend's discussion learning -were tackled on "Tiw Quality of Life at Saint throughout the three-day con­Mary's" unfolded, students, ference. alumnan, faeulty and adminis­And, even now, results are trators tacklml eampus issues beginning to show. and attnmpted to develop solu­"For the first time, the tions. women of eolor at Saint Mary's 
The eonfnrence is the second see MIND I page 6major activity in a three-year 




Shoup: Fear, lack of knowledge worsen problem 
Hditor 's note: This is the first Sociology Mark Chaves took 
These advanees can be dent may complain to Hesi­in a four-part series exploring leave of his teaching duties termed harassment when they dence Life "when the com­the issue of sexual harassment amid charges of sexually ha­are made "a term or condition plainant cannot or does not de­
in American institutions of rassing an undergraduate, of instruction, employment or sire to resolve directly with the hiyher learning. questions about harassment participation in other University alleged harasser." This section 
are now being raised among activity, a basis of evaluation in has created a slight contro­By MEGAN McGRATH members of the Notre Dame making academic or personnel versy, as it has been inter­News Writor and Saint Mary's community. decisions or such conduct has preted by many as encouraging
a tendency among victims to

Despite recent national atten­the purpose or effect of unrna­students to confront their ha­
tell themselves they did some­

When Anita Hill accused tion given to sexual harass­sonably interfering with an in­rasser. Shoup disagrees with
thing wrong, they took com­

Clarence Thomas of sexual ha­ment, it remains an offense that dividual's performance or this interpretation. 
ments the wrong way." 

rassment during his Supwme goes widely unreported, even creating an intimidating, hostile "I always believe that stu­
Shoup also believes lack of

Court confirmation hearings in on the Notre Dame campus. or offensive University environ­dents shouldn't fear they have
knowledge and understanding 

ment." to confront their harasser,"1991, the law professor started Jeffery Shoup, Director of 
of the University's sexual ha­

a firestorrn of debate through­Hesidence Life, feels the reluc­Incidents of sexual harass­Shoup says. "They shouldn't 
rassment policies contribute to 

out the country about men, tanee to report incidents of ha­ment between students, includ­feel they have to himdle the sit­
the reluctance to report. 

ing undergraduate and gradu­uation themselves, especially awomen and their relationships. rassment stem from two main 
According to the recent spe­

The nation wondered what ex­reasons. ate students, are handled by situation that has been ongo­
cial supplement to duLac, sex­

actly constituted sexual harass­"First, the victim feels that the Office of Residence Life. ing."
ual harassment is, "Unwelcome 

ment. Were llill and women the situation is not going to According to Shoup, the Office Students who report an inci­
sexual advances, requests for

everywhere too sensitive or change, but instead get worse sees between five and ten cases dent will be asked to file a writ­
sexual favors, and other verbal 

were men, like Thomas, too in­for having reported it," Shoup of harassment a semester. ten complaint with the Office of 
or physical conduct of a sexual 

sensitive? said. "The second is a fear that The section of the policy out­
nature."

After Assoeiate Professor of they won't be believed. There's lining "Reporting" says the stu-see DULAC I page 6 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 29, 1996 
• INS!OE COLUMN 
Sexy thighs, tight clothes? Try again 
Barbie. 

You probably owned one when you were growing up, or at least knew some­one who did. But did you ever stop playing with Barbie, even for a minute, to think about who she was · · and what she stood for? 
Did you ever think about where Barbie came from? 
Barbie was designed by a man. That's right, a man. 
Hmm, maybe that explains the sun-bleached hair that falls to her knees. Maybe that's why her measurements are so out of proportion to a normal female body. Maybe that's why Barbie's poor little feet are permanently con­torted so that she can only wear very high heels and nothing else. 
Maybe that's why all her clothes are just a little too short, a little too tight and a lot too bright. Perhaps one speaking Barbie said the words, "Math class is tough" because she was created by a man. 
Or maybe not. It just might be possible that if Barbie were created by a woman, even a woman who called herself a feminist, she would still have long blonde hair, big blue eyes, huge breasts and a tiny waist. 
After all, women do create false, unattain­able images of other women every day. Pick up any issue of any woman's magazine, such as Glamour, or 'Teen (both of which have a female Editor-in-ChieO. and you're guaran­teed to see images of Barbie-like women from cover to cover. 
Oh, sure they might be a little more politi­cally correct than Barbie. So~e might have brown hair and green eyes. A few might even be African-American or Asian-American. But the women presented in these magazines are always extremely thin and beautiful. They are often large-breasted and clothed in tight, short garments and high heels. 
As if these images were not demeaning enough, the articles that accompany them (most are written by women) are even worse. The following is just a small sample of recent titles from Mademoiselle: "A Sexy Butt, Slim Thighs, Flat Abs by June 1," "Breasts Exposed! The Mystery, The Madness, The Truth" and "How to Use Body Language to Get What You Want." 
Many women and girls read women's maga­zines regularly. From these magazines, women learn and become conditioned to soci­ety's misplaced norms and values. They are presented as the "ideal" version of femininity. The only message these magazines are send­ing is that big breasts and tight clothing are necessary to be considered feminine and attractive. 
A week from today marks the commence­ment of Women's Week and Eating Disorders Awareness Week. What a great time for peo­ple to begin demanding positive and realistic portrayals of women in the media, especially women's magazines. 
lf female consumers and audiences demand positive portrayals of real women, editors and producers will respond. 
Let's show America that a woman can cre­ate a better, more positive image of femininity than the creator of Barbie. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column · are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TtmAv's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Kristi Kolski  Mike O'Hara  
Maureen Hurley  Production  
Spotts  )ana Bruder  
Caroline Blum  Lab Tech  
Rafo  Mike Hungeling  
Graphics  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Calm prevails in Niger despite military coup 
NIAMEY, Niger 

Soldiers patrolled the capital Sunday after a military coup ousted the presi­dent, prompting France and the United States to suspend badly needed aid to this impoverished country. 
In the second military takeover in West Africa in 10 days, soldiers seized control of Niger's government on Saturday, ending the country's brief attempt at democracy. 
Political parties were outlawed, the constitution was suspended, and Col. Barre Mainassara Ibrahim declared himself head of state after soldiers con­verged on the presidential palace and placed President Mahamane Ousmane under house arrest. 
The 45-year-old Mainassara said he staged the coup to end an "absurd crisis" in parliament, where for the past year Ousmane and his opponents had been locked in a political standoff. 
Mainassara said the military had "saved Niger from chaos" and called politicians "greedy, badly prepared, and incapable of adapting to the demands of democratic power." 
A soldier and a presidential guard were killed and at least a dozen soldiers wounded in gunfights that could be 
Clinton retools Democratic machine 
CINCINNATI 
During the darkest days of his presi­dency, when the "Republican revolu­tion" seemed like an unstoppabl steamroller, Bill Clinton ordered a tune­up for own his political machine. Hundreds of local Democrats were sum­moned without fanfare to Washington for meetings across the hall from the Oval Office. "Are you still with us?" they were asked. "What can we do to make you happy?" And, most importantly: "What do we need to do to win your state in '96?" That was last spring. Now, Clinton­Gore operations are up and running in New Hampshire and Iowa, with as many as 17 more state offices kicking into gear over the next two weeks. Clinton's political for­tunes have improved, and he is blessed with no primary opposition. It's the core of politics -strong, well­financed state organizations flood the voting booths with core Democrats and keep local political activists prodded and ready to do the president's bidding. 

Du Pont heir surrenders to police 
NEWTOWN SQUARE, Pa. 
An heir to the du Pont fortune was captured by SWAT team members Sunday as he stepped outside his mansion to fix his boiler, ending a 48-hour standoff that began with the shooting death of a top wrestler. John E. du Pont, who had been without heat since police cut off his boiler system Friday night, told negotiators he was cold and was leaving his house, said Newtown Township Police Chief Michael Mallon. He did not carry one of the many weapons he kept on his 800-acre estate. No one was injured in the capture. Police, who had cleared the entrance to the estate hours earlier, picked up duPont at about 3:30p.m. and took him to the police station for ar­raignment. The capture ended a standoff that police said began Friday afternoon with du Pont shooting Dave Schultz, a wrestler living on duPont's estate. The stand­off capped a longtime slide into despair for the 57-year­old du Pont, according to wrestlers, acquaintances and relatives. They said du Pont's increasingly erratic behav­ior i~J.cluded drug and alcohol abuse and a penchant for carrying weapons on his estate. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeatherQDforecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 29. 20s 
ILL. • 


FRONTS: 
....,.......,.. .............. ...,.a..,­
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWea1her, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ rf\ 
H L B &'SJ [IT] 0 !Z] 8 "¥ L..J. ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associafed Press 
Atlanta 57 33 Dallas 62 44 New York 37 25 Baltimore 36 21 Denver 28 9 Orlando 76 51 Boston 30 19 Los Angeles 67 49 Phoenix 70 43 Chicago 30 23 Minneapolis 7 7 Pittsburgh 39 20 Columbus 41 24 New Orleans 67 47 St. Louis 40 29 
heard throughout the capital as the coup unfolded. 
International telephone lines remained down Sunday, and the airport was closed. 
As Mainassara's speech was read on state-run radio Saturday night, civilians cowered in their homes. Soldiers, some firing into the air, walked the streets of the hot, dusty capital. 
The coup, coming just 10 days after a military takeover in Sierra Leone, was sure to make life even more difficult for the wretchedly poor country of Niger,
NIGERIA 

which depends on foreign aid. Few L2__jjt;L..L_____i..!::::::::===7!AP donor nations are willing to give money 
to military governments that came to power by ousting democratically elected ones. The U.S. government condemned the coup in a state­ment Saturday night. 
"The military forces responsible for this abhorrent deed have acted contrary to the will of the people," said State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns. Because the coup was violent, Burns said, U.S. law requires that the government now suspend aid to Niger. 
France condemned the coup Sunday and said it had suspended military and economic aid to its former colony. 


One survives Siamese twin separation 
SAN DIEGO 
A 16-day-old girl was in critical but stable condition Sunday, while her parents planned a funeral for the in­fant's Siamese twin, who died after surgery to separate them. ·Sarah Morales remained sedated and on a ventila­tor to help her breathe because her lungs deteriorated after Saturday's six-hour surgery. "She is requiring sig­nificant support, but she is stable," said Dr. Michael Segall, director of neonatology at Children's Hospital San Diego. "This happens. We're always hoping for the best, but we're realistic. We're not out of the woods by any measure." Sarah's sister, Sarahi. died shortly after the surgery, which involved disconnecting the twins' shared liver, blood vessels and band of skin that ran from their breast bones to their belly buttons. Sarahi, who de­pended on her attached sister's stronger heart to survive for 15 days, will help her sister in death by being a per­fectly matched tissue donor, doctors said. Some of Sarahi's skin and bones will be used to reconstruct Sarah's chest, said Dr. John J. Lamberti, a heart special­ist who participated in the surgery. 


Zoo offers Valentine's Day sex tour 
_ SANTA ANA, Calif. 
It's an animal lover's ultimate fantasy. For those into amorous iguanas or hot two-toed sloths, the Santa Ana Zoo is holding its 2nd Annual Sex Tour in honor of Valen­tine's Day. The adults-only tour Feb. 10 brings people into the boudoirs of their furry and feathered friends. To set the mood, champagne is served. "It's fun, it's inter­esting, and everyone blushes," zoo spokeswoman Leslie Perovich said. It's an educational program to explain the mating habits of animals and reproductive efforts by zoos to preserve endangered species, Perovich said. T h e curator and veterinarian who guide the tour offer no guarantees that animals will be amorous. But if they are, visitors are in for an eyeful. Take the two-toed sloths for instance. Their foreplay involves rubbing rumps -danc­ing cheek to cheek, so to speak. Soon the sloths are any­thing but lethargic. They're airborne, hanging face to face from their front legs. And the green iguana is a rough Romeo. His partner often ends up scratched and bitten . The tour costs $15, which includes champagne and a continental breakfast. 


Hundreds gather to remember Challenger seven 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVEilAl., Fla. 

At a mournful, H)-year re­membrance Sunday, the rum­bling tlyover of Air Force jets at the precise moment of Chal­lenger's last Iifton· gave way to 73 seconds of pained silence. 
The silence, marking the doomnd flight's duration, was punctuated only by traffic and llw screams of sea gulls. 
Some 400 people -ex-astro­nauts, shuttle managers, Kmmedy Space Center workers and many tourists -were unit­ed by their memories of that awful day when the seven crewrnembers died. 
"Thank goodness I had sun­glasses on," said a weepy Uelly Hanek, visiting from Honey Brook, l'a. 
Darlene Drouillard of Uelle Hiver, Ontario, brought her two daughters, ages 6 and 8, to teach them two important lessons: that good can come from tragedy and anyone can aspire to a drnam. 
Before the ceremony, she explained to her daughters that a schoolteacher -much like their own schoolteachers ­had died aboard Challenger. 
"They understand that it was the first time, with Christa MeAuliiTe, that we'll say a regu­lar person was able to aspire to a dream," she said. 
"Mommy, who's she?" inter­rupted 6-year-old Lauren. 
Indeed, many of the children accompanying their parents to the Kennedy Space Center for the Astronauts Memorial Foun­dation ceremony had not yet been born when Challenger shattered 8.9 miles above the Atlantic Ocean 73 seconds after liftoff on Jan. 28, 1986. 
Six-year-old Catherine Meyer of Findlay, Ohio, for instance, had to be cajoled to go to the ceremony. She was afraid; she saw a video of the Challenger accident in her kindergarten class on Friday and thought it had just happened, that a schoolteacher had just been killed. 
ller mother explained it hap­pened a long time ago. 
Across the United States on Sunday, people remembered­as though it were yesterday. 
At McAuliffe's grave in her hometown of Concord, N.H., mourners left flowers, poems, drawings, an apple and a plas­tic teddy bear. 
The mother of ChaJienger astronaut Judith Hesnik, Sarah Belfer of Mayfield Heights, Ohio, planned to spend a quiet day at the symphony. A per­formance of "America the Beautiful" was being dedicated to her daughter. 
And the family of Challenger commander Francis "Dick" Scobee was in Tempe, Ariz., for the Super Bowl. Son Rich Scobee, an Air Force captain, was leading a formation of fighter jets over Sun Devil Sta-
By EMILY DIXON 
News Writer 
Frost covered Central Flori· da's eastern coast Jan. 28, 1986 as the Space Shuttle Challenger attempted mission 51·L. 
According to library assis­tant Tim Keel, the mission was doomed from the start. 
"Everything was against 
mission 51-L," said Keel. who 
delivered a lecture on the 
"Loss of the Space Shuttle 
Challenger: An Illustrated 
Study" in commemoration of 
the tenth anniversary of the 
Challenger disaster Sunday. 
Through audio-visual .materials, Keel explained why the mission never should have left the ground. 
Teams of pad-workers unsuccessfully attempted to de-Ice the pad structures sev­eral times that morning. yet the Challenger was still allowed to fly. It was 36 degrees just before lift·oiT, 15 degrees colder. than any other NASA flight. 

Both primary and back-up 0-rings failed to seal the joint and prevent gas leaks in the right solid rocket booster because cold-weather condi­tions froze the rubber seals, preventing them from fun<:· tioning properly. 
De-icing teams were aware that the temperature inside the right booster was down to 8 degrees, but failed to report this information to Mission Control because they were not required to do so. 
In fact, 14 of the previous 24 flights before Challenger had problems With O·ring defects. However, some NASA managers felt it was an acceptable risk. and failed to 
dium right before 
kickof in his head when asked how he tribute to his father and the was doing. rest of the crew. "Terrible," Jarvis said. "It's 
At the Kennedy Space Center, always terrible. It's always near a monument dedicated to bad." astronauts killed in the line of The weather at least was no space duty, the father of Chal­reminder of the fateful launch lenger crew member Greg morning, when the 36-degree Jarvis got through his four­cold contributed to NASA's minute speech without break­worst disaster. The temperature ing down as he'd feared. But Sunday was in the upper 60s afterward, Bruce Jarvis shook during the late-morning cere-


Keel: Faulty 0-rings, ice to blame 


Ethiopians protest Israeli rejection of blood donations 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM 

Police fired tear gas, rubber bullets and water cannon at thousands of Ethiopian Jews who stormed the prime minis­ter's office Sunday to protest a national policy of rejecting their blood donations. 
The anger over the discarded blood donations reflects years of simmering frustration in Is­rael's Ethiopian community, which has remained an under­class since Ethiopians first im­migrated to Israel a decade ago in dramatic airlifts. 
Protesters stoned the prime minister's office and police hurled the rocks back, injuring dozens of demonstrators and police. The crowd dispersed only after Prime Minister Shi­mon Peres promised an inves­tigation. 


It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
@ 

Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and 
~ 

offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve ,. doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
f
(")

At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change 
g 
c:

daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is 
"'
ANDERSEN 
"' 
to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
~ 
,.


CONSULTING 
,. 
II'
AHn-tUR !\Nilt R~l ~ & <.0.. S.(

Come talk to us about a career with Andersen 
(") 
p
Consulting. 
Where we go from here: 0"' 
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportumty employer. 

Andersen Consulting will be conducting screening interviews for full-time and internship opportunities on Wednesday, February 7th and Thursday, February 8th. Please see your Placement Office for details. 
report the problem to upper­management. According to Keel, of the many incidents that can occur during a space craft mission, "management failure was definitely avoid­able." 
Taking into account the im· mense cost and thousands of personnel needed for a shuttle operation such as the Chnl· Ienger, NASA managers were under extreme pressure to proceed with the mission as planned. Keel said missions like the Challenger were "no longer devoted to research and development, but were instead a business. They had to make money." 
It is unfortunate for the seven crew memb.ers who lost their lives and for their fami· lies that the Challenger disas­ter was a casualty of "grandiose P.R.," Keel said. 
mony, an un ike the aunch day it was cloudy and windy. 
Speaker after speaker gently reminded the crowd of the legacy of Challenger: to push boundaries and to continue to explore. 
"The mission which we all share," said Jim DeSantis, president of the Astronauts Memorial Foundation, "is to keep the dream alive." 

"I can understand them," Peres told Channel Two televi­sion. "But it is hard for me to justify what they did ... I am sorry they did not restrain themselves." 
Israeli media revealed last week that Israel for years has discarded blood donations from Ethiopians for fear the blood might be tainted with the AIDS virus. 
Government officials de­fended the policy, saying that Ethiopian immigrants have a higher risk of AIDS infection than other Israelis. 
More than 10,000 Ethiopians, some in skullcaps and others with dreadlocks, filled the street in front of the prime min­ister's office Sunday and spilled into nearby fields and parking lots. 
They held signs reading, '·'We are black, but our blood is red," and chanted, "Shame on the state." 
"What's the difference be­tween me and you?" protester Pesach Maresha asked a white reporter. "Why do they throw away our blood? Because we are Ethiopian, and because we don't have representatives in the government." 

Come to a free GMATseminar 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST get a higher score 
Date: January 30 Time: 7 pm Place: 117 DeBartolo 



KAPLAN

customized. flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
m·H•tii to a Ifree seminar 

TARGETED TRAINING 
come to a free GREseminar 
Date: January 30 Time: 7pm Location: 118 DeBartolo 
TARGETI!D TRAINING 
is the most customized, flexible approach to LSAT study ever. 
DATE: January 30 TIME: 7 pm PLACE: DeBartolo Hall Call: 1-800-KAP·TEST 


KAPLAN 

-.... I I I 


gat a higher score 





KAPLAN 

----------------------~------~---------~--------------------------------------~·---------------. 
NASAND 

continued from page 1 
"We will ask this person to consult with members of the University community, including Native-American students, in the preparation of this narra­tive," she added. 
The Office of the Provost will conduct the appointment of the person to write the text. Asso­ciate Provost Sr. Kathleen Can­non said no person has been appointed yet and no timetable for the appointment has been developed either. 
"That's still in discussion," Cannon said. 
One possible candidate for the position ·is Dean Porter, director of The Snite Museum of Art. Porter dealt with a number of questions regarding artwork on campus in the past and met with students from NASAND in November to discuss their con­cerns. 
"I would love to be involved [in 

Gangs 
continued from page 1 

daily life on "the streets." There is no formal admission or initiation process, according to Melvin, a gang member from the west side's Cabrini-Green housing project. "If you hang with me, people in the other gang think you in [my] gang," he said. 
Brother Jim Fogerty of the Catholic order Brothers and Sisters of Love emphasized how hard it is to grow up in such an area and not be drawn into the gangs. "The basic part of the gang is for protection," he said. 
Niante, thirteen years old, was the only member of the panel who had never been a gang member. To escape it, his plan was to "stay in school." Lawrence, a former gang mem­ber from Dearborn Homes, added to Niante, "Hang around with us." 

The members of the panel · also spoke about the institu­tional problems of their neigh­borhoods. They overwhelmingly cited police brutality as a prime problem. 
"I see police brutality every day," said Antonio, a 26 year old gang member from Cabrini­Green. 
This brought nods of agree­ment from all. "They lock us up just to lock us up," said a young man from Cabrini-Green who goes by Doorknob. 

"Government got to find a so­lution to the drug problem," said Ephraim, a 33-year-old former gang member from the Henry Horner Homes. Other ways he felt the government can help are in creation of more jobs, better training pro­grams, and better schools. "They don't want to give us a chance to learn," Doorknob said. 
Several of the panel members 


Notre Dam Volunteer 


Program 
m 

IIIII CIIITIY lEI lllfllflll IEiliiTIY 
The Priferred Registry 
................_.ll'lvlll ....... 
111/M 11111:111.-1 ........ oi'WIIIriUtllllll
•
................................. 
To reserve: 

Gall (219l?73 7003 • fax (219)273-2455 
writing the text]," Porter said yesterday. "I hope I'll be a part of it." 
Porter said that what society considers acceptable changes over time. "People wouldn't have put those murals up to­day," he said. "I think we're much better informed." 
Upon completion, the text will also be reproduced in a written brochure available for distribu­tion near the murals, O'Hara said. 
• Secondly, the University will explore the possibility of retitling some of the murals, including those currently titled as 'Columbus, Discoverer' and 'Taking Possession of the New World,' without damaging the artwork. 
"If this proves possible, the University will consult with the person appointed to develop the narrative and ask that person to suggest appropriate title changes," O'Hara said. 
• Thirdly, the University will exhibit artwork that "celebrates diversity" at venues throughout 
voiced their dreams for the fu­ture: Ephraim is taking college courses and hopes to graduate, 
Doorknob wants to have a "nice little house with a fami­ly," and Antonio wants to "just find a job and get off the streets." 
Lawrence also decided to quit the gangs recently. "I found out that my so-called brothers did­n't care about me," he said. When asked about his relation­ship with God, Antonio re­sponded, "I thank God every day just to be alive." Antonio was recently stabbed in the neck and has attempted suicide twice. Ephraim added that "God has played a major role in our lives." 
Parenting was another issue addressed. "I don't want [my daughter] to lead the life that me and her mother led," said Ephraim. When Antonio re­marked that the mothers need to be home with their kids rather than out on the streets, Lawrence countered that "All of us should be home with our kids." 
Lawrence said that when he was in a gang, many things kept him away from this re­sponsibility, but now "nothing keeps me away from my chil­dren." 
The panel was brought to Notre Dame by Brother Bill Tomes of the Brothers and Sis­ters of Love. Tomes worked in the Cabrini-Green and Henry Horner housing projects for over 12 years. A Notre Dame campus, O'Hara said. The first of these displays will be held next month in honor of Black History Month. Located in the rotunda of the Main Building, the exhibit will include 10 African textiles and two cos­tumes from the last 100 years. Preparations for the exhibit be­gan this morning. 
The three parts of this plan are the result of deliberations by University officers, who were presented with NASAND's con­cerns by O'Hara at a meeting in late November. After the plan was formulated, O'Hara sent a letter to the students involved in mid-December, notifying them of the officers' decision. 
"The officers took very seri­ously the students' feelings that they found the murals offen­sive," O'Hara said. "The officers felt it important to address the students' concerns as part of the University's efforts to build an inclusive environment. 
"Yet the officers felt we could not ignore the historical signifi­cance of the murals," she added. 
graduate himself, he has brought residents of the pro­jects here for the last five years. Tomes is a recognized and re­spected figure in Chicago and often steps in the middle of gang shootouts in an attempt to stop them. Dressing in a trade­mark patchwork denim habit, he expects to someday die by a bullet, as so many of his friends have. 
Sue Cunningham of the Cen­ter for Social Concerns said the panel was scheduled at this time of the year as a follow-up to the issues raised for many who attended an Urban Plunge, a two-day urban immersion, over Christmas break. 
"If we really understand why gangs are so important, maybe as a nation we can do some­thing so the people don't have to look to gangs," said Cunningham. 
Students interested in learn­ing more can look into some of the course offerings and oppor­tunities through the Center for Social Concerns dealing with urban problems. 
After the session the panel headed to North Dining Hall for dinner, followed by the basket­ball game with tickets provided by the basketball office. "It's hard getting off the streets ... As long as I live in Cabrini-Green, I won't never see no future," Antonio said at dinner. But as I thanked him, he quietly asked me to quote him on this: "Notre Dame is my first choice college. If I could go to college." 
The murals were created by Luigi Gregory during his 17 -year stay at Notre Dame beginning in 188 2. Prior to coming to the University. Gregory was the artist-in-residence at the Vatican. 
In painting the murals, Gre­gory used various figures at the University as models. Fr. Walsh, president of the Univerisity at the time, was the model for Columbus in all of the murals except for the deathbed scene, in which Fr. Edward Sorin was the model. In addition, the fed­eral government used the "Return of Columbus and Reception at Court" mural as a commemorative stamp for the Columbus Exposition in 1893. 
Faced with the murals' histor­ical significance and the stu­dents' present protests, the of­ficers felt that the three-pronged plan was the best way to solve the issue, according to O'Hara. 
"We felt that through these mechanisms, we could address the students' concerns in such a way as to negate stereotypes and dispel any appearance of University support of such stereotypes, while at the same time preserving paintings that are an important part of the his­tory of the Main Building," O'Hara said. 
Candice Pascua, president of NASAND, said that she had hoped the University would have decided to remove the murals or at least cover them up. 
"I am very disappointed, but I figured that was what they were going to do," Pascua said. ''I'm concerned about the plaque -it depends on the size and what it says. If it is just a small plaque, it isn't going to accomplish any­thing great. 
Members of NASAND and other minority students have not yet met with O'Hara since she sent the students her letter, but they plan to do so in February, Pascua said. They will meet as an alliance of students from sev­eral minority student organiza­tions, including NASAND and the African-American Student Alliance. 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Kong strikes in South Bend 
King Kong braves the chilly South Bend weather to decorate the outside of Farley Hall for last weekend's Farley Dance. 
Shelter 
continued from page 1 
trying to restore the torn fabric of society and engage with one another. I walk in these doors and I feel I need them more than they need me," said Nanni. 
Towards the end of the dis­cussion, Coats commented on the "bitter experiences" of the present and what we can do to improve on the future. "In this me-first period of time, we are learning from our bitter experi­ences. If you can expose your­self, then people will love you for it." 
"If we can do that, then we'll be a stronger country. and, I hope, becoming more of what our country stands for," said Coats. 

:-;:-::-::·:: 

:::::::::::=: *Questions answered* 
~:~ ~:~):) ~:~ L=·: =·: ~ :.tW:eM.~~P9:.:Mate~= =~~=H.~~~.f.: :~:·: =·= \~\ \~\ \~~ j~j j~\ ij\~\ ;:j \~· ::\ ~~\ [~\ rj\~~ j~i%.istic si~~~ ~~~? ::: :·: ::\ \:\\:\ j:\ ~:j :~: 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: t::~:Arizona)):::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::;::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :~::~~~ califo~~f: ::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: t~~~~ sprin~~:~tQrn·4P ::::::::::::::::::
::: ::: ::::::::::::::::::::: :::::: t:.:~oo~~Q~. Massa~#S:·: =·· ::::::::::::::::::::::::) ))t:~~ Orego.r{::::::::::::::: :.; :·.  ·-= =-= :-· ·: . . ;.;::; :::  ::: :::  
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::•~~~~~;:.~~~::::::::::::::: :-: :-: :-::-::-: :-::.::-: :.: :-::-: :-::-::-::-: :-::-::-: :-: :.: :.::-: :.::-::.::-: :-::-: :-: :-::-::-: :-::-::.: :-: :-::-: :·:  ::: :-:  
:::::::::::::::uoiv.::c«as:s::A:s:sociA~s::  .:  
Phone: 631-5521  

, All majors needed for a wide variety of service opportulni1tie~~.l 
Application deadline: fEBRUARY 28. 
Contact the CSCfor details. 
Death of NATO soldiers tarnishes POW release 
By SRECKO lATAL Associaced Press 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnia's former battlefield foes claimed Sunday they had emptied their jails of all POWs, in a day marred by the deaths of four NATO soldiers and the wounding of a U.S. Army officer by sniper fire. 
Three British soldiers were killed when their vehicle hit a mine near Mrkonjic Grad in the northwest. A Swedish soldier died when an armored person­nel carrier skidded off a road in the north. 
In Ilidza, a Serb-held suburb west of Sarajevo, Lt. Shawn H. Watts was grazed on the neck by a sniper's bullet. The 28­year-old from Greenwood, Miss., returned to duty several hours later. 
NATO said it was investigat­ing, but Bosnian Serb army of­ficials in llidza said they knew nothing of the shooting. 
It was the biggest death toll of any single day of the NATO-led mission since it began Dec. 20. Before Sunday, there were 35 injured and four dead, includ­ing a British soldier who killed himself. 
Meanwhile, with hundreds of war prisoners released Satur­day, it appeared that most of those in captivity before the weekend had been set free. 
Croats and Muslims freed about 380 prisoners on Satur­day at the Sarajevo airport, a neutral site commonly used for such releases. On Sunday, 74 wenl confirmed released by the Serbs and eight by the Bosnian government. 
A Bosnian Serb spokesman said the release of another 7 4 outside of Sarajevo accounted for all Serb-held POWs, but the Hed Cross could not immedi­ately confirm that. 
"There are still people on the (Hed Cross) list of 900 who have 
D Bosnian government-D Serbs Croat federation 

AP 

not been released yet," said Red Cross official Pierre Kra­henbuhl in Banja Luka, a Serb­held city in the north. 
Red Cross spokesman Pierre Gauthier said the Bosnian Croats fulfilled their POW re­lease obligations on Saturday. However, they still hold about 50 prisoners who are being in­vestigated for possible war crimes. 
Gauthier said the Croats had the right to keep them "for a reasonable time." 
Red Cross officials com­plained that in addition to the POW releases, there have been swaps that could amount to "ethnic cleansing." 
They were investigating an unsupervised government-Sorb exchange of at least 350 civil­ians Saturday in Sanski Most to see whether they had been ex­pelled or had left of their own will. 
The Red Cross also com­plained the government was believed to hold many people at a military prison in Tuzla, and its delegates had not been al­lowed to visit them. 
Some of the POWs released over the weekend spoke of se­vere maltreatment by their cap­tors. 
Selik Ademovic, 42, stood for-
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
Flanner Hall Presents 
DIRECT FROM SOUTH AFRICA 
Father Oliver Williams, CSC 
speaking on 

"What Can We in the U.S. Learn from South Africa about Dismantling U.S. Apartheid" 
Monday, January 29, 1996 7 PM in Planner Hall's PIT (1st floor) Event is free & open to the public 
Refreshments will be served after the discussion period! 
"... After all, there is but one race-humanity ... " -George Moore 
lornly amid a tumultuous wel­come accorded many of the released Muslim prisoners by relatives in the front-line Sara­jevo suburb of Dobrinja. 
Ademovic last saw his wife and two children on July 11, when he fled the U.N. base of Potocari, a few miles north of Srebrenica, a few hours before the eastern enclave fell to Serbs. 
A few days later, he was cap­tured by Serbs and moved from one prison to another. 
Ademovic said he and others were clubbed and kicked in their Serb prison in Knezina in eastern Bosnia. 
"One of them took a knife and sliced my face," he said, stroking a long scar on his left cheek. "I was never so close to death; I thought I would not survive that night." 
Ademovic said his imprison­ment otherwise passed without harassment. Several others released Sunday said they were treated correctly in Serb pris­ons. 
Thousands of people from Srebrenica remain missing, many of them believed exe­cuted and buried in mass graves. 
Nevresa Jasarevic, 33, des­perately hoped her father would be on the buses that came to Dobrinja from the Sarajevo airport. She waited in vain. 
"I cannot stand this uncer­tainty any more," Jasarevic cried, reeling as two relatives held her. 
Kasim Dzananovic, who sur­vived the fall of Srebrenica, stood alone nearby. 
"You shouldn't cry. He is dead and you know that," he told her. 
"They should tell me that, at least," Jasarevic wailed. "He is nowhere now -not among the dead and not among the liv­ing." 



Citizens look to rebuild idle Bosnian economy 
ByMARKJ. PORUBCANSKY 
Associated Press 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Post-war Bosnia's economy is a study in idleness. 
Mirsad Morankic once was a section chief of a construction firm, but he's done virtually nothing since being demobi­lized just before Christmas. He needs work, but there's little to be had. 
Adem Tucakovic is not sitting idle, but his factory is nearly so. The director of Tuzla's Sodaso chemical works hopes that the end of war will allow him to begin producing big­time. 
How Bosnia breaks this cycle of idleness largely will deter­mine its economic future. The government says it wants to privatize the economy, but what it had before the war was smoke-belching, Communist­era heavy industry. Even with­out war, the region's post­Communist countries have had only mixed success unloading those assets. 
With at least 200,000 dead or missing and millions of people displaced, the labor force no longer fits the economy. In­stead of skilled workers, many of the jobless are rural refugees with few industrial skills and little chance to go home. 
In many areas, there's no workplace to go back to. 
Conditions are a bit better in Tuzla, headquarters for U.S. forces in the NATO-led peace force in Bosnia. Front lines were relatively distant from the government-held area. 
But that has created another complication -the World 
D Bosnian D Serbs government­
nnu New
Groat partition linefederation 

'.'"'"w•~·~~~ ~1, -~~ ) 
··.',....., ../~. \ BOSNIA·!"''-··~ !'.l: /~···) H~BZEGPVINA ~ I (
·, .·-...... ~-··· ~.. . 
~··~ \, '-I 
~••• : ~~l ~ 
~~rajevod).(Go~' 
... ... . '·):.~·:::~:r ~~ l! l 

· ~ ~~ostctr.',::'
, 'J:\t· 
50 miles · ·i ; 'VUGO. 
~' .. '':.~) 
50km ' : 
(I) A hidden anti-vehicle mine exploded in a Sarajevo stadium, killing three NATO peacekeepers and Injuring seven. 
~ Bosnian Croats announced that their self-proclaimed state would gradually transfer its institutions to the Muslim-Groat federation. The two sides are now at odds over the placement and ethnic mix of election districts in Mostar. 
APNim. J. Castello Bank estimates that refugees have swelled Tuzla's popula­tion by about 50 percent. Before it fell apart beginning with the secession of Croatia and Slovenia in 1991, the old Yugoslav federation was just approaching the question of privatization. Slovenia has since embarked on its own reform course. Croatia's privatization has been riddled with corruption. Sorb­led Yugoslavia, hit with U.N. sanctions for its role in foment­ing Bosnia's war, is stalled. Bosnia's woes are tremen­dous. The World Bank esti­mates that industrial output in 1994 was 5 percent of 1990's level. 




Suicide termed 'moral choice' 
Associated Press 
HANOVER, N.J. 

The Episcopal Diocese of Newark has deemed suicide morally acceptable under some circumstances, intentionally departing from longtime doc­trine to encourage a national debate in the church. 
A majority of the 200 dele­gates to the diocese's annual convention voted Saturday to adopt a resolution calling sui­cide "a moral choice" for the terminally ill or those living in persistent or progressive pain. In such cases, the resolution said, assisting suicide was also morally acceptable. 
"Nowhere in the Bible does it say that there is a value to suf­fering simply for the sake of suffering," said the Rev. 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
Call 234-0363 
(24 hours} 

SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 

Lawrence Falkowski of Holy Trinity Church in West Orange. 
Bishop John Shelby Spong, the leader of the 40,000-mem­ber diocese and an advocate of assisted suicide, said the time has come for religious faiths to "redefine what life means." 
The suicide resolution will be brought to the floor of the na­tional Episcopal Church con­vention in 18 months, Spong said at a news conference fol­lowing the meeting. "What we are hoping for is to open up a dialogue," he said. "I never want to see the church on the side of death and not life." 
The Episcopal Church, which has about 2.5 million U.S. members, h.olds that it is morally wrong to take a human life in order to relieve suffering caused by incurable illness. 

Saturday's vote was a culmi­nation of a yearlong study by a diocese task force, which found that although Christian theol­ogy commands respect for hu­man life, modern medicine can extend life "far beyond the point where a reasonable qual­ity of life exists." 
Among those opposing the resolution was the Hev. Bill Parnell, rector of Christ Church in Hackensack, who said the is­sue is literally one of life or death and should not be de­cided hastily. 
"I just think this resolution is much too broad," he said. 
Spong has opposed church doctrine in the past by support­ing gay ordination, an issue that led to heresy charges last year against a former assistant. 

Monday, January 29, 1996 


Mind 
continued from page 1 

met together and formed an alliance between African American and Hispanic groups on campus," said Maria Rivas, who served on the planning committee. "It's an unprece­dented event, initiated by stu­dents. I think that's in­credible." 
Also, a committee was formed to add a women's studies re­quirement to the core curricu-
DuLac 
continued from page 1 
Residence Life. The Office then sends the accused student a letter outlining their alleged violations and scheduling a disciplinary hearing. 

The hearing is conducted by three members of the Residence Life staff who deter­mine whether the charges have merit and the possible sanc­tions. The students are not allowed to question each other directly, Shoup says. 
The student making the alle­gation does not have to enter the hearings alone, according to Shoup. Students involved are encouraged to bring a sup­port person with them, either a friend or a hall staff member. 
"We're required by federal law to have support for the vic­tim," Shoup says. "This isn't usually support in a legal man­ner, but rather someone to hold the persons' hand and support 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Catalog 

Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248_1 bttemet Catalog al http: llwww.sapeck.coml•a~ 
Mareh 3 
lum, according to Rivas. 

"This has been an intense time of real work. Throughout the weekend, we hope you have discovered resources you never knew you had, been challenged by ideas, and looked at your colleagues in a slightly different way," co-director Patrick White told the over 150 participants Saturday night. 
Where do students go from here? 
According to co-director Georgeanna Rosenbush, the next phase of the FIPSE grant involves Community Leadership Teams (COLT), where teams 
them emotionally." 

Shoup hopes that better un­derstanding of the Universities' policies and procedures will al­lay students' fears about com­ing forward. 
"If a student wants to file a complaint, either about another student or a faculty member," Shoup says. "They can always come to us. We'll explain what the policy means and take them through the process. 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person nyou recru~ sumeone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. CoME ro: HouRs: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9--6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SoUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 2~010 
comprised of students, faculty and alumnae work together to work on campus issues. The application process takes place next month. "I challenge [the students] to become involved and give back to the college," Rosenbush said. 
Students agree. "Play of the Mind doesn't finish on the weekend. It continues through­out· our lives, especially here at Saint Mary's," Rivas said. ''I'm happy wiih the new ideas that came out of it, that focused on concrete changes at Saint Mary's." 
"When a student comes to us, it's usually as a last resort," Shoup went on to say. "They've suffered through quite a bit al­ready. We'd like to help resolve the situation as quickly as possible." 
Tomorrow, The Observer ex­amines cases of harassment in­volving faculty, staff and ad­ministrators, which are han­dled by the Provost's Office. 
• fRJU!JCE 


Despite protests, France silent on nuclear testing 
By AMY BARRETT 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
France on Sunday ignored calls from world leaders and environmentalists to stop its nuclear testing in the South Pacific, refusing to say whether its latest atomic explosion would be the last. 
France set off the sixth blast of its highly unpopular nuclear testing program on Saturday. 
France's Defense Ministry said the blast took place at 
10:30 p.m. French time (4:30 
p.m. EST) on Fangataufa Atoll in French Polynesia, about 750 miles southeast of Tahiti. 
Saturday's explosion released less than 120 kilotons of en­ergy, according to the Min­istry's statement. 
In comparison, the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945 yielded slightly less than 20 kilotons. 
Pacific nations reacted angri­ly to Saturday's blast, with the Australian, New Zealand and Japanese governments deliver­ing formal protests to their re­spective French ambassadors. Officials from Sweden, the Netherlands and Norway urged French President Jacques Chirac to end the program im­mediately. 

February 3 
$25 includes lift ticket, round trip bus fare and ski equipment. Bus leaves from Mishawaka Outpost Sports at 2 pm. 
3602 N. Grape Road  428 Baldwin Street  
Mishawaka, IN  Elkhart,IN  
(219)259-1 000  (219)262-4419  

The South Pacific Forum, which represents tiny island­states worried about their frag­ile ocean environment, accused France of "arrogance and in­transigence." 
The Fiji-based Forum de­manded that France close down and clean up the test sites, and give scientists full access to the atolls to assess damage and monitor possible radiation leaks. 
Greenpeace called the test "an act of crass stupidity." 
In Rome, members of the Greens party protested outside the French Embassy, where they erected a 33-foot-tall Eiffel Tower made of wood and paper and released four white doves in the air. 
The nuclear test series began last September, when France broke a three-year moratorium and sparked the anger of envi­ronmental groups and gov­ernments around the world. 
Following those protests, the French government said it would cut the number of planned tests from eight to six. Although Saturday's was the sixth blast, France would not confirm it was the last. 
Instead, the government re­peated earlier statements that the current series will end by the end of F~bruary. 
-~---------------------------------------------------------­








VIEWPOINT
Monday, January 29, 1996 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising-Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michacl O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director ......••.. Perc Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Oh•erver is the independent newspaper published by rhc students of the Universio:y of Notre Dame Ju Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr docs nor necessarily rcAcct rhe policies of the adminisrra­liotl of eitht-r institution. The news ts reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials r<present rhc opinion of the majorio:y of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcucr!l and Inside Columns present the views of lhe aulhors, and nm necessarily those of The Ohscrver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norrc Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry o~nd ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chid' 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Vicwpoim 631-4~41 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dcp(. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Producrion 631-5303 Vicwpoinr E-Mail Vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu (;cnerallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
London experience shows merits ofcoed living 
A s regular readers of this column are J-\.awarc, this is the first time I've writ­len since returning to the United States from Notre Dame's London Program. Inevitably, there is a profound tempta­tion to dedicate this space to a series of pleasant anecdotes about what were arguably the best four and a half months of my Jif(!. But I'rn confident that most of you are quite tired of hearing your starry eyed peers who have just returnnd from abroad rant and rave about tlw magie of their foreign experi­ence and so I'll spare you the standard propaganda spiel, other than to urge 
any underclassmen who might be debat­ing whethnr to study in Europe or not to do Chris so by whatever means necessary. 
One of the greatest Kratovil virtues of any foreign exchange program is that in addition to 
providing you with a host of new experiences and adventures, it endows you with a new and probably more objective perspective on your own society when you finally return to it. Institutions and aspects of our culture that one never really thinks twice about because they are so deeply established can be suddenly revealed to be poorly conceived or flawed after one has been exposed to other models. 
This increased sense of perspective and a new found ability to distinguish both the positive and negative aspects of one's native environment is not confined only to soeiety-wide issues but ean be equally applied to your immediate sur­roundings. As you may already know, there are in l'aet no "parietals" in the Notre Dame London Program, as hous­ing is eoed by room ( i.e. a flat inhabited by mahl oecupants h<ts as its closest neighbor a l'lat inhabited by female occupants). Thus, the contrast in the respective atmospheres of Notre Dame's London housing and the single sex rule ridden South Bend dorms is stunning; I'm tempted to compare the former to a dinner party and the latter to a locker room. 
Prior to my London semester, I had never given the parietals issue a great deal of thought. Certainly it seemed odd to me that while my friends at Ivy League institutions were getting used to the complexities of coed bathrooms, I had to live in mortal fear of loosing track of time while visiting friends of the 
opposite gender 

and ending up in front of !?Orne sort of Tribunal of the Inquisition over at Student Affairs. Nonetheless, I tacitly accepted the whole busi­ness as one of those idiosyncrat­ic Notre Dame 
M
realities, like the weather, that it just doesn't'do any good to complain about. But having seen the other side of the mountain-and within Notre Dame's own jurisdiction rather than at some secular East Coast institu­tion-! now find the pathetic, state of gender relations on this campus intoler­able. A system of mandatory single sex dorms with rigidly. almost fanatically, enforced gender specific visiting hours is a patronizing anachronism that hinders both the pragmatic and moral missions of this institution. any of the problems that you read regularly about in these pages have their roots in directly or indirectly in the anomalous gender relations situation that the Administration continues to impose on this campus; from reports of "date rape" to the binge drinking that characterizes a typical weekend here to the ever increasing number of students who chose their freedom over their safe­ty and convenience in moving off earn­pus, the negative side effects of sex seg­regation are increasingly visible. The reality of the situation is clear; by in effect depriving students of contact with the opposite gender outside of an alco­hol soaked weekend social scene (i.e. dorm parties for freshmen and "The Backer" for seniors) the architects of Notre Dame's gender segregation have insured that many students perceive the opposite sex as either no more than casual acquaintances from class or, worse still, sex objects to be pursued while your Friday night buzz lingers. As a result, true male-female friendship, one of the most beautiful and and rewarding of human relationships, is almost an impossibility on this campus and is regarded as an anomaly when it does emerge ("So are you two dating or what?"). 

Just as prisons ultimately turn out more polished and hardened criminals, single sex dorms (at least male ones) ultimately produce more calloused chauvinists. There are only so many vulgar comments and sexists statements that one can hear before you feel your­self falling into the same pattern, a pat­tern which may ultimately manifest itself in deed as well as word. I have never been accused of being an advo­cate of political correctness, but after midnight on weekdays and two on week­ends, the typical Notre Dame guy's dorm can become as vile as any high school locker room. Such was not the case in Notre Dame's coed London housing, and such would not be the case on a gender integrated campus. 
The Notre Dame student body is made up of intelligent and focused young men and women who have gained admission to this institution via a record of achievement and good conduct at the high school level. It therefore seems unlikely to me that anyone can seriously believe that at the stroke of midnight we collectively transform into a mob of sex­
I
ual deviants, yet when you finally chew through the faux-encyclical rhetoric of du Lac , this seems to be the tacit assumption on which the parietals sys­tem is based. I find this collectively insulting. nsofar as it is this University's mission to prepare us for life in the proverbial "real world". the policies of gender seg­regation are again flawed. In an increasingly sexually integrated work­place, it is essential that one know how to relate to and communicate with mem­bers of the other gender. The sort of sexism and chauvinism that is so perva­sive within the cocoon of an all male dorm is likely to get one brought up on harassment charges at the office. 
I wish it were possible for all of you to experience the joy and normality that the 85 of us who have just returned from London found in our coeducational housing. For the first time in my Notre Dame years it was possible to get to know members of the other gender as people and not just faces in class or in a bar. 
Every institution has its sacred cows, and bringing an end to parietals at Notre Dame is about as likely as Congress terminating the Social Security system. But the reality of the fact remains that single sex dorms with strictly enforced gender specific visiting hours are an anachronism which cre­ates innumerable and deep problems within our student body. The spirit of Christian community that prevails in Notre Dame's London flats represents this University at its best, the surreal parietals "fire drill" that occurs every midnight outside every woman's resi­dence hall nightly shows our school at its worst. Regardless whether they operate out of habit or misplaced ideal­ism, the enforcers of this system have much to answer for. 
Chris Kratovil is a junior who has returned from his semester sabbatical in London. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 


• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Western civilization should be feminized." 
-Octavio Paz 


page 8 Monday, January 29, 1996 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH FATMAN AND DAOOY 
The last scream you hear may be your own 
"Screamers" Directed by Christian Duguay Starring Peter Weller and Jennifer Rubin 
"j 
(out of four) 

Synopsis: The year is 2078 and, despite dramatic im· provements in general tech­nology. the human race is still tormented by war and a lack of good screenplays. After demon­strating his impressive faculties as a cyborg head-buster in Detroit, master thespian Peter Weller is placed in command of misfit gang of soldiers and pranksters on a cold and dis­tant moon. In a twist of numb­ing irony, Weller's most nefari­ous foes end up being the robot­ic "Autonomous Mobile Swords" he has in the past to combat his more human enemies. As if things could get any better, these funny little robots have developed a rather nettlesome ability: the skill to disguise themselves as snot-faced chil­dren. 
Fatman: Defying reason, pos­tulating absurdities, and deliv­ering a ridiculous plot are the main concerns of "Screamers." Whereas good sci{lnce fiction like "Blade Runner" and "Alien" take the future and use it to reflect the present in a new light, this film uses the future to demonstrate just how pathetic the current state of Peter Weller's acting career is. With little help from the cast, the di­rector, the screenwriter, or even the title's designer, this stinker is about as exciting as a trip to the Walt Disney dinner night. 
The concept of mechanical death machines redesigning themselves from simple canine­like killers to sentient humanoids in only a couple of years might be acceptable as a superficial plot in a pre-pubes­cent's sci-fi story, but it does not work in a major film. The fact that they place serial num­bers on themselves and that they become more human and less lethal in order to ex­terminate the human popula­tion of the planet both demon­strate a gross neglect of detail in the story line. Attacking the plot of a science fiction movie may seem like sniveling petu­lance, but even listening to Adam Smith extol the benevo­lence of the free market is less of an insult to my intelligence than the story line of "Screamers." 
The actual technical aspects of the film lacked any true in­genuity or creativity. Lackluster special effects and cliche action sequences drench the celluloid. "Screamers"' perspective on the future is taken out of every other groveling B-movie sci-fi flick. No real changes, no new ideas, and certainly no work put into the technology to make it seem fresh are present in the film. Visually, the movie just slags along treading the same old water that mediocrity wal­lows in. 
Maybe movies like this need to be made. Maybe I'm really the Messiah and I like to play pool with nothing but a pair of leather underwear on. The fact that I had to pay your hard­earned money from the Observer to see this unthinking crap is a shame. It is simply another instance of the con­spiracy's constant attempt to thwart any sort of mental activ­ity. Its further stimulus training trying to enhance our proclivity towards the mundane and soothing, rather than rising up to meet our destiny. Don't buy into the Man's game. Don't see this movie. 
Daddy: With all the narrative motion of a fetid, stagnant cess pool and all the terse mystery of a Columbo episode, "Screamers" is most definitely a sight to behold, if only to serve as a vivid and prolonged glance at the absolute nadir of Hollywood movie magic. However, Daddy would find it easier to locate a witty Republican than to happen upon a more apropos title for this rank smudge of excrement on the sole of the motion pic­ture medium. 
The rat bastards at Triumph Films will be happy to learn that there is, in fact, a whole lot of screamm going on. Unfortunately for these budding geniuses, the vocal excla­mations of terror are induced not by cinematic horror. It is the audience's realization that their six and a quarter bits could have been spent on some­thing a little more entertaining: like pogs, or perhaps the empty milk bottles that spawned them. 
To actually discuss the plot of the movie would be, as the Fatman has deftly suggested, the impetus for a greater trav­esty than the actual movie. Despite operating with such knowledge, I would be remiss if I failed to mention one of the glaring flaws in the story itself. 
Imagine, if you will, a fright­ening dystopia of the future where the nations of the world have been forced into a fragile alliance to face an impending ecological disaster created by the avarice of big business. While the scenario is, on the mere surface, plausible almost to the point of absolute verity, who would believe that corpo­rate moguls would form a mili­tary machine, and that mere 


Andy Lauer and Charles Powell are paralyzed with fear in an enemy bunker in the action thriller "Screamers." Unfortunately, the audience did not have the same reaction. 
truculence would liberally spi­anorexic plots and actually ral into universal conflagra­think, as do the scholars who tion? Highly unlikely, indeed. wrote the screenplay, that ra­While Noam Chomsky teaches diation comes in cubic tons, us never to underestimate the then this is the movie for you. If crapulence produced by the in­you are a sentient being with satiable appetite for profit, it is the ability to conquer simple important to realize that big puzzles, then you better stay business would never end the away from "Screamers." lives of the obsequious sym­bionts -those better known as Fatman and Daddy are John the insipid and global herd of Zach and Scott Bazik. 
consumers. 

To sum things up, if you like 


Classic story retold with class 
"Sense and Sensibility" Directed by Ang Lee Starring Emma Thompson, Alan Rickman, Kate Winslet and Hugh Grant 
**** 
By MARK TORMA 
Accent Movie CritiC 

H
aving remembered that I, like most other Notre Dame guys, have a little Beavis and Butthead running around in my head, thus I've decided to bring them along with me on this re­view. Their highly relevant viewpoint will appear in parenthetical interludes. (Hey, Butthead, what's this "lodes" thing he's talking about? -I don't know, Beavis, this guy sounds like my dad). They refuse to behave, so I'll keep their contributions brief. 
Okay, enough about my inner child. This Saturday I braved the barren Michiana wilderness to do what any red-blooded American guy would do on the weekend -go see "Sense and Sensibility." (Huh­huh ... what??). 
Yes, I trudged through snow to indulge myself in this film, Emma Thompson's adaptation of Jane Austen's novel. (Wait a minute dude, that's a chick movie). Yeah, that's what they told me, but I figured hey, if a movie is really good, then I'm going to like it anyway -and I loved it. 
Emma Thompson's screenplay (You mean a chick wrote it ?!? Does it have any cool stuff or what?) is captivating and develops the plot at a steady pace and never stagnates, even when director Ang Lee takes his time giving us vista after glorious vista of English town and countryside. 
Story and setting complement each other perfectly­-the scenery always reflects the story's thematic con­trasts of love & money, happiness & despair. Even though you can get the same excitement from your L_iterature class, I'm here to tell you that I had a great time. I loved Emma Thompson's Eleanor, and hated her hard-hearted sister-in-law, who turns Eleanor and the other Dashwood women out into the street. 
They're left to their own devices, which fortunately include a bevy of country gentlemen. Their romantic trials and tribulations were heart-rending, and I had to sympathize with every lovelorn character. Thompson gave a tremendous performance, mir­rored in her reserve only by two gentlemen, Alan Rickman (Yeah, yeah, the bad guy from "Die Hard") and a stellar, never-stammering Hugh Grant. (Hey, didn't he get caught..). Yes, well, we all know about him. ­
Not everybody may know about Kate Winslet, who plays young Maryanne Dashwood, master of melan­choly tunes and melancholy moods, but who can't see the world beyond her own passion and melan­choly. (Isn't that the name of that album those Pumpkin guys did? -Yeah, yeah, they rule!). 
Returning to Miss Winslet, I thought she played a fine spirited maiden, although her petulance was a bit much at times. Still, as she stood in the rain, I could see the infinite sadness in her eyes. (C'mon, Beavis, let's get out of here. This guys a wuss. -No, way, Butthead, I want to hear more about that chick's pechulants). 
With all the hard hearts, big hearts, and broken hearts in this film, the viewer will come to realize that the same kind of guarded confidences and mis­interpreted intentions are to be found at modern American weekend events (e.g. SYRs?). 

Yes, folks, the tragic tradition of Victorian social custom is continued in our day and age. The tragedy in the film is not confined to the women either. I found Rickman's broken heart just as tragic as Winslet's (and more familiar), but then again, I am a guy. 
Maybe you ladies out there will see it differently, but if you do see it with a guy, make sure he checks his Beavis and Butthead at the ticket window. There is not much offered here for the adolescent male sensibility, much Jess for his sense of fun -although the littlest Dashwood sister has the coolest treehous­es. 
Nevertheless, this is no insipid farce or melodra­matic tearjerker. Any adult and we're all adults here, right? -will enjoy it heartily, immersing him or herself in the emotional whirlpool that is Maryanne, and musing over the true nature of Eleanor's affec­tion. 
I recommend it to anyone looking for thought-pro­voking entertainment. As for the rest of you, if this gets Best Picture (which it might), it might get popped into a TVNCR in front of you someday, therefore keep an open mind. You'll learn how love is the only road to happiness while money shares its way with good intentions. (Hey, what's he talking about? -I don't know, Beavis, let's go watch "Slumber Party Massacre 3"). 
Mark Torma in a junior Anthropology major from Alliance, Ohio. According to some accounts, he never studies, and ifDiane or Leilani are reading this, he thanks you again very much. 
Monday, January 29, 1996 
• GOLF 
Woosnam Masters Johnnie Walker Classic 

Associated Press 
SINGAPOHE 

Ian Woosnam, who almost mtired from golf because of a bad back last year, started the n11w European season by win­ning the .Johnnie Walker Classic in a playoff with Scotsman Andrew Coltatt on Sunday. 
Three times the match looked out of reach for Woosnam. but lw ralliml to win the first prize of $151,000 from the purse of $1J0h.()()(). 
The 25-year-old Coltart had snv1m birdies in the final round, ineluding live straight begin­ning at the sixth hole, and nqualled the Tanah Merah Club course record of 65 for a 16­under tolltl of 272. 
Woosnam, 37. who started the round one stroke ahead of Coltart, was a stroke behind with two holes to play, despite an eagle on the second and three birdies. 
Wlwn Woosnam missed a good birdie chance at the 17th and hit his third shot at the 11Hh 40 feel from the hole, the charu:e to force a playoff appnared dim. 
But IH~ made a great shot for a birdie and a 66, forcing the playoff. 
On the first playoff hole, at the par-four 1 Sth. Woosnam two-putted from 40 feet, but Coltarl, from 20 feet. missed his birdie chance and Woosnam survived again. 
At the sneond playoff hole on the 17th, the roles were reversed, with Coltart rallying to save par. 
Again at the 18th, Woosnam drove his tee shot into the trees on the left of the fairway and did not have a clear sight of the green. But he hit through the trees and over the lake, and the ball landed on the green, 40 feet from the hole. 
Coltart, meanwhile, had a straight second shot. But he could only par the hole. At that point, Woosnam delivered an­other unerring birdie putt for the victory. 
It was the 1991 U.S. Masters champion's first win in 16 months. 
"At the 18th. I had to hook it 15 yards with the 5-iron and it went to exactly where I was to tie earlier," the Welshman said. "What fortune to have exactly the same lie twice." 
Tied for third at 275 were Olle Karlson of Sweden and England's Paul Curry. each with a dosing 66, and co-third round leader Wayne Riley of Australia, who shot a 68. The other leader, Englishman Paul Eales. shot a 73 to finish at 280. 
South African Ernie Els was at 276, tied with 1995 champi­on Fred Couples and four oth­ers. British Open champion John Daly finished at 280, and Australia's Greg Norman, never in contention because of pre­tournament illness. was at 286. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
.... 
Associated Press lan Woosnam won the Johnnie Walker Classic in a playoff, capping off his comeback from a career threaten­ing back injury. 
• Tennis 


Wilander accussed of drug use 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Mats Wilander prefers to re­member the times he· won the French Open. He doesn't want to be known as a French Open drugs cheat. 
Lawyers for the Swedish star and Karel Novacek of the Czech Republic say they will go to the High Court in London this week to clear the players' names after allegations that they test­ed positive for cocaine at last year's French Open. 
According to the British tabloid News of the World Sunday, the sport's governing body, the International Tennis Federation, knew of the posi­tive tests but have been keeping them quiet because of legal reasons. 
"On behalf of our clients, we categorically deny the allega­tion," the players' lawyers said in a statement to the News of the World. "We have lie detec­tor evidence proving our clients are telling the truth in denying the allegation. 

"We came to London with our clients and our expert witness­es to prove our clients' inno­cence, as the ITF rules re­quire," the lawyers said. "The ITF then canceled a hearing the night before the hearing was due to begin. 
"As a result, we are issuing proceedings against the ITF in the High Court in London next week." 
According to the report, the two players had high-level talks last week with ATP Tour offi­cials, including the head of the anti-doping program, Dr. David Martin, the ATP Tour's Gavin Applebee, and the ITF's Deborah Jevans, the report said. 
Meanwhile, the ITF refused to confirm the newspaper's alle­gations. 
"I can't confirm that there have been any positive tests," ITF president Brian Tobin said after the Australian Open championships completed its two-week run on Sunday. 
Wilander has won seven Grand Slam tournament titles, including the French title in 1982,.1985 and 1988. Novacek was ranked No. 8 in the world in 1991, but has since dropped to No. 122 in the rankings. Both players withdrew from the Australian Open, citing injuries. 
The allegation that Wilander tested positively was met with disbelief in Sweden. 
"My first reaction is that someone wants to spread a nasty rumor about him," said Swedish Tennis Federation president Jan Francke. "It seems incredibly strange con­sidering what kind of person Mats is. 
'I'm a member of the ITF board and I would have known if this had happened. especially since he is a Swede. Since the French Open took place six months ago, I would have heard something about this." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
L-....-_N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ ____JI 
International Film Festival Coming Soonl Cushing Auditorium 
"II Poslino" Feb 4 "The Promise" Feb 5 Montgomery Theatre 

"Tatie Daniells" Feb 6 "EI Mariachi" Feb 7 "Like Water lor Chocolate" Feb 8 all movies at 7:30 ... $2.00 
SPRING BREAK\ With only 1 week to live. DON'T BLOW ITI Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruisel7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlifel Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials I 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Save $100 On Food/Drlnksl http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Breakl Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to Best Barsl 7 Nights In Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $1691 Daytona $1391 hllp://www.spring­breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 
I LOST & FOUND I 
Found a unique 18K gold pin last semester. Please write a full dis­cription to P.O.Box 111 ND, 46556. 
LOSTIIIII 
I.D. bracelet. Says "Christopher". Reward for return. Please call, sen­timental value. Call Chris, @ 1662 
Switched: If you have the wrong turquoise double-breasted jacket from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give me a call. I have yours. Andy X1765 
Los!: A green, Columbia Bugaboo Ski Jackel from the coat room at Senior Bar last Thusday night. II had a purple, inner liner and a ski lift ticket allached. I ended up with a very similar jacket that was hung near mine. If you have mine or want yours, please call Travis at 
X2091. 
WANTED 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Neededl Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board I Transportation I Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 ext A55843 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. 
Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian languages required. For more information call: (206) 971-3570 ext. J55842 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/slart Flexible hours around classes. All majors. Scholarships/Internships CALL 282-2357 
Computer Science student capable of programming excell. Earn a great reference for your resume and Subway Subs· lor your time. Call289-1288, ask for the General Manager. 
ZAPPA FANS I am writing the entry on F.Z. for the Dictionary of American Biography. I want to listen to some of his albums before beginning library research. If you have any FZ albums and would be willing to let me tape them. please call277-9071 
WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings. 
???????????????????? NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­
MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED­
ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE -AUGUST. CALL 273-1738. ???????????????????? 
Summer Camp Employment Minnesota co-ed summer recre­ational camp seeks qualified indi­viduals to work as cabin counselors who can also instruct in various activites. 
Representative will be at SMC LeMans on Feb.1 from 1 0-2 and at NO Dooley, O'Hara Lounge on Feb.2 from 1 0-2. Questions? 
Call Camp Foley at218-543-6161 or email at sbfhouse@uslink.net 


FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
TRUE BEAUTY 3 MILES TO CAMPUS 237-9718 
Rent a sailboat. Take your friends for a ride. Call 555-3045. 

TICKETS 
1 Dave Matthews ticket ati.U. for 
Feb. 1. Call 634-2284. 
1 or 2 tickets to Billy Joel appearance Jan.30. Call277-6392. 
CASH FOR BILLY JOEL TIXI Top Dollar for your tickets! Call Chris 256-9728 anytime. 


PERSONAL 

0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0a0o0o0a0o0o0o0o0o0 
Sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast in the dining hall today during lunch and dinner. Miss only one meal a week to help those who are hungry. If you miss the sign-up call Meghan x4172 or Amy x2992 with your name and ID number 
ATTENTION MUSIC LOVERS: Have you ever wanted to be on the radio? Here's your chancel WSND-FM is looking for announc­ers to fill various classical shifts. No experience needed. Call Amy at 631-73421or more info. 
SMC-ND 23RD ANNUAL SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21) AND ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15) TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOTT, FR., GER., SWITZ., AND ITALY COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC, HIST., BIO., SOC.• AND ITALIAN. MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CAR­ROLL HALL (SMC)-INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460/ 272-3729. 
Grab 'n Go Bags are coming I This is your chance 1o make a difference and earn a special bonus for the rest of the semester. Bags will be on sale in both dining halls starting Jan. 31. Brought to you by Lewis Hall. 
If you look up "punk" in the dictio­nary, there is a picture of Deion Sanders. 
Next time you are In UP Mall go say hi to Amy at Payless 
Despite the poor officiating and the errant throws of Neil O'Donnell, the Terrible Towel® will wave proudly. Dallas got damn lucky 
They're closing down the textile mill across the rail road track 
foreman says these jobs are going boys, and they ain't coming back. 
Heyl Why won't those pesky Packers just go away? Now, they're on Mad About You. Sore losers. 
Hey Deion, broken leg or neck? Boat. 
Mayor Goldie Wilson. I like the sound of that. Special events correspondent. I like the sound of that. 
Out of the 'blue'. look who's on top of the ACC, consistently the best conference in college bas­ketball. And you thought they were just going to be the Dante show. 
The 1996 'Sugar' Bowl. Not soon to be forgotten. 
Happy Birthday Jennifer Hall--on Wednesday she is 21111 
Words of wisdom for your love life, 
if you can translate them ... Todo amor es fantasia ... Yo te quiero. soy yo ... Que es el amor... ? Quien sabe? 
• SUPER BOWl XXX
•NFL 

Plans to relocate Super Bowl ads


Bears continue 
Associated Press 

GARY, Ind. 
Negotiations to bring the Chicago Bears to a new football stadium Gary were shrouded in silence until the approach backfired by alienating Lake Council members. 
That forced the football team to switch tactics last week. Now, council members and leaders of the stadium effort say the Bears' new openness and offer to share construction costs has revived the fading project.
-"It's very important that (the Bears) try to keep us going," said Bill Wellman, president of Northern Indiana/Chicagoland Entertainment Inc. "If there's nobody competing you have lost your leverage." While the Bears negotiate a stadium in Northwest Indiana, the team is also talking with Illinois officials about a new domed stadium in Chicago. 
NICE has been campaigning for a 0.5 percent county income tax to help pay the annual cost of borrowing to build the pro­posed Planet Park stadium. 
After four council members said they would vote against the tax and taxpayers blasted it at a public hearing, the Bears offered to pay up to half the $30 million annual debt cost and invited the council to the negotiating table. 
Earlier, the Bears and NICE had agreed to keep details of their talks under wraps. Abiding by that agreement was essential to keep talks moving, NICE officials said. 
"The Soldier's Field (renova­tion) plan died because the city of Chicago couldn't keep nego­tiations at the negotiating table," said NICE spokeswoman Colleen Dykes. 
"We were not going to kill this project by yirtue of our inability to keep our mouths shut." 
But keeping the numbers secret irritated council mem­bers who demanded ;1nswers before they would vote on the 
It keeps more than 
• 

memones alive. 
. ,__ 
Amencan Heart a-A 
AssociationsM~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES 
~ 
SM 
1-800-AHA-USA 1 
This space prov1ded as a public service. ©1994, American Heart Association 
tax. 
"If that's the way they feel about it, there's no need to go forward," said Councilman Morris Carter, D-Gary. 
The Bears' offer Wednesday to pay up to $15 million of the stadium's annual debt changed Carter's mind, though. He called the offer a sign that "we could be looking at a deal in the making." 
Council President John Aguilera, D-East Chicago, com­plained that the Bears and NICE "shut us out...l think they made some miscalculations as to how this thing would work its way through the system. I think their options are running out and they had to bring us to the table." 
Council member Robert Crossk, D-Hobart, said the Bears and NICE should have had county officials involved from the beginning. 
"We are government but we believe in looking out for the best interest of the taxpayers," Crossk said. 
So is Gov. Evan Bayh, and 
that means the stadium won't 
get any state money, his press 
secretary said. 
Aguilera, Crossk and Carter 
said they hoped to meet with 
Bayh on Wednesday to try and 
get the state to contribute to 
the stadium project, estimated 
to cost $312 million. 
But Bayh is committed to 
having the state pay only for 
better roads and other infras­
tructure improvements con­
nected to it, Fred Nation told 
The Associated Press on 
Saturday. 
The tensions over the stadi­um show there is a difference between how business is han­dled in the private and public sectors, said Maurice Eisenstein, assktant professor of political science at Purdue University, Calumet in Hammond. 
"The Bears may be used to dealing with things privately," he said. "Once you get into the public arena then you have to divulge things.'' 
···• 
a, shoti~iM th~ 
a rush.at 10:05. 
. one in off the goal· post at 4:58 but TUrgeon then finit:~hed a two~Qn,.one with Mark Recchi at 16;2J. 
.... P<l;t~s: gQt Boston l:la<?k i'q ~e g&me vvh.en his shot £rqnJ, the slotheat Jablonski 1:03 into 
the third, pedpd. · ·· 
Boston's Dean Chynoweth was ejected fot instigating a fight .\'!lith. Turner St~~~~~o)t 
·jJl t};le s~coud period, 'i(,, ';; .· ·· 
CAPITALS 3,.FLYERS ? 

in,g .·......·.. . i . ·.···••. · '(? . . . ()tb. goaL Of the season. came from the :right circle after he took a drop pass from Ken Klef:l. .. The · shot bounded off Phil pJiia defen~eman ·Gl!fi erie)t and.trl~kled 
p~st 11. . • ···· ··· J3r.t ..· dros' 30th goal of the season and Shawn Antoslti's first in more than a year hafl given the Flyers a 2­1 let),d. e)ttering the third pe· rtod~ b.utfhiladelph.ia·man­aged og.~y fcntr shots O(l ~oal· iritht) fipal25 minutes. ·. 
The Flyers are 0-2~2 in their 
last four games and l-6-2 
sine~ Jan. 3. lt was the first 
tilli . thll.tformer WlJ.spi)tgton 
co ~rryMurraflostto 
the itals since taking over 
he the Philadelphia bench 
last season. 
Antoski, who had three 
assists and'i16 penalty min~ 
ut11$ .JQ; 41 games before 
Sttnday1put Philadelphia up 
24 at '16:35 of the second 
period. Anatoli Semenov 
gained control along the 
backboards and sent lt in 
frtmt ()f the net to Antoski. 
whq fli~ked it past goaltender .Jim Carey for his first goal since Jan. s; 1994. . 
Undros gave the Flyers a 1· 
0 lead at 13:34 of the rrrst pe­
riod, scoring from the bottom 
of the left circle after taking a 
pas~ from Joel Otto during a 
del~yed penalty. 
Otto was called for roughing 
immediately after the goal, 
andthe Capitals subsequently 
goal when 
· · · in a cen-
Joe 

entertain 
By SKIP WOLLEN 
Associated Press 
New York 
The Dolphins, Broncos and Bears missed Sunday's Super Bowl, but a dinosaur, a gold­fish, a penguin, buzzards and frogs strutted their stuff before a huge television audience. 
The football teams from Miami, Denver and Chicago failed to qualify for an appear­ance in the National Football League's 39th annual champi­onship game, in which the Dallas Cowboys beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 27-17. 
But advertisers turned the telecast into a commercial Wild Kingdom by featuring an array of beasties living, dead and animated in the most expensive ads ever run on television. 
NBC charged a record $1.2 million on average for each half-minute of commercial time during the game, up 20 percent from the 1995 Super Bowl. 
McDonald's Corp. ran an ad in which a museum dinosaur skeleton comes to life and begins a clumsy nighttime prowl. 
But when it comes across a 
security guard eating french 
fries, the frightening creature 
exhibits the personality of a 
puppy performing for a treat. 
A goldfish plays dead until 
children drop a drop of soft 
drink in its bowl in a commer­
cial for Pepsi-Cola Co. 
In an ad for Bud Ice beer, 
two men cringe in a house as a 
stranger pounds loudly on the 
door. 
They slip a Bud Ice outside as 
a peace offering, only to find 
the intruder was a small but 
assertive penguin. 
Anheuser-Busch Inc. relied 
on animals in other ads as 
well. In the fourth in a series of 
ads for its flagship beer, frogs 
that collectively croak the 
Budweiser name are unde­
terred by a snowstorm. 
The Pink Panther fought the 
"space invaders" heat, cold 
and noise in a home insulation 
products ad for Owens-Corning 
Fiberglas Corp. 

1~ meetiq.JJ.Of tb~ new semester Evetyone irelcome! 
Come in and practice speaking effectively in a relaxed (lnd fqn environm.ent! 
Join us for pizza on Tuesday, January 29 
6:00 to 7~00 pm 
. . 

Crn~eting f1Q,~tnallyafii,,:(~OO on T\Iesday&) 220 HayJs-Healy 



NFL commissioner publicly criticizes Dallas owner Jones 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

Just hours before Sunday's Super Bowl between Dallas and Pittsburgh, NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue issued a blister­ing attack against Cowboys owner Jnrry Jones on national television. 
Appearing on the ABC pro­gram "This Week With David Brinkley," Tagliabue was ques­tiorwd about franchise free ageney and issues of revenue sharing and costs. When Jones' independent marketing deals with Nike, Pepsi-Cola and American Express were raised, Tagliabue bristled. 
"Jerry Jones dishonors the agreement he made when he came into the NFL partner­ship," the eomrnissioner said. "Jill takllS what does not belong to him. The NFL is what we s!lll. It belongs to 30 teams. not the Dallas Cowboys." 
The league sued Jones for $300 million when the inde­pnndent marketing deals were announefld. Jon!ls has filed a $750 million eountersuit. 
Earlier in the week, Jones said, "That's America. America didn't come along as a com­mune, where people got out and worked and gained assets and position, then turned around and gave it back to everybody else who's not work­ing. That's not America, so I think the things that we do and are trying to do in the NFL are very helpful, or I wouldn't be suggesting doing them." 
"I'm a longterm guy in the NFL and have a great chance of sitting here 25-30 years from now, health wise, familywise and ownershipwise," Jones added. "So, I have as much or more interest in the future of the NFL than anybody else in the league." 
Tagliabue also repeated the theme he presented Friday in his state of the league address, saying the NFL "shares the emotions of fans" losing fran­chises to other cities. 
"It is incoherent to destroy what it took 75 years to build," he said. "We want to maintain continuity and tradition." 
Asked how the league could do that after two franchises left Los Angeles last year and Cleveland and Houston plan moves for next season, Tagliabue said the NFL is examining solutions. 
"We are going to resolve this," he said. "If expansion be­comes part of the solution, then we'll pursue that. If markets don't support teams, another alternative may be to relocate a team that is not supported where it is. 
"We share revenue. Expansion divides the pie fur­ther and lowers revenues as costs escalate." 
Tagliabue said the NFL prob­lems can be traced to a com­petitive environment and mar­ketplace and escalating player costs. He called again for at least limited antitrust exemp­tion which would allow the league to battle franchise moves. 
"Congress has recognized that a league is a business enterprise, a partnership," he said. "It is nonsensical, artifi­cial and unrealistic for antitrust laws to carve up that enterprise and either the Supreme Court or Congress must do someting about it." 




Bulls continue winning ways 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 

Michael Jordan scored 31 points as the Chicago Bulls set a franchise record with their 15th consecutive victory by beating thn Phoenix Suns 93-82 Sunday. 
I>nnnis Hudman had 20 mbounds and Scottie Pippen 21 points for the Bulls, who are 311-3 at the season's midway point. Only the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lukers, who went on to win an NBA-record 69 games, nver won 38 games by the mid­season. 
The Bulls resume pursuit of tlw 70-victory mark Tuesday, wlwn tlwy begin a seven-game road trip at Houston. In 1991­92, they wem 36-5 at midsea­son before a losing trip ruined their bid to break the Lukers' record. Earlier this season, Chicago went 6-1 on a similar Texas and West Coast swing. 
Chicago, which broke the club record of 14 straight wins set in 1991-92, also stretched its team-record home winning streak to 29. 
It hasn't lost at the United Center since last March 24 ­Jordan's first home game after coming out of retirement. 
Charles Barkley had 20 points and 16 rebounds for the Suns, who are 2-2 so far on a club­record eight-game road trip. Phoenix is 3-4 since Cotton Fitzsimmons replaced Paul Westphal, who was fired as coach on Jan. 16. 
Barkley and Rodman, two of the world's most entertaining athletes, took turns delighting and enraging fans and partici-
GAME NIGHT-BRING A FEW FRIENDS, SIT BACK, RELAX, PlAY SOME OF YOUR FAVORITE GAMES! EUCHRE, SPADES, HEARTS, POKER, MONOPOlY, CHESS, ETC. JAZZMANS Will PROVIDE CARDS AND BOARDS IF YOU COME WITHOUT! FREE ADMISSION. 
TUESDAYS 
OPEN D.J. NIGHT-BRING YOUR FAVORITE CDS OR TAPES. JAZZMANS PROVIDES THE CD PlAYER, TAPE PlAYER, AND MICROPHONE! FREE ADMISSION. 

WEDNESDAYS 
FREE COLLEGE BIRTHDAY NIGHT! BRING/INVITE 50 OR MORE FRIENDS, JAZZMANS PROVIDES THE FREE CAKE, BALlOONS, CANDlES, & MUSIC FOR YOUR PARTY. BIRTHDAY MUST BE WITHIN 5 DAYS OF PARTY. 233-8505 TO RESERVE YOUR DATE. RESTRICTED TO 18 AND OVER. FREE ADMISSION. 

THURSDAYS 
For j 11 fo 011 daily food and drink spccia Is, 
pants. 
Barkley waved off Fitzsimmons when the coach tried to send in a substitute midway through the second quarter. 
Barkley did leave the game for two minutes; upon return­ing, he yelled at Jack Haley on the Bulls' bench: "You can't even guard my wife." In the third quarter, Barkley gave Rodman a playful shove as they waited for a free-throw attempt. 
With 2:11 left in the game and Phoenix trailing only 86­80, Rodman literally threw Hot Rod Williams to the court. But Rodman wasn't called for his sixth foul and an upset Williams was hit with a techni­cal foul. Rodman then scored his only four points in the final 
1:34 to ice the victory. 

INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Magic Johnson reportedly has signed a contract with the Los Angeles Lakers and will return to the NBA Tuesday night in a home game against the Golden State Warriors. 
NBC-TV reported Sunday that Johnson's comeback would be officially announced Monday at a news conference in Los Angeles. The network cited unidentified sources in the league and close to Johnson.. 
The Lakers have worked out a way for Johnson to sell his 5 percent ownership of the team to make his comeback, the network said. 
Lakers spokesman John Black declinect to comment on the report. . · 
Johnson's agent, Lon Hosen, did not immediately return calls made to his home and office. 
The Los Angeles Times, cit­ing unidentified sources, re· ported Saturday that Johnson had agreed in principle to a contract that would pay him $2.5 million for the rest of the season. 
Lakers forward Cedric Ceballos indica.ted Saturday night that Johnson likely would return i9 the team this week. . ·!' · .. 
"Tuesday's the day, all Indi­
. cations prove that," Ceballos said before the Lakers game at New Jersey. "He's try1ng to sell his percentage. He's bought about a 100-some· thing tickets for the game. I know he wants to play in that game and warm himself up for Michael Jordan." Johnson, 36, initially retired in November 1991, after announcing he had the AIDS virus. · 
He retired from the NBA for a sectmd time before the 1992-93 season because some players opposed his playing · because he was HJV-positive. The virus causes AIDS. 
Johnson has been non•com· mittal about returning to the Lakers. However. he has practiced with the Lakers the past two weeks. 
"It's always in the rumor stage untjllt definitely hap· pens ... " Lakers coach Del Harris said .Saturday night. 
SOME OF THE HOTTEST CAMPUS BANDS AND THE HOTTES DJ'S. RESTRICTED TO 21 AND OVER $3.00 ADMISSION WITH COllEGE ID-$5.00 WITHOUT 
FRIDAYS & SATURDAYS OPEN PARTY NIGHT-BOTH DANCE FlOORS OPEN UNTil 3:00A.M. CAll FOR AGE RESTRICTIONS 
HOLD YOUR SPECIAL COLLEGE PARTY OR DANCE AT JAZZMAN'S FOR INFO ON RENTAL CALL lJJ-8505 
and en rena in men r s~hed ulc call: LU-8 50 5 
Doors open: Mon-S;n 4pm. to .3arn. • FREE MUNCHIES & STUDY BOOl H AVAILABLE 
•NBA 

Magic comeback 
"But I'm on record, coast-to­
coast, as saying I've always 
been in favor of it and our 
team is in favor ofit." 
There also is seemingly little 
opposition from others in the 
league to his return. Everyone 
from Jordan to Charles 
Barkley is ready to welcome 
him back. 
"I think now it's 3-4 years 
later," said Philadelphia's 
LaSalle . Thompson, who 
worked out with Johnson 
daily until signing with the 
76ers Jan. 11. "l think every­
body's a Jot more cognizant of 
this disease and knows a lot 
more about it. They know you 
don't catch it from casual con­
tact like that. I think there'll 
be a lot more understanding 
than there was." 
Jordan made his comeback 
with the Bulls last March after 
17 months of retirement. 
''I don't have any fears (of playing against Magic)," Jordan said. "I'm sure he's taking it into consideration .... If he can deal with some adversity, I'm happy for him. I want what's best for him." 
Chicago's Scottie Pippen 
said Johnson·~ HIV status is 
not an issue. 
"I competed against him in the Olympics and it's not a concern to me," he said. "I know once you leave the game, you can miss it and I know he misses the competi­tion." 
Miami's Pat Riley, who coached the Lakers during in the 1980s, said he and Johnson hnve discussed a possible comeback. 
"It will be interesting to see Jf he's the only point power forward in this game,'' Riley said. "He's a great player. He's got something left he believes. And, he wants another run at it." 
Barkley said, "That's fine with me. l've always said if he wants to play, he should be able to play." · 
But Karl Malone, one of a few NBA players who sug­gested it was a good Idea when Johnson retired for a second time before the 1992­93 season, said, "It's great for him if he wants to do it. And it's great for basketball." 
Doctors said Friday that Johnson is fine and his health has been constant since 1992. 


Spring Break Seminars 
March 10-16, 1996 Experiential/ Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIASEN.IT.NAR 

Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology Information meeting: 
Former wrestlers needed to volunteer as coaches for kids wrestling club, ages 5-adult. 
L'ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR 
Program meets 2 nights a week, 2 hours per night. 
Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities 
Mid FEBRUARY to end ofAPRIL Call Tom Dollr 255-0137 
Read the work of Jean Vanier 
One credit Theology talented kids-state champs from several age groups. 
You will serve on a staff of several coaches. Very 

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR


iNDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Examine environmental issues and sites directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns
SOUTH BEND 
One credit, Chicago-based seminar CONTU«<TNGEDUCKnON WASHINGTON SEMINAR






English as a 
Welfare: Public or Private Responsibility?
12 Tuesdays,

Second 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. 
Feb. 13-Aprll30 
7·9:30 p.m. $189


Language 
Service and political awareness opportunities 
One-credit Theology or Government
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 


Applications Available Now at the CSC 
• Receive individualized attention from the instructor 
To register, or for information, call 
Applications Due: Jan. 31, 1996 IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 



Woes 
continued from page 16 
a good percentage." 
"We could have won this game," added center Matt Gotsch who contributed 10 points. "We needed to step up to the line and do it but today we didn't. We've said a thou­sand times that we have to make our free-throws. Now we just have to put it behind us and things will turn our way." 
"Tonight I think a couple of guys started missing and it kind of spread like a cancer," said Pat Garrity who led all scorers with 24. 
This disease was just the most glaring statistic in a game characterized by a veritable bevy of missed opportunities and ehances. 
In addition to shooting 36 percent for the game, the Irish were just 14 percent from three-point land, including a pathetic seven percent in the second half. 
To Notre Dame's credit, they shaved an 11 point Mountaineer halftime lead to three numerous times in the second half, but could not pull any closer. 
West Virginia's switching defenses kept the Irish off-bal­ance and refused to let Notre Dame make any significant runs. 
"West Virginia did a good job defensively," MacLeod added. "They kept changing defenses from man to triangle and two. We IHtd a difficult time solving the defenses." 
Besides Gotseh 's 10 points, Hyan Iloover and Garrity were the only other Irish players in double figun~s as they were once again forced to earry the seoring load. 
Hoover had 1 I after getting just ten shots. 
West Virginia developed their defensive strategy in order to contain the inside-outside threat of the star Irish tandem. 
"We played a lot of triangle and two out of respect for Hoover and Garrity," West Virginia head coach Gale Catlett said. "We had worked on some special defenses. We wanted to do something to try to disrupt their rhythm. We 
page 13 

wanted to keep them of-bal­ance coming out of timeouts." 
"We had a hard time getting movement without the ball," Garrity said. "That's why Ryan wasn't getting a lot of shots be­cause he couldn't come off picks like he normally can to get open." 
"They did a good job of deny­ing Hoover," MacLeod added. "We needed to do a better job of getting him the ball. We need other people to step up and be productive and be a threat." 
During crunch time, the Irish could only hit three baskets, all by Garrity, in the last six min­utes. After Doug Gottlieb (10 assists) found Garrity trailing on a fast-break for the slam, Notre Dame appeared poised to make a run. 
Cyrus Jones, however, who led the Mountaineers with 19, answered to push the lead back to five. 
Garrity would hit a three­pointer to pull Notre Dame within three again, but Jones came right back with a basket of his own from behind the arc. Jones' basket was followed by a series of missed Irish free­throws and three-pointers which sealed the game. 
"It got too close for comfort," Catlett added. "Tonight was our night. A couple of their shots didn't fall in and they missed some free-throws, but free-throws are a lot harder to make when you're behind." 
"We had open opportunities that we couldn't make and then we had open shots we wouldn't take," MacLeod noted. "It seemed like every time we were getting close and ready to make a move, we would either turn it over or miss free-throws. There were times we did things to ourselves which makes it dif­ficult." 
Damian Owens contributed 13 first half points (17 for the game) to lead West Virginia to a 41-32 halftime advantage. The Mountaineers' up-tempo style created easy baskets in transition as they raced to as large as a 14 point lead. 
Nine Irish turnovers con­tributed to 12 points off the fast-break for West Virginia in the first half. 
"West Virginia had a very strong first half," MacLeod said. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
"They are a quick team and they burned us with their of­fense." 
The Irish, however, could not miss all the opportunities with­out creating them in the first place. Notre Dame pulled down 49 rebounds for the game including 23 on the offensive side. 
"I thought our effort was re­ally good," MacLeod said. "We had a ton of offensive rebounds, but we couldn't do anything with it." 
''I'm frustrated now because we can't seem to be winning these close games," Garrity added. "I think everyone is playing their hardest so you can't fault anyone for that. You just have to keep going ahead and making improvements." 



The Observer/ Kevin Klau Freshman Benoit Catnoir attempts a shot during one of the Irish victory over Army: 

particular, that defined the

Shots 

evening. "We could have won this
continued from page 16 

game," offered center Matt Gotsch. "We didn't make our
make." 

Unfortunately for the Irish, free throws. We need to step to there were far too many of the the line and do it but we did­
n't."
latter. In fact, the Irish were a The inability to convert from

lackluster 25 of 69 from the 

the 15-foot mark paralyzed anyfloor, a woeful 4-28 from the sort of comeback attempt thethree-point line, and an embar­
God gives each 
rassing 5 of 19 from the free Irish mustered in the second 
half.throw line. 

person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
MCAT • MCAT • MCAT Are You Prepared? WeAre. Ci1 small classes of 15 or fewer ~ free Caduceus software ~ free extra help with your instructor ~ four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams 1:11 independently verified score improvements ~ guaranteed satisfaction ~~~CETON~,REVIEW Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. (800) 2-REVIEW The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the AAMC.  'I  

well in the third period." 
While the Irish were not as dominant on Saturday, the re­sult was the same. 
Senior goaltender Wade Salzman picked right up where Eisler left off, and the Irish used an outstanding defensive effort to catapult them to a 4-2 victory. 
Urick ralleyed the Irish early in the first period when he re­ceived a pass from senior cen­ter Jamie Ling and beat Chamberlain one-on-one for his ninth goal of the year and a 1-0 advantage. 
"He (Ling) has done a great job this year of setting me up for some easy scoring oppor­tunities,'' said Urick. 
"He has helped me become a better player, and I feel fortu­nate to play on the line with him." 
Following a Cadet score, ju­nior defenseman Brian McCarthy broke the 1-1 tie with his seventh goal of the year. Ling notched the 50th goal of his career midway through the second period to send most of a sellout crowd of 2667 home happy. 
"It felt good to come out play well in front of a good crowd and against a good team," said Urick. 
"We haven't been too consis­tent, so it was nice to come out and play well two nights in a row." 
I raiimg at haifhme by I I, Gotsch sparked a run that cut the Mountaineer lead to three. But down the stretch, when they needed them most, the Irish shot blanks from the line. 
In the span of two minutes Gotsch and usual marksman Ryan Hoover both missed front ends of one-and ones, while Derek Manner clanked two more. 
"We missed our shots down the stretch," said forward Pat Garrity, who poured in 24 but was a horrendous 1-6 from the free throw line. "You can't do that and expect to win." 
But this was a game the Irish should've expected to win and they did everything necessary to do so except convert their easy scoring chances. 
"We had golden opportuni­ties," summarized MacLeod. 
And not just from the free throw line. The three-point arc was just as cruel. 
Hoover was a fairly re­spectable three of nine from downtown but backcourt mate Doug Gottlieb was zero for six.. Not to be outdone, Pete Miller fired up seven bombs, failing to tickle the twine on each. 
"We played pretty well defen­sively," WVU coach Gale Catlett said. "But they missed open shots so don't give all the credit to our defense." 
When your opponent shoots 26% from the free throw line, that's not a concern. 

Hockey 
continued from page 16 
of the season. 
Following a Cadet score, se­nior captain Brett Bruininks found the back of the net twice, and freshman Craig Hagkull and senior Jay Matushak added one goal apiece to help the Irish build a 5-1 lead with less than two minutes remaining in the period. 
Owning a four goal lead, 

and allowed Army to climb back into the game with two goals in the final 29 seconds of the second period. 
However, freshman left wing Aniket Dhadphale and senior defenseman Garry Gruber each scored early third period goals to send the Cadets packing. 
"We had a little lapse in the last 30 seconds of the second period, and they made us pay," said Poulin. "They (Army) will take whatever they give you. It 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
Irish center Marcus Young tips the ball during the Irish loss to West Virginia. 
it was the chanty stnpe, m 
r------~--~--~-~---------­
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 




Gaither key as Irish Belles continue to struggle 
By KATHLEEN POLICY only by two in the first half, by end of the game, giving Hope Sports Writer the end of the sloppy game they many easy points off of free
win over 'Cane's 
lost by twelve (68-56). The throws. 
Quick pace and crucial rebounds put Irish on top 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 

The Irish women's basketball team continued their torrid pace in their inaugural season in the Big East over the week­end, quelling the Hurricanes of Miami for their third straight victory since their home loss to conference rival Connecticut. 
The 6 7-50 victory pushed the Irish record to 14-4 overall, with an impressive 9-1 mark in Big East play. 
The Irish walked away from sunny Miami with a win despite 24 turnovers and a less than spectacular 4 7% overall shooting performance from the field. 
The Hurricane's dismal 30% percent field goal percentage, coupled with an 0-15 mark from three point land, didn't help matters much for Miami, as they fell to 9-9 overall and just 4-6 in the Big East. 
Katryna Gaither didn't help the Hurricanes' cause much either. 
The junior center continued to impress this season, chip­ping in 21 points and hauling down a career-high 16 rebounds. Of Gaither's 21 points, 14 came in a second half in which the Irish outscored Miami by a mark of 35-29. 
"Any chance you get out there, you have to come down with the rebound," said Gaither. "We had some crucial rebounds in the game." 
Gaither also cited an aggres­sive team defense, which forced 19 turnovers and left few open spots on the court for Hurricane shooters, as instru­mental in the win. 
"We played a zone defense that put them in a panic for the whole game," commented Gaither. "The turnovers didn't hurt us too badly, and we played smart and aggressive on defense." 
Beth Morgan added 16 points and 7 rebounds for the Irish, and senior forward Carey Poor contributed 12 points and 7 re­bounds. 
Miami was led by sophomore center Jennifer Jordan, who managed 16 points and 9 re­bounds on the night. 
Leading scorer Octavia Blue was held to just 11 points by the Irish. 
"They're a very quick, athlet­ic team," said Morgan of the Hurricanes. "We just packed it in a 2-3 zone all game, and we were able to do a good job of shutting them down as a whole, and in shutting down Blue. She didn't get a lot of touches, and we always knew where she was out there." 
Saturday's victory has helped reassert the Irish's collective confidence following the diffi­cult loss to Connecticut, as the Irish continue to look like one of two dominant teams in the physical Big East conference. 
"We've done a good job of bouncing back since the UConn game," mused Morgan. "We're concentrating on our strengths, and going into every game feel­ing confident." 
The Irish will ride the grow­ing wave of confidence into Rutgers next Saturday, February 3, when they face the Scarlet Knights in the second meeting of the year between the two teams. 
The Irish won the earlier matchup 66-54 on November 28. 

The Belles knew they were in Belles record now has slipped trouble when the Flying to 6-7. Dutchmen of Hope College easi­The Belles were plagued by ly controlled the opening tip-off many turnovers and second of Saturday's game. half foul trouble. Four of the 
Although the Belles trailed five starters fouled out by the 

The Flying Dutchmen scored 19 points in 32 attempts from the line. 
"We were are own worst en­emy," said freshman forward Charlotte Albrecht. 
Because of a lacking offense, the defense failed to survive. The Belles also had a problem holding onto the ball, as they displayed 37 turnovers, a dubi­ous school record. 
"We did not have good defen­sive positioning on Saturday." said Coach Marvin Wood. "With our defense in trouble, we could not get back fast enough when Hope threw a cross court pass." 
Wood believes that Hope came into the game extremely prepared. 
They were mentally tougher than the Belles and suffered fewer mental lapses. 
"We were out-hustled, and they were more determined to win," said Wood. 
Saint Mary's leading scorer senior Jenni Taubenheim scored 21 points in spite of her team's weak offense. 
The future for the Belles re­mains questionable. 
Their next matchup takes place Saturday at Alma College, who beat Hope by 30 points earlier, and has two of the best players in the nation. 
"Faces of Women": The African Students' Assoc. will be spon­soring "Faces of Women" in commemoration of Black History Month, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11 at 7:00PM, at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum. 
Extern Program Meeting : Informational meeting to be held tonight at 6PM in Cavanaugh's basement. Come see what the pro­gram is all about. Extern applications due FEBRUARY STH. 

• 
First Meeting of Toastmasters : Everyone is welcome. Meeting 
will take place on TuEsDAY, JANUARY 30, at 6:oopm in RM 220 Hayes Healy. Come practice speaking in a relaxed and fun environ­


Call New Horizons Travel 
ment. Pizza will be served. 


uYour Party Planners" 
Country Western Line Dancing: On SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3, Flip Side will be sponsoring Country Western Line Dancing in the 

(800)639..4674 or (219)273..4934
LaFortune Ballroom from !o:ooPM to 1:ooAM. Questions, call John(ND)@ 4-1419 or Erin(SMC)@ 284-5507. 

51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN 
This service is provided for you by the Club Coordination Council. 

24 ~~t ~attine ­
6314078 206 LaFortu11e 






Opportunities for Service 
(Contact John or Sylvia Dillion; Campus Ministry-Badin Hall: 631-5242) 
Catechist Formation Program 
We have over fifty students working as Catechists in religious Education Programs of local South bend Parishes. They are teaching or acting as teacher assistants on all levels 
from kindergarten through Youth ministry. There is a local parish that currently needs several students to help with their Jr. High Program which meets on WEDNESDAY evenings from 6:30-8:30 PM. There are also 


other parishes that have inquired about help for the semester. Please 
(lMPUS

give us a call ifyou are interested. 

MINISTRY 

"Mother's Time-Out" At University Village University village is the residential apart­ment complex for married ND graduate stu­dents and their families. Mothers of toddlers have worked out a co-op child care system on WEDNESDAY afternoons from 3:30-5:30PM. at their community center. Even though several mothers are always present, they would greatly appreciate the help of a few students to play with the children, organize simple games, etc. Though their needs are simple, this service provides a much needed break for mothers who are cooped up with their children all day in tight living quarters. This would be an easy walk from campus. Call us ifyou are interested. 
(219)277-9749 

Paris $219 
London $229 
Frankfurt $229 
Madrid $249 AmS181'dam $249 Rome $309 Prague $319 
F~res ••eachway tom Oicagobased on JOU1d Ill 
p!ldlale. 1\esJric:llcn i~JW, laXes nol inciJdld il'ld fare~ subjtct ID change and/or availability. CIIJ today lot other wotldwldt dHI/IIIIIone. 



(i,flll$11 Travel~ 
CJEE• Couodl oa IDI.en>.Uootl Eduoolloool Euiaooc• 

1-808-2-CDUNC/l 
f1.1108-221HJ6241 
Call todav for aFREE Student Travels magazine! 


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 

MISTER BOFFO DAVE KELLETT 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

DILBERT 
WE. WON THE BID TO RE.BUILO OUR NATION'S AIR TR.fo.FFIC. CONTROL 
~YSTE.MS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 3& Org. for Johnnie Cochran
1 32-card game 37 London paper,
5 Place 
with "The" 1 o Actress Moore 
39 Roger Rabbit, 14 Not pro e.g. 
15 Creepy 40 Site of Celtic uprising?
1& Andy's partner 44 Italian wine
11 Place of Viking center
insurgence? 45 Liaison 
20 Banish 46 Uno t due
21 Raises 47 County Cork
22 February 14 roofing
name so "Beowulf," e.g.
25 Opposite WNW 51 Neighbor of Leb.
2& 90's music genre 
52 Jamaican liquor 29 "Lucky Jim" 54 Oahu goose author Kingsley 56 Japanese paper 31 Not quite a 
figures homer &1 Saturate 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


SCOTT ADAMS 
THEY DON'T 
5U'( A 
USUALLY 
THOUSA.ND 
GET THAT SHARES OF 
EX.CtTE.O. 
"t)LUEHOUND GU5 LINES.'' 

&5 Location of Yankee massacre? 
68 Portent &9 Approaches 70 Kitty feed 71 Olympic sword 72 --gum (paint 
ingredient) 73 Comforting reply to "When?" 
DOWN 

1 Not out 2 Fort-(U.S. 
gold depository) 3 Yours, in Paris 4Duke, e.g. 5 Caribbean, e.g. & Part of ITI: Abbr. 7 First name in 
mysteries a Path to the altar 9 Loathe 
10 Baby's utterance 11 Radiate 12 Grimace 13 Doctrines 10 Tongue-lash 19 State 23 Leave out 24 "The Lion King" 
lion 2& Capital of Morocco 27 Make 
embarrassed 20 Linguine, e.g. 30 Clothing splitting 
points 
32 Los Angeles judge 33 Sulks 34 Sussex semi 35 Door sign 38 --Kettering Institute 41 Model airplane package 42 Racing sled 43 Skulls 4&Hermit-­49 Compassionate 

HAPPY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
You discover your true calling while 
on vacation! Give career or educa­
tional goals top priority. A wise· 
investment will produce a bonanza 
this spring. Business partnerships 
can be tricky. Investigate thoroughly 
before signing on the dotted line. 
Romance will flourish all year long 
if you treat your mate like a best 
friend. Give loved ones the benefit 
of the doubt. This coming summer 
is the perfect time to buy a home. 
Married couples draw closer togeth­
er. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: talk show host Oprah 
Winfrey, diver Greg Louganis, 
actress Sara Gilbert. playwright 
Anton Chekhov: 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A newcomer is a stabilizing influence. A change of lifestyle promises to be rewarding. Others see you in a more positive light. Set a good example for those in need of guidance. Show restraint. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An expensive hobby could put a dent in your savings. Avoid going overboard. A pet could play a role in your meeting someone new. A rela­tionship•s future depends on how skillfully you handle sensitive mat­ters. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Joint ventures at work will help your family or a new relationship. The business outlook improves when you take care of financial obliga­tions prompt!y. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Innovative thinking will help you attain financial security. Meet loved ones halfway. Diplomacy helps smooth out a parent-child conflict. Opinionated remarks can have unfortunate repercussions. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be tact­ful if asked your preferences. The emphasis today is on improving the way you conduct business. Take 
family members into your confi­
dence. Watching a child at play 
could give you a terrific idea. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 

Adopting a conciliatory attitude will 
salvage an important relationship. If 
pursuing a new job, do not buck the 
system. Show a real interest in new 
technology. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Shed­

ding outmoded methods will speed 
progress. Update office procedures. 
Welcome an opportunity to further 
your education. A tender gesture 
leaves you walking on air! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 

Your loving nature is what makes a 
relationship work. Spruce up your 
wardrobe· if job-hunting. Courage 
helps you surmount a barrier. Look 
for hidden benefits in a project gone 
sour. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Turn your back on negative people and "can't win" situations. You need to make a fresh start! Ignoring a legal commitment would be a big mistake. Get the best pro­fessional advice you can afford. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Friendly relations with a new­comer will delight you. A special bond is developing on a private basis. What you do not know could slow progress. Consult experts to get up to speed. Romance looks blissful. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Love lights up in your life today. Impeccable grooming could win you preferential treatment at a special event. A date turns out better than expected. Call older relatives and catch up on family news. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Career intrigue works in your favor. Y9ur ability to see beyond the obvi· ous helps you salvage stalled pro­jects or negotiations. YIPs will be impressed. A raise or promotion is in the works. Build savings. 
•· · • OF INTEREST ill+ • Sign-ups for the Wednesday Luncbfast take
.£ g 

place at lunch or dinner today. The money from your 
L-...1--.....\0:...I~L....-....C.....:IIIL....;.;.t___u--'"---...U....-l 

meals goes to worthy Third world grassroots organlzation,s. 
~:!=· ?" 
• Providence Volunteer Ministry representativeswill be conducting interviews today at the Center for Social Concerns. Holy Cross Associates director will hold general information meeting at esc coffee house today from 4 p.m. to 5:15p.m. . . 
'i • The movie "Breathless" will be shown tonight in the Cinema at the Snite, at 7 p.m., and "Gold Diggers of 1933" will be playing at 9 p.m. The cost for both movies is $2.00. 
•MENU 

I,i]: Notre Dame Call 631-0111 for menu information 
.. , Saint Mary's
:•: Veal Parmesan '#., Beef Stroganoff ····~·•• Veggie Stir Fry '"··· Buttered Noodles 
.s:-.~;.:.' 
..... 




Wanted: Reporters, 
53 0dometer &o Blinds reading crosspiece 55 Thompson and &2Cher's ex Samms 


photographers, and
&3 "Do --others 
56 Hautboy " 57 Steps bypass 64 Biblical garden 58 Fortuneteller's &&Dr.--of 


editors. 
start 26-Across 59 Hereditary factor &7 Neighbor of Leb. 


Join The Observer 
Get answers to any three clues • by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


staff. 
Do }'OU have a disciplina,., heating with Residence Ufe1 Student Govemment is available to assist students with their disciplinary hearings with Residence life. We are available to advise you before, during and after your hearing. TOM MATZZIE MARY BETH MICALE Di~orofAdVoca~judicial Council President & Chief Counsel  






SPORTS 

page 16 Monday, January 29, 1996 
Dallas outplays Pittsburgh for third title in four years 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
In the end, Neil O'Donnell couldn't avoid being Neil O'Donnell. 
Just when he seemed on the brink of leading the underdog Steelers to a magnificent Super Bowl upset, O'Donnell again reverted to "Old High and Wide," a nickname he earn·ed in Pittsburgh for errors in execution and judgment. 
Once again, he couldn't make the big play in the big game. Or to put it another way, he 
made the big play for the other team. 
O'Donnell took a team that was down 13-0 to the sup­posedly can't-miss Dallas Cowboys, rallied them within three points of the lead, and, with less than five minutes to go, had the ball and a chance to make history. 
Instead, he repeated it. 
Last year, it was the Chargers' Dennis Gibson, knocking down O'Donnell's fourth-and-3 pass in the end zone to keep the Steelers out of the Super Bowl. 
This time, it was the 

Cowboys' Larry Brown stepping not the Steelers -joined the 
in front of two poorly thrown San Francisco 49ers as five­time Super Bowl winners with a 27-17 victory Sunday. The Steelers have insisted all season that they can't be com­pared to the Super Bowl Steelers of the '70s because it's a new team and a new time. They didn't know how right they were. The old Steelers stars ­Terry Bradshaw, Mean Joe Greene, Jack Lambert, Franco Harris -always were visible playmakers in their four Super Bowl championships. As a result, the Cowboys -These Steelers stars ­

• 
BASKETBAll 


Trouble Shooting 
Notre Dame falls to West Virginia on 
dismal shooting 
from charity stripe 
-
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Sports Editor 
There's nothing like getting something that's 
free. · There's also nothing like not taking advan­
tage of such a liberty. 
On Saturday night at the JACC, Notre Dame was unable to capitalize on their free-throws as the Irish went 5-19 from the charity stripe, dropping their second straight game against West Virginia, 69-59. 
After the game, it took Irish coach Jo_hn MacLeod a few moments to describe how his team turned one of the most fundamental aspects of basketball into an ugly exhibition. 
"We had a horrendous time from the free­throw line," MacLeod said. "26 percent...is not 
see WOES/ page 14 

.. 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Freshman Doug Goettieb continues to impress. 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 
Pat Garrety attempts a free throw versus West Virginia, the Irish struggled from the line. 

After all, shots are what counts 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
The combination of a solid defensive effort, phenomenal offensive rebound­ing and an overall high level of intensity usually adds up to victory. 
Saturday night, Notre Dame had it all. 

Nothing was missing. Except the shots. And that was the difference in West Virginia's 69-59 victory over the Irish . 
"We really put out a great effort," Irish coach John MacLeod noted. "We had some open shots we didn't take and a lot of open shots we couldn't 
see SHOTS/ page 14 
O'Donnell, Greg Lloyd, Kevin Greene -were almost invisible in this game. 
They were outplayed. It wasn't all O'Donnell's fault, not even close. 
He got the Steelers back in the game just when they seemed out of it, throwing a rocket 6-yard touchdown pass to Yancey Thigpen with 13 sec­onds left in the first half. As usual, O'Donnell was most com­fortable and relaxed in the Steelers' two-minute offense, which scored on 20 of its 38 end-of-half possessions this season . 
• HOCKEY 

Irish, Ling take two from Cadets 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
No sooner had the opportu­nity been placed on the table when it was swallowed up and erased from existence. 
Given the chance to tinker and experiment in a pair of non confer­ence games this week­end, the 

Notre Dame Ling hockey team took full advantage of it, defeating Army 7-3 and 4-2 to complete their first weekend sweep of the season. 
Army confidently strutted into town this weekend boast­ing a 16-5-1 overall record. However, after falling on con­secutive nights to the Irish, the Cadets. were sent ·scurrying home with their tail between their legs. 
The Irish started strong, managed to recover after a late second period lapse, and rallied to win going away on Friday night. Six different players found the scoring col­umn for Notre Dame, and goal­tender Matt Eisler regained his old form to secure the victory. 
"The guys seemed to be more ready to play tonight before the game in the locker room," said head coach Dave Poulin. "Army played really well, so we had to play a good game to win. We can look at this as a positive thrust for the next 11 games." 
The Irish took advantage of a power play opportunity to break a scoreless tie with 
13:04 remaining in the first period. Junior center Terry Lorenz received a pass from freshman right wing Brian Urick and powered the puck past Cadet goalie Darryl Chamberlain for his fifth goal 
see HOCKEY/ page 14 
Men's Basketball 


• Irish cruise past Miami 
Wednesday, Jan. 31 at Saint John's 
Women's Tennis 
see page 14 
vs. Northwestern Feb. 1, 3:30pm
·Women's Basketball 

• Belles fall to Hope 
Saturday, Feb. 3 at Rutgers 
SMC Sports 

• 
see page 14
Basketball vs. Defiance, 7pm


Men's Tennis 

• Swimmers glide to victory 
vs. Boise Feb. 2, 4pm 
see page 12

GLANCE 





