
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 62 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Drinking and driving hits home with collision 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor  said Gabriel Cassel, who was riding in the backseat.  Cassel stated that the other driver, • • • • suddenly cognizant of his lane posi-:Student ColliSIOn With Drunk On  
Schultz turned off of Ireland Road,  tion, also swerved back into his  '  
Four Notre Dame students narrow­ in the downtown South Bend area,  proper lane, at which point he collid­ 
ly averted severe injury in a two-car collision with a drunk driver on Nov.  only to realize he was headed in the wrong direction. After correcting his  ed with the front Schultz's vehicle.  right side of:"!."---<hl'!H'-8Af"!R:U.;dl  
23.  course, the  car was en route to  Meghan Marcus, a Pangborn resi­ 
Following the victory over Rutgers, Mike Schultz, a Fisher Hall fresh­ Ireland Road when the accident occurred.  dent who was in the front seat, remembers little about the actual  
man. ventured off-campus with his three friends, his younger brother, and another passenger. "We decided to see a movie, and  "Suddenly, we saw headlights drift into our lane from the oncoming lane," Cassel recalled. "Mike tried to swerve left into the other lane to  accident. "The pickup truck hit my side of the car, and it skidded along the  
were looking for Scottsdale Mall,"  avoid getting hit."  

• CAMPUS liFE CouNcil 
Frosh study details drinking habits 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Freshman alcohol consumption was the dominant topic at yester­day's Campus Life Council meeting. Discussion centered around profes­sor of psychology George Howard's update on his department's fresh­man seminars about healthy lifestyles. 
"I've been asked to give a progress report on our initiative to help fresh­men start their social lives here in ways that don't depend entirely on inappropriate consumption of alco­hol," Howard opened. 
Describing that initiative, Howard explained how 51 freshmen were assigned to three seminar groups in psychology dealing with healthy lifestyles topies. lie distributed sta­tistics the psychology department had compiled to chart drinking lev­els of those students. 
The figures showed that the course section designed to reduce alcohol abuse experienced a 40 per­cent lower increase in drinking as its enrollees adapted to University life. 
"One could argue that no fresh­men should be drinking, but let's face it, they arc. And 10 percent are drinking at levels that have to be called problematic," lloward told the CLC.· 
or the three sections, two were control groups with standard cur­riculum while the third "treatment group" featured informal Friday night suppers at the professor's house. Figures seem to indicate that 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne George Howard detailed the information of his recent research involving drinking habits of freshmen during yesterday's CLC meeting. 
those sessions are responsible for the difference between members of the two control classes; while mem­bers of the treatment groups aver­aged more drinks per week than they had in high school, the increase in their average was 40 percent lower than the control groups' aver­age. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for residence life, offered his expla­nation for the difference. ­
"Why does it work? Well, it's important to get the weekend off on the right foot," he said. "It's the peo­ple who start drinking at two or three in the afternoon that are the problem." 
Howard was reserved in his endorsement of the experimental 
learning curriculum, noting, "From one perspective, it looks like a great success," but then adding that because of methodological uncer­tainties he could not with complete confidence claim success. 
Howard felt more conclusive in noting that the class structure of the psychology department's approach led to its apparent effectiveness. 
"That's the key. People here are overworked, so getting course credit is the key," he said. 
"Meeting in a professor's home reminds students that there's life off of campus, and it also brings the class closer together," Deborah Hellmuth, HPC co-chair, added. 
see CLC/ page 4 


ND grads aid Jamaican poor 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Editor 
Every Notre Dame undergraduate student contemplates life after graduation. For a hand­ful of graduates, this future lies in community service in the Caribbean. 
Through the Notre Dame Volunteer Programme in Jamaica (NDVP/J), seven gradu­ates have devoted two years to helping edu­cate Jamaican children or working in non­profit organizations such as Food for the Poor. 
Current volunteers Michelle Mudry, Chad Sutcliffe and Bill Maloney teach at St. George's College, an all-boys school, while Karen Fronduti and Mike Egan teach at Alpha Academy, an all-girls high school. 
Aimee Barnes works at Alpha Boys school, an orphanage for boys, while Brian Baumer helps Jamaicans start their own businesses through Food for the Poor. 
"One of last year's volunteers recently told me after moving back to the States that, 'I'll never have a job so fulfilling,'" Sutcliffe said. "That, along with meeting new people and experiencing a whole new side of the world and way of thinking, has been incredibly eye­opening. At times the lack of luxury is diffi­cult, but I'm sure a year from now I'll wish I were back here." 
NDVP/J was founded by the Alumni Club of Jamaica in 1994 and is open to volunteers from the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and the University of Portland. 
Volunteers commit two years to the program and receive a personal stipend of $70 each month, as well as complimentary food and board provided by the community. 
Airfare to and from Jamaica and complete 
see JAMAICA/ page 4 


Student government looks for SMC opinions 
By SHANNON RYAN News Writer 
Students' voices count at Saint Mary's College. 
That seemed to be the theme of last night's Student Government Open Forum in Carroll Auditorium. The Board of Governance spc)fl­sorcd the meeting in hopes or establishing a two-way communica­tion system between Saint Mary's students and their class repre­The Observer/Kim Michalik 
Members of Saint Mary's organizations sentatives. 
gathered yesterday in an open forum.
Issues arose ranging from concerns in the 
boards, leaders of the Board ofadvances of the school's tech­Governance, Student Activitiesnology to school dances with 
Board, Student Academic
the student audience actively participating. Members of the class see SMC/ page 4 



Lectures focus on Irish famine 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Assistant News Editor 
Many sources combined to provide relief to Ireland during the long years of famine, according .to Christine Kinealy, a fellow of the University of Liverpool and professor of Irish and British history. 

Kinealy claimed private charities were essential because the public sources of relief fell far short of what was needed to ease the struggle. With contributions coming from all five continents, the majority of the aid Ireland received was donated by indi­The Observer/Shannon Dunne viduals. The British govern­Kevin Whelan spoke yesterday about the Irish famine and suggested ment gave 10 million pounds that documentation alone cannot describe the disaster of the 1840s. 
in the five years of famine in equivalent of $600,000 was the Catholic church donated the form of interest bearing given by a private British relief $600,000 in addition to clothes loans. organization and the Society of and blankets. 
A private source in Calcutta, Friends contributed $300,000. Kinealy pointed out that India, was the first donor. The The Quakers distributed that 
see FAMINE I page 8

relief via soup kitchens while 

Tuesday, December 3, 1996
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Erase the lines between "us" and "them" 
Studying the situation in ~=======:­
former Yugoslavia, one is left pondering how neigh­bors could be induced to kill one another. 
There is no simple explanation for such a dis­astrous war that has ripped apart that state. 

Fierce nationalism pre- Kelly Brooks  
vents reconciliation and  Assistant News Editor  
forgiveness between pno­ 
ples.  In its most basic  

form nationalism can be explained psychologi­
cally as "us" versus "them." 
This "us" versus "them" distinctly reminds me of situations that exist on the Notre Dame campus. 
It's much easier to dehumanize those who are so completely different, those who are not like "us." The "them" become a target of the group's anger, a scapegoat. 
What really seems to be lacking is tolerance: tolerance of others, of ideology, of lifestyle, of religion, of language. When people are reduced to simple categorizations they lose their humanity. 
Tolerance is something we here at Notre Dame could stand a little more of. 
The University was ranked the 13th worst school in the nation for relations between racial groups. To be anything other than white, Catholic, and heterosexual under the Dome is to be dill'ercnt, a "them." 
Some students have said that they do not see a problem between races on the campus. Are these people blind? 
Don't they sec dining halls where tables arc filled exclusively with white students or tables filled exclusively with multicultural students? 
Don't they sec events sponsored by the Office of Multicultural Student All'airs and multicul­tural student groups that go unattended by white students? 
Don't they see frustrated multicultural stu­dents and white students who are completely oblivious of any problems on this campus? 
Very few white students and multicultural students socialize together. Socialization is the best way for people to realize similarities and break down stereotypes. 
White students seem to think that OMSA sponsored events are for "them." Many feel uncomfortable attending such events because they will be in the minority. Maybe it's time that the white students on this campus were the minority for a change. 
The events that the multicultural groups bring to this campus offer a chance for the average student to learn about another lifestyle, another culture. 
Is it that Notre Dame students are too apa­thetic and lazy to learn about another culture? College is a place to learn more than what is taught in the classroom. It is time to explore one's self and also to learn about others. This is one of the few times in our lives that we will have the opportunity to learn from others, to sit around and exchange and even refute ideas. 
If the Notre Dame community is to truly be a family, we must welcome all members of our family. Our family will only be strengthened by diversity. Unfortunately until the whole family realizes this we will remain divided, and Notre Dame will continue to be ranked as one of the most intolerant learning institutions in the nation. 
It's time we all learned that there is no "us" and "them." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Jackie Moser  
Michelle Krupa  Chris Uhart  
Sports  Accent  
Brian Reimhaler  Melanie Waters  
Lab Tech  Leslie Fields  
Kevin Dalum  Graphics  
Peter Cilella  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacadon periods. The: Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GlANCE 
Navy plane crash claims two during routine training 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 

A Navy plane practicing touch-and-go maneuvers crashed near a runway Monday, and a witness said the engine was "making all kinds of noise" before the accident. Both crew members were 
killed. 
The single-engine, turboprop T-34 went down about 300 yards from a run­way at Maxwell Air Foree Base during clear weather. base officials said. 
lt was conducting a training exercise in which the plane touches down briefly on the runway and takes off again, Capt. Robert Gonzalez said. 
An Air Force civilian engineer, Joe Madison, said the plane was about 100 feet above the runway when its loud engine noise attracted his attention. 
"It was spitting and sputtering and 
L' 
AP/Carl Fox 

Tumor removed from Havel's lung 
PHAGUE, Czech Republic 

Doctors removed a malignant tumor and half of President Vaclav Havel's right lung Monday and gave the chain­smoking former dissident good chances for recovery. Havel regained conscious­ness soon after the operation and was in intensive care, doctors said. Chief surgeon Dr. Pavel Pafko told reporters a malignant tumor of about 15 millime­


ters (half an inch) was taken out during the 3 1/2-hour surgery, which he described as "very radical." "The prognosis should be good," he said. Pafko said Havel, 60, probably would remain hospitalized for at least a week and should recover fully in about six weeks. He did not specify what treatment Havel would undergo after surgery. Presidential spokesman Ladislav Spacek told the state-run CTK news agency that the president's condition after the operation "corresponds with the surgery he underwent." Premier Vaclav Klaus, in Lisbon, Portugal, for a summit, also told reporters the prognosis was "posi­tive" and that Havel likely would be back at work within weeks. Havel stopped smoking in front of television cam­eras years ago but has kept up the habit in private despite a history of respiratory problems. He was hospitalized in 1983 for a bad case of pneumonia contracted while in jail as an anti-Communist dissident. In October 1989, on the eve of the anti-Communist revolution that brought him to power, he was hospitalized with a bronchial infection. 
Spacecraft nearing launch deadline 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

NASA scientists hoped Monday for no further delays in launching a Mars spacecraft carrying the first-ever interplanetary rover. The Mars Pathfinder was to take off aboard an unmanned rocket early Monday, but rain, clouds and strong winds pushed back the launch by 24 hours. NASA's Global Surveyor was launched in early November and is already on its way to Mars. A Russian spacecraft launched a week later plummeted from orbit. Pathfinder should beat the slower Global Surveyor to Mars by two months, landing on July 4, 1997. Several hours after Pathfinder parachutes down, the petals on the spacecraft will unfold; a six-wheeled, 23-pound rover will come out to roam the Martian sur­face, examining rocks and beaming back data. NASA has until the end of December to launch the $196 mil­lion Pathfinder on its 310 million-mile journey. After that, scientists would have to wait two years until Earth and Mars are back in the necessary alignment. "We're a museum piece if we don't launch by the 31st," said Curtis Cleven, launch operations manager. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWealher~ forecast for daytime conditions and high lemperalures 
H  L  
Thursd~y Friday~  37 39 41  26 28 27 30 30  

4,Q,~pc@Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Fairbanks ·5 -20 New York 45 35 Tallahasee 64 38
Vta Associated Press GraphicsNet 
· ··-·--·-·· making all kinds of noise. It sounded Tenn. like the engine wasn't right. It turned on ·-----··-····\ ·its side, banked to the right and the 
nose went down," Madison said. NavyT-34 , It ended up with its front end erum­plane crash \ pled on an abandoned taxi strip over­
• \ grown with grass. Miss.1 \\,Ga. The plane had come from the Pensacola Naval Air Station in Florida,•o ; 150 miles southwest of Montgomery. ALA. Montgomery ' The two victims' names wnrn not imme­
diately released. Pensacola It was thn third military crash in I 1/2
Naval Air Station 
weeks. On Nov. 22, an Air Force Heserve IIC-130 transport crashed into the ocnan off California, killing 10 pen-pie; one man survived. On Nov. 27. a 

100 miles National Guard F-16D fighter crashed in C::::S southern Ohio; both crew members 1...:00..:....:.km..:....:.___~-------l parachuted to safety. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
..........-.-..........._ ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Allanla  59  36  Honolulu  83  74  Philadelphia  47  36  
Boston  44  34  Los Angeles  73  46  Phoenix  68  40  
Chicago  32  22  Miami  80  64  St. Louis  42  28  
Denver 40 21 New Orleans 62 44 Seattle 49 37


69-ton cake marks birth of a nation 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

Let them eat cake, said the sheik. Well, not quite in those words. A military parade and a 69-ton cake ­the world's largest -kicked off five days of festivities Monday marking the 25th birthday of this wealthy Gulf nation. Royals and VIPs flew in from around the world to attended the parade in Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates. Mirage 2000 jets 11ew overhead and tanks, missile launchers and armored personnel carriers drove past the stands. In Dubai, the country's second-biggest city and commercial hub, a $82.000 cake disappeared within minutes of' being cut. Tens of thousands of people converged on the road where the date-and-banana delicacy stretched for more than 1 1/2 miles. But seconds before it was cut, some tables holding it collapsed. The cake was supposed to be given to schoolchildren and auctioned off for charity. But police gave up trying to hold back the crowd, which devoured the cake in a melee. The UAE hopes to enter the Guinness Book of Heeords, beating a previous record for a 58.08-ton cake baked in 1989 to celebrate the 100th birthday of Fort Payne, Ala. Princess Cristina of Spain, the crown princes of Morocco and Bahrain and Saudi Arabia's interior minister. Prince Nayef, were among the royals attending. Prince Charles of England was due Tuesday. Sheik Zayed bin Sultan AI Nahyan, the UAE's 78-year-old ruler, sat in the stands with the VII's, watching the parade and applauding the feats of the planes overhead. 
Earthquake prompts tsunami warning 
TOKYO 

A strong earthquake rattled furniture and dishes as it shook a wide area of southwestern .Japan early Tuesday, but there were no immediate reports of serious darnagn or injury. The 6.3 magnitude quake prompted authori­ties to issue a tsunami warning to coastal regions. A tsunami is an undersea wave assoeiatnd with quakes. The quake was felt strongest in the city of Miyazaki, on Japan's southernmost main island of Kyushu. "We've heard of some dressers getting toppled in peoples' homes," said Kikuo Goto of the Miyazaki Firn Department. "But we haven't received reports of lire or gas leaks or other damage." The quake struck about 20 miles beneath the sea floor and 12 miles southeast of Miyazaki at 7:18a.m., the Central Meteorological Agency said. A small tsunami of 8 1/2 inches hit the area about 20 minutes later and there were no immcdiatl) reports of damage. Authorities expected even smaller tsunami waves to hit other parts of Kyushu later Tuesday morn­ing. Coastal patrol vessels were dispatched to warn small craft already out fishing about the possible waves. 

Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Just passing through ... 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne 

The National Evangelizing Team (NET) stopped into LaFortune last night on a tour of U.S. and Canadian campuses in its mission to organize retreats for young adults. 
Boelman joins SMC drama 
Hispanic feast to be celebrated next week 
Special To The Observer 
The Of!ice of Campus Ministry at the University of Notre Dame will host its annual Mass for the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Thurs., Dec. 12, at 5 
p.m. Members of Mariachi ND. Corn Primavera, and the Notre Dame Folk Choir will provide music for the Mass, and Father David Scheidler will the be the presider and homilist. 
This feast commemorates the appearance of Our Lady of Guadalupe to Juan Diego, an Aztec Indian who cdnverted to Christianity shortly after the · Spanish conquest. The Virgin had Mexican features and appeared near the revered sight of a female Aztec deity. 
She requested that Diego ask the local bishop to build a 

Xerox endows women engineering students 
Special To The Observer ality -designs better products 
and services." According to 
The University of Notre Dame Bradley, five Notre Dame engi­has received a $10,000 gift neering students are now serv­from the Xerox Foundation to ing as interns at the Xerox fund scholarships for women United States Customer engineering students. Operation headquarters in 
"Xerox understands the Rochester, N.Y. importance of contributing to The Xerox Foundation is a institutions of higher learning philanthropic organization where our gifts can assist which annually contributes promising students," said Scott more that $14 million in five Bradley, vice president of broad areas: community Xerox of Indiana. "Like Notre affairs, higher education, cul­Dame, we believe that diversity tural affairs, national programs -in gender, race, and nation-and international programs. 
HAVE YOU HEARD? SHAYE lS 20 



Celebrations ~round the fWorld 

Pre-Dental Society: General Meeting. Tues, Dec. 3rd, 7:30p.m. in 182 Nieuwland. Discussion about the OAT, & Sign-ups for the second semester mentorship program. Bring your $5 membership dues if you haven't already. 
Marketing Club: Meeting tonight! 7:00p.m.­lower lounge of COBA. 
Voices ofFaith Gospel Ensemble: Anriual Concert: Dec. 8, 7:00p.m at Washington Hall. Tickets can be purchased at LaFortune, Dining Halls, or at the door-$3 student, $5 non-student. There will be a raffle during the concert -Tickets $1 at LaFortune Box Office. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you andyour organization! 
church for her. Diego was then instructed to pick some roses on the hill, which he wrapped up in his tilma, a type of poncho. 
The bishop asked for a sign to verify the apparition, where­upon Diego opened his tilma, letting the roses fall to the floor to reveal an imprint of the Virgin of Guadalupe. His tilma is venerated to this day in the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe, in Mexico City. 
At Notre Dame, this feast has taken on special significance due a growing Hispanic student population at the University. The current Hispanic student population is nearly 550, com­prising almost nine percent of the entire student body while this year's freshman class con­tains the largest number of Hispanic freshman ever -155 students. · 

Next semester, Boelman will begin teaching. His class, Stage­Craft, will consist of lecture and ten hours of building sets. 
Boelman strongly believes in hands-on learning. He also advocates a particular teaching method, developed by Harvard professor Howard Gardner, which utilizes several different areas of the mind; linguistic, musical, logical, spatial, and bodily-kinesthetic intelligences are all used, as well as inter­personal and intrapersonal intelligences. 
He believes each student learns differently, through words, music, or experimental­ly, and that by understanding how people learn, he will be able to adapt his teaching style to help students learn more efficiently. 
In the future, Boelman hopes to enhance the program by developing a class devoted strictly to production, recruit­ing area schools, and develop­ing a scholarship for students interested in the technical side of drama. 
position working backstage in the campus' drama produc­tions. 
In order to receive the posi­tion, however, he was required in the work-study program. They work five to 15 hours a week building sets, making cos­tumes, and running the sound and light boards during perfor­mances. 

By ANN KEARNS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College has recently added a new member to its family. Thomas Boelman joined the office of Special Events in August when he became the scenographer and technical director for the school. 
Boelman became interested in drama and more specifically, stage sets when he attended the play "She Stoops to Conquer." He remembers how impressed he was with that particular set and how he first discovered his desire to work in drama productions at that point. 
Several years after receiving an associates degree in archi­tectural engineering technology from ITT in Fort Wayne, Ind., Boelman applied at Hope to take classes in this field. l-Ie stayed, later receiving his bach­elor of arts degree from Hope College. It was at Hope that he "fell in love with [this type of work]," according to Boelman. 
Boelman continued his edu­cation at the University of Montana where he earned a master of fine arts degree. While there, he served as a teaching assistant in theatre for three years. 
Boelman was interested in advancing his career while remaining in the college atmos­phere. He first heard of the available position at SMC in the National Art Search magazine. 
Boelman's primary duties include the design and supervi­sion of constructing all stage, scenic, and lighting elements for the college's performing arts. He also supervises 12 Saint Mary's students who are 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
SMC 
continued from page I 

Council, and Residence 
Housing Associations opened 
the forum by presenting details 
of their funds, this semester's 
accomplishments, and future 
plans for fundraising and stu­
dent events. 

:rhe panel was pleased to 
announce the financial and 
social successes of the Date 
Auction. Senior Dad's 
Weekend, and hall dances. A 
sleigh ride, service projects, 
and a lecture by the author of 
"Chicken Soup for the Soul" 
are a few of the activities the 
Student Activities Board sched­
uled as upcoming events. 

Students actively participat­
ed in a discussion of issues 
ranging from the efforts to 
reduce the usn of sidewalk 
chalk to the school's snarch for 
a future president. 

In searching for the replacB­
•mcnt of current Saint Mary's president William Hickey, the forum rnminded the students that they have a voice in the final decision. 
Branden Carlson, student 
representative of the Board of 
Trustees, has a unique oppor­
tunity because her vote is 
equal to any trust!le's. 

Carlson commented, "I place 
a high regard on students' 
voice and am open to any stu­
dent input." 

Carlson went on to say that 
she has the utmost confidence 
in the decision-making 
process. 

From the solid pool of over 
100 candidates, the committee 
is quickly narrowing possible 
replacements. Although there 
is no definite deadline, the 
decision should be made by the 
end of spring. 

Despite the success of the recent Senior Dad's Weekend, a friendly debate arose as the panel pondered various ways to cut down on expenses. In attempting to create the most 
accomodating type of enter­
tainment, audience members 
and the board suggested alter­
nate possibilities. 
Ideas such as holding a Family Weekend seemed to have the most positive feed­back. 
Student leaders confirmed 
that no decision would be 
made without consultation of 
the student body through the 
use of surveys. 

Student body president Jen Turbiak also discussed the current consultation between Saint Mary's, Notre Dame,-and Holy Cross student leaders to lay the foundation for monthly rotating meetings. 
Turbiak stated she would like to "establish dialogue with leaders to handle communica­tion in general." The first of the proposed informal forums will be held at Saint Mary's in January. 
Turbiak and other members are taking a pro-active stance while looking to improve stu­dent relations, communication, and shared ideas. 
"Yes, we are separate schools," she stated, "but we do share common bonds. The meetings would be discussions, not agendas, to receive positive feedback from each other." 
The receptiveness of board members was evidently appre­ciated by students in atten­dance. 
Sophomore audience mem­ber Adrienne Sharp's comment to the group sparked applause as she complimented, "It's great to be able to say we have a voice in you. I'm proud to say you've all done a great job this year." 
All members of the panel emphasized they are open to suggestions or ideas at any time. 
The leaders stated repeated­ly that they will do their be~t to represent the students of Saint Mary's. Future open forums will be scheduled and students will again be encouraged to attend. 
Please recycle The Observer 


Jamaica 
continued from page I 

health coverage are also pro­vided; all participants have been successful in receiving deferments of their student loans until the completion of the program. 
The ants, cold showers, and heat waves were a sharp con­trast to the familiar environ­ment of South Bend, and proved necessary adjust­ments for many volunteers. ­
"It's really taken about a year to get used to this place. At first I heard comments like 'Whitey' and 'Jake,' but the people have grown accus­tomed to us and I've learned to appreciate aspects of the Jamaican culture that for so long bothered me, such as their' laid back style," Sutcliffe said. 
With five spaces opening up for next year, a large number of applicants are expected. 
A new position available to next year's applicants has been created to promote the sport of basketball through­out Jamaica. 
A prospective candidate should have experience in coordinating athletic events and an interest -though not necessarily skills -in basket­ball. Information about the program is available can be found at the Center for Social Concerns. 
"[The program] is definitely worth the sacrifices. I miss home and my friends and family very much, but as I get to know people better down here, and I get more accus­tomed to the culture and the demands of my job, I realize how good this experience is for me," Mudry said. 
"I am gaining in self-confi­dence in ways I never could among the comforts of the states." 

Accident 
continued from page I 

side, hitting the back as well," she said. 
A volunteer firefighter was driving behind the pickup whom, Cassel said, used his radio to get help. In addition, another witness with nursing skills pulled over and offered aid. 
Marcus was trapped in the vehicle, paralysed by sharp back pains. 
"No one wanted to move me because my back hurt so much," she explained, "but Mike sat with me until help came." 
Half an hour later, after unsuccessful attempts to open her door, the Jaws of Life finally arrived. The top of the car was removed and Marcus was lifted out on a board. 
"I have no clear memory of anything between the actual crash and the moment when three firet1ghters surrounded me and lifted me out," Marcus said. "It was really scary." 
She was transported to Memorial Hospital for treat­ment, having pulled all the muscles in her upper back. 
Cassel and the other three backseat passengers were helped out of the car by Schultz, who escaped any harm. 
"My adrenaline was pump­ing, so I didn't notice any pain until about five minutes had passed," Cassel said. lie was later taken to St. Joseph's Hospital and diagnosed with a bruised kidney. 
Freshman Pat Cosgrove received stitches for lacera­tions on the right side of his face, and Schultz's brother suffered temporary amnesia. Both were escorted to Memorial with Marcus. 
The sixth passenger did not sustain any injuries. 
"The four of us in the back were not wearing seatbelts because we were so crammed," Cassel stated. "Thankfully, we weren't seri­ously hurt." 
Less fortunate was the other driver, who was not secured by his safety belt. The impact allegedly catapulted him through the windshield. Marcus lHllievns he was still hospitalized as of Nov. 27 . 
A. breathalyzor test taken of the other driver confirmed a blood alcohol level of 0.235. 
"I was so caught off guard, everything happened so fast," Cassel recalled. "I remember thinking, 'Oh no, we're going to die.' 
"We were really lucky," he added. 
CLC 
continued from page I 

"Obviously, the course is great, but you can't teach 50 of these seminars a semester." 
The seminars were only sometimes tied to course con­tent, Howard explained of his meetings, noting that atten­dance was high. 
"Sometimes we had all 19, sometimes they even brought friends. I haven't seen the course evaluations, but I'd be surprised if the reception wasn't real positive," Howard said. 
As for continuing the pro­gram, Howard told of a larger healthy lifestyles elass created for the spring semester. Designed to include upperclass­men as well, he said that 75 of the class's 80 slots had already been filled. 
"We decided to tackle issues important to Notre Dame stu­dents," Howard said, noting that none of the sections have specifically targeted alcohol abuse. Time management, eating disorders, perfection­ism, and communication skills are among the issues they examine. 
1997-98 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must be submitted by February 7, 1997. 
For more information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 681-5550 
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Vampire cult breeds murder 
By DAVID ROYSE 
Associated Press Writer 
MURRAY. Ky. 

The five teen-age murder suspects were just lonely, some say, and their vampire role-playing games strictly innocuous. 
"You had a group of kids that just wanted to be a part of something. wanted to belong to a group," Calloway County prosecutor David Harrington said. "They even paid mem­bership dues." 
Others see a plot far more sinister: a cult in which mem­bers mutilated animals for their blood and body parts, and adults lured teen-agers with promises of sex. 
Since the arrest Thanksgiving night of three Murray teens along with another youth from nearby Mayfield, tales of vampire chil­dren have been the talk of this southwestern Kentucky town of 13,000, home of the nation­al Boy Scout museum. 
"People are talking about it," said Greg Duncan, sipping coffee at the Hungry Bear restaurant. "Some people are afraid." 
All five, including a daughter of the slain couple, were arrested in Baton Rouge, La., suspected in the Nov. 25 slay­ings of Richard and Naoma Wendorf. The couple was found beaten to death in their Eustis, Fla., home. 
Police say Rod Ferrell met the Wendorfs' 15-year-old daughter, Heather, when he lived in Eustis with his father. Ferrell, 16, moved back to Murray last year to live with his mother. 
The teens were part of a group that sucked blood from each other and believed they were vampires, police say. 
And they were later driven to kill, police say. Ferrell, Ms. Wendorf, Dana Cooper, 19, of Murray and Scott Anderson, 16, of Mayfield are all accused of murder. Charity Keesee, 16, of Murray was charged with being an accessory to murder. 
The Office of Campus Ministry cordially invites you to join in a joyous evening of music and prayer for the Christmas Midnight Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart as a member of the Community Christmas Choir. Rehearsals will be held on Mondays, December 2, 9, 16 and 23 
7:00 pm -8:30 pm Earth Sciences Building, Room 102 
(directly behind the Basilica) 
All ages are most welcome to join us 
U.N. addresses WWW: Copyright protection 
By ALEXANDER HIGGINS Associated Press Writer 
GENEVA 

People surfing the World Wide Web, downloading songs and novels, could cost the music and publishing industries bil­lions of dollars, say officials meeting here to see that doesn't occur. 
The U.N. body that oversees the lucrative world of copyright and patent protection opened a three-week conference Monday, hoping to catch up with the sweeping changes caused by computers and the Internet. 
The event was organized after 
Dr. Gail Walton 
on this joyous celebration Director of Music, BSH of the Lord's birth. 631-5242 
it became obvious that some­thing had to be done to protect authors' and performers' rights in a world when the latest song or computer program can be downloaded in seconds. 
Delegates to the conference, organized by the 160-nation 
U.N. World Intellectual Property Organization, are working on the first major revision of international copyright law in 25 years. 
They have three treaties to protect: 
• Literary and artistic works. 
• The rights of performers and producers of "phono­grams," now most commonly COs and audio cassettes. 
• Producers of data bases. 
The biggest question to resolve is how to protect rights in an era when national borders have been made irrelevant by the Internet. 
The conference is being close­ly watched by the music and publishing industries, who see fortunes at stake in an area that is difficult to regulate. 
The negotiations "will have a critical impact on the future growth of the $40 billion global music business," according to IFPI, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry. 
Music delivery is still in its infancy on the Internet, but IFPI expects within five years it could take away 15 percent of the business from traditional record stores. 
In Europe alone, that could amount to a $2 billion loss if the industry is unable to share in the proceeds, IFPI said. 
The music industry is playing a leading role in the negotia­tions because its main audience -young people -are the ones surfing the World Wide Web and listening to or downloading songs. 
In Preparation for the May 1997 CPA Exam 
The Becker CPA Review Course 
Cordially Invites You to Our Special Early Class 
Financial/ 
December 4, 1996 Saint Mary's College Science Hall 
6:00 p.m. -9:45 p.m. 
First 5 classes Free Pre-Registration Discount to Those Attending Raffle for $250.00 toward tuition Bring a Friend! 
Any further questions please call 277-4366 
Thinking ofdoing a yearofservice? How about doing it 



for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (2 I 9) 63 I -6385 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
•• Ul:be ~ ~nnual Qebrtstmas ~ale ••
• .rrp • 
•• select-merchandise •• 



Joyce Center 
Fieldhouse ·· Gate 3 ''On the Concourse''·· Gate 1 or 2 

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
•
• 
Varsity Shop Hours: 
• 
Monday through Saturday 11 :00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. 

VARSITY SHOP • Sunday 1 :00 p.m. -4:00 p.m. •
•
•
•
•
•

'···································' 

• a 4 0%W· S ­
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Cuban parade honors Castro Russian fears of NATO 
By JOHN RICE 
Associated Press Writer 
HAVANA 

Cuba staged its first military parade in a decade on Monday, celebrating the 40th anniver­sary of a guerrilla Iandin in Cuba that 
green mili­
Castro

tary uniform, the 70-year­old Castro stood with other heroes of the 1959 revolution as hundreds of horsemen, sol­diers and veterans of the uprising marched passed a 
Friday, December 13 Swiss Valley 
Bus leaves Library Circle at 5:00 p.m. $27.00 includes lift ticket, rental, & transport $18.00 includes lift ticket & transport only 
J-----_JReturn Bus leaves Swiss Valley at 10:00 p.m. Beginner Lessons Available Free of Charge Register & Pay in Advance at k'-~~·z:-.,;.=.c 
Deadline: December 11 
backdrop of anti-aircraft mis­siles, tanks and jet planes 
-parked in Revolution Plaza. Three MiG-29 jets soared overhead and revolutionary slogans boomed from loud­speakers beneath a huge out­line portrait of revolutionary icon Ernesto "Che" Guevara: 
on Soviet-style parades of machinery as well as men in motion. There were no speech­es by Castro or other Cuban leaders Monday. 
But the celebration was another message to Cuba's people that the country is 
slowly overcoming the eco­nomic crisis brought on by the collapse of its socialist allies. As Cuba's economy declined in recent years, parades and cel­ebrations were cut back dra­matically to save money. 
Near the front of the parade were aging veterans from the 1956 landing of the Granma, a boat carrying 82 revolutionar­ies who trained for more than a year in Mexico to try to top­ple dictator Fulgencio Batista. 
The effort to oust Batista at first seemed a debacle. Security forces were tipped off and most guerrillas were cap­tured or killed after the land­ing in eastern Cuba. 
But 17 avoided death or cap­ture, including Castro, his brother Raul and the Argentine Guevara. 
Within a month, a dozen rebels regrouped in the Sierra Maestra mountains, and by early 1957, they began attack­ing Batista's army. Aided by popular discontent with the dictator, the revolution culmi­nated in triumph in Havana's streets in 1959. 
H,e~ Mike~­
This Bud·s For You! HaPPY 21st! 
love~ Mom~ Dad~ Brian~ 
& liz 

persist at OSCE summit 
By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press Writer 
LISBON, Portugal 

Echos of the Cold War rever­berated through a cavernous meeting hall Monday as leaders from 54 nations opened a sum­mit to build a new security arrangement for Europe in the post-Soviet era. 
NATO expansion into Eastern European nations most likely will be part of the "security model" being created by mem­bers of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin said Moscow is "firmly opposed" to NATO expansion, and indicated Russia would consider itself threatened if neighboring coun­tries join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. 
"If our common purpose is a single and peaceful Europe, can that really be achieved by the expansion of military alliances?" Chernomyrdin asked the OSCE delegates. 
Chernomyrdin acknowledged that Russia could not prevent the Soviet Union's former Warsaw Pact allies from joining NATO, Moscow's old nemesis, but added that Russia retains its "right to defend our national interests." He did not elabo­rate. 
Vice President AI Gore dis­missed Russia's fears, saying NATO is "a defensive alliance of like-minded democratic states." 
"As such, of course, it poses no threat to any other state," Gore said, adding that NATO wants "to build a strong coop­erative relationship with Russia." 
The OSCE, little known out­side diplomatic circles, is a con­tinent-wide organization that focuses on security issues, monitors human rights and tries to foster free-market democracy. It also is the only group that includes all coun­tries concerned with European security, east and west. 
German Chancellor Helmut Kohl said Russia must have a role in whatever European security agreement emerges. 
FREE lctivitiec 
Student Express, Inc. 
1-BOO_SURFS_UP 


Today, Tuesday, December 3 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
launched the victorious revolution led by Fidel Castro. 
Wearing his olive­
"Long live a free Cuba! Long live our commander in chief! Socialism or death! We will tri­umph!" 
It was a modest display com­pared with those staged in ear­lier decades, when Cuba put 




For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thousand~ ofstudents the chance for agreat education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: aplace to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, Holy Cross will have alimited amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with 
*
HOLY 

astrong liberal arts foundation, small classes 
CROSS and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cross COLLEGE has helped put many students on the road Office of Admissions 
PO. Box308 

to asuccessful college education. With our Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 new resident facilities, we can serve our (219) 239-8400 
Fax (219) 233-7427 students even better. E-Mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 

Web Site: bttp:llbome.navisojt.comlholycross
I'J% 

page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
being of American slaves to famine on the U.S.. Minister of communications at Dublin City Studies at Notre Dame was the Irish woes," Kinealy said. State of the Government of University and author of final speaker, presenting an

Famine 

"There were a few donations Ireland Avril Doyle introduced "Transformations in Irish abbreviated version of his idea 
continued from page 1 
some of the most controversial donations surrounded Queen Victoria. Her donation of approximately $3,000 was viewed as insufficient but did serve to give a "royal seal of approval" to the practice of making contributions to relieve the Irish. 
When the Sultan of Turkey attempted to make a large donation, the limitations of the "seal" became apparent. 
The Sultan was convinced by British officials to hold back on such a large donation because it would break protocol for him to donate more than the queen. 
Pope Pius IX made a $1,000 contribution and issued an encyclical for assistance ineluding the provision that three days of prayer for the victims of the famine would be worth a seven-year indul­gence. 
"Raising money for the Irish poor became a favorite leisure for the well-to-do," Kinealy said. Private groups in the United States donated in excess of $1 million following a series of reports that appeared in the American press. 
As a result of the media blitz surrounding the famine, a range of religious groups con­tributed to the relief effort. The Franklin Street synagogue in New York City and a slave church in Hichmond, Va., were among the many religiously­affiliated donors. 
"The liberal donation from the slave church in Hichmond was used by the American press to contrast the well-that stood out because they were made by groups who themselves know suffering." 

One such group was a group from the West Indies who themselves had been 
' The umbilical cord which ties us [Americans and Irish] together has never been entirely severed.' 
Avril Doyle 

oppressed as slaves just ten years earlier. Another sharp contrast involved the $22 mil­lion that was awarded by the British government to the for­mer slave owners of the West Indians while they could only 
provide  an  interest bearing  
loan  to  the  victims  of the  
famine.  

The second lecture, delivered yesterday, was a three-part presentation. It was the first of six stops on the lecture tour sponsored by the Irish govern­ment to recall the calamity of 1845-50 that left almost a mil­lion Irish dead and to consider the enormous impact of the the speakers and served as a mediator for the afternoon presentation. 
"Half of the people born in Ireland since 1841 have emi­grated," Doyle said. "While there arc currently .five million people in Ireland, there are 
44.4 million of Irish decent in the U.S. and 70 million in the Irish global Diaspora. The umbilical cord which ties us together has never been entirely severed," she contin­ued. 
Kevin Whelan, visiting pro­fessor of history at Notre Dame and author of "The Tree of Liberty," pointed out that despite the fact that the Irish famine was the first "well doc­umented" famine, its impact on the people cannot be deter­mined from that documenta­tion alone. Instead, Whelan suggested that an examination of the literature, art and folk­lore of the period is necessary. 
Whelan suggested that the famine could be compared to the Holocaust or the Middle Passage of the slaves because it left those who survived with nothing but their own primal existence. 
It was that conceived simian or apelike quality of the Irish people that seemed to exacer­bate the effects of the famine on the Irish. The Irish concept of the "rondale clachen" or communal farming was seen as an obstacle to the British goal of agrarianization. 
Luke Gibbons, professor of 
Culture," spoke on the rela­tionship between memory, his­tory and politics. 
Concentrating on the laissez­faire principles of Anglo­American law systems imple­mented during the famine, Gibbons explained that this was one factor which allowed the devastation in Ireland to continue. 
He also noted that on the same day that The Nation newspaper called attention to the discovery of the blight, Frederick Douglas presented a lecture in Dublin. 
Douglas expressed his feel­ing that the famine could be compared to the situation of the slaves and drew a connec­tion between the huts of the rondale clachen and the slave houses in which he once lived. 
Seamus Deane, chair of the Keough Center for Irish that the famine can be con­nected to the hunger strikes of the last century. 
Of those who participated in the hunger strikes of the 1980s, Deane said, "When they refused food they are not com­mitting an act of suicide, they are committing an act of insur­rection." 
"Famine is not an event, famine is a process," Deane said pointing out that a famine is not a natural disaster, but the result of human actions. As such, political and economic practices of the British govern­ment should be seen as at least part of the cause of the disas­ter. 
All four speakers enhanced an understanding of the famine and the role played by the Keough Center for Irish Studies. Doyle extended an official thanks from the Irish government to Deane for his work in the field. 


Casting Call 
SATURDAY, DEC. 7TH, 12:00 P.M. TO 4:00P.M. lUSB CAMPUS 
Open Auditions for 15-minute independent film to be shot Dec. 20th-Dec. 22nd. Prior acting experi­ence helpful but not necessary. Male and female roles age 18 and older. For more information con­tact Black Mantle Films, Inc. (219) 292-1716 or email slandry@indiana.edu 
resnet 

& clusters update 

Several major changes are on the horizon for campus computing. We in the OIT know that lines are long in the computer dusters and that students without access to ResNer have found it difficult to connect to the network via modem. We have tried to answer the challenge of providing productive resources for all stu­dents, which prompts us to make the following improvements. Please give us your feedback by sending email to cctalk@nd.edu 
Sorin and Walsh halls will be connected to ResNet early! Sarin and Walsh halls are being brought online earlier than scheduled. On December 3, 1996, these halls will be connected to ResNer. The Installation Fairs, where you can get help set­ting up your computer to run on the network, will be held on December 3-4 for Sarin and Walsh residents. 
Nonnetworked residence halls receive computers in the spring In an effort to provide ResNer access to stu­dents in non-networked residence halls, com­puters will be placed in public areas in Flanner, Morrissey, and Howard halls. Macintosh and Windows computers will be available begin­ning in the Spring 1997 semester. Software on these computers will be limited to network software (e-mail, Web browser, Usenet news­reader, FTP, telnet, and tn3270). No other software (e.g., word processor, spreadsheet) will be available on these computers, so that they can be used primarily for Internet access. 
Architecture reopens with Windows computers The Architecture computer cluster is scheduled to open in January, when the building renova­tion is complete. The cluster, which featured Macintosh computers when it closed in May of 1995, will reopen with 28 new IBM Pentium computers. The change from Macintosh to Windows computers was prompted by findings 
in the Architecture school's market research. 
The cluster is now located in the basement. 
The hours for the Architecture cluster will be 
similar to Hayes-Healy hours. 
Hayes-Healy cluster closing At the end of the Fall semester, the Hayes­Healy cluster will be permanently closed due to the building's renovation. The cluster cur­rently houses 42 Power Macintosh 7200 com­puters, which will be redistributed to other public access areas. 
New cluster in Riley Hall 
A newly remodeled fine arts graphics lab in 
Riley Hall, room 211 opens in January and 
will contain 16 of the Hayes-Healy Power 
Macs. The Riley cluster, which is open to all 
students, will also contain a Sun 
SPARCstation and printers. 
Existing clusters expand Macintosh count Several Macintosh computers that currently reside in Hayes-Healy will be added to the existing number ofMacs at CCMB GO15 and Fitzpatrick clusters. 
IBM computers upgraded All IBM computers in the campus computer clusters will be upgraded over Christmas Break. All classrooms and DeBartolo podia are included in the upgrade. The new computers feature 166 MHz processor, 32 MB RAM, 
1.6 GB of hard disk space, 6x speed CDROM, 2MB video RAM, and 17-inch color monitors (first time ever!). 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom"Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Prroduction Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and no{ necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinionS through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631--4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Pr.oduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu G~neral Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail obsc:rvc:r@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

':..\UkW {f Bbl Ibk' Wl4~ 11\\;'{ ~~U'& WNfJ ()\Jg? OJR Utt~!.~ 
• AND IN THIS CORNElL. 
Pigskin vs. plastic skin: Classic confrontation? 
I'd like to thank Buffalo Bills backup quarterback Todd Collins for giving the Colts the chance to stay in the wildcard hunt. 
Dope. 
So, another Turkey Day has come and gone -another holiday of giving thanks to legendary ancestors of proportionally no one in the United States, celebrating an event which most likely did not 
Matthew Apple 

occur, on a date deliberately chosen to create a Christmas shopping season ­complete with all the Turkey Day tradi­tions, such as: turkey (of course); pota­toes, potatoes, and more potatoes; cran­berry sauce (which, like fruit cake, is a tradition despite the fact that nobody can stand the stufD; pumpkin pie (actu­ally made from squash); eggnog (the store-brand, which has more sugar than homema·de) to which you can always add liberal amounts of various kinds of cerebral activity enhancers; snow (hey, it's traditional where I come from); lame television coverage of even more lame Turkey Day parades; and, to save the best for last, watching two NFL games in a row in a small room with a semi-clean shag carpet smelling of cigars and wet dog hair bracketed by armchairs-ful of older male relatives you rarely see dur­ing the year who occasionally belch and grunt as the shifting in the chairs of their combined massive body weight causes minor earthquakes in nearby counties while "Feel the Power" NFL ads come on to advertise football to those who already watch it. 
And then there comes the Thanksgiving Classic of Classics -the Skins game? 
It's bad enough during regularly scheduled Sundays to have the wasting of time interrupted by the Senior Tour, but to have Yin Scully -a Dodger broadcaster who, despite the complete 
'por as yet unknown rea­
sons, NBC loves to bom­bard its football viewers with melodramatic five-minute lead-ins of upcoming golf "matches," displaying a bor­ing montage of slow motion "action shots" of various golf swings and putts, which aren't exactly in fast-motion to begin with.' 
lack of both brains and personality, managed to get himself elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame -tout a lengthy, televised golf tournament as an "excit­ing match-up" is simply silly. 
This comes complete with questions of "golf strategy," as if there's some sort of actually physical competition going on here. "Uhhh ... I'm going to hit the ball into the hole, Yin." 
For as yet unknown reasons, NBC loves to bombard its football viewers with melodramatic five-minute lead-ins of upcoming golf "matches," displaying a boring montage of slow motion "action shots" of various golf swings and putts, which aren't exactly in fast-motion to begin with. 
I just love it when the dorky-looking guy with the polo shirt and designer sunglasses turns to the crowd and pumps his fist in the air. Hey, hey, calm down there, Arsenio. Don't you know that golf crowds are sup­posed to be silent on punishment of death? 
One question I'd like answered is why there are so many golf tournaments on TV this year as a whole. Golf strikes me as a primarily non-spectator, rich white man's game; politicians an wealthy business men play a few rounds when avoid­ing any real work (or real workout). 
The game itsel requires vast tracts of land that could certainly be put to much better use, such as, say, becom­ing a small munici­

pal airport. lll.liiiillii;r&lllil.lill.ili.~
And nothing hap­pens in golf. Nothing. I find it hard to believe that the Scottish supposedly invented golf. I just can't picture a Scottish clansman in the Highlands putting about his tiny, rocky, barely arable plot of land, unless he happened to be using a decapitated enemy's head or the like. 
Tennis appears very much a rich man's game as well, but at least you sweat in tennis. 
All golf-ranting aside, at least there really were some special television moments to give thanks for this past week. 
Extreme close-ups of Florida State's defensive coordinator, whose tongue-chewing antics made him resemble a rather large ugly frog; marching band versions of Alanis Morrisette songs at the NO/USC game (obviously, the real reason for the disaster); and CBS sports commentators' uncanny insight that if the Miami Hurricanes didn't give the ball to only one running back, they would give the ball to many different running backs -just add a few beer and truck commercials, and you've got the perfect American holiday! 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English Department. He can be reached at mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet. netl-mapple. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Thestrongest and 
sweetest songs yet remain to be sung.' 
-Walt Whitman 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 




ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
Notre Dame Football: The Legends, The L 
The Fighting Irish Football I 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistarit Accent Editor 

S
o it looks like you will not be able to get Dad those Fiesta Bowl tickds this year. Now what? Fathers can often be the toughest family member to buy for because many of them do not know what they want. If any research were done in this area, it would probably reveal that dads are harder to buy for than Bill c;ates who, if he doesn't already have everything, surely can afford to buy it all. 
It's timt! to find something else for Dad or any other Notre Dame football fanatic. An adequate substitute is "The Fighting Irish Football Encyelopedia." 
The stH:ond edition of the book was published this.-year by Sagamom Publishing in Illinois. Author Michael R. Steele is an English profnssor at Pacific University in Oregon and a 1967 Notre Dame graduatn. In 1983, he published a biography of KnutP Bock1w and !wiped with the script for a Rockne documen­tary on PBS. 
Tlw ::; 14-page tonw contains every morsel of information about Notn! Damn football from its "humble beginnings" in 1887 right up to the end of thn 199!i snason. There is more information here than any one person can know, except maybe Steele. 
"The Fighting Irish Football Encyclopedia" has the standard fea­turns of a sports reference book: season reviews, all-time rosters, statistics and records. But it presents these standards in a difl'er­ont manner and it has so much more that sets it apart from other sports and Notre Dame encyclopedias. 
After an introduction by Ara Parseghian, Ed "Moose" Krause's foreword from the First Edition and Rocky Bleier's foreword for tlw Second Edition, the first chapter is entitled "The Place." While tlwre are so many people across America and around the world who know about Notre Dame football, there are many who do not undnrstand what "Notre Dame is all about," as we are fond of saying. 
"Go to the place," Steele writes. Notre Dame is more than foot­ball and the only way to comprehend its full influence is to experi­ence it first-hand. 
Before the actual sports encyclopedia informa­tion, there are also chapters on acade­mics and student-athletes, a tough 32-question test on Notre Dame football trivia and lists the all-time Irish teams. 
The all-time teams include the all-time players by era, which is broken down by decade after 1931. A more interesting group is the Best "Small" Players (under six feet) and the Best "Big" Players (six feet and taller). The all-time rosters by decade were chosen by their Notre Dame peers and, therefore, are likely the best possible selections. 
Finally, the best all-time Notre Dame players are listed together at their posi­tions. George Gipp made both first-team offense, and defense as a kicker and free safety and several recent stars are included too, such as Jerome Bettis as first-team full­back and Bobby Taylor as first-team right cornerback. The quarterback is Joe Montana. 
Over 300 pages of the book are devoted to "Season Reviews." Each season is recapped with details of each game and photographs scattered throughout each decade. Recent grad­uates and current seniors can relive the 1993 season while plaid-wearing, RV-driving alums can recall the days of Terry Hanratty and Johnny Lujack. 
After readi Notre Dame the all-time a list of o don tho I nach pi carenr h1 ed und 
didn' If you've !Wt Dame's record is in th (every season). which coach has 
centage-wise), or who is the only ND c 




Hillary Knows Best 
By SUSIE SOHN 
Accent Literary Critic 

S
urprisingly or not, llillary Hodham Clinton's first book, "It Takes a Village." hit #1 on the New York Times Bestseller l.ist when her own popularity polls were at an all time low. Published this year, "It Takes a Village" also coincided with the pre-election season's media blitz to blacken the President's name and associations, including "White Watergate" as one of many attempts to lend suspicion to the Clinton name. Other stabs were made to undermine Clinton's lack of family values. For these reasons,"It Takes a Village" seems especially benign, even noble. 
Whether she did so intentionally or not, Hillary Clinton combats these claims as she takes on issues concerning children and the American family. She approaches the issue of child care in such an intelligent and personal manner that the reader may very well fen! as if Hillary Clinton lived right next door. However, though the personability of this book forces the reader to remind herself that llillary is, in fact, the First Lady, it is this status that lends crndibility to her statements, allowing the reader to excuse the lack of footnotes despite the frequent use of statistics. 
Peppered with a bit of Hillary Clinton's own political ideology, the book proves valuable not only for its realistic and knowledge­able approach to modern American problems, but also for the engaging personal anecdotes that Hillary Clinton has to tell about her own family, both the one she was born into as well as the one she shares now with the President. Though one might initially be interested in this book for the First Lady's ideas about family reform and governmental involvement in securing a bright future for American children, he or she might want to hear more person­al anecdotes from the Clinton's own lives. 
One of the funny stories that the First Lady tells about her fami­ly illustrates children's need for undivided attention. Once, while Bill Clinton spent an afternoon with his 4-year old daughter Chelsea, he was inundated with phone calls. Holding Chelsea, the then governor of Arkansas juggled her from arm to arm as he picked up call after call. Chelsea, seeing her father reach for the phone yet again, finally just bit her dad on the nose which, need­less to say, got his attention. 
Hillary Clinton herself grew up in a family with a stable middle­class home. Her family was one that "looked like it was straight out of the 1950s television sitcom "Father Knows Best," "and most of the people she "knew growing up had families remarkably like ]hers]." However, the knowle< llillary Clinton has drawn from h' research, as well as knowing and "'I with those who grew up in less stabln lies (such as Bill Clinton himself), give book a solid integrity. 
Hillary Clinton isn't lecturing from S'l high horse telling us how we should :1 our lives and raise the next generatit She has been out there working, as college student, law student, the1 lawyer, with children and with peoplt concerned with children's well-being. 
So while "It Takes a Village" doPs well in expressing what children need and what is being done or should be done to ensure it, it is more infor­
mative than prescriptive, 
and expresses more reassurance than moral indignation. In the chapter about divorce, Hillary Clinton expresses her ideal wish that "every child have an intact, dependable family" but realizes that this wish will likely remain only a wish. 

She is realistic, however, when she talks honestly not only about her own need to "bite her ton1 every once in a while to get through rc her marriage, but about nationwide e strengthen marriages and more imp01 
• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
Decoding Internet Gibberish 
By JASON HUGGINS World Wide Wtb Correspoodenr 

Assuming you've been a loyal reader of "Web Site of the Week" for the past year; you havo religiously typud in every address or those cool Web sites in your brows.or's "loca­tion" box. A<> you repeated this ritual every Tuesday, it is possible that you gazedata string of seemingly unrelated words, letters. and punctuation marks whilemu1;teting to yoursHlf. "What does this all mean?'' Well, skip the philosophy. All those symbols.ha.ve meaning, and by understanding the relevance behind the address, your ability tdsurf the Web will be vastly improved. 
The original intent or a Web address. called a URL (Uniform Resource LocatQdtW<lS to aid your computer in locating information on other computers on the Web; URL syntax was never intended for human consumption. Machines were supposed toread the code. 
And With the ways Netscape and Internet Explorer keep advancing. chances are that soon enough you won't have to touch URLs at all, with either your keyboard or a tm 
: foot pole. Even now, if you are smart, you rarely will have to get your hands dirty the actual typing in oflong URL-s if you bookmark regularly, or use Cut and Paste. 
There are some shortcuts you can take to make fmding that elusive treasure of v able esoterica less daunting. If, after conducting a search for yellow polka-dot biki 
'you come up with a URL like http://swimsuites.com/bikinisl yellow_polka_dotlinfor tion-file.html-and then find yourself with a ''file not found" message-try this li trick: delete everything after the l~st slash (i.e., "gibberish-file.htrnn. Chances are l will find yourselfon a page that actually exists. If not, you can keep deleting file na~ and slashes, working your way backward, until you hit something exciting. 
As Web browsers become more sophisticated, the manner in which they are abl~ find addresses becomes simpler and requires less typing. In Netscape, for instanee~ you are tryingto find the Apple Computer Web site, try typing in just "apple" in thei location Window. Magically, the URL http://www.apple.com will appear, as will the ; Apple site. Unfortunately, this only works with sites ending in .com. ; 
Taking advantage of Netscape's Bookrnarking reatures also can alleviate Net stml ·Windows users can right~click their mouse and choose "Create Shortcut" while big~ lightinga URL, and leave that site on the desktop. On the Macintosh, it is as simp!~ 
opening up the Bookmarks window and dragging the site name to the desktop. Bo · 
ways will leave you relatively UHL-free. 
Int~rnet Explorer users have another way of avoiding the dreaded 60 character In the address window, simply type "find apple," and you will be whisked a Yahoo!, whichwill tlien fmd the appropriate site for you. 
In addition to the prefix "http," there are times when you will come across the ''ftp"(Pile Transfer Protocol). FTP is used when you download a file from the yout hard drive. If you are looking for the latest release of Netscape, for instanc 



Fit to be untied 
Football 


The Observer/Brandon Candura Head coach Lou Holz exits the field in what was perhaps his last game at the Irish helm. 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Arrogant Irish aren't 'First-Tier' 
Will the Irish go bowling this year? 
After fumbling their way out of a nearly certain $8.4 million Fiesta Bowl bid with their devastating 27-20 overtime loss to hated rival USC on Saturday, the Irish were certainly downtrodden, and probably felt as if they ,.----------, would rather not play another game this season. 
With virtually aH but the three Alliance bowl games locked up by conference tie-ins this season and the Irish's 8-3 mark marring their appear­ance, it looked as if the lost bat­tle for Troy had in fact put an end to a rather disappointing season. 
But the Irish and their fans had forgotten about another less attractive suitor than the wealthy Fiesta or the equally rich Orange. 
The $1.3 million Poulan Weedeater Independence Bowl. The folks in charge of the Shreveport, Louisiana­based bowl game jumped at the chance the Irish 
Dylan Barmmer Assistant Sports Editor 
loss presented, offering the Blue and Gold a chance to eat up their opposition as well as the weeds just as soon as the champagne had dried on John "RoboCoach" Robinson's balding head. 
And what did the Irish do? Just what you'd expect them to. They turned them down. 
The Los Angeles Times reported the morning after the loss that Athletic Director and king of Notre Dame's glass castle Michael Wadsworth had spurned the Independence representatives, insist­ing that the Irish "would not accept a bid to a sec­ond-tier bowl game," and no doubt crossing his fingers in the hopes that the Orange Bowl commit­tee would pick profit over performance and grab the Irish instead of a more deserving team with the sixth and final pick in the Alliance's Selection Show. 
Isn't that charming. 
Your team underachieves all year long, sufTers two self-inflicted losses to mediocre opponents, drops the ball about as frequently as they drop opposing quarterbacks, and you still have the 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 

Brad Otton leads second half rally as Trojans end era of dominance 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sporrs Editor 
LOS ANGELES After I:~ years, the reign of terror is over. 
Behind battered quarterback Brad Otton. the University of Southern California battled back from an eight-point deficit and zero offensive yardage in the third quarter to beat lOth­ranked Notre Dame 27-20 in overtime. Otton. knocked out of play in the first series of the game. returned to the field in the third quarter to tally 183 total yards and two touchdowns on 13-of-25 passing. 
Last week against UCLA, Otton was forced to watch his team suffer its second overtime loss of the year. 
It was not going to be that way Saturday night. 
"I definitely knew I was hurt and where I got hurt," said Otton, who was suffering from bruised ribs. "But the worst I felt was last week when I had to come out and watch my team play without me in overtime. I wasn't going to let that happen tonight." 
Otton engineered the final USC (6-6) overtime drive, com­pleting all three of his passes, including a 5-yard toss to Rodney Sermons for the game­winning score. 
"Brad Otton was coura­geous," Trojan coach John Robinson said. "A lot of things went against him this year. He never blinked, never gave up." 
Notre Dame failed to reach the end zone with its ensuing overtime possession, with the game ending when USC line­backer Mark Cusano batted down Ron Powlus' pass on fourth down. 
"This is an awful way to end the season," admitted Powlus. "This is an awful way to end my career if we don't go to a bowl game. We wanted to send coach Holtz out right, but we didn't." 
The Irish (8-3) controlled the game entering the fourth quar­ter. The Trojans offense did not 
The Observer/Brandon Candura The Coliseum scoreboard (top left) tells the whole story as USC quaterback Brad Otten is mobbed on the field after he did show the Trojans the way to go. Otten also grabbed the game ball for coach John 
Robinson. 
muster any net yardage in the after the game just to keep our third quarter, and the first Irish heads up. But it really is a terri­drive of the final period seemed ble way to end the season." destined to reach the end zone. After the Irish defense forced 
They never quite made it. the Trojans to punt the football 
Powlus' pass was caught by away, returner Allen Rossum Malcolm Johnson inside the 5-added to the USC effort, fum­yard line, but the receiver fum­bling the kick and allowing USC bled it away en route to the to regain possession at the score, giving USC possession at Notre Dame 12. its own 1. "I just lost my concentration," 
"I lost my concentration," Russum said. "It was a fair Johnson said. "Coach told us catch all the way and I just 
After cradling this second quarter punt, Allen Rossum would cough up his first of two fumbles in the game. The Irish totaled four fumbles on the day. 
see page 3 
didn't make the catch." 
Otton's 5-yard TD pass to Chris Miller came four plays later, but the failed two-point conversion attempt kept Notre Dame in the lead, 14-12. 
The Irish running game pounded its way down the field, as Robert Farmer and Autry Denson brought Notre Dame back into USC territory. Denson, 
see UNTIED/ page 2 

.....-----~-------­
page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

Otton fights off injury to get the game and ball for Robinson 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
A.<soci;m· Spons EJiror 
LOS ANCELES USC quartnrback Brad Otton wantnd tiH' ball all game. 
lin wantnd the ball after lnav­ing tlw ganw in the first quar­tnr dtw to rnaggravating a bruisml stPrnum and ribs. lin would tlwn dnsire the pigskin again at tlw ganw's conclusion. 
Thn ball had becomn more d ns irabIn rnai nly lwcausn of what Otton did with it after ronntnring tlH' game in tho third quarter. The senior, in his last collegiatn game, ongi­n·<~nred a Trojan comeback, throwing for 143 yards on 11­21 passing in the second hall', to lead USC past rival Notre Dame 27-20 in overtime. 
When USC linebacker Matt Cusano knocked down Irish quarterback Hon Powlus' last ditch pass, Otton took off after the ball with one recipient in mind: head coach .John Hobinson. 
"I was just trying to get the game ball," Otton said. "I near-· ly got myself killed diving after the game ball. I gave it to him (Robinson) and hopefully it will mean a lot to him." 
Not only did the game ball mean a lot, but also the win. 

Untied 
continued from page 1 
who f'inislwd with 160 yards on the ground, carried the ball six times on the eight-play scoring drive, ineluding the 9­yard burst around the right end that put six points on the board for the Irish. 
It would not be enough. 

Kieker .lim Sanson could not put the ball bPtween the poles on Notre Dame's extra point try, kicking it wide left from l'owlus' hold. The missed attempt kept USC in the game, only eight points away in a 20-12 game. 
"I let the fifth-year seniors down," said a distraught Sanson. "(The hold) was fine. I need to grow up." 
With the majority of the 90,296 voices on their side, USC stuck in the game, and with 3:50 left in the fourth quarter, attacked the Irish defense on the ground and in the air. Delon Washington regis­tered the final blows of the drive on a 15-yard TD run and a carry for the two­point conversion score. Washington fin­ished the game with a team-high 67 yards on 15 carries. 
After a questionable ground game all night, the Trojans surprised Notre Dame by putting the ball in the hands of their backs with the win in jeopardy. 
"In the fourth quarter, Notre Dame didn't quite have a handle on what we were doing," Hobinson stated. "We have to become a running team. That's what I've always admired about a Holtz team, tlwir ability to run the football." 
Notrn Dame stymied the Trojan ofTense to minimal rushing yards through the first three periods, holding them to 52 net yards. But it was Notre Dame's mis­takl~S that helped snap the 13-year streak against USC, including .Johnson's and Hossum's fourth-quarter miscues. Also, Emmett Mosley fumbled a first­quarter reception, leading to a USC field goal, and Hossum lost a second-quarter punt to bring the fumble tally to four. 
"This is probably as tough a loss as I've ever had," Irish coach Lou Holtz said of' what will be his final game at Notre Dame. "We made so many mistakes in this football game. We had four turnovers-two by receivers-and we missed an extra point which kept them 
Robinson had been on the hot scat all week long after the Trojans dropped their fifth game of the year to UCLA the week before. Members of the Los Angeles media hinted that if Robinson could not come up with a win against nemesis Notre Dame, it could be his last game. 
Otton stood up for his coach both on the field Saturday night, and earlier in the week during practice. 
"I love the media just as much as the next guy," Otton added. "But sometimes the media's job is to create contro­versy and jump on stories. As players, we watch the film every week and we saw we were just hot executing on the field. It was not the play-call­ing and all of us as players had to step forward iwd admit it. 
"This game tonight, we want­ed to win for ourselves, but every guy in that room will tell you this one was for coach Robinson." 
Otton could have kept that game ball if he wanted to. After Irish linebacker Kory Minor leveled him on the sixth play of the game, Otton had to be helped off the field, having reinjurcd a sternum and ribs he originally bruised against UCLA. 
Without him, USC's less-than­dynamic duo of Matt Koffler and Quincy Woods proved to be inept. Vowing not to watch his team lose another game from the sidelines, Otton was inject­ed with the necessary pain­killers at halftime, allowing him 
in the game." 

"I feel bad for the seniors and the play­ers that made mistakes. I know how they feel," Holtz said. 
For Hossum and Sanson, it has been a season of ups and downs. After two kick­return touchdowns against Pittsburgh, Hossum's two fumbles put USC in prime field position, a luxury the Trojans enjoyed most of the game. 
Sanson, brought into the spotlight in the Texas contest after nailing a game­winning field goal, has secured a place in the doghouse after missing the extra point. The kicker's inconsistency has hurt the Irish all season, and the costly miss is a prime example of his, and Notre Dame's, roller coaster season. 
The positives for Notre Dame came 
• GRADED POSITION ANALYSIS 
•Quarterbac 
Ron Powlus didn'lbave ari qye wide receivers, as his numbers play-calling or_ Powlus him_self, t_h:_'_..•. 

to participate. 
"I went ahead and Jet the trainers make me into a pin cushion until the pain went away," Otton said. 
Now, the only one subjected to pain would be the Irish. 
Along with Delon Washington, Otton helped drive the Trojans 67 yards to tie the score at 20 with 2:02 remain­ing. In overtime, Otton went 3­3, completing passes of 14 and 7 yards, then finding Hodney Sermons for a 5-yard pass and the winning score. 
Four Notre Dame plays later, Otton had his moment to remember amidst the post­game madness. 
"All the students came on the 
few and far between. Henaldo Wynn's 10 tackles, including two for losses, and a sack helped the Irish defense corral the Trojans for the majority of the game. 
Safety Benny Guilbeaux was the lone force in the Irish secondary, intercepting a Matt Koffler pass in the end zone to stop a USC scoring threat and preserve a 7-6 Irish lead late in the first half. 
Denson recorded career-highs with 33 rushing attempts for 160 net yards. 
USC's come-from-behind victory not only ended the 13-year dominance for Notre Dame, but may it have also saved the career of John Robinson. USC's leg­endary coach has been under fire during his team's mediocre season, but he tried to emphasize that a win over Notre Dame should not be a factor in consider-
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
field and that was one of the greatest feelings I've had in football," Otton added. 
Those feelings stl~m from tlw history of this rivalry. Otton saw first-hand three winless years himself and heard plenty more about the other ten. 
Now, Otton can tell others how he fought through his pain to ease the pain at his alma mater. 
"It's been a frustrating ynar for all of us," Otton said. "Wp wanted to be remembered as a Bose Bowl team, a national championship team, but Wl~ fell short of that. But we'll always be known as the team that beat Notre Dame and broke tlw streak. And that means a lot." 

ing his future at USC. 
"I admire Lou lloltz a groat dnal. Neither he nor I were thlJ issue. The real things are the teams, the schools, the games, and all the things you won't read about in the paper (Sunday) morn­ing. I'm happy about this. It's one of tlw great moments of my life. Mur.h has been made about me this week but this is beyond me." 
Much more than a football game came to a close on Saturday when that pass was batted down. The years of' domi­nance over Notre Dame's only true rival. The Holtz years. Notre Dame's bowl chances after nine straight post-season bowl games. 
An era ended when the ball hit the ground. 
Linebackers B plit:l pressure on Otton early wouldn't let the ojans ~et into a groove. A handful of key missed ckl~s was uncharacteristic. Kory Minor's knee 
ondary and tertiary receivers h .... .. ·.· bl'Ws~ limited the success of the squad late, while Bert make the big play in overtime didri't he. Berry's relative silence was quite a negative. 
Running Backs> B+ . .. . .. .....·····..·. . Defensive Backs D 
Tailback Autry Denson posted car~er hig~s In both •..... Be].lny Guilbeaux's performance saved this unit from 
yardage and attempts, an effort Jl10i'e iifipressive wb(iln one considers that he did it withouta, Pa§Siltg attacktq keep the defense off-balance. J~;LJR-ie Spen~er and Robert Farmer did their job but for pe~haps thEl first time, the absence of Marc Edwards was costly~ Where was Randy Kinder? · · · ·· ·• · ·· .. 
·wide Receivers D ·. .··.. . 
Cikai Champion's .career momentwas ~rvershad()W~dhy the fumbles of Emmett Mosley and Malcolm Johnson. Johnson's play could have be.en a nail'inthe coffin, but it turned·out to be the beginning of the end. 
No one could fmd a way to get open; · 

Coaching C 
Offensive Line Bw ..•.·. ...• 
The Iris~ had succe~s runnin~ t~ehalLbut the size and expenence (4 semors) of this m;-~wshoi.lld add up to a more dominant performance. Pas~protectionwaslacking at times. · · .+w. ·.· > • 
Defensive Line. B ... ··. ... ..· 
Renaldo Wynn continues to.$1li~evmoving up the draft ladder with each big pla~< H()'\Vever, coborts Alton Maiden and Melvin Da:nsby Wete noticea~lysilent. Brad Otton is as slow.:.footed as th · .ome.~but 
was only sackedtwice. · · 
.utter failure.. Irish cornerbacks were lucky they
werep.'t exploited more. as Otton picked the.Irish apart 
late wthe game. Sure, Rossum and Covmgton had 
numerous tackles, but that actually speaks more about · their ineffectiveness. 
. ... .. SpecialTeams F 
.. Uk€1 the tie two years a~o, special teams was the 
glaring weakness. Rossum s two fumbles, particularly
the second, were absolutely devastating. The same 
could be said for the missed extra point, a combination 
·ofa poor hold and a bad kick. 
Sure, Lou Holtz and staff didn't fumble the game iway~ buttheJrish had reasons (Holtz's last game,majorbowLbid, the streak) to be motivated that Holtz failed tp capitalize on. Insertion of Powlus as holder ():0 extrapomtswa.S fataL Not the way to go out. 
. Overall 2.0 
Thelrish have developed a scary knack for blowing.fourth-quarter leads (3 of last 4 losses). They had ·. >.~verr.t.b¥tgtolose, and tbeylost it all. The Thank You 
car(Ifrom;John R.obinson is already in the mail. 
··· · · ·· -Tim Sherman 


Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
-



Fumbling and bumbling it all away 
proper farewell for Holtz. Johnson had
Bowl bid, Holtz's 
But just like those fumbles, it all hauled in a 33­slipped through their hands. yard pass fromfinal game slips Holtz was asked his thoughts on what quarterback Ron suddenly turned out to be his swan Powlus, Trojan song at the Irish helm. linebacker Sammythrough Irish hands "It's like life," he said. "It's one you'll Knight jarred the remember, one game you'll carry with ball loose and
By JOE VILLINSKI 
you for a long time." recovered it at the
Associate Sports Editor 
If that's the case, it may explain why goal line. Holtz appeared to be in total despair as "I lost my con­
LOS ANGELES 
the USC sideline exploded in victory. centration,"
Maybe Notre Dame's 27-20 loss to 
The game will not overshadow his John~on said.
USC Saturday night wouldn't seem so 
career, but as Holtz admits, it will be a Next up was
bad if it wasn't the last regular season 
stigma. return man Allen 
game of the year. 
The realization that he had just seen Rossum, already
If' a major Alliance bowl bid wasn't on 
his last Notre Dame game as head having coughed it
the line. 
coach appeared to be setting in at the up once, when he
If' it wasn't head coach Lou Holtz's 
post-game press conference. bobbled another
last game at Notre Dam!1. 
"My guts feel like someone cut out my punt at his own 12
If' the Irish didn't proceed to fumble 
complete insides," Holtz said. "I never in an attempt to
the game away and render the season 
felt this low." make a fair catch.
null and void. 
It seemed as if that was the consensus Four plays later,
But the loss was bad. Heal bad. 
feeling. the Trojans trailed 
The Irish were on course to end the 
"To have the streak broken with me 14-12.
year with a five-game winning streak, a 
being a senior is the worst possible "I just lost con­
probable bid to the Fiesta Bowl, and a 
The Observer/Mike Ruma

feeling I could ever feel," line­centration once I 
Although Ron Powlus' first hold for freshman kicker Jim Sanson
backer Bert Berry said in refer­called for the fair 
was fine, Sanson later missed an extra point in the fourth quarter
ence to the Trojans ending catch," Rossum 
that would have put the Irish ahead by two scores. Powlus admit­
their 13-game winless string said. 
ted later that the laces were sideways.
against the Irish. No concentra­Berry and the rest of the tion means no 
Notre Dame will be less than fine now
defense were put in bad situa­win. 
that it appears no bowl game is on the
tions the .entire game due to "We should have won the game," 
horizon. Irish players said after the 
four costly fumbles. By game's Hossum added. "We were an inferior 
game that the loss marked the end of 
end, logging constant minutes team that made too many mistakes. I 
their season. With no expectations on 
on the field had taken its toll on made two myself." 
the part of athletic administration to 
the defense. The Irish could have sealed the victo­
accept a bid to a second-tier bowl, the
"Any time you have a ry had freshman Jim Sanson converted 
Irish most likely will be out of the post­
turnover, it hurts the team," an extra point, potentially putting the 
season for the first time since 1986. 
Berry added. "There's never a Irish ahead by two scores with 4:29 left. 
"It's a sad way to go out for me and 
good time to have one. A lot of With Powlus holding, the laces were 
the rest of the seniors, but it's over and 
the time we were able to turned out and Sanson missed wide left. 
the s~n's going to come up tomorrow,"
bounce back, but you can only "I know I let the fifth-year seniors 
Berry concluded. 
bounce back so many times." down," Sanson said. "I need to grow 
Of course, that sun might not be as· 
Heceiver Malcolm Johnson's up." 
bright.
fumble en route to a score that "I got the snap, put it down, and the 
Especially for Holtz. 
would have put the Irish ahead laces were facing sideways," Powlus 
"We made far too many mistakes,"
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
two touchdowns may have been said. "Snap was fine. I think the kicker 
Holtz said. "I don't know why." 


Malcolm Johnson stuggles to recover his fumble in 
the biggest miscue. After was fine."
the fourth quarter. 

TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1' Florida St. (61) 11-0 1669 2 2. Arizona St. (5) 11-0 1609 3 3. Nebraska (1) 10-1 1526 4 4. Florida 10-1 1484 1 5. Ohio State 10-1 1383 6 6. Brigham Young· 12-1 1274 7 7. Colorado 9-2 1250 5 8. Penn State 10-2 1233 8 9. Tennessee 9-2 1043 9 10. Northwestern 9-2 990 11 11. Virginia Tech 10-1 947 17 12. Washington 9-2 916 12 13. North Carolina 9-2 910 13 14. Kansas State 9-2 857 14 15. Alabama 9-2 829 15 16. Michigan 8-3 657 18 17. LSU 9-2 640 19 18. Notre Dame 8·3 535 10 19. Miami 8-3 454 23 20. Wyoming 10-1 450 21 21' Iowa 8-3 306 22 22. Syracuse 8-3 280 16 23. Army 9-1 144 24 24. West Virginia 8-3 96 25 25. Virginia 7-4 75 20 
The Observer/ Tom Roland 
• SnmsTICAU.Y SPEAI<ING 
1 2 3 4 OT F Notre Dame 0 7 7 6 0 20 usc 6 0 0 14 7 27 
Team Statistics NO usc First Downs 19 18 Rushing 15 5 Passing 4 12 Penalty 0 1 Rushing Attempts 60 32 Rushing Yards 260 92 Passing Yards 108 210 Passes Attempted 19 35 Passes Completed 8 16 Had Intercepted 0 1 Total Offensive Plays 79 67 Total Yards 368 302 Average Gain Per Play 4.66 4.51 Fumbles: Number-Lost 5-4 2-0 
Penalties: Number-Yards 6-65 7-61 Number of Punts-Yards 6-252 7-323 Average Per Punt 42.0 46.1 Punt Returns: Number-Yards 4-36 2-21 Kickoff Returns: Number-Yards 3-57 3-68 Interceptions: Number-Yards 1-0 0-0 Fumble Returns: Number-Yards 0-0 1-37 Time of Possession 36:00 24:00 Third Down Conversions 7 of 18 4 of 16 Fourth Down Conversions 3 of 4 1 of 2 Sacks By: Number-Yards 2-15 2-10 
Individual Statistics RUSHING Notre Dame-Denson 33-160, Spencer 13-45, Farmer 8-54, Powlus 6-1. USC-Washington 15-67, Walters 9-28, Sermons 3-10, Kofler 2-minus 10, Woods 1-2. Otton 1-minus 8. Claiborne 1-3. PASSING Notre Dame-Powlus 19-8-0-108. USC-Olton 25-13-0-183, Woods 2-0-0-0, Kotter B-3-1-27. RECEIVING Notre Dame-Mosley 3-29, Johnson 2-41, Spencer 1-7, Champion 1-25, Chryplewicz 1-6. 
Attendance: 90,296 

• SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER USC-Abrams 30 fg (7 plays, 39 yards) at 13:00 USC-Abrams 38 fg (4 plays, minus 13 yards) at 5:13 SECOND QUARTER Notre Dame-Spencer 1 run (Sanson kick) (11 plays, 65 yards) at 14:23 THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame-Champion 25 pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) (8 plays, 46 yards) at 0:23 FOURTH QUARTER USC-C. Miller 5 pass from Otton (PAT failed) (4 plays, 12 yards) at 8:21 Notre Dame-Denson 9 run (PAT FAILED) (9 plays, 65 yards) at 3:52 USC-Washington 15 run (Washington run) (8 plays, 67 yards) at 1:50 OVERTIME USC-Sermons 5 pass from Otton (Abrams kick) (4 plays, 25 yards) 
Now, he has plenty of time to locate 

Insight 
continued from page 1 
audacity to believe that somehow you are "deserv­ing" of anything better than a "second-tier bowl game." 
Seems to me that the Irish are closer to a second-tier team than they are to an elite one. Seems to me that second-tier teams deservi"sec­ond-tier bowl games. · 
But the Irish officials, and certainly many Irish fans as well, don't see things in such a logical perspective. After all, this is Notre Dame you're talking about, and Notre Dame won't accept anything less than the best. 
It is exactly this kind of Notre Dame arrogance which has turned college football viewers around the country violently against the Irish, and which led Notre Dame fans and possibly players as well to assume that in order to continue Notre Dame's miraculous hold over USC, all they had to do was show up against a 5-6 Trojan squad which had lost three straight games. 
How far does this arrogance go? Consider the fol­lowing example. 
The Notre Dame club of Orange County decided to print up shirts for the game. The shirts didn't salute Lou Holtz in his last regular season game with the Irish, didn't pay respect to a storied rivalry. Instead, they sent an obnoxious message, loud and clear. 
"We Own You," screamed the front of the shirt in black letters about as large as the lump in Holtz's throat following the game, which, ironically enough, the Trojans owned in the end. 
One would think that the Collapse in the Coliseum would be enough to humble Notre Dame, but to listen 
..

to Wadsworth speak, apparently is wasn't. Rumor has it that Holtz even told the players in the week prior to the game that it was either the Fiesta, Orange, or nothing for the Irish. 
So it looks as if it will be nothing. But does it have to be that way? Does the season have to end without a bowl game? It doesn't, and it shouldn't. -At the very least, this team still has something left to do this season. 
Prove themselves. 
So why not suck it up, swallow some pride, and take what you can. Take what you deserve. 
.•

Break out the Weedeaters, Irish fans, we're headin' down south. 
Don't touch the Oranges on the way there, though. 
They're the Forbidden Fruit, and, tempting as they may be, you have no right to them. 


The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Tuesday, December 3, 1996
-
• 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Tommy Trojan could finally ride off gloriously into the sunset, as USC snapped its 13­game winless streak against Notre Dame. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Wide receiver Emmett Mosley loses the ball in the first quarter after catching a 17-yard pass from Ron Powlus. USC linebacker Sammy Knight eventually recovered. 


Irish defensive lineman Renaldo Wynn, shown here sacking USC quarterback Brad Otton, played a strong final game in an Irish uniform, recording 10 tackles. 
usc 27 Notre Dame 20 
Los Angeles Coliseum November 30, 1996 
• GAME NOTES 
Holder problem haunts Irish, Bowl prospects appear dim 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES 
QUESTION MARKS 
Among the many question marks surrounding Notre Dame's shocking 27-20 loss to USC was the mysteri­ous insertion of Ron Powlus as hold­er on extra points. Though Hunter Smith has held for Jim Sanson all season long and was perfectly healthy Saturday night, Lou Holtz opted mid-way through the game to insert Powlus as holder. 
"He really kicked well with Ron," Holtz said. 
lie didn't after Notre Dame's third touchdown, as Sanson missed a vital extra point that turned out to be the game's deciding factor. Powlus admitted that the hold was bad, as the laces were pointing the wrong way. Sanson, though, was not offer­ing any excuses. He could only blurt out in a very emotional state, "I let the fifth-year seniors down." 
BOWLED OVER 
The Irish lost out on a virtual lock as a Fiesta Bowl selection in Los Angeles. In the process, they cost the school upwards of $8 million dol­lars. 
Though the Irish were eliminated from Alliance bowl contention on Monday during the Alliance's weekly conference call. they are still eligible for bowls such as the Aloha, Independence, and Copper Bowl. 
Holtz, Irish players and Athletic 
Director Mike Wadsworth have all indicated that Notre Dame will not accept such an invitation. A rep­resentative for the Independence Bowl made it clear that the Irish are wanted, however. 
"A Notre Dame-Auburn match-up would be great for our bowl." 
EXCUSE ME 
At his post-game press conference, Lou Holtz reminded those assembled that the team had no excuses. 
He proceeded to give a few, though. The main excuse dealt with the inability of the Irish to practice outside in South Bend due to the frigid weather. The Irish, instead. practiced inside. "I think not bning able to do a lot of punting hurt us," Holtz said, in reference to Allen Russum's two fumbled punts. In addition, Rossum was injured on the first fumble and the arm injury may have impacted his second fumbln. "All I wanted to do was fair (:at<:h it," said Hossum of the fumble that set up the tying touchdown. 
STHEAK SNAPPED 
The loss snapped Notn~ Damn's I:{­game unbeaten strnak (12-0-1) against Southern Cal. It was also the first loss to the Trojans under Lou Holtz. "This game will go down as a classic in the rivalry," said Holtz. But the Irish were on the wrong nnd. "''ve never felt this low," admitted Holtz, who may have coached his last game for Notre Dame. 

Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
page 11 


re, The Library Book 
~ncyclopedia 


through 108 seasons of can be found in this chapter. By the way, the answers are 59-20­, readers come to 5, Lou Holtz (one shutout in 121 games at the time of publication 
roster. But this is not just for a percentage of 0.0082, slightly more than Parseghian's one­nry player to I'!!~~~!!!! lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll...............~llllllllllllllllllllllll~!ll in-116, or 0.0086), IU(\ and gold: Joe Kuharich, whos ycr has his record was 17-23-0 from 
lights includ-1959-62. r his name, The book concludes am-winning with every record imag­lSition, !wight. inable in Notre Dame and home-football history. Well, 
Even Dan Notre Dame football " Hucttigcr is game history; for exam-or!.· ple, there are no figures 
seventy-one for the number of jock of statistics straps used in a year. At de basics, the end is two para­
records graphs explaining the nst each and weight training routine ry opponent. the team goes through t there arc and a list of miscellanea, 
and tables some of which have figures that a slight relation to ost sane ball at Notre Dame. 
p 11 o p 1 e "The Fighting Iris w 0 u I d n ' t Football Encyclopedia" consider if marked at $39.95, encyclope-cheaper than a bowl elias and Notre Dame's national championship coaches (center game ticket but not 
N B C then clockwise from top right): Rockne, Parseghian, easy to wrap. While roadcastcrs Holtz, Devine, and Leahy. game would have ntion them. ed joy and excitement 
ndered what Notre four hours--and the other days in the sun of the southwest­inth game of the season the encyclopedia can be opened again and again to revive those shutout the least (per-frelings and memories that make Notre Dame football the special 
h with a losing record, it event and experience that it is and that only we can truly know. 
child support for single or divorced parents. 
Though Hillary Clinton maintains that she wishes divorce rates were not as high as they are, she is tolerant and reasonable in understanding that some situations call for sepa­rations, and that the child's welfare is still the center of concern despite this seeming break in family unit. The title of this chapter, "Every Child Needs a Champion," emphasizes a fact that many people do not realize: that children can have champions, or 
adults who believe in them, despite broken homes or single-parent house­holds. Despite the seeming commercial and 
propagandistic timing of this book's pub­lication, "It Takes a Village" is strong enough to stand up on its own, against 
political attacks. Though the Clintons are, for the most part, written of in a rosy light, they are never held up as a model for all of 
America to follow. Hillary Clinton gracefully and humbly acknowledges the privileges she grew up with 
and experiences now. Though this book may be easily dismissed as a political ploy to ensure that the Democrats also hold a platform on 
"family values," it is a worthy account monitor­ing the successes and failures of the American Family from a woman who has been living it and 
working for it. 

would go to one of their FTP $it(;)$ ftp://ftp2(},netscape:cqm. Both.Niit~cape>a~d lntyr#et Explorer make it possible for you to dO\'.fnload illes dif~ctly fi;otn. th~jr b!O\'.f:>ers,. S(). Y<?l1 shouldn't have to deal with FTP too often, b1,1t it can be incredihl}'handy vvhen<Iovvn­
loading files from sites such as universit}' servers; ··• .• . ..._...·· ·_···•-• ..._-..-•. _•.•_..· .•...•_·.··· •···. . .•. •·•• .-.•• ·. · 
Another useful prefix is "gopher," developed lj,t the U~h,er~It¥ of Minnesota('t!te Gopher is the school's mascot). Gopher uses a menu-ha~edsyst~mtotunnel thrnugh the Internet. The World Wide Web· has· made Gophel' vir.tu(l,lly obs~let~, but thf)}'e are~ times where you will run into a Gopher (like fipding your grades and sc~edules at Notte 
Dame). A Gopher URL would look like this: gophtfr:f/gopher;~d;edu/, and usually will lead to a text-only site. Here's a look at the anatumy><ifa fictio0aliJRL: http://www,nd.edul-lholtz/resume.html · ·· .·· 
http: =HyperText Transfer Protocol (the set of proce(iU.reS,that allow your cornptiter to view documents with links and graphics) • •·· ._ ··.. .....··...•._. · 
I I =directories (folder and file names, justlike inWindows or DOS) .·.· 
www.= World Wide Web. Most of the time; this isthe narneoftheco:mputeryou are accessing. Not every Web site uses "www" in its. address. _ . •· · _.··._·._._.·.·• •.._ •.. .··. ··_· ··._ .-. _·.•. nd= Notre Dame (the folks to whom wepay $25,000 a year for rree.Internet ac~eSS) . .edu/ =Universities and schools, Other· common suffiXes are: .gov(governmentl,.;com 
(commercial), .net (network), .org (organization): . .. _. _ ... _. . ··· ·. _· _ .... · ._ -lholtzl= -is called a tilde, these usually represent a personaL~eme pag(J. "Lholz.is short for Lou Holtz. (He doesn't really }Iave ah_o!)le page, thouglt.l. ....·.· ·_•··· ··•••·-... .-... . .· resume =The name of the page on which Lou rn,lght posthisjQb s}<:Uls for future employers. _ · . _.. ·. ·.·.---·-·_ ...... · .··•• •··-····-.•• -· .•..••.•._.··•· ·. > .-.• .•.. ·.·· \ .-··-.·•·-··-•···-.··-··_. \_..... __ .•..••.•._.•.·.· _·--••··· .···•·•· 
.html= HyperText Markup Language (thi$ t(ll~th¢ computer tbatJtis loold!lg a,t [tn · HTML document~ in other words~ a Web page) · ·. · · · 
Jason Huggins is ajuniorMIS majorfrom Thousand Oaks, CAL 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
•NBA 

Olajuwon optimistic Mavs outlast Orlando, 108-102 
By FRED GOODALL quarter. ue to play," Kidd said. "Oliver
after second treatment 
Associated Press Writer The loss was the Magic's came up with a big steal after 
fourth in eight games at the 3-point shot and I looked up 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK beat the Bullets to improve its 
ORLANDO, Fla. Orlando Arena, equaling the and we were right back in the
Associated Press Writer record to 15-1. tied with 
Once the Orlando Magic re­number they dropped at home ball game."
Chicago for the NBA's best 

laxed, there was no stopping all of last season.
HOUSTON mark. His 25.8 point average is 
the Dallas Mavericks. Anderson hurt his wrist when Raptors 100, Rockets 89 
Ilakeem Olajuwon, saying third best in the NBA. 
The Mavs rallied from a nine­he blocked Loren Meyer's layup 
he's in good health and has a Doctors said aspirin would 
point deficit in the last 2:23 of and fell to the court a little Obviously, Houston is a far
"very good heart," left the hos­keep his blood from clotting 
regulation, then got seven more than five minutes into the different team without I lakeem 
pital Monday after a visit from and the prescription medica­
points in overtime from Oliver game. Olajuwon. That didn't stop the
former President George Bush tion would keep his heart from 
Miller to beat the Magic 108-X-rays were negative, but Toronto Raptors from enjoying
and plans to start working out fluttering. 
102 Monday night. the Magic face the prospect of their win over the Rockets,
in hopes of rejoining the "What it basically does is 
Miller's dunk at the buzzer going into Wednesday night's however.
Houston Hockets. keep it from getting fast," team 
capped an 11-2 run that forced game against Cleveland without Damon Stoudamire had 27
For the second time in less physician James Muntz said. 
the extra period. four of the team's starters from points and 11 assists as
than two weeks, the star center "It's uncomfortable for him 
The backup center, who last season. Toronto stopped Houston's 
was treated for an irregular because your heart is going fast 
spurned an offer to sign with "He's got a soft cast on his nine-game winning streak
heartbeat. The problem is not but at no point would the 
the Magic during the presea­hand," Hill said. "That's all I Monday night with a 100-89
considered career-threatening, Rockets or any of the doctors 
son, made all three of his shots know right now." victory over the Rockets, who
but his return to play was not let him play if this was some­
in overtime and finished 6-for-6 Seikaly had 16 points and played without Olajuwon. 
immediatnly set. thing dangerous." 
with 13 points. Wilkins 13 to help the Magic to Earlier in the day, Olajuwon
When asked when he would Cardiologist Tony Pacifico, an 
"Two minutes is an eternity a 53J50 halftime lead. Kidd left a Houston hospital after
be in the lineup again, arrhythmia specialist, had 
in the NBA," Mavs guard Jim hadn't taken a shot from the being treated for the seeond
Olajuwon said, "Hopefully, as waited to see if the heart cor­
Jackson said. "You have a 24-field up to that point, but his time in less than two weeks for 
soon as possible." rected itself before bringing it 
second clock and anything can seven first-half assists were the an irregular heartbeat.
Olajuwon remained in into sync with a defibrillator 
happen if you play defense and main reason the Mavericks The problem is not consid­
Houston while his teammates Monday morning. About three 
that's what we did." were able to stay close. ered career-threatening, but
played in Toronto on Monday hours later, Olajuwon was re­
Chris Gatling, coming off a his return to the Rockets has
night. The Rockets said leased. 
career-high 35-point perfor­McCloud's 3-pointer put not been set.
Olajuwon is to begin workouts Before departing, however, 
mance in a loss to Chicago, led Dallas up 68-65 before Orlando "This is probably the second
Tuesday. Olajuwon received a visit from 
Dallas with 25 points and 14 closed the third quarter with best team in the NBA right now
Olajuwon spent the night in the former president. Bush, 
rebounds. George McCloud 17-7 run that made it 78-72 and even though they were
Methodist Hospital. He spoke who has a similar medical 
scored 21, Jackson added 17 going into the final period. The without their big man, we did­
before climbing into his white problem, lives in Houston and 
and Jason Kidd had 8 points, 7 Magic did most of the damage n't let up," Stoudamire said. 
Mercedes and driving himself dropped by the hospital specifi­
rebounds and 18 assists for the from the foul line, uncharacter­Toronto's win also ended
home. cally to see the player. 
Mavericks. istically making 9 of 11 free Houston's eight-game road
"It wasn't painful." he said of "The big guy was laying 
"this was a very bad loss for throws during the spurt. winning string. 
his hospital stay. ''I'm in good there looking pretty good to 
us," Orlando coach Brian Hill Kidd sparked the Mavericks' Charles Barkley had 30
health. I have a very good me," Bush said. 
said during a post-game press fourth-quarter comeback with points, 12 rebounds and four
heart. There's no really major Two weeks ago doctors used 
conference that ended abrupt­a 3-pointer, his first field goal assists for the Hockets, who lost 
concern. It's just something I the electrical shock to correct 
ly. "I thought we had the game of the game. His layup trimmed for just the second time this
need to learn to live with." Olajuwon's arrhythmia, or ab­
won. Unfortunately we didn't Orlando's lead to 92-90 with season. He also failed to use
Olajuwon, 33, was given as­normal heartbeat, after he left 
play with any poise or compo­1:20 to go, and the Dallas point Olajuwon's absence as an ex­
pirin and the drug Lanoxin to the Nov. 19 game against 
sure down the stretch." guard penetrated the lane and cuse.
deal with the heartbeat irregu­Minnesota at halftime. 
Rony Seikaly paced Orlando got the ball to Miller for the "We still should have won the
larity. At that time, he went immedi­
with 26 points and 14 re­stuff that sent the game into game," Barkley said. "We won
The problem resurfaced ately to Methodist Hospital, 
bounds. Gerald Wilkins scored overtime. a big game the other night
Saturday night in Washington, where he remained for two 
25 for the Magic, who lost "I don't know what they were without Hakeem. But it's tough
where he scored 34 points, his days while undergoing precau­
starter Nick Anderson with a thinking, but I knew we just to get motivated when you're
high game this season. Houston tionary tests. 
sprained right wrist in the first had to go out there and contin-playing a a bad team." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Have  a  copy  of  the  movie  Hide needed from Fl.OHIDA (I'll  
NOTICES  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals. Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Midnight Madness? I want to buy it!! Call Kevin 273-8673  ___F_o_R_RE__N_T__~II~--T__Ic_KE__T_s__~  be in W Palm. but can get to any­where) to South Bend after  
Beaches  &  Nightlife!  Prices  Christmas. anytime before school  
•••:JO SHOPPING DAYS LEFT!  Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  NEED X-MAS $ ? I need a girl to deliver morning newspapers for  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDHOOM HOMES  SALE 2 NCAA BB FINAL 4 TIX  starts. Promise to entertain, share $and driving, and make an  
NOW IS TilE TIME TO GUAHAN­ 1 week. Or work next semester.  232-2595  IN INDY  otherwise  boring  trip  most  
TEE TilE LOWEST HATES AND  Must be responsible and an early  2719387  enriching!  call Brian 287-4876  
BEST  HOTELS  FOR  SPHING  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  riser. Call Mike x1186.  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  
BHEAK. LEISURE TOUHS liAS  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  College !'ark Condo 2 bed, 2 full  Bahamas vacation package  
PACKAGES TO SOUTH I'ADHE.  From South Bend $419! Prices  EASTERN EUHOPE JOBS -Teach  bath. wood floor, wash/dry, vault­ for two, at less than $398 actual  Looking for a unique gift idea'!  
CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLOHI­ Increase Soon-Save $50! Save  basic conversational English in  ed ceil, porch, furniture avail.  cost.  Call Noman @277-4269.  Custom  Color  Copy  Picture  
IJA.  $150  on  Food, Drinks! 111%  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  BEAUTIFUL!  Calendars are  now available at  
800-838-8203  Lowest Price Guarantee! spring­bnmktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive  273-2580  PERSONAL  TilE COPY SilO!' in LaFortune Student Center.  the Just  
Hoom & Board + other benefits.  Furnished room available for '97.  bring in your favoritn picturns  
SPHING  BHEAK  Travel  Free  Spring  Break  Panama  City!  For info. call: (206)971-3680  $300/mo.  5-min drive.  Mail  Starved  Domers  in  and create a  memorable calen­ 
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Boardwalk Beach Hesort! Best  ext.K55843  VEHY NICE!  lnnsbruck  crave  correspon­ dar!!!  Choose from  three for­ 
Caneun  Jamaica  Bahamas  Hotel. Location, Price! 7 Nights  232-7175.  dence!!  mats:  
Package includes 2 meals +.:Jhrs.  $129! Daytona-llest Location  NATIONAL  PARKS  HIHING  lnnrain 33  (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip  
all-u-<:an drink daily. Don Surf &  $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169!  Positions are now available at  HEGGAE D. J.  A-6020 lnnsbruck  (2) I Picture Monthly Tear-OIT  
Sun (800)763-5606.  springbreaktravel.com  National  Parks,  Forests,  &  234 0705  Tirol, Austria  Europe  (3) 1 Picturn Full Year View.  
1-800-678-6386  Wildlife Preserves. Excellent ben­ 
efits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971­ 2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  COLOH COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
MICIIIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  WOHDS ... TO GO Term Papers,  3620 ext. N55849  OR NEXT FALL. NEAll CAM­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  HIDE NEEDED TO SOUTIIEHN  
OPEN FOH lNDOOH I'AINTBALL  Dissertations. Resumes, Free  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  COLOH COPIES ON CAMPUS!  NY.  N  N.J OH  AREA  FOB  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  Pick-Up and Delivery Available.  ALASKA  EMPLOYMENT  272-6306  The highest quality full-color  CIIHISTMAS -I IIAVE A FINAL  
CALL 2'J1 -9462 FOR INFO. EAI\LY CIIILDIIOOD DEVELOPMENT CENTEH  Competitive Hates, 299-7224 ILOST & FOUND I  Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. !loom and Board! Transportation! Male or  STUDENTS-FIGHT THE UHGE! Campus View Apartments are dirty, smelly. and ramshackle­ copies are now available at THE COPY SHOI> LaFortune Student Center Phone #631-COPY  UNTIL NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND MY WISDOM TEETH !lAVE TO COME OUT ON SATURDAY ­PLEASE HELP! THANK YOU  
CIIII.DHEN'S BOOK FAll\  Female. No experience neces­ that pool is closed all the time,  Call Brian 287-4876  
The  Early  Childhood  sary.  Call  (206)971-3510  and the rent is outrageous! Do  DISCOVEH THE COPY SHOP  
Development Center at Notre  LOST: SILVEH 1\ING WITH HED  extA55848  yourselves a favor and rent else­ in the LaFortune Student Center  HAPPY BIRTIIDAY JEN LANG!!!  
Dame (on Bulla Hd.  across from  STONE.  HEWARD IF FOUND!!!  where; the convenience just isn't  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
O'Hara-Grace Hesidences) will  PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331.  worth it!!!  Tues. 7:30am-Midnight  COME AND HELIEVE STI\ESS  
have quality children's literature  Michiana's largest night club and  Wed. 7:30am-Midnight  TONIGHT  WITII  BALI.HOOM  
and Discovery Toys available for purchase at our Annual llook  Lost, One engraved Zippo lighter, Inscription reads JDT IV.  newest restaurant is now seeking competant, hard working individ­ FOR SALE  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am-7:00pm  DANCE AT STEPAN CENTEH 7:00-9:00. LEAHN TilE SALSA!  
Fair from Wed.  12/4  -Tues.  $30 reward for return, If you  uals to fill several positions with­ Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
12/10.  The proceeds from this  have any information please •  in  our  growing  company.  FOAM  MATTRESS  AND  Sun. Noon -Midnight  LUCAS!!  
event are used to purchase addi·  contact Job Turner at 4-1073  Positions  now  available  are:  SPHINGS/FHAME.  GOOD QUALI­ (closed home football Saturdays)  
tiona! educational materials for  Hostess. Banquet and restaurant  TY.  $20.00 OR BEST OFFER  lley gorgeous,  
thr. child ron to enjoy in each of  Found:  1 chain and charm  servers, bus persons. Beer Tub  CALL PIERHE 273-3054  ADOPTION IS A  Can I help it if you're irrcstable  
our activity rooms.  in Nieuwland Comp lab.  and shot girls. All positions are  CHOICE OF LOVE.  cute?  
If you urn looking for gift ideas  Identify and claim with Calvin  ideal for students. If interested,  I'm graduating in 3 weeks & need  Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  
for !'hildrnn in your life (brothers.  @4-1772  contact Heartland and The Old  to sell my QUEEN BED  act of love. Your child will be  I want to give a quick shout out  
sisLPrs. niocos, nephews). we  Chicago Steakhouse at 222 S.  + BOX SPHING. Only one year  raised to know this. Caring cou­ to my crew(you guys are thr.  
invitP you to eornn and browse through our selection of quality  WANTED  Miehigan St. South Bend.  since I bought it for $250. Now I'm selling both for only $100!!  ple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant.  coolest!), and a spedal wazzup to Claire, who sorndww got li>rgot­ 
hard buck and paper hack  Need F student to actively care  Call Hosanna at 273-2918.  Dad is kind and gentle. Mom is  ten last time. I'm still working on  
children's books and toys.  If you  Looking to copy a tape of tele­ for 3.5 your old child PT in my  friendly and fun.  Let's talk and  a good  narnn for you.  G-Wiz-­ 
would like more information,  vised Hutger's game. !'lease call  home. Hours are  flexible. Pay  CHEAT CIIHISTMAS GIFT!  see if we're right for you and  Yo, you rockin', you ehillin'?  
please Citll Thayer Kramer at  Meghan at  x2474 if you taped  $4.00/hour. Please call April at  Name a star for someone special.  your baby. Andrea and l.f)e: 1­ Peace.  
(,:J1-:n44.  the game.  289-9914  $33 Call (800)701-7201 Ext. 14  800-213-3960.  C-note  

r-------------..--------·~~--------------------­
._,

Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
~----­

----------,~----~--------------­
--~-----1 




Healthy Young leads Niners past Falcons, 34-10 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Steve Young flashed that look, and the San Francisco 49ers knew all was right with the world. 
Young, fully recovered from two concussions and a groin strain that hampered him most of the season, ran and passed the 49ers to a 34-10 rout of the Atlanta Falcons on Monday night, setting up an NFC West showdown with Carolina next weekend. 
Young showed ofT his trade­mark running ability, sprinting for a pair of touchdowns. And he wasn't afraid to stick his head into the pile, enduring a couple of vicious hits for a few extra yards. 
"I kept telling him, 'Man, why don't you slide sometimes?'" fullback William Floyd said. 
"He looked at me like, 'I'm Steve Young. This is the way I play.' When he gives you that look, you know everything is going to be OK." 
Young had touchdown runs of 26 and 5 yards in the first half, threw a scoring pass on the 49ers' first possession of the third quarter and then spent the rest of the night on the bench. His final numbers were vintage Young: 23-of-30 for 254 yards passing and six carries for 43 yards. 
"When I suit up now, I'm able to play the way I want to play and throw the way I want to throw," said Young, who has missed all or parts of eight games this season. 
The 49ers cruised to a 25-3 lead at halftime on Young's two touchdown runs and four field goals by Jeff Wilkins. Young connected on five straight pass­es for 62 yards on the 49ers' first possession of the second half, capped off by a 10-yard touchdown throw to Terry Kirby. 
After that, Elvis Grbac took over at quarterback, but Kirby returned to get the first 100­yard rushing game for the 49ers in nearly two years. He carried 12 times for 105 yards. 
San Francisco (10-3) remained a game ahead of Carolina in the NFC West head­ing into next Sunday's game at 3Com Park. The 49ers are tied with Green Bay for the best record in the conference, though the Packers have the tie-breaker advantage by virtue of an early-season victory. 
The 49ers scored on all six of their first-half possessions, run­ning up and down the field for 342 yards. San Francisco av­eraged a staggering 7.4 yards per play before the break. 
The 49ers have beaten the 
Falcons in eight of their last 10 meetings by an average score of 43-13. Atlanta has lost eight consecutive Monday night games since 1981 and the Falcons have been outscored 161-47 in their last four appearances. 
''I'm very disappointed in how we played," coach June Jones said. "We played awful on offense, about as bad as I've been around. When we had guys open, we couldn't hit them. When we had the ball there, they couldn't catch them." 
San Francisco, which out­gained the Falcons 464 yards to 178, led 6-3 early in the second quarter when Young took con­
_ trol. Facing third-and-7 at the Falcons 26, he stepped up to avoid the rush, noticed a clear path to the end zone and wasn't touched until he was diving into for the score with 13:28 left in the half. 

After Wilkins' third field goal gave the 49ers a 16-3 advan­tage, San Francisco stayed on the ground for an eight-play, 87 -yard touchdown drive. Kirby ran five times for 59 yards before Young sprinted in from the 5 on a quarterback draw with 41 seconds remain­ing in the half. 
The 49ers missed the 2-point conversion, but they weren't through scoring. Bobby Hebert's pass was picked off by Dedrick Dodge at the Atlanta 
39. Young completed two pass­es for 28 yards and scrambled for another 6 yards to set up Wilkins' 23-yard field goal as time ran out. 
Wilkins also connected from 39, 26 and 43 yards in the first half, giving him 27 -of-30 for the season. 
Kirby went over 100 yards late in the third quarter -the first San Francisco player to reach that mark since Ricky Watters gained 105 yards _against New Orleans on Nov. 28, 1994. 
"He wasn't going to play anymore," Floyd said. "But when we found out he had 91 yards, we were like, 'Coach, let him go back in."' 
Hebert, who had been completing more than 60 per­cent of his passes, was 1 0-of­25 for 113 yards with two interceptions. 
His low point came in the third quarter when he slammed into Jamal Anderson attempting a handoff, causing a fumble that San Francisco recovered. 
Work faster with it. Power Macintosh" 5400 120 MHz/16MB RAMII.6GBIBX CD-ROM Simplify your life with it.15" buill-in display/keyboard Now$1,'150 Communicate to the world with it. Apple" Color StyleWriter• 2500 up to 720x360 dpi Now$299Have fun with it. Get $150 back with it. Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. Right now Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebate whenyou purchase aMacintosh'personal computer and an Apple' printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to get your Mac~ amachine that features some of the Apple" StyleWriter· 1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anything 360x360 dpi BIW you'll encounter in your class schedule. So get to your campus computerNow $160 store and pick out your Mac. It'll help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price.  
Notre Dame Computer Store  
Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Computer/Matl:l Building, Room 112  Power Macintosh" 7200 120 MHz/16MB RAM/L2GBIBX CD-ROM/15" display/keyboard Now $2,116  
http://www.nd.edu:80/ -ndstore/  
While Supplies Last  

©1996 Apple Compuli!r, Inc. All rightS reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh, Performa, Power Macintosh and StyleWriter are reg'.stered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer validfrom November 2, 1996, through january 19, 1997, while supplies last andsubjed to availability. 7b qual­ifyfor rebate, prin1er, computer and an Apple monitor (ifsold separately) must be purchased on tbe same int'Oice. Offer good on any Macintosh desktop computer with any Apple printer Ibid where prohibited by law. See participating resel/er for further rules and details. All Macintnsh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals wilb disability. 7b learn more (U.S. only), caD 800-600-7808 or 77Y 800-755-060/. 

------~----~---~-.... ---­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 



Robinson remains head coach after dramatic win 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated .Press Writer 

LOS ANGELES 
John Robinson's month in 
coaching purgatory came to a 
happy end Monday with the 
word that he would remain as 
Southern California's coach. 

The announcement came two 
days after USC's first win over 
Notre Dame in 14 years, and 
less than 24 hours after 
Hobinson, university president 
Steven Sample and athletic di­
rector Mike Garrett met to talk 
about the football program. 

"Our crisis ended last night. We decided, 'Hey, we're going to have some big-time years 
·here,"' Hobinson said at press conference on the USC campus. 
"We've been through hell, but we've come out the other side. And we've come out together." 
Garrett admitted that he and Robinson had not talked enough over the past month, a period in which the Trojans lost three straight and specula­tion surfaced about the coach's future. A upset victory over Notre Dame on Saturday night quieted Robinson's critics and left USC with a 6-6 record. 
"I overestimated this team just like he did," Garrett said. "He got a little distant, I got a little distant, like strong people do .... Whenever we're not playing well, it's a crisis. We have been in a crisis, did not always see eye-to-eye, but all that's behind us now." 
It's often true in college foot­ball that one big victory can 

mean the difference between a 
coach keeping his job and los­
ing it. Whether it was true in 
Robinson's case, Garrett 
wouldn't say directly. 
"That game gave us a medi­um to talk," he said. "If we had lost, that would have given us a medium to talk." 
Sample backed Garrett's decision to retain Robinson, .in part due to a much improved graduation rate of Trojan foot­ball players -75 percent in 1996 compared to a national average of 56 percent. 
"John Robinson's overall record during the 11 years he has served as head coach at USC is remarkable," Sample said. "The win-loss record will always be a factor in the post­season evaluation of a coach, but should never be the basis for precipitating a midseason termination." 
Whether the win over Notre Dame saved Robinson's job or not, it did a lot for the Trojans, who had lost their sixth straight meeting with UCLA, 48-41 in overtime. USC also lost to Arizona State (now No. 2), Cal, Stanford, Washington and Penn State. 
"This has been a particularly miserable season, and the re­sponsibility is mine," Robinson said. "I made a major mistake in attempting to play an offense similar to that of a year ago. This team played hard, cared about each other and stuck to­gether, but never quite got it right." 
.Several players, standing in the back of the room at the Trojans' Heritage Hall, listened as Robinson and Garrett spoke. 

"It's been a good couple of days," senior linebacker Sammy Knight said. "We beat Notre Dame, and now we know that coach is staying." 
Robinson was the coach the last time USC beat the Irish 14 years ago, in his first stretch at USC. He left to direct the Los Angeles Rams of the NFL, 'then returned to the Trojans in 
di 
direction 

. hig""h1y tisible cy;signme~ts
lV(J I Ct-. C1 aSS 
Exceeding your expectations: 
Join Deloitte & Touche representatives from across the country to discuss summer opportunities and your career. 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 5:30p.m. -7:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
Deloitte& ToucheLLP

Casual Attire 
0 

1993. Last May, the school extended his original four-year contract for an additional five years through the 2001 season, at a time when the school was expected to contend for a national title. 
However, Robinson's young squad, was overpowered 24-7 by Penn State in the season opener, and went on to develop a disturbing habit of fading in the fourth quarter. The Trojans 
blew a 17-point lead against UCLA. 
When Brad Otton, the senior quarterback who was the heart of the offense, suffered rib and sternum injuries against the Bruins, that chance to save the season was effectively lost. And when Otton was carted from the stadium after a hard hit Saturday, it appeared Robinson's job might be riding with him. 

Tuesday, December 3, 1996 

Garrity 
continued from page 24 
out to point guard Admore White at the top of the key. Though White had struggled from the field all night (1-11), he chose to try the three-point­er. It barely touched iron, falling out-of-bounds with 3.8 seconds left. 
"I had a chance to hit a big shot but it just didn't fall," White said. 
White almost redeemed him­self. stealing the ensuing in­bounds pass and hitting an open David Lalazarian in the corner as the seconds ticked away. 
The freshman had an open look at a three-pointer but the desperation shot missed, bouncing high off the rim. Garrity tried to tip it in but the play was ruled basket interfer­ence. 
"Pat told me he didn't touch the ball." Lalazarian said. "I just came up short on the shot." 
It was the duo of Lalazarian and Garrity who carried the Irish to the brink of victory. 
For much of the first twenty­five minutes of play, Garrity carried Notre Dame. As a mat­ter of fact, the junior tallied 30 of his points during that span, as the Irish rebounded from a 41-40 half-time deficit to take a 51-45lead with 15:25 to play. 
"He's a kid who has obviously worked like hell to be a good basketball player," Knight said of Garrity. "He is a bitch of a player. Right from the start, he was ready to play." 
The Irish proceeded to add on to the six-point bulge, as Lalazarian provided a much­needed dose of instant offense. 
The 6-foot-8 frosh ripped off 9 points in less than two min­utes, as Notre Dame went up 64-53 with 9:53 remaining. 
"We had a golden opportunity midway through that second half, but we just couldn't sus­tain it," MacLeod said. 
The turning point came at the 
7:27 mark, with the score still 64-53. 
Garrity went up for a lay-up off a fast break, only to be blocked by Patterson. MacLeod, like most everybody else,~ thought the block was a goal-tending violation and he let the officials know about it. 
A technical foul was called, and IU converted both the free throws and a basket to trim the leadto7. · 
"That was a four-point play," 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 


QCoUegtum ;fffilustrum 
fflustc of j{osqutn 11!lespres anb contemporaries 
~ bf~~::.ft~ ,~-l-=r=-~ 
lr1 111 i11ripio 

8:00p.m. Wednesday, December 4, 1996 Church of Loretto Saint Mary's College 



WANT 
The Observer • SPORTS 
an irate MacLeod said. 
Hoosier freshman Jason Collier, a big man who Notre Dame recruited hard, then took over, nailing two three-pointers within a minute, cutting the lead all the way down to two. 
"I thought the turning point was after the time-out when I called those plays for Collier," Knight joked. "Only I would re­cruit a 6-foot-10 kid who shoots threes." 
The squads exchanged bas­kets before Reed nailed his cru­cial tri-fecta. 
"Our guards provided a lot of offense tonight," Knight as­sessed. 
Notre Dame's did not, and it proved to be the difference. Miller had six of just 10 Irish back-court points. 
The offensive ·load was just too much for Garrity to shoul­der. 
Though he finished the game 12 for 20 from the field and nine of 12 from the charity stripe, he was clearly fatigued at the end. 
"He was awesome in the first half (23 points) and tremen­dous in the early part of the second. He just got a little bit tired." 
In the end. no one stepped up in Garrity's stead, but the con­test gave proof that the Irish are tougher than people gave them credit for, and maybe have a surprise (Lalazarian) waiting to blossom. 
"We're disappointed, but not discouraged," MacLeod said. "Our young players are proving they are capable of playing solid basketball. We're defi­nitely making progress." 
It just wasn't enough last night. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Students looking the best deal on new and used cars 
Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call 234·0363 273·8986 (24hDUIS) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
-


Junior Accountancy Majors 
for 

Summer Internships with Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and information available 7:00p.m. Wednesday, December 4 Monogram Room 
J.A.C.C. 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P

CooperS&Lybrand 
a professional services firm 

Please bring your resume with you 
-


page 20 

.... 

Finale 
continued from page 24 

would finish the game with 12 saves. 
"lie (Velho) played exception­ally well from the start of the Big East tournament," said Berticelli of the Big East Tournament Most Valuable Player. "lie came up big and made a number of key saves." 
The  keeper  was  quick to  
share  the  credit  for  the  
defense.  

"I think the team played well, defensively," said Velho. ''I'm not happy with the result, but I think the team played well." 
The result was especially difficult to accept because of the nature of the game-winning goal. 
With about 45 seconds remaining, Irish forward Ryan Turner was making a move around a Charlotte defender, when his feet became tangled with those of the defender. By the time the players realized that there would be no whistle, the ball had been cleared the length of the field and fresh­man sweeper Matt McNew was forced to play the ball out of bounds to prevent an easy scoring opportunity for the 49ers. 
This effort was to no avail, however. because the home squad was able to put the ball back in play with a quick throw-in. Charlotte forward Eric Cole then centered the ball 
-: 
.. 
... 
-
to senior Danny Finkle, who blasted a shot off of the out­stretched fingertips of Velho to break the scoreless tie with just 24 seconds left. 
"It's especially frustrating be­cause you played your heart out for 90 minutes and then give up a goal when you least expect it." explained Berticelli. "It's more of a bitter pill to swallow because I think the guys had the idea that there was no way they going to lose this game if it went to over­time." 
Notre Dame had some oppor­tunities of its own late in the second half. There were less than 10 minutes remaining when marking back Irish Alan Woods headed a ball past the Charlotte keeper off of a corner kick. only to have 49er Joe Sherwood knock the loose ball off the goal line. 
"I was almost sure it went in," remembered Woods. "My heart sank when I saw (Sherwood) clear it off the line." 
Even after Charlotte had scored, the Irish did not fold. With only nine seconds on the clock, sophomore Ben Bocklage blasted a free kick from 30 yards out that went just three feet wide of the right post. The final seconds then ticked away. as did Notre Dame's memorable season. 
"I thought we played excep­tionally well this year." said Woods. ''I'm a little disap­pointed, but I'm proud of what we accomplished." 
Happy 2oth Birthday, 




Tricia! 
Love, Your Best ·Friends-

EVER! 

This ad was designed and submitted by Scott Falvey ofThe University ofNotre Dame. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Berticelli echoed Woods'  
sentiments.  
"Maybe (the team's) great­ 
est accomplishment was the  
fact that they set a new stan­ 
dard," said Berticelli. "Next  
year there will be higher  
goals and higher expecta­ 
tions."  
The seniors. who have now  
played their final game in a  
Notre Dame uniform, have  
plenty to be proud of them­ 
selves.  
"The seniors have accom­ 
plished things that no class  
had done before them," said  
Berticelli.  
Among many other acco­ 
lades, they have won three  
conference championships in  
two different conferences and  
qualified for the NCAA tour­ 
nament in three of their four  
years.  
The 1996 squad erased the  
disappointment of 1995 and  
boosted the Irish into every­ 
one's list of teams to be reck­ 
oned with in the years to  
come.  
So ~hile all good things  
must come to an end, that  
end may only be temporary for Notre Dame soccer.  The Observer/Rob Finch Freshman Alan Woods just missed a second half goal, but his header was cleared off the goal line and Charlotte went on to win the game 1-0.  
Get involved in JPW 1997  
Sophomore Committee  

Sign up at the LaFortune Info. Desk by December 9, 1996 
Questions? Call Matt Lynn, 4-2091 or Sue Christie, 4-4825. 

Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
soccer. Both Daws

Final Four collegiate • WOMEN's BASKETBALL
and Manthei were finalists in ­1995. 
Daws can boast being Notre
continued from page24 
Dame's all-time leading scorer. 
Gaither, Morgan beat Jackets 
She is a two-time All­
Renola had a spectacular 
American, first team all-Big
shutout performance, register­ByT. RYAN KENNEDY The ninth-ranked Irish (6-1) Gaither said. "Opposing teams
East selection, and Big East
ing three saves for the team. Sports Writer appear indomitable at this see our No. 9 ranking and they
tournament MVP.
Notre Dame outshot Maryland stage of the season. Gaither are motivated more by that.
Manthei broke the women's
19-7. While the rest of Notre Dame who scored a school-record and Luckily against Georgia Tech,
college soccer record for
"The outstanding perfor­Country was gobbling up turkey career-high 40 points against our defense changed the out­
assists in a season with 43 so
mance came from the defense," last week, the Notre Dame Ohio, on 17-for-22 shooting, look of the game. Our defense
far. She, too, is a first team all­
said Petrucelli. "Jen Renata women's basketball team was has been particularly strong. will determine the rest of the
Big East selection and current­
did good for us. It is nice to feasting on two more victims. Ohio was no easy foe, however. season for us." 
ly holds Notre Dame's all-time
win a game with our defense. Katryna Gaither and Beth The Bobcats knocked down Once again, it was Morgan
assists lead with 94. 
You need defense to win a Morgan combined for 65 points eight of 10 three-pointers in the who lit up the Yellow Jackets
With this victory over
championship." to help defeat Ohio University first half alone, shooting 62 with a flabbergasting 7 of 7
Maryland, the Irish watched
"It was an overall team de­95-82, then combined for 47 percent from the field. from three-point land that led
their record soar to 23-1-0.
fense." said Sobrero. "We more to lift Notre Dame over While Gaither was the star, it to her a 29 point-game.
The team has earned a spot in
worked really hard individual­stingy Georgia Tech 76-69 last was Morgan who kept the Irish Bohman had 10 of her own.
the Final Four in Santa Clara.
ly, and played steady." Thursday and Friday in the in the game when the B0bcats "It seemed like they did dou­
They will face Portland in the
Two Irish players have re­Comfort Inn Downtown Classic threatened to blow it wide ble-team me a lot, even triple­
semifinals at Buck Shaw
ceived honors. Senior Cindy in Atlanta. open. Morgan had 17 first-half team me," said Gaither. "But
Stadium. The winner will take
Daws and Manthei were named "It's hard to guard someone points that included a jumper that left Rosanne or Beth open.
on the winner of the Santa
as finalists for the 1996 at the top of the key and also which finished a late 11-5 Irish Beth's a very strong outside
Clara/North Carolina game for
IIermann Trophy. This award someone at the bottom," said run. shooter."
the title of National Champion. 
recognizes the top player in Gaither, who believes she and The senior All-American Notre Dame freshman Neile Morgan make the best 1-2 picked up where she left off in Ivey will miss the remainder of punch in the land. "That's why the next game against the Lady the season with a torn anterior we're such a good team. If I'm Yellow Jackets. Georgia Tech cruciate ligament in her right



Please Recycle 
stuck, there's always a person was hammering the Irish early knee, which she injured against who can do the job like on and took a 42-28 lead into Bowling Green. The 5-8 guard Rosanne (Bohman) or Beth. the locker room. averaged three points and 2.4 The idea of our offense helps us "We have to take over the rebounds in the five games she

The Observer 
circulate points." game from the beginning," played. 
Because all-nighters arent always spent in the librarY. 
.. 


It's ever·ywhere you_want to be 
II':> Viu U.S.A Inc. 199!3 
• SMC BASKETBALL 
Injuries 
plague 

Belles 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
.. 
A healthy team roster is the number one thing on the Saint Mary's basketball team's Christmas wish list this year. With nearly the entire team suffering from injuries, the Belles are in need of help. 
The lack of healthy players contributed to the Belles 72­46 loss to Hope on Tuesday and the 81-58 loss to Beloit on Saturday. 
"We could play with these people, but we were so short handed," said sophomore Charlotte Albrecht. 
The ailments plaguing the Belles include tendonitis, torn knee cartilage, shin­splints, bronchitis, and strep throat. 
"We are not 100 percent," said Albrecht, "Everyone is half of what they should be." 
Against Hope the Belles were led by a solid all­around effort by junior Darcy Nikes. Nikes was 8 of 16 from the field, 3 of 4 from three point range and 3 of 6 from the line. Nikes finished the day with 22 points. Defensively Nikes pulled down seven rebounds and led all players with six steals. 
In Saturday's game against Beloit, the Belles found themselves trailing 47-24 after the first half. Saint Mary's came out stronger in the second half and scored the same amount of points 
(34) as Beloit. However, this did not help the Belles over­come the first half deficit. Beloit was also able to capi­talize on the Belles' lack of height and out-rebound them 42-31. 
Saint Mary's was led offen­sively by senior captain Marianne Banko and sopho­more Nikki Griffen with 14 and 13 points respectively. 
The Belles face Calvin College tonight at 7:30 p.m. in their fifth consecutive road game. 


-page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
• VOLLEYBALL 


Out-of-conference woes contin~e to plague Irish 
By JOE CAVA TO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's vollnyball team has had several Aehillos heels this season as they remain winless against ranked foes and have come down-with a seemingly endless rash of injuries. Both were in ef'f'ect in California as head coach Debbie Brown, who must think lwr team is cursed. saw tlw team drop two matches in the Pacific Bankers Classic and earlier in the week she saw yet another one of her starters falL 
The losses drop their record to 21-11 and just 8-11 out of the conference. In fact. they haven't won outside the Big East since September 21 against Purdue. 
Some of tlwir struggles have been due to injuries as Angie Harris and Jen Rouse are gone for the year and Carey May missed the first half of the sea­son. I lead coach Debbie Brown must think her squad is cursed as May dislocated her pinkie finger before their trip out West. In practice, May collided with sophomore Lindsay Treadwell as both attempted to make a dig. ller status is day­to-day. but she was sidelined for both the Washington State and Pacific matches. 
Freshman Lauren Stettin filled in for May in live of the six games. The Cougars got the best of the Stettin and beat the Irish in a 15-7. 15-4, 15-7 sweep. The host Tigers bounced back from a five-set loss .in tlw semifinals to knock off the Domers 15-!J, 15-13, 
15-8. 

.. 
"We really struggled this weekend and didn't play really well," Brown expressed. "I think the mental toll of Carey's injury was evident." 
Problems for the Irish cannot be pinpointed solely at the set­ter position. as Washington State and Pacific became the second and third teams to hit over .300 against Br·own's squad this season. 
"I think that both Washington State and Pacific did things that we've wanted to do all year," Brown stated. "They made us earn our points and didn't hit the ball out which obviously helps their hitting." 
The team had to make ad­justments to Stettin, which probably had an affect in the match. May missed the first fourteen matches of the season with a dislocated shoulder. During that span, Lee filled in admirably and earned the Big East player of the year award for her ability to switch from hitter to setter and back to hit­ter. With hitter Angie Harris not expected to return this year, Coach Brown didn't want to lose Lee's hitting prowess on the outside. 
"I played Lauren because we had gotten into a rhythm and I wanted to change as little as possible and moving Jaimie would have shaken thing up even more," Brown explained. 
"I was surprised to get the chance to play even though Carey was injured. Usually Jaimie would play," commented the freshman who was thrown into fierce competition against the II th ranked Cougars and 12th ranked Tigers. 
She got the team out of the gates quickly, as they jumped out to a 7-1 lead before State came back with ·vengeance to take the first set, 15-7. Lee took over for Stcttin in game three but Stettin returned to start and finish the match against Pacific. In that consola­tion match, Stettin racked up 49 assists and just one ball handling error. 

"I was excited and fired up to help out the team the best way I could," Stettin continued. "It is always nerve racking playing a highly ranked opponent, but in any situation I think I would have been nervous because I haven't had game-time experi­ence at setter." 
"I think Lauren played very well for us. I think our passing broke down more than our set­ting," Brown stated. 
Against the Cougars, senior Jen Briggs who has taken Harris' slot on the outside, led the team with kills with nine on .179 hitting. Before moving to setter in game three, Lee to­taled eight kills on .238 hitting. 
Against the Tigers, Lee turned in a terrific perfor­mance in a losing effort. She racked up 20 kills on .271 hit­ting as well as having 17 digs and a pair of aces. Since returning to her natural hitter position on October 8, Lee has led the team in kills with 201 over 18 matches, which is good for a 3.53 kills per game. 
Senior captain Jenny Birkner continued her assault on the Irish record books as she had 15 kills on .400 hitting. She has now moved into second on the all-time Clig list with 1,324. 
Freshman Mary Leffers worked the net for five blocks 

Apply Now· 
Interviews Begin Dec. 2 
D!i!ll@!$ 

~~...the best summer I have tJl' 
. ·:rJ======..:,.,... ·. 

' 11learned much more thaiJ ll!av. 

(comments from SSPivets) ........"",..,.,........ ,.,., 
~---··· 

• 8 weeks devoted to service-learning 
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship 
• 3 elective credits 
Applications available at the 
Center for Social Concerns from Hall Reps (names on posters) See your hall rep. for details 
which give her 147 on the year. She is now just four shy of be­coming the fourth Domer to to­tal more than 150 blocks on a season. Her average of 1.41 blocks per game ranks fifth best in Irish history just behind Mary Kay Waller {1 !)85-88). 
Brown is hoping May will be back in action in the NCAA tournament this Wednnsday against Hofstra. 


Junior outside hitter Jaimie Lee turned in two solid performances over the weekend, but the Irish were unable to pull off a win. 
wwwwwwww~~~~w~~~w~www~~~ww~ww 
w w 
~ "As You Wish" 
~ 






<£> Imports
~ 
~ 

w Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry,
w 

'it Accessories, and Much Morel 'it Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • w Thailand • India • Ecuador 
'it INCREDIBLE PRICES! 
w 

GREAT CHRISTMAS GJFTSl 
<~ Unbelievable Bargain Corner! 
'it 

•Proceeds from this corner help send 
'it 

6 Guatemalan children to school. 'it Other Donations Greatly Appreciated 'it Lafortune-Room 108, Dec. 2-7 (Sat) 10-5pm 'it St. Mary's LeMans Lobby, Dec. 10-13, 10-5pm 


wwwww<£><£>ww~wwwww~www~<£><£><£><£><£><£><£><£><£> 
R~ ~-•• ~~ •• ~-2& •••• 28 •••• 2~ •• a• Wa •••• ~· ••
. 
.:. ·:~ 

.... .. .... 
Tuesday, December 3, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
I'M GOING TO ENTER A PROFESSION T~~T WILL MAKE A 1-\UGE. DU"FE.RE.NCE IN M.'( 
ED LEADER 
0 

" I'LL BE A. CORPORA.TE 
" 

TRAINER IN f:>.. 
COf'I\PA.NY THf:>..T'S 
DOWNSIZING. 
l'OUR 5ELF­
I WANT TO E~TEEI'\? -Rt>.l5E IT? 
'" 
-?;­

LU~--~w----u~--~------~~~~~~~--~~~--------~ 
48 Dnve away 49 Call to a lamb 52 Far from land 53 Budget-busting 
1995 movie· 56 Soil fertilizer 57 Tiny bit 58 Noted modeling 
agency 59 Mug 60 Certain 

exercises 61 Exorcism battler 
DOWN 

1 Barron's reader 2 Cote de-­
(French entree) 3 Concerning 4 Word with 
English or kiddie 5 Desertlike 6 Turkey tot? 1 "Yikes!" 

8 Biblical vessel 9 Concert 
28 Freak show souvenir 
attractions 
29 "Every Breath You Take" 
10 Priest 

11 Retouches, in a singer
way JOArea12 Chapter 57 
31--hand

13 Mimicking bird 
(help)18 Hang up one's 
33 Good Samaritan 
spurs 

and then some 23Consumes 
36 "Over herel" 24 Paraphernalia 
37 "Adios" 25 Think out loud 
39 Reporter's 26 Ballerina question painter 
40 Bereaved, in a 21 Skirt way 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: The world of high finance will hold new interest for you. Work harder to improve communication with a part­ner. Next spring. travel leads to both romance and an unusual business 

• opportunity. Keep your eyes open for specialty items. May of '97 will bring honors for those who have worked to improve community life. Home renovations are favored next summer. Get several bids, then check the references of the contrac­tor you would like to hire. Ask insightful questions. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Anna Chlum­sky, auto racer Rick Mears, singer Jaye P. Morgan, rocker Ozzy Osbourne. 
ARIES (March 21-April \9): It is possible to remain pals with a friend whose political views conflict with yours. Mutual respect makes for an enduring relationship' An early Christmas bonus helps solve a cash shortage. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a constructive approach to a financial matter. Put yourself and your mate on a lean budget. Give family members small sentimental treasures for their holiday gifts. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Money could be the source of argu­ments. Guard against taking unnec­essary risks or making foolish investments. Trying to buy some-one's affections would be amistake. ­
CANCER (June 21-Ju\y 22): Extend yourself, make a newcomer feel welcome. Romance and finance are not a good mix now. Keep your long-range goals in mind at all limes. Show that you know your limitations and strengths. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Buckle down to work this morning. Friends provide you with powerful feed­back. Pick up on any information pertinent to your career. Although the business outlook i' prmnismg. you must guard again0t becoming overly confHlent. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22}: Your golden touch helps untangle a business problem. Work-related pro­jects bring wonderful dividends . You have good reason to be proud of yourself. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22}: Wei­come advice from a good friend even if you are not sure you will fat­low it. Augment your iQCOme by selling collectibles but keep family heirlooms. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Guard against neglecting !t close re­lationship. A loved one needs re­assurance. Make delays or changes work to your advantage. Friends who are far away phone with wei­come news. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your feelings about a project or person confuse you. After evaluating your savings strategy, make any necessary adjustments. An unex­pected invitation sets your heart aflutter. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Negotiate for a raise or new perks. Someone in authority will be impressed by your assertiveness. Begin to dress the par1 if seeking an executive role. Others begin to see you in a different light. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Channel your energy into revenue­producing work projects. Enlist the input of associates whose talents compliment your own. Act prudent­\y in confrontations at work or home. Give romance top priority. A reconciliation is possible. 
PISCES (Feb. \9-March 20): 

Investigate job leads if your compa­
ny is downsizing. Contacting an 
employment agency could lead to a 
whole new career. Your ESP is 
stronger than ever. Say "no" to 
someone who asks for another loan. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 What Pandora released 6 Fuel from a marsh 10 Like some seas 14City SE of Dayton 15 Flesh-eating giant 16 Roman historian 11 Californian's worry 19 Ireland 20 It may help you goon 21 "--Lang Syne" 22 Its capital is Belgrade 24 Stick-to­lt-iveness 
S£.LF-E5TEEM. 
25 Athe1st Madalyn Murray 26 Best 29 Betty Boop feature 32 Poland Springs rival 33 Comes out of a coma 34 Comprehend 35 Actress Teri 36 "--~so!" 
37 Detective . Charlie 38 Summer drink 39 Complain 40 Handle 41 Plenty mad 43 Noxious gas 44 "Give it--!" 
45 Kind of list 46 Optic nerve toucher 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
J A D ~~ E c R uIs c E N E 
IOIXEIN LOON TAIKEIS !TIE AIC H E R S 
C H A R G E S ACES.Oll-R E CAS TB! T R All T S A L E R T S P 
A r's•M I A 
MELEE.PERU.S I 
NG N NIA 
y •T T
AN 
D BIE

•V A 
DAD A.M I N 
I .N 
E A T 0 

AT O.S P~C RET IN 
B E NIGf-A"L S 
P H 0 N EM E -AG E.O 
E I L 

FLIOIWER I NGPIANITS 
o IINIK sl A L 
1 1 LIOIOIPI 

B LIAs T LyNN PIRIEIYI 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The American College of Sports Medicine and the Centers for Disease Control recommend that American adults get 
at least 30 minutes of accumulated physical activity on most, preferably all days of the week. This means that out of the 10,080 minutes in a week, you only need to spend 210 minutes doing some type of physical activity such as walking, aerobic dance, raking leaves, biking, playing basketball, jogging, xc skiing, swimming, playing tennis, rollerblading etc... That leaves another 9,870 minutes to sleep, study, buy groceries, read a book, cheer on the Irish, do laundry, call home, pay the bills, write a paper, smile, attend a meeting, volunteer, play with the kids, watch Frienps, Seinfeld and ER, go to church, surf the Net, read The Observer, see a movie, start Christmas shopping, recycle, stop at the ATM, donate blood, tell a joke, eat lunch, call an old friend, make a new friend, buy some flowers or visit a museum. WORK IN YOUR WORKOUT! 

631-6100 
-
-

42 Court TV 48Whatdoes broadcasts attract 43 Othello, e.g. 49 Sanka rival 45 70's courtroom so Kind of sax series 51 Mideast's Gulf 46Thruway 
of-­entrance 54--Z 47 Genesis twin 55 Ring cheer 
Answers to any three clues 1n this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751! per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
~ee-.=;; ~J?~
/~ ~ . 
...... 







SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, December 3, 1996 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

Defending champs head to Final Four once again 

-
-
The ObseNer/Mike Ruma 

Freshman Jenny Streiffer registered one of just two goals scored by Notre Dame in its 2-0 victory on Sunday . 
Notre Dame shuts out Maryland, advances to face Portland in semifinals at Santa Clara 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
The unpredictable weather of South Bend has once again caused mayhem. The top ranked women's soccer team's post­season play has been plagued by wind, rain, sleet, and snow, but the games have still gone on. Unfortunately, the Irish had to make a change of plans this past weekend. 
The rain left standing water on Alumni Field, forcing the Irish to change venues. They took on the No. 13 Maryland Terrapins at Saint Mary's soccer field, and despite the unfa­miliar surroundings, came out victorious in the end, 2-0. 
"When you are in a quarterfinal of the NCM tournament, it is supposed to be a close game," said head coach Chris Petrucelli about the low scoring game. 
"No, definitely not," said junior Kate Sobrero about whether or not the low score will affect the team's mentality headed into the semifinals. "We were playing in harsh weather. It was mentally tough. The cold kind of got to us." 
The majority of the action took place in the first half of the game, with both goals coming in the first twenty minutes. Sophomore Monica Gerardo netted the first goal for the Irish off of junior Holly Manthei's pass. 
Around four minutes later. Gerardo ignited another offensive strike. Looking for another goal, Gerardo drilled a shot, which Terrapin keeper Missy Price deflected. Freshman Jenny Streifl'cr caught the rebound and drilled it straight at the post. Then she caught the her own rebound and secured the 2-0 vic­tory. 
"I really do not think that it docs," said Gerardo about the game affecting their mentality. "I don't think that it will hurt our confidence at all. Our defense played really well. and we scored when we had our chances." 
In every contest, outstanding performances are given. The defense really sparked the Irish, and boosted them to victory. Solidifying the back line were senior Kale Fisher and Sobrero. Playing the crucial position of sweeper was freshman Jen Grubb. Calling the shots from the goal was senior Jen Renola. 
see FINAL FOUR I page 21 

The ObseNer/M1ke Ruma Senior goalkeeper Jen Renola keyed a strong defen­sive showing to lift the Irish back into the Final Four. 
-
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 


Hoosiers escape Irish scare 
By TIM SHERMAN Spons Editor 

By now, no one doubts Notre Dame power for­ward Pat Garrity. lie is very much a proven com­modity. The question marks surrounding his sup­porting cast, though, are substantial. 
Tlw Irish answered a few of those questions in a positive fashion last night at the sold-out Joyce CPnler, but it wasn't enough. as Indiana prevailed in a heart-stopping 7(J-75 contest. 
"I n~ally thought, corning in, that we'd be very lucky to escape," said Hoosier coach Bobby Knight. "I was right." 
Knight admitted that Notm Dame outplayed his IU squad for mueh of the night, but the difference came in tlw final minute. 
lloosier guard Neil Heed, who finished with 21 points, nailed a three-pointer to put IU in front 74-73. It was their first lead since half-time. 
Garrity answered by scoring two of his game­high 3(J points from the free-throw line and n•gairwd tlw ltmd for the Irish 
But it was short-lived. as forward Andrae l'altPrson seon~d with I <J seconds left on a tough turn-around to give the Hoosiers a one-point Pdgo. 
Notre Dame would have their chances to win tlw garnP. 
Coach John MacLeod designed a play where guard I'Ptl~ Milll'r would get the ball with the op­tion to shoot or go down low to Garrity. Miller, though, was def'nndnd well and kicknd the ball 
The Irish were led by Pat Garrity, who scored 36 see GARRITY I page 1 9 points, but dropped a close decision to IU, 76-75. 


SPORTS 
ATA

GI.ANcE'l 
• ar Providence, ar Michigan Stare Sarurday, 4 p.m. 
\_ Friday, 7 p.m. 
ar Purdue NCAA Tournament 
Thursday, 7:30p.m. 
@ TBA 
NCAA Final Four 
vs. Portland 

Basketball at Calvin :.,• 
Friday, 4:30p.m. 
~ 

~ 
Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish season ends in second round 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Wri[er 
All good things must come to an end. 
A thrilling season for the men's soccer team, which saw the Irish finish the regular season with a record of 10-6­2, win the Big East Championship by knocking off Georgetown, Connecticut, and Rutgers, and upset the sec­ond-ranked UNC-Greensboro Spartans on the road in the first round of the NCAA's, they finally fell victim to the dreaded cliche on Sunday in Charlotte, as they dropped a 1-0 decision to the 49ers. 
"I just told our guys how proud I am of them,~ said Notre Dame head coach Mike Berticelli of his post-game dis­cussion with· the team. "People counted us out and we continued to battle. We finished the season by playing four nationally ranked teams and won three -and could have very well won the 
aJ 
fourth." 
Despite allowing 11 shots in the first half and registering just two of their own. the Irish were able to hold UNC­Charlotto scoreless. The ex-. tremely wet field conditions apparently caused some early problems for the Irish: 
"They (Charlotte) adjusted to the conditions better in the first half," explained Berticelli. "We were trying control the ball too much and when we played tlw ball on tho ground, it kept getting stopped by puddles or mud. They were knocking lung balls in behind our defnnse aiid taking advantage of defenders slipping to create opportuni­ties." 
Goalkeeper Greg Velho was outstanding as usual in the opening period, making sewm saves, two more than his ca­reer-high for an entire game (which he set last weekend against Greensboro). Velho 
see FINALE I page 20 

• Volleyball team drops two out west see page 22
.~ .... 

•SMC Basketball faces injuries ~ 
see page 21 
~ 

.. 







