

Thursday, October 17, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 39 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate to address student rights issues, do Lac 

• ELECTION '96 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
'No attack ever created a job or educated a child.' 


Members of La 
Bill Clinton Alianza spent the weekend in Washington, D.C., 
Clinton, Dole for Coordinadora '96, a march to show Latino soli­
exchange 'rapid darity. Twenty-five students from Notre Dame and 
fire criticism' 
Saint Mary's par­
ticipated in the 
two-mile Latino 

'J am going to keep my • march on the capi­word. I am going to tal for civil rights. The Observer/ 
keep my word to the 
BemadeHe Pampuch 

American people.' 
Bob Dole 


Students march for Latino solidarity 
By JOHN KING By KELLY BROOKS 
Associated Press Writer Assistant News Editor 


College Democrats add Student Senate to list of groups petitioned 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
In continuing their efforts to promote student rights, the College Democrats asked for the Student Senate's support at its meeting yesterday. This came on the heels of a similar request by the College Democrats to the Hall Presidents Council on Tuesday. 
College Democrats are requesting support for student rights following the University's denial of a request to approve a demonstration for National Coming Out Day last Friday. 
College Democrat J.P. Cooney claimed the University's denial was "not based on the request itself, but on the assumption that GLND/SMC, an unrecognized student organization, was the original sponsor of the event." 
"It should not have been the prerogative of the admin­istration to accept or deny the demonstration. They should only have recognized it," Cooney said. 
The Democrats claimed that the "administration tried to censor free speech and displayed blatant disrespect against the gay, lesbian, and bi-sexual members of the Notre Dame community," according to Cooney. 
The Senate decided to hold a table discussion, and will vote on a resolution at their next meeting. Also at yesterday's meeting, Judicial Council President 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne 

... but Senate members chose not to vote on the resolution 
until its next meeting. 

Ryan Mcinerney presented a historical perspective of du Lac, explaining its various content changes during the past 30 years, in an attempt to educate Senate members about student rights. 
In 1977, both students and faculty were removed from the University Judicial Board, a group who handled appeals in the disciplinary system, in an attempt to cen­tralize control of the Board. 
In following years, students lost both the right to appeal disciplinary cases and their bill of rights, which was a part of du Lac until the summer of 1993. In more 
see SENATE I page 4 
SAN DIEGO 

Determined to revive his White House hopes, an aggressive Bob Dole accused President Clinton in Wmlnesday night's debate of presiding over an administration with "scandals almost on a daily basis." Clinton sought to deflect Dole's rapid-fire criticism, saying "no attack ever created a job." 
With just 20 days left to turn around the polls, Dole criticized Clinton at every turn. On issue aftnr issue, the Republican nominee painted his opponent as an unprincipled liberal who was hid-• ing behind election-year conservative rhetoric. 
"The president doesn't have any ideas so he is out trashing ours," the Republican challenger said. lie accused Clinton of grossly misrepresent­ing Dole's positions on taxes, balancing the bud­get and Medicare. 
Clinton, comfortably ahead in the polls, was restrained in his responses. He listened to Dole's attacks with skeptical looks and let several salvos 
see DEBATE/ page 4 

Chants of "We want justice and we want it now" resounded through the streets of the nation's capital last Saturday. And voices of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students added strength to the show of Latino solidarity. 
Members of La Alianza, the campus student group representing all Hispanic students, traveled to Washington, D.C., for Coordinadora '96, the first ever Latino march on the capital for civil rights. 
"It was all kinds of ethnic Latinos coming together over injustices," explained Ina Minjarez, a La Alianza officer. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students marched alongside tens of thousands of other Latinos, including Geraldo Rivera, during a two-mile stretch to the White House. 
As Coordinadora '96 made its way through the city, marchers chanted such things as "This is my land, this is my fight" and "It can be done." 
"It seemed like solidarity was a big theme," said Guillermo Tijerina, a La Alianza officer and one of the organizers of the trip. 
Marchers listened to speakers who focused primarily on public policy issues. Immigration rights, rights for gays, minimum wage, affirmative action, and English as the official language were some of the issues touched upon in three hours of lectures and speeches. 
Student reaction to the experience was very positive. 
see MARCH I page 4 


Thursday, October 17, 1996 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Ignoring ND's presstng tssues 
Another week at Notre Dame has passed. Another week of chirping birds, happy hop­ping squirrels, ducks with intestinal prob­
Russell Williams 
lems, professors mad at a hiring, students Assistant "binge-drinking," News Editor Bridget's not really checking IDs, and most importantly, a GLND/SMC crisis. 
Last week, the College Democrats, a group which must number in the thousands because Notre Dame is a bastion of liberal­ism (detect the sarcasm), tried to hold a rally on behalf of GLND/SMC, the unofficial organization for gays and lesbians which the administration won't recognize. 
What a nifty little plan. What were the Democrats thinking? "Hey, let's celebrate Coming Out Week with a 'peaceful' demon­stration and a picnic for a group that doesn't really exist in the eyes in the administration. And when we get rejected, because we know that's the only possibility, we'll really grab some attention by going all over campus and letting everyone know how wrong the administration is." But they canceled the demonstration and just had a picnic, still violating the University's deci­sion. 
This is the premier Catholic university in the world. We take orders from the Pope (even if it may be indirectly). People can protest, yell, write petitions, hold signs, draw funny little symbols on the ground all they want. Things will never change, so lay off the administration. Let's keep one thing in mind: the picnic still occurred and there was no interference. The University, in actuality, was lenient on Friday when it did not stop the passing out of ribbons and the holding of a picnic. My roommate's band was banned from performing on campus for most of last year because they passed out flyers announcing an upcoming show, and they did not have University permis­sion. The administration has to follow guidelines. 
Let's hand it to the College Democrats. They really showed some courage by taking on an old issue. It's easy to pick on the University for the GLND/SMC decision, because people have been doing it for years, and nothing has changed. 
What's next? Let's condemn Harry Truman for bombing Japan. Maybe people can write a petition to recruit more gray squirrels to live at Notre Dame, because I'm tired of the same old brown ones. I hate to trivialize the issue, but the point is that it is a forgone conclusion that GLND/SMC will never be recognized on their terms. 
You are who you are, and no person should be made to feel ashamed because of sexual preference. But the administration hasn't oppressed or discriminated against gays and lesbians. They have offered a support group and a place to congregate. Understand that as a prominent university replete with devout Catholics, there are certain parameters, and there are few options for the administration. 
Democrats, as the self-proclaimed cham­
pions of social justice, in this case are fail­
ing to realize that there are more pressing 
social justice issues at Notre Dame that 
need addressing, and by choosing to make 
GLND/SMC the headline of the week, the 
Democrats ignored people who are really in 
need of assistance. · 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Brad Prendergast  Maureen Hurley  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Rosanna Ventrone  
Michael Lewis  Accent  
Sports  Joey Crawford  
Joe Cavato  Ashleigh Thompson  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Ethan Hayward  Melissa Weber  
Lab Tech  
Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pNiods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Florida eyes Lili as it stalls south of Cuba 

MIAMI 

Tropical Storm Lili stalled south­west of Cuba on Wednesday, dump­ing torrential rains that drowned at least eight people and left thou­sands homeless in Honduras, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. 
Residents from Miami to Key West were taking the fickle storm and its 65-mph winds seriously, even though forecasters aren't sure where it's going. 
"I wasn't worried yesterday, but today I got worried," said Claudia Wood, who owns a charter service on Key West. "I've been tightening down the boats and shopping for groceries." 
Lili increased to tropical storm strength Wednesday and then stalled unexpectedly in the Caribbean Sea, drifting westward 
toward Mexico. It was still nearly Source:Accu-Weather, Inc. 600 miles southwest of Miami. Forecasters expected Lili to take a turn back north 
Farrakahn credits low crime to march 
NEW YORK 
The spirit of the Million Man March helped reduce violent crime across the country, the Rev. Louis Farrakhan told nearly 40,000 follow­ers who gathered Wednesday to cele­brate the march's anniversary. At last year's rally of at least 400,000 black men in Washington, D.C., the Muslim leader led a mass pledge to 

"never raise my hand with a knife or a gun to beat or cut or shoot any member of my family or any human being." Those words reverberate in new FBI crime fig­ures that showed a national crime decrease, Farrakhan said. Murder was down 7 percent, rape down 5 percent . and violent crimes down 3 percent nationally in 1995. "I know Clinton wants to take credit for jt," the Nation of Islam leader said. "I know the police want to take credit for it. The real truth is that the spirit of the Million Man March should take credit for it." Farrakhan, from a podium enclosed with bulletproof glass, spoke to a crowd of black men, women and children that extended 
for blocks around the United Nations. 
Democrat funds can't match GOP 
WASHINGTON 
With the help of 33 donors who kicked in six-figure con­
tributions, the national Democratic Party received $46.5 
million over three critical months leading up to the elec­
tions. But what sounds like an amazing amount of money 
isn't nearly enough to catch up with the Republican 
National Committee, which reported larger receipts ­
about $63 million -for July and August alone. Those fig­
ures include loans and transfers from other committees, as 
well as fund-raising. The Democratic National Committee's 
quarterly spending report, covering July through 
September, was made public by the Federal Election 
Commission on Wednesday. The Republicans, who file 
monthly, will report their September fund-raising next 
week. The Democrats raised $23.9 million in "soft money" 
-sky's-the-limit donations from corporations, unions, and 
wealthy individuals that come through a loophole in federal 
election law. The party raised another $22.4 million in con­
tributions, known as "soft money" from individuals or polit­
ical action committees, which raise money from corporate 
employees, union members or other groups with common 
goals and can give the national party up to $15,000. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather""forecast for noon, Thursday. Oct. 17. 
and reach hurricane strength with at least 74 mph winds by the time it reaches the area of the Florida Keys on Friday or Saturday. 
Some computer forecasting mod­els also suggest the storm could travel up the Gulf coast. 
"That is the big question," said Max Mayfield, a forecaster at the National Hurricane Center. "If it stays over the Florida Straits, that is the best of all worlds because the strongest winds and heaviest rains would stay offshore. 
A slight change to the left might take it to the southwest coast where a tropical storm or minimal hurri­cane could cause significant flood­ing." 
Gov. Lawton Chiles said, "Everybody should be watching it." In Central America, hundreds of 
APrr. Durand people were evacuated and thou­
sands were stranded by surging rivers that made 
bridges and roads impassable. 
Indictment: Espy lied to FBI 
WASHINGTON 

Former Agriculture Secretary Mike Espy lied to federal investigators about his role in obtaining free basketball tick­ets from Quaker Oats, says an indictment against a close friend and former lobbyist. Although Espy's college friend and agribusiness lobbyist Richard Douglas was the one charged, the 53-page indictment imputes a possible crimi­nal act by Espy beyond the simple acceptance of a gratuity. Lying to an FBI agent can be criminal offense in some cases. Espy has not been charged in a two-year investiga­tion of his tenure as a member of President Clinton's Cabinet. Espy's attorney criticized the indictment Wednesday and denied that his client misled the FBI. And Douglas' attorney complained to Attorney General Janet Reno that Independent Counsel Donald C. Smaltz made a racially motivated decision to have his client indicted in San Francisco instead of Washington. Douglas and Espy are black, and federal juries in Washington tend to have black majorities. The indictment was returned late Tuesday. Espy, according to the indictment, had a Agriculture Department employee request free tickets from a food com­pany executive in June 1993 for a Chicago Bulls-Phoenix Suns championship game in Chicago. 
Sting concert rocks Vietnam 
HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam 

The city named after Vietnam's revolutionary icon marched to a decidedly different tune Wednesday as Sting brought pop to a stage usually dominated by com­munism. "I don't just like Sting's music-I love it," said Tran Ngoc Thanh, 29. He and his girlfriend were among a steady stream of fans arriving early at the gymnasium in hopes of snatching up inexpensive seats. In recent years, Communist Vietnam has been host to several Western rock acts, but Sting is by far the most famous. In central Ho Chi Minh City, Sting's face has become almost as common a sight as the city's namesake and founder of modern Vietnam. Along the grime-covered walls near the city's Unification Palace -once home to the former South Vietnam's ruling elite -the remnants of hundreds of Sting posters are staggered in a loose row. The posters, which present a stark contrast to bold red and yellow Communist banners, are as close as some Vietnamese fans will come to the British musician. Ticket prices -which range from $20 to $65 -are beyond the range of many in a country where $65 can be a month's wage. 

FRONTS: COLD WARM STATIONARY 
PretJI!Iurtl 

H L E]~ITIJ
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: 

Unseasonably warm weather will continue across the eastern third of the nation today. Temperatures will reach the 70s as tar north as southern New England. Colder air will collide with the warm air, resulting In thunderstorms from northern Texas to Wisconsin. An early·season snow will blanket portions of eastern South Dakota and western Minnesota. 
Anchorage  31  17  Columbus  61  59  Indianapolis  49  48  
Atlanta  68  53  Dallas  72  48  Miami  84  72  
Baton Rouge  70  59  Denver  64  24  Los Angeles  80  61  
Boston  58  47  Fargo  43  25  New York  66  57  
Chicago  47  47  Honolulu  90  72  Phoenix  89  63  

C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 

~ ~  
0~8~ ~~  
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  

·--~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• AlCOHOl AWARENESS WEEK 

Comedian Fox has serious tone 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
News Writer 
i\lcohol Awareness Week was the topic of the moment last · night at Saint Mary's College. Wendi Fox, the guest speaker, 
said, "Other than drugs, alcohol has become one of the biggest causes to life's prob­lems." 
"Many men 


and women in Fox our society seem to believe that alcohol is the answer to many of our everyday problems." 
Hili\ president Nikki Milos wanted the students at her school to become familiar with the issues that need to be addrnssed during alcohol aware­ness week. 
"Since Saint Mary's is an all women's college, I wanted the speaker to be female," Milos said. "One that would not be afraid to speak openly about the events in her life that have gn~atly aiTectnd her to help her become the person she is today." 
Fox, a comedian by trade, pro­vided the audience with a talk that, while humorous at times, emphasized a serious issue. She addressed the student body about the dangers of alcohol, and how it has aiTected her life. 
"Some men and women are led to bnlinvo that if they drink in a soda! atmosphere, then they will be alright. In reality, whether one drinks alone or in a big group, alcohol can and will take over our minds and bodies," Fox said. When intoxicated, all one is presented with is their body, not their mind or soul, she said. 
Fox, at the age of thirty, has led an interesting life. Overcoming a difficult childhood, Fox uses humor as. a release of tensions. 
Fox first got into standup com­edy about eight years ago, and has been speaking in this context for three. 
"I have done tours at various colleges about alcohol," she said. This, she said, is because she has done things in the past that she regrets. 
"Alcohol shouldn't be banned. Instead, it should just be used in moderation, because if alcohol is banned, the situation that we consider to be bad right now is only going to get worse." 
"The problem now-a-days, is that too many people are cre­ative drinkers," she said, citing drinking games as a major prob­lem among college students. 
Fox went on to say that, espe­cially in college when students are on their own for the very first time, students like to experi­ment and have a taste of life. "Just because a person has a drinking problem does not make him or her a bad person. It just means that they have a problem," Fox said. 
"It happens too often when alcoholic drinks become the cen­ter of college weekends, and stu­dents then become dependent on the alcohol to have fun," she stated. Speakers like Fox encourage students to discover other alternatives, while having a fun-filled night out with friends. 
Fox did not have an easy child­hood. Her parents got a divorce while Fox was still a teenager. Although she was convinced of her preference to live under her mother's care, she found herself telling the judge that she wanted to live with her father. From this point, her life's problems steadily increased. "My father was a serious alcoholic, and his problems of life were rubbing ofT on me," she said. 
Too often Fox convinced her­self that she would "learn to adjust to my life with my father." It was hard for Fox to lead a normal life while her alcoholic father lay in jail with other fami­lymembers. 
At one point, three of her kin were in the same jail at the same time. Even scarier, her father seemed to be "enjoying life more there because of the three warm meals that they were served and because of the air-conditioning." Fox was left all alone at home to fend for herself without heat, electricity, or warm water. 
"I grew up as a very indepen­dent young girl. At the age of sixteen, I was the head of my household," Fox said. Fox was constantly reminding herself that her family members acted irresponsibly because they were under the influence, never real­izing that they could not change. 
"The past doesn't represent the future. One should not be embarassed because of their past....We are all nuts, no one is better than the other," Fox said. "One must have love in their life, and they need to find somebody who has it, because only they can help the others find the love that exists within them; We must all try to help others, because we learn to depend on each other and offer our assis­tance to one another." 



Cortright: Diplomatic incentives hold power 
By CHRIS SHIPLEY News Writer 
One would not normally associate the "Sweetness of Carrots" with the ins and outs of international cooperation. Yet, this is how David Cortright, president of the Fourth Freedom Forum, explained the differences between foreign sanctions and foreign incentives Tuesday night. 
In his lecture, "The Sweetness of Carrots: Incentives and 
International Cooperation," Cortright said that "carrots" were the 
political and diplomatic incentives which have become powerful 
bargaining tools over the past few years. 
He cited a number of historical paradigms that offered incen­tives as government policy. His examples included the Munich Agreement of 1938 and the Soviet-German Treaty of 1996, in which NATO formally recognized Russia in accordance with a military withdrawal from Germany. 
"If there is a defining experience of strategy which casts a shad­ow in the world today, it is these two treaties," Cortright said. "The lessons of Germany give new definition to the use of incen­tives," Cortright explained. He used this definition of incentives to describe the Inducement Theory, a new theory in the world of foreign relations. 
The crisis in North Korea in 1995 is, to Cortright, the best exam­ple of Inducement Theory. Instead of putting political sanctions on the country, the U.S. employed a more diplomatic approach, which is still practiced today. U.S. incentives, including the agreement to build new nuclear power reactors in exchange for inspection of already existing power plants, eased relations between all parties involved in the conflict. 
Cortright, who was executive director of SANE, the largest peace organization in the United States, used the denuclearization of the Ukraine as another example of the Inducement Theory. 
Over the course of the lecture, Cortright emphasized that diplo­matic and political support, accumulation of technology by the world community, cultural exchange, and association of states into the international body need to be added to the definition of incentives in the political world. 
The issues of the theory's cost and communication also were addressed. 
"Whereas sanctions seem cheap, incentives provide opportuni­ties for domestic constituencies· that will begin to benefit from those same incentives," Cortright said. 
He then shared a piece of the work of one his peers, David Baldwin, in the field of psychology of international relations. Baldwin claims that inducement opens the doors to communica­tion on a global scale and offers "reassurance, hope, and sup­port." 
Cortright also addressed areas problematic in the Inducement Theory. The major concern is that of moral hazard. 
"Conciliatory gestures might encourage wrong doers and moral evil. I think this is a very legitimate and serious concern," Cortright stated. 
The solution he proposed is to send incentives in a step-by-step process. "Each piece of the carrot should be delivered upon a counter-action from the receiver state." 
Cortright clo~ed the lecture with a positive outlook on the use of Inducement Theory in the future. 
'Tm not sure that it is possible because of all the variables to create a generalization of incentives, but incentives have tangible benefits in multilateral settings." 


------~---------------------­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 17, 1996 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
recent years, the reference to religious or spiritual life in du Lac has been deleted. According to Mcinerney, such changes may have been made to evade legal problems. 
"The trend has been to make du Lac more like a legal docu­ment and I feel this is ineffec­tive and irresponsible on behalf of the administration. Student rights have actually de-volved on our campus," Mcinerney said. 
"They made changes so as not to be sued. Is that an effective way to make policy for my four years at Notre Dame? I don't 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
go unanswered, including 
Dole's demand that Clinton rule 
out pardons for Arkansas asso­
ciates targeted by the so-called 
Whitewater investigation. 
"I don't want to respond in 
kind for all of these things," 
Clinton said. "I could. I could 
answer to all these things tit 
for tat. But I hope we can talk 
about ... the future." 
"No attack ever created a job 
or educated a child, no insult 
ever cleaned up a toxic waste 
dump or helped an elderly per­
son," he said. 
Trust was a central Dole 
theme. He said Clinton had vio­
lated the public's trust with 
administration "scandals -almost on a daily basis," 
reminding the audience that 
the White House had collected 
sensitive FBI files on prominent 
Republicans. When Clinton 
labeled Dole's $548 billion tax­
cut plan a "scheme," Dole vig­
orously protested. 
Staring at Clinton and chop­
ping his hand in the air, Dole 
said, "I arn going to keep my 
word to you." He then turned 
to the audience and said, "I am 
going to keep my word to the 
American people." 
Dole put 35 years of congres­
sional debating to good use in 
the town hall-style debate, 
treating audience members as 
if they were House or Senate 
colleagues, often leaning on his 
lectern as was his Senate 
trademark. 
In an ABC News telephone 
poll of people who watched the 
debate, 56 percent said Clinton 
won, 27 percent said Dole did 
better and 14 percent called it 
a tie. 
Dole said Clinton had 
promised to cut taxes, then 
raised them, and talked of cur­
tailing programs with racial 
quotas, but eliminated only 
think so." 

In a survey administered by the Judicial Council and Student Government's Judicial Council of five other Catholic colleges and universities, including Villanova and King's College, Mcinerney found that all had student involvement in the judicial process. 
"At other Catholic colleges and universities, their adminis­tration has the confidence in them to afford them a bill of rights," Mcinerney said. "If you set up a community by first laying down the law, as the University has done, it's going to skew your time here." 
A recommendation was accepted to form a sub-commit­tee of Senate members to draw up a resolution and formulate a 
one. He labeled Clinton's 1994 health care initiative an "extreme medical plan" and made passing reference to con­troversial political contribu­tions the Democratic Party received from members of an Indonesian banking conglomer­ate. 
Dole returned frequently to the matter of trust, saying said he was a man of his word and accusing Clinton of undermin­ing public faith in government through an unethical and unprincipled presidency. 
Reminding viewers that he is a World War II veteran, Dole accused Clinton of cutting the Pentagon budget too much. Clinton objected "as comman­der in chief," saying his budget was just 1 percent lower than Republican plans for the Pentagon. 
Dole and Clinton took ques­tions from a group of 113 unde­cided voters from the San Diego area who were selected by the Gallup polling organization. 
The voters were seated in a semicircle on the Shiley Theater stage. Dole and Clinton began the night behind podi­ums, but Dole set the tone by strolling out from behind his during his opening statement, and Clinton did the same. 
letter to the CLC requesting a series of meetings with admin­istrators, faculty senate mem­bers, and student senate mem­bers to discuss du Lac and stu­dent rights policies. 
Also, an amendment was pro­posed to make the student rep­resentative on the faculty sen­ate a permanent position. This issue will be voted on in the future. 
The Senate also discussed old business regarding the amend­ment of the division of revenues from "The Shirt." The priority of the Senate is to attain a 50150 split of revenues, so that two-thirds of the split can be given as charity funds to clubs. Once accepted, the amendment must gain approval from Student Affairs. 
Dole treated each question as an opportunity to find fault with Clinton's presidency. 
Early on, one former smoker asked Dole if he wanted to retract his statement that nico­tine was "not necessarily addictive." Dole said he had been speaking in a technical sense and went on to urge chil­dren not to smoke. He then shifted into a litany of statistics about rising use of marijuana and cocaine among teen-agers. "It's all happened in this administration," Dole said. "They have been AWOL for 44 months." 
Clinton said tobacco was an issue on which the candidates had a profound difference: He said he was willing to fight the powerful tobacco lobby and Dole was not. 
When one man asked about the rising costs of Social Security and Medicare, it was Clinton's turn to go on the attack. He recalled Dole's com­ment last year that he was proud in 1965 to have voted against establishing Medicare. And Clinton said the 1995 Republican budgets pushed by Dole would have raised Medicare premiums $270 a year on elderly Americans who could not afford it. 

The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
Monday/Wednesday: 
2:30-3:30 Darden Swanson 
Contact: 
Allen McWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 


Tuesday/Thursday: 
4:30-5:30 Northwest 
Contact: 
Cindy Cicon x287 4 



March 
continued from page 1 
"Personally I found deep cul­tural significance [at the march]." Tijerina said. "Things have to be done; we have to have more Latino lead­ers. We have to start focusing on the positive." 
"For me personally, I had never attended a march. I want to be a lawyer for immi­grants, so this had a big impact on me. There were a lot of migrant workers there ... People here don't think migrant workers care about politics," Minjarez said. "I now realize that organization is the key for the Latino community. The issue is recognizing we are a Latino community. We have concerns that need to be expressed." 
"The most important thing besides meeting all the people was the march itself," fresh­man Adrianna Gallegos said. "Carrying the signs and the chanting and the inspirational speakers all woke people up." 
The students met other stu­dents from various universities along the East Coast such as North Carolina, Duke, Yale, Harvard, and Georgetown. "Yale had 40 students, and we had 25 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. That's something we're very proud of," Tijerina said. 
"Other universities were sur­prised that we were even there," Minjarez said. 
"Everything about the whole weekend was great. It was incredible when our small group walked into the park where the march began. There were all these people and music and laughter,'! said Andrea Bueno, a Saint Mary's sophomore. 
"Latino people traditionally give hugs and kisses, and there was lots of that. And lots of happy people," Bueno said. 
Mit was an experience to remember," Tijerina said. "There were a lot of people, and a lot of them had traveled a long way. At one point we were waiting for two miles worth of people to get to the final destination." 
Members of La Alianza still have not finalized plans for a post-march event. Currently they are discussing some kind of forum to share their experi­ences and the message of the march with students. 
"It doesn't just end there. We were the first making histo­ry and now we bring it back here. We want to make it big­ger next year," Gallegos said. 
"The fact that we did have it might open people's mind at Saint Mary's, especially since we have a lack of diversity. Maybe it will create more awareness," Bueno said. 
"The big thing [on campus] is an awareness for the culture. People know we're [La Alianza] trying to change things. We hope to show people that a lot of things that go on here are important to minorities," Tijerina said. 

Think of us as your school bus. 

service, all day from campus gets you on schedule. And when it's time to hit the ks again, we'll pick you up at the airport and ng you back to school. No hassels, no problems. For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call: 800-833-5555 
http://www.busville.com/irish.htm 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­Terminals 1 2 & 3 transfer in Portage) (International termi­nal15 minutes later) 3:00AM 6:10AM 5:55AM 5:00AM 8:10AM 8:10AM 7:00AM 10:10 AM 9:55AM 8:00AM 11:10 AM 10:55 AM 9:00AM 12:10 PM 11:55 AM 11:00 AM 2:10PM 1:55PM 12:00 PM 3:10PM 2:55PM 1:00PM 4:10PM 3:55PM 3:00PM 6:10PM 5:55PM 5:00PM 8:10PM 7:55PM 

Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day . .. Every Day 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 





R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 

Thursday, October 17, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Hostages freed after standoff 
Child's murder leads to 40-hour crisis situation 
By ED SHEARER A.sociat~d Pr~ss Writer ATlANTA 
After a 40-hour standoff, a man rnleased his estranged girl­friend, their infant son and his own brother Wednesday, but refused to surrender in the slay­ing of' the woman's 5-year-old son. 
Quinton Hunnicutt, 22, is accused of stabbing the child to death Monday night before tak­ing hostages in the small, white frame house in south Atlanta. 
lie released two other hostages -his 10-year-old sis­ter and his 3-year-old daughter -Tuesday morning. 
"Everybody is out of the house except the suspect. They're still talking to him," said police spokeswoman Jan Northstar. llunnieutt is believed to be armed with a gun and a knife. 
Wednesday afternoon, llunnkutt's 16-year-old brother walked out of the house, carry­ing the 3-weck old baby. 
lie was followed a few min­utes later by Deborah Copeland, the suspect's 22-ycar-old ex­girlfriend, who ran down the street into thH arms of a police officer. 
llunnieult then stHpped onto the poreh briefly, smoked a cig­arette and talked with negotia­tors. But after he refused to give hirnsdf up, he went baek inside, Ms. Northstar said. 
llunnieutt had madn no demands other than supplies for 
Hostage standoff in Atlanta 
Hunnicutt then took Copelandand the couple's3-week-old baby to his mother's home, where theyremained with his brother. He has released two other children. 
the infant, said Mayor Bill Campbell. 
Relatives said Hunnicutt beat Ms. Copeland during their four­year relationship and that she had obtained a restraining order against him a few weeks ago. 
On Monday, witnesses said, llunnicutt went to the house of Copeland's mother, Anita Slaton, with diapers for the infant. 
"He forced his way in and he had duct tape and rope with 
3km 

.-.:~'')' 
AP/Wm. J. Castello him," said Copeland's cousin, Tony Slaton. 
Copeland's sister, Juanita Slaton, said she tried to grab 5­year-old Terrance Bailey as he cried out, "Don't let him get me," but Hunnicutt grabbed him and stabbed him several times in the back. 
"He flipped him over and let that little boy take one more look at him before he cut his throat from ear to ear," Tony Slaton said. 

.. ,.. 
. 

·-. .:
-

-··. 
-. 
' ,l, • 

Purdue student kills dorm supervisor, self 
Byj.R. ROSS ping," said freshman Kevin Associated Press Writer France, who lives on the floor above. "It was so loud, I could 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. feel the floor shaking." 
A shotgun-wielding Purdue Eskew then ran down the University freshman killed a hall, locked himself in his room dorm supervisor .................... and shot himself, Purdue Wednesday who had spokesman Joe turned him in on a Bennett said. cocaine charge, then Police evacuated took his own life as the building and, police closed in. after a room-by-
According to room sweep, fired reports, Jarrod Allan tear gas into the Eskew, 18, of room, burst in and dis-Crawfordsville, walked into covered Eskew's body. Wiley Hall, a four-story, red University spokeswoman brick men's dormitory housing Ellen Rantz said Severson had mostly freshmen. found cocaine in the Eskew's 
He entered the third-floor possession on Tuesday and room of Jay Severson, a 27-alerted campus police, who year-old graduate student from searched his room and con-Fair Oaks, and shot him twice. firmed the drug possession. 
"I just heard a big, loud Freshman Joe Blauvelt said blast. And then I heard what Severson was well-liked and sounded like something drop-responsible. 

Recent crashes prompt airline safety upgrades 
By RICHARD KEIL 

Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
All Boeing 737s currently fly­ing should have upgraded safe­ty equipment installed to guard against possible rudder failure suspected in two unsolved crashes, the government rec­ommended Wednesday. 
If the Federal Aviation Administration concurs with the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board, Boeing and the airlines would be required to make safety modifications on the 2,800 Boeing 737s in fleets around the world. 
Such a development could cost the airline industry and Boeing tens of millions of dol­lars, but Boeing said it's too early to tell exactly how much or the part of the total that Boeing or the airlines would have to pay. 
"I think we're going to review (the NTSB recommen­dations) with great interest, and we're always willing to consider product improve­ment," said Boeing spokes­woman Susan Bradley. "But at this point we'd like to see the FAA review them and then work with all parties to come to some kind of solution or res­olution." 
Thomas E. McSweeny, the FAA's director of aircraft certi­fication, said the NTSB recom­mendations would be given "a lot of serious consideration." 
"Broadly speaking ... they're in the area that we're looking at," McSweeny said. 
The NTSB action came as American Airlines announced in Fort Worth, Texas, that it is installing a new navigation sys­tem designed to prevent crash­es like one in Colombia last December: a jetliner slammed into a mountainside and killed all but four of the 163 pnople aboard. 
The NTSB's 14 recommenda­tions follow exhaustive investi­gations ·into unsolved crashes in Pennsylvania and Colorado. Many safety experts have theo­rized about rudder problems in both cases, but definite proof has not emerged. 
Under the recommendations, Boeing would be required to develop and install cockpit indicators in new 737s to pro­vide details on rudder positions and movements. For existing 737s, the same system would be required. 

presents: THURSDAY'S COLLEGE  
l  NIGHT DANCE FLOORS-DJ's  
...with more information it should become clearer ...  FREE ADMISSION THURSDAY'S 21 and over Doors open 9:00PM-3:00AM  
COMING EVENTS  
Friday, Oct. 18th Battle of the Bands  

Thursday, Nov. 7th Thursday, Nov. 14th Sabor Latino Stomper Bob 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 17, 1996 
Prehistoric poaching unveiled 
Cavemen may have caused extinction 
By MATT CRENSON Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK The tusks tell a tale 10,000 years old-a tale of murder. 
In the waning days of the last ice age, humans swarmed into North America from Asia and began hunting the mammoths, mastodons and other giant beasts they found there. The · tusks of the giant, hairy ele­phants suggest the hunters drove their prey to extinction, paleontologist Daniel Fisher contends. 
Fisher studies mammoth and mastodon tusks because the oversized teeth chronicle their owners' lives the same way tree rings document the plant's growth history. 
A tusk can show what a mammoth ate and how much, how many times the animal gave birth and even what kind of climate it lived in. When ana­lyzed under a microscope, tusks can literally provide a day-to-day account. 

"It's a diary of the animal's life in the most literal sense of the word," said Fisher, a geolo­gy professor at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. 
When he reads the ivory diaries that have been found around the Great Lakes region, Fisher sees mammoths and their mastodon cousins react­ing to intense hunting pressure, possibly intense enough to explain the animals' extinction about 10,000 years ago. 
Fisher presented his case to a meeting of paleontologists Wednesday at .the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. 
His audience was impressed, though not quite ready to accept Fisher's argument as doctrine. 
''I'm undecided. I truly am." said S. David Webb of the University of Florida in Gainesville. But, he added, "I think he is doing wonderful work." 
Such hesitation may be due to an alternative explanation to the overhunting scenario. 
At the same time that humans are thought to ha:ve entered North America via a land bridge connecting Siberia to Alaska about 12,000 years ago, the continent's environ­ment was changing drastically. As the ice age· ended, glaciers retreated, temperatures warmed and forests reclaimed tundra-covered land. Perhaps, some scholars argue, the mam­moths simply starved to death. 
That's unlikely, Fisher said, because the tusks indicate that at least in the Great Lakes region the last mammoths and mastodons were eating plenty. The tusks have thick layers that indicate a robust diet, just as thick tree rings mark good growing years. 
"That's just not what you'd expect if they were in decline due to environmental deterio­ration," Fisher said. 
The tusks also tell Fisher that mammoths were reproducing as if being hunted, not starving, was their primary worry. When elephants in present-day Africa are hunted, the young generally mature more quickly and the adults reproduce as often as possible. 
That helps maintain the pop­ulation by replacing the culled elephants more quickly. 


Baby boomers return to college 
By LAURA MECKLER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
As baby boomers age and the work force changes, more and more Amerivans ever 40 are going to college. 
Just 477,000 people for Americans." 

Two-thirds of the older stu­dents are women, and some have returned to school after a divorce or after their children get older, giving them time to develop a career, he said. 
Others are just looking for a 
ing." Others findings: 
• Students aged 40 and over make up 10 percent of under­graduates, 22 percent of gradu­ate students and 6 percent of students in medical, law or other professional programs. 
• Most 40-plus stu­
older than 40 were in dents -79 percent ­college in 1970. By 'Lifelong learning is becoming a are part-time. More 
1993, that number had than half of the part­
reality for Americans.' 
more than tripled, to time students attend 
u:::;,:;;;i!w;:;;;iw]:!ii'IFl g 0 fdef gets on-line libel 
mouth'' after trying to reach the company to price its ser­vices, Then he said, he made 
DALLAS the ppstings about Mrs. Wh,en someone beg~l} Maynard and the .45. ng on the Internet But he "wholeheartedly, sa Maynard was 100 percent" disputes that 
to her husband there was anything threaten­ast~. surgj;;,,, ing about the messages. He th~ coupt~ chtims he was just respond­
vJt"'M"''h''1'1''""''''''"''·',:,,. , ,,Wy,i(j\,-:'), ing.to others online with the tofe,ar whe,n ""~~,pte kind of sarcastic Ian· added: ''By · guage that is used on the a .45too.'' ·Internet all the time. ; a judge issued As an example. he cited 
orary restraining the tag line he uses to sign orde that breaks new all his computer messages: ground in barring someone ''Lord, grant me the sereni­froru using the Internet to ty to accept the things I can­
transmit certain types of not change. The courage to speech. It also was unusual change the things I can and for the way it was served-the wisdom to hide the bod­it ,was posted on the ies of the people I had to kill Internet. because they p---me 
District Judge Joe B. off." Brown .ordered Kevin. For his part, Robert Massey to stop transmitting Maynard said he and his yia the Internet "embarrass-wife and company have been ing private information con-harassed and taunted since cerning the Maynards." September in a Dallas-area 
Massey was alsa prohibited Internet newsgroup that from coming within 500 serves his employees, cus­yards of Robert and Teresa tomers and potential cus­Maynard's home or business. tomers. The Maynards own and "His first round out of the operate a Dallas-based gate was to accuse my wife Internet service provider of sleeping with our employ­called Internet America. ees like it was some kind of 
Massey. a computer con-corporate benefit," Maynard sultant, was never served said. "He accused her of with the order in person. As having plastic surgery, .of dnesday evening, he breast surgery. 
· not been served. "If this happened to you. needed .t() 'fbe nobody would really believe Press that he was it, but you'd quickly become 
"a bad taste in my an object of ridicule." 
over 1.6 million, according to a study released Wednesday. 
That's partly due to aging baby boomers. People over 40 made up 36 percent of the U.S. population in 1970 but 40 percent in 1995, according to the study, which relied on census figures. 
"By sheer numbers, the baby boomers are revolutionizing our educational worlds, as they've been doing all along," said Ted Freeman, president of the Education Resources Institute, which co-sponsored the study. 
But demographic shifts can­not explain the entire boom in older students, said Jamie Merisotis, president of the Institute for Higher Education Policy, the other co-sponsor. 
"People over the age of 40 are going back to college to be retrained," he said. "Lifelong learning is becoming a reality 


LONDON $275 
Paris  $233  
Madrid  $242  
Guatemala  $238  
Hong KongBangkok  $434 $477  

fARES ARE EACH WAY FROM INDIANAPOliS lASED ON A ROUNDTRIP PURCHASE. fARES DO NOT INClUDE FEOEAAL TAXES OR Pf(s TOTALING IElWEEN $3~$45, DEPENDING ON DESTINATION OR DEPARTURE CHARGES PAlO DIRECTLY TO FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS. 

[li.Uhf411Travel---.­
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624)
http://www.ciee.org!trm:;eUatm 
EUROPASS FROM $210 

two-year public Jamie Merisotis schools. 
• Most older under-
career change or are trying to keep up with an increasingly competitive marketplace. 
In fact, more and more stu­dents are studying at corporate universities. There were about 400 of these employer-spon­sored schools in the 1970s; now there are more than 1,000. 
"Our global competitiveness is requiring us to be much more competitive," Merisotis said. "Those factors are really dri­ving people's need to get post­secondary education and train-
graduates are white (82 percent) and married (59 percent). 
• 57 percent of 40-plus undergraduates work at least 30 hours per week, compared to 25 percent of students aged 18 to 24. Older students work an average of 38 hours per week. 
• Older students do better, with 44 percent reporting "mostly A's" in their course­work (compared with 9 percent of 18-to 24-year olds), but it takes them longer to finish. 
All students interested in the Urban Plunge Program, initial information and applications are now available through the Center· for Social Concerns. 
Please contact the Center for any further questions at 631,5293. Also feel free to converse with a Task Force member about the Urban Plunge experience. 
Urban Plunge Task Force 
Bill Whitman Missy Byerly Erin Clary Kathy Conlon Kelly Goss Michell Holden Kristi Kilday Catherine Marciano , Saint Mary's Amabella Martinez Lauren O'Brien 
Jennifer Breslow Yvette Piggush Stephen Ponzello Erik Paulson Megan Pomrink Jamiko Rose Rebeccah Sanders Jason Timmermann Anne Werring , Saint Mary's 
esc 
C E N T E R F 0 R 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 The: Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page: 7 
•IRAQ • EGYPT 
Rebels advance toward Irbil 
Kurdish forces seek to reclaim city from rebels· 
By YALMAN ONARAN Associated Press Writer 
BANAWIYEH, Iraq 

Artillery boomed in the hills Wednesday as Kurdish guerril­las advanced toward the key city of lrbil, seeking to recap­ture it from a rival faction. 
Irbil, the de facto capital of the Kurdish region, was cap­tured by the Kurdistan Democratic Party on Aug. 31 with the help of Saddam Hussein's army, prompting the United States to retaliate with eruise missile attaeks on Iraqi air-defense installations in southern Iraq. 
The rival Patriotie Union of Kurdistan, which had held the city. was moving back toward Irbil Wednesday from the east and northeast. 
KDP fighters claimed the PUK was being helped by Iranian soldiers. But all the fighters encountered Wednesday spoke Kurdish and appeared to be Kurdish. A KDP fighter said the Iranians had pulled back. 
"Last night, they all started leaving, back to Iran I sup­pose," said Jamil Mahmoud, the head of a small group of guer­rillas guarding a line of trench­es on the other side of the front line. 
Now that the Iranians had left, Mahmoud said, "we will start attacking and win back everything we lost in no time." 

The PUK was closest to Irbil in this village, about 20 miles northeast of the city. It also was advancing from Kuysanjaq, a town about 25 miles east of Irbil and on the main road from Sulaymaniyah. 
"We are not going to stop. We will go on until the end. We are going to get all of Kurdistan," Rasul Kosrat, an aide to Patriotic Union leader Jalal Talabani, told Associated Press Television in Sulaymaniyah. 
The Patriotic Union recap­tured Sulaymaniyah, its tradi­tional stronghold and the area's second-largest city, in a coun­teroffensive. last week that forced the rival Kurdistan Democratic Party from several towns. 
The two factions long have fought for control of northern Iraq, which the United States and its allies set up as a Kurdish "safe haven" in 1991 to protect the Kurds after they made a failed uprising against Saddam. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said Wednesday that Assistant Secretary of State Robert H. Pelletreau would meet separately with the faction leaders this weekend to try to work out a cease-fire. 
An accord mediated by the United States and Turkey last year collapsed in mid-August, and lrbil fell with the help of Iraq's army on Aug. 31. 




Arab leaders demand Israel to stick to pledge 
By MAE GHALWASH 
Associated Press Writer 

CAIRO, Egypt 
Vasser Arafat accused Israel on Wednesday of trying to back out of its pledge to remove troops from Hebron, 
while Israel's main peace partners ­Egypt and Jordan demanded it stick by its agreements. 


bitter com-Arafat ments were in marked contrast to Israel's optimistic insistence that agreement was near on Hebron, one of the main stick­ing points in Middle East peace talks. 
But Egypt's foreign minister, Amr Moussa, said it was unlikely that Israel's latest proposals could serve as the basis for any kind of agree­ment on Hebron. 
"What we have seen fr.om the Israeli proposals and the 
• ENGLAND 
papers makes it difficult to imagine reaching an agree­ment on Hebron in the upcom­ing short period," Moussa told reporters. 
Visibly angry as he talked to reporters about the Israeli proposals, Arafat twice declared "See the racism," as he accused Israel of trying to restrict Hebron's 94,000 Palestinians while giving free rein to its 450 Jewish resi­dents. 
"What we face now, unfortu­nately, is a deliberate attempt to cancel what has been agreed upon," the Palestinian leader said. 
Arafat spoke after holding separate talks with Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and Jordan's prime minister, Abdul-Karim Kabariti, to dis­cuss U.S. efforts to forge an agreement on Hebron. 
Wednesday's round of meet­ings -following a visit a day earlier by Jordan's King Hussein -signaled a new effort by Arab leaders to join forces against what they see as Israeli intransigence. 

GoverniDent to enact partial handgun ban 
By EDITH M. LEDERER 
Associated Press Writer 

LONDON 
In response to the massacre of 16 children in a Scottish school last spring, the govern­ment announced plans Wednesday to ban almost all public ownership of hand guns. 
But parents of the victims say the proposals are not tough enough. They want all guns banned -no exceptions. 
Home Secretary Michael Howard said Britain will intro­duce legislation prohibiting members of the public from owning any handgun above .22 caliber. Even .22 caliber hand­guns will have to be kept at licensed gun clubs. 
"We will ban all handguns from people's homes," he said. 
Gun enthusiasts protest that they are being "demonized" for the act of a lone killer. But the Dunblane parents, backed by the opposition Labor Party, demand a complete ban. 
"We have argued all along that this is an issue on which there must be no compro­mise," the victims' parents said in a statement. "What we have before us is exactly that -a compromise, a compro­mise that ... will result in the dea~~s of more innocent peo­ple . 
Allison Smith­Who~s Your 
Daddy? 
Happy 21st Freak! Love, Tahhi, Tasha, Kate and Audrey 
Armed with two .357-caliber Smith and Wesson revolvers and two 9mm Browning pis­tols, 43-year-old Thomas Hamilton opened fire on a kindergarten in the Scottish village of Dunblane, killing 14 children, their teacher and then himself. He shot 105 rounds within four minutes with the guns, all legally regis­tered. 
Britain already has stringent gun control laws and Howard told the House of Commons the government's proposals repre­sent "some of the toughest gun control laws in the world." 
"We believe that it is possi­ble to give the public the pro­tection that it rightly requires and deserves without going to far as to put in place the com­plete prohibition on the own­ership of handguns," Howard said. 
"And we believe that if it is possible to provide that protec­tion without a complete ban, then it is the government's duty to take that course." 
He urged Parliament to back the legislation and said he was confident it could be law by Christmas. 
The proposals would lead to the destruction of at least 160,000 of the 200,000 hand­guns legally held at present, Howard said. It would have no effect on rifles and shotguns. 



page 8 The Observer • ELECTION '96 Thursday, October 17, 1996 





Clinton, Dole tackle issues Dole closing poll gap; 

Dole attacks President's character 
ByJOHN SOLOMON 

Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton and Republican challenger Bob Dole tussled over government ethics, the future of Medicare and stu­dent loans in their final debate. How their claims measure up to the facts: 
• Economic Growth: Dole declared that "we have the worst economy in a century." Not even close, according to the Commerce Department. Economic growth in Clinton's presidency has averaged 2.7 percent, nearly double that under President Bush and nearly as strong as the average during President Reagan's eight years, when the economy grew about 3 percent. 
The single worst year for the economy since Commerce began keeping records was 1982, during the recession of the early Reagan years when the economy shrunk by 2.1 per­cent. However, the government didn't keep such figures during the Great Depression. 

Under Clinton, the economy has created 10.5 million new jobs, according to a Labor Department survey of 390,000 employers. A different Labor Department survey of 50,000 households, which is used to calculate unemployment, found slightly fewer new jobs: about 
8.8 million. 
• Medicare: Clinton claimed that the American Hospital Association had predicted the GOP congressional budget "could have closed 700 hospi­tals." But the AHA said Wednesday night the president was not accurately represent­ing its position. 
"We never said 700 hospitals would close," said AHA senior vice president Rick Wade. 
Wade said his group identi­fied about 700 U.S. hospitals that rely on Medicare and Medicaid for two-thirds of their revenue and could have been more seriously affected by some plans the GOP discussed. 
The group told Congress that if revenues were reduced too severely in those programs, "a variety of things could happen" to those 700 hospitals including reducing services, cutting costs and "some ultimately might 

. have to consider closing their doors," Wade said. The group told the White House a week ago that it want­ed the president to correctly quote its position, Wade said. 
Clinton-Gore spokesman Don 

The Castle & cC:.'J1JlN----~ :~~~a~~~~~;:eds .I'E//}//
• 
Luxunous, Clean Private Rooins 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge 


Minutes from C.;mpus
Tan All You Can 
State Road 23/lronwood
for one month $3s.oo 272-0312 
Expires November '96 

Presidential debate highlights 
Highlights from Wednesday's presidential debate between President Clinton and Bob Dole: 
Foley said "we stand by what the president said tonight at the debate." 
• Pardons: <f)ole also jumped on Clinton for refusing to say he's "not going to pardon any­body he was involved in busi­ness with" in the Whitewater investigation. But Dole hasn't always been an opponent of pardons. 
He successfully urged President Bush at the end of his term to pardon several former Reagan administration officials in the Iran-Contra investiga­tioil.One of those pardoned was former Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, who was just two weeks away from beginning trial on charges brought by the Iran-Contra prosecutor. 
Earlier this week, former Iran-Contra prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, a Republican, accused Dole of hypocrisy for criticizing Clinton on pardons after his advocacy of such par­dons in Iran-Contra. 

SPEC IA 
• Student Loans: Clinton charged that only his veto stopped the Republican-con­trolled Congress under Dole and Newt Gingrich from assail­ing student loan programs. 
It is true that GOP budget writers considered cutting spending on -but not the availability of -student loans during the early fiscal 1996 budget plans. Under one House plan, students would have paid slightly more for loans. 
However, the final plan the GOP Congress sent to Clinton in 1995 had banks and the agen­cies that run the program ­not students -bear the costs of any spending cuts. That plan would have cut $4.9 billion over seven years. Clinton vetoed it. 
Since then, Republicans pro­p_osed no cuts in student loans for 1997. 
And, Clinton's own advisers once considered increasing stu­dent loan costs for students as a way to balance the budget. 


running out of time 
By MIKE MOKRZYCKI 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
A Gallup poll taken before Wednesday night's debate indi­cated the presidential race may have tightened as Bob Dole has sharpened 
.-=-'"""""""""'" his attacks on President Clinton's ethics. An ABC News survey sug­gested Clinton's lead was still sta-Dole ble. 
State polls, meanwhile, found Clinton and Republican chal­lenger Dole running about even in Florida and Clinton increas­ing his lead in Arizona, which last went Democratic for presi­dent in 1948. Clinton also held a sizable lead in a new survey in Louisiana. 
In the CNN-USA Today-Gallup poll, Clinton was supported by 48 percent, Dole 39 percent and the Reform Party's Ross Perot by 5 percent in the rolling average of results from sepa­rate national samples Monday and Tuesday nights. The mar­gin of sampling error is plus or minus 4 percentage points. 
Gallup found Clinton slipping from a peak of 57 percent and Dole improving slightly from 34 percent in the mfddle of last week. 
"Dole has been scoring points on the character issue," CNN analyst William Schneider said. 
Last week Dole and Clinton were roughly tied when voters were asked which candidate would provide the best moral leadership for the country; now Dole leads by 14 points on that measure. Dole also has gained as the candidate who can be trusted to keep his promises. 
While those results suggest 

STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be a ND/SMC student. Only flat works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, painting} with a maximum size of 3'x3'. 
The exhibit will be shown in the Sorin-Room at the LaFortune Student Center November 4-8. 
Purchase prizes, starling at $200, will be awarded. 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune. 
Special Thanks to: Alumni Association, Snite Museum, and the Student Activities O({ice for their donations to the purchase prize awards. 

Dole's new attacks on Clinton's ethics may have started eroding the president's advantage, an ABC tracking poll the same two nights as Gallup's found a sta­ble race. 
Among 706 likely voters in the ABC survey, Clinton led 55­38-4, not significantly changed since ABC began its tracking over the weekend. The error margin was plus or minus 4.5 points. 
Varying survey methods can account for differences among polls. For instance, Gallup and ABC have different ways of cal­culating which of the registered voters they interview are most likely to vote next month. 
Gallup also has 8 percent undecided, ABC 3 percent, pos­sibly because of different ways their interviewers prompt hesi­tant respondents to express a presidential preference. 
Chance error also can cause differences in polls. In theory, the results of one poll in 20 will fall outside the margin of sam­pling error. 
Meanwhile, in Florida, Clinton got 4 7 percent and Dole 44 percent, with Perot at 1 per­cent and 8 percent undecided, in a survey Friday through Sunday among 805 likely vot­ers. The survey, by Mason­Dixon Political Media Research for several newspapers and television stations, was subject to sampling error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points. 
Florida has 25 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the White House. 
In Arizona, with eight elec­toral votes, Clinton led 48-36-7 in a statewide poll of 608 regis­tered voters Oct. 8-12 b.J:_ the Social Research Laboratory at Northern Arizona University ­error margin 4 points. It was a 5-point gain for Clinton and a 6-point drop for Dole since early September. 



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 
page9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, No1re Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editon Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advenising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.........•......... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................Jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tar.~ Grieshop Accent Editor......................•....Jocy Crawford Syatems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber l'hoto Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemarics, lencrs and Inside Columns prcscm the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Ohserver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through INters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Turn it on, turn it up: Radio shows sign of the times 
Radio is a sound salvation. Radio is sweeping up the nation. So you better do as you are told! Better listen to the radio! 
-Elvis Costello 
Josh Ozersky 

A big part of my day is spent listening to the radio now. Don't get the wrong idea -I'm not one of these stay-at­home louts who, beer in hand, works shirtless on his car all day to the dismay of the neighboring children. On the con­trary! I am a productive writer (a page a day) and a first class homemaker for my wife, the former Cynthia Kachelmyer of Warrick Street and Del City, Oklahoma. No. The movers dispatched by Corning, Inc. broke the cheap stereo I had been using since high school, ren­dering my collection of Gordon Lightfoot records useless. In a way, though, this was a blessing in disguise. On the eve of the second and final Presidential debate, I am really getting a sense of life in these United States. 
Although the talk shows are the real barometers, even the news on NPR gives you something you don't get on TV. I heard in a story the other day of the capture of some militiamen who had planned to blow up FBI headquarters. UBill Clinton can bust my door down at 3 a.m.," one said, "but I'm gonna be ready." This got me thinking. Why was this such an inconceivable image? 
Well, for one thing, it's impossible to imagine Bill Clinton as an aggressor, which is of course the main reason he is going to be soundly reelected. But more significantly, it's impossible to imagine any face-to-face encounter with the gov­ernment. Taxes are taken directly from your paycheck, and the local school sys­tem may or may not get enough money, but unless you see a UFO, you are unlikely to encounter G-men in dark suits, and even then they will deny all knowledge with maddening fixed smiles. But for the most part the public sphere, in which all political debate happens, has almost no direct point of contact with the texture of day to day life. Samuel Johnson was a good Tory, but no matter how debates went in his Parliament, he claimed, "I have never ate an ounce less meat." 
That's why politicians are always in such a hurry to bring up representative anecdotes. "I think of a man like Crazy Guggenheim," one will say, "who worked his whole life to draw an honest dividend, and was robbed of his savings by liberal expenditures before being beaten to death by a wilding gang." 
Or liberals will manufacture stories about workfare moms keeping three jobs and getting carpal tunnel syn­drome, only to be downsized by crazy corporations with armies of Thai slaves. As it happens, I believe the liberals' canned anecdotes, but that's beside the point. Such dramaturgy is required to make these issues -the capital gains tax, balanced budgets, and the like ­seem grounded in life as it's lived on the ground. Were this done a little more successfully, you might see better than the usual 50 percent turnout. Or possi­bly not: as Dr. Johnson said, "Public affairs vex no man." 
Not that some nuts don't stay awake all night thinking bout federal taxes, the UN, and so on. You can hear them, male and female, on Rush Limbaugh and other right-wing shows. Even on that fringe, however, one can see the strained ligaments between the public and private plane. The usual order of things there is reversed, a kind of politi­cal Bizarro world where policy decisions are merely epiphenomena, a surface distraction to keep you from seeing the Administration's finances and misdeeds. This topsy-turvy perspective proceeds from their real beef with the govern­ment, namely its culture. They hate pro­gressives because they feel belittled by any plan not in the naked self-interest of "the middle class," i.e. them. And, boy, do they hate liberal culture per se, with its pieties and denials. Liberals might do well to listen to right-wing and/or Christian radio once in a while, just to understand where the venom comes from. They have let these nuts corner the market on cultural resentment, and they still keep pretending that its all about jobs or the economy. 

In the case of the Rush Limbaugh Show, for example, they might listen to the contrast between the strident disin­formation and vitriol of the program and the insouciant self-righteousness of the federally-mandated Ad Council public service announcements. In one, Mary Chapin Carpenter patronizingly tells us, "You can like Beethoven or Bo Diddley. That's discriminating taste. But you can't make decisions based on a per­son's race, gender, religion, age, or sex­ual orientation. That's discrimination," she says in here sing-song voice, "and it's against the law." 
In another of these spots, a crass exec­utive dismisses a list of candidates for promotion: 
"What about Wilson? He reorganized the department... " 
"Wilson? Maybe you haven't noticed but he's black. He'll slow down the whole department." 
"He's one of the best workers we've got." "Next." "Well, Neidermyer is brilliant, self-motivated." 
"He's a little 0-L-D, don't you think?" 
And so on, until this straw man has exhausted the genres of prejudice; lest we miss the point, a voice comes on to tell us the moral. 
This sort of thing makes bourgeois right-wingers hopping mad, and I don't like it myself either. Imagine! Common cause between myself and the ditto­heads! But another show, which I listen to every day while washing the dishes, makes an even more telling point about its audience. Dr. Laura Schlesinger is a radio psychiatrist who dispenses moral­istic advice on parenting and relation­ships. You should hear how the people come to her for abuse! They're so uneasy about their common-law mar­riages, custody arrangements, office romances, and impressionable young. They desperately crave a stern judge like "Dr. Laura" to dispense Solomonic wisdom and set them on the upright path. Although herself a therapist, Dr. Laura also delivers an ongoing polemic against victimization, therapeutic self­pity, divorce, and "dysfunction." She's a pill, no doubt about it, and yet all the more popular for that. 
The examples multiply across the dial. Howard Stern, far from the purveyor of lasciviousness he's made out to be, is a godlike figure who combine. a Whitmanesque cult of personality with white/Jewish/suburban indignance over crime, welfare, and other corruptions. Or take Pat Robertson, with his fuzzy uconcern" over such timely issues as world Jewry, Clinton death squads, and the appearance of the Antichrist. These guys represent some kind of interstice between what used to be called the world of affairs, and the day-to-day pre­occupations drawn on by politicians for their essential energies. I'm going to watch the debate tonight, but after that I'm turning on the radio. 
Josh Ozersky is a doctoral student in the history department. He can be reached at Ozersky.l@nd.edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 

60TMYONN CIJ~ !?EFRII9!3RA70!<... 
\ 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Jam a great & sublime 
fool. But then I am God's fool, & all His works must be contemplated with respect." 
-Mark Twain 

page 10 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 
COCTEAU TWINS milk and kisses 

(out of five) 


C
ombining swirling, ethereal vocals with mel­low, relaxed basslines, Milk and Kisses is one of those works which sneaks up upon the lis­tener and makes more of an impact than is at first realized. This is their eleventh album and among the best of them. 
Once again cryptic titles such as "Eperdu" and "Calfskin Smack" give subtle hints as to the content of these songs, content which is often difficult to fathom, and it is always both intriguing and frustrating to find out what on earth they are talking about. The plea­sure, of comlie, is that one is trying to do this within a framework of beautifully crafted songs the enigmatic nature of which eventually forces us to settle for knowing that we shall probably never receive the com­plete picture -but we can happily settle for that. 
The best trac~ on the album comes halfway through, an amiable number wonderfully entitled "Rilkean Heart." This probably is the closest the band has ever come to a structured track, and they do not suffer for it. Elizabeth Fraser's voice is as enchanting as ever, and amazingly, you can kind of understand the words! "Treasure Hiding" is another delight, a slow, careful few minutes of sporadic vocals and mournful backing, while "Seekers who are Lovers," the final song, reflects the more open and accommodating attitude the band have seemingly adopted of late. 

The true depths of the Cocteau Twins are easy to miss if one treats their music merely as melodious background noise; to appreciate them fully requires concentration, patience and maybe more than a little tolerance of their deliberate obscurity. The rewards for doing this however are profound and lasting; their excellence is as beautiful and unique as it is mysteri­ous. 
-by Julian Elliot 
JON SPENCER BLUES EXPLOSION Now I _Got Worry 

(out of five) 


A
t several points in Now I Got Worry, I thought my speakers were melting. I expected smoke to puff out and feared that the magnetic coils would somehow reverse polarization and .lose their sound-projection capa­bilities. Rock 'N' Roll, and that term is used in its highest, epitome form, has never sounded so raw, intense, and original. 
A piercing scream is the first noise to assault the stereo. The sudden audio break down and staccato manipulation of the scream had me clambering for the level controls. After all, I have neighbors, and those speakers are expensive. Once the guitars hit, however, highest volume was a necessity, and I tested the limits of the clockwise rotation of my vol­ume knob. 
This is an album only to be heard at ear splitting levels. The scrappy, expert production simulates the sounds of a rock legend going nuts in your dad's dingy workshop basement as you sit in a lazy-boy up in the cozy confines of your wood-pan­eled den. 
Unpolished, in-your-face, and red-lining, the music combines the roots of Muddy Waters, B.B. King, and James Brown with the intensity of garage hardcore and the chopping guitar innovation of Fugazi. Full blown punk and bass-mutating, gelati­nous dub even pop up here and there. Even more impressive is the full range of tones the Blues Explosion achieve without bass. Newcomers to the band vehemently insist that there is a bass playing. Judah Bauer and John Spencer's guitars can rum­ble like a bass or wail like "Lucielle." Mix in Russell Simin's hip-hop injected skin-pounding, and Now I Got Worry goes down like a molotov martini. 
The hip-shaking groove of "2Kindsa Love," the funky clavinet-accented "Chicken Dog," the Memphis garage roar of "Skunk", and the incredi­ble garbage can-esque drum propulsion of "Get Over Here" should get true lovers of rock and roll, and their speakers, bouncing around the room. 
-Brent DiCrescenzo 

Making Religious Rock Out of... 
Jars of Clay 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Associate Accent Editor 
W
hen Jars of Clay share the Morris Civic stage with the Samples and the Gufs this Friday night, their message-filled lyrics will probably go unoticed by the screaming and dancing fans. While the band claims such influences as the Beatles, Toad the Wet Sprocket, Depeche Mode and Jimi Hendrix, they credit their name to 2 Corinthians 4:7. Welcome to the new sound of Christian rock. 
This Nashville-based band formed in 1993 when vocalist Dan Haseltine, key­boardist Charlie Lowell and bassist Steve Mason met at Greenville College in Illinois. Guitarist Matt Odmark joined soon after, and the next year the band won the Gospel Music Association Spotlight Award. They found record compa­nies beating down their door and soon recorded a CD with Essential, before Silvertone Records signed the band. As their popularity grew, the Christian musical community began to take notice. Top 20 radio hits like "Flood" and "Liquid" slithered their way up the Christian Billboard Charts. 
It wasn't long before the rest of the music world began to take notice. Jars of Clay have been featured in articles by the New York Post and the Los Angeles Daily News, a recent Rolling Stone page, and video spots on MTV. Instead of • shying away from their original message for the sake of the industry however, the band decided to try and affect pop culture in a morally positive way. With their young look and contagious pop sound, it sounds like they might even do it. 
While the band is by no means fanatically religious, they share their beliefs by tackling difficult adult issues. Mason explains, "The jar of clay is a picture of something so easily broken that you wouldn't put a valuable treasure in it, yet God does that anyway. That one verse paints in full the picture of what we're trying to communicate." 
Jars of Clay know that Christian rock musicians are stereotyped to look and sound a certain way, but are eager to break that stereotype with their jangly, ethereal sound. Cellos, violins, mandolins and whistles add depth to the acoustic guitars that provide the basis for the music. They're intent on not just being labeled as a good Christian band, but a good band period. 
All of this becomes especially interesting when considering their following. While Jars of Clay have' definitely crossed over into the mainstream, they've also provided their Christian listeners with a musical future. This summer they per­formed at a type of Christian-Lollapalooza, complete with tattooed and crowd surfing fans. For young adults that perhaps felt like they previously sacrificed coolness for message, both are now available in the same vessel. Friday night's concert will surely impress as well as inspire, and as the audience screams, maybe only the band will know for whom they're really cheering. 
-------------------------------~r-------------~--------------~--------------------------------------------~---------------------~ 

Thursday, October 17, 1996 
• WVFI CORNER 




HOME 



:. 


.· 
page 11 

• CLASSICAl CORNER 
Mozart 
makes you 
smatter 
By JULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANDERSON Accent Music Critics 
What can a jobless prankster from the eighteenth century do for you today?For starters, he can increase your test scores! 
Studies have shown that if you listen to music of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. you will score better on tests and study bet­ter in general. 
Mozart, arguably the greatest prodigy known to humans, was born in 1756 in Salzburg. By his sixth birthday, he was a virtuoso on the piano, renowned for his solo playing, improvis­ing. and composing. He composed his first symphony at eight years old and his first opera at twelve. 
Mozart's compositional style truly reflected that of a genius. His works were generally preconceived -literally "finished" in his head-and then transferred to paper. Musical themes literally overflowed in his works. and his only handwritten drafts were flawless. Sounds a bit different from Beethoven who reportedly drafted his music several times. 
Mozart composed over 600 works in his 35 years. Today. this might be equivalent to getting your Ph.D. before you were seven, winning several Nobel Prizes. or founding a small coun­try. 
But Mozart's life was not all fun and games. Because he was a child prodigy and was exhibited all over Europe as a showpiece. he never had the opportunity to 'grow up.' His personality was lively, yet unrefined -he was unsympathetic, mischievous. and disrespectful of those who weren't as good as he was. 
Largely, because of his personality, the most ingenious com­poser that ever lived could not find a permanent job after his teenage years -no one wanted to hire him. Though his domestic life was rather pathetic, the music. he left us is tremendous. 
To discover more about the saga of Mozart, we suggest the movie Amadeus.. This is a spectacular film. (It won "Best Picture" of 1984.) The plot is exciting and amusing (although the actual story is not true, most aspects of Mozart's life are correct). And, of course, it contains a wide range of Mozart's music. So over fall break, expand your film horizons and rent this movie. 
However, after Fall Break, when classes resume and you are getting worried about your GPA, we recommend avoiding the video of Animal House and listening to the music of Mozart when it's crunch time. It is not hard to fmd -if your neigh­bor doesn't have a CD, the library does, and so do music stores. 
In a study at a California university, two sets of students of similar intelligence took standardized tests. The first group (the control group) was exposed to no music before the test. The second group was exposed to the music of Mozart for a considerable period of time in preparation for the test. 
The results, of course, showed that students did much better on the test when they had been exposed to the music of Mozart. (Sound "correlated but not causal"?) Further studies continued to show that if you listen to Mozart for even five minutes each day, your brain capacity wiU increase. 
Why this is, we don't know-you would have to look up the scientific reasons. What we do know is that listening to the overture from Don Giovanni might be a better study tool than an extra five minutes of cramming. 
This advice is free, and you can thank us in advance: try lis­tening to Mozart for five minutes a day and see the results. Or listen to Mozart while you are studying. You'll fmd that study· ing will be easier and higher test scores may be in sight. 
Some students have also invested in the compact disc Mozart Makes You Smarter. It doesn't get more explicit than that. 
• II 
Tonight and tomorrow night, at Washington Hall. some singers in the music department will put on The Kickapoo Medicine Show, a recreation of old America with songs and fun. Both concerts start at 8 p.m. and they are also free. 
Although there are no studies that show that this will make you do better on mid-terms, we recommend it as a kind of stress reliever. So before you go out. go home, or just go to sleep on Thursday or Friday night. come out to Washington Hall and catch some great singers and entertainers. 


. I 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
r---------c---~-----------------------------------------------~---------------------------­
--.: 

Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  Word, Games, GMAT. $1350, Call  Call Brian x1961  Need 2 Air F. GA's  LaFortune Student Center  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ..  Joe K. (NO '95)@ (312)649-1365.  $45  Amy 616-473-5825  Phone #631-COPY  
·.  1-800-678-6386  private homes for football, JPW, graduation, etc. 219-291-7153  Will deliver.  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS ­ LONDON PROGRAM  
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  4-bdrm. horne N. of campus in  TICKETS  NEED BCTIX! As many as possible  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  APPLICATIONS are due  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  Roseland. Walk to ND/SMC.  CALLANYTIME: 4-1382  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ no later than  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391  Ideal for faculty, staff or student.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  or (617) 828-1089  4273  5:00PM  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ Available now.  ALL GAMES HOME  Friday, Oct. 18  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  287-9342.  AND AWAY  NEED BC & WASH TIX  
232-0058  4 Sale: Pair of Sid tixs for last 3  312-951-5008  GWAR ROCKS!!!  
Home Heaijh Care Nurse Available  HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW &  24 HAS.  games. Will trade any into GAs.  Long live the SEXECUTIONER!I  
Days or Evenings. Call236-9522.  FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  x2557 or x3950  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX  
2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO  Call Pat X3015  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
ILOST&FOUNDI  CAMPUS. DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER  TICKET-MART, INC.  Need 3 AF GA's Call x1195  Will trade Air Force Student Ticket  Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
674-2571.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  and $ for Rutgers GA  Beaches & Nightlifel Prices  
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  II! FOR SALE Ill  Call 273-6039  Increase Soon -Save $501Bpring­ 
labelled "Letter Perfect1" on Wed  FURNISHED!!, 1 BEDROOM APT,  232-0061.  Air Force Stud Tix  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found,  VERY CLEAN, ALL UTILITIES  (WI a temp I D)  Need 2 Air Force GAs for parents  
please call Jeanne @287-5467.  INCLUDED, FREE CABLE, 3  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  Call X1473  call Brian at 634-0559 (4-0559)  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  
MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE  312.404.4903  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
FOUND:  ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER 5PM.  For Sale: 1 Rutgers GA Call 273­ I NEED AIR FORCE GAs!! Ill Call  South Bend $41911ncrease Soon­ 
LARGE AMBER CLIP EARRING.  232-0355  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  9829  X4121  Save $50! Save $150 On Food,  
CALL DOROTHY 272-2136.  GAMES 235-3394  Drinksl111% Lowest Price  
THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ I NEED RUTGERS GA'S  I NEED 2 RUTGERS GAs!! II  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  
HELP!!!  ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a  ALUM NEEDS GA's  CALL KATIE 243-9038  Please call X3886.  1-800-678-6386  
I lost my sunglasses between  1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest  for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS  
DeBart and Flanner Monday. They  rooms. Bountiful full. breakfasts.  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  AF/PITT/RTGRS  !@#$%"&*()(*&"%$#@!!@#$%  THE AVERAGE CAMEL'S HUMP  
were passed down through 4 gen­ "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice  1 STU BOOK, 2 MARRIED STU  Need TWO AIR FORCE GA's  CAN HOLD 2.5 LITERS OF MOR­ 
erations and have great sentimental  as one of  I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S  BOOKS  Call X1468 & Leave Name,  ROCCAN WHISKEY. TO DISCOV­ 
value.  "Michiana's Best of 1996".  CALL STEVE AT *0867  BEST OFFER 232-2586  Number, PRICE  ER THE MAXIMUM HUMP  
Jim 4-1474  http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim  ! @ #$%"&*()(*&"%$#@I@#$%  CAPACITY OF A MOOSE, COME  
rosepathldirectorypage  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  at stu ticket 4 sale  TO ROOM 208 @ 7:30  
WANTED  616-695-6321  219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m.  x4215  AF Stu-tix 4 sale x-2737  Good Luck Anna Rector!  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  FOR SALE Air Force -St. Ticket  Luv,  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  ND-SMC EVENTS.  STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR  Call Alex 4-2689 or 1-4306  FOR THE LOVE OF GODIII I need  LT  
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ SALE -ALL GAMES!H  2 Air Force GA's for my parents!  
Packages available!!  ENDS.  call James X1658  sold sr stud tix Air For  Call Tony anytime x0915  Free kitten and/or cat. Call 243­ 
INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  2n5931  1382.  
TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!!  243-0658.  ####################  FOR SALE AF GA-Paul @ 283­ 
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  DESPERATELY NEED  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX  0392/0397  WANTED: CUTE GUYS to wor1< the  
at  FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst  AIR FORCE GAs  CALL FRED X3662  back door at Bridget's! Also possi­ 
1-800-327-6013  home. Rms avail for football week­ Karin @ X4635  FOR SALE* stud. AF-Call Paul  ble positions for bartenders. Apply  
or http://www.icpt.com  ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from  ####################  MY DAD NEEDS  @ 283-0392/0397  at Bridget's after 8pm.  
campus. 219.287.6797  ANAFGAI  
Need experienced gardener's  NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET II  PLEASE CALL DAVE  AF Stu tix for sale call X-1158  MYRNA .... MYRNA. ... MYRNA. ..  
·helper.  Subletters needed for spacious 2  Call Elena x2900  243-9220  MYRNA  
Plant bulbs, etc.  bedroom apt. near campus, for  Need 2 Air Force GAs  MALONY ..... MYRNA. ..MYRNA. ..W  
6-8 hrs. @ $8.  spring semester. Call Peter at 234­ WANTED, 2 AIRFORCE GAs  One Air Force student ticket for  Call Chad at 271-8019  e just wanted to say a mantra for  
Pat 273-0356.  4779.  CALL BIG PAT@ 273-5875.  sale! Call X2088 if interested.  your birthday but I'm lame and I  
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S.  couldn't come up with any1hing cre­ 
HELP WANTED HOSTESS, DELIVERY DRIVER  FOR SALE  NEED AIRFORCE GAs CALL SHANNON @ 4-4624  AF GA's for sale call254-9212  CHRIS (201)763-9346.  ative. Too bad we can't go to the Ancient Mariner to cele­ 
AND PIZZA MAKER  Desperate for RUTGERS Tix. Call  brateiiiiiiii!IIIIIIHappy 22nd from all  
PAY $5.10 AN HOUR  Gray 87 Cutlas Cierra loaded auto  WE NEED AIR FORCE TIX-STU­ Need 2 or 4 GAs for AirForce  ROB @634-0552.  your SAW friends!  
CALL: JOHN @ BRUNO'S PIZZA  excellent condition. New parts 101  DENT OR GA-CALL MEGHAN  NO '90 Call1-800-321-4110  
288-3320  K. Best Offer. 219-296-7546(night)  @232-7839.  x72580Tom  NEED 2 GAs -ANY HOME GAME.  BITTER PERSONS UNITE! Bitter  
1-9397(day).  NEED AT LEAST 10 DAYS  Persons of NO (BPND)  
WANTED: CUTE GUYS to work  NEED TICKETS  Father in town for the weekend,  NOTICE. CALL COLLECT: PEG  
the back door at BRIDGET'S!! I  1993 Honda Accord EX. One  4 AIR FORCE G.A.'S  need 2 -5 Air Force GA's.  McDERMOTT 410/965-7732  Adrienne, Hope you have a happy  
Also, possible position for bar­ owner. 39,000 miles. Very clean,  CALL SEAN X0644  Call Adrian at810-347-4529  AFTER 4pm.  birthday!!!  
tenders. Apply at Bridget's after  rear spoiler, CD , loaded. Asking  to discuss $$$.  
8pm.  $14,500. 256-7152.  FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT  Beverage, Money, and Lavish  Urn, Have a safe trip back to  
AND RUTGERS GAs FOR  FOR SALE 7 AF GAs  Praise in exchange for 3 tix to  NashVegas and have a great time  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET  SALE 272-7233***********  4-50 yard line together  Rutgers. 508-339-7497  with DAVE! I am so jealous.  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  must sell! II  B/0 Mike @ 232-0550  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  call wendy at 243 9430  NEED 1 maybe 2 AF ticket GA for  2 stud tix-Air Force  Mel, philo is finally over. I hope you  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  sisters  $$$$$$  CHEAP  have a good break.  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  1985 Subaru GL 4-door, manual  call Bill 4-3906  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  x2626 or 2597  
www.springbreaktravel.com  transmission, AC, cassette with  ALL HOME GAMES.  Who is Dennis???  
1-800-678-6386  AM-FM radio, $1200. Call x18120.  272-6551  STUD TIX 4 SALE X14131  

Thursday, October 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 
Colt to be saddled up again 
Alberts recovers from latest of string of injuries 
By HANK LOWENKRON A"o<:iated Prgs Wri1~r 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Linebacker Trev Alberts was traveling a familiar path Wednesday, seeking to get into playing shape for the Indianapolis Colts. 
Injuries have made Alberts' career a disappointment so far after a stellar All-American college career that included the Dick Butkus award as the nation's top linebacker. 
He practiced Wednesday for tho first time since having shoulder surgery Aug. 5 to re­pair a torn rotator cuff. 
"There wasn't anything I couldn't do. I'm a little rusty. I'll put some Ice on it, but there's no pain," said Alberts, who originally was expected to bo out four to six months. 
The injury was the latest set• back to the 1994 first-round draft pick from Nebraska. First, there was a holdout. Then after signing a contract that counts nearly $1.3 million toward the salary cap this year, his career has been dominated by unfilled poten­tial, injuries and little playing time. 
He hopes to play for the first time this season when the Colts (5·1) host New England (3-3): 
Alberts' figures for three seasons total 20 games, three starts, 58 tackles and four sacks. A dislocated elbow in preseason play and subse­quent surgery limited his sea­son to only five games as a rookie. 
But Alberts says he's ready to try again. 
"I wouldn't have come out if I felt I had to be tentative. They say I'm day-to-day." but isn't everybody in life day-to­day," he said. "If it gets real sore, I may sit out a day.'' 
Doctors cleared him for physical rehabilitation last week. 
"I don't feel like I need to be 
thrown in right now. I think 1 
can grow back to it. I missed 
all of training camp, but it's 
football season and I need to 
get out there," Alberts said. 
Alberts even helped break 
up fisticuffs between offensive 
lineman Eric Mahlum and de­
fensive tackle Steve Martin 
twice during the practice. 
''It's a warm day, full pads 
and it's getting that time o 
season when guys are getting 
a little ornery. It usually hap­
pens with the hogs up front," 
Alberts said. "It adds to the 
intensity and the enthusiasm a 
little bit." 
Coach Lindy Infante didn't 
exactly agree. 
"You can get somebody hurt 
real easy that way. I don't like 
our players doing that. We can 
get players hurt enough with­
out having that kind of stuff,'' said Infante, who brought the · team together for a brie 
meeting after the second scuf· 
fle. 


Celebrate the grand re-opening of University Park Mall by joining us for a disco benefit featuring the legendary K.C. and the Sunshine Band 

Dote: Sunday, October 20 Place: Tidbits Field, University Pork's new food court Time: 7pmAdmission: s2s, includes hors d'oeuvres, beer, wine. For more information, call (219) 277-2223 Tickets are available at our Customer Information Center and all proceeds help the Aro Pmseghion Medical Reseorch Foundation find acure for Neimonn-Pick Type Cdisease. 
But with all the themes we could. hove used for this party, why did we choose disco ?The onswer is simple: That's the way, uh-huh, uh-huh, we like it. Uh-huh, uh-huh. 

Cocktail Attire SUNNY UNIVERSITY
r.tlllll r\1 WI Sf Af.llll 
I Ill .... U \I I r>. 
101.SPM PARK MALL 
• 


49ers' Stokes fails to fulfill expectations 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SANTA CLARA. Calif. 
Elvis Grbac was about to thrust his arms skyward, a gesture of satisfaction in anticipation of a catch by J. J. Stokes. 
But even before he could get his arms all the way up, the feeling of satisfaction gave way to dismay, and the San Francisco 49ers quarterback grabbed his helmet with his hands and shut his eyes in frustration. 
Stokes had just dropped a third-down pass in overtime, forcing the 49ers to punt and opening the door to the Packers' drive that led to Chris Jacke's 53-yard field goal and a 23-20 victory for Green Bay on Monday night. 
"I think that (he should have caught it)," Grbac said. "That right there could have been the ballgame. We could have kept that drive alive and gone right down for a field goal ourselves. 
"J.J.'s got to understand: He has to make those plays, no matter where the ball is thrown." 
The drop was not an isolat­ed incident for Stokes. He got his hands on four passes from Grbac during the game and he didn't come up with any of them, marking his second straight game without a catch. Two of the balls would have been tough catches. but the others were flat-out drops, in­cluding the pass in overtime. 
"I tried and I didn't come up with it. That's the kind of play I'm going to have to make in upcoming games," said Stokes, who spent extra time at Wednesday's practice working on his technique. "Hopefully, I can just catch enough balls where I don't have to worry about it any­more. I'm out there catching extra ballt and doing what I have to do." 
Stokes has had problems 
oP..i\-\OPED!C SP£2. 
:-,OS ~~ c4(/
~'?-~ r;;:;:..;yy 
iS';. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replac.e zipper -Shines 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 

I 00% Guarantee 8-6 Monday­Friday 9-3 -Saturday 1025 East Madison 288-6211 
hanging onto balls before, 
though. 
Against Carolina three weeks ago with San Francisco trying to rally, Stokes dropped a pass from Steve Young in the end zone. If he makes the catch, the 49ers close to 20-14 with well over a quarter left to . play. Instead, San Francisco 
winds up losing 23-7. 
"There have been some op­
portunities to make plays and 
he hasn't made the plays," 
coach George Seifert said. 
"But he remains and will 
remain our starting split end. 
There are times when you just 
hang in with your players if 
you believe in them enough to 
draft the way you did and 
watching him in practice and 
knowing what he's capable of 
doing." 
San Francisco already has 
invested a lot in Stokes, 
UCLA's career leader in 
receptions, receiving yards 
and receiving touchdowns. 
San Francisco dealt Cleveland 
four draft picks, including two 
first-rounders, to select Stokes 
with the 1Oth overall pick in 
1995. 
Stokes spent his rookie sea­
son learning from Jerry Hice 
and John Taylor. He missed 
the first four games of 1995 
with a broken right hand, but 
finished with 38 catches in 12 
games, including four touch­
downs. 
He moved into the starting 
role this season to replace 
Taylor, who retired after 10 
years in the league. Stokes is 
third on the team with 18 
catches, but few have been 
impact plays. He still is with­
out a touchdown catch, and 
has continued to struggle, fail­
ing to, take any of the pressure 
off Hice, who faces constant 
double coverage. 
Offensive coordinator Marc 
Trestman said the 49ers 
haven't lost confidence in 
Stokes and would continue to 
try to get him the ball. 
'Tm a real optimist when it 
comes to J.J.," he said. "He's 
got the ability. We've seen it 
in practice. I'm not going to be 
the one who's going to give up 
on J.J." 
Stokes welcomes the sup­
port from his coaches and 
teammates, including Hice. 
"He told me to just trust my 
hands," said Stokes, who ad­
mitted being bewildered over 
his pass-catching problems. 
"I don't know what it is. It 
seemed like the harder I tried, 
the worse off I was.... It just 
went down the tubes," Stokes 
said. "I just need to relax, stay 
relaxed and go from there." 


WAKE UP, LISA!! 
Time to Celebrate! You're 21 
Mom, Dad, Greg, Mary, Rab &Andi 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 17, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 



Buckeye fans likely to avoid charges 
.­
I• 
I I I I I 

Planners said the fight will be Foreman in a 1993 World boxers. 
The Thomas J. White Center on­Law & Government presents: 
Napper 

Ken Massugi 
Hav~
Visiting Professor of Political Science at the Air Force Academy 
The Delany Sisters' First 100 Years
Shakespeare's 

~--· 
The Merchant ofVenice 

Friday, November 1 8PM O'Laughlin Auditorium
and the Rule of Law 

Provocative and entertaining ...adramatic experience to be shared with the entire family. 
Tickets*: Students: $5; Adults: $18; on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium,
Friday, October 18 
9am-5pm, Monday-Friday saint Mary's College Credit card orders accepted by M O~AU 
phoneat219/284-4626 
CE

at Noon in the Law School Courtroom 
'discounts forseniorcilizens, • SMC/ND community andgroups 1=0 R T1-1E 
• 

Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Tommy Morrison, the HIV-in­fected heavyweight, will return to the ring next month for a fight in Japan, a newspaper re­ported Thursday. 
Morrison will fight an unde­termined opponent near Tokyo on Nov. 3, the mass-circulation daily Asahi Shimbun reported, quoting unidentified planners for the fight's sponsor. 
an undercard for the George Forman-Crawford Grimsley bout scheduled for Nov. 3, the Asahi reported. 
The 27-year-old boxer an­nounced his retirement in February after testing positive for human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS. 
However, he said last month that he would fight again to raise money for his Knockout AIDS foundation. 
Morrison outpointed 
Boxing Organization title bout. 
Foreman, a former heavy­weight champion, and Grimsley will compete for the fringe WBU and IBA titles. 
The Asahi Shimbun newspa­per said the fight involving Morrison is likely to inspire de­bate in Japan as the Japan Boxing Commission, the sport's governing body here, hasn't established rules regarding fights involving HIV-infected 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
A lawyer for a student who 
was reinstated by Ohio State 
University after being sus­
pended following an off-cam­
pus disturbance said his client 
was wrongfully charged. 
"I seriously question whether 
it's a valid charge," attorney 
William Meeks said Wednesday 
concerning a disorderly con­
duct charge filed against his 
client, William Garfield. "It 
doesn't appear that Garfield 
was responsible for committing 
the charge." 
Garfield, a junior business . major, was charged with disor­
derly conduct after he allegedly 
threatened another student, 
Christopher M. Galgoczy, on 
Sept. 29. An arrest warrant 
was issued for Garfield after he 
failed to appear Friday before 
Franklin County Municipal 
Judge Janet Grubb. 
Meeks said he expects to re­
ceive a pretrial hearing notice 
soon and will make sure 
Garfield appears in court. 
Garfield, 20; Galgoczy, 22, 
and freshman Matthew 
Harding, 19, were suspended 
by the university after they 
were arrested near campus 
during violence that broke out 
after the Ohio State-Notre 
Dame football game on Sept. 
28. Seven people were arrested during the disturbance. 
The suspensions were over­turned in university appeals hearings Friday. 
Galgoczy, a senior history major, was accused of threat­ening Garfield with a broken bottle. His jury trial was sched­uled for Oct. 31. 
Others arrested during the disturbance, including Harding, are scheduled to appear in court in the next couple of weeks. 
The university's judicial affairs director, Stephanie LeDuff, said Wednesday that the university could not discuss the students' status. 
The area near campus has been the scene of previous problems, many of them following Ohio State football games. Trouble after the Notre Dame game was the fifth dis­turbance since November 1994 that required police to send officers in riot gear. 
Please Recycle 
The 
Observer 

HEY DOC!! HAPPY 18TH BIRTHDAY! 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• Nl PLAYOFFS 
Maddux regains mastery, forces Game 7 
By BEN WALKER 
Associarrd Prrss Writer 
ATLANTA 
Once Greg Maddux got into the groove, little else mattered. There was no way the St. Louis Cardinals wtlre going to win this one, either. 
Maddux put aside his past Oetober struggles, pitching the Atlanta Braves into Game 7 of the NL championship series with a 3-1 victory Wednesday night. 
They'll meet again Thursday night, with the winner advanc­ing to the World Series. 
"I think we figured that somehow it would end up like this," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. 
Backed by a louder-than­usual sellout crowd of 52,067 that began cheering before the players took the field, Maddux followed John Smoltz's strong performance in Game 5 with one of his own. 
Maddux left after 7 2-3 innings having allowed six hits. Mark Wohlers relieved and threw a wild pitch that scored a run but retired Ron Gant on a routine fly to strand the pos­sible tying run at second base. 
"I knew he was going to have this kind of game tonight," Braves catcher Javy Lopez said of Maddux. 
Coming off the Braves' 14-0 rout in the previous game, Maddux evened his career postseason record at 5-5, and the defending World Series champions tied the playoffs at three wins each. 
Tom Glavine, the 1995 World Series MVP, will start Thursday night for the Braves and Donovan Osborne, given his regular four days' rest when La Russa shuffled his rotation, will go for St. Louis. 
"Tommy has pitched all the big games," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "I just really believe we can do it." 
The winner will face the New York Yankees in the Series opener on Saturday night at Yankee Stadium. 

It will be baseball's first Game 7 since the 1992 NL playoffs, in which Atlanta beat Pittsburgh on Francisco Cabrera's two-out, two-run single in the bottom of the ninth. 
For the Braves, it's another chance to enhance their repu­tation for playoff rallies. They won the 1991 NLCS by pitching two consecutive shutouts to overcome Pittsburgh, then beat the Pirates the next year by scoring three runs in the bottom of the ninth. 
For the Cardinals, it's a last chance to hold off the Braves, 

and their own history. or the 
4 7 teams to hold 3-1 leads, 40 
have gone on to win the series 
-St. Louis is the only club to 
blow that edge twice. 
La Russa gambled by start­
ing rookie Alan Benes in order 
to give his tired pitchers a 
break. Benes gave up only 
three hits over five innings as 
the Braves managed just a sac­
rifice fly by Jermaine Dye in 
the second and an RBI single 
by Mark Lemke in the fifth. 
The Braves thought they had 
made it 3-0 in the seventh, but 
Lemke was called out for leav­
ing third base early on an ap­
parent sacrifice fly by Chipper 
Jones. Third base umpire Bob 
Davidson made the call as 
Lemke was getting high-fives 
in the dugout, though replays 
made it look like the tag was 
legal. 
"Clearly, in my opinion, it 
Davidson said. "I don't care 
what they show on TV, and 
that's the name of the game." 
That play almost proved costly to the Braves before they added an insurance run for real in the eighth on an RBI single by Rafael Belliard that shortstop Royce Clayton almost caught. 
Maddux, tagged for a career 
high-tying eight runs in a 
Game 2 loss, bounced back to 
look every bit the pitcher who 
has won four straight Cy 
Young Awards. 
Maddux walked none, struck out seven and did not permit a runner past first base until the seventh. He threw only 62 pitches over the first six in­nings, never going to a single three-ball count. 
In the eighth, Maddux retired the first two batters before Clayton singled and took third on a single by Willie McGee. Cox brought in his relief ace and Wohlers bounced a wild pitch that made it 2-1. 
Wohlers avoided further 
trouble and closed for his sec­
ond save of the series and fifth 
of this postseason. 
The Braves made it 1-0 in the second. Fred McGriff sin­gled and took third on a double by Lopez, bringing up Dye. In a strange play, Dye hit a foul when his back swing hit the ball after it popped out of catcher Tom Pagnozzi's mitt. He then followed with the sacrifice fly. Jeff Blauser was hit by an 0-2 pitch to start the fifth, moved up on a sacrifice by Maddux and scored on Lemke's two-out single. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Cold Sores? 
Apply Lycall Ointment when you feel that first tingle, and the cold sore may not break out at all. Or if it has, Lycall Ointment may help get rid of it in a day or two. Ask your Druggist or send $5.95 for 8 Gm. to Caleb Laboratories, Inc. 529 S. 7th St. Minneapolis, MN 55415 
Satisfaction guaranteed/ 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 17, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
PSU's tough-luck Hawkeye shows star potential 
By GREG SMITH 'You can always say you the past four meetings. Last
tackle near return 
Associated Press Writer know the position, but until you year in Iowa City, the Nittany 
ByDAVEIVEY 
Assodated Press Writer 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 
More than four years have passed since his rude initiation to college football, but Penn State tackle Jason Henderson recalls the episode with ·ease ­and humility. 
Henderson found himself lined up in practice against Lou Benfatti, now of the New York Jets. 
"I was preparing myself for a bull rush but he just clubbed me aside and went right around me," he said. "It's a humbling experience. It puts you in your place, that's for sure." 
Henderson, now a 6-foot-7, 276-pound fifth-year senior, waited four years for his chance to push people around. Then, in his first collegiate start, he broke a bone in his right foot in the Kickoff Classic win over USC and missed the Nittany Lions' next five games. 
"I tried to focus on other things because it was very tough to deal with not play­ing," Henderson said. "But it's over now. My foot is doing well and it's doing better than I thought it would be. I'm sur­prised." 
Coach Joe Paterno, whose lOth-ranked Nittany Lions (6-1, 2-1 Big Ten) are at home Saturday against Iowa ( 4-1, 2­0), was also surprised with Henderson's performance in Penn State's 31-14 win over Purdue. 
"I think he was rusty, but Q.e played I better than I really ex­pected him to play," Paterno said. "He hung in there longer than I expected, but I was glad we didn't have to play him much more than a half." 
Henderson, who appeared in only a handful of games before this season, is thankful to. be back so soon after the injury, which required surgery. 
"At first I thought broken bone, that's going to be it for the year. But the doctor as­sured me it could be a short re­hab, 5 to 6 weeks," he said. "I felt a little more at ease after that." 
Henderson, a native of Satellite Beach, Fla., is one of tho-se players who aren't blessed with a lot of natural ability but work hard and wait patiently for their time to play -the kind of player Paterno loves. 
"He's a leader," Paterno said. "I think his loss was a big loss to us. The fact that he's back now is a big boost." 
More than a dozen true freshmen have played for the Lions this season, an amazing stat to Henderson. 
"No way was I physically ready as a freshman, or even in my second year. My third year maybe," he said. "But they've done a great job. I wish that I had half their ability · when I was a freshman." 
The young Nittany Lions were forced into action when first Henderson then guard Brad Jones (blood clots in his lungs) went down. On Saturday, Eric Cole -one of the freshmen -pulled a ham­string and is out 2 to 3 weeks. 
Most of the Penn State offen­sive linemen have been forced to learn two or three positions and have been shifted from the right to the left sides of the line. The results haven't been perfect, but Paterno is pleased. 
"They had to work a little harder, but they've done it," he said. "And outside of one foot­ball game (a 38-7 loss at Ohio State), we've been a pretty good offensive line. That's to their credit." 

•NBA 
Preseason action 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 
Tyrone Corbin scored 12 of his 23 points in the decisive first quarter as the Atlanta Hawks routed the Los Angeles Clippers 95-60 in a preseason game Wednesday night. 
Atlanta built a 34-13 lead in the first quarter and went on to win for the third time in four games. 
The Clippers shot only 23 percent from the field and committed 25 turnovers. 
Steve Smith had 16 points for the Hawks, while Mookie Blaylock added 14. The Clippers were led by Darrick 
Martin with 12 points and 
Dwayne Schintzius with 11.  ··.  
Nuggets 110, Hornets 95  
Eric  Murdock  scored  18  

points and Rickey Pierce added 17 as Denver beat Charlotte. Matt Geiger scored 21 points for Charlotte. 
Denver's Keith Jennings was helped off the court early in the first quarter with a torn anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. 
The Nuggets opened the fourth quarter with an 8-0 run, including six points by Sarunas Marciulionis. But Geiger kept the Hornets close, scoring 13"oJ his points in the final period. 


Wmn 
Happy 18th 
~~IDm~ce~ 
Love, 

.... 
Mom, Dad, 
T.M. &Joey 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Iowa coach Hayden Fry says Damien Robinson is better right now than former Hawkeye Merton Hanks was at this stage of his career, but Robinson has 
7.2 million reasons why he dis­agrees with the comparison. 
"$7.2 million," Robinson replied immediately when asked if he knew the amount of Hanks' recent contract with the San Francisco 49ers. 
"I would say Merton's better than me because he's in there making millions right now. If I can get there and make mil­lions, maybe I can make that comparison," he said. 
Robinson, from Dallas, is flat­tered by Fry's comparison to Hanks, one of the National Football League's premier de­fensive backs who played at Iowa from 1987-90. 
"I'll take it if he's giving it to me," he said. "Merton Hanks is a great player. You look up to him being a Hawkeye. He's out there producing in the NFL." 
The 6-foot-2, 205-pound Robinson started his career at Iowa as a cornerback but was switched last season to free safety, the position he occupies again this year as the Hawkeyes (4-1 overall, 2-0 Big Ten) prepare to visit No. 10 Penn State on Saturday. 
He admits he was a little tentative and missed some tackles as he adjusted to the position change last season. But the move is now paying dividends. 
Robinson leads the confer­ence in interceptions with four, giving him 12 picks for his career. He is tied for third place on the career list with Steve Wilson (1966-68) and his total of 17 4 return yards ranks fifth. 

get out there in the heat and the bullets are flying, then you know it's a little bit different," Robinson said. "It took a year to get adjusted to the position. Now I'm adjusted; it's just about making plays." 
Being more comfortable is just one reason why Robinson thinks his play has improved. He also got some inspirational help ofT the field from his par­ents, who encouraged him to take time to read the Good Book and not just the playbook. 
"One major thing for me was rededicating my life to Christ. That's improved my play a lot," he said, along with "talking ev­eryday to my mom and my fa­ther, telling me I need to get back to reading my 'Bible and things like that. 
"So that's what I did. I found it was helping me a lot." 
Not only has he shown a knack for pass coverage, Robinson also has become a sure tackler; he's third on the team with 45. 
"This guy is becoming like a linebacker on defense out of the secondary. He is so far ahead, at this point, of Merton Hanks," Fry said. "Merton Hanks was a tremendous foot­ball player, but Robinson is re­ally showing all-Big Ten credentials. 
"He's probably 18 to 20 pounds heavier than Merton. He's every bit as fast and he's a tremendous tackler." 
It follows that if Hanks was able to make an NFL roster, then Robinson should have a decent shot, too. But he dis­misses such talk. 
"You have those long-term goals to make it there, but I mean, you have to live for right now." 
That means focusing on Penn State, which has whipped Iowa Lions scored on two touchdown passes in the final 6:07 to win 41-27. 
"We really remember it. We were ... so close to having a vic-. tory and then letting it slide away right there at the end," Robinson said. 
The year before was no con­test. Penn State rolled over the Hawkeyes 61-21. 
Setters 
continued from page 20 
scored. 
The momentum that the Belles had going for them in the third and fourth sets didn't stick with them. Thus, the Belles found themselves down in the fifth from the very beginning. 
"We just didn't come out strong enough," said junior Meg Kelly, "If our offense was running better we would have played much better." 
"We started out bad and it was just hard to get out of the hole," commented Candiano. The Belles ended up losing (10-15). 
Throughout the games the Belles were able to count on the play of freshman middle hitter Jayne Ozbolt. Ozbolt had been sitting out for the past two weeks due to a sprained ankle but was back in play Tuesday night. 
"She was really ready to come ofT the bench," said Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. "This was one of her best defensive games. She was hitting well in the front and back row. She was solid." 
The Belles next match will be an away game Friday against I Ieidelberg College. 


EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
Now Available­Shamrock Classic Merchandise 
Friday 12 · 9pm
IRISH 
EXPRESS 

Saturday 8am· 9pmHOURS 
Sunday 9am -3 pm 
LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
~-· 

Campus Ministry••• 
Considerations 

WHEN WE ARE ONE 
On Saturday, September 14th, Chris and Laura got married at Sacred Heart Basilica. I had the privilege of cantoring at their wedding, and midway through the afternoon that day, the television set in our house­hold got turned off, and I made my way to the church. Notre Dame was playing Texas-greater love hath no alumnus than to give up watching the game to go sing in a church! 
I was walking across Our Lady's campus, and summer was putting a first blush in the corners of her fragile vegetation. As I made my way to the wedding, a drama unfolded in my ears that held my imagination captive, quickening my pulse. It was a balmy day, and most of the residence hall windows were open to the Indian summer air. Then, I heard it: a mas­sive shout, scream, herald-cry that echoed from one dorm to another, catching on like a spark in a dried-out forest, careening from one build­ing to the next. 
"What was going on at that football game?" I thought. The cheers arid mayhem told me something was happening in our favor, but it was a drama conducted offstage. I could only imagine what might be occur­ring: a punt return, an interception, a dramatically completed drive. Had we tied the game? Were we ahead? Had we, perhaps, won the con­test? (What a delirious thought, winning in such a foxhole as that night­mare of a stadium!) 
But as I said, my travels were taking me elsewhere, to the wedding, and not to a seat in front of a television screen. As the nuptial celebration unfolded, I found it to be an event that brought tears even to my eyes­and I have beheld many a wedding at the Basilica. There were bride and groom, standing before the gathered church, standing before a presider, in fact, standing before Time itself, and they were announcing to all that they wanted to build their days and dreams together from that time for­ward. 
It was how they spoke their vows to one another that brought on the tears. She, so completely in love, savoring each syllable of his promises, probing with her eyes, looking so deeply into his heart that he at times had to turn away from the intensity of her gaze, blushing. He, speaking with gentle and simple conviction, integrity in his every word, authentic emotion and truth for her ears alone. The entire assembly, leaning for­ward in their pews, not so much to hear their words -for they were spoken clearly for all to hear-but maybe to get just a little closer to the mystery of Love Incarnate that was blossoming before us all. 
Then the celebration was over (read: just beginning) and I wandered out to the sacristy, and found that some kid named Sanson had kicked a field goal with 00:05 left to go, and _the Irish had just given the Texas Longhorns a cactus-sized thorn to live with for the rest of the season. 
I am a liturgist and theologian by degree, and I work at Notre Dame. Because of this, I am well aware of the caution that needs must arise when the subject of God and football are brought up in the same para­graph, much less the same sentence. But I must admit, the coinciding of these two events -the wedding and the win -offered me a striking example of God working in the midst of a faithful people. 
For what a wonderful thing it is, when two people are so completely uni­fied in heart and mind and spirit that they can stand before the mystery ofan unknown future and offer their fidelity to one another. 
What a wonderful thing it is, when the cadences are rehearsed, when the players' movements are all correct, when the assembly roars its assent in a single voice, when the quarterback reads the adversity and responds with delicate accuracy and deliberate conviction. 
What a wonderful thing it is, when we stand in a loft on Sunday morn­ing, and watch God's people spread out from nave to transept, gasping the hand of a stranger to sing a simple prayer. 
It is, perhaps, a split second glimpse of what God holds for us in the future. For in all of these instances, a spirit of unity triumphed. In one, it is the love of man and woman so intense as to create a new history, a new family, perhaps even new life. In another, in the midst of adversity, a group of men take the field and win the day, the morale, and the momentum. And in another, people break out of rank and file, in order to be one-physically and spiritually one -as the body of Christ. 
What a wonderful thing it is, when this happens before our eyes. It is as if God is hinting at what is in store for us in the future, and what is pos­sible for us to accomplish in the present -when we are one. 
Steven C. Warner 
·­
-
.. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY EVENTS 

November 8-9 Freshman Retreat for the residents of Badin, Planner, Lewis, O'Neill, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Walsh and Zahm: Sign-up through Monday, November 4 
Campus Bible Study Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m., Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
Power Lunches and other events will resume after fall break. 
TWENTY-NINTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA  
Sat.  Oct.  19  Half hour after game  Rev. James J. Ferguson, C.S.C.  
Sun.  Oct.  20  8:00a.m. *10:00 a.m. *11:45a.m.  Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. Most Rev. Luis Reynoso Cervantes, D.O.  
*Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C., Homilist  
SATURDAY MASS AT STEPAN CENTER  

SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1st Reading  Isaiah 45: 1, 4-6  
2nd Reading  1 Thessalonians 1: 1-5  
3rd Reading  Matthew 22: 15-21  
.  

-~ 
~ 

Sat. Oct. 19 45 minutes Rev. Thomas McDermott, C.S.C. after game 

-~­
---..---,----­
~---------~-~----------­



Do Diers 
continued from page 20 
runners that will provide the Irish with good scoring as the squads' three, four, and five runners should be the deciding factor for a probable at large birth, unfourtanetly the district the Irish compete in only allows two automatic qualifiers to the NCAA championships. Due to this fact the Irish ranked second 
• SPORt'S BRIEFS 
Challenge U Fitness Classes are half price following October Break. Spots are still open in some classes. Call the RecSports office for more info. 
The men's varsity basket­ball team will be conducting try-outs for all walk-ons on tonight. Players are expected to attend both the 7:30-9:30 
p.m. session in the Joyce Center on the 16th and the
-
6:30 p.m. session in the auxil­liary gym (The Pit) on the 17th. Field Hockey 
There will be field hockey practice on Monday, October the 28th and Tuesday the 29th at 9:00 p.m. in Loftus. There will be a game aginst the Deerfield Club team 011 Sunday November 3rd. CaJ! Danielle Gray at 634-4853 01 Megan Kennedy at 243-947t with questions. 
in their district and are looking to do well out of district as well. 
"What we need to do this week is beat some out of district teams," said Connelly. "Just in case we aren't in the top two in the district, beating out of dis­trict teams will allow us to be considered for an at large berth." 
"If Mieke (Walsh), Heidi (Reichenbach), and Kelly (Peterson) run together we should surprise some people this weekend," continued Connelly. 
The Irish will run a second team at the Central Collegiate championships where they will compete against Western, Eastern, Central and Northern Michigan schools as well as other solidteams. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
a friend's birthday with a 
special Observer ad. 
The Observer/O"Conner 

Coach Piane hopes his 'fab four' can lead the pack out west. 
. Appearing LIVE at the 

lMIAl!Jm~ (Q)N (Q)1f~JriEiffi. IffiAiffi. 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 

Thursday, October 17, Indika Reggae Friday, October 18 & Saturday, October 19 Whistle Pigs 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m. -3:00a.m. 

NATIONAL & REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD till 1 a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open nne Jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock -alternative -retro national and regional acts 
vs 

---~--~--------------------------~ 
Thursday, October 17, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

HAI'I'Y IURTHDAY! II'\ TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Grealer financial free(]om will be yours. The busine" sce(]s you plan! !his fall an(] winler will pro(]uce a rid1 harvesl in 1997. A va<.:alion vou lake nex1 spring promises billh advenlure an(] romance. Close friends and relalives will bring you good luck as !he summer of ·97 approaches. A major career (]ecision musl be made by Augusl. Find nul more aboul jobs in !he computer field and public relalions. Knowing what you want is !he first step towar(] gelling it! 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: aclress Suzanne Somers, singer Wendy Wilson, bas­ketball player Manule Bol. play­wrighl Eugene O'Neill. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Indecision makes il diflicull for vou to make plans or pin (]own 01.her people. Clarify ~our objectives. An anislic projecl coul(] prove highly lucralive. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New insighls aid your creative 
endeavor~. Your aVvarcncss of what 
nee(], to be done molivale; olhcrs. Romance blooms. Poslpone asking for a commitmenl; your liming may be off. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Avoid going overboard when buy­ing 1hings for your home. Keep your schedule tlexible 10 accommodalc las1-minu1e changes. If necessary. pns1pone non-essential meelings. 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
YOUR ~OOT\-1 A.T THE. TR.A.OE SHOW MUST BE. 
f>..TTUHION-C:,R.f>..~C>INC:,. 
~-C>OOIH 

68 Kind Ol bag 69 Sold1ers for old Dixie 70 Mushers' vehicles 71 Juno's Greek counterpart 
DOWN 

1 Abbr. in an office title 2 Legendary Yankee 3 Spanish Surrealist 4 Commence· ment 5 Musical syllables 6 Parisian pronoun 7 Campus org. 8 Pry 9 Chang's game 10 Deep blue 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Mine, in A1x 
L 0 
CIAIB H 0 
R
A R 
AERO AJLONE MA 
B R I E AIU R A S B L 
K B 0 A R D. E D I E IIIIIIH 
A A S A L B E R T 
TAPING·~~DIO­
Al E. G~._c._o_~~ B0 0 NE 
CONGA ~~J_ AKRON TENOR ~~EAT.ETO IIIIIILOOSE.MISSES
CANOO.SOON­
ARES.BROWNNOSER R 0 u TIS 0 L E G R A y E T 0 R A1H A D D S E V E N E M 0 R1Y M E E T R E S T 
12 Competitor 
13 Salinger girl 
18 Green 
19 Villa-building 
family 23Affirm confidently 24 One of the Simpsons 26 Roams, as the Net 27 Command to a helmsman 28 Small role, sometimes 30 Lamps that glow 
Much can be accomplished Hxlay if 
you include your partner in all deci· 
sinn-making. A willingnes; 10 com­
1. MA.GIC. TRICKS FOR. THE. ~E5T RESULT, 
.:!.. SPECIAL E.FI=ECTS COMBINE. ALL FOUR: 

promise can be a sign of malurily. Be leery of anyone who tries 10 take
3. Rf>..FFLES CREA.IE. THE. ILLUSION 

a(]vanlage of you. BABES THf>..T '(0U'RE. RAFFLING 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do nol lei day(]reaming undermine your
OH THE. 

efficiency. Showcasing your special
eoon-1 


YOU Ht>..VE 
OPTIONS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Shaw Iitie starter 5 Blue ribbon place 10 Bu1ld up 1nterest? 14 D1amonds, e.g 15lsolated 16 "Time's Arrow" novelist 
17 "Don Juan" 20 Protector of 56-Down 
21 Plot 22 Way around London 25 Essence 26 Military inits., 1946·92 29 Glinka hero ----Susanm 
31 Confiscates 
SE.VERA.L 
35 Put light 36 Rabln·s 
successor 38 Landlord's due 39 "The New 
Moon" 43 At no charge 44 Related on the 
mother's s1de 45 Mr. Onassis 46 Rages 49 Try 50 Aleppo's land: 
Abbr. 51 Brewing grain 53 Last month of 
the Jewish calendar 55 Cords 59 Poke fun at 63 "Passion" 66 On tM briny 67 Answers to charges 
Bfo..BES. 

•MENU
) 

Notre Dame 
North Fried Cod! Fried Clams Cajun Chicken Breast Eggbeaters Garden Quiche Tomato Soup 
South Southern Fried Chicken Chicken Acropolis 
lalcnl.' in a uni4ue Wa} will unpreS' VII',. Slrike while !he iron is hot. Charm can pry open imponanl doors. Good financial news arrive'' 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpl. 22): Leam how 10 cul1iva1e business and social contacts hy observ•ng 1he 1echniques of succe>Sful people. Your professionalism is a source of rri(]c. 
LIHRA (Sepl. 23-0cl. 22): Even small adjuslment> will make your job easier. A new employee will become a close ally. Mix business wilh pleasure hy (]epaning from your nonnal schedule. 
SCORI'IO (Ocl. 13-Nov. 21): Store valuables in a safe place, !hen calch up on househol(] chores. Lis· lening al!enlively lo a leen-agcr help> build trusl. Quiel home-based raslimcs heir children unwin(]. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21 ): Slop wasling your hrealh on someone who will nol lislen. Bide your lime. Romance will be a source of deer joy if you choose !he righl partner. Know whal is really impor· tan! to you. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan 19): New i(]eas hoi(] promise. Real­ize 1ha1 they need more time 10 develop. A work direcli\·e may he confusing. Go ahea(] and ask ques· lions; it will show thai you wan! 10 do the job righl. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):A family discussion abou1 a bu(]gel re\"i!.ion proves frui1ful. Pul the li(] on spending. lntcllec!Ual pursuits are fa,ore(] over physical en(]eavors now. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sel aside lime for retlec1ion on impor· 1an1 muliers. Allowing doubl or sus· picion to gel !he upper han(] woul(] be a mislake. Music. art and litera· lure hold special appeal lonighl. Read a poem a lou(] 10 your male. 

Broccoli, Cheese, and Rice Casserole Au Gratin Potatoes 
Saint Mary's 
Spinach Quiche Chicken Fried Rice Spaghetti w/Meatballs Cauliflower w/Cheese Sauce 
Wanted: Reporters, photog_, 
32 Greek characters 33 Way in 
34 Flight segment 37 Inundation 40 Cut-off 
55-Across? 41 Bibliographer's 
abbr. 42 Counters 47 Pulverize 48 Lies dormant 52 Sutherland 
specialty 54 Sometime Olivier co-star 
55 Nicholas or 60 Large lot Alexander 
61 Moselle 

raphers and edi_,
56 American tributary Beauty, e.g. 
62Where 57 Ground-floor Portoferraio is 

tors. 
58 "Peter Pan" 65 Maritime pirate letters 

Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1 -900-420·5656 (75c per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

staff.
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 


.... 
.. 
.. 

SPORTS 
page20 Thursday, October 17, 1996 
Irish runners focus on meets in desert 
Women's undefeat­ed mark challenged at Arizona State 
By MARIO ARCE Sports Writ•r 
The Notre Dame women's cross country squad will run in their most important meet of the year thus far. The Irish will run at the pre-national meet at Arizona State which will be the sight of the national championships in November. 
The women look to face the strongest field yet as there will be 31 teams in the race, with eleven of the teams being ranked in the top twenty five in the nation. 
The squad is undefeated for the sea­son with a record of 3-0. Freshman Joanna Deeter has led the team at all three races and is undefeated as an individual. 
"Joanna is defmitely capable of run­ning with the leaders at this meet." said head coach Connelly. "She needs only to run as she has been runningthe last few weeks and she has a goodshot of being in the top ten." 
Deeter will definitely have competi­tion on Saturday as UCLA's freshman Kim Mortensen should be a major competitor as she was the nations top recruit a year ago. 
Nicole Laselle should fair well at the meet if she improves the way she has been bettering her times at each meet, an astounding 15 seconds at a time. 
"Nicole does not need to do anything super human," remarked Connelly. "All she needs to do is go out with the leaders and race comfortably and she should be in the top twenty." 
Two runners in the top twent.x will provide the team with a low tally as there will be over 200 runners in the race. 
The freshman duo are not the only 
see DOMERS I page18 

The Observer/O'Conner 
NO looks to improve national status. 
Men :S squad looking to rise above top­notch opponents 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Writer 
As the skies begin to gray in South Bend, the men's cross-country team prepares to take a vacation to sunny Arizona to participate in the Arizona Invitational, this Saturday. 
Notre Dame will also be sending it's "B" team to participate in the Central Collegiate Conference meet on Friday. 
Both meets will feature strong teams, but the field at Arizona looks like an early preview of the NCAA champi­onships, also to be run in Arizona. 
Four teams ranked in top six national­ly will be running at the meet: Stanford, Wisconsin, Northern Arizona and Colorado. All of these teams enter the meet ranked ahead of the number 11 Irish harriers. 
"We're number 11 and there are five or six teams ranked ahead of us," said coach Joe Piane. "I think we'll do well though." 
"We've got four guys running excep­tionally well in Jason Rexing, Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling and Joe Dunlop. If they continue to run well and the five, six, and seven guys run at their abili­ties, I don't think we should take a back seat to anyone." 
The Irish are coming off it's first non­first place finish of the season as the team's five, six and seven runners could not .finish ahead of Michigan's trio. The Fab Four (Rexing, Althoff, Seiling and Dunlop), performed as expected with three finishing ih the top 10. All four have been in or near the top 10 of all three meets that they have run. 
see HARRIERS I page 18 

• SMC VOLLEYBAll 
Belles' comeback falls short in five set thriller 
By ANGElA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Starting out slow seemed to be the demise of the Saint Mary's Volleyball team on Tuesday night as they faced a tough University of Chicago team. 
The Belles (13-11) were un­able to overcome their slug­gish starts and ended up falling 4-15, 10-15, 16-14, 15­5, 10-15. 
The first two sets could be characterized by what Freshman Courtney Love calls a lack of aggression. The Belles just didn't get the momentum going early on in the sets. They came out slow and it was just too tough to turn things around. "We 
.._ missed a lot of serves," said Freshman Katie Candiano. "We should have communi­cated more with each other." After loosing the first two sets the Belles found them­selves needing a wake up call. 


October 19 
• NLCS will go the distance 
see page 15 at Central Collegiate 
• Indianapolis linebacker to return

Conference, October 18 
see page 13 
They were questioning what they were doing wrong and decided that aggression and their lack of it was one of the problems. 
They responded by control­ling the court and being more assertive. Love felt that the Belles were able to find inspiration in Candiano. 
"She was energized and en­thusiastic. She was like a· spark plug," acknowledged Love. 
"We just played smart and found the open spaces," said Candiano. "We had good coverage, blocked more, and got most of our serves in." 
The third set was close (16­
14) but the Belles managed to come out on top. The Belles aggressive play continued on through the forth set which they easily won (15-5). 
Now after four sets of play the Belles found the sets tied which meant a decisive fifth set which would be rally 
see SETTERS I page 16 
vs. Air Force, October 19, 1 :30 
vs. Rqtgers, October 20, 1 p.m. 
at West Virginia, October 19, 2 p.m. 





