
Wednesday, August 28, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.3 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gottlieb suspected in credit fraud 
Basketball star departs amid controversy 
By TIM SHERMAN and Spons Editor LIZ FORAN 
Editor-in-Chi~f 
Doug Gottlieb had 36 steals on tlw basketball court last sea­son for Notre Dame but Gottlieb's quick hands, some 

squad and Gottlieb the University 
over the summer, was accused during interviews yesterday by fellow dorm members of wrongdoing in Dillon Hall, stemming from allegations of credit card fraud. 
According to separate inter­views with three Dillon sopho­mores, Gottlieb used credit cards that were not his own to purchase approximately $1,000 worth of merchandise early last May. 
"After I got home from sum­mer break, I got my first credit card bill, and there was a charge on it from Spiece for about a hundred bucks that I know I didn't make," said sophomore Pat Johnson, who was a friend of Gottlieb's dur­ing their freshman year. "I called Spiece and eventually they had me come in and look at their videotapes." 
From viewing the videotapes, Johnson said he clearly saw 

Friends remember Kwiat's love for ND 
Farley Hall. Father RichardFarley resident a Warner and Father Robert Dowd of Campus Ministry, andvictim of TWA Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara attend­
Flight 800 crash ed the service. 
At the end of the liturgy,

By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Etheridge offered a remem­Nrws Editor 
brance of Patty. "Her faith was important to her," EtheridgeNotre Dame was the perfect said at the service. 

match for Putty Kwiat. 
Recalling a conversation The foot-
about careers with Patty,
ball games, 
Etheridge told the more than 

th1~ tailgat­600 people in St. Theresa's 
ing, St. 
Catholic Church. "She said she 

Patrick's 
not only wanted to make a 

Day. It was 
buek, she wanted to make a 

all a part of difference." 
somnthing 
Etheridge said yesterday,speeial for 

"Patty was a special gal. She Patty, a Kwiat loved to rollerblade. She had 
Farley Hall an infectious smile. And she 
rnsidBnt who was studying hung out with a really nice 
l.'mnch and government. 
crowd. 

It was her interest in French "I think it was nice for Patty'sand the desire to spend some parents that Father Dowd and quality time with her older sis­Father Warner werfl there, and ter Kim that led hr,r to board that Professor O'Hara and the 
TWA Flight 800 July 17 with 
women of Farley came out,plans to go vaeationing in 

too." Etheridge said. "It showed Franee for several weeks. 

that she was a member of a "Shn just wanted to hang out 
family -the Notre Dame fami­

with her sister." said Katie 
ly-that loved her very much." 

Yeend, who was one of Putty's While family and friends vis­roommates during their sopho­ited in New York in July, they 
morn and junior years. "She 
celebrated Patty's memory at a lnvnd Francn and the Frnneh rnception at the Kwiats' house. 

language." 
There, Yeend and three of 

ller love also ran deep for the 
Patty's other close friends,

Fighting Irish. "Shfl was a huge Regan Connell. Katie Flynn and 
football fan, just obsessed." 
Suzy Fry, reminisced about 

Yeend said. "She loved to tail­
their friend while looking 

gntn, and she was always ready through her keepsakes. 
to go out. She was so much 
"Everyone was so exhausted fun." 

after the service, but it was like Patty's father, l.awrenee, said all the crying was out of us. We she was mnant to be a part of had a good time telling stories Notre Dame. 

and laughing," Connell said. 

"Shn just loved the place," he 
Eventually, a relative got the said. "Shn probably own~d half 
idea to sing the Notre Dame 

the bookstore, with all the 
Vietory March, a fitting songthings she bought from there." 

considering that Patty's father 

About .two dozen women 
graduated from Notre Dame from Farley llall. including 
and her sister Kim graduatedYeend, attnnded a funeral Mass 
from Boston College. July 21 for Patty and Kim in "It was neat. It was fun," the Kwiats' hometown of 
Connell said. "It definitely had 

Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. Sister Carrine Etheridge, rector of 
see KWIAT I page 4 
Gottlieb making the transaction on the given date and time of the purchase. 
'Jgot a phone call 
from Doug in mid­July. He was begging me not to press charges. He admitted taking the credit card and using it." 
Scott Thomas 
"I sat in their video booth and watched the videotape and it was Doug. He used my credit card. I saw it on videotape. 
"A couple weeks later, I got a copy of the receipt in the mail with his handwriting in my sig­nature." 

Joe Hand, also a Dillon sophomore. had a substantial sum charged to his account at a local jewelry store for a tiara bracelet that he did not pur­chase. 
"I know it was a tiara bracelet because about a month later I got a thank you note addressed to my campus address," Hand said. "'Thank you for your purchase...' it said. 
"There's some lucky girl out there who owes me a thank you," he laughed. 
An employee of the jeweler was able to identify Gottlieb from a series of photos, said Hand, whose picture was included in the line-up of pho­tos shown to the employee. 
The third student involved with Gottlieb, Scott Thomas, like Hand, had suspicious charges on his credit card bill from Spiece. 
"They (Spiece) had surveil­lance cameras and they had pictures of Doug Gottlieb using my credit card." 
After learning of the allega­tions last May, Gottlieb placed a phone call to Thomas. 
"I got a phone call from Doug in mid-July," Thomas said. "lie was begging me not to press charges. He admitted taking the credit card and using it." 
The three students separately contacted Dillon Hall rector Father Joseph Carey upon receipt of the troubling bills. 
"Campus Security was really good about the whole thing," said Hand. "They told me I could either file criminal charges or charges with the University." 
Now that Gottlieb has left the University, the latter option is moot. 
see FRAUD I page 4 

"Get Vila over here!" 

In the interest of maximizing space, Sorin juniors Ned Ryan, Adam Rodriguez, James Leslie and Brian Killian construct a loft for their dorm room. · 
GTU rallies against church arson 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Associate News Editor 
Responding Jo the rash of church burnings this past sum­mer, the University's Graduate Theological Union (GTU), the ofl'icial organization of gradu­ate students in theology at Notre Dame, issued a state­ment in June denouncing the attacks and appealing for moral and financial support for the afflicted religious commu­nities. 
The statement observes that the burnings indieate "the con­tinuing existence of hatred and prejudice in the United States," and that the attacks are not compatible with "the Judeo­Christian social vision [which) holds that each person, as an image of God, possesses a basic dignity." 
The statement urges appro­priate law enforcement agen­cies "to give highest priority to the resolution of these crimes," and encourages faculty, staff, and students to make financial contributions toward the rebuilding or restoration of damaged churches, and autho­rizes GTU treasurer Matthew Zyniewicz to collect the contri­butions. 

GTU Vice President Laurie Douglass said the GTU issued the statement themselves because The Observer had ceased publishing in May. 
"These attacks looked like the beginning of very ugly behavior, and the theology stu­dents felt a need to speak out. We did not see groups in the national or loeal press speaking out," said Douglass. "We were working through the Notre Dame Public Relations Office to get to the South Bend Tribune." 
Douglass said she learned of efforts by the National Council of Churches (NCC) and the ecu­menical Anti-Defamation League to colleet funds for the afflicted communities through the New York Times. 
"We were planning to solicit checks through the Anti­Defamation League, but we fig­ured it would probably be more effective to solicit through the NCC," said Douglass. "We aimed to get the Notre Dame community involved because of the traditional concern the University students and faculty have for human rights." 
Later reports about the arsons suggested that they may not have been racially motivat­ed. but Douglass said that "it was still a good thing we react­ed the way we did. Church burning is still desecration, and it affects everyone involved." 
Douglass added that local members of Habitat for Humanity and the Mennonite community have contributed to the rebuilding funds. "Even if all these attacks weren't racial­ly motivated, there is still a need for solidarity and finan­cial support for churches." 
Added GTU PhD Representative Craig Satterlee, "We felt a need to show soli­darity with those affected by the burning ... in effect to show the unity of the body of Christ." 
-----­-­ - 
--­~-­ -~­ 
page 2  The Observer· INSIDE  Wednesday, August 28, 1996  

• INSIDE COlUMN 
A Dose of 



'Reality' 

A friend recently told Laura Smith me "You know you have 1\.ssisrant Saint MaiY's 
a 'real job' when its too Editor easy and you just pre­tend to be busy." 
Sounds great -doesn't it? Well, think again. I had my first taste of the "real world" this summer and I have just one thing to say -I'm never going back! 
After three months of 6:30a.m. wake-up calls, rent, cooking, and utilities, I yearned for the days of parietals, homework, and the Dining Hall. 
What was I thinking! 

I could hardly wait to leave my safe, shel­tered life at Saint Mary's and my safe, shel­tered life in Kokomo, Indiana to drive 650 miles to start a "real job" as a public relations intern in the Minneapolis area. 
How exciting, I thought! I'd lived in Indiana my whole life and was ready for a change of scenery. I was ready to live in my own apartment for the first time. 
Or was I? 
Each day as I sat at my desk 650 miles away from my friends and family (all the while pre­tending to be busy scripting slide shows about the potential threat of the DREADED zebra mussel). 
I became lonelier and more nostalgic for my family in Kokomo and my second family at SMC/ND. Maybe I wasn't so grown up after all. 
The second day on the job my boss said: "I don't want to frighten you, but I'm not very comfortable with the neighborhood you're liv­ing in." 
He went on to mumble something about a shooting. Oh, don't worry, I thought. I'm not scared. I'm from Saint Mary's. 
As I held back the tears that formed in my eyes and fought the urge to get up and run back to Indiana like I was Forest Gump, I realized that I was strong and that I would learn from this experience. 
I learned a lot about what I DON'T want in a job. I learned to always lock my doors behind me. l learned-that $8 an hour is not a good wage if you must pay rent and buy groceries. 
But most of all, I learned to appreciate the good things in life ... family, friends, fun, and youth. 
A word of advice to all you SMCs and Domers out there. Enjoy it! These are the best 4 years of our lives, and we must appre­ciate every minute of it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ToDAv's STAFF  
News Ethan Hayward Jillian Pagliocca Sports  Production Belle Bautista Tara Grieshop  
Kathleen Lopez Brian Fremeau  Lab Tech Dave Murphy  
Graphics Tom Roland  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WoRlD AT A GLANCE 

Three days needed to determine if Edouard will hit land 
MIAMI 
Hurricane Edouard continued its trek across the Atlantic on Tuesday, but forecasters said it 


Hurricane Edouard 
will be at least Thursday before they can predict whether it will hit land. 
Edouard, holding its strength as a category 3 hurricane with winds of 130 mph, was about 1,420 miles from Miami in the late afternoon, about 265 miles northeast of the Leeward Islands in the eastern Caribbean. 
"On Thursday we'll be able to see whether it will hit main­land," said Brian Jarvedene, a meteorologist from the National Hurricane Center in Miami. "But 

Caribbean
right now, the closest point in 
Sea
the U.S. we can track is Miami." 
Edouard was moving west­northwest near 15 mph and was expected to continue that track 
throughout Tuesday. 
In three days, forecasters said the storm was expected to be 

Entertainer denies intent to perform · 
LOS ANGELES 
A giggly Michael Jackson told a jury today he never planned to perform on the "Jackson Family Honors" show but merely agreed to present awards. Jackson, testifying in a lawsuit brought against his family by producers of the show, said his mother, Katherine, called and personally asked him to par­ticipate in the 1994 television program. 


"She said, 'They need you for the ratings and it would be nice for the brothers, for the boys,'" Jackson recalled of her appeal on behalf of his family. "I said, 'I'll do it but I can't perform.' I like everything to be just right and it gave me no time to put something together. I said, 'Can I present an award?', and she seemed pleased with that," he said. Jackson insisted he did not do it as a business deal. "I was doing it as a favor for the family," Jackson said. In the lawsuit, which went to trial in federal court on July 29, the producers claim they lost more than $1 million. The Las Vegas made-for-TV event that was part concert, part awards show was plagued by lagging ticket sales and other problems. 
Appeals court clears way for Lloyd's 
BALTIMORE 
A federal appeals court today ruled that Lloyd's of London may proceed with a $4.8 billion restructuring plan the company said is vital to its survival. In a brief decision after a three-hour hearing, the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a federal judge's surprise rul­ing Friday that threatened to scuttle the rescue plan. Judge Paul V. Niemeyer of the 4th Circuit court cited an agreement Lloyd's investors signed that specified any dis­putes would be resolved in British courts. He said the court will explain its reasoning more thoroughly in a later opinion. The three-judge panel overturned last week's ruling by U.S. District Judge Robert E. Payne of Richmond, Va. Today's ruling came as a crucial deadline approached. Lloyd's 34,000 investors worldwide have to approve the plan "by a substantial majority" by noon Wednesday, or Lloyd's will fail its solvency test under British law. Payne had issued a temporary injunction ordering Lloyd's to give some 3,000 U.S. investors an extra two months to review the proposal. He also ordered Lloyd's to provide more detailed financial information. 


Edouard 
Conditions as of Tuesday 5 a.m. EDT 
19. 7N, 57.5W Max. winds: 130 mph Gusts at 155 mph Moving WNW at 15 mph 
AP 
about 200 miles northeast of the Bahamas, bringing high waves, winds and thunderstorms to the islands. 
No watches or warnings were posted for the northeastern Caribbean, but forecasters urged residents to keep an eye on Edouard, which they described as a dangerous hurri­cane. 
Forecasters were also watch­ing two tropical depressions, No. 6 and 7 that were several hun­dred miles behind Edouard. 
In the late afternoon, No. 6 was about 1 ,050 miles east of the Lesser Antilles in the eastern Caribbean. The system was trav­eling west near 12 mph with top winds of 35 mph. 
Tropical depression No. 7 was about 630 miles southwest of the Cape Verde islands, off the coast of Africa, moving west at 14 mph with top winds of 35 mph. 
Prostate surgery patients live longer 
CHICAGO 

Surgery for early prostate cancer is remarkably suc­cessful, enabling the vast majority of men to live another 10 years or more, a study found. But the operation is not necessarily the best treatment for all men. The research -the first such study to look at patients at more than one hospital -largely confirms previous findings, said Dr. Glenn S. Gerber, a University of Chicago urologist who led the study. Rather than answering the question of which is the best method of treating the second-lead­ing cancer killer of men, the study merely provides patients with concrete information they can use in decid­ing whether to undergo surgery, Gerber said. An esti­mated 317,000 men in the United States will be diag­nosed this year with cancer of the prostate, a walnut-size gland at the base of the urethra. Surgery and radiation are the most common tteatments, but surgery can cause impotence and urinary incontinence, and previous research has indicated that in elderly men with slow­growing prostate cancer, "watchful waiting" -or doing nothing -may be just as successful as surgery. As a result, it's impossible to say which treatment is best with­out taking into account a patient's age and overall health. 
Church baptizes duped children 
WOBURN, Mass 

A Baptist church used promises of pizza and basketball games to attract hundreds of children, then gave them full-body baptisms into a faith that is foreign to many of them, parents charge. Prosecutors and police in five communities are investigating the complaints against Anchor Baptist Church. Parents say the church enticed teen-agers and younger children onto buses on at least two occasions in July. Instead of getting pizza, the chil­dren allegedly were taken to the church in Woburn, made to sit through a long service, then told to undress and put on robes. Those who complied were quickly dunked into a tank of water, parents say. Many of the children from Woburn, Medford, Stoneham, Cambridge and Somerville are Roman Catholic. At least one family involved is Buddhist. "They didn't tell us about Mass or anything," said Rosa Vazquez, 14, a Catholic who attend­ed a service with a friend but wouldn't go through the baptism. "They just told us about the good stuff." No one responded by phone or in person at the white wooden church. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather ®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Aug. 28. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Wednesday~ Thursday ~ Friday " 
~ Saturd~y ~ 


··.,,. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 Accuweather, Inc. 

Pressure
Sunday / ~ 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
:> ~--""" t'-,-..._ ,/;/\<·: ,.~ . 'V'' 
~\)~ '.= ............/ ""' 


Atlanta 88 70 Dallas 90 72 Minneapolis 84 59 Baltimore 84 63 Denver 87 58 New York 85 67 Boston 80 63 El Paso 85 70 Philadelphia 86 66 Chicago 82 59 Las Vegas 105 76 San Diego n 65 Cleveland 80 56 Miami 89 76 Seattle n 57 
4,~,~~~~ (f  ~ a$A  
Showers  T-storms Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press GmphicsNst  

....·-.-·....................................~•-••-•-•····-·-···~--· ...........
_........._ 

----------~-­
Wednesday, August 28, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
"I shoulda bought used..:'
Kitchner settles in at SMC 
Educational Psychology from by the Lilly Foundation and theNew registrar Texas A & M University. For the Association of Independent past 20 years, Kitchner has Colleges of Indiana. The three­brings credentials worked in registrar services at year statewide project seeks to colleges in Texas and New determine the reasons studentsfrom all over U.S. York. leave independent colleges in After four years at Wells Indiana and also seeks to
By LAURA SMITH 
College, a women's college in increase their retention rate.

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
New York, Kitchner heard "At Saint Mary's, we don't On July 15, the Saint Mary's 
about the position at Saint have much of a problem with Mary's from Notre Dame retention rates," Kitchner said,College community welcomed a 

Registrar Harold Pace. "Harold "but we want to know why

new registrar, Lorraine 
Pace is a good friend from some students do leave and

Kitchner. Kitchner replaced 
Texas A & M. He told me about address their needs." 

Sister Francesca Kennedy who 
the job and I decided to go for According to Kitchner, her

retired in the spring after 23 
it," Kitchner said. long-term goal for the regis­

years at Saint Mary's. 
"I am happy to be at Saint trar's office is to become more

"Saint Mary's is such a 
Mary's," added Kitchner. "I've computerized. "Not overnight," 

friendly and gracious place," 
enjoyed my first month here. she clarified. "But eventually,

said Kitchner. "I really appreci­
After my experience at Wells, I I'd like to see less things done

ated the warm welcome I 
appreciate the values of a manually. I think that will be

received here." 
women's college and I'm excit­to everyone's advantage." 

Moving to South Bend in July 
ed to add the Catholic values ''I'm not interested in making

marked Kitchner's first trip to 
now." changes too quickly," she

the Midwest. After receiving a 
In addition to her duties as added. "But there may be

bachelor's in Physical 
registrar, Kitchner is assigned things I see as I go along that I

Education and Hecreation at 
to several committees. She is can improve based on my expe­

the State University of New 
also chair of the Retention and rience. I want to make things

York in Hockport, Kitchner 
Persistence Project sponsored easier for everyone involved." 

received a master's in 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

The Observer/Dove Murphy 

Students wait in line to purchase books at the Hammes Bookstore, a proud fall tradition at ND. 

Holy Cross College celebrates 30 years 
Special to The Observer 
Representing 15 different states and several foreign countries, the student body at Holy Cross College is helping the school celebrate its 30th anniversary this year, com­memorating three successful decades of liberal arts educa­tion at the Catholic, two-year institution. 
Located on US 33 North, south of Saint Mary's College and across from the University of Notre Dame and the WNDU Stations, Holy Cross College was founded in 1966 by the Brothers of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. Since the school's founding, the College has been known for providing a quality liberal arts education in an intimate, personal setting that meets the needs of a vari­ety of students. Credits earned at Holy Cross are transferable to colleges and universities throughout the United States. 
Under the guidance of Brother Richard Gilman, CSC, president of Holy Cross, the College welcomes more than 440 students back to campus this year. 
Just as Holy Cross students enjoy the privilege of using cer­tain facilities at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, students at those institutions are eligible and encouraged to take advan­tage of the facilities on the Holy Cross campus. Attendance to and use of the College's library and computer laboratory may be gained by presenting a valid student identity. 
The Holy Cross College Library is a member of the State University Library Automation Network, a large information and resource-shar­ing network linking Indiana's private and public colleges and universities, allowing access to the vast collections at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as other member institutions. 
The Hammes Bookstore on the campus of Holy Cross College has undergone a major renovation and now offers a wide variety of clothing items, in addition to books, school supplies, cards, and gifts. 
Students, parents and friends who are interested in learning more about Holy Cross College are invited to attend Fall Open House to be held from 1 to 3:30 
p.m. on Sunday, October 27, on the Holy Cross campus. Visitors to the open house may tour campus and attend information sessions on admission require­ments and procedures, curricu­lum and academic advising, class scheduling, transfer admission procedures, finan­cial aid, and the College's new residential life program which will begin in the fall of 1997. 
PLEASE RECYCLE 
THE OBSERVER 
··Fresnman-~--o,-·_----···~ 
l 

're the Best! i ' '  

~-··~,~~-,.,~ ~~.: 

Karin Boergers Katie Marchetti Mariheth Krzywicki Stephanie Smith Sinead Keegan Megan Shepherd Mary Laflin Colleen Dolan 
l~an~~! rou Wea~e e~ It! 

USED FURNITURE I~• Household Items -Clothing 
® The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 10% Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty
#288-2539
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Discount With 1.0. 


-~-~--­
Wednesday, August 28, 1996
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 




Toddler seeks normalcy 
Kwiat 
continued from page 1 

a family feeling." 
Later, Patty's friends from Farley found a scrapbook that Patty had kept in her closet. "She had clipped every single Notre Dame football game since freshman year. Every single card that anyone had ever sent to her was there," Connell said. "She had everything. 
"To see everything she )lad preserved during her time here, that was great." 
"Everyone was having a great time talking about Patty, just looking through her stuff," Yeend said. "She was very happy, outgoing and friendly. Happy is just the word for her. She had a great laugh." 
Yeend remembered celebrat­ing St. Patrick's Day with Patty during their freshman year. "She thought that, because we were at Notre Dame, we just had to have this big celebra­tion," Yeend said. "She planned to have green beer, every­thing." 
"She was in her heyday that day," Flynn remembered. "She was holding her mug full of green beer, wearing a green foam hat that said, 'Kiss me, I'm Irish,' and she was talking to everyone. I think she was really upset when the adminis­tration decided to change the schedule so St. Patrick's Day fell on spring break." 
Her enthusiasm also ran strong for Bob Marley and "Animal House." 
"She was a huge Bob Marley fan. She would play Bob Marley on our voice-mail," Yeend con­tinued. "And Animal House was her favorite movie. She made us watch it so much." 
Patty's friends said she was 
known for her fondness of 
movies in general. "She had an 
incredible movie collection," 
Connell said. "The poster of 
(John) Belushi from 'Animal 
House' -that was her favorite 
poster." 
But mixed in with all the 
great memories is the realiza­
tio-n that all the plans that 
Kwiat and her friends had for 
the future and for this, their 
senior year, are lost. Kwiat was 
considering going to law school 
after graduation. 
"It's just not fair. We were 
looking forward to this year," 
Yeend said. "She and our 
friends were going to come out 
to my place in California for fall 
break, and after we graduated 
we were going to road trip 
across the country. 
"She always wanted to road 
trip to Gracela·nd, too. We 
never did." 
Road trips were something 
Patty loved. Connell remem­
bered a road trip they took to 
visit Connell's brother at 
Marquette University in 
Milwaukee. "We had a really 
good time together. but we 
didn't do anything in particu­
lar," Connell said. "That was 
the neat thing about Patty. She 
didn't have to be anything extra 
special." 
"I just wish everyone had a 
chance to know her as well as 
we did," Yeend said. "She'll be 
with us throughout this year." 
The residents of Farley Hall will host a private remem­brance ceremony in the near future in Patty's honor. An all­campus memorial service at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is 


Fraud 
continued from page 1 
However, the latest update Hand received on the matter indicated that the case was being turned over to the District Attorney's office. 
Security could not confirm or deny that the reports were made or whether there is a suspect in the case, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of student affairs, who cited legal complications with the issue of the privacy of the students involved. 
Mike Wadsworth, the University's athletic director, claims that Gottlieb's decision to leave had nothing to do with any allegations that may have been against him, although he did not acknowl­edge any. 
"At the time Doug Gottlieb left the University, it was of his own free will,'' he said. 
Gottlieb had been quoted previously as stating the pri­mary motives for his depar­ture from Notre Dame were homesickness and the desire to play basketball in an offense more suited to his abilities. 

Doctors operate to reverse hair, cancer growth 
By CHRISTOPHER McDOUGALL 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
A toddler with a rare condi­tion that makes her face hairy like a werewolfs began a series of operations today, aimed at improving her appearan~e ".500 percent" and, more important, keeping her safe from cancer. 
Children in her native Puerto Rico would run away scream­ing from 2-year-old Abys DeJesus. Adults would often stare and mutter about the mask of denS6t brown hair over her nose and half her face. 
Abys faced a life of isolation, as well as the possibility of an early death from her condition, known as congenital hairy nevus. 
But a Philadelphia pediatric surgeon says a three-month procedure could leave the girl nearly unscarred, and virtually remove the risk that the furred patch may develop into a highly dangerous form of skin cancer. 
"The operation should improve her appearance 500 percent," said Dr. Adrian Lo of St. Christopher's Hospital. 
The first of a series of opera­tions began this morning. Surgeon plans to insert balloon­like implants into Abys' fore­head, cheek, nape, and neck ­five in all -and gradually expand them with saline solu­tion. Lo has used the technique in other reconstructive surg­eries, but nothing this exten­sive. 
The idea is to stretch the skin of the girl's face bit by bit. After two months, the implants will be removed, the hairy por­tion of her skin will be cut away, and the extended flesh stitched over the large abscess. 
The result is expected to be much more attractive than a skin graft, which often leaves odd puckers and valleys because of the thinner skin employed. 
There will be some peripheral scarring from the stitches, Lo said, but few other signs. 
"She's a darling girl, and this will give her a chance for a happier life," Lo said. 
The girl's mother, 18-year­old Cindly DeJesus, and father came to the United States look­ing for help when they heard about Lo from a friend who worked at St. Christopher's. 
"Doctors in Puerto Rico told us she had cancer and all they could do was measure it," DeJesus said. "We spent all the money our friends and family could raise, but we had to do something for her." 
The girl's condition is extremely rare and reported only a few times in medical journals, where it was once described as "human werewolf syndrome," Lo said. 
Neither her 11-month-old sis­ter, Luisette, nor her newborn brother, Luis, are similarly affiicted, nor is anyone else on either side of the family. 
The family is staying in a sparsely furnished tenement apartment in North Philadelphia. 
Abys is mostly kept inside with her Barney doll, rarely taken outdoors to face her neighbors. 
"A beautiful little baby like Abys deserves better than that," said her grandmother, Marta Cintron. 
"So sweet and coquettish, she shouldn't have to stay inside." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


Wednesday, August 28, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

First Lady speaks to convention for balance 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 

Illustrator 

If you are interested in an· exciting and exotic job, 
experience drawing for The Observer. Please contact Ed Leader at 634-4428, or stop up at The Observer. 
said Republican Gov. John Engler of Michigan, one of sev­eral GOP officials giving his party's view of the convention. Engler said the Democrats were hoping Jackson would criticize Clinton's decision to sign the welfare bill so they "can show how macho and tough we are because we signed this bill." 
Often identified with the lib­eral wing, Mrs. Clinton gave no advance hint of her speech, but it was a safe bet she will focus on children and the political power of women. In a CNN interview, she defended her husband's decision to sign the welfare bill opposed by many convention delegates. 
"This bill does a lot of good things that need to be done. I 



oil ball­Shamrock Classic 
Aug 30th  Central Florida  7:00PM  
Aug 31st  Toledo  1:00PM  
Aug 31st  South Carolina  


Sept 6th Wisconsin Sept 8th Washington 
• 
FREE SOCCER BALLS GIVEN AWAY AT ALL WOMEN'S SOCCER GAMES. 

• 
FREE POSTERS FOR THE FIRST 500 KIDS 16 AND 


don't think it was that flawed," she said. 
Cuomo said he would make clear his opposition to the wel­fare measure, which puts a five-year lifetime cap on cash assistance to the poor and requires them to find jobs with­in two years. Jackson called 
Clinton's decision to sign the 
bill "a very hurtful thing to 
..
d0. 
Included in the initiative is 
money for his ArneriCorps pro­
gram so national service work­
ers can teach more children to 
read. 
The president will focus on 
the environment on 
Wednesday, proposing ways to 
improve toxic waste cleanups 
and develop so-called "brown 
field" sites in inner cities. 
His party's platform, sched­
uled for approval today, backs 
the death penalty for a range 
of crimes and calls for prose­cuting young people as adults when accused of serious crimes. The document decries a "failed welfare system." 
Republicans called it hypo­critical. 
"It says President Clinton and the Democratic Party have waged an aggressive war on drugs, when the facts are the Democratic Party's run up the white flag on the war on drugs," said Republican National Committee chairman Haley Barbour. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich's spokesman was asked to assess the Democrats' opening night. "There were a lot of very nice· speeches last night, but I don't think they will have any particular effect on the election," Tony Blankley told "Fox Morning News" today. 
On the Democratic conven­tion's opening night, the hall rocked with chants of "Four more years" as delegates waved their red, white and blue "Clinton-Gore" signs. 
When Vice President AI Gore appeared on the floor briefly in a surprise appearance. dele­gates crowded around and yelled "Four more and then Gore!" 
With polls indicating the Democratic ticket recovering some of the ground lost during the Republican convention in San Diego, the Democrats were upbeat. 
"There is a lot of spontaneity in this campaign. I think it's going to be a lot of fun this fall," said Cindy Domenico, a delegate from Boulder, Colo. 
Mrs. Clinton also showed up for the Monday night session in time for the appearance of James and Sarah Brady, who thanked the president for sign­ing a gun control bill. 
Walking slowly with the help of a cane, the former press sec­retary to President Reagan made his way to the podium. 
"Jim, we must have made a wrong turn," deadpanned Mrs. Brady. "This isn't San Diego." 
Brady was left partially para­lyzed when he was shot in the head during the 1981 assassi­nation attempt on Reagan. Since then, his wife has been a strong advocate of gun control and lobbied for the legislation that bears his name. 
Later, actor Christopher Reeve, speaking haltingly from his wheelchair, told the hushed hall that as politicians rush to balance the budget "we've also got to take care of our family ­and not slash programs people need." 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 

Seeking political balance, Democrats hear tonight from Ilillary Hodham Clinton and Jesse Jackson as they reach for the eenter with a platform that is tough on erime and calls for a balanced budget. President Clinton assailed those who try to eram him into an ideological box. 
"If you spend more money you're a Democrat," he said in an interview broadcast today on CBS. "If you spend less you'rtl a Hepublican. If you're a Democrat who spends less you must not have a conscience.... I believe that politics should be more about what to do than who to blame." 
Education was the theme as the Clinton campaign train moved across Michigan toward the eonvention that will nomi­nate him for a second term on Wednesday. 
At Wyandotte, Mich .. he called for a $2 billion program to teach all children to read by the third grade. The program would recruit 30,000 reading specialists to work with what Clinton called "a citizen army of volunteers." 
Earlier, the president visited a Jeep plant in Toledo, Ohio, and watched the two millionth Cherokee come off its assembly line. 
"You proved one more time that whenever we're given a chance to compete we can be the best in the world," he told cheering workers. 
Jackson and former New York Gov. Mario Cuomo, voices from a liberal tradition spurned by Clinton, get their moment on the podium tonight. But the prime time slots go to Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana, the more moderate convention keynoter, and to first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
"I intend to speak about tra­ditional values and what we can do to renew them," Bayh said. He will talk about the need "most importantly to cre­ate a better world for our chil­dren," he added. 
The convention speeches and platform define Clinton's Democratic Party and try to co­opt political ground held by the 

AP/Bob Bianchini 
Republicans over the past decade and a half. 
"That certainly is the goal," 




page6 


~ -~------........------·~ --------~­
-----~ 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Wednesday, August 28, 
nd 

Fest, 



Acoustic
Re~~ae 
g "Uraeus
featU I d Free T -shirtbtieddlcte, an 


Cafe
make ea d
necklaces. an 

CushIn. g Auditorium 
arm chains 

at the Huddle
10:30 pm. $2.00 Admission 
9 pm-12:30 am
F. ld House Mall 
Ie 6-9 pm 

, I 

0 tdoor Movies 
Uon North Quad 
8:30pm. , 
"The Lion King 
10:00 pm "Seven" 
Free popcorn and soda 

"Dead Man Walking" 
"Dead Man Walking" 
h. g Auditorium
Cusm 0 m 
8 pm and 10:3 . p $2.00 Admission 

I 

Wednesday, August 28, 1996 The Observer • WORLD NEWS page 7 

Island residents try to outbid millionaires 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associat<J Pross Writ<r 
ISLE OF EIGG, Scotland 

for $3 million, you could become the laird of Eigg, rul­ing an island of rare beauty and isolation, kissed by the Sound of Hhum and just north of the Isle of Muck. 
Hut buyer beware: There's no electricity, the cows have been sold and the derelict mansion suffers from dry rot. What's more, most of the island's 60-odd residents are conspiring to outbid you. 
Fed up with absent and sometimes eccentric land­lords, Eigg's residents appealed Tuesday for dona­tions to help take their home off the millionaires' market for good. 
Karen llelliwell, a director of the Isle of Eigg Trust, said the trust hopes to raise $1.2 million in donations, and the rest of the purchase price from charity funds. 
"We will never be able to build up this island unless we can own it for ourselves," she told about 30 people who turned up for a news confer­ence in a shack near the laird's crumbling 17 -room mansion. 
Eigg, pronounced "egg," lies an hour's boat ride west of mainland Scotland. In 30 years it has had five owners, each of whom promised investment and development. None has delivered. 
The relationship between landlord and tenant is sensi­tive in Scotland. Residents of Eigg are still officially described as "vassals" and the owner -or laird -as "feudal superior." 
Islanders have few good words for Keith Schellenberg, the industrial heir who bought Eigg for $375,000 in 1976. After he sold it in 1995 for $2.3 million, he needed a police escort to get off the island. 
"He kept everything here like the 1920s because he loved that decade. It ultimate­ly inspired the islanders, who would otherwise lack confi­dence, to rebel," said Daniel Morgan, who has lived on Eigg for two years researching a doctoral dissertation on the island's landlord-tenant strug­gle. 
On Jan. 5, 1994, Schel­lenberg's beloved 1927 Rolls Royce Phantom was burned down to the frame when the shack where it was stored caught fire. Locals recall the episode with some relish. 
"That shack was a disaster waiting to happen," said Anne Campbell, 64. 



3 companies plead guilty to price-fixing 
By MICHAEL). SNIFFEN 
Associatrd Pross Writ<r 
WASHINGTON 

Two .Japanese companies, the New Jersey subsidiary of a Korean company, and three exPcutives agreed today to plead guilty to conspiring to fix worldwide prkes for an animal feed additive and to pay $20 million in lines. 
The guilty plea agreements were the first charges in the .Justice Department's investiga­tion of price-fixing in the food and feed additive business, which also has targeted the giant American food process­ing company, Archer Daniels Midland. 
No charges were filed against ADM. But the govern­ment said its investigation was continuing against companies it would not name. 
Deputy Assistant Attorney General Gary H. Spratling, head of the antitrust division's criminal enforcement, said, "All of the eorporate and indi­vidual defendants already have begun to cooperate with the government's ongoing investi­gation." 
The case involved lysine, an amino aeid used to ensure proper growth of swine and poultry and a $600 million industry in itself. 
A criminal felony case was filed in U.S. District Court in Chicago today charging that the six defendants conspired among themselves and with unnamed others to suppress and eliminate competition in the lysine market from June 1992 through .June 27, 1995. It charged a violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. 
Those charged were: 
-Ajinomoto Co. Inc. of Tokyo and its former general manager of the feed additives division, Kanji Mimoto. Mimoto lives in Japan. 
-Kyowa llakko Kogyo Co. 
Ltd. of Tokyo and its former general manager of the agri­cultural products department, Masaru Yamamoto. Yamamoto lives in Japan. 
-Sewon America Inc., locat­ed in Paramus, N.J., and its president, Jhom Su Kim. Sewon America is a subsidiary of Sewon Company Ltd. of Seoul, South Korea. Kim is from Korea and lives in New Jersey. 
If the plea agreements are accepted by the federal court, as expected, Ajinomoto and Kyowa Hakko will pay the maximum fine of $10 million each and Sewon America will pay a fine as large as the court deems it can reasonably afford to pay. 

3833 405B 4307 414 3837 416B 3838 418B 3839 423C 4308 426B 3842 431 
3846 445A 
3847 464 3848 468 

Ameri~ans oppose vouchers 
By DEB RIECHMANN 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Most Americans say parents should not be able to send their children to private schools at public expense, and they don't want tax dollars used to support religious and private schools, a new poll has found. 
But critics say the poll by an educators' group distorts Americans' views about public versus private education, a topic that has divided the Democratic and Republican presidential camps. Such critics say if more probing questions were asked, the poll would have uncovered growing dissatisfaction with public schools. 
The Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup Poll, released today, says the public rejects by a 61 percent to· 36 percent margin the idea of letting students and their par­ents choose a private school to attend at public expense. 
A smaller majority, 54 per­cent, opposes the idea of a voucher system that would allow parents to choose a public, private or church-related school with the government paying all or part of the tuition. 
Republican presidential nomi­nee Bob Dole supports vouchers -tax-backed coupons that par­ents can use to send their chil­dren to a public, private or parochial school of their choice. 
President Clinton embraces the idea of giving parents more choice among public schools, but he draws the line at passing out vouchers for private or reli­gious schools. 
"It shows that the public knows it's dead wrong to take taxpayer dollars out of public education," Education Sec­retary Richard Riley said about the poll. "The parents of public school students and the American people as a whole rejected vouchers by wide mar­gins." 
Keith Geiger, president of the National Education Association, the nation's largest teachers' union, said: "This latest poll should lay to rest the myth that the American people believe that vouchers are the answer to improving education." 
In 1993, only 24 percent said they favored allowing students and parents to choose a private school to attend at public expense. The new poll said that if cost were not a factor, 63 per­cent of public school parents would keep their child in public schools. 
Chester Finn Jr., a fellow at the Hudson Institute, a conserv­ative think tank based in Indianapolis, said public educa­tion leaders should be more open to the idea of letting poor children use vouchers to attend private schools. 
"Denying such children the 
option of attending those 
Tax support for private schools 

National results of a Phi Delta Kappa/Gallup poll Do you favor or oppose allowing 
students and parents to choose a private school to attend at public 
expense? 0 Favor • Oppose 

74% 
~33% 
-65% 

~61% 
Aproposal has been made that would allow parents to send their school-age children to any public, private, or church-related school they choose. For those parents choosing nonpublic schools, the government would pay all or part of the tuition. Would you favor or oppose this in your state1 
D Favor • Oppose 
~-:J~~o 
-54% 
Survey of 1,329 adults by telephone in May.The margin of error was about 3 percent. Figures may not add up to 100% because 'Don't know' 
schools means that the very stu-La_n_sw_e_rs_ha_ve_n_o_tbe_e_n_inc_lu_d_ed_.______J dents whose needs are greatest 
access to alternatives that could 
are barred by a condition com­improve their life chances and 
pletely outside of their control -expand their educational oppor­their parents' income -from 
tunities," Finn said Monday. 
ATTENTION ALPP MAJORS 

THERE Wll.L BE AN IMPORT ANT MEETING FOR 
RLL ALPP STUDENTS 
THURSDAY, AUGUST 29 IN 204 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL ACCORDING TO THE FOLLOWING SCHEDULE: 
SENIORS  4:30-5:00  
JUNIORS  5:00-5:30  
SOPHOMORES  5:30-6:00  

The English Department is pleased to announce that the following classes have been opened up.to all University 
Juniors and Seniors: 
Function of Criticism Feminist Theory & Textual Practice Literature & Culture of the Avant-Garde lbsenism & The New Drama British Novel: Representations of Class Japanese Classical Theatre The Popular Tradition in Medievalism 
17th Century British Literature Woman Writers-Victorian Period Victorian Poetry 


These Classes will fulfill your Literature Requirement. 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, August 28, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 63.1-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
&litor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
M;uuging &litors Business Manager 
Patricia Carson · MattCasey 
Tom Roland News &litor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint &litor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports &litor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent &litor...........................Jooy Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo &litor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Maty's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint spare is available to all members of the Norte Dame/Saint Maty's com­
munity and to all •'"aders. The free expression of vatying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-53!3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Maty's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• Goo rlliFE 
Hunger strikes 
"For what do you hunger. and how do you wish to be fed?" 

This theme of a Sunday sermon encompasses a host of possi­
bilities, both in matters of faith and daily life. Going back to the 
Israelites travelling with Moses in the desert -grumbling 
against God and lovingly being fed with manna -up to the pre­
sent day when wide-spread homelessness and hunger are com­
mon, the question can provoke much thought. 

College students always seem to be hungry. Part of the physi­
cal growth process requires eating more food. which provides 
the vitamins and energy to stay healthy. On this campus alone, 
a variety of food is available to satisfy most cravings. As indi­
viduals, though, we know there is more to "hunger". 

The renewed interest in spirituality in all its forms -Eastern, 
Western and in between -gives evidence that spiritual hunger 
is prevalent in modern society. For what do we hunger, when it 
comes to the soul? Is it peace, contentment, happiness, a rela­
tionship with a loving God? How do we wish to be fed? Does 
the holy word provide sustenance, or the communion shared 
during the Mass and other church services, or a small group 
united in prayer? Indeed, unless we know the reason for our 
hunger, we can never be satisfied. 

Then, there is the more tangible, real hunger that surrounds 
us on a daily basis. News reports often comment on war-torn 
areas of the world where children are starving. Right here in 
South Bend, there are homeless shelters and soup kitchens to 
stave off the effects of physical hunger. Perhaps we who under­
stand our personal hunger can reach out to others in need, 
feeding them both in body and spirit. 

Not that a formal kind of "preaching" is involved in sating 
one's spiritual hunger. For many, it is just the physical pres­
ence of someone who cares, who smiles, who speaks a word of 
encouragement, who scoops the mashed potatoes and gravy. A 
soul can even be revived from "starvation" through a chance 
encounter on the street, if only we are willing to share our 
abundance. 
It is wise to take a look every so often at our own hungers ­

which may change as we grow and move from situation to situ­
ation-and those hungers facing the world. Notre Dame offers 
many opportunities to reflect upon life: retreats, prayer groups, 
and other programs. These are sponsored by Campus Ministry, 
the Center for Social Concerns and others. 

The reason you have come to this place may be that you 
hunger for knowledge, but we all, in various ways, hunger after 
more. May we all come to understand this hunger, be fed, and ·reed others! 
Julie Ferraro is the secretary of the Freimann Life Science Center. 
• DOO!\IESBURY 


Lord save the student who prays 
Some people consider the Hebrew, Christian and other Scriptures to be just so much "good reading." Scholars have 
Julie Ferraro 

a tendency to "tear it apart." Those of us "in the middle" have to muddle our way through, hoping that God will show us what is meant on the page. We contemplate the Word -in whatever form ­and try to apply it to our per­sonal lives. 
Benedictines and oiher reli­gious communities who follow the Rule of St. Benedict) have maintained a tradition of "lee­
tio divina." While the transla­
tion may seem tame as "divin~ 
reading," it is so much more! 
When a person sits quietly, entering into a slow, prayerful reading of Scripture or other spiritual texts .(quality, not quantity counts here}, and lets the words really "speak" to the soul, faith becomes a truly 
,invigorating aspect of life. It is possible to see that what the prophets said, or Jesus did, has an enduring meaning for each of us in these last few years of the century. 
Christ's temptation in the desert (Matthew 4:1-11, Luke 4:1-13) really hit home for me. What the Gospel writers were trying to do by specifying the temptations of turning a stone to bread, being offered the kingdoms of the world, and Jesus throwing himself off the Temple, was to make it clear that we all. as humans, are tempted toward self-satisfac­tion or selfishness, wealth and power. 
For each individual, the "tests" come in different forms, but they do come. We are brought closer to Jesus when we read how, in his humanity. he shared this com­mon ground. 
In lectio divina, a reading of this or any other text could have a tremendous impact on one's faith. While our unique­ness will give each one of us a different "slant" or interpreta­tion on the passages, what will come shining through is how much God loves us uncondi­tionally. 
I suppose it's clear by now that I am a big proponent of prayer. No matter to what "religion" a person ascribes, prayer can be the unifying ele­ment in these rather frazzled college years. 
Even individual interpreta­tion of the methods of prayer will be different, but however you do it, it's worth the effort. 

God calls to youth 
The answer is multiple choice 
A young woman attending a vocation retreat had been to "clown school" and was seeking an Order in which she could use her training as a ministry to children. A parish priest is also an actor in civic theatre. All manner of creative opportunities for those in God's ser­vice have sprung up since Vatican II, touching the lives of the faithful beyond the traditional Sister-as-teacher, and Priest-at-the-pulpit. 
Today, -Some Orders have Sisters and Brothers working in fast food restaurants, offices, even construction crews. Priests are no longer restricted to parishes or college classrooms. They are allowed to develop their creative talents, whether as clowns, actors, writers of fiction, musicians and astronomers. 
For this reason, more young people should 
be attracted to answer God's call. What bet­ter way to spend a life than as a fully human person whose being is united with the Almighty in prayer? 

Unfortunately, modern culture continues to distract youngsters from this goal with the prospect of wealth, power and "security." 
Not to say that a religious vocation is a "shield" of safety. Still, to walk among God's people with a prayer on one's lips and over­flowing one's heart, whatever happens does not "endanger" an individual's possessions or social status. With a little creativity -for instance, sponsoring an acting troupe for underprivileged children to help them deal with neglect, violence or abuse -such tragedies might be prevented from occurring in the future. 
There are bumper stickers that read, "All Kids Have Talent." It is just a matter of dis­covering where one's talent lies and putting it to use. What better way to give praise to Him Who has gifted us with these talents than to use them in His service? 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• O.tHffE OF THE DAY 

"Men should utter nothing 
for which they would 
not willingly be responsible 
through time and in eternity.." 
-Abraham Uncoln 
------~ 

~ ~ 






ACCENT -­
Wednesday, August 28, 1996 page 9 
More than just a tan 
Students travel around the world in 90 days 
•AcCENT ASKS... 
What did you 
do this summer? 
"I taught Marketing in Estonia" 
John Kelly Junior, Morrissey 


"I spent the summer with my friends." 
Maria Hrvatin Freshma~, Farley 
"I went to my lake­house, jetskied and went to the gym everyday." 
Brian McMullen Freshman, Dillon 


"I worked a little bit and tried to live it up before college." 
Kristen Bogner Freshman, Badin 
"I joined the circus as a clown." 
Adam Andres Sophomore, Flanner 


Summer Service Projects 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Forget about flipping burg­ers, lying on the beach, or suit­ing up for a corporate intern­ship. For many Notre Dame students, summer vacation meant the opportunity to spend eight unforgettable weeks par­ticipating in a Summer Service Project at locations across the country. 
·Aside from a two month immersion into the project of their choice, students also receive 3 Theology credits through the Center for Social Concerns. In addition, the par­ticipants keep a journal detail­ing their experience, and are required to submit a conclusive paper once they return to ND in the fall. 
While eight weeks might seem like an eternity to some students, many of the Service Project participants find it barely enough time to scratch the surface of the ongoing problems and concerns that face the organizations they are serving. 
According to senior Bryan Mason, the biggest adjustment was the transition from the tranquil confines of Notre Dame to the inner city sur­roundings of Kansas City. Mason worked as a tutor and mentor for the after school program at St. Monica's School. 
"Almost every kid there came from a broken family," Mason said. "You had to get used to hearing gun shots at night and such, but I think that most of theses kids were young enought that they're still 'just kids.' They still have their innocence, even in those sur­roundings." 
With the opportunity to work at locations around the coun­try, some participants had to confront unfamiliar surround­ings as well as challenging responsibilities. Junior Catherine Gehred, who trav­eled to Kokomo, Indiana to work at a YWCA day camp and battered women's shelter remembers, "I was going into a situation where everyone was a stranger, and it was hard to adjust to that. But I got to stay with alumni families, and they were absolutely great." 
While alumni homes hosted some students, several stayed on site at their organization. Senior Carlene Costello lived alongside staff members at Rachel's Women's Center in San Diego, California, and notes that it really helped her to fully understand the unique needs of the women she served. 
"It wasn't a physically exhausting job, but it was emo­tionally draining,'" Costello said. "It was wonderful to stay with the staff members, and many of them were in recovery themselves. They are such ter­rific examples for the women who live there." 
Participants worked at every level of the organizations, from daily staff services such as laundry and food preparation to counseling and therapy ses­sions. However, nearly all noted that nothing can fully prepare someone for the Service Project experience. 
One new addition to the pro­gram this summer involved the Street Teams organization in Calgary, Canada. Junior Brendan Kelly chose the pro­ject, which works with young girls suffering from the effects of prostitution. 
"It was unreal," Kelly said. "I mean, here are these girls who all their lives have been abused, hurt, and abandoned by the men in their lives. It was really rewarding just to be a 'nice guy' to them, someone they could trust. The most important thing we could do was just to listen, and to try to reach as many of them as we could." 
Many of the students found that the response from the peo­ple they helped was the most rewarding aspect of their expe­rience. Senior Brian Dominic worked at St. Joseph's Social Service Center in Elizabeth, New Jersey, where he helped to implement a day camp pro­gram for area children. 
"I knew I wanted to work with kids, and these kids responded really well. It was really powerful for me, and I know I want to continue ·to help children after I graduate." 
Several participants plan to apply the life lessons they gained from the Service Projects to their own futures. 
''I'm definitely more aware of the situation facing battered women," Gehred said, "and it's not the open and shut case that people often think of. I plan to be more politically active, either by writing letters or con­tinuing in service work." 
Costello noted, "it's not like it's a one time thing, or like it's eight weeks and then you close the doors. It's affected me in ways I'll never be able to explain. What I learned from these women really exceeded anything_l could have given to them, and I definitely plan to stay active in service." 
According to Mason, "being a role model was the best thing. Being able to be there for kids who have had a lot of adults desert them -it was great to be a positive influence in their lives." 
However, because of the intensity and stark reality of their situations, it was a strug­gle for some students to find the positive when surrounded by such tragedy. 
"What I saw really almost undermined my faith," Kelly said. "I'm not sure that any faith can prepare you to handle the things these girls had been through by the age of 10 or 12. It will always be with me, in every decision I make and with every opportunity I have to help other people -I'll think of these girls." 
No matter what the experi­ence, though, the Summer Service Projects provide a thought provoking and person­ally challenging chance for stu­dents to share their enthusiasm and commitment with perhaps the best "teachers" they will ever have. 

'I went to the Olympics." Ed Hussey Junior, Morrissey 

"I took a three week trip to California to get ready for college and worked:' 
Jamie Kuhn Freshman, Cavanaugh 
.­

... 
• 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, August 28, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Brewers buiiCJ. , WhiteSoxs 
CHICAGO 
Marc Newfield went 3~f(lr·•t homered and scored three runs Tuesday night. leading,g:; rlfl••n'•~·· the Milwaukee Brewers to a 3,. · 2 win over the Scltiniping Chicago White Sox~ . . . .... 
Fernando Vina's single brought in the go-ah(;lltq run 
in the seventh for' ··','., ,,..,, ..,.,,. 
Brewers, who u<iuuO::u "'"'·"~'a" its seventh 
race. 
Newfield hit a run, hi!!> fifth, inning to"give Mil•watlk• lead. Acquired trade that to San Diego, Newfield for-36 in his :1'lF.aAm>AQ 
with three ......."""''"·"'· 
RBis. 
Jose Valentin hif his 22nd homer in the ninth off Alex Fernandez 02~9} t(l pu~ Milwaukee ahead 4-2:'' · '+' Moillda;y 
Tim VanEngmond(3-3) scat~ tered six hits and walked three in 6 1~3 inning~ for the win in his seventh start witp Milwaukee. He struck out five. Mike Fetters the ninth 
Classifieds 
Cubs collapse in the eighth 
Associated Press a fly to deep right field that scored Bagwell with the go-ahead run. HOUSTON Alvin Morman (3-1) pitched the eighth, and 
Tony Eusebio tied his career high with four Xavier Hernandez got three outs for his fifth RBis, including a go-ahead sacrifice fly in the save. eighth inning, and the Houston Astros rallied for Former Astros outfielder Luis Gonzalez hit a a 6-5 victory over the Chicago Cubs on Tuesday two-run homer that gave the Cubs a 5-0 lead 
night. after three innings off Danny Darwin, who made 
The Astros, who trailed 5-0 after three innings, his first start since Aug. 12 when he was ejectedmoved 1 1/2 games ahead of St. Louis in the NL and suspended six games following a brawl with Central. the Montreal Expos. 
With Houston trailing 5-4, Craig Biggio led off Mark Grace doubled with two outs in the first the eighth. with a double off Terry Adams (2-5) inning and Gonzalez followed with his 11th and Jeff Bagwell walked. The Astros then loaded homer. the bases on shortstop Jose Hernandez's errant Grace doubled again with two outs in the third throw to second baseman Ryne Sandberg going and Gonzalez walked. Dave Magadan followed for a double play on Derek Bell's grounder. with an RBI single and Sandberg's double to cen­
Biggio scored the tying run on Bill Spiers' field­ter field scored two more runs. er's choice grounder, and Eusebio followed with 
Phillies' Williams burns Giants 
Associated Press Benito Santiago made it 1-0 in a ball that bounced away at the the first. Ruben Amaro, Jr. then plate.SAN FRANCISCO doubled to score Eisenreich. Finally in the eighth, the Mike Williams, helped by Eisenreich doubled in the Giants broke through when 
three double plays, allowed third and scored on Todd Rich Aurilla singled and scored seven hits over 7 2-3 innings as Zeile's single for a 3-0 lead. on Steve Scarsone's fifth home the Philadelphia Phillies edged Williams gave up five singles, run of the season. the San Francisco Giants 3-2 but three of those runners were Ricky Bottalico pitched the Tuesday. erased by double-play ninth for his 28th save. 
Williams (5-12) broke a per­grounders. Notes: Bautista became only sonal three-game losing streak. The Giants put two on with the eighth Giants pitcher to He walked two and struck out two outs in the fourth, but start a game this season. They 
five. Williams snared Trenidad used 11 different starting pitch­The Phillies scored two first­Hubbard's hard grounder up ers in each of the last two sea­
inning runs and one more in the middle and threw to first to sons....Barry Bonds (left ham­the third off Jose Bautista (3-3), end the threat. string) is not expected back in who lasted five innings in his In a similar situation in the the lineup until Friday at the first start of the season. seventh, Phillies catcher Benito earliest. . . . Home plate umpire 
A walk to Gregg Jefferies and Santiago threw out Hubbard Mark Hirshbeck left with an singles by Jim Eisenreich and trying to advance to second on injury to his right hand. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo) 255-1172 Hrs:M-F11-5Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix it!!! 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
Papa John's is now hiring delivery drivers, order takers and pizza makers. Top pay, flexible hours, close to campus locations. 50% off pizzas. Call your Papa now for infarmation,or stop by for an application. NO-1827 South Bend Ave. (formerly Cactus Jack's) 271­1177. SMC -North Village Mall 271-PAPA. 
HAVE AN IDEA THAT CAN BE MARKETED ON THE INTERNET? NEED PERSON CONNECTED NET TO HELP GET IT STARTED? WE CAN TALK. CALL TOM 288­5655 1010 35TH SOUTH BEND IF YOU SEE A BETTER WAY TO DO IT YOURSELF PLEASE DO IT. 

WANTED 
CHILDCARE POSITION: 
2:30 to 5:00, 3-4 days a week in our Auten Ad home for two boys, ages 7 and 9. Must have car and refer­ences. $6.50/hr Call 631-8301 day, 277-4422 evening. 
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE, Grape Road, Mishawaka, is expanding its staff for the NO Football season. Outgoing, self-motivating individu­als should apply in person. Now hir­ing for wait, bus and host positions. Come in after 3pm today! 
BABYSITTER NEEDED 1-2 DAYS 
PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER 
HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6 
& 8 FROM 3:30 PM -6:00 PM. 
MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS­
PORTATION. 
PLEASE CALL 277-5786. 
Make money selling great 
European sweaters. Call for inter­
view. 237-0866 Part!ime help at Planet Tan. Walking distance from campus. Flexible hours, $5.25 per hour. Call 277-1166 or apply in person. 2128 South Bend Ave, across from Martin's. 
MOTHER OF THREE -FOUR MONTHS TO FOUR YEARS ­NEEDS HELP WITH CHILDCAAE, TRANSPORTING CHILDREN AND LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. TWEN­TY TO TWENTY FOUR HOURS A WEEK. $6.00 TO $#6.50 PER HOUR. TIMES ARE FLEXIBLE, BUT MORNINGS PREFERRED. OWN TRANSPORTATION, REF­ERENCES, CHEERY DISPOSI­TION, AND EXPERIENCE WITH YOUNG CHILDREN REQUIRED! CALL 272-3237 TO APPLY! 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now availalbe at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 extN55848 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
College and student organizations: Do you need a fundraiser? Then we've got the answer. If your orga­nization will go aut and sign up peo­ple for the Midwest's lagest news­paper, you could make as much as $5000 for your group. For more infonnation. call Mr. Harley at 630­603-1485. 

FOR RENT 
Nice 2BA+ 1 Bath Apt. 5 mins from 
campus. 289-3790 
3BDAM HOUSE 
NORTH OF N.D. 
277-3097 
FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, 
KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF 
CAMPUS. 
272-0615. 
Student Apt. -6 blocks from campus, affordable, clean 2-bedroom furnislied-$360 Heat and water included 755 South Bend Ave. (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.) deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306 
OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4, KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL, SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200 WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219­291-5849 
ROOM CLOSE TO CAMPUS MEALS LAUNDRY CLEANING LIBRARY COMPUTER & MODEM Mike 232-0550 

FOR SALE 
Car for sale-Eagle Talon 1993 Call Mr. and Mrs. Yang 631-5884 273-8997 
89 tercel 80k auto $3200 271-8280 
Mac Pwrbk 150, $500 Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000 271-8280 
Who Needs A Bed? 2 new single beds for sale! Mattress, Boxspring, and Headboard included. Asking $275 each. Call Jarred at 
234-7601. 
1986 Accord LXi Hatchback 5 spd loaded rustproofed excellent car 1 05k miles $3500 271-1 040 
sofa sleeper for sale sleeps 2 seats 3 $200. beige, 5 yrs old i am 1 mile from nd call 272-3491 after 3 pm matt no stains,burns. 
1995 MOTORCYCLE SUZUKI 
DR DUAL SPORT, 
EXCELLENT CONDITION, 
$3,300. 277-3670. 
KINGSIZE WATEABED WITH 
WAVELESS MATTRESS & 
HEATER. BEST OFFER OVER 
150.00 277-1711 
TICKETS~ I 
G.A.s SEASON TICKETS G.A WANTED PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN CALL; 273-6929 
Need Married Student tickets. Call soon! 272-7223 
Wanted: student season tickets. 272-7223 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TIX APPS. $CALL JENNY @ 687-8435$ 
I will pay big $$$ for student fb books. Call Katie @ 243-9038. 
Wanted: Student ticket books or student ticket applications. Callx-1035. 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND RUTGERs TICKETS AVAILABLE CALL 272-7233. 
Buy-trade all games & season GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick­up. 312-404-4903 
I need student Ticket books! Leave a message for Bryan at: 273-2812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NOTRE DAME-VANDERBILT 
TICKETS AVAILABLE 
1-800-852-7771 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! 
CALL 243-1287 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
ND ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL 2773097 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6551 
NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU SELL. 674-7645. 
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 
232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726 -P.M. 
WILL TRADE 2 VANDEABIL T TIX FOR 2 BC OR ANY HOME GAME 2773097 
FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2 OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER CALL AOBT. COLLECT 216-439-2192 AFTER 4 
NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS !I !I PLEASE CALL X3886 
WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355 
Buying N.D .. Football Tickets, Public and Faculty Seats Call 1-800-255-2850 
Will trade 4 Purdue-N.D. tkts. for 2 Texas-N.D. tkls. Call 800 572-9346 
NEED PURDUE TIX PLEASE CALL X4717 

PERSONAL 
Student Activities is accepting 
applications for: Sound Techs Set Up Crew 
Irish Express Clerks 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors 
Apply at 315 LaFortune between 8am-5pm. 
THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center is NOW HIRING student employees! Stop in for details and to apply. 
Hey!!II COME JOIN THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS (the largest ser­vice, social, and religious organiza­tion at Notre Dame, and in the country!). We're having open house every night-come by and have a Coke! 
ATTENTION ALL MACHINES 
NO's #1-rated band from last year-
R E V E R E N D F U N K 
is recruiting to its ministry two humans that play either 
TRUMPET or SAXOPHONE 
Must have superior experience, an attitude (no wallflowers), and a pair of dancing shoes to receive the funk injection. 
Make big cash playing at local 
parties and establishments, have 
fun doing what you do best, get free boarding with the band on the Interplanetary Funk Mothership, and help us spread the FUNK. 
To schedule a tryout (serious musi­cians only) call Dave at 288-9102. 
LOOK FOR REVEREND FUNK UP AND RUNNING SOON AT YOUR FAVORITE LOCAL BAA. **WARN­ING**-PREPARE TO RECEIVE FUNKINYOURMOUF. 
$5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 
SOUTH BEND 
8-5-M-F 
8-4-SAT. 
hi mrs. s, ask your son about his nametag 
She's in the car. 
I hope your at class today Flynn. It would be such a shame if your res­olution fell apart on the very first day.. 
Snyder's Pretzles-79 cents. What a bargain. That is a bargain for me. I think I will buy some. It's nice to be back. 
No one could handle a 6'3" Chiappetta-frame. 
Rich, I need cardboard support 
Jim, did you bulk up this summer? 
Nice bike C.J. 
Andres, don't be a stranger. You're one of usll 
Back in the Ioiii!! 
-~-~~___,-! 
Wednesday, August 28, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• us OPEN 
Top seeds topple in


Seles continues to fight pain 
By HAL BOCK nificant that the left-hander changes her game. fusociatcd Press used her right arm for the "I don't have the power," she 
second round of Open
demonstration. · said. "That's, to me, the hard­
NEWYOHK 
The pain in Monica Seles' shoulder is like a permanent toothache, a throbbing that won't go away. Sometimes it subsides a bit, but ultimately il's always there, a reminder that she can't hit the ball as well as she might. 
It hardly mattered on Tuesday when she wiped out Anne Miller 6-0, 6-1 at the U.S. Open. 
Except to Seles. 
She held up her arm to in­dicate how restricted her stroke is by the torn muscle in her shoulder. It was probably sig­

"My shoulder is the same," she said, sounding unchar­acteristically somber. "It is not better, but it's not worse. That's good. I think this tourna­ment. it is going to be the same as it's been the last three months." 
And that's not very good. Injured in the Australian Open, her first Grand Slam victory since coming back after being stabbed by a spectator at Hamburg in 1993, Seles has struggled through a difficult summer. 
The injury has forced her to favor the shoulder, and that 



A,.,.,."S.trong Offer 
est. Each time I serve, every third ·serve, there's just a pain. You're used to it now. I try to mix up my ball toss because I know there's one spot where it's hurting the least. Sometimes I can find it. Sometimes I don't. 
"I cannot practice my serve, so I don't have consistency there. I really cannot do much upper-weight training which is making it much weaker." 
Seles said she intends to play through the pain for now and through the Fed Cup. Then, she might face surgery, a decision that weighs heavily on her. 

Town & country Mishawaka 
·:::..  
~:\.  for Notre Dame  
... :::.  Students  

),,_.,p;·~:·,,~=··,;;::·=·~:ns! 
:·: 
Does noc irclude $10 new stOO&nt member ir4tialion fee. 
WORLD GYM 
FITNESS CENTER 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 7:00p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 

By BOB GREENE 
A<;sociated Press 
NEW YORK 
Led by defending men's champion Pete Sampras, Olympic gold medalist Lindsay Davenport and No. 2 Monica Seles, a parade of seeded players rushed into the second round of the U.S. Open today. 
Iva Majoli and Alberto Costa were not among them. 
Austria's Judith Wiesner, a surprise quarterfinalist at Wimbledon, upset the fifth­seeded Majoli 2-6, 6-3, 6-1 behind 10 aces. 
Costa, the No. 14 men's seed from Spain, was bounced by Bohdan Ulihrach of the Czech Republic 2-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-2), 3­6, 6-1. 
Sampras didn't know who his opponent would be until 20 minutes before his match. It didn't matter. 
The world's top-ranked player and top-seeded in this, the year's final Grand Slam tournament, brushed aside "lucky loser" Jimy Szymanski of Venezuela 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 in 1 hour, 27 minutes -16 min­utes shorter than it took Wiesner to topple Majoli. 
Sampras had been sched­uled to play Romania's Adrian Voinea. But when Voinea pulled out of the tournament with a sprained left ankle, Szymanski was rushed into the breach. 
It took Seles 55 minutes to crush fellow American Anne Miller, a right-hander from Midland, Mich. 
Third-seeded Thomas Muster of Austria gained a second-round berth in straight sets, downing Argentina's Javier Frana 6-1, 7-6 (7-2), 6­
2. Muster then chided those who have complained that he is ranked No. 2 in the world because of his superiority on clay. 
Asked if he should be con­sidered a favorite on the hard­courts of the National Tennis Center, Muster said: "No, because I don't know how to play on this surface. Don't for­get that." 

~OBSERVER 
Now Hiring ... 
Systems Manager 

Quark Networking 
Photo.~hop 
\X'eb Adminhtration 
F.rct·hilmJ User Training 
Illustrator 
Streamline 
Manage a staff of 
.FilcMakcr Pro
5 dedkatcd MSWord 
Systems Assistants 
Excel 
~ 
The Systems Manager is responsible for one of the largest student run networks on campus. With over 25 Macintoshes, 5 printers, 6 modems, and 4 servers, The Observer offers one of the best learning opportunities on campus for Computer Science majors. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter of intent describing your experience to Sean Gallavan at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply. 
CO~GEDUCATION 
English Classes for Speakers ofOther Languages English for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. 
Mondays, Sept. 9-Nov. 25, 6:30-9 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Specially designed to improve your business presentations. Ideal for MBA students. 
Tuesdays, Sept. 10-Nov. 26, 6:45-9:15 p.m. at rusB, $189. 
TOEFL Review 
Learn to better your score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language. 
Thursdays, Sept. 12-Nov. 7, 6:30-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for information, call IUSB Continuing Education, 237-4261. 
~ 
... 
~-~ ---~ ~--~ 
~------.~~-----~-~--~ 
r---------------~--~--~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
Defense 
continued from page 16 
backer, we're going to put some pressure on the quar­terback." 
The squad should improve upon last year's unimpressive 
190.7 yards per game against the run. With an inexperienced secondary behind them, they have little choice. 
Yes, the defensive backfield will have its problems. With junior cornerback Allen Rossum as the only starter returning, the last line of defense looks to be a prime tar­get for opposing aerial assaults. 
"We don't have much ex­perience up front, but that will change through the season," predicted cornerback Ivory Covington, the only other mem­ber of the secondary with extensive game experience. "What we do have is a group of very smart athletes who will get better and better as the season goes along." 
Covington and Rossum have assumed leadership roles in the pre-season, taking charge and keeping the group focused. 
"It's natural for our per­sonalities for us to take those positions. We're staying on the younger players, and we know a lot about game pressure. The coaches can only do so much, the rest is up to us," Covington explained. 
Despite the positive attitude the duo are maintaining, the facts remain that inexperience can be the death of a sec­ondary, and big gains erase tough front line performances. Jarvis Edison and A'jani Sanders, starting at free and strong safties respectively, must gain confidence immedi­ately to be effective. 
With opening games against Vanderbilt and Purdue, the opportunity is there to gain some experience against some teams with lesser offensive fire­power. 
But the group maintains that they plan on building intensity from game one. 
"We will play every game like it's our last," Covington stated. "We hope people come at us because it'll only mean more interceptions for our guys." 
With such inexperience in the starting four, the back-up unit is predictably green. Ty Goode and Benny Guilbeaux at safety and Shannon Stephens at cor­nerback have no game experi­ence at their positions. Freshman Deveron Harper, expected to contribute at cor­nerback, is still learning how to use the milk dispenser in the dining halls. Punter Hunter Smith is slated to step in at safety in special passing sit­uations. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Speedster Allen Rossum returns as the only member of the Irish sec­ondary with extensive experience. 

There's no doubt that oppos­ing offenses must pick on the secondary to have success against a defense stacked up front. 
"We've got positives and neg­atives, just like every other team," Davie explained. "We feel that we have more posi­tives than negatives. We should be very tough up front, and I'm confident that our sec­ondary will come into its own." 
Opposing quarterbacks will be hit with some major waves lining up against the Irish front. But it's up to the secondary to determine whether or not the defense will sink or swim. 


20% 
OFF 
All GREEN MILE CHAPTERS! 
BRAVEHEART ••~.. 15'' LORD OF Em12'' FAIRGAME .......~. 12'' 
Paramount ILLUSIONS............ Warner I!Im 1299 COPS: TOO l"lT'm''l 1499 MGM/UA COPYCAT.................... 
TVI ~ Warner
H T F R .............. .
0 0 
MVP 

M .. U·· SIC•SOFTW.·AR··· E ..~··.···.":: • ;!.M:~-:~.s;':.~~·:KS



M ..•.·.• DIAVPLAY. 
MORE CHOICE. LESS PRICE. EVERY DAY; ----. ___ Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 
STORE HOURS OPEN MON-SAT: 10AM·10PM, SUN: 11AM-7PM 
~---­

Wednesday, August 28, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 ­
• BASEBALL 
Notre Dame talent debuts in professional baseball 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Spons Editor 
When the Notre Dame base­ball team's 1996 season came to an end following a 7-1 loss to Virginia at the South Regional on May 25, it marked not only an end to a successful season, but also a completion of the col­legiate careers of several Irish players. 
Today, while the members of the 1997 squad ready for fall practice, seven players from the 1996 team are in the midst of another season -a season in professional baseball. 
The paths the seven players took to reach the professional ranks varied, as did the results they produced in their brief stints in the minors. 
Five of the seven graduated with Notre Dame degrees, while two players decided to try . their hands at professional baseball before securing their degrees. 
Christian Parker was the ear­lillst Irish player chosen, as the Montreal Expos selected the hard-throwing righthander in the fourth round of the Major League Draft. 
Parker, who showed flashes of brilliance while lacking con­sistency last season as a sopho­more, has not failed to please his new employers, posting a 5­1 record and a 2.73 EllA with the Single A Vermont Expos of the New York -Penn League. Parker has also struck out 50 while walking just 20 batters in 66 innings, and is 3-1 with a 
1.87 ERA in his last six starts. In 13 starts with the Irish as a sophomore last season, Parker posted an 8-3 record and a 4.24 ERA, while walking 41 and 
striking  out 56  in  80  2/3  
innings.  
Although  he  left  the  

University after just two years, part of Parker's contract speci­fies that the Expos are to pay for his last two years of educa­tion at Notre Dame. 
Centerfielder Scott Sollmann was the other member of the 1996 Irish squad to leave Notre Dame early, and signed with the Detroit Tigers after being drafted in the seventh round. Sollmann, the Notre Dame record holder in triples and stolen bases, shattered the school record when he swiped 52 bases in 58 attempts last 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. Join The Observer staff. Calll-7471 

•OJ and Dancing : 
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday 
•Nightly specials 
•Never a cover charge! Pizza•Hamburgers•Chicken•Appetizers 
2046 South Bend Avenue•South Bend•27-Sport 
season, and has continued his thievery on the basepaths with the Single A Jamestown Jammers, also of the New York -Penn League. In 64 games with the Jammers, Sollmann has stolen a team­high 34 bases. The lantern­jawed leadoff man is also leading the team in runs, hits, and triples, and is currently bat­ting at a .285 clip. Sollmann is just 21 cred­its shy of his college degree, and his con­tract is struc­tured in the 
NOTRE DAME 
COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
WASHINGlDN HALL--Bruce Auerbach, Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre, has announced that the annual · reception for students interested in theatre will be held Wednesday, August 28, at 6:00P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in acting, directing, sets, costumes, lights, management, or theatre a~ a major arc encouraged to attend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage manage­ment. There arc theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
This season, the Department of Communication and Theatre (COTH) will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Barefoot in the Park A Christmas Cam/ The Grapes ofWrath 
In addition, COTH will host a residency by DYNAMO THEATRE of Montreal, Canada, sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semestct All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to pirticipate. 
Auditions for the first two plays of the season will be held Wednesday, August 28, and Thurs­day, August 29, at 7:00PM. 
If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about the program, please call Bruce Auerbach at (219) 631-5957. 
1996 Baseball Draftees 
The following is alist of players whom were drafted or signed by professional ball clubs. 
George Restovich Detroit Tigers (Rd. 17) 
Bob Lisanti 
Craig Allen Rowan Richards Rich Sauget 
Scott Sollman Cristian Parker *Mike Amrhein 
Amrhein did not sign 
~--------------------------------------------------------~
same manner 
as Parker's, with the Tigers agreeing to pay for the re-. mainder of his schooling. 
Of the five seniors, first base­man/catcher George Restovich was drafted first, having been selected in the seventeenth round, also by Detroit. Restovich, who hit .336 while leading the Irish in doubles and RBI last season, got off to a brilliant start with Sollmann's Jammers. Restovich homered in his first professional at-bat, and was tearing the cover off of the ball before settling into a wicked slump that has dropped his average to .177. His early power surge apparently impressed Tiger brass however, as he was extended an invita­tion to participate in the Instructional League. 
Restovich's classmate Bob Lisanti, the scrappy catcher who hit a career-high .344 for the Irish last season, latched on to his hometown Chicago Cubs as a free agent, and has also struggled so far in the pro ranks. Lisanti is currently hit­ting .192 with 13 RBI in 36 games with the Williamsport Cubs, who compete in -you guessed it -the New York ­Penn League. 
Multi-talented outfielder Rowan Richards has met with more positive results thus far. 
Chicago Cubs (Free Agent) 
L.A. Dodgers (in '95) Texas Rangers (Rd. 47) Chicago White Sox 
(Free Agent) Detroit Tigers (Rd. 7) Montreal Expos (Rd. 4) 
N.Y. Yankees (Rd. 99) 
After injuries limited Richards to just 37 games last season, he lasted until the forty-seventh round of the draft, when the Texas Rangers selected him. Richards tore up the New York -Penn League pitching with the Hudson Valley Renegades, prompting the club to move him to the Charlotte Rangers of the Florida State League about a month ago. 
Rounding out the class of 1996 are pitchers Hich Sauget and Craig Allen. Sauget, Notre Dame's closer a year ago as a fifth-year senior, signed as a free agent with the Chicago White Sox, and is currently with the Hickory Crawdads of the South Atlantic League, where he has compiled a 2-1 record and a 4.25 ERA. Sauget has also recorded a save while striking out 33 in 42 1/3 innings. 
Allen, who fought through injuries and a disappointing fifth year last season for the Irish, has met with splendid success with the Pioneer League's Great Falls Dodgers, the Single A affiliate of the Los Angeles Dodgers. Allen, who signed with the Dodgers previ­ous to his last collegiate season, is currently 4-2 with a 3.63 ERA. He has been the work­horse of the Dodger staff, lead­ing the club in innings pitched with 57. 
Outfielder/third baseman Mike Amrhein was also drafted, but since the call did not come until the ninety-ninth round, Amrhein, who struggled at times last season, decided to remain at Notre Dame for his senior season. 
Irish baseball coach Paul Mainieri, while sad to see the familiar faces go, is at the same time proud of their accomplish­ments and optimistic regarding their futures both in and out of baseball. 
"I was really happy for all of these guys, especially the seniors," said Mainieri. " They gave a lot to the University, and were great role models. They (the graduates) have Notre Dame degrees, and will get their shot to play pro baseball as well." 
As for Parker and Sollmann, Mainieri was saddened to see them leave early, but spoke of a commitment the two had made to him. 
"I always hate to see kids leave early," commented Mainieri. "But that's the way professional baseball works sometimes. I made these guys promise me they would come back and finish their education here at Notre Dame." 
WANTED: 
20 Paid Student Callers Students looking for part-time job that will give them real life experience in an enjoyable work environment, calling alumni on behalf of the Notre Dame Annual Fund. 
REWARD: 
Training, evening hours, $5.95/hour. 
Fit the description? (No experience necessary.) Stop by one of'our information sessions on Thursday, August 29 at 4pm or 5pm at the Development Phone Center (northeast corner of Brownson Hall, 
next to Lewis Hall). ~.  
Questions? Call Katy Hart (1-7241).  •  
~e­ 

-
.., 
.. j 

--------------------~-----­
---~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, August 28, 1996 
~~----------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------­
• SAINT MARY's SoccER 
Promising coach focuses on basics 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
Ten years ago he sat down and made a list. 
A list of dreams, goals, and what he wanted to accomplish in his lifetime. 
The list just got shorter. 
Bob Sharp will cross off one of the goals on his list this Saturday when he begins his season as coach of the Saint Mary's soccer team. A task he always sought to obtain, Sharp approaches his new responsibility with an open mind. 
''I'm planning on coaching a few more years," Sharp com­mented. "I see myself coach­ing more than one year. I have a long term goal. A goal for this team to be recognized as a top Division III team-a competitive team." · 
The third soccer coach Saint Mary's has seen in three years, Sharp may be the answer to the Belles' prayers. Sharp knows the season won't magically fall into place, and intends to move one step at a time. 
Currently he has been fo­cusing on perfecting his team's fundamentals. 
"I first want the team to get a good understanding of what it takes for endurance," he said. "We've been working on the basics, and taking a fun­damental approach to the game." 
Fine tuning fundamentals, 
utilizing running and juggling 
drills, represents the first con­
centration of Sharp's three­
part coaching strategy. The 
final steps focus on skill and 
teamwork. 
"So far I have seen the team 
show endurance and skill," 
Sharp noted. "They've just touched on teamwork, but that will come when they are used to playing with each other. If we can put our endurance, skill, and team­work together, we will be suc­cessful this season." 
Sharp began playing soccer on a neighborhood team at the late age of 36. His league included several Notre Dame professors and graduate stu­dents, giving him exposure to international and national ~competitors. It was the level of the competition that caused Sharp to fall in love with the sport. 
"I really love that soccer is so physically demanding," Sharp explained. "It requires a lot of skill and quickness. And although soccer is a team sport, ultimately you have to beat someone one-on-one. You have to beat another per­son. And that what makes the sport so exciting." 
Although Sharp has never coached at the college level before, he has had plenty of experience coaching women. As the Assistant Coach of Adams High School, Sharp led his daughter's team to the state finals all four years. 
His daughter Molly and son Andy attend Notre Dame, where his wife also works at the reference desk of Hesburgh Library. 
As for his newest connec­
tion to the community, Sharp 
explains he is both impressed 
and excited about coaching at 
Saint Mary's. 
"I have been very impressed 
with the caliber of the athletic 
director and coaches that I 
have met so far at Saint 
Mary's. Everyone has been 
very supportive. Even the 
soccer field is kept in A-1 
shape." 
Recycle The Observer 
'  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8  4:05-5:05 4:05-5:05 5:20-6:20 5:20-6:20 3:45-4:45 3:45-4:45 5:30-6:30 5:30-6:30  
_.,..  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 IIi 19 20 21  6:30-7:15 am 12:15-12:45 4:05-5:05 5:20-6:20 9:00-10:00 7:30-8:30 am 12:15-12:45 3:45-4:45 5:20-6:20 5:20-6:20 4:00-5:00 5:15-5:45 6:00-7:00  
22 23  12:15-12:45 6:45-7:45  


FITNESS SCHEDULE  
FALL, 1996  
JQYCE CENTER CLASSES  
STEP  Gym 1  MIW  $25  
Hi Intensity  Gym2  MIW  $20  
STEP  Gym I  MIW  $25  
Flex & Tone  Gym2  MIW  $20  
STEP  Gyml  Tffh  $20  
Hi Intensity  Gym2  Tffh  $20  
STEP  Gym I  Ttrh  $25  
Lolmpact  Gym2  Tffh  $20  
RQCKNE CLASSES  
STEP  301  MIW/F  $30  
STEP  301  MIWIF  $25  
STEP  301  MIWIF  $35  
STEP  301  MIW  $25  
Cardio Combo  301  MIW  $20  
AeroStep Flex &Tone  301 3fii  Trrh Tffh  $25 $20  
STEP  301  Tffh  $25  
STEP  301  Tffh  $25  
STEP  .301  F  $12  
STEP  301  Su  $12  
AIIAbs  301  Su  $12  
Hi Intensity  301  Su  $12  
RQLES CLASSES  
Aquacise  MIWIF  $20  
Aquacise  Tffh  $20  

Begin the school year right by adding physical activity to your daily routine!Use the fitness classes to help maintain your wight, boost your self-confidence given you a work/study break and help manage stress. Sign-ups begin Thursday ,August 29, 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
Former North Carolina star Dante Calabria was on one of the teams, while former NBA players Thurl Bailey and Jerry Reynolds also got a chance to compete against the Irish. Each of these players witnessed a Notre Dame team that was able to get into a rhythm on offense. 
"We ran the ball much bet­ter," MacLeod said. "We moved the ball and were giving it up to each other without any hitches. We still have a long way to go on our running game, but we improved. 
"We rebounded well and we ran our sets. We got the shots we wanted to get for the most part." 
The Irish received solid play during their trip despite being hampered by injuries. Guard Keith Kurowski made the trip, 
"but did not dress. The fifth­year senior started having trou­ble with his back in May and is doubtful right now for the upcoming season. Kurowski, however, will seek a second opinion as to whether he can compete this season. 
"The prognosis was not good," MacLeod said. "It's just unfortunate for him." 
Senior Pete Miller, who will not be with the Irish this year, also went to Italy, but a shoul­der injury did not permit him to play. Miller decided to leave the team in August, but will remain in school to graduate. 
"Pete Miller has been a class­act on and off the court ever since he joined our program," MacLeod said. "He always per­formed hard for us during games and on the practice court. We will miss Pete's contributions to the team." 
Center Matt Gotsch also played after being sidelined with an ankle injury following the season. The games in Italy marked the beginning of his recovery. 
"He was like any player who was off the floor for four months," MacLeod said. "He missed most of the workouts in the off-season, but he did com­pete in Italy and was able to get some work in." 
MacLeod was also pleased with the play of both Admore White and Antoni Wyche who will now have to fill the void at guard left by Doug Gottlieb. 
"Admore is going to have a good year," MacLeod said. "Antoni also played well." 
•NBA 



Hornets gain Mason in trade 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Anthony Mason joined the Charlotte Hornets on Tuesday and wasted no time in deliver­ing a blunt message to his ex­eJilployers, the New York Knicks: You've been had. 
"I think the organization up there is really fooling them­selves," Mason said after being introduced by the Hornets, who acquired him in a trade last month that sent Larry Johnson to the Knicks. 
In addition to unloading the remaining nine years of Johnson's 12-year, $84-million contract, the Hornets, accord­ing to Mason, gave up a solid offensive player for one who is strong on both ends of the floor. 
Mason said the Knicks' defense likely will suffer as a result. 
"I think everybody ----= press, basketball people, coaches, fans -knows defense wins games," said the 6-foot-7, 250­pound Mason, who has built a reputation as one of the NBA's better defenders. "Any time that you start going the offen­sive route and start fooling yourself into thinking that you made the team better because you think you got more scoring or whatever, I think you lost a little bit." 
Mason, who averaged a career-high 14.6 points last season compared to Johnson's 20.5, said his remarks shouldn't be taken as criticism. 
"Larry played good offense. That's what he was here to do: score," Mason said. ''I'm not saying that his defense wasn't great or whatever. It's not a knock on Larry." 
Mason said he hopes the Knicks are happy with the way .the trade works out for them, because he's sure the Hornets 
will be pleased. 
"Larry shot -what -500, 
600 more shots than I did and 
averaged five more points?" he 
said. "I bring defense, I bring 
Last Chancel Fulbright Competition. 1997-98 Attention current Seniors!!!!! If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informa­tional meeting 
Thursday, August 29 7:00pm 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
/ Wednesday, August 28 \ 







l M~=~k· LSAT\
JSign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy \ 

the ability to pass, I bring the ability that a team can't trap us because I can break a press. 
"God has blessed me with a lot of ability to be very versa­tile. And any time you can get a versatile player as opposed to somebody who can do one or two things, I don't think you really lose." 
Mason would not comment on his pending felony assault case in New York. Authorities have set an Oct. 11 court date ­seven days after training camp opens -to discuss Mason's alleged role in an altercation with New York police. Mason's lawyers have said they are con­fident the charges will be reduced to misdemeanors. 
Mason, who is fond of having messages shaved into his hair, showed up Tuesday with a new one: Rebirth Of A Star. 
~"That was meant as a .collec­tive thing," he said. "Charlotte's always had a lot of talent, but never reached where they wanted to get." 
Wednesday, August 28, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON -.,_ 


DILBERT 
AT FIRST 1 THOUGHT 
'<OU COMf'\ITTE.O ME TO AN 1MP055I5LE DEADLINE.. BUT I 1-\1\VE 
A THEORETICAL !:>OLUTION. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Spacewalking in its. 
1 Poland's 31 School zone
Walesa caution
5 Prop for a Valkyrie 
35 The sun, in Sonora
10 Break in relations 36 Sharp-witted columnist Molly
14 Post-weeding blues 38 nutshell 
15 Couric of 39 Moviegoer's "Today" question 
42 ---Grande16 Nabisco snack 
17 Song question 43 Casino of1966 employee, maybe
20 Neither's partner 44 Make one's case
21 Native Oklahoman 45 E-mailed 
22 Duel 47 Bernardo's bear 
27 Bray 51 Sequel 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
53 Noted Seminole chief 57 Formerly named 58 Radio operator 61 Partygoer's . question 64 Venetian resort 65 "--Navidad!" 66 Get through the cracks 67 Tore (off) 68 Scorecard 69 Bismarck's state: Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 Spot for lenni~ 2 Repeat exactly 3 Fort Sumter 
locale 4 Riled (up) 5 Ride up the 
mountain 6 "Cry, the Beloved 
HAPPY BIRTIIDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Resist the temptation to sit back and 
watch while others compete. A dis­
appointment can be turned into a tri­
umph if you redouble your efforts. 
Welcome a last-minute opponunity 
to travel. The contacts you make in 
l 996 will help you find fame ;md for­
tune in 1997' You have the charisma 
and stamina needed to reach the top 
of your profession. Be nice to the 
people you meet as you scale the 
career ladder. Romance blossoms 
with someone who admires your wit. 
CELEBRITIES !lORN ON 
THIS DAY: actor Jason Priestley, 
baseball player Lou Piniella, actress 
Roxie Roker, first U.S.-born Saint 
Mother Elizabeth Seton. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Gentle methods work best now. Make life more fun for your loved ones. Diplomacy will get you what you want from those in authority. In romance, body language reveals all. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be satisfied with having done a great job. It may be necessary to reduce business and domestic expenditures. Emotinnal security count' hig with 
loved ones. 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Envi­ous co-workers may gossip behind your back. Ignore them. An older per­son may be qpsct if you spring a sur­prise. Make sure your family approves 
of your friends before you bring them home with you. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The emphasis now is on adding to your resources. Recycling u clever idea will reduce business costs. If you want to salvage·romance, wear your hean on your sleeve. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): High living could land you in financial 
• OF INTEREST 
hot water. Reform! Do your own 
research instead of relying on sec­
ond or third hand information. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be 
tolerant of a loved one's grumpy 
mood. You may not know every­
thing that is going on. Let family 
members know that you arc will1ng 
to listen if they want 10 talk. 
LIIIRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If 
funds are low, he resourceful. Your 
optimistic nature convinces some­
one innuential to back a pet project. 
Working in the garden or taking a 
SWim will help you unwind this 
evening. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): To avoid burnout, pace yourself. Heavy duty self-analysis is a time­waster. Romance may resemble a roller coaster. Tact will help you patch up a rocky relationship 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Enhance your leadership cre­dentials by curbing your dependen­cy on others. A loved one could question your beliefs and values. Remain calm; a compromise may he possible. 
CAI'RJCORN (Dec. 22-Jan. I<J): You need lo weigh your word, carcfuUy in all conversations. Stop worrymg abolll past failures. Putting a concept on paper could lci!d to a whole new career. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. I H): Old friends are better companions lhan newer ones tod:ry. Doing busi­ness with difficult clients can be cost­ly. Make sure any linancial •informa­l ion you receive is up-to-dat~. 
PISCES (Feb. I<). M:irch 20): Travel should prove agreeable if your expectations arc not too high. Be wary of lingering in out-of-the­way places. A social event you attend this evening coul(l11c bnring. 
IT INVOLVES FLYING 
AROUND THE EARTH 50 FA5T THI\T I TR.IWEL BACK. TO THE PAST 
SCOTT ADAMS 
t>..ND TI-\EN '<OU'LL NO, THEN I'LL HAVE GIVE YOUR ENOUG\-1 PAF\ENT5 THIS TII-\E? PAI"'\P~LET ON 
CONTRACEPTION. 
J 

Mock LSAT tonight from 5:30·9:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. Sign up in advance in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
•MENU Notre Dame 
Welcome Back Picnic at Stepan Field Dining Halls Closed 
Saint Mary's 
BBQ Chicken Bean Tostada Braised Beef with Vegetables Sauteed Pepperonata 

Now Hiring ••• 
Web Production Team Members 

NeL~.::.lpe Qu~rkXI""'"'
l"holo., u.tp 
MS \Xlord 
The Web Production Team Members are responsible for publishing the daily edition ofthe Observer on the Internet. The Observer offers one ofthe best learning opponunities for Worldwide Web publishing. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter of intent describing'your experience to Jason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFonune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply. 

1 Pilot's info. for 27 Certain short beneficiaries aDoesn't feel 28 Beast of Borden right 30 Lab glass 9Apropos 32 Probability 
10 Labor savers 33 Magic star 11 Heavy metal 34 Fairies' props 12 More than an 36 Cow-headed 
argument goddess 13 Little ones 37 Pearly Gates 18 Mogadishu figure residents 40 Pocket at the 19 One in the mall hand? 41 --Mountains 24 "OopsI" 46 Car steering 25 Flesh out element 
48 Informal, as 55 Yield conversation 56 Between ports 501994 Men's 59 San Francisco's Downhill gold founder Juan medalist Tommy Bautista de __ 52 Smithy's need . 53 Nocturnal 60 Undemandtng prayers 62 Building wing 54 Windjammer 63 Hither and -­
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: {BOO) 762-1665. 
And Productive Summer. 
Tl1e Next Fetv 1J'eeks 1Vill Be Filled 1Vith ~leeting Netv Friends Anti Reconnecting Witl• Old Friends. As You Socialize, ReJJJeJJJher To ~lake Responsible Decisions Belore 
You Drink. 1Vitltout Feeling Pressure Fro111 Otl1ers. 
Sponsored by dte OHice of Alcohol and Dnag Edueadoa 
.....,.,~ l..·-.·----_._.._._..._._,.._.. 
-

Welcome Back!! 
-
- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Wednesday, August 28, 1996  

Giving Italy the boot 
Men :S basketball talent prevails over Italian professionals 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
This past summer, the Notre Dame men's basketball team experienced their own abroad program as the Irish traveled to Italy to compete
.._ with various professional Italian teams. The trip proved to be a success as the Irish won all five games while soaking up some the culture along the way. "It was a great trip," head coach John MacLeod said. "I think everybody enjoyed it. It was a perfect amount of time. It was education­al for everybody." That time included twelve days of visiting cities such as Florence, Venice, and Rome. It was MacLeod's idea to take the team to Italy last summer, but after that trip fell through, eleven players were finally able to make the journey across the ocean, including graduate Ryan Hoover. During their European vacation, MacLeod also noticed the team making strides from the end of last season. "We improved and you could see the confi­dence level surge," he said. The improvement was notable because the Italian League squads are on the same level as the usual Big East fare Notre Dame was intro­duced to last season. "It was as physical a kind of basketball as we'll ever see," MacLeod added. "They were even more physical than Big East teams." 
see IRISH/ page 14 
The ObseJVer/Rob Finch and Dave Murphy 
Above: The defense of the men's soccer team sparked the offense which led the Irish to eight vic­tories in Italy. 
Left: Pat Garrity scored 40 points in one of the five Irish wins against profes­sional Italian teams. 
Defense steps up play, holds opposing teams to three goals 
ByT. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
Last spring, men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli spoke of unity and defense as central to Notre Dame's fall success. The team's summer trip to Italy could not have been better planned. From May 17-28, the Irish touched down in three cities and garnered eight wins in nine games for an overall mark of 8-0-L 
"It was good to go over there and play the games, but the biggest reward was that we were together for a period of time," said sophomore midfielder Matt Johnson. Senior tri-captain Brian Engesser agreed. ''It was fun to hang out with the team in a different kind of atmosphere. We just relaxed and played." 
During the eleven-day tour, the Irish stayed in Rome for three days, Florence for three days, and Rimini for the last four. Notre Dame's competition ranged from the Italian professional ranks in Rome and Florence to older men who had come to Rimini to party first, then play. As expected, the Irish coasted by the partygoers in a tournament. Perhaps less expected but more savored was a 2-0 drubbing of Viarggio, one of Italy's top third-division teams, and a 2-2 tie of another fifth-division squad. 
"Our biggest accomplishment was the play of our defense," said Johnson of a force that had allowed minimum pressure and only three goals throughout the trip. "Shutting people down like that simply turns up the offense." Those words will ring loudly in coach Mike Berticelli's head this Saturday in Providence, when Notre Dame opens the regular season . 
• fOOTBAU 

Front loaded 
With a strong front seven, the Irish look to clamp down on the opposition 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Spans Editor 
Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie has a pool of talent on his side of the line for the 1996 season. There's only one problem. The pool definitely has a shallow end. 
The defense returns six of the front seven starters from last year's squad, losing only honorable mention All­American nose guard Paul Grasmanis to the Bears in the NFL draft. Although Grasmanis' presence and persistence
-will be missed, his replacements are more than capable of filling the hole. The Irish are the lucky beneficiaries of four front line players that missed the 1995 season due to injuries. Senior defensive end Melvin Dansby headlines the born-again crop, joining fifth-year senior Reynaldo Wynn and junior Corey Bennett on a potentially dominating de­fensive line: "We're very confident that the front line will perform for us this season," commented Davie. "With two starters and Melvin (Dansby) returning, we should have a cohesive unit. Add in Alton Maiden and Kurt Belisle who have come back, and we have plenty of
-depth." 
Along with the rehabilitated group come Antwon Jones, Darnell Smith, and Shelton Jordan, all of whom will be counted on to play quality minutes. 
"One of the problems I felt we experi­enced last year was that we didn't use enough men up front. This year we'll rotate players to keep a fresh group on the field," Davie added. 
The linebacking corps returns the same four starters in Bert Berry, Kinnon Tatum, Lyron Cobbins, and Kory Minor. Tatum and Cobbins are set again on the inside, while Berry assumes the rush backer slot, bumping Minor to drop backer. 
"Kory gave up a lot of we~ght last sea­son," Davie explained, "He was 220 pounds going up against 300 pound tackles. We put him into the rush slot as a true freshman because it is an easi~ er position to learn." 
The result of the swap is entirely posi­tive. Berry's return to his natural posi­tion will make better use of his bigger frame and exceptional quickness, keep­ing opposing quarterbacks wary of stay­ing in the pocket for too long. Minor, now with a year of experience under his belt, knows the system and should be more comfortable dropping back on cov­erage. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Rush linebacker Bert Berry is looking to capitalize on his immense athletic ability to put pressure on opposing quarterbacks. He has good company up front. 
Lamont Bryant, who is also returning "We are in a very favorable position at from an injury last season, Bobbie linebacker with all four starters return­Howard, Bill Mitoulas, and Jimmy ing," Davie assessed. Friday bolster the starting four, with "With (Bert) Berry moving to rush Howard capable of filling in at either inside position. 
see DEFENSE/ page 12 
at Vanderbilr, September 5, 
Q) •Saint Mary's hires new soccer coach 
7:30p.m. 
vs. Cenrral Florida, 
.. SPORTS -(., 
@) August 30, 7:00 p.m. ~ 
see page 14
at Providence, August 31, 
2:00p.m.
at ­
Soccer at Ohio Wesleyan, 
ri:J • Top seeds fall in U.S. Open
~ 
August 31, 2:00 p.m. ·­
at Providence, August 31, 
(-" 
12:00 p.m. 
see page 11

GLANCE -­
JS 




