
! 
J y' 
~ 
~ 
::c: 
~ 

Tuesday, September 17, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 17 
TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAIN'T MARY'S 

• ElECTION '96 

Economics may decide election 
ByTARA CHURIK 
News Writer 
A panel of Notre Dame educators gathered yesterday afternoon to discuss the American economy as it relates to the upcoming Presidential election. Touching upon issues ranging from invest­ments to the effectiveness of Bob Dole's proposed 15 percent tax cut, the three-man panel discussed key issues concerning both government and economy. 
Leading the panel, professor Jeffrey Bergstrand of the Department of Finance described America's economic landscape and the means by which voters can judge this condition. Factors such as unemployment, inflation, pro­ductivity, and interest rate were all topics of subc;equent evaluation. 

Over the past four years, America has "made tremendous strides in the area of reducing the deficit," Bergstrand said. This progress began shortly after Clinton switched his economic focus from creating new jobs to reducing the deficit. With the 500 million dollar reduction passed in 1993, America's deficit for this fis­cal year has decreased, according to Bergstrand. 
Bergstrand continued by assert­ing that Bob Dole's proposed tax cuts will not benefit the economy over the long-term. While the tax cut would cause an initial economic boom, Bergstrand explained that interest rates would later rise sharply to the benefit of big busi­ness. 
The second member of the panel, professor Chuck Craypo of the Department of Economics, men­tioned the "hidden" issue of the falling real wages of the average American family. Craypo pointed out that although this trend of decreasing real wages for Americans has continued for over twenty-five years, few presidential candidates have addressed the 
see ELECTION/ page 4 
Political activism afoot at Circle K 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
After spending a semester working with the homeless at the Special Needs Assistance office in Washington D.C., vice-president of the Circle K service organization Kim Melvin returned to Saint Mary's inspired. 
She wanted to find a way to continue her service experience while working towards improving the South Bend community. 
During Monday night's weekly meeting at the South Bend Center for the Homeless, Melvin and political science major Kelly Witka talked to the homeless about the importance of their vote in the upcoming election. 
"We feel that encouraging the homeless to vote will make a difference," Melvin said. "Everyone deserves the right to vote. and peo­ple who are homeless are no different." 
According to Melvin, Indiana is one of only nine states in the United States that allows individuals without home addresses to vote in elections. Due to a proposed housing cut in the upcoming election, Melvin believes it is essential to motivate the homeless to speak up. 
"We found a study showing that 95% of the American people identify public housing as an important issue in this election," Melvin explained. "And we think that the homeless need a voice in this decision. They need to know that their voice is important, and is their basic right as an American." 
The homeless must have agreed with Witka and Melvin, because the duo received impres­sive feedback Monday night. 
"We led off the meeting with an explanation of the Republican plan to cut public housing," Witka said. " And then we explained that for this reason, the homeless need to get out and voice their opinion. We educated them about all of the campaigns for the upcoming election, including congressional, district, Senate, and local." 
Next week Melvin and Witka will continue their efforts, with a voter-registration party in the dining hall of the Center for the Homeless. 
see CIRCLE Kl page 4 
• MUlTICUlTURAl BEAT 

Golden to highlight cultural week 
Negrete's performance 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH position of Senior Writer in the founder of the Zora Neale News Writer Graduate MBA Creative Writing Hurston/Richard Wright Award Program at Virginia and Foundation, which is the In preparation for Saint Commonwealth University in only national literary award 
Mary's' upcoming Multicultural Richmond. A popular speaker from African American college By KELLY BROOKS context... Through my perfor­Week celebrations, the Office of on many Assistant News Editor mance people see the images of Multicultural Affairs has 

celebrates heritage 
co II e g e --------------------
Hidalgo and learn," Negrete announced African-American campuses, 
...------......... 
'Jtwas very moving and
Dr. Jesus "Chuy" Negrete puts said. writer Marita Golden to be the she has 
a new twist on Mexican history "September 16 is widely cele­week· s guest speaker. been a vis­very powerful, and I by blending English and brated in the United States but it Golden, author of the classic iting digni­think it would be very Spanish, the spoken word and is also so commercialized," memoir, "Migrations of the tary at song. and visual media. Negrete explained. "A lot of Heart," and the best-selling Spelman good for students to hear 
Focusing on the September 16, times what happens is the 16 of novel, "Long Distance Life," has College, her.' 
Grito de Dolores celebration for September turns into a been published in the New York Antioch Mexicans and Mexican­Budweiser thing, and they Times, The Washington Post, a n d ,__,_,~ Americans. Negrete gave a [Chicanos] lose sight of the revo­Essence, and African Woman. Howard Maricela Ramirez unique history lesson to kick off lution, of the historical context." Her most recent works include 
Hispanic Heritage Month. "No one talks imperialism [in "Saving Our Sons: Raising Black Universities, George Washington fiction writers. 
Negrete describes his perfor­regards to Spetember 16]. I dis­Children in a Turbulent World" University, and many others. The author's visit to Saint mance as "visual anthropology, cuss the revolution, imperialism, and "Skin Deep: Black and "Just hearing about this, I am Mary's will not be limited to her musicology, and folkloric. It's nationalism, and the making of White Women on Race." excited bacause it shows Saint speaking engagement; aside also part propaganda." the American psyche," Negrete "I heard her on National Mary's has very good multicul­from being available to sign 
Negrete plays the guitar and a commented. Public Radio," remembers tural programs," said freshman books and interact with stu­
harmonica while recounting in The majority of Negrete's pre­Maricela Ramirez, director of Shontale Bryant. dents. Golden will also take part English and Spanish the history sentation is in the first person, the Saint Mary's Office of As for Golden's relative recent in academic exercises within the of Mexico and Mexicans in the emphasizing the collective histo­Multicultural Affairs. Ramirez. emergence upon the college College. United States. While he is play­ry of Chicanos. This in turn cre­who was instrumental in bring­scene, freshman Shannon Lee ''She's going to be visiting ing, a projector depicts draw­ates strong feelings of national­ing the author to campus, pro­simply remarked that "a new [Professor] Linn Vacca's ings. photographs, murals, and ism. "I tell the stories of the ceeded to detail some of face is good." [American Women of Color] paintings that correspond to his young and old, the people who I Golden's experiences as a young Founder of the Washington class, and she's going to be story. Since his performance am," Negrete sings in his perfor­mother that formed the base to D.C.-based African American teaching that class. The class fell on Mexican Independence mance. her literature. Writers' Guild, Golden has will be open to the whole com­Day, Negrete paid special atten­Negrete points to the strong "It was very moving and very received support from the D.C. munity," said Ramirez. tion to the revolutionary aspects nationalist sentiments of powerful, and I think it would Commission on the Arts and the "It's something that will be of Chicano history. Mexican Americans in the be very good for students to Humanities, and in 1992 was appaaling. not only for the Saint 
"My performance is grounded United States. "You see hear her," affirmed Ramirez. awarded the Mayor's Arts Mary's College community, but in the idea that all human Currently residing in Award for Excellence in Artistic behavior occurs in a historical see HERITAGEl page 4 Maryland, Golden holds the Discipline. Golden is also the see GOLDEN/ page 4 
......_______________________________ 

------------------------------·----------.~--~--------~--~------·-=--~----------~-,-----~-----------------~----~------~-­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


The loss of innocents 
Two months ago a 
tragedy occurred that  Joey Crawford  
would change the lives  Accent Editor  
of everyone who lived  

in my town forever. The mood of the sum­
mer and the mood of their lives changed as 
TWA Flight 800 ceased to exist, leaving 
nothing but painful memories and 
anguished hearts. Two hundred thirty lives 
lost in a violent flash as their airplane 
exploded off the coast of Long Island. Among the victims were twenty-one people 
from Montoursville, Pennsylvania. Sixteen 
students and five chaperons were on their 
way to France on a field trip. Some of them 
had never flown before, none would ever get 
to fly again. 
Montoursville, Pennsylvania is three min­utes away from my town of Williamsport. I had the fortune of knowing some of the stu­dents who were going to take the field trip. The people I didn't know, someone close to me did. The crash affected everyone in the area in some way. The victims were foot­ball players, swimmers, runners, brothers, sisters, daughters and sons. 
My girlfriend of a year and a half, Cory, made me go see them leave from the high school for New York's JFK Airport. Her sis­ter Jody was on the flight. I didn't want to go (it was too early in the morning), but I am so thankful I went. It gave me a chance to say good-bye. I remember the morning so clearly, from what people were wearing to who was there. 
Jody explained to Cory that she was very apprehensive about the trip. She jokingly asked me if I would take care of her cats if the plane crashed. Cory and I left as they boarded the bus, unaware that those were their last steps at home. Jody was the greatest kid, quick to smile, but quick to tears. When she found out that Cory and I were having problems, she cried more than Cory and I did. She was like a little sister to me, looking up to me the way only little sis­ters can. That morning we joked around, she shook my hand; we were both too embarrassed to give each other a hug because all her relatives were around. I wish to God I would have given her a hug. 
Following the crash, I didn't know what to do or what to say to anyone. The only thing that I could do was be there for anyone who needed me. That didn't seem like enough. What do you say to someone who just lost their sister and best friend within eight hours of seeing her? Jody meant the world to Cory. Never have I seen sisters that were so close. They dressed the same, talked the same, laughed the same, even dyed their hair the same. 
My friend Tom and I went to New York to be with Cory and her family. Never before have I seen the grief that I witnessed there. Funerals and memorial services replaced summer barbecues and parties. I wonder if there was anything I could have done or said differently to help take away the pain, but I don't think there is anything else I could have done. I don't understand what happened. What kind of society do we live in where the lives of two hundred thirty innocent people are just wiped out? I really don't understand, but I guess I never will. I try to move on, but there are so many mem­ories. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TDOAY'S STAFF  
News Maureen Hurley Saskia Sidenfaden Derek Betcher Spons Brian Reinthaler  Production Matthew Casey Jackie Moser Lab Tech Kevin Dalum Dave McCaffrey Graphics  

Peter Cilella 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Survey reveals ugly truths of hand washing 
NEW ORLEANS r--------------------------, 
Millions of Americans routinely ignore one of Mom's most important pieces of advice: Wash your hands after you go to the bath­room. 
This unsettling item of news was gathered in the only way possible -by actually watching what people do {or don't do) in public restrooms. 
The researchers -if that's what they should be called -hid in stalls or pretend­ed to comb their hair while observing 6,333 men and women do their business in five cities last month. 
"Hand washing in this country has become all but a lost art," said Dr. Michael Osterholm, the Minnesota state epidemiologist. 
Osterholm heads the public health com­mittee of the American Society for Microbiology, which sponsored the survey with Bayer Corp., the aspirin maker. The figures were gathered by Wirthlin Worldwide, a survey firm, and released Monday at the society's annual infectious­disease conference. 
Among the results: 
• 
The country's dirtiest hands may be in New York City. Just 60 percent of those using restrooms in Penn Station washed up afterward. 

• 
Chicago hands, relatively speaking, are reasonably clean. The watchers saw 78 per­cent take the time to wash after using the bathroom at the Navy Pier. 

• 
Seventy-one percent washed up at a casino in New Orleans, 69 percent at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco and 64 percent at a Braves game in Atlanta. 


• Women are cleaner than men. The sur­
~yfuund74pereentw~haft&usingilie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
toilet. Source: Wirth in Worldwide AP/Tonia Cowan 
Mother Teresa hospitalized after fall 
CALCUTTA, India 
Ten days after leaving the hospital, Mother Teresa was readmitted Monday after falling from her bed. The nun ­who has come to symbolize compassion for the needy -had bruises on her face 
. and an irregular heartbeat after the fall, doctors said. Her injuries were not life-threatening, they added. "She was ~ admitted for observation and investiga-· · ·· tion," said Dr. S.K. Sen, director of Calcutta's Woodlands Nursing Home "Mother Teresa was rushed to the hospi­tal by ambulance, then taken to the intensive coronary care unit. She underwent a CT scan, which will allow doctors to determine whether she suffered any brain injury. 
Queen Victoria defaced by vandals 
HONG KONG 
She would not be amused. A statue of the famously haughty Queen Victoria had her noble nose smashed in and her bronze face and figure doused with red paint Monday in a Hong Kong park that bears her name. Press reports said the vandal left a note saying he took the action for the sake of art. Police arrested a 27 -year-old man, identified only by the surname Poon. He was sent to a hospital for mental evaluation, police said. Police said there was a wooden ladder hanging over the statue's arm, and they found a hammer and empty paint cans at the site. The statue has presided over Victoria Park since the early 1950s. The park is frequently used for mass ral­lies by pro-democracy demonstrators. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWealher• forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


,r 
/ 

.. /·····-··-~-··-···· 
!"""' 
i i 
l 
Tuesday ~ Wedne~day (f Thursd~y (f Friday) (f .. 
~ 
j 

~N
Satu~aay (f , 
H L m ISS1
' _/\. . .._"V,
<' ~i"'"'-,-·if 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN 
~ .....= ., "" 


Vlo-­
Atlanta 80 62 
~-~-~~~~ (f ~ c£:21 
Boston 61 54 
Shcwers T·storms Rain Fl.;rrles S~ /c. Sunny Pr. ClOudy Cloudy 
Chicago 71 49 
VIII Associsllld p,_ GnJphicaNet 
Columbus 72 53 
·Dirty hands 
When using public restrooms, nearly all adults say they always wash their hands. When observed, the percentage is much lower: 
Percentage of U.S. adults who••. 
• say they wash their hands 
(1,004 surveyed) 11 actually do 
(6,393 observed) 
98% 
94%
90% 

Men Women Total 
Percentage of people observed washing their hands in public restrooms By city and gender 93% 
89% 78%
74% • Men il Women 

62% 58% 








Atlanta San Francisco New Orleans New York
Total Chicago 
Alaska's Pavolof blows its top 
ANCHORAGE 
The Pavlof Volcano near the tip of the Alaska Peninsula erupted Monday, ejecting car-sized chunks of glowing rock from a crater near its summit. "There's a pretty good steam plume up there," said Terry Keith, the scientist in charge at the Alaska Volcano Observatory. Seismologists first learned of activity at Pavlof late Sunday night when residents of Cold Bay, 37 miles southwest of the volcano. called the observatory to report a red glow near the summit. Satellite imagery confirmed a hot spot near the summit, Keith said. At daybreak, a plume could be seen coming from the north flank of the volcano. Pilots who flew near the volcano Monday said boulders and magma were being thrown from the crater at the summit of the 8,262-foot moun­tain. 
Flash flood strikes Sudanese capital 
KHARTOUM, Sudan 
Surging waters swept through shantytowns near the Sudanese capital, killing dozens of people and leaving thousands homeless, Sudanese television reported Monday. The floods were the latest to devastate the poor region around Khartoum, where the White Nile and Blue Nile converge. State-owned television broad­CB;St footage of flood damage in the southern suburb of Mayo, where houses built of mud had been swept away. There were no specific figures on the dead and homeless; television said dozens had died. Majzoub Khalifa, Sudan's minister for social planning, promised prompt government action. Last week, at least 17 peo­ple died in flash floods in a village north of Khartoum. 
~ 

lTII 0 ~§ -i) L.!U 
Baltimore 65 55 

T.sTORMS FWRRIES SNOW ICE  SUNNY PT. CLOIDY CLOIDY  
Dallas 86 65 Denver 62 45 Los Angeles 82 64 Miami 90 n Mobile 88 69  New Orleans 90 72 New York 66 58 Phoenix 91 70 Pittsburgh 69 53 St. Louis 73 53  

Weight of workless weekend wears on ... 

Tuesday, September 17, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Alumnae offer insight into Board's progress 
The Observer/Joe Start< 

As  the  semester  
speeds  up  and  
courses  become  

more demanding, students are finding themselves with less and less free time. Above, Joe Lyphout, a Keough freshman, tackles a paper in DeBartolo's computer lab. And left, Sean Brennan, a freshman from Stanford Hall, settles down between Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls to begin an assignment for his Architecture 101 class. 
By ALLISON KOENIG News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board {SAB) was informed Tuesday evening that they, like other Saint Mary's stu­dent organizations, will also have input in the search for a new college president. 
Student Trustee Brandee Carlson informed the SAB of their upcoming role in choosing the new president. The board is to fill out questionnaires con­cerning desired qualities in the future college leader. 
Completed questionnaires from other student offices will also be used to help the Board of Trustees determine what Saint Mary's students think about the college itself, changes they would like to see, and tra­ditions that they wish to be kept. 
Carlson said that she will pro­vide minimal updates about the search to the Student Activities Board as details become avail­able. 
SAB's budget for the year was also addressed at the meeting. President Lori McKeough feels that SAB will be able to accom­plish most of their proposed activities and stay safely within the allotted budget. 
After talking to several Saint Mary's alumnae who were involved in SAB, McKeough felt optimistic about the direction in which SAB is headed. 
"We are able to do so much more than [alumnae] ever were. And with our hard work, SAB's opportunities will continue to improve," said McKeough. 
Evidencing that progress, a new proposition approved Monday will provide the group with a camera to record their sponsored events. 
In other developments, SAB is planning to target the student body through a monthly newsletter that will be placed in bathroom stalls throughout campus. Beginning in the month of October, publicist Kelly Medlin will be assembling upcoming events onto a one sheet newsletter that will inform students of SAB's events. 
Strategic posting of the newsletter is only one of the many ways SAB is planning to expand and improve publicity this year. 
Furthermore, McKeough is also excited about the Sept. 23 reception for new committee members. The Student Activities Board will be sponsor­ing a submarine sandwich din­ner in Haggar Parlor to encour­age new membership. 

SCA seeks volunteers 
Special to The Observer 
The Student Conservation Association (SCA) is now accept­ing applications for conservation work in wilderness areas nation­wide. 
SCA offers over 1,200 expense-paid positions at over 290 national parks, wildlife refuges, conservation areas, and other public lands throughout the United States. Current appli­cations are for placement during the winter/spring session. 
"We provide a public service while offering an experience that volunteers never forget," explained SCA Resource Assistant Program Director Wallace Elton. "They learn about themselves and often what they want to do in their future. Many alumni say this is a life­changing experience for them." 
More than 20,000 SCA Resource Assistants have partic­ipated since the organization's founding in 195 7. Typical assignments include endan­gered species protection, ecolog­ical restoration, air and water quality monitoring, GIS map­ping, and natural and cultural resource management. 
Program applicants choose from a catalog of detailed posi­tion descriptions offered to SCA by cooperating agencies, such as the National Park Service, Bureau of Land Management, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Posts are situated in areas across the country, from Alaska to Florida, Hawaii to Maine. 
Volunteers are expected to work the equivalent of 40 hours per week. The regimented schedule allows plenty of time for exploring, writing. and relaxing in some of America's most beautiful landscapes. 
SCA Resource Assistants must be at least 18 years old. Many are college students exploring careers in conservation who earn academic credit for their work experience. 
For more information about the Resource Assistant Program, call (603) 543-1700 or contact: the Student Conservation Association, PO Box 550, Charlestown, NH 03603-0550. 

Thursday, Septemberl~ Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree -6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadli.ne: Wednesday, September 18 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
--~-----------------------------------------~----.-.-.-.-.-~----------·----~~--------~--~---------~------------.-------..~----~---­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 17, 1996 

Election

i 
continued from page 1

l 
issue. He offered his explanation that, "I believe, politically,

\ 
i 
we're in the stage where the populist majority is not ready for this type of debate." 
Craypo elaborated that America is perhaps "not ready" to entertain talk of a declining economic state because Americans have pre­viously been able to adjust to falling wages by sending more people from the household into the labor force and by working more hours. Whether this trend can continue poses some concern for Craypo. 
The final member of the panel to speak was Ed Trubac, associate dean of the College of Business Administration. Trubac discussed the political concern stemming from the current rate of economic growth, establishing the two opposing political approaches to explaining economic growth. 
First, Trubac stated the view that the economy is currently operating at its full capacity. This position, shared by President Clinton, focuses on channeling economic savings from deficit reduction into causes such as education and capital for private enterprise. 

The opposing view, adopted by Dole, maintains that the economy is not operating at its full potential. By dismissing inflation as a concern, Republicans can cite the pro­ductivity of the economy to engage in spending practices. 
Trubac expressed disap­proval with this latter view­point. 
"It's important for us to grow faster, but growing faster is a painful process... [we] could start by balancing the budget," he said. 
After speaking, each mem­ber of the panel entertained questions from the audience in the discussion section follow­ing the presentation. 
This is the second in a series of lectures entitled "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good" running every Monday through October 14 from 4 to 5 p.m. 

Heritage 
continued from page 1 

Mexicans driving around with flags in the back of their cars. It's a way for Mexicans to relate to their birth country." 
Negrete's performance, "History of Mexican Folklore through Music," is one of La Alianza's first events to cele­brate Hispanic Heritage Month which runs until October 15. Negrete performed for two hours in front of 75 students in the LaFortune Ballroom Monday night. Negrete dedicated his performance to Notre Dame's sociology professor, the late Julian Samora. 

Golden 
continued from page 1 

for the Notre Dame and South Bend community," she added. 
Marita Golden will be speak­ing at Moreau's Little Theatre on Wed., Oct. 2 at 4 p.m. There will be no cost for admission, and all students are encouraged to attend. 


Election bickering heats up 
Dole labels Clinton policy a tbullhorn for drug tolerance' 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Press Writer 
VILLANOVA. Pa 
With his rival grabbing a cov­eted police endorsement, Bob Dole proposed a new crime­fighting package today and lev­eled a scathing per­sonal attack. "President Clinton has opened the c r i m e pipeline up again," he 

s~d. Do~ 
Surrounded by 13 Republican governors, Dole said of Clinton, "He talks like Dirty Harry but acts like Barney Fife." 
Dole promised to cut drug use among teens in half, dou­ble federal prison spending, require work from prison inmates and try violent juve­niles as adults. 
He also promised to use the White House spotlight to teach America's young people that drugs and crime are wrong. 
"I will use the bully pulpit of the presidency to say to young people, ·Drugs are deadly,"' Dole said. "Teen-agers who have been deceived into believ­ing that drugs are something you experiment with will hear a different message from me." 
The remark was implicit crit­icism of Clinton's efforts; a Dole ad that has been taped 
o~\HOPEDlC Sp€ 
~d"' ~ c~
~tf ~ -~ /~.)­
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -shines 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
•Notre 
I 00% Guarantee
Dame 
8-6 Monday-

r-.-.. 
Friday 
Mario's ~ 
9-3 -Saturday 
>­
1025 East
0 
0 
Madison
w 

but not yet aired reminds vot­ers that Clinton once joked during an MTV interview about drug use. 
"Thanks to the liberal wink­and-a-nod policies of this administration, drug use among teen-agers has not just started up again but is sky­rocketing upward," Dole said. "When I'm president, I don'j intend to wink at drugs." 
It was the beginning of what the Dole campaign promises will be an aggressive focus on drugs and crime to erode Clinton's double-digit lead in national polls. 
But the president, travelling to Ohio later today, threatened to overshadow Dole by picking up the endorsement from the nation's largest police union­the 270,000-member National Fraternal Order of Police. 
In a day of dueling photo-ops, Clinton surrounded himself with police in blue uniforms while Dole surrounded himself with governors in blue suits. 
The police organization's national president, Gil Gallegos, lauded Clinton's record in a statement released to The Associated Press in advance of today's announce­ment. 
"Rank-and-file police officers have never had a better friend in the White House than Bill Clinton," Gallegos said. "Our communities, our kids and our police officers are a lot better off today because of the leader­ship of President Clinton." 
Interviewed this morning on NBC's "Today" show, Gallegos dismissed Dole's criticism of Clinton. •'American society bears the blame" for rising teen-age drug use, Gallegos said. "I don't think you can blame any one segment of soci­ety." 
The police group's endorse­ment committee met Friday in Houston and voted 19-10 in favor of Clinton, with 10 mem­bers not voting. 
Seeking to play down the endorsement, Dole campaign aides seized upon the commit­tee vote as "less than unani­mous" and portrayed it more as a nod from police union leadership than an expression of support from rank-and-file police officers. 
"Obviously, there are very few cops on the street who can be happy about this adminis­tration's failure in the drug war," Dole spokesman Nelson Warfield said Sunday. 

Circle K 
continued from page 1 
This "party" will provide music, food, media coverage, and more importantly, a chance for homeless to regis­ter for the election. 
"They [the homeless] sound­ed excited about the party next week, they asked won­derful questions," Witka described. "They asked about registering to vote here even if they registered in another state, or if they could get a ride to vote if they are regis­tered in another district." 
The homeless will use the address of the Center for the Homeless as a home address when they register. 
"I honestly think that even if we can get one homeless per­son to vote we will have made a difference," Melvin said. "But I think that it is feasible to make a goal of registering 50 voters." 
But 50 or 100 registered 
homeless voters will not com­plete Melvin's project. Ultimately, Melvin wants to provide voters with an educat­ed vote. 
"We are hoping to hold a forum on Oct. 7 with local candidates representing each party," Witka said. "They will each have two to three min­utes to talk about the election, and then the members of the homeless can ask their own questions." 
Sociology professor Jeff Breese and political science professor Patrick Pierce have acted as advisors to Circle K and the Political Science Club in support of the project. 
"But we still need help," added Melvin. "If anyone would be willing to help us out with the party next Monday, we'd greatly appreciate it." 
The party will be held at the Center for the Homeless on Monday, 23 April, from 7 p.m. to 9:30p.m. 
Students can contact Melvin at 284-4433 for further infor­mation. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 


-

Tuesday, September 17, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS pageS 

Scientists chart frat trash 
By MICHELLE LOCKE 
Associated Press Wrirer 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

They sometimes ate cheap cuts of meat, probably smoth­ered with ketchup -and had the stomach medicines to show for it. 
They lived in fear of being taken down to the basement and dunked in "the tub," and were punctilious about personal hygiene. 
They drank beer --quite a lot of it, apparently --but also sipped coffee from dainty demi­tasse cups embellished with their house crest. 
Meet the young men of Zeta Psi, circa 1920 -fraternity brothers whose lives and times are being studied by archaeolo­gy students combing through the contents of a garbage pit left by the not-so-ancient Greeks. 
Does 70-year-old trash qualify as archaeological research? 
Yes, says Laurie Wilkie, the University of California­Berkeley assistant professor of anthropology directing the analysis. 
"They're part of the puzzle in terms of understanding how California came to be this ... land of the dream," Wilkie said. 
The trove of trash came to light by accident. In the summer of 1995, Wilkie looked out of her office -which is in what was the Zeta Psi house until they moved to another building in 1957 -and saw the garbage being unearthed by a construc­tion crew clearing the way for a new building. 
She sprang into action, stop­ping the bulldozers for a brief excavation. 
During the following school 

year, her students studied the 
relics and dug up written and 
photographic records of the 
time as they tried to put togeth­
er a picture of turn-of-the-cen­
tury fraternity life. 

"The sorts of things that we 
end up studying archaeological­
ly are things that don't really 
get talked about in historical 
documents," she said. 

For instance, among the arti­
facts was formal china decorat­
ed with the fraternity crest, 
including demitasse coffee cups. 
The china indicates a since­
lost dining formality as well as 
an effort to reinforce communi­
ty spirit through the use of the 
crest, placed on the cups so it 
would face right-handed 
drinkers. 

Wilkie notes those niceties 
clash with the modern stereo­
type of party-hearty "frat rats." 
"You have to remember that 
... these are individuals who are 
from the upper middle and 
upper class and part of the fra­
ternity setting was these were 
young men getting ready to go 
out and start on their own," she 
said. 

Still, there was evidence the brothers weren't averse to a . party or two. 
The trash pit yielded a num­ber of alcohol-related bottles, most made between 1917 and 1925 despite Prohibition, which ran from 1919 to 1933. 
Some of the beer may have been the "near-beer" legal under Prohibition and at any rate, the cache amounts to only about 20 six-packs. But a diary, kept on a rotating basis by freshmen at one point, indicates that at least some occasionally indulged. 
A record of a quiet Sunday 
found that "most of the few fel­lows who are here were nursing a great, big, large, immense, huge, colossal, and stupendous head." 
Ninety-year-old John Thomas Beales, who served as manager of the Zeta Psi house before graduating in 1929 and still lives in the east San Francisco Bay area, recalled those days with a chuckle. 
"People would patronize the bootleggers down in Emeryville. Or even some of the doctors would issue prescriptions to buy prescription whisky," he said. "But not in the house. We never permitted it in the house." 
Drink may have flowed freely, but the food wasn't always so choice. 
Analysis of meat bones found showed several were from poor­er cuts of meat. That -along with the abundance of flavor enhancer and sauce bottles found -led Wilkie and her crew to theorize school meals had the same reputation then they enjoy now. 
They also found a number of bottles that had contained medi­cines for upset stomach. 
But Beales defended the frat fare . 
"Ketchup was a normal thing. We loved corned beef hash. What more do you want with corned beef hash than ketchup?" he asked. 
Also found in the pit were items of feminine dress. notably a hat pin and some beads. Those seemed anomalous in light of the strict prohibitions on women in the house. until researchers found old pictures of young men dressed up in women's clothing. probably for skits or parties. 


Undercover sting 
nabs kiddie smokers 
By JOHN SOI.OMON Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
In a little publicized provi· sion. President Clinton's crack­down on youth smoking encourages states to use minors in sting opera­tions to detect ille­gal tobacco sales-or risk losing federal aid ..
The gov-~......._....,-_ __,.., 
·e r n m e n t. . . .,.,,._{····· • 
says its new rule did geijen1.te · 
..a healthy dose or resp()'Qses from citizerufahout the cal and psychological ~t1.1~1.y undercover children ability to u:rt<ferst . . .... 
..• ·issues like e!l:!pLpment.i IJ ·· <•• < ·. · ·ButJt says examples ·arC:~\Ula · the countcy-··· · inc......,.._......A 
where 

urges the use of undercover stings with children at least two to three years younger than the 18-year-old legal smoking age. 
..The department believes · that the use of minors in inspections is very effective," the rule states. 
For states where officials are considering alternatives,. the government· warns. ·}'The department ·has not identified evidence of any other work­able or valid method'• and the department's system to deter­mine whether states are meet­ing expectations ~·is ~!)sed on 
th . • ·:,::.:n . • .th d. ;JI..,.. _ -:'.:·;::::.::~::::.:~--­8 s.u~g me·. 0 ; .· . .•-'t · St~~s begin submitting their . enfoi'¢ement plans fqr (ederal proval this month."' The toll~acc:o industry's cra·ctdoW1lS 

Ll.&'-4l.._ .....ts look­
ing for the best deal on new and used cars 
Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
International Study Programs 
Study at the American 
University in Cairo 
(Instruction is in English) 


Information Meeting for Spring 1997, Fall1997 and Spring 1998 
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
4:30 PM, 306 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students Are Welcome! 
Pf"w 
; -------~-----------------------------------------------~~----~~----------~--~-------~ 
,1'I 
I 1 
i 
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, Septem her 1 7, 1996 




Evidence condemns Pol Pot 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associated Pn:ss Writer 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia 

The hope of peace may deny justice to the victims of the Khmer Rouge's killing fields, their anonymous bones crum­bling to dust two decades after Cambodia's holocaust. 
Researchers have gathered an unprecedented body of evidence to prosecute Khmer Rouge '' leader Pol Pot and his bench­'! men for crimes against humani­ty -if anyone ever holds a trial. "Based on the very detailed evidence we have compiled, it's quite clear that the slaughter in Cambodia in those years was one of the most horrific in the I I , I ~ 20th century," said Craig 
,, 
Etcheson, manager for the U.S.­

'I 
' 
financed Cambodia Genocide Program. 
But maneuvering to exploit a split in the Khmer Rouge, the Cambodian government granted amnesty on Sept. 14 to one chieftain of the Marxist move­ment's 1975-79 regime as the price for hastening an end to civil war.

:t 
rl The pardon of Ieng Sary in ,( exchange for leading hundreds ( of guerrillas out of battle under­,( scores the reality that interna­
\ 
'i tional priorities, Cambodia's 
I. weakness and the will of die­hards to fight on may prevent the Khmer Rouge ever being punished. 
Sary, conveniently blaming all the atrocities on his ex-boss, Pol Pot, summed up the dilemma at a news conference Sept. 9: "Do 

.[ we let another 10,000 
.[ Cambodians get killed, or do we forget the past?" .f The Khmer Rouge crimes are 
there for all to see -and 

.J 
( 
( 
( 
( 
Pardon for peace 

King Norodom Sihanouk on Saturday unilaterally pardoned Ieng Sary, the leader of a breakaway faction of the Khmer Rouge, without a formal vote by the National Assembly. Sary leads a group of 1,100 guerrillas split from the 5,500-strong Khmer Rouge that offer an end to fighting in exchange for the pardon. 
\;, longtime comrade of Pol Pot, Khmer Rouge founder. .._ ln!ernational spokesman for the organization as past foreign mmtster and deputy premier. ~ A_fter the Khmer Rouge were kicked out in 1979, he was g1ven charge of the guerrillas' economic affairs and entrusted with managing military and financial aid from China. \.i Backed U.N. peace efforts in 1993. Khmer Rouge 

remember -at countless places like Kompong Thmau, a small town where the bones of thou­sands who died lie stacked like firewood at a small Buddhist monastery. 
"We leave them here for the young children who weren't alive during the Khmer Rouge, to know there were these mas­sacres here," said Cham Taem, 77, one of the monks. 
Such sites are all across Cambodia, incontrovertible evi­dence of mass murder. Over the past two years, the genocide 
4io' Khmer Rouge guerrillas captured Phnom Penh in 1975 after a 5-year civil war. 
"' Phnom Penh and other towns were forcibly evacuated. Cambodians were forced into rural communes to build a collective, agrarian society. 
~ At least 2 million people died during the Khmer's rule. Mass death occurred through starvation, disease and overwork. They killed anyone with an education, including doctors. Thousands were executed in internal purges. 
~·· Vietnam invaded Cambodia and the Khmer Rouge regime fell in 1979. 

AP/'Nm. J. Castello 
program has documented some 8,000 such sites, many previous­ly unknown. Etcheson says there may be 20,000 in all. 
Second Prime Minister Hun Sen recently appealed to monks around the country to stop cre­mating remains, saying it tam­pered with evidence the geno­cide project may need. 
No precise death toll will ever be established, but Etcheson estimates 2 million Cambodians died during the Khmer Rouge regime -about a quarter of the population at the time. 
Colombians accuse German terrorists 
By CHRISTOPHER TORCHIA 
Associated Press Writer 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
A state governor accused Germany on Monday of rewarding terrorism, claiming it paid a $2 million ransom to a guerrilla group for the freedom of three European engineers. 
The engineers -a Dane, a German and a Briton -were freed this weekend near Medellin after seven months in captivity, the British embassy confirmed. 
Germany denied it paid any ransom. 
The three were in good health, the British embassy said, adding that the Briton had returned home Sunday. 
Gov. Alvaro Uribe of Antioquia state, where the men were kidnapped, said more than $2 million was paid to the rebel National Liberation Army. The leftist guerrilla group, the second­largest in Colombia, funds its activities through extortion, kidnapping and drug traffick­ing. 
"The struggle against the narco-insurgency is in vain while foreign governments and companies feed it with huge sums of money," Uribe said in a statement. 
The German embassy denied involvement in a ransom pay­ment and said it had no infor­mation about the rebels kid­napping another German, an engineer. 
"There's no German involved in this case," spokesman Markus Baumanns said. 
Ulrik Schulz of Denmark, Philip Halden of Britain and Karl Heinz Tresser of Germany were kidnapped Feb. 6 while traveling in a mountainous area near San Luis, about 130 miles northwest of Bogota. 
Schulz and Halden are employees of FLS Cement Investment, a branch of the 
F.L. Smidth & Co., based in Copenhagen, Denmark. They were working at the Rio Claro cement plant near Medellin. 
FLS Cement has said Tresser was employed by a German company working in Colombia, but did not identify the firm. 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 
2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
Greta Garbo stars in 
tAl' 

$1 Students L LITTLE THEATRE For information, call 219/284-4626 
Career Fair 
September 24, 1996 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M, is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the stockbrokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 12-18 month paid training program Excellent benefits 401(k) Program 
If you possess excellent communication skills, general market knowledge and the desire to excel, see us at the Career Fair on 9/24/96. 
If you are unable to attend the Career Fair call: 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street 
Detroit, MI 48226
.----------------------4 
~OLDE 
An Equal 

DISCOUNT STOCKBROKERS 
Opportunity Employer 
MemberNYSEandSIPC 


Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page7 
Justice Bork critical of Logging protestors arrested 
By JOHN HOWARD A spokesman for environmentalists said more

today's liberal culture 
Associated Press Writer than 1,000 had been arrested. 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON Former federal judge Robert 

H. Bork says America is in decline and "the rot is spread­ing." As cures, he proposes cen­sorship of "the vilest aspects of our popular cul­ture'' and allowing Congress to overrule the Supreme


Court. Justice Bork "It is the courts that threaten our liberty -the liberty to govern our­selves -more profoundly than does any legislature," Bork says in a new book. He calls for a constitutional amendment allowing the House and Senate to overturn high court decisions by majority vote in each house. That would rep­resent a sharp departure from the current constitutional bal­ance that gives each of three branches of government -the courts, Congress and the presi­dency -equal power. Without naming them, Bork said some justices appointed by Presidents Reagan and Bush have disappointed him. "Having no firm judicial phi­losophy." he said, they "migrate to the left." Bark, whose own nomination to the Supreme Court by Reagan in 1987 was rejected by the Senate, 58-42, spells out his views in "Slouching Towards Gomorrah." In the book, he says decadence permeates most 
of American culture -its "pop­
ular entertainment, art, reli­
gion, education, scholarship, 
economic activity, science, tech­
nology, law and morality.'' 

Of those, only science, tech­nology and the economy are healthy, Bork says. "and it seems highly unlikely that a vig­orous economy can be sustained in an enfeebled, hedonistic cul­ture, particularly when that cul­ture distorts incentives by increasingly rejecting personal achievement as the criterion for the distribution of rewards." 
Bork is now a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a think tank. In January, 1988, three months after his rejection by the Senate, he resigned his seat on the U.S. Court of Appeals here to rebut the "essentially unanswered cam­paign of information and politi­cal slogans" that was mounted against his nomination. 
His book is a tart critique of American society. While this country is resilient, he said, it cannot be denied that "there are aspects of almost every branch of our culture that are worse than ever before and that the rot is spreading." 
His villain is "modern liberal­ism," which he said Bill Clinton, a child of the 1960s, exempli­fies. 
"Modern liberalism" is char­acterized by "radical egalitari­anism" in which people believe that outcomes -and not just opportunities -must be equal for all, he said. Another charac­teristic, he said, is "radical indi­vidualism" in which personal gratification has almost no lim­its. 
CARLOTTA, Calif. 
A day after 900 demonstrators were arrested, environmentalists today blocked gates on roads leading to the last privately owned virgin grove of redwood trees. 
The protesters, trying to stop the logging of dead and diseased redwoods up to 1,000 years old in Headwaters Forest, converged Sunday on a quarter-mile stretch of road in front of Pacific Lumber Co.'s Carlotta mill, about 280 miles north of San Francisco. Singers Bonnie Raitt and Don Henley were among those arrested. 
This morning, a man chained himself to Pacific Lumber's Carlotta gate leading to the Headwaters Forest and placed his fists in a bar­rel full of cement. Demonstrators also put a car with flattened tires in front of the gate, and peo­ple beside and beneath the car refused to budge. 
Humboldt County Sheriff Dennis Lewis said similar demonstrations, involving three or four people at each site, were occurring at four other gates on roads to the Headwaters. 
Authorities arrested 897 people, including nine juveniles, on Sunday. "That figure may go up if there's paperwork that hasn't been turned 
The protesters were arrested and handcuffed on charges of intentionally trespassing on Pacific Lumber land. Among the arrested were families with children, although none of the protesters was being jailed. They were processed at the site and released. 
"We've tried everything," said Earth First! leader Judy Bari as private security guards and sheriffs deputies in riot gear stood guard in front of the mill Sunday. "These are some of the most magnificent beings on Earth. There is nothing left for us to do but put our bodies on the line." 
Raitt was arrested along with her father, Broadway star John Raitt. Henley, who has worked to save land near Henry David Thoreau's Walden Pond in Concord, Mass., and contributed to the National Foundation to Protect America's Eagles, was also charged. 
Last year, a similar protest drew 2,500 people and about 120 were arrested. 
Environmentalists said Pacific Lumber's plans to remove dead and diseased timber from about 3,000 acres of the forest would damage live trees and harm wildlife habitat. 
The company, however, called it a salvage 
in yet," Humboldt County sheriffs spokesman ·operation that had approval from courts and Rod Lester said. state forestry officials. 

Welfare misconceptions abound 
By RICHARD KEIL 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
The myth: Typical welfare recipients are unemployed, inner-city minorities whose families have gotten public assistance for generations. But a new study found that most welfare recipients are white and live in the suburbs or rural areas -and a third will lift themselves out of poverty with­in 12 months. 
The findings of the private Population Reference Bureau 

... ill ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Learn about maximizing your future with Ernst & Young LLP at the Accounting Career Night, in the Monogram Room on September 18th, 6:00 to 9:00pm 
study released Monday are no 
surprise to those who work 
with the poor -or those who 
have been on public assistance. 
"I hear a lot of people say ... 'Those people don't want to work, and they're lazy,' and all those things, and its really not true," said Jim Bland, a social services worker in rural Alpena, Mich. "Everyone wants to feel good, and everyone wants to work for what they have." 
Bland ought to know, because, for two years, he was on welfare himself-relying on public assistance after suffering a heart attack and finding him­self unable to get hired at any of the cement plants that are major employers in the area where he and his wife moved in 1993. 
"It's a real humbling experi­ence, to have to go in and admit you can't make it, and that you need someone else's help," Bland recalled. ''You feel like a failure to your family." 
Bland -typical of the aver­age welfare recipient, since he is white and was living in a non-urban area-augmented his meager welfare payments by working part-time as a gro­cery stockperson and a security guard before finally landing a job with one of the state agen­cies that helped get him back on his feet. 
The survey found that Bland and his welfare experience are far from unique. 
The Population Reference 
Bureau, an independent non­profit research organization that studies population issues, studied Census data for 1994, the last year for which complete figures are available. It found that non-Hispanic whites make up 48 percent of the poor, fol­lowed by blacks, 27 percent, and Hispanics, 22 percent. 
The study also found that while nearly 40 percent of the nation's poor live in families headed by a single female, 34 percent live in two-parent homes. 
Among the other "myths of poverty" challenged by the report: 
• 
While many Americans believe that those who are poor will remain dependent for years on public assistance, the study found that one out of three peo­ple living below the poverty line will lift themselves out of pover­ty within 12 months. 

• 
While the poor are assumed to be anti-work, the study found that 40 percent of the nation's 38 million poor people are chil­dren who are not of legal work­ing age and 10 percent are over the age of 65. . 

• 
While it is often assumed that the poor live primarily off welfare benefits, the study found that less than half the poor receive actual cash bene­fits from the government. 


What's more, even those who receive cash from the govern­ment would find it very difficult to make ends meet with the amount of money they receive. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 



Monterrey, Mexico 
Information Meeting with Professor Juan Rivera 


pageS The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
" I 

,( 
J 
\ 'I I 
(
t 
1 
'{ 
I 
r 
I ~ 
Afghan exodus crowds camps 
Muslim invasion causes Afghan flight to Pakistan 
By KATHY GANNON 
Associated Press Writer 
TORKHAM, Afgh 
The old woman peers out beneath her black shawl at • Pakistani border guard. Slowly,! IRAN shyly, she lifts her pants to ·•··. ·..·· .. · an artificial leg. ·· · 
"Please," she whispers. "Le me in. I can't take any morel*\itl fighting." 
The crowd of several thOu;:,a,uu1 people surges toward the gi steel gates, hoping they will open.<-=----.........-.:~ 
They don't. Pakistan already has 1.5 million Afghans who fled the Soviet occupation in the 1980s. Authorities say they can't afford any more, including those now fleeing the factional war that has raged since Muslim insurgents threw out the Communists in 1992. 
This time, the refugees at the border gate are fleeing the bombing of Jalalabad, a town 45 miles away that the Taliban faction overran last week in a stunning sweep through eastern and north­eastern Afghanistan. 
Several Pakistani border guards lunge at the crowd, beating it back with nightsticks. 
Suddenly, gunshots ring out and everyone scat­ters. Taliban fighters grab their rocket launchers and machine guns and scramble toward the gates for a showdown. 
"The gates should be open between the two countries. They should let everyone in," says Maulvi Ahmed, a local commander of the Taliban, which controls two-thirds of the country. "What are they afraid or!" 

.. The standoff ends after .· ·· Pakistan agrees to let in some of the most desperate. A man goes v,...,~71 through with an old woman on "''"""""''"" rr\tfffi1im J his back. The woman with the ~·--'-1~..,::.1.g,.:...... , artificial leg is allowed to cross. <> i Slowly, steadily, the most 
·: wretched pass into Pakistan. 

"What kind of a life is this?" : says a university student who PAKISTAN : gives his name only as Abdullah. 
' "This is not living. This is hell." He has barely spoken those . words when a blinding dust 
~--! storm suddenly rolls in across ; the parched plains. Women · crouch deeper inside their · burqas, the tent-like garment 
INDIA , that covers Afghan women head­! to-toe. Men strap their turbans : around their faces. 
E:----"'..._A_P The beleaguered who have 
given up hope of getting into Pakistan begin the journey back to Jalalabad along a road that, like the border, is littered with misery. 
Burned-out tanks rust on the side of the road. Battered cars and vans converted into buses bounce over the rocket-ravaged asphalt. 
The landscape along the highway is as miser­able and desolate as the people. 
Thistles and tumbleweed flutter across the plains that are a sea of sun-soaked rocks. Everything is windswept -the plains, the hills, the people. 
Suddenly the road sweeps past a complex, ruined by rockets, that had once housed an experimental farm. 
"The Russians," says Shakir Ullah, a Taliban guard escorting a group of journalists, "they did that."' 
At Dacca, 10 miles from the border, a charred and twisted pickup truck lies on the side of the road, a victim of the recent fighting. 

Ancient settlement endangered 
EDITOR "S NOTE -The Market Cross of Kells. Ireland. one of the country's medieval "high crosses.·· has put its town at a crossroads. Should the cross stay where it has been for 12 centuries or should it be moved to a safer place? Tradition-minded residents know the problem but they just can't think about moving their cross. 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press Writer 
KELLS, Ireland 
The people of this ancient Christian settlement are trying to figure out how to have their cross and save it, too. 
The Market Cross, the most prized but endangered land­mark of Kells, once marked the entrance to the monastic settle­ment that followers of St. Columba founded in A.D. 804. 
Twelve centuries on, the sandstone Celtic monument stands astride the busiest junc­tion in Kells, a magnet for locals, tourists and religious pil­grims. 
"It's been there donkey's years," said Alice Mulvenna, 28, who works at a convenience store 20 yards from the cross. 
"We'd sit there on the cross as school kids at 2 in the afternoon or 2 in the morning. That's why there's such a good shine on it." 
But the cross is suffering. Carvings of Adam and Eve, Cain and Abel, Daniel in the lion's den, Christ performing the mir­acle of the loaves and fishes have all been reduced to blobs by a millennium of rain -and, even more, by a few decades of corrosive exhaust. 
Every day, 12,000 vehicles pass by the cross. In 1985, a truck sideswiped the cross, tak­ing out a few base stones and nudging the whole structure a few inches. 
"If it gets hit clean by one of those juggernauts that'll be it ­a death blow," said Frances Monaghan, a town council­woman. 

In her family's pub there's a Committee. picture, circa 1899, of the cross The group got 1,000 signa­covered with kids. Such old pic­tures on a petition and orga­tures show much more detail of nized two protest rallies outside the carvings than survives now, the council chambers last sum­but she understands local resis­mer. tance to moving the cross even "You had demonstrations, an inch. verbal abuse and even a bit of 
"It's like our leaning tower of physical abuse," said the town's Pisa! How could you move it, Anglican minister, the Rev. really?" William Ritchie. "People got 
So when the burghers of Kells quite wound up about it." last year decided to move the The council has backed down cross indoors at a new heritage for now, as it had in 1983 when center and place a replica in the it first proposed moving the intersection, battle lines were cross. It is awaiting an updated quickly drawn. road-traffic report later this 
"We all agree that it's in year before deciding whether to great, continuous danger. The move the cross farther from the people just feel utter and road, or into the heritage cen­absolute abhorrence that the ter. Market Cross might be moved," There has also been talk of said Denis McCarthy, a mush­banning vehicles from Cross room farmer, frog hunter and Street and putting the cross secretary of the Save Our Cross under glass. 
Olive oil connoiseurs refine their tastes 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press Writer 
LORO CIUFFENNA, Italy Fabio Chiappini cradles the small porcelain cup in his hand. 
In goes his nose for a deep draft. Then come a small sip, a masticating movement of the jaw, two sharp snorts and a delicate expectoration . 
"We can't say this oil has refinement," he says. "It's heavy, with a strong artichoke flavor, but not much vegetal quality." Good for bruschetta or boiled beans, "but if we put it on fish, it will hide the taste." 
Now it's the students' turn ­sniff, sip, snort and spit. We check our score sheet -clear olive taste, excellent artichoke quality, very good piquancy, only modest vegetal quality, an almond aftertaste. 
All in all, not perfect, but a decent olive oil. 
·Adopting the language of sommeliers and marketing skills of Madison Avenue, the olive oil world is using tasting courses and rating systems to try to raise consciousness about extra virgin olive oil -the rich, pungent, flavorful oil that has the highest price tag. 
The courses are fascinating tutorials about a liquid firmly embedded in Western culture and palates. Many are open to travelers, with the benefit, in Italy at least, of beautiful and evocative surroundings. 
One ·such place is Loro Ciuffenna, a tiny town between Arezzo and Florence in Tuscany. 
Shielded from the northern winds by the Pratomagno mountain range, Loro sits on a ridge above the Ciuffenna river, which carves its way through a gorge below. 
The countryside ripples with the silvery leaves of olive trees, their gnarled trunks gripping the earth. 
The town is the home of a new museum to painter and sculptor Venturino Venturi, who still lives nearby. It's also a center for hiking and nature walks. 
Nearby is the headquarters of the International Movement for Olive Oil Culture (Movimento Internazionale per Ia Cultura dell'Olio da Olive, or MICO), which runs courses in the city hall. 
Its president, local oil produc­er Giuseppe Grappolini, also teaches courses at food fairs in the United States and elsewhere in Europe. Chiappini, who pro­duces an Umbrian oil in Fabro to the south, is a member. 
MICO's basic course, lasting a day, costs 160,000 lire, about $105. 
The Locanda dell'Amorosa hotel-restaurant, a former 14th-century farm complex in Sinalunga near Siena, organizes tastings, or "degustazioni," for small groups of tourists gener­ally during the first week of December. Samples of oil are provided at the start of the meal, and each course uses a different oil. 
"We want to make the cus­tomer understand that every olive oil is different, not just around the country but from town to town," said manager Carlo Citerio. 
Humans have been cultivating the olive for 8,000 years. It was sacred to the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, Jews and early Christians. People used it to read parchment by, to anoint kings, to slick down athletes, to cure ailments. The Bible makes more than 140 references to olive oil. The sprig of the olive symbolizes peace, its wood strength. 
Today, the olive and olive oil business worldwide produces $10 billion a year in revenues. Spain is the leading producer. 
In the United States, only 6.4 percent of all the oil sold comes from olives, according to the North American Olive Oil Association. And of that, less than half consists of extra vir­gin olive oil. 
But that category is fast grow­ing in the United States, with consumption rising by about 65 percent since 1991. Reports on olive oil's health benefits has brought a surge of gourmet magazine articles and the appearance of bottles of the oil on restaurant tables. 
Extra virgin oil is purely the juice of the olive squeezed mechanically from the olive fruit, unlike chemically refined products labeled simply "olive oil." It also has less than 1 per­cent oleic acid and no additives. 
But extra virgin oils vary mightily according to how the olives are harvested and how they are pressed. 

Finance Club 




Career Night 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen Consu · Bank of America Baxter Healthcare Boston Consul Cargill, Incorporated Dain Bosworth Wi ~~M E 
AT&T Corp. NBD 





OINT
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran M~Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson 
Man CaseyTom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor ...•...••....•..... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters 
Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
Pboto Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du I= and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcmers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4 542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNicwpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Nrws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Clearing the air within the confines of ND 

Before I dive headlong into this week's issues, I will make this solemn promise to all my readers: This will be the last column I will write about Notre Dame this semester. Truly. I swear. 
One thing I really wish Right-to-Life supporters on this campus would do is actually read the fine print (so to speak). 
Matthew Apple 

The topic for the past year among stu­dents and theological pseudo-law pro­fessors has been the Congressional "partial birth abortion ban," which was vetoed by President Clinton this spring. 
No, I am not going to support partial birth abortions, nor am I going to reiter­ate the gruesome details of this particu­lar procedure. The last thing I want to do in this column is resort to heart­wrenching, emotionally-manipulative descriptions (perish the thought). 
Instead, I'd like to mention the follow­ing fact: Clinton said, for the record, that he would sign the proposed act into law on the condition there be exceptions for cases when the life of the mother is at stake or in case of incest or rape. Dole and Gingrich knew this, yet they purposely did not add clauses to that effect. Therefore. the Republican-led Congress knew ahead of time that Clinton was going to veto it, and, instead of compromising with him as they knew full well they could, chose to play poli­tics and make it seem Clinton was a baby-killer, etc., etc. Which just goes to show, none of these politicos give much 
of a damn about people unless they per­
ceive it to be politically expedient. 
It is true that the majority of partial­

birth abortions are performed in cases .that do not affect the life of the mother, which is precisely why Clinton said he 
would sign the bill. However, it is also 
true that, according to the results of the 
Roe v. Wade (whose statutes I'm sure 
the members of every Right to Life 
group in the U.S. currently has memo­
rized) abortion is legal during the first 
trimester, i.e., the first three months. 
After the first trimester, it is the states' 
individual responsibility to set a limit on 
the time allowed for abortions. 
Now, since the aim of the Republican 
party is, and has been for some time 
now, to shift the power back to the 
states, isn't this something which the 
Republicans would approve? Why is it 
that the Republican party, the party of 
individual rights and responsibility, the 
party of "give power to the people," 
wants to create a federally-mandated 
law to govern something for which the 
states already have the power to gov­
ern? And if the states which currently 
allow partial birth abortions do so 
because they have no laws prohibiting 
it, why don't the people of that state 
demand of their state legislatures that 
they do? 
In any case, this procedure is so expensive that you have to be financial­ly "well-off' in order to afford it-wel­fare and health insurance won't pay for this operation. Even if partial birth abortions were illegal by federal law, the people who could afford them before the law could certainly afford them after the law. Laws don't apply to the inde­pendently wealthy. (What, you think someone besides Ollie North could have made illegal millions on illegal arms deals? You think IBM or Coke cared that it was illegal to set up shop in South Africa in the 1980s? You think anyone besides Marion Berry or Michael Irvin would have gotten more than a prover­bial slap on the wrist for cocaine pos­session?) 

Of course. none of this qualifies the Notre Dame Right-to-Life organization to "challenge" the veto. Congress can challenge the veto. Everyone else can only protest it. One thousand students in a country of over 250 million can hardly "challenge" anything. 
* * * 

Speaking about Notre Dame ... as last fall when I took a glance through NO's well-respected alcohol policy (especially on football Saturdays, when no one in their right mind would dare take a drink), this fall I'll take a peek at the statement concerning crime on campus. (For those of you who have absolutely no idea what I'm talking about, it's that rectangular glossy white pamphlet you got at registration which you immedi­ately deposited into the nearest waste paper receptacle.) 
The most interesting crime statistic at Notre Dame would have to be the cate­gory "forced sodomy." 
As far as I know, "forced sodomy" would be rape, which is always "forced." Any "forced" sexual action is violent and mentally and physically damaging. What I'd like to know, is why bother making a separate category for different "kinds" of rape? It doesn't matter how or to whom it happened-a violent crime is still a violent crime. There's absolutely no good reason for this dubious distinction. 
For that matter, I can think of several categories that were (accidentally, I assume) left out of the statistics. First thing which comes to mind is the total 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
absence of any statistics for sexual harassment, which, as we all know, never happens on a Catholic campus. 
As regards that interesting oversight, there could possibly be any number of revealing sub-categories. For example: 
• 
Number of students sexually molest­ed by tenured professors. 

• 
Number of students sexually molest­ed by varsity sports players on full scholarship. 

• 
Number of students raped by varsity sports players on full scholarship. 

• 
Number of varsity sports players sus­pended from bowl games for a different reason than the one the press was told. 

• 
Number of students paid by the uni­versity to leave college and to forget the entire unfortunate incident. 

• 
Number of alumni lawyers who would gladly defend their alma mater. despite the fact that all such cases would be a conflict of interest. 


Arid, of course. there could be the ever-popular category. 
• Number of varsity sports players who were so intelligent that they decided to get completely tanked and play chicken with a train. 
But, you know, that's what I like so much about this university. Nobody ever has to worry about sexual harassment or molestation on this campus. and nobody ever has to worry about Notre Dame ever recruiting unsavory charac­ters who might help them make six mil­lion dollars every January. These prob­lems just don't happen here. 
God, country and Notre Dame. It really is the best of all possible worlds. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. He 
canbe reached matthew. t. apple.1 @nd. edu http://www. nd. edu/-mapple.  or  at at  
• QuoTE OF THE DAY  

.,~ SPE/V<'£R 15 f.XP!AINING 
HR. 3819 7D f'or&NTIAt, 
~~ 'jff}/"6()/??, '. 
f113 A Nlffl~ mf?K'7 &IJMM!RC/Ati7A1lON /Cf... 
AI?& >a! 
KICJOING? 
A GRA~· 
·. Ff.Jt NATION 
fJK)(JI.f) IN­
~~ON 
IT/ 
YOU M£4/V, 
t.JKe, THt 
UN!~ ~rf?Ot£(JM .· 
BIRD R£F­
U6e? 
R16HT.'OR 
TH& UJ4L.I 
/?I?N~Y 
IJJIUJei?M55 AReAl 
I 
tOY£177 
UJUW «£ 
R8P/..AC£ 
1H&-BEAR5 
IJ)/77{Cfjf? 
O«.N~? 
" 

''The man who never 
alters his opinion is like standing water, and breeds reptiles of the mind." 
-William Blake 
------------------------------------------------.-----------....------------~ 


CC6NT 


page 10 
Tuesday, September 1 7, 1996 Tuesday, Septeml 

Connoisseurs and students share an evening of wine tasting a 
I 
f 
( 'I 
f 
I j 
I I 
! 
By LESLIE FIELD 
Accent Copy Ediror 
It's like stepping into the French countryside for an evening; a Monday night tilled with fine wines and a dimly lit room of about thirty people who have a genuine interest in the wine industry. Sorry, but there is no boxed Franzia in sight. LaSalle Grill has discovered a way to bring South Bend into the heart of this past time which keeps growing world wide. Grill owner, Mark McDonnell, has had great success with his monthly wine tast­ing evening, "Meet Your Wine Maker." And its no wonder why. 
"We always get half the people who have been here before and another half who are new." Every evening of fine food and wine includes a guest of the evening representing the wine being sampled. Last night's guest was John Newburgh of Roundhill Wines. Newburgh represents Roundhill in the mid­west and currently lives in Milwaukee, WI. Roundhill, which is new as of the 1990's, is a well priced wine from Nappa Valley. 
Newburgh, who has been in the wine business · since the 1970's, has seen growth and increased interest in wine, especially in the past few years. "More and more people enjoy wine with food. The art of fine 'dining needs wine...Wherever good friends gather, wine is there," said Newburgh. 
In fact, wine is all over the world. Wherever there is a maritime influence, it is possible that rich vineyards exist. And what makes a good vineyard? According to Newburgh, soil and climate are the keys to great wine. Bordeaux has some of the rich­est vinyards in the world, making France's West Coast the world's wine mecca. 

Charlie Ryder, wine connoisseur, and John 
Newburgh, Round Hill representative, toast to UMeet 
Your Maker" night outside of the LaSalle Grill last 
evening. 

Because of the supply and demand of Bordeaux wines, it may not be economically feasible to impress your next SYR date with a bottle. Only four thousand cases are packaged annually, due to the soil and climate, which are not always ideal or predictable. But a bottle of 1992 Van Duser Pinot Noir from Oregon is eleven dollars and well worth it. It comes from the mouth of VanDuser Corridor, 
. . . :' ,-:, . ':·:· .: . -.;.-:' :-··· :_:,::::-::::-:== ·_.::::·::>=::: 

Foc~et ~b~ ~e~ s~'riin 

Rolle~r-webbi 
.·ayJASON HUGGINS 
World Wide Web Correspondent 
located high in Coastal Oregon's Eola Hills. 
Perhaps the biggest difference between the way Americans and French make their wine is the aug­mentation process. The French do less to change the flavor of their wine while Americans tend to fid­dle with it, according to Newburgh. The French store their wine in oak barrels while Americans will filter it and use oak chips to obtain the flavor they want. The French make filterless wine. Each country has their own special method. 
There are rich vineyards found everywhere from South Africa to Perth. In the United States, the West Coast clearly corners the industry with vine­yards starting in Sonoma, CA and working their way up to Woodenville, WA, home of the renowned Chateau St. Michelle. 
A good vineyard is rocky. Roundhill told last night's wine enthusiasts that the goal of a vine is to ripen the fruit. The vines will grow thirty feet into the ground if they can. 
And it has never been more important for those vines to do their job as it is now. Recent medical studies claim that a glass of red wine a day is good for the heart. Merlot and red Zinfandel sales have been soaring. "Something that's good for the heart and is good, like wine, is going to be popular," Newburgh claimed. 


Even Indiana, which ranks in the middle for­ties in terms of wine sales per state, is seeing increasing interest in the product. Roundhill and its counterpart, Rutherford Ranch, are sold at LaSalle Grill as well as in liquor stores. 
When a wine is sold at a restaurant, its value and demand tend to rise. South Bend resident and wine lover Steve Gerschoffer claims that "this has a good atmosphere and is one of the nicest things to do in South Bend." He, like many other Americans, enjoys red wines. LaSalle Grill Wine Stewart Alan Sommeleir agrees, commenting that the evenings are educationaL He also brought up another key to the evening: the food! 
Executive Chef Kurt Buell prepares specific foods to bring out the flavor in the wines. He does not drink any wine, but smells it to deter­mine which foods enhance its flavor. "A lot of taste is smell-1 have a well trained palate in terms of wine," said BuelL And just what were some of those foods? Delicious, to say the 
least. . . South Bend residents enjoy 1995 Meriot and Chc 
Each wme had a very dtfferent flavor Winery at the LaSalle GrilL 
depending on its consistency. For example, the 1994 Round Hill Napa Valley Zi:Qfandel had a licorice flavor to it and was on the dry side. It went 
The Featured Wines Wine Price per bottle 
1993 Rutherford Ranch Napa Valley 
Chardonnay 1995 Round Hill Napa Valley Chardonnay 

1993 Rutherford Ranch Napa Valley 
Merlot 1994 Round Hill Napa Valley Merlot 1992 Rutherford Ranch Napa Valley 
Cabernet Sauvignon 1993 Round Hill Napa Valley Cabernet 
Sauvignon 1994 Round Hill Napa Valley Zinfandel 1992 Van Duser Pinot Nair 1994 Van Duser Dry Riesling 
$9.90 $10.50 $10.70 $11.75 
$9.90 $11.75 $8.50 
$11.00 $7.00 
,;at·:':.':'P1U'An feel the pulse 
"their site you can find spec. sheets and tons of pictures of their 
latest skates in action. Rollerblade even offers a city-by-city 
Forget "web surfing." The new techno-chic buzz word around guide to the best rollerwrinks and skating areas in your locale. 
town is now "roller-webbing." That's right, the meteoric rise in {Fortunately. they don't mention DeBartolo Qupd or the road to 
in-line skating nationwide has resulted in scores of die-hard in-Saint Mary's. These we'll paved roads will be, our little secret.) 
line web sites. A quick search at Yahoo! (www.yahoo.com) Rollerblades' skates are too big and too expensive, but they are 
reveals hundreds of in-line skaters craving to dish out tips and worth mentioning. 
information to unsuspecting "roller-webbers" like yourself. ,, For the crazier side of roller-webbing. check out SportsZone . For newbies to In-line skating. it is difficult to find out the facts,. {espn.sportszone.com/editors/xgames/inline/index.html), 
you really need to know: prices, models, where to skate, and how to skate. Unless. of course, you consult with the Grand 
· Poobah of information resources-the worldwide web. In-line skating is the correct term for the sport commonly called "rollerblading" or simply "blading." The commonly mis­used term of "rollerblading" is due to the company called Rollerblade, which although wasn't the first to produce in-lines, 
where in-line skating appears on the same page as "street luge." . "sky surfing," and other so-called extreme sports. Here you can .) download home videos of your favorite extreme skaters crashing 
into brick walls and careening down five-storystaircases. Whoa! 
The end-all-be-aU ofin-line skating information has to be the Rec.sport.skating.inline Frequently Asked Questions {R.s.s.inline FAQ) at www.skatefaq.com. Here you can lind hundreds of 
·:::(:: 

very well with spicy foods, like the c to salsa. The 1995 Round Hill r Chardonnay was sweeter while the · Merlot was less fruity because it was quite as acidic. 
Doug Burk, National Wine and Sp Representative, gave the attendants h ful tips on how to taste wine to get its flavor. He encourages people to tastE think about it and try it again, with fc if you prefer. He wants people to ta wine in any fashion they want, thot Wine tasting has become prestigious comes with many unnecessary 1 attached. LaSalle Grill creates a very ing and laid back environment ' doesn't stress one particular way of Burk commented, "We've created an Some people like leisure suits and sc It's the same with foods." People shou wines they like, despite popular trend5 tionary thing. If you like white Zinfam it." 
He also encourages people to keep tl 45 degrees and their reds at 55 degree 
Robert Parker, Jr., a wine indust: talks about the year 1982, perhaps 1 for the wine business yet. The year "" because the weather was perfect for 1 in Bordeaux. Wine publications lik1 Spectator" keep those interested in wi with what's hot and what's not. 
So next time you go to uncork your J bottle of wine, swirll it around, waft and taste. You will impress all ol Schlitz drinking friends and just impress yourselfl 
in-line . · .· · •',· ·•··, ···•· · 
,·.. ·· ... ·.,,,·'''·'· .,. R.s.s.inline FAQ was fll'~t started b);a Princeton undert w ' '• . · student way ba<:k in 1991. Orig~ly, all in-line infor,. Roller blade was the only company in the in-line market for a mation was posted on the'alt.skate Usenet newsgroup. However, 
ng.:~/f~~:.~i~!.h~sm.l~d~t~.y.t~~J:~:U.~. ~:~:.=.~!!~.•·. t~~ f~~:~~ i~ar• :,.·.~~~~=~e~~obyb::~;:~!~a}~~:~:ntt~; ~~ ..··~.~~~o~~.~~ ;~~
...·.k·
!~o~.· 
the use of ..Kleenex," ~coke." "Q-tip... "Xerox," and other prod-day: stopping and how to maintain wheels .. and bearings. The . aJlCts. stopping and wheel or bearings files madl up the original FAQ. .. + > So, of course. anyin-line homepage visit must include the This quickly grew to include a general Q&A me, a huge list of? · · Rollerblade corporate web site (www.rollerblade.com). From · trails and places to skate, rollerhockey info, skate reviews, and 
the FAQ was on a rolL ··. 
Today the FAQ is one of the most popu~ and comprehensive inline skating web sites, with supplemental'f $ervice provided via Usenet and anonymous ftp. It has everything from skating tutori· als, lists of shops and manufacturers, information from the National Inline Hockey Association, the lnline Skate Shopping Guide. and tons more. . 
The R.s.s.inline homepage is a great squrce of advice. In the on-line pricing guide. the author recomm.nds staying above the Crummy Skate Threshold (CST) of $120iwhen buying skates. Anything lower, and you're better ofGgoing to Toys'R'Us (www.tru.com). And better than any otht-"J! book.. on the subject, ,· the R.s.s.inline FAQ has answers to all th«stufT you really want4 to know about. For example, "Skating do\Vn.hill {and surviving)., and "How do I handle dogs chasing me while skating?" are my two favorite sections. 



CC6NT
: 17, 1996 Tuesday, September 17, 1996 

00 



1\line tasting at the LaSalle Grill 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

tth Bend residents enjoy 1995 Me riot and Chardonnay from Round Hill 1ery at the LaSalle Grill. 
a 
very well with spicy foods, like the charred toma­to salsa. The 1995 Round Hill Napa Valley 
Chardonnay was sweeter while the 1993 Merlot was less fruity because it was not quite as acidic. 
Doug Burk, National Wine and Spirits Representative, gave the attendants help­ful tips on how to taste wine to get its full flavor. He encourages people to taste it, think about it and try it again, with food if you prefer. He wants people to taste wine in any fashion they want, though. Wine tasting has become prestigious and comes with many unnecessary rules attached. LaSalle Grill creates a very invit­ing and laid back environment which doesn't stress one particular way of tasting. Burk commented, "We've created an animal. Some people like leisure suits and some don't. It's the same with foods." People should drink the wines they like, despite popular trends. "It's a reac­tionary thing. If you like white Zinfandel, stick with it." 
He also encourages people to keep their whites at 45 degrees and their reds at 55 degrees. 
Robert Parker, Jr., a wine industry guru, still talks about the year 1982, perhaps the best year for the wine business yet. The year was successful because the weather was perfect for the vineyards in Bordeaux. Wine publications like "The Wine Spectator" keep those interested in wine up to date with what's hot and what's not. 
So next time you go to uncork your favorite bottle of wine, swirll it around, waft a bit, and taste. You will impress all of your Schlitz drinking friends and just might impress yourselfl 
s, pictures, and pricing guides. You can 
lay's in-line culture.~ . was f:trst started by a Princeton under.. ack in 1991. Originally, all in-line infor~ te alt.skate Usenet newsgroup. However. lc.skate, and the creation of the FAQ was most frequently asked questions of that 
to maintain wheels and bearings. The ,earings files made up the original FAQ. elude a general Q&A file, a huge list of te, rollerhockey infP,skate reviews, and 
of the most popular and comprehensive with supplementary service provided via "tp. It has everything from skating tutori .. manufacturers. information from the Association, the Inline Skate Shopping 
~age is a great source of advice. In the e author recommends staying above the 
•ld (CST} of $120Jwhen buying skates. you're better off going to Toys'R'Us :ter than any othnr book on the subject. 
answers to all tht! stuff you really want nple, "Skating downhill {and surviving)*' logs chasing me while skating?" are my 
The R.s.s.inline FAQ has so much information. it takes four hours just to print it out at the Hesburgh computer cluster. And just like at Meijer, ifit isn't there it probably doesn•t exist. 
The Internet has a plethora of information on in·line skating that. for the most part. is unavailable or hard to rmd in print. Most trips to Barnes & Noble for books on skating will be fruit.. less-there just isn't much out there. But through the grass roots efforts of in-line fans from around the world. you can now find anything you want. 
If you don't have time to check out all of today•s "cool.. sites here is a brief capsule summary: ' 
1) In-line skating is cool; 
2} You get what you pay for; 
3) Practice often; 
4) Skate smart, 
5) Skate safe; 
6) If anything gets in your way, turn! 
Happy roller-webbing! 
Jason is a junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks. CA. Please tell the ND Science Quarterly to stop e-mailing him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd. edu. 
page 11 
• MEDICAl MINUTE 


See Jane drink, see Jane drunk 

Alcohol vs. the human body 
ByLARRYWARD Medical Minute Correspondent 

It has been joked about among many Notre Dame students that the third branch of the Holy Trinity is a beer. Notre Dame students per}),aps lqlow bet~ ter than students at most colleges the effects of alcohol on th~ir young ·. ..........·........,.. ,,,,.,.., For better or for worse. many Domers get ..blitzed.. on a weekly. or should say "weekendly," basis. . ·. · . ··•·•·•·...,·,····,,,·.,,.,.'..·.·•·· ·. ,/ · · .·· .. .•.. ~erhaps one reas?n that manr ~olleg.e students drink ls tb,.faicolWl ~~ long enJoyed the reputatiOn as the elixir oflife. For thousands of years, people .· ···.•·.· .·.·· believed that just one alcoholic beverage was sufficient in helpil!.g to cure what> ailed you. Throughout history, many pave believed that alconolwas even · 
capable ofimproving life. . ·· . . . . ..· ..'••· ..• . .··. ,············. . · .·· ...·..•. · 
. Granted. alcohol in MODERATION can actually be good f()r one's · . In fact, scientists have shown that a glass of wine a day can help to . .· · disease. However, many people probably do not realize the · em:~cts 
alcohol has on the hwnan body.< .. ·.. ·..•,...·....••...•··... • .•.....· ·.·· .•....·............· 
. . The form of alcphptthat is found ill .our drinkS ·.·. ·a!cloh<lt.i.cJr .,j._.....,,~] ethanol. Ethano[is acolorless liqUid that in its pure, . . . . . . . a . . : ing or burning. taste. Ethyl alcohol is produced by the fermenting C)f sugars that occurs as a natural process in crops such as barley. . . · '· ···• .... · · ..·.·· 
.. Alcohol works in our body to depress the central nervous syst~m. The · · tral nervous system of the human body consists of the brain and the .,.~.........,••.• cord. It is the branch of the nervous system that receives input about · .•· ·•··, external environment and sorts.the input into appropriate directionswhich.are · carried out by our muscles or glands...··.··..•....,· ·..·.···. . . .· . . . r .. ·· 
This conscious altering drug works 1!\;.. tQ.~·. body ~o h~Jp ~,~,~'!\: qJ,J,y .p::~~-..~;~ 
inhibitions by depressing the control¢enters ofthe .... . .·. . . ..·...... person drinks. the rn()re sedated that the person actually . · •· · · · · · · .• .. Alcohol is somewhat like an anesthetic in that both forms 9f drugs grad l.lWtY~' and progressively.depress the.functions ofthe human brmn. Bydrinldp.g alco~ ,. hoi. the areas of our brain that control thought; emotion, and judgment ar~·"'' impaired. Thus. our motor controls are affiicted by alcoholic drinks. ·· · · 
Results of drinking alcohol include slurred speech, unsteady balap.ce and .. slower reaction time to various stimuli that we encounter; This impairment of .· our motor and muscle control is quite embarrassing and can even be life .•.. threatening as in car accidents that occur as a result of a stupid person driving while under the influence of alcohol. Moreover. excessive amounts of alcohol · can result in sleep and in extreme situations can put someone in a life,..threat-. ening coma by severely depressing the vital control centers of the braib.. • · · 
The small intestine is the principal site of alcohol absorption in our bodies.··· The rate of alcohol absorption in the body depends upon the amount of food· that is in the intestine. The more food that someone has in their system, the better. since food slows the absorption ofalcoh()l into the· blQodstrea.m. . . . . .·····,· ·...···. · 
Alcohol itself is technicalfy a food because it provides our body with Wlits · energy, known as .c;1lories.. The body uses alcohol by metabolizing it in liver togain necessary heat and energy•. However. the actual "food value" 
.·· ..•· . . is ex!remely:Ptini~al~ince tb(} good majority of th~ cal()J'ies·f.01tnd alcohol are empty, . whtch means .that the.(:alories found. in a}coh.ol absolutely no vitamins. minerals, or proteins. · · · · .. . 
The alcohol that is not burned by the body as fuel is lost from the body as ·urine or else is exhaled from the lungs. As a result, the alcohol· that we.. ~xhale . in the air is able to be measured by the brea.thalyzer test. This is because the amount of alcohol that we exhale parallels the amount of alcohol·tba~ is found 
in the bloodstream. · · .· .. · · · · Alcohol also dilates ?ur peripheral blood vessels. those vessels tbatare . . .· .. ed closest to our s}dn. Therefore. when one drinks he/she wlll ~oqn ... •. •. . . .· .·· ·• •· .• 
that a warm feeUng ·is ·overcoming his'her· body. In addition~ the puJ!;e ·rise!> ·•·· • more urine is produced as a result of alcohol consumption. .··•···.·.. } · . · 
Chronic alcoholics have nutrient deficiencies it• their bodies, These people ·· have depleted resources of thiamin (vitamin B"ll• riboflavin {vitamiP. B·2). niacin, folic acid, pyridoxine {vitamin B;.6). magnesium. potassium. all.d zinc hi their bodies. · ·· ·. .. ··•· ·.···•· 
Many people are fooled by the myth that coffee can work to eliminate ·the effects of alcohol on the body. Actually•. coffee does nothing in reversing thexK· effects of alcohol. Rather, the caffeine found in coffee merely aids the human · body in feeling more awake. However, the impairment ofmotor controls can only be worn off with time. 
It is vital that we realize that alcohol is actually a lethal poison. .·. Moreover, alcohol abuse in our country is·a major social and medical problem..· · 
. Moderate drinking is acceptable and as previously mentioned can have positive effects on the body (i.e. warding off heart disease with wine). However. exces· sive drinking can result in irreversible damage to the liver, pancreas, brain, nerves, and cardiovascular system. 
Unfortunately, millions of people in America use alcohol excessively. In fact 2/3 of Americans over the age of 14 use alcohol regularly. Approximately · 10 million of these people can be classified as alcoholics and another 7 million 
of them are classified as alcohol abusers. 
It is necessary that you regulate the amount of alcohol you consume. Be sure to get help if you begin to develop a serious drinking problem. A serious drinking problem is classified by harm done to yourself or others as a result of your drinking alcohol. If you are unsure if you have a problem ask those .. around you. 
Larry Ward is a junior science prewprofessional major also completing a con· centration in STY. Larry is originally from Johnstown. PA and is currently vice· president ofthe Pre-Professional Society. 
·-----------~------~------------------------------------------~----~------------------0.--~----------~------~~----··=="-•&• 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
-~ 
NOTICES 

Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo) 255­1172 Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix itlll 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 

LOST&FOUND 

REWARD!! If anyone has or knows some­one who has my black Jansport backpack with a camara and datebook inside, I will gladly give a reward for its retumll Please. I would really, really,really appreciate it!! NO QUESTIONS ASKED!I Call634-1403. 
•••Please Helplll" .. I lost my keys on Purdue Saturday.lt's 3 keys on a Corona bottle opener!keychain. REWARD. 

WANTED 
I

L..------------~ 
HELP WANTED-$10.25 Part-time work. Flexible eve. and weekend hours. No exp. required. All majors welcome. Scholarships avail­able. Info-call 282-2357 
WANTED: Black Crowes tixll 
need at least 2 or up to 5. call wendy at 
243-9430. 
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3) NEED 
TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY, ANALYTICAL 
GEOMETRY & TRIG 
PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL 
STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR TO 
COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM NO), BUT 
OTHER ARRANGE-MENTS CAN BE 
MADE 272-8235 
Cleaner wanted for 1 hr/wk @ $1 0 
to clean the on-campus apartment of two 
female students. Call 
4-4158. 
WOMEN ARE NEEDED to deliver morning 
newspapers door-to-door. Eam spending 
$$ working only 3 or 4 days a week. Call 
Mike x1186. 
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game, 9/28. 
Attend family tailgate, watch 1 yr. old 
daughter during game. Call Matt at 
(614)469-3605 during day. 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-
Positions are now availalbe at National 
Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. 
Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206­
971-3620 extN55848 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,0QO-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-
Teach basic conversational English in 
Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching 
certificate or European languages required. 
Inexpensive Room & Board + other bene­
fits. For info. call: 
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs 
FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360­
2243. 
I HAVE A GREAT-HOPEFULLY PROF­IT ABLE -IDEA FOR A COMPUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCIATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL TOM 288-5655. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
SOCCER REFEREES Students needed to 
referee soccer games for southside ele­
mentary school (Grades 5-8), located near 
Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All games 
scheduled between 4:00PM and 5:30PM, 
Monday-Friday, Sept 9-Oct.29. $15.00­
$20.00 per game. Must have referee uni­
form. Call291-4200 or 291-8731. 
ENGLISH GRAD OR MAJOR: 
To read & edit school manuals. 
GOOd $-your own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5 M·F 
COMPUTER HELP 
Create layouts, forms. brochure~. etc. for 
small office. Good pay-your own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5M-F Looking for an outgoing public relations rep. to represent a chiropractic center at local health screenings. Paid training. Part time. Average $8 -$9/hour. For more information call (219)282-2828. 
Need F student to care for child PT in home while I work. Near Notre Dame. Call April 289-9914 
COLLEGE COUPONS -the student coupon book you love to use is seeking a local sales representative! Earn $7/hr. or MOREl Put your sales experience to good use. Must have car. Call8001767-8393 ask for Janet. 
SPRING BREAK Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed! Sell 15 trips and travel free + cash! Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PERSON FOR PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST POSITION. HOURS ARE 5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT. PHONE EXPAMUST. $7/HOUR 243-9555 
I FORRENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595 
Need a place to stay on football weekends? Furnished apartment for short term rent. Full kitchen, living room, two bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287-4876. 
ROOMS-NICELY DECOR. IN PRIVATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAMPUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 2n-8340 
House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP APPL. $650. 317­942-2108 after 6-317·942·2408. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND­
SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 

FOR SALE 

COMPUTER 4 SALE DELL LX4100D LIKE NEW 8MB, 100 MHZ $1500 CALL 233-5114 AFTER 6:30 PM 
92 JETTA 67K SSP, CRUISE, SUNROOF, +. $8,500 287-1521 
'78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY CORVETTE, 30,000 MILES. $9,500 FIRM. 
CALL 243-0658. 
2 OSU GA's 4 Sale 271-2837 
12 Speed touring bike Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars $175.00 (219)262-3739 
COMPUTER 4 SALE Mac Classic w/ software, modem, printer $300 Patti -1329 
.................................... 
Get your genuine 
Irish Kilts in time for football season! Hand crafted, Black watch plaid. 
Call now............................ 288-0116 
................................ 
1988 Honda CRX, rare automatic, all main­tenance receipts available, 94,000 miles, call Ray/Jacky 219/243-9182, $4500/best 
87 Mazda 323 129K SSP AC $2.300 Call 256-5523 

TICKETS 

NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232­0061. 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! CALL 243-1287 
Really need two GA's for Ohio State. Parents are coming in town. George x3669 
Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 10 Rows 232-0058 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE PLEASE CALL 232-0058 
NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA TIX...WILL PAY 
$$$ 
Call Gina 243-0n1 
Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay big $$. x3226 
NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!! TOP$$ CALL (219)2n-1646 
WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S CALL COLLECT 215·355-7131 RON 
ND Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs). Call (313)42D-1208 or (212)250-6513 
GA TICKETS WANTED GA ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE 2 OR 4 SEASON TICK­ETS OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES 

;:;;::::::::::;:;:;;;;;;2n-1659 
FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP".............AUT­GERS 272-7233 RUTGERS.. .. 
NEED 2 OHIO ST. TICKETS G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE 
@634-3847. 
NEED 4 GAs for WASH call CHRISSY @ 273-2580 
Need 1 OSU ticket Call Greg at 2318 
$$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ 
Band member needs THREE WASHING­TON TICKETS for aunt's visit. Stud/GA. Alyssa x1554 
•••Heyt••• Help me find two Washington 
GAs for my parent's first NO game. call 
lnga@ X2538 
DESPERATE for 4 tix to WASH game (GA or stud). Need to make stud tix into GAs. Offering handsome reward. Call 4-3592 for Ryan. 
Need two GA's for Texas 
call x1995 ask for Matt Danish 
SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o 
4-0931. 
HEY THERE -My Folks wanna see the WASHINGTON game, and so would my brother, Phass. I'd love to see my mom and dad, and Phass. but I need to get them THREE tickets. If you can help me out, call 243-9058 and ask for Ed. God bless ya. Oh: We also need 2 tickets for AIR FORCE-same deal applies. 
NEED TIX -HOME GAMES 
312-951-5008 
BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICKETS, PUB­LIC AND FACULTY SEATS CALL 1-800­255-2850 
Preferred tailgate parking pass needed for 
OSU game. Will pay $$$. Call Matt at 
(614)469-3605. 
TICKETS WANTED-Will pay premium 
price for 4 tickets for the NO/Ohio State 
game on Sat. 28th. No student tickets 
please. 
"Dynamite" seats only. Call BiiVAnna at 
800-457-0486. 
NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR PAR­
ENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS GAs. WILL 
PAY OR TRADE. 
CALL DAVE@ 4-1913 
Grad Non-Degree Student needs GA tickets to any games. Call Val at 243-0798. 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 312.404.4903 
STU BKLT 4 SALE 232-9750 
Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy or trade. Call Matt 271-3683 
Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade 
Matt-271-3683 
sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu tix2775931 
I need 2 Pitt tickets. 
Call Kyle @ 4-1957. 
1!1 FOR SALE !!! 
STUD. TICKET BOOKLET 
tel. 243-9448 
I will trade one Air Force. Pitt or Rutgers GA for one OSU.Bob. 2n-2510. 
Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents 
Call Rob x1902 
<><>Dave Matthews TiX<><> 
Tickets for sale, call Mickey X1350 

NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 

WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232­0061. 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272­6551 
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726-P.M. 
WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355 
Need Texas tickets for family who lives in area. Call Samantha at 4-2550. 
FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT YOU! Alum seeks happiness & fuzzy school memories. Will gleefully pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs. OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, but not picky. Please call our business collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or JENNIFER. 616­925-0629 
WANTED: TICKETS OSU 
VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COLLECT 
AFTER 9:00PM TOP$ PAID 
n. d. tickets for sale 2711635 

$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 
216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 
216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
NO ALUM NEEDS OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX CALL MIKE 212-372-7214 
Need tickets for N.D.-Texas Sept.21 Ca111­800-840-3548 
NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233-5719 
FOR BILL-ANY GAMES 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX 
ALL HOME GAMES. 

CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
Need Ohio State tickets. 
Call anytime. 302-832-7786 
NEED OSU TIXI 

WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE! 
CALL4-1440 

TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2 OSU GAs­273-8379. 
ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PUR­
DUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. 
CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 
DESPERATELY NEED WASH. GA'S. 
CALL#2456 

NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­
WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S 
+ $$ 634-1382. 
Need 2 Pitt GA's 
call Sean 
x-3311 

In desperate need of TWO TEXAS TICK­
ETS!!! Will trade two USC or two Rutgers 
or pay $$$. Call Colby @ 634-1468. 
Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for Family 
612-742-7638 Collect 
WANTED-2 GOOD TICKETS TO AIR 
FORCE 
$50.00 PER TICKET 
(515)266-6038 

Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $ for home 
games. 412/352-2219 
WANTED: NO vs OHIO STATE TICKETS 
SEPTEMBER 28 WILL PAY$$$ CALL 
314-n0-2223 

NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call Jason at 
4-1035. 

TICKETS DESPERATELY NEEDED ­
PLEASE HELP!!! 

Family wants to e;ome to a game for my 
senior year. Please help 
Would like 2-6 tickets for any home game. 
Please call Brian at 287-4876. Thank you. 
•••••••••••••••••••••••********* 
I need 2 tickets to home games for my alum brother. Please help! Call Erin at 634-3806 
SALE 
OSU STUTIX 
2719387 

$$ Please Help!! $$ 94 ND Alum Needs 1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to Ohio St and Wash­Call Joanne­516-742-1923 (night) or 212-415-3009 (day) 
For Sale: 2 ND-OSU GA's 317-251-4240 after 5 
OSU Weekend Hotel Rooms South Bend Marriott Two Rooms-9/27-9/28 At Cost (216) 622-8207 
OHIO STATE GA ONE AV FOR SALE CALL (910)725-7543 FOR PRICE INFO 
•••••••Need 4 Air Force Tix ..•••• Please call MB at 4-1759. 
Married std football tickets 4 sale 271-1568 after 6pm 
############ Need 2 OSU tix Will pay cash! Angela 271-1867 
HAVE OSU & WASH. TIX (GAs &STUDS) 271-8279. ###################### 
Need GA's for Air Force, Pitt & Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736 
WANTED: Washington tickets. student or GA. Call Nathan at 4-2031 
I need 6 OSU tickets Will pay high prices or 
will trade BULLS tickets! Call Jason @ x1225 


PERSONAL 

COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 

LaFortune Student Center 
Phone #631-COPY 

Pro-woman, Pro-life? Feminists for Life will be holding their first meeting on Tuesday, Sept 17 at 7:30p.m. in the CSC Lounge. Find out what we're all about. 
HAVE YOU EVER LONGED TO DANCE THE TANGO? DID YOU EVER WISH AT SYR'S THAT YOU COULD DANCE LIKE A PRO? WELL, COME AND LEARN! THE BALLROOM DANCE CLUB MEETS EVERY TUESDAY, STARTING TONIGHT, FROM 7:00-9:00 IN STEPAN CENTER. COME AND LEARN THE SWING/JIVE FOR FREE! 
Come to the O'neill DSYR 
Adoption: A cheerful and cozy nursery awaits a newborn. We will give your baby a bright future filled with endless love, oppor­tunities & security. Perhaps we can help each other. Expenses paid. Call John & Rosemary 1·800-984·9429 
STUDENT PLAYERS WANTS YOUR HELP we are looking for people to help us with the production of a musical beginning mid-Oct and running the first week in Dec. We are looking for: VOCAL DIRECTOR MUSICAL DIRECTOR COREOGRAPHER MUSICIANS If you are interestred call Adam@ 4x4115 today!!! 
Band Bi+(#, 
I am truly sorry about Wednesday. I hope I did not ruin your week. Maybe once I find a job we will be able to eat dinner. 
Your Band Geek 

Is that it daddy? Did the penguin tell you to 
do it? 
Oh! Billy, sweet Billy Boy 
I knew you would come back, 
Nothing can stop you if you try, 
Don't I have a nice rack? 
double trouble back in the swing 
passion outdoes fran! 
snowstorm in 1715?1? 
Why can't the printer just be broken? 
I just want to go hornell 
And I mean now!! 
Twelve days til the Buckeyes learn what it 
means to be a cracked nut. 
L5C2-Have fun in Texas. Too bad you 
have such awful seats. We'll miss not hav­
ing you on the couch. 
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
.PGA 



Woods allows first victory to 'slip away' 
ByRON SIRAK 
Asssociated Press Writer 
COAL VALLEY, Ill. 
Tiger Woods stared at the ground and tried to collect himself before explaining what went wrong in the final round of the Quad City Classic. 
He looked as if he wanted to break something or cry -or both. 
The anger and the hurt were struggling for control of his emotions just as he struggled to control those emo­tions during Sunday's round at Oakwood Country Club. 
"I had a three-stroke lead and it all slipped away in a heartbeat,'' he said. 
Then, turning the hurt into the kind of determination that has marked his relentless pursuit of golf great­ness, he said: "I see progress. I keep getting better." 
There is no doubting the greatness of Tiger Woods and that victory on the PGA Tour for the 20-year-old rookie is only a matter a time. 
Time and perhaps a few more disappointments like Sunday's when he took a one-stroke lead into the final round at Quad City, built it to three after two holes, then lost his composure on two holes and kicked the tournament away. 
His fifth-place at Quad City behind Ed Fiori, Andrew Magee, Chris Perry and Steve Jones was Woods' best as a pro. 
He finished 60th in his pro debut at the Greater Milwaukee Open three weeks ago and was 11th the next week at the Canadian Open. Now fifth . 
Next up is the B.C. Open in Endicott, N.Y. It is a remarkable debut for Woods, but also a debut that shows how difficult it is to win on the PGA Tour. 
Fiori, a 43-year-old, 19-year-veteran of the tour who hadn't won since 1982 called on every ounce of ex­perience he had to block out Woods' towering tee shots and the confusion created by the massive gallery and swarming media. 
The short, chunky Fiori has nothing approaching Wood's natural talent or his classic swing. But he had gritty shot after gritty shot, frequently hitting from 80 yards behind Woods in the fairway. 
It was Fiori who could shoot a 67 on Sunday and win while Woods was stumbling to a 72. 
It was Magee who could shoot a closing round 62 and gain 10 strokes on Woods. Perry gained six strokes on Woods Sunday and Jones picked up four. 
Woods' 72 was the worst final-round score by any­one in the top-26 in the tournament and only four of the 7 4 players shot a higher score than Woods on Sunday. 
This was a course that Woods should have handled easily. His 340-yard drives were leaving easy sand wedge approaches to the greens. The wide fairways left lots of room for error. 
And this was a field Woods should have handled. No one in the top 15 on the money list was in the tour­nament. 
"Some days are good and some are not,'' Magee said about Woods. "You know, we are not going to lie down out there. I think this was a blessing in disguise for Tiger." 

The round unraveled for Woods on the fourth hole. 
He drove into an algae-covered pond then after a penalty drop hit a tree and the ball bounced into the water again. Walking out of the rough, Woods slammed the tree with his club and shouted at himself. 
After two-putting for a quadruple-bogey eight, Woods banged his putter on the ground and cursed himself again. 
His focus seemed lost and his confidence shaken. 
..This was his tournament to win," Fiori said about Woods. "He hit one bad shot and never got over it," he said, referring to the quadruple bogey on No. 4. 
On the 342-yard seventh hole, Woods drove just short of the green in the left rough. A fine flop shot left an 8-foot birdie putt. Astoundingly, he four-putted, hit­ting the first one 4 feet past the hole, the second 4 feet long and the third 2 feet past the cup. 
Fiori, who was about 100 yards behind Woods off the tee, hit his approach shot to 3 feet and made the birdie putt. 
The gallery was too stunned even to groan after the four-putt, the silence making Woods' walk from the green seem even more awkward. 
"I just putted horribly," Woods said. 
"It's not a golf story," Earl Woods said Sunday as he watched his son on the practice green before the final round of the Quad City Classic. "It's a human story: Can the kid hang on?" 
Not on this day-but soon. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Yankees pummel Blue Jays 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

Tim Raines hit a pair of three-run homers on his 37th birthday as the New York Yankees won for the sixth time on their seven-game road trip, beating the Toronto Blue Jays 10-0 Monday night. 
The AL East leaders headed horne for a three-game series against Baltimore with a three­game lead over the Orioles, whose game against Milwaukee was postponed by rain at Camden Yards. 
New York, which led the divi­sion by 12 games on July 29, began the road trip with five losses in its previous nine games. 
Jimmy Key (12-10) started off with 5 2-3 perfect innings and wound up allowing two hits in eight innings. He was helped by two spectacular defensive plays in the fifth -an over-the­shoulder catch by shortstop Derek Jeter on Joe Carter's popup and a running catch by Raines in the left-field corner to rob Ed Sprague of an extra­base hit. 
Tomas Perez flared a single to right just beyond the reach of second baseman Mariano Duncan in the sixth for Toronto's first hit. 
Toronto's other hit was a sin­gle by Charlie O'Brien in the eighth. 
On a night when it rained in the SkyDome -the roof was closed after it began raining -Raines broke out of an 0-for-12 slump. 
He connected off Paul Quantrill (5-14} for a 3-0 lead in the third and then made it 7­0 in the fifth when he drove Quantrill's pitch off the glass of Windows Restaurant in center. Raines, who missed most of the 

Indians beat Sox, magic number at 2 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO 
Kevin Seitzer hit a go-ahead single and Jack McDowell sur­vived a shaky start as the Cleveland Indians moved to the verge of their second straight AL Central title Monday night by beating the Chicago White Sox 4-3. 
The Indians, whose magic number is two, can clinch the crown by beating the second-
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer birthday ad 
place White Sox on Tuesday or Wednesday night. 
The White Sox, who have lost five of their last seven, fell three games behind Baltimore in the AL wild-card race. The Orioles-Brewers game was rained out Monday. 
Chicago had a 3-0 lead after Frank Thomas and Harold Baines hit back-to-hack homers in the third. 
Thomas, who had three solo homers Sunday in Fenway Park, also doubled in a first­inning run. 
But Wilson Alvarez {15-9}, who had not surrendered an earned run to the Indians in 15 2-3 innings this season before Monday night, couldn't hold the lead. 
Sf?art~ on the Sf?atio 
Saturday, September 21,@ 8:30a.m. 

S1 OFF with Notre DaiDe ID, an Indiana License, or with this ad! (6th Street Shuttle to and from the game) 
ROYAL WAR MEMORIAL STADIUM 
C)he Qrieina[ qrisft 9?u& in Austin 

McDowell (12-9}, meanwhile, settled down and pitched his fifth complete game of the sea­son, giving up nine hits to his former team. 
He is now 3-1 against the White Sox, three seasons after winning the Cy Young Award in Chicago. 
The right-hander is also 7-0 in his last nine September starts dating back to 1993. 
Omar Vizquel walked in the sixth and Kenny Lofton singled. After a double steal, Seitzer punched a two-run, two-out single to center, giving Cleveland a 4-3 lead. 
McDowell stopped a rally in the seventh when he picked off pinch-runner Darren Lewis at first. 
Chicago manager Terry Bevington charged out of the dugout, apparently claiming a balk had been committed. 
The Indians, who left the bases loaded in the third, loaded them again in the fifth on two walks and a single by Seitzer. 
Alvarez then walked Albert Belle to force in a run and gave up an RBI single to Julio Franco, cutting Chicago's lead to 3-2. 
Alvarez, who is 2-4 with three no decisions in his last nine starts, was hurt by six walks in six innings. He gave up eight hits. 
f 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS
l •NFL 
~ 





l ~ Bettis leads Steelers to victory 
' 
By ALAN ROBINSON

l 
l 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 
The Pittsburgh Steelers looked like a team intent on returning to the Super Bowl. Jim Kelly apparently thought he was playing in one. 
Pittsburgh turned all three of Kelly's second-quarter inter­ceptions into scores, including Carnell Lake's 47-yard touch­down on the final play of the first half, and the Steelers beat the Buffalo Bills 24-6 Monday night. 
Jerome Bettis ran for 133 yards and two touchdowns in his second consecutive tOO­yard game and Kordell Stewart turned a seemingly routine screen pass into a 48-yard big play that set up Bettis' first score as the Steelers (2-1) de­

I 
feated Buffalo (2-1) in

I I 
Pittsburgh for the fourth 

I} straight season. "When you make a great
·~ 
I 
quarterback like Jim Kelly hes­titate and throw the ball to you, you've done a great job," Steelers defensive coordinator Dick LeBeau said. "They tried everything, but when a defense 
is playing well likes ours is, it looks like you're setting on ev­erything they're doing." 
The Steelers are 8-1 under coach Bill Cowher and 6-0 at home on Mondays, apparently their favorite night of the week. But it again wasn't Kelly's night in his hometown. 
Kelly, playing without his top pass protector, the injured Ruben Brown, and under con­stant pressure from a revived Steelers' Blitzburgh defense, threw four interceptions and was sacked twice in one of his worst games of his career out­side of a Super Bowl in which he has an 0-4 record. 
Kelly was knocked out of the game by the Steelers' defense on his last three trips to Pittsburgh, including a body­slam sack by Greg Lloyd in the Steeler's 40-21 playoff victory in January. But even on a night he started and finished, Kelly never got into a rhythm against a Steelers' defense that resem­bled the Steel Curtain of the 1970s. 
"They played their rear ends off and we got beat bad," Kelly said. "I wish I had answers, but I don't. We came in confident. We had a great week of prac­tice. But we couldn't click any way you looked at it." 
Kelly was 15-of-31 for 116 yards and has thrown two touchdown passes and nine in­terceptions in his last four games in Pittsburgh -all loss­es. He started his career by beating Pittsburgh five straight times. 
"It wouldn't matter if we were playing in Pittsburgh or Dallas or China," Bills line­backer Mark Maddox said. "They beat us. We let them dominate us." 
The loss continued the Bills' offensive problems that began in tight, come-from-behind wins over the Giants and Patriots. They have scored only two touchdowns in their last two games and 46 points in three games. 
"Offense, defense and coach­ing are all responsible for a loss that to all of us is humiliating," Bills coach Marv Levy said. 
Steve Christie kicked a 31­yard field goal to put Buffalo up 3-0 midway through the second quarter, and safety Kurt Schulz missed a great chance to make it 10-0 by dropping a sure touchdown interception in the open field on Pittsburgh's next play. 
Then, three plays later, Stewart -who alternated be­tween quarterback and re­ceiver in his familiar Slash role -took Mike Tomczak's screen pass and zoomed down the Steelers' sideline to the Bills 13 behind Dermontti Dawson's block. Bettis scored from the 1 three plays later, and the Bills never got any closer. 
Jerry Olsavsky, who moved into the starting lineup when Lloyd was injured in the Steelers' opener, then made his first career regular season in­terception and flipped the ball to Rod Woodson for a 14-yard gain to the Bills 24. 
The Steelers settled for Norm Johnson's 30-yard field goal and a 10-3 lead after Stewart was dropped for an 11-yard loss on a botched play. But Kelly quickly gave the ball back by throwing the ball directly to inside linebacker Levon Kirkland for the first of his two interceptions. 
Bettis, a two-time 1,000-yard back with the Rams rejuve­nated by his trade to Pittsburgh's run-friendly of­fense, made it 17-3 with a 43­yard scoring run with 4:48 left in the first half. 
Bettis was one of the NFL's top rushers in his first two sea­sons in the league, but irritated Rams coach Rich Brooks with a training camp holdout last sea­son and wound up being traded to Pittsburgh during the offsea­son. 

''I'm not trying to prove any­thing to anybody," said Bettis, who has 249 yards in his last two games. ''I'm just trying to show I'm a capable back when I get the ball, and that's what was missing last year (in St. Louis). This is a great offense to be in for a running back." 
Kelly, trying desperately to make something happen on the Bills' final drive of the first half, instead all but threw the game away. He ill-advisedly threw into a heavy pass rush and Lake returned it 4 7 yards to make it 24-3 as the clock ran out on the first half. 
The Steelers intercepted Kelly one more time in the second half, but couldn't convert the turnover into points as the Bills blocked Johnson's field goal attempt. Both of Johnson's sec­ond-half attempts were blocked. 
Tomczak again effectively ran Pittsburgh's multiple-look of­fense, going 12-of-19 for 150 yards to improve to 2-0 as a starter this season. He has won six of his last eight starts with Pittsburgh. 
"There's nothing magical about what we're doing here," Tomczak said. "We're running the ball every chance we get and throwing to keep them off­balance." 
Erric Pegram added 84 yards on 17 carries as Pittsburgh again alternated running backs to outrush the Bills 222-86 and outgain them 382-185. 
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
•NFL 

Chicago releases Huerta 
Associted Press Writer 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
The Chicago Bears today cut place-kicker Carlos Huerta, who missed three field goals in the first three games. 
Huerta, 4-of-7 on field goals in his first NFL season, had beaten out veteran Kevin Butler for the job. Butler was the lone remain­ing member of the Bears' only Super Bowl team. 
Huerta missed a 44-yard attempt Sunday in a loss to the Vikings, and Bears coach Dave Wannstedt said after the game that the kicking situation would be re-evalu­ated. 
"I feel like my job's in jeopardy every time I take the field," Huerta said after the game. "That's just the way it is." 
Huerta kicked in the Canadian Football League before being invited to Chicago's preseason camp to challenge Butler. 
The Bears will give a try­out to Jeff Jaeger, who is fly­ing to Chicago today, a team spokesman said. Jaeger was cut at the end of preseason by the Oakland Raiders. 

Rec!.'cle the Observer 

Gender Studies Invites the Campus to: 



Students Spe Out on Gender 
Catherine McCarren Sean Gallavan 
I 
I { ' \ 

Otakuye Conroy 
?" 
Heather Steinmiller Katie Hazard/ 
\ 
I ~ Gina Rucavado 
Open discussion and reception in honor of GS
j 
concentrators will follow 
Presenters: 

(ND Student Governtnent) 
(GLND/SMC) 

(Multicultural Executive Council) (SMC Women's Studies) 
(Wornen's Resource Center) 
Wednesday, September 18th 4:15-6:15 Hesburgh Library Lounge 
ALL STUDENTS, STAFF, AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME 
-
........ .......................... ........-~z~t•...~..............................\
~ 
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-

• COllEGE fOOTBAlL • NFL 
MSU placed on probation Loss leaves 'Boys 
By MALCOLM JOHNSON two years, starting Dec. 1, In self-imposed penalties that 
looking for answers 
Associared Press 1995, fired its athletics student the NCAA adopted as its own, 
adviser and reassigned others the university forfeited five By DENNE H. FREEMAN win," Campo said. "We had alANSING, Mich. connected to the program dur­wins from the 1994 season; 
Associared Press good pass rush. We got five
Michigan State's football pro­ing the time the violations reduced its number of initial sacks. But we didn't handle the 
gram will be on probation until occurred. scholarships for 1996-97 from IRVING, Texas screens very well at all. " the end of the 1999 season. After the university fired Greg 25 to 23; and reduced its total The Dallas Cowboys tried to Coach Barry Switzer said aThe NCAA said Monday it Croxton, the former athletics football scholarships during the figure out Monday how they review of the films underlinedconcluded the school violated student adviser, Croxton said current year from 85 to 79. 
blew an 18-point lead to the a fundamental falldown. 
rules on recruiting, benefits, the school was making him a It also has already cut by one 
Indianapolis Colts. "We didn't tackle well,"
academic eligibility, ethical scapegoat. the number of football coaches Emmitt Smith thinks he Switzer said. "That's how youconduct and institutional con­But the NCAA now will permitted to recruit off campus knows. lose games."
trol. require that Michigan State and cut the number of official 
"When you get somebody A disgusted strong safety
The sanctions apparently will continue to develop a compre­visits by potential football play­
down you need to put a foot on Darren Woodson said thenot cost the university the right hensive athletics compliance ers from 56 to 48 for the 1995­their throat," said the Cowboys Cowboys were kicking them­to appear in future bowl games education program. The univer­96 school year. 
running back. "The game selves for what happened.
since the NCAA's report did not sity must make annual reports The investigations began in 
should have been over when "I have no idea what hap­
mention such a penalty. It also to the NCAA on the program October 1994, and centered we got that big of a lead. We let pened, but maybe we got toodoes not prohibit the team from during the four years it is on around alleged academic fraud. 
them hang around and get relaxed," Woodson said.
playing in televised games. probation. They also focused on charges of back into it." ''Maybe we got too conserva­In addition to four years of "In determining appropriate improper benefits received by The Cowboys, who dropped tive. All I know is you have toprobation, which began Dec. 1, penalties, the committee con­Michigan State athletes from to 1-2 with the pulsating 25-24 put a team away."
1995, the NCAA reduced by sidered Michigan State's cor­people who were not tied 
loss to Indianapolis, led 21-3 Cornerback-wide receiver 
seven the number of initial rective action," the NCAA directly to the university, but before allowing the Colts to get Deion Sanders said of the Coltsfinancial aid awards Michigan report said. represented its interests. 
back into the game. rally: ''We didn't show anyState can make to football play­"If the athletics student advis­The investigations were "The Colts are a good team killer instinct. You have to take ers during the 1997-98 acade­er had still been employed in prompted by former player so when we got them down we a team out when you havemic year. And it cut by one the athletics at the institution, the Roosevelt Wagner's charges should have put them away," them down." 
number of coaches who can university could have been sub­against the football program said guard Nate Newton. "Now The Colts won on four fieldrecruit off campus during ject to additional penalties had under former coach George 
we need a sense of urgency goals by Cary Blanchard
December 1996 and January it failed to take appropriate dis­Perles. The university has spent around here but we can't including a 43-yarder with 511997. ciplinary action against him." close to $1 million investigating panic. That would be disas­seconds left. Chris Boniol of the The sanctions came in addi­The NCAA report warned the charges and defending itself trous." Cowboys had a 57-yarder attion to penalties the school Croxton that if he tries to get a to the NCAA. Perles was never Dallas has road games at the gun hit the cross-bar.
imposed on itself after investi­job in the athletic department personally charged with any Buffalo and Philadelphia before ..1don't think we got too con­gations by Michigan State and of another NCAA school before violations. 
it gets a bye. Then wide receiv­servative," said quarterbackthe NCAA turned up the viola­July 1, 1998, the university The report noted that the uni­er Michael Irvin returns from Troy Aikman. ''If we make thattions. could be asked to show why he versity is subject to the NCAA's his suspension as the Cowboys field goal nobody is going to beMichigan State placed its foot­should be allowed to take the repeat-violator provisions for a host Arizona. Defensive coor­talking about any stuff. You canball program on probation for position. 5-year period. 
dinator Dave Campo said the second-guess yourself to death. With the distance of just one foot we went from the pent­house to the doghouse." 

Aikman said the loss under­lined the importance of the next two road games. 
"They're very important," Aikman said. "We don't want to go into the bye 1-4. " 
Kinder 
continued from page 20 
od. But Russ has ruled out that possibility. 
"You can forget about the calcification problem," Russ said. "That was a concern of Coach Holtz in the beginning, but we're past that point." 
If Kinder returns to the line­up Saturday against the Longhorns, Holtz will have more flexibility to move Denson between tailback and flanker. And less pressure will be placed on Marc Edwards and Robert Farmer to provide most of Notre Dame's rushing yards. 
Most importantly, Kinder's return will give Notre Dame's offensive arsenal another key weapon. 
LONDON 
$275 
Paris I • •
Madrid 
Tokyo $447 
Mexico City $184 
Guatemala $249 
fAilS AI( IAOt WAY 110111 INDwwous lASIll ON AIIOUNIITliP PUICHASL fAAES DO 11011 IHO.UOE IEDfiAl 1A1U 01 Pf(S TOTAIINC WWUN $3-$-45, IKI'aiiiHG ON D(STINATION 01 
DErAIIUIE CIWIGU -a.KnY TO FOIBGN GCMANMENn. 
rilftiiJ)Trave/._..,.~ 


~l 
l \ 
l 
• MEN's SOCCER 

1 \ 
DePaul hands Irish first loss, 1-0 
l 
By BRIAN REINTHALER

I·ll
I! Sports Writer 
Ii' 
1 Unfortunately, all good things must come 
1l,[ 
to an end.

I)\ 
Yesterday afternoon at DePaul, there
I \ 
were a pair of impressive streaks that dis­
I 
appeared for the men's soccer team.
I 
One was the Irish streak of not allowing a
l_ 
goal in five games worth of regulation play. 
I 
The other was their unbeaten streak that
I 
propelled them to a 4-0-1 start and the No.
I 
15 ranking in this week's NSCANUmbro
I 
I 
collegiate men's soccer poll.I' ~ On the same day that Irish goalkeeper Greg Velho was named Big East co-defen­
l \ 
11 

The Observer/Rachael Sederberg Senior midfielder Shari Matelski and the Saint Mary's soccer squad are trying to stress the positives, despite falling to 1-5 on the season. 
Irish men. 
"The boys shot well, but couldn't really handle the mountain greens" stated coach George Thomas. 
Senior Joel Hepler led the Irish with a three day total of 224, followed closely by fellow senior Brian Donohoe's 225, which included a first round even­par score of 72. Rounding out the team results were Bryan Weeks' 228, Brad Hardin's score of 231 and Doug Diemer's 236. 
Despite the difficult week­end, Coach Thomas remains "very optimistic" that the Irish stand ready to defend their Big East Championship title of one year ago. 
sive player of the week, the sophomore gave up his first goal in almost 520 minutes of regulation time this season. 
The goal came at 69:54 of the game on a fluke play and proved to be all that DePaul would need to hand Notre Dame its first loss of 1996. 
Blue Demon attacker Dan Stokes played the ball toward the goal on a throw-in from the left side of the field. The throw took a strange hop over the heads of the Irish defenders and past an outstretched Velho. 
Despite yielding the only goal of the game and suffering the loss, the Irish defense turned in yet another impressive perfor-

I, I I 
I 
I 
1, 
Ilr 

College Democrats 

7:00 pm 123 Nieuwland 

, 
(. 

mance. In fact, Notre Dame allowed only one shot on goal, discounting the unusual scoring play. 
It is the offense that is in serious need of a coring threat. The Irish will have a chance to redeem themselves as they come home this weekend for a pair of Big East contests that will weigh heavily on their post-season outlook. 
Between now and the weekend however, head coach Mike Berticelli will have to come up with some form of consistent offense if the Blue and Gold hope to contin­ue to build on what has been a successful season to date. 
Be ourguestfor the premiere teaching lecture ofthe year. A time to share your questions and aspirations with teachersfrom all walks oflife. 
"The Company We Keep: The Ethics ofTeaching" 
Wayne Booth, Ph.D. 
is a Distinguished Service Professor of English Emeritus at the University of Chicago. Author of The Vocation of a Teacher, and eleven other books and countless essays on teaching, ethics, and literary criticism. 
Friday, September 20, 1996 7:00p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium 

Sponsored by: Notre Dame Alumni Association Alumni Continuing Education 


. ' . . 
. ' 

Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
page 17 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
•! 
Father Malloy and Dr. 
Nathan Hatch invite all students, faculty and their fa01ilies to the Votive Mass of the Holy Spirit 
SEPTEMBER 22, 4:00 PM _AT THE JOYCE CENTER WITH DINNER TO FOLLOW 
Students and faculty wi II be seat­ed together ment at ·--': -•·-~ ............. ,._ p1cn1c. 

> ;· i;~\ j >.. . . ­

: ; , __j;"ij e :~~ ,~ft~~~if ;'~:,, -_, -Prov __ .. -, '· ___ , . 0MPUS 
UNIVERSITY OF NoTRE D~lE 
~Overtlm _-· 

-· MINISTRY
SnmENT GovERNHENT 


I 
l 
page 18 


X-Country 
continued from page 20 
twelfth finisher was seven­teenth overall in the race, and that was before Ohio State fin­ished their fourth. We kind of dominated." 
The second group of 12 run­ners participated in the Valparaiso Invitational on Saturday. The team finished in second place. Freshman John Dudley was the first Irish run­ner to finish the course and came in sixth place overall. 
"It was a fine meet," said Paine. "The kids competed well, and it was real nice to have a freshman (Dudley) run that well." 
This weekend the Irish stay home and host the National Catholic Invitational. 

%ursday, Septem6er 19, 1996-7:00P.M. '! i 
I~., 
i '· I 
Cfirist tfie Xing Catfio{ic Cfiurcfi 52473 ru.s. 31 ?{prtfi


1":' .I 
(Corner of VS. 31 and Varden !R.Pad) 
http://www.nd.edu:80/-silliman/carl.btml
lllJl 
·.~. 

l 
I 
Happy Birthday 
to our

} 
{ > BICENTENNIAL 
BABY, 
Kate "the Great" Hanley 


laue. HJ, MJ, Mike, Chris, Thammy, Bob. & 
Punkin 

\ 
Students, ~acu[ty & Staff
1 
are a[[ invited to a Memoria[ Mass for 
.1 
I 
Car{ L. Cunningham
! 
\ 
= a 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
• WOMEN"S CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish run away with title 
By MARIO ARCE 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Joanna Deeter led the women's cross country team to a season debut victory at the six-team field at the Ohio State Invitational. 
"I really didn't think about it as my first college race, but more of just a run with my teammates," Deeter said. 
A one team race it was, as the Irish women swept the top eight spots and ran nine in the top ten. The Irish won the meet with a perfect 15 points as Nicole Lasselle, along with Deeter finished over 50 sec­onds ahead of the field. 
"I was so excited to wear the Notre Dame uniform. I felt great and didn't feel nervous at all," Deeter said. "It was my first time running with such a good team and when Nicole and I were running together it was so exciting." 
Deeter and Laselle were not the only ones that competed well for the Irish as Mieke Walsh finished third and senior Heidi Reichenbach, who fin­ished fourth for the women, was a scoring runner in her first varsity race. 

"There were a lot of people that ran a lot better than I thought they would. It was Heidi's first race on the travel­ing team and she ran excep­tionally well," said head coach Tim Connelly. 
Kelly Peterson finished fifth for the women as Erin Lub, Janel Kiley, and captain Carolyn Long rounded out the top eight with Emily Dodd fin­ishing tenth. 
"It was a good start," said Connelly. "If we keep our two top runners running as well as they did and close the gap be­tween our two and three run­ners, we could be a great team." 
With the team running as tight and as well as they are early in the season, the only question may be whether the squad can maintain the per­formance they put on at Ohio State. 
"The team camaraderie is great and the friendships are incredible," said Deeter "That's one of the main reasons I think this team can get to nationals." 
The Irish will compete this Friday at the Notre Dame's Burke Golf Course in the Notre Dame Invitational. 


On Wednesday September 18 at 7:00am Christian students of all denominations, all over the country, will meet at their school's flagpoles to pray for their schools, their friends and the nation. 
Join other Christians from the Notre Dame community at our flagpole (in front of the law school by the main circle) on Wednesday, September 18 at 7:00am to unite in solidarity and pray for each other, our university, 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5 TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK FOR $301 
and our nation. 
See you at the flagpole! 


a as a 

Tuesday, September 17, 1996 page 19
The Observer • TODAY 
•.

MIXED MEDIA 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
MIKE PETERS 


SCOTT ADAMS 

11-IE. DOGI3ERT CONSULTING BUT W~Y WOULD I CARE'? COMPANY CAN FIX THE THE YE.AR ''00'' IS BEFORE PROBLEM F'O~ ONLY l'M BORN. 
----------------~

TEN MILLION DOLLARS. 
AMAZING ... YOU'D 

OUR WORK. IS GUAJ\ANTE.E.D 
ACTUALLY HAVE TO 

FOR ONE FULL YEAR. 1 
BE SM~TER TO 

STARTING TODAY. 
DO SOME1HI NG 
STOP tO.
\ 

59 Mountain chain &OSteaming 61 Summer 
quencher 62 Commencement 63 Mike with a 
punch 
DOWN 

1 Buddy 2 Common Market money 3 Vietnam's Le -Tho 4Synagogue cabinets 5 Tell frankly, in slang 6 "--tothe Church on Time" 7 Switzerland's Gorge of the 
8 Medical suffix 9 Go on break 10 Marie, e.g.: 29 "The Pit and the 44 One of 51 Pundit Abbr. Pendulum," e.g. Chekhov's 52 Nimble 30 Pick up on "Three Sisters" 54 Sis's sib 
11 Be lenient 31 Stiffly neat 45Smeared 55--Vegas
12 Gold standard 
indelibly 56 Lance of L.A. law 
33 Albanian river 

13 Hymn finales 
461.0. test name 57 Perfection in 
34 Use, as 

ta Ancient reptile's so Goals gymnastics
influence
suffix 
35 Physician Jonas 
21 Rink event 
and kin 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

22 Be--in the 
37 Environmental 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
face 
problem 
1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 

23 In--(unborn) 40 "--had it!" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

24 Bit of riffraff 41 Is serious 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 27 Black cuckoo 43 Indian music 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
WHEN THE YEAR ~00 COT-\E5J YOUR COr-\PUTERS WUL THINK IT'S THE 
YEAR ''00" AND CAU5E 
MAJOR PROBLEMS. 


-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Piano part 6 Trot and canter 11 Jamaica-based music 141ntegra maker 15--Joe's (classic sign) 16 Tennis's Shriver 17 Camel rival 19 "--we having fun yet?" 20 Linked, in a way 21 Persia, today 22 Hot mo. 25 Weekday: Abbr. 26Gem sides 28 Daze 30 Small piano 32 Reveal 33 Whirling ones 

36 Johnson of "Laugh-In" 37 Golfer with an army 38 Six: Prefix 39 Banal bit of versification 41 Mushroom 42 Gully 43 Do over 44 Gave the wrong impression 46 Shepherd's beckoning 47 Sot's woe 48 Novelist Tyler 49 Leaves the office early? 53 Schuss 54 Dairy Queen offering 58 Cool, old-style 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
R~~~, 

SpeaRing genera{{y, }I{{parts oftlie 6ody wliicli liave a function, if usedin moderation ande:{!rcisedin Ca6ors to wfiicfi eacfi is accustomed, 6ecome fiealtfiy and we{{devefopedandage sfow(y. (]3ut, ifunused and Ceft itf{e, tfiey come (ia6{e to disease, defective in growtfi and age quickJy. 
J{ypocrates 370 CB.C. 
: The Surgeon General advises sedentary people to accumulate
•

• at least 30 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise (walking : 3-4mph) on most, preferably all, days of the week. Moderate 
• •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
631-6100 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A 
work project or business alliance 
will become much more rewarding. 
Make self-discipline and persever­
ance your motto. A business trip you 
take in November will bring tenific 
results. New stability develops in 
your personal life as the year draws 
to a close. Innovative ideas and 
methods are favored early in 1997. 
A change of Iifestyle will add to 
your comfort and prestige. Expand­
ing your social horizons will mean 
having more fun 1 Move forward 
with confidence. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actress Ann Bancroft, 
horror film hostess Elvira, actor 
John Ritter, country music legend 
Hank Williams. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Refuse to let a change of plans 
throw you for a loop. Co-workers 
are supportive and helpful. Team 
spirit prevails. Your instincts about 
people and situations are excellent. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Work and health concerns deserve top priority. Realize that your fears are probably groundless. Go over your travel itinerary before making final arrangements. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get caught up on the latest news and gossip at work. A partner pitches in to give you a helping hand. A casual acquaintance gives you a call.-Is romance in the air? 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A void interjecting your ideas into a business conversation unless asked to do so. Diplomacy and tact are essential. A financial discussion could catch you offguard. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep to yourself as much as possible today. A change of scenery will give you food for thought. Be sure to take 
along a sketch pad or camera if vis­
iting a place of great natural beauty. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Several people may want the lion's 
share of your time. Try to arrange a 
compromise. Carefully-thought -out 
plans will succeed. Loved ones will 
be impressed by the changes you are 
making in your life. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put 
on your thinking cap and devise a 
solution to a recurring problem. 
Verbal agreements will not suffice. 
A newcomer finds you a fascinating 
conversationalist. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Financial security is within reach if 
you do not overplay your hand. 
Keep your business dealings strict­
ly aboveboard. A windfall adds to 
your financial security. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): Stop worrying so much. Work 
your way out of tight places by 
using your wits. Go back to square 
one where your finances are con­
cerned. Balance your checkbook 
and pay bills before buying anything 
new. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Dogged detennination will take you where you want to go. Public service is a source of both satisfac­tion and prestige. A financial deci­sion made now is right on the money. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Significant changes at work or home open up new worlds to conquer. Let your powerful imagination set the agenda. Resist the urge to sulk if you do not get your way. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make good use of the telephone and fax. A financial situation is not as serious as you thought. However, continue to be thrifty and practical. 
activity is enough to deliver substantial health benefits.
• 

These include: *Improved blood lipid levels *Reduced risk of developing high blood pressure *Reduced risk of developing colon or breast cancer *Reduced risk of obesity, osteoporosis and depression *Improved feelings of well-being *Enhanced "health-related quality of life" 
Let the ~.Fitness program help you make
• 

physical activity a part of your day!!! 

,. 



----------------~------------~~------·------~-----~----..~--.-~~--~~r•------­
SPORTS 

held liable for any injury incurred by a participant.. Women that participate in interhall football will now have to change the way they block oncoming defenders. 
page 20 
• fOOTBAll 

Kinder to return to Irish attack 


I 
J 
t 
I 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 

Tailback Randy Kinder should see action in the Irish backfield this Saturday at Texas. 
• WOMEN's INTERHAll FOOTBAll 
Blocking causes controversy for IH 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 

The pick and roll has always been a favorite play in basketball. Now, however, it may become an effective strategy in women's interhall football. 
Effective immediately, referees will enforce the direct-screen blocking rule. It states that the "offensive screen block shall take place without contact. The screen blocker shall have her hands and arms at her side or behind her back. Any use of hands, arms, or body to initiate contact during the offensive player's screen block is illegal." 
According to RecSports director Greg Kigar, offensive linemen will have to play as if they are playing defense in basketball. 
In his opinion, this is not a rule change, but only the enforce­ment of a rule that has been on the books for four years. The rules governing women's interhall football are prescribed by National Intermural and Recreational Sports Association (NIRSA). This rule is included in the NIRSA book, but has not been enforced until this season. 
Meetings with rectresses concerning injuries and liability spurred this decision. They were informed that, last season, seven girls were taken to St. Joseph's hospital for head injuries, while four more were hospitalized for other reasons. RecSports felt that if they did not abide by the letter of each particular rule, not only would these injuries continue, but RecSports could be By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

In his career at Notre Dame, Randy Kinder has rushed for more yards than Ricky Watters. He has rushed for more yards than Jerome Bettis. More than Tony Rice. And more than Lee Becton. If he rushes for 294 yards this season, he'll pass Tony Brooks and George Gipp. That's right, the Gipper. 
It's understandable that Kinder, who is eighth on the Irish all-time rushing list, has been sorely missed during the first two weeks of this season. This weekend against the Boilermakers, the Irish passed for more yards than they rushed. His absence forced Lou Holtz to use nine different rushers against Purdue. And Autry Denson moved to tailback after starting the season-open­er at flanker. 
But it appears that Kinder's pulled quadriceps muscle has finally healed. 
Head athletic trainer Jim Russ said that Kinder's status for this weekend's contest against Texas is "probable." And Kinder seemed very optimistic about his ability to play Saturday. 
"I can't imagine having any setbacks right now," he said. 
The Irish practiced yesterday without pads, and Kinder was confident about his timing and overall performance. 
"I felt really strong out there," he said. "I didn't feel any pain, and it was a big confidence boost­er." 
Prior to yesterday's practice, Kinder had not tested his leg in a full-speed sprint. But his quadriceps muscle gave him no pain when he ran with the rest of his teammates. 
For precautionary reasons, Kinder will wear a protective sleeve on his leg at practices, and dur­ing the Texas game, if necessary. 
"That's more mental than physical," Russ said. referring to the protective sleeve. "He has under­gone an intense rehab program." 
For the past two weeks, Holtz had been con­cerned about Kinder aggravating his injury and the possibility that calcification of the quadriceps muscle could occur. The result would have been a more serious injury and longer recovery peri­
see KINDER I page 15 
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 
. .,.)./.. ...·.·.·.... ·..··. 
unners ..~•A:······"·
··: . ·~;~~:;:-::::, . 
meets 

· nlvi~ing forc~s ~~~ ~~riJ~ ing ·them into colllbafin two different areas can be an unsolllid strategy, However. 


· tbis weekend the spli,~sqnll.d · Notr~ :Dame ·Ct()$~ Cl),tl,llJl:y t~IIJI). J>lt\~e d··first·· ~t t~~ <.)l#o·······. Stat~ Invitational aq<l ~e{;pnd at tbeVa.lparaisoinwtationat· ~d benefited from t))~ ~epa;;~ ration .. ·.··.• •.· . .. . . i / .• • · 


·Ftida§.~he fit§~ $quad·.· 

• dm~r~atedthe•·.fiet~ ~t tbe ···· Plli9 $~i;\t¢Invita~t)nJ4.Idsti'••····.rt1npeJ7~ .. swept tbe.first~ighti•· pla~~~ p,fthe !Jl~e~f. ~btre• ·Dame compiled ~~ P.()ints ..· 
While the distant sec~nd-, ·••• plaee()hio State B~e~eyes•····• .ta,I~eq ~9. a~Jd Asi;J.lli.Ji<l tip;iSherfWJ.th69 ~o pltJ.~~ tltitd2 ··· ··•· Sophomore Ryan Maxwell ,fbtished the five plil~ poqrse ·in.4S~,4.l. Junlpr Jason .. Hexing was. a half:~econd slower than Maxwelli coJ[Jing in second. ·Within two sec.. 911~~ ofMax~ellli.Jlq· Rexing•. t}iree more Iristr rt111Iiersi. Matt Alth()ff. Joe ()utiloP and 
Derek Seiling, had crossed ·. .. ~p~]i~h line. .· 

····· "It was a good meet.' $aid coachJoe.Piane, "'ltwas a fol.lt'&W8.Y ·ue ··for.·tjrst:••·· Our Orsteigbt·· guys (iJiished before ·one· of the\other team·s had finished~ Our 
seeX~COUNTR!A page 18 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 


at Texas September 21, 11 a.m. 

at Michigan 
• Men's soccer loses unbeaten streak September 20, 7 p.m. 


see page 16at St. John's 

~ 
September 20, 7:30p.m. 

• Golfers struggle in Colorado Springs
~ -' 
Volleyball, at Bethel see page 16 vs. Connecticut 
Tonight, ?p.m. September 20, 7:30 p.m. 

r~ .. ! 
!~ ~ 
1.; 





