-----------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, November 26, 1996• Vol. XXX No. 61 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND fan's dream comes true at Rutgers weekend 
By ALLISON KOENIG panying family members, but Lorann Tran. Tim, reflecting the feelings of favorite part," said Tim. News Writer by thousands of people across The Whittles became aware many Irish fans. The weekend journey proved the country, due to the resigna­of the foundation through their In addition to attending the a much needed break from the 
Eighteen-year-old Tim tion of Coach Lou Holtz. social worker. Tim, who previ­game, Tim, accompanied by painful leukemia treatment. Whittle grew up watching For Tim, the weekend was ously visited the University but other members of his family, Ti:::u ~~"'·" been sitting out of col­Notre Dame football games the fulfillment of a wish that had never seen a home game, took part in the full football lege classes since early this fall with his grandfather. Since he has become ever stronger since knew immediately what his weekend experience. The fami­when a new drug treatment was little, he has dreamed of this past Easter, when he was wish would be. ly received a tour of the College altered his energy level and actually attending a Notre diagnosed with Chronic "They asked me which of the Football Hall of Fame, lunch required rest rather than rig­Dame home game. Myelogenous Leukemia. last two games I would like to with the Rutgers team, room at orous studying. 
This past weekend, Tim's The Grant-A-Wish foundation attend this season, and I chose the Mariott Hotel, and a "(The visit to Notre Dame) wish came true. He flew out organized Tim's weekend at Rutgers," said Tim. At the gourmet breakfast at the was a great break. It can get from his hometown of Notre Dame. "Grant-A-Wish is time, he had no idea that it Morris Inn. kind of boring sitting around Baltimore to witness three days a full-service charity; we pro­would be such a historic game. "Going to the game was the home," said Tim. under the Golden Dome that vide relief from the stress and "I wish he (Holtz) wasn't best part of the weekend. The Grant-A-Wish provides sever-will be especially remembered, burden of being critically ill," leaving, but it was going to pep rally was also pretty cool, not only by Tim and his accom-said Communications Director happen eventually," added but the game was definitely my see WISH/ page 4 
Bolstered by grant, ACE continues work 
By KAT RADEMACHER News Writer 
The Corporation for National Service has awarded Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) a grant of more than $645,000. This new award represents a $145,000 increase of over its 1995 grant. More than $495,000 of the grant will be issued to 105 ACE teachers in the form of education awards of $4,725 apiece. 
Becoming professiohal educators, enriching community life and spiritual development are the three pillars of ACE. Begun by Father Timothy Scully in 1994 and direct­ed by Sister Lourdes Sheehan, ACE is now in its third year. . 
The group describes its goal as "to develop a corps of highly motivated and committed young educators to meet the needs of our country's most under-served elementary and secondary schools." 
ACE participants, many of whom are Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates, make a two-year commitment to the program. They receive eight weeks of training during the summer and then teach fu1l~-time in parochial schools in nine southern states. 
Following the first year of teaching, ACE participants return for a second summer of training after which they work in South Bend public schools. 
Dominic Amorosa, a member of ACE and in his first year of teaching, feels he was adequately prepared from the summer "crash course" he took part in. The teaching experience, however, has also been a learning process for him. 
"You need to try new things and be ready to change," 

Bond Hall nearly complete 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 

Form and function collided dur­ing the renovation of the architec­ture building unlike they had in any previous campus construc­tion. Because the very people who use the facility also have the knowledge to build it, details have been worked out to serve students 


The Observer/Katie Kroener 
and faculty adequately and attrac­

Construction nears completion on the newly refurbished Bond Hall. The
tively. 

project is scheduled to be finished sometime in December of this year. 
And the newly designed building also has a new name --Bond Hall was carried out by Calumet elevator, an auxiliary second --in tribute to William Bond Jr., Construction. floor, and a wheelchair lift was whose previously anonymous $5 The building first served as a added to the original superstruc­million gift underwrote the con­library and was converted to ture. struction project. serve the architecture community According to Job 
Set for completion in December, in 1963. Superintendent Butch Lehman, the 18 month project was engi­"Bright colors and classical the University gave explicit neered by the Ellerbe Becket com­architecture" best describe the instructions about the purification pany while Thomas Gordon newest facets of the building, of the structure. Smith, architecture department according to Michael Smith, direc­"They were very specific on the chair, overlooked many of the tor of facilities engineering. Also, outside of the building. They plans. The recent work on the a new 15,000 square foot addi­original all-limestone structure tion, including two stairways, an see ARCHIE/ page 4 

see ACE/ page 4 
'One World, One Hope' 

The Observer/Kim Michalik 
This banner will hang over the entrance to the Moreau Gallery at Saint Mary's College untill Friday. It was erected by the SMC Arts Club and the Moreau Gallery to commemorate the "Day Without Art/World AIDS Awareness" on Dec. 1. The banner's one word was derived from this year's World AIDS4 

BSU helps out non-Catholics 
By ALEX ORR News Writer 
The Baptist Student Union, formed nearly 15 years ago and backed by a number of South Bend Protestant church­es, provides support and guidance for non-Catholic students at the University. 
According to Leann Pace, student coor­dinator for the union, the group conducts a series of weekly BASIC (Brothers and Sisters in Christ) that finds the opportuni­ty for Bible study and social service for those outside the Catholic faith. 
see UNION/ page 4 


r----------------------------------------------~·-­

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Hey thieves: It's tiDie to grow up! 

Lost among the head­lines of Cardinal Bernardin and Lou Holtz last week was one news item that deserves more discussion. 
The headline of the story in The Observer: "Thefts persist in ND libraries." 
Granted, crime is an everyday reality that comes as the price of society, and the recent rash of laptop thefts at Ilesburgh Library and the Law Library are minor compared to what occurs in cities nationwide. But when one considers that the population of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses are geared toward embody­ing a specific profile -one of intelligence, cooperation, and an appreciation of what is considered moral, in students as well as fac­ulty and staff-the crime spree is nothing short of disgusting and reprehensible. 
Imagine your frustration if, while you were working in the study carrels in the library during mid-terms week in October, your lap­top was stolen while you were gone for five minutes to buy a Coke. All of your research and writing-gone, just because you were 

thirsty. Sounds preposterous? Well, that 
ridiculous scenario hit a few students during 
mid-terms, and a few more just recently. 
Maybe it is coincidence, but the rash of 

thefts has spread to another venue on cam­
pus. Two loads of my laundry were stolen last 
week from the LaFortune laundry room. .. 
When I talked to the clerk at the LaFortune 
Information Desk about the theft afterward, 
she mentioned that a few other students had 
reported the same crime. Compared to losing 
a laptop, having clothes stolen is no big deal, 
but the clothes I lost did amount to more than 
a couple hundred dollars. I lost all my jeans, 
five or six of my favorite flannel shirts, and 
even my underwear (underwear?). 
While such incidents could prompt an argu­

ment for how putting laundry machines in 
men's dorm rooms could reduce the risk of 
theft, a better focus is on the culprits who 
think these antics are funny. To the jerks who 
stole my clothes last week: If you're walking 
around with my underwear, it's not funny ­
it's perverted. 
In an environment such as college-in 

which everyone has to focus on the singular 
task of studying -worrying that your neigh­
bor might steal your computer, your books, 
or your clothes is more than just annoying. 
College life is full of students who try to 
achieve as much as possible, and who there­
fore should not be burdened by a paranoid 
belief that their fellow students are lurking 
behind each corner. Such a scenario leads to 
a distrust of one's fellow students that can 
put a long-term damper on the enjoyment of 
college. Even worse, it can affect the ability of 
students to accomplish their academic goals. 
Just ask the students who lost their laptops. 
At Notre Dame, we have the opportunity to 

live and learn in an environment closed off 
from the harsh realities of the real world. 
It's only a temporary opportunity. We 

deserve the right to make the most of it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Production 
Saskia Sidenfaden Chris Uharr 
Matthew Loughran Jackie Moser 
Sports Lab Tech 
Brian Reimhaler Joe Srark 
Graphics 
Perer Cilella 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xcepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Tuesday, November 26, 1996
The Observer· INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Armed Islamic Group claims six in protest bombing 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather•torecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 26. 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
I 

Friday ! ~ ... 39 24_ SaturJ(~y ~-~l44l 2S!l\~ -·­
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
v,.~ledPms
(·~· ......,r..---'-V--., 


Atlanta 56 32 Honolulu 85 73 Philadelphia 40 31 Boston 33 27 Los Angeles 85 58 Phoenix 69 
48 Chicago 28 15 Miami 76 62 St. Louis 31 
21 Denver 35 15 New Orteans 58 40 Seattle 53 45 Fairbanks -5 -15 New York 39 34 Tallahasee 66 
38 

4-~-~A.Q.~ (f ~ u 
Showers T~storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
ALGIERS, Algeria 

A bomb exploded Monday near a hos­pital south of Algiers. killing one person and injuring 13, violence apparently related to a referendum that would ban political parties based on religion or language. 
On Sunday, a car bomb killed five people and injured 18. 
There was no claim of responsibility for either bombing. However, the Armed Islamic Group led by Antar Zouabri has circulated a leaflet promis­ing to "break the neck" of anyone who 
votes in this week's constitutional refer-400 miles ·,,___ NIGER Sunday's car bomb in Blida, 30 miles endum. ~ ··:_r___. south of the capital, damaged a hotel. Security has been reinforced on high-L.:.::::..:.:.::...______-:A-::P7NV:-:-m-.-:J-:.c"""a-st:-e::-' army barracks, courthouse and school, 
ways and near public buildings ahead of the vote. Besides banning political parties based on religion .or language, the referendum would establish a Senate that is appointed one-third by the president and two-thirds by local officials. 
The proposal by President Liamine Zeroual has brought 
Cronkite defends media opinions Woman throws self, kids off building 
NEW YORK NEWYOHK 
Walter Cronkite said Monday he's dis­
On a chilly, overcast morning, Chicqua Roveal marched 
appointed that his fellow broadcast vet­her three young children up to the roof of their 14-floor 
eran David Brinkley apologized for call­building and methodically h11rled them and herself into a 
ing President Clinton "a bore." As a trash-strewn courtyard. Roveal and her 7 -year-old son, 
commentator, Brinkley is entitled to Andre, were killed, police said. The boy's twin sister, 
express his opinions, Cronkite said. Andrea, and 2-year-old brother, Shando, were critically 
Rather than apologize, he should have injured. A man who lives on the 14th floor was making 
put Clinton on the spot. "Why shouldn't oatmeal for his children Sunday morning when he saw the 
he have an opinion if he thinks the pres­first child pass by his window. He looked disbelievingly at 
ident is boring?" asked Cronkite, who retired in 1981 as the "CBS Evening News" anchor,' in an interview with The Associated Press. "If he's not going to apologize, then the nice thing would have been if he had said, "Mr. President, )'ou know now that I think you're boring. You've got 10 minutes to prove me wrong," he said. Brinkley, who said late on Election Night that Clinton was a bore who would spread "goddamn nonsense" for four more years, made amends during an interview with Clinton for his final "This Week with David Brinkley" show. The 80-year-old Cronkite, whose memoirs are being published next month, said his former competitor had forgotten one of the first rules of broadcast journal­ism: always assume the microphone is on. 

Train from hell travels twisty tracks 
SEATTLE 

John Orr is just thankful to be off the "train from hell" 
in time for Thanksgiving. Orr was among the 109 weary 
passengers who climbed off Amtrak No. 7 in Seattle on 
Sunday night, nearly 12 hours late, after a 57-hour, 
mishap-filled trip from Chicago. Orr, 60, of Kettle, Ky., 
boarded in Chicago on Friday for the trip to Seattle to 
spend Thanksgiving with his grandson. Then the prob­
lems began. First, police pulled someone off the train 
during a stop in Portage, Wis.; passengers thought it was 
a drug bust but weren't sure. Then the train hit an aban­
doned car on the tracks in Minnesota. causing a 90­
minute delay. Then an icy blizzard slowed the train, and 
engineers also had to deal with an equipment malfunc­
tion. In Idaho, there was an 8 112-hour delay while crews 
cleared the tracks of a derailed freight train. Even the 
food ran out. forcing a stop to take on some Kentucky 
Fried Chicken in Spokane, Wash. Amtrak officials didn't 
return a call seeking comment Monday. On board, pas­
sengers waited out a fight between a drunken father and 
his son and could only wonder when it would all end. 
"We had no idea where we were and when we would get 
any place," said Amanda Lillie, 17, of Muskegon, Mich. 
boycott calls from parties that would be affected, including the Islamic Salvation Front, which would be permanently banned. 
The Front was barred from imminent election victory in January 1992, setting ofl" the insurgency that has left an esti­mated 60,000 people dead. 
~ The bomb Monday exploded outside 
aJ the central hospital in Berrouaghia, 60 
< "'-. :::; miles south of Algiers, according to 
~ ~-~. ALGERIA security forces who spoke on customary 
a: I ""-anonymity. Six of the injured were seri­~ \ MALl ""-ously hurt, they said. 
110 
witnesses said. 
Most Algerians will vote Thursday on the referendum; voting began Monday among nomads in the southern Sahara region and for security forces. For the 735,000 Algerians living abroad·-mainly in France -voting began Friday. 
his wife, turned and saw a second child come down. "The second time, I heard the kid scream," he told The New York Times. He yelled at his wife, 'That was a kid! That was a kid!" Paramedics called to the scene discovered the children and the body of a 23-year-old woman neighbors called "a good mother." The children had been bathed and dressed in warm coats before they were thrown off the roof at around 10 a.m., witnesses told the Daily News. The twins were carrying Buzz Lightyear dolls, the astro­naut from the movie "Toy Story" who thinks he can fly, paramedics said. Andre was declared dead shortly after arriving at Jacobi Hospital. Andrea, suffering from internal injuries, was in "very critical and unstable" condition at Montefiore Medical Center. 

Cold War sub sinks, leaks plutoni 

SAN FHANCISCO 

Unknown amounts of highly radioactive plutonium leaked into the ocean from nuclear warheads aboard a Soviet submarine that sank in the mid Atlantic in 1986, the San Francisco Examiner reported. It was the first case in which weapons-grade plutonium leaked from a submarine into the ocean, the newspaper reported in Sunday's editions. Both the Soviet and U.S. governments gave assurances at the time that there was no radioactive contamination. Scientists say they have no idea how far, or even if, particles of plutonium traveled from the sub­marine, which went down in 18,000 feet of water, the newspaper said. Some scientists want to examine the wreck and possible try to recover the plutonium. The submarine K-219, carrying 32 nuclear warheads, was one of three Soviet and two U.S. nuclear-armed subs that sank during the Cold War. The liquid fuel of one of the sub's missiles apparently ignited, causing damage that left the sub drifting on the surface for two days while the crew tried to make repairs, the Examiner said. It was taken under tow by a Soviet trawler but began taking on water and was abandoned. At least four of the 120 crew members died. 
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC luncheon explores leadership qualities • STUDENT GovERNMENT 
ByANGEIACATALDo 
News Writer 
A group of 70 Saint Mary's students, fac­ulty and administrators gathered for a noon luncheon yesterday, sponsored by the Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education, to discuss the spirituality of lead­ership. 
Small groups of students, faculty and staff shared stories and reflected from a set of questions that Sister Betty Smoyer described as "geared to delving into the network of human relationships that give meaning to our lives and labors." 
According to Smoyer, the discussion was to be an "interdenominational exploration into where we gather the resources to exer­cise leadership here at Saint Mary's College and other places, too." 
After sharing individual life experiences among themselves, the group explored simi­larities in the ~xperiences. Participants said that they discovered recurring themes of discussion such as courage, love, faith, disci­pline and an increased sense of awareness. 
Having explored these experiences, the group split to discuss the qualities expected and attributed to leadership. Group mem­bers said that they found that many leader­ship qualities are similar to individual meanings they found in their own lives: courage, open-mindedness, attentiveness, faith and passion. 
The group also discussed what were called the ideas of "invitation and witness," or the ability of a leader to be flexible enough to endure all situations, whether good or bad, and invite those situations to become life-building experiences. 

The Observer/Kim Michalik 
Saint Mary's students, faculty and administrators met yesterdar to .eat and ,to discuss the spiritu­ality of leadership at the COLT luncheon held on the campus o Sa1nt Marys College. 
Groups then discussed the ability of a leader to overcome differences and recog­nize the sense of togetherness within a group and to be a catalyst for growth. "As one takes on leadership there is a discovery of self-growth and self-confidence," said Professor Patrick White. 
Having explored the idea and qualities of leadership, the group then related these themes to the Saint Mary's College Mission Statement. The statement reads: "Engaging in all aspects of the college experience, stu­dents acquire the hallmarks of a liberally educated woman: keen self-knowledge, live­ly imagination, lifelong intellectual and cui­tural interests, and the ability to make socially responsible choices about the future." 
The group also discussed how the quali­ties of a leader are cultivated and strength­ened at Saint Mary's. 
Jen Turbiak, Saint Mary's student body president, said that she found the luncheon to be "a stop-sign in the middle of the road" allowing students, faculty and administra­tors to take a break from busy schedules and remember why they are at the College. 
"Through sharing our own lives and expe­riences we were able to rekindle faith and awareness during this busy time," Smoyer agreed. 
She said that she hopes the reaction will "spread and be remembered by the Saint Mary's community throughout this time of Thanksgiving and forever." 
Senate holds off on vote; CLC canceled 
Observer Staff IU:pon 
The Student Senate met yester­day to discuss the resolution deal­ing with Alumni Senior Oub that they passed at their meeting last Wednesday. 
Student Body President Seth Miller called the meeting because the Senate failed to decide by vote to whom they would send the res­olution. Despite the fact that Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities, told The Observer last week that the resolution would be sent to Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara and to the Campus Life Council, the Senate had not officially voted on the path of the resolution at its last meeting. 
The resolution questioned the monetary success of the current lunchtime ban on alcohol at Alumni Senior Club. It also asked that the University reinstate the policy of what was known as "liq­uid lunch." The policy involved serving food and alcohol in Alumni Senior Club from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Fridays. 
Yesterday, the Senate ultimately decided not to vote on the resolu­tion. Instead, the committee that drafted the resolution will discuss its future in an informal meeting with Cassidy. 
In related student government news, yesterday's Campus Life Council meeting was postponed. George Howard, a professor of psychology who was to speak at the meeting, could not attend. 

"The Most Popular Number on Campus" 
~~ 
. ·-. . hJri·--ng:·~
.· ·~·· .·;,!::


our ~.. · ISDOW.; 
i ._ · 

•Delivery rivers • Order Ta.kers 
•Pizza Makers 

page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 26, 1996 
ing shop. The second floor will involved moving the

Wish ACE Archie 
be taken up primarily by the University's Founder's architecture library, including a Monument. 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
continued from page I rare books room, classrooms, "The Founder's Monument lecture halls, a gallery, and stu­used to be on the west side of a! programs in hospitals across 
Amorosa said. 
didn't want it cleaned so that it dios for third and fourth year the building. We took it apartthe country for families deal­
The desire to teach and serve 
would detract from the original students. The third floor will stone by stone and then put it ing with critical illnesses. The 
the community attracts many 
limestone look," Lehman said. house fifth year and graduate back together on the north side program provides support 
recent college graduates to ACE. 
The interior and roof were student facilities, as well as of the building. The little"ACE was a chance to givegroups within each hospital for also completely refurbished. administrative offices. plaque on it reads that 'thisback to the community," Bridget 
young patients, like Tim, to 

"We totally gutted the inside, The improved building will was the exact' spot that Father Barry, a member of ACE and in 
except for the original foyer
help each other and share 

boast new windows, granite Sorin stood, but in fact, it'sher first year of teaching, said. 
area, replaced all the concrete
experiences. 

and limestone on the main about 100 yards away now,"
Barry. both of whose parents 
floors, and replaced the plaster. steps to the building, seminar Lehman said. across the country to receive 
Many of the patients travel 

are teachers, says that she 
A few months ago, it was just rooms, a computer cluster, The building will be ready for knows the challenges of being
treatment, and with them 

an empty shell. We had to modernized restroom facilities. use at the opening of the spring 
Catholic in an area where
come family members who 

replace the whole roof too, to new lighting and sprinkler sys­semester, but will not be dedi­
Catholicism is considered
need a place to stay. Grant-A­make it safe. We kind of tems, and a cafe/lounge area cated until some time in March. 

"weird." The combination ofWish maintains the Children's 
rebuilt the whole inside," said for students and faculty. "Very few people have been House, a 17-bedroom house 
these two forces led Barry to 
Lehman. The new sight package, in here. It's like a birthday pre­across the street from Johns 
pursue ACE. 
The first floor will include 

which includes new sidewalks sent that the University wants Although Erica Engelland, aHopkins, as housing for the 
studios for first and second leading all the way to Sorin Hall everyone to wait for, and it's a families of patients. 
participant in ACE and in her 
year students and a woodwork-on the east side of the building, great present," Lehman said. The foundation also main­
first year of teaching, thinks that tains a beach house and a 
the teaching is very challenging, find (the differences) annoying, Echoing the views of Pace,she finds it worthwhile. 
mountain cabin that provide 


Union 

but they force you to take a Krieg stated, "It makes you"ACE is worthwhile because
in-hospital entertainment, as 

different look at you own know what you believe, and
the kids are amazing," she said. 
well as tickets to local events. 

continued from page 1 faith," Pace said. opens your eyes to other reli­Engelland indicated that there is
The Dream Box Program, 

Rebecca Krieg, a '93 gradu­gions."
"light behind their eyes" andwhich provides gifts to patients 
Pace, from northern 

ate of Notre Dame, organizes Neither Krieg nor Pace haveadmits it is exciting when some­
entering treatment, is also 
Louisiana, said that she had 

activities and acts as a liaison felt themselves on the outsidething she's been trying to teachsponsored by Grant-A-Wish. 
never known any Catholics 

between the group and the looking in, but, rather, fullyfinally makes sense to the kids. 
Patients are encouraged to 
until arriving at the University. 

churches with which it is affili­functioning and assimilated
Aside from providing the
focus on that particular gift 
The differences in religion 

ated. Though she was initially members of the University,opportunity to teach, ACE also
during the therapy session, 
have come to broaden her 

uncomfortable in a foreign despite doctrinal differences. 
provides the opportunity to live
and afterwards, they are 
faith, allowing her to incorpo­

religious climate, Krieg The Baptist Student Union
in the community with fellow
allowed to choose a toy to 
rate or discard diverse views 

believes she managed to make meets Mondays at 7 p.m., inACE participants and to growkeep. 
of God, she recalled. "Some 

the best of the situation. the Center for Social Concerns. 
spiritually. "good samaritans," a number 
Grant-A-Wish is aided by 

Laura Considine, a member of of whom contributed to vari­
ACE and in her second year of ous efforts and items to make 
teaching, spoke fondly that Tim Whittle's dream visit a "spiritual support is always reality. "I would definitely like there." Amorosa reaffirmed this: to go back to school," said "The community provides a Tim. ''I'm just going to take it great support system. It is a 
day by day for a while, see resource spiritually, socially, how the treatment goes." and professionally." 
Will be available in the Office of Student Affairs 



315 Main Building 

beginning Monday, November 25, 1996 through Friday, January 17, 1997 

This ad was designed and submitted by Scott ofThe University of Notre Dame. 




LASS 
INNER 

December 3 • 6:00-8:00 p.m. Catered by Don Pablo's • $3 
~,}99 
LaFortune Ballroom • Stomper Bob
Univ.,.slty ofNotr~> o.m.. 

Tuesday, November 26, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Yeltsin sees 'Russia's breakup' Pueblo tale of two eggs 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW Boris Yeltsin's hard-line 
rivals today said they may try 
to impeach the president over 
his order to pull the last 
Russian 
troops out of 
Chechnya. "We are witnessing the begin­ning of Russia's breakup," said Viktor Ilyukhin, a prominent Communist who 


chairs the Security Committee in the Duma, the lower house. 
"This is sufficient to initiate impeachment proceedings against the president," he told the Interfax news agency. 
Yeltsin on Saturday ordered the last two Russian brigades out of the rebel republic by the end of January. His hard-line foes, once staunch critics of the war, now profess outrage at what looks to many like a final admission of defeat. Parliament has scheduled a special session on Chechnya for Friday. 
Yeltsin's withdrawal order paved the way for the signing Saturday of an accord on 
Think ofus 

asyourscliool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
. For information and schedule consutt your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
II~ITI=n II~A()
Vi 'iii i i..ii.....;V i-ii V i'V 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­Terminals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (lntern.ational terminal 15 minutes later) 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway 
4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 
6:00a.m. 8:10a.m. 8:10a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 9:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:10p.m. 3:55p.m. 4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2, and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
Did you know... f 
Russian-Chechen relations. Elections for a new local gov­ernment in the mostly Muslim republic are set for Jan. 27. 
The head of the Security Council, Ivan Rybkin, staunchly defended the deal but admitted it has critics even within the administration. He said the defense minister is in favor of the pullout, but the interior minister had doubts about it. 
Col. Gen. Anatoly Shkirko, commander of Interior Ministry troops in Chechnya, was openly skeptical about whether the Chechens would really lay down their arms once Russian troops left. 


Tipper tops X-mas tree 
By JENNIFER BATOG Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Decked out in an appropri­ately red suit, Tipper Gore today rode in a hydraulic lift to top the National Christmas Tree with an 42-inch illu­minated star. 
The vice president's wife rode to the top of the 40-foot'----'"""-" C o l o r a d o Gore 
blue spruce with John Betchkal, president of Pageant of Peace, Inc. The tree, on the Ellipse behind the White House, was already partially decorated with gold garlands and hundreds of tiny lights. 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just 
minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor stutlents, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominium& and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ... sRo~ 


~v-~ 
:.,:~r§)~
,.
North Shore Club 

~ ~ ~SHO'i-1-0'
Models Opro Daily Sat. &Sun. 12-5 RM. 

(219) 232-2002
Mon. -Fri. 10 A.M.-6 RM. 

(800) 404-4275 
• Monrhly payments of P. and I. bastd on a purch~ priu: of$55.990 with 20% down and a 30-ym 7.375 A.R.M. 


reveals old Southwest 
By MATT CRENSON Associated Press Writer 
When the people of New Mexico's Acoma Pueblo speak of their origins, they tell a tale of two eggs. 
Their ancestors, they say, were traveling southward with the parrot eggs, one bright blue and the other dull-colored. But when they reached Acoma, they had to choose between the two. 
When the blue egg broke and crows flew out, the chief told those who had chosen it that they would have to stay at Acoma. The others continued southward, and nobody knows 


where they ended up. AP 
Stephen Lekson thinks he coast, 1,000 miles away. might know where the people of In research presented at this the drab egg settled, and much year's meeting of the Society for more about the mysterious American Archaeology and an ancient history of the upcoming issue of Archaeology Southwest. A simple observa­magazine, Lekson connects the 
tion, so obvious that anybody Southwest's three biggest with a ruler and a roadmap archaeological sites with an could have seen it, has led him imaginary line 400 miles long. to construct a history for the The line runs due south from original inhabitants of the Aztec Ruins, a giant complex region spanning 600 years and near the Four Corners, to Casas 400 miles. Grandes, a similar complex 100 
Lekson argues that the three miles south of the Mexican bor­biggest archaeological sites in der. the Southwest -Chaco Canyon, Once they see it, Lekson Aztec Ruins and Casas Grandes argues, nobody can deny that 
-represent three successive the builders of the three com­stages of the same political plexes meant to put them on regime. that line. 
That regime enjoyed control Yet his colleagues most cer­over the labor necessary to tainly do. build giant apartment-like com­"When I presented this at the plexes out of stone and adobe, Society for American 
and had access to luxury goods Archaeology meetings last year, 
such as turquoise, brightly col­it created a fair ruckus," said ored macaw feathers, copper Lekson, an archaeology profes­bells and shell jewelry, some of sor at the University of Colorado it coming from the Mexican in Boulder. 
Apply Now· 

Interviews Begin Dec. 2 

• 8 weeks devoted to service-learning 
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship 
• 3 elective credits 
Applications available at the 
Center for Social Concerns from Hall Reps (names on posters) See your hall rep. for details 









VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Tuesday, November 26, 1996 

Modern humans suffer from ignorance of nature 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Edi10r-in-Chicf Eliubcttl Foran Manatin& Editon Bwincu Manager Pauicia Carson ManCucy Tom Roland 
News Editor ..............•......... Brad Prendergut Ad....,rtiaing Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Daign Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sporu Editor ...•••.•.............Timothy Sherman Prt>duction Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor...•......•.....•.......... Jocy Crawford Systcnu Manager .......................Michad Brouillet 
Saint Mary'a Editor........•........ Caroline Blum ConrroUcr .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .....•.....•...•.......... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the indq><ndent newspaper published by the studenu of the Univcnity of Notn: 
Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It docs not n<ees~arily n:flcct the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi~ torials rcprescnr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediror, Sporn Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcnrarics. letters and Inside Columns present rhc views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­municy and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcuers is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing EditorNiewpoinr Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Several weeks ago, I was watching a somewhat-popular Thursday night sit­com on NBC. One of the characters com­mented to a friend that a new shrub, presumably in a pot, had just been deliv­ered to the front of their New York City apartment complex. The friend ques­tions with marked disinterest, "Really, is 
Sean O'Connor 

it evergreen or deciduous?" The first speaker looks at the second askance and responds with some monumentally clever remark about the second not get­ting out enough. 
This reaction struck me as somewhat odd. Curiosity as to the nature of the bush seems only normal and by the same reasoning, the reaction of the first speaker out of place. However, perhaps this situation is not as incongruous to the modern situation as it at first seemed to me. Mundane as it appears on the surface level, I believe this exchange reflects an underlying prob­lem that has become part of the social current of our country. 
A remarkable detachment from the surrounding natural world has devel­oped in a large segment of American society, so much so that the popular me<Ua construes a very broad-based question about a plant in one's own "front yard" as abnormal and indicative of social misfit-hood. The detachment can be seen all around us, as develop­ment swallows acres of forest and wet­lands, new suburbs are planted with monocultures of foreign shrubs and 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.( @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

chemical-soaked grass. and the native ecosystems of areas become alien arca­nias to their own inhabitants. A large portion of the population is no longer moved when the wooded hills of their youths are no more, and this is a serious problem which clouds our environmen­tal future. 
Throughout human history, the first speaker's reaction to the second's ques­tion would have been considered Judi-· crous, maybe even bordering on mad­ness. An intimate knowledge of the nat­ural world was a necessary precursor to survival among hunter-gatherer cul­tures and almost as useful to the farmer. A child would know what was deciduous and what was evergreen and very much more at a young age or he would fail at the age of self-sufficiency. 
In modern America, the development of an industrial, city-dominated society has removed this necessity and the effect has been devastating. Because most Americans no longer have to know their natural environment, they do not know it, and herein lies part of the rea­son for the apathy of some towards envi­ronmental destruction today. 
The encyclopedic knowledge of the hunter for his' environs fostered a respect in him for the flora and fauna he encountered. How could someone observe the intricate communicative dances of a bee or the unfurling of the bloodroot in the cold woods of March, fully realizing the significance of these events for his own life, and not be afraid to alter things in a way which would eventually eliminate them? But when someone never experiences these processes, or sees them but has no con­nection to them, it is much harder for that person to feel empathy or fear when they are destroyed. 
Today, no bloodroot breaks the cold concrete of a March parking lot. The majority do not know of the bloodroot nor care, and some forlorn tale of the 
scraping away of a Pll!IJ!II••••-·•-­
forest where the 
bloodroot once flour­
ished does not strike 
the same chord of 
worry as it does in the 
gatherer of the blood­
root; but the gatherer 
of the bloodroot is 
gone. In many, there 
is an intellectual sort 
of regret that a par­
ticular forest was 
destroyed, or a regret E~~ 
because it is currently 
politically correct, or 
a regret because it 
was quaintly pretty, 
but these do not -.:~R::-.. 
match the conserving ..lliliii~li'iiiiiil....il 
effect of the empathy of those whose daily routine was tied to that forest. 
This empathy runs much deeper, and if it were more prevalent, the current state of decline of our environment probably would have never been reached. 
The great majority has lost the inti­mate knowledge of the natural world and the contingent respect for the same. There is rather a love of artifice; of the flashy apartment, the sleek metal and glass of an oddly angular downtown, and a few unrecognized shrubs sheared into cubes. 
When the contorted tangle of the wild thicket in some wet swale in the woods is lost, the person who cares not if his own bush is evergreen or deciduous does not shed a tear. And so the wild quickly passes away, and the splintering of trees and the shattering of rock is heard by only a few and heeded by fewer. 
What can be done to correct this prob­lem? Perhaps the answer lies in early childhood education. Time spent in the field, hiking or fishing, perhaps, might help foster a respect for the land in a child, a "land ethic" as it'was called by Aldo Leopold. 
When the lands tramped through by a man in his youth are developed, there is a sense of loss in that individual which might catalyze a dedication to environ­mental preservation. A re-alignment in what we value and admire as a society, from the artificial to the natural, would definitely help assuage the pressure placed on the contemporary American environment by development. 
While the empathy with the environ­ment by necessity which was the hall­mark of past human societies may not feasibly be re-engendered, a land ethic in the tradition of Leopold may be possi­ble and crucially important. Leopold suggested the extension of our morality from one rooted in our relations with other humans to one which included the relations between humans and the nat­ural world; this could be an important step in slowing environmental decline. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday . 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Truth can never be told so as to be under­stood, and not be believed." 
-William Blake 

-~ 
--------~---~--------------~----~ 




VIEWPOINT '· 
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 page 7 
ND may never find replacement for Lou Holtz 
Dear Editor: 
How in the world do you replace a coach with the stature of Lou Holtz? It's just 
not going to be the same without him. I can hardly imagine ND without the little 
man pacing the sidelines, muttering to himself, yelling at the players, yelling at the 
referees, yelling at the TV crews. But, oh, the memories ... 
I will always remember him putting that ref in a headlock. I will never forget him 
pacing back and forth, with an NO junior, one of the equipment managers, trying 
to keep up, trying to keep the cord for the headset from getting tangled. Then I can 
see him crouching down, pulling a few blades of grass and muttering. So many 
images, so many memories. But there is one memory that stands out above the 
rest, one image etched in my mind, an image which encompasses perfectly who 
Lou Holtz is and what he stands for, one which characterizes him better than any 
other memories I can recall. 
It happened in a particular game last year. Lou was coaching from the pressbox 
at Notre Dame stadium that glorious South Bend Saturday afternoon. He was in a 
neckbrace recovering from surgery. The outcome had already been decided, it was 
all academic at that point The line of scrimmage was at the south end of the stadi­
um. Suddenly there was a little commotion at the other end of the field by the tun­
nel. The security guards were huddling, trying to hold back ... someone. Then they 
parted, and out walked Lou. You wouldn't believe the charge that went through 
the crowd. It was like Moses had appeared. "THERE'S LOU!! LOU!!" the entire stu­
dent section surged forward, 20,000 hands raised up with our fingers forming the 
familiar "L" sign. Suddenly the band on the other side of the tunnel played the 
ending of the 1812 Overture: 
"DAAA. DA-DA DAAAA-DA-DA. DAA. DA-DA-DAAA. DAAA DAAA. DA DA 
DAAA... !" Those 20,000 arms swung back and forth, the famed "Irish Unity" sym­
bol, while the whole student section roared along with the band: 
"LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU! LOU!... " 
By now he had passed through the end zone and was crossing over the 10-yard 
line. The fans in the rest of the stadium noticed what was happening. A thunderous 
cheer went up, and the players milling around between downs looked up to see 
what everyone was cheering about Sixty thousand Irish fans in the Stadium, and 
the national TV audience across the country, turned to watch one man, one wiry 
little man, walking stiffiy over the turf of Notre Dame stadium to be with "his kids". 
He said afterwards that he realized it wasn't such a good idea. In his physical 
condition, wearing a neck brace and recovering from surgery, it was quite a risk to 
mill around the sidelines with a bunch of two-and three hundred pound football ~ 
players running around. But I disagree. I think it was a good idea. I think it was a 
great idea. I will forever cherish that image of Lou, walking alone across the turf of 
Notre Dame stadium, pushing aside those who tried to hold him back, walking out 
there to be with his kids, to be where he belonged. 
We'll miss you, Lou. We'll find someone to succeed you, but we'll never find your 
replacement. 
MARlY HUGHES 
Sophomore . h:'Pillon Hall 
Dear Editor: The following is a letter to the editor of The Observer, pertaining to the imminent departure of Lou Holtz. 
It's time to day goodbye to a friend. It's not easy. It never is. It seems especially hard when that friend is so loved and revered as is Lou Holtz. We're losing a coach and a man who epitomized the ideals of Our Lady and her University: faith, love. courage. integrity, character, and determination. He loved this place, with its hal­lowed halls of ivy, and he loved us all. 
I have rarely had so much respect for a person I haven't known personally. Perhaps that's why it is so hard to picture being in Notre Dame Stadium next sea­son, looking to the sideline and not seeing that familiar figure in blue, crouched down with watchful intensity, as the team that he has loved so much marches down the line. No more will we see ourselves in the stands, moving in near-perfect unity as we do "The Lou" and chant his name. Each of us will remember those moments in time forever. 
Lou has been a leader and a father-figure for us. His unswerving devotion to Old Notre Dame and to all of the Fighting Irish fans everywhere makes him a legend more than any championship or any memorable game: His message to us has always been to maintain the highest level of class, honor, and dignity. Yet, Lou has been more than a leader; he has been a friend. 
My friend Allyson Treloar has been a penpal to Lou for many years now, and he has written faithfully, with warmth and genuine concern for a friend that he has met only a couple of times. How many great game coaches are also fine individu­als, showing at least as much zeal for life as they do for the game? 
How can we replace Lou Holtz? I suspect that he would say something like, "I'm just Lou. I've never wanted to be a legend; just Lou Holtz." 
We know, Lou, we know. We just hate to see you go. Still, you have prayed and thought, and prayed some more, and God has told you that it is time to leave. With a gentle nudge, He is taking you from Notre Dame in His mysterious wisdom. All that's left for us to do is to pray for you and your family, and to wish you all of life's best Remember that the best is always yet to come. Finally, we offer one simple blessing, in the tradition of old Ireland: 
May the road rise to meet you; 
May the wind be always at your back; 
May the sun shine warm upon your face, 
And, until we meet again; . 
May God hold you in the palm of His hand. 
Thank you for eleven wonderful years, Lou. Good-bye, farewell, and amen. 
JON FRENCH 
Freshman 
Zahm Hall 

• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
'The old order changeth, yielding place to new' 
Imagine receiving a letter from your parents saying if you don't make a 4.0 this semester, you're a failure. Imagine reading a letter saying if you're not number one in your college, they'll adopt another kid. Imagine a letter saying you don't deserve to be related to your older siblings until you're perfect Then, suppose that you made that 4.0 -and got the very same letter the next year. 
If you fix that letter in your mind, you might have just an inkling of what it feels like to be coach Holtz. 
============== 
Except he 
gets that Jet­ter from practically
Christopher 
everyone and the let­


Regan 
ter doesn't 
talk .about 
his own 
marks -it is 
someone 
else's grades for which we hold him accountable. 
With relentless demand to accomplish more than any other program dares to dream about, Lou Holtz never once lost sight of this University's mission. He remind­ed us: What we do is important, but it's who we are that really counts. No one in the country had a better excuse for skewed priorities, but his never wavered. 
Coach Holtz said he never saw himself leaving the job here, but maybe he should have known he couldn't grow old under the Dome. A man ages three times as fast in his office and you can read the story of his hard work in the lines around his eyes. Behind the familiar wry smile is the sharpest coach in the country, neither broken nor dulled, but simply softened a bit by 11 years in America's m'ost fiery crucible. 
It is a bright torch Lou Holtz bequeaths to coach Davie. It will fall to him, his assistants, his players and all of Notre Dame to hold it high. Coach Holtz has shown his faith is strong enough to believe we will not let him down. To succeed we must match his faith together-we cannot hope to do it alone. 
No matter what happens at Nebraska, UCLA, Boston College -Notre Dame has to stay perfect Not a bit of tarnish is tolerated on the Dome. We expect ten times as much from our coach as we do from the President of our country. Coach Holtz's job carries with it burdens that would simply crush an ordiriary man in a week, let alone 11 years. 
But Lou Holtz delivered. 
Nowhere in the country is there as much justification for pride as in room C018 of the Joyce Center. The players graduated, the reputation upheld, the charities supported and the many victories won are all a testa­ment to outstanding leadership. Complete integrity. A perfect record in matters of discipline and ethics dur­ing difficult times for college sports. 
But in that office, even now, you can only find quiet humility -.a man who thanked the students for inspir­ing him. It is the reverse~hich will always be true. 
The unrealistic expectations faced by coach Holtz will follow him wherever he goes. Even in retrospect, he cannot avoid unnecessary comparisons and expec­tations. 
As writers scramble to defme "his place in history," one can only be reminded of Christopher Frye's The Lady's Not For Burning in which a young English lieu­tenant dashes into the office of his commanding officer as the Americans close in on them. As the British pre­pare to surrender, the lieutenant asks his commander, "Sir, what will history say?" The general replies: "History will tell lies." 
The media try to evaluate Lou Holtz's performance as a coach, comparing it to everyone they can remem­ber or even just imagine. They would be better served to just observe his character, a story that's not report­ed because it doesn't lend itself to charts or measure­ment In the final analysis, it is not his deeds, but his identity that made such a tremendous impact on our Lady's University these past eleven years. 
In his own words, "You can't prove everything to everyone. What you can do is prove some things to yourself. We know who we are and no one can deny us that." 
It will be bitter for us to see him teach somewhere else, but that is who he is. He is the rare man who enjoys teaching for its own sake. He will ~hare his lessons with someone else, and we will rightly envy them. 
Now, as he is leaving, we say we would have had him coach forever, but he is wiser than we. In reality, coach Holtz leaves his job, but not the University behind. Wherever he goes with his strength and his wisdom -no doubt born of his own wonderful family ­Lou Holtz will always be with this University. 
"It's the right thing to do." Not every man can reach out for perfection, and if any man can.. he can do it only for a little while. It is the stone of Sisyphus coach Holtz passes on to Bob Davie. No matter how many times it is rolled to the top of the mountain, it will earn him only brief adulation and then a chance to roll it up again. 
Despite coach Holtz's absence from the campus he will remain in the best part of our hearts and this place will remain Notre Dame. It will still be the University he captured by saying, "It's a special place, made up of ordinary people." A place so much richer in spirit and soul after these 11 years -only the luck of the Irish could have brought him here, borne upon South Bend's familiar north wind, in a time of great doubt It is an extraordinary demand to live up to reputation of this University. To add to the legacy is a sign of greatness the likes of which we were fortunate to know just once in our lifetime. 
In Tennyson's masterpiece, Morte d'Arthur, we find Sir Bedivere standing over the war wracked body of his King. Arthur has resigned at the last and asks Bedivere to throw Excalibur back into the lake. Bedivere refuses and cries out, as his tears fall on the King's brow, 
"Ah! My Lord Arthur, whither shall I go? Where shall I hide my forehead and my eyes? For now I see the true old times are dead." But his King replies, "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, And God fulfills himself in many ways, Lest one good custom should corrupt the world ... If thou shouldst never see my face again, 
· Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of." 
You will always have a place in our prayers, coach. We know you wa:nt our eyes on the future, but for now, do not grudge us the tears we shed for you. One day, memories will replace them with the smile you wore for us. You have done far more than just leave the Golden Dome clean. You have added brilliance to its shine and its splendor. We could not have asked for more, but we never expected any less. 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. 




ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, November 26, 1996 

o., 



By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he latter part of this week marks one of the most important occasions in the calendar year. One special day, set aside to think of others and the unbridled joys of giving. 
No. I'm not talking about that silly turkey-eating ritual. A whole day of stressing out about whether the Jell-0 mold is holding its shape and which of six identical forks to eat with? Who needs the aggravation? 
I'm referring to the day after Thanksgiving, of course, otherwise known to women as "the number one shopping day of the year" and to men as "Hell." 
Not sure which category you fall under? Well, that's pretty scary and you might want to consider professional help; but just to be sure, take this handy dandy little quiz: 
1. 
At 8 a.m. the morning after turkey day, your first thought is: a) "Oh, my God! I'll never get a parking spot if I don't leave right now!" b) "Why am I awake?" 

2. 
If you have plans to go anywhere near a mall on Friday, November 29, it's because: a) you have had an itemized Christmas shopping list prepared for weeks and have been waiting for the mega-sales to start on it. b) your morn and sister need someone to drop them off at the door and carry their 46 packages for the better part of eight hours. 

3. 
Your idea of a store that's too crowded to shop in is: a) when otlwr less experienced shoppers need paramedic help after collaps­ing from suffocation. b) any store. 

4. 
You're not sure what to buy your significant other for Christmas. so you: a) hit every store in three malls looking for inspi­ration. b) forget about it altogether until December 24 at which point you decide that a half-dead poinsettia and a purple teddy bear from Wal-Mart would be a perfect expression of your feelings. 

5. 
Tlw day after Thanksgiving, you're giving thanks for: a) the inv1~ntor of credit cards. b) the fact that you just broke up with someone and therefore don't have to shop for a Christmas gift. 


If you answered "a" to three or more of these questions, you strongly loan toward the feminine side of shopping. If you answered "b," you are generally a man, or could be a woman who had a trau­matic shopping experience in early childhood. If you answered "c," you probably shouldn't take too many standardized tests. 
The bottom line is that there's no escaping the overpowering lure of post-Thanksgiving shopping. If you don't feel the urge to strate­gically conquer the mall in one fell swoop, someone in your life undoubtedly will, so let's at least prepare you for your Friday morn­ing fate. 
In honor of the gn~at American shopping holiday, here's a look at the best (and worst) gift ideas for the special people of the opposite sex on your list. 
GIFTS FOR HIM, FROM HER 
Scientific evidence (and/or my own irrational observation) has proven that many women are born with a shopping gene that enables them to bargain hunt and itemize gift lists with innate skill. This can be scary to the average male, because it puts women at a distinct advantage as they attack holiday shopping with a vengeance. But even the most seasoned shoppers can get "shop­por's block," so ladies, here are a few suggestions on how to shop for the men in your life. 
Dad: Dads are easy. Dads like anything. Especially from their lit-tie girls. Even if it's on Dad's own credit card. Seriously. Sweaters are always a safe bet, as long as they don't have anything like Santa and his reindeer embroidered on them. And let's not forget golf balls, which many fathers happily anticipate stocking up on each Christmas. Lay off the ties, though, because then Morn will find a reason to make him dress up and take her somewhere expensive. If Dad is the power tool or gadget geek type, --...... don't even try to purchase whatever it is he's been eyeing. Inevitably, you'll pick the wrong one or find that he bought it as a present to himself three weeks earlier. 
Brothers: Obviously, this depends on their age. Buying your older married sibling a Sega might be terrific in his eyes, but his wife will want to kill you when he's more interested in Mortal Kornbat than in her. Flannel items work well for brothers of all ages, and can be found from the Baby Gap through Eddie Bauer's XXXL-Tall. Younger brothers will be pacified with CD's or any movie (no more than PG-13, of course.) featuring Sandra Bullock, Terri Hatcher, or the lust object of their choice. 
Boyfriend/significant other/person you spend all your time with but can't put a label on because you go to a school with gender relations that make cavemen look suave: This is the hardest one, because you face the catch-22 of gift giving -if you buy from · the heart and ignore the price tags, what happens if he thinks you'II feel bad if he 
spends too much, so you end up .-?.".___ buying him a watch, three sweaters and tickets to a Bulls game and he gives you a gift­wrapped box of Pop-Tarts? Personally, I love Pop-Tarts to the extentthat this would be okay. 
But since you probably aren't worried about what to buy for ......-...... me, what should you do? I sug­
gest putting the big bucks aside for creativity. I'm not saying that you should forgo your philo paper to con­struct a birdhouse out of macaroni shells for your beloved. Bur along with a fluffy plaid shirt of a sub­scription to Sports Illustrated, how about bleacher seats to opening day at Wrigley Field? A completed photo album? Homemade cookies? (this is assuming that you can cook. _.._.._ My cooking would take care of Christmas shopping by 
killing ever~one ~.j l ~A\)"' b on the hst.) ~ " ~. \ 1(. The point is, he'll love the gift because you took time to think about it, not because you went bankrupt buying it. Of course, there are probably many more men in your life than 
these three. So to avoid the pitfalls top ten men's gifts to avoid: 
10. soap on a rope 

9. electric nosehair clippers 
8. the "Men Behaving encourage them) 
7. a pickled sausage/b~ 
died meatball cornbinal store at the mall 
6. fruitcake (the their rnasculinit) 
5. fruit-scent• 
4. any Hich< 
3. kitchen expected to 
2. "Cookir 
1. tighty· 
GIFTS H Moving o problems. 1 marathon c our friends o who generally much enthusia 
But never fear, This helpful guid help revolutionize t 
gifts! (Or, it at least set of automatic doo Mom: Thankfully, 1\ 
~-~ absolutely everythin grade school Christr consisted of $2. 50'. then, and probably r ties have actually re 
chances are she docsr 
option is to sign your n too much money on. 
rnalm of {gasp) WOME 
Let's take this brief tery of women's eloth1 tiona) numbers" that math? Women's cloth ilion of irrational nu 
so don't eve 
a sni pete sto bee she or· 
Ke rules not an 
to things like nice, simple sweaters t 
"small," "medium," and "large." Or, 
betical, illustrated list that Mom lei 
table. Size. Color. Price. Direction! 

------~------~----~------------------------------------~-----------------------­

ACCENT
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 page 9 


,uide to Christmas Gifts the Shopping Impaired 
of bad gift-giving, here are the 
~adly" video collection (don't 
ef jerkyllimburger cheese/can­ion from the Hickory Farms 
might think you're insulting 
d shower gel d Simmons video (see #6) utensils that you will later be se g with Oprah" hitey gift set 
t HER, FROM HIM 
to bigger and more stressful he post-Thanksgiving shopping n be especially traumatic for 
the testosterone persuasion, regard shopping with about as m as a trip to the proctologist. ny shopping-challenged men! ~ to shopping for women can 
e way you shop for Christmas might get you through the first ; before breaking into hives.) m will (at least pretend to) like tou give her. Remember those ts bazaars where your budget 
Mom loved your tacky gifts alizes that your shopping abili­·essed since the third grade, so 
l
.l expect much. One popular :me to whatever Dad blew way ·r, you could venture into the 
'S CLOTHING. ~lpportunity to reveal the mys­: sizes. Remember those "irra­ou learned about in junior high . s ARE the mathematical defin­
bcrs. They don't make sense, try. And if you decide to buy a clothes, PLEASE take another with you; else you will end up 
eling, wilted mess on the car-l floor of some trendy clothing e that plays French music ause you can't remember if s a four-regular. a five-petite, 
six-slim-fit. 
eping in mind these simple and the fact that sniveling is ttractive feature in men. stick at come in less scary sizes like you can just look at the alpha­t in the middle of the kitchen · to the mall. Mom knows how 
this works. 

Sisters: After all those years of fighting over the bathroom and slamming doors in each others' faces, how can you hope to know what kind of gift your sister would appreciate? Unless your sister is a mom herself, she probably hasn't mastered the art of uncondition­al gift-love yet. But even the finnickiest of siblings can be satisfied with one of the easiest gifts of all to buy: a gift certificate. 
A quick glance at her closet will tell you what her favorite stores are, and best of all, cuts out all of your size and color worries! This does not imply that you should present her with $25 redeemable at McDonald's or the hardware store, unless of course she eats Big Macs three times a day or builds furniture from scratch. But with a little research (OK, ask Mom), you can make Sis very happy indeed. You could just sign your name something that Mom bought for you to give, but that wouldn't perfect your new-found shopping skills, would it? 
Girlfriend/love interest/person you enjoy being with whom you did NOT pick up at the 'Backer: This is the scariest one of all, both for the giver and the give-ee. Boyfriends often have the best of intents, but while it's true that it's the thought that counts, the thought of yet another white teddy bear or powder-fresh perfume gift set makes many a female tremble with fear. 
Many guys are tempted to run for the first Victoria's Secret they can can find to impress their sweetest with something satiny, silky or lacy. This is a very romantic gesture, except for the fact that men's and women's ideas of what is comfortable and/or functional lingerie are worlds apart. We like silk pajamas. You like things with enough hooks and wires to merit their own instruction manual. Get the picture? 
One word of caution. It's a popular and generally acceptable prac­tice for men to ask the opinion of saleswomen in stores who seem "about her size" when buying for a girlfriend. This is OK, provided that the person is somewhere in the general range of your girlfriend and that you don't need a really specific size. However, be realistic. Your girlfriend being fit and trim is not equivalent to a 15-year-old size-one salesgirl who knows she can sell you anything because you don't know any better. And for God's sake, Victoria's Secret is not the place to practice this method of shopping. Depending on what "size" you're referring to, you will probably get slapped and thrown out. 
If you really want to buy clothes, take her best friend with you. Girls are not subtle. Your girlfriend will have already given her strict, detailed instructions knowing that you will eventually resort to this. It's okay. We understand . 
And lest you not have learned a valuable lesson yet, steer clear or these top ten women's nightmare gifts: 
10. Wrestlemania tickets 
9. gift memberships to Weight Watchers 
8. anything containing cubic zirconia 
7. power tools 

6. stuffed animals that you can find at Osco 
5. any item of clothing requiring garter belts 
4. the "Sports Encyclopedia" to her least favorite sport so that she can "keep up" with you and your friends in conversation 
3. any perfume recommended by your eight-year-old sister 
2. "Dumb and Dumber" when you know she wants "Sense and Sensibility" 
1. matching T-shirts that read "I belong to (your name)" and "(her name)'s my woman" 
So shop responsibly, boys and girls. Now get out there and hit the malls! Christmas is less than 30 days away ... 
•·MEDICAL MINUtE 
. . . are pain sen­
~,................ sinuses, and their · Also, pain can . the brain's outer , certain cranial and 
are pain sensitive. much th~ only sensa.· Luutu~:L!:\ the structures listed 

ny Applications (NCSA) began a project to create an interface to the W():rld \'Vide Web. Their homepage can be found at www.ncsa.uiuc.edu. One ofNCSA's missign$ is to aid the scien­tific research community by producing widely available, non.ocCf!1ll1Uercial software. Another of its goals is to investigate new research technologic$ in tije<liope that C0111IIler­cial interests will be able to profit from them. In these ways~ th~ Web project was quite appropriate. The NCSA's Software Design Group began work ona,vet~ati}e;multi·platform interface to the World Wide Web, and called it "Mosaic". .•.•. · · ..·.•·····•• 1 

In the first half of 1993. the first version of NCSA's Web brows(;lr.wa$ made a.v;:tila,ble to the Internet community. Because earlier beta versions were distributed, M.OsmC, h~d devel· oped a strong following by the time itwas offici ··· · Jl4 d?cu­ments with images to. he viewed and new media und to· be. transferred over the Internet and pointed to by do < ... . . 
wser of · choice for those working on computers with gi"Iiphicsca.pabi 
In 1993 NCSA's Mosaic products won theJnterm~t Multi award for the Most Innovative Application and the lnfoWoi' award. · · . . . ........ ·.·..... . . 
Because of the number of traditional services it could handle; ~~due toits easy; point­and-click hypermedia interface, Mosaic soon became the 1IlOStfiOI?11lardnterface to. the Web. Mark Andreesson, the original creator ofMosaic, soon left the NCSAandJounded his own company, Netscape, which now produces many Web-relatedprocluctsin addition to advanced Web browsers. 
The history of the Web is far more complex than this brief suinmary. Bl!t for a more in-depth review, visit "The History of Internet·..·· and WWW" (www.internetvalley.comf'mtval.html.) 
many Jason Huggins is a junior Management Information System$ i!Ja}qrfrom Thousand 
o sur-Oaks, CA. To kick his Internet addiction, Jason will try to watch »t?te telel!ision this 
Thanksgiving weekend. · · · puting 
.slJI~m:onms or more is a 
•:nrn•u•: · Approximately u~uwtt~;t•~.a.:and migraine common forms. <~HJ.L.i.·IJ<Ulh Your physician will 
will also help you to ·....·painand the factors that 

. Lairy iyatd is aiti.1lto1' #fi1vce pte,professionalmajor livingin Flanner Hall,< Fortr-t#C!fely for him, Tylenol cures any h(?adaches he el)ersilf!t:r1l: 
· · 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 26, 1996 

Steelers beat Dolphins, 24-17 
Chicago escapes from Los Angeles, 88-84 
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press Writer 

MIAMI 
With the game on the line, Mike Tomczak connected on one more pass than Dan Marino. 
Tomczak threw for 252 yards, including a 20-yard touchdown to Ernie Mills with 2:10 remain­ing, and the Pittsburgh Steelers rallied from an 11-point sec­ond-quarter deficit to beat the Miami Dolphins 24-17 Monday night. 
Marino moved Miami 73 yards in the final two minutes to the 7 -yard line, but his pass to Scott Miller on fourth-and-1 with 25 seconds left fell incom­plete in the end zone. 
"It's very exhilarating," Tomczak said. "When we scored, I told (teammate) Will Wolford, 'Marino's got too much time.' He said, 'Who cares?'" 
The Dolphins (6-6) fell a game behind San Diego in their bid for a: wild-card berth. 
"It shouldn't have come down to us scoring with two minutes left," Marino said. 
The Steelers (9-3) increased their lead to three games over second-place Houston in the AFC Central. 
"That's a big win for our team, facing a team that's look­ing at this as their playoff game. in a hostile environ­ment," Pittsburgh coach Bill Cowher said. 
With the outcome, AFC West leader Denver (11-1) became the first team to clinch a post­season berth. 
The Steelers' Jerome Bettis rushed for 119 yards. Miami scored only one touchdown against the Pittsburgh defense, which has allowed the fewest yards and points in the AFC. 
Miami was hurt by nine penalties for 54 yards, while Pittsburgh was penalized just once. Guards Everett Mciver and rookie Jeff Buckey, making their first starts for the Dolphins, were each penalized once for 10 yards in the second half. 
"Penalties and miscues took us out of our rhythm," Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson said. "It was a frustrating loss. We felt like we could win, and we had plenty of opportunities." 
Marino's 38-yard pass to Troy Drayton set up a 41-yard field goal by Joe Nedney to tie the game 17-17 late in the third quarter. But Nedney missed a 48-yarder with 8 1/2 minutes left. 
Pittsburgh's second sack of Marino backed up the Dolphins, and a punt gave the Steelers the ball at the Miami 45 with six minutes to go. 
Tomczak's touchdown pass came eight plays later on third­and-8. Mills broke free in the end zone when cornerback Terrell Buckley collided with a teammate. 
Mills said the ball seemed to be in the air a long time. "I just said, 'Come on, come 
on,' and it finally got there," he said. 
Tomczak, who also threw completions of 34, 36 and 38 yards, was 16-for-29 and over­came two early turnovers. He lost a fumble, ending a scoring threat, then threw an intercep­tion that Calvin Jackson re­turned 61 yards for a touch­down. Marino completed 22 of 37 passes for 254 yards. He had two passes dropped, spoiling apparent first downs. 
"It's a very difficult loss be­cause I felt we should have won," Marino said. "We were here at home on Monday night, and for us to have a chance to get into the playoffs, we have to win while we're at home." 
The Dolphins took the open­ing kickoff and drove 76 yards in 15 plays for a 7-0 lead. Marino completed all six of his attempts, including a 2-yarder to O.J. McDuffie on third down for the score. 
Midway through the second quarter, Tomczak tried to find Andre Hastings on short side­line route, but Jackson stepped between them to make the in­terception. He juggled the ball, then took off and scored un­touched for a 14-3 Miami lead. 
The Steelers' comeback began on their next possession with an 80-yard drive. Tomczak hit Mark Bruener for 37 yards, and at the 5-yard line reserve quarterback Kordell Stewart fooled the defense with an op­tion and pitched to Tim Lester, who scored untouched. 
By KEN PETERS Assocaited Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 
So the Chicago Bulls had lost their starting center, couldn't get much scoring out anybody, and were coming off their first loss. 
So what? They still had Michael Jordan. 
Jordan scored 40 points, keeping the Bulls in the game until they finally sprang to life in the fourth quarter, as Chicago downed the deter­mined Los Angeles Clippers 88­84 Monday night. 
"Michael stole the show," Los Angeles coach Bill Fitch said. "He's everything they say he is and he lives up to it every night. This certainly didn't hurt his movie, and now I'll go see it." 
Jordan and Scottie Pippen took over early in the fourth quarter after the Clippers had led almost all the way. 
"Some of the guys, even my­self, couldn't make any shots early," Jordan said. "I found my rhythm before anybody else found theirs, and they fed off me for awhile until we got our­selves back into position to win the game. 
"It was just one of those games where I had to take over offensively a little bit." 
Jordan scored eight and Pippen had seven during a 17-4 run in the first six minutes of the last quarter to put the Bulls on top 81-70. 
Chicago, trailing 66-64 to start the period, tied it on a Jordan jumper 20 seconds into the quarter. Dennis Rodman then scored his only points of the game, on a fast break, to give the Bulls their first lead. 

Stanley Roberts came off the bench to le.ad the Clippers with 15 points, and Loy Vaught had 14 points and 13 rebounds. 
Rodman had 14 rebounds for the Bulls and Pippen had 11 rebounds to go with 15 points. 
Chicago was without starting center Luc Longley, who sepa­rated his left shoulder and a swimming accident on Sunday and will be out for approxi­mately eight weeks. Bill Wennington started in his place and finished with six points and four rebounds. The Bulls were coming off a 105-100 loss Saturday at Utah after winning their first 12 games. Jordan was impressed by the Clippers, saying: "They just want to make a name for themselves against us, and I respect that. We just had to match their intensity with our intensity." 
Roberts scored 12 points in the first half as the Clippers took a 51-45 lead at the break. Los Angeles scored only 33 points in the second half. 
Jordan was about the only productive Chicago player in the first two quarters, scoring 22 points by· halftime. Rodman and Ron Harper didn't score in the first half, and Pippen had only 4 points as the Bulls made just 16 of 44 shots. 
The Bulls were especially cold at the start, with Los Angeles outscoring them 25-18 in the opening quarter. Chicago hit just six of 24 shots in the period.

Please Recycle The Observer 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
..•.............•..

Lost, One engraved Zlppo Michiana's larg!!st night club FAX IT FAST!!! lighter, and newest restaurant Is now FOR SALE Sending & Receiving The turkey roasts,
NOTICES 

Inscription reads JDT IV. seeking competant, hard work­at the flxlns smoke 
$30 reward lor return, If you ing individuals to fill several FOAM MATTRESS AND THE COPY SHOP Our Ireland lass, SPRING BREAK Travel Free have positions within our growing SPRINGS/FRAME. GOOD QUALI­LaFortune Student Center Grabs a great big glass Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ any information pJease contact company. Positions now avail­TY. $20.00 OR BEST OFFER Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXI Of whiskey, ale, or brew Cancun Jamaica Bahamas Job Turner at 4-1073 able are: Hostess, Banquet and CALL PIERRE 273-3054 FAX IT FAST!!! (or maybe a shot or two!) Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. restaurant servers, bus persons, For during Thanksgiving lu'l, all-u<an drink dally. Don Surf & Beer Tub and shot girls. All posl~ Casson's turning twenty-one. Sun (800) 763-5606. WANTED lions are ideal for students. If ------PCComputers TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, ........•..........••• 
Interested, contact Heartland built to order PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN HAPPY 21st CONNIE! MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW and The Old Chicago LAFAYETTE Love, Shannon, Kathryn & Beth
, 
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach Steakhouse at 222 S. Michigan GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL. basic conversational English In St. South Bend. Do you need to upgrade your ADOPTION IS A Xlaohong, no matter It is good CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO. Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. old computer? Do you need a CHOICE OF LOVE. time or bad time, I will be on 
No teaching certificate or new computer? Are you on a Choosing Adoption is an your side forever. Love you and
FOR RENT 
Spring Break Bahamas Party European languages required. limited budget?"Save 10-50% by unselfish act of love. Your child happy birthday! Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Inexpensive Room & Board + letting me build you new sys­will be raised to know this. Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great other benefits. For Info. call: WALK TO CAMPUS tem. Ex. a !50 Mhz Pentium with Caring couple wish to share our Wouldn't It suck to be a turkey Beaches & Nightlife! Prices (206)971-3680 ext.K55843 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 1.6GB HD.l6 M RAM, 8X CD, 15" love, laughs, and lives with an now? Welp, have a happy. Increase Soon-Save $50! sprlng­232-2595 monitor, 16 bit sound, modem, infant. Dad is kind and gentle. happy Thanksgiving! Gobble, breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 etc. costs you $1495. See my Mom is friendly and fun. Let's Gobble... :) 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 web page lor details: ·talk and see if we're right lor Cavanaugh Kerry Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Positions are now available at College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full www.nd.edu/-pbeery you and your baby. Andrea and Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel National Parks, Forests, & bath, wood floor, wash/dry, or call alter 6:00 PM 273-2652 Lee: 1-800-213-3960. LUCAS!! From South Bend $419! Prices Wildlife Preserves. Excellent vaulted cell, porch, furniture Increase Soon-Save $50! Save benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-a vall. Just think of the possibilities... 
...............•............ 
.....•....

$!50 on Food, Drinks! Ill% 971-3620 ext. N55849 BEAUTIFUL! 273-2580 1995 Gold Saturn 25,000mls "The Dltka Cheer!" Lowest Price Guarantee! sprlng­Air, Automatic, anti-lock brakes, Ride needed from FLORIDA (I'll . breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­REGGAE D. J. dual air bags. $12,900 be in W Palm, but can get to any­I wanna be like Mike ... 
Students Needed! Fishing 234 0705 Call257-{)238 where) to South Bend after ... Dltka! Spring Break Panama City! Industry. Earn up to $3,000-Christmas, anytime before Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best $6,000• per month. Room and 2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW school starts. Promise to enter­MISS YOUR DAILY DOSE OF
TICKETS
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights Board! Transportation! Male or OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­tain, share $ and driving, and FOUR FOOD GROUPS? GET THE $129! Daytona-Best Location Female. No experience neces­PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-make an otherwise boring trip BOOK! "A WELC BALANCED $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! sary. Call (206)97!-3510 6306 most enriching! call Brian 287-MEAL," AT HAMMES AND sprlngbreaktravel.com 1-800-extA55848 
SALE 4876 LAFORTUNE. 
............................

678-6386 House for Rent 2 NCAA BB FINAL 4 TIX 
.....•....

S.side-Ersklne Blvd lNINDY My posse is In da house. WORDS... TO GO Term Papers, Looking to copy a tape of tele­Great Neighborhood 2719387 whatcha gonna do. To Q-bali, Dissertations, Resumes, Free vised Newly Remodeled-10 mln from 
ZZ, Mike D.(Uh Oh, Happy Pick-Up and Delivery Available. Rutger's game. Please call ND 
GA.s FOR SALE GA.s """"' Looking for a unique gift idea? learned how to putt), Special K, Competitive Rates, 299-7224 Meghan at x2474 if you taped 2 bedrom-bsmt-garage-new appl USC, GA.s Custom Color Copy Picture Mo, D-lunk, Rye Bread, ZZ, the game. w/d-a/c-water inc! CALL. ....272-7233. · Calendars are now available at G Wlz, K-Dawg(practice those avail Dec or Jan $595+dep THE COPY SHOP in the darts), and Gee.
ILOST & FOUND I 

1-7545 or 232-6942 Lafortune Student Center. Just Have a nice Thanksgiving. 
PERSONAL
Care Coordinator-Temporary bring in your favorite pictures Chill 'til the next episode. LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED Position Female student wanted STUDENTS-FIGHT THE URGE! 
and create a memorable calen­-C-note STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!! to coordinate care for freshman Campus View Apartments are dar!!! Choose from three for­
PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331. student with disabilities. Prior dirty, smelly, and ramshackle­Mail Starved Domers in mats: maybe if I go to taco bell I'll run experlnce with people with dis­that pool Is closed all the time. lnnsbruck crave correspon­(I) 12 Picture Monthly Flip Into layne and greg Found: I chain and charm abilities preferred. Pay range . and the rent is outrageous! Do dence!! (2) I Picture Monthly Tear-Off 
In Nleuwland Comp lab. $6.35 to $6.85/hour. Contact yourselves a favor and rent else­lnnrain 33 (3) I Picture Full Year View. how's the view of the parking lot Identify and claim with Calvin Office lor Students with where; the convenience just A-6020 lnnsbruck 
from three Inches above the @4-1772 Disabilities at 63!-7157 lsn't worth It!!! Tirol, Austria, Europe belle[y) dance! puddles?! take care.. 
. 
b. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Atlanta deals McMichael to New York for Byrd 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

The Atlanta Braves took the first step toward reducing their burgeoning payroll Monday, trading Greg McMichael to the New York Mets for Paul Byrd in an exchange of relievers. 
The Braves, hoping to keep their payroll around $50 mil­lion, couldn't afford to keep McMichael after signing NL Cy Young Award winner John Smoltz to a $31 million, four­year contract last week. 
"It's no secret when you sign someone to a contract like John Smoltz signed, it's going to have a great impact on your team," Atlanta general man­ager John Schuerholz said. "I've been saying all winter that we're likely going to make major changes to our roster. This in and of itself is not going to offset the Smoltz signing." 
The Braves reportedly have had talks with the Florida Marlins about a trade for first baseman Fred McGriff, who had 107 RBis last season. 
McMichael, who will turn 30 

WEDNESDAY: 

DJ starts at 9:00 p.m. Alternative & retro 70's Win CD's & T -shirts 
THURSDAY: 

Open Jam Area's Premier Bands Hottest Spot in Town! 
between Cleveland and Douglas on
Greatest Music 

US31-33 
Greatest Food 4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen

No Cover Charge: 
TV's, and good times for all! 
next Tuesday, made $460,000 in 1996, but his salary figured to go up significantly since he was eligible for arbitration for the first time. 
"I knew that a trade was one possible scenario with my change in position," he said. "So it's not a complete shock. But I'm down a little bit. It's hard when you've established your home and you enjoy being here year round. I've been thinking of my wife and kids 

~ps 
continued from page 16 
hitter and doing a great job. She is a very versatile player and that was something that we really needed this year. Without her being able to do that, who knows where we'd 
..
be. 

Lee proved worthy of her 
honors as she lead the squad in kills against Syracuse and · Pittsburgh with 13 and 19 re­spectively. She also hit above the terrific clip of .400 in both 
matches. 
Also turning in big perfor­
mances were seniors Birkner 
and Jen Briggs and the 6-4 
blocker Mary LetTers. Birkner 

'97·98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 
Celebrations ~round the (\.f)orld 

and things like that." 
McMichael had been a stal­wart in the Braves bullpen over the past four seasons, compil­ing an 18-14 record with a 2.89 ERA and 44 saves. He led Atlanta with 19 saves in 1993 and 21 in '94, but he had been primarily used in middle relief the last two seasons. 
In 1996, McMichael was 5-3 with a 3.22 ERA and two saves in 73 games as the set-up re­liever for Mark Wohlers. But 
added her usual outstanding 
play with 16 digs on the week­
end which puts her just seven 
behind Jessica Fiebelkon for 
second place on the Irish ca­
reer list. 
Briggs, who has filled in for 
Angie Harris, totaled 21 kills, 
while LetTers dominated the net 
with 11 blocks and nine kills in 
the final. 
Over Thanksgiving weekend, 
coach Brown and company will 
travel to the University of 
Pacific for the Banker's Classic. 
The four-team tournament will 
feature teams that will all be in 
the big dance. 
The Irish will do battle with 
the No. 11 Washington State 
Cougars and will then take on 
either the host Tigers (No. 13) 
or the South Florida Bulls who 
just dropped out of the polls. 
The Cougars handed the 
powerhouse Stanford Cardinal 
one of their two losses on the 
year, while Pacific is the only 
squad who boasts a win over 
Long Beach State. 
The Domers will definitely 
have their hands full as they 
are 0-6 against ranked foes this 
year. 
"We're excited to play ranked 
teams again,' Treadwell ex­
plained. "We've been playing 
in the Big East for so long. 
Since we haven't had that good the right-hander had tendinitis late in the season and was flop in the playoffs, going 0-1 with a 
12.47 ERA. He surrendered crucial homers to Brian Jordan of St. Louis in the NL champi­onship series and to Bernie Williams of the Yankees in Game 3 of the World Series. 
"I don't feel good when I know I didn't do my very best," he said. "But I know that's a part of the game that some­times happens." 
of a record against ranked op­ponents, were excited to get another chance." 
Coach Brown also expressed how great an opportunity lies in California. 
"We know it is going to be very, very challenging. It's def­initely the level of competition we want to be playing at this time of the year." 
One might wonder how the squad will go into this chal­lenge, as they are just 8-9 away from the friendly confines of the Big East, where they have now finished two perfect seasons. 
Brown looks at it as a learn­ing experience. 
"We look at where we've been, the reasons why we struggled and where we are now, and we feel like we have come a long way. We played very well this past weekend and, if we play like that, we feel like we can play with any team in the country. It's taken some time and we've had some pretty big obstacles to over­come. We're looking forward to the challenge." 
Hopefully the Irish can con­tinue to accept this challenge, build on their momentum and get ready for their NCAA tour­nament run. 




You could earn: 

$3000 after your first plasma donation! 
$1 500 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+ 
$500 if you show college I.D. (first visit) 

+ 
$1 QOO per person if you recruit someone and they donate 



$3000 TOTAL! 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo J.D. 

Come to: Hours: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M·F: 9:00 · 6:00 515 lincolnway West SAT: 8:00 . 5:00 South Bend, IN 46601-1117 234·6010 

--·-----.-" 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Men finish ninth; Deeter third 
~-~--------·------­
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 


Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame's men's cross country team ended its 1996 season with its second-consecu­tive top-1 0 finish at the NCAA cross country championship in Tucson, Ariz. Junior Jason Rexing and senior Derek Seiling finished 26th and 30th respec­tively, to earn All-America hon­ors, leading the Irish to their ninth-place finish. 
Freshman Joanna Deeter ran individually for Notre Da'me's women's team and came away with the highest finish in Notre Dame women's cross country history with her third place fin­ish, becoming an All-American in her first NCAA Championship race. 
Stanford claimed both the men's and women's team titles, marking the first time since 1985 that one school claimed both titles when Wisconsin swept the titles. Arkansas' Godfrey Siamusiye won his sec­ond NCAA men's race and Arizona's Amy Skieresz claimed the women's title on her home course. 
"Our goal all year was to fin­

• COllEGE FOOTBAll 




Henning resigns from B.C. 
By JIMMY GOLEN Associated Press Writer 
BOSTON 

Boston College coach Dan Henning resigned Monday, more a victim of two consecu­tive losing seasons than the gambling scandal that rocked the team. 
"It has nothing to do with the gambling situation. Absolutely nothing. It has to do with foot­ball." athletic director Chet Gladchuk said. "Look at the statistics. Take a look at the record. Take a look at the pro­gram." 
In three years under Henning, the Eagles posted a 16-19-1 record, including a 5-7 mark during a 1996 season that finished with 13 Eagles players serving suspensions for betting. 
"This has been a difficult year," Henning said in a state-

ts looking 
new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 

DO YOU WANT SOME GOOD EXPERIENCE WORKING FOR 
THE OBSERVER 
join the Saint Mary's Observer Staff 
Open editorial positions in news and sports. Bring applications to 314 LaFortune 
FUN!! 
call Caroline Blum@ 631-4540 with questions 
ish in the top 10 and we cer­tainly accomplished that," said Notre Dame men's cross coun­try coach Joe Piane. "I think everyone would agree that we could have done a little better, but coming away with two All­Americans is very satisfying. The future looks very bright for both programs." 
Deeter started the women's race strong, running second through the middle portion of the race before Providence's Marie McMahon edged Deeter out for second, passing Deeter in the final third of the race. 
The third-place finish ties her lowest finish of the year, which came on the same course at the Arizona Invitational. Skieresz won the race with a time of 17:04, while McMahon finished in 17:20 with Deeter close be­hind at 17:24. 
"For a freshman to come into her first NCAA race and do what she did is remarkable," said Notre Dame women's cross country coach Tim Connelly. "She approached the race with such an incredible outlook, focusing on having fun and run­
ment. ."There have been a number of distractions that have hurt the focus and cloud­ed the overall issue. 
"I believe that someone else may be able to take a fresh ap­proach that will benefit both Boston College and the players that are members of this foot­ball program." 
Meeting with reporters in his office, Gladchuk said he sched­uled a routine postseason dis­cussion Monday at which the two stepped back to look at the overall progress of the football program. 
During the meeting, Gladchuk said, the two decided together that Henning should not return. 
"We agreed that it would be better for the program and bet­ter for the university that we have new leadership," Gladchuk said. "I think the world of him. He is a quality ning the way she likes." 
"My goal was just to go out there and have fun," said Deeter. "I didn't want to put any pressure on myself, just to have fun running which I al­ways do, but of course I am happy with my finish." 
The men's team continued its success in the 1990's with its fifth top-1 0 finish since 1990 as the Irish receive strong per­formances once again from their top-four runners. 
Rexing, a 1996 outdoor track All-American, was the top Notre Dame finisher as he has been for most of the season. Seiling becomes a two-time All­American for Notre Dame after his 27th place at the 1995 NCAA cross country champi­onships and his 30th-place fin­ish on Monday. 
Seniors Matt Althoff and Joe Dunlop finished in 40th and 59th to round out the top four. Strong finishes from their top­four runners was the formula the Irish used to win the NCAA District IV meet on Saturday, November 16 to advance to the NCAA championships. 
person. It's just something that wasn't working right now. We agreed that was the case and that's how we decided to move 
on." 
Gladchuk said he had not reached a conclusion about Henning's future heading into the meeting. 
And he said he did not remember who first broached the issue of Henning, who has two years left on his five-year contract, resigning. 


NET Ministries 
(National Evangelization Team) 
Information Night December 2, 7:00-8:30 pm at The Center for Social Concerns 
Looking for young adults to serve on retreat teams 9 months ofvolunteer service 
For further questions call Charlotte at 
(612)450-6833 

A TRAVELING CATHOLIC RETREAT MINISTRY TO USE 
-----·--------------------------------------------------------------~­
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• HocKEY 



Domers show signs of improvement over weekend 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
In a critical weekend for the Notre Dame hockey team that featured two away games in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association, the Irish managed a split-an impressive 5-3 win over Bowling Green and a last-second 4-3 loss to Miami of Ohio. 
Against Bowling Green, the Boys of Winter had a tremen­dous first period for the first time this season. Nine minutes into the game, junior center Lyle Andrusiak picked off a pass at mid-ice and came in on Bowling Green goaltender Bob Petrie on a breakaway. Andrusiak put a shot between his legs to open the scoring for the Irish. Just 35 seconds after Andrusiak's heroics, sopho­more right winger Brian Urick netted a power-play goal when he sent in a spin shot from the left circle. This gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. 
Prior to the two first-period goals in. this game, Notre Dame had scored just two other first­period goals in the nine games so far this season. 
"We had not played well in the first period this season until tonight," mused Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin. "We focused on playing well from the start of the game and were coming off a great week of practice." 
Junior captain Steve Noble 
agreed. 
"We were definitely happier with the effort in the first pe­riod. Everyone played better and was more focused." 
Seven minutes into the sec­ond period, senior right wing Tim Harberts took a pass from freshman Tyson Fraser and beat the goaltender with a shot to the glove hand side, and the Irish found themselves with comfortable, 3-0 lead. The team then traded goals with Bowling Green, including Urick's second of the night, and took a 4-1 lead into the second intermission. 

The hosts, however, mounted a rally in the third, bombarding sophomore goaltender Forrest Karr with 17 shots. They cut the lead to 4-2 at the tO­minute mark of the third and had a 5 on 3 power play for 38 seconds. They could not capi­talize though, and Notre Dame held on for the win. 
"We haven't been in the posi­tion of holding a lead all that often," remarked Poulin, "and I was happy to see the poise that we showed in that situation. This team is growing in confi­dence and making strides de­veloping a mentality of win­ning." 
Noble also noticed improve­ments. 
"We made some progress on special teams tonight," said Noble, "and we were happy with that, but we're going to keep getting better." 
On Saturday night against 
Miami of Ohio, the Irish 
dropped a heartbreaker. Notre 
Dame slipped back into its 
power-play troubles, convert­
ing just one of seven chances. 
"We still need to work on 
special teams," said Noble. 
Notre Dame jumped ahead 
on their only power-play goal 
of the evening, when Dusbabek scored his team-leading sixth goal of the season, putting back a shot rebound from the left circle after Miami goalie Adam Lord had saved a shot by Urick in the slot. Miami tied the game five minutes later in a 5 on 3 situation and took the lead late in the first period when a Big Red shot eluded junior goaltender Matt Eisler's block­er. 
Senior Terry Lorenz knotted the contest early in the second period, when he took a center­ing pass from Harberts and beat the Big Red goaltender with a slap shot. One minute later, Notre Dame had a two­man advantage for 1:48 but could only muster one shot. Notre Dame and the Big Red traded goals, with Urick scor­ing for the Irish. With 40 sec­onds remaining in the game, however, Dustin Whitecotton's wrap-around goal lifted Miami to the victory. 
"It was a tough loss," said Harberts after the game. 
"Heartbreaking," said Noble, "but we've got to get ready for Tuesday's game." 
Tonight, Notre Dame takes on No. 4 ranked Lake Superior State University in a pivotal CCHA game at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Notre Dame is currently ranked No. 5 in the CCHA and the game provides an opportunity for the Irish to gain some ground in the stand­ings. 
"This is a big game for "us," 
said Harberts. "We're close in 
the standings, and those games 
are always important." 

We have started to tal\:e applications for next year. 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool 



a 

r 
page 14 The Obse~r • SPORTS Tuesday, November 26, 1996 
"We are good enough," said Berticelli, "to get to the Final • MEN's INTERHAll fOOTBALL
Cinderella 
Four." 
continued from page 16 
suffered a knee injury. 
"The doctors have told us that Konstantin's knee is fine and will not require surgery," said Berticelli. "There's a good chance that he will be ready for Charlotte." 
Also, starting sweeper Matt McNew, who missed the Greensboro game due to a se­vere case of the flu, will be back in the lineup on Sunday, according to Berticelli. 
Having both starters will obviously be beneficial to Notre Dame, who is hoping to con­tinue their improbable run at the title. 
"We have a shot at being the 'Cinderella' of this tourna­ment," said Berticelli. 
Don't get the ever-confident coach wrong though. He fully intends to keep winning. 
The Irish will have to beat a team, in Charlotte, that was ranked No. 2 in the country earlier in the season and re­mains one of strongest teams around if they do intend to ad­vance that far in the bracket. 
"To be successful," noted Berticelli, "you have to over­come adversity. I have a tremendous amount of confi­dence in these kids believing that they can win." 
The seventh-year head coach has been able to encourage the players' faith in themselves and keep the season in perspective at the same time. 
"We're not the best team in America," acknowledged Berticelli, "but you can win a national championship without being the best team in the country. You just have to be the best team on the field for ninety minutes in each game." 
1996 NCAA Men's Soccer Championships: The Sweet Sixteen 


*1. Washington 

Fr-esrnrsmttt 

,J*Cal State Fullerton · Creighton 
George Mason *St. John's 
Bowling Green 
*ln~na 
Rutgers*2. Florida 
Richman Va Dec. 15 .._\ 




'Cocks final victims for Crime 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON Sports Writer 
All the ghosts of the "old" Notre Dame Stadium have fi­nally been laid to rest as the Off-Campus Crime defeated the Flanner Gamecocks by a score of 6-0 in overtime. 
The championship was a heated defensive contest from start to finish, as neither team could produce any sizable of­fensive effort in regulation time. 
Off-Campus was the first team with a scoring opportuni­ty in the game. However, a strong Flanner defense denied the Crime from opening the game up early on. Flanner could not cash in on the excel­lent field position handed to them after an Off-Campus punt, as the always impenetrable Off­Campus defensive line forced a fumble in Flanner territory. 
After a scoreless first half, each team had one great opportunity to score. Off­Campus picked off a Mike Daigler pass and drove deep into Flanner territory. 
However, the goal line defen­sive setup by Flanner prevent­ed the Crime from scoring the touchdown. The opportunity to put points on the board was wasted when Off-Campus missed a field goal. 
It was then Flanner's opportunity to score a touch­down late in the game. Planner's offense, with a little help from some un­sportsmanlike conduct penal­ties by Off-Campus, came alive. After several attempts to get the passing game going, Daigler connected, on a long bomb, with Bill Clancy to put the ball in Off-Campus territo­ry. Along with several impres­sive rushes by running back Drew Klosterman, it seemed as if Flanner could score the game-winning touchdown in regulation. 
However, one thing stood in the way. The Off-Campus defense, which had been strong throughout the game, but seemed to be weakening during the Flanner drive, found their second wind and effectively shut down any chance Flanner 
··" 

_,..I ,.,.. 
had to punch the ball into the end zone. The end of regula­tion came and with it, a score­less tie. 
On the first play from scrim­mage during the overtime, the Crime ran for a touchdown to score the first points of the game. With the missed extra point, the score stood 6-0 with Planner's possession remain­ing. 
Daigler would attempt four times to put the ball into the end zone, and four times fell short, with two passes literally falling through the hands of the Flanner receiving corps. This was all due to the tremendous effort put out by the Off­Campus defensive backfield. The final tally was 6-0. 
For Off-Campus, this was the crowning moment in a domi­nating season that saw them go 4-0 in the regular season and dominate the playoffs. For Flanner, it was an impressive final season that saw them go 3-1 and return to the finals for the second year in a row. It was a certainly a fitting end to a grand "old" stadium. 

Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Today, Tuesday, November 26 For time and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 

All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Notre Dame 
---VS.--­
Lake Superior 
7:00p.m. 
~oyce Center Ice Arena 

,Notre Da~t~e Hocke•~ 
.. ~· . . . ~ -· ···-......... " . . ,,_,,, _,.......... _,........ ,,_,,, ............. ":: 
-
Tuesday, November 26, 1996 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

THAT'S AN INDICATION THAT YOU HAVE POOR ! INTERPE.RSONAL SKILLS. f I'M SENDING YOU TO ~ 
~ CLA55 TO IMPROVE ~ 
THEM. 
ACROSS 29 Snoopy, for one 53 Large marsh 
33 Assail, as the near Virginia (cake with a ramparts Beach punch) 35 Taxi's ticker 
1 -aurhum 
sa Prepare to fire 59 Blood of the 5 Mrs. Copperiield 37 Like steak 
gods

tartare 60 Israeli dance9Action-film 
•highlight 3811 may be bloodless 61 Lhasa­
14 Friend in battle 39 Restrict 62 Perch
15 Dutch export 40Referto 
63 Moran of 16 Actress Berry-~ "Happy Days" 41 Neighbor of 17Ciaim on Hung. 64 Calendar unit property 65 Speed units at 42 Three­18 Variable star 

sea 19Tono-figure 66 Riveriront (useless) Stadium players 
dimensional 

43 Mayberry gas20 Halibut's home station attendant 67 Fish-eating 21 "Sultans of 44Compact •eagle Swing" Top 40 
46 Intense fear 

group 48 Waikiki Beach DOWN23 Turkey's capital 
bash 25 Billboard t MGdel airplane
50 Former Gretzky 
wood

z&Semi team 2 Mork, e.g. 3 Charles Dickens novel
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4 Author Rand 5 Disbelief &Scent 7 Five-star review 8 Accumulate 9 Steed 
to Chief port oflhe West Indies tt Jai-­
~=t7t:::r.;-1 t 2 Buttonhole, essentially -;-t;;+.;:-r.:-w...... t3 Lampreys ~r-t3c=+:::+:-l'!'!'r-t~*--+::-t":":~T:':'I 21 Tap rhythmically f--+-"+o+,,-i 22 Home of the 61-Across __._._~~ 24 Seniors' PAC 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Aim for long-term financial security. Developing a piece of property or building a home is best left to the experts. Polish your public relations skills and update your image. Taking a partner for granted would be a mistake. Be open to new ideas early in 1997. Vacation travel is best post­poned until late next summer. A trip to the seashore or mountains sounds great! Learn from a relative's mis­takes. Romance will become more fulfilling if you adopt a healthier lifestyle. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Tina Turner, football player Art Shell, tennis player Wendy Turnbull, "Peanuts" cartoonist Charles Schulz. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Something you hear on television or read in the newspaper inspires you to take a chance. Romance may have to wait while you focus on pla­tonic relationships. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try not to let a family problem intrude during work hours. Patience and self-discipline help you win a battle. A sibling or child shows new affection. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Resist the temptation to set a speed record at work. Accuracy is the name of the game' Double-check information that seems odd. Higher­ups are impressed by your zeal and productivity. Give worries the boot' 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):

SCOTT ADAMS 
Feedback from family or friends helps you launch a project. One-on­one encounters build emotional

IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'VE 
bridges. Romance intensifies. Are you ready for a real commitment? 

GAINED WEIGHT. WOULD 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The news from those at a distance is great. Follow up a tip immediately. 

tT HELP IF I 5TARTEO 
JOGGING? 
With or without a partner, you can
THI5 I5
I 

E.'l<ACTLY WHAT 

score big in business. Bargain-hunt­ing will pay off. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be prepared to give in on minor issues. Your cooperative attitude impresses influential people and pleases your partners. Cupid's arrow is aimed right at you. · 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone influential is impressed by your long-range plans. A new alliance is possible. Double-check credit transactions. Your intuition serves you well in domestic situa­tions. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Pool efforts with a co-worker for mutual advantage. Financial negoti­ations go your way. Creative ideas will bring new gains. Be certain you get the credit you deserve. ­
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Launching a new project gives you a chance to show your exper­tise. Get several bids if planning a renovation. Talks behind closed doors set the stage for a lucrative deaL 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Networking helps advance your goals. Align yourself with profes­sional groups. Vital information is supplied by someone at a distance. A loving attitude will end a stale­mate on the domestic front. Nurture a parent -child relationship. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Alliances formed today will bring good luck in the near future. A part­ner's input changes the tide at work. Investments need careful handling: consult an accountant or broker. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Up-to-date information gives you a whole new outlook on long-term assignments. Old friends are willing to back you up. Have faith in your­self and others will, too. Showcase your special talents. 
· 


WHE.NEVE.f\ WE DISAGREE, I ALWAYS END UP YELLING. 
CROSSWORD 
27 Olympic runner Zatopek 28 Send in payment 30 Scythe carrier 31 Past due 32 Vfater pitcher 
•~ 
:! 
·;; 
:::> 
:g
., 
43 Clutch 45 Nearly 47 Caesar's 
subjects 49Wedding attendant 5t Gotten up 


I'M TALKING 
ABOUT. 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers
53 Actor 
Bogarde 54 Computer 
screen image 55 "Beat it!" 56 Had on 


and editors. 
57 Parched 

33 Sing like Ella 52 Cure, in a way &t Reverence 34 Sightseeing trip 36 Bay ot Fundy 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

Join The
feature are available by touch-tone phone: 39 True 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 40 Groovy, updated Annual subscriptions are available for the 42 English royal best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
family 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Observer staff. 


-
631-6100 





SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 26, 1996 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

'Cinderella' Irish to face UNC-Charlotte Sunday 
before the team went out and knocked of No. 2Berticelli hopes squad Greensboro in their first round game. "There are 32 teams left in the country and 31 of them can maintain confidence, will end their season with a loss. So don't worry. You're either eventually going to lose, oradvance to 'Elite Eight' you'H be national champions." 
This obviously allowed the team to play aBy BRIAN REINTHALER relaxed style of soccer. Now there are 16 teams Sports Writer left and Notre Dame is one of them. The Irish will travel back to North Carolina this weekend 
When asked what he would say if someone to face UNC-Charlotte, who got by the College of told men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli, before Charleston, S.C., 3-1. The game will be at 2 the season. that his team would win four post­p.m. on Sunday. season games in a row, including three away "They (Charlotte) are a team that does not wins against ranked opponents, after losing make a lot of mistakes," acknowledgedfour of their final five contests in the regular Berticelli. "They have national team goalie who season, he responded, "I would tell them they is very, very good and (as a group) they don't were wrong. I wouldn't think that we would really have a weakness. They are much like us 
lose four of our last five in the regular season." in that their goal scoring is dispersed among 12 
That is the kind of confidence that the Irish or 13 guys." are playing with at this point in time and the Berticelli is clearly aware that the squad can­reason for it is the positive attitude displayed by not afford a let-down on Sunday.their coach from the outset. This confidence did "We are going to approach this game the not just happen at the beginning of the season same way we have approached each game upthough. It came through a combination of until now," explained the coach. "We would be 
Berticelli's experience and impressive team foolish to look past the next game. We are wins that made the team believe that they were going to have to play a near flawless gameamong the elite in the country. every time out." 
"Before the season, we were obviously hoping Berticelli also stressed the fundamentals that for big things," said sophomore Matt Johnson. the team must remain focused on if they hope to "But I didn't think we would do as well as we extend their season yet again. have." "Defensive organization is critical," comment­
An example of the team's progress throughout ed Berticelli. "We have to concentrate on not the season was Johnson's attitude before the breaking down in covering for one another. We match up with the 21-1 Spartans of Greensboro. have to remain organized." "We knew we could beat them," explained The team will also have to prepare for the .Johnson. "We knew that if we shut down two possibility that senior midfielder Konstantin or three key players of theirs, we would win." Koloskov, who has scored a number of clutch 
Berticelli was also able to make sure that the goals in the post-season, will not be able to goplayers avoided excess nervousness going into on Sunday. Koloskov was involved in a collision the NCM tournament. with a Greensboro player in the first round and 
"Don't go out there and worry about losing this game," said Berticelli in the locker room see CINDERELLA I page 14 
• VOLLEYBALL 


Treadwell 'sets' good example 
Wins help Irish  we came through it real well. So, I was real pleased with  "I wouldn't say that I played exceptional," said Treadwell.  
gain needed momentum By JOE CAVATO  everything we did this week­end." Sophomore middle blocker and tournament MVP, Lindsay Treadwell shared Brown's sen­timents.  "As a team we played better. A middle hitter won't be success­ful unless her passers arc suc­cessful and our setters and passers did a great job this weekend. Carey May did an  
Sports Writer  "We have been looking to im­ awesome job mixing up the of­ 
Heading into the Big East tournament this past weekend the Notre Dame volleyball team was hoping to establish some momentum before the second season begins. That is exactly what head coach Debbie Brown got as the Irish (21-9) clinched their sec­ond straight Big East Tournament and earned an au­ prove a lot lately since we're going into the playoffs. We did play a lot more steady and we had one of our best hitting matches. As a team we played more aggressive and more to­gether." Setter Carey May led the at­tack, as she engineered .369 and .323 hitting percentages in a 3-0 win over Syracuse and a 3-1 win over the host  fense." Treadwell was not the only Domer who was honored this weekend, as three others picked up Big East awards. Junior hitter Jaimie Lee brought home the Player of the Year honors while captain Jenny Birkner was named to the all-Big East team and Mary Leffers was placed on the all­rookie team.  
The Observer/Rob Finch The Notre Dame volleyball team has some time to celebrate their Big East Tournament Championship before heading to California.  tomatic bid for the NCAA tour­nament with wins over Syracuse (15-9, 15-6, 15-2) and Pittsburgh (15-6, 15-6, 13-15, 15-10). "They were the best back-to­hack matches we played the entire season," commented the elated Brown. "Offensively we came a long way and it was real good to see a hot Pittsburgh team put a decent amount of pressure on us. We really had to respond to it and  Pittsburgh Panthers. The semi­final match saw Notre Dame's best hitting percentage since the first game of the year (.384 against Central Florida). In Treadwell's MVP perfor­mance, she racked up 26 kills and just one error an incredible .610 hitting percentage. She also showed her back-row ath­leticism with 22 digs on the weekend. The middle blocker gives credit for much of her success to her teammates.  Lee has probably been thP most important part of the squad as she was forced to play setter for over half the season when Carey May was on the shelf with a dislocated shoul­der. "I think she is very des!~rving of it," commented Brown. "Siw has obviously played a huge role for us this year, changing positions and coming back as a see CHAMPS I page I I  




-vs. USC, 
(§) 
Banker's Classic a) •Hockey team splits weekend contests 
~ November 30, 5 p.m. PST
SPORTS 

vs. Washington State 
~. vs. Maryland, 

Basketball at Hope, ~ see page 13
......
ATA 
.-December I, 1 p.m. 

Today
S¢ •Off-Campus claims lnterhall title
~.' 
~ 
at UNC-Charlotte, 

Swimming at Olivet 
(., 
see page 14
-
December 1, 2 p.m. 

~ December 6 
~ 






