
! 
Wednesday, October 30, 19_96 • VoL XXX No. 42 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


The HPC debated and passed a resolution presented to the council by the College Democrats concerning student treatment by the Office of Student Affairs. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCil 
HPC passes resolution 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR News Writer 
After the second closed door discussion in two consecutive meetings, the Hall Presidents' Council voted last night to pass the resolution introduced by the College Democrats last week by a simple majority vote. Thirteen members voted in favor of the resolution, 10 voted against and two abstained. 
Conducted using secret ballots, the vote was the culmination of a week of discus­sion among students and between the hall presidents and dorm residents. The issue had been tabled at the end of the last HPC meeting so that the members could discuss the issue and become more familiar with the details of the incident. 
According to Mike Tobin, co-president of HPC, the main concern of the HPC 
members in their discussion of the reso­lution was the regulation of free speech as it relates to all students. "Everyone pretty much agreed that the University should not be allowed to regulate the free speech of students." 
Because the resolution contained two clauses, one addressing the actual denial of the CQllege Democrats' registration to demonstrate and the second specifically aimed at the treatment of gay, lesbian and bisexual students' rights, some of the HPC members were unsure what a vote for the resolution would signify. Some members felt very strongly that gay and lesbian students should be specifically identified in the resolution while others felt that it should be broadened to include a call for the protection of all students' 
see H PC/ page 4 

Studies different at Maynooth 
Representative Tim Roemer addressed students at

Editor's note: This is the 
SMC's Carroll Auditorium last night. 

second in a four-part series focusing on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students study­Mary's Ireland program at St. 
Roemer attacks

ing in Ireland. Funding for Patrick's College in Maynooth Caroline Blum's trip to differs from most abroad pro­Ireland was provided by the grams at Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's Board of and Notre Dame because·stu­
negative ads 

Governance. dents take classes conducted 
By NAKASHA AHMAD

by Irish faculty members with News Writer
By CAROLINE BLUM 
other Irish students. They ByPATTI cARSON. Saint Mary's Editor live with Irish students in on­
Managing F-dirol' · · · ·,, '·''''·"·'· ''·'·' 
Last night Third District Congressional candi­campus flats, and participate 

.'.· .·.·· .•....·....··,•..·.·· ..... ,,. ......... GALWA .......,..·...·. 
date Tim Roemer visited Saint Mary's CarrollMAYNOOTH, Ireland in activities and sports with Auditorium to discuss voting and politics withIs the curriculum of acade­them as well. 

One could sa.y,thallre}and h9iues to 
interested students. The Student Academic

mics easier in abroad pro­In this way, students in the 
America every day. Especially within the.· 
Council also sponsored a question and answergrams than on the campuses Irish program find their cur­

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities 
session designed to inform more students

of Saint Mary's and Notre riculum varies greatly from 
where so many st'fidents hail from IriSh ori­
about the importance of voting and the politicalDame? the one at home. Classes are 

·. gins, it is no novelty to witness an.integra­
process.

Although a student debate held in one of two styles, a 
tion·oflrish cWtureinAmerica. · · 
Roemer began the evening by citing his close

has been surrounding this lecture or a tutorial. 
One specific iteJD. ofnote is the<Irish rJSher-. , 
ties to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­question for years, both argu­Lectures include up to 400 

mart's sweater• Companies like J~ .Crew and 
munities and to Catholicism. Not only are the col­ments concur in one respect: students and take place up to academics in abroad studies three times a week. Tutorials programs definitely differ are held only once a week or 

see ROEMER/ page 4 from those in South Bend. · every other week and are Which style is easier, howev­small group discussions 
Kovach named

er, depends on the individual taught by a teacher's assis­student. tant. The academic schedule for "At first I thought that my students studying in the Saint 
SMC archivist 

see STUDY I page 5 By ANN KEARNS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Claddagh ring considered mark ofIrish heritage 
Saint Mary's welcomes a new addition to its By TIM SHERMAN and was known as The Claddagh. It 
full-time staff. John Kovach, a campus jack-of­Spons Editor ~ 6Jhe Cfaddagh ~"fl openly embraced and incorporated all-trades, serves as the Saint Mary's archivist, the design that the legendary head softball coach, and is also working with GALWAY, Ireland Galway. Richard Joyce invented. Patti Valentine, director of Publicity and 
If a ruddy face, a surname begin­The rings are now as widespread According to local lore, Joyce Community Relations, on a campaign to gener­ning with "0'," "Me" or "Fitz," and a in Ireland as is Guiness beer -that is, learned his trade as a goldsmith in ate publicity for Saint Mary's athletics. quick wit are not enough evidence to they are everywhere. Algeria after he was taken into cap­Kovach began his career at Saint Mary's as indicate a person's heritage, look to "I don't have mine on today tivity and sold as a slave to a Moorish the assistant basketball coach. When the the hand. because I was working, but normally goldsmith. After he gained his archivist position became available, John was 
If you see a finger wrapped by a I do," said University College Cork release at the demand of William of selected for the position, and made his role on Claddagh ring, you've found one student Allison King when asked England, a skilled Joyce returned to campus permanertt. more sign that you are more than about her bare fingers. "Nearly his native Galway. Kovach replaced Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy likely encountering someone of Irish everybody here has one. Actually His peers became fascinated with who retired on May 31. He was previously the descent. many probably know about their ori­his design that featured two hands executive director of the National New York 
Like the famous Aran fishermen gin -just not the details." holding a heart with a crown on top. Central Railroad Museum located in Elkhart, sweaters, the roots of the pervasively Here they are. The hands are said to signify friend-Ind. popular Claddagh rings can be The small community where it all He received his Bachelor of General Studies traced to a fishing community near began was situated near Galway Bat 
see RING/ page 4 see KOVACH/ page 5 


Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Baseball's return to glory 
Baseball has begun its~~~~~~~ 

Renaissance. 

Yes, major league base­ball marred its reputation two years ago when the millionaire players and bil­lionaire owners took their game and went home, leaving the season without a World Series. The reverberations of ending the 89-year streak of determining a world 
champion included a fan revolution of sorts, where attendance levels dropped. 
However, last week's 1996 World Series is the perfect indication that the ~me is on the road to redemption. When the New York Yankees-the most successful franchise in the history of professional sports-captured its 23rd title, the victory only confirmed that, in baseball stadiums across the nation, paradise had been regained. 
The games last week would have rekindled the love of the game in even the most disgrun­tled fan. Take Game 4 last Wednesday in Atlanta's Fulton County Stadium, for example. Losing 6-0 and on the verge of being down three games to one in the· best-of-seven series, the Yankees rallied for three runs in the sixth inning and three more in the eighth. The come­back was capped by a three-run homer from Jim Leyritz into the left-field corner seats, directly below where my friend Dan and I were sitting. ­
As a lifelong Yankee fan, my pilgrimage to Atlanta was made to see the Yankees end an 18-year stretch without a World Series title. Dan, saying it was against natural law to root against a team while watching a World Series game in its home park, adopted the role of the evil Braves fan. As I held my head in my hands in sorrow during the game's early innings, Dan joined the other confident Braves faithful 
in performing the tomahawk chop whenever a 
new Braves batter was announced. But after 
the Yankees rallied in the tenth inning to win 
the game and even the series, my friend redis­
covered the light. 
"I felt like Mickey Mantle was in heaven shaking his head," Dan lamented as we walked back to our car. "I think 75 years worth of Yankee tradition is mad at me." 
There are a number of points illustrating the trend that as the Yankees go, so goes baseball. During baseball's Golden Age, from the 1920s to the early 1960s, the Pinstripes appeared in 30 World Series, winning 20. When the Yankees endured a drought of championships during the 1980s and early 1990s, baseball became a wayward child, indulging itself in two strikes, a lockout, the cancellation of the traditional Game of the Week on national tele'" vision, and a rash of free agency that destroyed any notion of player loyalty to a team. 
But all signs indicate that, as the Yanks cele­brate their return to greatness, baseball is beginning a rebirth of its own. The game is one oftradition, and no other team exemplifies that virtue more than the Yankees. The team is ready to further its revered reputation. Take notice that the supposed dynasty of the mid­1990s -the Cleveland lndi ans -had a chance to dethrone the Braves last year, but failed where the Yankees succeeded this year. 
Is it mere coincidence that owners and play­ers moved even closer to a labor agreement last week, just as the Yankees were winning the title? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Jillian Paglioccia Matthew Loughran Sports Kathleen Lopez Lab Tech Brett Hogan  Production John Hutchinson Jackie Moser Accent Ashleigh Thompson Graphics Jon King  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associat,d Press. All reproducrion rights are rocrved. 
Brad Prendergast News Editor 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Students try to storm Parliament in second-day of protests 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan 
More than 2,000 religious students demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto attempted to storm the Parliam·ent building Monday before being fought off by 
police and soldiers. h 
AFGHANISTAN .../ Riot police fired tear gas at t e ..f crowd and beat back protesters with . / ~~•• sticks and clubs, preventing them ~\.....__,.. .....__..,.-_./ Students ~rom entering the white marble build-:,. '~,., PAKISTAN attempt to storm mg. ! , c..P.,..ar""'lia....m....e...nt......""""' The students, supporters of the :IRA_tL....., '· 
rig~t-wi.ng Party of Isl~m, pelted! ( ~-.Kar.~.~~>:; 300miles pohce w1th rocks and bncks. Some ; fiiblan se;r.,,... will not resign and accused the group waved the Koran, the Muslim holy ~~;;,:sJ:&"."'""'""·*"""~~\....3.-----. 300 km " of trying to stage a violent showdown. 
d "G d · G t " APNVm. J. Castello
book, and shoute o IS rea . • She ordered stringent security controls 
·Before the action, the students knelt in prayer a few in Islamabad. yards in front of the building. Police waited for them to Thousands of police and soldiers were deployed in finish before firing repeated salvos of tear gas. the capital and in neighboring Rawalpindi. Police 
"We prayed in front of the Parliament and that is patrolled the streets in jeeps mounted with machine what we wanted to do," Party of Islam spokesman guns and armored personnel carriers. Musafar Shamsi said. . Rolls of barbed wire blocked several main roads in 
Police arrested party chief Qasi Hussein Ahmed and the capital and machine guns were positioned on other party leaders. grassy hillocks across from the Parliament building. 
The protest marked the second day of clashes Security personnel at foreign embassies, which are between police and religious demonstrators. Police located in Islamabad, warned their nationals to stay fired tear gas on thousands who tried to rush past bar-indoors. 
Harding revives woman, reputation Entrance exam cheating exposed 
PORTLAND, Ore. NEW YORK 
Tonya Harding couldn't have invent­
When an undercover investigator told George ed a better story to help change her Kobayashi he needed a high score on a business school image. Now the deposed figure skat­entrance exam, he was assured it was no problem. The ing champion is a lifesaver. Harding trick? Pay $6,000 for a three-hour course offering says she believes God was behind her "unique" study methods, take the test in Los Angeles last-second decision Sunday to stop at and use Kobayashi's special pencils, the investigator a suburban bar for a few minutes to said he was told. Kobayashi actually had a unique play video poker. Shortly after she scheme to cheat on several graduate school entrance arrived, an 81-year-old woman col­exams in Los Angeles, having answers phoned in from lapsed and stopped breathing. Harding called 911 with New York by experts who took the same test three hours her cellular phone and revived Alice Olson by giving her earlier because of the time difference, prosecutors said mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. "It was very, very scary," Monday. Kobayashi would print the answers "in code" Harding said. "I kept my calm and cool and knew what I on pencils and give them to students who had flown was doing. I had to do this. I thank God that I was there. from .New York to Los Angeles, said Mary Jo White, the Nobody else in the bar knew what to do.... This lady U.S. attorney in Manhattan. She would not elaborate on was literally dead for probably two minutes." Kim lp, how the pencils were marked. "The victims here are not owner of the Lost and Found Saloon where the incident only the universities that accepted students who cheated occurred, confirmed Harding's version of events. "The on their admissions tests, but the honest students who lady came to in a couple of minutes," Ip said. ''I'm perhaps did not get into the school of their choice grateful that Tonya was here." Harding comforted the because they were dlspl"<lced by someone who cheated," woman until paramedics arrived, Ip said. White ·sajd:· · · · ' · · · 
FCC concerned about liquor ad ban New York fashion shows under way 
BOSTON NEW YORK 
The head of the Federal Communications Commission It's show time, and the curtain has risen on the spring 
urged a group of pediatricians to fight to keep hard­'97 fashion previews. This week, 54 designers unveil 
liquor ads off television, saying that children needed to their collections at four venues within blocks of the New 
be protected from the advertising. FCC Chairman Reid York Public Library in midtown Manhattan -the main 
Hundt's comments came as the distiller Seagram Co. Fashion Week site for the past six seasons. About 40 
Ltd. of Montreal has begun putting whiskey ads on local other openings are scattered throughout the city at 
TV stations, breaking a 48-year-old voluntary ban by showrooms, theaters, art galleries and dance clubs. An 
distillers on broadcast advertising of liquor. "If they international crowd of about 2,000 retailers, editors, 
won't play by the unwritten rule, do we need a written photographers and social-page clotheshorses are here 
rule? That is the question," Hundt told The Associated for the semi-annual scramble, which wraps up Friday. 
Press on Monday. A spokeswoman for Seagram The opener Sunday evening was a new line from Donna 
Americas said the company plans to continue running Karan, the first major New York player of the week. The 
television and radio ads for Royal Crown and Chivas upcoming label, "D" is about 25 percent more expensive 
Regal scotch. "As long as we market our products in a than DKNY and hits the stores in February. A contingent 
responsible, tasteful and appropriate fashion, we are of European design houses, including Versace, Prada, 
completely within our rights," said Bevin Gove. "This is Ferre, Moschino and Dolce & Gabbana is sharing the 
not about irresponsibility. We are extremely responsible. billing with the Americans, by presenting their lower­
We always have been." Seagram is believed to be the priced, secondary lines. Monday starred Carolina 
only company to violate the ban. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather•forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 
I 
1... 
Saturd~)' ·~ 
j 

Sund,ay ~J' 
/ (;>. ~ , ....., •.-A--. ~...., 'IJ. .......,../ 
'!" /'''''. 
~ ~ 

Baton Rouge81  59  Honolulu  90  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Fl.:rrles  S~  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  51  32  Indianapolis  58  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel  Columbus  64  41  Los Angeles 66  

4,~,~9.~~ (f 
Herrera and Bob Mackie, an apt double-feature. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
ricades protecting the capital on Sunday, forcing the crowd to the city's outskirts. 
Protest organizers called off a third day of demonstrations that had been planned for Wednesday. 
The Party of Islam accuses Ms. Bhutto's government of rampant cor­ruption and mismanagem~nt. During Sunday's protest outside the capital, Qasi Hussein Ahmed vowed to lead an Islamic revolution to oust Ms. Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party. 
Ms. Bhutto has maintained that she 
.. 
~ ........................ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
HL Eat;SJ[!] 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS 
..............._ 
Atlanta 82 54 Dallas Bahimore 70 47 Den11er 
C 1996 AccuWeather, tnc. 
0~8~~~ 
FLURRIES SNCNI ICE SUNNY PT CLouar CLOUCN 
78 52 
53  Miami  86  75  
27  New Vorl<  60  52  
76  Phoenix  70  51  
40  Pittsburgh  66  42  
54  St. Louis  65  45  





SMC names new computer director Blackout 
By MAUREEN HURLEY strategic plan for information of experience in building campus labs be a strong Associate News Editor technology was approved by Information Technology resource on campus. 
hits half 
the Board of Trustees over the resources to the department. "I am prepared to work hard 
The Computer Services department at Saint Mary's College found itself with a new name and a new director at 
the beginning of the second half of the semester. 
Joel Cooper was named the Director 0 f Information 


Technology Cooper for Saint Mary's. Cooper, who held the posi­tion of Assistant Director of Network and Computer Operations in the Office of Information Technologies at Notre Dame, assumed the helm Monday. Cooper will lead the depart­ment through a critical time for the College, as a three-year 
summer. 
The plan provides for a cam­pus-wide network computer system, connecting all build­ings of the College, including residence halls. 
Fo II owing the Board's approval, action on the tech­nology overhaul came to a standstill following last semes­ter's departure of director John Cook, as the College did not want to begin making changes without the new director's input. 
Now, with Cooper in place, implementing the plan will be the top priority of the depart­ment over the next three years. "Right now, we're developing a partnership with the campus to articulate, and then implement a vision of the services that will be available in the network," Cooper said. 
Cooper brings a broad range He worked at the University of Texas-Austin as the campus proved to be a forerunner in the development of the Internet. In addition, in his nine years at Notre Dame, he worked extensively in growth and development of the University's network system. 
Describing the plan as "a visionary document," Cooper said, "I think my role will be to further articulate that plan, bring it forward, and work to make it a reality." 
"Saint Mary's is primed to make a quantum leap in infor­mation technology," said Cooper. "The goals are right on the money." 
Using the term "collaborato­ry," Cooper expressed how integral collaboration between the Department of Information Technology and the faculty and students was to ensure that the 
WHIRl 
TID BitT COITVJ.\1 TID 140fT ORIGIN41. COfTUJ41 4ND TID BitT GROUP COITU.t.\1 
AM~OMI!
D06Rt OPIM AT g..,······_..... 
;;~;:;_ ·_:·::-_:j~~~Jr~-::_:··.-:--:. --. 
to make sure the technology on campus meets the standards of the College Mission Statement," Cooper said. "We need to have a synergetic rela­tionship between the faculty and the [Information Technology] department to integrate technology in the classroom. 
"This is a very exciting time. Saint Mary's has made a com­mitment to make a strong leap forward." 
of campus 
Observer Staff Report 
At 7:40 p.m. last night, near­ly half of the Notre Dame cam­pus lost electrical power for twenty-five minutes. The out­age was caused by lightning that struck lines in South Bend. 
"Our system is tied into American Electrical Power," said Paul Kempf, electrical engineer for Utilities. "If one of their lines is hit by lightning, it causes an interruption which in turn causes us to shut down. It then takes us about 15 to 20 minutes to resynchronize everything. [Last night's power loss] was a controlled outage and everything worked the way it was supposed to." 
The blackout affected com­puter labs throughout campus and many dorms. "The cam­pus is not segregated by areas that receive power," said Kempf. "So the outage was scattered and encompassed close to half of campus." 
School of Information 
Step into Our 


Future 
Preparing for the challenges oftomorrow's information careers takes a school with exceptional resources and faculty commiunent. It takes the School oflnformation at the University ofMichigan. Apply now for summer and fall I 997. 
Our Master ofScience in Information and doctoral programs value tradition yet boldly embrace technological advances. 
Faculty expertise spans library studies, information sciences, archival administration, economics, management, organizational development, behavioral science, user interface collaboration technology, human-computer interaction, computer science, and systems engineering. 
Real Jobs, Real Futures 
Our graduates can be found: 
• 
At CNN, America Online, United Technologies, Microsoft, and other leading corporations 

• 
At DreamWorks and other entertainment companies 

• 
At libraries, museums, and archives throughout the world 

• 
As Internet/Web trainers 

• 
On university faculties 



Application Deadlines 
January 15, 1997-The doctoral program (fall term only) Febmary 1, 1997 -MSI (in consideration offinancial aid) Aprill5, 1997-All other MSI applications 
Join Us! (313) 763-2285 SIAdmissions@umich.edu http://www.si.umich.edu/ 
The Un1versity of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action InstitutiOn 

-~---------------~-----~­
page 4 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
rights to free speech. 
The College Democrats plan to take the resolution to the Student Senate, the Faculty Senate and the Graduate Student Union to ask for their support, with an ultimate goal of a proposal to the Campus Life Council. That proposal would not necessarily be sub­mitted by the College Democrats; rather, their expe­rience with the Office of Student Affairs would serve as a springboard for the promo­tion of student rights. 
"We're pointing out flaws in DuLac and right here, here's a flaw," said College Democrat 
J.P. Cooney. "We're telling the administration that we recog­nize these flaws and we want them changed." 
Zahm Hall also introduced a new resolution dealing with the issue of student rights in gener­al, but rather than confuse the discussion by addressing both proposals at last night's meet­ing, the council decided to table Zahm's resolution until next week's meeting. 
"It seems everyone in HPC wanted to continue a discus­sion of student rights," said Co­president Deborah Hellmuth. 
According to Ryan Guillen, a member of the College Democrats, "[The passage of the resolution] opens the doors to a much needed discussion on what exactly are our rights as students at Notre Dame, which are not currently out­lined in DuLac." 
In other HPC News: 

•Details for the Great Pumpkin Contest put on by Keenan Hall were announced. The event is planned for Thursday and will begin at 
4:30 p.m. T:-shirts are avail­able for $3 each and can be purchased through the dorms. 
•Carroll Hall announced its annual Haunted House which is planned for Thursday night. Admission is $3 and the doors open at 7 p.m. The line will be cut off at 10 p.m. so interested parties are encouraged to arrive early to ensure admit­tance. 

INTERNATIONAL 
joB SKnJs 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or lnteramerlcan Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
a environmental studies 0 public health 0 government IJ international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business 
Learn valuable analytic 
skills from economics and 
the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details: Contact our 
Admissions Secretary. 
GRADUATE ScHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL SruDIES 
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 305-284-4173: Fax: 305-284-44<XJ http://www. umiami.edu/gsis/ 


------~--~----------------------­
Wednesday, October 30, 1996

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 
Sweater 
continued from page 1 
Fishermen wore the Aran 
sweater primarily for protection 
from the ocean breezes, but the 
sweater also served another 
purpose, according to Jack 
Maley, Aran Island Day Trip 
tour guide. 
"In the instance that the 

rough ocean claimed a life, the 
fisherman was known by his 
sweater when his body was 
washed ashore," Maley said. 
Made of durable, partially 

oiled "Bainin" wool. the 
sweaters tell ancient stories 
with their unique stitches and 
patterns. Knit diamonds, for 
example, show success, wealth, 
and treasure. The Irish moss 
stitch is representative of the 
sea's moss harvested at low 
tide, while the cable knit is a 
reminder of the fisherman's 
rope. 
The trinity or blackberry 

stitch is supposedly the emblem 
of God-given life and being-a 
way of life and a fruitful one, 
according to Maley. 
The sweater is not just a piece 

of history, but a mode of busi­
ness as well. Just ask Maria 
McAlliney of Traditions Sweater 
Shop on lower Cross Street in ·Galway. 
An abundance of the shops 

that line the streets of Galway 
claim to have "Aran sweaters," 
according to McAlliney, but 
many are machine knit like the 
ones found in U.S. department 
stores. 
"Oh, there's a big difference 

between hand knit and machine 
knit," McAlliney said, as she 
pulled a sweater from the shelf 
in her shop to demonstrate. 
"I sell only · authentic 

sweaters-only hand knit," she 
added, pointing to various oth­
ers. 
She has nearly forty knitters 

supplying her store, none of 

Singers, Singer/Dancers, Musicians & D.J.'s 
Muncie, Indiana Wednesday, November 6, 1996 Ball State University Hargreaves Music Building -Lobby Auditions: 5:30 -7:30 p.m. Bloomington, Indiana Thursday, November 7, 1996 Indiana University Indiana Memorial Union -Solarium Auditions: 2:30 -5:30 p.m. 
POSITIONS ALSOAVAILABLE 
• Technicians • • Assistant Choreographer • • Costumed Characters • 
(Berenstain BearsTM) 
• Costume Shop Personnel • 
CALL (419) 627-2390 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
For additional sites or information contact: 
Cedar Point® Live Entertainment Post Office Box 5006 Sandusky, OH 44871-5006 
(419)627-2390 www.cedarpoint.com 


them full-time. 
"It takes one of the knitters three to four weeks to make a fine Aran sweater," McAlliney said. 
"Some refuse to knit honey­comb, others refuse to knit the double zig-zag," she said. "Sometimes customers want a specific pattern, so I have to call upon a particular knitter." 
Because the sweater shop is the source of the McAlliney's livelihood, she is ready to accommodate a customer's par­ticular wants. 
"I don't have that color in right now, but I'll have a sweater knitted in whatever pattern or color you like and have it shipped to you in four weeks, at no extra charge," she told one customer, who was dis­mayed to find no hand knit cardigans. 
But such catering does not come cheap. The sweaters sold in McAlliney's shop start at 70 Irish pounds, which equals close to $117 in U.S. dollars at cur­rent exchange rates. 
Other shops in villages and cities all throughout Ireland advertise their sweaters in the windows at much cheaper prices, although many of them are machine knit. 
"The salespeople [at the other shops] also can't give you a card signed by the knitter of your sweater," McAlliney added. 
Though the quality of the sweaters in smaller shops like McAlliney's is authentic and the product unique, business isn't steady. 
"Some weeks we sell many sweaters, and I've had weeks when we've sold none," she said. 
Whether authentic or not, the Aran fisherman's sweater can be directly traced to Ireland. The history is on the Aran Islands, and the business of that history can be found at Aran Sweater Shops throughout the countryside. 
Roemer 
continued from page I 
leges a part of his constituen­cy, but he received his mas­ter's and doctorate degrees at Notre Dame; his brothers all graduated from Notre Dame as well. 
Roemer attacked the "mud­slinging" he sees in today's political campaigns. He encouraged voters to "vote against negative campaign­ing," and condemned those politicians who attack their opponents. He also spoke against those politicians who enter Congress only to advance their own careers, and not to listen to the voice of the people. 
Roemer mentioned the importance of listening in his job, as a way of familiarizing himself with constituency members' needs and wants. 
As a member of Congress, Roemer has been a five-year member of the education com­mittee, working to get more Pell Grants for students. Twenty years ago, he says, there was a parity between the amount of Pell Grants and the number of student loans. Today, most of the aid given 
Have sotnething to say? Use The Observer classifieds 

by the federal government consists mainly of student loans. 
Roemer identified one of his successes as being the increase in Pell Grants over the last year. He also men­tioned other programs that he has been proud of, such as Head Start, WIC, and the National Youth Sports Program, which is a summer camp devoted to raising the self-esteem of underprivileged children. 
Roemer defined himself as a moderate Democrat. He is pro­life, and favors downsizing government. According to Roemer, Americans need "smarter government, leaner government, but not meaner government." He would like to see a balance between the Democrats and Republicans in the House after this election year. 
When asked how the ques­tion and answer period helped him, he responded that the session was very valuable, since "I have nine universities in my district, and Notre Dame and St. Mary's are key con­stituencies." He added that he thinks students "can make a huge difference with their ideas and their energy." 
What goes BUMP in the night? 
GOOSEBUMPS! 
Come into the 
Bookstore on 
HALLOWEEN in 
costume and 
enter to win a 
GOOSEBUMP 
DISPLAY! 
Cuddle up with a SPOOKTACULAR MYSTERY! 
Author of FATHER DOWLING MYSTERIES, Ralph Mcinerny will autograph his newest mystery, THE TEARS OF THINGS, Friday, Nov.! from 

Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
seniors graduated last year, he ·encountered difficulties signing up for classes in 
believes that he "has some tal­Maynooth because St. Patrick's does not offer ented individuals that can pick any business classes. 
Kovach Study 
continued from page 1 
from Indiana University at South Bend (IUSB) majoring in Communications and History. He also attended graduate school at IUSB, studying the same fields. This background, in addition to his experience working in the museum, aids in his duties as archivist. 
Kovach's main responsibility as the Saint Mary's archivist is to update the Archive Narrative. This is the summa­ry of day-to-day occurrences on campus from 1931 to the present. 
He also responds to inquiries about former students, previ­ous campus presentations, athletic events, and any other information someone is seek­ing in Saint Mary's past. He has found that people are most interested in genealogy and yearbooks. 
With the job comes a few surprises. In one of Kovach's searches he found a letter that had been written by Franklin Roosevelt while he was serving as Assistant Secretary in the Navy during World War I. Mary McCandless had sent Roosevelt a pair of binoculars, and he wrote her a letter of gratitude, assuring her he would return them to her. Oddly, the letter had been filed in McCandless' financial papers, where Kovach discov­ered it. 
Kovach, considers his time coaching as creating a balance between work and play. "Coaching is an outlet for myself," Kovach commented. 
His thoughts regarding the upcoming softball season are optimistic. Although many up some slack." 
He hopes to complete tryouts by the end of this week. Many of his predecessors have car­ried training and tryouts into the second semester, but Kovach believes it is important to complete the selection process early. By ending the tryouts first semester, Kovach hopes to better create cohe­siveness among the players. 
Kovach is particularly enthu­siastic about his new coaching position, citing his belief that female athletes are much more dedicated than male ath­letes. Women want to learn and are more emotionally involved, according to Kovach. 
Also involved in the business aspect of athletics, Kovach is currently working on a cam­paign to promote Saint Mary's sports. The first effort taken was to have game schedules printed in the South Bend Tribune. 
Kovach is in the process of developing a radio program on 
91.7 FM WETL. The program is a 15 minute spot devoted to Saint Mary's athletics once a week. Coaches and players will be interviewed, game wrap-ups will be given, and future game times will be announced. 
Kovach is excited about his career change. "I really enjoy being in a college setting," Kovach said. "This is ideal. You can't get any better than mixing history and athletics." 
continued from page 1 
classes would be easier [in Ireland] than at Saint Mary's," said sophomore Michelle Sipl. "But then I realized that because we are allowed so much freedom, they're actually more difficult. No one is there to notice when you don't read or come to class. And because the classes are large lectures, it is easy to pay attention or drift off. Then you have a paper or an assignment due and you are in trouble. I miss my small classes at Saint Mary's." 
Students have also found the style of the lee~ tures in Ireland difficult to adapt to. Unlike at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, students are not allowed to interrupt a lecture with a question or a clarification. Instead, they must wait until their tutorial to do so. 
"It's a difficult system to adapt to," sopho­more Mary Liz Tully said. ''I'm taking a calcu­lus class here, and the notation system is totally different than in America. So, in class, half the time I don't understand what the professor is talking about, but I can't interrupt and ask. I definitely find the system at Saint Mary's easi­er." 
Sophomore Moira Lanigan agreed, ''I'm used to having no more than 24 people in a class, and now it's more like 400. It's definitely dif­ferent. You have to have a lot of self disci­pline." 
In contrast with her large lectures, Sipl is able to get one-on-one attention as the only stu­dent in her second-year Spanish class. "I had already taken all of the classes offered to first year students, so I was able to enroll in a spe­cial second-year class. Then the other student dropped it, and I was the only one left. But the extra attention has enabled me to learn a lot. The best part is, the class will count to~ard my Spanish minor." 
Earning credit for classes is also a concern of the students on the program. Business majors Julie Davis and Amanda Pflanz, both juniors, "We're taking all cores and electives while we 
are over here," Davis said. "So we are going to 
have to take all of our tough business classes 
back at Saint Mary's our senior year." 
. Although Notre Dame junior Mike Boland will 
have to stay an extra semester in order to earn 
his degree in education and English, he feels 
that the experience in Ireland will be worth it. 
"This experience is great," he said. "I enjoy my 
literature classes here and I think they have 
helped broaden my mind." 
Also unlike Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, classes in Ireland do not list strict book require­ments. "It's confusing because some professors give you a list of books and you can pick the ones you want to buy," Sipl said. "Other profes­sors want you to buy only supplements of the books, and still others hope you can find the books in the library." 
All students on the program are required to take an Irish culture class, taught by their pro­gram advisor Peggy McCarthy. Class time is often spent preparing for the program's pre­paid weekend trips to cities in Ireland. The stu­dents spent their first trip in Galway, and are traveling to Killarney next. 
McCarthy urges her students to interact with the students at Maynooth outside of classtime as well. Sipl and sophomore Amanda Kensinger joined the fencing team, while Tully made the soccer team. 
Tully also debates for the Literary and Debating Society. Last week, she won second place in a debate. 
Lanigan, Lisa Zacharias, and Carrie Minogue decided to play on the women's rugby team, despite having never played the sport before. "It's something I never would've done at Saint Mary's, " said Zacharias, "I would only run when I was chased. But since I was over here experiencing all new things, I thought I would try another. We have a great time, and we want to start a team at Saint Mary's next year." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 




''RIGHT OF PASSAGE'' 
Many people believe that college drinking is a "Rite" of Passage. However, please keep in mind the following Rights of Passage. 
· You have the right to sleep without havingyour sleep interrupted by someone intoxicated · You have the right to not have to "babysit" dmnkfriends · You have the right to not be insulted by someone intl'xicated · You have the right to neverexperience unwanted sexual advancesfrom an intoxicated 
individual · You have the right to not have yourproperty in your living environment damaged by 
so"zeone who is intoxicated. · You have the right to never be physically assaulted by an intoxicated individual ·You have the right to astudy environmentfree ofinterruptions by intoxicated individuals. · You have the right to never be a victim ofsex!lal assault or "acquaintance rape." 
Defend your Rights! Don't Allow Intoxicated Individuals to Effect Your College Experience. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education Mezzanine Level of LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 30, 1996 



Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients ·are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are 
chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
\. 
\ 
~ 
\ 
! \ 

Recipients receive 
'# 1 
' 
I 
! 
Craig Satterlee, a doctoral student in Liturgy, presented RecSports Fitness Coordinator Jennie Phillips, with an unusual challenge. Satterlee, who is legally blind, in no way fancies himself an athlete. "I cannot see well enough to p!ay golf or hoops," Satterlee said, "and now thaLI am in my late thirties and spending most of my life behind a desk, it is time to get myself in shape, not only for my own health but so that I can fully participate in my daughter's activities. Besides, I want her to know the importance of exercise." Phillips has been working with Satterlee to develop a program of cardiovascular and strength training and to orient him to the strength room in Rockne. "It amazes me how important this part of my life has become," Satterlee says. "No matter what else is going on, I just will not miss my workouts. It is great for stress management and the only person I compete with is myself." He and his family came to Notre Dame from upstate New York, where he was a parish pastor. ''I am so grateful for the support I am receiving," Satterlee said, "I cannot see this happening anywhere else." 

merchandise from the 

VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 

Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
3 on 3 Basketball Tournament Nov. 5 & 6 -Joyce Center Sign-up in Advance at Rec5ports or the Gorch Game Room $6.00 Entry Fee and Space is Limited 
November 7 Deadlines IH Basketball -M & W Club Basketball G/F/5 Basketball 
IH & G/F/5 Hockey . • All Aerobics Classes are Now 1/2 Price! 
For More Information Call 631-6100 
..a.& 
VARSITY SHOP 
.....-P 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 


Look for this award in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <£~ 
..a.& 

merchandise courtesy of <£~ and the ft'located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
..a..&.
W' IS open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. <Phone: 631-8560) 
Wednesday, October 30, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Russia publicizes Nazi papers 
By JOHN lAMS 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 
Russia is sharing 15,000 pages of World War II docu­ments with the Holocaust Museum in Washington, mak­ing public for the first time the details of the systematic Nazi massacres that followed the 1941 invasion of the Soviet Union. 
"These are horrible docu­ments-soaked in blood, in people's suffering and death," scholar Alexander Yakovlev said as the material was turned over to U.S. Ambassador Thomas Pickering in a Kremlin ceremony Monday. 
"They reflect frightening 
facts that cannot be buried in archives. They must be made known." 
Most of the documents have never been seen in the West, said Walter Reich, director of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. The museum will make the materials available to the public. 
The documents -copies of the originals, which will remain in Russia-contain details of Soviet investigations and trials of German defen­dants and their collaborators, mostly from 1946 to 1949. 
They also contain excerpts from Soviet wartime field reports of atrocities behind German lines. 
"They sought out and killed all the Jews they could find, mostly by shooting them, and also killed other civilians they considered enemies in a vast rampage of death," Reich said. 
Ultimately, the Nazis killed 6 million European Jews and millions of others, including Gypsies, Poles, Soviet prison­ers of war, political opponents and homosexuals, he said. 
The documents on court pro­ceedings will shed light on the fate of Soviet prisoners of war at a German concentration camp in Sachsenhausen, he said. 
"They were killed in a kind of macabre shooting gallery, or became subjects of experi­ments to demonstrate the effectiveness of new hand grenades," Reich said. 

China conceals trial details 


By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press Writer 
BEIJING 
Wang Dan, one of China's most prominent dissidents and a leader of the Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protests, goes on trial Wednesday on charges of try­ing to overthrow the govern­ment. 
The government has thrown a blanket of secrecy around the case: The court has refused to provide information, and the government has refused to allow international observers to attend. 
"Every country handles cases according to its own national laws," Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang told reporters Tuesday. 
Wang, 27, was a leader ofthe anti-government protests in Tiananmen Square in 1989, which ended in a bloody mili­tary crackdown. Mter serving 3 1/2 years in prison, he resumed his calls for political change and tolerance. 
He faces at least 10 years in prison for writing essays criti­cal of the government that were published abroad, trying to help other dissidents in financial straits and accepting aid from overseas groups. 
A guilty verdict is virtually certain in political trials in China. 
Legal experts from the United States, Canada, Chile and France asked to attend the trial to gauge its fairness, but per­mission has not been granted. The U.S. Embassy also applied to send an observer, but the government has not replied, the embassy reported. 
China has never allowed for­eigners to observe a dissident's trial. 
That practice, according to the group Human Rights Watch, is a violation of the right to a fair trial specified by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. China has an obligation to uphold the decla­ration as a member of the United Nations. 



Education is not the filling of a pail, but the lighting of a fire. 
-William Butler Yeats 
Center for 

Concerns 
Christopher Capoccia 

Cicely Campo Congratulations and thanks to the over 160 participants in Adrienne Corpuz 
Elisabeth Coury Michele Costello Allison Fashek Marcia MeiRios Denise Kirkowski Patrick Foley Grant Lee Ryan Guillen 
The Appalachia Seminar 
Ina Minjarez Erin Hoffmann Grace Montenegro Sandra Koehler 
Thomas Matzzie Yvette Ramirez Jacob McCall Megan Samson Chiquita McMillian Jill Saunders Kelly Moore Kathleen Motyka The Washington Seminar 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar 
Stephanie Snyder Jennifer Mullins Isaac Duncan Antonio Ortiz Kathleen Schlef Rachel Tomas Morgan Rachael Sederberg 
Mary Jo Adams who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint Colby Springer 
Sean Frey Jeffrey Ward 
Tom Kilroy Mary's College during Fall Break in service and experiential Annernarie Welch 
Ryan Murphy Darryl Wells 
Andrea Ray learning at fourteen sites across the nation. William Whitman 
Lauren Stein Andrea Sullivan Maria Wuebker 
Adam Alessio S. Diane Cook William Faley Paul Hom Brian McDonagh Colin O"Neil Laura Schachtrup Kimyia Varzi Josh Barnett Carlene Costello Kellie Flanagan Anne Hudson Eileen McEnroe Martha O"Rourke Carl Schwab Carolee Velten Belle Bautista Ryan Cox Eric Friedman Kathleen Jackson Mary McGranahan Michael Petrich Meghan Shannon Benjamin Voigt Heather Belanger Shannon Crunk Sean Geary John Kavanaugh Tim McNamara Michelle Phillips Matt Sherman Lauren Voitier Darrin Belousek Scott Cullen Jennifer Gingrass Jason Keller Bridget McNicholas Yvette Piggush Lisa Shoemaker Benjamin Wallisch Katie Bennett Matthew Curreri Jennifer Glodek Thomas Kessler Fr. Jim Miller Ashley Pinter David Smith Tenille Washburn Lori Bettcher Rich Czuchlewski Kathryn Gonzalo Patricia Kim Jeffrey Milligan Megan Pomrink Steven Smyth Matthew Weber Matthew Biergans Jed D'En:ole John Corsica Emily Klatte Elena Millner Matthew Potts Scott Sollmann Stephanie Wilberding Ameya Bijoor Matthew Daily lvonne Grantham Sarah Kolasa Therese Mitros Kristine Puzon Shane Steffens John Wild, Ill Theodore Bills Margarita Dellamano Danielle Gray Jeanne LaFleur Megan Monahan John Quintemo Megan Stifel Latrecia Wilson Julie Burke Ross Driscoll Megan Greene Randall Lannie Colleen Moore Matt Renand David Stocker Margaret Wolf Mary Kay Callahan Aaron Dunn John Gruver Tika Hyun J. Lee Sarah Mullen Deirdre Rigney Leon Stronsky Monica Yeung Sean Cantwell Molly Dunn Courtney Hanle Michele Lichtenberger Jaime Murray Mary Roach Rick Sutlcus Michelle Youssef Kerry Cavanaugh Shannon Dunne Christian Hanson Elizabeth Loftus Frank Nash Priscilla Ryan Callie Teegardin Peter Cesaro Lindsay Dutton Mary Harris Reggie Mactal Dave Neville Frederick Salvo, III Rebecca Thompson Russell Chiappetta Victoria Edwards Meggan Hempelman Sean Mahoney Dawn Novak Alison Sandberg Mark Tritz Robert Collins Heidi Eppich Kathryn Hibey Kristie McCann Karen O'Brien Gena Saracino Mary Van Dam 



OINT 
page 8 Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spores Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information ' 631-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
... ~C?k ~ ~AQJ~ICl\1
ea7~cANI\M~ nu; T~ C+iOI~.. 

ANP~~~rr... CUNTON CAN'T... 
4JN1VN~'T... 


• Goo 'N' liFE 
Spiritual perseverance often rewarded 
For those of us who sometimes seek a spiritual experience, it is helpful to know of places where prayerful peace and quiet can be found. One such place is Bethany Spring in New Haven, Kentucky. This is the story of the coura­geous woman who made a dream reali­ty. 
Julie Ferraro 
Mary Madeline Abdelnour professed her vows as a Sister of Charity of Nazareth in 1949 at age 21. At that point in time, religious life was strictly regulated. There was little chance to move beyond an Order's chosen aposto­
late. But, with Vatican Council II, things changed, and Madeline took advantage of the transformation. 
After spending two years in a her­mitage on the motherhouse grounds in Nazareth, Kentucky, Madeline had the opportunity to visit India for three months in 1975. There, she witnessed her Sisters' "dedication in a country characterized by Hinduism. Their hospi­tality was incomparable, and their com­mitment to a life of prayer and service was highly visible ... " 
These factors, coupled with the experi­ence of encountering persons who had visited the Trappist Abbey of Gethsemani -located near the Sisters of Charity motherhouse-made Madeline aware that many people were "seeking something genuinely spiritual in their lives." She wanted to help them find what they sought. 
An "institutional" setting would not 
provide the necessary flexibility for men and women of all denominations to dis­cover God in their lives, Madeline knew. She dreamed of a "relatively small oper­ation ... with a built-in simplicity -a house by the side of the road where per­sons could stop and drink of the living waters. All denominations would be wel­come ... " A lengthy search for property led her to a large farmhouse just one mile south of Gethsemani. It was board­ed up, ramshackle, and owned by a dis­tillery whose entire holdings were being 
sold. 
·'she had the faith 

and courage to dream, pursued her rlream, and lived to see it fulfilled ... planning such a journey into the spiritual makes it all the richer.' 
Madeline's perseverance paid off. Once the main property changed hands, the new owner divided it up and put the farmhouse and two acres on the market. Before any concrete steps could be taken toward the actual purchase, Madeline needed the permission of her religious superiors. Inspired by the words of Scripture, she wrote a proposal and submitted it to the community's Executive Board. She was asked to do further research into the financing, ren­ovation and practical need for such a ministry. 
Her faith challenged by contractor's quotations and bitter weather those early months of 1977, Madeline sought out friends for encouragement. Friends of one friend, upon hearing of the pro­posed ministry, offered to buy the house for the community. "It seemed such a confirmation that God did want this pro­ject realized," Madeline later wrote. 
On this note, the Executive Board gave final approval to the project. That was not the end, however. It took months to raise enough money to begin the renova­tion of the building, and twelve months to complete the work. In August, 1978, 1'""''\N"itn Bethany Spring was blessed and the "welcome mat" put out. 
Morning and evening prayers are said ~i~~~~l~~~~~~~
together in the simple "prayer room" of li the main house, where a Bible is ')"~~~HH~~:'?"~ enshrined amid flourishing green plants. ""'~~~"'-·"ti!:>~>N'~-<~~~::.iil 
Further opportunities for meditation are g;~~·~r!~~Jar~~i6i~f~~·fiti~' 
offered through a fine collection of books t::.t...~~:.:·,·~·"" ...,...J,(...n. 
shelved in the upstairs hau and. of 1r'2f1t 9~J;.fi~1P~~n~. course, at the Abbey of Gethsemani just ~,~llY.>•UlS!CrJtiDJLna~tor one mile to the north. It is possible to 
take long walks in any direction from ltt:!ress~~a:rtiee Bethany Spring, with plenty of God's F>~t'J~~ruuJl~ created beauty to heighten the experi-tu(JtentS ence. 
Madeline acted as director of Bethany 
Spring until January. 1 9 8 8 . dying t,,,fjqr:tli~:j~)tjg):itt(l s:~~l,t:~·tlo~~~~~,~~~J~Wo-.)l October 28, 1991. She had the faith and l<~~~~~~i~~~~~~~~;;-·,.
courage to dream, pursued her dream ~\i 
and lived to see it fulfilled. 

Currently under the direction of Sr. Danielle Witt, SSND, Bethany Spring is able to accommodate men and women of all denominations, as well as married couples in both the main house and a pair of "cottages". A rustic hermitage called "Well Spring", with full-length windows and a deck overlooking the magnificent countryside is available year 'round. Just outside, a spring trick­les from the earth, weaving its way down the hill to the old lakebed, itself a source for spiritual reflection. 
The length of a guest's stay is flexible, and it is advisable to make reservations in advance, but planning such a journey into the spiritual makes it all the richer. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center. Her col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
;;~~~~m~~~~
t~ 
r:>"w<~~.Y,'<'-~ 

ANO lHEN 7J-IGRE5 lH£ MA77l3R. CF lHG lt.te64/.. 12SO, (}()() THATHAO ro eeJ?E­1tJ!(NSJ 70A 50t/!H 
K(REANLowu-~ry, 
/ 

NOT 7lJ MeNTIONA H16HLY SUSP&CT -1452,(}(X) FI?Ot1AN INl.IUI\IH!:I.uu.J COI.JPle/ 
HMM... 
VERY IN'7!3R­
&5TING, 
CHASE, 
"­

GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU... YOU PlAY N&IAJ 7lJ 
TO THe W0/5T TAU< IN YOUR Alii?!-RA/?!0, ENC&,IXJN'T Al?ewe. 
1 You? OIA5er 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Not everything that 
counts can be count­
ed, and not everything that 
can be counted, counts." 
-Albert Einstein 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 30, 1996 page 9 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Individuals should exhibit responsibility in face of 'satire' 
Dear Editor: 
Coyne strikes again. Well, at the risk of inciting a long-running polemic, let me say, "so do 1." And like Coyne [shud­der], I think I'll start off with a quote from a song that seems to run through my head every time I see his name in bold print-"hearing you talk just makes me tired ... " 
Faced with strong, very direct criti­cism, Coyne took the most obvious path, the one that countless soapbox preach­ers before him have taken-"lt was just a joke; I didn't really mean it." He then went on to berate me for "[filling my] letter with implied judgments on [his] character...and [not] separating the words from the writer." 
As a matter of fact, he's right-I'm guilty on both counts. But unlike Coyne, I'm more than willing to take full responsibility for what I said. I meant every single word of it. And whether or not Coyne wants to do the same, he has to realize that there's no way around it. If he doesn't want to be attached to what he's written (and who can really blame him?), then he should never have put the first word down on the page. But by now it's clear that Coyne is not particularly interested in respon­sibility. 
What he's actually interested in shines through when he writes, "I wanted [the column] to be fun, some­thing people would read, something people would tell their friends to check out or put up outside their door." No, it's not responsibility or conviction or desire "to expose a serious issue at Notre Dame" that drives Coyne-it's 
attention, plain and simple. Coyne wants his fifteen minutes of fame, and he wants them no matter what. If that means the expression of idiotic ideas, then so be it. Why should he care? After all, it's not his responsibility-, he's just the writer. And besides, he claims, I've missed the entire point. Blaming the university for his drinking and praising "sloppy fun and sexual ·deviance" wasn't serious-it was just a bit of fun. It was all just satire that flew straight over my head. Damn my "nar­row mindedness and lax intellectual 
curiosity!" 
Not quite. When I first read Coyne's 
original article, I immediately saw the 
sarcasm and the ironic, self-referential 
tone. But I also saw through the witty 
remarks and the abundant nonsense, 
and into th~ heart of the piece. More 
importantly, I saw Coyne himself sitting 
in front of his computer writing it, 
"tongue ... far in [his] cheek." And that's 
when the column took on a whole new 
light. And that's why I'm not going to 
let this go either. 
Because it's amazing what can be 
seen by looking through Coyne's com­
ments-into the "bigger picture," as he 
says. In that picture, I see a brash, 
twentysomething kid who struts around 
campus with thoughts of the plush pro­
fessional life in one half of his mind, 
and images of the bright lights and 
pulsing music of the night-life fratmos­
phere in the other. I see a guy who 
knows how stupid it all sounds when 
he's sober, who understands how igno­
rant all of the binges and drinking 
games are, but who somehow always winds up in the middle of the party, only marginally conscious, dancing around with a lampshade on his head. 
I see a student who studies while wearing his "Drink like a champion" t­shirt. I see a writer who admits that his pride in his school's drinking record is "sick ... [and] ridiculous," but who then goes on to say that it's also "hilarious." In short, I see a naive young adult who finds the contradictions that are pre­sent around him, but who is unwilling to put in the effort to resolve them, and instead chooses to make poorly-crafted jokes about them. 
The sad part is that I see lots of peo­ple like Coyne here at Notre Dame. They're the ones that Coyne speaks of when he writes, "Every person that laughed or cut [the column] out was thinking in some part of their head, 'This is hilarious-this is ridiculous­this is absurd-this is me."' And Coyne's exactly right-all they did was laugh about it. They saw the absurdity and they brushed it away from them by saying that it was just a clever little joke. It's the same way they think about the rest of their social lives here-they know that half of what they do on Friday night is insane, but they'll sure as hell be back the next week to do it all over. 
The reason for that is simple. Responsibility is not an issue for these people. Coyne doesn't want to be held accountable for what he writes just like he doesn't want to be held accountable for his drinking habits. And then he wonders why I feel confident enough to suggest that his character may not be that far from that of the date rapist, sexual harasser, or drunk driver. Why should I believe that he is willing to accept the responsibility in those areas after he has proven himself unwilling to do so in others? 
And for that matter, why should I believe it of anyone else who sides with Coyne? Responsibility is not a gray area and it's not a temporary companion­it's a black-and-white, zero-sum game with rather high stakes. When you play poorly and abuse the rules like Coyne has, you open yourself up to undesir­able consequences. For Coyne, that only included a few harsh words-for others, the price could be higher. If this sounds like I'm "panning drinking and [praising] DuLac," then so be it. I'm not asking anyone to hang my thoughts outside his or her door. 
But I do hope that people are listen­ing, especially Coyne. Perhaps then, they'll take something away from all of this. Maybe they'll take to heart what I've been saying and think about it before that next off-campus party rolls around. Hopefully, they'll take away a little courage to stand up against those contradictions and to go for the path that deep down they know is right. And then the next time they take a drink (or decide to write a column), they'll be prepared to take the responsibility that goes along with it. 
S.E. OROSS Junior Keough Hall 
• WHERE I'M CAlliNG FROM 
Vote Holtz in next week's presidential election 
To all you Notre Dame voters, you inte­gral elements of this glorious electoral system, you conscientious cogs in the monstrous machine called American democracy, I offer a modest proposal. 
Absentee ballot in hand, you wait with bated breath for guidance, for insight from your political advisor, Mr. Media. Well here I come to save the day, to play the part of every good newsman and 
Thomas Coyne 
make up your mind for you. 
The 1996 Presidential election is as big a disappointment as the 1996 Notre Dame football season -you can twist and turn the numbers all you want, but Bob Dole and the Fighting Irish are walking hand in hand down 'let's save some face' lane. I see you voters out there drowning in disinterest, ticket booklet in one hand, ballot in the other, searching for the spirit and excitement that should be part of political and national championship campaigns. 
So just how should you wield this vot­ing power -this awesome opportunity to change the face of America's leader­ship? If you're like me, you could proba­bly care less. Republican, Democrat, Dole, Clinton, tax, spend-is there real­ly a difference anymore? It's all rhetoric, just more of the same. They swear they'll save the country, they claim the other side will destroy it, and the game of politics rolls on, leaving you more concerned about what happens in "Party of Five" than in the Capital. 
Well I'm here to throw you disillu­sioned voters a rope, to cause some waves in both Washingion D.C. and in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The solution is simple: Vote Lou in '96. 
A more perfect scenario could_oot be imagined. As Notre Dame fanatics across the land call for Lou's head on a platter after the, gulp, loss to Air Force, the Presidency poses as a perfect transi­tion for our esteemed leader. This is not a call fo.r Lou's resignation or a fair weathered fan cry of 'what have you done for me lately,' ; rather it is a way to come to terms with the pressing dilem­rna of what to do with Lou. 
Wins and losses aside, change is inevitable and Lou can't stay forever (though his contract seems to think so). I don't think I'm being callous to our beloved coach when I say it might be time for new blood. Rather than have him ride off into the sunset waiving a "Reme~ber '88" banner, Lou should leave with dignity, respect, and as the winner he is. I propose his exit from 
football  come  with  a  triumphant  
entrance into politics.  
I can see it know  - Lou crouched  

down in the oval office, nervously pick­ing at the carpet, listening through his headphones (cord held by his VP of course) for the results of the latest Congressional vote, the 1812 overture playing softly in the background ... 
That would leave us in South Bend with one helluva President, but minus one field general. Should a certain friend from Wisconsin be unavailable (I won't mention any names), I propose an even swap. If Lou is victorious in November, those candidates are going to be looking for work, so put Lou in the White House and the candidates on our sideline. 
Of course there might be something lost in the translation. History tells us any idiot can run the country, but it takes an individual of some intelligence and character to lead the Fighting Irish. I don't think Dole is quite cut out for the job -I'm sure he'd give it the old college try and his old fashioned values would likely preserve the football tradi­tions here at ND, but I don't know if he'd ever make it out onto the field. I can see it know, his first game at Notre Dame, leading the team into the stadium in front of more cameras than he ever saw on his campaign trail. I'd give him until 
about the 30 before he collapsed and was trampled by 120 giants in blue and gold, though I'm sure Liddy would drag him along and willingly take over at the helm for him. 
I also have my doubts about President Clinton. I know she's never played foot­ball and I doubt she knows the first thing about coaching it. And there's the character issue. The coach at Our Lady's University must portray a most upstand­ing image, and Clinton's character has been sacked more times than Ron Powlus. I can see The Observer head­lines now: "Notre Dame head coach sleeps with secretary," "Embattled assistant coach disappears," "Coach Clinton involved in scandal at Notre Dame Credit Union," and "NCAA demands secret football files still hidden in football office." So forget Clinton. He'd be better off in the Irish Guard ­Hillary's already trained him to wear a skirt. 
That leaves us with the VP's. Gore? Good God No. I picture him on the side­lines with a dumb toothy grin, looking around like a kid in a candy store, talk­ing to the players like they were in third grade, telling them to watch their cleats out their on the field because, "Ya know boys, grass is a living breathing part of our ecosystem and if we don't..." All right, enough of that. Gore is out. 
That leaves us with Mr. Quarterback himself, Mr. I'm a Lock in 2000, the one and only Jack Kemp. He knows the game and he's got the gift of the gab combined with the good old boy image befitting an ND head coach. Not to men­tion he's got great hair. Talk about a helmet-paint that do gold and line him up on the grid-iron. Not many teams have a coach whose noggin is safer than his players'. 
Now the only unresolved issue is get­ting our man Holtz elected, and that's where you come in -it has to start with a grass roots effort of voting Darners. If every Notre Dame fan who cried out for a Holtz career move after the Air Force loss went to the booths and wrote in a vote for Lou, Holtz would surely give Billy boy a run for his money. 
The Holtz convention would be like a Pep rally. He would walk in with an entourage under swirling spotlights and thousands of voters bellowing "Lou, Lou," their L-shaped thumbs and fingers flying. The Leprechaun would coordi­nate the convention, Regis would be the keynote speaker, and Lou would end the festivities with an inspiring acceptance address. A unified and inspired electoral force would pour out of the JACC, ready to send their man to Washington, waiv­ing signs bearing the campaign slogan "A vote for Holtz in DC is a vote for Barry at NO." And if we really want to get Lou elected, I propose Jenny McCarthy stays for more than ten min­utes and gets to the podium this time. That will at least capture the Testosterone party vote. 
His qualifications cannot be contested, at least not by any of the puppets he'd be running against Lou's work ethic is legendary -he thrives on pressure and welcomes difficult decisions, always tak­ing responsibility for the result. When's the last time Clinton stayed up all night watching film of the enemy or Dole said "It was all my fault" when he made a bad decision? A President always has to see alternatives in tight situations, and one thing you can always expect from Holtz is another option. Option after option after option. 
And for you Limbaugh loving right wingers out there, a President Holtz would surely desist in military downsiz­ing -let's just say he has a new found respect for the military (and their fine cadets). And considering the need for an upstanding and continent candidate in this day and age of scandal, it is to Holtz's advantage that he has never been accused of being too offensive-especially not by Air Force or Ohio State or Northwestern ... 
So remember -Holtz in '96. Go and get the vote out! And get the new blood in ... 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
-~---------,--~~~ --~----:---_.....,..____ 
l 
\ 
I 
( 
t 
t 

page 10 Wednesday, October 30, 1996 




Carving. we at Accent searcl 

I 
the local haunts for interesti ideas from some well-known fr around camPus. What theY can
Kory Minor 
I 
{ with was frighteningly fantas
.I 
and we hoPe Your jack-o-lantE Prove to be equallY sPiritec HAPPY HALLOWEEN! 
I 
L 

I 
i ­
} I 
{ \ 
( 
Rev. Joe Ross, CSC 
Rector of Morrissey Manor 
Lou Holtz Head Football Coach 

I 
l 

inSPire YOU in YOUr Halloween PumPkin 








CCENT 
Wednesday, October 30, 1996 


Seth Miller and Megan Murray 
Student Body President and Vice-President of Notre Dame 

ng iends 
le UP 
Dorothy Nyari 
South Dining Hall I 0 Checker 


:rns 
I. 
Ashleigh Thompson, Joseph Weiler and Heather 
Hogan worked very hard on this and wish you all 
a Happy Halloween! Ghoulish art by Ed Leader. 


----~-~-­

~----------~------------------------~------------------------------:--­
Wednesday, October 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• NFL 

Washington Redskins taste the fruits of victory 
By JOSEPH WHITE lowed one sack and Terry shoot, the one thing you knew, winning streak. Halfway big-name braggarts, and most Associated Press Writer Allen ran for 124 yards and you're going to run the foot­through the season, they have of the veterans seem to revel in three touchdowns as he contin­ball. And Terry Allen gives us already exceeded last year's their underdog status. ASHBURN, Va. ues on a pace of historical pro­that opportunity, and it carries victory total. Yet they are per­· "You've got to realize where 
Gus Frerotte, who makes the portions. over to every other player. haps the quietest 7-1 team we come from and where we minimum NFL salary, is happi­"He's maybe one of the easi­They're going to block a little ever, even in their home city. want to go, linebacker ly learning that winning can est guys in the league to block bit harder because there's a Local television ratings were Marvcus Patton said Monday. cost a lot of money. for, because you know he's guy back there that's going to down 24 percent compared to "We're not Super Bowl cham­
For the past seven weeks, the going to giv~ 110 percent," bust his tail every single time this time last year, and many pions yet. We realize anybody Washington Redskins quarter­lineman Joe Patton said of he touches the ball." callers to a local talk show can be beaten. We've got to back has taken the entire Allen. ''This guy has speed, not So Allen, who received treat­Mond11y put the Redskins at no stay humble. When you're offense -including the 300-quick speed, not real burner ment for a mildly sprained better than fourth or fifth humble, you work harder." pound linemen -and their speed. But this guy can run wrist Monday, must share among the best teams in the And it is still very possible guests out to dinner at a local away from you. Terry takes a credit with the tight ends and NFC. The fervor of the Joe that the other shoe could drop. restaurant every Monday lot of hits during a game, too." offensive line, who survived the Gibbs' days this is not. There's a trip to Buffalo next night. Allen has rushed for 13 absence of guard Tre Johnson There are plenty of reasons Sunday, and still to come is 12 
"We lose, we don't eat out," touchdowns and is on a pace to blow the Colts off the line of to give this team a slow days of torture in November­said Frerotte, who'll un­that would break Emmitt scrimmage. Rookie backup embrace: a weak first-half at Philadelphia, home to San doubtedly get a huge raise to Smith's record of 25 in a sea­Shar Pourdanesh took schedule; a roster upheaval Francisco and at Dallas on 
..__ help foot the bill when his con­son. He is the first player in 11 Johnson's place. that has left few familiar Thanksgiving Day. tract expires in January. "I years to have back-to-hack "A year ago, when we lost names; a series of games "We're going into as ·tough a don't think they expected us to games with three rushing Tre Johnson, our running against NFC East teams like place as there is to play come back seven weeks in a touchdowns. He has rushed for game came to a screeching the Jets, Patriots and Colts -Sunday night,'' Turner said. row." 803 yards and, barring injury, halt," Turner said. "This year, hardly the Redskins' greatest " ... To get any further ahead Frerotte handles the check should obliterate John Riggins' when we lose Tre Johnson, we rivals -and the memory that than that, I just get nervous alone on Monday, but everyone club record of 1,347. move Joe Patton to guard, Shar this was the team that had the doing it. We're going to get the has been chipping in on game "That's been a trademark of goes in and we rush for over NFL's·worst record the previ­opportunity to play a number days. Eight players caught this organization for an awful 200 yards." ous three seasons. of the best football teams in passes in Sunday's 31-16 victo­long time," coach Norv Turner The Redskins (7-1) have been But the Redskins have also this league over the next eight ry over Indianapolis, a said. "You go back to the real averaging 28 points in the last kept quiet about themselves. games, so, shoot, one step at a rearranged offensive line al-good Redskin teams and, six games of their seven-game This team doesn't have any time." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
[ 
c TIX for every home game. NEED BC & WASH TIX Hundereds of Students Are Earning COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2 Call (301) 445·3955 312-951-5008 Come to C.J.'s Pub Thursday 
NOTICES 

Free Spring Break Trips & Money! 50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 Mli Halloween Night for the best bash 
Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14" NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX in the area! With special guest SPRING BREAK Trave[ Free Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS NEED BC TIX! Call Pat X30 15 Doug McKenna Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON· As many as possible of George and the Freeks Cancun Jamaica Bahamas www. springbreaktravel.com IC KX-P 1124 CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382 Desperate for RUTGERS Tix. Call Costumes. music and fun all night! Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. 1-800·678-6386 • 24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER. or (617) 828-1089 ROB @634-0552. 
all·u-can drink daily. Don Surf & $500. 273-0959 RUSTED ROOT IS SOLD OUT, Sun (800)763-5606. YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING NEED 2 GAs-ANY HOME GAME. BUT A LIMITED NUMBER OF 
KIDS, MY HOME, COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2 Need one GA for BC. Have friend NEED AT LEAST 10 DAYS TICKETS WILL BE SOLD AT THE THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$. 66MHZ, 16 MB RAM, 1.2 GB who is DESPERATE to see ND in NOTICE. CALL COLLECT: PEG DOOR OF STEPAN. STARTING Breakfast Inn has space available 277-9079 TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY, BC McDERMOTT 410/965-7732 AT 7:30PM ON OCT.30. YOUR for football wknds. 5 Rooms with 3.5" DISK DRIVE. 5.25" DISK AFTER 4pm. LAST CHANCE TO CATCH THE private baths, $70 -$90, VOLUNTEER CHESS COACH DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8 ••••• NAVY GAME TIXS ••••• COOLEST SHOW ON CAMPUS! 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. NEEDED! ST. ANTHONY'S MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR, Selling 4 GA tixs. Beer, Money. and Lavish Praise in Toll Road, Exit #107, GRADESCHOOL. 1HOURPER FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA Call x1453 ask for Patrick exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508--HOCKEY PLAYEAS LOOK• 1-800-418-9487 WEEK AFTER 3:00PM. CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000. 339-7497 Any off-campus person 
CONTACT: CHERYLKOVAS 273-0959 $$$$ interested in playing off-campus Spring Break Bahamas Party 233·9155 NEED 4 PITT GA NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers lnterhall HOCKEY should call: Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF 288-9102 Alyssa 271-9847 Chuck @ 243-9315 or Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great INTERESTED IN MAKING 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 $$$$ Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928 Beaches & Nightlife! Prices EXTRA MONEY? I need 4 GAs for Pitt. Will pay big -HOCKEY PLA YEAS LOOK-Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY MAC Centris 610, w/17"monitor, FOR SALE: 2 RUTGERS GA'S bucks! breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386 PRACTICE LOOKING FOR PEO­laser printer, 14.4 modem, Excel, CALL 634·2514 Call Katie x3572 Student Activities is hiring delivery 
PLE TO MAKE FOLLOW-UP Word, Games, GMAT. $1350, Call people for the ND Cake Service. Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break PHONE CALLS TO SEE HOW Joe K. (ND '95) @ (312)649-1365. !@#$%11&*())(*&11%$#@! NEED 3 PITT STUDENT GAs Mon-Sat afternoons or early Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From OUR PATIENTS ARE DOING. FJ.I..­Will deliver. I NEED PITT TICKETS!!! Call John @ 243-1935 evenings. Hours flexible. Must South Bend $419! Prices Increase ING ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to have own transportation. If Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on HAS. CALL GERARD/DOUG GA ... Need three tickets to Air Force, stu· interested contact Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price 233-5754 Best Buy in Area! Large Bright & CALL 4·4217 ... dents or GA's. Mary Edgington. 631-4077. Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com Spacious 3 bdrm, with 21/2 car !@#$%11&*())(*&11%$#@! Call Liz at 423-1180 1-800-678-6386 garage, and more. 11/2 miles from For Sale: 2 USC Tickets 
FOR RENT 
ND. Priced for Quick Sale at Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!! PITI/RTGRS Call John x4113 Spring Break Panama City! · $93,500. All offers considered. Ph. Please call X3886. 2 MARRIED STU BOOKS Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best WALK TO CAMPUS days 254-4282 or eve 287-7918 for BEST OFFER Props to Sa: Past present and Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES details. ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX 232-2586 Future $129! Daytona-Best Location $139! 232-2595 CALL 773·525-3170 W/BO 
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­Long distance shoutouts to Tuss breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY TICKETS NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's Check our price 674-7645. Private Homes for Football, Call Rob X3014 
The pathetic Giants didn't even Home Health Care Nurse Available JPW, Graduation, etc. TWO USC TICKETS need Phillipe Sparks to beat the Days or Evenings. Call 236-9522. 219-291-7153 call4-3593 Wanted: 2-3 G.A.s for N.D. vs. Pitt. PERSONAL Lions. 
to make an offer Call X4684, no student tix please! BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY .. 
FAX IT FAST!!! Mike-You are a social retard!
ILOST & FOUND I 

private homes for football, JPW, ask for Kevin NEED 5 GA'S FOR PITT Sending & Receiving Your punishment i· DATE WITh graduation, etc. 219-291-7153 CHRIS X3046 at CHUNDER!! May God have pity on 
LOST: Green Eddie Bauer Jacket. NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED THE COPY SHOP your soul Size XL Tall. If found, please call HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW & ALL GAMES HOME PLEASE-LaFortune Student Center X2079. Thanks. FOR '97·98 SCHOOL YR. AND AWAY NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 New guys and a new dorm. 
2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO 232-0058 SISTER NANCY MILLER FAX IT FAST!!! Lost: Pair of prescription guess CAMPUS. 24 HAS. 257-0996. 
Son of a tamer. glasses on way from 06 lot to DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER BUY • SELL -TRADE Keough Hall. They are in a gray 674-2571. NEEDED: 1 STUDENT TIX OR GA Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Bodies in motion. case. If found call John @ 4-4113 TICKET-MART, INC. FOR PITT -CALL DENIS AT 243-Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All $$$ Reward $$$ FURNISHED!!, 1 BEDROOM APT, 9053 Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great red beans and rice 
VERY CLEAN, ALL UTILITIES WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S Beaches &Nightlife! Prices mmmmn INCLUDED, FREE CABLE, 3 ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 4 SALE: Two Pitt student or GA Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­turkey sausage, too
WANTED 

MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE 232-0061. tixs. Call X2577 or X3950 breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER5PM. 
we got some peter pumpkin eaters, Notre Dame students 232-0355 BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED Cancun &Jamaica Spring Break too PART-TIME WORK 312.404.4903 ALL GAMES HOME Specials! 7 Nights Air &Hotel From 
$10.25/starting ROOMMATE NEEDED. SUPER AND AWAY South Bend $419! Increase Soon -downtown with ryan? Flexible hours around classes. RIVERFRONT HOME, $350 STU­FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME 232-0058 Save $50! Save $150 On Food, fireplace extraordinare Scholarships/Internships available .. DENT OR PROFESSIONAL; 683-GAMES 235-3394 24 HAS. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price 
Eve. and wknd. hours available. 3720 DAYS BUY -SELL -TRADE Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com with her skinny body and your big Transportation necesary. ALUM NEEDS GA's 
1-800-678-6386 nose, your kids would always be For details call 282·2357 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS TICKET-MART, INC. 
falling on their faces 

ND-SMC EVENTS. 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm ..... STRUTING THE VOLUNTEER GIRLS IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK· WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S PANTS ALL THE WAY TO PA.. movies by z pinesVOLLEYBALL COACH ENDS. N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
Starting immediately VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 219-232-2378 a.m. 232-0061. 
TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, Here is to spying on girls that we do 5th-6th grade/Our Lady of Hungary 243-0658. 288-2726 p.m. 
PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN not like. School. South Bend $$$$$$ LAFAYETTE 
Call Sue Mason 289-3272 STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS Donny Reed: One of the top ten
FOR SALE
(daytime), 234-3750 (evenings). SALE -ALL GAMES!!! ALL HOME GAMES. 
Come see Doug McKenna funniest people at N.D. call James X1658 272-6551 of George and the Freeks HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 1985 Subaru GL 4-door, manual 
every Wednesday night B-Ham is the most cut throat Pre 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT transmission, AC, cassette with NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !! n. d. tickets for sale at C.J.'s Pub. med at N.D. (813)360-2243. AM·FM radio, $1200. Call x18120. ' Call Elena x2900 271 1635 
New Daytime Hours John-Participants needed for studies in Mountain Bike for sale. Paramount, 
FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT NEED 2·4 GA TIX Starting Mon. , Oct. 28 It is only appropriate to save the memory, language, & perception. with Shimano components and AND RUTGERS GAs FOR ALL HOME GAMES. 9:00 am -4:30 pm best for last! You are the very 
call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473 many extras. $300 obo. 273-8112 SALE 272-7233........... CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 Alumni Senior Club best! ·Kathleen 

Wednesday, October 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 
CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Chemistry-Physics Library 
Organizational Meeting with 
DR. MARIO BORELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 
Journal ofPhysics: Condensed Matter 
Semiconductor Science and Technology 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1996 
These titles, plus 15 others, are purchased
7:00P.M. 
by the Library and made available to anyone
ROOM 141 DE BARTOLO 
using a web browser on a computer attached to the Notre Dame network. 
FOR STUDENTS I NTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
The URL is: 

http://www.iop.org/EJ/welcome FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS 
WHO ARE EITHER 
Site ID: Quantum
ON FINANCIAL AID 
Site Password: Ba2Cu30x (0 is a zero) 
Both are case sensitive!
OR 

FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
A World ofInformation 
ALL INTERESTED S11JDENTS ARE WELCOME 
at YlJur Fingertips
REFRESHMENTS AFTER TIIE MEETING AT 8:00P.M. 
.NHL 
Billington starting off strong 
By AARON]. LOPEZ 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER A little Patrick Roy is rubbing off on Craig Billington. 
Billington, giving Roy a rest for just the second time in 12 games, made 40 saves Monday night to get his sixth career shutout, leading the Colorado Avalanche to a 1-0 win over the Washington Capitals. 
"I think it's important to give Patrick rest," Billington said. "He needs some physical rest at times, and maybe more im­portantly, mental rest. If that's once every two weeks or once every three or once every five games, it's important I go in and do the job for him." 
Valeri Kamensky scored less than two minutes into the sec­ond period and Billington, whose last shutout came a year ago to the day, made it stand up as the Avalanche ran their home penalty killing streak to 36. 
"He had a shutout last year on the same night," Capitals coach Jim Schoenfeld said of Billington. "I guess his moons 



232-2293 123 W Washington 
Halloween Disco Bash!! 
Thursday, October 31 


8:00 p.m. 
Threads ( $2. oo All Else) 
or stars or whatever are in the right place." 
Billington's banner perfor­mance spoiled a 33-save night for Washington goaltender Olaf Kolzig, who also was making his second appearance of the season. 
"Craig Billington made breakaway saves and we hit crossbars," said Kolzig, who lost 3-2 to Buffalo 10 days ago. "It was a goaltender stealing a game from us." 
Kolzig was nearly rewarded on two Washington power plays in the third period, but Billington used his stick, glove and body to stop everything that came his way. He now is 2 6 career shutouts short of teammate Roy. 
"There's a 50-50 chance ev­ery time it hits me," said Billington, whose percentage of playing time will be a lot less. 
"Our goaltending isn't a mys­tery," said Avalanche coach Marc Crawford. "We're going to play Patrick on a majority of nights and the reason we went out and got Craig was because we knew he could handle ex­tended layoffs and continue to 
-2:00 a.m. 
work hard." 
After a sluggish first period, the Avalanche came out attack­ing in the second and scored the only goal when Kamensky skated into the Washington zone untouched and put a low slap shot past a screened Kolzig at 1:10. 
"My foot got stuck in a rut and I couldn't get my leg all the way down," Kolzig said. "It just went by my stick. It was a goal any goaltender has to have es­pecially in a tight game like that." 
Richard Zednik seemed to have tied the game with a backhand shot past Billington at 13:40, but referee Richard Trottier blew the play dead when he lost sight of the puck in a pileup in the crease. 
"The referee said no goal. I could hear him say no goal," Zednik said. "I didn't know what happened. I shot the puck and thought I scored. I never heard the whistle." 
Washington's tough luck con­tinued less than a minute later when Ken Klee's flip shot from 20 feet bounced over Billington and off the cross bar. 
•NFL 

f!ackers add Morgan to cover for injuries 
ByARNIE STAPLETON Associated Press Writer , 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Anthony Morgan gave up on 
football when the . Green Bay 
Packers gave up on him. 
· ••To be truthful with you. I 
haven't been watching any 
football," l\-forgan said after ar­
riving in Green Bay on Monday 
to revive.hjs career as wellas 
the~ackers.1 'pass~g game. · 
'fh~ Pack:ers waived Morgan 
jr1 ~~ab1fl).g camp~ !lut})egged • 
him to retili'h· after Brett Favte 
lost.bis top two targets··~··· 
Ropert B~f>oks a,nd Antonio 
Freeman··············· to injuries. 
Ittook a.bout $450,000 and isome seri<ius groveling to lure . Morgan back because he was· 
stil1Jnad 11})outget,tjngc~t. . .··• •... 
!'It was.tough. ltholightl 
helped this team get where it's 
at.~· said Morgan~ who caught 
60 passes Tor 741 yards and 
eight touchdowns for the 
Packers betwee:n J 993-:95. 
··sut it'S a business,·· h.e 
added. "I don't have any ani­
mositytowardanybody.J'm not.• 
goingto hold any grudges.·· ···· After his ;release. Morgan. 28, 

tried outWith Philadelphia and ·.··juryon the .fi~st play. against 
Kansas City. bufthere were. San Francisco two weeks ago1 . 
concerns over a sciatic nerve But .Green Bay was re­
condition that hindered him portedly offering only the pro­
during training camp. rated portion ofthe minimum 
So, he returned to hfs $250.000salary,>and Morgan 
Chicago-area home. and turned balked. · ..··· 
his attention to new business Holmgren called Morgan last 
endeavors~ H~ said that even week. to smooth overthe hard 
though he regained his health•. feelings . created ·.by . the 
he figured he'd never play pro-breakup, but the sides still 
....fe~~~h~f9ri~:~ga:tit?'.•'··• r~i~~sP~~l~~~~6c'tt'·,¥6~~~am~liL···· 
team." he said. "lsee the· char-cally when Freeman. who had 
acter on thisteam,J wantto be taken over the featured role in 
part of it. I want to be a part of the offense at flanker in place 
a winning team. Jwas part of a of Brooks•• broke his left for~­
winning team before• butJ arm in Green Bay's 13,..7 victo~ 
wa.ntto stay on that winning ry over Tampa on Sunday. 
teant". .. . ..... .. ·.·... . . Freeman was.scheduled to 
Morgan was a part-time undergo surgery today and 
starter at split end for the hopes to returl}f()r the fiual Packers l~t year·•• and.signed a month ofthe season. .. ....· three~year,. $2 million contract The ·Packers need Morgan to with a $450,000 signing bonus contribute immediately. d,ur:~pgthe offseason.• But he . Despite beginning the year 771 was waiyed in What geperal for the first time. since 1966, man_ager Ron Wolf called "the the Packers are malfunctioniilg toughest ¢ut ofmytimehere." on offense~ J;"avre has only 
Morgan said be figured he thrown for one touchdownin 
was wasting his talents not the last two games after getting 
playing.. 20 in the first six. ;~~ 
"Just sitting around, it gets to a point where I say, 'You know, I've still got the talent, I've still got the skills. I'm young, I'm not an over~the-bill guy,' '' Morgan said. 
He was the perfect choice when the-Packers· depth at re­ceiver was depleted. 
"He knows the system, and he can come in and play immediately, ... coach Mike Holmgren said: .. I don't know how much running·he's been doing, which is .important. ·But cer~ainly lle knows .• the play~. And that's everything.'' ·. Morgan said he•s bee~ wor~­ing .. out in the weight room, but notsprinting. Still, he guaran­
.teed he'd be l'~ady to play Sunday against Detroit. · 
"Tbere'sno time to be sittingaround saying, ~Give me three weeks, ... Morgan said. '"I'm just going to come in here to~ morrow and catch the ball and get on the treadiDill and run.lt 
.do~sn 't take long. I'm a track guy:'' 
The Packers tried to lure Mo.rgall·•···back.•.a,fter.. Brook~. theit' top deeptpreat, was loSt for the season with a knee in­
I I 
j 
I I 
I 
1 
I 
~ 
j 
l 
r---------..---------....
-~---~---~--~------------------­
\ 
,, Wednesday, October 30, 1996
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
• NFL 

Falcons on track to worst start ever 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
SUWANEE, Ga. 
The Atlanta Falcons are now the only NFL team without a victory. At least they've got the lead in the Peyton Manning sweepstakes. 
After the New York Jets final­ly won a game Sunday, the ~ Falcons alone are 0-8 in the NFL. They're one loss away from tying the worst start in franchise history, going all the way back to their inaugural season in 1966. 
All this from a team that actually made the playoffs this season. 
"I'm more committed now to getting a win than I ever was," coach June Jones said Monday, his words defiant, but his tone sounding like a man who's lost his last friend. 
Jones certainly doesn't seem to have any answers for revers­ing this year's 0-8 mess, judg­ing from pearls of wisdom like this one from his weekly news conference. 
"You have to bear down and make a play to win a game, whether it be offense or de­fense," he said. "We haven't done that." 
Why not? 
"If I knew that," Jones said, his voice barely above a mum­ble, "I would tell you." 
It's not like the Falcons haven't been close. Two week­ends ago, they led defending Super Bowl champion Dallas 

3 on 3 8-ball Tournament -RecSports and the. Gorch Game Room will b~ sponspring a<;?y3 ....•·•···• 
Basketbalr tournctment..;·o Tue~day and Wednesday ...··. tournament will begiliat m; ;;t~C:OllllDlittE~e 
onilii~Jtivt~ra 
DropiJit · 
will be ring Drop-In Volleyball on Nov. 7.• Nov.l2, Dec. 3;: Dec.lO, from 7-10 

Everthou~tabout 
a career in publishing? 
Develop skills and career opportunities in book and magazine publishing from insiders at 
Tune, The New Yorker, 
HarperCollins, Random House, Little, Brown and others. 
For a free brochure contact: 
School of Continuing Studies, Rice University 6100 Main, MS 550, Howton, TX 77005 Phone: (713) 527-4803 Fax: (713) 285-5213 E-mail: rupp@rice.edu Internet: http://www.rice.edu/rupp 
with less than two minutes re­maining, but the Cowboys pre­vailed 32-28. On Sunday, Atlanta lost to defending AFC champion Pittsburgh 20-17 on a short field goal as time ex­pired. 
"We are not giving up," cor­nerback Darnell Walker said. "I know I'm not. I'm going to keep on fighting and compet­ing. We are a good football team, and as long as we keep it together and keep fighting, you never know what can happen as the season goes on.'' 
At least the schedule looks a lot easier in the second half of the season, with two games each against New Orleans and St. Louis. There should be at least one win or two from that group. 
"It's an eight-game season now," running back Craig Heyward said. "It's tough, but we have to go on." 
The Falcons unveiled a few new wrinkles against the Steelers, such as lining up 295­pound guard Robbie Tobeck as a tight end on the first series ­he caught a 1-yard touchdown pass -and putting both run­ning backs, Jamal Anderson and Heyward, on the field for 1 7 plays, with Anderson lining up in the slot. 
Jones, though, made it clear that he wasn't about to aban­don the maligned run-and­shoot, which operates with one running back, four receivers and no tight end. 
int~otJJilat:ioiJtcalll 

Lions' Fontes in the hot seat 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
The quarterback was having a terrible game. The team was losing to an inferior foe. The fans were booing. Then, after the coach removed the quar­terback, things really got rotten. 
Welcome to the Detroit Lions' soap opera. 
The latest controversy stemmed from an incident in the second quarter of Sunday's surprising 35-7 loss to the New York Giants. 
Scott Mitchell had already thrown three interceptions. Coach Wayne Fontes had back­up Don Majkowski warmed up and ready to go. But he didn't make the switch on a change of possession. 
Instead, he let Mitchell begin a series. Mitchell threw an in­complete pass on the first snap, then Fontes sent in Majkowski. That gave the 63,501 fans who booed Mitchell when he took the field a chance to cheer and jeer as he made the long trek to the sidelines. 
It was an strange move by Fontes. Now, he is in danger of losing the confidence of his quarterback, the loyalty of his team -and, maybe, his job. 
Columnists in three Detroit­area newspapers barbecued Fontes. 
-"Fontes should have been fired at halftime, but if we must wait, we will settle for the end of the season," Bob Wojnowski wrote in The Detroit News. 
-"If Job owned the Lions, Wayne Fontes would be fired today. But a more patient man, William Clay Ford, holds Fontes' 
fate in his hands," Keith Langlois wrote in The Oakland Press. 
-"Congratulations, Wayne Fontes. Of all the boneheaded moves you have made with the Lions, this one tops the pile," Mitch Alborn said in the Detroit Free Press. 
So, it wasn't surprising that Fontes spent a lot of time Monday explaining and apolo­gizing. He was sparing no effort at controlling the damage from perhaps the biggest blunder of his coaching career. 
"I have no regrets about tak­ing him out of the game. None whatsoever," Fontes said. "What I do regret is taking him out when I did. I've never blamed or put a finger on one player. And I realize now it might have seemed like I was doing that to Scott." 
Fontes sent word around the Silverdome that he wanted to know when Mitchell arrived, so he could go to the locker room and talk with him. He needn't have bothered. Mitchell made a beeline for the coach's office the minute he arrived. 
"He sat down and we had a great meeting," Fontes said. "We talked like two civilized people. It was a great conver­sation. I told him it probably embarrassed him, and I apolo­gized for doing that." 
Fontes said he and Mitchell shook hands and parted amica­bly. Mitchell, who made it a point to hang around and speak with reporters after the game, did not appear in the dressing room while it was open to re­porters Monday. 
Several other players, how­ever, confirmed that Fontes apologized to the whole team during a morning meeting. There also was a meeting be­tween the coaching staff and a committee of veteran players to iron out some problems. 
So, what happens now? 
The Lions are 4-4 at the halfway point of their season. They also are three games be­
hind Green Bay in the NFC Central, with two games against the Packers still ahead -start­ing with this Sunday's visit to Lambeau Field. 
There also are trips to Chicago, San Diego and San Francisco on the schedule. The Lions have lost 11 of their last 12 on the West Coast. That would seem to indicate the Lions' chances of making the playoffs are remote, at best. 
"We are better than we've played in the last two weeks," veteran defensive tackle Henry Thomas said. "I hope everybody understands that. Why should things be changed? We know we have a great team. There's no sense in tearing things apart." 
There is some validity in that. Last year, for example, the Lions were 3-5 at the halfway mark. They dropped to 3-6, then reeled off seven straight wins to finish 10-6 and earn a wild-card playoff berth. 
"Last year was probably the most dramatic season I'd ever been a part of," Thomas said. "We were 3-6 and we put on a fantastic run. We're capable of doing that again." 
Not all the players shared Thomas' enthusiasm, however. Immediately after Sunday's game, wide receiver Herman Moore said he was sick of the constant trauma. 
''I'm just getting tired of it," Moore said. "At some point in time, you get fed up. It's just not fun anymore. It's embarrassing. It goes beyond embarrassing." 
A day later, Moore wasn't backing off. He had, however, cooled down a little. 
"I said some things yesterday. I'm not sorry about that," Moore said. "I don't think I crossed any lines." 
There could be some long­range fallout from this flap, too. Mitchell becomes a free agent at 
the end of this season. No mat­ter how much Fontes apol­ogizes, what happened in the game against the Giants is going to stay with Mitchell. 




Today") Wednesday") October 30 For time and location of meeting") call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C 
Sr. M.L. Gude"J C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 

Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
ALL CDs· 


THE BEATLES 


ALAN JACKSON __________, Anthology 3 Everything I Love 
• 
i~ 
MeA/Universal ~',t:. 
. ,. 
. -;.·-,.· 
MeA/Universal -~ ·•· \',.. 
. --r _., 
NE"W! 

35%0FF 
ALL NIW
"M" IS FRANKLIN'S TRICK OR TREAT, THE REGULATORS DESPERATION THE GREEN 
YORKnMES
FOR MALICE HALLOWEEN GREAT PUMPKIN Richard Bachman Stephen King MILE
HARDCOVER Dutton-HC 
Viking-HC

Sue Grafton Paulette Bourgeois Charles M. Schulz Stephen King
BESTSELLERS! List 24.95 List 2795
Henry Holt -HC . Scholastic -PB HarperCollins -HC Signet -Boxed Set 
List 25.00 List 3. 95 List 16.95 List 18.84 
Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271 -0696 
STORE HOURS MON·SAT: 1 OAM·1 OPM, SUN: 11AM·7PM 
81·8988·1 06 


Quantities limited. Selection varies by store. Sale ends November 2, 1996. 
_____, 

-----.-...........--~­
-~--------~
. --­
-~ 
-~----.. 

----.--... ··--·-· -· 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
.NBA 

I 
l Pacers plagued by Pippen'~ ankle still a problem 
preseason InJuries 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press Writer 

INDIANAPOLIS It's only October, and already the Indiana Pacers are hurting. 
Rik Smits, who had surgery on his feet last month, still isn't practicing, and first-round draft pick Erick Dampier is recuperating from a hernia operation. That leaves. coach Larry Brown with a big ques­tion mark as the Pacers head into the start of the NBA sea­son. 
On top of that, with the trade of Mark Jackson, the likely starter at point guard is Travis Best, an inexperienced second­year player. 
''I'd say we're ready," said Best, who played in 59 games and averaged 3. 7 points as a rookie. "There's always going to be flaws in what we're doing out there.... Guys are working hard, that's all you can ask." 
Best scored 58 points in the preseason with 24 assists and just 16 turnovers in 55 min­utes. 
"I feel comfortable, and I think everybody does," he said. "I believe I've earned the start­ing job.... Everybody is touch­ing the ball more and that's what scores the points. Defensively, we've been playing very well." 
Indiana won a franchise­record 52 games in 1994-95 and matched that number last year. Then in the offseason, the Pacers spent millions to re-sign unrestricted free agents Reggie Miller, Dale Davis and Antonio Davis. The major roster change was the trade of Jackson and Ricky Pierce to Denver for Jalen Rose, Reggie Williams and a first-round draft pick that was used to select Dampier. 
But the injuries have compli­cated things. Smits is still recu­perating from the Sept. 8 surgery; Dampier, who was fill­ing in for him, had surgery last week and both he and Smits may start the season on the in­jured list. Veteran Eddie Johnson, who had knee surgery in May, doesn't plan to practice until December. 
Duane Ferrell is also likely to be unavailable at the start of the season with a torn right calf muscle, and Williams has been bothered by a sore right leg. 
Collins overhauling Pistons, adds Mahorn 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press Writer 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Grant Hill has this nice-guy image. It's part fact and part packaging by the marketing­conscious NBA. 
Now it's time for a change. The Detroit Pistons have had a nice ride on Hill's image, as
' 
I 
well as his talent. But things changed around The Palace in the offseason. 
Allan Houston shocked the Pistons by leaving to sign a 
free agent deal with New York .. Stacey Augmon and 
l ) 
Grant Long were acquired from Atlanta, and Kenny Smith was signed as a free 
l 
agent after six years with the Houston Rockets Hill hardly rested after the Olympics and reported to 
{~ 
I 
. training camp in the best 
shape of his pro career. And the Pistons even brought back one of the original Bad Boys, Rick Mahorn, to help show Hill how things used to be done in these parts. 
Coach Doug Collins has told Hill it is time for him to take over the team. 
He wants Hill to up his aver­age by about five points from 20 per night to 25. And Hill appears ready to take up the 
I 
I i 
challenge. 

"Some other guys will have to step up, too," Hill said. "Lindsey (Hunter) and Terry 
(Mills) and other guys will have to do their part, too. But, if I can score three or four more points a game, it might make a difference." 
Hill also will be asked to be more of a leader and less of a perceived pushover. 
It won't be quite like Hill's new sneaker commercial, in which ex-Piston Bill Laimbeer takes him to a dungeon-like gym and instructs him in the art of elbowing, tackling and head-butting. But it's the same idea nonetheless. 
"All teams go through personality changes. We go from a relatively quiet team to a loud team almost in a heart­beat," Hill said. "I really look forward to having Rick Mahorn on this team." 
Mahorn, 38, was left unpro­tected in the expansion draft after helping the Pistons win the 1989 NBA championship. Now, he has returned as a free agent after spending last sea­son in New Jersey. 
"I told Ricky, 'I want you to be who you are.'" 
There has been a lot of im­provement since Collins signed on with the Pistons. 

._ 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Sports Writers Sports Copy Editors 
Please contact Tim Sherman or Joe Villinski in the Sports department at 1-4543 f9r more information. 
Even following surgery, ankle not 100 percent 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press Writer 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 

He has tried rest, hard work, therapy and even surgery. Still, Scottie Pippen's left ankle doesn't feel as good as he hoped it would going into the season. 
"I don't know if I'll ever be 100 percent again," Pippen says. "I'm about 80 percent, maybe 85. I feel better than at the end of last season -not a whole lot better, but I feel pretty strong and fairly healthy." 
Perhaps the NBA's best all-­around player when fully healthy, Pippen is one of Chicago's Big Three. It will be difficult for the Bulls to repeat as champions without strong play from Pippen, Michael Jordan and Dennis Rodman. 
Coach Phil Jackson would like Pippen to be 100 percent when the season opens Friday at Boston. 
But Jackson said it's more important for Pippen and other players battling injuries -Rodman, Luc Longley, Toni Kukoc, Ron Harper -to be as fit as possible come playoff time. Longley and Kukoc missed Monday's practice. 
"This first week, we're going to play six games in eight days," Jackson said. "If any­body falters in that time, we'll start pulling the chain on them." 
Of Pippen, he said: "We're going to have to be tuned in to what his needs are during the season. But I was very pleased with the way Scottie performed Saturday, and I thought he 
looked good (Monday) in prac­
tice." 

Playing in an NBA game for 
the first time since the Bulls 
won the title last June, Pippen 
had 22 points, five rebounds, 
three assists and two steals in 
30 minutes Saturday as the 
Bulls finished the preseason 
with a victory over 
Sacramento. 

It was a performance remi­
niscent of the 6-foot-7 for­
ward's play in the first 51 
games last season, when he 
averaged 21.9 points. He was 
shooting nearly 50 percent 
from the floor, including 43 
percent from 3-point range. All 
the while. he was the trigger­
man of an almost unstoppable 
offense and the catalyst for the 
league's best defense. 

Then the tendinitis in his 
knees flared up. And his back, 
which had been operated on in 
1988, began aching. But most 
debilitating was a sprained left 
ankle that not only curtailed 
his power and grace, but made it difficult to walk some days. 
The Bulls took him out of the 
lineup for five games and 
wouldn't even let him touch a 
basketball for a week. 

After Pippen resumed play 
March 21, he was nowhere 
near his earlier form. The rest 
of the season, he averaged 
14.6 points on 40 percent shooting, 26 percent from 3­point range. 
The Bulls still won an NBA­record 72 games. They then rolled to their fourth title in six years even though Pippen shot only 39 percent in the playoffs. 
Pippen, named All-NBA and Jordan said. "We've seen the capabilities of Scottie Pippen. And if he's not playing to that level, you know something's wrong." 
Bulls management wasn't thrilled that Pippen played in the Olympics and put off arthroscopic surgery until September. The delay caused him to miss the first seven pre­season games. 
But Jackson is glad to have Pippen back, even at less than peak efficiency. 
"Scottie not at his best," the coach said, "is better than anything else we have." 
Unlike his ankle, Pippen's confidence is healthy. 
All-Defense on the strength of ~~~ji[D~i~cii
his strong first half, was criti-~ cized for some poor playoff lll>~fii~~~~=~=:~~~
outings. r "That was unfair because ~~t~a~lMIAI!.'Ii!ltlalm&f.:"lt~~~ 
people didn't know what that individual went through just to get on the basketball court," 
•NBA 
Barkley's Houston debut postponed 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ 
Associated Press Writer 
HOUSTON 

Charles Barkley is eager for his regular-season debut with the Houston Rockets, although now it will come a day late against his former teammates, the Phoenix Suns. 
Barkley on Monday was sus­pended for Friday night's home opener and fined $5,000 for a fight with New York's Charles Oakley in an exhibi­tion game last Friday. Oakley was suspended for two games and fined $10,000. 
"Unless I have a death in the family and break both my legs, I'm looking forward to Saturday," Barkley said. "I guess that's how it's supposed to be." 
The Rockets open their sea­son in The Summit against the Sacramento Kings. 
"I feel bad I'll miss the home opener, but I guess it's ironic that I'll open the season in Phoenix," Barkley said after Monday's practice. ''I'm glad It's over with." 
Barkley and Oakley tangled .early in Friday's game. Both vvere ejected, which costs them an additional $1,000. 
Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich applauded Oakley's punishment. 
"(Barkley) was a victim," Tomjanovich said. "It was one of the most brutal attacks of trying to hurt somebody." 
''I'm prejudiced, but I 
thought our guy was pushed into a position where he had to do what he had to do," Tomjanovich said. "I don't think there's a guy around who wouldn't have reacted in that manner." 
Barkley knew his punish­ment was coming. 
"I felt like I'd get it," Barkley said. "Anytime you throw a punch, it's an auto­matic suspension. I felt it was totally uncalled for and a cheap shot, but that's a good suspension (for Oakley) -two games and $10,000. 
Oakley was suspended and fined without pay for fouling Barkley, initiating the scuffle and flagrantly fighting. Barkley was penalized for retaliating. 
"I guess you have to get body slammed, punched in the head and let them get away with it nowadays," Barkley said. "I just don't know what they're thinking up there in New York. 
"I guess you're supposed to run, and that's even worse. Then your friends will talk about you like a dog." 
Tomjanovich said he might start free agent signee Kevin Willis on Friday, but that move would interfere with his rota­tion at center. 
"Kevin will play a lot, but I don't know about starting," Tomjanovich said. "I think I'm going to start him, but I don't know what to do. You need a backup if there's foul trouble." 

Cab driver makes Rider late for game 
ByBOBBAUM AssCX:iated Press Writer 
PORTlAND, Ore. 
Isaiah Rider couldn't make itto theseason opener with­out getting into trouble with his new team. · 
The Portland Trail Blazers have suspended Rider for their first regular-season ga.me for failing to show up for the team's final exhibition game Sunday. 
Rider missed the team bus 
···to Corvallis, where the Blazers l!letthe Seattle SuperSonics. He later told team officials that a cab took him to the wrong location. 
The team bus left from the Crowne Plaza Hotal in Lake Oswego. Rider had a cab dri­ver take him to the Crown Plaza building in downtown Portland. 
Even as they punished Rider, the Blazers insisted they still have faith that he's trying to stay out of trouble. 
"We've been satisfied that he's really making an effort/' coach P.J. Carlesimo said. "Unfortunately. it's a serious violation. We have the team rules. You have to be there and you have to be on tim eo'' 
Rider will miss Friday rlighfs opener at Vancouver, but will be able to play 
Trail Blazers suspend Rider 
Saturday night when the 
Blazers meet the SuperSonics 
in Seattle. 
Carlesimo met with Rider on 
Monday and said he remains 
confident the star guard is 
sincere about wanting to 
make a fresh start in Portland 
after a troubled career in 
Mbmesota. 
''l really hope that this is 
goillg to bean isolated inci­
dent,n Carlesimo said. "I 
know .some people may look 
at that with skepticism from 
the outside, but we've been 
very happy with his effort." · 
Rider··.fssued a statement 
through the .Blazers apologiz­
ing for hi~ actions. · 
''lqon'twant to make any 
excuses.·· Rider said. "We 
havE} JE}am rules that we need 
triad}Je.re<to and I've let the 
tealll down.I understand that. 
and will work harder to avoid 
these situations in the ·future." 
He told The Oregonian that 
while there was an explana­
tion for his absence, he real­
izes that he must face the con­
sequences. 
Cab driver Jay Papez told 
The Oregonian that Rider's 
storywas legitimate. 
''We circled the Crown Plaza 
about four or five times, and I 
told him there's no place 
around there where they 
could parka bus," Papez said. 
''Ltalked him into going to the 
othe.r one,but··by thenit was 
toolate/~ · 
. Ifwas the second time Rider 
has Jailed to make it to the 
right location during his brief 
time with the Blazers. He 
missed a shootaround before the team's first preseason game in Sacramento on Oct. 

13. He told team officials that he'd driven from his home­town in Oakland to the bas­ketball arena, only to find that the shootaround was at another location. 
Team officials were unhap­py that this was not the first time Rider had trouble getting to where he was supposed to be on time. They also weren't pleased that he'd made no ef­fort on his own to make the 81-mile trip to Corvallis. 
Rider, the No. 5 pick out of UNLV in 1993. averaged 11.6 points in six exhibition games this year ai1d figures to start at guard alongside Kenny Anderson. 
The Blazers obtained Rider in a trade that sent James Robinson, Bill Curley and a conditional first-round draft choice· to the Minnesota Timberwolves..Rider had many problems off the court while with the Timberwolves. 
Rider was arrested twice this year in Oakland on misde­meanor counts . of marijuana possession, gambling and pos­session of an illegal cellular phone. 
Carlesimo said both he and Rider know that the player will be under a· microscope in Portland because of his back~ ground.. He also said that there is concern because both . incidents involved similar circumstances. 
''That'~>s(}nHHhing we're go­ing to hav.e to work on," Carlesimosaid. 
CROFUT & BRUBECK 
SPONSORED BY 
The Elkhart Concert Club Bringing the STARS to Elkhart for 
45 GREAT YEARS 
Bill Crofot and Chris Brubeck team up for a live concert on November 6, 1996 at 7:30pm at the 
ELCO Performing Arts Center 
Downtown Elkhart, (219) 293-4469 
3 On 3 Basketball ournament 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 

We have started to tal~e applications for next year. 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool •Jacuzzi 

• 
Tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour Iaundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Professional management 


Apartments available for your selection. 
For more information ca 
272-1441. 
I 

-~---------------------~---­
---==-=-------------------~ 
I 
I 
page 18 
Hockey

l 
continued from page 20 

lead 90 seconds into the game when freshman Joe Dusbabek scored after controlling a face­off won at the left circle by junior Lyle Andrusiak. Dusbabek gathered the puck near the top of the circle and quickly slid a low shot inside the left post, past an un­suspecting OSU goaltender Ray Aho. 

The Irish gained the lead at the 11:05 mark of the second period when Dusbabek sent a pass down the left side for Andrusiak, who crossed the puck to the right post for sophomore Aniket Dhadphale, who sent a scoop shot inside the left post for his first goal of the season. Junior co-captain Steve Noble closed out the scoring with an empty-net goal with 1:13 remaining. 
For Ohio State, it was 60 minutes of frustration, as Eisler stopped everything,
J 
including 10 power-plays and 47 shots. 
"I really can't remember a game I've had with this many saves, at least of this magni­tude," said Eisler. "To tell you the truth, I tried not to think about the shutout until the last few minutes, which is always hard to do. I really just want­ed to get the win." 

"That's the first time since I've been here that a goalie has won a game for us," said Poulin. "Going into the year, he's one of the best goalies in the country. I don't think there's any question about it." 
The following night against Miami of Ohio, Eisler extended his shutout streak to 120 min­utes, but the Irish succumbed to Miami, 2-1, in a CCHA game. Notre Dame {2-1-1 overall, 1-1-1 CCHA) surged ahead in the second period when Noble converted on the power play, off feeds from seniors Brian McCarthy and Harberts, as the Irish snapped out of a power-play slump that had seen them convert on just one of 21 attempts prior to Noble's goal. 
But Miami (6-1-0, 5-0-0 CCHA) scored twice in the first two minutes of the third peri­od to claim the lead, behind goals froom Joe Bodnar and Ryan Brindley. 
Dhadphale had a chance to force overtime in the closing moments, after the Irish had pulled Eisler. Freshman Ben Simon worked the puck in from the left side and dumped the puck into the crease for classmate Nathan Borega, whose what was saved by Trevor Prior. Dhadphale was waiting on the right side of the crease but sent the open shot over the net, with just 30 sec­onds remaining on the clock. 
"There certainly were a lot of positives tonight," observed Poulin. "There was a break­down on Miami's final goal. That was a heck of a good chance in the closing moments. It was a set play that ran just like we set it up. We'll learn a lot from tonight." 

~­
/~ 
f 
\ 
I I: 
I 
I 
! 
. I 
I,I;j 
fl. 
; 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 
••Home'' to ••Dome" 
An 
Incredible Journey! 
Happy 21st 
K.T.O! 
Love~ ~, Z'ad, Pa, 

Friday, Nov. 1st 8:00p.m. Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by SUB 
......................................-.............. .._..
--~---·-··· 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
• SMC VOllEYBAll 
Belles suffer difficult defeat 
By KATHYRN A COUSINO Sports Writer 
Coming into Tuesday night's match versus Madonna College, head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek was positive and enthused. As it poured outside, the Belles shined in their first game since the fall break. Although losing in four sets to the nationally ranked Madonna Lady Crusaders , their was little evi­dence that the team had a week ofT. 
Coach Schroeder-Biek said, "The fall break is good for heaing fatigue injuries but it also creates rustiness and sometimes players lose the feel of the ball." 
But this year the coach has been impressed with the team because it has gone against the usual and has kept up its con-
Football 
continued from page 20 
get some playing time, but the exact makeup of the line is unknown. 
"I cannot tell you who will start on the offensive line," said Holtz. 
Holtz also commented that Randy Kinder will be inserted into the starting lineup at tail­back, and will likely be backed up by regular fullback Marc Edwards, with sophomore Jamie Spencer getting a good look at fullback. 
"I think Randy Kinder does the best job reading defenses and running hard at the pre­sent time," said Holtz of the move. "I think him and Marc Edwards give us the best chance at tailback." 
And with Jarvis Edison lost to a sprained knee, Allen Rossum may see some time at free safe­centration before and after the week's break. 
The goals for this week were to continue the alteady focused and high intensity level of play, but as witness to the Tuesday night's game, the Belles are well on their way to reaching their objectives. 
The great defense by the Belles helped keep the Lady Crusaders frustrated offensively according to Madonna's Head Coach Jerry Abraham. He was filled with compliments for the SMC squad who displayed "tough defense that took away shots from his players. " 
"They just seemed to dig every ball on us, " said the Madonna coach. 
Mellissa Miller, back row specialist, thought that they didn't play up to the level they could have the first two games, but the last two games showed 
ty, with freshman Deveron Harper filling in at cornerback. Safety A'Jani Sanders has also been cleared to play again, and could see some time. 
With so much uncertainty throughout the lineup, Holtz has reason to fear an upset in the Emerald Isle this weekend. 
"I don't think we're ready to get on an airplane and go play a football game now," said Holtz. 
Suddenly, such a statement doesn't sound like Blarney any­more. 
IRISH NOTES 

The foreign setting of this weekend's game presents many interesting scenarios for the Notre Dame team. 
Much of the press conference was spent talking about Ireland, the crowd element at Dublin's Croke Park, and the condition of the stadium itself. 
Holtz seemed impressed with Croke Park, which he has seen their true talent. As evidence to their late game blossoming in game three, the Belles were down 9-12 only to come back and win 15-13 with their quick saves and patience up at the net. 
Despite the loss, coach Schoeder-Biek is staying posi­tive. She says the team is "working very hard and work­ing hard together." She also notes that the lack of atten­dance doesn't effect their play­ing, but it is difficult for her to see the team work so hard and not have a lot of support . 
The Belles can be next seen on their home court Thursday night at 7 p.m.. The 16-13 SMC squad will face off against Rose-Hulman Institute for the first time. This is Rose-Hulman Institute's first year after going coed, and the game promises to be a successful for the Belles. 
before in a visit to Ireland two summers ago. 
"The one side of the stadium is going to be very impressive," said Holtz. "They've just built an addition on to it, and it's first class. It's as nice as any­thing we have in the United States -the one side of it. The other sid~ is rather old. Both teams are going to be on the same sideline, and that's a little bit different." 
Call it a one-sided affair. 

Asked which team he feels the crowd will be behind more on Saturday, Holtz responded by saying, "I would hope it would be us, because of the nickname, the predominance of Catholicism over there, but by the same token, there are an awful lot of people who have been in the Navy and the Marines around the world. I have no idea who the sentimen­tal favorite would be." 
One would have to assume it would be the Irish. 

The College of Business Administration 
presents: 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1 
9:00AM-4:00PM Atrium of the College of Business Administration 1st and 2nd Floors 
Choose what is right for YOlJZ 
Please pick up a brochure in the College Business Administration Complex for a listing o , companies, session times, and resume critiques
,­


Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA 
C~~qE' Alcohol Awareness Week to "' This Year's Theme: Because We Care
vev ~ 
WJfh .eop P . 
ana dtverc-os,tive 

su ~e p re;. . 'PPorr th eoPie w~-.at'onshi CARE to make responsible
e r-1 ''0 Ps
vee;$· resp decisions before you drink without 
tons ect 
feeling pressure from others.
You rn 
CJke_ 

C#\IRHE to manage your time and CARE about if, when and how C~PJ[E to tell a friend how you feel much you are going to drink.
priorities, balancing studying and
about his or her abusive drinking. 
socializing . 

.______________sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education _______________. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
H\1'1'' IHI{ Illlit\\! 1:\ IIIE "EXT YE\H OF YCH"R LIFE: Ynt·,, c&L'l'r cuuld lllll\L. fon1 ard h\· kap' and hnuJlll' .\ 1clation,hij1 that hc'!.'lll' llll'>' could hr1n!.' vou Ill'\\ lin;tn<.: ial \O.:l'llrtl ~. l>o \< ll;r hc.;r tn attend a famih reunion thi' win­ter. 11om<.' impnnemcnt project' en1o) fa,·nrahlc tnlluencc' o.:arl} in I'N7. Postpone huyin~ a nn" car umil the 'Jlnng. Cn:ali\T ami artistic pur,uit' could kad to a lucrative Ill'\\ career. Job opening' ati\c in both the CIHhtrucllon and t.:omputel field. Y11ur finances 'IHJ\1 'teat.ly imprm ement. 
CELEBRITIES BORN 0!\ THIS DAY: rode1 GntL·l' Slid.. <tL·tor Henry W111kler. lmpr·essionist parnter Alfn:t.l Stsley. \Occ.:r star Die!.'o \ Ltrad<lll<l. 
...\RIES (\lar,h ~1-.-\pril llJ): A prohlo.:m could 'ur fan: out uf nnv.herc Do not p<..tni.:' Help i\ '" ailahlc. ll!non: Ji'-lractiom and to.:nJ to \ita! tasb. Romance ha\ you f~~fing on top of the worlt.l. 
T\l1H.l'S (:'\pril 20-\lay 20): lrhtant n:co!.'nrtinn work> to \·our ath allla~~. l~o" n ~r. do rwt ahu-.e ~<lUr '>p~ual pri1 ilegc·,. Stri\c fur heller balance bet11 ,·en )"Cillr pri~;ne :md pul:lli-: lik 
GE.\11:\1 tl\la\ ~ 1-June ::!0): A g•>ud da) to p(111der f:unily i,sue..;. \laf.-e practical choico.:..; ..-\ re,iden­tlal mm·e "ill take tune <md mone\. Home rep<tirs l·ould be a better option. Think ah<HII an addition if 'Ill! need more n H•111. · C.\:\CEH. 1 June 21-Jul\ 12 ): -\tte111i<l11 w detail i' crucial. Ol:ltain­rng up-to-dat~ information will pre­lent mi,take..;. Carefull~-worded rnenHh can haYe trernenJou' rmpact. You shin~ rna meeting 11 ith Jlltluential people 
I.LO (July 23-.\ug. ~21: \ dn:am nu~ t.:•'ll1!? tnro.: 11h..:n ~ou jlltll fpn:es 11 ith a frio.:nd or special group . .-\ ,k,·r,ionmako.:r gi'e' ~nu the gro.:en 

... 
Please Recycle the Observer 
JACK OHMAN 
light. Hu,rnc" rrr,·,·trll~' .urd tnp' '<'I 
the 'tage lnr .t unrqu,· '1pponulllty. 
vmc;o 1.·\ug ~ ~-s,·pt 22) ln­Lkpth tafl-_, wuh lncnd' :md c>.pcn' will prm rJe \"lHI "llh 1 ;duahlc Ulll­Cl'pl\ or J:lla . ..\ IlL'\\ approach ~~ill both! profit' Takrng a calt.:ulatt:d ri\1\ could hrim! la..;ttnl! lx-nefih. 
LIBRA 1S;pt 21--0ct. 22): Roll up your ,fel'\'C'> ant.! go to worf.. Other' "rll admm· and rmllate vour t.cal. Rnearch cnuld \ icld fact\. th<rt "rll \ell .1 major proj~cl to fi nant.:i:d h;rckcr>. 
SCORPIO (Oct 2.'-NO\. 21 1: Your willinl!nc~\ to ··network·· with other' "ill ;·ield gro.:at results. Ne\1 puhlic rec·ognition i, part of the pic­ture. A long-held wi.,h frnally come' true. 
SAGITTARIUS (1\:ov. 22-Dl'l 21 ): [)i,tant events could affect a pet plan. Anticipated funding may be temporarily delayed. DeYise a n<:11 timetabk. Projet.:t\ that are alreaJ~ prot.lucing revenue deser\·e the lion·, ,hare of \"our attention. RomarKe grat.ILially. t.leepen'>. 
C-\PRICORi\ (Dec. 22-Jan. IYJ: Jn,rdc information ~i\es vou the ed~~ :-ou need in pt~-.uir ~fa career or hu,ine'\ go<rl. FoJio11 up ~~ confidential tip. 'tour businc" pan­ncr or 'pnuse could he inHlh·ed Seek their approval before acting. 
.-\Ql.-\RIUS tJar1. 20-Feb. I~ 1 Seizo.: tile mornclll. Sa\ "·hat other, want bruught out in.to the open Your "''oL·iate\ \\ill bat.:k you up Good 1ime' do 111 n lla1e to L'o.;;t a l(lt of monc1. Seek ine\pensi,·c or frcl' er1tc nainme n1. 
PISCES <Feb 19-.\larch 20J !Ju not b<' 'urpri~ed if a po"·cr pia) div ruph _i(lint fmancial arrangement> OJ'lcn ne\\ lines of communicatton Your nedlent JOb performance in the pa't pays ne\\ di' idend,_ .·\ 1110\ e up tho.: t.:orporat..: ladder i' P' "­'ihk. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
MY 10£.~ IS THAT EVEP80NE 
SHOULD BE REQUIRED TO USE Sf"\ALL FONTS. THAT WAY WE'LL SAVE. Df5K 5PACE. 
"0" 


61 Early three-handed card game 
62 Fire 63 Smut 64 Flash 65 Actor Rob 
66 Illustrious illustrator 
DOWN 

1 Turkeys and such 2 Et --(and 
others) 3 Bank (on) 4 Update 5 For nothing 6 Without 
company 7 Z preceder B 3, on a 
telephone 9 Did stable work 10 Have-­
(argue) 11 Actress Archer 12 "Good--!" 13 Hussein's queen 18 1959 Kingston 
Trio hit 19 Hiatus 23 Rodin sculpture, 
with "The" 24 Killer whales 25 W.W. I battIe site 26Saw 28 Kingly 29 --Beach, Calif. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r---------------------------~or-----------------------------~
,.. 
UJ 
..:E 
0.. 
o­
o­
0 
(.) UJ 
z

AND I'VE. NOTICED TilAT 
VOU'RE 
MANY PEOPLE U5E 
RIGHi. 
;; ~ 

ENTIRE. COLONS IN 
THAT 
... 
c

SITUATION5 WHERE 
.. " 

WAS
VI 
f

f\ SEMICOLON WOULD 
fUN. 
;; ~ 

DO JUST FINE. 
... ~ 


... 
! c 
::> 
"' 
"' 
"' 

11-t£. R£A.L fUN IS WI-\EN \1E. OESCRlBES HIS NE.W IOEAS AT THE NE.~T MEETI.NG. 

Puzzle by David J. Kahn 

31 Prefix with 48 Bygone airline 55 Composer 
history 50 Columnist Stravinsky 3301ive--Smith 56 Brusque 35 Gas station 51 Uncommon bills 57 "Aul~ Lang 
offering 

52 Chicken, so to 36 Patent office 
speak 59 Two-bagger:submission, Abbr.
53 Noted exile maybe place 60 Bill's partner 
38 Pay attention 39 Send back 44 Kind of account 

Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzle 45 Willie Stargell, are available by touch-tone phone: -e.g. 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
47 Exodus Annual subscriptions are available for the commemora­best of Sunday crosswords from the last tion 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Kind of team 
5 Irving Berlin's "--to Be Home" 
9 Country lad 14 Parkay, e.g. 15 Learning 
method 16 1953 John Wayne role 
17 Barnum & Bailey circus fake 
20 Nursery outfit 
21 Sunfish with colorful gill covers 
22 Tout's place 23 Sneaker brand 24 Mideast 
sultanate 
27 Modern locale of ancient Palmyra 
29 "Usher" man 32 "The Shadow" medium 34 Like some fiction 37 Elroy of football fame 40 California 
dessert wine 41 Cato. e.g. 42 Spot 43 Haul: Var. 46 Pamplona 
attraction 47 --speak 49 Fodder figure 51 Pluck, in a way 54 Opening night 
opiners 58 Old Steve Martin phrase, with "a" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

.. 

)
\ 
"" I 
!\ i 
I:; 
'.;:
~); 
SPORTS
I I page 20 Wednesday, October 30, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

leers halt losing streak against Western Michigan 
Urick provides crucial goal to secure tie 

I By CHARLEY GATES 
I 
Sporrs Wrirer 

lr 
,. The Notre Dame hockey team opened their Central Collegiate Hockey Association (CCHA) season with a 3-3 tie against Western Michigan on October 18. 

Senior co-captain Terry Lorenz tied the game in the second period, and sophomore Brian Urick tied the game twice in the third period, as the Irish broke their 10-game losing streak versus Western Michigan. 

Western Michigan scored first just four minutes into the game. Working with a man­advantage, WMU's Joel Irving slapped a rebound past Irish goaltender Matt Eisler. Notre Dame tied the game in the sec­ond period when Lorenz took a lead pass from Tim Harberts and fired a wrist shot into the upper right corner of the net. 
A wild third period featured three goals in 80 seconds. 
WMU's Justin Cardwell took a pass from Mike Melas at the left point and drove through the slot before sending a wrist shot at Eisler. The Irish goal­tender made the save with his left pad, but Mark Koloszy was waiting for WMU's second rebound goal, poking the puck past Eisler. 
Twenty-eight seconds later, Irish defenseman Nathan Borega kept the puck in the blue line and wristed a shot to­wards the net, which WMU goaltender Matt Barnes saved. Urick gathered in the rebound and went around Barnes for a backhanded goal that tied the 
game at two.  y  
42  seconds  later,  WMU  
surged  ahead  again  when  

Darryl Andrews ripped a shot from the left point that deflect­ed off the skate of a defense­man and trickled into the net. With 12 minutes remaining in the game, Urick scored Notre Dame's first power-play goal of the season. He took the re­bound from Benoit Cotnoir's shot at the left circle and scored the fourth rebound goal ofthe game. 
Special teams continue to plague the Irish. For the game, they converted just one of five power play attempts while surrendering two goals in seven chances for WMU. 

"Special teams remain a con­cern for us," Coach Dave Poulin remarked. "We worked on it all week but they scored 

• fOOTBALL 

Holtz concerned about Navy 
By DYLAN BARMMER  Academy, the tendency was to  weekly press conference yes­ 
Assistant Sports Editor  write it off as the unnecessary  terday.  
worries of a seemingly para­ "Defensively, we have con­ 
It's amazing, how times  noid man.  cerns, because their offense is  
change.  In short, Blarney.  very, very similar to Air Force.  
In the past, when Notre Dame  Not anymore.  Chris McCoy is very similar to  
football coach Lou Holtz sat in  Suddenly, the concern seems  Beau Morgan. He has the same  
front of the media and ex­ real, the fear warranted.  type of speed as Beau Morgan,  
pressed grave concern over  "I am concerned about the  and is experienced."  
whether or not his team was  way we're playing at the pre­ "It's hard to defend every­ 
capable of beating the Naval  sent time," said Holtz at his  thing they do when they exe­ 
cute it well. Navy's put up a lot  
of points and a lot of yards, and  
their confidence is outstand­ 
ing."  
The midshipmen, who sail­ 
into Dublin with a 5-1 mark  
and the nation's third-best  
rushing attack, have been dan­ 
gerous so far this season, and a  
big part of their potency is due  
to the play of junior quarter­ 
back McCoy.  
McCoy looked eerily similar to  
Morgan last weekend, running  
rampant on Wake Forest for  
181 yards and two touchdowns  
on just 20 carries in Navy's 47­ 
18 win. With 731 yards on the  
ground this season, the speedy  
McCoy needs just 269 more  
yards to become the first Navy  
quarterback ever to rush for  
1000 yards.  
And the Midshipmen's confi­ 
. dence should be about as high  
as Blarney Castle when they  
face the Irish in their "home­ 
land" this weekend. After all,  
this is the same team that beat  
Air Force on the road 20-17  
earlier in the season.  
One can see, then, why Holtz  
is concerned.  
Normally a mainstay at fullback, M arc Edwards may see time at tail­ "We need to have eleven peo­ 
back this weekend, as the Irish atte mpt to find a rhythm on offense.  ple doing the right thing at the  


two power-play goals. and so much of hockey these days is 
special teams.  You have to  
excel at it."  
On  the  road  last  Friday  

against Ohio State, Eisler led the Irish to a 3-0 victory. He 
continued his stellar play with 4 7 saves, as Notre Dame recorde-d its first CCHA win this season. 
Notre Dame seized a quick 
see HOCKEY I page 18 

right time," said a frustrated Holtz when asked about the 4-2 Irish's inconsistencies. "We don't make plays, we don't tackle, we don't ever seem to have eleven people out there doing what they're supposed to be doing at any given time. I have never seen anything as difficult as I've seen at the pre­sent time." 
The sense of urgency which is now surrounding his team, in addition tc several injuries, have led Holtz to make some changes in the lineup. The loss of offensive line anchor Mike Rosenthal for possibly the re­mainder of the season presents the biggest problem. 
"Mike Rosenthal is an out­standing player, and was one of our leaders on the line," said Holtz. "We will miss him dras­tically." 
Rosenthal's loss will necessi­tate improved play from what has been at times a very weak offensive line. Sophomores Tim Ridder and Alex Mueller will 
see FOOTBALL I page 18 

vs. Navy Big East Championships 
'•. ' 
~ November 2, 8 a.m. 
~ November 2 Q) • Pistons get tougher 
lij 
vs. Ohio State vs. Michigan 

~~ 
November 1, 7:30 p.m. 
~ November 1, 7 p.m. --= see page 16 
l\ ';' 
....

r¥' 
vs. Wisconsin Soccer at St. Francis 

'' 
;.,(..,­

• Avalanche goaltending strong 
~ 
~ 

-
October 31, 7:30 p.m. 
~ October 31, 3 p.m. 
see page 13r,.
'I 
Volleyball vs. Roseat Pittsburgh 

t ~·, t ! t! 
@ November 2, 2 p.m. ~ October 31, 7 p.m. ~
t; 
. ~. 
j . 
.~ 
,: 


