----~-­

Monday, February 19, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 92 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Tax assistance provides 'real world' experience 
By MAUREEN HURLEY pared," said Saint Mary's alumna and Saint Mary's New~ Editor CPA Kristi Horvath, who volunteers with the program. "Anytime I've been there, 
I·:veryone's favorite time of the year is there has been an excellent turnout." approaehing. Student participants agree on the pro­
Tax time. gram's community impact. "The pro­
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­gram is for the working poor. We can dents, staff members 
hopefully get them tax advantages and ai1d Miehiana resi­tax breaks, without them having to pay dents with an annual consultation fees," said Saint Mary's ineome of less than business major Danielle Fikel. $25,000 for 1995 are Milani stresses the real-world experi­nligible for free tax ence accounting majors receive, along eonsultation through with the service provided to the commu­the Tax Assistanee nity. "These are real people, and real Program· L--~-'-M-"'i"'-la_n_i...__..___, money," he said. "This isn't just a hypo­
"It's thn largest pro­thetical textbook problem." gram in Indiana," said Claude Henshaw, business professor Ken Milani, coordinator and professor of' and Saint Mary's coordinator, said the aeeountancy at Notre Dame. students receive highly specialized train­
Aeeounting majors, along with staff ing students to prepare the federal and members from six Michiana accounting state tax returns. "They're trained to firms, ofTnr free consultation at campus help these low-income clients take sitns, along with loeations at local advantage of the tax laws, get deduc­libraries and neighborhood centers. tions, and save money," he said. 
Thnse students take a course in feder­The program is funded by the Notre al tax, along with four weeks of training Dame College of Business and coursns ofTt~red at Notre Dame "focused Administration, with supplies provided on the needs of low-ineome taxpayers," by the Internal Revenue Service and the Milani said. Indiana Department of Revenue. 
In the over the 25 years in existenee, Hepresentatives are available at the tlw program gained popularity. Last Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns year, over IBOO returns were filed by from 2:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. o.n Wednesdays 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
program volunteers. and on the Saint Mary's campus "This is a very valuable program. A Tuesdays from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Accounting students offer tax consultation through the lot of thesn people could not ordinarily room 304 of the I Iaggar College Center Tax Assistance Program. The service is offered throughout the week at both campuses, have their taxes professionally pre-through April 15 for consultation. along with locations in the Michiana community. 


ND announces new trustees 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Danw graduates Nancy llangnl and Thomas Larkin and Northwest1~rn University Chan­enllor Arnold Wnber have been nleeted to thn University of Notre Dame's Board of Truswes. 
An associate professor of physies at Fairfield University, llat~gel graduated from Notre I>arm~ in IIJH I as co-valedicto­rian of her dass with a bache­lor of scienee degree in nwtallurgir~al 1mgineering and rnatnrials seim11·.e. 
After earning her master's and doctoral rlegmns from the University of California, Berke­lny, she worked as a researeh scinntist at the SiiHJHHlS He­SI~areh Laboratories in Erlan­gen, Germany. She joined the faeulty in the Department of Materials Scienee and Engi­neering at UCLA in 1987 as an assistant professor and two years later was promoted to as­sociate professor with tenure. She moved to Fairfield Univer­sity, a Jesuit institution, in Fair­field, Conn., in 1993. 

llangel's research interests are in the area of semiconduc­tor materials, including the de­velopment and modeling of in­frared detectors for use on as­tronomy satellites. She reeeived the Excellence in Teaching Award from the UCLA School of Engineering in 1989 and was selected in 1990 to participate in the Kellogg National Fellowship Program, a leader­ship development initiative. 
llaegel serve"d on Notre Dame's Board from 1987 to 

1990 in one of the two trustee positions reserved for recent graduates of the University. She has served on Notre Dame's Advisory Council for Graduate Studies and Hesearch since 1990. 
Larkin has been president and chief operating officer of the Los Angeles-based Trust Company of the West (TCW) since 1977. lie also serves as chairman and managing direc­tor of TCW Funds Management, Inc., and vice chairman and managing director of TCW Asset Management Company. 
Larkin earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Notre Dame in 1961 and pursued postgraduate studies at the New York University Graduate School of Business from 1962 to 
see TRUSTEE I page 8 


Car 54, Where are you? 
Notre Dame Security officer Kevin Knight works the weekend shift at the dispatch center. 

Chami: Clinton's plan for banks likely to fail 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Grameen Bank in Bangladesh seems to have caught President Clinton's eye. The bank's special program, giving its rural poor access to commercial loans when they might otherwise be denied credit, appears to be working since its inception in 1976. 
Now, President Clinton and Congress are trying to establish a nationwide system of com­munity banks to assist inner­city entrepreneurs, applying what has worked in countries such as Bangladesh to the U.S. Legislation that would provide federal money for the estab­lishment of several community banks has been proposed. 
Ralph Chami, a Notre Dame assistant professor of finanee and business economics, and Jeffrey Fischer, a deputy assis­tant director at the Federal Trade Commission, disapprove. 
In Chami and Fischer's new study, recently published in the Cato Journal, they write, "eom­munity banking in the United States on a large scale is unlikely to be profitable." 
"Inner cities may need capi­tal, but the monitoring mecha­nism that works so well in rural Bangladesh is not avail­able in urban America," they added. 
In an examination of com­munity banking projects and related institutions abroad, Chami and Fischer found that successful models have been based in areas with relatively homogeneous and geographi­cally immobile borrowers. These factors allowed lenders to use monitoring as a substi­tute for the trouble-free credit history required by commereial banks. 
Chami explained his findings by using the kye system found in the Los Angeles Korean com­munity as an example of a suc­cessful model. 
"The kye systnm uses a more informal approach. A fresh immigrant can receive a loan from a private lender because his boss vouches for his credi­bility. This new immigrant is less integrated into soeiety than someone who has lived in the 
U.S. all his/her life and there­fore, it would be more diflicult to run with the money and lose face in front or his/her small, ethnic eommunity," said Chami. 
Chami and Fischer also ad­dressed common culture and laek of mobility as prime rea­sons for the suceess of the Bangladesh bank. 
In their study, Chami and Fiseher state, "Living in a small village makes disappearing within the village impossible, unlike within a large city ... Family ties make relocat­ing to avoid repayment a cost­linr decision than in a highly mobile soeiety such as the United States...Thus the eombi­nation of monitoring and geo­graphic immobility allows the bank to remain profitable despite the bank's inability to screen out high-risk borrowers as do commereial banks." 
Clinton's proposal of the cre­ation of a system of 100 eom­munity banks in urban America is completely difl'erent from the 
see BANKS I page 8 


,---­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 19, 1996 
r 
I
I 
' 

Fire upthat torch 
There are competing 
theories as to why Greek civilization fell from great­ness. Some argue that, like all lights which burn brightly, the majesty of Greek culture was des­tined to eventually fade. Others argue that it is 

simply because, as a 
Dave Kellett 
people, they liked to Staff Cartoonist 
wrestle naked and reward the winner with a hat made of leaves. 
Every facet of Greek civilization turned out for the big Olympic event: the Spartans (who later lent their name to every junior high foot­ball team ever formed), the Athenians, the Armenians... they were all there. They wres­tled, ran, and tossed rocks and sticks of vari­ous weights and lengths in a furious competi­tion as to who could be more naked while doing it... and who could get more hats. And now, its upon us again. The Olympics. 
Though we have thankfully done away with the naked wrestling, we have replaced it with something much more insidious: televi­sion advertising. For the nine months previ­ous to the Olympics, we get to hear, in end­lessly patriotic tones, how vitally important it is that we buy Turtle Wax brand wax, as only Turtle Wax brand wax is the official wax of the 1996 Olympics. Ignore the fact that car wax is as relevant to the games as little knitted wool sweaters are for mollusks, just buy the wax. 
One good aspect about the Olympics is the speed with which we all become experts at events we had never previously encountered. "Good Lord 'n butter," we all shout, (Turtle Wax in hand) "Jan Vander Handerskodjl just got a 3:47 on the luge!" when just a few days earlier we were pretty sure the "luge" was a type of phlegm problem. This is not even mentioning "curling," a sport which absolute­ly no one plays but which is in the Olympics because BY GOD CANADA WOULD HAVE A SPORT OF ITS OWN IN THE OLYMPICS. Within a matter of days, we'll even under­stand and be cheering for a "good brush" by the Russian curling team. Sports like eques­trian events, which seemed useless to every­one in the world not named Buffy or Trevor, suddenly become important when an American brings home the gold. 
Similarly, we all get incredibly wrapped up in the life of that Gambian runner who, every day for four years, had to make two shoes for himself out of Gambian yak innards so that he might practice for his big event. This is what the Olympics are all about-the triumph of the human spirit. 
It is the simple beauty of the Olympics which perhaps most attracts us. It is the knowledge that human civilization has developed to a point where we can put petty problems and quarrels behind us and let sporting competi­tion take the place of war or bitter trade talks. And, lest we forget, it is the knowledge that we have advanced to the point where we can do all that...with our clothes on. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production Kristi Kolski Mike "My favorite show is Maureen Hurley 'Lois and Clark"' Norbut Sports Lab Tech 
Tim McConn Mike "!like to do and Caroline "!like to read think about anything everything Kristi rypes" other than my job" 
Blum Hungeling 
Graphics Accent Tommy "Don't mess with Tim "What am I doing my hair" Roland here" Sherman 
Viewpoint Catherine Deely Meaghan Smith Kristin Trabucco 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wo~u1 Ar A GuNcw 
Officials investigate Amtrak train wreck in Maryland 
WASHINGTON 
Investigators picked through mangled wreckage ~ Train crash in Maryland Sunday to determine why a commuter train was '·, ',, How an ~mtrak_ and a Maryland co~muter train moving more than twice as fast as it should have 1'·& collided Fnday evemng, accordmg to 
· b " 1 · · t Amt k '. "'-prehm1nary reports. ~
been JUs.t etore s ammmg m .o a? ra p~s-~~" l:,i MARC senger lmer. Eleven people dwd m the ensumg ~ -,,, commuter 
fireball. ~.....'i ·""' train: 
The MARC commuter train was going 63 mph DFreight ~-97~. ' , c when its engineer apparently sighted the ap-train· · ~*A.''·,. ~~ngtrain proaching Amtrak locomotive and slammed on • . ~~~ (',, III!IJ southeast on the emergency brakes Friday evening, National ~.z/:~~~!rf~n ·~
~~*~' track 2 when Transportation Safety Boa_rd member Jo~n Goglia track 2 to pass ~~ '· , crash occurs said. It was too late to avmd the deadly p1leup. slower fre1ght . . • 11 dead were 
train on track 1 • · reportedlyin first MARC
A signal a few miles back should have warned 
the MARC train to slow to 30 mph and be pre­
pared to stop. Investigators want to know 
whether the engineer missed that signal or if it 
malfunctioned. 
"Clearly the focus is moving toward the opera­
0 4
-..-::::1 

tor since we have found absolutely no difficulties MIIM anywhere else," Goglia said Saturday. 9® But the signal cannot be completely checked 
......··•·•··.·. Md.
until the wreckage is removed from the tracks, a 9N Wash.,
.Y'·, ...-. 
y· · "'" D.C.t •. ;.

process that was continuing Sunday. 
" 

The signals are operated by radio from CSX 

MARC

Transportation's central offices in Jacksonville, 
locomotive 
Fla. 


First lady responds to media criticism 
WASHINGTON 
Hillary Rodham Clinton says that although much criticism of her is politi­cally motivated, she also made mistakes early in her husband's presidency because of unfamiliarity with Washington. "I suddenly came to a place where perception is more impor­tant than it had ever been in my life ­where I was being, I thought, painted in 

ways based almost on tea-leaf reading," Mrs. Clinton said in a lengthy magazine article in The New Yorker maga­zine, on newsstands Monday. "But I finally realized that this was serious business for the people who cover poli­tics in this town and think about it, and so I had to pay at least some attention." She now feels she should have been more open with the press, she said. Asked to explain the animosity toward her, Mrs. Clinton said: "I apparently remind some people of their mother-in-law or their boss, or something." 
Child cares for baby as mom lies dead 
VANCOUVER, Wash. For two days after his mother died in their apartment, 2­year-old Thomas Hubbard fed his baby sister cereal and took care of her, not letting in the new baby sitter because she was a stranger. Through the door, he told her his mommy was sleeping. Paramedics later found the mother, Patti Sue Jones, in bed with a book over her face, as if she'd been reading. An autopsy failed to pin­point a cause of death for the 36-year-old woman, but there was no evidence of foul play, deputy coroner Brian Miller said Sunday. While his mother lay dead, two-year­old Thomas, nicknamed "Tray," watched over his 1 1/2­year-old sister, Kiana. He couldn't get milk for her be­cause Jones had put child locks on the refrigerator door, so he fed her cold cereal and crackers, family members said. "Somehow he knew she needed something to eat," said Bella Yost, Jones' mother. ''I'm just amazed." Ac­cording to a police report, the baby sitter, 28-year-old Sarah Patrice McLatchey, arrived last Monday afternoon. Thomas didn't let her in when she i).nocked because he didn't know her, Hubbard said. 
Defense begins in Jordan murder case 
LUMBERTON, N.C. The defense theory in the James Jordan murder case is simple -Daniel Andre Green was not there when Michael Jordan's father was killed. Woodberry Bowen and fellow defense lawyer Angus Thompson begin pre­senting their case Monday. Defense witnesses are expected to testify they saw Green at a cookout the night of July 22, 1993. Jordan was killed early the next day while he napped in his car, parked along the side of a highway. A witness will testify that Larry Martin Demery, Green's co-defendant and the prosecution's chief witness, frantically knocked on Green's door early on July 23 seeking help to dispose of Jordan's body, Bowen said. Demery pleaded guilty in the case last year. Demery and Green both were charged with first-degree murder, armed robbery and conspiracy. District Attorney Johnson Britt, who rested his case Friday after seven weeks of testimony, said he has shown that Jordan was murdered and that the murder weapon was found in Green's home. 
Mexico drug trade under fire 
WASHINGTON The Clinton administration is considering whether to remove Mexico from its list of countries making progress in fighting the drug trade, after receiving reports that cartels are on the rise there. Mexico is one of 31 coun­tries under review by the Justice and State departments under the Foreign Assistance Act, said a White House official who spoke Sunday on condition of anonymity. The act requires the president to certify, by March 1, which nations are cooperating with efforts to curb drug trafficking. "Mexico is a concern for the administration," the official said. "It is under review." The Mexican gov­ernment protested the review Sunday, saying the United States should place more emphasi's on reducing the demand for drugs that is fueling the drug trade. "The Mexican government considers this as an interventionist practice in the internal affairs of the states," said Jorge Pinto, Mexico's consul-general in New York. Pinto said Mexico has made "significant achievements" during 1995. He noted that President Ernesto Zedillo has declared drug trafficking to be Mexico's most important national security problem. 

Monday, Feb. 19 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 19. 40s 
OHIO 


' 
GOLD WARM STATIONARY 

Cl1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L 63 ESI [III 0 . ~ 8 {) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTClOUOY CLOUDY 
Vta Associated Prr~ss 

Atlanta 59 40 Dallas 78 51 New York 37 18 
Baltimore 39 20 Denver 64 32 Orlando 75 43
d"'l~~~~~~ ~ c£C1 
Boston 33 12 Los Angeles 68 59 Phoenix 78 56
~ ~ ...:..:..:. ---~ ~ 
,,,,, '''' ..... ·.:.·.:: --­
Showers T~storms Rain Fl~r;ies snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 40 25 Minneapolis 38 15 Pittsburgh 35 17 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 43 19 New Orleans 71 56 StLouis 54 33 
----------------------------------------------------------~-~ 
Monday, February 19, 1996 
Observer announces General Board members 
By DAVE lYLER  • Meaghan Smith,  
Mardi Gras Corrcspondcm  Viewpoint Editor. Smith. a  
Pangborn Hall resident, is a  
NEW ORLEANS  junior English major from  
Observer Editor-in-Chief­ Springboro, Ohio. She is cur­ 
elect Liz Foran announced  rently Viewpoint Editor.  
the members of the 1996­ • Mike Huma, Photo Editor.  
1997 General Board yester­ Ruma hails from Omaha,  
day.  Neb., and is a junior Sorin  
Joining the 1996-97  Hall resident majoring in  
Managing Editors Patti  Science Pro-Professional and  
Carson and Tom Roland and  Spanish. He is currently  
Business ManagAr Matt Casey  News Photo Editor.  
are Editorial Board members:  Members of the Operations  
• Brad Prendergast. News  Board are:  
Editor. Prendtlrgast is a Stan­ • Ellen Hyan, Advertising  
ford Hall resident from Fort  Manager. Ryan, a Siegfried  
Wayne, Ind., and is a sopho­ Hall resident, is a junior  
more History and Economics  Finance major from Norman,  
major. He is currently an  Okla. She is currently an  
Associate News Editor.  Advertising Account  
• Tim Sherman, Sports Edi­ Executive.  
tor. Sherman is a junior Ac­ • Jed Peters, Advertising  
counting major from Boston,  Design Manager. Peters. from  
Mass., and a resident of  Lake Forest, Ill., is a sopho­ 
Grace I fall. He is currently an  more Flanner Hall resident  
A'isociate Sports Editor.  and a Marketing major. lie is  
• Joe Crawford, Accent Edi­ currently an Assistant  
tor. Crawford is a  Advertising Design Manager.  
Communications major with  • Tara Grieshop,  
concentrations in film and  Production Manager.  
video production, with a sec­ Grieshop, a Pasquerilla East  
ond major In Computer  resident, is a sophomore  
Allplicalions. He is a Flanner  Psychology and Music major·  
Hall resident from  from Harlan. Ky. Sho is cur­ 
Williamsport, Penn .. and is  rently a Production Assistant.  
currently an Assistant Acctmt  • Sean Gallavan, Systems  
Editor.  Manager. Galla van is a junior  
• Caroline Blum. Saint  Science Computing major  
Mary's Editor. Blum is a  from Upper Marlboro. Md. He  
junior Holy Cross Hall resi­ Jives off-campus and is cur­ 
dent frm.n St. Louis, Mo.. and  rently Systems Manager.  
doublo majoring in Political  • Tyler Weber, Controller.  
Science and Communications.  Weber is a junior Accounting  
She is currently the Saint  maJor from Kalispell, Mont.  
Mary's Sports Editor.  He is a Fisher Ball resident.  


• Spirituality . 
• Simple Ufestyle (option for the poor) 
• Service  
• Phoenix, Arizona • Oakland, California • Portland, Oregon  • Colorado Springs, Colorado • Brockton, Massachusetts • Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania  



HOLYCROSS ASSOCIATES 

Information Meeting Monday, February 19; 7:00p.m. Haggar College Center -SMC 
Application Deadline: March 8 
Phone: 631-5521 

The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Bomb explodes London bus 
By AUDREY WOODS Associated Press 
LONDON 

An explosion tore through a double-decker bus in central London on Sunday night, injur­ing at least six people and showering the street with shards of glass and twisted metal. 
There was no official confir­mation of deaths. At least six people being treated for in­juries, the ambulance service and a hospital spokeswoman said. 
Police said they had received no warning about the explosion, and there was no immediate indication of who might have been responsible. However, sus­picion immediately fell on the Irish Hepublican Army. 
On Feb. 9, the IHA broke its 17-month cease-fire with a truck bomb that devastated the Docklands business center in east London, killing two people and wounding scores. 
Last week, police defused a bomb in a telephone booth in central London. 
Ambulances and five fire en­gines rushed to the Aldwych area of central London Sunday night, emergency services of­ficials said. 
Scotland Yard said the explo­sion occurred on Wellington Street near the Strand at 10:38 p.m. (5:38 p.m. EST). It said a number of casualties were re­ported. 
The red double-decker re­mained upright on its four wheels, but the blast had turned the top into just a few mangled shreds of metal. The bottom was gutted by fire, and all of the windows all blown out. 
The explosion site, near the Waldorf Hotel, would have been filled with theatergoers on any other night but Sunday, when most London stages are dark. 
Eyewitness Anthony Yates, 26, said he believed at least three people were dead. 
"I was walking down the road and I saw a big white flash in the sky," Yates said. "I looked and then I saw a double-decker bus but there was nothing left of it, it was completely blown to pieces." 
Yates continued: "When the bomb went off, a taxi drove into the bus. 
"The NatWest bank outside is badly hit. The bus driver and the taxi driver both looked dead." 
He said: "There's a guy lying outside the bus saying 'my legs, my legs.' There was another guy with blood coming from his jaw." 
Lawyer Raymond Levy was in his car only 30 feet from the blast. 
"I thought there was only the bus driver on board and when I got out of the car and got to the bus, he had got out but there were flames everywhere," Levy said. 
"The engine was still running and I was very worried that the petrol would explode. 
With the help of a <·.ab driver they openlld the hood of the bus and turned off the engine, he said 
"The bus driver was the only person that I saw injured and the emergency serviees were on the scene within about two min­utes, " he said. "There were a few passers-by around and one woman was in shock and was running down the road scream­ing." 
A radio reporter for the British Broadcasting Corp., Paul Rowan, said there were pieces of metal and shards of glass "for around 50 yards all over the place. 
"I saw one woman who looked in a very bad way, she was face down on the road with bad-looking head injuries." 
Scott Grover, a 32-year-old tourist from Boston, said: "We were walking along when we suddenly heard this almighty bang. 
"The front of the bus was completely blown uway but there didn't seem to be many people in it and I don't know how many were injured. 



Series reviews Plessy verdict 
Special to The Observer cuss the racial construction of 
citizenship, current legal issues 
The centennial of the land­of race education, historical mark Supreme Court decision trends and implications of Plessy v. Ferguson will form the housing segregation, the backdrop for the 1996 llenkels NAACP as a response to Plessy,Visiting Scholar Series begin­historically black colleges, and ning Feb. 19 at Notre Dame. Plessy's effects on law and pub­
Titled "Separate and Still Un­lic order. 
equal: The Persistence of Coordinated by Notre Dame's Hacial Segregation in American Urban Institute for CommunityLife," the six-part series will and Educational Initiatives, the examine racial discrimination Henkels Visiting Scholar Series as experienced by African­is a program of the University's Americans 100 years after the College of Arts and Letters and Plessy decision mandated "sep­is made possible through an arate but equal" treatment for endowment established by Paul blacks and whites. and Barbara Henkels. All lec­Six leading scholars will dis-tures are free and open to the 
public. The speakers, topics, dates, times and sites are: 
• 
Evelyn Brooks-lliggin­botham, associate professor in the Harvard Divinity Scht)ul and in the W.E.B. DuBois Institute for Afro-American Studies at Harvard University, "Hemem­bering Plessy: The Hacial Con­struction of Citizenship," Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. in the llesburgh Library Auditorium. 

• 
John Borkowski, partner in the New Orleans law firm !logan & Hartson, "Contempo­rary Legal Issues of Hace in Public Education," on Feb. 27 at 4:15 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 

• 
Douglas Massey, professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, "America's Housing Aparthllid: Past, Pre­sent and Future," March 19, 4:15p.m. at the esc. 

• 
Dianne Pinderhughes, pro­fessor of political science and Afro-American Studies and di­rector of the Afro-American Studies and Research Program at the University of Illinois, "Why There Will be an NAACP in the 21st Century," on March 28 at 4:15p.m. at the esc. 

• Norman Francis, president of Xavier University in New Or­leans, "Piessy and the !Use of the llistorically Black College," on April 9 at 4:15 p.m. at the esc. 

• 
Charles Willie, professor of education and urban studies at the Harvard University Gradu­ate School of Education, "Law and Order in Civil Society: Learnings from Plessy v. Fer­guson," on April 18 at 4:15 


p.m. at the esc. 
IIIII 'IIIITIY lEI IIIUifAIT IEIIITIY 
17ze Prefl•rred Registry 
Reserve luxurious rooms or pri­vate homu for Special Events, Graduation, or Footbal gamu. or stay at the Moose Krause House when available. 
Reservations available NOWI 
To rrsrrvr: 
Call (219)273-7003 • Fax (219)273 2455 


--~------------------------.­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPAIGN NEWS Monday, February 19, 1996 
GOP rivals surge toward New Hampshire primary 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 
Republican rivals Bob Dole, Pat Buchanan and Lamar Alexander wrestled with their pasts Sunday as they tried to shore up prospects for winning -or just surviving-the New Hampshire presidential pri­mary. 
With two days to go before the pivotal contest, the race has cial dealings and his 1985 pro­posal to enact a state income tax -issues raised in new Dole 


L-...-•._· ~ 

ads. "Senator Dole is running a 1. List wages, salaries and tips
b•


negative, desperate campaign. f arried or single Wlth no chllllrcn.----: 
2. I ~\3 ooO per adult. If a single parent 

His campaign must show me 
Flat taxers subtra~f ho~sehold), subtract $17,000. .
moving up very rapidly if that's (head $S 000 per dependent ch1ld. all he has to say about our fu­While major 3. Subtract b •1 by 0 l7.lftherc is no 
4 Mul!lply a ance · ture," Alexander said on NBC's bala~ce, you owe no federal income taX.
differences mark the

"Meet the Press." He denied presidential candidate
any financial wrongdoing and flat tax plans proposed 
Steve Forbes 

pledged not to raise marginal 
by Republican

income tax rates if elected 
grown increasingly volatile. For Dole, deadlocked with Buchanan for first place in weekend polling data, every vote is crucial. 
Dole moved up a planned en­dorsement by former rival Phil Gramm even though polls showed the Texas senator had minimal support here when he quit the race last week. 
Some surveys released this weekend included Alexander in a three-man tie for first, while others placed him solidly be­hind Dole and Buchanan. Pub­lisher Steve Forbes has steadily sunk to a distant fourth. 
Fighting for an outright win, Buchanan defended controver­sial statements on women and race from his earlier cam­paigns and editorial writings by saying Sunday "the statute of limitations has run out on those things." 
Dole, haunted by the 1988 loss here which knocked him out of that race, tried Sunday to lower the stakes in Tuesday's balloting -though he earlier insisted it would determine the nominee. 
"I probably should have said if Bob Dole wins New Hamp­shire, Bob Dole would be the nominee," the Senate majority leader said on ABC. "If we don't win New Hampshire, we'll win North and South Dakota." 
By an evening rally in Exeter, Dole was considerably more upbeat: "I smell victory in the air. We will start ending the era of Bill Clinton on Tuesday night here." 
In his own appearance on the television news shows, Alexan­der was again dogged by ques­tions about his lucrative finan­president. 

In a last-minute frenzy of ac­tivity, candidates swarmed morning news shows before navigating the slushy streets for more old-fashioned New Hampshire politicking. Their field organizations also kicked into high gear, deploying volun­teers to church parking lots where they papered windshields with campaign literature. 
In terms of raw exposure, Forbes outpaced rivals with at least three campaign stops sandwiched between two net­work appearances and a paid half-hour of live evening televi­sion broadcast statewide. 
At an evening forum which drew only the bottom half of the eight-man pack, Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar pushed his national sales tax as a remedy to the "flat" economy. Without the kind of tax changes he wanted, Lugar said, "the American dream is effectively over." 
In endorsing Dole Sunday ­instead of next week in South Carolina as planned -Gramm warned the success and image of the Republican Party rested on keeping the nomination from Buchanan. 
Picking up that theme with­out naming Buchanan, Dole said "We have got to bring the economic and the social conservatives together. You can't divide us and expect to win in November." 
Gramm gave Dole an even bigger lead in the endorsement game; he's backed by 24 gov­ernors and 29 senators. Dole also got the nod Sunday from The Boston Globe, one of the most widely read papers in the state's voter-rich southern tier. 

PLAYING M W:\SHINGH.."N HALL ON TIJLIRSDW, FUIR.Lit\RY 22, FRIDAY, FU\Rllt\RY 23 AND S:\IURDJ\Y, fEt\Rlli\RY 24 (MAIIN[T r\ND [V[NING) M.<\.'iTDtCAR.D AND VtsA ORDERS CALL~ 631·8128 

§.ll.llpportreJ. lby a grant Jbrom the P au[ l\1. and Barlbara Her.Jkeb \'isiting Scholar Series anJ the linstitute for Scholarship in the Lilberal Arts. 
presidential candidates 
1. Lisr "< 

2. Add ages, sa/ariesand leaders, they have 3. Add :Jl~~resr incomeand lips 
4. Add ca ~dend Income

this in common: Their 5. Subtra Pll;J/ gains, or 
6. Sub cr mortga e SUbtract ca .authors say they're J· Subr~:~i f;frs ro ~h~~:~esr paym~~~ losses 
5 
· Subrracr $S • 00 for ea h

simple enough to fit 9. Mu111 1 .OOo per d c adu/r YouP.owe no~Jdeb~IIIIce by o~f;ndenr cJuJd 
on a postcard. .S •If raJ Inc · (Iflh
Buc~· You l'eceiv"" ome tax). ere rs no bai· 
IIIId lliJ WouJd ...., amuJrun. ance 
. coUecr a 20 exempt lh fi illion-doU ' 
rmpose -[Jerce e trsr $5 · ar 'nheritan 
P-.

IIIId 20 ::allartffs o~~l~x on the ,;:;ctn ofits Val~=· •"s'dential 
nr on Clunese ~rcenr on lap· e Would also p candidate 
llllports. IIIIese rmporrs at Buchanan 
AP/VVm. J. Castello, R. Kowlessar 
RESERVE OFFICIIS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 

SUMMER SCHOOL FOB PEOPLE 
ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 

m SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAlE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 


----------------------------------~~--------~--­
Monday, Februa..!.ry_1_9__:_'_19_9_6___________T_:__:h::.:e=-O=--b=-=s:-=:er:_:_v::.::.er_•~C=AM:..=-:--=-P=--IA_=-==-IG--=-=-N__:___::_N--'--E=-=W__:_:__S_::___________________p_a_ge_S 

Former rival Gramm gives support to Dole 
By JOHN KING 
Alisndated Press 
MANCIIESTEH, N.H. 

.Just four days after he quit the Hepublican presidential race, Texas Sen. Phil Gramm endorsed Bob Dole on Sunday and warned the success and image of the Hepublican Party rested on keeping the nomina­tion from Pat Buchanan. 
"I believe that Bob Dole is the one Hepublican candidate in this race today who can bring together economic conservatives and who can bring together social conserva­tives and who can make the Hnpublican Party again one united party that is committed to beating Hill Clinton and com­mitted to changing America," Gramm said in delivering his 
A series ofTuesdAy evening lectures on -thought. 
Rev. Marvin 
" 
The Conversion of Jacques And Rai~sll, . · in the Jardin des PIAntes u 

' 'tij;h;,_,.,,;, MAr it A in CenterJ' 7J4 H;sbtir. 
support. 
Publicly, party leaders not in­volved in the race have pro­fessed neutrality. ''I'm not go­ing to get in the middle," House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Saturday when asked about the contentious race. But Gingrich has privately voiced alarm to associates about Buchanan's early strength, and he is hardly a lone voice among GOP establishment figures. 
"They are in terminal panic," Buchanan said Sunday, rallying his crowds by suggesting he was coming under attack be­cause GOP establishment fig­ures feared he was about to seize control of the party. 
Most senior Gramm support­ers among elected Republican officials have quickly rallied to Dole's side. 

Buchanan riding high in polls 
ByTOM RAUM 
Associated Press 
NASHUA. N.H. 
Commentator Pat Buchanan, riding high from polls showing him in a virtual dead heat with Bob Dole to win the New Hampshire primary, character­ized himself Sunday as leader of a political revolution of "peasants with pitchforks." 
"This is too much fun, this is too much fun. We've got them all on the run. They're nervous and frightened," Buchanan told a boisterous rally in which more than 1,000 of his sup­porters, many shouting "Go Pat Go" and waving signs, crowded into a hotel ballroom. 
Several hundred more surged outside in a lobby after police shut the ballroom, declaring it a potential fire hazard. 
His voice hoarse, Buchanan proclaimed himself the man of the hour -and of the month ­and predicted victory on Tues­day and in November over President Clinton. 
Multimillionaire publisher Steve Forbes was "Mr. Jan­uary. I'm Mr. February," Buchanan boasted. 
"History is about to be made in the state of New Hamp­shire," Buchanan asserted. "The establishment in Wash­ington is shaking in its boots at what's going on here." 
"They are in a terminal panic," Buchanan said, speak­ing of both Hepublicans and Democrats. "They hear the shouts of the peasants over the hill. All the peasants are com­ing with pitchforks. We're go­ing over the top." 
Buchanan continued to direct his appeal at social conserva­tives and economic conserva­tives, with just two days to go to the crucial first-in-the-nation 

The Republican debate 
The first major debate ofthe Republican candidates for the White House mixed discussion oftaxes and trade with jostling for position in New Hampshire. Highlights: 


Pat Buchanan 
Foreign trade­

"When you cut trade deals that ; force Amerimns i to compete with 
people making a ; dollar an hour and 25 cents a11 hour in 
China and 75 cents an hour in Singapore, wages are goi11g '?. go down. 

His philosophy-"1/'s a . conservativism ofthe heart that speaks ! up for middle America/Is who are ! burdened by taxatio11, and who have to ! see the wives go out and work when they don't want to work. " i 
·····································································································; The race-To Bob Dole: "If I'm such ' an extremist. why are you pirating my · ideas and parroti11g my rhetoric?" 
LAmar Alexander 
Weltare-"/'d rather cancel Washi11gton's welfare and take the $50 billion that we spend on that and put it in the form ofneighborhood charity. " 
Taxes-"Our new tax system ought to make it possible for pensions andfor health care to follow you from one job to the next." 


Foreign trade­
"We can never raise our standard of living by...building a wall around the country. 11wt s1101 putting America first, that's putting America last." 

protect their children from the 
teaching of "godless evolution," 
suggesting that he questions 
the theory of evolution. The conservative Republican 
said parents "have a right to 
insist that godless evolution not 
be taught to their children or 

Bob Dole 
Foreign trade­
"We"t•e got about /,000 companies in New Hampshire who export. They couldn't do that ifyou had Pat Buchanan stheory." 

Clinton-"He talks left and govems right, or talks right and governs left. " 
Himself-Said he's "a mainstream conservatit•e candidate with answers and ideas going into the next cei!IUI)'. " 
Steve Forbes 
Economy-"We're like apatient with . walking pneumonia. We're out ofbed. :but we're not1•ery well. " 
Foreign trade-"We tried isolation in the past, and got a Great Depression as a result." Favors NAFTA am/ GAIT The race-Said he regretted some ofthe negatit•e ads he aired in Iowa. "Ifothers do them. I won't do it again." 

California Rep. Bob Doman on the race: "We have to siOfJ tearing at one another, and focus. The target is Clinton, the moral crisis in the White House." 
APfT. Tso 
their children not be indoctri­nated in it. 
"I believe these things are best decided at the local level. That's why I am going to shut down the U.S. Department of Education,' he said on ABC's "This Week With David Brink­ley." 
Asked by ABC reporter Sam Donaldson whether he accepted the creationist belief that God made the world in six days. Buchanan responded, "God did it according to the Bible. You may believe you are descended from monkeys, I don't b£llieve it." 
Buchanan, a Catholic, said he believed "the New Testament is literally the word of God and the Old Testament is the inspired word of God." 
"I believe that children should not be forced to believe the Bible but I think that every child should know what is in the Old and New Testament." 
Buchanan has won a strong following from Christian con­servatives for his advocacy of the rights to school prayer and his outspoken criticisms of al­ternative lifestyles. 
Later, at the rally here, he mentioned his appearance and ridiculed panel member George Will, a conservative columnist. "lie started lapping at me like a little poodle," Buchanan said. "I had to take a newspaper and roll it up .... " 
Buchanan stood on a stage with about a dozen former New Hampshire supporters of Texas Sen. Phil Gramm and suggested that, even though Gramm had endorsed Dole, he had the backing of much of Gramm's rank-and-file organization in the state. 
"Phil's organization will join us" in rallying behind "a new conservative that will provide voice for the voiceless," Buchanan said. 




-----~-----­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 19, 1996 





Balkan leaders recommit to peace accord 
By SRECKO LATAL Sarajevo. 
Associated Press They also reached a number of specific agreements, includ­ROME ing a unified government for 
Balkan leaders promised the divided city of Mostar and Sunday to stick by the peace procedures for arresting sus­plan that halted the Bosnian pected war criminals. war, averting what interna­As a result, the Bosnian Serbs 
tional mediators called a poten­agreed Sunday to resume con­tial crisis that threatened to tacts with NATO, which they scuttle the accord. had suspended after the arrest 
After a weekend of emer­and extradition to the Nether­gency talks, U.S. Assistant Sec­lands of two Serb officers sus­retary of State Richard Hoi­pected of war crimes. brooke said he received com­The announcement came af­mitments from the leaders to ter 25 hours of negotiations. abide by the accord even on dif­Holbrooke had called the presi­ficult issues like the reunifica­dents of Croatia, Serbia and tion of the Bosnian capital Bosnia to Rome to push them 
,_ Serbs flee··SarajeVo:1 
city to change ha.rids 
. : ;,?~=··o:.• .• :: 

Anodated Preas spread reeling that, the Mu§Jim-led gove ment SARAJEVO cannot coexist in Sar~jevo or Hundreds of panicked Serbs elsewhere in Bosnia; ,,.,, 
fled part<> of Sarajevo on Sun­In Rome, Serbian ~~esi~ent day as a summit in Rl}me Slpbodan• Milosev)c aA4 his made plain they must relin· -new a.Ily; Bosnian • Sel'b, Pnme quish control of those areas to Minister Rajko Kasagic~ urged the Muslim-led government. the Saraj£vo Serbs ttfstay and Government police are trust ininternational supervi­
scheduled to begin taking sion of the Muslj~-led gov· control of Serb Sarajevo P,e~t · ernment'~> police/'''''.···· weekeud under the auspi(;eS But Bosnian Ser of the Dayton peace accord, Radovan Karadzic 8$$8.-iled the 
which calls for the entire city world for forcing hi-S people to belong to the part of Bosnia out anti said nothing could led by the Muslim-Croat fed­make S~bs·stay after S~ajevoeration. and theSerb·held stjb:w;9s, ~fl. Tbe transfer of Serb reunitle4 March 19. ;!ijt!ithwtnk Sarajevo has angered the Karadiic contip.ues to defy Bosnian Serbs and threatened the peace agreement negoti· to upset the spirit of Bosnia's ated. forhim by bisformer peace, since those parts of ·ment<>r.• Milosevic. T · accor~ Bosnia un4er Muslim·:Croat bars. indicted war·.· inals· 
control were intendeQ. to from office. · · ;"·· ··· remain multi-ethnic. · ''I'm afraid it's too late for "Peace will only come here the Serbs in Sarajevo," 
when we are totally separated Karadzic told The Associated from the others," said Nikola Pre~$lP IJ;is stro ·ld in Remetic, a Serb fleeing the Pale. "MI;l.Jl,y of the e ~eft 
grim industrial suburb of already, and many•'qlore will Hadzici -reflecting a wide-leave in the days to eome.f' 
:=~-:::a;· .. 

into cooperating or, in the case of Croatian President Franjo Tudjman and Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic, forcing their proxies -the Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats -to go along with the peace plan. 
"We prevented a situation that could have jeopardized the Dayton agreement," Holbrooke said at a news conference. 
All parties again promised to cooperate with international war crimes investigators, he said. 
"Nothing was given in ex­change for this. They did this on their own," Holbrooke said. A detailed schedule of meetings 


Bosnia's land mines 
Land mines have been used extensively throughout Bosnia and Croatia. Estimates run as high as 6 million placed during the course of the war. 
B Areas in Bosnia with highest probability of land mines Dangers in the spring thaw 


Snow creates an extra layer between the surface and mine, lessening pressure and chances of detonation. Always dangerous, mines wreak more havoc in the spring when the ground begins to thaw, forcing them upward where they can be more easily detonated. 
Monday, February 19, 1996 The Observer • INDIANA NEWS page 7 

Casinos in Michigan City questionable 
Auociated Press 
MICHIGAN CITY, Ind. 

So far, seven Indiana communities have been granted floating easinos and gaming experts expect all of thorn to be profitable. 
But the Indiana Gaming Commission is less optimistic about plans for Michigan City. 
With four casino boats already planning to doek in Lake County, and an American Indian casino expected in southwest Michigan, gam­bling in Michigan City will faee plenty or com­petition. 
And two days of hearings last week in LaPorte on a trio of applicants did little to dis­pol concerns about the risk. 
"All these candidates are probably the weak· est ones that wo'vo had," commission membor Thomas Milcartlk said. "If a license is given to Michigan City, it will be choosing the lesser of three evils." 
Nor was commission member Robert Swan impressed with the applicants: Indiana Blue Chip, Casino America Inc./Isle of Capri and Michigan City Casino & Lodge. 
"There's no doubt, this is the toughest call we've faced so far," Swan said. "It's possible that it could be a 'no' call." 
The seven-member commission wants to sat­isfy Michigan City's desiro t'or the economic benefits of gambling, while selecting a develop­er that is finandally strong. 
"I not only want the community to have the benefit of u casino, I want it to have the best one," said Milcarek, a LaPorte County resident. "One of my fears is that we'll get a boat and it won't be here a long time." 
The commission expects to decide by the end ot' March. Deliberations likely will focus on whether the applicants can raise the money outlined in their proposals and whether the two sites proposed for a riverboat are suitable. 
Of the seven boats already approved by the commission, three are on the Ohio River at Evansville, Luwrenceberg and Rising Sun. Developers also were selected for two Lake Michigan boats at Gary and boats at Hammond and East Chicago. 
For each of these projects the estimated investment exceeds $100 million. But the Michigan City applicants all expect to spend far less than that on a riverboat casino with an adjacent hotel, retail and entertainment com­plex. 
Indiana Blue Chip pledged $86 million, Casino America Inc. $88 million. and Michigan City Casino & Lodge (MCCL) $81.5 million. 
"There's not a substantial amount of equity going into any of the three proposals," Swan said. 
The .commission was also critical of Indiana Blue Chip's management record in Illinois, It closed its Silver Eagle riverboat on the Mississippi River in December, soon after Michigan City selected Blue Chip as the city's preferred developer. 
Blue Chip is willing to dock a boat in the har· bor but prefers Trail Creek. which meanders through Michigan City, 
A riverboat on Trail Creek would cruise back and forth about a mile. but would not actually go onto Lake Michigan. 

State environmental agencies overwhelmed 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Environmental agencies in Indiana are turning to outside contractors to help deal with a growing backlog of laboratory samples that they lack the money and manpower to ana­lyze. 
The overwhelming workload has slowed the state's ability to tell whether air pollutants are causing problems for residents. 
The Indiana Department of Environmental Management has only four staff people to test gunk from across the state, including samples sent, by health agencies, local govern­ments and individuals. 
Outside contractors may offer a temporary solution. 
The Indianapolis Air Pollution Control Section, which usually has its lab tests done by the state, has budgeted an extra $10,000 this year to farm out work to liT Research Institute in Chicago. 
And the IDEM has requested $13,000 from the state to hire an outside lab or contractor. 
"We get many more samples than we can possibly do," said Felicia George, the state air program's assistant commis­sioner. "We're going to try and contract to get more of these samples done outside. Staff just can't handle them." 
The backlog worries people like Keith Lynch. For more than a year, Lynch has won­dered about the dust that coat­ed his car so thoroughly that it required a new paint job. 
Seven of 116 samples received by the state in 1994 are not yet analyzed. One of them is Lynch's, who sent his in that October. 
Lynch lives a few blocks from a limestone mining business, where residents often complain about blasting practices, rather than air emissions. 
"At the time we were very concerned," he said of the dust that enveloped his car. "But the city wasn't. We didn't know who else to call. We can't afford a lawyer on our own. We're basically stuck." 
The city has in the past had to rely on private contractors for answers to puzzling pollu­tion problems. 



Gambling industry to study compulsive behavior 
By CURT ANDERSON 
A~so(iateJ Press 
WASHINGTON 

The gambling industry, which some nxperts say depends on compulsive players for asizable chunk of its profits, is croating the first national center to study problem gambling. 
The National Center for Re­sponsible Gaming, to be in Kansas City, Mo., will not be an attempt to hide or explain away the problem, said American Gaming Association President Frank .1. Fahrenkopf Jr. 
"We do not want to make the mistakes the tobacco industry made, saying, 'Smoking is good for you,"' Fahrenkopf said in a recent interview. 

The center will attempt to identify profiles of problem gamblers and recommend pro­grams for prevention, inter­vention and treatment. 
At a time when legalized gambling is booming nation­wide, there is some evidence 
j0ANNA fOSTER \VILL PRESENT FRC'.M TilE SNO\V ro Till SuN: TilE POETRY OF AI\NA AKIIMATOVA AND GR.ACL NICI !OLS WEDNLSDAY, F~:BRLIARY 21 AT 4:30P.M. AI Wi\SHINCTON IIALL 

CARET~! ARMSTRONG WILL PRESENT I-lAND IN HAND TO HELL: AN ACTOR'S PERSPECTIVE ON RICHARD Ill AND MACBETH TLIESDAY, FEBRUARY 20 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON HALL 
that compulsive gamblers are a cornerstone of the industry's profits. 
Hesearch has indicated that up to half of the industry's rev­enues come from the 4 percent who are problem gamblers, said Earl Grinols, a University of Illinois economist who has studied the issue. 
"If you could prevent every problem gambler, the revenues would drop by one-third to one­half," Grinols said. 
He compared the situation to that of alcohol: About 6. 7 per­cent of Americans drink half the alcohol. "We know alco­holics consume a lot and create most of the social problems," Grinols said. 
Tom Irwin, director of the Missouri Gaming Commission, said the industry would be fool­ish to deny the existence of problem gamblers, and is prob­ably motivated more by a need to shore up its public image. 
"You have to decide how much of this is altruism and how much is self-preservation," Irwin said. "At least whut I've heard so far, they seem to be trying to honestly deal with the problem." 
But, Irwin added: "We look at all of this with a fairly jaun­diced eye." 
Gambling's growth, and its effect on communities, also has become an issue this winter in the GOP presidential race. 
Pat Buchanan argues the spread of organized gambling is resulting "in the destruction of families ... the corruption of legislators." Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar has raised concerns about what gambling is doing to the national character. 
Kansas City was chosen for the new center because it is the location of Boyd Gaming Corp.'s gambling riverboat, one of eight licensed in Missouri. Boyd is providing seed money for the research center at the Univer­sity of Missouri at Kansas City. 
Fahrenkopf suid the univer­sity involvement was needed to keep the center at "arm's length" from the industry. 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST  DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND  
Ironwood Circle  417 N. St. Louis Blvd.  
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I  Call 234-0363  
273-8986  (24 hours}  

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 19, 1996 
.ISRAEL 
Drawing the battle lines Israel's upcoming elections.• Israel's main opposition party< asserted Sunday that' t · future of Jerusale · Judaism's most sacred city. is at stake. 
"This election is a reaht referendum," Likud party leader Benjamin Netanyahu told reporters. "It's a referen~ dum about the future of Jerusalem ... whether we can have peace with Jerusalem, or Jerusalem divided." 
Prime Minister>Shimon Peres denied Likud charges that he has been negotiating in secret to give parts of the 
Banks 
continued from pagel 
successful models in rural 
Netanyahu said over the fate of were being c Europe, and c that PLO activity in east Jer(l~alem "cast a grave $hadow and grave doubt over Mr. Peres' statements that he will keep Jerusalem united." 


Trustee 
continued from page 1 
1966. 
• NoarHt:RN lm:uam 


Sinn Fein leader headed to U.S. 
Associated Press ing in London on Feb. 9, and Northern Ireland Protes­
Protestant leaders in Northern tant leaders that the Catholic­
Gerry Adams, president of the Ireland have called on U.S. au­based IRA start disarming be­IRA's political ally, Sinn Fein, thorities to ban him. fore negotiations. said Sunday he will visit the Adams has not been banned, Britain's intelligence service United States next month but President Clinton has believes the peace process can­despite the end of the guerrilla roundly condemned the IRA's not be retrieved and the IRA is movement's cease-fire. return to violence. set for a new big bombing cam­
"I have been invited to go to "That was perhaps a legiti­paign in England and Northern the United States. My intentions mate response from him," Ireland, The Observer, a are to go," Adams said on BBC Adams commented to the BBC. London weekly, reportedtelevision, saying he expected Despite the bombing, most Sunday. to visit around March 17, St. Britons believe the British gov­The paper, quoting identified Patrick's Day. ernment should continuing intelligence sources, said the 
The White House responded talking to Adams, a National agency also doubted whether Sunday, saying Adams was pre­Opinion Poll in London's Sun­there was any point in talking to mature in predicting he will be day Times newspaper showed. Adams because Sinn Fein can permitted to return. An admin­The poll of 1,569 voters in no longer speak for the IRA istration official who spoke on England, Wales and Scotland, In another development, Irish condition of anonymity said also found that while 89 per­Prime Minister John Bruton, Adams' visa, which is renewed cent blamed the IRA for scut­who has refused to meet Adams every three months, has tling the cease-fire, nearly half since the bombing, appealed to expired. Adams' reapplication also thought the Britain shared the IRA to stop blaming Britain. is still being processed. some blame. The poll's margin "Your way of killing people 
Since the Irish Republican of error was 3 percent. has only divided people on the . Army ended its 17 -month The peace process dead­island of Ireland over the last cease-fire with a deadly bomb-locked over demands by Britain 25 years," Bruton said. 
also has served the archdiocese of Los Angeles as a member of its investment committee and education foundation. 
Prior to his election to the Board, Larkin served as chairman of the University's Advisory Council for the College of Business held faculty and administrative positions at Carnegie-Mellon University from 1970 to 1980 and also was a member of the facul­ties of the University of Chicago, Stanford University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). 
Prior to joining TCW, Larkin held man­Administration. Weber is the author of eight books and
Bangladesh and the Korean 
agement positions with Manufacturers Weber became chancellor of monographs and has been appointed to
community in Los Angeles, ac­
Hanover Trust; Eastman Dillon, Union Northwestern University a year ago after several government positions, including
cording to Chami. 
Securities; Shearson, Hayden, Stone, Inc.; serving as president of the Evanston, Ill., executive director of the Cost of Living
"The model private commu­

Bernstein-Macaulay, Inc.; and Crocker institution for the previous decade and of Council, associate director of the Office of
nities utilize to provide loans 
Investment Management Corporation. the University of Colorado for the five years Management and Budget, and assistant
for their residents will change 
Larkin is active in a number of civic and before that. secretary of manpower in the U.S.
when an outside agency such 
professional organizations and is a board Weber serves on numerous boards Department of Labor. 
as the government takes over," 
member of the Childrens Hospital of Los nationally and in Chicago. He is president Weber holds bachelor's and master's
said Chami. 
Angeles, the California Pediatric and of the Civic Committee of the Commercial degrees from the University of Illinois and
Chami and Fischer conclude 

Family Medical Center, the Harvard­Club of Chicago and director of the Eurasia a doctorate in economics from MIT. He
in their research that "the most 
Westlake School, the Heart and Lung Foundation, an organization established by received an honorary doctor of laws
efficient way to encourage 
Surgery Foundation, the Los Angeles Music the U.S. Congress to support the develop­degree from Notre Dame in 1993. 
neighborhood revitalization 
Center Operating Company, the Los ment of democratic and free-market insti­Chaired by Andrew McKenna, Notre
may not be to start community 
Angeles Orthopaedic Hospital Foundation, tutions in the former Soviet Union. Dame's Board of Trustees is now com­
banks, but to directly subsidize 
and the Los Angeles Sports Council. He An expert on economic policy, Weber prised of 58 members. 
the desired activities." 
K1~tre Dame FRESHMAN RETREAT 
·a two-day, ovemightretreatforfreshman ·guided by students, faculty, and staff · an opportunity to deepen your understanding ofyourself, your 
transition to life at Notre Dame, and your hopesfor your life at Notre Dame and beyond. 
RetreatDates FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 (4:00PM) to SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24 (6:00PM)
Forms At the Campus Ministry Offices thru THURSDAY,Available FEBRUARY 22 



(tMPUS
Cost $10 
MINISTRY 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February19, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: j09 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Bwiness Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advcnising Manager...........................John Poner Viewpoint l'.dimr .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Nurbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..................••..... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du La<· •nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­lion of ci1her inS(irution. The news is reponed as accurau:ly and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­wrials «present the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :nmmentaries, lwers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vicwpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all rC'ad~rs. The fret' expression of varying opinions through lcncrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Ediror-in-C.hief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoim 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 Spon~ 631·4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/l'hotu 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 l>ay l'ditoril'roduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu (;C'nC'rallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Abortion law targets methods, misses morals 
Compromise aims to please public but ignores Pope 
It must be tough to be pro-abortion when the issue is the Partial Birth Abortion. How does one comfortably argue that the law should continue to allow the execution of a partially deliv­ered infant by jamming scissors into his head and vacuuming out his brains? 
Evnn though the act to forbid PBAs 



Charles Rice 
will not become law because of President Clinton's promised veto, the campaign to ban PBAs won a tactical victory by raising awareness of the depravity of the abortion culture. However, the act is open to misinterpre­tation that could make the campaign a strategic defeat for the pro-life cause. By seeking to ban only the most horrific abortion technique the campaign invites the intepretation that it otherwise acqui­nsces in abortion, thus reinforcing the cultural acceptance of abortion. The limited scope of the PBA Act reflects the fact that for nearly two decades the mainstream pro-life movement has sought to enact only marginal restric­tions of abortion rather than to prohibit 
it. 
The principles governing lngislation on abortion were spelled out by .John Paul II in Et,angelium Vilae, where he said that "a civil law authorizing abortion or euthanasia eeases by that very fact to be a true, morally binding civil law .... In the case of an intrinsically unjust law, such as a law permitting abortion or euthana­sia, it is therefore never licit to obey it, or to 'take part in a propaganda cam­paign in favour of such a law, or vote for it." Nos. 72-73. The Pope went on to examine the responsibility of legislators "where a legislative vote would be deci­sive for the passage of a more restrictive law aimed at limiting the number of authorized abortions in place of a more permissive law already passed or ready to be voted on .... [W]hen it is not possi­ble to overturn or completely abrogate a pro-abortion law, an elected offlcial, whose absolute personal opposition to procured abortion was well known, could licitly support proposals aimed at limiting the harm done by such a law and at lessening its negative conse­quences at the level of general opinion and public morality. This [is] not in fact an illicit cooperation with an unjust law, but rather a legitimate and proper attempt to limit its evil aspects." (E.V., no. 73). 
Note that the Pope says that a legisla­tor "could" licitly support such a propos­al. He does not say that he "should." This leaves open the prudential question of whether pro-life support for such compromise measures might actually increase the "negative consequences" of legalized abortion "at the level of gener­al opinion and public morality," espe­cially when such compromises are pro­moted by "pro-life" advocates them­selves. 
Since 1981, major elements of the pro­life movement have promoted incremen­tal legislation that would allow abortion for the life or health of the mother and in pregnancies caused by rape or incest. They have urged the states' rights solu­tion which would allow the states to allow or forbid abortion. Both the incre­mental and states' rights approaches however, affirm the nonpersonhood holding of Roe. If an innocent human being is subject to execution at the dis­cretion of another whenever the legisla­ture so decrees, he is a nonperson with no constitutional right to live. 
It is fair to suggest that these compro­mise approaches have increased the toll of lives from abortion. The enactment of a law requiring an unmarried minor to obtain parental consent before an abor­tion will predictably decrease the num­ber of abortions from those under the previously unrestricted law. The proper comparison would be between a situa­tion where the law was either wholly permissive or required parental consent on the one hand, and on the other, a sit­

' A civil law authorizing .L-\.abortion or euthanasia ceases by that very fact to be a true, morally binding civil law.'  


uation where the pro-life movement insisted that the murder of the innocent can never be rightly allowed. A law allowing abortion with parental consent treats the killing of an unborn child as qualitatively the same as getting one's ears pierced. Ideas like this have conse­quences. 
The dominant abortions of the near future will be effected by pills, implants or other devices. The only effective way that the law will bw able to reach such early abortions will be by licensing and prescription restrictions and similar reg­ulations. The only way to mobilize suffi­cient support for such restrictions will be to restore the public conviction that all life is sacred and must be protected. The incremental strategy which seeks to regulate rather than prohibit abortion undermines that conviction because it permeates the public with the message that even the "pro-life" advocates agree that innocent life is negotiable. 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBURY 

The 1992 election confirms that a pro­life strategy of compromise contributes to the institutionalization of the abortion ethic. The Washington Post-ABC News Abortion poll, in .January, 1993, report­ed the percent of people who believe abortion should be legal and compared the results to those before the election. In the presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton took the totally pro-abortion position. The "pro-life" candidate, President Bush, backed by the pro-life movement, supported legalized abortion in life of the mother, rape and incest cases. The result? The public attitude shifted markedly in a pro-abortion direction in all categories. The post-elec­tion support for abortion was the high­est ever in the history of that poll. And why not? When the "pro-life" people claim that the right to life is inalienable and then they themselves support its alienation, why should people take seri­ously their rhetoric about the absolute sanctity of innocent life? 
If the campaign against the PBA is interpreted by the public as opposition only to the method of the killing, that campaign will reinforce the abortion culture. The PBA abortion is qualitative­ly no different from abortion by any other method. The gruesome reality of the PBA reflects the intrinsic evil of any and all forms of abortion. The campaign to prohibit the PBA shouldn't distract us from the reality that the law can never validly tolerate the intentional execution of the innocent. Pope .John Paul summed up the choice that each of us must make: "We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, death and life, the 'culture of death' and the 'culture of life.' We find ourselves in the midst of this conflict. We are all involved and we all share in it with the inescapable responsibility of "choosing to be unconditionally pro-life." Evangelium Vitae, no. 28. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We have grasped the 
mystery of the atom and rejected the Sermon on the Mount." 
-General Omar Bradley 

--------------------~ 
r--------------~ 

page 10 Monday, February 19, 1996 
• ACCENT MOVIE REVIEW 
Ill
.. :a:·.~: 
,. •I,.. 
-!1111 
.. ..
!I 1111 :.!.:~ II 1'7."" .

'City Hall' impeached III I I"• I 'I!! : Ill ·--··.. .. ....
II .,. , .! =~!·':: ••
i: ~II; .. ­
I I : :: ~~-: Ill 


"City Hall" Directed by Harold Becker Starring AI Pacino, John Cusack & Bridget Fonda 
(out of four) 
*"" 
By MARK TORMA Accent Movie Critic 

M
aybe it's just me, but when I see a movie, I want it to grab me and say, "Hey, you've never seen anything like this before!" The movie can be formulaic and riddled with cliches, but if it excites me with some new angle, some new approach, it's got a chance in my book. I even used to think that such a "new angle" was a prerequisite to getting a movie made in Hollywood. That was before I saw "City Hall." 
I know now that all you really need to gain the bless­ing of the Hollywood brass is a load of name actors and an ambitious project -but not necessarily an interest­ing one. I don't know if I dare say it, but in spite of the hallowed presence of AI Pacino, John Cusack, Bridget Fonda, Danny Aiello, and Martin Landau, "City Hall" bored me to death. Only at the conclusion, which I had foreseen about an hour earlier, did I stop wondering what they were going to inject into the plot line to res­urrect my interest. The excitement factor was nil: I'm not an avid proponent of movie sex and violence, but if ever a movie could've used them, this was it. 
What it really needed, though, was a screenwriter with a clue. I sort of liked the premise: the right-hand man (John Cusack) for the mayor of New York City (AI Pacino) must deftly handle the affairs of the city's high­est office, or else a scandal will cripple city govern­ment, and his beloved mentor will suffer political ruin. A good story could have been made out of this high­stakes situation, but somehow all -and I mean all ­creativity fell to the wayside, and the audience got a lot of banal, unbelievable hooey. 
What is this scandal, you ask, that threatens to bring down Mayor John Pappas' palace? A cop is killed, along with a little boy, and the Mafia-connected punk who did it got off on probation some years earlier, instead of getting ten to twenty years in prison. That's it -that's the scandal. Hello??? The punk had Mafia connections, and he got off easy -what's exciting, or 
~--------­

John Cusack, of "Say Anything" fame, questions the politi­cal machine in his role as AI Pacino's right-hand man in "City Hall." 
scandalous, about that? Maybe that is a real crisis situ­ation for a town official, but lets face it, Mafia-related corruption in New York is such old news nowadays that it doesn't even make good copy in South Dakota. Yet, somebody though it was worth making a movie about. Sounds like the same guys who made "Howard the Duck." 
Nevertheless, it is an ambitious project, and to their credit, most of the actors try their best with one­dimensional characters. Pacino is stuck in a white­bread part, a fusion of his roles in "The Godfather III" and "Heat"; he's a politician who does nothing but pon­tificate on the former glory of the city, and how to make it great again. His John Pappas is overly sympa­thetic to every poor city-dweller he comes across; I felt sorry for AI Pacino every time he had to hug another victim, or be truly sincere (not just seem sincere -that actually would have been interesting) in his many lofty speeches. 
At least John Cusack has an interesting character, a young Louisiana whippersnapper who is doggedly loyal to the ideals of his administration. He has to track down the rotten apples within the system, which could mean taking out some very powerful players. What amazed me is that he never encounters any challenges to his authority; since when do newcomers to anything, much less big city government, get their way handed to them on a platter? As for Bridget Fonda's attorney, she's never anything but indignant that the system is dysfunctional (she's trying to get the city to give the cop's widow her pension), but wait a minute -if the system worked, political watchdogs like her would be out of a job. 
Nicholas Pileggi, who was one of the co-writers, shauld be ashamed. After doing such intelligent work in "Goodfellas," he has allowed some very untenable situations to come to life on screen. The film is chock­full of supposedly native New Yorkers expressing out­rage at the corruption that confronts them, as if the hardened urbanite was really just a myth. We're also supposed to believe that Pacino, Aiello, and Landau, three very high-powered political figures, would mor­alize about public service and get teary-eyed as they regretted their past transgressions. Needless to say, I don't buy it; I think any public official out there would snicker at the idea. I know I could've done without the tiresome lessons on regional politics; I don't need alec­ture to know that they do it different in Dallas. 
Pardon me if I'm indignant. It's just that this is a hor­ribly average film where a good, possibly great one should have been. This may have been the most aver­age thing I've seen in a long time -it wanted to be gra11d and profound, but I found it really rather mean­ingless and ridiculous. It's not bad, but -what can I say? A movie needs to be more than a story put on film. It has to matter; it has to have some importance, either morally, socially or aesthetically. "City Hall" was an elaborate retelling of insignificant events, and to all you who plan on seeing it, I say this to you: I challenge you to care. 
Mark Torma is a junior Anthropology major from Alliance, Ohio. 
6JC5C5@~U @@@?3 lf@ lf[X)@ @?3C56JU3?3 
(AND ALL OF ND AND SMC ARE INVITED, TOO!) 
How good ARE you? Accent wants to know. If you can guess more correct Oscar winners than anyone else who enters our amazing golden statuette of a contest, you'll take the stage ... of Cinemark Movies 10 Theater, that is, with a $10 gift certificate book. Read the nominees, go with your movie-goer instincts, and send in your guesses to Accent Oscar Contest, c/o The Observer, 314 LaFortune sometime before the Oscars. Good luck ... now, on with the show. (In the case of a tie, a drawing will be held.) Employees of The Observer and their families ineligible. 
7~ ~rlu... 7~ ~r/u...7~ ~rlu... 7~ ~rlu... 7~ ~r/u...7~ ~rlu... 

~ 
.
. 
~ 
J 
0 
0 0 0 
0 
0 0 0 
0 
0 

BEST DIRECTOR: Tim Robbins: "Dead Man Walking" Chris Newman: "Babe" Michael Radford: "ll Postino" Mel Gibson: "Braveheart" Mike Figgis: "Leaving Las Vegas" 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS: Kathleen Quinlan: "Apollo 13" Kate Winslet: "Sense and Sensibility" Mare Winningham: "Georgia" Joan Allen: "Nixon" Mira Sorvino: "Mighty Aphrodite" 
BEST ACTRESS: 

0  Emma Thompson: "Sense and  
Sensibility"  
0  Elisabeth Shue: "Leaving Las Vegas"  
0  Meryl Streep: "Bridges of Madison  
County"  
0  Susan Sarandon: "Dead Man Walking"  
0  Sharon Stone: "Casino"  
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR:  
0  Ed Harris: "Apollo 13"  
0  Tim Roth: "Rob Roy"  
0  Kevin Spacey: "The Usual Suspects"  
0  James Cromwell: "Babe"  
0  Brad Pitt: "12 Monkeys"  

BEST ACTOR:  
0  Massimo Troisi: "Il Postino"  
0  Richard Dreyfuss: "Mr. Holland's Opus"  
0  Sean Penn: "Dead Man Walking"  
0  Nicolas Cage: "Leaving Las Vegas"  
0  Anthony Hopkins: "Nixon"  
BEST PICTURE:  
0  "Braveheart"  
0  "Il Postino"  
0  "Babe"  
0  "Apollo 13"  
0  "Sense and Sensibility"  

~ 
r 
r 
.. r ~ 
r.. 


.------------------~----------­
Monday, February 19, 1996 
• ACCt:NT PROFILE 

By S. JOHN GORMAN Accent Writer 
I
f you were to see Byron Taylor in the class­room, on the quad or working out on the NordicTraek in the Hock, you would never think twiee about him being anything but a regular Notre Dam1~ student. However, if you wt~re so lucky to be in a class with him when a professor prdaees a statement about a movie or a historical event with a phrase such as, "I guess no one in here was around when such and such happmu1d," and you see Taylor raise his hand and remind the teacher that indeed lw has !men around long enough to remember things that happened in the early seventies, you might look at Taylor from a dill'erent light. Taylor says, "I like to think of me as being like t!VMymw tdse," but actually everyone else did not lwgin their career as a Domer in 1982 like Taylor did. 
Taylor proudly hails from Gardena, California, and he will be graduating with the class of '1)6 as an English major. lie says that back in '82 "I had no idea what to expect wlwn I came lwrn. I wanted to get away from honw, so I went to Notre Dame." Like many studtmts, Taylor had never visited the campus bdom his arrival as a freshman. He remem­lwrs walking oiT of tho bus and running into a friendly Saint Mary's student who politely sent him in tlw direction of Fisher. He says that this initial exposure to life at Notre Dame started his new college carem off in the right way. Taylor says, "I was really impressed with tlw people and the campus. I felt like I was at honw from day one." 
Most seniors can boast about attending bas­kt•thall ganws like tlw upset of UCLA when tlwy w1m~ sophomores, but Taylor can talk about taking a road trip to Madison Square (;anhm to st~e a mightier Irish squad batlle in tlw N.I.T. owr ten years ago. Byron rmnmn­lwrs wlwn tht~ old Fieldhouse was still stand­ing, wlwn Siegfriml and Knott were not even in t!Xistent:t!, and when the bus sheltnr was tlw IIHH~ting plact~ for students who wanted to travel to Chicago, the UP Mall, or Saint Mary's. lin rm~alls the luxury of being able to rely on housekeepers to straighten up his messy room once a week. Aside from all of tlw dil'f'erenens hn ean recount from his first tenum at Notrn Dame, he says that the impor­tant things about the school have remained constant. lie eites the great education, the spirit and the people that make Notre Dame a special place as the important aspects of the sehoul which he has kept close to his heart no matter where he has been over the course of tlw past fourteen years. 
On Taylor's llrst go around as an under­graduate at Notre Dame, he lived in Fisher and KtHHHtn, and lw studied aerospace engi­rwnring. lie says, "'I pieknd aero on my in­tnn~st in flying ... I never wanted to be an nngirwer." I\wry nxpnrinnce he can think of in his first two ynars was positive, but his dt~sire to lw a pilot forced him to transfnr to tlw University of Illinois arter his sophomore year. lin says, "'The urge to fly kept gnawing at mn, so I lnrt N.ll." Taylor attended Illinois for thmn ynars, t~arrwd his pilot's license and his multi-nngine rating, but never earned a dngrt~tL lin then went back to California, workml and took sonHJ classes here and there, and eventually got a job with United Airlines in the sales department. After working with United for about five years, he came to a con­clusion that changed his life. He says, "The real world convinced me that I should return to sehool to earn my undergraduate degree." lie also says, "I always wanted to return, but I never knew if I would be able to. Thinking about the two years here helped me get through some rough spots." Since Notre Dame was the place where he had always been happiest, he applied, was accepted for a second time, and began his new term as an off-campus junior English major in August of 1994.. 
Taylor returned to school with a eompletely dill'erent outlook on his situation. In the early eighties, he was wide-eyed, anxious and tend­ed to be bothered by little things. At thirty, he had been to a few schools, he had worked for a major airline and he had settled down. Basically, he had grown up in his absence from Notre Dame. Now Taylor lives in Morrissey in a single because he "felt discon­nected to the Notre Dame community" when he lived off-campus, and he has a new atti­tude about almost everything. He explains, "I feel like I'm more focused. Little problems don't bother me as much. I'm much more relaxed about school." People who know 
' The real world convinced me 
that I should return to school to earn my undergraduate degree. I always wanted to return, but I never knew if I would be able to. Thinking about the two years here helped me get through some rough spots.' 
Byron Taylor 

Taylor cannot believe this mild-mannered, sincere man could have ever been any differ­ent. Coline Gomez says, "Byron is a very considerate and sentimental guy." Ed Tadaweski has nothing but fantastic things to say about Taylor. "You can't even tell he's older. It impresses me that he showed enough determination to come back to get his degree after all of these years. It couldn't happen to a friendlier guy." 
Taylor has difficulty determining what expe­rience at Notre Dame has been most memo­rable for him. He says, "It's hard to single out one experience because every day has been a good one. I've never had a bad day since I returned." lie loves his new friends, his class­es and going to the football games, which is something that he had never done his llrst time around. Taylor has a vision that is unparalleled by the run-of-the-mill senior. He says, "I know that there is life after Notre Dame and that good things arc in store for me. I'm not sure what I'm going to do when I get out of here, but I want to enjoy it." Taylor is an example to everyone of what courage, hard work and a little experience can do for a person. 
:ACCENT page II -· 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days of Our Lives 
C
ongratulations to "Days" which was named the Best Daytime Soap .by the. Soap Opera_ Digest Awards. Also, Allison Sweeney 
(Saml), Lomse Sorel {VIvian), and Peter Bickell were named 
Best Villainess, Best Supporting. Actress, and Best Daytime Hunk, 
respectively. 
Hope didn't put the slip on-Jude too long because as soon as she got out of the c.abin, shr. passed out. Jude found her, brought her back to the cabm, and watched as she became sicker. Jude raided 1!-nother ~abin and bro!-lght bac~ a~pirin to bring down Hope's fever. A little boy saw hun, told hts lather about the sighting, who in turn told Peter. Peter, of course. told no one. We guess the boy's father forgot about the $10,000 reward for Jude. · 
In his search for money, Jude has contaeted the bank where Jack and Jennifer continue to train. Jack almost found out that Peter ~as behind t~e aecount, but thanks to Peter's quick thinking and lured hacker, JUSt as the name Peter began to appear it was erased by Peter's hacker. 
Meanwhile, Bo's been trying to put his life back together since Hope's second "passing." He's now enlisted the psychological help of Laura, who's currently playing the roll ot' police psychologist. Pretty good for someone who was in a psychological clink for 18 years and diagnosed with catatonic schizophrenia. {We wish we ~ould find jobs that easily). Bo's decided to return to his job by tak­mg over one of the most dangerous cases. Aliee has also been play­ing listener to Bo by taking him to church to pray for God's help. 
Kate's been washed up on an island, where two residtmts found h~r. She escape? from a horny ship captain, jumped overboard wtth ~ raft, ran •:n~o weather trouble, and ended up on the island. Back m Salem, VlVlan and Victor are becoming ripe for a marriage. They even shared a passionate kiss, which was rather disgusting to tell the truth. Mllybe it's the mustache? 
Ma~lena ~hat~ed with the parrot man who drew her a map to the lady·m·wh1te hideout. She hterally fell on it then yelled at the elu­sive lady until she told Marlena that Stefano has his memory back. Marlena then .went to Stefano's room and overheard some indit:a­tions that he may indeed have his memory back. 
Later, Stefano asked Marlena out for dinner, but she decided she needed to be with John instead. A resigned-to-die John told Marlena to stay away from Stefano. Watch out Marlena! 
Carrie and Austin are working together on Kate's memorial pro­ject, coincidentally making Sami jealous. But, really what else is new. Every week they do something together, and one or both of them dream of kissing/making Jove to the other, Sami becomes jealous of their time together, then one or both of them resigns to being apart forever. "Days" writers. where is your creativity? 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Ji'ticsar 

General Hospital 
T
his week definit~ly did not score high on the happiness scale for those folks from Port Charles ... First of all, the Simone­Justus engagement -seemingly more solid than even the rock h~ gave her -is off. J~st~s wants to get married immediately; Simone feels Tommy 1sn t ready. Justus argues, saying what Tommy needs most is a stable, two-parent environment. Much to Simone's shock, Tom agrees. But, alas, Simone just can't do it, so the two are in splitsville for now. Justus wonders if she'll go run­ning back to Tom: Tom assures him that if she does this time he won't be there. Justus and Katherine share a tet~der momHnt when each agrees the other is not at first what they thought... 
Speaking of Tom and Felicia, the two got caught outside in a snowstorm and were forced to cuddle to keep warm. Bet they hated every minute of it. 
W~ were shocked to find out the identity of Moniea's secret admtrer: none other than Alan, who gave her the exquisite gifts to recharge her libido. It worked, and things were better than they had been in a long time. 
As far as their prodigal son goes. however, things are not so rosy. Jason was taken out of the hospital to watch Ned perform on Valentine's Day at Luke's. All of Port Charles turned out for the oecasion; Jason, in true Quartermaine fashion, got angry at a com­ment Keesha made and threw a temper tantrum, involving the overturning of at least one table. The show went on. however, and Sonny sent an embarrassed Jason home in a cab. Keesha sought comfort in the arms of AJ (I'm noticing a trend here). 
Brenda and Jax were also among the many at Luke's. In an attempt to save Lois from his unwavering attention, and a thinly ye~ed and much denied attempt at making Sonny jealous, Brenda mvtted Jax out to lunch earlier in the week, and then to Luke's. However, Lois remains the apple of his eye. 
Lois, meanwhile, was successful in her attempts at closing the Yaggi Pharmecutical deal with Jax. After obtaining his signature mid·flight on .his "weekend to win her away from Nt~d." Lois para­chuted out the plane and landed in a big field, where her Nedly came to rescue her in the Q chopper. 
Sonny, Lois's ex-business partner, has been doling out advice to Lucky. When asked for advice by the young Spencer about gam­bling with the "guys from the pool hall," the ever scrupulous Sonny warned him away, telling him he could get in over his head. 
Luke, meanwhile, is shacked up in San Antonio with Lucy, Mac and Kevin. Lucy's visions, much stronger now, placed Dmnien at a health spa in Texas. Since a good dotective stake-out would not bo complete without costume, Luke dressed as an old goat named Cash. who wanted to patronize the exclusive spa Lucy envisioned. In casing the joint, he spied Damien. To trap the Alusive gangster, Luke wants to use Lucy as bait. Kevin won't permit this, unless he can be there, too. To solve everyone's dilemma, Mac and Kevin agree to revive their roles as Norma and Eve; Lucy will check in to one room, and they'll be next door to keep an eye on her. 
-Jennifer Rubow 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 19, 1996
-
• DAYS OF THUNDER: lHE DAYTONA 500 
Over hill, but not over Dale: Jarrett edges out Earnhardt 
By MIKE HARRIS 
Associated Press 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. Dale has figured out exactly how to win the Daytona 500, only it's Dale Jarrett not Dale Earnhardt. 
Jarrett drove his No. 88 Robert Yates Ford past Earnhardt's Chevrolet Monte Carlo on lap 177 of the 200-lap race Sunday at Daytona International Speedway, then stayed out front the rest of the way to hold off Earnhardt for the second time in four years. 
Earnhardt, who has finished second four times in the 500, including each of the past two years and three of the last four years, is an agonizing 0-18 in the only major stock car event he has never won. 
"That's the Daytona 500," Earnhardt said. "We fin­ished second again. That's OK. We just didn't have anything to match those Fords. 
"I was trying to get a run on (Jarrett), but he had a real strong race car." 
It appeared that the Chevrolets of Earnhardt and third-place Ken Schrader might be able to work together and draft past Jarrett's Thunderbird, but it didn't happen. 
Over the last 10 laps, Earnhardt kept moving up and down the track, apparently feeling out Jarrett for a weakness. Finally, on the last trip around the 2 1/2­mile high-banked oval, Earnhardt gave it a major effort. 
On the backstretch, Earnhardt drove his car low but, just as Jarrett did in 1993 when he won his first Daytona race, he went right with Earnhardt and blocked his path. 
For a brief moment, Schrader drew alongside Earnhardt, taking away momentum from both Chevys. 
They got back in single file and Earnhardt made three more moves coming off the fmal corner, diving low again, then high, then low once more. But he could not catch Jarrett, son of two-time Winston Cup cham­pion and TV broadcaster Ned Jarrett. 
Jarrett's winning margin was 0.12 seconds or 2 1/2 car lengths. 
"They didn't have a Robert and Doug Yates engine," Jarrett said of Earnhardt and Schrader. "That was the difference. I was worried about them getting a run, but they just didn't have enough for that engine." 
Schrader bristled a bit when asked why he and Earnhardt were not able to catch Jarrett. "It's ain't my responsibility to worry about where (Earnhardt) fmishes," Schrader said. 
The 39-year-old Jarrett, who has five career victo­ries, averaged 154.308 mph on the way to a victory that netted him $362,775 from the total purse of just over $3.6 million. 
"On one of our early stops, we made an air pressure adjustment and it just messed things up real bad," Jarrett explained. "I fell back quite a ways. But we finally got the car so it could just fly. I could go any­where and do anything I wanted out there. That was the key." 
Mark Martin's Ford finished fourth, followed by new teammate Jeff Burton and Wally Dallenbach Jr. 
Sterling Marlin's bid to become the first driver to win the Daytona 500 three straight times came to an abrupt end on lap 80, just four laps after he had moved into the lead for the first time. 
"That's the same motor we won with here last year, but it didn't quite make it this time," Marlin said. 
Another of the favorites, Ernie Irvan, also was out of contention early, getting caught on lap 28 in an inci­dent sparked by Earnhardt as a big pack sped along the main straightaway. 
Earnhardt slowed suddenly with an ignition problem. lrvan checked up right behind him and Dallenbach got into the rear of Irvan's car. Irvan, whose racing come­back from near-fatal head and chest injuries in August 1994 began last September, slapped the wall hard, damaging the left front of his car. 
"It was like (Earnhardt) shut the switch off," Irvan said. "I hit him and then somebody hit me from behind. Oh well, you've got to worry about things you can change." 
During the ensuing caution period, everybody pitted and Earnhardt's crew was able to switch to a second ignition box already installed on his car without losing a lap. 
Irvan's car had to be pushed behind the wall for extensive repairs. The action began early as the entire 43-car field remained bunched through the early laps. 
On lap nine, Jeremy Mayfield tapped the rear of the Chevy driven by defending Winston Cup champion Jeff Gordon, sending Gordon hard into the fourth-turn wall. 
Gordon, who was in the middle of the pack, was able to keep the car under control, but a chain reaction began behind him, with cars bumping and banging as they tried to fmd clean race track to get past. 
Steve Grissom spun off into the infield grass, then back onto the track, where he was hit by Joe Nemechek. Rusty Wallace and Rick Mast also banged together. 
Gordon's fuel pressure disappeared and he went to the garage area for repairs. The rest of the drivers involved were able to continue after a series of pit stops for repairs. 
Another unfortunate driver was John Andretti, start­ing his second full season on the Winston Cup circuit. Andretti led several times in the first half of the race and was out front when most of the leaders made green-flag pit stops on lap 109. He got out quickly, but had to come back in after a crewman failed to tighten the lug nuts on the right rear tire. 
Andretti lost a lap and fell to 30th, but on lap 130, as he worked toward regaining the lost lap, Andretti got together with Robert Pressley and slid sideways. Michael Waltrip clipped the sliding car, sending Andretti hard into the wall. Andretti's car sailed through the air, but landed on its wheels and slid to a stop in the grass. He was not hurt. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  ATIENTION ND MEN: City News Service is now hiring morning  SUMMER WORK!! Landscaping  MCKINLEY TERRACE & MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES.  0o0c0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  A noble spirit embiggens even the smallest man.  
newspaper carriers.  Work 1 hr  Spend your summer landscaping  AVAIL. NOW.272-6551  THE COPY SHOP  
each morning, make $46/wk. Call  with Fath Management Company,  LaFortune Student Center  Carson- 
SPRING BREAK!  Joe at 4-1680.  one of the largest property manage- Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive  Phone 631-COPY  What kind of beer do I like?  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  ment firms in Greater Cincinnati.  $250 incl. util & extras!  1-4809 or  0C0C0C0D0C0C0D0D0C0D0  It's a good thing you know because  
BLOW IT!  Full-time positions available. Hours  232-7175  I could've hit the deer.  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  are M-F 8-4:30. No experience nee- FAX IT FAST!!!  Either me or CHORE DADDY!!!  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  essary. Dependability and reliable  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Sending & Receiving  Love Blumdog  
$359 Florida $109  ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  transportaion required. Interested  219-291-7153  at  
 
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  Part-time work. $10.25/start.  candidates should apply at Aspen  THE COPY SHOP  Rafael Gonzalez is a teaching stud.  
1-800-426-771 0  Flexible hours around classes. All  Village Apartments, 2703 Erlene  HOMES FOR RENT  LaFortune Student Center  Whoever takes his MCAT class is  
majors. Scholarships/Internships.  Drive, or call 662-3724 for an  232-2595  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  guaranteed to be able to go out and  
CALL 282-2357.  appointment.  FAX IT FAST!! I  drink the night before the test and  
Pre-employment Drug Screen  ···········••******************  ace it by blind luck.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Required.  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ OJ Bilock is 20 years old today!  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Fath Management Company  MEA? COLLEGE PARK CONDO- Imagine that, he's not a teenager!  Hey Walter--Do you want to go  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  SUMMER JOBS  E.O.E  MINIUMS-SUBLETIING FOR  Does this mean he can't be a  bowling? It sounds like a new tradi- 
From $429! Save $100 On  ALL LAND/WATER,SPORTS  MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST.  TEEN-WOLF anymore?  tion worthy of Rat.  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring- PRESTIGE CHILDEAN'S CAMP ­ CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH  
breaktravel.com  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  AT 273-1738  Dear Brian,  Dante. Resourceful.  
1-800-678-6386  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  *"'**********•******************  Although we can't be together, I am  
1-800-786-8373  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) SeasonaVPermanent, No Exper.  •••• *. *****•••••••••••••*••••* * **  thinking of you! Happy Valentine's Day!  Toad, all this week is devoted to the fine art of dahl-playing. Those  
Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext  2 BOA APT @ COLLEGE PARK  Je Tame,  townies are going down hard. I say  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  C1114  FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER  Clare  we bet them for their dahts.  
Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER.  ONLY. BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  ..................................  Dante can't even be stopped at the  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $1691  NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­EAENCES. CALL (941 )425-4404  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 ................................  Megs, Lisa, Kathryn, Simone, & Julie,  trivia game. 5·5. Not bad.  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring- OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL- child! Summer therapy camp for  Have a great V-day.  I resolve not to swear. I think I'll  
breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386  BEARY FL 33860  handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for  FOR SALE  I miss you all! Love, Clare ********••••••••••••••••••••••••  stop smoking too. Smoking kills. And, it's yukky, dirty, gross, and dis­gustingly sick.  
ILOST & FOUND I CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  Mac SE/30 100MB HD, 10 RAM With Keyboard and Mouse  1yr + 744 hrs (-1wk) Happy Birthday Mies!!  Coming soon : Red Sox classified. The curse of the Bambino and Tony  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com- and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  Excellent Condition! $200  • Jalo" Pena will die this October.  
panies. World travel. Seasonal &  responsible, and love children. June  Brad x1440  FOR SALE -IBM cmptbl. laptop,  
Found: Sunglasses between Badin  full-time employment available. No  16 through August 11. Salary, room  Compaq Contura 4/25dx, 486dx,  Happy Gilmore is the best movie  
and the bookstore on 2/4. Call  experience necessary. For more  & board, and experience of lifetime  JUDAY CREEK gem.  8MB RAM, Internal modem, color  ever invented.  
x1678.  information call 1-206-971-3550  provided. Call or write for applica­ Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  VGA active-matrix screen, only  
ext.C55843  tion and information. Bay Cliff  with a 17 x 25 home office  2yrs. old (still under warranty!)  42 and counting until Shermy  
Health Camp, 310 W. Washington,  & 3-car garage.  loaded w/ Excel, Powerpoint, Word,  doesn't have to evade the Feds.  
Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855,  $154,900.  MS Publisher, and much  
LOST: gold rope chain necklace  BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  (906)228-5770.  Call Karen 272-3653.  more, carrying case included.  Green jackets will be out in full  
somewhere on North Quad or by  TOP$$$ PAID  $1200 o.b.o. -call maria X1573  force come Easter. Green jackets  
the JACC on either 2/10 or 2/11. If found PLEASE call x1334.  (800)269-5849 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ FOR RENT  I  TICKETSI NEED: 2 SETON HALL GA TIX.  Tim Corbitt, Tim Corbitt, Tim Corbitl. He's cool.  rule. Mortal Kombat is the best game ever.  
WANTED  Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  CALL CHAD 4-2107.  Because he lives in Dillion. (how's that for publicity?)  I disagree. Mortal Kombat is a very good game, but Donkey Kong is the  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  ALSO 3-4BEDAOOM HOMES  I need two tickets for the Seton  best game ever.  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  Hall game on 2/24.  Do you know someone who has  Donkey Kong sucks.  
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  ext.N55845  2773097  Please call Maureen@ 4-3721!  been to an obscene amount of  You know what, YOU SUCK!  
The Early Childhood Development  dances?  
Center is looking for volunteers who  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  Need Seton Hall GAs x2895  Is there a dancing kqueen/king in  Why don't you just go home? Can't  
enjoy young children. If you would  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­ Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  your life?  you find your@#$% home?  
be interested in spending 2 hours a  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  Do you have Seton Hall (Feb~ 24)  If so let Accent know.  
week reading children's books,  basic conversational English  Grad. -Football games  GA's? Please call Michelle 4-4530!  631-4540  Doin' the bull ride. Feelin' the bull  
building with blocks and singing  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and  219-277-7003  ride.  
songs with children, please call Thayer Kramer at  S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + oiher benefits. No  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  PERSONAL  Whose minivan was that anyhow?  I like bread and butter. I like toast  
631-3344 (NO) or Cindy Hestad at  teaching background or Asian lan- HOME.  Crimestoppers ... it don't not work!  and jam. I like anything I please  
284-4693 (SMC). Please join our  guages required. For more informa- VERY CLOSE TO NO.  Meg Blum turns 21 on Wednesday  with a rice cake in my hand.  
fun filled days.  lion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  night!!  The Real World. I feel like I've  
272-6194.  Look out!  missed out on something.  Ron is. evil.  

Monday, February 19, 1996 page 3
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER, in 
association with the Salon of Friendship and the African-American Student Alliance, PRESENTS 
Dr. Theophile Obenga 

Born in Brazzaville, Congo, (Central Africa) Dr. Obenga is a Visiting Professor in the Department of African-American Stud U nia 
Brown Bag Seminar Public Lecture Maat & African Philosophy Comparison Between African & European Values Of Civilization 
Tuesday, February 20 Wednesday, February 21 12:15-1:15 PM 7:30PM Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
ANCIENT AFRICAN HISTORY 
Feb., 19, 3:00--4:30 PM Room 204 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 20,7:00--8:30 PM Room 242 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 21, 12:15-1:15 PM 242 O'Shaughnessy Feb., 22, 12:15--1:15 PM Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
... 

The first in a series of three academic seminars designed to insure a greater intellectual re resentation of Africa in the curriculum of the Universi 
Dr. Theophile Obenga's visit to Notre Dame is part of our City-Wide Black History Month Celebration Program throughout Spring Semester ,1996. 
Sponsors: Pan-African Cultural Center, Salon of Friendship, African-American Student Alliance, Graduate Student Union, Black Cultural Arts Festival, Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Departments of: History, Government & International Studies, African & African-American Studies, Institute for Scholarships in Liberal Arts, Kellogg Institute of International Studies, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Provost Office, the Office of the President, Student Activities, Office of Multicultural Affairs: St. Mary's College & Notre Dame, Notre Dame Black Alumni Association, Notre Dame Alumni Associations office Office ofCommunit Relations Colle e Fellow. 
NB: $1 donations are welcome at any of these events 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 19, 1996 
•NBA 

Bulls pull off road win over Pacers 
Spurs outscore Rockets 28-9 in 
fourth to cruise to victory 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Michael Jordan scored 44 points and Scottie Pippen had a season-high 40 -just the ninth time in NBA history that two teammates had over 40 points in the same game -as the Chicago Bulls defeated the Indiana Pacers 110-102 Sunday. 
The win extended the Bulls' current winning streak to five and boosted their league-best record to 46-5. 
Dennis Rodman, the league's leading rebounder, contributed 23 rebounds to the victory as Chicago earned a 52-44 edge on the boards. 
Indiana, which had defeated the Bulls 103-97 in their first meeting at Market Square Arena this season and three straight wins over the Bulls at home, had five players in dou­ble figures. Reggie Miller put away 24 points, followed by Dale Davis with 14. 
Pippen scored 29 of his points in the second half, including 15 in the third period when he sank three 3-pointers as the Bulls took the lead for good. His layup put Chicago ahead to stay 62-61. 
He then picked off a Rik Smits pass and hit a layup on a fast break and his 3-pointer from 25-feet in the final second of the period gave the Bulls an 83­74 lead to take into the fourth period. 
Indiana cut its deficit to 87-86 on a tipin by Dale Davis with 
8:17 to play and Chicago responded with six straight points on two Jordan baskets and a tip by Pippen. A 3-pointer by Miller pulled Indiana to within four at 99-95 with 3:23 to play. But Chicago scored eight straight points, five by Pippen and three by Jordan, to give the Bulls their biggest lead of the game at 107-95 with 1:54 to play. 
Chicl!-go overcame a sluggish start that produced an early 10-point deficit and led 53-51 at halftime on Rodman's tip-in at the buzzer. The Pacers scored the game's first nine

.... 
JPRINCi BREAK 
CANCUN 
7 Night Packages Non-Stop From Indianapolis 
$4)9 
BEACHFRONT HOTELS AVAILABLE OASIS· DAY'S INN· CALINDA • HYATT 
packagts lnclydt: 
• 
Round·Tnp Non-Slop Airlare From Jndianapo/Js 

• 
7 Nights Beachlront Hotel Accommodations 

• 
Round· Trip Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP P•rty Package: FREE cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE spedal events, OVER $150 in savings! 


LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl 
cA\..\.. COLLEGE TOURS 
,-ooA"' 800-)95-4896 
Pncaa par pei'IOn. plua tu:•• Pobllc Ct\erters v1a A!l.gro A1r. Tour D!»rator!l Funque1t V•cabom. Oet.d• 1n OpiP•rt Cantntet. 

points and opened a 17-7 advantage as Chicago had three turnovers and hit just 2-of-11 shots in the game's first six minutes. 
The last time teammates scored over 40 in the same game was March 19, 1984 when Adrian Dantley had 43 and John Drew 42 for Utah against Detroit. 
Notes: After winning a fran­chise-record 17 straight at home, Indiana has lost two straight in Market Square Arena ... Jordan has scored 30 or more points in 31 games this season, including his last five ... Pippen's previous high this sea­son was 37 at Boston on Dec. 18 ... Rodman has led the Bulls in rebounding in 36 of 39 games in which he has played and has 20 or more nine times ... Indiana managed to outshoot the Bulls, hitting 50 percent of its 70 shots. The Bulls connect­ed on 42 of 86 attempts for 49 percent. ... Miller sprained his right ankle on a drive in the fourth quarter but returned to the game after having it retaped. 
He also injured a finger on his left hand earlier but stayed in the game to make two free throws. 
San Antonio 93 Houston 79 

The San Antonio Spurs know from experience that beating the Houston Rockets in the reg­ular season carries little weight once the playoffs start. 
Still, a win is a win. 

David Robinson had 25 points and helped the Spurs outscore Houston 28-9 in the fourth quarter Sunday for a 93-79 vic­tory. San Antonio won the sea­son series 3-1 over the Rockets. 
Last season, the Spurs won the season series 5-1, only to have Houston eliminate them 4­2 in the Western Conference finals en route to a second straight NBA championship. 
"Both teams realize the impol'tance of this game," Spurs coach Bob Hill said. "I think it was the 19th time we've faced each other in a year and a half (exhibition, regular sea­son and playoffs). We both kriow each other so well that I could probably coach them and Rudy (Tomjanovich) could come down here and coach the Spurs." 
Chuck Person's 3-point shot early in the fourth quarter capped a 16-0 burst that put the Spurs ahead for the first time since the first quarter. Robinson scored 12 of his 25 points and Person had all eight of his points in the final period. 
Trailing 68-53 late in the third quarter, the Spurs used seven points from Vinny Del Negro to outscore the Rockets 12-2. 
Del Negro's 3-pointer with 
39.7 seconds remaining made it 70-65. 
The Spurs continued the run at the start of the fourth quar­ter, and Person's 3-pointer g~ve San Antonio a 72-70 lead with 9:08 to play. 
Houston's offense was still sputtering as San Antonio stretched its lead to 93-77 when Robinson's 3-pointer capped an 11-0 run. 
Del Negro added 19 points, Avery Johnson had 16 and Sean Elliott 15 for the Spurs. 
"In the second half we came out and Chuck Person and Doc Rivers each gave us a big lift," Hill said. 
"Chuck made his 3s and had nine rebounds, while Doc gave us energy." 
Rivers had four points, four rebounds and three assists in 16 minutes. 
"Being at home helped us 
come back," said Robinson, I~ubmlSSIOns to the
who also had 12 rebounds and blocked seven shots. "Our de­fense really picked up in the I second half which was the biggest key to the game." 
Houston, which had a three­game winning streak snapped, was led by Hakeem Olajuwon's 18 points. Clyde Drexler added 17, Sam Cassell 13 and Eldridge Recasner 12. 
"I thought we had a great first half, we had a great mind­set with playoff intensity," said 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
it/.. 
Michigan shakes off ' ac~ident, downs Indiana 
::·::<.:':':':-:':=:==·:-.'' 

By~XATKINS 
+Associatec.l rt;~ 
:: ;;:~:· ; ANN AR.BOR
,,•, ·::-·=:;::_=\:{\::::,:::· 

Michj1fil.n shook off the .· effe~t~ Pt~ p~tential tragic ·.•utl)'a¢ci(l~pt.as Albert White ..~4 M~ceo B~ston, two play­. req't involved. led lrie'S to an 80~75 over·! lndiana on 
,,,,~ > 
· :Whi red 21 points w})Uf\ B~$tOn had 18 points and 13 rebounds for the struggling Wolverines {16-9, 6-6 Big Ten) who kept their hopes alive for an NCAA tour­nament berth. Five Michigan players. plus a highly touted recruit, escaped serious injury early Saturdl;ly during a rollover accident as they returned from a P"'ftY in Detroit. 

..~tayl ;. q~}$ Bullock, all 
:swtf\ts,.~d Ron Oliver. 
>; The mo~t sel"ious injury was · Traylor'$ broken arm. which .~ended the 320-pound fresh­. man's season. 
Traylor. still recovering 
from surgery at University of Michigan Hospital. was unable to attend the Indiana game. 
The recruit, Mateen Cleaves. a 6-foot-2 guard who led Flint Northf)rn to the Class A state championship last sea­son, sat with his mother behind the Michigan bench. 
Taylor scored 13 points before fouling out with 6:53 left in the game. Bullock scored 11 and Mitchell four. Oliver, a walk-on reserve, played briefly but didn't score. 
Brian Evans had 22 points and 10 rebounds for Indiana (15-10, 8-5). 
Charlie Miller added 15 while Haris Mujezinovic and Robbie Eggers each scored 12 for the Hoosiers who commit­ted 15 turnovers. 
The Hoosiers, who trailed 37·29 at halftime, got seven points from Evans as they opened the second half with a 17-8 burst. A basket by Richard Mandeville gave Indiana a 46-45 lead with 
14:06 remaining. 
But the Wolverines regained the lead on two free throws by Bullock with 13:28 left, and Michigan led the rest of the way. 
The Wolverines Jed 75-65 with 53 seconds remaining. 


Due by February 21 in 356 O'Shag! 
Tomjanovich. "Somewhere at 
Everyone is welcome to submit! 
the midway point of the second half we relaxed. Give them 
(Get your stuff in print.)I 
credit, at the end they had the L------=-------------------' 
energy and we fizzled." 
Applications are now Pick up applications being accepted for Food 
at the office o 

and Supply Manager at 
Student Activities. 

the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. 
Come Join the Team! 

Monday, february 19, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS=-----------------------~p_:ag::_c_1_5 
r.o 'r:'i'E o,..:;; ...TR"LL
• -L.,o;;u I.!H~K~:. -" 
Marbury money when he picks his spots 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA It's one of the most feared sights in college basket­hall. 
Stnphon Marbury stands at the top of the key, bounc­ing thn hall slowly, giving everyone a chance to see the arm that's adorned with a tattoo of a cat atop the world and the words "Mr. Marbury." 
Will he go lllft'? Will he go right? What is a defender to do't 
"If I was sellish, I could probably get to the basket evnry time," said Marbury, the fabulous freshman who is a major rnason Georgia Tech is tied for first in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
"But that's not how you play basketball. You've got to pick your spots." 
In the final minutes of Saturday's 64-63 victory over Waktl Forest. Marbury was picking his spot nearly every time down the court. 
With 6:23 to go, he bolted into the lane, pulled up and hit an 11-foot jumper that put Tech ahead for good. With 3:43 left, he drove along the baseline and seoopnd in a reverse layup to give his team a live-point 

Public Lecture 
Remembering Plessy and the Racial Construction of Citizenship 
Monday February 19, 1996 8:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
lead. And in the final two minutes, the Yellow Jackets' offense was reduced to Marbury standing in his favorite position -top of the key -letting the shot clock run down, picking his spot for the inevitable burst to the basket. 
The Demon Deacons were left helpless against Marbury's magnificent crossover dribble. They had no choice but to foul, allowing him to hit a couple of free throws which provided the margin of victory. 
"I told him he could lead the ACC in scoring, easily," coach Bobby Cremins said. "If that was the most important thing, I would tell him to do it. But it's not." 
Marbury finished with 25 points, another brilliant ­yet typical -performance for a player who arrived in Atlanta this season as the most highly touted freshmen in the country. He has taken an erratic team into his gifted hands and made it his own. 
Marbury is the major reason Tech is tied with Wake Forest for the ACC lead at 9-3 after missing the NCAA tournament the last two seasons. 
lie is third in the ACC in scoring at 19 points a game even though his coach told him a month ago to worry less about points. 
"I asked Stephon ... to be unselfish, to sacrifice for the team," Cremins said. "I told Stephon we needed 
UndergradUate···· 
Brown.~B.ag,lunch 
Up Close and Personal: Afrlcan-Amerieanrsmdies at Harvard 


History Department presents The Provost's Series of Distinguished Women Faculty 
Professor 
Evelyn Brogks Higginbotham 
African-American Studies Harvard Unip~~r~itg 
,:.-:y .:::· ~-:. ;:.~ .' 

Gender Studies Faculty Forum 
African·American Women's History and the Metalanguage of Race 
'IUesday February 20~ 1996 12:15-1:30 pm Conference Room 119 O'Sbaugnessy 
UNIVERSITY OF 
his passing and penetration, and his scoring. At first, he struggled with it. What he did was listen to me too much. He forgot to shoot and score. lie's got to do that, too." 
Marbury is following in the footsteps of another bril­liant point guard who came to the Yellow Jackets from New York City. Kenny Anderson led Tech to the Final Four in 1990, but wound up leaving school two years early for the NBA. 
Few people expect Marbury to stay at Tech any longer than Anderson did, so Cremins is trying to cram as much knowledge as he can into the freshman's head. Fortunately, there's no need for beginner cours­es in the Education of Stephon. 
"Everybody thinks I'm taking away a little from his offensive game," Cremins said. "But he's doing what's best for our basketball team. lie has made a tremen­dous difference with this team." 
Cremins, a native of New York, is the major reason Marbury chose Tech when he could have gone to any school in the country. 
"Don't let him fool you," Marbury said. "He gets on me, and sometimes I get mad at him. But he's a great player's coach." 
And in Marbury, he's got a great player to coaeh. 


Pulford: Hawks have no interest in Kings' Great One 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

The Chicago Blackhawks have no interest in acquiring Wayne Gretzky, general manager Bob Pulford said Sunday. 
"No," Pulford said. "Never have." 
Despite continuing reports that Chicago is one of several teams pursuing the NHL's all-time scoring leader, Pulford said the Blackhawks could afford neither what it would take to get Gretzky from the Los Angeles Kings nor the salary Gretzky would command. 
The New York Rangers were close to a deal last week but broke off negotiations after Gretzky asked for about $7 million a year. 
Last month, the St. Louis Blues reportedly offered five players but the Kings rejected the overture. 
According to the latest rumors, the Blues are interested again. 
The Detroit Hed Wings and Toronto Maple Leafs were also said to be in the picture. And even Hangers GM Neil Smith left open the possi­bility that the team would go after Gretzky again before the March 20 trading deadline: "I never say never." 
Gretzky, who won four Stanley Cups with the Edmonton Oilers before getting traded to the Kings in 1988, has grown disenchanted with the direction of the Los Angeles franchise and has asked to be traded to a contender. 
At 35, he realizes that he has little time left to win a championship. And he knows it probably won't happen with the Kings, who have missed ­the playoffs the last two years and may not qual­ify again this season. 
Though Gretzky isn't in Chicago's plans, Pulford said his team still hopes to make a deal by the deadline . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are wei· come, but space is limited. You must register in advance at the RecSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call 1-6100. Open to all ND students. 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Saint Mary's or Notre Dame who are interest­ed in collegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason 4-1065. 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice schedule change beginning February 20 and will now be Tuesday and Thursday at 10:15 p.m. Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 

page 16 

The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 

Ling out as Irish fall to Wolverines 
Center's broken ankle heavily outweighs loss 
By MIKE DAY SportS Writer 
A season full of personal feats and accomplishments ended in frustration and horror for one individual this weekend. 
The Notre Dame hockey team lost more than a game Friday night. They lost their top point producer, their team leader, and most importantly, the heart and soul of Notre Dame hockey. 
They lost center Jamie Ling. 
In a season when the senior reached his 150th point and 100th goal, Ling hoped to add the icing on the cake by guiding the Irish to a berth in the CCHA playoffs. 
However, if the Irish are to reach the conference postsea­son, they will have to do so without their top all-around player. 
"I had hoped to help the team make a strong push for the playoffs," said a dejected Ling. 

"It's frustrating that the injury had to happen, but it's even more disappointing that we lost the game (5-2)." 
When the Irish traveled to Detroit to take on the Wolverines, the only thing on their mind was pulling off an upset and reclaiming the eighth seed in the CCHA playoffs. Even if they were unable to knock off No. 5 ranked Michigan, at least they still had an excellent chance of earning the final playoff spot with four games left in the season. 
However, those chances suf­fered a major blow this week­end when Ling suffered a bro­ken ankle with 1:37 remaining in the contest. 
In typical fashion, the senior center made a full speed dash for a loose puck, but this time, his ankle buckled underneath him. 
"As soon as it happened, I knew it was broken," said Ling. "It was just kind of a freak play that you can't really avoid. I can't say that I would have done it any differently if I had another opportunity." 
As for the outcome itself, it was another strong effort by Notre Dame (8-21-3) that ended 

-
The Observer/Kevin Klau 

Brian Urick contributed a goal in the loss to No. 5 Michigan. 


in disappointment. After falling behind 1-0, the Irish tied the score at one when freshman left wing Aniket Dhadphale slid the puck past Michigan goal­tender Marty Turco for his ninth goal of the year. 
However, the Irish offense immediately fell back into its coma, and the Wolverines reeled off four unanswered goals to grab what would prove to be an insurmountable 4-1 lead. 
Freshman right wing Brian Urick was able to pull the Irish to within three with his lOth goal of the year, but Notre Dame was never able to chal­lenge Michigan (24-5-2) the rest of the way. 
Michigan star center Brendan Morrison registered his 21st goal and 53rd point of the year, and the Wolverines held ofT an Irish furry to cruise to a 5-2 victory. 
"We knew this was a game we could win, but we just couldn't take advantage of our opportunities," said Ling. "It's extremely frustrating to have it (his Irish career) end the way it did, but the guys just need to push on and make it into the playoffs." 
In what has become all too familiar for Irish fans, a solid defensive effort, highlited by goaltender Matt Eisler's 31 saves, was overshadowed by another anemic offensive effort. 
"Matt Eisler has really come on for us, but we've wasted it because of our problems scor­ing," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. '""""'""""'""' 
"We've had opportunities, and we have some offensive minded players. We just haven't been able to get it done IIBI! in the scoring column." 
With Ling out and just four games left in the season, the Irish will quickly have to find a new way to get it done. 
The32 Annual Finance Forutn 

eiPO 
AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS 
FROM DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS. 
•Mr. Jeffery Boetticher 
CEO and President 
•Mr. Thomas Grieg 
Managing Partner 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 
Tuesday, Feb. 20, 7:ooPM, Jordan Auditorium •Refreshments To Follow• 
-~-----~· 

Monday, February 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
the Lady Panthers knew what had hit them, the Irish had
Irish 

scored 52 points and run away continued from page 20 with the game. Leading this offensive charge "Our effort on defense was for the road-warrior Irish were 
pretty good," commented junior forward Beth Morgan sophomore point guard Molly and Peirick. Peirick. "We wanted to keep Morgan lit it up for 18 points, 
them under 50 points, and we while Peirick did her part by almost did." scoring 17 points, 15 of which 
Once they missed, the came on 5 of 8 shooting on Panthers never had a chance three-pointers. for any kind of putback. The She also dished out five Irish ruled the glass. Behind assists. Carey Poor's game-high ten "I could have done better on rebounds, Notre Dame outre­(turnovers)," said Peirick. "I bounded Pitt 45-36. was pleased, though, with my 
Combined with this stellar ef­scoring and my defense." fort on the defensive end was Rounding out the list of dou­the Irish dominance on the of­ble-figure scorers were fensive side. In the second half, Katryna Gaither (17 points). they came out "en fuego." Sheila McMillen (14), and Stacy Their 61.5% shooting from the Fields (11 ). field included 7 of 9 three­McMillen was deadly from pointers. In fact, they set a long-range as well, finishing new school record by hitting four of five from three-point 
start, propelling the Huskies to their first half eleven total three-pointers, range. burst. shattering the old record of Said Peirick, "We wanted to
UConn 
"This is a tremendous basketball atmosphere," seven. win, and win big. It wasn't im­continued from page 20 said MacLeod. "It was conclusive to jolting the At one point, the Irish pos­portant who scored." home team." sessed a 41 point lead. Before their pressure defense." It was a jolt that the Irish never recovered That pressure defense wreaked havoc with from. Notre Dame trailed 44-31 at halftime after 
Notre Dame's inside game, which had been a Doron Sheffer hit a three-pointer at the buzzer, strength in the Irish vietory over Pittsburgh last and never got within single-digits in the second Tu(lsday. half. 
UConn center Travis Knight had one of his best Notre Dame shot only 36% from the floor games of the season, almost registering a triple­despite handling Connecticut's full-court pres­double with 12 points, 10 rebounds, and seven sure. 
blocks. The Irish did show significant progress at the 
The blocked shots proved especially trouble­free throw line, connecting on 15 of their 20 some, as UConn's interior defense limited Pat attempts.Garrity, Notre Dame's leading scorer, to four Another positive sign for the Notre Dame was first half points. Garrity finished with 13, his the presence of Gary Bell on the floor. The 20th consecutive game in double figures. freshman who has been plagued by injuries saw 
The Huskies also clamped down on Hoover his first action since the December 23 contest aftp,r his torrid start, holding him to 15 points, all against Xavier, and finished with five points on in the first half. 2-of-3 shooting. As Hoover cooled, UConn's Hay Allen began to "It's been a long time (since we've seen Bell on heat up. Allen connected on three three-pointers the court)," said MacLeod. "He did a great job of his own en route to 28 points. offensively but at times got turned around defen­Allen's heroics woke up the Husky faithful at sively. But it was great to see him going up and sold-out Gampel Pavilion after the team's slow down again." 
Tuesday, february 20 at 12:30 
Isabel Donoso, 
Professor at ILADES in Santiago, Chile will give a presentation/conversation entitled: "Women Doing Theology in Latin America" Bring your grab-n-gol brown bag lunch to the Center for Social Concerns 


In Celebration of the Lunar New Year 
Department of Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures presents 
-
~~e~ P~ eu«t ~, 

Ill IIIIi 
by 

Susan Kiang, Artist 


TOMORROW Tuesday, Feb~n20 at 7:00pm 
Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge (Refreshments to follow) 
Everyone Welcome! 

Monday, February 19, 1996 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
Biolchini explained. "They defintely offer support
Presidente 


though." continued from page 20 Now, Biolchini is looking to carry 
Irish show character in
that support a bit farther. Carrying on a family tradition of "I haven't had too much success in dedication to the Bengal Bouts, the ring but I'm confident this year," Biolchini is the current president of said Biolchini. "I don't want to be 
victory over Kentucky
the Notre Dame Boxing Club. It's over-confident. There is so much 
not a distinction earned from per­formance in the ring. Rather. Biolchini's hard work and perserverance have culminated in his leadership role. 
"Everything we do as a club is geared toward the tournament," Biolchini said. "Since the first day of classes, we've been having prac­tices. It's a lot of work but we have good people helping us." 
But leading those people is Biolchini. It's a job he's been raised to handle. 
"My dad was a two-time Bengal Bouts champion and my brother was a three-time champ," the Tulsa, OK native said. 
''I've grown up with boxing. Some of my fondest memories are of watching boxing -guys like Sugar Ray and Thomas Hearns and Marvin Hagler. It was part of my childhood." 
Now, it is an entrenched part of 
his college years. 
Thus far, his efforts have been 
met with limited success but the 
effort has always been there. 
"I pretty much train all year 
round. In the summer I run a lot 
and I have been lifting since school 
started. My brother has helped me 
too a lot." 
Having earned three titles, broth­
er Doug is a good source for assis­
tance. 
The one thing he has not been 
good for though is offering pressure 
to his younger sibling. 
"They (my family) have helped me 
but they don't put pressure on me," uncertainty because there is always someone you don't know too much about. I respect everybody in Bengal Bouts." 

Biolchini's respect for the Bouts as a charitable event runs even deeper 
"My goal was to increase the over­all revenue of the Bengal Bouts," Biolchini said. "We're going to have them even if no one shows up but it's better if we can take advantage of them to raise some much-needed money. We now have an EMT (emergency medical technician) at every practice so the figures have been down." 
Still. the Bouts have contributed 

over $10,000 for the past few years 
and the boxers are looking to con­
tinue, and maybe even improve on, 
that total. 
Though the boxers are officially a 

club, they receive very little help 
from the university. 
"We don't get any money from the 

university," Biolchini revealed. "We 
get access to our boxing room but 
other than that, we pay for every­
thing else like our own equipment. 
We even have to rent out the JACC 
for our events." 
Hence, more hard work goes into 

the Bengals than just hours spent at 
the speed bag. 
"It feels great that we can do 

something we love and at the same 
time help other people." 
"If I bleed, it good's to know I'm 

bleeding for someone else." 
It's also pretty good to know if 

you're winning. you're winning for 
yourself. 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
In Thursday's win over the University of Kentucky the Notre Dame men's tennis team learned something about themselves. They already knew that they had talent with wins over top thirty opponents Minnesota and Boise State. But Thursday, the Irish proved that they had a lot of character. 
The Wildcats took the Irish to the brink before the Irish edged them with a thrilling and dramatic 4-3 victory. With the match evened up at three points a piece, the remaining match between senior John J. O'Brien and Wildcat freshman Ariel Gaitan decided the victory. 
O'Brien, up a set on Wildcat freshman Ariel Gaitan, was on serve with Gaitan at 2­
2. Gaining momentum, Gaitan broke O'Brien in the fifth game. 
Mter both players held their next two ser­vice games, O'Brien was faced with either breaking or losing the set. Down 4-5, O'Brien came back to win the last three games of the set to claim the point and victo­ry pushing Notre Dame's record to 5-1. 
"With regards to my strategy I was doing 
something wrong," O'Brien explained. "I 
was leaving the ball at waist level and coach 
told me to place it a little higher." I started 
doing that and that turned things around. It 
really won the match for me." 
The Irish got out to a great start by doing 
something that they had not done in three 
matches, winning the doubles point. 
Sprouse and Pun defeated Marcus Fluitt and 
Dan Spaner 8-2. 
In a new doubles combination, freshman Brian Patterson teamed up with Jakup Pietrowski to dominate Patrik Johanson and Ariel Gaitan in their 8-2 victory. 
"Brian Patterson deserves a lot of credit," Zurcher noted. "He did a great job dealing with that situation as a freshman." 
After the doubles point was won, Simme and O'Brien's match against Cedric Kauffman and Ludwig Sundin was suspend­ed with the Irish trailing 4-5. 
Zurcher explained the doubles improve­ment, "We spent the last couple of days working on doubles, we really focused on that part of our game." 
The first singles point was scored by the Irish as Jason Pun made quick work of Patrik Johanson 6-2,6-1. 
The Irish were off to a great start. But then, Wildcat sophomore Marcus Fluitt and his 120 mph serve was too much for Ryan Simme as he dropped his No. 3 singles match, 6-4,6-3. 
Pietrowski explains how he rebounded 
from his first loss of the season, "I knew I 
played a good player and I thought I played 
a pretty good match against LSU. I just 
worked on the things that broke down and 
the coaches helped me through that." 
In probably the second best match of the 
day, Mike Sprouse suffered his first loss of 
the season at the hands of Cedric Kauffman. 
That drew the Wildcats and Irish even with 
just the O'Brien-Gaitan point left in the five 
slot. 
With the whole weight of the outcome 
team match on his shoulders, O'Brien 
explains how he overcame the pressure, "I 
was not as nervous as I thought I would be. 
All the guys on the team helped me." 
This weekend the Irish improved their 
record to 6-1 with a 5-l victory over 
Wisconsin. Look for more details about the 
match in Tuesday's Observer. 


.r-----------------------------------~----------­
Monday, l~ebruary 19, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MISTER BOFFO 

Dll.BERT 

:0 
0

THIS :3·0 COLORED 
....

PIE. C\4ART SHOWS AN u 
..0 
IJ

U~D.Plf>..INED RISE IN .. U> 
:0

EX.P E.NSES. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Someone from your past makes an unexpected appearance. Strive to keep your emotional balance while discussing your feelings one-to-one. Your work associates admire your ability to think fast on your feet. Give some thought to staning your own business. Next fall will bring rapid-fire financial negotiations. A romantic relationship becomes more meaningful as the winter holidays draw nigh. Be open to new ex peri­ences early in 1997. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Smokey Robin­son, actress Margaux Hemingway, jockey great Eddie Arcaro, tennis player Hana Mandlikova. 
JOE MARTIN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Opportunity knocks! Talk things over with your mate or those direct­ly affected by your financial deci­sions. A partnership is invigorated by a discussion of shared goals. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It is time to replace worn-out behavior patterns. Implement the power of positive thinking! Your leadership qualities are badly needed in the arts. Study your dreams for fresh insights. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put aside financial worries and go back to schooL Home improvement pro­jects are a big hit with loved one. Your love story begins an exciting new chapter. An innovative exercise program begins to click. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Allies at a distance will bring in new clients or contracts. Creative ideas abound! Seek expert help in devel­oping and marketing them.
SCOTT ADAMS 
Romance could blossom in a fun
0 

setting tonight. Be a good sport. 
>­
~ 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work harder to make things come togeth­
HOW 
I. THINK
< u 1"\UCH 

er. Bold moves will lead to progress
IPS NOT 
where romance or career is con­
~ 
I SEE
u 
DO 

THE. 
cerned. A pet project turns out to be
:0 
ITI 
U> ;. COLOR 

"r"\AGIC 
• OF INTEREST 
"!'OU EACH GET A BINDER OF COLORED PIE CHARTS 50 '<OU CA~ HELP FINO TI-lE. CAUSE OF OUR 
62 By oneself 63 Pea holders 64 Mississippi 
riverboat stop 66 Skin cream ingredient 67 Pickling 
solution 68 Slinky fabric 69 Mr. Gingrich 70 Christmas 
visitor 71 Understands 
DOWN 

1 Dental care item 2Nouveau-­3 ---a million 4 Had the 
intention 5 Winner's tjike & Colorado ski 
town 1 Rice and 

Bancroft 8 Fragrance 9 Succinct 30 Actress Skye 
10 "We are not 31 Signals assent 32 Knife wound 11 Content of 
33 Dept. of Labor 

some shells 
division 12"C6mo-­
34 Lamontusted?" 
Cranston 

13 Whisky glass 36 Here, in18 Claudius's Quebecstepson 37 TV's Griffin 
• 
Evelyn BrookswHigglnbotham, of Harvard Uni­versity. will present a lecture entitled "Remembering P1eesy: The Racial construction of Citizenship" tonight at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. The lecture is sponsored by the Provost's Series of Dis­tinguished Women Faculty. 

• 
Isabel Donoso, Professor at IlADES in Santiago, Chile will host a conversation entitled "Women Doing Theology in Latin America" at 12:30 p.m. tomorrow. Bring your grah-n-go or brown bag lunch to the Center for Social Concerns. 

• 
At the Cinema at the Snite tonight. "Vidas Secas· (Barren Lives)" and "Cover Girl" will be playing tLt 7:00p.m. and 9:15p.m. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "G~.eetings -­
5 "Stop, sailor!" 10 Gets older 14 Queue 15 Knight's 
weapon 16 Command at 
the lditarod 11 QE2, e.g. 19 "Do--others 
20 Patina 21 Microscope part 22 Tiff 23 Guard 25 Sound system 27 "Piggies" 29 Newsman 
Newman 


•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North Meatball Grinder Garden Quiche Roast Turkey Breast 
Saint Mary's 
Chicken Diablo Musroom Spinich Quiche Stewed Tomatoes 
47 Beginning 56 Perspective 
Meatloaf

49 Polaris, e.g. 57 Nerds 51 Mr. --(Poitier 58 Bridge 
JEANE DIXON 
a winner' Tonight, celebrate with 
loved one. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Research will put you in touch with the right people to e~pand your business. Focus on your priorities. A heart-to-heart chat opens the door to greater !JUst. Your partner is highly supportive. 
LIBRA, (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A , last-minute message or business trip helps you make a key decision. Your enthusiasm wins over an influ­ential person. Teamwork will boost production quickly. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your gracious manner benefits you in unexpected ways. Old friends may be willing to loan you money. Seek experts' suggestions regarding a financial problem. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your intuition may not be as reliable as usual today. Go slow. Stick to your regular work, and meet your domestic obligations. Fme trea­sures can be found in secondhand or antique shops. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Imaginative concepts surface, helping you get an important project off the launching pad. Innovative work methods or a clever strategy will pay off handsomely. Enjoy horne entertainment tonight A new love is IJUe love! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Salespeople fare especially well today. Get important c:omspondence in the mail, then hope for a quick response. You need to guard against impulsive words or actions. Sort out a domestic problem in a friendly way. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Solutions to financial problems are forthcoming. Relatives may offer to advance money. Creative work will prove highly lucrative. Remember, age has nothing to do with your abi 1­ity to learn. Enroll in classes or workshops. 
32 "---jail" (Monopoly directive) 
35 Beast 39Scooby-­40 Volcano fallout 41 Ornamental 
work 42 Purpose 43 "Steady as -­
goes" 44 Eagerly wish 45 Mars's Greek 
counterpart 46 Is wearing 48 Measureless 50 Actress Anjelica 54"--17" 58 "Shoo!" 60 Breakfast 
restaurant chain, informally 
South Broccoli Cheese Soup Roast Turkey Breusi Whipped Potatoes/Gravy 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

38 Vicinities
periods 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
41 Cures, as leather 

Observer classifieds 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

28 Cinch 45 Befuddled role) 59 Composer 
52 Name on the Porter Tara deed &1 French 
Have something
53 Out bridge 
55 Name repeated 65 Cult. events in a 1963 hit song Iunder 
to say? Use 
Get answers to any three clues 
-

-··-­
SPORTS 
Monday, February 19, 1996 


What?· Only 38? 
Notre Dame sets record with 11 three­pointers, but still can't match 40-point win over Pitt from two weeks ago 
Toby Biolchini has been a model leader for the Bengal Bouts outside the ring. Now, it's his time to lead with the gloves. 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sporrs Editor 

For some, it _may be just a hobby to pass tP.e time and stay in shape, while others may look at it as a neat way to have some fun while contributing to society. For Toby Biolchini, Beng(l.l Bouts are a bit more S!:lrious. As a matter of fact, the annual boxing tournament which begins this Sunday is on his ultimate to-do-Jist. 
"One of the things em my list ofthings to do before I die is to win the Bengal Bouts," said Biolchini. 
Through his first three years as a. partiei· pant, he has yet to achieve that distinction. However, his contributions to the Bouts•can be measured in things far greater than KO's and decisions. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Ryan Hoover and Pat Garrity found themselves looking up at UConn. 

Men's Basketball 
vs. Providence Feb. 21, 7:30 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Miami Feb. 20, 7 p.m. 
Hockey 

vs. Michigan State Feb. 20, 7 p.m. 
th Ann____... ___ 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Share the wealth. 
Follow this motto, and every­one is sure to be happy. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team followed this motto very efficiently on Saturday. With five players scoring in double figures, the Irish definitely came away happy, as they blew out the lowly Pittsburgh Lady Panthers 89-51. The victory raises Notre Dame's record to 18-5 overall, and 13-2 in the Big East con­ference. 
After j4mping out to an eleven-point lead and holding the Panthers scoreless in the first seven minutes of the game, the Irish never looked back. 
Although they shot only 40% from the field in the first twenty minutes, they forced Pitt to shoot only 21.4%. By the end of the first half, they had built a 37-18lead. 
The stingy defense continued in the second half. By the end of the game, Notre Dame had forced Pitt into a whopping 32 turnovers and 33% shooting. Gina Montesano led the Lady Panthers with 15 points, while Latia Howard contributed 14 points in the losing cause. 
see IRISH I page 1 7 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Jeannine Augustin contributed six assists as the Irish blew out Pitt. 
Huskies put down early Irish surge 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
For ten minutes, it was the biggest upset of the year in college basketball. 
Then reality set in. 
Notre Dame (8-14, 3-11) raced to a 22-17 lead against homestanding Connecticut, the Big East leaders, before succombing to the superior talent of the No. 3 team in the nation, 85-65. 
The final score was identical to that of Notre Dame's first loss to the Huskies in December, but was not indicative of the improvements the Irish have made. 
On Saturday, the Irish played with a poise far beyond their years in the opening minutes, han­dling the Husky press with ease and riding three Ryan Hoover three-pointers to a five point advantage. 
The game turned quickly, however, as UConn responded with a 20-3 run in the next six min­utes to ensure that the Huskies (24-1, 14-0) would extend their winning streak to 22 games. 
"Today we started well but got stuck on 25 for an eternity," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "It was a combination of our inability to score and 
see UCONN I page 17 

Track 
• Men's tennis has successful weekend 

Alex Wilson Invite Feb. 23-24 
see page 18 Men's and Women's Tennis , at National Indoors Feb. 22-25 
• Ling hurt as hockey falls to Michigan 
SMC Sports see page 16 
Basketball at Aurora Feb. 22, 7 p.m. 
Swimming at Liberal Arts Invite • Marbury a money machine 
Feb. 22-24 
see page 15 




