
Saturday, August 24 • Vol. XXX No. 1 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S Freshman Orientation 1996 
Class of 2000 begins journey to next century 
ND freshmen set new record for enrollment 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Each year's incoming fresh­man class at Notre Dame has some sort of statistical trade­mark that sets it apart from previous crops. And after Notre Dame received a record number of applications into last ytlar's freshman class, the Class of 2000 has continued the trend by becoming the largest group to enroll into the University. 
Kevin Hooney, the University's director of admis­sions, said the incoming fresh­men probably will number 1,925, eclipsing the previous high of 1, 906, set on several occasions and most recently reached in 1993. 
The exact number of fresh­men will not be known until all students formally enroll on Monday. 
Rooney attributed the new record to a low number of cancellations over the summer by students who had intended to enroll. "We had about 25 fewer cancellations," he said. 
The University was able to 
see FRESHMEN/ page 8 





~ 

Signs point the way for students moving in under the Dome. Below, Linda . ~ and SMC freshman Patty Meagher unpack the car outside Holy Cross. 
-~---...:S:::a:::t:..=u:..:rd::;:a~y~,.:.:A:..=u.:.gu:::s:..:t:..:2:..4;;......__""'!""·-:--~J ;~ 'i-i 
11:00 a.m. Ollietal Drlentadon Program lor First·Year StudentsJoycll Center 
and Parents 

12:15 p.m. Picnic Lunch ISMCl 1p.m. Irish 101 lor Notre Oame transfer students 4:30p.m. Euchartsllc Liturgy (SMCl5p.m. Dinner lor Students and Parents 8p.m. Students meal with resident hall stall 8:30p.m. Movie "Rudy" 
_____ .s~~da!!.~~SI~-s.~ ~!.-~ 10a.m. Eucharistic liturgy
11:30 a.m. Picnic Lunch 

12:15 p.m. Spirit of Notre Dame Pertorm!lnces 
1:30 p.m. Program Reception lor Minorities 2·5j.m. Coda of Honor Presentation 
4:4 p.m. Dinner and Olscour$e (SMC)7p.m. LaFortune Open House 8p.m. SAB presents ''Jamaica Shaka" (SMC) 
Monday, August 26 
·········-············-· 

8:45a.m. Reglstalion lor Freshman students (SMC)9a.m. small Group Discussion on Academic Lila 
10:30 a.m. Student Enrollment (alphabetical order)7·10 p.m. Gender Issues 
Tuesday,August26 
Ba.m. Classes begin 
Library Green CCE Auditorium North and South OH Angela Athletic Facility Assigned Halls DeBartolo 101 
Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Center . Monogram Roon (JACC) 
wrt~tonHau
01 og all La rtune Haggar College Center 
I 
LeMans Hall TBA . JACC Concourse Washington Hall 
··~. 


Out with the old, in with the new... 
Keough, O'Neill filled with Grace 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Associate News Editor 

Many new campus features await the arrival of the Class of 2000 as well as returning students. Among them are two new residence halls, Keough and O'Neill. 
Ground was broken for the two dorms in 1995 to accommodate the former residents of Grace Hall, which has since been converted into an office build­ing. They were designed to resemble the other 25 residence halls on campus, rather than Planner and Grace, which are in the high-rise format. Keough and O'Neill have only four floors and longer hall­ways, as opposed to the towers which have 11 floors and square sections. 
Although they may appear identical on the out­side, the new dorms are quite different internally, excepting the lobbies and office areas. Rooms in 
see DORMS/ page 8 

SMC boasts 'dynamic' group ofnew students 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Ediwr 
Watching the Class of 2000 make the transition from prospective students through the admissions process to Saint Mary's women through­out orientation week, Mary Pat Nolan, director of admis­sions for the College, described the class as being "a dynamic class -very energetic and enthusiastic." 
As campus leaders officially welcomed the Class of 2000 in the President's Welcome and Reception last night, the College looks to the new class with a sense of optimism and high expectations. 
"They all are bright, articu­late young women, with impressive grade point aver­ages and test scores," said Nolan. "What distinguishes 
see SMC/ page 4 
niMary's College revises 
~a,ndboo~ 
• 
13 dorms are the first to become wired to ResNet page 3 

• 
Judge sentences Mark Herro to 18 months page s 

• 
Student football tickets scheduled to go on sale Sept. 4 page 1 

• 
Our orientation map provides an insider's guide to the campus pages12-13 




page2 The Observer • INSIDE Saturday, August 24, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN To be in your shoes again As you packed up the U-Hauls. the vans, the cars, or whatever else you could cram your stuff into, they probably bombarded you with advice, helpful hints, and the like. Your par­ents, your siblings, your friends and neighbors have probably sent you here with an abun­dance of "words of wisdom" to make your life easier during these next four years. From how to avoid turning th~"r!!!!!!""!!!!!""!!!!!""!!!!!""!!!!!""~ whites pink to the tance of getting eight hours of sleep per night (yeah, right). they wished yo farewell with last llll.HUILtl advice. Everyone did. now it's my turn. But my advice is a little different. As I embark Patti Carson on my senior year. I think of how I would Managing Editor----=--=---­play my cards if I could be a freshman again. (Savor it.) So I've com­posed a list of what I would do the same and what I'd do differently if I could be in your shoes again. • First and foremost, if I had it to do over again, I would keep a very open mind. You'll be encountering people from all over the country, all over the world, even. Some will talk differently than you do. some wmlook different from you. But keep an open mind, and remember that everyone you meet can teach you something. So...  Catholi·c Press Associ·ati·on Chemical Engineering prof honors McBrien's encycloped1·a becomes AIChE fellow _ _  

able sum. That fl.rst bill can sometimes sock it l'--::----::-::~--------------------------------------__j 
•Try everything. At least once. I once read 
that it's actually best to try everything three times. The first time to get over any fear you may have of doing it, the second time to learn how to do it right, and the third time to decide whether or not you like it. Maybe you shouldn't try everything three times, but once might do it. Try dances, try sporting events. try Nick's Patio. Try everything. 
(Remember, this is college.) 

•Go abroad. I didn't, but I've only heard good news about it. It often broadens per­spectives, and those who explore abroad come back with incredible stories and pictures.
Good stuff. 

•Snap way. If I had it to do over again, I'd 
take more pictures. Tons of them. They are one of the best vehicles for a visit down mem­ory lane. There will be pictures to remember and pictures to forget, and there also might be pictures you don't remember ever being taken of you. Those are usually the silliest, so hang on to them. And hang on to ticket stubs and 
programs, as well. Looking back through
these things will one day bring back some of your better days. 
•Take roadtrips. To away games. To con­
certs. To visit your friends at other schools. To spring break destinations. To wherever. Just be sure you make some time for a few 
good road trips during these next four years. You'll be glad you did. 
•And 
by the way, remember to call your parents. (They'll be glad you did.) 

•Another 
thing I would advise is this: Don't believe everything you hear. College is about finding things out for yourself. Don't be afraid 


to trust your own judgment. You made it this far, didn't you? 
•Talk away, but... I'd talk as often as I could with high school friends, but I'd also try to keep the long distance phone bill to a reason-
to you, so just beware. 

And most importantly, remember that the first part of anything is often the most difficult part. So hang in there, and savor every 
moment. Three years from now, you'll proba­bly be wishing that the time wouldn't go so fast. Actually. I guarantee it. You're gonna love this. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Graphics Heather Cocks Tom Roland Ethan Hayward Production 
Brad Prendergast Tara GrieshopMaureen Hurley Heather Cocks Sports Maureen Hurley
Tim Sherman 
Lab Tech Mike Day Mike Ruma Accent Dave Murphy Dan Cichalski Etc. Viewpoint Patti Carson Meaghan Smith Caroline Blum 

Tho Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Harper Collins Encyclopedia of Catholicism, edited by Notre Dame's Father Richard McBrien, received a first place award from the Catholic Press Association during its annual convention in May in Philadelphia.
The 1,350-page encyclopedia, pub­lished last year, took top honors in the category "Popular Presentation of 

the Catholic Faith." CPA judges deemed the encyclopedia "richly deserving of the high­est praise" for "making an extraordinary range of knowledge concerning Catholicism available to its read­ers." 
Although Notre Dame was not an official sponsor of the book, Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeri­tus of the University, contributed a foreword, and 13 of the encyclopedia's 17 associate editors are members of the University's theology faculty. 
In addition, faculty and staff from other areas of the University are numerous among the volume's 280 con­tributors. 
McBrien, the Crowley-O'Brien-Walter professor of the­ology, joined the faculty in 1980 and chaired the theolo­gy department until 1991. 
All' dS' l f

1e 1gna UlldS SCholarships 
Notre Dame has received a $45,000 gift from the AlliedSignal Foundation to fund scholarships for its combined five-year Arts and Letters/Engineering, Minority Engineering, and MBA programs. 
More than 100 Notre Dame graduates are employed by AlliedSignal. This is the second year that Notre Dame has been on 
AlliedSignal's key university list, a group of 24 schools from which the company hires most of its college gradu­ate employees.
The scholarship funds are intended to support AlliedSignal's recruiting efforts at Notre Dame. 
• bJIJ!ANA WEATHER 



The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Saturday, Aug. 24. 
FRONTS: 
........-.r ...&...A.. ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B 1S:SJ rTil 0 ~ § -!) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORM$ FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY P1:CLOUaY CLOUCJY Via JUsoctsted Press 
Atlanta  91  70  Denver  78  54  New York  88  71  
Banimore  90  66  Houston  89  72  Philadelphia  89  70  
Boston  85  65  Miami  90  78  Phoenix  104  84  
Chicago  78  64  Milwaukee  74  63  St. Louis  88  73  
Columbus  84  70  New Orleans 90  74  West Windsor 86  73  

James John Carberry, professor of chemical engineer­ing at Notre Dame, has been named a fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE). 
Carberry has made numerous contributions in chemi­cal engineering, including his experimental and theoret­ical insights into automotive exhaust catalytic reactors. 
A professor at Notre Dame since 1961, Carberry was the advisor to the student chapter of AIChE from 1961 to 1995. He has taught AIChE's continuing education course in chemical reaction engineering for more than 25 years. 
Carberry earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Notre Dame and a doctorate from Yale, all in chemical engineering. In 1996, he was made an honorary alum­nus of Princeton University, class of 1995. 
Fellow status in AIChE is one of the highest honors which can be conferred on a chemical engineer. To qualify, a person must be a practicing engineer for more than 25 years, a member of AIChE for 10 years, and be sponsored by five peers. 
DeLee chairs Holy Cross Admissions 
Patricia DeLee has been appointed admissions coun­selor at Holy Cross College, where she will aid in the recruitment and selection process of new students, 
including marketing and enrollment management. 

DeLee most recently was a media analyst at the Media Research Center in Alexandria, Va. Prior to that, she was a teaching assistant at The Catholic University of America in Washington, where she taught classes in world politics and political theory. She also was a teacher of classical liberal arts at the Trinity School at 
River Ridge, Bloomington, Minn. 

A graduate of Notre Dame, DeLee earned a bachelor's degree studying government and music. She obtained a master's degree in political theory from Catholic 
University.DeLee is currently volunteer coordinator for State Sen. Joe Zakas' congressional election campaign. 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
North, Mod quads go online with ResNet services 
By ETHAN HAYWARD A'ocia1e News Editor 
When residents of North and Mod Quads arrive on campus this fall, they will find that their dorms are now online. 
• Sinee 1993, the University's Offiee of Information T11chnologies (OIT) has been working to wire the residence halls to the campus computer network, a project dubbed Hesnet. Completion of the project is scheduled for Novermber 1997. 
Thirteen halls are currently activated, and the rest, including Fischer and O'Jiara-Graee grad­uate apartments, will be activat­ed throughout this and next year. Once a dorm becomes connected, each resident will have direct access to the campus 
ResNet Hook-Uo Schedule 
The following schedule shows when each dorm will have Ethernet access to the Notre Dame server. 
August 22, 1996  Lewis  January 20,1991)  
Pasquerilla West  Fischer Graduate  Sorin  
Pasquerilla East Siegfried  October 14, 1996~~ O'Neill  Walsh March 17, 199"7 ; ti  
KnoH  Keough  Howard  
Cavanaugh  Dillon  Lyons  
Zahm  Alumni  August 20, 1997: y;:'  
Breen-Phillips  November 25, 1996  Welsh  
Farley  Badin  McGlinn  
~fae:,:~d  ~~~~~orn  8~~:b:;~o.c199lii;i;i,  
St. Edward's  Carroll  Morrissey  

network using an Ethernet jack instead of a telephone line and a modem. 
Connection to the campus net­work will allow students to access email from their rooms, saving money on phone calls. Students will also be able to access network software from their personal computer, such as Eudora, Netscape, File Transfer Protocol (FTP), Usenet News, 
Revised policy targets smokers 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saim M.•ry's Ediwr 
This year Saint Mary's stu­dents won't bc d11corating their rooms with glowing candles. And they won't bn smoking eiga­mtltls in tlw dining hall either. 
In hopes of preventing tires, alcohol abuse, and annoyed stu­dcnts at the dining hall, the administration at Saint Mary's rnvisnd the student handbook this year in hopes of better aecornmodating student needs. 
"This year our goal was to make the handbook more attrac­tive," Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm llXplained. "W•1 lmgan, and will eontinue, to mak11 it more us11r-friendly." 
In addition to editorial changes, tllfl 1996-1997 hand­
book includes three major policy changes: a policy prohibiting smoking in the dining hall, a pol­icy that forbids students to have candles in their dorm rooms, and an additional violation to the alcohol policy. 
Annoyed students first raised the possibility of abolishing smoking in the dining hall last spring, which was followed up with a campus-wide survey and an appeal to the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG). 
After determining that the majority of Saint Mary's students did indeed want to stop smokers from smoking in the dining hall, BOG sent the recommendation to college President William Hiekey, who passed it on to the college's senior officers for fmal approval over the summer. 
THE DOLLARS AND 
AIR FORCE ROTC. 
'\1 
Air Force ROTC makes a lot ofsense 
for many reasons. Start with the dollars: the eligibility to apply for scholarship programs that can help pay for tuition, fees and textbooks--even provide you with $150 per academic month. 
There's much more--you'll develop management skills and the ability to motivate others. Everything you learn will help you the rest ofyour life. 
Start by contacting the ND Air Force ROTC team 
at 631-4676. 
AIR FORCE ROTC 
Leadership Excellence Starts Here 


Welcome F~eshmen 
• La,..gest selection of Fl'"esh-c~At l'"oses 
• 
Daily delivel'"}' to camp1-1s • St1-1dent disco1-1nt 

• 
Located on col'"nel'" of Cclison and J,..onwood 

• 
..All majol'" cl'"edit cal'"ds accepted 


• 800-224-4695 
"The dining hall got notice from the college that smoking will no longer be allowed in the dining hall," Dining Hall manag­er Kevin Kirwan said. "We have taken the ash trays ofT the tables and put up table tents informing students. The decision was not decided by the Dining Hall. We're not going to play the role of the policeman." 
Smoking had been allowed in the Dining Hall since it opened in 1964, in the areas known as the "grill bar" and the "west room." 
But hope still exists for smok­ers, as they are still permitted to smoke in their rooms with the door closed, and in the vending areas of each dining hall. 
"I am pleased with the stu­dent-generated decision to end Telnet, Gopher, and tn3270. 
Students will also be able to utilize NDAccess, an online data­base conatining resources for teaching and research. 
To orient students getting con­nected to the network, the OIT, in cooperation with the Office of Student Residences and hall rec­tors, is organizing installation fairs. The fairs will assist stu­dents with installing Ethernet cards, installing network soft­ware, and registering computers on the campus network. Installation fairs will also allow students to purchase Ethernet cards and adapter cables. 
To assist students in network connection, configuration, and software, the OIT has organized a staff of Resident Computer Consultants (RCCs). RCCs will be on duty Sunday through Thursday evening to diagnose problems students may have get­ting connected or using network software. 
Several factors can influence the activation schedule. Among them are pathways construction, wiring to student rooms, fiber optic backbone wiring, installa­tion of network equipment, and the age, size, and complexity of each building. 
Outside contractors have been working on constructing path­ways during the summer, anf iber optic cabling has been installed in most of the resi­dence halls. To accomodate the network, a new fiber optic hub room will be added in Keough Hall. This hub will service all of the South and West Quad build­ings. Due to the construction 
see DORMS/ page 8 


Anne Pangilinan (left) and Andrea Oelmann react with dismay to the new policy forbidding candles in residence halls, one of several 
changes to the student handbook. 
smoking in the dining hall," Timm said. "We will continue to find ways to make the campus 


Go Really Irish! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: Aug. 24 5:00p.m. DeBartolo Classoom Building Room 140 
Students discuss experiences at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
more smoke-free." 
A number of fires in residence halls last year provoked the administration to create a policy prohibiting the possession of a candle, lighted or not, in resi­dence halls. 
The college's Fire and Safety committee made the recommen­dation over the summer. 
"I hope that this addition to the fire safety policy will prevent fires and secure student safety," Director of Resident Life Suzie Orr said. "The policy affects the administration as well. Administrators will not be allowed to have candles in their offices either." 
Students caught with candles in their rooms will go through the judicial process to determine the proper punishment. 
see POLICY/ page 8 




UNLIKE TUITION OUR 
PRICES DON'T INlREASE 

EVERY YEAR. 
Fazoli's features fast Italian favorites from pasta to pizza. And since most items are priced under $4, you won't need astudent loan to eat here. 

Real Italian. Real Fast ... 
s2no u.s. Route 33N, South Bend • 2n-4008 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, August 24, 1996 
• NAMES IN THE NEWS 

Varma to edit new series 
Arvind ·Varma, Schmitt professor of chemical engineering at Notre Dame, has been named founding editor of a new series of publica­tions by Cambridge University Press. The Cambridge Series in Chemical Engineering will cover a broad spectrum of topics, including classical chemical engineering, 

environmental engineering, complex fluids, and mole­cular theory. Varma, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1975, has published more than 160 research papers, coauthored a textbook, and coedited two books. 
Marto wins Navy award 
MONTERREY, Calif. 
Notre Dame alumnus Paul Marto was honored with the highest award given to a civilian by the U.S. Navy. A 1960 graduate of the University, Marto received the Distinguished Service Award for his contributions as a professor of mechanical engineering and as dean of research at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterrey, Calif. Marto retired from the NPS faculty in January after a 30-year teaching career. 
Hesburgh accepts 3 more degrees 
The record number of honorary degrees awarded to Father Theodore Hesburgh grew by three this spring. The president emeritus of the University accepted honorary degrees from St. Vincent College in Latrobe, Pa.; St. Francis College in Joliet, Ill.; and Albertus Magnus College in New Haven, Conn., bringing his total to 133, the most ever bestowed on one person. 

ND grad wins journalism honor 
CLEVELAND 
Bill Dwyre, sports editor of the Los Angeles Times and a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame, received the 1996 Red Smith Award at the Associated Press Sports Editors annual convention June 27 in Cleveland. A communication arts major at Notre Dame, Dwyre moved to the Times from the Milwaukee Journal in 1981 and was appointed sports editor within six months. He previously was honored for his direction of the Times' coverage of the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles. Walter "Red" Smith, a 1927 graduate, majored in journalism at Notre Dame and as a fresh­man ran on the track team coached by Knute Rockne. During his 50-year career in journalism, Smith won the Pulitzer Prize, in 1976. He died in 1982. 

Faccenda receives Sorin Award 
Philip Faccenda, vice president and general counsel emeritus of Notre Dame, received the Alumni Association's Sorin Award at the 1996 Alumni Reunion Banquet on June 8. Faccenda, a 1952 Notre Dame graduate, became general counsel in 1970 and also served as vice president for student affairs from 1972-74. 
Murphy wins Madison fellowship 
Katie Murphy, a 1996 Notre Dame graduate and former Observer editor, was one of 62 students nationwide to earn a James Madison Fellowship to pursue graduate studies in American history and gov­ernment. The fellowship funds up to $24,000 of a stu­dent's pursuit of a master's degree. Murphy, who majored in government and international studies, plans to begin her graduate studies in 1997. 

Poorman joins Beauchamp's staff 
Father Mark Poorman, associate professor of theol­ogy and director of the Master of Divinity program, has been appointed executive assistant to Father E. William Beauchamp, executive vice president of the University. Poorman, who assumed his position Aug. 1, will continue to direct the Master of Divinity pro­gram during 1996-97. He resides in Keough Hall. 
Monk also a Sagamore 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, president of Notre Dame, has been declared a "Sagamore of the Wabash" by Indiana Gov. Evan Bayh. Indiana's Sagamore of the Wabash Award was established during the 1945-49 administration of Gov. Ralph Gates. The award, the highest honor an Indiana governor 

can bestow, recognizes distinguished service to the state or the governor. Malloy has served on the steer­ing committee of Bayh's Commission for a Drug-Free Indiana and chairs the Indiana Commission on Community Service. 

Halloran named Andersen Fellow 
John Halloran, associate professor of finance and business economics at Notre Dame, has been appoint­ed an Andersen Consulting Fellow for the 1996-97 year. The fellowship supports production of multime­dia teaching materials for undergraduates. Halloran's project involves the development of an interactive, decision guide for the Stanford Bank Game, a simula­tion used in commercial bank management courses. 

.------~-----~---~----­
Saturday, August 24, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Herro sentenced to 18 months 
Observer Staff Report 
Mark Herro, a 14-year-mem­bllr of the Notre Dame faculty, was sentenced on July 22 to a year and a half in prison after 
he pleaded . guilty to charges of child mo­lesting a!ld sexual mis­conduct. 
St. Joseph County 
Court Judge Sanford Brook sentenced Herro, 46, to four years in prison on each of three Class C felony counts. Brook suspended two-and-a-half years of each count and ruled that the sen­tences be served concurrently. 
Herro, an associate professor of electrical engineering, ad­mitted to fondling and engaging in sexual acts with a 14-year­old boy. Herro was acquainted with the boy's family,· court records show. 
Herro, who is enrolled in therapy at a New Orleans treat­ment center, is scheduled to turn himself in to the state Department of Correction Dec. 2 to begin serving his sentence. 
He is to continue his treat­ment until then. Herro's status with the University was not immediately ·known. 
In sentencing Herro, Brook read a letter from the boy's fa­ther. "The worst thing that can happen to any parent is to lose a child," the letter said. "In a sense, we lost our child." 
Before he was sentenced, Herro told Brook, ''I'm sorry for what I've done." 
During the sentencing hear­ing, Herro's attorney, Charles Asher, sought to portray Herro as someone who has acknowl­edged he has a psychological problem, but is seeking help. 
St. Joseph County Deputy 
Prosecutor Jane Miller tried to portray Herro as a typical child molester who used coercion to gain the confidence of children and then molested them. 
Herro was initially charged with five counts when the case was filed in October. But Herro a'nd the St. Joseph County pros­ecutor's office filed a plea agreement in June that called for two counts to be dropped in exchange for the guilty plea. 
The plea agreement did not discuss Herro's sentence. Herro admitted in the molesting charge that he fondled and touched the boy while they were at the South Bend Racquet Club in the first half of 1995. He also said he had engaged in sexual acts with the boy at his home in June 1995. 
Charges that accused Herro of engaging in sexual behavior with the boy at Herro's Notre Dame office were droP.ped. 
The South Bend Tnbune con­tributed to this report. 
Jerry would be proud 


SMC community welcomes new hall directors 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
As Saint Mary's College pre­pares itself for its 152nd year, the residence halls also prepare for three new hall directors. 
Changes made last semester resulted in the hiring of Christa lleidbreder in McCandless Hall, Kim McNulty in Regina Hall, and Dana North in Holy Cross/Annunciata Hall. LeMans Hall will be under the direction of Jill Aitchison, the former direetor of Hegina Hall. 
Aitchison moves into LeMans Hall and brings with her a con­tagious sense of enthusiam for 

her job.. 
"I'm plan­ning on adjusting so that I can manage the size, continue the tradition, and help
Aitchison keep the LeMans spirit alive," said Aitchison. 
It takes a lot of spirit to be able to run a residence hall, and that is exactly what Heidbreder brings to McCandless Hall. Heidbreder, however, must make the transi­tion from a large, state school to a small, private one in the process. ''I'm expect­ing to gain a different per­spective and for this to be 


Heidbreder a learning 
experience. I'm also expecting to try differ­ent ideas for me as far as my style goes," said Heidbreder. 
Regina Hall will build on the background of McNulty, who has recently been at Texas A&M. "I have a real diverse background, and working with 

Residence 
campus. H a I I With her wit Association, and humor, the hall North is council, the excited about hall staff and the upcoming the front year. "I'm desk defmite­really looking ly brings that forward to 
McNulty North
out, and being at Saint 
gives me a Mary's better sense of what the stu­College," North said, "The year dents want," McNulty said. has already started out great." 
''I'm looking forward to work­Senior resident advisor Kelly ing here. Everyone has been so Cook, of LeMans Hall, promises nice and helpful," she added. a great year. "The entire staff 
North, from Holy Cross­is just excellent. With everyone Annunciata Hall, will also help working together it will be both add spirit and character to the fun and a challenge." 
"The Most Popular Number on Campus" 
Welcome Freshmen 
Get Back to School with Award Winning Pizza 
~oted •~~est Dellwaed l'lzza.., The 1995-1996 Observer 
ji'yoted •~~est Delhwsed l'fzza"' 1993 Best of Michiana 
iii'Yoted "'flat Deflt:aall'lzza" 1994 Best of Michiana 
~oted "'/lest ,.,eafl'fzza•1995 Best of Michiana 
ifvoted •~~at Ddltaafl'fzzll• 1996 Best of Michiana 
Dine-In and Delivery at both Locations: 
Hours: 
!Saint Mary's: ~ · 
*New for SMC store 
271­
Mon thru Thurs: 
I

North Village Mall 1 1 a.m. -1 a.m. 
PAPA 
Fri thru Sat: 1 1 a.m. -3 a.m. 
271­

Sunday: 12 p.m.-1 a.m. 
1177 

'·-?~ l 




Your Papa is no\V hiring: 
•Delivery Drivers 

....rnrr::r ... , 

•Order Takers 
•Pizza Makers 
*Fun Work Environment *Top Pay *Flexible hours: 
-Work 10 hours or Work 40 hours -School is Top Priority-We Understand *50% Discount on Pizzas *Two locations Oose to NDSMC 
~·--··~~ 
Call now for more information or stop by and pick up an application: Notre Dame: 
Saint Mary's: 1827 South Bend Avenue 
52565 us 33 (formerly Cactus Jack's) 
(North Village Mall) 

271-1177 271-PAPA 
Papa john's Pizza is an Equal Opportunity Employer 
~-~~----~~--~­
page6 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 24, 1996 

The Observer welcomes 

@@ 
at its open house on Monday, August 26th from 3-5 pm in 314 LaFortune. The Observer is currendy seeking students to fill the following positions and is anxious to have freshman join our team. Come and see what we're all about or give us a call with any questions. 

Brad Prendergast 
News Editor • 631-5323 News copy editors Assistant news editors Writers 
Mike Ruma 
Photo Editor • 631-5323 photographers lab technicians 
{knowledge of Photoshop a plus) 
Tim Sherman Sports Editor • 631-4543 Quark Express 
Production assistants 
for publication of the Irish EXTRA Football pullout 
Copy Editors Writers 

Matt Casey Business Manager • 631-5313 Circulation Drivers 
Meaghan Smith 
Viewpoint Editor • 631-4541 Copy Editors Typists Production Assistants 
Sean Gallavan 
Systems Manager • 631-8839 Networking Managers Web Managers Macintosh Specialists 
See~7~ 

Joey Crawford Accent Editor • 631-4540 Assistant Accent Editors Copy Editors Literary Critics Music Critics Movie Critics Photographers 
. . . 
wnters, wnters, wnters 

Caroline Blum 
Saint Mary's Editor • 631-4540 Assistan t Editors Writers Photographers Day Editors 
Ed Leader Illustrations Editor • 631-4540 Illustrations 
Ellen Ryan 
Advertising Manager • 631-6900 Advertising Account Executives 
Jed Peters Ad Design Manager • 631-8840 Students with high school publications experience in scanning and graphics 
Tara Grieshop Production Manager • 631-5303 Production Assistants 
For general info, contact Tom Roland or Patti Carson 631-4541 
--~-~-~--~~ ~­
Saturday, August 24, 1996 
News story guidelines 
Observer Staff Repon 
In order to serve the college com­munity, The Observer news depart­ment uses the following guidelines in its news gathering: 
The Observer news department strives to report on all campus and loeal events that affect the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. The news department also uses Associated Press stories and graphics to bring national and world events to ND/SMC readers. 
As stated in our editorial policy, "The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible." We real­ize that the department is comprised of amattmr journalists, yet we strive to conduct ourselves as professionals at all times. 
Our story ideas eome largely from Notre Dame's Department of Public Information and Helations. We also generate our own story ideas from advertisements in The Observer and other publications. and from campus posters. A final and important source of story ideas is from members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity who call or write to us regarding events they are planning. We eneourage groups to call or write at least one week prior to the event. 
As a rule, we do not run previews of lectures that we are planni_ng to cover. We simply do not have the staff or space to run previews of every campus lecture. Exceptions to this rule sometimes will be made if a leeture is to be given by a speaker of international or national promi­nenee. 
We suggest, however, that the sponsoring group fill out an "Of Interest" form at The Observer by 1 
p.m. the day before the event. Another alternative is taking out an advertisement in the paper at our spneial eampus rate. 
llowtlver. for certain events we only run previews. For instance, if a group is sponsoring a career day or """ uiT-campus event. we mlghL sim­ply run a story on the faet that the event will happen. Basieally, we run 
• STAFF OPPORTUNITIES 
We're lookingfor a few goodfreshmen. 
Any students interested in writ­ing and editing for The Observer news staff have an opportunity to sign up when we host an open house from 3 to 5 p.m. Monday at our office. 
Staff members will be on-hand to answer any questions and provide a look into how The Observer operates. The news department is looking for an unlimited number of reporters and also has four paid positions available at the copy editing desk. Freshmen are encouraged to apply. 
Individuals who are interested but will not be able to attend the open house can call Brad Prendergast, news editor, at 631-5323 or 634-1836. 
The Observer's office Is locat­ed at 314 LaFortune Student Center. 
previews when having a reporter cover the event is not feasible. 
We understand th.at there are times when a preview article is more appropriate than an article reporting on the event. This type of decision is made by the news editor. However, we are always happy to discuss news department eoverage of an event, provided a group representative con­tacts the news editor at least one week prior to the event. 
If you have any additional ques­tions, please contact Brad Prendergast, news editor, at The Observer, 631-5323. 
The Observer/Kim Michalik 

Liz Wisniewski (above), Katy Pain (below, left), Katie Drew, and Maria McCauley counsel fresh­men on dorm policies. 
Training camp prepares RAs 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The resident advisors of Saint Mary's College have spent the past week-and-a­half in an extensive training program designed to prepare them for the upcom­ing year. 
Intense programs were held all week long to ensure that the resident advisors gained full knowledge of the campus, the surroundings, and emergency training so they could provide help in any situation. 
The week commenced with an intro­duction on a variation of the 'Mission: Impossible' theme. 'Mission: Possible' was geared toward proving that anything ean and will happen. Several information sessions were held with various campus organizations, such as Campus Ministry and the Marriott staff of the Dining Hall, to provide the 37 women with much needed knowledge to make the course of their path run smoothly. 
In an attempt to smooth over any over­whelming feelings, Residence Life and Housing planned an overnight trip to Camp Amigo in Michigan. The trip was to provide the women with some spare time before surging into the school year. 
"I am so glad that we had that chance to relax. At first I wasn't sure because there was so much that needed to be done, but it was great and everyone real­ly got to know one another." said Kate Mahon, a junior resident advisor in LeMans Hall. 
Free time was certainly not an option. Every spare minute was occupied with either community development skills or emergency training in CPH. 
"I think the extensive, intense training thoroughly prepares us for the upcoming year, but the friendships that develop amongst the resident advisors of all of the Halls is the most rewarding experience," said Patty Cronley, a third year resident advisor in HolyCross/Annunciata Hall. 
The 37 women gained a new definition of friendship and community this past week, and most importantly they learned to rely on one another and use each other as resources. 
"Returning to the staff for a second year has given me a different perspective on being a resident advisor. In a lot of ways I feel like there is more responsibility, but I realize that we have a great staff this year," said Amy Bacevich, a second year resident advisor in Holy Cross/Annunciata Hall. 
Suzie Orr. director of Residence Life and Housing, is optimistic about the year. "I feel the training program was better than I expeeted it to be due to the high caliber of people involved," said Orr. 

Football ticket prices increase 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 

Student football tickets go on sale Sept. 4-7, the ticket office announced Thursday. 
In keeping with a previous trend, the cost of &tudent ticket books increased by $6 in response to a $2 rise for each general admission ticket. Notre Dame students are required to pay $96 for a book of six tickets, and Saint Mary's College students will be charged $128. 
Student tieket prices represent half the cost of general admission tickets. 
Students Jiving in residence halls will receive ticket applications in their dorms as early as today. Off-campus students may pick them up on the second floor of the Joyce Center at any time prior to the commencement of sales. 
Members of each class have an allotted time during which they may line up at Gate 10 of the JACC to purchase tickets. Seniors may buy theirs on Wed., Sept. 4, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; juniors on Thursday, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.; law and graduate 
Ticket Sale Schedule 
"All ticket salts taQ place at tilt JACC Gate10 
Seniors Sophomor~s, 
WJ(Inesday; Sept; 4 Friday, Sept. & ,, , ; · 8a.m.· 5p.m. 7a.m.· 2p.m. , 
Juniors -Freshmen~ 
~~~~~~·· 5 ;,'~~:~,~~ 
students, Thursday, 2 to 7 p.m.; sophomores on Friday from 7 a.m. to 2 p.m.; and freshmen on Friday from 2 to 7 p.m. 
Students who miss their designated slot may line up at a later time. But freshmen are exclud­ed from this option because no tickets will be available after 7 p.m. on Friday. 
Cash or checks will be accepted, and students are reminded to bring their student ID cards. Any one student may carry up to four IDs and ticket forms, provided that one of the four is that person's own. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com, 
munity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please cotnplete the accompanying form and mail it in today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name-----------------------------------------­
Address----------------­City _________State __Zip ___ 


---~----~---------------------~--~--------­
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
FreshDien 
continued from page 1 
retain more freshmen, Rooneysaid, because more scholarship offers were made to incoming students. 
"More money for scholarships was made available by the University from several sources, including bowl game revenue and licensing fees," he said. 
About $5 million for scholar­ships came from the payoutthat Notre Dame received for the football team's appearance in January's Orange Bowl. 
That was the first time University officials had decided to funnel bowl money directly into scholarships. Previously, bowl money had become partof the University's endowment. 
Rooney also attributed the size of the freshman class to an expansion of recruiting efforts, particularly in the increased number of phone calls that vol­unteers made in both the fall and the spring to prospective students. 
"That, along with the scholar­ship money, had a positiveresult," he said. 
The incoming freshmen also set a new mark for average SAT score. The Class of 2000 had a mean score of 1,302, bet­ter than the Class of 1999's mark of 1,239. 
But the scores are not exactly comparable, because the scor­ing of SAT exams was re-cen­tered last year. which has led to a nationwide trend of higher verbal scores, Rooney said. 
As a result, he said, the incoming freshmen's SAT scores "are very comparable to 


ResNet 
continued from page 3 
schedule for Keough, fiber installation to South and West Quad dorms will not begin until after September. Also, due to a renovation scheduled for next summer, Morrissey Hall will not be brought online until October of next year. 
Some faculty members are optimistic about the new net­work, speculating on its poten­tial uses, such as electronic office hours and guest speakers brought in online instead of into the actual classroom. 
With more and more high schools obtaining access to the 

CHEAP 



Furniturel 

last year's class." 

More than 100 sophomores and juniors also have trans­ferred to Notre Dame this fall. The College of Arts and Letters received 55 students, 32 stu­dents enrolled in the College of Business Administration, 17 enrolled in the Collge of Science, and nine enrolled in the College of EngineeriHg. 
The number of transfer stu­dents was lower than in recent years, said Susan Joyce, the admissions office's tran~.-er coordinator. The University received 440 applications from students at 59 schools nation­wide, and admitted 38 percent. 
Other interesting facts about the Class of 2000: 
• 
This year's freshmen were typically m the top 6 percent of their high school class, similar to last year's freshmen. 

• 
The freshmen's mean ACT score was 29. 

• 
The class has a male-to­female ratio of 55 percent to 45 percent.

• 
The University received 9,450 applications for spots in this year's freshman class. This was down from the record 9,999 received last year. 

• 
Hispanic enrollment reached an all-time high, at 8 percent of the freshman class. 

• 
More students than ever before came from California and Texas. The Golden State sent 13 7 freshmen to Notre Dame, and the Lone Star State sent 117. 

• 
The nationwide geographic distribution: 43 percent are from the Midwest, 25 percent are from the Northeast, 12 per­cent are from West, 9 percent are from the Southeast, 9 per­cent are from the Southwest, and 2 percent are from abroad. 


Internet, the university expects to see more first year students experienced in the use of com­puter-aided learning. 
According to Scott Siler, man­ager of Student Computing Support and the ResNet project coordinator, students staying on campus for the summer have been helping OIT test the connections, and "everything's looking great." 
"Our people have been doing an incredible amount of work to make this as fault-free as possible," says Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost of Information Technologies. 
Rapagnani says no significant problems have arisen, "but we're expecting to hit a few speedbumps along the informa­tion superhighway." 
Policy 

continued from page 3 
The new handbook also includes includes an alteration in its alcohol policy, which now con­tains the violation of public or private intoxica­ti~n or disorderly conduct as a result of alcohol use. 
"This policy is not completely new," Orr clari­fied. "We have always encouraged the resident advisors to express concern when a student is seen intoxicated. The only difference is now the resident advisors will document the inci­dent" 
According to Orr, resident advisors will docu­ment students suspected to be intoxicated. The student will then have a conversation with her hall director, and together they will match the circumstance with the punishment. 
"The purpose of this policy is to assure the safety and security of students. The punish­ment will be appropriate for the offense," Orr said. 
"Obviously an intoxicated student who is seen vandalizing the hall would experience a differ­ent sanction than a student seen stumbling down the hall." 
Other minor changes excluding cohabitation and overnight visitors under the age of five were also added to the handbook. 
Notre Dame 

I 

I 

You'll spend plenty of time in class, so drive to Venture now... while there's still time... 

And then 



On everything you need for your dorm or apartment! 
Study snacks • CDs • Calculators • Small refrigerator • Toothpaste Plus shirts, denim and more for today's student body! 
% 


SAVE 
On Your Entire Purchase With Your Student ID 
Must present proof of college enrollment and this coupon at register for d1scount. No coupon photocopies. Not valid for hair salon, key shop, opt1cal shop, rest!luran\ or t?bac~o. Limit 1 per Customer per purchase. Cannot be used. In conJunction with any other offer, including Associate d1scounts. Apphes to in-stock merchandise only. No price adjustments on prior purchases. Coupon valid now through Sept. 30th. 
L----------------------~ 


Sf
99 L•nch 
While you shop, grab a "Big V" Burger, small drink and fries at Cafe Venture for $1.99! 
Gale Venture available at select locations. 
Mishawaka, 5802 Grape Rd., Indian Ridge Shopping Center, 219-277-3011 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 
DorDis 
continued from page 1 

Keough are arranged in straight lines, whereas rooms in O'Neill wrap around the bathrooms. Each houses about 270 students. 
The first floor in each dorm features a large main lounge, two smaller lounges, a main study room, two smaller study rooms, a full kitchen, a food sales outlet, a weight 
ties. The upper floors have small lounges and storage and study rooms for each section. The basements contain only storage and mechanical rooms. The increased study and social space were implemented in accordance with the Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
According to Director of Student Residences Kevin Cannon, completion of the dorms has been proceed­ing ahead of schedule. 
"They look good, and they're a good size," says Cannon. "I think the students will be pleased. The lounges in the new dorms will give them more room to congregate as a dorm and as a section." 




Saturday, August 24, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

University wins nine awards of excellence 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has eaptured nine 1996 Cirde of Exeellenee Awards from the Couneil for Advaneement and Support of Edueation. The winners were recognized July 7-9 at the council's national convention in San Franciseo. 
Notre Dame Magazine, the Univflrsity's quarterly publiea­tion, earned two gold medals­for overall quality and for the spring 19Y5 issue on play in the Amnriean eulture. 
In the periodieals writing eat­egory, Thomas Moe, a 1975 Notre Dame graduate, earned a silver medal for "Pure Torture," a Notre Dame maga­zine aecount of his live years as a prisoner of war, and Kerry Temple, the magazine's editor, won a bronze medal for "The Time of My Life," an article about the coneept of time. Temple, former editor Walt Collins, managing editor Carol Schaal, and associate editor John Monezunski won a bronze medal for overall staff writing. 
The Offiee of Publie Relations and Information received a sil­ver medal for a 30-second tele­vision spot titled "Larger Lessons." Broadcast at halftime of Notre Dame football and basketball games, the spot was written and produced by Kevin Burke, the University's director of photography and television production. 

The Office of Public Relations and Graphic Services earned bronze medals for three publi­cations-a scholarship/fellow­ship brochure, designed by E. Marten Schalm, Jr., graphic designer, edited by Mary Bellis, copy editor, and written by Patricia Brach, direetor of stewardship programs; an indi­vidual fund-raising publieation, designed by Paul Weber, asso­ciate director of publications and graphic services, edited by Bellis, and written by Jerald Janicki, director of develop­ment communications; and a brochure for the dedication of the new College of Business Administration complex, designed by Sehalm, edited by Linda Diltz, copy editor, and written by Dennis Brown, asso­ciate director of public rela­tions and information. 
Food and fun ... 


The Observer/David Murphy 

F 
reshmen got a chance to meet and socialize together during an ori­entation picnic Friday after­noon on the fields by Stepan Center. At left, Melinda Devaney, a freshmen from Knott Hall, helps herself to some corn on the cob. 


UC-Davis exec comes to ND NO professors receive 
Special to The Observer 
David Collins, executive-in­residence at the University of California at Davis Graduate School of Business, has been named the first executive-in­residence at the University of Notm Damn's Center for Ethies and Hnligious Values in Business. 
Collins, a 1956 Notre Dame gradualn, also holds a dHgree from llarvard-Law Sc~ool. He worked for Johnson & Johnson from 1lJ62-88 and was vice ehairman of the company dur­ing the famous crisis precipi­tated by a rash of Tylenol poi­sonings. 
A prominent and reassuring spokesperson for the drug's manufacturer, Collins appHarcd frequently on televi­sion and in other media and is widely credited with generat­ing publie eunfidence in .Johnson & .Johnson's innova­tive nfTorts to prevflnt produet tampering. lie was executive vice president of the Schering­Piough Corporation from 1989­94 and is a member of the board of directors for several other companies. 

According to John Houck, 
'Dave is well 
regarded for his business acumen ... We hope to make good use of his time and back­
ground.' 
Professor John Houck 
professor of management and codirector of the center, Collins will teaeh two seminars of MBA and undergraduate students during the fall 1996 semester, exploring the role of ethics in business thinking and decision making. 
"To have a respected busi­ness exeeutive in residence is a new and exciting venture for us," Houck said. "Dave is well regarded for his business acu­men and well known for his concern for ethics and social responsibility. We hope to make good use of his time and background." 
Directed by Houck and Father Oliver Williams, associ­ate professor of management, the Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business has sponsored several national conferences for diverse groups of business leaders, business scholars, theologians, and church people to discuss ethi­cal issues arising from business and public-policy decisions. 
Williams and Professor Houck have published several books resulting from center projects, including "Full Value: Cases in Christian Business Ethics," "The Judeo-Christian Vision and the Modern Cmporation," and "Co-Creation and Capitalism: John Paul's 'Laborem Exercens.'" 
The center also sponsors a variety of seminars and work­shops for both academics courses in business ethics for the University. More informa­tion about the center and Collins' schedule may be obtained by calling Madeline Day at 631-6072. 

development funding 
P&G grant offers chance to use, explore technology 
Special to The Observer 
Ten faculty members in the Department of Finance and Business Economics at the University of Notre Dame have won a $150,000 grant from Procter & Gamble Co. to devel­op new teaching methods through technology. 
The professors, known as the Curriculum and Technology Group, submitted a proposal that was selected as one that showed the most promise to enhance the learning environ­ment, emphasized teaching over research, and was aligned most closely to areas of interest in business. 
The grant is offered to sup­port "cutting edge" projects that "will advance undergradu­ate student learning in areas of 
~OBSERVER  
Now Hiring ... Systems Manager Quark Nenvorkin~ Photoshop Web Administration Freehand User Training Illustrator Streamline ~hnagc a ~taff of .FilcMakcr Pro 5 dcdkatcd MSWord SptL•ms A5~htants Excel ~ The Systems Manager is responsible for one of the largest student run networks on campus. With over 25 Macintoshes, 5 printers, 6 modems, and 4 servers, The Observer offers one ofthe best learning opportunities on campus for Computer Science majors. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter ofintent describing your experience to Sean Gallavan at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply.  

Where a trip to your Bike Shop is like a ride in the country 


~ ~ 
~ 
s ~ 
~ ~ 

BIKESHOP ~ 
12634 St. Rd. 23 • Granger, IN 46530~ 
272-BIKE 
located 1 mile west of Bittersweet Rd. on St. Rd. 23 across from the Rib Shack 
r--·OUT SPOKEN" COUPON •--, 

! FREE ! WE RENT BICYCLES!
I Lock or Helmet I
l with any new purchase l 

We carry the full line ofCannondale
L----------------~
r --•OUT SPOKEN' COUPON ·--, 

and Univega bicycles, clothing, !lOOfo OFF! helmets, and accessories! 
I I 

Plus, we service any bicycle make
I Any Used Bike l 

I I and model! 

L----------------~

r--•OUT SPOKEN' COUPON •--, r--•OUT SPOKEN' COUPON •--, 
!10°/oOFF!! FREE ! 
I Any Accessory l l Pick Up and Delivery l I or Helmet l l to NO Students l 
L----------------~ L----------------~ 
high interest," aceording to Procter & Gamble. 
The Curriculum and Technology Group is comprised of project leader Barry Keating, chair and Jesse II. Jones Professor of Finance and Business Economies; John Affleck-Graves and John Halloran, associate professors; and Robert Battalio, Ralph Chami, Michael Hemler, Cathy Niden, Katherine Spiess, Rafael Tenorio, and Paula Tkae, assis­tant professors. 
Notre Dame is one of just four colleges and universities to win similar development grants from Procter & Gamble this year. The $150,000 grant will be matched by the University. 
Headqartered in Cincinnati with operations worldwide, Procter & Gamble markets a broad range of laundry, clean­ing, paper, beauty care, food, and beverage products. Leading brands include Tide, Ariel, Pampers, Crest, Crisco, Vicks, and Max Factor. 
WANTED: 
REPORTERS PHOTOGRAPHERS EDITORS 
Join the Observer staff 

1/2 MILE NORTH OF NOTRE DAME ON US 31/33 
318 Dixie Way N. South Bend, IN 46637 • •. (219). 27?..-}j,qq .• 

...--------------~-------~------------~--------~---­
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August ~4, 1996 


Where in the world is LaFortune? 

LaFortune Student Center Open House 
.;. "'


Sunday, August 25 7 pm-12 am 
*Free caricatures 

*FREE video games (7-8 pm) and FREE billiards (7-10 pm) in the Gorch Games Room 
*Dance in the Ballroom from 9 pm -12 am 
Prizes donated by:
*Raffles, giveaways and much, much more! 
Adworks African American Student Alliance Anthony Travel 
Sponsored by: Irish Gardens LaFortune Student Center/Gorch Games Room 
Student Activities 
ND Video
Student Union Board 
Student Activities Student Government The Country Harvester United Airlines United Limo University Hairstylists 

j
WVFI 
( / 




'" 




VIEWPOINT 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 page 11 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chid' Elizabeth For.ln Managing Editon Business Manager Patricia Carson Mat! Casey Tom Roland 
Nrws Editor ........................ Brad Prendrrgast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Sa.int Mary'• F.ditor ................. Caroline Blum Controller..........................................Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spons Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmari('s, lcncn :~nd Inside Columns prcscm 1hc views of rhc aurhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observ<r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the NO!re Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and 10 .all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

f.ditor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Acccnr/Sainr Mary's Day Editor/Production (;cncra} Information 

Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4S41  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  ubserver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

Feels like the first time 
All of our lives have changed profoundly over the last three months. Some have entered the working world for the first few awkward months, some have committed themselves to the same old routine, but maybe just a little better this time around, and still some are fresh out of high school, the breeding ground for the college bound. You've headed otT to the University of Notre Dame, another premiere in a Jist of firsts you find yourself writing at a mad pace. You said your first last good-byes, maybe without even knowing it; you packed up your first trunkload of everything that you own in the world and made your first journey to the Golden Dome as a student, no longer just entertaining the thought. 
Wtllcome! I'm not the first to say it, and I certain­ly won't be the last, so be prepared to enter into hnndshakes, embraces and conversations with a smile. Memorize your hometown, dorm and prospective major -in that order -and be ready to enter a place like you've never known before. No matter what you've been told to expect, no matter who told you how to prepare, set their advice aside and start jotting down more firsts on your Jist. 
Today, everything becomes a part of your first o!lidal college. countdown. You'll make your first 20 trips to the dining hall and gather the ingredi­ents for your tirst 20 meals; ten courses will occupy your tirst collegiate academic year; five mornings a week you will have to decide whether to succumb to sleep or hit the shower (or throw on the tirst hat you can find) for your first class; four times this year you'll have to worry about choosing your SYR date (unless you tlnd your first true Jove at the graf· flti dance); as a point of interest, you'll ask at least three Mikes and at least three Jens to sign your shirt at the graffiti dance; you might find your first favorite place to study -or not -around the perimeter of one of the two lakes on campus; and then, before you know it, one year, the tirst year of the best four years of your life, will be a part of your college past. 
Sounds like a pretty speedy process, doesn't it? But don't spond all four years daunted by that. Take heed of the timeless advice of Ferris Bueller, the first wise words you may actually have listened to. Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop and look l'round once in a while, you could miss it. Now, get started on those firsts! 
MEAGHAN SMITH Viewpoint Editor 
• VIEWPOINT POLICY 
I 
All members of the Notre Dame • and Saint Mary's community may submit columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. II 
Individuals not associated with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community are also welcome to submit, but preference is given to memb~rs of the University commu­nities. All material submitted to the III 
• Viewpoint department becomes the property of The Observer. Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Observer is prohib­ited. Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal-usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish com­mentaries with the permission of the editor-in-chief or the permis­sion of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. The Viewpoint department • reserves the right to edit all commentaries submitted to the Viewpoint department. The Observer has no obligation to print commentaries submitted. IV 
Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous or unintelligible or irrelevant as applied to interest of a particular issue on a local, national, or world interest on a particular issue, its extension of existing issues on the Viewpoint pages, and/or it's role in fostering spirited and intelligent discussion. A disclaimer will appear with any letter deemed highly graphic, pro­fane or discriminatory, yet nonetheless relevant. The dis­claimer will appear at the begin­ning of the letter and will alert readers to the serious nature of the piece in question. All commentaries submitted V 
• to The. Observer must bear the signature of the author. Commentaries submitted as .letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the 
VI 
same individual or organization within the same academic semes­ter. There is no limit to the number of times an individual or organiza­tion may have their commentaries appear in print as columnists. All commentaries printed in • the Viewpoint section must be verified before being printed. VII 
Authors of all columns, letters to the editor, quotes, poems and car­toons must be notified before being published in The Observer. Only those individuals VIII 
.authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organizationOs name. In such cases, the primary author of the commentary is the individual(s), and the commentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the organization. Commentaries which IX 
• appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or publications. In exceptions, the author of the previ­ously printed material must give legal consent. Exceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a mem­ber, quotations used for commen­taries and Quote of the Day. Syndicated columns also are excluded from this procedure. The opinions expressed in X 
• the Viewpoint section are not necessarily those of the editori­al board. House editorials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regular columnists, those whose columns appear on a regular basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; poems, quotes and cartoons are commentaries. Such status is determined by the Viewpoint editor in all incidences except house edi­torials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the lnsta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. Paid employees of The • Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. Regular columnists and members of the 
XI 
Viewpoint staff also are not eligi­ble to have their commentaries appear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. This policy must be XII 
• approved by the editorial board and can be amended by a majority vote of the editorial board. All procedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the dis­cretion of the Viewpoint editor. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint depart­ment of The Observer. No commentaries of any XIII 
• kind will be printed in the Viewpoint section concerning any candidate for student government or hall office once the official cam­paign period has begun for that office. This ban on commentaries is to continue until the election for this position has been completed. The Observer reserves the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor-in­chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. This policy is available • to the public during nor­mal business hours and must be 
prominently  displayed  in  the  
Viewpoint department  of The  
Observer.  

XIV 
The Viewpoint editor is XV 
• responsible for editing all Inside Columns. The Inside Column contains views expressed by the author and are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. The Inside Column is not to be used for self or activity pro­motion. Letters to the editor may • not exceed 350 words. The Viewpoint editor may shorten any letter regardless of length or deem it worthy of print in its entirety as an Opinion commentary, though the length of the Opinion commen­tary may not exceed 550 words . 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURV 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


~ 




ORIENTATION EEKEND'96 
TOBACCO POLICY 
In accordance with an administrative 
directive issued .two years ago, , all buildings on the Notre : Dame campus are smoke-free in \ their entirety. This ban extends to · the seating area of Notre Dame : Stadium. Chewing·tobacco is not 
expressly included among the ' substances prohibited indoors. · Ash cans are provided outside most 
buildings for the convenience of smok· ers. Your cooperation is appreciated. 

CAMPUS SECURITY 
For your protection Notre Dame em" ploys a staff qf lice officers whopr.c •~id·~··· 24~~Yr"'t92!w~~ 
; and vehicular patrols on .. l pus property. Additionally, eighteen : emergency call boxes are spread : across campus, and more are ; being added. To contact the 1 Security Building {directly below on . map} from any campus phone, dial 
911. From 8:00p.m. to 2:30a.m. · ' the SafeWalk program provides a free I campus escort service; call 634-BLUE. 
St. Mary's Lake 
.."·: : ................................................... ' 
J COMPUTER·USER CLUSTERS ···•··-···.··...·. ,.·-.
j To help complete hom~wo_rk Notre Dame fe .. atur~s; . .. ··/";st:··· '··.··. \ over 500 computers d1stnbuted. a.rry.ong ~· i several locations. These clusters, whteh ~ !support Macintosh and PC platforms, j are networked to several laser printers l at each location which output work at ! no charge. Clusters can be found in ' the following buildings: 
Computer/Math, DeBartolo, Fitzpatrick, 
. Hayes·Healy, Hesburgh Library, LaFor­l tune, Nieuwland Science, O'Shaugh" ; nessy, and the Business Complex 
; ·~c~~~~Z'~ 

STUDENT REGISTER 
! For those of you who are unfamiliar with the ~ above term (upperclassmen incl : the official name for what is more . . , and infamously known on campus as · : Dogbook. This thin, bound black"and-white : volume contains the photograph and brief bio­
graphical information each incoming freshman 
• 
was requested to provide shortly after being admitted. Its reputation is for frequently being 

• 
the sole basis for selecting one's date to dormi-Leprecnaun IN 


tory-sponsored theme dances (also known as re Dame, ~ "SYR"s, for which one is "set·up") and formals. Not fan 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
NotniOame's sister school is located directly.across South Bend's major . · .·. ... . U.S. 33/Busi· 
· on . · .schools offer an ex.. change program via which stu­dents from both institutions may take advantage of the opportunity to study on the neighboring institu" tion's campus. Also, the schools 
LAUNDRY SERVICE 
Formerly available only to males a the campus laundry service is n students for a fee. A contract for services can be purchased for $75 without the contract, transaction charged to your student account J complete with your account nurri Bundled laundry is collected at y< able for you to pick up at the Laundr (directly below on map); the schedul 

cosponsor the crew, downhill skiing, is posted in your dorm. Other golf, gymnas~ics; and sailing programs. dry cleaning, tailoring/alterations, 
congratulations on choosing Notre Dam be entirely comprehensive, this guide will an highlight some things you may want to know, ,.,._.. r lar e campus. Good luck! 
slot marked "Notre Dame, All mail not dropped in this slot will be postmarked "South Bend, IN." Be fore· warned: the usual long lines often prevent being helped at the counter in the 15 minutes between back-to-back classes. 

While no intro-
r some frequen!.(_._·: nd help you get -­
DOUGLAS ROAD 
·"
/" 
Fire Station North Dining H_all # 
_, Cu111er . 
fbr Sdot!rl Concerns· 
Hesburgh :Library 
'--~ .. ' 

Radiation Research 
,Decio 
( 

(' 
!I''•• 



~Dame Stadium I 
I 
r 
i 
io... 

./ / 
ENDAN-AEGAN 
ftcy, Notre Dame 1itory visiting 
• gender. 
1 Friday
',ed visi­
_consid­iension or l• are identi­~le in pink. 


ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
· A thorough opportunity to explore the wide range of campus orga­nizations occurs Sept. 3 from _, 7:0o-9:00p.m. in the Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center. Student representatives from the various academic, athletic, media, musical, and political clubs will be stationed at booths arranged for your pe­rusal to answer questions and register prospective members. 
--~' ' . .. ~ . ­
·?'"' . 
h

f_,:.--·-~
T .~1' >1: :od 
~!" , 

.-...,.. -~ •, ..., . ,. (' / 
./ \ 

Comp4t~r~>:
Math . 

/ ' ./ 

Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center 
HOME FOOTBALL WEEKENDS TIME ZONE 
As you may have noticed by read­Twice annually, when America ad­ing these panels, home foot­. justs its clocks for Daylight Savings,ball Saturdays are a slight ' Arizona, Hawaii, and regions of In­
departure from status quo in diana do not change; Notre this area. Festivities and activi­Dame is located in such a region.ties abound all weekend. This South Bend keeps its clocks set year's home games are: to Eastern StandardTi~1e year­September 14 vs. Purdue; round. Therefore, from springSeptember 28 vs. Ohio State; through fall it is the same hour of October 12 vs. Washington; the day here as in Chicago, where­October 19 vs. Air Force; as from fall through spring it is the November 16 vs. Pittsburgh; same hour of the day here as in Detroit. 
November 23 vs. Rutgers. 
• FOOTBALL TICKETS -All students are guaranteed the opportunity to 
purchase one season ticket apiece. The proce­! dure is as follows: application cards will be in stu­l dent mailslots the week before tickets go on sale. . Bring this card with your student ID and cash or ; check for $90.00 to the Joyce Athletic & Convo­. cation Center. Be prepared to wait in a lengthy line; : many students camp out overnight. Any person may : submit up to four applications provided he or she ;.__! also furnishes a matching student ID and payment __ i for each of the applications. For freshmen, season 
,,,,._,...,_._._._.,' ·'"·-'-''_.__. .....,~ '""'''''''"'··· ~ "¥·"~.1t'".,.."'·"~'"."f,...._.,....,._.. ~"-"7·¥···-·r 
' {• ~~ L_r:-••· I. ~.·: .......... , .. ,"" ~ ....TF.,. ¥• ••• 
00 
,. 
• 1-!-.. ' :· 
-· 
• 

'$iiZiJFiiiiT" ----;­
//''''•·· ...... ,"~-~-.. .... ··-~-:~-,~-= -~--------;I 
..~ ..../ 
/
! --l 
/_.J• 

/·.'· /.··· 
/; /·
rl ·-·_....,, ..... /-· 
'l.ii',_ilifil-••

-..lll,l!l'~ · tickets will be available on Aug 30 from 2:0Q-7:00. :--;;.·.....~
-


IDENTIFICATION CARD 
Your Student 10 is your ticket to the privileges and im­munities granted to "Domers"; carry it 
--: with you at all times. : Among the many in­: stances it is required: : eating at the dining 
---~--halls, library services, "'"-~,. registration, football 
. and basketball games. 
l:ji

lf ,._. 
··~rr;·:~f-~~i-~.-~~j 


{;] f<f 


ALCOHOL POLICY 
According to du Lac:Stud~nt Life Poli­
. cies and Procedures, "students are respon­sible for compliance with Indiana Criminal 
• Law regarding alcohol consumption. The Uni­, versity will enter a private residence room for the : purpose of enforcing Indiana laws if drinking in such : a room becomes public in any way." Public is defined : as that which extends beyond the privacy of the 
·1 room. It clarifies: "No alcoholic beverages may be 1 carried in open containers in the corridors or any i other public area of the residence halls such 
as Jlounges or lobbies." So keep it in your room. 


-·------~~ ---------------~ 

lueless? Disoriented? Discombobulated? Welcome to Freshman 

Orientation at Saint Mary's College. Lucky for you, this map and helpful information has been provided in order to help ease the anxiety that can be a new student's shad­ow at this time of year. Sure, there are a lot of things to learn that we couldn't possi­bly find room for on this page. But, if we clued you in on everything, there would be no room for growth. This information is merely a sketch for the larger picture. Explore. Learn. Enjoy. 
HAGGAR COLLEGE CENTER 

Closer than the local Meijer, this is the only place on campus that you can purchase a note­book, a SMC potholder, a basket of chicken fingers and an airline ticket. Talk about one stop shopping. Haggar houses the SMC bookstore, the Snack Bar, a travel agency and the offices of Student Activities. Also conve­niently located on the first floor is a 1st Source Bank and an ATM machine. All too soon you will learn how very convenient that will turn out to be. 
SECURITY 

The building that houses secu­rity may be small, but the ser­vice they provide is enormous. Security offers around the clock services for its students, faculty and staff. Call boxes, identified by blue emergency lights, are located all over campus and pro­vide a direct line to security. This is a beautiful thing on a frigid February night when the thought of walking from the Angela student parking lot to your dorm causes icicles to form on your nose. Security will pick you up and transport you to your dorm, thereby eliminating the popsicle factor and keeping you safe at the same time. Students are security's main pri­ority. Security is our friend. 
SOCIAL RULES AND 

• REGULATIONS As far as the social aspect of your life at Saint Mary's is con­cerned, there is no guide book to help you navigate these rough seas. Trial and error is the only method. With a little smarts and a lot of luck, you'll turn out more like Chris Columbus than Amelia Earhart. However, there are several concrete rules that cannot be avoided and should definitely be noted. Alcohol consumption on campus is only permitted for those students over 21 years of age. Period. Social gatherings with alcohol are allowed in stu­dent rooms only if everyone attending is 21, the alcoholic beverages remain in the room, and the event does not infringe upon the rights of others. So, drunkenly doing the "Ma Carena" with a Domer's boxer shorts on your head in front of your 


Resident Advisor's door is defi­nitely not a bright idea. You heard it here first. 
As for male visitation (you have to get the boxers some­where right?), Saint Mary's requires that male visitors be escorted at all times in the resi­dence halls. Visitation hours are from 10:00 a.m. to midnight Sunday through Thursday, and 
10:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Male visitors are not required to leave their I.D. cards at the front desk, a rumor which you may or may not have heard yet. The honor system is in effect. That is, until you get caught. Proceed with caution and always be aware of the con­sequences. 
DINING HALL 
The dining hall may be a little difficult to locate this year. Last year, the large round building 

~ was hard to miss, but this year one's view may be obscured by a large cloud of smoke at its entrance. Due to a change of policy, the smoking section of the Saint Mary's dining hall has been eliminated. Therefore, those who crave an after-dinner nicotine fix will probably be con­gregating on the front steps, flicking ashes on the feet of those pious enough to disdain the habit. After you bypass this impromptu demonstration, the dining hall is designed to accom­modate even the most erratic eating schedules. Students are allowed unlimited access from 
7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Weekends offer a continental breakfast, brunch, and dinner with grill and salad bars available in between. The dining hall is a happy place, with frequent theme feasts and occa­sional dinner entertainment. Time is on your side. By the end of the month not only will you know exactly what time they put out the fresh cherry tomatoes, but you will also be adept at strategically jabbing bystanders with your tray in order to have the first pick. 

TUNNELS 

You may have been under the impression that only earth­worms and moles were allowed below ground. Silly girl. Number One Lesson College will Teach You: Never assume any­thing. Saint Mary's tunnels allow you access to Holy Cross Hall, Lemans Hall, Regina Hall, Moreau Hall and Haggar College Center. They're a little dark and a little spooky, but blessedly warm and safe. Absolutely no men are allowed in the tunnels, and you must have your J.D. card in order to gain access. Happy spelunking. 
ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY 

Ever heard of the Freshman 15? A veritable plethora of athletic­type activities can all be found at the Angela Athletic Facility. Courts for tennis, basketball, vol­leyball, and racquetball are located here, as well as an indoor track and nautilus equip­ment. Angela is open seven days a week: Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. , Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 
p.m. and Sunday from noon to 
11:00 p.m. Whew. It's enough to make a body tired just thinking about it. 
REGINA HALL 
One of four dormitories on 

campus, Regina houses a large quantity of freshman students. It is comprised mainly of single rooms somewhere near the size of Anne Frank's closet. Regina is also the site of the Foreign Language department. At any given moment you can walk down the first floor hallway and hear a plaintive voice inquiring, "Tu hables Ingles?... Por favor?" One more distinctive fact about Regina is its indoor swimming pool, which is available for use by students during the posted hours. Grab your water wings and join the fray. 
HOLYCROSS HALL 
This dormitory is home to Belles of all ages, though it is often considered to hold a majority of upperclasswomen. The rooms vary from singles to quints; the teeny-tiny to the very large. The infamous Saint Mary's infirmary can be found in the basement of Holy Cross, for all your various health needs. 
ANNUNCIATA HALL 
Annunciata Hall, housing creat­ed especially for the Seniors, is located on the fourth floor of Holy Cross. Seniors can do their laundry, watch television in their special lounge, or cook up a microwave meal without having to even leave the floor. Non-seniors are prohibited from visiting the area unless you are invited by your senior friends. Proceed with caution if you are privileged enough to be invited up, because you may be hit by a flying GRE study guide or be forced to navigate around the prone body of a senior burled under copies of her resume. 
LEMANSHALL 
Lemans Hall is the largest dor­mitory on campus. The first floor is occupied by offices, rang­ing from President Hickey to the Freshman Office, which you will visit approximately 34 7 times throughout the year. The dorm rooms in Lemans are very eclec­tic; a bathtub here, a statue there. Lemans is also rich in his­tory and according to local leg­end, home to more than a couple of ghosts. The Lemans base­ment houses the 24 hour com­puter lab for all your cyber­needs. The main lab on campus, it is populated by IBM's, Macintosh's, laser printers and stressed-out women in worn-out sweatpants. 
MCCANDLESS HALL 
McCandless Hall was built in1964. Many freshmen call this dorm home but all ages live there, blissfully enjoying the air­conditioned study carrels that are provided with each room. Singles, doubles and triples make up the living arrange­ments. One bonus to McCandless living is its close proximity to the student parking lot, making residents' lives just that much easier. Number Two Lesson College will Teach You: It is okay (actually more than okay, closer to absolutely neces­sary) to attempt to make your life easier. 
Wriaen b..: Angie Kelver 



ACCENT 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 



The beginning of the next stage of your life ••• 
Notre Dame can be the best experience of your life, 
provided you make the most of it 
by JOEY CRAWFORD 
Acent Ediror 
W
elcome to the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. For some it will be the land of milk and honey; unfortunately, for others Notr'~ Dame will represent a stifling environment plagued by confor­mity. As Freshman Orientation comes to an end. it is each student's own per­sonal mission to determine his or her fate and find his or her niche at the University. But what is Notre Dame all about? 
Everyone has heard the stories and legends about Notre Dame, but very few actually know what Notre Dame truly represents. Notre Dame is a medium­sized college nestled in the heart of the snowbelt. The football program is leg­nndary and U.S. Nnws and World Heport dairns our university is one of the twen­ty-rive best in the nation. The party scene grows monotonous with time, as students begin to ponder just how many kids can fit into one dorm room. The bar scene grows weary with time, but definitflly is a better alternative to dorm parties. 
But this is not what Notre Dame is all about. Notre Dame is a family and it will become your life over the next four years, whether you like it or not. Each student is torn from his or her parents' arms and thrust into an unusual envi­ronment. This is where the common bond between students begins-and sometimes, unfortunately, does not end. As with any family, Notre Dame has its share of problems. Notre Dame stu­dents seem to be from a common mold. Everyone dresses the same, talks the same, and possesses the same morals and interests. Anyone who breaks these norms may be frowned upon. There is no room nor tolerance for diversity. 
This is the major problem with Notre Dame: the homogeny of the campus. Students go to school hoping to encounter new worlds, but at Notre Dame, they experience the same thing, day in and day out. For some, this con­cept may seem like a welcomed par­adise; but for others it is a rude awaken­ing to the shortcomings of Notre Dame. 
So what is there to do in" South Bend now that the excitement of the Freshman Frenzy has wound down? Surprisingly, there is a vast assortment of activities to do in the area. Finding time to do them all is the key. There is always some sort of athletic event taking place on campus, from intramural to top-ranking Division I contests ranging from football to water polo to karate. Notre Dame offers it all. Notre Dame also boasts a variety of clubs and activi­ties for anyone who can find time for several of them. 
South Bend is the home of the Silverhawks, a Double-A professional baseball team affiliated with the Chicago White Sox. A night at the ballpark offers solace from studying and campus. But for those sports enthusiasts who still crave more, Chicago-only an hour and a half away-is a sports mecca. 
For those looking for culture, Notre Dame is the home of the Snite Art Museum, which hosts activities ranging from film festivals to guest speakers. Unfortunately, this is where high culture ends at Notre Dame. Fortunately, Chicago and Detroit offer repose to those who are culturally starved. 
For those interested in movies, there are multiple theaters in the area. Movies are shown at Cushing Hall and the Snite almost every weekend. Movies 10, new addition in the last eighteen months, holds ten theaters and, quite possibly, the most comfortable theater seats in the United States. There are theaters in the mall and the Town and Country shopping center as well, although the latter tends to reek of moth balls. 
For those who still are not convinced that there are things to do in South Bend, there are a number of miniature golf courses in the area. as well as a go­cart track and baseball batting cage. There are a variety of activities waiting to be discovered by each student just minutes away. 
The problem with activity in northern Indiana is the -.vinter. The winter winds stifle all thoughts of venturing outside. Rarely will you feel like doing more than hanging out in your room, with a blan­ket pulled close around your eyes. But the winter will pass quickly and activity will increase with the emergence of the pleasant weather. 
The Notre Dame experience is exactly what you make of it. It can either be the best time of your life or a living night­mare, depending on what you make of it. Talk to upperclassmen-they are invaluable links to life in South Bend. They can tell you what there is to do and warn you of what not to do. Enjoy every day you are here. Time goes quickly so make the most of it. 
I 
I 
I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 24, 1996 
-~~-.. 
of pressure, but I kind of like Goodspeed's te.nacity stuck to impressive mobility in the that pressure," Grubb added. the coaching staff. scrimmage against the swarm­
Soccer Frosh 
"I hope to help continue the "(Joey) Goodspeed is a tough ing first-team defense, and also continued from page 24 tradition of championship continued from page 24 young man," Holtz quipped. "If managed to show a hint of 
teams at Notre Dame." we had enough people like touch, hitting some short pass­fending NCAA national cham­Attempting to continue that come along quite nicely." Goodspeed we could reduce our es for gains. However, the dif­pions and No. 2 Soccer tradition on the college level Lee Lafayette, another player training staff." ferent offensive system has America preseason selection will naturally be more difficult with decent speed who was O'Leary's presence in camp posed some problems for the could be a little intimidating as the Irish players are learn­making impressions in the sec­has forced sophomore returnee signal-caller, a common occur­which makes these initial ing. op.dary, will be off the field for John Cerasani to look over his rence for new quarterbacks. impressions even more promis­"There's more of a definite the year due to a freak injury shoulder. Speculation has Notre Dame still does not ing. commitment to the sport than suffered during a one-on-one arisen about sending Cerasani have a kic.ker. With Kevin 
"It surprised me how quickly in high school," Grubb said. drill at Culver. to do some work backing-up at Kopka recovering from arthro­they caught on to stuff," "Everything's also faster." Lining up at wideout once center if O'Leary's talent is as scopic surgery on his right Petrucelli said. "This group is "The speed of the game is so again will be #1-Deke Cooper. good as it seems. With fifth knee, the duo of newcomer Jim very advanced. They have much higher that you have to Inevitably drawing comparisons year senior Pete Chryplewicz Sanson and walk-on Scott even been giving advice to think and react quicker," for­to Green Bay's rookie and past and Kevin Carretta possibly in Cengia are competing for the some of the upperclassmen." ward Jenny Heft said. Irish acrobat Derrick Mayes, the mix, the depth chart is top spot. After the scrimmage, 
For the freshmen, being in Just listening to the prevail­Cooper boasts more speed and overflowing. Holtz has given the edge to the national spotlight only in­ing optimistic attitudes will the ability to get away from Ching is making a valiant Cengia. creases motivation. bring a smile to any Irish fan. defenders. Unfortunately, his attempt to contribute to an ''I'm impressed with our kick­
"It makes you want to work "Practice has been going hands haven't yet been dipped already strong front line. Ching ing game except for our incon­harder because it's more diffi­good and we've been playing in glue like Mayes', as he worked into the scrimmage on sistencies at place-kicker," said cult a second time around to real well," Heft said. "I wasn't dropped two deep balls in the the second team, but defensive Holtz. "Scott Cengia is kicking win a championship," goalie sure how things we're going to scrimmage. However, his nat­coordinator Bob Davie's line of better than he ever has, but we LaKeysia Beene said. "We work, but everyone's fit in real ural abilities and 6c2 frame Renaldo Wynn, Melvin Dansby, still lack the consistency we're have to prove ourselves be­well." make him a definite target for and Alton Maiden offers little looking for." cause we weren't around last "Everyone's been really help­quarterback Ron Powlus. room even for a talented and "I like this freshman class," year." ing me out," Beene added. "It's "Deke Cooper is really work­motivated man from the Big Powlus commented. "If I may 
"It obviously adds a little bit helped to ease into things." 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Lakeysia Beene looks to back-up All-American Jen Renola this season and provide top-notch goaltending for years to come. 
;-·~w 

~ • f omen's Soccer Recruits 
Rei!ruit  Position··  Hometown  
Jenn Grubb  Defender  Hoffman Estates, Ill.  
Jenny Heft  Forwan:l  Germantown, Wis.  
Jenny Streiffer  Midfielder  Baton Rouge, La.  
Lakeysia Beene  Goalie  Gold River, Calif.  
Kara Brown  Midfielder  Avon, Conn.  
Mary Buerner  Defender  Orting, Wash.  


Classifieds 
ing hard, and I think he's going to get some playing time for us this year," Powlus predicted. 
"Deke Cooper has done some good things, but he was never a receiver in high school. He was an all-purpose back," analyzed Holtz. "All you ask for as a coach is to see on film what you are teaching. Whoever shows us on film what we have been 
teaching  will  be  our  wide  
receivers."  
Cooper is joined by  Raki  

Nelson and Lewis Dawson as the prime newcomers for the pass-catching unit. Nelson ofFers some speed and quick­ness but a smaller body. Dawson, sibling of Kansas City's steady threat Lake Dawson, must work hard to escape his brother's sizable shadow. 
Other potential contributors this season include fullback prospect Joey Goodspeed, Parade Prep All-American tight end Dan O'Leary, and Honolulu native nose tackle Jason Ching. 
Goodspeed lives true to his name, and plays with the same attitude as Irish captain and mentor Marc Edwards. Goodspeed is battling sopho­more Jamie Spencer for the back-up spot, and is tough between the tackles. Both Goodspeed and Spencer were hit with injuries at Culver, but Island. Fellow newcomer Brad Williams, another highly touted defensive line candidate, has been sidelined for three weeks with a stress fracture in his foot. 

Another year at Notre Dame also brings another top prospect at quarterback in Eric Chappell. Despite being heavily recruited by Florida, Chappell brought his services to the Irish. Thus far, he has demon­strated many of the same tal­ents and troubles as second­teamer Jarius Jackson. Chappell displayed some say so, they remind me a lot of my class coming in. They have the same positive attitude and are humble, which may be the best attribute a class can have." 
Notre Dame Stadium will not be at full capacity for some time. With builders working day-in and day-out, the progress is slow, but evident. Although the Irish will not need to call on freshmen to build their team up now, it might be a pleasant surprise to find that the construction is well on its way. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 


Freshman Antoine Wellington {60) and Lance LeGree take it all in. 
The Observer aeceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame offtce, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Baahhxers. Wath lahhbstahs.  I can't wait to spend my Ireland  
NOTICES  I I  FOR RENT  Who Needs A Bed? 2 new single beds for sale! Mattress, Boxspring, and  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Well. Yeah. as sick as it sounds, I may just have done it all over the  money in Michigan City. JOEY, WE LOVE YOU. PLEASE  
Do you need a fundraiser? Then  Student Apt. -6 blocks  Headboard included. Asking $275  232-0058  same way again. I met you didn't!?  GET WELL AND COME BACK TO  
we've got the answer. If your orga­ from campus, affordable, clean  each. Call Jarrod at  24HRS.  us.  
nization will go out and sign up pea- 2-bedroom turnished-$360  234-7601.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  LOST: BARSTOOL FROM  
pie for the Midwest's largest news- Heat and water included  CORBY'S. SMELLS KINDA LIKE  Next time we go to Corby's I think  
paper. you could make as much as  755 South Bend Ave.  4 X 2 cbubic feet dorm refrigerator  TICKET-MART, INC.  SMOKE. WAS LAST SEEN MOV- I'll take it easy. I'll bring my screw­ 
$5000 for your group. For more  (corner of St. Peter & S.B. Ave.)  for sale. Bought at $180 last Aug.  lNG TOWARDS THE DOOR BY  driver.  
information, call Mr. Harley at 630­ deposit, references  but will sell for $100.00. In great  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  SOME DRUNK KID WEARING  
603·1485.  1-800-582-9320  shape. but my son just graduated  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  SAILBOAT SHOES.  Help, the bomb's gonna go off any  
and no longer needs it. Call Mary  232-0061.  second!  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  289-1564  Hey. look, this steel sign must've  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  3BDRM HOUSE  fallen off the wall during that explo­ $5.50 HAIRCUT  
255-1172  NORTH OF N.D.  Teal Notre Dame backpack for sale.  NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA  sian. I better take it to my manager.  VITO'S BARBERSHOP  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  277-3097  Asking $20, originally $45. In great  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  I sure hope that little blonde girl  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
You break it, we'll fix it!!!  condition, but no l<?nger needed.  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  wasn't hurt.  SOUTH BEND  
1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Only one year old. Leather bottom  SELL.  8-5-M-F  
WANTED  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306  and NO logo. Call Cathy@ 287­0363.  674·7645.  PC, what happened to your dart game?  8·4-SAT.  
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  promises. promises.  
BABYSITTER NEEDED 1·2 DAYS PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER  OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT  TICKETS  BOUGHT &SOLD 232-2378 -A.M.  Free couch. All you have to do is transport it from a closed storage  dear  
HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6  VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL  288-2726-P.M.  space to campus during a tornado.  last night  
&8 FROM 3:30 PM -6:00 PM.  AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4.  G.A.s SEASON TICKETS G.A  
MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS­ KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL,  WANTED  PLEASE HELP IF  NO PARENTS NEED 2-4 FOOT­ What's worse? Playing cups for  Happy Birthday Christy 01  
PORTATION.  SPORTS LOUNGE. ETC. $200  YOU  CAN CALL; 273-6929  BALL TIX FOR WASHINGTON  four hours, playing cups for four  Ready to celebrate?  
PLEASE CALL 277·5786.  WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219­ GAME. CALL MIKE V. 634-0997.  hours without losing, playing cups  
291-5849  Need OSU Tix! Have OSU hotel  for lour hours without losing while  Glad to see you back, KY girl.  
MOTHER OF THREE -FOUR MONTHS TO FOUR YEARS ­ FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  rms & all other tix to trade. Call Mike 612·937-2247  PERSONAL  your apartment gets trashed, play­ing cups tor four hours without los­ ########################  
NEEDS HELP WITH CHILDCARE,  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  ing while your apartment gets  "How to Win Under the Dome"  
TRANSPORTING CHILDREN AND  CAMPUS.  Need Married Student tickets. Call  WELCOME BACK!  trashed in ONLY YOUR BOXERS,  A comprehensive guide to the stu- 
LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING. TWEN­ 272-0615.  soon! 272-7223  or playing cups for four hour~;> with- dent world at N.D. is now available.  
TY TO TWENTY FOUR HOURS A  Student Activities is accepting  out losing while your apartment  An excellent gift for incoming fresh- 
WEEK. $6.00 TO $#6.50 PER HOUR. TIMES ARE FLEXIBLE,  FOR SALE  Wanted: student season tickets. 272-7223  applications for: Sound Techs  gets trashed in ONLY YOUR BOX­ERS and then passing out it your  men and all N.D. students interest­ed in valuable information ranging  
BUT MORNINGS PREFERRED.  Set Up Crew  kitchen?  from social life to finding cheap  
OWN TRANSPORTATION, REF­ 486-33 COMPUTER W/ MONITOR  Wanted: GAs for all games, sea- Irish Express Clerks  footballtixs. Books are $10 and  
ERENCES, CHEERY DISPOSI­ KEYBOARD, SOUND CARD,  son GAs. Call soon! 272-7223  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  Two words. OFF CAMPUS.  can be purchased by calling (219)  
TION, AND EXPERIENCE WITH  SPEAKERS, CD ROM, 16MB  631-5323. Leave a message with  
YOUNG CHILDREN REQUIRED!  RAM, 1.2 MB DRIVE, WIN95  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Apply at 315 LaFortune between  You know what? How did you  address and telephone number.  
CALL 272-3237 TO APPLYl  MS WORKS. $750. 234-6747  GAMES.272·6551  8am-5pm.  know?  We will call with purchase into.  

~-------------­

Saturday, August 24, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MAnv's SoccER 
Sharp takes the helm for Belles soccer 
Maybe he's the missing link. 
'After losing two soccer coaches the last two years, Saint Mary's hopes new coach Bob Sharp will become their knight in shining armor this season. Their sunlight after the prolonged rain. Their "coach." 
Sharp, who received his first glance of his freshmen hopefuls Friday, expressed confidence in reviving a team who finished with a 5-11-1 mark last season. 
"I have a great coop," Sharp noted after tryouts Friday. "The women trying out are wonderful girls and have an outstanding work ethic." 
_NO_ • SM • Nl • SMC • NO 
7a Bed ~N BreakCast 
'!'JJ Registry 
-The Premier Registry Since 1983 ­
Try the Option! A "Home Away from Home"tlr 
Perfect for. .. 

FB • Grad. • Fr. Or. • JPW 
...._ •••The Irish BNB .,. Symbol ofApproval 
219-291-7153 
Fax 219-291-1185 
NO • SMC • NO • SMC • NO 
page 17 

• SAINT MARY's VOLLEYBALL 

Mission accomplished 

The Observer/Mike Ruma New SMC soccer coach Bob Sharp (above) will try to amend last sea­son's 5-11-1 record this season. For more details see Tuesday's Observer. 
Help Needed! Notre Dame Catering Starting Immediately! 
Are you looking for work that: 
*Pays $5.95 + gratuity *Offers flexibility *Offers variety 
We are located in SDH basement. Ask about the quarterback bonus! 
Special sign ups: 
Sat 8/24 & Sun 8/25 
lOam-Spm 
Please stop by for more info Call 631-5449 
Schroeder-Biek ups recruiting to 
land seven tal­ented frosh for Saint Mary's 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
They're not on scholarship. They aren't "campus gods." And they weren't wined and dined to get here. 
But they're here. And they're the best we've seen yet. 
Due to an improved recruit­ing program, the Saint Mary's volleyball team has earned seven stellar freshmen this year, opening the eyes and extending the sights of head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
"The freshmen are the strongest I've seen yet," Schroeder-Biek beamed. "They are solid in basic skills, and work hard as a team. It is evident that they were influ­enced by good coaching in the past." 
Schroeder-Biek attributes her team's talented additions to the college's extended recruitment 
<tQ&A(0cAQit,<$ 
IRISH IMPORT SHOP 
Edison Plaza 1643 Edison Road Next to Jamison Inn 141-1400 

I0% off any purchase with this ad 
~ 
USED FURNITURE Household Items -Clothing • 
® The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 
10% Monday -Saturday 
Student & Faculty
#288-2539 

9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Discount With l.D. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Programs 213 Main Building 
General information session with Fr. Timothy Scully, C.S.C, Vice President and Associate Provost Prof. Thomas E. Bogenschild, Director 
When: Saturday, August 24, 1996 Where: DeBartolo Classroom Bldg. Rooms 101,102, and 155 Time: 4:3opm , 6:30 
Immediately following the general information session, individual sessions for each program will be held in the following rooms: 
Pro~:ram 
Angers, France Athens, Greece 
Cairo, Egypt Dublin, Ireland Fremantle, Australia lnnsbruck, Austria 
Jerusalem London -Arts and Letters London-Engineering (Summer) London-Engineering (Fall) Mexico City, Mexico 
Monterrey, Mexico 
Santiago, Chile 
Toledo, Spain 
Nagoya, Japan 
Maynooth, Ireland (SMC) 
Rome, Italy (SMC) 

Semester Around the World (SMC) 
Coordinator 

Prof. Paul McDowell Fr. leonard Banas, C.S.C. Prof. Mohamed Gad-EI-Hak Prof. Patrick Murphy Prof. Michael Etzel Prof. Marie-Antoinette Kremer Fr. David B. Burrell, C.S.C. Prof. Anastasia Gutting Prof. John W. Lucey Prof. Thomas J. Mueller Prof. Angela Borelli Prof. Juan Rivera Prof. Silvia Rojas Anadon Prof. Olivia Remi Constable Prof. Eileen Mikals-Adachi Ms. Shari Overdorf Prof. Peter Checca Prof. Cyriac K. Pullapilly 
Room 
126 
240 246 138 !55 
129 
143 102 
119 
120 141 141 
141 
141 118 140 136 242 

Former student participants will also be on hand to discuss their experiences, offer comments, and answer questions. 
program. This year, Schroeder-Biek worked with Academic recruiters to find her players. She paid personal vis­its to each recruit, and roped each player into coming out and seeing Saint Mary's. 
Her hard work paid off, as her team now includes seven leading high school standouts from across the country. 
Staring in the backcourt is freshman setter Courtney Love, an All-State member who grad­uated from Penn High here in South Bend last spring. 
The strength of outside attackers Agnes Bill. a former All-Stater from Ohio, and Melissa Miller, an All-Countier from Michigan, will add depth to Love's power on the back­court. 
"Miller has a great vertical jump. She and the rest of the backcourt continue to improve each day," Schroeder-Biek said. 
In mid-court, look for 6'1" middle-hitter Ashley Dickerson, described by Schroeder-Biek as powerful and solid, able to play the entire court, and an asset to the defense's blocking abili­ties. Dickerson earned All­District recognition in high school. 
Jayne Ozbolt, at a small 5'6", maintains the power of a taller player, blocking from the mid or right attack. Mary Hodovich adds still more versatility as a 5'11" hard-hitting outside attacker. 
Finally, Katie Candiano facili­tates as a defensive specialist and the top vertical jumper on the team. 
"Candiano (5'6") is little, but can hit away," Schroeder-Biek explained. "She's not confined to the back like most small players are. She can jump to the front when we need her." 
These seven will join four returning players: Betsy Connolly, Meg Kelly, Kelly Meyer, and Laura Schreeg. 
"There is extreme competi­tion for the starting positions this year," Schroeder-Biek said. "So I haven't determined them yet. Everyone is extremely tal­ented, and are working hard." 
And with their opening game scheduled for a week from Saturday, Schroeder-Biek knows hard work is key. 
"These women have been ". drilled so far," she said. "We have had three practices each day. and yet no one complains. They each continue to give 110%." 
"The family suggests 
}
that memorial contributions be made to the American 
Heart Association:' When people want to honor a loved one and fight heart disease. 
Amen . can Heart a-.,_ Association...~ 
Fighting Hearl DisBBSB and SlrokD 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIAI.5 & TRIBUTES 
~ .. 
1-800-AHA-USA 1 
This space provided as a public servoce 01994. American Heart Associallon 
-~-----.

.-----------­
~----­
page 18 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, August 24, 1996 
. 
~ 
{ 
WelcoDle Back Students! Free GEAR for Sports ''Shake down the Thunder'' T-Shirt! 8/23 Friday • 9 am-7 plll 8/24 Saturday • 9 am-7 pm 8/25 Sunday • 9 am-S pm 8/26 Monday • 9 am-5 pm 8/27 Tuesday • 9 am-8 pm 8/28 Wednesday • 9 am-8 pm 8/29 Thursday • 9 am-8 pm 8/30 Friday • 9 am-S pm Ask for it by name. The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE ''on the ca-mpus''  

--------~ 
Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 


Insight 
continued from page 24 
sports is one such outlet. 
Don't be mistaken, there are other options such as guest speakers, concerts, and quality drama productions but they are too few and far between to be enough. Athletics. though, are wide-ranging. 
Be it jumping in the pool for a game of action-packed inner­tube water polo to watching the defending national champi­on women's soccer team take on a nationally-ranked oppo­nent, sporting opportunities abound. 
Oh yeah, then there is that game they call football. 
Don't be fooled, football dic­tates the social life of the cam­pus throughout the fall. And for good reason. 
Even if you can't tell Marc Edwards the fullback from Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, football games at ND are still an incredible experi­tmce not to be misstld. At least the tailgating that goes on be­forehand shouldn't. 
If done appropriately, tailgat­ing, itself, ean be just as much of a tllst of strength, llndurance and toltlrance as the actual game you're about to watch. 
But at Notre Dame, you don't just wateh. You participate ­loudly. 
For y1mrs. the student body has had a reputation for being the most intimidating fans in the nation. Hecently, though. for a myriad of reasons, the enthusiasm has diminished greatly. The once-hostile sta­dium that used to strike fear in the hearts of opponents is now a plaee where upstarts like Boston College and Northwestern can make a nume for themselves at the ex­pense of the Irish. 
You ean take it upon yourself to start to reverse that trend. Maybe they should make eheering a required class. 
. 

• MEN's SoccER 



Versatility hallmark of Irish newcomers 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sporrs Writer 
Last year's men's soccer team often found themselves looking forward to "next year." All of a sudden, "next year" and a opportunity for the squad to redeem itself has arrived. 
The Irish are looking to bounce back from what turned out to be a disapointing innau­gural season in the Big East Conference. At the heart of this potential turnaround is a group of incoming freshmen who, on paper. appear to add a good deal of depth and versatility to the roster which struggled in 1995. 
Head coach Michael Berticelli is charged with the task of fas­cillitating the development of chemistry on a team mixed with untested talent and solid veteran leadership. According to the incoming Irish, the above should not present a problem. 
"The older guys are great," explains freshman forward and Ohio native Ryan Cox. 
"They've been very helpful and they make us (freshmen) feel like it's our team." 
Cox, who was one of the most highly-touted players in the nation coming out of North Royalton High School, seems to be adjusting quite well to his n(lw surroundings. 
The Observer/Mike Rums 

Notre Dame coach Mike Berticelli (above) welcomes the frosh with hopes of turning the Irish program back in the right direction. Co-cap­tain Konstantin Koloskov (approaching ball) will aid in leadership . 
Welcome Weekend '96 
Thursday, August 29 
*Reggae Fest 
featuring "Uraeus" 
Free T,shirt tie dye,and make beaded necklaces and arm chains 
Field House Mall 
6,9PM 
*''Dead Man Walking" Cushing Auditorium, !0:30PM $2.00 Admission 
*Acoustic Cafe 
at the Huddle 
9PM , 12:30AM 
Friday, August 30 
*Welcome Back Picnic 
Food-Dance-Prizes!! Free photo buttons and key chains 
Field House Mall 
4,8pm 
*ComedyNight 
at Washington Hall 
Featuring: Gerald "Green Eyes" Kelly and J.B. Smoove 
Spm $3.00/Student, $5.00/non,students 
*"Dead Man 
Walking" 
Cushing Auditorium Spm and 1 0:30pm $2:00 
Saturday, August 31 
*Outdoor Movies 
on North Quad -8:30pm "The Lion King" -1O:OOpm "Seven" 
Free popcorn and soda 
*"Dead Man Walking" 
Cushing Auditorium 8pm and 10:30 pm $2.00 

Sponsored By: Multicultural Student Affairs -Student Activities -Student Union Board 
"I love it here," says Cox. "You can't beat the pride and tradition here at Notre Dame." 
First year goalkeeper John Krivacic agrees that the at­mosphere is is "nice and com­fortable," but also ackowledges the fact that, "it's a different game in college." 
"I hope," Krivacic added, "to prove to the coach that I'm ready work hard enough to start sophomore or junior year." 
Apparently, coach Berticelli has stressed the importance of setting goals to his squad, the most significant of which is a berth in the Big East Tournament. 
Krivacic points out, "If we make it to the Big East Tournament and hopefully play well, we'll have a shot at the NCAA's." 
Though it may just seem like wide-eyed optimism coming from the lips of a player who has yet to see action at the col­legiate level. the young Texan's's goals may prove pos­sible if he, Cox and the other members of the class of 2000 can contribute in the upcoming campaign. 
Such players include de­fenders, Matt De Domincis from Simsbury. Connecticut, Matt McNew from Arlington, Texas, and Alan Woods from Burtonsville, Maryland, mid­fielder Jason Jorski from Carollton, Texas, and forward Kevin Wood from Rockville Centre, New York 
Their development through­out the schedule could be the key to the comeback year. 

(•'; Men's Soccer Recruits 
Jason Jorski MF/D 5~7 150 Lutz, FL 
R81tuit Position  Ht. Wt. Hometown  
Andrew Aris F  6~3 200 Auckland, New Zealand  
Nino Berticelli G Ryan Cox F/MF Matt De Dominicis D  6~4 195 Granger, IN 5~9 150 North Royalton, OH 5-11170 Simsbury, CT  

John Krivacic G 6-0 195 Carrollton, TX Matt McNew D 6~4 195 Arlingon, TX Kevin Wood F 6~2 195 Rockville Centre, NY Alan Woods D 6-0 160 Burtonsville, MD 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY 

,sournBEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
More than 300 classes in professional and personal development 
• Computers • Technology • Travel Agent Training • • Business Management • Small Business • Supervision • • Communication • Languages and Culture • Allied Health • • Certified Financial Planner • CEBS • Human Resources • • Accounting • Customer Service • Paralegal Studies • • Purchasing Management • Small Manufacturing • • Production/Inventory Management • Home and Garden • Quality Management • Safety and Health • • Real Estate • Insurance • Montessori Education • • Early Childhood • Youth Programs • Personal Finance • 
College Proficiency • LSAT, GRE, GMAT Reviews • • Healing and Wellness • Personal Enrichment • Recreation • 
Classes begin throughout the fall Call for your free catalog 237-4261 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Saturday, August 24, 1996 
-Locating the landmarks of Irish athletics 
This double-domed structure across the street from Notre Dame stadium which opened in 1968 is named after Father Edmund P. Joyce, Notre Dame's well-known former executive vice president and chairman of the Faculty Board on Athletics. 
The complex is commonly referred to by stu­dents as the "JACC", a name dating back to when it was more formally known as he Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Currently, the Joyce Center is home to the Irish basketball, hockey, fencing, and volleyball teams. In addition, the "JACC" is the center of the ultra-popular Notre Dame intramural sports program, as it boasts numerous auxilary bas­ketball courts and racquetball courts, as well as offering capabilties for anything from ice skat­ing to boxing. 
Finally, the University's main athletic offices are all located in the Joyce Center, as are Notre Dame's Monogram Club and impressive Athletic Heritage Hall. 
-. 
.-,. 

•CARPET 
SAT. 9:00-5:30

•VINYL 277-9711 SUN. 1:00-5:30 
•WOOD •CERAMIC 
•AREA RUGS 


Decorators Walk Shopping Center • Grape at Day Road, Mishawaka OVER 1000 CARPET REMNANTS ON SALE! 
ECK BASEBALL 
STADIUM . 
The Irish baseball squad has a great home(above) in this natural grass gem that was opened in 1994. 
Fully capable for hosting night games, the 3,000 seat facility is located behind the Joyce Center in the southeast corner of campus. 
ALUMNI FIELD 
Located on the southeast corner of the campus, the field has been the home of the defending national champion women's soccer team as well as the men's squad since 1990. 
The field is considered by many to be one of the finest naturaol grass soccer facilities in the Midwest. 
IVY FIELD 
Adjacent .to Alumni Field, the softball team currently calls this facility home. The squad hung their first Big East Champion banner following a 19-1 conference record in 1996. It is also considered to be one of the best of its kind in Division I-A softbalL 

Durina our biaaesi: 
back i:o school sale••• 
The more you buyA the more 
you save! 
One week only... from Sunday, August 25TH to Sunday, September IST. 
Take an extra $5 off __lour total purchase when you spend $20 or more. 
Take an extra $1 0 off ~our total pur­chase when you spend $50 or more. 
Lechters Housewares University Park Mall 
Offer expires September Isr, /996. 
-----------------------------------------" 

NOTRE DAME 
COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
WASHINGTON HALL--BruceAuerbach, Director of Theatre of Notre Dame Communica­tion and Theatre, has announced that the annual reception for students interested in theatre will be held Wednesday, August 28, at 6:00P.M. in Washington Hall. Students interested in acting, directing, sets, costumes, lights, management, or theatre as a major are encouraged to attend. 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. A wide variety of activities is available including: acting, scenic design and constuction, costume design and construction, lighting design and execution, marketing, directing and stage manage­ment. There are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are qualified. 
Becoming involved in theatre is an excellent way to meet new people, make new friends, and have a great time while involving yourself in the creation of something special on campus. 
This season, the Department of Communication and Theatre (COTH) will present a mainstage season consisting of four plays as well as many other acting and directing projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Barefoot in the Park A Christmas Carol The Grapes ofWrath 

In addition, COTH will host a residency by DYNAMO.THEATRE of Montreal, Canada, sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at the end of each semestec All of these projects will need a great amount of student support. There are positions for all who wish to participate. 
Auditions ror the first two plays or the season will be held Wednesday, August 28, and Thurs­day, August 29, at 7:00 PM. 
If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be involved or have questions about the program, please call Bruce Auerbach at (219) 631-5957. 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 The Observer. SPORTS page 21 
Combing the campus athletic facilities 


This landmark in American sports culture is eurrenlly in the midst of major renovation and expansion. 
The eonstruetion is not yet eompleteted on this shrine of eollege football but games will still be played this year at the familar capacity of 59,075. Upon completion, in time for the 1997 season, the new capacity will be in excess 
"The House That Rockne Built" has served as the home of Fighting Irish football since 1930 and has been the site of some of college foot­ball's greatest moments. 
The student section has traditionally been located in the Northwest corner of the stadium and will remain so this season. However, its status is undetermined for the 1997 season. 
Located on the southern edge of thH Saint Mary's cam­pus, Angela Athletic Facility houses sports such as basket­ball, vollllyhall, tennis. and rueq twtball. 
Students can take advan­tagll of the faeility's daily aer­obic elasses, an upstairs indoor track, weight machines and stairmasters. 
Angela Athletic facility also contains Nautilus equipment and weekday body toning elasses, as well as self-defense classes. 
Angela is the home of the Saint Mary's Belles varsity sports. 
LOFTUS SPORTS 
CENTER 
The 1996-1997 school year marks the lOth full year of op­eration for this indoor sports complex. 
Mainly utilized by varsity athletics, the building houses the full-sized astroturf football field known as Meyo Field, the 8,000-square-foot Haggar Fitness Complex (weight­room), and a one-fifth mile, six-lane Mondo track sur­rounding the football field. 
In addition, the facility con­tains an auditorium and con­ference rooms. 
Although varsity athletes have top priority in Loftus, the track and turf field are often open for student use at night. The track is a life-saver for the avid runner in the sun-for­saken winters of South Bend. 
The crew team utilizes the modern rowing machines in the mezzanine. 

THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
This monument to the Irish legend which is located at the far end of South Quad offers the majority of fitness opportunities available to stu­dents and faculty. Facilities include a swimming pool, basketball and racquetball courts, a weight room, an exercise room, dance and aerobic rooms and the all-important locker and laundry rooms. 
Ubiquitously known as "the Rock", the building has seen better days, yet still offers what the ama­teur fitness enthusiast needs and a lot of invalu­able character. Check out the door handles and bust of Knute in the foyer on your way to physical education class. 
BURKE MEMORIAL GOLF COURSE 
The once-18-hole University golf course is now just a nine-hole course with the construction of four new dorms on the site of the former front nine. 
In addition to offering students very reason­able green fees, the course can also be utilized as a cross-country skiing trail during the win­ters. 
Rumor has it that plans are currently in the works for a new 18 hole championship course to be designed by Ben Crenshaw. 
STEPAN FIELDS 
The vast area of athletic fields located in the northeast corner of the campus (across the street from the towers) serve as home to many club teams, intramural football and soccer games, and various other random sporting ven­tures. 
Also in the vicinity is Stepan Center, which houses two basketball courts and also is the site of many of the campus' concerts and lectures. It is easily recognized by its' EPCOT Center-esque dome and can really only be described as one of the ugliest structures on campus. 
In addition, the hard-top in front of the Fields boasts eight outdoor basketball courts. Although many could use some renovation, the courts serve as a great setting for the annual Notre Dame tradition known as Bookstore Basketball. 


page 22 SPORTS Saturday, August 24, 1996 
-. • VOLLEYBALl 

• Attention current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informa­tional meeting Thursday, August 29 7:00pm 
R#C-=y~ 

Frosh to provide key depth 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
The Irish believe they may have finally done it. As the fall season approaches, the Notre Dame volleyball team seems to have discovered the missing piece to the puzzle, the final ingredient to the recipe, and the long anticipated answer to their prayers. 
Well, it may be a little prema­ture to start dishing out acco­lades and praise, but the Irish appear to have found a cure for their biggest weakness in 1995: depth. Last season, the squad consisted of just 10 players, and fatigue and natural wear and tear eventually took its toll as the year unwinded. 
"Depth was a concern for us 


That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 


f.:~'i>ROQ~ 
~11)~

North Shore Club 






::; '!'­
~ $ 
~SHO'i-~G
Models Open Daily Sat. &Sun. 12-5 P.M 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Momhly payments ofP. and I. based on apurchase price of$55,990 with 20% down and a 30-yeat 7.375 A.R.M. 
Last Chancel Fulbrjah1 Compe1j1jon 1997-98 
last year, especially with the injuries and with just one fresh­man coming in," said head coach Debbie Brown. "With four scholarship players and two walk-ons this year, we believe we have addressed that area." 
This season, Brown and the rest of the coaching staff will have the luxury of carrying 15 players, including four prized freshmen who are eager to help take the program to the next level. 
"Overall, the girls have done a very good job of coming in and performing well at prac­tice," said Brown. "We expect each of them to contribute for us at some point in the season." 
The class of 2000 consists of middle blocker Mary Leffers, outside hitter Emily Schiebout, 
Did you know... f 
outside hitter Mandi Powell, and setter/outside hitter Lauren Stettin. In addition, the squad has added a pair of walk-ons in freshman Theresa Seidle and sophomore Audra Duda. 
Even though the group has yet to play a collegiate match, don't expect the newcomers to be too rusty. Leffers and Powell competed in the Junior Olympics over the summer and even faced one another in the semifmals. 
"It was a great experience, and it helped me stay pretty active over the summer," said Powell. "It was also nice to play against Mary. We were able to meet and become friends before coming to Notre Dame." 
Stettin, a natural outside hit­ter, may be forced to grow up in a hurry with starting setter Carrie May out for six weeks with a dislocated shoulder. Stettin is one of a few options that Brown is pondering as the team attempts to move on with­out one of its top players. 
''I've never played the posi­tion before so I didn't know really what to expect," said Stettin. "I will do my best for the team and just try to help out as we aim for our goal of the National Championship." 
Learning a new position is not the only problem Stettin has encountered over the past month. Earlier, the Illinois res­ident was falsely ruled ineligi­ble for a questioned grade in hfgh school. After three days, the problem was resolved and Stettin's eligibility was restored. 
"It kept me out for three days, so that was kind of disap­pointing," said Stettin. "After everything was reviewed and studied, it was worked out, and I'm ready to play again." 
As a group, they add some­thing to the volleyball program that has been missing for some time now. It just may be the final piece to the puzzle. 

~Women's Volleyball Recruits 
Recruit Year Position Bt. Hometown 
::·:·~:::~~~W~:»'. ·::.:.,··:':'::::::,-;;.;;.;.;::~ ·.  .  .  
Mary Leffers  vFr.  Blocker  6-4 Tampa, Fla.  
Mardi Powell  Fr.  Utility  6-0 Manroeville, Ind.  
Emily Schiebout  Fr.  Hitter  6-1  Roseville, Minn.  
Lavrer Stettin  Fr.  Setter  6-0 Hinsdale, Ill.  
Audra Duda  So. Blocker  5-7 Woodland Hills, Calif.  
Theresa Seidle  Fr.  Blocker  5-8 Muncie, Ind.  



• •
•
•
•
•
• 

_.. 
126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 

Saturday, August 24, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
I'f-'\ GOING TO USE BAD GR.Ar-\1"\1\R. MORE OFTt.N. 
Make checks payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $40 for one semester
Community. Name ____________________________________________
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City-------------State _____ Zip___________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
C1996 Tribune e ia ServiCes, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 


IPuNKRoc~ 

MIKE PETERS 


SCOTT ADAMS 
...

~--------------0~=============­
~

MY LEADER.SHIP WILL 
.; 

CHANGE Tl-\E. LANGUAGE 
= 
;;• u

IHROUGI-\ THE. PR.lNClPLE 
:;; 
~

Of COMMON U5AGE.. 
52 Utterance of mockery 
54 Last leader of Communist Albania 
55 Aluminous mineral 59 Abutting 61 Sweetie pies 62 It superseded the lute 63 Flock member 64 Candlemaker's supply 
65 Coca-Cola introduction of 1961 • 
66 The elder: Abbr. 67 Comic Austen work 
DOWN 
1 Dense 
2-Sad (Yugoslavia's second-largest city) 
3Collegedom 4 Mark Twain was one 
sColonial pamphleteer James 
6 Man of letters? 
1 One in an 
incubator 8 River steamer 9 Transfer-­
10 Up on things 11 Horrorfilm figure 12 Refer 13 Find concealment 
Ill 

AND I WON'T STOP ONTlL THE ENIIRE LANGUAGE IS R.tOUCEO 10 GRUNIING ~NO POINTING! eJJWAI/A­1-\A. HI\!!r.::======:::::J 

18 Stereo part 42 "I am justly kill'd 48 Celebrity 21 Party divider on with mine own 53 1946 Literature the Hill treachery" Nobelist 
speaker
26 Tractor, slangily 
56 Jan Smuts, for

44 Sounds of San
27 J.F.K. info one
Francisco
29 Long Island 57 Suppose
45 Hide 
area 

58 This, to Juan 32 Composer of "II 
46 Panacea, 
maybe 60 Use a shuttle
Tigrane" 34Ancient Mariner, surely 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
36 Evil lead-in 

are available by touch-tone phone: 38 Steel ingredient 
1-900-420-5656 (75.¢ per minute) . 39 Eur. inits. until 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 1806 best of Sunday crosswords from the last 40 Kind of kitten 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYl IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Lessons learned In the past come 
In handy. A busy September pre­
pares you for an even more hectic 
October. Build a solid financial 
base step-by-step. Public recogni­
tion Is featured as Christmas 
approaches. Seize an opportunity 
to prove your Independence. 
Your love life accelerates as 1997 
gets underway. Next spring will 
produce superior career or finan­
cial gains. Plan a special trip for 
midsummer. A wedding should 
bring widespread joy. 
CELEBRITIFS BORN ON THIS 
DAY: actress Marlee Matlin, 
baseball great Cal Rlpken Jr., actor 
Steve Guttenberg, boxer Gerry 
Cooney. 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): 
Keep business corrsepondence up 
to date. You can catch costly 
errors by checking the work done 
by a subordinate or partner. A 
combatant attitude will only has­
ten the end of a relationship. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Rushing Into an unknown area will 
not work to your advantage. Your 
Interest In poetry and literature 
grows, enriching your life. Carry 
out a plan that has been approved 
by higher-ups. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Taking a radical approach will 
boomerang. Stick to tried-and­
true methods to get ahead. 
Financial problems cannot be 
solved by gambling or taking risky 
shortcuts . 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Recognition for past efforts brings 
fame and fortune. You are In an 
enviable position. Wield your new 
power subtly. Avoid taking others 
for granted. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Discard 
grandiose plans In favor of some­
thing more practical. A change In 
plans could mean more money for 
you. Good health Is tied to your 
willingness to exercise and eat 
• OF INTEREST 

CROSSWORD 
Student Government officers can be reached at the Student Government office, on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center, at the following phone numbers: Seth Miller, student body president. 631· 4555; Megan Murray, student body vice president, 631-4556; Erin HolTmann. student body treasurer, 631-4557. 

Hey Freshmen! 
The Observer is looking for people interested in doing daily production. 
Contact Tara Grieshop with questions at 1-5303 or 4-4673 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
right. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Better coordination of your social and business activities will give you more time for yourself. Purchase household appliances that will help you save time. 
Regular exercise proves rejuvenat­Ing. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A good morning to exchange Ideas and opinions. You may have to exert pressure In order to get a project approved. Although work­Ing overtime Is necessary, the rewards will be significant. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do not underestimate your worth; others will lind It out In due time. Your ability to take action on short notice helps you cash In on a golden business opportunity. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Cut yourself loose from peo­ple who do not share your goals. Mingle with VIPs; they will like your style. Contacting someone faraway or socializing with new­comers ensures a pleasurable evening. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Avoid taking out a loan If you can find another way to reduce month­ly payments. A tough business decision will benefit you In the long run. Be skeptical of promises made by new acquaintances. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Still waters run deep. Move for­ward with caution. Your plans lor repairing or enlarging your home show others how Innovative you can be. Get out of a rut by social­Izing this evening. Dress to Impress. PISCFS (Feb. 19-March 20): If a relationship has soured, focus on problems you can fix Instead of blaming others. Friends with good business sense offer advice. Follow It and you will prosper. Find someone to finish what you started. 
-
• 
.. 
.. 

ACROSS 
1 Polaroid 5 Against: Abbr. 8 Original 
14 Points on a math test? 15 Three times, in prescriptions 16 Rings 
17 Drink for Captain Midnight 19 Kind of car 
20 Hairline feature 
22 Do a teamster's job 
23 Nice time of year 24 Friend abroad 25 Prefix with 
skeleton 
26 Rotating engine piece 
28 Secure for a 
cause 30 Agonize (over) 31 Nobleman, 
informally 33 Bender, of a 
sort 35 Detectives 37 Chipped stones 
of archeological interest 41 Soviet cooperative 
43ldolize 
44 "Dark Lady" singer 
47 Game of which black lady is a variation 
49 Familiar appellation for a cowpuncher 
50 Take it easy 
51 Knife, in old dialect 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-'-+'-+~'-l 
..:.+:::::+::::+:~;..! -:::+-:+.::+::+.:~ 
-


SPORTS 

-
,.. 
• 
Defending champs receive boost from Class of2000 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
Since this year's Notre Dame women's soccer freshmen class just arrived in South Bend less than two weeks ago, one might think the new blood would still be adjusting. 
And while the transition to college life might be ongoing, the one on the soccer field is progressing quite rapidly. 
"The first day it was an ad­justment period for them," head coach Chris Petrucelli said, "but if you walked out on the field right now, you couldn't tell who was a fresh­man and who wasn't." 
Of course, some of these re­cruits are not your typical freshmen. Forward Jenny Streiffer was an alternate on this year's Olympic soccer team. Plus, sweeper Jen Grubb finished high school early to also train with the Olympic team as she competed with the squad until the final cuts. This experience coupled with the talent level of the other fresh­man have combined to impress Petrucelli. 
"For most freshman, the ad­justment period may last six to seven weeks," Petrucelli added. "They've (freshman) all been outstanding, though. They all have done very well. It's hard to say that one has stood out from the other." 
"I learned a lot from playing on that level," Grubb said. "It gave me a lot to shoot for. With more college experience, hopefully I can work to have a more consistent role on the national team." 
Coming into play for the de­
see SOCCER I page 16 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Freshman Jenny Grub looks to take leading role playing sweeper for the defending National Champion Irish women's soccer team. 
Saturday, August 24, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Y
ou have probably already heard it more times than the Victory March (fight song), but on 
behalf of the Observer Sports staff, welcome to wild and wacky Notre D a m e . Actually, it's 

neither really Tim Sherman 
wild nor Sporu Edi1o; wacky. Still, you are pretty much guaran­teed of having the most memo­rable four years (minus the handful of to-be-expected alco­hol-induced memory lapses) of your life. 
And it's already starting. 
By Monday, you will have been inundated with such an absurd amount of information that not even that 1600-SAT egghead from your class that is going to Harvard could process it all. 
As a result, when you review your schedule Monday, it might just be a blur. Sure, you'll probably notice the fact that you have an am class on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays but you might not no­tice the little things. And be­lieve it or not, even something as little as schedule can tell you a lot. 
For example, as you will see, Physical Education is a class. A required class. That's right, 
P.E.. At college. And you thought the days of facing third-period calculus after ex­periencing that smelly dun­geon they liked to call the lock­er room were over. 
Well, they are. P.E. is actu­ally a great way to try some things you never thought you would. But just the fact that the University requires a year of gym class tells you that athletics play a very big role in the life of a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
You already know football is huge. In fact, you have proba­bly already been asked to per­form a miracle and come up with tickets for the Ohio State game. However, the role of sports extends beyond "The House That Rockne Built" (Notre Dame Stadium). 
For example, is there anoth­er school in the nation where intramural football is played in full pads and covered exten­sively by the school newspa­per? Is there another school in the nation that can boast of the world's largest five-on-five out­door basketball tournament called Bookstore Basketball? How about a 12-weight class boxing tournament that brings out a couple of thousand fans annually? 
You see, the campus needs these sort of things. As you will soon learn, South Bend does not exactly provide the kind of limitless social opportu­nities that many cities and col­lege towns provide. Therefore, students must take a hint from the Dave Matthews Band and seek "The Best of What's Around". And at Notre Dame, 
see INSIGHT/ page 19 



