
Wednesday, February 7, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 84 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kilbourne 
•

examines advertsing 
By LAURA SMITH A~sistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The primary purpose of mass media is to sell. Not only to sell products, but also values, norms, and romance, accord­ing to writer, lecturer, and filmmaker, Dr. Jean Kilbourne. 
Kilbourne presented her lecture and slide show "The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image of Women" last night to a stand­ing room only crowd in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Kilbourntl was recently fea­tured in The New York Times Magazine as one of the three most popular speakers on col­lngtl campuses today. She was rm:nnlly appointed by the U.S. SP.crctary of Health and Human Services to the National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism. Slw has twice received the Lecturer of the Year Award from tlHl National Association for Campus Activities. 
"I have three goals for tonight," Kilbournn said. "I am asking you to take advnrtising sPriously. to open eommunica­tion about tlmsn images, and to think about what ean be done about thesn attitudes which run so dnnply in soeinly." 
AdVI'rlising r!ltltlels a mylho­logiral, distortod world, according to Kilhounw. "In advnrtising. tlw models are prtldominantly whitn, mtm out­numlll'r wonwn two lo one. and tlw womt>n artl always young and lwautiful. Tho mod­nls ilrtl almost always lwtero­snxual, and almost twory fami­ly is a nuclnar one with a working fathnr and stay-at­honw mom. This represents only 12 percent of American lwu:o.nholds." 

seeKILBOURNE I page 4 

Loeb encourages action over apathy 
By GREG BARLIN News Writer 
Today's students need to get involved and make a difference, according to author Paul Rogat Loeb, who has spent the past seven years touring America's colleges and universities, chatting with students about their opinions on social action, and compiling what he has discovered in his recent book, "Generation at the Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the American Campus." 
Loeb, who spoke to an audience last night, focused on the choice students must make about involving themselves in social action and the circumstances surrounding this choice. 
As the title of his book suggests, Loeb asked students during his research why some chose to get involved in so-cial issues while others were content to pas­sively observe. Loeb saw repeating pat­terns in the answers he received, which he narrowed into the statement, "Perceptual barriers make it hard to get involved." 
People continuously expect involve­ment to live up to a "perfect standard," at which all of their expectations are fulfilled and all of their inhibitions are nonexistent, he said. The result of the pursuit of this philosophy was always an excuse. Something -whether econom­ics, values, time, or anything else ­would conflict with the student's perfect standard, resulting in apathy instead of action. 
Go Team! 

In his speech, Loeb examined how stu­dents acquired this viewpoint. A prima­ry factor might be the perception of society that is implanted in the heads of people by the media and other groups. The basic message the media sends to students, according to Loeb, is that they "live in a generation that's apathetic and calloused." 
The media also plays a role in soci­ety's perception of history, Loeb said, citing the example of war protestors allegedly spitting on returning veterans of the Vietnam War. While this is one of the most well-known stories associated with Vietnam protests, it happened only a handful of times. People hear this inflated story, Loeb said, and then they say to themselves, "I don't want to be like those people, so I better stay silent." This sort of induced apathy is a primary root of the problem, according to Loeb. 
Another impediment to involvement is the "separation from history and the lack of knowledge of it," Loeb said, adding that much of history is "buried," and because people are uninformed, they are prevented from acquiring the tools necessary to make a difference. 
"The challenges of today are not any harder than ending segregation," Loeb said, but without sufficient knowledge, many people don't realize what they are capable of achieving. 
Even with this knowledge, students today still are confronted with the "con-
see LOEB 1page 6 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 


Representing Notre Dame in the College Bowl regional tournament Feb. 23-25 at Bradley University in Peoria, Ill will be the team of (L to R): Michael Kurinsky, Andy Sebesta, Steve Wojcikiewicz, Brian Fitzpatrick and Brian Cannavan (not pictured). 

with action to combat today's societal stnfe. 
Falco presents awarded fiction 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Writer 
Death, the search for redemption, and realistic portrayals of violence. 
All of these are present in Edward Falco's new book, "Aeid." The book, a collection of short sto­ries, reeently won the first ever Sullivan prize for fiction, and will bn the focus of his reading tonight at 7:30 p.m. at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The new award will be given every two years by Notre Dame's Creative Writing Program to authors of short stories. The prize includes a $500 cash award and the publication of the win­ning work by the University of Notre Dame Press. The award honors the late Richard Sullivan, a novelist, short story writer, and distinguished member of the University's English faculty. · 
see FALCO I page 4 



Eating disorder survivor shares pain, advice 
By LAURA SMITH As;istant Saint Mary's Editor 
Editor's Note: Some of the names in the following article have been changed to protect the privacy of those inter­t•ieu•l'd. 
Four to five percent of all fe­maltl eollngn students suffer from anorexia, bulimia, or hingn nating disorders, and at toast three tinws as many en­gage in "substantially disor­dertHI eating behaviors," ac­cording to David Herzog, M.D., scientific director of the Na­tional Eating Disorders Center. 
What this ·means is that ap­proximately one out of every 20 Saint Mary's and female Notre Dame students suffers from snrious eating disorder. It is possibln that the girl sitting next to you in English class is suffering from anorexia. Or maybe your next door neigh­bor. Maybe your best friend. Or maybe even you. 
Shelly knows what it is like to sutTer from a serious eating dis­order. She was diagnosed as bulimic at the age of 15. But Shelly is one of the lucky ones. She got help and lives to tell hnr story. Many other young women die as a result of eating disorders every year. 
But with the help of a psy­ehiatrist, her family and her own willpower, Shelly over­came her bulimia and is a healthy Saint Mary's student today. 
"An eating disorder is not about the body, it's about other things, things in the mind," Shelly said. "I felt I was not worthy of nutrition or pleasure from food. This was the one 
'An eating disorder 
is not about the body. It's about other things, things in the mind.' 
Shelly. a survivor of eating disorders 
area of my life I could control." 
Shelly felt that she had lost all control of her life when she was raped at 15. "After that, I thought of myself as a body and nothing else," she said. "At least I should get it to society's standards." 

Shelly began rapidly losing weight. She dropped four sizes in a short time. "Everyone commented on the weight loss," she said. "I was a ballerina in a dance company and the other dancers encouraged the weight loss. They thought it was great," said Shelly. "But my parents commented nega­tively." 
Eventually, under pressure from her family, Shelly began seeing a psychiatrist. "He re­ally built me up," said Shelly of her doctor. "We worked through the issues surrounding the eating disorder and it was taken care of." 
But not without some pretty serious consequences. Shelly suffered from anemia, vitamin deficiencies and problems with her hair, skin, and ltleth. Not all the consnquences were physical. Shelly also suffered from emotional and familial troubles. 
"I didn't love myself, so I couldn't love anyone else," she said. "The people close to me suffered. I realized I was tak­ing my emotions out on other people." . 
I would advise anyone watch­ing a loved one suffer from an eating disorder to step back and say, 'I love you enough to back away,' " Shelly said. "You can't save a person from an eating disorder, they must do it themselves." 
My advice to anyone suffering from an eating disorder is to 
see SURVIVOR I page 6 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
•INSIDE COLUMN 


Profiles in political affluence 
On May 29, 1938, a Thomas Snider young man from Assistant Viewpoint Brookline, 
Editor Massachusetts, received a $1 million trust fund as a 21st birthday pre­sent from his father. Today, this gift would be most generous, in 1938 a $1 million trust fund equaled lifetime financial security. Nonetheless, when World War II broke out, the young man served his country on a PT boat in the South Pacific. Although his father wielded significant political influence, a sense of public service sent the young man to fight. After returning home, he wasted no time in launching a political career. At age 29, he was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. Six years later, he won a seat in the U.S. Senate. In 1960, the man sought and won the most prized position in public life: the presidency. As you have probably gathered by now, the young man from Brookline is John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Although Kennedy had an affinity for public service, he did not possess tremendous talent for it. His performances during the Bay of Pigs and Cuban Missile Crisis were question­able. But, he taught us to be wary of multi­millionaires who dabble in politics-even if one has a long record of public service. Like Kennedy, Malcolm "Steve" Forbes, Jr. was born into a family of high affiuence. Unlike Kennedy, however, Steve Forbes boasts no record of public service. Forbes' ratings have recently skyrocketed. What makes Forbes so appealing? After all, he has been characterized as a beady eyed nerd whose speeches rival debate night at Mensa. He has, for the most part, garnered his success by pretending to be a Washington outsider, using his own money to campaign, and embracing the flat tax. Forbes' keys to success may be appealing on the surface, but they hold little substance. He is merely the latest participant in a long line of politicians who have successfully used the outsider approach to catapult themselves into the White House The flat tax, too, has long been a popular idea among Democrats and Republicans. Pat Brown successfully supported this concept during his 1992 presidential campaign. The House Majority Leader Dick Armey continues his efforts at marching a flat tax through Congress. The idea is certainly innovative, but Senator Arlen Specter and Representative Mark Souder receive the award for originality. They support the "McFlat" version of a flat tax, which would allow people to deduct their home mortgages ( the "M") and charitable contributions (.the "C"). Forbes' version of the flat tax may not be so charitable. Marry Taylor, summed it up best when he said, "I could make $15 million in investment income and pay no taxes while one of my workers has to pay 17 percent on his salary." Maybe Forbes is not the anti­establishment, I-will-bring-you-economic­prosperity saint he claims to be. Kennedy's father once remarked that he could get his chauffeur elected to Congress-if he had enough money. At least John Kennedy had some experience in public affairs. Steve Forbes has about as much experience as the elder Kennedy's chauffeur. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• WORlD AT AGUtiCE 
Fatal earthquake inspires officials' petitions for aid 

BEIJING 

Officials pleaded for help Tuesday for hundreds of thousands of people who survived a devastating earthquake only to endure hunger, near-freezing tem­peratures and hundreds of aftershocks. 
The quake on Saturday killed at least 246 people, injured more than 14,000, and left 260,000 without homes, offi­cials said. By late Tuesday, 970 after­shocks had been recorded, including a strong 5.6-magnitude jolt. Officials said they expected more aftershocks of com­parable strength. 
The number of buildings destroyed by the quake climbed to more than 300,000 as rescue workers discovered entire communiti.es that had been destroyed. 
"I personally appeal for help for the stricken areas. We need all the help we can get," said Wang Ze, an official with the provincial government. 
China's State Council, or Cabinet, and the ruling Communist Party announced they would send 100,000 quilted cotton garments, 100 tents, more than 1.5 million gallons of gasoline and diesel 
Random House refuses Collins' 'trash' 
NEW YORK 
Joan Collins signed a $4 million con­tract to write two books in the delicious­ly trashy style her sister, Jackie, perfected. But the actress' publis contends the manuscripts delivered were simply trash. Random House and Collins are now fighting it out in court. 7 "I remember feeling alarmed, that it ; was primitive, very much off base," for-'' mer Random House editor Joni Evans testified Tuesday, the first day of the trial of the publisher's lawsuit against Collins. "It was no good. It was not something anyone on the street would read or like." Random House wants its $1.3 million advance back from the "Dynasty" star, say­ing she failed to deliver "ready for press" books. In a countersuit, she wants Random House to hand over the unpaid portion of her book deal. Speaking to reporters during a break in the trial, the British actress said she was "completely shattered and let down" by Random House's handling of her book. 
Burgler gets caught blue-handed 
fuel, and $2.4 million in relief funds to the stricken area. 
Military commands provided quilts and tents for the hundreds of thou­sands of people shivering outdoors in near-freezing temperatures -afraid that more tremors would topple the buildings left standing. More than 330,000 people were affected by the quake, which heavily damaged 16 of Lijiang County's 24 towns, cracked roads and wrecked bridges. 
Officials said they feared the number of dead and injured could rise further as soldiers and medics worked in re­mote villages. 
A 6-year-old boy who suffered severe burns and broken bones when a wall trapped him on top of a burning stove was flown to the provincial capital, Kunming, the newspaper China Youth Daily said. 
About 2,000 soldiers continued to dig through the rubble for survivors Tuesday. Local officials said all of the 
22 foreigners who had been trapped in Leaping Tiger Gorge during the quake had been rescued. 
Artwork heisted from airport storage 
NEW YORK 

A Mexican businessman has told authorities that three works of art, including two Picassos, were stolen when he left them in storage overnight at Kennedy Airport, News­day reported today. The FBI, U.S. Customs and the Port Authority. which runs the airport, confirmed today that they were investigating. A painting and a drawing by Pablo Picasso and a painting by Camille Pissarro were re­ported missing. Newsday said they were valued at up to $15 million, but did not indicate what that estimate was based upon. "One of the basics is to interview everybody who may have had any contact with the three items and follow that trail wherever it goes," said FBI spokesman Joseph Valiquette. Kevin Dyer, a lawyer representing the passenger, Avelino Espinosa Gonzalez, told Newsday that Gonzalez, a construction businessman, had carried the artworks aboard an Aeromexico flight that arrived Thursday night. When he declared the paintings at cus­toms he was told that, because of their value, additional paperwork would be required. Arrangements were made for a baggage handling company to store the paintings. 
Bobbies trade in too-tall helmets 
WILLIAMSPORT, Pa. 
A would-be burglar who was dressed for the weather froze to death after getting stuck in his bulky clothing while climbing through a basement window, authorities said. Henry Carlton's body was found Monday by an em­ployee of the Betty Steinbacher Real Estate Agency. He was wedged halfway through a basement window, his legs inside and his head and arms outside. The 41-year­old man was reported missing by his family Thursday and probably died over the weekend, authorities said. Carlton apparently thought he could squeeze through the 15-inch high, 18-inch wide window and drop to the base­ment floor, Lycoming County Coroner George Gedon said. But the window was partially obstructed by a heating duct, and Carlton's two sweatshirts and a bulky coat stopped him. "Now he's wedged in there, he's on his stomach, the more· he struggles, the more his clothing bunches up against him, his feet are off the ground and he can't get any leverage," Gedon said. Authorities said shoe prints on the basement wall were a sign of Carlton's vain efforts to free himself. 

LONDON 

Manchester police are trading in their constable's hel­mets for American-style caps, discarding a symbol of law and order dating to Victorian times and shocking police chiefs across England. "The helmet provides stature, height, authority and protection," said Brian Mackenzie, president of the Police Superintendents Association, which urged police forces across England and Wales not to follow Manchester's lead. Impractical, scoffed Manch­ester Chief Constable David Wilmot. Officers want hats that will fit inside a police car, and that won't fall off dur­ing a foot chase. The switch became official on Tuesday, when the Greater Manchester Police force became the first in England and Wales to replace the conical helmets introduced in 1870 with flat-topped, American-style police caps already worn in Scotland and Northern Ireland. The 7,000 Manchester officers also will trade in their traditional, belted tunics for bomber jackets. Ray Seal, deputy curator of the Metropolitan Police Museum in London, was dismayed. "I think most people like to see the traditional, friendly British bobby on the beat." 
Wednesday, Feb. 7 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 7. 
30S Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 


V~a Associated Press Grap/1/csNot C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure H L B &'SJ rnl HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-SJORMS  0 FLURRIES  fZJ SNOW  8 ICE  C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. ~ ~ ,--/\ ~ L...i C,.__i SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
VMIAfioclalfKI~  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago Columbus  62 46 45 45 47  41 29 30 31 35  Dallas 71 Denver 70 Los Angeles 79 Miami 75 Minneapolis 39  49 42 57 60 24  New Orleans 7 4 New York 41 Philadelphia 42 Phoenix 84 S1. Louis 62  50 31 28 58 38  

• Tomw's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Meaghan Smith  
Jillian Pagliocca  Production  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Joe Villinski  Kristi Kolski  
Betsy Baker  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Mike Hungeling  
Brian Blank  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Wednesday, February 5, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCil

Air Force honors Hyder 
P.E. earns Rockne Award 
Board, which is comprised of outstanding
Faculty member 
seholars who advise the Air Foree on broad science policies and specific goals. Hyder

receives highest for service commitment
has participated in an Air Force study on Informational Architectures, as well as an Air Force summer study on investment By DEBORAH SCHULTZ with the new dorms being built,

civilian recognition 
strategies for space operations. News Writer there is an uneven balance between By CLAIRE HALBRITTER Hyder has chaired two studies, one of the males and females, and also sim­News writer which was the science panel which annual­Recognizing its residents' dedica­ply between the number of people in ly looks at the basic research of the Air tion to cultural diversity and commu­each district," Beary said. "I doubt 
Associate Vice President of the Notre Force and offers assessment of the quality nity service, the Hall Presidents' there will be any major problems Damn Graduate School and a professor of of the research. The second study he Council named Pasquerilla East the with it at Student Senate, so it will aerospace and mechanical engineering, chaired was an inspection of all space winner of The Rockne Award for the most likely be passed. This won't Anthony llyder has been awarded the launch vehicles owned by the government. second term in a row yesterday. really change too much, aside from highest civilian honor 
This panel asked the question, "How As the dorm which has planned the the senator you vote for." givnn by the Dnpartment should the government invest money to most innovative events and activities Students for Environmental Aetion of the Air Force. The address the shortcomings in the nation's for the months of November and De­are sponsoring a lecture entitled Dneoration for ability to launch satellites?" cember, Pasquerilla East will hold "The Catholic University: Its Role in Exeeptional Civilian When asked what direction the Air Force the 4-foot Rockne trophy until a new the Ecological Crisis" on Thursday, Snrviee was presented to will be taking in the future in terms of winner is chosen. Judging for the Feb. 15 at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Hyder last month. technology, Hyder replied, "They will be award takes place every two months. Ballroom. The speaker will be 
"I was surprised. I did looking more and more at launch capabili­Thomas Berry, who has been a 
not 11xpeet it," Hyder said ties. Transatmospheric vehicles are some­In other HPC news, the Council teacher at Fordham University, a in his response to win-Hyder thing new like an air plane. They take off announced that if the Student Senate missionary in China and an advisor ning the award. "[The and land from a run-way but go into orbit. approves a new proposal to redistrict to President Bill Clinton. award I is really reserved for people who, This is an area in technological invest­the dorms at their meeting "This should be a very interesting in general, have won fewer awards. To win ments." Wednesday, the Council will vote on lecture," said Mark Mirabito, a mem­
at this level was a shock." Hyder also stated that the Air Force will the same proposal next week. ber of the environmental organiza­
A 1962 graduate of Notre Dame with a be doing more research with computer HPC Co-Chair Kristin Beary tion. degree in physics, llyder direets efforts to simulations. "They can't do the tests they explained that the proposal is being "It will deal with intriguing and expand external research funding at the need to," Hyder said, explaining that the considered in an effort to balance the controversial issues concerning the University as Notre Dame's Vice President Air Force will be looking into creating com­ratio of the sexes in the different sec­environment and how the Catholic for (iraduate Studies and Hesearch. puter simulations for the purpose of avoid­tions of campus. Church feels about these issues," he 
lin is a mmnbnr of the Scientific Advisory ing the expense of building a prototype. "A proposal was written because said. 




Campus band to perform for Women's Week 
By ANNE KORTE p.m. tonight. have." McDowell said the other band mem­News Writer Playing during Women's Week was a Along with the other five members of bers realize the importance of the week priority for McDowell, who recognized Stomper Bob, McDowell said she appre­too. 
Bfling the only woman in an all-male the importance of such a week. ciates the friendships she has estab­"Playing at Dalloway's mixes up the hand would be challenging, or so one lished because of the band. week between all the heavy and serious would think. "It is a serious and vital five days for stuff. We just want everyone to enjoy 
But not for Nina Mel>ow!lll. college women," she said. "It re-ener­''They respect me as a woman, and I what they hear and to have a great 
McDowell is the only female vocalist gizes and strengthens many females. I completely respect them," she said. " It time," she said. in the popular eampus band Stomper am so glad Stomper Bob could be a is a mutual partnership, and we work " It also gives the guys in the band a Bob and the 4 x 4's, which will be play­part of that because I think music has well as a team. As far as being the only chance to make their statement sup­ing in honor of Saint Mary's Women's so much to give women, and so many gal, they treat me just like part of the porting Women's Week here at Saint Week at !>alloway's Coffeehouse at 8 women can gain from it. I know I gang." Mary's." 

------------------------------~-~~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
Falco Governors offer Medicaid, welfare plans 
continued from page 1 
The only requirement for the award is that the author must have one book of short stories published. "This made it particularly hard for us," said Professor Valerie Sayers, director of the Creative Writing Program. "We had so many prize-winning authors and so many good stories." 
With the help of Professor William O'Rourke, also of the Creative Writing Program, Say­ers chose Falco's book for the award because "[Falco's] prose was so strong, so dark, so dense," she said. "It was abso­lutely enthralling." 
"The great thing about this award is that it is an award for a second book," Falco said. "It is sometimes harder to get a second book published in short fiction, and the idea of a contest is just a great way of doing it." 
Having once been compared to David Mamet in a review, Falco responded, "It was prob­ably because my writing is gritty and profane like Mamet's, and Mamet is really one of my favorite playwrights, so it was a great compliment." 
According to Falco, his writ­ing shows realistic images of violence in society. "There is this common theme of the con­trast between the ordered life and the violent life that seems to run through some of my writing," he said. "But violence is not romanticized in my sto­ries as it is in the movies. I find that kind of treatment demean­ing and abhorrent." 
"My novel, 'Winter in Flori­da'," he continued. "attempts to really show the shocking as­pects of violence in today's cul­ture." 
Publications in which Falco's stories have appeared include Atlantic Monthly, TriQuarterly, The Southern Review and Vir­ginia Quarterly Review. His collection of hypertext poetry, entitled "Sea Island," was pre­sented last year by Eastgate Systems. One of the stories in "Acid," "The Artist," was cho­sen by novelist Jane Smiley to be included in "The Best Amer­ican Short Stories of 1995." 
Falco will most likely be reading the title story from "Acid" in his reading tonight, and will be giving a workshop on Thursday morning at 11 
a.m. in Hayes-Healy Center. 

ltJflhHJjl STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
o 
Pt:R PERSON DEPENDING ON DESnNATION I BREAK DAlES /LENGTH OF STAY. 

f.;.$:QQ.;..SIIt.[CII• .S'E 
TOLL FI1E5 INFORW4TIOIII & 1111Sdv4TIOIIIS 

By AlAN FRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Bipartisan proposals by the nation's governors for over­hauling Medicaid and welfare may help President Clinton and Congress revamp those pro­grams. But an overall bal­anced-budget agreement remains as elusive as ever. 
The two ever-expanding pro­grams for the poor have been among the most intractable problems keeping Clinton and Republicans from striking com­promise on eliminating federal deficits by 2002. On Tuesday. the National Governors' Association approved middle­ground plans they said would guarantee coverage for the neediest Americans while granting states leeway to tailor the programs. 
Even if Congress quickly ac­cepts the governors' ideas for plucking savings from the two programs -which is unlikely -that would still leave the president and lawmakers fac-

Kilbourne 
continued from page 1 
The image of men in advertis­ing is also distorted, according to Kilbourne. Men are usually presented as invulnerable and powerful. "This makes most men feel like failures," Kil­bourne said. 
The first slide showed a blonde model endorsing a prod­uct. "Advertising presents us with ideal female beauty," said Kilbourne. "A woman must spend time, and especially money, to achieve this. Failure is inevitable. No one looks like this. The advertisers use com­puter retouching and airbrush­ing." 
According to Kilbourne, only one standard of beauty exists and all women are judged against this. 
"In order to meet this ideal, a woman must be unnaturally thin," said Kilbourne. "Today's models are 23 percent thinner than the average woman." 
It's profitable for the advertisers to make us feel insecure and anxious about our weight and looks," she added. 
According to Kilbourne, American women spend $1 mil­lion on cosmetics every hour, $33 billion every year on diet ing even more divisive issues: How deeply to cut taxes and projected spending for Medi­care, the health-insurance pro­gram for the elderly. 
"It would be a mistake and premature to think if there is an agreement here, there may be agreement on other places" in the budget standoff, con­ceded GOP Party Chairman Haley Barbour, who has closely helped his party formulate its budget strategy. 
That didn't stop Clinton and most lawmakers from praising the governors and predicting their proposals would breathe new life into the budget-balanc­ing effort. 
"You have contributed to the climate that will help us to bal­ance the budget," Clinton told the governors Tuesday. "You have contributed immeasurably to helping us to resolve the im­passe over Medicaid. You have contributed to the impulse to move to genuine welfare re­form. We can do all these things if we do them together 0" 
Added Senate Majority aides and $10 h1lhon on anh­aging products every year. "Women's bodies are objecti­fied in advertising," said Kil­bourne. "Women are dehu­manized. Their bodies are dis­membered. This naturalizes violence against women. It's easy to abuse a thing." ''I'm not advocating censor­ship," she added. ''I'm advocat­ing more free speech. Why do we as a culture tolerate vio­lence against women?" At the end of her presenta­tion, Kilbourne encouraged the mostly female audience to be an aware, active public who thinks of themselves as citizens not consumers. "We need to be­come as aware as possible of images and promote change, not just in ads, but in attitudes. If people around the world would do this, we could change the earth." 
Sister Tasianne DeYonker, O.P. 
BEIJING AND BEYOND 
INVITING REFLECTION AND ACTION 
Presentation focusing on the events and happenings of the non-governmental organization forum 
on women in Beijing, China during September of 1995 
Law School Courtroom WEDNESDAY, fEBRUARY 7TH 12:00 NOON 
~ 
THE f10RRIS INN 
OF NOTRE DHIE 

NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
u.Be A Sweetheart" 
Valentine's Day 
Dinner Specials /or two 
Wednesday, February 14 Dinner from 5:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. 
Enjoy a dining experience in the true spirit o/ Notre Dame 
For reservations call 



631-2020 

Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan.: "If you give us welfare reform and Medicaid, you've gone a long way to getting this agreement back together, getting the pres­ident back together with the leaders in Congress." 
Though there was disagree­ment, some lawmakers said that if no overall budget deal was achievable, the governors' plan might at least help Congress change Medicaid and welfare and allow both parties to claim major achievements. 
Right from the start of last year's congressional session, Democratic and Republican governors have worked directly with lawmakers from their own parties. They have kept each other fully informed of their concerns and priorities in reaching compromise on changing the two programs. 
"This hasn't been an immac­ulate conception here," said one Senate Democrat involved in the process, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They've been fully involved in the state of play, they know where each side stands." 
That put the governors in the position of, in effect, represent­ing each parties' interests. This arrangement gives the admin­istration and congressional Re­publicans the cover to accept a compromise they might other­wise reject because each side could argue that its own gover­nors were recommending the plan. 
"It certainly helps" push the two sides toward compromise on Medicaid and welfare, said Sen. Thad Cochran , R-Miss. 
Still, it seemed likely that whatever progress occurred would be made slowly. Fearing that the plans might contain hidden devils, lawmakers said they needed to learn more about the specifics and met with the governors to hear details. 
Afterward, Republican and Democratic senators praised the governors' proposal, but called it a structure from which to work, not a finished product. They said congressional and gubernatorial staffs would meet to meld state and national con­cerns. and that public hearings would follow. 
"It gives a big impetus," said Sen. John Chafee, R-R.I. "We've got to sit down and study the thing. Look, I never said, 'Come up with a plan, we'll take it.'" 


• 
Professional and liberal arts courses 

• 
Internships with international firms 

• 
Traveling seminar in Beijing, Shanghai& Hong Kong 


• Instruction in English 
• Chinese language 
courses • Affiliation with the 
University of Hong Kong • Ten scholarships 
available for fall 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 119 EUCLID AVENUE SYRACUSE, NEW YoRK 13244-4170 
1-800-235-3472 DIPA@SUADMIN.SVR.EDU 
-~-----------------------­
--~~--~--·----­
Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
--~----------------

Hittinger explores rift of Church, state Pope visits 
sensible. Clearly the constitu­tional democracies turried out to be the good guys," Bittinger said.At that time, the Church fi­nally realized its common ideo­logical tie with democracies ­inalienable human rights. 
And according to Bittinger, John Paul II has found it diffi­cult to praise our current west­ern democracies. 
"I find nothing in the writings of the Pope to show he is en­amored with the modern notion of sovereignty," Hittinger said, although adding, "theology has become a concern in politics now more than ever before." 
When asked if this shift in po­litical theology undermined pa­pal political commentary, Bit­tinger responded, "This Pope has always come down hard on his bishops that he has found identifying too closely with poli­tics. He has a very strong view of the church, and he thinks his bishops should wag their fingers and give moral admon­ishments." 
John Paul II himself has not refrained from admonishing the 
U.S. government, according to Bittinger. "At the International Conference on Population and Development at Cairo last year, the Vatican directly confronted 

Watch for Student Body Presidental election coverage in Friday's edtion of The Observer. 

By DEREK BETCHER 
Nrws Writer 
By transforming what were onen erimes into individual rights, the slates permit private parties to determine the status and merit of the weak, aceord­ing to Dr. Bussell Bittinger, cur­rent professor at the University of Tulsa. 
Addressing the historie de­sacralization of government, partieularly as seen by John Paul II, Bittinger spoke last night in the Besburgh Library. Opening his lecture, "What Kind of Caesar?" by discussing the centuries-old rift between the Catholie Church and democratic governments, the Notre Dame alumnus described the Church as a "besieged fortress resisting the advancements of the mod­ern secular state." 
Beginning in the eighteenth century, the Church had to rec­ognize a new problem-"Would new democracies' temporal pownrs rneognize God's divin­ity'!" 
Aceustomed to a millenia of kings who ruled by God's grace, the Church's conviction was, and still is to some degree, that political power should emanate from heaven and not from a constitution. 
"Of course, the Church has concerns about the decline of authority and respect for the papaey," Ilittinger said, adding that "the theological problem with a desacralized state is that many felt that the power to rule should derive from God, that the state should symbolize heavenly grace and that the state should share in God's grace." 
Bittinger illustrated the diffi­culty this religious-political unity has in a government like America's that espouses a sep­aration of church and state. 
The Church, Bittinger said, has always maintained that these new democracies had the ability to wield a dangerously large amount of power, yet they were far too timid in their use of it, refusing to intervene in the private sector and inconsistently helping the disadvantaged. 
However, the aftermath of World War II finally brought about a warming of the Church's attitudes toward Western democracies, he said. 
"The occupation of Eastern Europe by the Communists made it awkward, if not impos­sible, to continue speaking of Christian princes. The Vatican might be slow, but it is not in­
~ -\tt~ .., , ..· 
.... ' ,.... ~t~~ "•• ........ 
~ 'J '\.~ \-COMEDY & 







~ ---~ 
\ ...l~ IMPROVISATION 
)~ One Show Only! 
Saturday, February 1 0 8:00 PM Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets: $3 Adults: $8 
presents a

..................................... 
the Vice President over the issues of contraception and abortion," Hittinger said. Those two issues cause the Pope great distress when he considers the U.S., Bittinger said. 
According to Bittinger, "The Pope speaks of disintegration of governments that permit abor­tion and euthanasia, character­izing them as tyrant states which poison the culture of rights." 
Bittinger said his research has led him to this conclusion ­"The Pope seems to be saying this: The Church is happy to live with this new kind of Caesar ­namely, the constitutional democracies, so long as it is ju­ridically and institutionally lim­ited, so long as it respects indi­vidual and social rights and so long as it abides by its promise not to represent sacral power." 
"The jury is still out on the question of whether states can abide -by their juridical limits, and whether the idea of human rights can morally, rather than merely rhetorically, limit the power of states," Hittinger said. 
The presentation was the first of a series of Tuesday night lec­tures to be held in the Jacques Maritain Center of the Hes­burgh Library. 
• CORRECTION 
There was a misprint in the Feb. 2 IIJ'ticle detailing events s~hedJ.ded .for Black History M.onth, in which it was an­nounced that The NAACP Formal will be held at 7 p.m. o,: Feh.lO. The F.ormal is being. held at 9 p.m. on Saturday, February 10 in the LaFortune Ballroom. The Observer regrets the error. 

Gimm 
Gimm··· 

Gimm ····:"r'·t· _.sPurs.)_ 

Guatemala landmarks 
By ANITA SNOW Associated Press 
ESQUIPULAS, Guatemala 

Pope John Paul II visited the 
birthplace of Central America's 
peace process Tuesday and 
said he hoped an end to 
Guatemala's civil war could 
quickly be reached. 
Pilgrims walked days from 
neighboring Honduras and El 
Salvador, many of them Indi­
ans in wool capes and straw 
hats, to arrive here at what is 
also the home of a revered 
400-year-old cedarwood icon 
called the Black Christ. 
Speaking in this mountain 
hamlet, the pope suggested to 
more than 30,000 faithful at an 
open-air Mass that a peace ini­
tiative begun here a decade 
ago is unfinished. 
"I dearly hope that Guatemala can conclude a definitive peace accord in the very near future," said Pope John Paul II. Although mildly phrased, the pontiff's state­ment could exert substantial pressure on the warring sides in this strongly Catholic coun­try. 
Wearing a scarlet cape and white miter, the pope recalled in his homily the Esquipulas peace accords of 1986 that helped end civil wars in Nicaragua and El Salvador. 
He said he hoped the "fruits of Esquipulas" would soon be within reach of Guatemala's 
10.7 million people, including an Indian majority heavily rep­resented here in colorful garb. 
The pontiff later paid homage to the 3-foot-tall carv­ing known as the Black Christ, made more than 400 years ago and housed in a whitewashed basilica aglow with hundreds of fluttering candles. 
Encased in glass, the icon annually draws more than a million pilgrims and tourists. Said by the faithful to work miraculous healings, the icon got its name for centuries' worth of blackening candle soot and incense, recently stripped away. 
An ocean away, the two sides to Guatemala's 35-year conflict quietly met in Oslo, Norway, in a renewed effort to nudge along negotiations that have been stalled since last year. 

attention seniors••• 
BLUES LOVERS THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring: SPEEDY &THE TURBINES BLUES BAND lower level-one night only! wear your dancing and party shoes-this ba'nd will have off your feet! 
plus a special appearance in the upstairs lounge by 
Wednesday, t"'ebruary 7 7-9PM
JOE & BRENDAN Alumni Senior Club
the hottest campus 2-man acoustical jam group! 

guest OJs play your favorite tootsie roll, butterfly. booty call and hip hop tunes between band breaks. 
show starts I I PM doors open at 8 PM $3 cover with student IDs, $5 without 
21 and over with proper IDs 
sponsored by the Class of 1996 
**save $2 with this ad before I I PM** 
---------------~­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 7, 1996 




Iraq commits to cooperation-with United Nations 
By ROBERT REID 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iraq's government is fully committed to cooperating with the United Nations, the coun­try's chief negotiator said Tues­day as talks began on limited Iraqi oil sales to buy food and medicine. 
Western diplomats have made clear the Security Council will not permit any major changes to a U.N. formula devised for the sale, which Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had rejected repeatedly as an infringement of his country's sovereignty. 
The terms require Iraq to ship the majority of the oil through a Turkish pipeline, divert a speci­fied amount for the Kurdish minority and use some profits to compensate Gulf War victims and fund U.N. monitoring oper­ations. 

Before the start of Tuesday's 2 1/2-hour closed session, Iraqi negotiator Abdul-Amir al-An­bari said he had "come with the full commitment to cooperate with the United Nations Sec­retariat," adding that the U.N. conditions were "not a prob­lem." 
The Security Council imposed economic sanctions, including a ban on oil sales, after Iraq in­vaded Kuwait in 1990. It says the embargo will remain in place until it is satisfied that Iraq has complied with U.N. or­ders to dismantle its program to build weapons of mass de­struction. 
The sanctions have brought enormous suffering to Iraq's people. Last April, the United Nations offered to let Iraq sell $1 billion-in oil every 90 days to buy food and medicine to allevi­ate the hardship. 
After months of refusing the offer, Saddam last month agreed to talks on the issue. But it remains unclear whether Iraq is prepared to accept the U.N. plan in full or is using the talks to rally world opinion for an easing of the sanctions. 
U.N. spokesman Sylvana Foa said Tuesday that Secretary­General Boutros Boutros-Ghali "remains optimistic" about the talks. 
But Western diplomats have made clear the Security Council will not permit any major 
Laid off worker turns gunman 
By BRUCE DUNFORD 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU 

· A man upset over being laid off last year returned to his former workplace Tuesday, shot a company supervisor and held a former co-worker hostage on liv(;l television before he was fatally shot by police. 
Police held their ftre f()r six hours because the gunman, JohnMi.randa. had a shotgun taped to his hand llcndto the head of tire hostage, Tom McNeil. t~ ·· ·· ····· .····• · · ·· · · "· 
The hostage crisis afte told 
Loeb 
continued from page 1 
flict between the desire (to take action) and the feeling of being overwhelmed," according to Loeb. People don't believe that they can make a significant impact, he said, using the example of Susan B. Anthony to illustrate his point. Anthony devoted nearly her entire life to police he would shoot McNeil at the end ofa 60-second countdown. When the count reached 15, McNeil grabbed the barrel of the shotgun and pushed it away, Police Chief Michael Nakamura said. 

Miranda fired the shotgun twice, mis~lhg'_'~N McNeil, and police opened frre on the gunman/'' striking him several times, the chiefsaid. . ... 
Miranda, 28, was taken to a hospital with .ai chest wound, where be later died. The su;< pervisor was reported in guarded condition q,ng . McNeil, 30, escaped the ordeal with just a fevv d 

Survivor 
continued from page 1 
get professional psychiatric counseling," she added. 
The Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Cen­ter and the University Counsel­ing Center at Notre Dame are on hand to help any student with an eating disorder. This week there are many special services available for students with eating disorders or stu­dents concerned about friends with disordered eating behav­iors."It's an ongoing struggle," said Shelly. 

"There's always the tempta­tion of knowing I could easily lose weight if I wanted. But when I look at pictures from when I had bulimia, I am dis­gusted. I was so thin.. Now I think my body is beautiful." 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST  DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND  
Ironwood Circle  417 N. St. Louis Blvd.  
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I  CaII 234·0363  
273·8986  (24 hours}  

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
point, saying "Each generation changes the world for better or for worse." It is the choice of the individual to what extent they wish to involve themselves, he said. 
Loeb concluded his speech with a challenge to students. "Take a stand, and do the best you can in the circumstances you find," he said, for it is through action, not apathy, that a generation changes the world. 
changes in the -sales· formula. They said the talks would be limited to "technical matters" on implementing the U.N. plan. 
"If Iraq is serious this time, and that's a big if, the United States would support this reso­lution being implemented," U:S. spokesman James Hubin said. 
Permitting Iraq to open its taps could further flood an al­ready saturated oil market, forcing prices down and costing oil-exporting states billions of dollars. 
At the same time, analysts say Iraqi oil sales might result in a price drop of up to $2 a barrel, which could translate into a savings of 2.5 cents to 5 cents per gallon of gasoline in the United States. 
The announcement of talks has already brought short-term relief to many Iraqis. The Iraqi dinar has strengthened, leading to a drop in the cost of food dur­ing Hamadan, the Islamic month of fasting. The dawn-to­dusk fast is traditionally broken by lavish feasts and festive par­ties. 
Saddam's willingness to talk follows U.N. reports that Iraq lied to and misled U.N. weapons monitors, dashing any hopes that the sanctions would be lift­ed any time soon. 
Those reports, which followed the August defection of Iraq's weapons chief, Hussein Kamel al-Majid, squelched French and Hussian efforts to push for an easing of the embargo. 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
PRESENTS 

*FESTI¥~L'96* 
"PEACE AROUND THE WORLD" Come Join us in a Celebration ofMusic and Culture 
Feh. lOth, 1996 
tickets at

Washington Hall 7:00p.m. LaFortune lnfo,Desk 
STUDENTS/FACULTY: $3.00 
or at the Door 
GENRAL PUBLIC: $5.00 



DO 
0 

WHlner of tile Richard Sullivan Prize for Short Fiction 



EOw;rrO
Fatco 
Thursday, February 8, 1996, 7:30 p.m. Barnes &Noble Superstore 
4601 Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Come meet award-winning author EDWARD FALCO and get apersonally autographed copy of ACID, his latest collection of 
riveting short stories. 
"Falco writes hard-edged, uncompromising fiction." 
-Booklist 
"Falco creates nearly perfect short stories filled with interesting charac­ters and wonderfully dramatic situations. The characterizations are so crisp that it's impossible not to care about these people. Falco proves himself to be a sterling practitioner of the short sto:ry form." 

-Publishers Weekly 



UNiVERSITr'OF NoTRE DAME PREss 
Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Buchanan deals Gramm setback in Louisiana 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE. La. 

Pat Buchanan seized the con­servative banner in the Re­publican presidential race Tunsday with a punishing upset 
of Sen. Phil Gramm in Louisiana caucuses. Other can­didates boy­cotted the contest in deference to 


next week's Buchanan 
traditional 
kickoff in Iowa. 
Buchanan. with deep support among Christian conservatives, dlmwnstrated strength in all corners of Louisiana as he dealt a stiff and perhaps lethal set­haek to Gramm's presidential hOJHlS. 
"This is a victory for a new conservatism of the heart," 
Buchanan told The Associated 
Press. "We have put together a 
coalition of conservatives and 
populists I now believe can win 
the Republican nomination ... 
We are going to carry this on to 
Iowa and New Hampshire." 
There were 21 Republican National Convention delegates at stake and with all the precincts counted, AP's dele­gate survey showed Buchanan won 13 and Gramm eight. That was a stiff setback for Gramm in an event engineered by his allies in the state. 
Just a week ago, Gramm said: "To become president of the United States. I have to win here in Louisiana." 
Nearly two hours after Buchanan celebrated victory, Gramm emerged from meetings with aides. "Even though I failed the third grade. and had to do it twice, I can do the arithmatic and know that 13 is bigger than 8," he told a small group of supporters. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged to apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Ca/11-4540 with questions. 
., 

"This is round one of a long 
race," Gramm said, adding, 
"Tonight I think is a setback for 
us, no doubt about that." 
Only Buchanan, Gramm and 
anti-abortion candidate Alan 
Keyes campaigned here. The 
other GOP hopefuls stayed 
away in homage to Iowa's tra­
ditional role as the first caucus 
state. 
Those boycotting included the 
two leading contenders, Bob 
Dole and Steve Forbes, as well 
as former Tennessee Gov. 
Lamar Alexander and Indiana 
Sen. Dick Lugar. 
'They insisted in advance that 
Louisiana wouldn't matter, 
although they also rushed to 
interpret the results as devas­
tating to Gramm. 
"The presidential race begins 
next Monday in Iowa," Alexan­
der said. 
Indeed, even Louisiana Re­publicans seemed to think so. About 21,500 Louisianans par­ticipated Tuesday, 5 percent of the state's registered Republi­can voters. 
"Most Iowans haven't paid much attention to Louisiana," said Iowa Republican Party chairman Brian Kennedy. "But to the extent people did, Phil Gramm is going to look silly be­cause he was the one who came up with the idea of Louisiana jumping ahead of Iowa so that he could have a springboard." 
As if the Louisiana results weren't bad enough, Gramm had more explaining to do when he returned to Iowa on Wednesday: He missed a criti­cal Senate vote on the farm bill so he could campaign in Louisiana. 
Reflecting the candidate line­up, exit polls showed Louisianans who turned out for the caucuses were overwhelm­ingly conservative: Half of those surveyed described themselves as active in the religious right movement, and Buchanan beat Gramm almost 2-to-1 among these Christian conservatives. 
More than half said the most important factor to them was supporting a candidate who 
'yo become presi­dent of the United States, I have to win here in Louisiana.' 
Phil Gramm, U.S. Senator -Texas 

"best represents conservative 
values." 
A clear majority of' those vot­ers supported Buchanan. Gramm held a narrow edge among the one in seven who said the most important factor was picking a candidate who could beat President Clinton. The exit poll was conducted by Voter News Service, a coopera­tive of The Associated Press, ABC, CBS, CNN and NBC. 
Although he was heavily fa­vored, Gramm found himself on the receiving end of a relentless Buchanan effort to suggest the Texas senator was hardly as conservative as he would have voters believe. 
He attacked Gramm for vot­ing for higher taxes, for taking money from gambling interests and for supporting Clinton administration Supreme Court picks who support abortion 
rights. Buchanan got a late 
boost with the endorsement of 
newly elected GOP Gov. Mike 
Foster. 
Although the event was 
dubbed a caucus. it amounted 
to a mini-primary. The state 
GOP set up 42 voting sites 
around the state and polls were 
open for just four hours. 
"I think Buchanan represents 
change," said businessman 
Cecil Heflin, who voted in Iowa. 
"We don't need any more 
dinosaurs like Dole or Gramm 
who have been in Washington 
forever." 
Will LaBauve, who voted in 
Lafayette, supported Gramm 
delegates because the Texan 
was "the better candidate in 
that he is more likely to win." 
Retired state worker Cecile 
Butcher voted for Gramm dele­
gates, too, but only because 
Forbes wasn't participating. 
The exit survey suggested Buchanan might. find the going tougher in the more crowded contests to come: 20 percent of those who turned out to sup­port Gramm, Buchanan and Keyes said they would have preferred Dole or Forbes. 
Dole spokesman Nelson Warfield said Gramm's cam­paign was "boiled and peeled like a Louisiana crawfish." Warfield said the results "rein­force Bob Dole's strength as the most powerful Republican chal­lenger to Bill Clinton." 
Voters were (~lecting three delegates and three alternates from each of the state's seven congressional districts. Nine more national convention dele­gates will be allocated based on the March 12 "Super Tuesday" primary, when others plan to be on the ballot. 
the 
Notre Dame FRESH 
RETREAT 
•
a two-day, overnight retreat /or freshmen 

•guided 
by students, fqculty, and staff 

•
an opportunity to deepen your understanding ofyourself, 


your transition to /,feat Notre Dame, and your hopes /or your life at Notre Dame and beyond. 
retreat 
FRIDAY, FEB. 23 (4 p.m.) to SATURDAY, FEB. 24 (6 p.m.)

dates : forms 
AT CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICES thru Thursday, Feb. 1
available: 
questions: Campus Ministry Office, 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 or 631-5056 




0MPUS 

cost · $10 


MINISTRY 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 

Modern wonders: ND joins coed debate 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................]en Mackowiak Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Paui Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeilher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phom 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
"-;I ,
, , 

!
really wish somebody would explain to me what the big deal is about "coed" dorms. Near as l can figure, every col­lege in the U.S. has had coed dorms for thirty years, at least, some for longer. Since Notre Dame has only allowed female students since the early '70s, it comes as no surprise that there are still gender-based problems. Actually, since it is approaching 25 years since this momentous occasion, you'd think these problems would have already gone the way of the three-dollar bill. 
Matthew Apple 

l AThy bother making only one dorm 
V V coed, when it would only affect 100 out of 8000 students? Why not make them all coed? It's not just the proposal I don't understand, it's the mind set, the reason for this ridiculously infantile debate in the first place. For some rea­son or another, students persistently cling to this "dorm spirit" drivel, as if they individually have no spirit and des­perately need their artificially created peer "families" in order to have any identity. I'm not sure whether its the students who oppose the concept of "coed" dorms or the administration. 
I've heard the "argument" that dorms will no longer be able to play sports as teams. Besides the fact that studying should take precedence over sports in college, I see no reason why having men and women in the same dorm would affect the structure of "interhall" sports leagues. I still think it would be much better if students were able to choose their own teams for intramurals, but 
• DOONESBURY 
H&Y... IA/HAT5 
601M3 0N 
/NH&R./3?' 
\ 

there's no reason why dorm teams couldn't exist in normal dormitories. 
It could be that the concept of'coed" bothers some members of the Notre Dame administration -the fact that it may be possible for women to spy men strolling the corridors in their boxers (tee hee). I figure if you feel like roaming the halls naked, that's your problem, pal. Actually, the very word "coed" is troublesome: a male-only dorm is called "a men's dorm," but when you introduce the female half of the human race, all of a sudden it's called "coed." Let's call female students "women" and male stu­dents "coeds" for a while and see what happens. 
F
I wonder if the dorms on campus are still sexually segregated because the University implicitly mistrusts its own students. What if, heaven forbid, a dorm should be made coed by floor -stu­dents of either sex would be able to see each other by walking up a flight of stairs; parietals would make no sense at all, facilitating its subsequent removal from the English language (if the word existed outside South Bend in the first place); men and women might talk to each other outside of class and perhaps even (gasp) touch each other. It would be too much like the real world, with everybody living together and learning how to stand each other on a daily basis. How horrifying. rankly, NO, let's admit it: you're afraid to join the 20th century because you believe allowing coed dorms condones premarital relations. You'd rather maintain a cold distance between the sexes and pretend that real couples live in separate Victorian houses or sleep in separate Cleaver family beds. You'd rather pretend that the Catholic Church has the power to regulate human behavior, although Notre Dame itself has shown a disregard for official policies unless they happen to suit Notre Dame's "mission to drag the known world kicking and screaming into the 21st century" statement. You'd rather pretend that the University is some sort of parent away from home with the right to stick its nose into people's own affairs, ignoring the fact that students over the age of 18 have the legal right to screw up their lives all on their own and learn by trial and error like the rest of humanity. 
I KNOW. I  IA/&1.1.-, /A/HATE;  
ai,Y&AH?  AUUA~S!3EM  TH&PO/NTCF  
NOTMUCH  70 8t3ATJR.I.lCT- 6&77/NG IN­ 
erA TURN­ &!? 70 to5T  VOWW INA  
OUT.  CAUSE33.  CAMPAI6N  
\  ANYWAY, YWKNOW?  

'prankly, ND, let's admit 
it: you're afraid to join the 20th century because you believe allowing coed dorms condones premarital rela­tions. You'd rather maintain a cold distance between the sexes and pretend that real couples live in separate Victorian houses or sleep in separate Cleaver family beds.' 
Last semester, a Notre Dame student was apparently apprehended in the shower with his girlfriend, which evi­dently translated into dismissal from the University. Had this happened on any other college campus, the student would have had a very good basis for a court case. In fact, he probably had a good case against Notre Dame, but he'd never win because everyone knows that the bulk of Notre Dame's alumni illumi­nati are lawyers who convince potential plaintiffs to quietly settle out of sight and hearing. How convenient. I notice that law students haven't hit any fresh­men women on sidewalks in a while. 
Notre Dame really ought to grow up. This is probably the only college in the world where the issue of "should we 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
O
have coed dorms?" makes front page two days in a row as a subject of earth­shaking consequence. l submit that gen­der problems at Notre Dame and drink­ing problems are directly related. l would also bet that both of these prob­lems occur in a direct proportion to the number of Notre Dame students admit­ted straight from Catholic or other parochial schools. f course, I fully expect people to do one of two things upon reading this column. The first is to complain that I still don't know what I'm talking about: "You never went here, you never experi­enced dorm life, blah blah... " I don't have to live here to know that this place is, well, screwy. Loopy, if you prefer, or any number of appropriate euphemisms. Anyone from outside this state can instantly tell after stepping foot on this campus that the overall attitude is typi­cally conservative, sexist, racist, homo­phobic, beer-swillin', sports-lovin', ado­lescent, white-born and -bred middle class American. Not that you can't find it elsewhere, naturally (more's the pity, it exists in all levels of the corporate and political American "culture," despite public lies to the contrary). It's just that the average college student is not going to learn much worthwhile in the midst of such close-minded elitism at what considers itself a major university. Which is to say that business students "cheating" on a "take-home final exam" didn't raise my eyebrow even a millime­ter. 
The other thing they'll complain about is that I'm beating the old drum again. Well, hell, somebody's got to beat the damn thing. I just happen to own the biggest drum stick right now. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame, home of the brave. Send your indignant cries of outrage to matthew. t. apple. I @nd. edu or Get in the Ring at http://www.nd.edu:BO/-mapple. 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Truth is the only light that 
can stand by itself in the surroundings of darkness and yet be noticed shining in the square of the universe, which is 360 degrees." 
-Shahid God Allah 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 7, 1996 page 9 
·• DESIDERATA 
• or the puppy, as
•

Score one for the underdog • 
the case may be 

One of the un-oflicial new year's reso­lutions I made for 1996 was to try to be a more positive-thinking person. For this reason, I'm really glad my column runs this Wednesday rather than next Wednesday, which, as all you sweet­hearts know, is Valentine's Day. If I were to have an article published on that date, I'd feel the need to use a Valentine's theme, which for me would involve a diatribe about how destructive and hurtful love really is. But hey, as I said, I don't have to do that, so in keep­ing with my new positive outlook, all you lovebirds have a happy V.D.! (Just try not to be too overt about it; remember, it's highly annoying to the rest of us.) 
And I do have quite a few things to feel good about right now. The almighty Ministry has mcently released their new album whieh, while it's not as good as tlwir last two releases, is still awesome. (llow could it be otherwise'?) The weather's way too eold, but at least it's been very sunny,·and has been staying light a tad later every day. (For those of you who don't know me personally, I have kind of a hang-up with natural light.) And Alan Laboy is in jail serving a nine and one-half year prison sen­tenee. Life is good. 
You might be wondering why I aetual­ly feel that a prison sentenee was just­I have a very strong bias in favor of criminal defendants, after all. But when it comes down to it, my affinity is not mally for criminal defendants per se; it is more so for the underdogs -they usually have limited resources with which to defend themselves against a charge by the more-affluent state, and sadly, the public as a whole tends to eritieize them because they feel that d11fendants in a criminal case, having been charged with a crime, an~ most llknly guilty.• In this case, however, the dnfendant was no underdog. 
You see, the crime for which Laboy 
was sentenced was the killing of a puppy. Many people feel that this is not really a crime in the first place; others contend that the sentence is excessive. Even the judge who sentenced him did so somewhat reluctantly, remarking that he "wish[ed] the community would show 

Kirsten Dunne 
the same fervent interest for other cases...child abuse, spouse abuse or abuse of the elderly." It saddened me­even angered me a bit -that Judge Stan Blake of Dade County, Florida, saw the case in this light. For I see it com­pletely differently. Violence towards other people consistently receives atten­tion -who is unfamiliar with the cases of O.J. Simpson, the Menendez brothers, and Susan Smith, to name just a few? But violence towards animals is largely ignored, and even indirectly sanctioned, by soeiety. And for better or worse, it appears like the only way to wake peo­ple up is to impose tough sentences on people like Laboy. (Chalk yet another one up for the jury system.) 
My focus here is not the fur coat industry. Although I become nauseated every time I see someone parading around in one of these symbols of tor­ture and death, I cannot fully fault the wearers. The business which thrives on murder has even propagated some myths about their workings. Those of us who see the industry for what it is, of course, are attempting to uncover the truth for all to see, for we fervently believe that, if everyone were fully informed, very few people would choose to wear fur. But as it stands, I tend to give people the benefit of the doubt and reason that they wear fur not to pro­mote murder but due to lack of knowl­edge. 
And I'm not really focusing on animal testing either. Once again, there are a lot of popular myths and distortions run­ning rampant. Major industries such as Procter & Gamble and L'Oreal, who do extensive and painful testing on ani­mals, do not generally boast about what goes on behind the scenes. When it does come out, though (thanks to groups like PETA), they usually retort by saying that it is for the safety of their cus­tomers. This is not true. They know, for example, that over cleaners irritate the eyes and that razor cuts can cause infections. But they have to eover them­selves in case someone sues them. In other words, TI-lEY DO IT TO PROTECT THEMSELVES; they are cowardly. It takes nothing but a look at cruelty-free businesses such as Revlon and Benetton to see that torture is not necessary to customers' safety -or even to the life of the business. But again, myths run wild here, and only when the full truth is out will it be evident that animal test­ing is unnecessary and unacceptable. 
What I am really talking about are cases just like Laboy's: cases of pure cruelty which cannot be masked by any means. There is no conceivable way to justify the brutal killing of a puppy sim­ply because he barks and disturbs some­one's preeious sleep -which is exaetly what Laboy did. But things like this happen, and they go largely ignored by society. 
Thousands of dogs and cats who have been abandoned and/or abused are res­cued annually by caring institution like ASPCA and PETA. This is wonderful, but what is tragic is the fact that they have to be rescued in the first place ­and the conditions in which they are found. One kitten, for example, was found while preteen boys were in the process of using him in lieu of a football. He had suffered numerous broken bones, and the fact that the boys had ignited his fur prior to kicking him around did not help his condition. Other animals, unfortunately, are found too late. A dog named Duke, for example, had been tied to a tree with his mouth taped shut; his torturers then threw a pit bull on him, stabbed him, and beat him with a brick. He died. 
It is incidents like these, even more so than the fur coat industry or animal testing, that make me fuming mad. Although there is no distorting the truth in these cases -no possible way to mask the brutality -these incidents of cruelty happen all the time. And the very frequency of their occurrence is proof that society -or at least a good portion of it -finds this behavior acceptable. Well, it's not, and eases like Laboy's are a most welcome ray of sun­shine on a very bleak situation. Yes, nine and one-half years is a long time. But we have to stop sanctioning cruelty, and sadly, it looks like that's going to require extreme measures. 
"Unfortunately," said Judge Blake about the Laboy case, "perhaps we as a soeicty accept violence towards people more than we do towards pets." With all due respect, I could not agree less. Cases like Laboy's arc sadly enough, the exception to the rule. But, on a positive note, they very well ma.y also signal a promise of what's to come -the day when all of society will consider this type of torture no more tolerable than any other. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '9.'> is working at Goldbf'rg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 
• IN MY NEIGBORHDOD 


Malcolm X defines freedom in trying times 
"When a person places the proper value on fn~edom, there is nothing under the sun that he will not do to acquire that free­dom. Whenever you lwar a man saying he wants freedom, but in the next breath he is going to tell you what he won't do to gnt it. or what he doesn't bnlieve in doing in order to get it. lw doesn't believe in free­dom. A man who believes in frnndom will do anything under the sun to aequim...or preserve his fn~t~dom". Malcolm X. Do you see the power in his name? Maleolm X. Say it slow and with fenling. MALCOLM X. The man, just like his name, is more than just a man, or just a name. lltl is martyr, a legend. a blaek prinen and the epitome of the blaek struggle in 'Amerikkka.' Makolm X. 
Tlwre are fnw things in life that I unnquivocally b111ieve in. Most of tlwm are not n:levant for this purpose, but let me say I bnlinvn in Malcolm X. Nothing anybody ean say will change that. As the old saying goes, "lt~t my work sptmk for me," let his actions speak for him. As this is Black History Month, I dmlicated all my artieles to one of thn most militant and defiant Black lnaders of our time that I personally admire, El Hajj Malik EI-Shabazz, also known as Maleolm X. Maleolm is my h11ro, as you probably could have guessed by now. Maleolm was a blaek man in every sense. lie taught me an enor­mous amount about self-deter­mination, self-esteem, and, foremost, pride in who I am, my history, and my people. What Martin Luther King Jr. couldn't do or didn't do for black people, Maleolm did. Martin taught us 


Christiane Likely 

that we eouldn't be healthy or happy if we weren't around white people, Maleolm taught us we eouldn't be healthy or happy if we were, especially if we didn't know the ways of some white folks. 
"I would like to point some­thing out so that we'll under­stand each other better. I don't want you to think in the state­ments I made that I'm being disrespectful towards you as white people. I'm being frank. And I think my statements will give you better insight on the mind of a black man than most statements you get from most people who call themselves Negroes, who usually tell you what they want you to hear with the hope...that will make them draw closer to you and create a better possibility of getting from you some of the crumbs that you might let fall from your table. We'll, I'm not looking for crumbs so I'm not trying to delude you." Amen, Amen!! He spoke those words over 35 years ago at Boston University. That, I think, beyond anything else, defines the situation I find myself in on this day, especially pertaining to being a political, or do I dare say, militant black person. 
Have times changed all that much? Or more accurately, have they changed for the bet­ter, especially for the benefit of black folks? I think we all know that answer. 
We are living in trying times, as did Malcolm. lie believed that if something wasn't right, you changed it. If it didn't work, you fixed it. If it was dis­honest, you did away with it. If it was going to harm you, you defended against it. There is and was absolutely nothing wrong with that ideology. "We declare our right on this earth... to be a human being, to be respected as a human being, to be given the rights of a human in this society, on this earth, in this day, which we intend to bring into existence by any means necessary." 
To be able to life a safe, healthy life, free from harm, wrongdoing and injustice is all anybody wants, but when it came from the mouth of a proud, unflinching, deliberate blaek man, this country had a fit. Malcolm was not an advo­cate of violence. He did not advocate the killing of white people. He did not advocate forced integration. He advocat­ed self-defense and self-preser­vation. 
One must understand that for years black people didn't have the right to self-defense, or self­preservation. We were taught that our lives were not worth as much as any white person's. Our lives were threatened or 
'We are living in 
trying times as did Malcolm. He believed that if some­thing wasn't right, you changed it. If it didn't work, you fix it. If it was dishonest, you did away with it. If it was going to harm you, you defend against it.' 
hurt or taken away, if we stood up for ourselves, so we became pacified and passive. Martin was telling us to be nonviolent and to turn the other cheek. Maleolm told us to stand up and to preserve what is ours. He taught us not to be ashamed to be black, and being black is the greatest thing in the world. Nevertheless, we still remain a brainwashed, stupefied people bent on self destruction and self-hate. We would rather love our "neighbor" than love our­selves. We would rather look like "them" than be just who we are. Maleolm was trying reme­dy that, and died for it. 
White America had and prob­ably still has, a very serious problem with Malcolm X. He wasn't an Uncle Tom and he couldn't tolerate them. lie was a man of convktion. "Freedom, justice and equality are our principles," he said of not only the so called Black Muslims, but of blaek people. 
The thing I admire most about him is his vision, his focus, and his dedieation to our people. I think that because he loved us and believed in us so much, that he would not let us fall; he would not let our spirits fail. People called him a racist and a hatemonger because he felt that those white people who have harmed the souls of black folks should be accountable for their actions. Today, we have Louis Farrakhan taking up that aim, and we see him con­demned and cursed because he has the eourage to expn1ss and eonvey the feelings, and emo­tions that are buried in the hearts of black folks. 
"We're not Amerieans, we're Africans who happen to be in America. We were kidnapped and brought here against our will from Africa. We didn't land on Plymouth Hock-that rock landed on us!" Malcolm X. 
Christiane Likely is a senior in Pasquerilla West. 


ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 



W
at is a Calvin Klein ad? Does it make you appreciate their underwear, or were you possibly looking at something else? You may call it creative advertising, but the Calvin Klein ad s just one of many promotions for a deadly disease that is growing in the United States today. Due to such cultural ideals of feminine beauty, represented in the "waif' models, young women feel a strong desire to be thinner than their bodies naturally tend to be, and many will go to all lengths to reach this goal. 
WHAT IS ANOREXIA NERVOSA ? 
Comprehending Anorexia Nervosa may be difficult, especially when view­ing it from the surface. Patients who suffer from Anorexia (as it's most com­monly called) often have low self-esteem and a tremendous need to control their surroundings. Quite often tlte eating disorder is somewhat a unique reaction to an array of external and internal influences and conflicts. Just like with Bulimia Nervosa, stress, anxiety and unhappiness can be the lead­ing factors. 
The person suffering from Anorexia is abnormally sensitive about being fat, or has a massive fear of becoming fat, and of losing control over the amount of food he/she eats. With a low self-esteem and often constant need for acceptance, he/she will turn to obsessive dieting and starvation as a way to control, not only weight, but other areas of life that seem to be in a state of disarray. Obsessive exercise, calorie counting, fat gram counting, starva­tion or restriction, a constant fascination with food and health issues, self­induced vomiting, the use of excessive amounts of laxatives, diuretics, and/or diet pills, and a persistent concern with body image are all symp­toms, that can be a key indication that someone suffers from Anorexia Nervosa. 
Signs of Anorexia: 

A. Refusal to maintain body weight at or above a minimally normal weight for age and height 
B. Intense fear of gaining weight or becoming fat, even though under­weight. 
C. Self-evaluation is mainly influenced by body shape and weight. 
D. Denial of the seriousness of current low body weight. 
E. The absence of at least three consecutive menstrual cycles. 
WHAT IS BULIMIA? 
Patients who suffer from Bulimia Nervosa often seek "binge-purge" episodes (a compulsion to eat a large amount of food in a short time, and then self-induce vomit to rid the body of the food). This can be in direct re­lation to how they feel about themselves, or how they feel about a particu­lar event or series of events in their lives. Stress, anxiety or unhappiness may precipitate an episode. 
Men and women suffering from Bulimia are usually aware they have an eating disorder. Fascinated by food they sometimes buy magazines and cook-books to read recipes, and enjoy discussing dieting issues. In a lot of cases the Bulimic may be anorexic between binge-purge episodes thus pre­senting the body with the dangers of starvation in addition to problems caused by the gorging and self-induced vomiting. Recurring episodes of rapid food consumption followed by tremendous guilt and purging, a loss of self-control over his or her eating behaviors, regularly engaging in strin­gent diet plans and exercise, the excessive use of laxatives, diuretics, and/or diet pills and a persistent concern with body image are all symptoms that can be warning signs someone is suffering with Bulimia Nervosa. 
Signs of Bulimia: 

A. Recurrent episodes of binge eating. An episode of binge eating is char­acterized by both of the following: 
(1) 
eating, in a discrete period of time (e.g., within any 2-hour period), an amount of food that is definitely larger than most people would eat during a similar period of time and under similar circumstances 

(2) 
a sense of lack of control over eating during the episode (e.g .. a feeling that one cannot stop eating or control what or how much one is eating) 

B. 
Recurrent inappropriate compensatory behavior in order to prevent weight gain , such as self-induced vomiting; misuse of laxatives, diuretics, enemas, or other medications; fasting; excessive exercise. 

C. 
The binge eating and inappropriate compensatory behaviors both occur, on average, at least twice a week for 3 months. 


Both Anorexia and Bulimia ... 
There are many similarities in both illnesses, the most common being the 
cause. There seems to be an underlying commonalty in some people to clin­
ical depression, whether diagnosed or not, with the eating disorder some­
times causing the depression or the depression leading to the eating disor­
der. Though, on a surface level, they may seem to be nothing but a danger­
ously obsessive dietary concern, suffering with an eating disorder involves 
much deeper emotional conflicts which must be resolved. 
What You Should Do to Help .... 
Remember, whether you suffer from an eating disorder yourself, or you 
are close to someone suffering, the illness is one driven by emotion in most 
cases. Usually, by the time it is apparent that a person suffers from either 
Anorexia or Bulimia, the complex disorder already has a strong emotional 
grasp on it's victim. 

The family and friends of eating disorder victims tend to concentrate 
imm~~iatel~ on ~ood i~take, whi~h of course, as explained briefly in the 
defimtwns, _Is qmte _a . s~re _spot. Usually, something deeper is bothering 
the A_nore~tic or Bulimic I_ndiVIdual, and they have channeled their negative 
emotiOns mto a destructive coping mechanism, sometimes without being 
Y 

bleeding from the constant purging, along with electrolyte imbalances, slowed metabolism and dehydration, which can also eventually lead to death. Both eating disorders pose a great health risk to the men and women suffering, both emotionally and physically, and should not be left untreated by the experi­enced medical community indefinitely. 
Never try to force a person with an eating disorder to eat. Leave. that to medical personnel. Family and friends often try to "encourage" and "force" loved ones to eat, thinking that will solve all the problems. While it seems like a quick fix, it does lit­tle for the victim emotionally, often leaving them with a childish feeling-out of control, disapproved of, and scolded. Bulimics and Anorectics both suffer tremendous amounts of guilt for what they feel and do, and this includes eating, especially when forced. Keeping the lines of communication open in a loving manner is an important part to helping someone with an eating disorder. 
For advanced cases of Anorexia and Bulimia, the course of treatment will usually begin with stabilizing the patient's health, and from there it is imperative that a course of therapy, both individual and/or group, take place. For cases in which the patient's life is not in immediate danger, it is important they seek therapy, from an experienced therapist in the area of treating eating disorders. Unfortunately, victims tend to reach life threatening situations before they seek help. And in some cases, once they've come out of immediate danger and left the hospital there is no follow up of treatment, so they only find themselves back in the hospital shortly after. This can continue for years and is destructive both emotionally and physically, but the final action to get better lies in the patient's desire to get better. Often times they feel afraid to ask for help, or don't feel there is a proper forum in which to ask. More often than not, the victim does not feel they deserve help. 
Some Things NOT to Say to Someone with an Eating Disorder: 
"Are you sick? .... What's with all the weight loss?" 
Remember that the person with an eating disorder ALREADY has a low self-esteem. Why would you want to say these things to anyone, let alone someone with an eating disorder. There's noth­ing wrong with approaching a close friend or family member you may be concerned about and saying "you've lost a lot of weight and I'm concerned about you" in a caring way, followed by ''I'm here to listen if you want to talk." 
"Would you just eat! .. .I don't understand WHY you don't eat!" 
These are not words of concern, but rather, control. Threatening an Anorectic or Bulimic with "take-over" is not a good idea if you're trying to help. Remember, eating disorders are rooted in guilt and such statements only perpetuate this vicious cycle. 
"Why are you doing this to me/us [Family mem­ber/friends/boyfriend]?!" 
This is only perpetuating guilt. If you are close to someone with an eating disorder, take it as an opportunity for yourself to learn to communicate more clearly and to be a more understanding individual. 
Please note: The above information is for informational pur­poses only, and should not be construed as definitive or binding medical advice. Because each person is medically different, individuals should see their personal physicians for specific information and/or treatment. 
This article was written with help from information provided by both Eating Disorders Awareness and Prevention, Inc. (EDAP) and the Alliance to Fight Eating Disorders (APED). 
John Galvin can be reached at John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 
ACCENT -
WcJncsJay, February 7, 1996 page 11 
• o.;· Akt c~ u Snow falling on experience 

Haunting pasts depicted in David Guterson snew book 
By KATIE BAGLEY Accent Literary Critic 
D
avid Guterson's new novel, the award-winning "Snow Falling on Cedars," is about people whose lives are haunted by the traumatic events of their past, and the event whi!:h forces these demons to the fore­front of their lives. Carl Heine, a fisher­man from San Piedro island, north of Puget Sound ofT the Washington Coast, is found drowned in September of 1954, and Kabuo Miyamoto, a .Japanese Anwriean, is charged with lirst-degrne murder. There is more to the case. however. than the simple facts of the investigation. Interwoven with the fateful night of Heine's drown­ing are veterans' memories of the car­nage of the Second World War, bitter recollections of an adolescent interra­cial love affair. angry memories of a family feud over land, and, most importantly and least discussed, the scar left by the internme.nt of the island's Japanese population after the bombing of Pearlllarbor. 
"Snow Falling on Cedars" has a little bit of everything: courtroom drama, romance, war narrative, mystery. What makes the novel worth reading, howev­er, is the way that Guterson weaves all these stories together, uniting them with his rich descriptions of the lush San Piedro landscape, its tangled cedar forests and strawberry fields. It is a story of people who grow up, bound to­gether by a common land, only to have that bond tested by war and prejudice. It is about desire for land, for a home, to belong-and it is not only the Japanese who are uprooted. On this small, isolated island, everything is always at stake, because there is nowhere to escape. No one really understands anyone else, even those they love. 
It would not be an overstatement to describe "Snow Falling on Cedars" as a beautiful novel. Guterson draws people and landscapes alike with .precision and elegance. As the title might imply, it is a very usual novel. You can almost feel the fog on the ocean, and its rich imagery alone would make its worth your time. It is also a very important novel. which deals with one of America's more embarrassing experi­ences. The Japanese internment is dealt with matter-of-factly, never in a melodramatic or overblown manner. Guterson does not want us to feel sorry for the victims, but to see how the event etched itself into the lives of a community. We are called to question our own prejudices and stereotypes, and to see how they may be manipulat­ed to perpetrate injustice. We are shown how individuals may be good­hearted while their community remains indifferent. We are reminded that wanting to belong is never enough-young Japanese American men were killed trying to prove their patriotism on the battlefields of Europe. We see how insidious preju­dice is, how it may lay unspoken for a long time before it rears its head in moments of crisis. 
If the novel were only about the internment camps, however, it would not be as effective. This beautifully written work describes our dependence on our past and on each other; while our hearts are hidden, our lives are in each other's hands. Just like Ishmael Chambers, a local reporter, who holds the evidence which could determine Kabuo's future and must choose what to do with it, we all must decide where our loyalties lie. Ironically, the novel's island setting helps drive home the point that no one is an island. We must all live together in the world we create together. "Snow Falling on Cedars" is definitely worth reading. Subtle and well-written, its messages are, like its characters, hidden. Never aggressive, they will wait patiently for us to find them-and they are worth finding. 
Katie Bagley is a sophomore English major. 

Generation X takes a back seat 

Author Paul Loeb takes a chance at defining a generation 
By JAY BRANDENBERGER SpeL ial to The Observer 
has been true since the time of 

Af. 
Socrates, much can be said 

thout the "youth of today." In "Generation at the Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the American Campus," Paul H. Loeb takes on the challenge of describing a generation--he resists simplistic labels such as "Generation X"--coming of age amid conOicting historieal and cultural eurrents. It's a daunting task, one that l.oeb pursued through more than seven years of direct eontaet with students on cam­puses across the nation. 
This work provides important con­lf~xt for educators and students. What happens wlwn youth whose parents experienced efforts toward soeial change during 1960's but whose own adolescence was framed by the con­servative nwssages of the 19SO's, enter eollege life? What is their re­sponse to the eomplex economic, polit­ical, cultural, and environmental issues of our time? Loeb's interviews and participant observations-in resi­denee halls, with a variety of student groups, at eampus events-eapture such political disinterest and docu­ment students' foeus on individual pursuits and eareer security. 
But there are signs of ehange. Loeb doeuments increasing student involve­ment as the 1990's unfold. lie riehly describes the initial motivations, chal­lenges, and transformations of stu­dents aetive in a variety of pursuits, ineluding the environmental move­ment, challenges to tuition inereases (e.g., the CUNY strikes), and efforts to promote racial equality. 
According to Loeb, the community service movement that has blossomed on eampuses during the early 1990's is a natural consequence of student frustration with the "messy contention of politics." Community serviee and volunteer efforts provide "tangible fruits" and avoid various obstades to involvement: the need for a "Perfeet Standard" of knowledge or behavior, the need to question the status quo, the tendency to assume that only pow­erful experts can facilitate change. Loeb's hope is that such involvement will personalize the social realities students encounter and prompt them to question relevant social structures. 
Loeb's qualitative and descriptive research expose him to critique from empirically focused soeial scientists, though he provides informative sum­maries of national survey data. He does not hesitate to voice his opinion: he is dearly an advocate for student involvement in eontroversial social change efforts. 
Loeb's findings are consistent with developmental theories focused on the intersection of individual and cultural development. Throughout, Loeb rein­forces what experiential edueators have long emphasized: the importance of direct engagement, role models, and personal narratives in prompting reflection and action among youth whose developing desires and abilities to eontribute are delayed by years of abstract schooling. Though Loeb is supportive of faeulty and educational efforts to promote learning through direet student involvement, sueh receive limited attention. He foeuses more on the challenges students en­counter after dass, less on new means to resolve frequent tensions within the academy between mission statements that elevate serviee to real world is­sues and otherwise insular pedagogic practiees. 
Loeb's message, however, is clear and educational in nature: through a variety of culturally reinforced chan­nels students have learned to mistrust action and political engagement. Yet a sizable minority are increasing their involvement, often through commu­nity serviee initiatives, while realizing the intricate nature of global con­eerns. Loeb calls for critical education and edueation for democracy to sus­tain and enhance such engagement and provide "intellectual scaffolding" for student initiatives. 
The challenge before us is to enhance the abilities of citizens in each generation to deal with complex concerns. By detailing the challenges and frustrations of a generation that will not only play a key role in the new millennium but that has much to teach us concerning the complexities of citizen participation, a "Generation at the Crossroads" makes a signifieant eontribution. 
Jay Brandenberger is Director of Experiential Learning and Justice Education at Center for Social Concerns and a Concurrent Assistant Professor of Psychology. Tlzis review originally appeared in tlze NSEE Quarterly. Winter 1995. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS ••• 

Moms and Chicken 
Soup 
Wi
oever i~vent-Krista N. annery d clucken Accenr Editor oodle soup------­really knew what they were doing. This pure soul food definitely qualifies as one of the world's greatest recipes. And it tastes even better-if that's possible­• when you're sick. 
Put mom and chicken soup together and it's a wonder that anyone nver gets sick. Mom and soup are key in chasing away what the flu shot doesn't. It's just a darn shame that we can't buy som~ form of instant mom like we can buy Lipton Cup-a-Soup. An instant mom-a pocket mom...;...would be a great idea! 
The world would be a happier place if everyone had a Pocket Mom. Imagine it, it's flu season, thousands of college stu· dents are thousands of miles from home coughing and sneezing their brains out, miserable because of slight fevers and long lines at the infirmary. All they want is a little chicken soup, some daytime TV and Mom. Mom is in another state and AT&T isn't any good at reading ther­mometers and buying the right kind of tissues. Roommates are nice, but they just don't treat you as well as mom does. 
A Pocket Mom would come in handy. Pocket Mom could fit into the pocket of your cardigan or even the zipper pocket of your backpack-that's a lot closer than a phone call away. Pocket Mom could help you out during your darkest moments. She'd make you chieken noo­dle soup and buy you ginger ale. She'd go to the infirmary and buy you the right kind of cold medicine. And when you felt better, you would skip class and she would take you out to lunch. If vou were really lucky, she'd buy you a great pre­sent, like an Etch-a-Sketch or a book of crosswol'd puzzles (to use the next time you got sick). 
Pocket Mom would only be available by prescription. Otherwise, all the college students in the world would take advan­tage of her. You wouldn't be able to renew her more than once, and that would only be if you were really sick. Pocket Mom would stick around for the duration of your snit'nes, and then she'd gradually evaporate when she knew you were better. (Painlessly, of course. You'd hardly realize she was disappearing.) 
If they can make Hearty Chicken Noodle Soup in a little bag, they can make Pocket Mom. If they can make mi· crowaves that sense when the food is ready, they can make Pocket Mom. If they can make Velcro, they can make Pocket Mom. It can be done. People everywhere know what's it'> like to want their mom around, especially when coughs and colds set in. It's surprising Pocket Mom hasn't been invented already. (All you engineers out there, this is possible senior thesis work for you. Get working. The mental and physi­cal health of both campuses depends on it.} 
Pocket Mom won't be invented anytime soon. We'll have to make do with I.Jpton and AT&T (or CBLD) in the meantime. But don't wait until you're hacking and coughing your brains out to plc:k up the phone and give mom a call. And don't wait until Mother's Day either. For all you know, Mom may be sitting at home sipping ginger ale and chicken noodle soup. She'd probably appreciate the calL 
Krista Nannery's column appears every other Wednesday in Accent when she's not getting Robitusson and chicken broth from the infirmary. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
• CoLLEGE BASKHBAU. 

UConn keeps rolling, Hoosiers avenge Gopher loss 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY Associated Press 

STORRS, Conn. 
A balanced scoring attack and Austin Croshere's foul trou­bles helped Connecticut remain unbeaten in the Big East. 
Doron Sheffer led UConn with 22 points and Ray Allen added 21 as the No. 4 Huskies beat Providence 99-76 Tuesday night, extending the Huskies' win streak to 21 games. 
Kirk King added 20 points on 9-for-10 shooting for UConn {22-1, 12-0 Big East). which took advantage of the foul trou­ble of Croshere, Providence's leading scorer. 
The Huskies also got good efforts by Eric Hayward and Rudy Johnson. Hayward mus­cled his way through the lane for shots and rebounds and fm­ished with 10 points, three shy of his career high. Johnson had two key steals. 
"I think what we did do is play with good defensive pres­sure," said UConn coach Jim Calhoun. "Secondly, we got a very good offensive per­formance, more balanced with­out just relying on Ray's great­ness at times." 
Croshere, limited to four min­utes and held scoreless before halftime, did his best to keep the Friars {12-8, 5-7) in the game, even after getting his fourth foul six minutes into the second half. 
Croshere finished with 16 points, including four 3-point­ers, before fouling out with 4:25 remaining and the Friars trail­ing 76-67. 
"Austin Croshere getting in foul trouble certainly hurt us," said Providence coach Pete Gillen. "It didn't cost us the game, obviously, but I think it would have been a more com­petitive game." 
Derrick Brown scored 18 points to lead Providence. God Shammgod, Michael Brown and Jamel Thomas each added 10. 
UConn was in the middle of a 15-0 run when Croshere got called for his third foul. The Huskies never let the Friars within six points after leading 27-13 after the spurt. 
"When you make a mistake, they burn you ... they make you pay," Gillen said. "Their expe­rience hurt us. We cut it to six, we just couldn't get it to four." 
The first 10 minutes of the game were a stark contrast from the last 10 minutes. There were seven lead changes and two ties, and the Friars were up 13-12 after Michael Brown's 3­pointer. 
But after a timeout, Sheffer hit a jumper and Travis Knight followed with another, putting UConn ahead 16-13 and prompting Gillen to call a time­out 10 minutes before the half. 
The Huskies came back on the floor and kept the momem­tum going with the help of Rudy Johnson, who sparked two fast breaks with steals, the second one ending with Allen getting fouled by Croshere on a layup. 
Allen converted the three­point play and Croshere headed toward the bench with his third foul as the Huskies finished ofT a 15-0 run for a 27-13lead. 
After Croshere's first 3-point­er brought the Friars within 45­39, he was called for his fourth foul on a charge to the basket. 
Croshere scored six more points before he was called for his last foul. UConn, up 76-67 at that point, outscored Providence 21-10 the rest of the way. 
Croshere said he was tenta­tive coming out of the locker room after halftime. But he said Connecticut simply used its pressure to dominate. 
"They just crashed the boards really hard," he said. "They did it with old-fashioned hard work, and they outplayed us tonight." 
Indiana 81, Minnesota 66 
MINNEAPOLIS 
It was a 65-point turnaround, and it was just what Indiana needed. 
Big Ten scoring leader Brian Evans made all 14 of his free throws and scored 28 points Tuesday night as Indiana beat Minnesota 81-66 to avenge the worst loss in school history, a 106-56 defeat at Williams Arena on Feb. 19, 1994. 
"It wasn't a whole lot of fun," Evans said, recalling that humiliating 50-point loss. "You've got to learn from situa­tions like that, and it makes something like tonight a whole lot better." 
Andrae Patterson added 24 points and matched a season high with 13 rebounds as the Hoosiers (14-8, 7-3 Big Ten) won their third straight game and pulled within a half-game of first place in the Big Ten behind co-leaders Penn State and Purdue. 
Freshman Charles Thomas scored 13 points off the bench to lead Minnesota {11-10, 3-6), which lost for the sixth time in eight games. Bobby Jackson had 12 and John Thomas had 11 points and 13 rebounds. 
"The difference in the game was Evans," said Minnesota coach Clem Haskins. 
"Evans is probably the MVP in the league, that's the prob­lem." 
Because of the uneven Big Ten scheduling since Penn State joined the conference, this was Indiana's first visit to Williams Arena since the lop­sided loss two years ago. The teams played only once last season, with the Golden Gophers winning 64-54 at Indiana. 
Patterson, a sophomore, watched the 1994 debacle on television, and he saved one of the best games of his career for Tuesday's nationally televised game on ESPN. 
Patterson made all three of his 3-point attempts and repeatedly outmuscled Minnesota's big men inside. 
"I got reminded about that game by all my high school teammates and friends at home," Patterson said. "They knew that we were playing them tonight, so they were all calling me and everything. So we came into the game with a state of mind of coming out hard and being tough on these guys." 

The Hoosiers never trailed Tuesday night and continued their recent string of hot shoot­ing from 3-point range. 
After shooting 51 percent from 3-point range in its previ­ous four games, Indiana made 9-of-16 from that distance, and it seemed the Hoosiers always had a long-range response when the Gophers got close. 
"Give all the credit to Indiana, they made a lot of tough shots," said Minnesota's Charles Thomas. "We were prepared to play, we just didn't make our shots and we didn't play good defense." 
The second-half Big Ten schedule seems to favor Indiana in the conference race. The Hoosiers, who have won three straight since losing to Penn State, travel to Iowa on Sunday and play host to co­leaders Penn State and Purdue later this month. 
"This was a big victory, because when we lost to Penn State we made a pact to our­selves to win the next three games, and that's what we came out to do," Patterson said. 
It looked like the Hoosiers might run away early when Evans hit consecutive 3-point­ers for a 21-10 lead midway through the first half. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre . Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
FOUND: Dark green Columbia ski  Deliver Telephone Books Earn  1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME.  I'm gonna sit back right easy and  
NOTICES  jacket. Found at Linebacker, 1/25. Please call Kim at x4946.  Extra Money No Experience Now Hiring People needed to deliver  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL  0D000D0D0D0D0D0D000D0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!!l  laugh when Scooter and the Big Man bust  
your new America's Best Book  UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL  THE COPY SHOP  this city in half  
NEED ANOTHER STUDY BREAK?  I lost my favourite scarf between  Telephone Directories in So. Bend  232-2794.  LaFortune Student Center  
come to Cushing this  Newland Science Hall and the post  New Carlisle Mishawaka Granger  Phone 631-COPY  Lucas-That girl was our last  
SUNDAY at 2 PM for SUB's showing of  office last thursday. It is dark green and has a checkered pattern on it.  Osceola Elkhart Bristol Goshen Millersburg Nappanee Wakarusa  FOR SALE  0D0D0D0D00000D00000D0  hope ...  
"How to Make an American Quilt"  Please,' please, please call Chis at  Lakeville Walkerton No. Liberty &  International Film Festival  Come see Sloppy Joe Cavataio at  
4-1697 if you happen to find it.  Surrounding Areas To become an  Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp­ "EI Mariachi"  Benchwarmers tonight! !I  
$2  independent contractor you must be  Receiver with Dual Tape Deck.  tonight!  
SPRING BREAK!  WANTED  1 8 years or older Use an insured car van or truck & available a min.  100 Watts of tunes! Call John at 232-2955 today!  "Like Water for Chocolate" Feb 8 All movies 7:30 ... $2.00  Moment of silence for the Breakfast Buddy sandwich.  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  of 5 daylight hours daily To reserve  Montgomery Theatre  
BLOW IT!  ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  a route in your neighborhood Call 1­ 1984 FORD TEMPO  A few reasons to vote for Kevin and  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start  800-827-1200 Job #1101B 10am­ 5-spd manual transmission  FAX IT FAST!!!  Pat ...  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  Flexible hours around classes. All  6pm Mon/Fri ADSCorp EOE  96,000 miles, good heater, always  Sending & Receiving  1. We're the only ticket with a cute  
$359 Florida $109  majors. Scholarships/Internships  dependable $800  at  puppy mascot. (His name's  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  CALL 282-2357  Call Chris today at 271-0271!  THE COPY SHOP  Dikaeopolis.)  
1-800-426-771 0  Teachers Wanted!·  LaFortune Student Center  2. Rudy says to in his book.  
IMMEDIATE OPENING  -If you love teaching  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  3. You might be bored-it's some­ 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  PART TIME SALES POSITION  -If you really love teaching  JUDAY CREEK gem.  FAX IT FAST! !I  thing to do.  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS  -Have the desire to learn  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  4. A fun platform, including a spring  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  $5.00 PER HOUR  all types of software &  with a 17 x 25 home office  charity formal, biweekly exhibitions  
From $429! Save $100 On  APPLY FAN FAIR, UNIVERSITY  build your knowledge  & 3-car garage.  Start your own business in the  of student talent with separate poet­ 
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ PARK MALL  -Willing to "study" on  $154,900.  fastest growing industry in the  ry, comedy, storytelling and music  
breaktravel.com  your own time  Call Karen 272-3653.  world-you can receive immediate  formats,  
1-800-678-6386  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ -Willing to work as a  rewards while developing a long­ monthly student art exhibitions, and  
Positions are now available at  Sub-contract trainer  ALUMNI  term residual income. Get in on the  a program to bring teachers and  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  -Would like to make  MANY BEDROOMS  ground floor of EXCEL telecommu­ students together outside the class­ 
Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  "above" average pay  10 MINUTES TO CAMPUS  nications. ND/SMC is the perfect  room (aside from dating your T.A.)  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  -Interested in variable assignments  SALE OR TRADE  place to start networking. The  
$259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  N55844  Please list any software  812-923-8486  opportunity is real. The time is  Write in O'Connell & Fields for  
Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  you are proficient at:  now. Call Julie at 4-4172.  Student Body President and Vice  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring­ WANTED: Good people to earn  Send resume to:  President.  
breaktravel.com.  money by becoming reps for  SS Innovations  '89 BERETIA,  Literary Gods and Goddesses­ WORKING FOR YOU  
1-800-678-6386  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  300 N. Michigan St.  V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console,  There will be magic.  
299-1999 e~enings.  South Bend, IN 46601  cruise, front-wheel drive, air.  -Queen of V-Mail  Meggan,  
ILOST & FOUND I  ????????????????????  Fax: 219-237-9447  Excellent condition, new front tires & exhaust system, and new shocks.  HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH!II  Are your feet tired 'cause you've been running through my mind all  
MISSING: Long, forest green coat  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO  FOR RENT  Call 654-7439 (local call).  PLACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY  day?  
Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at  SUBLET-TWO BATH, TWO BED­ Prometheus ProModem 9600+.  CLASSIFIED ADS-NOW!!  Marisa,  
Linebacker. Please call Kim at  ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ cables for Mac. $60 OBO. Bob  Are you sure you don't want to  
·~  
x4946.  -AUGUST.  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  @at 634-2395  pose?  
CALL 273-1738.  ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES  If you haven't gotten a Lewis  
Are you missing a ski jacket? Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25.  ????????????????????  CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097  TICKETS  Hall Grab 'n Go Bag then you're missing out on the chance to get a  MR. STANFORD Approaching faster by the day.  
Call Kim x4946.  Help! Anyone who has recordings  ton of yummy chocolate chip gra­ Be there. FEBRUARY 24  
or pictures (or negatives) from the  Need 4 Seton Hall GAs  nola bars! Bags will be on sale  
HELP! Someone must of picked up  Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch  2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK  Call Ellie 4-1325  216&2/7 at both dining halls.  Shep and Treacy,  
my green. down winter coat Friday  Silver (I played a song on stage)  FOR RENT FOR SUMMER ONLY.  Don't miss out!!  What's going on over there  
night after a party in 51 8 Flanner on  277-2174  $800/MONTH (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  London? I'm still enjoying these  
accident. It is waist length and has  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  Need 1 StJohn's GA  PREMIERE SHOW  quiet little Tuesday nights.  
mittens in the pockets along with  EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH  Call Joe @ 634-1782  3-4 pm Friday, February 9  
some computer disks. If you did or  TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER.  LaFortune Ballroom  RYNO IS BACK!!!! Life (and the  
know someone who found it,  NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­ 1 BDRM in 3 bdrm apt. Mostly fur­ WILL PAY BIG$  MEGAS  Cubs) can continue.  
PLEASE call Mary at x1496.  ERENCES. CALL (941)425-4404  nished. $200/mo + 1/3 electric.  FOR MACBETH  LIVE  
A.S.A.P. Thank you.  OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL­ Downtown. Call Alisa or Vanda  TIX; CALL BEN  Notre Dame's first ever  thursday was possibly the worst  
.BERRY FL 33860  237-1840  ATX1563.  live variety talk show  night of our young lives  
MISSING: Long, dark green L.L.  Questions? Call Kevin at x3669.  
Bean coat. Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at the Linebacker. If you have it, or  NEED 3-4 PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIVE IN CAMPUS VIEW FOR  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  PERSONAL  FOR SALE  stop throwing things in the 'brare, ted  
if you are missing a similar jacket-!  2ND SEMESTER NEXT YEAR.  IBM laptop computer  
found a similar one the same  CALL CHRIS AT X3574  HOMES FOR RENT  PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls  cheap!  
evening-please call Kim at x4946.  232-2595  NOW! Only a Buck!!  call Maria X1573  I feel like Woodward and Bernstein.  

Wednesday, February 7, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
-
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Wildcats explode like supernova 
Six-game winning streak fuels post­season hopes 
By DAVE IVEY 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA 

After losing two of three ganws to slip to 13-3 last month, Villanova was starting to look more like last year's NCAA first-round flameout than a Final Four threat. 
But with a six-game winning streak that inel udes victories over then-No. 10 North Carolina and No. 8 Georgetown, the sixth-ranked Wildeats onee again have their sights set on posts1mson glory. 
After Monday's 79-66 win against the lloyas, Villanova eoach Steve Lappas said he was trying to keep things in pnrspeetive. 
"I was listening to the radio, whieh I rarely do, and some­body came out and said that that game was going to be an indication that if we lost. we're not that good. And if we won, we're the greatest ever," he said. 
"I really don't think it's either one." 
Lappas, whose team lost to 14th-sended Old Dominion in the opening round of last year's NCAA tournament, is understandably wary of over­eon lid en en. 
But with freshmen playing 
like seniors, and senior Kerry Kittles playing like an All­American, Villanova (19-3, 10­2 Big East) has a few good rea­sons to be optimistic. 
The Wildcats are off to their best start since the 1963-64 squad started 20-2. Last sea­son's Big East Tournament champs were 17-5 after 22 games, and Hollie Massimino's 1985 national champs were 15-7. 
During its current win streak, Villanova has hit 51 percent of its field goals and 41 percent of its 3-pointers while winning by an average of nearly 17 points per game. In the second halves of the six games, the Wildcats have outscored opponents by a com­bined 265-181. 
"That's a lot better than my first year, whey they said we were a first-half team. A lot of good that does you," said Lappas, whose team's run also includes an overtime win at then-No. 18 Syracuse. 
If you're looking for a weak­ness, look no further than the foul line. 
In the last half-dozen con­tests, the Wildcats have hit just 61 percent of their free throws (Kittles was 1-of-8 against the Hoyas). 
Kittles, the 1995 Big East Player of the Year, leads the team in scoring (19.9} and rebounding (6.8). 
In the last four games, Kittles has averaged 25 points, buried 58 percent of his 3­pointers (18-of-31), and has beaten every defensive scheme thrown at him. 
I> 

"To tell you the truth, I don't even notice when they switch a defense. I'm just out playing," Kittles said. "To me, a zone is a zone is a zone. I just go out and attack it no matter what it is.'' 
Lappas is blessed with a deep bench, also. Nine players average at least 10 minutes p~r game. 
With the exception of one­game fighting suspensions served by both Jason Lawson and Chuck Kornegay, and mi­nor injuries to Eric Eberz and Kittles, the Villanova starters have missed only four total games. 
Eberz is expected to return to the lineup for Saturday's game at Hutgers after sitting out the Georgetown game with a sore hip. Villanova's remain­ing schedule includes home games vs. La Salle, Seton Hall and No. 4 Connecticut, and road trips to Pitt, No. 22 Boston College and Georgetown. 
Although Lappas is certainly happy to have Eberz and his 
14.2 points per game back on the noor, he was grateful that freshmen John Celestand (19 points in 21 minutes against Georgetown) and Howard Brown (nine points) got some playing time. 
"No question it's an impor­tant step for them to play against a team that plays as hard as (the Hoyas)." Lappas said. 
"Now, they have been through a pressure cooker and I think that'll help them." 


That•s What we·re All About. Interested? 
MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FORTH E1996-97 SCHOOL YEAR. 
Applications can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. 
Deadline: February 12 
-
• OLYMPICS 

Committee to decide whether Dream Team will have Magic 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 7, 1996 

By PAUL NEWBERRY  keem Olajuwan, David Robin­ with someone who had con­ stand  on  whether Johnson  if you look at just that position,  
Associated Press  son, Scottie Pippen, Glenn  tracted HIV.  should be part of the U.S.  yeah, that would be a consid­ 
Robinson, Karl Malone, Grant  Babcock  doesn't  think  squad.  eration."  
ATLANTA  Hill, Anfernee Hardaway, John  Johnson's physical condition  "I don't have any thoughts  Also,  Johnson's  radiant  
For Pete Babcock, the issue  Stockton and Reggie Miller.  would be an issue if he was se­ about it," Wilkens said. "It's  demeanor would be a perfect  
of whether Magic Johnson  Johnson played on the origi­ lected this year.  not my decision, so why should  fit on a team that doesn't want  
should play at the Atlanta  nal Dream Team that won the  "I  would  assume  that's  I even think about it?"  a  repeat  of  1994  World  
Olympics is simple.  gold at Barcelona in 1992. Last  because people are a little bet­ He would only say he expect.  Championships, when Dream  
"My personal feeling is we  week, he rejoined the Lakers  ter educated today than they  ed the selection committee to  Team II won the gold but was  
ought to select the two best  after a 4 1/2-year retirement  were four years ago about how  evaluate Johnson on the same  tainted by the boorish behavior  
players," said Babcock, gen­ and immediately began lobby­ the infection is spread, what's  terms as everyone else.  of some players.  
eral manager of the Atlanta  ing for a spot on the Atlanta  viable and what's not viable in  "That's why you keep two  "The only other issue that  
Hawks.  team, noting his international  terms of the danger," Babcock  spots open, if someone gets  comes into play in our di­ 
"If a player sat out 10 years,  «;JXperience.  said.  hurt, or if you see that a player  rective from USA Basketball is  
it wouldn't make a difference  "I know I can get out there  "That includes Earvin's own  is playing great and you want  to make sure we absolutely  
to me if he played well enough  and do my thing," said the 36­ health. More is known today  to give him an opportunity,"  pay attention to the issue of  
to earn a spot."  year-old Johnson, who had 21  about how strenuous activity  Wilkens said.  character,"  Babcock  said.  
Babcock is part of the USA  points, seven rebounds and six  affects his own  health. Ev­ Malone  is  the  only  true  "They didn't want a repeat of  
Basketball committee that will  assists in a  victory Sunday  erything I've heard so far is  power forward on the current  what happened in Toronto.  
get together at the end of the  night over Utah.  positive along those lines in  10-man Dream Team. That  That really misrepresented the  
NBA season to pick the final  Johnson retired from the  terms of him coming back to  also happens to be the position  country and made the league  
....  two members of the U.S. bas­ NBA in 1991 after contracting  play."  Johnson - 27 pounds heavier  look bad, too.  
ketball team for the Atlanta  the virus that causes AIDS. He  The Dream Team will be  than his prime -is now play­ "That's the only other char­ 
Games.  played at Barcelona the fol­ coached by Lenny Wilkens of  ing with the Lakers.  acteristic we're dealing with in  
Already,  the  third  in­ lowing year even though some  the Hawks, the winningest  "We have some flexibility  terms of a formula. That cer­ 
stallment of the Dream Team  foreign players expressed con­ coach  in  NBA  history.  He  with Olajuwan, O'Neal and  tainly wouldn't hurt Earvin  
includes Shaquille O'Neal, Ha­ cerns about banging elbows  steadfastly refused to take a  Robinson," Babcock said. "But  Johnson at all."  
Wanted:  
Reporters,  
photographers and editors.  Just in case  
Join The  
Observer team.  you decide to buy  
INTERVIEW WITH  

PEACE CORPS 
As a Peace Corps Volunteer in education, you can bring the world to students in developing nations through math, science, English, and other subjects. 'You can qualify for many positions with an 

the books
educa\ion deg~or ~bachelor's degree . 
.oVer 2;I!iQ:'d"~riV9lunteers are -;se~g~lgl:>l~ in ovet-7!J~countries ar~~-1!'"-~orlp-helping-~tu.Wnts learn 
·::andmakiq~il difference in ~ture. ._ ;;~.,'"~rfl?nt~Join~f-\ 
:·.''>lnte··.. •~<
'· ftiiSiW'lf~'A: 
F~~~~~~2,(: 

this semester.
~ ~:Jq··lll·-.(.OO)t;IJ'. 
:~ \"Sign up for interviews_in .>iheptac€inent office, V!)i{musthave a completed ppplication to qualify fotarCinterview slot. 
For more information call Brian at 800-424-8580 (option 1) 
Visit Peace Corps' homepage at http:/ /www.peacecorps.gov 
-~·PEACE CORPS 
~The toughestjob you'll ever love. 
VolunMn mustbe US citizens and meetotherqualilic.atiOM. Th!.! tt:nn of service btwoyean.The mlnlmwnage Is 18,butthere Ism 
upperage llmlt. Peace Corp5 dOI!II not dl5criminateon thebasis of race, sex, religion, age (over 40) or sexual orientation. AU Peace Corps programs are admlnl5tt!red on a mn-dlscrlminatory basts. 



It's everywhere you want to be: 
<0 Visa U.S.A. Inc. 199S 


.-----~~-----~-------~~-----------------------------------~----------------------~--~----­

The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
almost entirely of former line­backers such as Henaldo Wynn and Corey Bennett. 
The process of letting a play­er grow into his body is fine when they are not needed for immediate impact, but with the graduation of Paul Grasmanis, such is not the case. The cur­rent Irish squad looks to have little bulk inside. 
Class of 2000 members Brad Williams and Jason Ching may very well change that. 
Both lineman are USA Today 1st team All-Americans, over 250 pounds, and should bolster the smallish line, while also al­lowing linebackers to stay line­backers. 
Such changes in position are a fact of life with Notre Dame football, so an athlete who signs today with designs on playing quarterback may end up somewhere in the defensive backfield. 
Eric Chappell may fall into that category. 
The 6-foot-5, 220-pound Chappell has been recruited by many as a quarterback, but on Notre Dame's official recruiting visit list, he was tabbed as a defensive back. 
Berry may be the exact oppo­site. 
Reports have indicated that the highly athletic Berry has his eye on the offensive back­field, at quarterback, or even tailback. 
Only time will tell for sure. 
But at least today is a start. 
Recycle 

The Observer 
bare 
essentials 


8 1 5 W McKinley Mishawaka !College Square -accross from Town & Country) 
Grand Opening Celebration Feb. 8,9, 10.11 
TANNING I month $30 o Hair o o Nails o 
~~Z)~ 
257-8266 

OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, February 9 (4PM) through dinner, Saturday, February I 0 
sign up at the Campus Ministry office in Hesburgh Library by Wed, February 7th at 5 PM 
any questions? call the Campus Ministry Office at 631-7800. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
page 15 

.._ 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAlL 

Associated Press  defensive coordinator Vince  
COLUMBUS, Ohio Ohio State coach John Cooper said he has not spoken to anyone with the Arizona Cardinals about their vacant  Tobin was the only person being pursued for the job. King said Cooper had interviewed twice for the job. King said Monday that he had not spoken to Cooper.  
head coaching position. But he also said he would be willing to. ''I'm not saying I don't have any interest in the job, because  "This story comes from a member of Cooper's staff who has been telling people in the coaching fraternity that Cooper is a candidate," King said.  
if they wanted to talk to me I'd be foolish not to listen," Cooper said. "If they offer me $1 million a  "I don't believe that for one minute," Cooper said. "If he is saying that, then who is it? ... I tell my guys exactly what is  
year to coach out there, I'd be foolish to turn that down." In interviews Monday, Cooper -the head coach at Arizona State for three years before jumping to Ohio State in 1988  going on all the time and they know there is nothing to this." Ohio State issued a statement on Jan. 17 to respond to rumors on the subject. The statement said Cooper  
-said he had not spoken to Cardinals owner Bill Bidwill or anyone else from the NFL team's organization.  had not been contacted by the Cardinals and had no interest in the vacant position. "I am very happy at Ohio  
Bidwill  told  the  Arizona  State," Cooper said in the state­ 
Hepublic that he had not spo­ ment.  
ken to any college coaches  Cooper will be in his ninth  
about the job. Peter King, a writer for Sports Illustrated, mentioned Cooper as a candidate for the  year at Ohio State when the 1996 season begins. In his eight years at Ohio State, Cooper is 65-28-4, with  
job on the halftime show during  one shared Big Ten title and  
Sunday's Pro Bowl in Honolulu.  seven bowl appearances. But  
King was asked by ABC com­mentator Brent Musberger whether Indianapolis Colts  he has drawn fire for beating rival Michigan once in eight tries and going 1-6 in bowls.  <i,  

Friday, February 16 
8:00 PM Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium 
page 16 
Square 
continued from page 20 
ing to be a larger obstacle than effort for the Irish. The quick­er Jaspers repeatedly forced the Irish into turnovers and rushed shots while collecting the majority of loose balls and second half rebounds. 
"They were smaller, but a great deal quicker at every spot, and even off the bench," admitted MacLeod, whose team fell to 7-12 (2-9). 
Center Justin Phoenix proved to be the most elusive of the Jaspers, leading his team with 17 points, including a 9-10 per­formance from the charity stripe. He was complemented by Heshimu Evans' 14 points and 12 rebounds. 
In contrast, Notre Dame re­ceived substandard production from its center position, as the trio of Matt Gotsch, Marcus Young and Phil Hickey com­bined for three points on 1-7 shooting. 
The Phil Hickey saga took a positive turn, as he was able to make the plane trip with his teammates. 
It was the first time Hickey, who has missed two road games due to a recently devel­oped fear of flying, boarded a plane since the team's January 1 trip to Villanova. 
Notre Dame's road woes are, at least temporarily, behind them, as the Irish finish the season with five of seven games in the friendlier confines of the Joyce Center, starting with Sunday's 12:00 p.m. tip against St. John's. 
Notre Dame is 4-4 at home, as opposed to 3-8 on the road. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will offered on Monday and VVednesday evenings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. Alllevels ate Wt)l· come, but space is limited. You must register ~Jtdv~ce in the RecSports office andthe fee is $30. For more info., call l-6100. Open to all NDi'~tij~ dents, faculty, and staff. · Mountain Biking Cl~Jb: Meeting Feb. 8, 7 pm in LaFortune. All levels wel­come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions.• 236-7266 . Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Notre Dame or St. Mary's who are inter­ested in intercollegiate bowl­ing competition. please con· tact Jason at 4-1065. Archery Mini-course: RecSports will be sponsoring an Archery mini-course today, February 7 from 7-9 pm. Rowing Club: There is a mandatory team meeting tonight, February 7 at 8:00 in 
122 Hayes-Healy. Bring your checkbooks. 
Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
• Cm..LEGE BASKETBJU.t. 
Kingsbury suspended for inappropriate behavior 
Bob Bowlsby said in a state­ment. 
Kingsbury served a one-game suspension for un­sportsmanlike conduct against Indiana last March 12. That penalty included a private rep­rimand and the suspension was served at the same time as a suspension he received for pleading guilty on last Nov. 10 on a charge of public intoxica­tion. 
A few months earlier, in the summer, Kingsbury also plead­ed guilty and paid a fine on a trespassing charge in which he and some friends took a late­night swim at an Iowa City apartment complex swimming pool. 
Coach Tom Davis, who had no comment on the university's action Tuesday, suspended Kingsbury for the Hawkeyes' first two exhibition games as a result of the public intoxication charge. 
Kingsbury, whose range usu­ally exceeds 25 feet, shot 39.4 percent from 3-point range last year while averaging 16.8 points. 
He has struggled this season, making just 52 of 175 3-point­ers (29. 7 percent) while scoring 
13.3 points a game. 
Kingsbury scored 553 points in 33 games last season, the most ever by an Iowa sopho­more, while setting records for 3-pointers in a game (9), sea­son (117) and career (161). 
Kingsbury has an unlisted telephone number and was not available for comment. 

''eael1 tttte~ t•eaelt otte; eaclt otte~ teaclt.~~ 
Black Catholic Series 
~ 
REv. ALBERT J. McKNIGHT, C.S.SP. 
President, Southern Development Foundation National Organiz~r, Black Unity and Spiritual Togetherness New Orleans, Louisiana 

By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Iowa's Chris Kingsbury, the school record-holder for 3­pointers, was suspended Tues­day for the next three games because of unsportsmanlike behavior in Iowa's loss to Penn State last weekend. 
Kingsbury was suspended for an incident after a second-half play in which he bumped into Penn State guard Dan Earl and then threw an elbow at the back of Earl's head as the Nittany Lion guard was bring­ing the ball upcourt. 
"We felt something had to be done," said university spokes­woman Ann Rhodes. "I am in complete agreement with the sanctions." 
The Big Ten office in Park Ridge, Ill., said in a statement it has publicly reprimanded Kingsbury for "striking ... a player" during Penn State's 95­87 overtime victory. 
The suspension, the third one in two seasons against the 6­foot-5 junior from Hamilton, Ohio, means Kingsbury will miss Wednesday's game at Northwestern, Sunday's game against visiting Indiana and the Feb. 13 contest at Michigan. 
"Chris' behavior has been inappropriate at times and this suspension is intended to send the message that we expect the highest standards of conduct from our student-athletes both on and off the playing sur­faces," men's athletic director 

"Racism: our national Disease Getting sick was not our fault. Getting well is our responsibility.~~ 
Wednesday, February 7, 7:15pm 

SPRING BREAK 7 NIGHTS: 100% LOWEST PRICE GUARANTEE! 
*From Detroi~ Cleveland, Columbus, Indianapolis NY, DC/Bal~ Richmond
ALL-INCLUSIVE SPECIAL: 5 Breakfasts Licensed
$'3S 

5 Lunches Bonded 1\ri\N'f)~J) 5Dinners Insured Campus reps: Organize asmall group 7 nights beverage party and travel free with lots of cash 
Package includes: Round trip airfare (Chic/KC add $20) 7 nights hotel accommodations (quads), round trip transfers from airport to hotel, Surf & Sun Tours famous welcome party, FREE pool, beach and hottest night club parties, 24 hour American staff on-site, service charges, gratuities and hotel taxes. Call for full details. This is the best spring break deal anywhere! 
Don't be left in the cold•••Call now. JI"VO'I!( Ullvt:tci>JUI aver /Oyeors 1632 E. Algonquin Rd. 8471101·1010 Schaumburg, ll 60173 
Fr. Albert McKnight, C.S.Sp., A PRIEST WITH A PLAN, as a pioneer in a rural community development in the Deep South. Mter twenty-five years of Cooperative organizing, he saw a need to incorporate a spiritual dimension into the the cooperative development movement. B.U.S.T. is an attempt to bring these two dimensions -eco­nomic development and spirituality-together. 

.......................................... 
1\S SI~I~N ON (~liS NI~WS "<UI IIOlJltS"
...•.•.......•..•....•....•...•••••.•.••.. 
BREAK 
CO~I'..,;T,; 5 &. 7 N•f::J"H,T Ttlti'.S 
DAYTONA BEACH 
I tJ j'lt,qiiI

1·~-$·00~S·lJ·N·C'114S!E: 
STEAMBOAT

TOLL FI?EE lt-IFOI?II4AT10t-l & I?ESEI?VATIOt-IS 
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 

DR SURF OVER TO OUR WEB SITE AT: 

ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES /LENGTH OF STAY. 
HILTON HEAD ISLAND 



..., 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
·~ • WOMEN5S BASKETBAU. 
Poll ignores recent Irish loss 
No. 24 Notre Dame to meet Pittsburgh tonight 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish prepare for tonight's game against the Pittsburgh Lady Panthers, they are experiencing a mix of humility and celebration based on the events of the last few days. 
Last Saturday, the women's basketball team dropped their game to the Lady Knights of Rutgers 73-62, a surprising and disappointing result con­sidering the fact that Notre Dame had defeated them ear­lier in the season. 
One might expect that this loss would severely dim the hopes of entering the national top-25 rankings, which the Irish have been on the fringe of for the last several weeks. Their play of late in the Big East, seemed to merit this na­tional acclaim. 
Despite their 14-4 record (9-1 in the Big East), the Irish con­tinued to be overlooked in the polls. 
However, to the surprise of all those that follow the team, this week's Associated Press Top 25 has been released, and guess what: Notre Dame is now ranked 24th in the nation. This is the first time since the 1990-91 season that the Irish have been ranked in the top 25. 
"We were really surprised," stated junior forward Beth Morgan. "Winning all those games, and suddenly, we lose and we're in the rankings. It's nice to finally get the recogni­tion." 
Despite this added bonus, the women realize that they have much more business to take care of if they are to achieve their goals, and cannot let this hype affect their play. 

"It's not that big of a deal," commented Morgan. "There are bigger things to concentrate · on, so we have to look beyond the rankings." 
One thing they have to do is get ready for Pitt. Like Rutgers, the Lady Panthers, who are 4­16 (3-8 in Big East play), do not have a winning record, but will pose a threat if the Irish allow 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Wednesday, February 7, 1996 


themselves to become compla­cent. But don't expect that to happen. After Saturday's game, the Irish looked at the loss as a wake-up call in order to prevent that complacency to set in at any time during the remainder of the season. 
"We can't think that any game is automatic," said junior forward Katryna Gaither. "Anybody can beat you in the Big East. We can use this game to help us in the future." 
With this attitude, they ac­knowledge that they must do certain things to win against Pitt tonight. One such thing is to regain the focus they had be­fore last weekend. Going into the Rutgers game, the Irish had won 8 of their previous 9 games. 

Notre Dame will have to con­tain top scorers Latia Howard and Stephanie Patho, who av­erage 13.6 and 12.5 points per game respectively, if they are to prevent another upset. Howard also pulls down 7.3 boards per game. 
"We have to concentrate on our strengths, meaning that we have to rebound well and play good defense, which was lack­ing Saturday," said Morgan. 

Spotlight 
continued from page 20 
"Our defense went to sleep in the second half," Wood said. "They pulled the back-door cut play on us three times in a row." 
Saint Mary's foul trouble in the second half also factored in the loss. As the Belles contin­ued to foul, Lake Forest contin­ued to take advantage. 
Lake Forest shot 90% from the free throw line, scoring 27 points. 
The Belles weren't quite accurate, shooting only 60% 
·:~~1 ' ,,.. ·... ;. 
from the line. 
"We had poor defensive posi­tioning, and we were slapping and grabbing a lot," Wood said. 
Saint Mary's kept the game close with freshmen Sheila Sandine and Nicole Giffin in double figures. Sandine scored 16 points, and Giffin added 11. 
Lake Forest had three players in double digits. 
"The crowd really kept us in the game. It was nice to be able to hear the fans cheering," sophomore forward Julie McGill said. 
The Belles hope to rebound from this loss in their game against IUSB on Thursday. 
·ti&nhlfestival 
f;~ <~ ;·,· :;~ 
< 


Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
~OLlP. ~ol..t.. · · · 
MISTER BOFFO 
01\ 01\ooT.... "C~>.UC.tl"f Cl\E.I\TIK~ 01'1 fltii\NC.E ~XA/11. (:..o To 
UDEK"I" 1\ffAIR'>. 
Go l:>11tEC.TL'1 To,, AfFPI•It'". 

DILBERT 
WHY IS IT THAT THE PEOPLE WITH THE 
LEAST NEED FOR STOP-AGE SPACE HA.VE 
IHE BIGGEST OFFICES"? 

\  
CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  26 Type of  64 Eastern  
1 Former Toyota model 6 Grenades, e.g. 10 This may be tiled 14 Church recesses 15 Roaster's place?  servitude 29 1 1 1 = 3, for example 33 Noted name in puppetry 35 Buzzer 36 Theme of this puzzle 43Birds -­feather  princess 65 Swear 66 Spider nests 67 Trimming tools 68 Cross products 69 Narrow valley 70 Is not allowed to, for short  
16 Humorist Bombeck 17 "Romeo and Juliet" event 18 Slight trace 20 Gap1ng, as the mouth 22 Dizziness 23 Bat wood  44 Woody vine 45 Trial conference 50 Whole lot of apples 54 Marilyn role 56 Transfer -­57 Actress De Mornay 59 Most lucid  DOWN 1 Minor despot 2 Revolt 3 Analysis start 4 Breathing spell 5 Fictional wirehair 6 Source of TV revenue  
24 Indulge, m a way  62 Unfavorably known  7 Purple color a Chintzy ones  
9 Fish-eating  
hawk  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Enumerate 
11 Not a copy: Abbr. 12 Melville classic 13 Cooler 19 ''I'd consider --honor" 21 Subject for Aristotle 25 ----Beach, Fla. 27 Brokaw's network 28 "Wonderful!" 

No Tko13l E/11··· r'~.-... jll.., u..e fl\'1 "IJA(J..<;, l"t""\ A"t"I\L.ETI'. ~1'-T 
OuT Qf jf'•l.. ffti<E • 4,p..D.•• 

JOE MARTIN 
SCOIT ADAMS 
IS Tl·\15 WHERE WOULD I BE.CA.US£ I PUT IT? t'I..Y 
WOULDI'{T CU13ICLE 15 FULL 
LET YOU GEl OF STACKS OF A FILE PROPRIUf\RY CACllNE.T? DOCUMENTS. 
) 


57 Meander

34 M ·CCCL 48 Following a 
58--collar GO Composer 
36 Santa's laughs curve 
37 "--Loved You" 49 Flinch 
Khachaturian
("Carousel" hit) 51 Violent agitation 
61 Zilch
38Bit 

52 Hidden 
62 Be off guard 
39 Bad check 

53 Fashion 63 Break a 40 Single-season maven's quest Commandment home-run king 
41 United

30 Quick score in Get answers to any three clues 
baseball 42 Churchill 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
symbol

31 "I didn't know 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
that!" 46Jostles 
HAPPY BIRTIIDAY! IN TilE \/EXT YEAR OF \'OUR LIFE: -\lthough you arr generally lucky in 11nancial mailers, !herr may be 1unes when you find yourself short on cash. While generosily can win 
·vou new friends, it could also cu1 ;,llo your savings. The business oul­look brighlens nexl fall. Do nol le1 an occasional setback prevenc you from achieving your career goals. Allhough romancr resemblrs a roller coas1er al limes, you love lhe exdtemenc it brings. You and pan­ncr reach a new underslanding. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: jazzman Eubie Blake, ,IUihor Laura Ingalls Wilder, pilcher Dan Quisrnberry, actress Erin Gray. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): (This could be the besl day of your week!) An upsurge of confidence is mdicated. Do no1 lei wealthy friends decide whal is besl for you finan­cially. Gambling lips are unlikely to pay off. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): When considrring a change, remem­ber lhat being comfortablr is very 1mportan11o you. Lifes1yle decisions should nol be diclaled by money alone. A friend's invilalion could lead to romance. 
GEMINI (May 21-Junr 20): A misunderslanding at home could hamper progress at work. A com­promise will clrar the air. Keep your ambilions in proper perspeclive. Self-reslraint is rssrntial. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The work scene will be more crowd­ed lhan usual today. Dress your besl and seek lhe limrlighl. PUI your artislic lalenls on display. A good evening for anything lhat givrs you food for thought 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your go-gelter altiiUdr moves you closer 10 financial securily. Oihrrs acknowledge your accomplish­menls. A raise or promolion is pos­sible. Pooling funds wilh a friend for fun and profil, proves highly rewarding. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): A bold approach will impress your co· workers. Tackle new tasks wilh con­fidence. Choosing your words care­fully will prevrnl misundersland­ings. Voicing your heartfell con­crms helps creatr good feelings. 
LIBRA (Srpl. 23-0cl. 22): Friends may be well-tnlenlioned but poorly infonned. Do not rely on lhr informalion lhey provide. A cur­lailed social schedule keeps you on a srrady coursr where work is con­cerned. 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): Becoming a member of a special learn or group holds greal promise. By joining forces with olhers, you gain companionship. Romance is a source of joy. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Family ties are slrenglhrned in meaningful ways on this red leiter day. lnfluen1ial proplr express admiration for your abililies. A pro­motion or nrw job offer is likely! 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Lrnd a sympalhetic ear 10 a troubled frirnd or co-worker. Trust your iniUilive promptings in busi· ness. Turn away from eccenlric ideas and serve humanily wilh humilily. Family ties can be strengthened through tact and affec· lion. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Dust yourself off afler a rudr awak­rning. Planning a new strategy will help you gel bar.k on track. A new romantic attachment should be happy. Give your loved ones your undivided anrnlion this evening. 
PISCES (Frb. 19-March 20): Move forward wilh confidrncr. New business ventures enjoy highly favorable innuences. The financial piciUrr looks brighler. Crralivr inspiralion comrs from srvrral dif­ferenl sources. A shopping trip will uncover some good bargains. A void going overboard. 
• OF INTEREST 
Post~graduate service: Passionist lay missioners will give a general information session from 7-8:30 
p.m. tonight. A variety of service opportunities are available tonight at the esc. 
Ed Falco will be reading at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the CCE at the Richard Sullivan Seminar . 
The Beijing Women's Conference will be hosting a presentation by Sr. Tarianne DeYonker, O.P. tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the Badin 24-hr. lounge. Refreshments to follow the presentation. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame North Beef Turnover Grilled Sole Stuffed Shells  South Tomato Soup/Chili Chicken Jambalaya Meatball Grinder  
Saint Mary's  
Baked Ham Chicken Fried Steak  

Artichoke, Olive, Rice Casserole 
TAKE THE KEYS CALl ACAB. TAKE ASTANO . 

fRifNOS DON'T lH fRifNDS DRIVf DRUNK 
. .. . 

~:-:-:-:-:-:·· ·· -:···.··.·:·:·:-;.;.;.:-:·:·w..:·:·:.,;.:-:-:·:·:-:~...w..:.;.:.:<-:.:.:.:·:·:.:.:~·:·::::·:·:·:·:=:·:·:=:·:·:·:·:·x;:.;-:·:·:i:·:«~·:·:;:-x-:«<·:«·»»>;·:-:.:·»X-»."<-:·>>>:«·:-:..-v.x-:.m-:-:w:wx«·».»>x·:·:·:-:v:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·i·:·:·:·:<·:·:·=·:·:-:·:·:·:~·=·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:·:·:-:·:·:·:-:-:-:·:·x·:~:;;:; ..;;;..;:;w~i·;·:::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:::::-:-:-:::::::::::::::-::·:::i:>:·:·:::·:~:~.:»>X=:·:::·:·:::~..:..-::·i.:::->......:-:-»."':·:-:·~:·:·:-".-:·:·:·~~:~·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·~ 
IIQQI:t:."'Y.:;:•:···:···:·:·:·:·:·:•:•:::·:·:.·:::·:·:···:·:·:·:···~»:·:·:·X·!·:--""~D: 'X'-.'<-»:::<:·!o:·:::·:···:·:·:·:·:::::···:·:.::·::::!:::•:·i•:•:::•:·:::-:::::·::::::~~::::::.»:.::~:...:::·;,::::::::~~::~(&~!ili·~:~..:...::~':;."~t·~~b::e~W"*-=·":::e.:::·:·:·.-:·:·:::::·:::::·:::-:-:·:·:;:.:;:::::·::;~.:;;::.;.;«·::.::·:::::::::i~:::::·:•:::::::«-:·x:'.-:::::«~'!:!;~;::•:~::•::;i:~::~~~;i;::i·:::·:::{:;.;::::::::~;:;::-::::;:::::::;!!·: 

february 1fl -15, 8 o"clor:k at hesiJurg'fl auditorium 
~-·::•:•:•!·!,.•!•!•!O:•:•:•!•:•:-:•:-:-:•:•:•:•:•:•!•:-'/.O:•!O:o(>!•;.-,.:...;1}'~~~11RII:QI~O~QI~:;y.-;.•-:.;•:•!•'O:-:r",.:•:•:-:·:•:•:•:•!!•:•:•:•:•:·:~·!·!•!•,•!•!•!•!"!"_.:.-..;{~:-t-»."~·:t>:r:·:·:-:·:·~~~:f.--!rU;:r:_.:-:·:>~·:0!·:·:.,;.;.;-.«<~<.o.'«<:~*:Wo~~1~'.»U~~·:->.:•»:«-W:•:•:•:•;:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:•:.:.;.;.;.;.;.,;.;.;•:.;.:.:•:•:•:•!~::«-:·:O:•!(•!•!.;.:«.~»~X.;.W,.:.;.;.;.•.;.~~:«·:·:·:·:.:••::··>>::oc.~:::"":':"":" ~cY.·::.·~·:._..;:·.:·.·:·-:·:··.·::·-···::::;.~»·~·w.·:·:v.-~~~;_:; $jX$'"~:-:'~:.:-::;-~...;~:o:::~:::::::-:::::::::::~.::·::w..:~::·:.;::::::w...l...o:t:.~..:i&.">~~<~:t.:Uk::.:'<"«=-;.::::x.::.:-:.:~~~.. w r J i6Nttetew r sr.c::::».::~::~&::>N:~·:·:·:·:::·:·:·:;;::::::::::::·:·:~::;;::·:::::·::::>.:~::..:·::t.::·-.:«:~-...w~::w..x·:::::·:::.~:::::~~ 
.l~):r··t~ JCl:·~~if~~~~· t l 4:} :~f~:l:-tf :~l;;i: ::)· t/? r;:= :f ;f:~i:~;:~:::·f~·?:;;:1 f tt*·~ :f {~ f~· J~· :~) ·~:lt*:~/ 
.. 


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, February 7, 1996 
Better late than never 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Doug Gottlieb had six assists, but only two points last night as the Irish shot a pathetic 30 percent from the field. 
Playing square in the Garden 
Injury dims national spotlight 
• MEN'S BASKETBAU. 


Irish return to New York spells disaster this time 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
It was a cruel twist of fate which ensured that, almost one week after achieving its biggest win of the season,

• 
Notre Dame reached its nadir in the same location. 
Madison Square Garden proved to be as menacing last night as it had been hos­pitable last Wednesday, serv­ing as the site for Notre Dame's second worse loss of the season, a 65-44 decision at the hands of Manhattan. 
In a game without confer­ence implications, the Irish lacked the intensity necessary to compete with the Metro Atlantic champion Jaspers, who improved to 12-10 on the year. 
"They were ready for us," said Irish head coach John MacLeod. "Once we began to falter we couldn't recoup. They out-fought us and were more aggressive." 
Abominable shooting 
plagued the Irish throughout, as Notre Dame shot an abysmal 30 percent from the field, a new season low. 
"We suffered through some long, painful, excruciating scoring droughts that you can attribute to Manhattan being all over us defensively," said MacLeod. 
"A combination of their ag­gressive defense and our in­ability to move the ball really cost us." 
With the exception of for­ward Pat Garrity, whose 20 points preserved the smallest modicum of respectability for the Irish, offensive woes reached epidemic propor­tions. 
Both Derek Manner and Ryan Hoover managed to score eight, but no one else on the Irish roster could con­tribute more than three points. 
"This was an entirely differ­ent team than the one that played St. John's well last week," noted MacLeod. "That was one of the poorest offen­sive efforts we've had in quite some time." 
Athleticism, though, is prov-
see SQUARE/ page 16 
Men's Basketball 
vs. St. John's, Feb. 11, noon 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Pittsburgh, Tonight, 7:00p.m. 
Fencing 
Women at North Carolina, Feb. 10 Men at North Carolina, Feb. 11 

By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
They say patience is a virtue. So is a 4.3 40-yard dash, By exercising the former, it appears as if Lou Holtz might 
just get a little bit of the lat­ter. 
Today, the world of col­lege football will go a long way to finding out for sure, as this is the first day high school athletes are able to sign binding letters of intent as to which university they will attend. 
Notre Dame expects to collect between 23-25 such signatures on what is now known as National Signing Day. Hallmark-esque as it may sound, the announce­ment of which players decide to spend their next four (or five) years under the Golden Dome cannot be underestimated. 
One would expect that with just a couple scholar­
ships still available, the class would be pretty much com­plete. 
Think again. 

As The Observer went to press, it appears as if consen­sus All-American cornerback Gary Berry may be among the late signees. 
"I haven't made up my mind yet," Berry told a Columbus, Ohio televsion station last evening. "My two top schools are Notre Dame and Michigan." 
Columbus sources indicated 

By KATHLEEN POLICY Sports Writer 
Students packed into the Angela Athletic Facility for Tuesday night's 6 7-61 loss to Lake Forest. As ESPN filmed the game for their tribute to coach Marvin Wood, the fans stomped enthusiastically. 
But all of the enthusiasm stopped one minute into the first half when the Saint Mary's leading scorer collided with a rambunctious Lake Forest play­er as she attempted a layup. 
Jennie Taubenheim suffered a lateral cruciate ligament injury that will push her to the sidelines for at least the next two weeks. 
Her teammates greatly missed her presence on the floor. Taubenheim scores an average of 13 points a game. 
"We were very rattled with­out her because she does so many things," junior forward Marianne Banko said. 
But the Belles pulled togeth­er. They ignored the reckless perfect with Lake Forest con­Lake Forest came back from defensive strategies consisting 
stantly in our faces," Banko the locker room aggressive,

of scratches at their arms and 
said. jumping out to an early second screams in their faces. 

The first half was a pitched half lead. 

"It was hard to play because 
battle, with the halftime score 

our offense had to be absolutely see SPOTLIGHT/ page 18
tied at 24. 

Hockey • Women's basketball ranked No. 24 
vs. Michigan, Feb. 9, 7:00 p.m. see page 18 
Indoor Track at Indianapolis Invitational, Feb. 10 
• John Cooper considers the pros 
see page 15

Tennis 
Men and Women at Rolex Indoor • Villanova on a tear 
Championships, Feb. 8-11 
see page 13 

that Berry may postpone the tude. choice. Another crucial piece to the 
Today is not the deadline, puzzle is wide receiver Raki rather just the first day in Nelson. which players can sign the dot­Labeled "a speedster" in re­ted line. cruiting circles, the 6-foot-2, 
Should Berry ink with the 180-pound Nelson announced Sunday evening that he 
-------,\ 
would be signing with the) 
Irish. According to reports, a
1996 ! home visit by offensive coordinator and recruiting maven Dave Roberts
Signing 
swayed the Harrisburg, PA native away from North
Day 
Carolina. 
Now, though, there are canards to the contrary, indicating that Nelson's decision may not be set in stone. 
The speculation ceases today. 
Just as there are impor­tant question marks to be resolved, there are impor­tant exclamation points to be unveiled to the public. 
The Irish traditionally get · Irish, a solid class would be their fair share of behemoths greatly improved. for the offensive line, but the 
The long-coveted Berry, who same can not be said for the stands 6-foot-1 and has been side of the line of scrimmage clocked at 4.3, would immedi­that wins championships. This ately impact a vertically chal­time around, though, the de­lenged cornerback corps. fensive line looks to be the 
Berry would be a prize that haul's impressive area. was well worth the wait. In the recent past, Holtz and 
Many recruiting analysts staff have had a problem re­speculated that the Irish had cruiting big bodies that need lit­quality players already in the tle maturation. This past year's fold but withheld scholarship front, for example, consisted offers to them in hopes of snar­ing someone of Berry's magni­
see IRISH/ page 15 












