
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.7 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MA ' 
Changes mark Sorin's 109th year 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
Following an intensive $1.5 million interior renovation over the summer, Sorin Hall rece­mented its reputation alongside the Main Building and Sacred Heart Basilica as a his­toric centerpiece of the campus. 
Students returning to the University's oldest residence hall this fall were greeted by refur­bishments ranging from freshly plastered walls to rewired electrical and Resnet sys­tems. Central to the changes were improve­ments made to meet Colloquoy 2000's goals of adding more study space and social space to the University's residence halls. 
"Basically. they tore plaster off the walls a·nd ceilings, and they tore up all of the floors. Everything's new from the basement to the third 11oor -everything." explained Father Steve Newton, Sorin's rector. 
From stairwells to drinking fountains to radiators, nearly everything within the 108 year-old building was refurbished or replaced. 
"The University designated us a red-zone building. a building sorely needing repairs... The planning process began a year ago, and the personnel on the University's end of mat­ters were great. We were able to be involved in every decision; colors, paint, carpet," Newton said. "It was a very inclusive process." 
Some of the more noticeable changes include new dormwide oak trim, freshly paint­ed walls. and the enlargement of the first floor lounge. Where barely room for a pool table and a television formerly existed, a merging of the old lounge with an adjacent room current­ly holds a full complement of lounge furniture that now also includes a foosball table. 
Perhaps benefiting from its status as one of the University's ·oldest buildings, Sorin's reno­vation has even resulted in extravagances such as chandeliers in the first 11oor halls, tiled floors beneath drinking fountains and ice 
see SO RIN I page 4 

ND Right to Life challenges veto 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
The campus pro-life group is mounting a charge to support the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act that President Clinton vetoed earlier this year. 
After Masses on Sunday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Notre Dame Right to Life distrib­uted over 1,000 postcards urging Congress to override the president's veto when Congress begins its fall session today. 
Notre Dame Right to Life will distribute an additional 2,000 postcards in the residence halls during the week, according to Maureen Kramlich, president of the student group. Thfl cards were available at several dorm Masses Sunday evening. 
The postcards, part of a nationwide campaign organized by U.S. Catholic bishops, have been circulating at churches around the nation for the last few months. 
Kramlich said 1,024 postcards were signed by people outside the Basilica on Sunday. Millions more have been signed nationwide. 
"The response has been tremendous," said Kramlich. who interned this summer with the National Hight to Life Committee's Office of Federal Legislation in Washington, D.C.. "The House Post Office sent a memo saying the post­card campaign had caused a backlog of mail." 
Students who sign the card can send it to either their home representative or senators or to the congressmen from Indiana. Of the Catholics in the Indiana delegation, only Rep. Pete Visclosky, who represents the northwest corner of the state, voted against the ban in March. 
Rep. Tim Hoerner, who represents the South Bend area, voted in favor of the ban. 
A partial birth abortion uses a "particularly gruesome method," according to Kramlich in a press release. The process, used on fetuses 20 
see ABORTION I page 4 

Bans irk some students 
By CAROLINE BLUM show." 
~.1in1 Mary\ Ediwr Although candles have become an 
increasingly popular trend, many 
Many studPnts arn well aware of students were forced to leave their 
tlw tlmw major policy changes this decorativp, glow candles packed at 
yPar's handbook has brought to thp, beginning of school. Others did 
Saint Mary's: the abolishment of not. 
smoking in the dining hall. the pro-"I still have candles in my room, 
hihition of candles in students' and I'm not getting rid~fthem," an 
rooms, and a policy anonymous student 
mandating written ------------from LeMans said. 
doeunwntalion .of 'lam a responsible "I love candles. 
studf~nts puhliely or They're a decoration privatnly intoxieat-21-year-old. I know piece. 1 am respon­ml. how to drink responsi-sibJp, Anough not to 
Thn policy ban-catch the room on 
ning candlns in the bly. l don't think that if fire. Even my rp,si­dorm rooms n~sult-I have a beer at a bar, 1 dent advisor has fHI from an ahun-candles." danrn of fires in res-should have to worry Another handbook 
idl'nrn halls last about being accused of policy change states ymtr. private intoxication that students Aither 
"You have to publicly or privately 
think. is it really when I get home." intoxicated will be 
worth it'?" Student held accountable for 
Body President .Jen their actions. While 
Turhiak explained. Abby Fleming this practice was 
"i\l'tN all thosn fires administered by sev­
last year. sonwthing era! resident advi­
had to lw donn. It's better to be safe sors in the past. now RAs will be 
than to burn the hall down. It's a n~quired to document the incident. 
IWt:flSSily." "We want to make sure students 
Olher students disagree. are safe." LeMans resident advisor 
"I had c~andlns in my room last Diane Grant said. "If a student 
y1~ar and I never lit thAm," junior needs help or is sick, we want to 
and lloly Cross resident Emily help them. We want to create a safe 
Broussard said. "I think the fires environment for students." 
last year resulted from carelessness. Private intoxication includes stu­
I understand that we need to look dents, legal drinkers or not, who arp, 
out for fires, but I don't understand 
why we can't have candles for see POLICY I page 4 
Etch and sketch 
The Observer/Rachael Sedert>erg 
M
onday's warm temperatures brought Sister Kelly's drawing class outdoors to enjoy the weather before it fades. Above, sophomore Mary Robinson traces the water garden while Megan Oswald, left, tries her hand at a landscape. 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Furthering 
the Irish Cause 
The time has come. 
Margee Husemann We have been in class­
Associate Viewpoint 
es for a week now. We 
Editor
have submitted to that ethereal bliss and sub­limity of Notre Dame life which allows us to pare our life into small sections of free time, study time, class time, and other. Most of us have allowed our connection with reality to be fed to us by The Observer. 
The summer is officially over, and the time for action is upon us. This Thursday our football team will explode onto the field with the zeal, enthusiasm, and experience that the legacy of Notre Dame football instills. Proud te carry the colors of our school and confident of their training, they will prepare to recapture glory. 
In the past years our fans have wavered between mirth and murder. They have called for the dismissal of coaches and the canonization of players. Under the careful scrutiny of the NBC nation, the team has become an outward symbol of Notre Dame's prestige and a source for a series ofludi­crous controversies. 
Depending on what poll you are looking at, Notre Dame is ranked fifth or sixth in the nation. The schedule this year appears to be fairly thin, especially with a potentially lack­luster Ohio State team to tarnish that rivalry. The stadium is mired under a web of con­struction. Bitter seniors will realize that their cheering contribution may be tainted by an October 12 GRE date. 
What does all of this matter? When the 
team rushes out of the tunnel and out onto 
Vanderbilt's field in a few days, we'll all 
glance up at television screens and feel at 
least a slight twinge of bliss as the sun glints 
off those golden helmets. 
Football is not Notre Dame, the students 
p.re}'l.otre Dame. Football is .one of the many 'things that link the students. For three 
hours every week, some of the differences 
between us are allowed to fade. Football is 
not some metaphysical link between all 
races and creeds on campus. It isn't a magi­
cal world filled with frolicking fairies and 
prancing ponies. Sure, sometimes the games 
are filtered through hazes of smoke and 
alcohol, but that doesn't make it mystical. 
Football is America's simplistic way of 
labeling the University of Notre Dame. 
People who don't know that Notre Dame is a 
prominent academic force and that it gains 
more prestige every year do know that Lou 
Holtz is the coach of the Fighting Irish. 
People who don't know that Notre Dame's 
Women's Soccer Team is the best in the 
nation do know that Ron Powlus red-shirted 
his first year. People who don't know that 
Notre Dame has a strong commitment to ser­
vice do know that 1988 was the last year 
that Notre Dame won the National 
Championship. 
Nevertheless, we as the students and facul­
ty of Notre Dame can find pride in our foot­
ball identity. We can feed on that love/hate 
relationship with the media. We should sup­
port our team as unconditionally as we sup­
port the other programs on campus. 
Football provides us a conduit to show the 
nation our greatness. It's up to us to create 
greatness, not only in football but in all that 
the Irish do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Iootw's STAFF  
News  Production  
Derek Betcher  Jackie Moser  
Maureen Hurley Sports Brian Reinrhaler Graphics Tom Roland  Tara Grieshop Maureen Hurley Lab Tech Brandon Candura Sarah O'Connor  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associ.ued Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
• WORW AT A GLANCE 
Northern route decreases Edouard's intensity 

BOSTON 
Hurricane Edouard plowed slowly north this morning, decreasing in intensity as it headed toward Nova Scotia, but still packing high winds and drenching rain that washed out Labor Day parades and picnics. 
"We've seen the brunt of what it's going to give us," said Charles Foley, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service. "It wasn't quite up to what was advertised." 
On its heels was Hurricane Fran, which picked up strength as it tracked a northerly course toward the Bahamas and the Florida coast. 
Edouard came closest to eastern Cape Cod and Nantucket island caus­ing power outages and coastal flood­ing. 
At 10 a.m., Edouard's eye was about 95 miles southeast of Nantucket and moving northeast at about 14 mph, with top sustained winds at 80 mph. 
Edouard had passed about 80 miles from Nantucket, where winds gusted up to 75 mph. Forecasters said it was unlikely the storm would get as close 
Chicago man buys Papal Escort 
AUBURN, Ind. 
A 1975 Ford Escort GL selling for $102,000? Well. the option package capped the deal. The Escort was once Pope John Paul II's personal car. and its buyer at Kruse International's annu­al Labor Day weekend sale gets a free trip to Rome thrown in. There's also a personal visit with the pontiff, who will turn over the keys to the bluish-silver 

car. A man from the Chicago area, who refused to be identified, made the winning bid Monday at Kruse International's Auburn '96 Collector Car Auction. Included in the trip to Rome is a private Mass in the pope's chapel at St. Peter's Basilica, a picture with the pope and a tour of parts of the Vatican that most tourists never see. The pontiff used the four-door car when he was known as Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, and it's been in storage since he became pope in 1978. Proceeds from the sale will be used for funding the expansion of the Polish Pilgrim Home in Rome and for scholarships and expanding the Catholic University in Lublin. Poland. 
Dole promises "bridge to lower taxes" 
ST. LOUIS 
Summoning the memories of two popular post-war presidents, Republican Bob Dole launched his fall cam­paign Monday under the Gateway Arch, depicting him­self as a "bridge to lower taxes." He and runningmate Jack Kemp called President Clinton's bridge to the 21st century -a phrase the president has used frequently -"a toll bridge" for which "every inch of the way, you pay and pay and pay." Thousands of energized sup­porters greeted the two GOP candidates at a muggy Labor Day rally under the 630-foot spiral of stainless steel on the banks of the Mississippi River, a monument to the historic opening of the West and America's pio­neering spirit. "We're here on this Labor Day to kick off a campaign that is going to be a gateway to a bright and shinny future for the American people," Dole told the crowd. ·estimated by local Dole supporters at least 15,000 people. It was one of the largest. most enthusi­as~ic crowds Dole has addressed so far in his car­paign. 
• Sllt.JTH BEND WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 3. 
~~-eather~ forecast for daytim:_c()n~i.".~~a!!~-h~!.' -~~!".!"'!~~!:s__,... 
Tuesday 
Thursday Friday 
; 
Saturrday 
,.-....if' 

Q/l/),aa~ {)
,,',,,~,~···.·.····=·.::=·.:::·-=..-=.-=. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Vis ASSOCIBted Press GraphicsNet 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........._
......,........ 
~ 
./
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L a ESI [Til 0 . ~ 8 ~ ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW IC£ SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 81 68 Dallas 91 66 New Orleans 88 72 Baltimore 86 61 Denver 91 56 New York 88 66 
~ c::1 
Boston 82 63 Los Angeles 85 68 Philadelphia 87 64 
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 85 61 Miami 92 77 Phoenix 102 79 Columbus 83 61 Minneapolis 81 65 St. Louis 85 65 
to the U.S. coast again as it headed toward the Canadian province. 
"By the time it gets up there, it will just be a big rainmaker," meteorolo­gist Jim Notchey said. "We lucked out because the center didn't make land­fall anywhere." 
About 150 people. many who had reservations at beachfront hotels or homes, spent the night at a Nantucket High School resting on temporary beds and eating grilled cheese sand­wiches. 
"I had a more comfortable sleep here than if I'd stayed at the house. It was scary," said Rem Myers. who had been staying with his wife and three children at a rented house 300 yards from the ocean. 
Power was restored to all but 5,000 Massachusetts homes and businesses by midmorning. 
Massachusetts Gov. William F. Weld declared a state of emergency and the Red Cross opened shelters throughout the region. The Red Cross reported about 1.000 people went to temporary shelters. 
TWA investigation continues 
SMITHTOWN. N.Y. 
Preliminary testing by Boeing Co. indicates that an explosion of the center fuel tank alone would not have been powerful enough to bring down TWA Flight 800, an investigator told The Associated Press on Monday. Those early findings tend to strengthen the theory that a bomb or missile brought down the jumbo jet. and to weaken the likelihood that the plane exploded because of a mechanical malfunction. While investigators say they do not know enough to declare the explosion a criminal act, the possibility of an accident appears more remote as the evidence mounts. National Transportation Safety Board investigators previously have determined that the center fuel tank exploded. But a critical question has been whether that explosion was the cause of the crash -or was a secondary blast, ignited by another force. After using computer models to simulate pressure within a 747's center fuel tank. Boeing engineers estimated that 30 to 40 pounds per square inch of pressure inside the tank would be need­ed to do the kind of damage that has been observed so far in Flight 800. the report found. 
Smoker faces littering charge 
HOBART, Ind. 
A city judge will decide whether Stanley Kolze was being considerate or breaking the law. Kolze. 58, is accused of littering. More specifically. he is charged with tossing a cigarette on the city easement in front of his home. He is scheduled to the appear in Hobart City Court on Thursday. If convicted. he could face a $100 fine in addition to court costs. Stanley Kolze's trouble began July 31 when Hobart Police Officer Kenneth Gagliardi was called to investigate a verbal dispute Kolze had had with a neighbor. Kolze says he was sitting on his front lawn smoking when Gagliardi asked him to get up and walk over to his patrol car. "Nobody gets into a squad car with a cigarette," said Kolze, explaining that as he stood up he tossed away his lit cigarette out of considera­tion for the police officer. But the policeman apparently saw things differently. Kolze said the officer picked up a cigarette and then ticketed him for littering. Hobart Assistant Chief Ronald Taylor said it was within the Gagliardi's discretion to cite Kolze for littering. 
------· ------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------~------­
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

·volunteer opportunities abound 
This is the second in a series exploring vol­unteer opportunities in the South Bend area 
• FAST FACTS 
for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
WHO: Reins of Life ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
WHAT. A service-based organization 
News Writer 
allowing disabled individuals and For students wishing to combine service for 
volunteers to interact with horses 
the disabled with a unique personal learning experinnce, Heins for Life may be just the 
WHERE: 55200 Quince Road, South Bend thing. Founded in 1978, the South Bend-based 
FoR MORE INFO: Contact Jo Prout at 
program allows both the disabled and volun­teers a chance to interact with horses. 
271-8317 
"We help people with physical, mental and 
emotional disabilities," said Jo Prout, Reins for Life's volunteer coordinator. She noted that while the program will help people of any age, most are children. Prout said that the opportunity to care for and groom the horses helps the disabled improve their self esteem. Also she mentions physical benefits resulting from riding. 
Located 20 minutes west of South Bend, the program originally operated with borrowed horsns and facilities. A donation of 20 acres of land in 1991 and subsequent grants have helped Heins for Life grow into the year-round curriculum that it currently operates. 
Heins for Life finds its disabled riders in a variety of ways. 
"Mostly it's word of mouth. Last year I went out and started approaching institutions," Executive Director Sharon Burnside explained. 
According to Burnside, finding volunteers is just as important: the program uses about 250 volunteers a year. 
"We are very dependent on our volunteers. We couldn't do what we do without them," she said. 
Volunteers do not necessarily need prior experience with horses. "We do an orienta­tion, and our horses are so gentle that all vol­unteers need to be able to do is walk for half and hour and be able to hold their arms straight (to help with the horses and riders) and be willing to want to help. We teach them what they need to know," Burnside said, adding that transportation is one of the few things her group does not provide for its vol­unteers. 
Interested persons can call 271-8317 for more information on how to volunteer. 
Isn't it ironic? No, not really... 
Twist of fate strikes Flanner sophomore 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Murphy said. News Editor As the man fled toward Juniper Road, Murphy exam­
It's a situation that would ined the lock on the bike and have been a fitting source of called Notre Dame Security. lyrics for Alanis Morissette. "I saw the wire he was cut-
Dave Murphy, a sophomore ting, and he had cut into it quite Flanner Hall resident, last week a ways." Murphy called Security saved another student's bicycle from his room and provided a from being stolen, but had the description of the suspect, one tables turned on him this week-resembling a typical college stu­end when the dent, Murphy front wheel of -----------said. 
his bicycle was the hero last At 6:26 p.m ..
'J 
was taken. Security identi-
Murphy was week, and now I'm lied an individual the hero Aug. screwed." that matched the 
26 when, description of the while return-Dave Murphy suspect. After ing to his Murphy verified dorm about 5:45 p.m., he the man's identity by looking at 
noticed a suspicious-looking a set of police photos, Security man at the Flanner Hall bike took the suspect into custody. racks. The man, identified as a 
"He was messing with some-Mishawaka resident, was later thing. I thought he was unlock-arrested by Security on an out­ing his bike, but when I went standing warrant for an over to put down my bike, he unspecified charge. walked down to the other rack," Murphy may have been the Murphy said. hero one day, but the wheels of 
"When I went inside Flanner, fortune turned against him sev­1 saw through the window that eral days later. he was still by the bikes," On Friday, Murphy locked his Murphy continued. "I went up own bike outside Flanner and to the second floor and looked left town for the weekend. But out the window again. lie pulled in securing the bike, Murphy out a very large black wire cut-locked only the bike's frame to ter and started cutting up the the rack and not the front lock on one of the bikes." wheel. When he returned 
Murphy went outside and con-Sunday morning, the front fronted the man. wheel was gone. 
"He said it was his bike and "It's kind of ironic," Murphy showed me a U-lock (that sup-said, who had two roommates posedly belonged to the bike in whose bikes were stolen last question). but then he got on year. "I was the hero last week another bike and took off." and now I'm s~rewed." 

NOTRE DAME/ST. MARY'S EQUESTRIAN CLUB 
Organizational Meeting 
Date: Thursday September 5, 1996 
Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Time: 7:00 PM Beginners --Intermediate --Expert All are welcome Bring Checkbook, and Health Insurance Info. 
We Need Riders to Be champions of the Region and the Nation!!! 

Please Recycle The Observer! 
TROGON A100 
Welcome back Special! 
Laptop includes: INTEL Pentium, 6X Speed CD, Floppy Disk, Hard 
NO Device swapping necessary! 
**PRICES INCLUDE ( 1) YEAR ON-SITE WARRANTY** 
TG-8200 Pentium System with 6X CD-ROM and Built-in TV Port 
Includes: Intel Pentium 75/I00/120/133/150mhz CPU, 8MB RAM (opt. 16/24/40MB), 256KB cache, Opti Viper chip set, 11.3" Passive/ Active display, (I) serial, (1) parallel, SVGA (800x640) 2MB video RAM, Infrared, game/midi port, TV port, Floppy Disk Drive, 6X CD-ROM, 16bit sound, carrying case, 
AC/DC Charger and NiHM battery. 
"ACADEMIC DISCOUNTED" PRICING (811196) *  Hard Disk  
DESCRIPTION  810MB  1.0GB  1.35GB  2.16GB  
TG-8207C (Pentium 75mhz)  Passive  ll.J"SVGA  $2,250  $2,305  $2,521  $2,722  
TG-8210C (Pentium IOOmhz) Passive  ll.J"SVGA  $2,315  $2,371  $2,586  $2,787  
TG-8212C (Pentium 120mhz) Passive  ll.J"SVGA  $2,376  $2,432  $2,645  $2,848  
TG-8213C (Pentium 133mhz) Passive  ll.J"SVGA  $2,467  $2,523  $2,738  $2,940  
TG-8215C (Pentium 150mhz) Passive  ll.J"SVGA  $2,585  $2,640  $2,855  $3,057  
TG-8207T (Pentium 75mhz)  Active  lt.J"SVGA  $2,736  $2,791  $3,006  $3,208  
TG-8210T (Pentium tOOmhz) Active  11.3"SVGA  $2,801  $2,857  $3,072  $3,273  
TG-8212T (Pentium 120mhz) Active  ll.J"SVGA  $2,862  $2,917  $3,133  $3,332  
TG-8213T (Pentium lJJmhz) Active  11.3"SVGA  $2,953  $3,010  $3,225  $3,426  
TG-8215T (Pentium 150mhz) Active  11.3"SVGA  $3,071  $3,126  $3,341  $3,542  
*Prices su~jectto change without notice.  


Trogon is a 9002 Certified manufacturer -references available. To purchase -To arrange a demonstration -To discuss the wide variety ofoptions ­

-CALL-
Computer Aided Tools & Service 
PO. Box 20212 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46220  
~~ &utt O«!t  office 317-251-1115 fax 317-255-3561 E 'Mail-cats@indy.net  
1f:~P~­ We accept Corporate Purchase Orders  
~«4toa.~­ Visa, MasterCard and Corporate Purchase Cards  
&~;lQt$100  

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 3, 1996 



Abortion 
continued from page 1 
weeks and older, involves par­tially delivering the baby, cre­ating a hole in the back or"rhe baby's skull, and using a suc­tion tube to remowe the brain. 
The details of the procedure have led Sen. Daniel Moynihan, D-N.Y., a congress­man who has taken a pro­choice stance on previous issues and who did not vote in the original roll call, to tell the Catholic Alliance that he would· support the ban because the method "is just too close to infanticide." 
Clinton has said he is against the ban because it may be nec­essary in situations where the mother's life in threatened. 
Over 70 percent of a group of registered voters who were polled by the Tarrance Group in December said they were against tne ban. 

Policy 
continued from page 1 
Although private intoxication 
is not strictly defined in the 
handbook, Grant explained 
that RAs will use their discre­
tion when approaching a stu­
dent they suspect to be pri­
vately intoxicated. 
"The policy requires a judg­
ment call," she said. "One 
RA's vision of private intoxica­
tion may differ from another 
RA's view." 
Annunciata Hall resident 
Carrie Ratke, a nursing major, 
hopes the new policy will help 
enforce quiet hours. 
"Maybe now people will 
drink responsibly when they go out," Hatke commented. . "They may think twice before coming home and waking the 
entire hall up with their 
obnoxious behavior." 
However, senior and 21­
year-old LeMans resident 
Abby Fleming expressed con­
cern about this issue. 
"I am a responsible 21-year­
old." Fleming commented. "l 
think this rule is a bit ridicu­
lous. I know how to drink 
responsibly, I've been around 
for four years. I don't think 
that if I have a beer at a bar, I 
should have to worry about 
being accused of private intox­
ication when I get home." 
If. you see news happening, call The Observer. at 1-5323. 
Notre Dame-Vanderbilt 
Tickets Available I-8G0-8Sl.-7771 
of\i\-IOPEDIC SP12, 
1
~0s ~ c..,(/. 
~~ ~ .... iS';­
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -Shine 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
•Notrt! 
I 00% Guarantee 
Dome 
8-6 Monday-
r.-Friday 
Mario's 
9-3 -Saturday
~ 
>­
1025 East
0 
0 
Madison 
w 



Sorin 
continued from page 1 
maker, and even curtains. 
"We talked about an elevator, but the University said no, so then we decided not to approach them about Jacuzzis," Newton joked. 
In addition to decorative changes, numerous structural changes were also made; pairs of undesirably long and thin rooms formerly left for freshmen were merged to make spacious one room quads; four singles were converted into two air conditioned study rooms; and the first floor study lounge was moved into a larger area. Furthermore, to create more space, two quads were redesignated triples. Sorin now houses 157 men, down seven from last year. 
On the building's exterior only the repainted front porch, shaded to match the Main Building's new color scheme, belies the interior improvements. However, Sorin's food sales area, its chapel, and its bathrooms -which were renovated twelve years ago -were the only interior areas escaping the contrac­tors' efforts. 
Calumet Construction won the bidding for the restoration. While they have been working on the University's architecture building for over a year. the Sorin renova­tion was their first completed project for Notre Dame. Newton feels that in attempt­ing to earn consideration for future University projects, Calumet renovated Sorin with exceptional care. 
"They did not skimp anywhere, I'll tell you that. The craftsmanship is excellent," he remarked. 
In addition to the quality of their work, Calumet finished their project within a narrow time frame: All of the work was finished in twelve weeks over the summer. Newton reports that for the demolition stages of the job, the contractor committed two shifts a day for seven days a week to finish on time. 
Eric Anderson, one of Sorin Hall's co­presidents, explained that while the changes were first met by Sorin's resi­dents with some ambiguity, returning this fall and seeing the changes in place swayed the naysayers' opinions. 
"There were sure a lot of holes in the walls and the lounges weren't too good either. Sentiments were mixed though, because last year some people could just say 'well its already beat up so we don't have to be too careful,"' Anderson explained. "A lot of people were worried that it wouldn't get done in time. Now all we can say, though, is that it's just a lot nicer." he said. 
"Alumni, even a few who once lived here, came late this summer and said they just l"Oved the changes, as do the vast majority of the students who live here now," Newton added. 
Order TODAYI 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON.,AUG26 
12:29 p.m. An O'Hara Grace resident reported the theft of his bike from the bike rack at COBA. The bike was locked at the time of the theft. 
3:38 p.m. Security confiscated from two visitors !­shirts that had been sold illegally. 
6:13 p.m. A University Village resident reported the theft of his bike from University Village. The bike was locked at the lime of the theft. 
6:26 p.m. Security apprehended a Mishawaka resi­dent lor attempting to steal a bike from Flanner Hall. The man was later arrested by Security on an outstand­ing warrant. 

TUES., AUG 27 
1:35 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident reported receiving ha· rassing telephone calls. 
3:30 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to the Health Center for treatment of a knee injury. 
6:08 p.m. A Planner Hall resident reported the theft of his bookbag from the lobby of the bookstore. 7 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a laceration. · 

WED.,AUG28 
3:05 p.m. A Stanford Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 5:19p.m. A Siegfried Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 6 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resident reported a suspicious person on the path between St. Jqseph Hall and Holy Cross House. 
Send in this coupon or for faster service call 1-800-TRIBUNE ( 1-800-874-2863) and ask for Operator 20 I 

FULL-TERM, 32WEEKS HALF-TERM, 16WEEKS 
Seven-day D $64.00 ($2.00/wk) D $37.60 ($2.35/wk) 
I
Mon.-Sat. D $41.60 ($1.30/wk) D $25.60 ($1.60/wk) 
I
Sun. only D $56.00 ($1.75/wk) D $%8.00 ($1.75/wk) 
On-campus delivery will automatically stop for vacations and holidays. 
I 
Payment by: D Check D MasterG.rd D VISA D American Express D Discover I Account No._______________Exp. Date __________ 
I 
Signature_____________________________ 
I 
Please print Name_______________________School._____ I 
Address/dorm____________________Apt/room no. ___ I City__________________State___Zip _______ I Phone(__)___________________________ 
I 
In areas not serviced by home delivery. rt)ail subscriptions will be offered.This offer expires December 31, 1996. Offer not valid with any other Chicago Tribune discount 
I 
.J 
P6361 








L-----------------­
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


SMC activities night draws large crowd 

Special to The Observer 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
A large turnout highlighted the Saint Mary's Activities Night, which was held last night in Angela Athletic Facility. 
Biology Club Treasurer Erin Luedecking's reaction typ­ified those of her fellow exhibitors, "It was a great night. We didn't expect to have this many people sign up. We're looking forward to a very fun year." 
Many felt that the evenrs 9 p.m. starting time was a key factor in the evening's sizable turnout. 
Aecording to Saint Mary's freshman Emily Junius, ''I'm glad it was held at that time. It didn't conflict with any­thing else. I signed up for a lot of different clubs, like Toastmasters." 
"It's a good way for freshman to get involved," she explained. 
Although the activities fair wasn't punctuated with the debut of any new clubs this year, students claimed that the holdover organizations seemed stronger than ever. Evidencing that opinion, most booths boasted lines of students waiting to obtain information. 
Notre Dame's activities night will take place at 7 p.m. tonight in the JACC. 

The India Association of Notre Dame, in conjunction with The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana, is spon&oring a perfor­mance by renowned classical vocalist Shwnta Jhavari. 
Considered one of the foremost artists in Hindustani vocal classical music, Jhaveri's performances have won critical and popular acclaim, in addition to a numbM of awards. 
She has conducted musical work­shops in both Canada and the United Stattls, including one dealing with jazz music -befitting the first Indian Classical singer to perform with a jazz group. 
Jhavari will perform in tho LaFortune ballroom on Sept. 7 at 7:30 
p.m. Tickets will be sold at the door for $5, but students will be admitted free of charge. 
For more information, contact Profnssor Rajib Ooogar at 288-4652. 
Renowned vocalist to perform at ND 
CoNCESSION STAND PACKETS 

~~ ....,... ~ ~ * Available for those student }~J-.-4 // organizations already assigned a stand by 
the CCC. Packets can be picked up in the 
Student Activities Office. 
Packets may be picked up in the Student Activities Office, 3 15 LaFortune or for more information you may call 1-7309. 


Sign up for Service 

Come to Activities Night 
Tuesday, September 3rd at the J.A.C.C. 7-9 p.m. 
The following service and social action groups will be represented: 
AIDS Awareness American Cancer Society Arnold Air Society Big Brothers I Big Sisters CASH Catholic League Center for Social Concerns Post Graduate Opportunities Urban Plunge Center for the Homeless Children Chiara Home Inc. Council for Fun and Learning Countryside Place Nursing Home 
F.I.R.E. Home Foodshare Goodwill Industries Hansel Head Stan Hospice Junior Achievement Club Logan Center Mental Health Association National Youth Spons Program Nonheast Neighborhood Association Potawatami Zoo Right to Life Sex Offense Services Social Justice Forum SEA Super Sibs Women's Care Center World Hunger Coalition 
AIDS Ministries I AIDS Assist 
Amnesty international 
Best Buddies 
C.A.R.E. 
Catholic Charities 
Center for Basic Learning Skills 
Social Concerns Seminars 
Summer Service Projects 
Center for the Homeless 
Chapin St. I St. Joe Healthcare Circle K. International Council for the Retarded Feminists for Life First Aid Services T earn 
Girl Scouts ofSinging Hills Habitat for Humanity Healthy Babies HUGS La Casa de Amistad Manantial Ms Wizard Day Program Team Neighborhood Study Help Program Parkview Juvenile Center Recydin' Irish 
SADD 
Silver Wings 
South Bend Comm. Schools Adult Ed. 
Students for Responsible Business United Health Services 
Women's Resource Center 
Twenty First Century Scholars 

These groups will be located in the Service Section of the exhibit hall. 
The next Derrick Mayes? 

Paid Positions Available For... W"eb Produ.ct:ion Team Members Worlclvvicle Web Publishing of each ()hservc.'r issue.' The "Web Production Tean1 Members are responsible £or publishing the daily edition o£ the Observer on the Internet. The Observer offers the best: learning environment for online publishing. If interested. contact Jason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center. No experience necessary!!  
All Returning WVFI "Dee-Jays" Go to the LaForTune Info Desk and Fill out the Special Papers Do this by 6:30 TONIGHT if you want to DJ again this semester  




t9ec~ 
,.. ~Or.
Cha '-~Off 1s 
~.o,a
~Sf..·



''l.o 
Saturday, September 7 
& 
Sunday, September 8 
Notre Dame Golf Course Tee Times Beginning at 9:00 
9 holes on Saturday & 18 holes on Sunday Play your own ball Divisions after first day (2 each for men and women) Fee is $12.00 Register & pay fee at Golf Pro Shop Deadline is Wednesday, September 4 For more info. call RecSports at 1-61 00 

--~-~-~~--~------~--~--~---~~-­
page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
j  I  
!  ! ..·.  - 
'  

c ~~e/Choice: CJ~thinkina ~eminist 


Conversations on _r\&ortion 
a program organized and sponsored by Women's Resource Center, Feminists for Life, Gender Studies Program, Center for Social Concerns 
PART I: The Challenges of Intra-Feminist Dialogue 
' 

Gai[ CJ3ederman (Cflistory) Gforia-EJean ~sciarotte (CEna(isfi) EJanie %atherman (SJ?eace Cinstitute) 
Gender Studies Faculty Forum Thursday, September 5 I 12:15 -1:30 pm 
----:c l 
.... ~.., ­

.tle.~b~rgh Library Lounge -. 
=J ~ -·· 

PART II: 
Fentinist Reflections on Abortion: 
Understanding Difference 
\ ~aerator: SJ?rof. SJ?fti(ip Quinn, EJohn O'CJ3rien Chair of SJ?ni[osopfty 
5J?ane[ists: 
C{)a[erie <Hartouni (C(IC/San CDieao) ·some CJ?!ifections on .A._hortion: On 9?uf1fic 5]Joficies, 5]Jersons ana5]Jofitics" 
~cne[ ~c~ir (C(I. ~ssouri I ~nsas City) 'CJ1ie ~eminist Case A£Jainst .A._hortion" 
Saturday, September 7 I 9:30 am -12:00 pm Hesburgh Library Lounge 





VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
Nc:wo Editor ........................ llrad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spon• Editor .....................Timothy Sh~rman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan 
S;Unr Mary'• Ediror ................. Carolinc Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Loc and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of elthcr institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represcm the opinion of the:" majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letttrs and Inside Columns presenr the views of the auchors, and not necessarily those of The Ohscrver. Viewpoim .'ipace is available to all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's com-' muniry anJ wall readers. The: free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4 542 Business Office 631-5313 M•n•ging Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Sysrems/Markcring Depr. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-1323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editorll'roduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I@nd.edu Gcncr;allnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 

Hesburgh survives Rightist attacks 
Dear Editor: 
As returning students, faculty and staff will know, Hight Heason pub­lished another issue of its far-right­ist propaganda at the very end of the spring semester, so editorial response at the time was virtually impossible. Moreover, the paper's lead story was yet another attack on Father Theodore llesburgh, this time by the notorious Fred Kelly (remember, 'natiVfl Americans were all sinful savages'?)-a junior trans­fer student whose moral credit on eaA1pus, ironieally, is about the opposite of Fathnr llesburgh's. This continued attaek on one of the most widely revered Catholic leaders in the United States cannot go unan­swflrfld. 
Let us begin at the beginning, with tlw previous February issue of Hight HmLson, which bears the infamous masthead "Liberals from llesburgh to llitlflr." I think I speak for most of the Notre Dame community in saying quite frankly that to liken Fatlwr llesburgh to Hitler in any way is so outrageous an insult (both to llnsburgh and to the real victims of fasdsrn l that it is barely conceiv­ablt~. Tlw mem suggestion demands a snrious apology to llesburgh, Notre Dame. and the local Jewish community. When questioned about this, Nlitor Dan Moloney had the tmrwrity to suggest that this mast­lwad did not imply anything nega­tivn about llesburgh. 
Inside the February issue, we find that the mastlwad item refers to an artiele flntitled "Liberal Faseism" by .Josh llochschild, with a picture of llitler labeled "liberal." The refer­ence here sm1ms to be to the preva­hmt rwoeon myth repeated national­ly by far-right eolumnists that 'polit­ical correctness' is a new MeCarthyism or 'fascism of the left'-a ploy through which racists like Dinnsh D'Sonza have tried to paint eonservatives as embattled victims on our campuses. Hochschild's own vocal support for Pat Buchanan and the confusion that equates 'freedom' with anar­chic antifederalism-the mainstay of today's rising militia and white supremacist terrorist movements. 

This February issue at the end in the "Notebook" section there is a short paragraph making fun of llesburgh's participation in Clinton's Legal Defense Fund, and implying that he might try to divert Notre Dame money to this cause. When I asked him about this paper, Father llesburgh laughed most of it oiT, but he did take umbrage at the jibe about the Legal Defense Fund. As he pointed out, most Americans feel strongly that a sitting U.S. President should not be subject to civil law suits that hamper his time for public commitments while still in office. Hesburgh declared in strong terms that it was this principle that moti­vated him to support the Legal Defense Fund, just as he would if a Hepublican President were threat­ened with the same nuisance law suits. 
Then in the most recent April issue, along with laughably ignorant speculations by Moloney about homosexual psychology, we ·find Fred Kelly's article, whose title very misleadingly reads Hesburgh's involvement in the pro choice move­ments (p.6). Kelly's argument is apparently that since the Hockefeller Foundation gave money to the Population Council, which supported the dissemination of con­traction and world population con­trol (at a time when many Catholic theologians also supported them), and other groups that supported the legal right to an abortion, Father Hesburgh should not have accepted or kept his position on their board -despite all the support for famine control, disease eradication, arts, humanities, and many other vital causes he thereby helped support. 
The strangest of all is the implicit premise in Kelly's argument that if a foundation, government agency, col­lege, institution, or any other public group ever has anything at all to do with contraception, abortion, or sex education, then a Catholic must entirely reject all participation in it. Such an absurd principle could only have the consequence of isolating Catholics, eliminating the Catholic voice from almost every influential public organization in the country (even the United Way), and prevent­ing Catholics from working together with other pro-choice religious and civil leaders for other common caus­es of great importance. We should be thankful that Father Hesburgh was never deceived into such a nar­row exclusionist vision of the poten­tial Catholic role in American public life. 
The real reason why Hight Beason authors have it in for Hesburgh is clearly that, contrary to their own blend of fundamentalism and New Hight political mythology, Hesburgh both emphasized the real meaning of 'love thy neighbor' and opened Notre Dame to the non-Catholics, combining its religious role with greatness as a research university. 
In conclusion, it is always a dis­gusting thing to see the petty and hateful who have contributed noth­ing to their community try to denounce men and women whose record establishes their commitment to goodness. Hesburgh remains an exemplar for both Catholics and non-Catholics concerned with social justice in the U.S. and abroad. By contrast, Fred Kelly, and his fellows at 'Trite Treason,' are example only for those who hope for a career in the gutter press. 
JOHN DAVENPORT Ph.D. Candidate in Philosophy 

Partial birth abortion requires full response Pro-life and pro-choice factions 
support similar restrictions 
Dear Editon 
A partial birth abortion is a procedure in which the abortionist partially vaginally delivers a living baby before killing her and then com­pleting the delivery. The procedure was devel­oped by abortionists as a substitute to the "Dilation & Evacuation" (D&E) method for later abortiQns. a.bo\'t;i~taQ we.e~ 'flnd later. Palfon a~ortlonlst Martin Ha~kell developed thew.niJial btrth abortion techmque because it m~tde'his performance of later abortions, •easy" (Cincinnati Medicine, Fall 1993). 
The unborn children and their mothers who fall prey to these types of abortions are the most vulnerable members of the human family. Among the reasons why women have late abor­tions are lack of money or health insurance, social-psychological crises and lack of knowledge about human reproduction. Such abortions are elective abortions as they are not medically indi· cated and, for Haskell, they amounted to 80 per· cent of the later abortions that he performed. Haskell admitted in interview probably 20 per­cent are for genetic reasons. And the other 80 percent are purely elective. 
Besides the poor women and their healthy babies who are targets for later abortions, are the babies who are less than perfect, those babies who have genetic defects of one kind or another. In some instances, these defects, such as cleft lip, are minor and others are non fatal defects. such as, down syndrome. Some babies do have fatal conditions, such as body stalk anomaly. But this is no reason to end their lives prematurely by stabbing them in the back of the neck. These babies call for our love and compas· sion all the more because of their "defect."l." 
H.R. 1833 is the sort of legislation that even people who identify themselves pro·choice should support. H.R. 1833 places a modest restriction on abortion. 
MAUREEN KRAMUCH President ND Righr ro Life 

I'JEU,5UR&, OfCOURSE. 8UT ON ANOTHER t£VEL, I /..OVE/J 
IT. !T'5 7HE {)1/R!<. 5CCR£TOF t/JT5 Or 50WIER5-7Hel LOvtl? COMB/IT, 175 IN7ENS!7Y. .. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOUDON7
I [)(JNNO... 

HAVElD,
IT'5HARJJ 

8.0.~ I
7DEXPLAIN. 

UNPCR5TAN/l
\ ~ 
• UUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Human beings are per­
haps never more fright­ening than when they are con­vinced beyond doubt that they are right." 
-Laurens Van der Post 






ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, September 3, 1996 


Having aberrY i!ood time 
I found my thrill at the Plymouth 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Tourism, the festival began as a 
Associate Accent Editor get-together for local folk, who had such a good time thirty years ago that they decided to 
Plymouth, Indiana might not have another one. Then anoth­be a tourist hot spot during the er. The festival grew to include year, but on Labor Day not just Hoosiers, but families Weekend all of that changes. from all over, with events span­Over half a million people ven­ning a delicious three day peri­ture out to Centennial Park in od. And to reign over such an this small town just south of exalted occurrence? None other South Bend on Route 31, and than Marshall County's participate in the third largest Amanda Renee Hayes, the 1996 festival in the state. Indiana Miss Blueberry Festival Queen. bills it a·s one of the top five M i s s must-see events in the state, ---Hayes would and the U.S. includes it as one not have of the top one hundred. been the only Marshall County's teenager in Blueberry attendance, 
though. The Blueberry Festival seemed like a Festival great place to draws bring a date, crowds from and hoards of all over the area youth showed country, and this up with significant year, the festi­others in tow. To the val's 30th amiual pleasure of the dessert gathering, proved no vendors, families proba­exception. Even Elvis bly comprised the largest made an appearance. contingent, and kids ran and 
Over 500 craft booths, whose screamed and kicked and vendors traveled from all over whined, while the ones with not the country, sold everything enough sugar coursing through from bread cutters to holiday their veins decided to take a outfits for plastic ducks, jewelry nap. The majority of the AARP to baseball caps that kept time crowd were vendors, but with clocks strategically grandparents played with stitched into the bill. Over one babies or sometimes just sat hundred food booths offered and observed the masses. such treats as gyros, elephant Tattoos and Harley Davidson ears, homemade root beer and attire competed with Bulls or alligator meat. Jazz bands, Pacers jerseys, and everything gospel groups and country else just blended into the music vocalist Ken Mellons colorful mix of were some of the performers to grace the two sound stages, and women and children c r i e d a n d screamed for a grinding, dancing Chris T. Young, who likes to refer to himself as 
All that exists now
the "World's 
of the Blueberry Festival
#1 Elvis 
is being swept up on the
Performer." 
it's the Children with 
grounds of Centennial Park and 
Even an blueberry catsup-stained faces smiled and 
thrown away. The carnival
Ecuadorian 
fields in ran on to ferris wheels. 
rides have thrilled their last
wind instru­
Plymouth Parents could forget the real 
child and the hot air balloons
ment ensemble 
a n d world for a few hours and enjoy 
have landed. Lost, scared little 
showed up. 
nearby what is still fun and uncompli­
kids have found their parents
Carnival rides, a 
Lapaz, cated in the world. The 
and gone home. Chocolate
rodeo, tractor 
or the nation's heartland threw a 
milkshakes replace their fruity,
pulls, arm 
blueberry party and all were invited, and 
blue cousins, and Plymouth's
wrestling, a parade 
harvest that ended for one brief moment, a festi­
high school playing fields are
and fireworks 
about two weeks ago. The val-goer might even think this 
no longer being used for park­
entertained some, people. 
blueberry stomp contest may is what life is all about. Who 
ing lots. Somewhere in Indiana 
while others pre­Much to the 
have seemed more appealing cares if it's really hot and
ferred to simply walk possible surprise of the festi­however, someone thinks of
than one for a Coconut Festival. extremely crowded, or even if 
next year, and hopes that the
around, enjoy the val's visitors, no giant 
Perhaps it's a local favorite, an the money inside a wallet dis­
atmosphere and people watch. Blueberry Man circulated in the 1997 blueberry fields will hurry
exaltation of the earth or the solves into nothing but corn
According to Mike crowd or shook hands with simple things in life. Might just up and blossom. Woolfington, a Blueberry admirers. There seemed to be 
be a great logo for a fun T -shirt 
Festival Volunteer and the mor:e frozen lemon­
design.
ade than blueberry 
Whether a concrete reason
pies or muffins, even 
for choosing the blueberry as
though a few 
the festival's namesake exists
blueberry 
or not is surely unimportant,
milkshakes 
because the spirit of the funcc
did sneak 
tion transcends specifics.
into circuta­
Anyone who has never attend­
tion. No fes­
ed a county or state fair in the
tive blueber­
Midwest might not be able to 
ry costumes 
understand the general feeling 
or face 
of good will that it emits.
paint. So 
why this trib­
ute to the small, 
thanked when they left.
round, indigo fruit? Maybe 



ACCENT
Ti.1esday, September 3, 1996 page 9 
A sea of choices at Activities Night 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistalll A(crlll Editor 
A
f'tnr a full week of elasses, meetings, assign­llHHits and socializing, one question remains: what to do with all that extra time on your hands'? Student activities has the answer at Artivitins Night 19% tonight at the JACC. Freshmen and up(wrdassnwn alike can mnet represet)tatives from ov11r 200 student dubs and organizations, as well as nnjoy demonstrations from campus athletic groups and pnrl'orming tmsnmblns. 
Acc.ording to Stud!Hll Activities Programming Director Gail Spent:Pr, this year's activity fair will fPalure dt•monstr:ations from eight groups, including tlw Tan Kwon Do and .Judo dubs and the Ballet Folklorico Azul Y Oro. Student groups registered to partil'ipate in At'livilillS Night last spring, making this yPar's event OIH'P again lillnd to capacity. 
Activities Night oiTers opportunities for everyone, from musicians to athltlltls and everything in hHwePn. While sonw exhibitors may have already lwld auditions or sign-ups, most of tllfl organizations will btl artivdy mcruiting enthusiastic nnw members. The gymnastics rlub, rowing club and ski team, for nxampln, rdy on the turn out at activities night as thlly assembltl tlwir rnspective squads for the ynar. 
According to junior gymnastics club member Paul llurktl, tlw tnam is one of tlw largest athletic groups on campus and always Wflleomes new members. "Wtl PtH·ourage absolutely everyone to join," Burke said. "Wn PVtHl provide coaching regardless of skill levd, and tlw chance to eompnte at Nationals in the spring." At tlwir lirst trip to Nationals last year, the nwn's team placPd 7th in tlw country, so the team has high Pxpectations once again this year. 
StudPnts looking to bncome aelivn in an acadmn­irally orinntPd group will have an array of options to pursu11, including tlw Marketing Club, thn Arts & LP!.tt•rs Business Socinty, tlw Notre Damn Council on lrlli'I'IJat.ional Businnss Dnvnlopmnnl, the Prn-Law Sol'iPty and tlw Physics Club. Mullicullural organiza­tions art' also diwrsely mpresnntnd, including tlHJ Al'riran StudPnts' Assodati(m, tlw Asian International Society, the J:apan Club, the Italian Club· and La Alianza. 
For students in search of a musical outlet for the stress of academic life, ensembles of all sizes and specialties will be on hand to greet prospective audi­tionees. From the Voices of Faith Gospel ensemble to the song and dance of Shenanigans to the chimes of the handbell choir, students can explore travel opportunities, practice times, and musical samples of groups they might be interested in joining. 
Or, students can waltz over to the Ballroom Dance club, which usually maintains over 60 members and offers weekly lessons by a prof!lssional instructor, according to member Ed McCoul. This might be helpful to note if you weren't one of the lucky few who actually got into social dance in gym. The swing really does come in handy at SYHs! 
As far as volunteer opportunities, Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns will have informa­tion concerning many service projects and programs, such as Urban Plunge, Summer Service Projects, the Neighborhood Study Help Program and the Northeast Neighborhood Association. Other community service programs include the Logan Center, Big Brothers/Big Sisters, the Center f9r the Homeless and Habitat for Humanity. 
Finally, many campus media organizations will also be looking for new contributors. The Observer, Scholastic Magazine and the Dome are recruiting writers and editors, and WSND, Notre Dame's FM radio station, is hoping to find interested announcers and newscasters. Station manager Nate Rackiewicz said, "It's a great opportunity for people to chase down their dreams. There's no experience neces­sary, and we really encourage people of all back­grounds to get involved." 
Feeling overwhelmed at the vast expanse of choic­es'? Spencer's advice to Activity Night novices is to think about your interests in advance to avoid wan­dering aimlessly amid the sea of tables. "Think about what you want to do first," Spencer said. "Don't sign up for 20 things, but instead talk to a bunch of people, then go home and make your final choices." 
• 
WEB THE VOTE '96 
By JASON IIUGGINS World Wid<· W<·b <:no rnpond,·no 
As mtH·h as I hatn politics and political parties, this w i II lw my first o p p orl unity to h a v n a l/2!'i0,000,000 voit·n in picking our next presidtml. Likt• most of thP country, I have compltltely ignornd tlw to!Pction rovPra!-w·in the rnndia for thP. last ynm. But this is sort of a big decision, so starling today I will start raring. 
Okay, so I carn, what now'? Thn first thing I need to do is rPgistPr to votn. I had a tough time n~gislPring two yPars ago for thn California staltl and fPdPral SI'!Htle tllnction. !!Ping far from homn, I didn't filii""" know wlwn• to gnl tlw registra­tion form, who should stmd it to mn, and whPrt' to gilt th11 informa­tion. I'm surtl if I wasn't worrying about failing my first Clwmistry <~xam, I might havn had tlw time to find the answPrs. 
You don't have to thank me now, but I'm IH•Iping you out this year. Through LIH~ lntPrrlt'l you can now rngister online by aerpssing NntVote'IJ6 (nl'tvott•96.ml'i.(·nm). It's thn first major onlitw volnr rPgistration site on tlw wPb. You simply select what slaln you're from (i.t~. California, if you're from California), complPte and submit tlw onlitw form. and in two to thrtln w1wks you'll he sent your ol'licial votPr rPgistration applica­tion card via snail-mail. Once you sign it and put it hack in the mail­box, THAT'S IT! 
Tlw wondnrful people to thank for this t:ool idna art' the 102nd Congrt1ss, l'rt1sidnnt Clinton and the Motor Votnr Coalition, a collection of non-partisan groups, sur.h as Bor.k tlw Voltl, tho l.nague of WomPn VolPrs, llumanServn, lhn NAACP and otlwrs. The Motor Voter Bill finally allows on11 uniform voter n~gistration form than ran bt~ usml to rngistnr votnrs in all the :ill stalns. That nwans it's now HEALI.Y, HI\AI.LY I·:ASY!! So do it' 
I'm rngislnrml. What now'! 1\IPt'lion coverage on thn 'Net. I was surprised wh1m I found PoliticsNow (www.politicsnow.com). This site has an impres­sive collection of news, opinion, and commentaries from around the country. This site also has P.nough public opinion polls, statistics, graphs, and analysis to make my statistics professor jump up and sing "Happy, Happy, Joy, Joy!" Of course, all news is biased, so shop around for your online political information. 
To be fair, I have to mention the official home pages of the candidates. Even though the sites are blatant propaganda, they do offer cool free stuff. At the Clinton/Gore'96 home page (www.cg96.org), be sure to download your pusonal copy of the Clinton!Gore'96 screen saver. And while visiting the 
Dole/Kemp'96 home page (www.dole96.com) don't forget to read "The Bob Dole Story." I laughed, I cried... I laughed some more. And 
last, but least, if Perot ever figures out what to do with his life, you can track his politi­cal escapades at the official Perot/Powell wonder-pag!l ( www. perotpowell96.org). 
My favorite election site of all, however, has to be the Political Futures Market 
at the Uni"Qersity of Iowa (www.biz.uiowa.edu/iem/). Here you can legally bet real money on the outcome of the '96 election and other political events. When people put their money whllre their mouth is, you see a far more accurate voter poll. 
In the 1992 Presidential election, the Iowa Political Futures Market accurately pre­dicted Clinton's total vote per­centage within .01 %. Also, if your favorite candidate wins, you win, too. 
As He-Man once said, "I have the power!" You, too, have the power-the power of knowledge to make an informed voting deci­sion. Happy voting. And don't forget 
to register! 

Jason is a Junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks. CA. now residing in 3-East Keenan Hall. You can email him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd. edu 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Allergy alert! 
By lARRY WARD 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
For millions of people· across the country, and for hundreds of students, back to school time means back to the long, dreary, dismal days of yet another allergy season. Unfortunately, this year is going to be no exception for allergy sufferers. Yes, that means that many of us are going to wake up each morning to a throbbing headache, an incredibly stuffed-up nose, watery eyes, and maybe (if we nre really lucky) some wheezing or some dry skin and chapped lips. 
These symptoms are the sign of the ollicial peak of the allergy season which hits during the months of September and October in our area of the country. 
An allergy is an abnormal reaction that a person has to one or a combination of several substances (sueh ns foods, colognes or soaps) or environmental conditions. The key to an allergy though is that the conditions which cause the allergy in one person are completely harmless to most other people. Thus, allet·gic reactions are referred to by doctors as "hypersensitivity" reac­tions. 
Allergy attacks are initiated when a person comes into contact with something known as antigens or aller­gens. Allergens are proteins which are water-soluble. Thus, these allergens easily penetrate our mucous membranes and the skin. 
Most people tend to believe that allergy attacks occur upon first exposure to any particular allergen. False! Allergy attacks occur after a person has become sensi­tized to a particular allergen after exposure to it over a period of weeks, months, or even years. Sensitization is the term that physicians use to refer to this time period. 
Unfortunately, after one has become sensitized to a particular allergen, allergy symptoms will develop every time that the allergy sufferer comes into contact with the pesky little allergen. In fact, once a person has completed the ever-important sensitization period, it takes only a traee amount of the allergen to trigger an allergic response; hence the reason why so many of us wake up perfectly fine each morning and about one minute later it feels like we are brMt.hing through mud! 
llow do allergens gain entrance to our bodies'! Actually, it is very simple; we either inhale, swallow or absorb them through our skin or mucous membranes. Since pollens are easily inhaled, respiratory allergies occur. Doctors commonly refer to this condition, which is properly known as allergic rhinitis, as hay fever since the ''sickness'' is the direct result of plant pollen. 
Our bodies are fully equipped to respond to allergens. Specialized white blood cells known as lymphocytes are used in our body's defense against allergens. Two types of these lymphocytes exist to combat allergies. The T lymphocyte operates by completely surrounding the foreign invaders and then secreting chemicals to mediate and destroy the invader. Then the T lympho­cyte recruits additional white blood cells to the affected area resulting in a full out combat" on the allergen. 
The other lymphocyte that our body uses to buttle allergens is the B lymphocyte. Upon stimulation by an allergen or antigen, B lymphocytes transform into a dif­ferent kind of cell known as a plasma cell. These plas­ma cells have the capacity to produce and release anti· bodies into the blood stream. Antibodies work rapidly to render the allergens inactive and hasten the removal of antigens from thll body. 
What exactly is the underlying root of the peak of the allergy season during the end of the summer and early autumn'? As mentioned earlier, pollen, microscopic, fertilizing, cells used in the reproduetive cycles nt' many plants and trees is the main cause of allergic rhinitis. However, mold spores are also a dominant cause of respiratory allergies. 
Mold spores are part of a parasitic organism known as a fungus. Unfortunately, mold grows on corn, wheat and oats which are the primary vegetation in the grain­producing Midwestern states. During the end of the summer and the beginning of autumn, the amount of pollen and mold spores spread through the air tends to be particularly high. This is why so many of us tend to have more severe allergic responses this time of year. 
Scientists and meteorologists are predicting an above allergy season for the Midwest and the East Coast this fall; in other words, allergy symptoms will likely be worse this year for sufferers than in previous years. To help your body combat this allergy season, you can buy any of the numerous over-the-counter medieines, such as Tavist·D or Tylenol Allergy and Sinus, or if your allergies happen to be particularly severe, you can ask your physician to prescribe a more potent medication, such as the new drug Claritin. 
Larry Ward is a junior science pre-professionO:l major also completing a concentration in STV. Larry zs originally from Johnstown, PA and is currently vice­president ofthe Pre-Professional Society. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per charactet;,per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 3, 1996 

EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ CAR FOR SALE  NEED GA'S FOR THE WASH.  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
NOTICES  Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  1993 EAGLE TALON ES HATCH­BACK 16V WHITE  GAME. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY. CALL#2456  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355  VITO'S BARBERSHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
teaching certificate or European  Fully-Equipped, Like New in Perfect  SOUTH BEND  
WVFI wvfi WVFI wvli WVFI wvfi  languages required. Inexpensive  Condition, Reasonably Priced  8-5-M-F  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  Call273-8997 or 631-5884  NEEDTXGA'S  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  8-4-SAT.  
All Returning Announcers  info. call:  CALL MARY  Public and Faculty Seats  
(206)971-3680 extK55842  COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306  254-7647  Call 1-800-255-2850  Dear Class of 1998-We want our  
Sign in at LaForTune  wookie. Return Chewy or else this  
Info Desk if you want to  Earn extra money for only five min­ I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX  is war. One week, no questions  
OJ again this semester  utes a day!  TECHLINE DRP-FRNT DRESS­ Need Texas tickets for family who  asked. Comply or else.-SUB and its  
Student carriers are needed to  ERIDSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98  FUTURE DOMER DYING TO  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ mafia connections  
Do this by 6:30  deliver the Chicago Tribune inside  277-3569  SEE IRISH FOR HER  2550.  
Tuesday, Sept 3rd  all dorms for this school year.  10TH B-DAY!  
Please call 684-4302 for more infor­ One fine futon & frame. $80 OBO.  NEED PURDUE TIX  Need Advice? Classes? Clubs?  
wvfi WVFI wvfi WVFI wvfi WVFI  mation.  Dan x4-3996.  PLEASE CALL AMBER x3729  PLEASE CALL X4717  Traumas? LOVE?? send your let­ 
ters with a first name only to ALICE  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  Need Two Washington G.A.'s for  c/o Accent at the Observer, 314  
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  The EARLY CHILDHOOD  92 JETTA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  family, my tuition depends on it  LaFortune. Expert replies promised.  
255-1172  DEVELOPMENT CENTER with  SUNROOF,+. $8,-500 287-1521  Call Kieran @634-4487  Will pay HUGE bucks!  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat  1 0-2  programs at Saint Mary's  Call Matt@ 234-8474  Thanks.  
You break it, we'll fix it! I!  College and the University of  9 MTH OLD  Sue's Sucks!  
Notre Dame is looking for  COUCH $150  Want to buy  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  volunteers who enjoy working  OAK TABLE+CHAIRS 130  student Ticket Booklet  Will pay big bucks for student sea­ 
Breakfast Inn has space available  with young children. If you would  Call Tim 4-2318  son tix. Matt@ 234-8474.  bon voyage, charlie brown. you too,  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  be interested in spending 2 hours  berto and mikie. don't you guys  
private baths, $70-$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with children, please call  TICKETS  $$$ Need 4 OSU GAs. Call Collect Dave 810-642-8225 after 7  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  have a real home? hey, dough boy. how'd you get so  
1-800-418-9487  Cindy Hestad, 284-4693 (SMC)  G.A.s  SEASON TICKETS G.A  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ sexy?  
or Thayer Kramer, 631-3344 (ND).  WANTED  PLEASE HELP IF  ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs.  
Students: Do you need a typist?  Please join our fun filled days.  YOU  CAN CALL; 273-6929  Need accomodations for  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  check out SUB at Activities Night  
Call Kathy at 277-2178.  ND-Vandy??? NO alum has an  but not picky. Please call our busi­ Cool beans for everyone.  
extra room @Opryland Hotel in  ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  
50% off-used books bought/sold. 2  CITY NEWS SERVICE  I will pay big $$$ for student fb  Nashville forTh., Fri. and Sat for  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  
day ordering, any textbook. 4  needs reliable part-time carriers for  books. Call Katie @ 243-9038.  solo@ cost.  Tom-stop the sexual harrassment  
blocks South (Notre Dame­Howard.) 7 days 10-6; 233-2342.  morning newspapers. Start imme­diately, workload and pay variable.  Wanted: Student ticket books or  Call Brian@ 216-861-3757  -------WANTED-----­ melanie, thanks for a great nile's  
Pandora's books.  Call Mike x1186  student ticket applications.  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  work.  
Call x-1035.  I need a student ticket book. I will  AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK­ 
Retired widow available for house­sitting. Short term or long term. Call  FOR RENT  pay big $$$$$$. Please call Matt @ 273-6061  ETS $$$$$$ CALL KIM MARTIN  joey-don't you have a job to do?  
633-4159 for details.  273-4789  
ILOST & FOUND I  Non smoking female roomate want­ed to share nice home. Large bed­room, completely furnished. $300  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND RUTGERs TICKETS AVAILABLE CALL 272-7233.  Need 2 Purdue GA's & 1 OSU Student ticket  NEED Football Tickets  check out the blueberries, every­one. tom worked really hard on them.  
deposit/$300 month.  9 or 12 month  Call Sara X0928  2 for OSU, Washington,  
LOST -a camera at Bridget's  lease.  You'll love it Call631-1297.  Buy-trade all games & season  Airforce, Pitt  someone smells like a big wet dog  
at the end of spring semester  GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick­ Help! I need two Washington GA's  and it ain't me.  
iflound please call Nicole x1412  up. 312-404-4903  for parent's first NO game. Call  Call Laura 232-2976  
X2538 and ask for lnga.  
gold bracelet lost on the way to  ROOM  FOR RENT  ********************•*"'******••  NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. WILL PAY  Kirk,  
North Dining Hall or JACC. If  I need student Ticket books!  GOOD $$$. CALL x2456.  I think we all know why you wanted  
found, please call x1514  LOCATION: 1310 SOUTH BEND  Leave a message  2 GA's SEASON TICKETS  to sit on the floor.  
AVE.  for Bryan at:  DESPERATELY  NEEDED  
RENT: $220/MONTH(INCLUDE  273-2812  Please Caii256-0174 after 6 pm  I NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE  I hear Conway's the new No. 2 QB.  
''LOST..  UTILITIES)  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  GAME! I (4 STUDENT, 3 GA)  
one box full of "GROUT' hats.  DEPOSIT: $200  Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ CALL COURTNEY X3525  
Please call216 248-4068 with any  VERY NEAR TO CAMPUS,( 10  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­ Big Orange,  
· 'info  MINUTES WALKING), AND  7839  I hope you don't feel used that I  
£ i.i li'l -•" ROOMMATESAAESTUDENTS ~11rll,./p~·jlipeir.Of gl11!3ses Oh..camp!-f!l iif! OF r:IDTREO DAME If found, please call Drew @X1301, . MORE INFORMATION CONTACT  NOTRE I:JAME -VANDERBILT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$NE ED PURDUE TIX WILL PAY BIG  WANTED: TICKETS OSU VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­LECT AFTER 9:00PM  sold you for such a small sum. Our relationship h·as blossomed over the years and giving you away for  
Mr. ZUO(ROOM 300, FITZPATRIC  TICKETS AVAILABLE  $$$CHRIS 288-9102  TOP$ PAID  such meager compensation will  
DATE: Sunday, 08/25  HALL)  haunt me for years to come.  I still  
LOG: Master Mini Storage  LEAVE YOUR PHONE NUMBER  1-800-852-7771  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  'lisit and I know you still want me to.  
YOU: Mitsubishi Diamanta (Dark)w/  TO PHONE: 271-1092  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  913-541-3240  Somehow, though, I know our rela­ 
Mass. Plates. We have your sun­ OR SEND E-MAIL TO  GAMES.272-6551  tionship will never be the. same. I  
glasses. (Gold frames, brown lens­ ZSUN@ BACH.HELIOS.ND.EDU  NEEDED: ONE G.A. FOR WASH­ have trust in those guys oin first  
es). Call 4-0586 to get them.  INGTON GAME WILL PAY$$$$  floor. I have faith you will forge new  
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  CALL JANEL 4-2798  bonds with your owners. Life goes  
WANTED  3BDRM HOUSE NORTH OF N.D.  . WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! CALL 243-1287  1st 1 0 Rows  232-0058  Student Football Card for sale-sea­ on dear friend. Just without you to provide me a place to rest  
277-3097  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  son tickets. best offer. call cortney  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE, Grape  *********  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  at 4-4983  
Road, Mishawaka, is expanding its  Need 2 Purdue GAs  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  Beth, Amanda. al']d Liz  
staff for the ND Football season.  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Will pay $50 a piece  You're going to have to teach me  
Outgoing, self-motivating individu- CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW.272-6306  Call Jon at 634-1389  Student Season Football Ticket  that groovy new Glance I witnessed  
als should apply in person. Now hir­ ****"'******  Card FOR SALE. call jean at  last Saturday.  
ing for wait, bus and host positions.  ..DAVE MATTHEWS TIX ..  x0719.  
Come in after 3pm today!  1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME.  Will trade 2 center box seats for  Molly,  
CLOSE TO ND. SAFE, USE OF  Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$  DMB for one Purdue GA. Call  Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE  And you say these are just for  
...­ HELP WANTED-$10.25  ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN. $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794.  x4893  Mickey at 1350  and OSU!! Willing to buy or trade! Call4-3568.  Observer people.  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  NEED STUDENT TICKET BOOK­ NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  LETS-DAVE -271-8019  ALL GAMES HOME  Here's hoping we all find a place on  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  VW 90 JETTA GL 2DR 5SPD  AND AWAY  Tickets are NEEDED for  the community shelf at 1634.  
available. Info-call 282-2357  SNRF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU­ 232-0058  PURDUE and OSUI! Willing to  
LATE! $6950/BEST 277-3569  NEEDED:  24 HAS.  buy or trade! Call 4-3568.  
' MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Attention patrons of Brigdget  
NEED DRUMMER  FOR SEASON  McGuire's: Watch out for flying  
ALT. BAND  ROOMMATES NEEDED!!!  TICKET-MART, INC.  cubes of frozen water!  
VELVETS TO P J HARVEY 283-0833 I 232-7392  Females/non-smokers preferred. 3 Bedroom House' Fully Furnished'  'GAs FOROSU  n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635  Hey roundball fans! The new sea­ 
Washer/Dryer'  WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  son is just around the corner and  
2 Fireplaces'10 min drive from  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  NEED PURDUE TIXI!!  you know what that means. The  
WANTED: Used TV-set  campus. $275 (utilities included)  232-0061 .  CALL ALl 289-4922  Notre Dame chapter of the Brent  
Call 634-4540  Call Natalie 291-7030.  .. HEADIN' TO TEXAS ..  Price Fan Club will be resuming its  
Can you sell us ND -UT tix? call  weekly meetings soon. Sign up at  
BABYSITTER NEEDED 1-2 DAYS PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER  FOR SALE  Todd x1668 or Shan x1833  ND SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX Bookletl! Will pay big$$$  your nearest Flanner dorm room today!  
HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6  Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  Call Mike 243-9224!!  DON'T LET BRENT DOWN!II!!!!!!!  
& 8 FROM 3:30 PM -6:00 PM.  89 tercel 80k auto $3200  for WASH. Call Brian@ 1648.  SELL  
MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS­ 271-8280  674-7645.  I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix  
PORTATION.  Call Mike 243-9224  peter peter the parkin' meter..  
PLEASE CALL 277-5786.  I NEED 2 PURDUE GAS  peter peter paid the meter.  
Mac Pwrbk 150, $500  PLEASE CALL ANDREW  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  GA's/Stu for Sale ... Home/Away  
Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000  X1942  BOUGHT & SOLO  All Games ... Leave B/0 for any  
Make money selling great  271-8280  232-2378 -A.M.  game... Call Tony x0500  peter peter the pumpkin eater and  
European sweaters. Call for inter- Need 4 Purdue GAs. Call Bobby  288-2726-P.M.  the party has now begun  
view. 237-0866  x1902.  
87 Plymouth, new parts & tuned 4 dr auto dependable car. $950 obo  ND ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ PERSONAL  no more taste tests  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 1-9397  NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET  AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL  
Positions are now availalbe at  STUDENT OR GA  2773097  THE COPY SHOP  kabobs tonight  
National Parks. Forests & Wildlife  CALL AMY X42Hi  in the LaFortune Student Center  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Who Needs A Bed?  --------­ is NOW HIRING  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  2 new single beds for sale!  WANTED: Student ticket app.  FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED  student employees!  they blow where they will  
extN55848  Mattress, Boxspring, and  Call243-9193  FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2  Stop in for details and to apply. ·  they blow where they please  
Headboard included. Asking $275  OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ each. Call Jarrod at 234-7601.  Need 2 OSU GA's, will buy/trade have Rutgers and USC. 634-0549  CALL ROBT. COLLECT 216-439-2192 AFTER 4  Hey Phishiesl Looking to trade legs? e-mail your tape lists to me  bisquick alphabet watch out for that forest on your  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  Matt  at crossen.6@nd.edu and I'll con­ way back to tc  
Board! Transportation! Male or  1986 Accord LXi Hatchback 5 spd  tact you with my list  I have approx.  ---­ 
Female. No experience necessary.  loaded rustproofed excellent car  Need 1 Purdue GA Call 634-0549  NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS!! II  150 hours to trade, mostly crispy.  footprints in the sands of time  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  105k miles $3500 271-1040  Matt  PLEASE CALL X3886  NO NEWSIES!  
and as silently slip away  

--~--~---~---­
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
-
-... ,,-_,_,,

• 8
H.::-~ t~"""''·' 


Cone hurls gem in comeback Oliver, Reds rally to 
By ROB GLOSTER six and walked three before Torre argued with first base Associated Press Yankees manager Joe Torre umpire Larry McCoy that 
beat first place Braves 
and pitching coach Mel Herrera failed to beat the 
OAKLAND, Calif. Stottlemyre decided to remove throw, but Cone -who By JOE KAY innings. Wade gave up two hits, 
As lw walked off the mound him after 85 pitches. showed no emotion in the Associated Press including Perez's solo homer, after each hitless inning, David Cone (5-1) had been on a d'zlgout as Herrera got the hit but walked seven, including four Cone looked above the 100-piteh limit, but allowed -said McCoy's call was cor­CINCINNATI in a row in the third inning to Yankees' dugout to catch the two hard-hit balls in the bot­rect. Curtis Goodwin drove in the cut the lead to 5-2. gaw of his dad. It was a sight tom of the seventh after the Tony Batista struck out and go-ahead run with a bases­Dean Hartgraves gave up an lw says he'll never forget. Yankees had a long inning Jason Giambi hit into a game­loaded bunt single in the sev­RBI single to Goodwin in the 
Cone's first start since while scoring three in the top ending fielder's choice. enth inning as the Cincinnati fourth, and Oliver hit a game­aneurysm was removed from of that inning. After a sluggish first inning Heds overcame a live-run deficit tying two-run homer in the fifth his pitching arm four months "If Joe was going to leave in which he walked two, Cone Monday night and beat the off Joe Borowski. ago was dramatie -and near­the decision to me, I'm going overwhelmed an A's team on Atlanta Braves 7-6. Marquis Grissom had four hits ly historic. But he says his last­back out there and throwing pace to break the major­Cincinnati fell behind 5-0 in to emerge from an 0-for-12 ing memories of the game will caution to the wind," Cone league record for homers in a the second inning before rally­slump and help the Braves get lw those images of his father. said. "I think Mel and Joe did season. He overpowered the ing for only its third victory in its the early lead. Atlanta batted 
Cone, coming back from the right thing, trying to pro­A's with fastballs and sliders, last 18 games against Atlanta. around for four runs in the first shoulder surgery that some tect me." and fooled them with breaking Joe Oliver tied the game 5-5 off Giovanni Carrara, who lasted thought might end his season, Torre said his decision pitches that had some Oakland with a two-run homer in the just 1 2-3 innings. Grissom pitdwd seven hitless innings wasn't difficult. batters totally off balance. fifth and had a single in the tripled, Terry Pendleton doubled 
Monday in New York's 5-0 vic­"I could not let the no-hitter Cone, who had two rehabili­Reds' go-ahead rally against and Chipper Jones and McGriff tory over the Oakland cloud what we set out to do,'' tation starts in the minors late Greg McMichael (5-3). Eduardo followed with singles for a 2-0 Alhlt~ties. Torre said. "If I leave him in last month, threw just 11 of 17 Perez's leadoff single, Oliver's lead with no one out. 
llis chance to join Mariano and he throws 105 or 106 pitches over the plate in the hit and an intentional walk to Left fielder Kevin Mitchell Bivera on the first combined pitches and wakes up with a first inning, but got McGwire Lenny Harris loaded the bases. then tried to make a knee-high no-hitter in the major leagues sore arm tomorrow, I'd never to pop out to end the inning. Goodwin, the fastest player on basket catch on Hyan Klesko's sinrll l<J'Jl was ruined when forgive myself for that." Cone got stronger after that, the Heds' roster, came to bat sinking liner, but missed the ball 
.Jose Herrera beat out an A couple of fine defensive finishing the second by striking with two outs and bunted up the for an error that allowed two infield singlt~ with one out in plays in the seventh kept the out Terry Steinbach on a slid­first-base line. McMichael field­more runs for a 4-0 lead. tlw ninth. no-hittnr alive. Third baseman er. He needed just nine pitches ed the ball with his bare hand Grissom led off the second 
l·:d Cone. who coached David Charlie Hayes dived to his in the third, and struck Berroa and rushed an underhand throw with his career-high 20th in Little League, flew from right to snare a grounder by out to end the fourth after he to first baseman Fred McGriff, homer. Kansas City to Oakland to Mark McGwire. and Bernie walked Giambi with one out. who could not handle the high Notes Braves right fielder 
watch his son's comeback Williams reached over the cen­Cecil Fielder hit his 33rd toss. Goodwin was safe with a Jermaine Dye reached over the ganw. David didn't know until ter-field fence to rob the next homer. a solo shot in the single and Oliver continued right-field wall to rob Bret Sunday night that his dad batter, Geronimo Berroa, of a eighth, and drove in another home on McMichael's throwing Boone of a three-run homer in would he at llw game. homer. run when he was hit by a pitch error for a 7-5 lead. the first. ... The Braves activated 
"I can't rtlmemher a major­Hivera retired the A's in with the bases loaded in the Jeff Shaw (6-5) pitched a per­pitcher Steve Avery, who had lnagun ganw wlwre I could order in the eighth and got sixth. Fielder reached 100 fect seventh inning to get the been on the disabled list since makt~ eye eontact with my Mike Bordiek on a grounder to RB!s for the fourth time in his win. Lee Smith gave up Terry July 19 with a pulled muscle in dad," Cone said. "I felt, 'Oh shortstop on his first pitch of career. Pendleton's solo homer in the his side. ___ Greg Maddux will gtwsh, llwre's my dad,' and I the ninth. Hayes hit a solo shot as the eighth, and Jeff Brantley pitched miss his start scheduled for kept wondering if he was going Herrera, a speedy rookie, Yankees scored three in the the ninth for his 37th save in 42 Tuesday because of a tender to ytlll at me for hanging a then slapped a grounder that seventh. It was Hayes' first chances. hamstring that forced him out of pitch or something. I'm going went under a diving Hayes at homer since joining the The Braves could have been his win last Thursday against to n~nwmher my father being third. Shortstop Derek Jeter Yankees last Friday in a trade up by much more than five runs Pittsburgh. Mike Bielecki will 
in tlw first row morn than any­made the throw from the out­with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He early, but stranded eight run­start instead.... Eric Davis was thing." field grass and first baseman had 10 homers for the Pirates. ners in the first four innings -out of the Reds' lineup with a 
Cone. whose fingers were Tino Martinez stretched for it, Ariel Prieto (4-7) allowed five in scoring position. sore left elbow. lie was hit by a numb and bhw after his previ­but Herrera slid into the base four runs on eight hits in 6 1-3 Cincinnati rallied as unbeaten pitch Sunday, but X-rays were ous start on May 2, struek out with the A's only hit. innings for the Athletics. Terrell Wade lasted just 2 1-3 negative. 
Calculus 

\\ow the ~\-92 attacks Ulllfh. 
When it comes to math, it's sink or swim. 
Fortunately, we've found away to help you 
keep your head above water: the new pull-down menus, it's as 
Tl-92. It'll tear through statistics, crunch L.O!..!Ollill~!....l friendly as Flipper. To see calculus and rip algebra to shreds unlike for yourself why the Tl-92 calculator any other calculator. Of course, the Tl-92 
~~.~~sh ;:,~~~
isn't just a piranha of ·~"""1t power. With easy-to-read !f4-'N on the Internet. ~~~~, 


~TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 
Send e-mail to: d-caresl!lticom or c.>lll-800-TI-CARES. 01995 n. 
Available: @ Best Buy @ Circuit City @ OfficeMax @ Office Depot @ Service Merchandise @ Staples @ Sun TV @ Target 
~-----------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~----·-----------------------------------------~---­
-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
• Nfl 





Bears bash 'Boys, 22-6 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The Dallas Cowboys' season­opener was already lost. Then the defending Super Bowl champions really lost Monday night, as four-time NFL rushing champion Emmitt Smith was carted off the field with an injury. 
By the time Smith got hurt while diving over the top of defenders after a fake handoff with 3:41 to go, the Cowboys already were beaten by the Bears. Chicago used two trick plays and an intense defensive effort to win 22-6. 
The initial announcement was that Smith had pain up and down his back but had move­ment of all his extremities as he went for precautionary X-rays. 
Deion Sanders lived up to his reputation as a prime-time player in becoming the NFL's first two-way starter in three decades. Even his participation in 107 plays wasn't enough, however, to keep the Cowboys from losing their opener for only the second time in seven years. 
Raymont Harris caught three passes for 103 yards and was on the receiving end of both of Chicago's trick plays. The Bears' defense contained a Dallas offense that obviously missed suspended receiver Michael Irvin and injured tight end Jay Novacek. 
The Bears, whose defensive collapse cost the team a playoff spot last season, held Smith to 70 yards on 18 carries and hounded quarterback Troy Aikman all game. The defense clinched the victory with 8:47 to play, when Aikman fumbled as he was sacked by blitzing Kevin Miniefield and Bryan Cox recov­ered in the end zone for a 22-3 lead. 

Smith got hurt on Dallas' next possession, landing on his neck and shoulder as he came down 
· to the Soldier Field turf. The game was delayed for about 10 minutes as medical .personnel immobilized Smith's body and carefully lifted him onto a motorized cart. It was a horrible ending to a horrific game for the Cowboys, who played nothing like cham­pions and failed to score a touchdown in a game for the first time since the 1991 play­offs. And twice, Dallas was easily fooled by the Bears' trickery. Chicago took a 7-3 lead when Harris caught a 33-yard touch­down pass from receiver Curtis Conway, a high school quarter­back, with 3:31 left in the first half. And punter Todd Sauerbrun found a wide-open Harris for a 4 7 -yard pass to set up Carlos Huerta's 31-yard field goal to make it 10-3 at halftime. After a scoreless third quar­ter, Huerta made a 42-yard field goal to put the Bears up 13-3. Sanders, who played almost all game, then made his critical mistake, fumbling as he reached with the football for extra yardage after catching a short pass from Aikman. Walt Harris, the Bears' top draft pick, made the tackle and recovered the fumble to set up 

Pyro Freshman 0!!! 
Huerta's 34-yard field goal for a 16-3 lead. 
The victory came in Chicago coach Dave Wannstedt's first game against his former club. He was Dallas' defensive coor­dinator under Jimmy Johnson before taking the Bears' job in 1993. 
Chris Boniol's 28-yard field goal put Dallas ahead in the first quarter. It was his 26th straight dating to last season, tying him with Norm Johnson for the third-longest streak in NFL history. But the streak ended in the second. quarter when he was wide left from 43 yards. 
Two 11-yard passes by Erik Kramer put the Bears on the Dallas 33 and Chicago pulled ofT its first bit of chicanery. 
Conway took a handoff on what appeared to be a reverse, stopped, and heaved a pass down the left sideline. Harris simply waited for the ball to come down, caught it at the 2 in front of linebacker Darrin ~mith, and backed into the end zone. 
Aikman was then intercepted by Marty Carter, who returned the ball 29 yards to the Dallas 
39. The Bears failed to gain on three plays and lined up for a punt. Instead of a punt, howev­er, it was Trick Play No. 2. Sauerbrun took the snap and passed to Harris. 

Susan  Katie  Dana  
Cristin  Andrea  Bridget 
Kim  Melissa  Maris a  
Emily  Kim  

Thanks for the Glory Days­You are amazing! 
All Student Organizations 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all student organization officers on: Academic: Ethnic: 
Sodal Service: 

Wednesday, September 4, Monday, September 9, Wednesday, September 11, 
Montgomery Theater -4 pm Foster Room -7 pm Foster Room -7 pm 
or or or 
Thursday, September 5, Tuesday, September I 0, Thursday, September 12, 
Montgomery Theater -7 pm Foster Room -8 pm Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
Athletic: HQnQr & Mu~ic: Special Interest: 
Wednesday, September 4, Monday, September 9, Wednesday, September 11, 
Montgomery Theater -5 pm Foster Room -8 pm Foster Room-7 pm 
or or or 
Thursday, September 5, Tuesday, September 10, 
Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -8 pm Foster Room -7 pm 
Montgomery Theater -8 pm 

At least one officer from every student organization must attend one ofthe sessions. If you have any questions, please call the Student Activities Office at 1-7308. 
NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, 
responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you will be called to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 

------~ 

Tuesday, September 3, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Kicker 
continued from page 16 
PAT's attempted on the sea­son. Consequently, when lloltz blamed the kicking game for three of the five losses, Cnngia was the one on the hot SHat. 
Following the 1994 cam­paign. thn Irish did something thHy had not done in years ­they signed one of the nation's top kiekers in Florida native Kevin Kopka. 
Kopka's eommitment seemed to spell thn end of Cengia, es­pecially when Kopka won the starting job early on in 1995. But likn SehroiTnHr, Kopka also struggled, and one morn time, Cmtgia stalked to the rescue. 
Beginning with last year's Boston College game, Cengia handled all field goal and PAT duties in phenomenal fashion, eonverting three field goals against Air Foree to finish live­of fivn on the snason and 12­of-12 on t\xtra-point attempts. 
llownvnr. the accolades earned by Cengia never stopped Irish recruiters from snarehing for another kicker. When national signing day eanw around in February of 1996, Notre Dame had landed anotlwr quality marksman, Jim Sanson, and Cengia found his job in jeopardy again. 
"I had heard about this freshman Sanson who would be coming and I wanted to work hard. I wanted the team to know I was best for the job." 
Two days into spring drills, Cengia was struck with a fever of "unknown origin," as team physician Dr. Moriarity called it. He lost 20 pounds, and was forced to sit out most of the spring. 
After being _in the hospital and recovering from the mysterious virus, Cengia life­guarded during the day, then worked out often with his brother and his dad at a near­by gym, trying to improve his distance and accuracy. 
"At Culver, Jim (Sanson] and I competed each day, waiting for the final nod. I won the job recently, but whether I'm kicking or Jim's kicking, as long as we win the national championship, I'm happy." 
Solid placekickers breed national champions. The last time Notre Dame had a solid kicker was 1993, when the Irish decimated the first­ranked Seminoles on the way to an 11-1 season. Scott Cengia is back, with con­fidence. 
• NFL 

Favre proves critics 
•

wrong In opener 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Brett Favre impressed even the president of the United States. 
President Clinton was in Wisconsin on a campaign tour Monday and took a quick detour to Lambeau Field, where he met briefly with the Green Bay Packers. 
Clinton chatted with Favre, who battled an addiction to painkillers in the offseason. 
-Patting him on the shoulder, Clinton commended the quar­terback for his ability to "show up and do your best" on Sunday, when Favre threw four touchdown passes against Tampa Bay in the season open­er. Favre figures the two will meet again -at the White House if Clinton wins re-elec­tion and the Packers win the Super Bowl. 
Clinton told the Packers they were a lot like him: favored to win it all. But he warned them not to get cocky or complacent. 

"He's right. It's a long sea­son," flanker Robert Brooks said. "But Brett is back and he's the same ol' Brett, just like we said he was." 
Favre couldn't wait to show all the doubters that his 46-day stay in a drug rehab center for his addiction to Vicodin didn't sap him of the qualities that made him the MVP last season. 
"I think that question is answered. I had no doubts about myself," Favre said. "I had no doubts about myself. I told you a long time ago, 'Bet against me.' Well, I don't know where your money is." 
Not even the president would take that wager. · 
Granted it was only the Buccaneers he dissected 34-3, but Favre, who was rusty in the preseason, resembled the MVP quarterback who took the Packers to the cusp of the Super Bowl last year. 
Favre completed 20 of 27 passes -and three of those were drops -for 24 7 yards. He was undaunted behind an offensive line that came in hob­bling, was loose in the pocket, located his third and fourth receivers and didn't throw an interception while putting his trademark zip on his stinging passes. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

SOCCER TOURNAMENT-Rae Sports will be sponsoring a One Night Soccer Tournament on Thursday, September 12, beginning at 6:00 PM. It is 5 on 5 plus goalie and you need to register your team in the RecSports office. Deadline is Wednesday, September 11 and the tournament is limited to the fll'St 12 teanlS to enter. For more info, call1-6100. 
STEPAN FIELDS AND VOL­LEYBALL COURTS-The fol­lowing policies will be in effect: RecSports activities have priority. Free-Play is avalable until lOPM Sunday ­Thursday when no RecSport Activities are scheduled. Reservations are available until 10PM on Friday and 
Saturday evenings only.  Call  
the  RecSports  Office  for  
details. (631-6100)  

BOXING-Notre Dame Boxing Club will hold and informa­tional meeting Wednesday, September 4 at 4:00 PM in the Boxing room at Gate 2 in the JACC. Questions contact John Christoforetti@ 243-9287. 
SPORTS INFO OPPORTUNI­TY-The Sports !formation Office is looking for ambitious students who want to get involved in the Athletic Department. Interested stu­dents should come to an infor­mational · meeting on Wednesday August 28 @ 7:00 PM, at the Sports Info Office (JACC, 2nd floor),# 1-7516. 
FALL BREAK SEMINARS October 20-25, 1996 Experiential/Service Learning CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -Service learning at pne of twelve ~sites in the Appalachian region :L -One-credit Theology II -Information meeting (optional): Monday, Sept. 9, 7:30-8:00 PM CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examines issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology -Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs -Information meeting: Thursday, Sept. 5, 4:15-4:45 PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Education in America -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government -Information meeting: Monday, Sept. 9, 7:00-7:30 PM  
Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications Due: September 1 1 , 1996 All Serninars Depart sunday Morning, Oct. 20th  


The Observer 
is now hiring for the following po~ition:
··• 

Illustrator 
If you are interested in an exciting and exotic job, experience drawing for The Observer. Please contact Ed Leader at 634-4428, or stop up at The Observer. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


Innsbruck, Austria 
Information meeting with 
Professor Ursula Williams 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
4:30PM 
223 Hayes -Healy 
-

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 3, 1996 
' • MEN's SocceR 
Wildcats provide Irish with golden opportunity 
Berticelli and company look to remain unbeaten 
BY DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Editor 
There's an old familiar say­ing that goes something like "Home is where the heart is." Last season, this saying couldn't have been more true for the Notre Dame men's soc­cer team. 
The Irish posted an impres­sive 8-3 record at the friendly confines of Alumni Field last season, while tallying a disas­terous 1-7 record on foreign soil. 
While these highly contradic­tory records stymied the Irish last season, it is important to note that the new-look Irish are looking to the present without dwelling on the past. 
"Our focus right now is to play as well as we can," com­mented head coach Mike Berticelli. "We're taking things one game at a time." 
C E N T E R F 0 R SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Appalachia Seminar 
October 20-25, 1996 
• 
Work, play, and learn with other volunteers at one of 14 sites in five different states. 

• 
Receive l·credit in Theology. 

• 
Pick up applications at the Center for Social Concerns. 


INFO SESSION: MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 7:30-B:oo PM@ the esc 
/\PPLIC/\TIONS DUE: Wednesday, September 11, 1996
-
or more infonnation, M.J. Adams(634-3880l,'or Laura Stein (634-3690) on tact: Rachel Thomas Morgan (282-2209) Dr. Jay Brandenberger, Center for Social Concerns (631-5293) 


What are you doingfor 
Fall Break? 
This approach has proven successful to the Irish so far this season, allowing them to perhaps exorcise some road demons and iron out a few kinks with an impressive 1-0 shutout of Big East rival Providence in Rhode Island last weekend. Now the Irish begin a four game homestand with their match against Northwestern tonight at Alumni Field. 
The less thim spectacular Wildcats, who finished 4-13-1 last season and are off to an 0­1 start this season, should pro­vide a solid opportunity for the Irish to continue to decide on their lineup, as well as begin to establish a home field advan­tage for the season. 
"It's good to get off to a good start at home," commented sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho. "It's important for us to win our first game at home and set a standard for the sea­son." 
Berticelli, while agreeing on the importance of playing well at home, is not looking past the Wildcats, and maintains that what is important is getting the most out of his team. 
"You always tend to be at an advantage playing at home," said Berticelli. "Our biggest concern right now, however, is establishing who is going to play where on the field, not whose field we're going to play on." 
The starting roles throughout the Irish lineup remain up in the air, with mos( if not all, of the certainties being concen­trated in the backfield. 
The defensive combination of Velho, sweeper Brian Engesser, marking backs Peter Gansler and Alan Woods and defensive midfielder Matt Johnson seems pretty much a lock at this moment, especially after a very solid performance against Providence. Their con­tinued solid play and eventual progress will be a key element in the team's success this sea­son. 
"We need to keep playing good team defense to be suc­cessful," commented Velho, who registered the fourth shutout of his collegiate career last weekend. "Every game, we want to continue to play 


~t~~~ ··--~ 
ESP 


Gamewatch '96 
~{l' .... ..,.
~ VAN.ILT 
Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt Thursday, September 5, 7:00p.m. at LaFortune Student Center 
Come watch the opening game on one of two big screen TVs 
Free Food provided by the HUDDLE pizza lemonade  Raffle Drawing •Crazy ESPN Stuff • $100 Bookstore Gift Certificates  
popcorn  •Autographed Lou Holtz Footballs  
.J'  

Brought ~.you by: Student Activities, SARG, and the Huddle 
better defense." 
Berticelli agrees with his goalkeeper, and seems confi­dent in the defense's potential this season. 
"I'm confident that we will be organized and strong defen­sively," stated Berticelli. "Our goal down the road is to estab­lish a strong defense, which will lead to a successful offense." 
Much of the remainder of the lineup, particularly at the for­ward position, remains uncer­tain, with the only sure thing being that Berticelli has many options to choose from. 
"We're going to jumble 
INDIANAUNIVERSITY· 
SOUTH BEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
English Classes for Speakers ofOther Languages English for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Improve your conversation and understanding of written and spoken English. · 
Mondays, Sept. 9-Nov. 25, 6:30-9 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
Pronunciation and Speech Improvement for Speakers ofOther Languages 
Specially designed to improve your business presentations. Ideal for MBA students. 
Tuesdays, Sept 10-Nov. 26, 6:45-9:15 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
TOEFL Review 

Learn to better your score on the Test of English as a Foreign Language. 
Thursdays, Sept 12-Nov. 7, 6:30-9:30 p.m. at IUSB, $189. 
To register, or for information, call IUSB Continuing Education, 237:4261. 

things around until we come up with the best combination," commented Berticelli. 
Chances are that combina­tion may include freshman for­ward Ryan Cox, who has been hampered a bit by a preseason ankle injury. 
"Ryan Cox is a talented kid," said Berticelli of the high school Parade All-American. "He will certainly evolve into a key player for us." 
Berticelli remains confident that the entire team will evolve along with Cox, eventually developing into a team that will be successful -both on the road and at home. 
li.1csday, September 3, 1996 MIXED MEDIA 
DILBERT I GOT HIRED 
The Observer • TODAY 
JACK OHMAN 
SCOTT ADAMS 



HERE'S fv\Y CARD. YOU CAN ONL'Y REACI-\ f"\E. 
BY E-1"\ML OR 13Y 
PAGE.R. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
IIAPI'\ BIRTIIIJA\! IN TilE NEXT \EAR OF YCH;R LIFE: Sell·di"·1pl1ne hclp.s you 111ovc ahead in yuur chosen f1cld The buSiness pictuJT looks e.specially bright as 1996 draws to a close. 
Domcstil' happin!.!s .... grow"i when you stn"e a bcner balance b,·twccn wnrk and play. 19'!7 brings you the chance to launch a tucrati ve second career. Keep in touch with fannly membc" ncar and far. A romantic awakening is featured next spring. Folio" vour hear\ even 1f others counsel caution. Love is triumphant1 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Valerie Pcn·ine, actor Charlie Sheen. auto designer Ferdinand Porschc, actress Irene Papas. 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): Rewards come your way from someone at a distance. Make an overseas phone call. Your financial future rests squarely in your hand.s. If possible. fulfill family members' requests. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Domestic conditions show dramatic improvement. You enjoy being in the driver's seat' Your keen intu­Ition helps you beat the competition. Make "'full steam ahead"' your win­ning motto. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Use your head. Projecting a confident image will help you scale a career hurdle. A team sport or exercise class offers you an excellent oppor­tunity to get in shape. 
CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): You fulfill a career wish tluinks to group support or professional ties. A shared secret nets you new clients. Tmst your ESP. Take a step-by-step approach to completing an impor· tant personal project. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Refuse to let red tape or delays get you down. Follow tried-and-true routes 
page IS 
JEANE DIXON 

hl IL';IL·IJ ~IIlii ~ildh \nlJ,d L'!l~agL' lllCilh 'hould lw reS< IJ,·dukd 1f they Jlllt•rklL' 1..\ Jill wur~ 
\II{(;() !Au~ 2.l S,·pt 221 lise yuur lllll' re,earch t;Tic·nts BuyI"'""' 01 'l'it yuu1 luc·;d l1hrary. 
Tt1~1n~ on ncv. dutll'" ~..~Ill lead to hC'IlL'I k1al ftni.lllUHI ch.IJH!l"~. (ios sip:-.. arl' he't avoided · 
LIIIRA (Sept. ~.1tkt 22): You hecome a hero 111 the eyes of an employer when you sc·ttle a recur­ring dispute II dlill<'tilt en-worker ma) do a complete turnaround. Sei1e the IIHlmcnt and work out a new understanding 
SCORPIO !Oct. B-Nov. 21): You can boost efficiency now by 
shiftmg gem\. The more yuu accom­
plish. the more you will be able to do. However. avoid leaping back and f011h from unc proJect to another. 
SAGITTARiliS 1Nm. 22-Dec. 21 ): Reach out to someone at a dis­tance. A joh offer is very tempting. Base your final dec1.s1on on logic. not emotion. S<imeone from another country gives you valuahle new insights. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 191: Stav focused at work. You need to adapt quickly to changing conditions. Making some ne" resolutions regard­ing your family will prove satisfying. A pan-time job helps you handle a temporary cash flow problem. 
AQliARIUS <Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Unexpected developments force you to make different choices. Try not to take a busmess decision personally. Lighten up a hit and others will do the same. 
PISCES (Feb. !'!-March 201: Others respond favorably to your high energy. Teamwork improves the bottom line. Profit-sharing is advised. Avoid taking shortcuts if a project i'> complicated. Consulting experts helps you save time and money. 
• OF INTEREST Get Involved. llepresentatives from Notre Dame student organizations will be on hand to answer questions and sign up members at the annual Activities Night. The event will take place from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. tonight at the JACC.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Tortilla Soup Canadian Cheese Soup Grilled Ham Steak Yankee Pot Roast Chicken Tetrazzini Baked Redfish Pork Pried Rice Cheese Lasagna Grilled Salmon Pillet Saint Mary's New \'\'ave Vegetables Baked Stuffed Zucchini Batter Pried Pollock Baked Lasagna  
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds  

,.. 
!:. 
u 
.!: 
~ 
~ 
j ,.. en 
., 
! 
·c: 
.." 
g: 
@ ..!) .Jt. 
Wl-\t.N THE. NETWOR\\ BRE.~KS, NO 
E.-MAIL. I'LL JUST ~IT AROUND AND 
YOUR PAGER 
NU/"\~ER 1-\AS A "TILDE. .. HOW DO I DIAL A TILDE!' 

~~~~~...............~~_.~~.....~~~~~~----..........~--~~..........~ 
57 1969 Creedence Clearwater Revival song 
63 Moldmess .64 Purif1es. as 
water 65 Gamete 66 Help at a he1st 67 F1gure out 68 Part of D J 69 a one 10 Everything, to 
Ernst 11 "Como usted?" 
DOWN 

1 Turnp1ke fee 2 "Un bel di." e.g 3 Tease 4 VCR button s Speckled 6 Derby entries 7 Pelvis parts 
a Extend 9 Marsh 10 1967 Beatles song 11 Donizett1 work 12 Used, as a chair 13 Did a blacksmith's job 21 Sea World 
attraction 22 Biblical verb 25 Battery termtnal 26 Baden and 
Bath, e.g. 

49 Develop 51 Dweller on the Tiber 52 Caribbean 
island 
53 Scrooge, e.g. 
55 Electric circuit 
safeguards 

27 H1gh water's partner 
28 Life of Riley 29 Baked dessert 31 Slave 
33 Lightly burn 
36 Dump problem 37 Pre-Easter 
period 38 Eye protector 41 Clint Eastwood 
film, with "The" 46 Ribald 48 Building annex 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665 
58 Small brook 59 Pop music's 
Depeche · 60 Hertz rival 61 Oxidize 62 Gym site 64 iBe prepared" 
grp. 


SPORTS 

page 16 
·• WmV!Ett's Sm:cEH 

Defending champs dominate 
again they will be a major pow­VanLaecke. VanLaecke racked
Women shutout 

erhouse. up five goals this past weekend. On Saturday, the Irish took on She had a hat trick againstEagles, Friars the Friars and came out victori­Providence, followed by two 
ous, 14-0. The Irish defense goals against Boston College. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 

showed its strength by not "She played awesome," stated
Sports Writer allowing the Friars to take a sin­sophomore Monica Gerardo. 
gle shot the entire game. "She is a really hard worker and This weekend the women's The squad followed up their she is very talented. This week­soccer team started their trek victory on Sunday by dismissing end she put away all her oppor­back to claiming the NCAA title. 
the Eagles on their home turf, 6-tunities."
If there were any doubts about 0. Senior goalkeeper Jen Renola Notre Dame's main goal wasthe defending national champi­
did manage to get some form of to focus on their defense.
ons defense, this weekend they 
a workout in this game, posting Freshman Jen Grubb steppedwere silenced. The Irish shutout six saves. into the starting line-up this past both Providence and Boston This weekend the team was weekend at the sweeper position College, and showed that yet 
paced by senior forward Amy and the defense was trying to coordinate and work out the problem areas. Grubb immedi­ately showed her versatility by being solid on the back line and scoring in the Boston College game. 
"We were solid defensively," stated head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We were not tested that much. The few times peo­ple did break through, we shut them down rather quickly." 
The other top scorer this weekend was Gerardo, who also had a hat trick against the Friars to go with two assists in the BC game. Last year Gerardo paced the Irish in scoring with 20 goals. 
Petrucelli discussed Gerardo and VanLaecke's performance. 
"It was a good weekend. These games gave us a great I changed positions," said selves, becaus·e of the oppo­deal of confidence. Also we Streiffer. "The team knew what nents:'' said Gerardo. "After this showed that we are a talented I was going through, so they coming weekend, we will be group." helped me out." able to judge ourselves." 
Grubb was not the only fresh­Her·teammate. freshman Kara The Irish are already looking man making an impact. Browll'!'·also had an impact. ahead to their next opponent. Freshmen Jenny Strelffer Brown assisted in two of the The home opener is set for this showed no qualms about her goals against Providence. Also Friday against the Wisconsin collegiate debut as she posted freshman Jenny Heft managed Badgers. The Irish will have a two goals and five assists on the to get in on the action by chalk­tough weekend because on weekend. ing up an assist and a goal. Sunday, they will face thir­
"I was pretty nervous because "It was hard to judge our-teenth-ranked Washington. 
• fOOTBALl 

Veteran Cengia overcomes early season adversity 
one placekicker. He has watched walk­
Junior kicker steps up 
.. 
on after walk-on attempt to claim his position. He has watched Notre Dameto win starting role recruit the nation's top high school placekickers in Kevin Kopka and Jim over underclassmen Sanson. He sat back as Kopka took his turn, then Sanson. Yet still, Cengia is
By T. RYAN KENNEDY 

"the Man." 
Sports Writer 

"Basically it was just a matter of set­tling down," said Cengia. "The positionNovember 12, 1994 was a grim day for [kicker] is 70 percent mental. But I
kicker Scott Cengia and Notre Dame 
know I have to go in and make a kick nofootball. The Irish, on the verge of sti­matter what. I can't worry anymore,
fling the Seminoles for the second 
I'm just doing my part."
straight year, had knotted the game at 
Like his predecessor Kevin
16 with less than five minutes to play. 
Pendergast, Cengia also walked on from
Cengia trotted onto to the field for the the varsity soccer team, securing theextra-point attempt, but he booted the back-up slot behind Stefan Schroffner.
ball off the upright. 

But when Schroffner muffed a 21-yarder
The Irish momentum vanished as 
aginst Purdue in the fourth game of the quickly as Ron Powlus had zipped the 1994 season, Holtz gave Cengia the nod. 
tying pass to Derrick Mayes in the cor­Though Cengia hit a 31-yarder later inner of the end zone, and the Seminoles the same game, he went on to hit only 5­danced to victory 23-16. 
of-8 field goals attempted and 4 of7
Now almost two years later, Scott Cengia remains Notre Dame's number-
see KICKER/ page 13 





at Vanderbilt, ~ Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
Volleyball vs. Manchester, 
. aJ •Men's soccer prepares for Wildcats 
SPORTS 

~ . Tonight, 7 p.m. 
vs. Northwestern, ~ Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
~ 
see page 14.
.... 
vs. Wisconsin, 

•Cone makes strong return in Oakland ~ 
Soccer vs. IL Wesleyan, 
I] 
~ 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. . Wednesday, 4 p.m. se~ page 11
r!,l 
vs. Stanford, 

Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
~ 

The Observer/PAID ADVERTISMENT 

----------------------~u7.n:i:v:e:rs:i:ty~o=f~N~o:t:r:e~D;a:m::e~------------------------~r---::~~;;~ 
Center for Social Concerns 
~~ .. to love tenderly, to actjustly and to walk humbly with your God., Micah 6:8 
lbla directory Includes more than 30 Center-related atudent lfi'GU.,. u well as eome 40 community agenclea(*) aeeklng volun­t...... Numbera In parentheses refer to listings on pagea 2 and 
• Center for the Homeless (11) Center for Basic Learning 
Skills (13) Dismas House (21) 

• 
Literacy Council (43) 

• 
South Bend Community Schools' Adult Education (69) 

• 
St. Margaret's House (61) 

• 
YWCA Women's Shelter (78) 


T-OLDER 

• 
Healthwin Hospital (32) 

• 
Milton Home (48) 

• 
Northeast Neighborhood Association (49) 

• 
Portage Manor (56) 


l"nltL~.<•nE:.n ·YOUNG (Also see Tutoring) 
Big Brothers/Sisters (6) 

• 
Boys and Girls Club (7) 

• 
Broadway Christian Parish (8) 

CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate (16) 


• 
Center for the Homeless (11) Center for the Homeless 

Children'sGroup (12) Council tor Fun and Learn (19) 


• 
El Buen Vecino (22) 

• 
Ei Campito (23) 

• 
Family and Children's Center (24) Headstart (31) 

• 
Healthy Babies (33) HUGS{39) 

• 
Junior Achievement of Michiana (40) 

• 
Madison Center (45) 

• 
St. Hedwig's Outreach Center (60) 

• 
YWCA Women's Shelter (78) 

• 
Youth Services Bureau (77} 

Amnesty International (3) Dismas House (21) 


• 
Legal Services (42) 

• 
Parkview Juvenile Center (53) 

• 
Sex Offense Services (67) 


TURAL ISSUES 
CASH (Committee to Assist Hispanics) (10) Hispanic American Organization (34) La Casa da Amistad (41) Manatiai (46) 
SERVICES 
Best Buddies (5) 

• Corviila (18) Council for the Retarded (20) Logan Volunteers (44) 
• 
Madison Center (45) 

NISDC (Northern Indiana State Development Center) (52) 


• 
Portage Manor (56) Reins of Life (58) SuperSibs (72) 


RONMENT 
Foodshare (27) Recyclin' Irish (57) SEA (Students for Environmental 
Action) (66) 
NG AND HOMELESSNESS 

• 
Broadway Christian Parish (8) 

• 
Center for the Homeless (11) Habitat for Humanity (29) 

• 
Hope Rescue Mission (37) 

• 
Project Warmth (55) 

• 
Salvation Army (65) 

• 
St. Margaret's House (61) 

• 
St. Vincent de Paul (62) 

• 
YWCA Women's Shelter (78) 


1nu·nu1~n CONCERNS FoodShare (27) World Hunger Coalition (76) 
MEDICAL 
• 
AIDS Ministries/Assist (1) 

• 
American Cancer-Society (2) 

• 
Center for the Homeless (11) 


* Chapin Street Health Center (14) First Aid Services (26) Harbor Lights Hospice (30) 
• Hospice (38) HUGS (39) Memorial Hospital Medical 
Explorers (47) Notre Dame Hospice Center (50) SWAT (73) 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Amold Air Society (4) CASH (Committee to Assist Hispanics) (10) 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) (16) 
* Goodwill Industries of Michiana (28) Hispanic American 
Organization (34) Pax Christi (54) World Hunger Coalition (76) 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International (3) 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) (16) 
Pax Christi (54) Right to Life (59) World Hunger Coalition (76) 
TUTORING (Also see Children · Young) 
Big Brothers/Sisters (6) 
• Center for the Homeless (11) 
CILA (Community for the International Lay Apostolate) (16) 
Council for Fun and Learn (19) 
• 
El Buen Vecino (22) La Casa de Amistad (41) NSHP (Neighborhood Study Help 

Program) (51) 

• 
Parkvlew Juvenile Faculty (53) 

• 
St. Hedwig's (60) 

STEP (Student Tutorial Education Program) (70) 

• 
Youth Service Bureau (Safe Station) (77) 


WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for 
Rape Elimination) (9) Feminists for Life (25) 
* Home Management Services (35) Right to Life (59) 
• St. Margaret's House (61) 
* Women's Care Center (74) 
• YWCA Women's Shelter (78) 
ONE nME SERVICE OPPORnJNmES 
• Christmas in April (15) Dismas House (21) Habitat for Humanity (29) 
* 
Salvation Army (65) 

* 
St. Vincent de Paul (62) 


NOTE: Dorms, classes, or spec/a/Interest groups may wish to organize special projects with groups or agencies listed here. For further Information, contact Kathy Royer, Center Coordinator ofService and Social Action Groups, at 631-5293. 
Welcome! 
I hope you enjoy reviewing the opportunities outlined in these pages. The experiential and service­learning involvements have been extremely valuable for students over many years. Alumni/ae in many different careers are connnumg to integrate their NO and CSC experiences as they work for a more just and humane world. 

Please explore the CSC STAFF 1ST ROW: Carol Porter, Secretary; Patty Flynn, Secretary-Receptionist; Kathy Royer,
challenges open to you, and 

Director, Community Partnerships and Service-Learning; Sue Cunningham, Director, others. Stop in at the Center Summer Service Projects and Alumnijae Relations; Ardis King, Secretary; Norma Sweeney, Secretary; Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Plunge and Outreach Development; 2ND ROW: 
or give us a call! Maureen Skurski, Director, Post-Graduate Service Opportunities; Jim Paladino, Associate Director, Program and Resource Administration; Don McNeill, C.S.C., Executive Director; Andrea Smith Shappell, Special Projects Assistant; Jay Brandenberger, Director, Experiential Learning and Justice Education; Kathleen Maas Weigert, Associate Director, Academic Affairs and Research. The work of the Center is also facilitated by student interns and assistants, and by many resource persons and volunteers.
Jf)~~LJL,~.s c. 
Executive Director 



MISSION STATEMENT 
of 

THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
The Centerfor Social Concerns provides educational experiences in social concerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this process is enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness ofstudents, faculty, staff, and alumnilae about today's complex social realities, calling us all to service and action for a morejust and humane world. 
Center to sponsor election series 
In collaboration with several departments and centers, the Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a series on "The 1996 Election and the Common Good," to be held every Monday at 4:00 -5:00 p.m. starting with September 9 and running through October 
14. With expertise provided by Notre Dame faculty on various issues facing the American electorate, the series will be a vehicle for dia­logue and discussion. The series, which is free, will be held in the Auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
A special thanks to the following co­sponsor centers, programs and departments as of press time: 
American Studies Center for Civil and Human Rights Center for Continuing Education Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business College Democrats of Notre Dame College Republicans Gender Studies Government and International Studies Hesburgh Program in Public Service Institute for Church Life Sociology Theology White Center on Law and Government 
Computer cluster access to directory of Center for Social Concerns service programs 
There is a complete hypercard directory of service groups and community agencies on the Notre Dame computer network. The service projects are arranged according to type of service. It is menu driven so that you can select programs that are interesting to you. Anyone can access this by following these directions: 
• 
On all Macintosh computers in the computer clusters there is an icon in the upper right hand corner labeled CMS A. Open that icon. 

• 
Open the file called Courseware 

• 
Open the file called Other 



• 
Select the file labeled The Center for Social Concerns 

• 
When you then open the file called A Guide to CSC Programs. If you will receive a message that the environ­ment does not support color, just click OK and proceed with the inter­active program. 


Information about various programs at the Center for Social Concerns is available on this program. For the community service directory, select Service and Social Action Groups from the main menu. 

page 2 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS The Observer/PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
CSC groups·and So serviQg and lea 
1-AIDS MIN1STRIFS COMMITIEEIAIDS 13-CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS Volunteers-ro care for one or two babies at least ASSIST 23-EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER rwo hours per week. Volunteers-tutor adults from 9:30-11:30 Agency Phone: 288-6660 
Volunteers-ro give social support m individuals Monday through Thursday mornings at the Volunteers -provide role models for young chil­who are HIV+ by providing suppor< Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. dren from single parent families. 34-HISPANIC AMERICAN ORGANIZATION and assistance with office tasks. Agency Phone: 234-3938 Volunteers also assist regular day care 
Agency Phone: 234-2870 Contact: Andrew Payne -634-4196 instruc{Ors in planning and imple­Volunteers-to help the NO community under­
Contact: Caitlin McKenna-284-5086 Anita Specht -634-4313 meming their organized program. stand and celebrate the Hispanic Kelly Canavan-634-0847 Agency Phone: 232-0220 American culture. Volunteers serve Maya Borso-634-1499 14-CHAPIN STREET HEALTH CENTER the Hispanic Community in South 
24-FAMILY AND CHILDREN'S CENTER Bend through work with nei!;hbor­2-AMERICAN CANCER SOCIE1Y Volunteers-assist in providing clinic health ser­hood centers and a local parish. vices for those who are medically Volunteers-to provide role models for children Comact: Steve Hernandez Volunrec:rs -to organize on-campus awareness indigent. Also w work wirh young who have been taken away from their raising and fund·raising evems. girls in the Slice of Life Program. parencs, often for abuse. 35-HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICFS Agency Phone: 234-4097 Agency Phone: 232-4070 Contact: Lila Fingerhut-259-5666 Contact: Heather Banks-634-2541 Volunteers-to help with individual counseling Heather Gorman -634-1260 15-CHRISTMAS IN APRIL 25-FEMINISTS FOR LIFE tOr women in home managemem. Lori Miller -634-0768 finances, ere. Thry are also needed Volunteers -to upgrade neighborhood homes and Volunreers-Work to educate the community ro help with child care. 3-AMNFSlY INTERNATIONAL lift residents' spirits. about life issues such as abonion and capiral Agent)' Phone: 233-3486 punishment especially from rhe·point of view of 
Volumeers -for letter writing, petition signing, 16-CILA (COMMUNilY FOR THE women. 36-HOMELESS SHELTER CHILDREN'S special campaign work, and informal INTERNATIONAL LAY·APOSTALATE) Conracr: Laura Grimes-272-2572 GROUP discussions about human rights issues Maureen Kramlich -634­worldwide. Volunteers-are a group of friends united ro 2663 Volunteers -Spend rime once a week with the 
Contact: Katherine Hogan -634-2586 answer what we believe to be our Paul Perl -271-9859 children who live at rhe CFH. This . might Scott Leaman -634-1902 include organizing field trips and doing art and Anna Vanoverberghe-634-craft activities. Usually weekends. 
2464 Contact: Lacey Canavesi -634-1254 Mike Sheliga-634-\017 4-ARNOLD AIR SOCIElY 37-HOPE RFSCUE MISSION 
Volunteers -are members ofa national collegiare 
organization of Air Force ROTC dedicated to Volunreers-to serve meals to persons who are interaction with the community. homeless and dcsrirure, assist wirh Contact: Melanie Bean -634-1467 the maintenance of the facility, and 
Mike Chapple-634-3258 visit residents on a one-to-one basis. Jason Schramm-634-1158 Agency Phone: 288-4842 
5-BFST BUDDIFS 38-HOSPICE 
Volunteers -develop their relationships with per­Volumeers-ro visit terminally ill patients in their sons wirh mild to moderate menral homes. retardariori by going ro movies, Contact: Liz Machek-237 -0_140 
sporting events, concerts, museums. 
and by panicipatil}g togerher in 39-HUGS (HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE recreational activities. STUDENTS) Contact: Meg Ryan -634-2811 Stacie Jonas-634-4825 Volumeers-work wirh the Memorial Hospir'al Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. 
6-BIG BROTHERS/SISTERS Contact: Katie Flynn -634-4015 
Tara Lisien -634-2572 Volunteers -to provide shared time and Lisa ~'hoem:iker -634-.1846 friendship berween a student and a child. Agency Phone: 232-9958 40-JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT OF MICHIANA 
Contact: Berh Dolak -634-0706 David Gunther-634-1222 Volumeers -£O teach three different programs at Jessica Balster-634-4027 area schools: Project Business, The Basics of Business, Economics of 
7-BOYS & GIRLS CLUB vice to those in need. We follow this 26-FIRST AID SERVICFS TEAM Staying in School. 
calling by working in the South Bend Agency Phone: 234-4166 Volunteers-to assist with cucoring, health and community for and with all sorts of Volunteers-provide coverage for inter-hall sports, Contact: Amy Mattin -634-2532 recreation programs for ages 5 through 18. people, from the young to the elder­concerts, home football games, An Tostal, Keenan Chris Neidlinger-634-2265 Agency Phone: 232-2048 ly. A. a community, the focus is also Review, campus runs, and any other ND/SMC Steve Buckley-634-4274 
internarional. activiry rhat requesrs the team's service. 
8-BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH Contact: Nick Roulleau-634-3718 41-LA CASA DE AMISTAD 
17-CIRCLE K INTERNATIONAL Volunteers-to help with the Sunday meal­27-FOODSHARE Volunteers -to tutor young people at La Casa cooking, serving and cleaning up. Volunreers -work on a variety of service activities after school. They are also welcome Agency Phone: 289-0333 including work with children and neighbor­Volumeers -to ddiver, in groups of four or five, ro help with recreational activities 
hood clean up. the leftover food from the campus and immigration assistance. 9-C.A.R.E. (CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE Contact: Raymond Petrino -634-0614 dining halls ro the Center for the Agency Phone: 233-2120 ELIMINATION) Paula Conolly -634-414 5 Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission Belinda May Aber-634-2489 in South Bend. 42-LEGAL SERYICFS 
Volumeers-are srudems and facuhy/administra­Contact: Mike Gavigan -634-1836 tors from both Notre Dame and St. 18-CORVILLA, INC. Dan Finnane-634-3485 Volumeers-to serve as intake workers. The pro­Mary's College. C.A.R.E. members gram provides free legal representa­
make dorm presentations about rape Volunteers -to develop one-ro-one relationships 28-GOODWILL INDUSTRIFS OF MICHIANA tion to low-income persons. on campus and sponsor rape support with Corvilla residenrs. Corvilla is a home for Agency Phone: 234-8121 group on campus. persons with menral rerardarion. Volunreers-to help wirh half-pricl• sales ar 
Contact: Adrian Duran -634-3316 Agency Phone: 289-9779 Goodwill stores. 43-LITERACY COUNCIL Tanya Scapanski -634-4311 Contact: Joan Wesolowski-234-1661 19-COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARN Volunteers -ro rmor adults. IO-CASH (COMMIITEE TO ASSIST 29-HABITAT FOR HUMANilY Contact: Tom Brubaker-235-6229 HISPANICS) Volunteers-work whh learning disabled children 
every Saturday morning helpinjl them to meet the Volumeers-to work on consrruccion crews, 44-WGAN VOLUNTEERS Volumeers-to reach out to the Hispanic specific goals and objectives of the program. donate materials, and provide meals community of South Bend through a variety of Contact: Man Aranha -634-1645 for the work groups. Volunteers-ro assisr wirh organizing games and 
service activities, educational programs, and Padmaja ltikala -634-4414 Contact: Jill Reinauer-634-4938 doing arts and crafrs projects with cultural awareness projects. Stacy Ward -634-4907 Sarah Hoffmann -634-2385 and for Logan Center clients. Contacr: Beth Rabadan -634-2349 Kim West-634-4283 Agency Phone: 289-4831 Michael Lazzara -634-1930 20-COUNCIL FOR THE RETARDED Contact: Mike Carney -634-1057 Kelly Fitzpatrick -634-4329 30-HARBOR LIGHT HOSPICE Amy O'Loughlin -284-4009 Volumeers-lndividual Volunteers to work with Caly Nguyen -631-0782 11-CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS children and adulrs with developmental disabili­Volunteers -work especially in nursing homes ties with terminally ill people. 45-MADISON CENTER Volunteers-work in many areas in the-Center­Contact: Sr. Celeste R. Shoppy. IHM-1-800­
manage the front desk, help with the 21-DISMAS HOUSE 237-4242 Volunteers -for the Adolescent Day treatment serving of meals, work with the chil­program which assists emotionally dren and families and tutors and Volunreers -needed to cook for the residents on 31-HEADSTART handicapped adolescents to adapt to friends, work with the facilities at the week nights. Srudents are also needed to live at a normal school and community life. 
Center or help with administrative Dismas House. Volunteers -needed to work two hours per week Other programs include Sex Offense and organizational tasks. Agency Phone: 233-8522 with children on a one-to-one basis. Services, Children's Day Treatment Felicia Leon -282-8700 Contact: Lois Clark-234-2150 and Children and Adolescent 
22-EL BYEN VECINO Turoring. I2-CENTER FOR THE HOMELFSS CHIL­32-HEALTHWIN Agency Phone: 234-0061 DREN'S GROUP Volunteers -tutor people in English and help 
them study for their high school Yolunreers -to make weekly visits to patients on a Volumeers -Spend time once a week with the equivalency. They also help with one-to-one basis. children who live at the CFH. This might child care and work with morhers ro Agency Phone: 272-0 I 00 include organizing field trips and doing art and teach money management skills and craft activities. Usually weekends. health and nurrition information. 33-HEALTHY BABIFS 
Agency Phone: 287-8228 



The Observer/PAID ADVERTISMENT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS page 3 

th Bend community ning together! 
46-MANATIAI. 54-I'AX CHRISTl 
Vnlum~ers-Srudcnts who arc trained as mentors Volunteers-to meet weekly w build community, m hi\pank young people agc11 to discuss issues of peace and jusrice, H-1~. to engage in regular service work in <:oman: Jennifer Ari<r-634-2866 rhe Sourh Bend communiry. ND is Jenn<l!e M unoz-Colon -6.14-a chapter of the international 2595 Catholic peace movement, ·P;uc N>nmi [luran -(d4-4036 Christi. Conracr: Dan Druckenbrod-634-1169 47-MEMORIAL HOSI'ITAI. MEI>ICAL EXI'LORERS 55-I'ROJECI' WARMTH 
Volumcers ·to help collccr, sort and distrihure
Vnlumccrs · to work wilh srafT a1 Memorial 

jackets and coats to share with indi­llmpiiJI and J!.!tiSI wuh medical pro· viduals in need.
ct"durcs. 

Comact: Karen Cak -634-0923 Ed McCoul -634-2113 
Cunracr: Michelle M~Carry-634-2710 
uuren Brookman -634-4097 

411-MILTON HOMF. 56-I'ORTAGE MANOR 
Vuluntccr\-ro visit elderly re.,;idcnts on a one-to­nne bJ\i\, 

Volunteers-to pay regular visirs w individual 
residems who have no family. Agency Phone: 272-91 00 49-NORTHEAST NEIGIIBORIIOOD Guatemala Seminars. ASSOCIATION 57-RECYCLIN' IRISH skills. 61-ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE Contact: Gayle Silver-282-4000 
AgcrKy Phone: 2.B-O 16S 

Volunteers-to organize 1hroughout thC' dormsVnlumrcn w repair homes, w \ponsor il 
;mJ facilities on campm the various Volunteers-to hdp wid1 children, answer rhc 70-STEP (STUDENT TUTORIAL F.DUCATJON
Neighborhood J).,y whi,·h in,Judes a 

dTorts ro recycle which include news­phone and serve as hostess lOr guests. PROGRAM)cuukmu/pi,,:nic scuing, and ro assiu 
paper, gla!is, aluminum and now Volunteers also help with literacypt·oplc in tinJin~ J home. 
( :m11.11..1: l ;reg Zmchi.J~ · 2.3S-SS47 paper, plastic, and polyurethane. Conracr: Karen Cardinal -634-128.~ 
work, conking, aerobics, spirimal VolunteNs-w visit the South Bend Juvenile groups and other acdvities that Facility one night a week ;md to
Crisrin !.'Esperance-634­426) 
~0-NOTII.l: DAME IIOSI'ICE CENTER would he useful to rhe guests. The spend an hour with. a rts.ident com­I louse is open ro adult women and pleling work or talking J.bout con­
Mary Sian-634-1496 girls >nJ boys under rwdve. structive tnpi..:s. The residcnls arC' 
Vulunu~cn-w vi\11 fNminally ill p.uil·nts in tht·ir 
home\. 

Conracr: K.uhy Schnieder 2.14-779S also given a Chri;rmas Parry and a
( :,mi.Jt 1: AnJrc.J Smith -6.l4-48(, I S8-REINS OF LIFE PiL·nic in lhe Spring which is provid­
)<-wny S<orrlen -6.H-17C•O 

62-ST. VINCENT DE I'AUL ed by STEP and rhc Fadliry.
Volunreer!l-roan as horse leaders or siJewalkcrs Comacr: Laurie Wincko-&34-4026
f(H people wirh Ji!-..thilities during Voluntc:L·rs-ro work in rhl' thrift More ro prepare JeiTWincko-634-1672 
NSIII' (NEIGIIBORIIOOD STUDY 

theraputic hur!r.chack riding cl~ses, uo;ed good!; for sale. Anyone organiz­IIEI.I' I'II.OGRAM) 
Conracr: Sharon Burnside -291-4 540 ing a food or clorhing drivt:" can work 71-STUDENTS FOR RESI'ONSIIILE BUSINESS 
Vulunrrcn -10 rurur al a varic1y of cemt'rs rwicr a rhrnugh this grassroots organization. 

59-RIGtiT TO LIFE Agenq• !'hone: 234-6211 Voluntee-rs-Business student~ who are inrcrC'stcd 
Wc."t'k for a lH1t" hour pt"rintl each rime". 
Agenq Phune: 2.~~-967~ 

in assisring not for profil organi1..uions in Sourh
Volunteer!~-to tOcus on rhe national abonion 63-SADD Bend using their busines.1. expC"rrisc.
Cuncall: Nkulr: Carl'itrum -6.~4-2£,68 

issue. Activities include weekly pick­Contact: Mark Moskowirz-634-0538. Cynthia Ckon -6.14-2778 
cling at the Women's Pavilion, dorm forums, rrips ro Washingron, D.C., 
Su.<Jn Crondin -Cd4-4268 

Voluntr:crs -Plan and pre.~tem educational pro­Brei! Barlag -634-1219 grams and activities about the problem of drink­Brian Fox -273-2420
and a ll.ighr-ro-Life week during the ing and driving especially as it relates to Notre: 
S2-NISI>C (NOII.TIIEII.N INlllANA STATE 
year. Dame studems. 72-SUI'ERSIBSDEVF.I.OI'MENTAL CENTER) 
Contact: M>ureen Kramlich-634-2663 Conracr: Christine Duffy-634-4844
Brendon Johnson -634-1613 Suzanne lnzerillo-634-4862 Volunrcers-work with children who have siblings 
Voluntel"r!.-10 work on J onc:-w-onl" bJ.~ti~ wich 

James uur-634-4783 Jeanette Rubner-634-4002 with disabiliries. 
lhildren from 1hrer: 1u 19 on a variety of anivitics. 
Agency Phone: 234-210 I Contact: llrandon Zabukovic -634-0870

60-ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER 64-SAIM (Students for Inclusive Ministry) Steve Dirnberger-634-324953-I'AII.KVIEW JUVENILE CENTER Rebekah Go-634-3808Volunteers-whelp with turoring and w provide Volumeers-Assist in planning programs that 
stable role models for children who encourage dialogue about ministry especially how 73-SWAT
Volunteers-to wcor, for rencouional acrivilies, 

come from families that are in crisis. to make it a more inclusive part of church life.
menroring J.nd assi!ttance wilh .~.ocial skills. 

lt involves one or rwo afternoons per Contact: Leah Thomas-634-1497 Volunteers: People who have been trained toAgency Phone: 284-9588 
week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. Kathy Motyka -634-140 I provide AIDS educarion and present educarional 
Agency Phone: 287-0845 Michelle Venci -634-4906 programs abour HIV/Aids 
Contact: Klariss.1 Garza -634-0780
OMMUNITY ERVICE OMMISSIONERS 
65-SALVATION ARMY Scott Baker-634-1916 
1996-97 
Volunteers-provide food for Thanksgiving, 74-WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
ROOM PHONE 
Christmas and Easter baskets for 
families in South Bend. Student vol­Volunteers-needed w assist in wdcoming preg­
Alumni Ray Yung •••• .315 0814 
unteers can "adopt" a South Bend nant women and couple-s and begin­
B.tln Yull McCutchen .357 3817 
family through the Salvation Army. ning rhe process of assisting rhem to Agency Phone: 233-9471 gather the resources rhar they need to 
Elizabeth Wona •••355 3816 
Breen-Phillips Cori Casey ••• •..•... .307 1314 
romplere the pregnancy. 

Mary Finley .329 1327 
66-SEA (STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL Agency Phone: 234-0363
C.rroll Chrla Heltzel •• .413 2763 
AGnON)

CavMausft Christy Fisher • .139 1388 
75-WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER
Jamlko Rose •• .119 0826 
Volunteers-to promote awareness ofenviron­
Dillon Joe Knutzen •• ••.285 1773 
mental issues amongst the student Volumecrs-Provide assistance ro lhe women of 
Farley Kellle Flanagan ... ••.309 4021 
body and the South 1\end communi­Notre Dame with issues and problems rhar are 
Jackie McAllister •• ... •••312 3838 
ty. We cooperate with rhe Notre particularly acute for women, such as rape and 
Dame Environmental Task Force S<Xual assaulr, caring disonlm, saual harrassmenr, ere.
Fisher Brian Ulmer •.•238 1970 
and environmemal groups in Sourh Conract: Katherine Hazard -634-0828
Flanner Rich Glatz •••• ••.621 0543 
Bend to create environmentally Gina Ruovado -634-4815
Matt Persohn , .1118 1213 
sound policies on campus and ofT. Adrienne Greshock-634­t:Gntact: Brian Blank -634-1802 1552 
Howard Kerry Ducey •• .200 0692 
Meghan Knapp .328 2513 
Angie Koloszar-634-0934
Keenan Michael McCann .242 3306 
Dan Druckenbrod-634-1217 76-WORLD HUNGER COALITION
Keoush Knott Ashley DeBruyne .326 4970 
Volunrec:rs-raise awareness and suppon for the
Amanda Swartz .203 4914 
67-SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) poor and hungry in rhe Sourh Bend 
Lewis Anne Warren ••• ••.403 3196 
community and around the world. 

Lyons Jennifer Gerber .225 1674 
Volunteers -m assisl with program at Madls.on Voluntttrs aim to grow spiritually 
Colleen Ryan .202 0896 
Cemer for victims of sexual assaulr and mentally in their efforts ro allevi­
and rheir families. are hunger, and ro have fun doing it. 
Morrissey Pat Perri ••••108 3455 
Conracr: uurcl Eslinger-289-4357 Contact: Kristin lliniek -634-4308
O'Neill 
Stephanie Sluka-634-4420 68-SILVER WINGS Karen Poggi-634-4455 
Pangborn Carrie Flanagan .. .141 2385 
Kelll Swinarski .204 4656 Pasquerilla East Kristin Biniek , • • '.709 4311 
77-YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU 
Katie O'Mara •• .735 4544 
(SAFE STATION) 

Stephanie Sluka .725 4421 
Contact: Brendan Boyle-634-2508
Pasquerllla West Beth Skalicky • • • .401 1514 
Christine Swoboda -634-Volumec:rs-to assist in a temporary sheher c-..are 
St. Edward's Joshua Reeves . . . . . . . .••.••.•319 1513 
4093 facility working with youths in crisis . 
SiePied Michelle Holden • .236 4825 
Kara Winn -634-0749 Conracr: Mary l'ozcik -235-9231 
Tina Potthoff .217 4811 Sorln Hall Andy Simon ••.208 2281 
69-SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS 78-Y.W.C.A. WOMEN'S SHELTER 
ADULT EDUCATION
Stanford Scott Cullen .337 2023 
Volumrers-to listtn, providt' transporta\ion.
John Grein .428 1910 
Volunreers-to work individually wirh adult stu­ruror, work wirh children and ro per­
Walsh Carrie McKnight .236 2645 
. dents who are studying for their form other important scrvkc:s . GED or simply learning literacy Agency l'honc: 233-9491 
Zahm Eduardo Uull •.317 1126 
Dean Roy ••••• .234 1234 

page4 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS The Observer/PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
ACADEMIC COURSES/EXPERIENTIAL SEMINARS 
All courses and the experiential and service--learning seminars listed on this page are devel· oped and coordinated by Center faculty and staff. They are offered through these academic departments: Theology, American Studies, Gender Studies, Peace Studies, Psychology and Sociology. Information meetings for the courses will be announced. · Contact the Center for more details. 
THE CHURCH AND SOCIAL ACTION (THEO 365C) ("URBAN PLUNGE") 
This course includes a 48--hour immersion into the kind of life most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seldom see. Over 358 students made an Urban Plunge during early January 1996. 
The purpose of the course is to experience injustice, apathy and poverty; to increase awareness of people who are working to improve these situations; and to witness and reflect on ways to address Gospel concerns regarding the oppressed. (1 credit) 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR (THEO 361) 
Each Fall and Spring break approximately 110 students travel to the Appalachia region of Kentucky and West Virginia. Students spend the week working side by side with the people of the mountains. Through physical labor and person-to-per­son contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. (1 credit) 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR (THEO 363, GOVT 496) 
Approximately 22 students travel each semester break to the nation's capital to explore crucial issues of the day from a variety of perspectives. In Washington, they meet with the decision-makers, members of congress, ambassadors and church leaders. On-campus preparation, on-site experience and follow-up reflection combine to create a unique learning opportunity. (1 credit, Theo. or Govt.) 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR (THEO 362, SOC 362) 
This seminar explores the rich cultural heritage of Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods and immigrant tradition. The corre­sponding problems of urban life and racism also are examined during the semester break experience. (1 credit, Theo. or Soc., Fall semester) 
SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR: L'ARCHE COMMUNITY (THEO 368) 
This seminar centers on participation over break in the L'Arche Community (founded by Jean Vanier). Students explore issues of disability through active involvement. (1 credit, Spring semester) 
LEADERSHIP ISSUES SEMINAR (THEO 369) 
The leadership Issues Seminar is designed for students working in a leadership capacity promoting community ser· vice or social action. (1 credit) 
MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR (THEO 368) 
Offers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Aorida during the spring harvest. Students work in the fields, live with migrant families, and assist agencies that serve workers. (1 credit, Spring semester) 
MEXICO SEMINAR (THEO 366) 
Provides an international service opportunity through a two week Immersion (during the last two weeks of May) in Oaxaca, Mexico. (1 credit; applications available in Fall) 
EL SALVADOR SEMINAR (THEO 371) 
Provides an international service opportunity through a two week immersion (during the last two weeks of May) in El Salvador. (1 credit; applications available in Fall) 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR (THEO) 
Provides opportunities for students to challenge and deepen their understanding of environmental issues through direct experiential involvements. (1 credit, Spring semester) 
OTHER SEMINARS include East Africa and Holy Cross Seminar. (1 credit each) 
REFLECTIONS ON SERVICE (THEO 360) (SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS). 
The Summer Service Projects are eight week sessions of community service facilitated by Alumni Clubs all over the country. During the summer of 1996, 175 Notre Dame students took part in this experience. A tuition scholarship is awarded to each participating student, provided by the Alumni Clubs, the James F. Andrews Endowment and other endow­ment funds. Students work in shelters for the homeless, soup kitchens, homes for abused children, spouse abuse shel­ters, Headstart programs, camps for inner city children, etc. (3 credits) 
THREE CREDIT COURSES BY CENTER FACULTY 
In addition to the many seminars graded (S/U), there are multidisciplinary courses by Center faculty in various depart· ments: 
Reading and reflection on issues raised by service experiences. Courses include: 
Don McNeill, C.S.C., Ph.D. and Staff· Theology and Community SefVice (THEO 273) 
Theology and Social Mini~try (THEO 274) 

Study and analysis of contemporary issues of justice and peace. Courses include: 
Jay Brandenberger, Ph.D. • Children and Poverty: Developmental Implications (PSY 405) 
-Learning for Change: Alternative Pedagogies and Moral Imagination (PSY 406) 
Kathleen Maas Weigert, Ph.D.· Introduction to Peace Studies (liPS 320) 
Power and Change in America (AMST 493, liPS 493) 
PEACE AND JUSTICE PROGRAMMING 
The Center sponsors or co-sponsors a variety of creative peace and justice programs throughout the year, including films, panels, invited speakers and performing arts. Each opportunity focuses on an important issue of social concern (e.g., racism, poverty, the environment). 
POST-GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES 
Workshops, seminars and other meetings enable seniors to consider the integration of service into their chosen careers and/or the advantages of a year or two of volunteer service, e.g., Peace Corps, Holy Cross Associates. Contact Maureen Skurski (631-5293). 
· ADDITIONAL EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES ... include, as resources allow, service-learning trips to the rural south, and to Holy Cross Mission sites in the U.S., Mexico, and Africa. Student leadership plays a key role in developing unique teaming opportunities. 
DIE FACULJY AND CENIER AcnvmES 
The special focus of our opportunities designed for faculty during the 1996-1997 academic year will be on "service-learning" and the ways in which it can be incorporated into courses and research. Through one-on-one consultation, class visits and a fall "Service Learning Fair." We hope to work with those faculty who want to link their teach­ing and/or research with community collaborators. Faculty will have the opportunity to participate with students in the Social Concerns Seminar: Appalachia over Fall and Spring breaks. 
Faculty are a vital resource to the CSC as well. They serve as facilitators for the course, The Church and Social Action ("Urban Plunge"), opening their homes for a one­evening gathering to provide students with an occasion to reflect on and extend their analysis of the "Urban Plunge" experience. Many faculty serve in a similar role for the course, Reflections on Service (Summer Service Projects). They are speakers for our various cross-listed experiential learning courses, advisors to the service and social action groups, and offer directed readings on related social concerns topics. 
Faculty interested in getting involved in any of these opportunities are encouraged to contact Dr. Kathleen Maas Weigert (phone: 631-5319 or e-mail: Kathleen.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu). 
CSC, CAMPUS MINISTRY, ALUMNI ASSOCIATION COLLABORATIONS 
The desire for a deeper integration offaith and action m the lives of Notre Dame students and alumni/ae has led Campus Ministry, the Alumni Association and the Center for Social Concerns to work towards more creative and pub­lic collaborations. In moving towards this goal, Rev. Mr. Jim Lies, C.S.C., serves as Campus Ministry's liaison with the Center and Jim Paladino as the Center's liaison with Campus Ministry, and Ed Trifone, Director of the Alumni Community Service Programs coordinates Alumni Association interaction with the Center's Sue Cunningham. 
Center hospitality includes • • • 
• 
a coffee house 


• a large multi-purpose room 
• seminar rooms 
• a resource room 
• a library 

• a reflection room 

• 
vehicles These facilities are available for use by approved student and com­munity groups. Contact the Cenrer receptionist (631-5293) to 


reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, and other gather­ings and to inquire about vehicle use. 
CENTER STAFF DIRECTORY 
631-5293(phone) 631-171(fax) E-mail: 
Jay Brandenberger ......Jay.WBrandenberger.l @nd.edu Rodney Cohen .........Rodney.T.Cohen.9@nd.edu Sue Cunningham .......Sue.C.Cunningham.S@nd.edu Party Flynn ............Patricia.M.Flynn.3@nd.edu Ardis King ............Ardis.J.King.2@nd.edu Don McNeill, CSC ......Donald.P.McNeill.1 @nd.edu Jim Paladino ...........James.Paladino.1 @nd.edu Carol Porter ...........Carol.A.Porter.4@nd.edu Kathy Royer ...........Kathleen.Royer.l @nd.edu Maureen Skurski ........Maureen.A.Skurski.4@nd.edu Norma Sweeney ........Norma.I.Sweeney.19@nd.edu Kathleen Maas Weigert ...Kathleen.M.Weigert.2@nd.edu 
FROM THE EDITOR'S DESK. 
Current information on Center programs and activities is available throughout the year in The Observer, through the CSC newsletter, News and Reflections From The Center, mailed three times per year to Center alumni/ae and friends, the Center's WWW homepage and other Center publications. 
This paid advertisement is made possible through the cooperation of: -The Observer staffwho assisted in its production -Notre Dame Student Government, which partially defrayed the cost -The student groups and community organizations that provided write-ups 
on their organizations -Center Staff who shared material on their programs · And you, rhe reader, whose interest and follow-up make all of this worth 
while. 
Thank you. Jim Paladino 




