
Friday, April 26, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 132 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
-~~--:J;:18~ 
"'"'r,_t:'.:;f. 
··/ . 
,!,~ 

The Lightning Crashes 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Assistant News Editor 

Grace Hall has been a fixture on campus since its 1969 opening. This spring however, is Graee's final eall as a dorm, and both students and administrators are reminiscing over the unique times the dorm has seen. 
Father Terence Linton, rector of Grace Hall, hasn't led Grace for very long. Yet, its spirit and unique atmosphere has made his tenure a pleasant one. "The students are extremely involved in hall life," said Linton. "This [unity] could be seen as odd, since Grace is such a large dorm where it might be hard to promote 
{;raft• liall: 1969-1996 
see GRACE/ page 4 


Irish activist Hume accepts ND Award 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Ediwr 
Calling for a recommitment to peace from both the Unionist and Nationalist sides in the armed conflict in Northern Ireland, Irish social justice advocate John Hume accepted the Notre Dame Award during a ceremony on campus last night. 
Hume, the leader of Northern Ireland's mainly­Roman Catholic Social Democratic Labor party and member of the European Parliament, has been instru­mental in organizing the talks to be held in June between both sides of the conflict. He 


also helped establish the 'The essence of cease-fire that, until IRA 
unity is the ac­

bombings in London resumed in February, had lasted for ceptance of diversity.' almost 18 months. 
"No one has more forthright­
John Hume 

ly stood up to violence and in support of human rights than [Hume]," said University "We felt that it was appropri­President Father Edward Mal­ate to honor a man loy in his introductory remarks internationally known for last night. "Throughout [his] peace," Seth Miller. student career, [he] has been a parti­body president, said, "and to san of reconciliation and an let him know of our apprecia­artisan of peace." tion." 
Along with the Notre Dame The most distinguishing note Award, flume was also pre­on Burne's political resume sented with a resolution unani­was his eontroversial decision mously passed by Student to open talks with Sinn Fein Senate on April 17, honoring leader Gerry Adams two years him for his life work for peace ago. Originally denounced by and congratulating him on re­ceiving the award. 
see HUME/ page 8 


SMC embarks on search for new president 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
l.nss than a wnek after the announce­ment of Saint Mary's College President William lliekny's resignation, the Collegtl's SIHtrch for its tenth president is wllll undnrway. 
In what she deseribed as "one of the defining moments of this institution," Mary l.ou Gorno, Chair of the Board of Trustnos, spoke with a group of students last night about the presidential seareh process. 
C:orno not only r.xplained the process, hut elicited feedback on what character­isties studtmts hope to see in their next college prnsidnn l. 
c;orno, a 1972 Saint Mary's graduate, was tllneted ehair of the Board of Trustens Saturday. She joined the board in IIJH7, was nanwd viee-ehair in 1991 and s11rved as thr. chair of the 1994 Stlsquienntennial campaign. 
While the board does has its own tinwtahle and plan that Gorno described as "a systematic decision-making proetlSS," slw strtlssed the importance of tlw college community's input in defin­ing thn IPadnrship statmnnnt and profile for tlw nnxt colltlge president. 
"Wn. as a eollnge community, will be aelivnly involved in defining the presi­dnntial selection criteria for our next 
see SEARCH/ page 6 


Campus 'isolation' affects lesbians 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
and ALYSSON COOK 
News Writer 

Honesty is crucial to fostering sexual diversity on the Saint Mary's campus, according to Margaret Bender of the College's anthropology department. A visiting anthropologist who has recent­ly researched Native American cul­tures, Bender received her doctoral 
The Dome before .... 
it
•
.,.,,·, .. .. ',.I 
The scaffolding that partially obscured the Dome finally came down this week. Though the changes are subtle, the windows and the facade are cleaner. 
degree from the University of Chicago. She will be teaching a course on the cross cultural study of sex, gender and sexuality at the University of Oklahoma next year. 
In her lecture last night titled "Sexual Diversity: Anthropological and Personal Reflections," Bender stressed the needs for openness and acceptance of diversi­fied sexual relations. 
"Differences within our own culture are not a bad thing, rather, something to be valued," she said. 
During the lecture, Bender cited Saturday Night Live's 'Pat' character as a representation violating the normal identifiable gender standards in soci­ety. 
Bender continued by discussing how in Native American culture, the Berdosh were a unique and spiritual people who embodied many of the 
see BENDER/ page 6 
...The Dome after 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 26, 1996 
•INSIDE CoLUMN 


Very special children 
We knew he had a problem, but at the start of summer camp, his parents denied it. Matt was always a difficult camper to deal with. He became upset and hit people whenever pro­voked. On bus trips he would yell and throw 
Stacy Ward paper, sticks and other 
little boy collectibles out Associate Viewpoint the window. After he cut a fellow camper's hair, the staff, myself included, invited him to leave. But his divorced, working parents were stuck: Matt had no where else to go until school started. So his Mom and Dad, ad­mitting that Matt was indeed a "special needs" camper, pleaded that he be allowed special privileges and a second chance. With a soft heart and a strong attachment to children, I believed Matt was a good kid who could, with the proper guidance, be an asset to our program. I became Matt's one-to-one counselor: his misdemeanors were my responsibility. Each morning, Matt and I sat down and dis­cussed our goals for that day. I would pull him away from the other campers if he start­ed to get upset. As soon as I gave him a new task to focus on, he would quickly calm down and forget his previous grievances. I was amazed at how quickly Matt could learn and complete new projects. Matt is one of about 2 million kids diag­nosed with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADllD), the number one childhood psychiatric disorder in America. ADHD kids are often inattentive, impulsive and hyper­active. Doctors frequently prescribe Ritalin when ADHD is diagnosed. On Ritalin, ADHD kids can sit still and pay attention longer. Since 1990, the number of children taking Ritalin has increased 2 1/2 times. The disease can not be determined through tests or X­rays; instead, a comprehensive study of the child's background, family history and daily behavior needs to be taken into account. Unfortunately, many doctors and school psy­chiatrists are not willing to invest enough time and effort to perform those investigations. It is much easier to simply prescribe the drug. Although I believe that many of the children on Ritalin should be taking the drug, there are many children for whom the drug is simply an easy solution to behavior problems caused by other factors. ADHD kids often suffer from learning disabilities, emotional problems and abnormal family situations. Ritalin does not cure any of these problems. ADHD kids are intelligent. funny, and pos­sess just as much potential as other children. Unfortunately, too many never receive the attention they deserve. Through the Council for Fun and Learn, many students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's take the opportunity to help special children like Matt. Each volunteer adopts a special needs "buddy." The volunteer be­comes a friend and role model to the young­ster. The child becomes a younger sibling to the volunteer. This afternoon, the volunteers and kids are going on an overnight campout. For some, including my 7 yr old buddy, this is the first night away from home. Researchers claim ADHD is a "pay now or pay more later" disease. A recent Newsweek article cited that untreated ADHD kids are more likely to develop social problems later in life. With the future of both the child and this nation in mind, it is wonderful to see so many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students doing something now. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Heather Cocks Jim Belden 
Derek Betcher Lab Tech 
Dave Murphy 
Production 
Belle Bautista Graphics Juliana Vodicka Tom Roland 

The OhS<rver (USPS 599 2-4000) ·is published Monday 1hrough Friday except during exam aOd vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the AssociateJ Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WO!U.O AT A GLANCE 
Government agency projects increase in legal immigration 

ing the trend would reverse. 
"We've all been duped," said Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Texas, chairman of the House Judiciary immigration sub­committee. "I take this as an intentional misrepresentation to the public and to Congress. And it's inexcusable." 
Feinstein -who said up to 50 percent of the nation's legal and illegal immi­grants live in her state -offered an amendment to change the limits in Simpson's amendment and take into account a 1.1 million-person backlog of people who have waited years to enter the United States. 
Yet those who want to keep legal and illegal immigration issues separate, led by Sen. Spencer Abraham, R-Mich., stuck to that view. 
The legislation before the Senate, focusing on illegal immigration, "aims to crack down on people who break the ruies, people who violate the laws, peo­ple who seek to come to this country without having proper documentation to take advantage of the benefits, " Abra­
ham said. 
Legal immigrants, he said, "want to come to this country in a positive and constructive way to make a contribution, to play by the ruies and frankly ... to make a great, great addition to our American family." 
The INS projections show legal immigration -not in­cluding refugees and some others -rising from 593,000 in 1995 to 835,000 this year. 

Jackson buys new fantasy playground 
LOS ANGELES 
It's not exactly Sleeping Beauty's cas­tle, but Michael Jackson's dreams have come true now that he's bought a 15th century French chateau, his Hollywood publicist said Thursday. After looking for a country estate resembling the one depicted in the fairy tale, the singer settled on Chateau de Chabennet, com­plete with 82 rooms, seven towers and 

a moat. "Call him Leroi," said a statement faxed by pub­licist Lee Solters, fracturing his French as he announced that the property "comes with all the facilities and amenities befitting the 'King of Pop.' " The mirrors on the wall may or may not tell the pop star if he's the fairest of them all -but they'll still need to be cleaned and maintained along with everything else. Solters' state­ment valued the property at $10 million to $12 million, but didn't say exactly what Jackson paid for it. The huge estate about 120 miles south of Paris had a previously re­ported market price of $5 million. 
Hawaii declares war on green cancer 
HONOLULU 
"Wanted, dead o.r alive," posters have been issued, posses of volunteers have been formed and a statewide alarm has been sounded. The sheriff isn't looking for bank robbers or rustlers. The culprit is a plant some­times called a "green cancer." In most gardens, the attractive miconia calvescens plant would be a star attraction with its huge leaves. They are deep green on the top and purple on the bottom and have an artistic vein pattern. Left unchecked in the tropical wilds of Hawaii, however, in a few decades the hardy plant would wipe out and replace the native forests, destroy the ground cover that creates the vital watershed and elimi­nate many of the island's unique animals, officials say. "Its presence is a natural disaster waiting to happen." 

Chained women raise eyebrows 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 
The Alabama prison system is preparing to snap shackles around the ankles of women prisoners, creat­ing female chain gangs in the state that revived male leg-iron crews last yea:r. Alabama Prison officials said the women chain gangs would help resolve lawsuits from male inmates challenging the exclusively male work units. "There's no real defense for not doing the females," said State Corrections Commissioner Ron Jones. Stephen Dees, the warden at Julia Tutwiler State Prison for Women near Montgomery, is developing the chain-gang policy. Women could be working in leg irons as early as June, Jones said. "We have done a lot of his­torical research, and I have never come across a female chain gang," said Rhonda Brownstein, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center. "They have previous­ly said it's not practical or feasible to have chain gangs for women." The civil rights watchdog group is repre­senting inmates in a lawsuit contending that chain gangs represent unconstitutionally cruel and unusual punishment. 
Winter wheat keeps grain prices hot 
CONWAY SPRINGS, Kan. 
Drought, freeze damage and insect pests have forced Lynden Speer and a lot of other farmers to plow under their winter wheat and plant other crops this year. Speer, a 42-year-old Kansas farmer, was turning under 130 acres of wheat Thursday to put in grain sorghum, used as live­stock feed. Across Kansas, traditionally the top wheat-pro­ducing state in the nation, fields that usually are thick with 1 0-inch or taller green wheat this time of year instead have thin and stunted wheat. Many fields have been plowed under. It is much the same in other top wheat states. The first U.S. Department of Agricuiture estimate of how much wheat is being abandoned or destroyed won't be out until May. On Monday, the USDA reported that 45 percent of wheat in 19 states is in very poor condition. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, April 26.
AccuWeather ~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Friday. Saturday Sunday Monday 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc.

f 
Pressure 
H L m fSl !Til 0 . ~ 8 {) ~ u


Tuesday 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assocl&lsd PrBas 
Atlanta 66 45 Dallas 60 51 Miami 64 72 Baltimore 61 47 Denver 66 42 Minneapolis 50 26 Boston 65 56 Geneseo 56 29 New York 61 52

4-~-~4.~~ (f ~ d 
Chicago 55 33 Las Vegas 92 66 Pittsburgh 46 40

Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cleveland 44 34 Los Angeles 61 59 Seattle 56 41

VIa Associated Press Graph/csNet 

Friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Local society honors SMC nursing students 
Specialro The Observer 
Nine Saint Mary's students were among the 30 new mem­bers inducted into the local chapter of Sigma Theta Tau International llonor Soeiety of Nursing in ceremonies held at (;oslwn Colltlge, Goshen, Ind., on April 19. 
Sigma Tlwta Tau Interna­tional is an organization of nurse leaders, scholars, and rnsmtrehers with offices at the Virginia llenderson Interna­tional Nursing Library located in Indianapolis. Founded at Indi­ana LJnivtlrsity in 1922, Sigma Theta Tau has 356 chapters at mortl than 400 colleges and uni­versities in the United StatPs, Canada, Taiwan, South Korea. 
May is Sunglass Month 
Wlru 1 do you look ii1r in selecting a pair of Premium Sunglasses or Performance Sport Eyewear? 
• Ut•Mii(JII'r Brand• • Styl" and SoJihiMiii•IJiion with an EmJihiiMis on Fa•hon • (;omfurl, l'roh•t•lion und l'l'rformanc" • Advanced Eyewe11r Tt•dmology • (;rt•IJI t:hni•···· fur AdnhH 111111 (:hiltlrt•n • Greul v..lueM ami Pricl'8 • 
_, (;uoranh•l'tl CnMiomt•r SllliMfnl'lion • [(!j,.._ ,_p''' lJIUIB B~ ~ G_~'V/J"N"'.-.

,.,~>~>-~ , . . . . ~ ---.....z..a''(J-1
for tlte first tune 111 Mrcltuma, you can meet AU ~ ofyour l'remium Srmglass and Performance Sport Eyewear needs 
j.~lfJIJ,_·v with confidence! ~ -lturlnf.C thr rntlrr ntonth of May., the ~ INitli\NA t~YE INSTITUTE Is lmsthaJ( tlar prt•ntlrr ltESIGNER., t'ASIIION & /1:!2 SI•OitT SUN(.;LASSES EXTRAVi\Gi\NZA. 
.. b--·­
:-----30-%-~-----: --(@, cuccl 
Ion etu·h JHiir t?{J~escription or I •.,1'I ' ',
·-·:;:' . . •.. . 
: IUJ/1-[Jrl'M'ription SIUJK[U.~Sf'S. : ; I 1 , • ' , L----------------------~ 
and Australia. Worldwide mem­bership is totals nearly 220,000. 
Membership in the society is awarded to bachelor's, mas­ter's, and doctoral nursing can­didates who demonstrate high scholastic achievement and also to graduates of nursing pro­grams who have made out­standing contributions to nurs­ing. Sigma Theta Tau encour­ages and actively supports fur­ther professional development and promotes nursing scholar­ship. leadership, creativity, and commitment among its mem­bers. 
The keynote address at the April 19 meeting was presented by Miriam Martin, director of nursing and professor of nurs­ing at Goshen College. 
Right hand red ... 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

During Thursday's AnTostal activities, Twister once again proved its timeless appeal. 
Latino formal open to public 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH News Writer 

Dinner and dancing are on the agenda for the second an­nual Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Latino Formal this Saturday, bringing a bit of Latin flavor to both communities. 
Sponsored by the Hispanic American Organization at Notre Dame, support has also been provided by FUERZA at Saint Mary's and the offices of multicultural affairs at both schools. 
While it is the second time 
VVE HAVE 




FoR You. 
this point. your plans probably 
don't stretch much beyond a 
well-earned break this sum­
mer. But at Conseco. we're preparing tor the future, our own. and youl"i. As aleading financial services company specialiling in life Insurance and annuities, no one has bigger plans for growth. And the momentum for that growth is increasing with our acquisition of life Partners Group. Inc.• creating some of the industry's most exciting opportunities. If you're anxious to put your education to work In the real world, put your resume in the mail to Conseco. The plans you make now could make your career. 

OPPORTUNITIES FoR CoLLEGE GRADUATES: 
FINANCE AND AccouNTING 
INSURANCE OPERATIONS 
DATA PROCESSING 
We offer: 

• 
Business casual dress 

• 
Summer hours 

• 
Competitive salaries 

• 
Beautiful vvooded 

campus 


• 
Outstanding benefits package 

• 
401 (k) vvith 



company match 
Please send your resume to: Conseco, Human Resources, 11815 N. Pennsylvania Street, Carmel, IN 46032; email: resume@conseco.com. We're proud to be an equal opportunity employer. 
For more information about career opportunities with Conseco, please visit our web site: http://www.conseco.com. 
that the formal has been held, this year is the first that it will take place on the Saint Mary's campus. 
As demand for tickets for the formal grew, the event was re­located from Notre Dame to the Saint Mary's dining hall in or­der to accomodate the 225 stu­dents, faculty and friends who purchased advance tickets. 
The Latino Formal is distinct from most dances on campus because it involves a catered dinner and has a distinctly for­mal flair, encouraging men to wear tuxedos or bow ties and women to dress accordingly. Music for the night ranges from techno to salsa to merengue, band and house. 
The Latino Formal is not lim­ited to members of HAO or FUERZA, and has opened its arms to the campus population; the dinner and dance are open 
NOTRE DAME SHENANIGANS PRESENTS A 

BROADWAY 

.:.<SUNDAY, APRIL 28. 8:00P.M. <iWASHINGTON HALL i"• · ADMISSION $1 .00 , 
NOTRE DAME"S SONG AND 0A"JCE TROUPE PEilFORMING BROADWAY' FAVORITE'; FROM 
CABARET .; CRAZY FOR YOU EVITA GREASE GUYS AND DOLLS JOSEPH AND THE AMAZING TECHNICOLOR DREAMCClAf SHOP OF HORRORS MISS SA1•..;uN THE SECRET GARDEN AND MO~E 
,.' .... w .-.. ,_ 11 t1 "<I 
1 
to everyone on campus. 
"I would let everyone know that when they come they can feel welcome and be part of the familia," said Moises Olivares. who is organizing a slide show for the event. 
"I think it will be cool because I've never been there before and it's something dif­ferent, and that way we can include the Saint Mary's com­munity as well," said Karina Cordona, a Notre Dame volun­teer on the dance's organiza­tion committee. 
Tickets for the dinner have been sold out, but anyone with­out a ticket can still come to the dance. Taking place in the Saint Mary's Dining Hall (Located between LeMans and McCandless Halls) this Saturday night, doors open at 
7:30 p.m. for dinner and 10 
p.m. for dancing. 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 26, 1996 
Grace 
continued from page 1 
dorm unity." 
Indeed, with about 500 men living in Grace, the hall has had the potential to make waves around campus. In addi­tion to upholding the altruistic spirit of Notre Dame with events benefiting the entire community, the men of Grace have won countless interhall championships for their dorm through the years. 
Some of the dorm's most in­spiring moments have oc­curred in their interhall con­tests with football rival Planner. However, off the field, most from Grace say the per­ceived animosity they have for Planner is resultant of people from other dorms mistakenly creating a disagreement where none actually existed. 
The attitude of Grace's resi­dents has remained upbeat de­spite this being the dorm's final year. "There has been no diminishment in involvement in our dorm," Linton said. 
Freshman Sergio De Hoyos echoed Linton's sentiments. "The upperclassmen could have just given up on Grace. That would have set a bad tone for the entire year, as we (freshmen) would've followed their example. Instead, they remained upbeat, and encour­aged us to enjoy this great dorm while it lasts." 
Like De Hoyos, freshman Tom Cronley saw rooming in Grace as a unique lifestyle which few others experience. "You meet a lot more people in such a large dorm, and you get 

2 Large 14" Unlimited ToppingI Pizzas and a 2-liter Coke 
I 

L 
Product Only $10.99 Calll-6902 




_______"'___ .J 
EXPIRES 3/20/96 

For ticket infonnation call 2 I 91284-4626 Mon.-Fri., 9am-5pm 
4 Good Reasons To Call The Huddle For Delivery 
,

~ -----­
$5.99 Deal
I I 
I 
The Best Pizza at the Best Price! 
I 

Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5.99 
L-
Calll-6902 
EXPIRES 5/20/96


------.J 
~------,
$10.99 Deal 
,



~ -----­
$4.99 Deal
I I 
I 
Now That's a Deal! 
1 

Large 14" Cheese Pixla Only $4.99 Calll-6902 
EXPIRES 5/20/96



L --­
~ ---· 
Double Deal 
I 
I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 Item Pizzas for Only $9.99 
1
,_.,.-I

Calll-6902 
-. 
EXPIRES 5/20/96
L -­
--~-~---.. 
some of the R.A.'s got students together. and we joined forces to put up the sign while Notre Dame led in the polls," said Tadajweski. 
All the local papers featured a photo of the sign, and stu­dents were inspired when they saw it lying on top of the tower. "It was great, because we unified the entire campus amidst the celebration," said Tadajweski. 
The sign was also illuminat­ed when the women's soccer team won the national champi­onship last year. The sign did not light up when the fencing 
THREE MORE DAYS TO WISH YOUR FRIENDS GOODBYE WITH AN OBSERVER CLASSIFIED 



WANTED!! 
Notre Dame/St. Mary's Students Retail Sales Home Football Weekends -1 996 
~rec."t $$$ 
Will Not Conflict With Game Times 
Please Send Personal Information (Including Summer Phone#) To: 
P.O. Box 385 Camp Hill, PA 1 7001 
GO IRISH! 
team won a championship, but, according to Tadajweski, that was the administration's decision. 
All these great memories may not be over. Grace Hall may have some surprises left for its residents, perhaps even for the entire campus. "We want to end this off on a good note," said Linton. 
The dorm was named after John Peter Grace, a Notre Dame alumnus. 
Ironically, Grace died last year just as the news broke that Grace would no longer function as a residence hall. 

the chance to live in an apart­ment-like complex, making you better prepared for real life." 
Senior Ed Tadajweski, a resi­dents' assistant in Grace, also sees the dorm as one of the best halls on campus. "More than anything, the small sec­tions of 27 men made for clos­er friendships. At the same time, the events Grace spon­sored foster unity throughout the entire dorm. You also get a lot of privacy since most floors were away from the rector and from street level." 
Senior Eric Hillegas, another R.A., saw section unity as the key to Grace's legacy. "Friendships in our sections seem to be very tight-knit com­pared to other dorms. Section members come out and cheer other section members during interhall games or varsity games. 
"One guy even is writing a fictional story about our sec­tion. He puts it over the urinal just for a laugh. Things like that build friendships for life." 
With 11 floors, Grace's struc­
ture has inspired as many unique events as its inhabi­tants. 
Tadajweski recalled many days when residents would throw water balloons off the top of the building or out their windows. 
Most residents agreed that the Spring dance (the Grace­land Dance) and Grace Week provided the highlights for ev­ery year. "Section parties are a lot more private than in other dorms, allowing some space when you're partying." 
Grace residents over the years have prided themselves with their ability to party. Along with Planner, the dorm has been known for holding the best parties on campus. The relatively large and numerous rooms may have contributed to this reputation. 
Some of the best Grace par­ties occurred while the famed "# 1" sign atop the building was lit in 1988, the last season that Notre Dame won the na­tional football championship. 
"When I was a sophomore, 

Sunday, April 28 
2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. 
We deliver 7 
a week-lunc dinner and late 
ht! 
friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Students 'play' w'ith the 01arket 
By ERICA ESPINOLA 
News Wrircr 
Wlwn people 'play' the stock market, for the most part it's no game, but business students involved in a just-completed stock portfolio manag~•nwnt contest were given the ehance to win mo1wy without losing tlwir shirts. 
Tlw competition, sponsored by the Council on lntt~rnational Business Development, began six months ago and l'hallenged students with the agreeable task of accumulating as much money as possible. 
Thost~ competing started out with 2 million dollars on Odobm· 2 and eould buy anything on tlu~ thrtw •~xehangt~s. Nasdaq, NYSE, and AMEX. Cmnpcti tors wnrn to buy and snll on tlw stock t~xt:hangt~ at tlwir discretion in an effort to make tlw most nwney. 
The oxereise's concluding awards ceremony was Judd last Thursday in the Jordan Auditorium of COBA along with a preceding dinner in tlw Atrium. 155 poople entered the t1Vt~nt. Thn wimwrs were: first place, Hobert MPssan; st~cond place, Derek Gustafson; third place, Michatd Stnlmacki; fourth placo, Arunas I.Ponavit:ius; fifth plan~ . .John Blood; sixth place, Jim Feldman; seventh place, Pablo Berckholtz; eight place, Jeremy Joyce; ninth place, Sherry and Kenny Fisher; and tenth place, James Dougherty. 
The first place ·winner received a prize of $2000, second place received $200, and places 3-10 each received $100 dollars. Competitors could enter individually or as a team. 
The student representative of the Council on International Business Development, Tim Maxwell, was pleased with the outcome of this year's Challenge but says they plan on minor eorrections for next year. 
Improvements will include more prizes offered throughout the year and the offering of different brackets for varying levels such ineluding non-business majors and MBA stu­dents. 
The software employed to monitor competi­tors' the portfolios was donated by Vestek, a software company the University uses to keep track of its own investments. 
The Council on International Business Development is currently looking for staff to organize and operate next year's Challenge. Those interested can obtain information at nd. 
pmc.l@nd.edu. 

Did you know... f 
That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $455* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $52,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 


• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ~'iiBO~ 


~ c 

~11)~
North Shore Club 

~ ~ §~­~SBOi.,.
Models Opm Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 

(219) 232-2002
Mon.-Fri. 10 A.M.-6 P.M. 

(800) 404-4275 
• Monthly payments of P. .and I. based nn a purchase pm:c of $51,990 wlfh 20% down ;md a .~O·ycar 7.375 A.R.M. 
Come on, baby, light my fire 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

South Dining Hall's Wednesday night karaoke dinner featured more than just mediocre food: students' evening meals were back­dropped by the sounds of their peers' renditions of popular songs. 
Chinese , American ~ -D CR£AT Restaurant and 

~~ \VALL c~~~~~!~!s:c~~~ge 
~-ManJerin & Hunan CUisine 
. Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 \ 'otL'll BL"..,I Orivnt.tl l{nt.tur.tnt
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 in ~liL·hi.tn.t h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
.\lidtiww Noll' 

(next to Randall's Inn) 
,-,<~ • •


you're m1ss1n 
Actn~~~~Dtlhs------­
1-5pm·~--· @ Fie/dhotJttfMa/1 
.. 
(Rain Location: LaFortune B~lfroom'&. Huddle) 
Featuring: Barbecue "Picnic 4:30-7pm . ~ _.. .. • FREE Sno-Cones & Cotton Candy sponsored by ND Food Services & SARG ,:~ • .G..RAINS & GRINDS bagel bite contest (2pm) • w/ performance of the play ;,._FREE Fairlee Juicers (2pm) • Nabisco OREO Stacking ~•· ~ Contest (2:30pm) • ND Cheerleaders & the 




" C 0 AC H E S .r~
:. :1. Leprechaun , • Rich Kizer: MTV King of the Beach 
OFF THE BENCH WITH KNUTE, VINCE, AND THE
• Glee Club • ND Student Players • Air Force ROTC 
. ·Drill Team • Ji,Jggling Club • Pon-Poms Squad • @ Stepan Field Mariachi ND,;f'• Shenanigans • Bag Pipe Band 
·Troop N D • waii Club Outdoor Concert 4:30 -7 
• Sabor Latino • Vibe ~V-ocurno.. Basketball & • Starn Bob & the 4x4s 
tel bstacle Course 
'"j!~ 1 -5pmFiefdhouse Mall 
(Rain Loccibo: Stepan Center) 
..<.~i&.P.atJ~!7;~~/? -
THE RUDESpm. 
(Rain .L~ion: LaForturra~o~~). 
D'.tnk Contest 4:S0pJn After 
of Bookstore Games · -~·--~---.,,.,
. __.,=-~~Ill 
Step!!: field 
-------~--~
----~~-~--~-------~---,---~­
page 6 Friday, April 26, 1996
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Search 
continued from page I 
president," Gorno said. "We need the voices of all the dif­ferent constituents of the col­lege." 
Gorno addressed the stu­dents directly, stating, "You need to have a strong voice in this. It's going to be your pres­ident." 
Analogous to the sesquicen­tennial theme, "Honoring Tra­dition, Pioneering Change," Gorno stressed that the successor to the presidency must not only have a vision for the Saint Mary's future, but a respect for its history and mis­sion as well. 
"One of the things that makes Saint Mary's such a unique institution is that we have never wavered from the core values and beliefs. We have the same mission today that we did when we were founded," said Goroo, "That will not change through this time of transition." 
Leading the search for the tenth president of Saint Mary's College is Sister Rachel Calla­han, who, following a five-year term as the Chair of the Board of Trustees, was named chair of the search committee. 
According to Callahan, the board hopes to have the next president of Saint Mary's Col­lege appointed by the spring semester of 1997, so the suc­cessor can work with Hickey before assuming the presi­dency, beginning in the 1997­98 academic year, if all goes according to plan. 
Callahan stresses that the committee will be involved in a nation-wide search. "When we get into the actual search process, we will be casting a very wide net," Callahan said. She went on to note that, while the search is set on a large scale, the possibility of Hickey's successor rising from within the current ranks of the 
Wanted: 
Reporters, Photographers, Editors. 
Join the 

Observer staff. 

I E AR T JRES 
MISHAWAKA D 
~ 
Edison C Hlckol)' 254-9685 

AU. FEATURES IN ULTRA STEREO J.es and lhe Giant Peacb (PG) 1:15, 3:15, 5:20, 1:20, t.20 Lea!iJ I.Js Vegas (R) 1:.10, 4:20 
EleculiYe Decision (R) 1111. 4:111, 1:111. Jt.tS 
Fi1tirJ With Disaster (R) 1:s5, 10:10 AThin lile Belweet~ ••• (R) 12:55, 3:45, 1:00, 9:40 Fear DTS(R) l:lS, 3:50, 5:55, t-oo, !t.20 
Mr. Holand's Opus (PG) 12:50,4:00,1:00,10:00 M...olilld F* DlS (PG) 1:20, 4:30,7:05, t.JS The Truth About Cats (C) 1:10,3:10,5:50, &:OS.IO'JS Slmet Pan (G) 12:45,2:55, 5:15, 1;25, t.JS The Substibrte (R) tos, 4:05, 7:15, 9:45 
THESE TIMES FOR FRI. THRU NEXT THURS. ONLY 
$3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6PM 

1t 1t No PASSES -SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED 
College can not yet be ruled out. 
Gorno said, "I give you my commitment as your newly elected Chair that we will do a broad, exhaustive, vigorous search to find the person who will be the next great leader of this institution." 
While the actual selection committee is not yet set, Gorno's vision for the commit­tee is one of approximately 10 individuals representing differ­ent facets of the College. Each should embody qualities including "sound undf'rstand­ing of our mission, our value system, and long-term goals; a demonstrated commitment to the College; and experience in selecting leadership positions." 
Debate still arises regarding whether or not a Saint Mary's student will serve on the actu­al selection committee. Gorno's initial feelings are against the idea, due to the time commitments involved with the process. 
She emphasized, however, that students will be involved in the selection process, particularly in the initial stages when the leadership profile is being developed. Once the final round of candi­dates is determined, student leaders will be involved per­haps interviewing the can­didates, possibly participating in a forum with them. 
A consulting firm will be on campus in the next two to three weeks, interviewing members of the College com­munity on various aspects of the College to help "define what kind of leader we want." 
By bringing in a consulting fir:m. the College hopes to de­velop the profile of the ideal president "in the context of where we want to go, what our strengths are today, and what our weaknesses are," Gorno said. 
Hickey announced Saturday he would step down as the col­lege president, effective with the appointment of a succes­sor. His resignation marks the end of a 35-year career in higher education exclusive to Saint Mary's College, including 10 years in the presidency. 
Hickey will remain in office for the 1996-97 academic year. "It's going to be business as usual until the successor is found," Gorno said. 
Rega:rding next year, Hickey said, "As always, my commit­ment to Saint Mary's remains firm and complete. My imme­diate future is still wrapped up in Saint Mary's. We have an ambitious agenda in the upcoming academic year." 
Gorno stressed the impor­tance the selection process holds with respect to the future of the College, not only in respect to the next presi­dent, but to the College as a whole. 
"It will be a very important, and even critical moment in the history of Saint Mary's College. This is one of those rare and vital opportunities to look at the current and then look at the future objectives and priorities of this college." 
MOVIES 10 t 

We're Cheap. And Easy. Why pay more for the "convenience" of on­campus shipping when Boxes Plus doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes Plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. ~ You can also buy boxes & shipping materials at Boxes Plus. 5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 277-5555  
JAZ~MAN~ NITE CLUB 525 N HILLST . 233-8505 A $1 .0 Oess"p E C I A L THEME WEEK YOU'LL THINK YOU WERE AT K-MART WITH ALL THE BLUE LIGHT SPECIALS AT JAZZMAN'S THIS THEME WEEK FRIDAY APRIL 26TH: A PAJAMA JAM PARTY FEATURING: THE GREEN LANTERN BAND STRUT YOUR STUFF CONTEST AT 12:30 $1.00 COVER WITH PAJAMAS, $4.00 WITHOUT  
SATURDAYAPRIL 17TH: A BOXER SHORTS ANDMINI-SKIRT/DRESS PARTY FEATURING GEORGE AND THE FREEKS HAIRY CHEST AND SEXY LEGS CONTES'J' AT12:30 COVER $1.00 WITH BOXER SHORTS OR MINI-SKIRT/DRESS, $4.00 WITHOUT  

DRESS TO IMPRESS! CASH PRIZES FOR IsT, 2ND, AND JRD PLACE ALL CONTESTANT WILL RECEIVE A CONSOLATION PRIZE DOORS OPEN AT 9:00PM 21 AND OVER WITH PROPER ID 
' 




Bender 
continued from page 1 
qualities of what can be labeled in today's society as 'homosexual.' 
This led her to observe how gay/lesbian relations affect Saint Mary's, and how honesty is key to fostering such diver­sity. Bender felt there was a sense of isolation on the cam­pus which did not support ho­mosexuality. She also reported sensing uneasiness from the students with regards to dis­cussing their sexual orienta­tion. 
After stresssing the impor­tance of faculty role models for students to identify with, Ben­der mentioned that Saint Mary's did not provide this neccessary attribute. Pleading with Saint Mary's for change, Bender said, "I ask the College to change not in spite of tradi­tion, but because of commit­ment to this tradition." 
Those attending the lecture responded favorably to Bender. 
"I appreciate the honesty and hope that everyone can be as open as she was," said Saint Mary's senior Amy Johnson. 
"It was a wonderful experi­ence, not only as an education-a! device but an emotional device for the college," offered Student Body President-elect, Jenn Turbiak stated. 

"Bender was very articulate and her comments emphasized the need for both faculty and students to be open about sexuality and to embrace gay and lesbian people all around us," Amara Graf added. 
"I feel that this lecture was important in trying to promote non-discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. It was a great way to educate other students and speak out against the silence," said junior Carol Jones. 
The lecture invited Saint Mary's College to take upon the challenges of the time and open up the pathways of communication with regard to sexual diversity. 
The lecture was sponsored by People In Support (PINS). Othe supporters included the Saint Mary's Board of Governance, Student Activities Board, Women's Studies, and Student Government. Departmental support was pro­vided by the Anthropology, Sociology, Social Work, Justice Education and English Departments, the Women's Center, and Multicultural Affairs. 


paeking up??? 
Cira's Service Center & Ryder Truck Rental 

make reservations NOW due to shortage of vehicles during commencement vveek! 
Cira's Service Center & Ryder Truck Rental 1914 Miami • South Bend, IN • 46614 
289-6721 289-5100 
Europe is Calling! 
Travelmore/Carlson Wagonlit Travel is your local Europe Travel Expert 
AIRFARES  Special student & faculty rates Low airfares to Europe  
RAIL PASSES  Rail passes issued in our office! No Service Fee Timetables, prices & tickets available  
CAR RENTALS  Discounted car rentals  
EXPERIENCE  Over 25 years of sending Notre Dame and Saint Mary's college students and faculty to Europe  

We Know Europe­Let us plan your trip! 
Gtravelmore CarlsonWagonlit~ 
1723 South Bend Avenue (219)271-4880 -Next tC? the Notre Dame Campus­
~--------------­
------~-~---~­
Friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
This is not as easy as it looks... 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Glo Urbanic (left) and Ken Kearney take advantage of a brief spell of spring weather to indulge in cot­ton candy on the Fieldhouse Mall as part of SUB's AnTostal activities. 
THE FIRST ANNUAL COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRAnON RECOGNmON CEREMONY 
IS BEING HELD ON MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996, AT 5:00P.M., IN THE .JORDAN AUDITORIUM. (A RECEPTION WILL IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW IN THE ATRIUM) 
THE FOLLOWING STUDENTS WILL BE RECOGNIZED FOR OUTSTANDING ACADEMIC & LEADERSHIP QUALITIES: 
CARRIE CHRISTIANSON 
MATTHEW F ACZKO 
KRISTINA KLUKOWSKI .JULIE MACKINNON .JOHN POTTER PATRICK SLAVEN ERROL WILLIAMS 
KEITH DEUSSING 

BRIAN DILAURA 
GIA GIANNICCO 

LEXY .JENKINS 
MELANIE LAFLIN 

CARA MARRONE 
.JoHN McFADDEN 

THOMAS MESCALL 
V. PAUL RAINEY 

KEVIN SCHULZ 
ADAM STEHLE 

SHARMIEN SWINTON 

India increases power with nuclear capability 

ALL ARE INVITED TO ATTEND TO EXTEND CONGRATULATIONS & WELL WISHES. 

By ALEX ORR News Writer 
After enduring a decade long nuclear standoff in South Asia, India appears to be on the verge of moving towards re­gional nuclear domination and global autonomy, according to Amitabh Mattoo. In his lecture titled "Nuclear Rumblings in South Asia: New Directions in India's Nuclear Policy," Mattoo addressed the current issues concerning the--Asian nation's nuclear capabilities. 
Mattoo stated that increas­ingly, in India nuclear capabili­ty is being viewed as the "sin­gle most important currency for power" and as "an impor­tant bargaining chip" for the country of 685 million. Despite weathering international pres­sures calling for correspon­dence, Mattoo labeled India's refusal to sign the Comprehen­sive Test Ban Treaty as an at­tempt to "use the nuclear option to correct the asymme­try of'lnternational relations." 
He ~redicts that India could follow in the footsteps of North Korea; gaining influence and international political clout by testing nuclear weapons and refusing to adhere to the CTBT. 
"[For India] the threat of tests is a way of expressing disap­proval at the United States for having not kept its part of the bargain to provide access to American advanced technolo­gies in return for Indian com­pliance in signing previous nonproliferation treaties," Mattoo explained. "It is impor­tant for India to challenge the United States and to not give up the nuclear option for nothing." 
However, challenging U.S. power could have dire conse­quences, he noted. Under the Glenn Amendment, India stands to be severely economi­cally wounded for any testing of nuclear weapons. American aid of defense equipment, di­rect financial aid, international credit and loans, technical as­sistance, and credit from U.S. banks all stand to be lost. But international give-and-take must be weighed against fac­tors closer to home: Nuclear tests expand India's sphere of military influence. 
"There is a wide view that South Asia is now the most like­ly theater for nuclear war," said 


ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
Orders may now be placed for your class rings 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Amitabh Mattoo discussed India's changing nuclear policy. 
Mattoo. "A growing awareness of China's potential as a threat, and a nuclear nexus between China and Pakistan necessitate the kind of power-demonstrat­ing strategic move that a nuclear test would provide." 
The push toward nuclear testing also comes from pres­sures within. Mattoo cited "the self-generating momentum of science and technology" cou­pled with a "strong scientific establishment in India that operates autonomously, with little political interference, results in a strong drive for a nuclear demonstration for purely scientific reasons." 
Additionally, ranking Indian generals have stated that if the military were to receive untest­ed nuclear weapons, "a great deal of resentment within the armed forces" would be gener­ated toward the government. Mattoo reported. 
A traditional image of Indians as a non-violent people also weighs heavy on the minds of political decision makers. 
"Within political leadership there is this fascination of maintaining a moral high ground, in the 'Ghandi/Nehru tradition,"' Mattoo said, explaining that many Indians worry that this vision of paci­ficity eould be jeopardized by the nation's detonation of a nuclear device. 
According to Mattoo, India has essentially three options: "They can sign the CTBT and not test, sign and test until the turn of the century when the treaty takes effect, or not sign it and test." Their best choice, he said, would be to refrain from testing, but to keep their option open and refuse to sign the CTBT unless a commitment to global disarmament can be made. 
India performed its only nu­clear test in 1974. 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., April 22 
11 :SO a.m. A Lewis Hall resident was transported by Security to the University Health Center lor treatment of an Illness. 
1:15 p.m. AFischer Graduate Resident reported the theft of a softball glove from Stepan Field. 
TUES., April 23 

11 :56 a.m. Aconstruction worker at the Keough construction site was trans­ported to Memorial Hospital for treat· men! of injuries sustained during a fall. 
3:37 p.m. A University employee re· ported hit and run damage to her vehicle while It was parked In the 61 lot. 
6:33 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported Ia St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a S.P<_!rtS Injury. 
WED., April 24 

7:30 p.m. A Breen Phillips resident reported receiving herassing telephone calls. 
7:40 p.m. A Morrissey Manor resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment ol a sports injury. 

-----~·--------~---~~-­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 26, 1996 
is the ideal path to follow. obstacles that must be over­"I often feel that it is a mis­come. Rather, they should be
Possible wage hike Hume 
take that America allows itself utilized, said Hume. continued from page 1 to be seen as an economic and "All conflict is seeing differ­political power, and not as a ences as a threat," he said.
faces mixed reviews 
members on both sides, the moral power," he said. "The answer to differences is 
By PATRICIA LAMIELL Associated Press  
 talks nevertheless led to the cease-fire declared by the IRA on August 31, 1994, and sub­ 
The debate about raising the minimum wage is under way at a McDonald's on the West Bank Expressway in Marrero, La. That's where Gwen Warner sometimes takes her two chil­dren, but not for the $2.16 hamburger Happy Meals. "We go to McDonald's to play on the toys," said Warner, 35, explaining she can't afford to buy anything there. For people like Warner, who works a part-time minimum­wage cafeteria job at a high school, the hourly increase pro­posed in Congress would be welcome, whether it's the Democratic 90 cents over two years or the $1 over 15 months proposed by a breakaway group of House Republicans. But the National Restaurant Association, a trade group rep­resenting McDonald's and other eateries, says raising the mini­mum would be a big mistake. In its view, an increase could wind up costing many mini­mum-wage earners the jobs they hold now. Jeff Prince, senior director of the restaurant association, says the effect of raising the $4.25­an-hour minimum would be to reduce the number of mini­mum-wage work hours by at least 20 percent. It's just a sample of the num­bers that fly like burger orders in a fast-food line over the ef­fects of raising the minimum wage, a Depression-era reform started as 25 cents an hour in 1938 and raised 17 times since. Although McDonald's pays  Source: AP research AP workers more than the mini­mum wage, labor activists like to point out that McDonald's stock has risen 175 percent since 1991, the last time the minimum was raised. The broader stock market has near­ly doubled in value. Others point to what they call the obscene rises in executive pay, a 23 percent average increase.  sequent cease-fires by loyalist paramilitary groups. ·Hume's decision to talk with Adams was an idea born out of his life-long belief in non-vio­lence. "[Military] victories are not solutions," he said. "The challenge to both sides of the quarrel is to reexamine their past attitudes toward each other." As a child born into an im­poverished family in Derry, Northern Ireland, Hume grew up in an atmosphere where manipulation by the ruling Protestant class bred resent­ment among his fellow Catholics. But the stern guid­ance of his father kept him from joining the ranks of the extremists and blaming only the Protestant Unionists for the Troubles. "The Unionists' mind-set is largely to protect their differ­ences, their identity. I have no problem with that ­my quar­rel is not with their mind-set but with their methods," Hume said. "The problem cannot be solved without them. They must come to the table and reach an agreement. "I hope they will come for­ward with the positive aspects of the Protestant tradition," he added. The major fault in the Union­ists' thinking, Hume said, is their intolerance of the diverse backgrounds between Protes­tants and Catholics. He point­ed out to the largely Irish­American audience that the American political foundation  

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME OFFICE OF THE REGISTRAR COMMENCEMENT TICKET COMMITTEE 
form, will have those 
requests honored. Please note: because of the demand, there will be no lottery for an extra ticket. 
students Commencement tickets are given to who will par­each graduate by the university, but ticipate in the May may not be transferred for a consid­
1996 Commencement eration (including, but not limited Ceremony, and who have indicated to money, gifts, property). Violation the number of tickets requested (up of this regulation may mean you will to a maximum of four) on the not be allowed to receive or retain Commencement Ticket Request any commencement tickets. 

Ticket Distribution 
Tickets will be distributed in Room 117, Cushing Hall Auditorium, on Thursday and Friday, May 16and 17, 8:30 a.m. to 4:00p.m. You MUST bring your cap andgown receipt andyour ID with you to pick up your tickets. 
Please note that graduation information, including ticket request results, is available on the World Wide Web at http://www.nd.edu/ ­ndreglgr/gradinfo.html 


"The most fundamental mes­sage of your Constitution is written on your cheapest coin -'E pluribus unum."' Hume continued. "The essence of unity is the acceptance of diversity. That is the .philoso­phy that Ireland is screaming out for today, and I say to the Protestant tradition, 'Bring out that philosophy."' 
But the Catholic Nationalists are not without their political faults, either, said Hume. 
"The Nationalists forget that it is people who have rights, not territory," he said. "The only wealth this world has is human beings. [Whether Protestant or Catholic,] they can only be brought together by agreement, and not by agreement and not by coercion or force." 
The differences existing be­tween people, however, are not not to fight about them, but to respect them. 
"Differences is an accident of birth," he continued. "We must allow people to have the basic right to existence, bread on their table, and a roof over their head." 
The healing process will only really begin when economic freedom is available to all peo­ple in Northern Ireland, Hume said. 
"If we do this, we will be able to build institutions which not only respect our differences, but allow us to pursue our eco­nomic interests," he said. "By spilling our sweat and not our blood, we will begin the heal­ing process that will lead to a new Ireland in a generation or two, based on respect for diversity and built by agree­ment." 


~---------~----------­---------------------------------------------------------------------------_I 
U.S., Russia cooperate in missile defense test 
Friday, April 26, 1996 
The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 9 
--------------------~~~~ 
Spending bill wins approval 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 

cal maneuvering to claim credit 
Associated Press 
and assign blame for the out­
Budget highlights 
come as well as the opening 
WASHINGTON 

shot of the battle over next 
The $159 billion budget Congress
Moving to culminate more 
year's budget.
passed Thursday is about $20 billion
than a year of bruising partisan 
"It's time to move ahead with
smaller than the 1995 budget. Some
strife over the size and scope of 
fiscal year 1997," said Rep.
major cuts: 
federal government, the House 
David Dreier, R-California. ex­
·•··· ... ····· , .•, .. -""' ••. .,........ , ., ... 4"\'
on Thursday approved the final 
pressing a near universal sen­
iJGoals 2000 ~....,
spending bill of 1996 -seven 
timent of lawmakers of both
education reform ~
months late. 
parties.
$350 million (#......._
With a strong majority of 
The bill covers nine Cabinet­
..Down $22 million ~. .... .....
both parties, it voted 399-25 to 
level departments and dozens
iJPell grants lor college stude~ts
move the $160 billion measure 
of agencies. The savings it rep­
$4.8 billion
for the five months left in the 
resents over 1995 spending ­
Down about $1.2 billion
fiscal year to the Senate, which 
about $20 billion, according
··~.~=·-··~•.C"'"-O<'....v "-"> "'" '-~"' '""":j. ~~ .. v~> 
was expected to waste little 
Congressional Budget Office ­
iJEnvironmental

time in sending it to President 
represents a Hepublican win. 
Protection Agency

Clinton. 
"In a situation where we
$6.5 billion 

The White House said Clinton 
· Down $700 million 

have a liberal president trying 
:-;..;"i.:«·-='f!!.t:,.... m ·a -~:·:..-.::-·.0:...,;.."·'·-·.......,.,.,........,.;:r..
would sign it as soon as it 
to get more spending and trying 
reached his desk, averting a 
to get more bureaucracy, itwas
CHousing and Urban Development
lapse in spending authority at 
a remarkable achievement,"
$19 billion 
Down $5.5 billion
midnight. 
said House Speaker Newt 
"Today we are showing we 
Gingrich, H-Georgia. 
can work together to cut the 
Senate Majority Leader Bob 
budget and honor our values," 
Dole, R-Kansas -Clinton's all­
the president said. 
but-certain opponent in the fall 
"When the leadership in 
election -said, "It demon­
Congress insists on going it 
strates what a Hepublican 
alone, we get gridlock, stale­
Congress can do and we are
APfT. Tso 

mate, vetoes, government shut­very proud of it."
budget standoff, which included 
downs." But Democrats claimed vic­
two partial government shut­
Enactment of the bill would tory in the reordering of spend­
downs totaling 27 days. And it
mark the end of the long 1996 ing priorities over the original
would mark the start of politi­
House-passed spending bills, 
By JOHN DIAMOND A-.ociatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Unitl~d States and Hussia will test missile defense proce­dun~s in a joint exercise in June, a senior defense official said Thursday. Congress, meanwhile, is eonsidering adding $2.2 billion to the mis­sih~ dllfense budget. 
The tests will involve the use of simulators against third­party attackers. according to Ashton Carter, assistant secre­tary of defense for internation­al sneurity poliey. No missiles will be lired. 
Spnaking to defense reporters at a breakfast meeting, Carter said the exerdse June 3-7 will take plaee under the auspices of thn U.S. Space Command and be held at the Joint National Test Facility at Falcon 
Air Force Base, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
The idea is to test theater missile defenses that protect forces in the lield against short­and medium-range threats. Teams of about 15 members from each country will partiei­pate, with the United States represented by Patriot PAC-3 experts and the Russians by teams who use the SA-12 an­timissile system. 
Congress in the next week is expected to put its mark on President Clinton's defense budget, with special emphasis on missile defense, an area that Hepublicans say the president has neglected. 
Carter said the United States and Hussia are close to reach­ing a "demarcation agree­ment" designed to draw a clear boundary between theater and national defense systems. 
Students looking for a su.mmer job? 






info: avail/24hrs 
http://www.habitat.com 
Even the residents of cyberspace need a place to call home. 
So whether you're an experienced web-master, cybrarian or net-spider or just a newbie beginning to surf the 'net,' you can log onto the internet and find everything in Chicago from a compact studio to an elegant 3-bedroom. 
However, for those of you who haven't yet made the leap into cyberspace, we have very cordial and helpful people answering all your questions about apartments through those antiquated objects called telephones. Dial any of the numbers shown below. Or just drop in. 
And remember, whether it's cyberspace or closet space, in Chicago, "management makes the difference." 

ulllo 

THE HAEITAT COMPANY 
Management Makes The Difference• 
Presidential Towers  Elm Street Plaza  Columbus Plaza  Huron Plaza  
555 W. Madi~on St.  1130 N. Dearborn St.  233 E. Wacker Dr.  30 E. Huron St.  
312-902-2006  312-337-1150  312-861-1200  312-951-9000  

Quadrangle House  Corporate Offices  Gold Coast Galleria  Long Grove House  
6700 S. Shore Dr.  350 W. Hubbard St.  Ill W. Maple St.  2001 S. Michigan Ave.  
312-955-2300  312-527-5400  312-482-9993  312-225-6300  

7ll Gordon Terrace  Wheaton Center  Heritage House  Algonquin & Twin Towers  The New York®  South Commons  Asbury Plaza  
711 Gordon Terr.  One Wheaton Cntr.  10315 Palmer Ave.  1606 E. Hyde Park Blvd.  3660 N. Lake Shore Dr.  2845 S. Indiana Ave.  750 N. Dearborn St.  
312-728-6708  Wheaton, IL • 708-653-2000  Melrose Park, IL •708-455-3020  312-684-2333  312-883-2300  312-326-1500  312-943-4800  




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, April 26, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Business Manager 
Patricia Carson Man Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergasc Advertising Manager ........................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Meaghan Smirh Ad Design Manager .............................. Jed Peters Sports Editor .................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .........•.................. Sean Gal Iavan 
Saint Mary's Editor ................ Caroline Blum Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by the students of rhe University ofNorre Dame du U.c and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion ofeirher institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcprescm the opinion of the majority of rhc Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoinr Editor, Accenr Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Sysrems/Markering Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accenr/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• CAPITAl COMMENTS 
How Catholic does Notre Dame want to be? 
Defining 'Catholic' is not easy for Church or congregation. Retired Notre Dame Debate Coach Lenny Sommer won ten national championships in forensics, persuasion and debate competition. He described his secret of success as "hard 
Gary Caruso 

work, a belief in Notre Dame, and an occasional hopelessly dry martini." 
Lenny's belief in Catholicism and Notre Dame sometimes included doubt­ing traditional dogmas and methods for achieving an end. Any good academician questions authority in an effort to understand. Lenny was no exception. He once rhetorically asked me, "How Catholic is Catholic enough? If you ask the Church to describe where Heaven is located, they cannot give you an answer. Yet we believe that Jesus and Mary have bodies somewhere other than on earth. Where is Mary?" 
After the events of the past two years, he might as well asked, "Where is Patty?" VP for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara has grappled with the matter of Gays and Lesbians on campus desiring official recognition. Her position within the Administration is a thankless one. She wields the heavy hand of enforce­ment for her superiors. If their decisions are unpopular, she bears the brunt of the repercussions. When all goes well, others usually take credit. 
The question of recognition comes down to how Catholic Notre Dame wants 
• DOONESBURY 

IT't3 YOUR f97b ROOKI£3. 
CARP. MY f)q_IJ LEfT IT70 Me. H/3. !B3P7D 5AY YOU Wt;RE. TH& F!NEETG&NTt&­MAN TANNI'3T OF YOUR 
GeNeRATION_.,'"""~--­
to appear. Does it matter that other Catholic universities including Georgetown and Catholic University here in Washington fully recognize their gays and lesbians with university funds? Are those institutions morally bankrupt and inconsistent with the Church? Are they any less against their stands on abortion or any less Catholic in general? Their university presidents would surely argue that they are of utmost moral integrity and follow the Church's teach­ings. 
While American Catholicism is not a democracy, it certainly is not an absolute either. Otherwise, all American Catholic universities would treat Gays and Lesbians with a uniform policy. It seems that Notre Dame prides itself on being part of the fundamental, conserv­ative wing of the Church. Its overwhelm­ing Catholic student body distinguishes it from other Catholic universities like Liberty University distinguishes itself within the Falwell faction of the American Christian movement. In that sense, Notre Dame is more Catholic. 
Reading the letters to the editor in The Observer sheds light on just how funda­mentally conservative many ND students are. This spring, a student letter com­plaining about The Observer's inclusion of an immoral Calvin Klein calendar ad must have been read with great interest by many outside the University. Since the calendar was not included with sub­scriptions received through the mail, those of us who did not receive the ad could only imagine the pornographic splendor that must have oozed on those pages. 
Eventually this writer tracked down a copy. Much to my disappointment, pic­tures of two young couples hugging (males without shirts) are hardly offen­sive or immoral. The protesting student obviously had a problem with the Latino and African-American who were embracing. Such racism is no justifica­tion for moral indignation, and is cer­tainly not a proper Catholic position. 
Nebraska Bishop Fabian Bruskewitz is the perfect example of how the Church has no uniformity on most matters. This Bishop, in an effort to "dissipate ambi­guity and overcome any confusion in the minds of Catholics" in his Lincoln dio­cese, is excommunicating Catholics who belong to organizations that in his opin­ion are "perilous to the faith, totally incompatible with Church doctrine." 
Leading the list of organizations are the likes of Planned Parenthood, Catholics for a Free Choice, and Masonic organizations such as DeMolay and Eastern Star and Job's Daughters. Founded in the 1920's, Job's Daughters is a group for girls 11 to 20, related to Masons, that teaches self-reliance, lead­ership and self-confidence. The bishop's effort to quell ambiguity seems to have had the reverse effect in Lincoln. 
Lifelong Catholics who served as alter boys, rectors, parish council members and church volunteers have been ordered to stop receiving communion on April 15th. If they persist, on May 15th they will be excommunicated. No discus­sion, no exceptions. Most intend to ignore the bishop. 
While the American Catholic Bishops' Conference has remained silent, many behind-the-door conversations are buzzing. Some have even publicly opposed the action. Father James Coriden, a nationally recognized canon lawyer based here in Washington, writes: 
A law so contrary to the spirit and let­ter of canon law, so sweepingly broad and aimless, so unsupported by evi­dence of necessity, so intemperate and harsh, and so contemptuous of the pre­cious value of ecclesial communion, is invalid on its face, or at best a doubtful law. Doubtful laws ... are worse than no law at all, because of the confusion they engender. 
In response, the bishop's office said, "We expect that the forbidden groups and organizations will make as much use as they can of the secular media to oppose our bishop and our diocese." 
Notre Dame is not conducting an inquisition. However, O'Hara wants a special organization to sponsor gays and Iesbians...one the administration can initially control. It smacks of the latest efforts by corporations to create their own company-run labor unions...ones the employers control rather than inde­pendent unions with elected representa­tives. 
For Notre Dame, that proposal is a major shift in its position. The University is backing down from "no recognition" to "my recognition. The issue is obvious­ly not as important as excommunication in Lincoln, but it is a major problem for Notre Dame. The University truly will be tested when its "immoral" students who are "inconsistent with the Church's teachings" show that they are not what the Administration suspects. Whether that day of reckoning comes next year. or several years from now, I can suggest where you might find Patty ... having a hopefully dry martini with Lenny. 
Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73. worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington. D. C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol.com. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I WANT TO 6/V& fT 7V MY UTTL&EJROTH&R.. H&'5 IN !H& H05PITAL. NW, ANOtuG'!<& NOT71JRE HG-'5 GOING 7VMAKI3 IT. COUW YOIJ 516N IT 70 
BRIAN? 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Actually, it only takes one 
drink to get me loaded. Trouble is, I can't remember if it's the thirteenth or four­teenth." 
-George Burns 


VIEWPOINT
friday, April 26, 1996 page II 
• lOCAl COLOR 
Remembering an uncle and the songs he played 
My gmat-uncle Hobert, who owned a "The songwriting really started, as far Nashville," he said, "they don't think too drove the wagon and team up to St. Joe grocery store during his working years, as me putting it down on paper, after much of contests. I could win number wanted me to go with him. We got up was a man of many talents. In 1982, he Bob started writing songs over at Fame one and they wouldn't think nothing of there to the freight depot ... and as we won second plaee in a National Enquirer records," Robert said. "He signed his it." did, I heard something ... and I had never contest for accurately predicting the first contract at the age of sixteen. He But he did get to go to Nashville for heard anything like this before, and it election of George Wallace to a fourth would ask me about titles and things, the Music City Song Festival with Great­sounded something like this ... [harmoni­tmm as Alabama but at tJ:iat time he Aunt Catherine, his sister-in-law. ca/train horn sound effects}. governor, the 
wasn't really into (Catherine made her home with Edna "Man, I turned around and run rep lace 111 <Hl t of country music. And and Robert, and after Edna's death, the back.../ didn't get in the wagon, I got the Hussian my ideas would really two lived on a roommates, with a strict under the wagon. and the train leader Leonid fit more as a country rule that Robert had to get his own stopped. and I stayed out there under
Carol

Brnzhrwv. and song. But after Bob breakfast and lunch, and Catherine the wagon, and it went on down, and the death of actor got started, I began to would see to dinner.) the next town was Iron City, Tennessee, Ih~nry Fonda think of little songs, They were interviewed by the and when it got down there. I could hear 

Bradley

lie was a pillar and I'd put them Nashville Network ("I told them, if you this sound that went something like this of the Edgt~mont down." have a song, the thing to do is get a [harmonica/train horn sound effects, United Methodist lie couldn't read or demo and put it in the Music city Song fading into the distance]. Church, and in a write music, so he Festival. That's the part they liked.") On the tape, he also included "You Are IWWS)Htpnr artitll~ in 1982. he predicted didn't just sit down to write a song. but the piece never aired. My Sunshine" and "My Darling Nelly that Christianity would turn the tide in They always came to him. "Once I was The thing about writing songs, Robert Gray," the song General George Bussia. "Through Christian work by in here in the kitchen late one night, and told me, is you got to keep writing. "I Armstrong Custer's troops were singing people of this and other countries, I just started singing this song. That can't just run in and write a song. I sit as they rode into battle at the Little Big things will elwnge," lw was CfUOted as was "Worse Than the Blues." That was there and can't think of a word. But Horn. saying. But his most peculiar skill was a really personal-type song," he said. going down the highway, or washing Robert, who never visited a doctor in as a musidan and writer of country­lie wrote the song after the death of his dishes, and a song will come to me. The his life until this last year, died last western songs. This talent manifested wife Edna, my grandmother's middle funny thing about it, the songs that won week after surgical complications fol­itsidf latn in lifn. We wern all astounded sister. the contests, I've gotten the words of the lowing cardiac bypass surgery. After his when he picked up a harmonica one Hobert wrote "Worse Than the Blues" song and the tune all together, and death, I thought of "Worse Than the Christmas and belted out a spirited, and Trouble With My Troubles", and didn't change a bit. Bob has me sing a Blues," the song he wrote after Edna blunsy Vll!'sion of "You Arc My "My Kind of Woman", and Bob took the verse, and he picks up the tune and died (one of the prize-winning ones, of Sunshine." songs to Nashville and had a good demo writes it down for me. I put his name on course, because it was so heartfelt). This 
ll<l'd gotten his first harmoniea when made. (A good demo, he confided, will all my copyrights." sad, sad feeling has done got me down// lw was a little hoy, he told us, and it cost you about $250 a song.} Although he didn't write them himself, just can't make it, with you not wasn't until he got another, years later lie entered his songs in the "Music my favorites were his old-fashioned around/If someone don't help me, I don't (with instructions included) that he real­City Song Festival" several times, and in tunes played on the harmonica. A few know what I'll do/For this feeling I'm ized he'd lnarnnd to play with the har­1988 "Worse Than the 131ues" was cho­years ago, he made a tape for me, feeling is worse than the blues ... monica lwld upside down. sen number ten out of 22,000 entries. including his talking blues riff with har­I hope that wherever he is, he's with 
Bolwrt's son Bob (my first cousin once But winning the contest didn't mean so monica sound effects. Edna, and humming "You Are My rtHHove<ll was musical from an early much, Hobert said. He did get mer­"When I was real small about 4 or five Sunshine," instead of singing the blues. agn. and signed his first contract as a chandise worth about $150, but you've years old, we lived at Greenhill. songwritl~r at thn age of 16. It was got to get the song recorded for it to Alabama, and our freight depot was St. Carol Bradley writes for the Observer Bob's internst, Hobert told me later, that mean anything. Joseph, Tennessee, which was about every other Friday. This will be her last mally got him startml. "And these writers and publishers in four miles away. And the man that column this year. 
• it ·;. R:. Tl: Hl~ EDITOR 
Protesting ND's gay policy 

Christmas in April thanks student volunteers 
Dear Editor: 
Thank you! Thank you! Thank you to each and every Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross student that gave of their time to volunteer for the 8th annual Christmas in April event held on April 20th in South Bend's Rum Village neighborhood. Again this year your presence, spirit and effort was overwhelming and the entire Christmas in April organization, including the homeowner recipients, want you to know how appreciative they are. 
Although it has been said before, student volunteers are an integral part of the success of the South Bend program! Without your volunteer assistance this pro­gram could not accomplish the amount and range of work completed every year. Additionally, efforts prior to the Christmas in April day such as the Fun Hun sponsored by Recsports and University Food Services, as well as the various other fundraising events, are another indication of student involvement and commit· ment. 
A special thank you to the Notre Dame groups from: Pasquerilla East and West, Lewis Hall Council, Government of Zahm Hall, Notre Dame Student Government, St. Patrick's Parish and the Junior and Senior Classes of Notre Dame in addition to llecsports and University Food Services. Special thanks also to the Saint Mary's groups from: the class of '98, Holy Cross Hall, RHA and the Junior Class for all the efforts to assist financially. 
On behalf of the Christmas in April Board, Steering Committee and recipients please accept our gratitude as well as our best wishes for an eventful summer as you end another college year. We look forward to working with many of you again in future Christmas in April's! 
PAMELA MEYER Presidenr 

Dear Editor: 
I lllll writing this letter to protest the policy the Administration has chosen to undertake regarding llw (;ay and Lt~shian group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Growing up in a liberal part of' California. gay and lesbian people have become a largt~ part of my life. I have learned that there is ahsolutt~ly nothing "difTemnt or abnormal" about this type of lif'estyhl and that in a homosexual rela­tionship as wnll as in a heterogeneous relationship loVIl, trust and honesty are the key ingredients. 
c;ay and lesbian students at this campus proba­bly lead lif't~styles more closely" related to Jesus than you or I lweausn of' all of the persecution and dist:rimination tlwy hav1~ reeeived in a professedly "C:atholi<:" environnwnt. 
.Just what nxaetly is tlw administration afraid of by not allowing tlw group to meet publidy as a dub on t·ampus? They am not out to persuade the student body to emhraee a homosexual lifestyle, hut instead tlwy am trying to cn~ate a group for people who arn gay or lesbian or arn questioning thPir sexuality in whieh to identify. 
Is it lwcause if' the group were to receive reeog­nition and funding, some wealthy and homophobic alumni may withhold valuable contributions? Why is it that thesn alumni mattnr more than cur­rent students maturing and sneking out their true selves'! 
If' you rtHtlly think that homosexuality is not compatibln with the Catholic religion then maybe you ought to look deeper into the teachings of Christ which are the basis for any Christian reli­gion (even Catholicism). Jesus said that we are to lovn all pnople. Now you may say that you policies are not dnnying your love for homosexuals, but in rejm:ting a major part of someone's life, you are in turn rnjeeting thnm. 
The only way that Notre Dame can truly foster an nnvironment of loving and caring Catholics is to eliminate discrimination in every existing form. By holding a poliey toward GLND/SMC that refuses to allow them proper funds and a meeting area you are esst~ntially snnding a message across the entire campus and to future studnnts that homo­SI1XUality is wrong and that people who praetiee hornos1~xtrality am weird and not following proper moral lwhavior. You are only encouraging dis­crimination and homophobia to continue on in the lives of Notre Dame students. 
An example of this homophobia can be found on a certain group of which I am a member. A fresh­man came into the group from a very sheltered environment and a small town. She had never been exposed to homosexuality but because of the wisecracks and jokes made by other students against gay and lesbian students, she herself has begun to look down upon homosexuals and to make fun of certain haircuts, styles of dress and manners of speaking she feels are inherent to les­bian and gay people. 
Now, she will never even try to meet or befriend a gay student because she would be ridiculed for it. If she had come into an atmosphere that treat­ed gay and lesbians with the same respect as other students, maybe she wouldn't have alienated herself from a group of kind, wonderful and caring people. I feel that is a tragedy. 
The University of Notre Dame cannot continue to live in the Dark Ages. Its policy towards GLND/SMC is repressive, unjust and very "uncatholic". 
This sehool is a paradox. On one hand there is the amazing faculty, the true sense of community between the students and the marvelous education to be received. But then, there is the dark side of Notre Dame, the one that refuses to acknowledge the rights of every student and ignores major problems such as rape, binge drinking, AIDS, and the abnormal relations between men and women due to the single sex dormitory situation. 
As the well-known theologian and monk Thomas Merton said, "The least of the work of learning is done in classrooms. I can remember scores of incidents, remarks, happenings, encounters that took place all over the campus and sometimes far from the campus: small bursts of light that pointed out my way in the dark of may own identity" (Spiritual Master, 366). 
I cannot promote the University of Notre Dame as a positive experience until its policies can foster an environment conducive to every student having the opportunity to seek out their true identity away from the classroom. 
MOLLY GAVIN 
Sophomore 
Breen Phillips 

~-----------~-~--------------------------­





ACC~NT 
page 12 

Looking back on spring rites 
By DAN CICHALSKI Accent Copy Ediwr 
A
h, the signs of spring have come to South Bend. The ducks are back on North 
Quad, students pay money for cardboard 
boxes emblazoned-like everything else 
around here-with an interlocking "NO," national weather reports show 103 degrees and sunny in San Antonio (while Michiana is cloudy and windy), and AnTostal fever has hit the Notre Dame campus. 
While enjoying the various festivities that take place from the Stepan Courts to Moose Krause Stadium, participants and spectators may wonder about AnTostals of the past. Or not. But those who do might ponder such queries as: When did it begin 
(and why)? Where the heck did "AnTostal" come from anyway? Have they always had trouble bring­ing a band to campus? 
The term "AnTostal" is of Gaelic origin, meaning "muster," "pageant," or "array." The festival began at Notre Dame twenty­eight years ago, in 1968, but dates back even further to an entirely different continent. In 1953, some people in Ireland felt the country was in a funk, suffering from an overall dis­mal attitude, a sagging economy, and a weakening sense of patrio­tism. To "wake up the echoes," some pretty clever Irish people came up with the AnTostal celebration to rejuvenate that sense of Irish pride and patrio­tism that was waning. It was begun as a celebra­tion of culture and com­munity in Ireland and was transferred to the Notre Dame campus fif­teen years later. 
1996 AnTostal Chairperson Kerry Van Voris explained, "We need to reawaken the Notre Dame Irish spirit as the school year comes to a close and as the students begin to feel lethargic and apathetic. In our celebra­tion of AnTostal, we at Notre Dame would like to stress the unity that this university is regarded for. Essentially, we are providing the students with one last hurrah before the stress of finals hits, and the students depart from all their friends." 

This "last hurrah" has been going on for only a few days so far this year but has been a part of the social calendar for nearly three decades. With De La Soul performing at Stepan Center tonight, the festivities are highlighted by a concert for the first time in three years. In 1993, Blues Traveler brought their unique sound to the Stepan stage, but in the two years in between, talk of bringing a band to accent the week­end never materialized into actuality. 
Another recent popular form of entertainment ha!> been big-name stand-up comedy acts. From AI Franken to David Spade, humorists have helped ease the tension that comes with knowing finals are around the corner-and following the exams, the end of the academic year or career. 
But the real draw of AnTostal throughout the years has been the various activities in which students can 

#"~ ......
-
-
-
....... 
._. ,
-
-

actually participate. Although it has devel­oped into a monster of its own, the Bookstore Basketball tournament remains the most popular and recognizable event marking the culmination of the year. And, though many of the top teams are graced with the presence of various Division I scholarship athletes, the tournament provides an opportunity for many of the less-athletically gifted members of the Notre Dame community to bask in the spotlight and garner the praise and attention normally seen around here only on home football Saturdays. 
Looking back even further into AnTostal's past, another once-popular theme frequently arises: mud­pits, mudwrestling, mudpies, mudrolling, mud­slinging-anything and everything you could possibly do with mud but were afraid to ask. Mudpits were popular in 1990 and 1982, and in 1976 the three­legged mudsoccer tournament was won by Team Ob­server. 
The 1976 celebration was an extravaganza. In addition to the MudFest (aided by rain over the week­end turning nearly all happenings into mudevents), there were popular activities that have since gone the way of the dinosaurs because of, well, probably administrative regulation and political incorrectness. Take, for example, the "Jocks vs. Girls" basketball game. Probably wouldn't fly today. By the way, the women won and the guys were forced to wear boxing gloves. 
Miss America-type pageants were held back then gloves. 
Miss America-type pageants were held back then too. There was the standard Mr. Campus competi­tion and the less-than-flattering "Ugly Man on Cam­pus" distinction that was determined by random 
student votes. The Kegtoss, a shotput-like contest is pretty self-explanatory, as are the likely reasons this favorite AnTostal event was axed. 
Random acts of pseudo-violence also highlighted celebrations of the past. The AnTostal Assassins would situate themselves in unsuspecting loca­tions-from trees to dorm windows­and pummel passerbys with pies. In an activity entitled "Vigilantes," friends could send a pal to jail for a measly quarter. The prisoner would then have to bribe the guard with fifty cents or allow himself to 
be bombarded with pies in order to gain his freedom. 
So that's how those wild and crazy Domers used to have fun around here in the good but not­
so-old days. What better way to 
end the year, bring the campus back together for one last bash, and remind all just how much fun the past eight months have been than to do it with an Irish tradition based on pride and community? 
Junior Renee Daffron elaborated, "We, the AnTostal 
1996 committee, acknowledge our responsibility to revive what was once a famous Notre Dame tradition of campus unity, student participation, and school spirit celebrated at the spring festival, AnTostal. Tradition plays a key role in the makeup of the University of Notre Dame from Knute Rockne to the Grotto to the Golden Dome. We feel AnTostal is also an inherent part of that world­famous tradition." 
"The zany and frivolous week," Van Voris added, "allows the students to release their tensions and anxieties via intense competition and un­usual activities in a lively atmosphere before heading back to the reality of facing preparation for final exami­nations." 
And what better way to re­lease those tensions than on one another, whether it be on ~-: .. the basketball court or Field-house Mall? 
• ,J 
A 
I though it sounds more like a bad 70's song, the saying "We are fam­ily" aptly describes this year's Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
Ttmmwork and tradition pervade the tour­namt~nt, but it is most evident in the broth­~~r-to-brother connections that have made Bookstore XXV so interesting and exciting. 
Three sets of brothers made it to this year's Sweet Sixteen. with two surviving into the Elite Eight, although not all were active partidpants in the tournament-so 
I 

,.""t' ........ 
. ' 
. 

..-· 
to speak. 

Senior twin brothers Brian and Keith Ziolkowski had played Bookstore together for three years., but this year brought change. Due to an unfortunate incident involving a referee in intramural basketball, Keith has not been allowed to partake in Bookstore XXV. However, his influence has been seen and felt in the play of their team CCE. 
Keith has warmed up with the team and 
see BROTHERS I page 2 

"To start a tradition you have to have a good idea and you have to stick with it. Continuity and timing are everything. The timing ofBookstore 
JlasketfJall during An Tostal and the coming ofspring is the kind ofthing that one person tells another. It provides a context for the outdoors and some­
thing to look forward to. I can't foresee in the immediate future the enthusiasm for that waning. Because it fits Notre Dame. It fits the student body; it fits in terms of when it takes place during the year. It's relatively uncomplicated, and it's something that people like to brag about and tell stories about ... -Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy President of The University of Notre Dame 

page 2 The IRISH EXTRA 
•• OOKSTOR 
Fab Frosh 
I
t is a well-known fact that the Class of '99 football players are expected to make a large 
impact on their team in the upcoming year. 
Something not as well-known is the effect that these freshman have on the Bookstore Basketball tournament. 
As the round of eight takes place today at Stepan courts, three notable faces will be helping their respective squads try to advance to the highly-esteemed final four. Benny Guilbeaux of Swoosh II, Mike Rosenthal of Pass the Beernuts VI, and Lamont Bryant of Model, Inc. all have contributed greatly to their teams in their runs at the Bookstore XXV championship. 
Guilbeaux, a possible starter at one of the safe­ty positions in the fall, has displayed the prowess on the hardcourt that may earn him a spot on next year's varsity basketball team. 
"I'm going to try to walk on," said Guilbeaux. "I wanted to this year, but [the coaches] wanted me to get settled first as far as grades and foot­ball are concerned." 
Like Guilbeaux, Rosenthal has enjoyed success so far in this year's tournament. A starter on the offensive line, Rosenthal has played a pivotal role in Beernuts run to the crown. 
"From rthe round of1 32 on, we've just jumped on his back and enjoyed the ride," commented Kevin Carretta, captain of Beernuts who also doubles as a tight end on the football team. 
Although Guilbeaux and Rosenthal have enjoyed the opportunity of playing with a good team in their first years, neither has had the chance that Lamont Bryant has. Without him, number-one ranked Models, Inc. would not be the dominant force that they are. 
"He's a real force on the boards and can defend smaller, quicker guys," asserted Models star Conrad James. 
And who said freshman are good for nothing? 

By

Fundamentals show the way 
Roster; ... ·¥.M'~-11!1!1111!!--I 
Kevin Carretta, Mike Rosenthal 
(left), Danny Rothschild, Josh 
Burick, Dan McConnell (right) 
Strengths; Beernuts possesses intimidating size, especially with 6'7 Rosenthal roaming the middle. Aso, each team member has great versatility.Their passing ability has carried them through the tournament. 
Weaknesses: ··t·w.~~~,...... 
Because ofthe i·njury to T.R. Kane, the Beernuts were forced to tinker with their chemistry by picking upDanny Rothschild midway throughthe tournament. 

Roster~ ...... "'""'!®.~~~MiiiiiiiU-.. 
Tracy Graham, LaRon M_oore, 
Conrad James, Lamont Bryant
(above), Renaldo Wynn 

Streoglhi: ''"'''""'"~~!'!1111!1--11
Models is the most athletic team in the tournament, and the most active on the boards. Wynn is too strong to be moved off the block, and can hit the turnaround. James' shotblocking makes up for defensive lapses by the team. 

~,r::~~~';''"""est.mpllilllecltjlliall!l!uy-o11111nlll!!th1111e-..G 
break. Moore also has atendency to force his shot. Models' confidence boarders on arrogance.Could be aliability in aclose game when every possession counts. 

T
he origin of the legend is easy to determine. It all started exactly two years ago, when Showtime's Travis Brown grabbed a rebound in a Sweet 16 game. 
As the crowd of 200 or so Showtime faithful rose to their feet in anticipation, Brown brought the ball over the time­line, and after numerous passes teammate Jason Hanley nailed the game-winning jumper, seal­ing one of the tournament's biggest upsets over Jon Ross and No. 5 Sudden Death . 
The five sophomores from Stanford were instant crowd fa­vorites, and rode the momen­tum to that year's Final Four. 
"Our crowd following has al­ways been good, and we've fed off of them," said Bob Baxter. "They've kept us in some games that we've ·been in danger of falling out of." 
Two years older, the same five return as the No. 4 seed heading in to the weekend's action, hoping to finish what they started. 
"To me, Showtime is the essence of Bookstore," said Hanley. "We're five friends that have stuck together every year." 
For the second year in a row, Showtime is the highest seeded team without a varsity athlete. However, what the team lacks in size and speed, it makes up for in basketball savvy and teamwork. 
"Not having a varsity athlete has made us concentrate on be­ing a better team," said Brown. In an era that favors individual highlights and monster jams, 

Brothers 

continued from page 1 
continues to coach them from the sidelines. In addition, the team pays tribute to their missing mem­ber with a black stripe worn on their orange uniform tops. 
"It's hard not having him out there," Brian Ziolkowski com­mented of his brother's absence. "He loves the game so much, it's hard for him to be on the side­lines." 
Still, Keith contributes to the team to the best of his ability. 
"He's a big supporter from the sideline," Brian continued. "He has a better view of what is going on from there." 
"He knows the game so well, so we listen to him when he tells us what to do." 
Some brothers have been for­tunate enough to go the distance with each other, at least as far as their age difference will allow. One such combination is that of senior Mike Kloska and junior Jeff Kloska. 
The two brothers have done such a great job leading their team over the last three years, including a trip to last year's fi­nal four, that they have merited the honor of having their team, Dos Kloskas, named for them. 
"Jeff and I have been playing together for years," the elder Kloska said. "In grade school, high school, and now we've had the opportunity to play together in college." 
Jeff agrees that years of playing together keys their team chem­istry on the court. 
"I think that's where we find our closest bond," Jeff com­mented. "I know him best through basketball." 
The Kloskas' mother, who has been at nearly all of their Bookstore games, commented on her boys' chemistry. 
"They have played basketball 






Elite 
Tim Seymour 

then, Showtime is a throwback, emphasizing unselfishness and the subtle art of making the ex­tra pass. 
It's an art that has proven to be deadly effective. Showtime's spot-up shooters -Brown, Bax­ter, and Jeff Enes -are among the best marksmen in the tour­nament, while Matt Coles sup­plies the physical presence and Hanley the court leadership. 
"We haven't shown the whole arsenal yet this year," conclud­ed Baxter. "Every game some­one different has stepped up." 
Dos Kloskas Roster: 

....,..,,"""·:&N<i"?J:rfWI'~~~-­
Mike Kloska, Jeff Kloska, Bert Berry, Pete Coleman, Dan Fannon 
Strengths: . , m""~~!IIJD'!'!~-1 The Kloska brothers are both strong perimeter shooters. When 
the game is on the line, Coleman seems to be able to take over and hit the big shots. The frontcourt has the strength to match up with the big teams, and Berry hasn't had to be a factor•.. yet. 
Weaknesses: .. '·''''""""'~~" 
Kloska has exhibited a hesitancy to run even when the opportunites are present. The team seem willing to settle for outside shots, and no one knows if Berry is 100%. 
together since they could bouncE a ball at age two or three," Mrs Kloska said. "They have a great sense oJ each other. They trust each other." 
The Klo'ska connection is evi­dent on the court as their quick ball handling and low number ol turnovers showcase the rhythmic offense that has gained them spot in the final eight of the tour­nament. 
On a less positive side, John ,and Jamey Haigh will not be playing anymore in the tour­nament, but have done their fam­ily name proud with their appearance in Bookstore XXV. 
The Haigh name reigns as one of the most legendary names in the history of the Bookstore tour­nament, and this year is no exception. 
Their older brother, Joe, th "guru of Bookstore Basketball," was named last year's Mr. Bookstore. 
John, a sophomore, and Jamey, a senior, played their last Bookstore game together yester­day as their team NBTIII lost to CJ's Wooden Shoes in the sweet sixteen round. However, the Haigh name will live on forever. 
Friday, April 26, 1996 friday, April 26, 1996 The IRISH EXTRA page 3 



SKETBALL -· 

Eight 
C.C.E. 
~~~!:r~ustafson, L~a""'muom-a·r-~"'lulll!st!l!lllc·e.. 
(right), Brian Ziolkowski, Kenny 
Middleton, Pete Chryplewlcz 
Strengths: __ ..c;-?Z"""-..~~.. 
Gustafson and Justice are both 
excellent ball-handlers, and the 
emergence of Justice's outside 
shot is encouraging. The 
acquisition of Chryplewlcz gives 
C.C.E. an Inside game to , 
compliment Ziolkowski's shooting. · Weaknesses: . ' Ziolkowski Is a streak shooter who · needs to contribute In other ways If he isn't hiUing. Mental toughness Is a question; the team can be phased If things aren't going their way. 
"It's hnen a gn~at opportunity to play with him." .John said. "It's a lot of fun and we have a great ttHtm dwmistry. It makes it real­ly eomfortable out tlwre." 
Although not everyonn ean have tlw success of the Ziolkowskis, Kloskas. or llaighs, some broth' ers find their own niche in the tournanwnl. 
No onn can forget tlw brief, or lwtter said "briefless" appear­anen of the Goldkamp brothers. Snth and .laeob Goldkamp played their last ballgame of the tourna­rnlmt in nothing more than ath­lt~tit: supporters, and in their own way, have found a place in Bookstore history. 
Still others are left with only a mnrnory. Senior Dan McConnell of Pass thn Benrnuts VI, who rnmains alive in the Elite Eight round, has nothing but a name to rnmind him of thn time he and his brothnr Brad, of the class of '94, tore up the courts of Bookstore as Pass the Beernuts IV. 
Whnther on the eourt or in a name, a special bond exists in thn family eonnections that take plaee in Bookstore Basketball. It still remains to see how far that bond ean take them. 

----~~Wij~--~~~~--------------~ in the
Showtime I a t e 
Roster: .·. '"·C-'"'""'·~.-~-~~f... 
MaU Coles, Bob Baxter (passing , Travis Brown, Jeff Enes, Jason Hanley 
Strengths: ~'"~-""!"'-...-.. The most experienced team in the tourney, Showtime has played together all four years. They make 
the extra pass to their lour pure shooters, and run the break well. They don't take bad shots. 
Weaknesses: . 'i'f'""'l.....,"!-11111!-....
The three guard alignment makes for problems against bigger teams. Inside scoring ~s Inconsistent, and the emphasis on allllve rebounding against bigger teams may slow their break. 

Bookstore law 
B
ookstore Basketball is a long-standing student tra­dition here at Notre Dame. It is run by students, rnfereed by students, and, most importantly, played by studnnts. 
Not all these students, howev­er, arn of the traditional under­graduate breed. A great many of them come from one of the many Notre Dame graduate programs, in particular the law sehool. 
Although a variety of teams have been fielded by law stu­dents over the years, one squad traditionally stands above the rest. To many Bookstore observers, Malicious Prosecution, and no other squad, represents the law school in this tournament. 
Since the time of its inception 

Just like old times 
1 9 8os. 
Malicious has con­sisted of nothingbut 1a w students. T h i s 
ho~!v~r: 
the tradi­tion has 
changed
b' ,
1
a rt. •or the first time in the histo­ry of this P o w e r ­By TIM MCCONN 

house, two undergraduate stu­dents, seniors Todd Leahy and John Heilman, have been recruited to play. 
Before these two, the only non-law student to play with Malicious was Todd Norman, an offensive lineman on the football team and a fifth-year MBA student at the time in 1993. 
Begun in 1989 by Joe Scott, a law student and now an assis­tant coach at Princeton University, Malicious won the crown its first two years and advanced to the Final Four its third. 
Since then, except for their finals appearance in 1993, Malicious has fallen upon hard times. In fact, the last two years they have not gotten past the round of thirty-two. 
Because of these recent diffi­culties, team members Stu Healy, Mark Malloy, and Gary Hall decided to lind players that would help them return the Malicious name to prominence. 
"The tradition we're most concerned with is winning," stated Healy. "The tradition wouldn't mean much if we only got to sixty-four or thirty two. For us, winning is the bottom line." 
For this reason, they went out and got Leahy, a 6'7 postman, and lleilman, a 6'3 forward who is one of the most versatile and difl1cult players to defend in the tournament. 
"We tried to get [Leahy] last year," said Malloy. "It didn't speak. 
No longer is the sleek Justice going head to head with the likes of Tony Delk or Tyus Edney, nor is the dead-eye Hoover trying to get a free look against a suffocating Georgetown extended zone. 
Hather, the two are just try­ing to make whatever contri­bution it takes for their respec­tive teams, CCE and CJ's Wooden Shoes, to advance in the silver anniversary of Bookstore Basketball. 
So far, the two talented guards have successfully merged their great skills with the team concept that Bookstore mandates. 
"Hoover has definitely car­ried us at times," CJ's Richard Probst noted. "But our games 
work out, but we were glad to get him this year." 
The recruitment of these two raised the eyebrows of many who felt this broke the tradition of having nothing but law stu­dents on the team. Malloy, however, did not consider this much of a factor in their deci­sion-making. 
Even other teams that consist of law students agree that Malicious did nothing wrong in signing up undergraduate play­ers. 
"They had to do what they had to do," said Steve McBride, a second-year law student, of Vanilla Kernals. "They're defi­nitely a stronger team with [Leahy and Heilman]." 
Y .e er guys on the court. Hyan knows his role and he does it very well. That's exactly wht we expect-ed". 
Plain and sim-pie, the role is that of scorer. It is task Hoover should well be accus­tomed to, as he was a primary offensive option for MacLeod for the better part of his four­year career. That really hasn't changed but the circumstances have. 

No longer does Hoover have to worry about adjusting to the backdrop at the Carrier Dome or Madison Square Garden but the bent rim and the gale-force wind of Stepan courts are a concern. 
As far as Justice goes, his forte of lighting-quick defen­sive pressure and reliable ball­handling has been de-empha­sized in favor of slashing pene­tration and offensive rebound­ing. 
But the object is the same. Win games. 
Tomorrow, the ex-team­mates will be squaring off against each other in semi­final action. But it won't be the first time the two teams meet. 
Last year, four of the mem­bers of CJ's (sans Hoover) dropped a tough 21-18 deci­sion to a very similar CCE squad. 
"We missed 4 or 5 free throws last year and could've easily beaten them," Probst said. "We can definitely play with them." 
Now, with Hoover in the fold, the match-up becomes all that more intriguing for the fans who will pack the Stepan Courts tomorrow. 
Malicious Prosecution 
~~~e~~ll. Stu"H'ealy, Mark MaHoy, Todd Leahy, John Heilman 
Strengths: ,.,,_.,..~1111!1111!!1­Maliclous plays relentless defense against its opponents. Hall hawks the ballhandler beUer than anyone In the tournament. On offense, they are very patient and methodical, and always seem to get a good shot. 
Weaknesses: ........~~~~· Because of their methodical nature, Malicious sometimes becomes too predictable. Also, despite the size of Leahy, who is 6'7", Malicious has shown considerable weakness on the inside. 


page 4 The IRISH EXTRA Friday, April 26, 1996 

Sher01an 
continued from page 1 
Bookstore, though, is far dif­ferent. The students own Bookstore and make it what it is today. And what it is today is pretty much exactly what it started out to be -competition at its purest form. 
The tournament has none of the bright lights of television, no world-class, climate-con­trolled facilities (as evidenced by yesterday's wet and wild action). and free and open admission to all. 
It is special. It is diverse. It is uniquely Notre Dame. 
Nowhere else in the world can claim a tournament quite as large as Bookstore. Indeed, the quantity is impressive but the quality of the 25 year-old tournament is the prime reason why it is now entrenched as one of Notre Dame best tra­ditions. 
And it is a multi-faceted tradition. 
In reality, the fun of Bookstore begins even before the games commence with the announcement of the team names. A scroll through this year's team list, let alone the collection from the first quarter century of play, will cause more Iaugher than even the quality of concerts that Notre Dame hosts. 

The Irish Extra Staff Editor: Tim Sherman Managing Editor: Tom Schlidt Contributors: Betsy Baker, Tim McConn, Eileen Sherman Photos: Mike Ruma, Dave Murphy, Katie Kroener, Brent Tadsen 
Sweet Sixteen Bookstore Bracket 
1. Models Inc. 
5:30 BK 9 
16. Untouchabl 
8. Tobasco Cat 
4:45 BK 9 
9. Malicious Pr 
5. Swoosh 
4:00 BK 9 
12. Hood 

4. Showtime 
' 
4. Showtime 
I 
6:15 BK 10 
I I 
I 13. Vanilla Kern 
s 
!_ 
Then, there are the early rounds game, which are a spectacle unto themselves. Not only does it give the entire campus the chance to get out and hoop with some of the school's best athletes, it gives many a chance to express themselves with fashion. 
But no one will ever mistake Stepan Courts for the runways of Paris. In short, expect the unexpected : underwear. three­piece suits, togas, kilts. Virtually anything goes. 
And virtually everyone at­tends. As the tournament ad­vances into the second week, Bookstore turns from a partici­patory activity to a spectator's dream. Or for many among the masses, a social butterfly's par­adise. 
There is definitely something to strolling around the courts of Stepan and seeing that old friend you hadn't seen for a few months or maybe even bump­ing into that special someone who you never quite get the chance to talk to at the dining hall or one of the few local wa­tering holes. 
In many ways, the social aspect of Bookstore is similar to a giant dorm party, just without the Natty Light, MTV Party to Go Vol. 2, and that seemingly ubiquitous strobe light. 
But at the heart of it all is basketball. Pure basketball. Happy Birthday Bookstore. 

25 names from the past 25 
Guy Who Swears He Saw It On Cable 
1986 \ 
The Cement Factory Fast At NO 
1987 

4 Catholics And A Guy Who Can Use Birth Control But I Bought You Dinner... 
1988 

I Want Your Sects The Digger Phelps Fan Club And 5 Guys
1989 5 Reasons That NO Revised The Ale Policy
4G 

We Would Have . Play gut '{h(tre 
· The Phil Hickey 
In keeping with Observer tradition, this year's Bookstore reporters take a stab at pre­dicting who will wear the crown as Silver Anniversary Bookstore champs. 

Final Four Models, Inc. Swoosh CCE Dos Kloskas Finals Models, Inc. Dos Kloskas Champion Dos Kloskas 


------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~ 
Friday L.....--------1 5:00 ST 2 
2. Dos Kloskas 

2. Dos Kloskas 
6:15 BK 9 15.H 






Betsy Baker n 
Final Four Final Four Final Four Models, Inc. Models, Inc. . Models, Inc. Showtime Showtime Showtime CCE CJ's CJ's Dos Kloskas Dos Kloskas Dos Kloskas Finals Finals Finals Showtime Models, Inc. Models, Inc. Dos Kloskas Dos Kloskas Dos Kloskas Champion Champion Champion Showtime Dos Kloskas Models Inc. 

----------------------------~----~~--------------~-----~--.-------·~--------~-----------------­



ACCENT
Friday, April 26, 1996 page 13 

The homecoming of add-nine 
T
By JASON DORWART emotional and heart-felt but lack A.sistam Accent Editor the "teen angst" that comes through in most of today's "alternative" o whiehever god this may eoncPrn: this story is being offered up as a sacrifice bands. For the most part the guitar to you that we students here at Notre Dame may someday celebrate AnTostal is mellow and bluesy, but during the without the majority of our festivities being rained upon. Unfortunately, choruses hits power chords and at Thursday's rains prevented add nine, a band comprised of ex-Domers, from times is heavy and dark with much playing at the Fieldhouse Mall for the annual event. It should have been a more reverb. Although, at times the ratlwr high energy concert, and would have suited well AnTostal's purpose of pepping songs are overly reliant on a singleup students bofore finals weok. guitar riff. Tho band. in its curronl incarnation, has been together since January of 1995. In In a nice twist that separates the 1990, as students at ND, founding members David Geist (bass), Aras Ulenas (drums) and band from many of today's other Jim ~iwek (guitar) met and helped form the Generics. They played their specialization bands the bass stays away from of "altnrnative dancnahln covers," until they graduatnd and went their separate ways. merely following the lead of the gui­
Ulnnas' way took him to Boston to the Berklee College of Music to study music synthe­tar. It is distinct to itself and is not sis and composition. Ulenas, the last of the three to graduate, originally played key­afraid to stand out form the guitar hoards, and after tiring of programming drum maehines and synthesizers, decided to try entirely. This blend is nice in that it his luck behind a real drum kit. lie failed to find the right people to work on his music forces you to listen intently to truly
with and relocated to Chicago. hear the song in its entirety. The jazzy drums and distinct bass and guitar is not for the 
In thn fall of 1994 the throe started jamming together after Geist switched from to passive listener. bass. Siwek and vocalist Michelle Soucie had gone to grade school together and by There are various tonal and rhythmic changes that keep the songs interesting to listen ehance ran into each other at a Chicago bar. Soucie expressed an interest in signing for to, and bring out the different moods of the choruses and verses; yet, for the most part
the hand; she showed up at a rehearsal in January of '95 and, according to Ulenas, the band stays within the confines of 4/4 and 6/8 times. However, each song's organiza­"clicknd. " lie also stated that her vocals are what bring the varied aspects of their tion of verse and chorus is a little to structured, and will not often surprise you once youmusic together. In April 1996 add nine released the debut full length CD entitled "My get past the second verse. Dncember," and currently are on a regional college tour to support the independent The vocals, though, bring the various aspects of each song together. Soucie is a talent­release. ed singer, who used to sing in a piano bar (if that gives you any indication of her tone). 
The album was recorded and mixed in various basements and bedrooms but comes Her voice is inviting and allows the music to be able to be played in the background at a away with a surprisingly clear sound. It may be a little too clean and clear at times bar although she and the rest of the band are worthy of more. Her singing is non­though taking away from some of the music's blend. threatening but in no way lacks the emotion present in the rest of the music. 
A juzz inlltumce shows through in Ulenas' drumming; he is also the principle song "My December" is a strong debut release and recommended for anyone who likes writer and describes his songs as having modern influences and ties to 1970's classic his/her emotional, peppy progressive rock, but is tired of the feel-good, drawn-out stylesrock. It comes together under what could be forced into the label of progressive rock, of Bootie and the Blowfish and the light, pop bluesy-ness of the Dave Matthews Band. 
(although any comparisons to Hootie and the rest of today's feel-good rock would be add nine will be playing tonight at Club 23 in what should be an emotional and highlyhigh trr.ason). energetic show. Lyrically, the band explores various human emotions and quandaries. The songs are 


i;, rip-op inva~es Notre Dame wit~ De La Soul 
J::: ~· .· ~ /{J
~ . r;v ./ by TOM BECHERT 
·~ .\" Accent Writer ', / . ;. 
I
t's a fair bet that most of you have never even heard of De La Soul. Affiliated with A Tribe Called Quest, The Jungle Brothers, and Black Sheep in a loose coalition referred to as the Native Tongues, only Tribe has seen anything dose to commercial success. To get any media exposure in the rap industry today seems to require that the artist make themselves out to 
be something along the lines of society's worst nightmare; glorifying such things as violence, mistreatment of women, and drug dealing. 
You wont find any of this in the music of De La Soul, on the contrary you'll find one of the most innovative groups in the indus­try, as well as one of the groups that are more eritical of the industry itself. Above their sample-heavy traeks, you'll hear criticism of every­thing from industry executives and rappers themselves, to the values of society. Hut don't get the wrong idea, De La Soul is far more than a political band; they are one of the most eclectic rap acts around; their music ranges from tracks like Ego Trippin', a scathing parody of the West Coast gangster 
rap scene, to I Be Blowin', a jazz interlude featuring Maceo Parker, to the eare­free Me, Myself and I. Despite the sizable amount of sampling done by the band, they still man­
age to avoid aligning themselves with any of the current fads in hip-hop. You won't lind any P-funk loops or R&B-esque party tracks in De La Soul's repertoire. Their psychedelic style of rap, which for years has been in a cat­
• 
egory of its own is now credited as being the father of the trip-hop movement that is beginning to make waves in the under­ground. Far more than just the average hip-hop group, De La Soul represents some of the best, most innovative music around. l If you've never heard De La Soul, you've never heard anything like De La Soul. __________,;;___.-The Student Union Board sponsors the De La Soul show tonight at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center for a meesily six dollars. Campus favorite Reverend Funk opens for this innovative band. It promises to be trippy experience. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 26, 1996 

ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­ D.J. Mixer  HUMOR ARTISTS  I'm sorry if I offended you. You're  
NOTICES  Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  DISCOUNTED APARTMENT FOR THE SUMMER-COLLEGE PARK  4 Channels, Cross-Fader. 6 Band  Last sketch show of the year  right. it was very insensitive. I just wish I could've apologized to you  
month. Room and Board!  CONDOS  Equalizer, Mic. Talk-Over, 6 Sound  FRIDAY@ 7:30 in the  personally.  
COPIES OF THE FOUR FOOD  Transportation! Male or female. No  273-1738  Effects, Cue Switch, etc... by Lux  library Auditorium  
GROUPS BOOK ARE ALMOST  experience necessary. Call  Sound.  You will laugh yourself stupid  Not only is there no God, but try  
OUT....(AND I CAN'T DO A SEC­ (206)971-351 0 ext A55845  getting a plumber on weekends.  
OND PRINTING-IT'STOO LATE),  Living in Chicago for the summer?  $240 Flat  ONE MORE CHANCE TO GO TO  
SO IF YOU WERE INTENDING TO  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR.  We (two guys ND95) need a sum­ THE PLANET GROOVE  Let's get it ON.  
GET ONE .... GET ONE NOW!  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  mer roommate from June to mid­ Call Isaac  
THEY'LL PROBABLY ALMOST BE  PERSON FOR PART-TIME  August. In the heart of Lincoln Park  634-1668  Marriage is the price men pay for  
GONE BY FRIDAY!  RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  (best neighborhood). Two blocks  REVEREND FUNK  sex. Sex is the price women pay for  
PHONE EXP. A MUST.  from lake and two steps from bus  ROLLAR BLADES BAUER  marriage.  
HOST an EUROPEAN EXCHANGE  EMPLOYMT. TO CONTINUE  stop.  MEN'S SIZE 8 USED X 1  TONIGHT  
student in Michiana & U.S. Call  THROUGH END OF 1996. PHONE  call Tom (312) 528-1482  120.00 232-5611  CLUB 23 AFTER DE LA SOUL  All right Dave.  
now, Lynsey 277.7263  #243-9555 TO APPLY.  Six-pack of Heineken for you, or six  
NEED ROOMATE FOR SPACIOUS  $$FURNITURE FOR SALE$$  more funk in your moufmoufmouf  pack of Molson Golden for me.  
It ain't over til it's over, "oh yeah".  YOUR FUTURE IN SALES  DOWNTN APT PRIV 1/2 BATH  Loft, bed frame. mattress,chairs,  -HAC  
CopyRite is experiencing dramatic  W/ROOM $200/MO HEAT INCL  desk. For more info call 273-9840.  
thank goodness it's almost over.  growth and is seeking Sales  ALISA@ 237-1840  BLONDIE,  The 1996 NBA MVP is, of course,  
Representative in the state of  Need furniture for next year? We  HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY!!!!!!  Brent Price.  
Doing a year of service after gradu­ Indiana. As a division of IKON  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  got couches,coffee tables,desks.  Grrrrrrrrrrr!!l!!  Join the ND Brent Price fan club  
ation? Let Maureen Skurski at the  Office Solutions and Alco Standard  219-291-7153  queen beds, & other neat toys Call  LOVE, S-POOH  TODAY!  
esc know who you are  Corporation (NYSE), CopyRite  239-0931  
X1-5779, so you won't be left out of  offers enormous potential to appli­ Everybody wants a piece of  
the Volunteer Send-Off Service  cants possessing strong written/oral  OAK HILL CONDO  FOR FREE!!I!I!I!!!!I!!I!!!!!I!!!I!!  Lovejoy.  
commencement weekend.  communication skills, effective ana­ 2 BDR/ 2 BATH/ LOFT  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
-.  lytical and listening skills and a  $665/ MONTH  1.) The most comfortable couch in  That's some nice grape jelly, A.B &  
Michiana Paintball -If you've never  focus on exceeding customer  JUNE 1-MAY 31  the known world. Brown 2  BRIAN KARAZSIA  Ro.• why don't I squirt some into  
played you'll love the game. If  needs and expectations. Please fax  CALL MRS. MARCHIOLO  peice sectional. Good cond.  my mouth?  
you've played before. you'll love the  resume to: Mr. Jon King, Senior  (818) 968-7030  2.) Hand fed Naday Conure (it's  
field. 291-9462  Vice President, Sales & Marketing,  a bird). Tame. affectionate,  ADOPTION:  Let's get it ON.  
IKON Office Solutions at 317-329­ lovable. Learning to talk.  I'm a very happy little girl named  
J U N I 0 R S 1!!1  4401 for immediate consideration.  MISHAWAKA EFFICIENCY  cage & all acess. incl. Very  Caitlin who is adopted. I would love  middle ground, mon cherie. middle  
$ 255 MO.& LIGHTS. SUNNY  beautiful. Worth $300 but  a baby sister or brother to play with.  ground.  
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  Early vestiges of a classic  3RM.2ND FLOOR; QUIET BLD.  I want him to have a good  My parents are ND grads. Dad's a  
OF RESUME AND DISK  R'n'R band looking for  1 ADUL T,NO PETS,BUS LINE.  home.  lawyer and mom plays with me full  Ted and plaid boy- 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­ 259-6050.  time. We have a wonderful life, with  only two weeks left to see your  
MENT SERVICES FOR  DRUMMER  Call Ryan @ 239-8963  plenty of hugs, kisses. toys, & love  favorite people. Give us a call.  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  KEYBOARDIST  Students Welcome! New Mini  for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn  --Dolphin and Kiwi  
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  Who know how to PLAY Brian x3744  Storage Facility, 6482 Brick Rd. Call219-277-3122.  TICKETS  collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential & legal.  Douglas Hawk:  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  This looks like a job for .... GIRL  
R  Wanted: Back issues of JUBILEE. Catholic magazine pub. 5/53 to  FOR SALE  HELP! I need at least four  ADOPTION -We understand the strength it takes to choose adop­ WOMAN!!!! -Ann Riverdale  
s  9/68. Ralph Gustafson 3 Mich. St.  GRADUATION TICKETS.  tion. You can have peace of mind  joey you are SUCH a card.  
Apt.#1 Valparaiso, IN 46383.465­ 1421 N. Oak Hill Dr.. condo, two full  Please call if you know that  that we will cherish your newborn  
May 1 is the last issue of The  1699  baths, walk to ND, finished lower  you'll have an extra or 2.  and provide a loving and secure  heather, you're so funny.  
Observer! Come in and place your final classifieds now!l  Summer Bbysitter Wanted  level, all appliances. garage, one­owner. $76,900,277-8898  Thank You. Katie X4558 ....................................  home. Expenses paid. Please call Donnamarie and Roger at 1-800­ joey, i want to have your baby.  
2 days week 2-6pm  232-6519.  
The commencement issue of The Observer is May 17 -come in and  2 children age 6 & 8 Must have reliable transportation  87 HondaCRX-88K, $2500 OBO call Manuel@4-3294  PERSONAL  heather, take a number, but yeah I'm sure our kids would be cute.  
place personal congratulations to  Please call277-5786  J U N I 0 R S !!II  
your senior friends!  •••••• AGREATDEAL •••••••  0o0oOD0o0o0o0oOo0o0o0  THAT RABBITS DYNAMITE.  
ILOST & FOUND I  DO YOU LIKE WALKS? READ­ING? PUZZLES? WE NEED YOU PIT TO SIT IN  84 Ford Escort ...standard...white ... runs great...very reliable! $975  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK N TO CAREER & PLACE­ Perhaps if we confuse it, it will become so angry that it will make a mistake.  
OUR HOME M & W.  Call today before it's too late!  Phone 631-COPY  MENT SERVICES FOR  Like what?  
LOST  PLEASE CALL 273-9512.  234-4219  0o0o0o0o0o0o000o00000  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  Perhaps if we ran away a bit more ...  
14' Softball Glove  Oh shut up and change your armor.  
near Stephan fast Sunday (21st) - I am looking for as many  FRIDGE, LOFT, CARPETS,  THE COPY SHOP  0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  AHHH! How about the Holy Hand  
Please Call Mike at X1017  graduation tickets as possible.  COUCH  LaFortune Student Center  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  Grenade of Antioch!  
Will pay$$. Call Katie X1093  Call Kristen x2695  EXTENDED FINALS HOURS  R  Yes! It's one of the sacred relics  
LOST!LOST!LOST!LOST!LOST!  Fri. 5/3 7:30am -Midnight...  Brother Maynard carries!  
Office assistant position open in  VCR Call David @ 4-4385  Sat. 5/4 9:00am -Midnight...  s  
Blue NBC sports fanny pack con­ downtown South Bend law office.  Sun. 5/5 9:00am -Midnight...  God bless this, thy holy hand  
taining keys and other important  Part-time, mornings. Computer  TREK 850 MTN BIKE  Mon. 5/6 7:30am -Midnight  ADOPTION: We long to give your  grenade, that with it you shall blow  
items. Last seen Thursday before  experience needed with Windows  $150/0BO 289-9274  Tues. 5/7 7:30am -Midnight  newborn endless love, opportunites  thine enemies to pieces.  
Easter. If found call Mike @273­ and Word Perfect. Send resume to  Wed. 5/8 7:30am -Midnight  & security. Perhaps we can help  Thou shall count to three. Three is  
6183.  P.O. Box 511  BED FOR SALE-FRAME & MAT­ Thur. 5/9 7:30am -Midnight  each other. Expenses paid. Call  the number thou shalt count, and  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  TRESS-CALL LISA 273-2858  Fri. 5/10 7:30am-7:00pm  Rosemary & John 1-800-984-9429  the number of the counting shall be  
LOST!LOST!LOSTILOST!LOST!  We're open all SUMMER too!  three. Four shalt thou not count,  
Lost-Women's Seiko watch.  FOR RENT  lggy Needs a Home!!!! I am going abroad and can't take  THE COPY SHOP  Do you need a part-time job (8-12 hours/week) for the '96-'97 acade­ neither shall it be two. exceoting that thou then proceed to three.  
Between Crowley and library,  my iguana with me. Could you give  LaFortune Student Center  mic year? THE COPY SHOP in the  Five is right out.  
4/15. Please call Jean, 277-6233.  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  lggy a home? Everything included  WE'RE OPEN ALL SUMMER!  LaFortune Student Center will be  Then lobbeth thee thy holy hand  
HOME.  at a super low price. Call273-1612  Our summer hours begin  hiring one or two Notre Dame stu­ grenade at thine enemy, who being  
Found...Gofd bracelet with name  VERY CLOSE TO ND.  if interested.  after finals are over  dents for next academic year.  naughty in my sight, shall snuff it.  
Missy in Debartolo Hall,  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  on Saturday May 11  Ideally. we are looking for students  
Call Tim 273-4389 to reclaim.  272-6194.  MAC POWERBOOK 150 8/120,  Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm  who will be sophomores or juniors.  She turned me into a newt! I got  
only $850 with carrying case.  CALL 631-COPY  In addition, up to 40 hours per week  better ...  
Did you lose a ROSARY the  Stylewriter printer, $95.  THE COPY SHOP  will tie available for the first two  
day before Spring Break in front  MAC LC with 12" color monitor,  LaFortune Student Center  weeks before each semester  Boys with four letter names are  
of NOH? I have it. Sorry it's  COLLEGE PARK APT  $600. Call, 287-4528.  begins, so it would be helpful if the  dumb.  
taken me so long to find the Lost  FOR SUMMER  applicant lives in the Michiana area  
and Founds! Calf Beth at 4­ BEST OFFER  BED & DESK FOR SALE  or will be living off-campus. Apply  
4936 to identify.  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  277-8260  Ride needed to Southern NY or  in person at THE COPY SHOP in  
Northern NJ on Sunday 5/19 or  the LaFortune Student Center  Buy my loft! It's cheap. Only $20.  
WANTED  GREAT STUFF FOR OFF-CAM­PUS LIVING!!!!!!!!  Monday 5/20. Also, anywhere near Meadville PA on 5/19. Please help.  TODAY!!!  Call soon. at 284-4349.  
Summer sublease at College Park  Double Bed, Twin Bed, Dining  I will pay for gas/tolls, drive, and  HEY KATE, KRIS, MELINDA,KIM &  
LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE(S)  f/ May 20-July 31. Call 273-2414  Room Set, Couches, Chairs. Desk  keep you entertained! Call Brian  MO  Kathy. did you really think that Joey  
TO LIVE IN A 2 BED-ROOM  and much. much more. Call Larry  x1173. Thank you.  Congratulations on reaching the  killed someone?  
HOUSE ON BULLA NEXT YEAR  Mishawaka, clean upstairs  at271-1732.  ELITE EIGHT  
CALL STEFF! # 3602  1 bedroom apartment, no  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!!  You guys are awesome!!!  Hey Kim. I missed it on Sunday, so  
smokers, $300/month, open  GOOD LUCK  I thought I would make up for it in  
••••••• ARE YOU GOING TO  June 1, call after May 8. 255­ Waterfront Condos  PLEASE HELP ME AND MY  this Observer. I hope you can find  
BOSTON? ...*............  4766.  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  THREE LOVING GRANDPAR­ Big Daddy congrats on 21, the ER  it in your heart to forgive me before  
Need a roommate attending Boston  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  ENTS WHO ARE COMING FROM  will never be the same without you.  you leave for Ireland. I'll miss you.  
Coffege or Harvard in the fall. Call  5 BR; 605 Sl Peter  New Decor  CANADA  --------­ 
Adela at 259-5342. She's going to  $925/mo 232-2595  EVERYTHING included  Bellisirna Beatrice,  Stephanie- 
Beantown in the fall. Are you?  Close to Notre Dame  CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-674~  Although I burn inside when your  You are so much fUUUUUnnnn!!l  
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  BEAUTIFUL!  eyes strike mine. I am powerless to  How much fun? funnnnnn.  
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  NORTH SHORE CLUB  pull myself away. I plead that you  
SUMMER  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  232-2002  take heed. For I will endure 'til time  Hey Beef, I'm going to miss our  
WORK  Grad. -Football games  UPS  ends, only to be inspired by you.  Thursday morning "bonding" time!  
$10.25to start  219·277-7003  on  Your guide  (And I bet that you are going to  
National company expanding local­ Europe $199 OW  Campus  miss your Thursday afternoon  
ly. Scholarships. Possible  Nicely Decorated ROOMS FOR  Caribbean/Mexico $189 RT  BEST RATES  Bad Jeans,  bonding time.)  
interns/co-ops. Build your resume.  RENT Grad., Ftball and Orient.  & Domestic Destinations Cheap! I  COUNTRY HARVESTER  The end is near  
Call office nearest your hometown.  Wknds. Located 2 miles off-cam­ IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE  M-F 10-5 Sat 12-3  and it's coming fast  Hey B-Squared, your b-day's com­ 
SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357  pus, cont. brkfast incl. Many happy  PRICES START YOUR OWN  Ship thru 5-22-96  then you're off to Rome  ing up! What do you want, some  
FORTWAYNE 219-471-6113  customers! 277-8340  DAMN AIRLINE!  to have a blast..  Listerine...or Scope? Congrats  
INDIANAPOLIS 317-767-5416  Air-Tech ltd. 2121219-7000  Jeff:  The Orange Seams  again on the great Boston run!  
MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352  3 bdrm brick ranch, 5 min drive to  info@ aerotech.com  Don't forget your underwear.  will have to wail  Spidey will be in Chicago before the  
LAFAYETTE 317-449-1954  campus. pool, full basement, $850  http://campus.net/aerotech  no more bad gym shoes  Irish win the National Tille next  
BLOOMINGTON 812-339-3966  month + deposit 289-3663,  THERE ARE FEW THINGS IN LIFE  for you and Kate.  year!! !II  
KOKOMO 317-454-8840  2731144.  1994 Limited M Edition Mazda  AS SATISFYING AS A GOOD  I'll miss you guys  
TERRE HAUTE 812-231-6824  Miata Convertible, montego blue,  LAUGH (EXCEPT MAYBE A  but what's a year?  HeyST,  
EVANSVILLE 812-428-6675  NEED HOUSING?  tan leather interior. loaded, tan  LIGHTLY CHILLED PABST BLUE  When you all get back  let's go out tonight with everyone!  
$250 gets you a great room with  convertible top, 27,300+ miles,  RIBBON) .....  I'll buy you a beer:-)  Oh I forgot... we can't, but it is so fun  
•  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ lots of extras!  priced between wholesale and  SO GET THE FIRST FOUR FOOD  to just stay in ...mabey k and k will  
Positions are now available at  1-4809 or 232-7175.  retail at $16,800. Call 219/294­ GROUPS BOOK: "A WELL BAL­ Bon-Bon,  stay in too. Yea, right! I'm still so  
National Parks. Forests & Wildlife  6553 ext. 7105 (9:30a.m. to 5:00  ANCED MEAL"  I do keep to my promises ... even  mad! II!!!! Next year. it's u and me.  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  ROOM FOR RENT  p.m. Monday through Friday) or  (AVAILABLE AT WHEEL LAFOR­ though you dropped me..l'm still  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  $295 inc! utilities and extras!  219/256-9674 (answering  TUNE AND THE HAMMES INFO  bitter...  regan­ 
N55847  Great location!! 232-8953  machine).  DESK)  Love, the Alternative Intellect  if you call. you will! be glad  


friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 

Hawks, Smith roll over Miller-less Pacers 

By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Heggie Miller missed a playoff game for the first time in his nino-year NBA career-and the Paeers missed him. 
Steve Smith seored 27 points, matching his playoff earner-high, as the 

Atlanta '/
11 A 
Hawks beat r 
Indiana 92-Derrick McKey IHl in the opening game of their Eastern Conferenee series Thursday night. 
"I think they missed him a lot," Smith said of the Pacers' leading scorer, one of tho NBA's premier outside shoot­ers. Indiana didn't have a go-to scowr in the fourth quarter and was held to 12 points in the period. 

Miller, who fractured his right eye socket late in the reg­ular season, watched in frustra­tion from the bench. Ricky Pierce and Travis Best replaced Miller, scoring 17 points on 5­of-15 shooting with no 3-point­ers. 
The Hawks were 11-for 23 on 3-pointers while the Pacers were just 3-of-11, helping to offset a 10-point advantage for Indiana from the free throw line. 
Atlanta had lost its previous 10 games in Market Square Arena. 
"They beat us to a lot of loose balls. They got a lot of offensive rebounds. The beginning of the fourth quarter, we just self-de­structed and they took it to us. We took some horrible shots and passed up some good shots," Indiana coach Larry Brown said. 
Craig Ehlo scored all 12 of his points on 3-pointers in the sec­ond quarter when the Hawks turned an eight-point deficit into a nine-point lead. 
Christian Laettner added 14 points for Atlanta, while Indiana was led by Rik Smits with 19 points and Derrick McKey with 15. 
Game 2 of the best-of-5 series is Saturday night at Market Square Arena. 
"I was open a lot in that sec­ond quarter," Ehlo said. "We watched a lot of film, and we knew they liked to double down and leave someone open on the outside. I happened to be that guy. I hit the shots and felt more confident with each one." 
Indiana rallied in the third period and tied the score enter­ing the fourth, but without Miller in the lineup, the Pacers had no consistent outside shooter and the Hawks steadily pulled away. Indiana went just 4-of-17 from the field in the final period. 
"We didn't rebound the ball aggressively, and when you don't score and they're coming down fast, you're in trouble," Pacers coach Larry Brown said. 
Baskets by Laettner and Alan Henderson early in the fourth quarter put Atlanta ahead for good, and the final score was the biggest margin of the game. 
"We have to play a lot better defense and rotate the ball bet­ter," said Pierce, who started in place of Miller and scored 13 points. "We just let it slip away. Now we have to win the next one and go down there and win one," he said. Notes: Miller, wearing sunglasses, was in street clothes on the Pacers bench, his first public appear­ance since his April 13 injury. "I just came to watch the game. It's so good to be out of the house finally," Miller said. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 26, 1996 
• COLlEGE fOOTBAll 



Patriots, Peter look for answers 
Cooper looking for :..~: ..QB in Columbus 
By MICHAEL TIGHE 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
When it came to drafting Christian Peter, what did the New England Patriots know and when did they know it? 
The spurned defensive line­man from Nebraska says he told the Patriots everything about his past. The team says it knew too little, too late. 
"I guess they said they didn't know what they were getting into," Peter told The Associated Press on Thursday from his Locust, N.J., home. 
"Personally, I find that hard to believe, especially with all the publicity surrounding what happened to me," he said. "I thought teams usually investi­gate someone before they draft him, not after. I understand it's a business and they were only doing what they thought they had to do." 
According to the team, it was Patriots owner Robert Kraft who gave the go-ahead to draft the 6-foot-3, 304-pound Cornhusker in the fifth round of last weekend's NFL draft. 
_This despite league reports that Peter pleaded no contest to grabbing a woman by the throat and harassing her in a Kearney, Neb., bar last month and is awaiting sentencing. 
It also was Kraft who later gave Peter the heave-ho after reading the lineman's history: 18 months on probation after pleading no contest to sexually

... 
assaulting a former Miss Nebraska; other arrests for trespassing, urinating in pub­lic, refusing to comply with the order of a policeman and threatening to kill a parking attendant; and being accused of rape by two Nebraska stu­dents, one of whom has filed a federal lawsuit aga.inst Peter and the university. 

"Bob was involved in the drafting process, was advised this was a player that was OK to draft," Patriots spokesman Donald Lowery said Thursday. 
"We were flawed in our investigation," Lowery said, adding that it would have been more complete if Peter was considered a top 15 pick. 
College scouting director Charles Armey and player per­sonnel director Bobby Grier spent an hour with Peter before the draft, but did not learn the extent of his legal troubles, Lowery said. 
According to Peter, however, the team knew all. 
"When I was at (February scouting) combine, I had inter­views with them and discussed every single incident I was in­volved in," Peter said. "That's why I find it hard to believe what they said." 
The NFL conducts back­ground checks on about 300 players invited to the annual scouting combines. Those con­fidential reports are sent to all 30 teams, each of which con­ducts its own suppl.emental checks. 
"The background checks we're talking about have noth­ing to do with football," NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said. "It's a thorough background check that's common in many companies ... especially with highly compensated employ­ees." 
The Patriots said the NFL re­port mentioned Peter's incident last month in the bar, but noth­ing else. So the team, with Kraft's approval, drafted him. 
Mter the draft, team officials were handed a Sports Illustrated article that men­tioned Peter's 18-month proba­tion. Team officials had not read the March 18 article, which called Peter "a problem man-child prone to creating mayhem on and off the field." 
Although the Patriots pro­claimed ignorance, at least two teams -the New York Giants and Detroit Lions -said they were aware before the draft of Peter's complete legal back­ground. 
"I'm sure we were," Lions' spokesman Steve Regan said. "I think everyone was." 
Lowery said the article trig­gered a more extensive look into Peter's background. The Patriots did not like what they found. 
"Bob was the one who re­quested the additional back­ground check from NFL Security," Lowery said. 
Teams contacted Thursday said the NFL background checks are a critical compo­nent of their draft preparation. 
"If you're assessing a guy who may play for you, you want to know as much about a guy," said Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon. "When our people evaluate a player, obviously that's a consideration." 
Hanlon said the team obtained its information from a variety of sources, including the NFL report. He didn't know whether Peter's background influenced the Giants' decision not to draft him. 
"A player's background is important," said Miami Dolphins spokesman Harvey Greene. "You want to do what's best for your franchise. When there's a red flag raised, we try to find out as much in­
_ formation as possible." 
Lowery said Peter likely would have been picked higher in the draft if he did not have off-the-field troubles. 
"I just wish they could have sat down and talked to me face to face and find out what kind of person I am," Peter said. 
"EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0 aner your first plasma donatiorr! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$  soo  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 5l5 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 
SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

7-5 DAILY 
,By RUS1Y MILLER 
Associated Press ' 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
i!IJ ~'' Ohio State's opener against Rice -is 133 days from Saturday's spring game. It may take all of that time and r more to decide who will start at quarterback for the Buckeyes. Junior Stanley Jackson and two junior-college transfers, Joe Germaine and Mark Garcia, have spent the spring trying to learn the offense and impress the coaching staff. Tom Hoying, Bobby's brother and a backup a year ago. was forced to move to tight end to ease the glut. The three remaining candi· dates have improved. but no· body has put anyone in mind of Dan Marino, either. "It's still wide open __..,. very wide open," said quarter'­backs coach Walt Harris. l'What,l'm hoping to see is someone separate themselves from everyone else. So far there hasn't been that consis­
tency out of anybody." 
No matter what, Harris in­tends to have a clear-cut starter before the opener. But head coach John Cooper said the No. 1 guy will still have to look over his shoulder. 
"Whoever plays quarter­back for us. I think it'll be a game-to-game situation. I mean, if Jackson starts the first game, he's got to pro­duce. He knows that If he doesn't, somebody else may play," Cooper said. · 
Jackson has been seen as a novelty, a guy in a passing at­tack who preferred to tuck the ball under his arm and take off up field. But he has taken strides to change that image. 
"I do need to prove that to the people in this building ­my teammates and coaches ­that I'm capable of staying in the pocket and throwing the ball downfield," he said. 
Cooper is noncommittal on whether Jackson is, even now, the front-runner. 
"He's improving daily," he said. "He's still got a long way to go, but he's getting better." 

V6AH~ RIGHTf~ 
Announcing the AT&:T 
"Ultimate ROAD TRIP" sweepstakes. 
Studying abroad this Fall? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 
10 GRAND PRIZE WINNERS ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you will study. 
Plus thousands of other 
chances to win... 
• 
Leather-bound passport folders 

• 
High-quality currency converters 


To enter, call 
Or see your Study Abroad Counselor for more details. 
No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. Sweepstakes ends 5/31/96. Open to citizens of the U.S., 18 years or older, attending school abroad for the Fall '96 semester through participating schools. See your Study Abroad Counselor for official rules and details. 
0 1996 ATl.T 


friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


Coming Soon to a Pillow Near You... 
In 1993, Notre Dame funded a 5.3 million dollar project to connect the residence halls to the campus network. The original plan was to provide a network connection per room. In April 1996, the University increased the budget by 34°/o. Now Notre Dame students will have a network connection per pillow. 
The office of Information technologies (OIT) has been working overtime to integrate 27 undergradu­ate residence halls, and Fischer and O'Hara-Grace graduate residences into the campus network. In addition to a network connection, the University will provide free network drivers and software for the 

The OIT will bring the halls online as they are completed rather than wait a year until all of the halls are networked. In August of 1996, 13, halls will be activated and the rest will be brought online gradually. All .. halls will be finished by November 1997. The schedule was set by a number of factors, including physically wiring the residence halls and coordinating the schedule with other construction projects on campus. 
Just think, before long, you won't have to see that short frustrating message "Busy ... " because waiting for a modem connection will soon be a thing of the past. 
Get the real story. Shortly after students get home in May, they will receive the Byteline, a publication of the 0 IT. Faculty and staff will receive the Byteline at their campus addresses. Look for it to find out more about ResNer, including what computers are recommended to run on the network, the activation schedule, examples of how the network is used in Notre Dame courses, and support plans to help students 
get online . 

•••University of Notre Dame 0• Office of Information Technologies 0• Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
.... ---... ~. _, '-··--"-..... ----.....-.....-.....-....... 
----~---------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 26, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Angels' streak ends at seven, Mets hammer Cardinals 
-
Associated Press 
Mo Vaughn homered twice and Tim Wakefield won for the first time this season on Thursday night as the Boston Red Sox defeated the Texas Rangers 8-3. 
Troy O'Leary homered for the third consecutive game for Boston, which won two straight for just the second time this year. The Rangers had posted the best record in baseball be­fore their current four-game losing streak. 
Vaughn hit a three-run homer in the sixth to make it 7­2 and then added a solo shot in the eighth -his 10th consecu­tive time reaching base safely. But the biggest relief for the struggling Red Sox was the sec­ond straight strong outing by Wakefield (1-3). who hadn't pitched well consistently since last August. 
The knuckleballer, who start­ed the 1994 season 14-1, scat­tered seven hits in six innings for his first victory in nine starts. He allowed three runs, struck out six and walked two to lead off the sixth before he was pulled. 
Dean Palmer, who had three 
hits, and Juan Gonzalez hit solo 
homers for Texas. 
Kevin Gross (3-2) took a two­
hit shutout into the fifth inning, 
getting good fielding to esrape 
the jams that resulted from five 
early walks. But he walked 
Vaughn for the third time with 
two out in the fifth, then gave 
up a single to Reggie Jefferson 
and a double to Mike Stanley 
that scored Vaughn. 
O'Leary followed with a 
three-run homer to give Boston a 4-2lead. 

In the sixth, Gross walked Alex Cole and John Valentin with one out and was forced to pitch to Vaughn, who had walked five consecutive times. He hit a 1-2 pitch into a wind that carried it into the bullpen beyond right field. 
Gross gave up seven runs in all, allowing eight hits and eight walks in 5 1-3 innings. 
Brewers 6, Angels 5 
Turner Ward tripled home the winning run in the ninth inning Thursday, and the Milwaukee Brewers stopped the California Angels' seven­game winning streak, 6-5. 
The Brewers, who began the game with a pair of home runs for only the second time in team history, bounced back af­ter California made it 5-all with a run in the ninth. 
Tim Unroe singled with one out off Mike James (4-2). Ward, who entered as a defensive re­placement in the eighth, snapped a 1-for-20 slump with his triple to right-center. 
Mike Fetters (1-0) got the vic­tory despite allowing the tying run in the top of the ninth on singles by Jack Howell, pinch­hitter J.T. Snow and Randy Velarde. 
Jeff Cirillo and Pat Listach led 
off the first with home runs, the 
first time the Brewers have 
done that since July 29, 1975, 
when Don Money and Darrell 
Porter connected. 
Cirillo homered on Mark Langston's first pitch, and Listach followed with a drive just over the left-field wall for his first homer since Sept. 6, 1993, a span of 451 at-bats. 

Cirillo's sacrifice fly in the eighth gave the Brewers a 5-4 lead. 
California erased a 4-0 deficit with four runs in the seventh. Brewers starter Angel Miranda, who allowed two hits in six scoreless innings, walked Chili Davis to open the seventh and then gave up a single to Tim Wallach. 
Mark Kiefer relieved and re­tired the first two hitters, then allowed consecutive RBI singles to Don Slaught and Gary Disarcina, cutting the lead to 4­2. 
Kiefer walked Velarde to load the bases, and pinch-hitter Jim Edmonds greeted reliever Graeme Lloyd with a two-run single that tied it. 
Mets 9, Cardinals 3 

Brent Mayne, Lance Johnson and Butch Huskey homered in an eight-run seventh inning as the New York Mets rallied to beat the St. Louis Cardinals 9-3 Thursday. 
The first eight batters reached base in the seventh, and there were eight hits in the inning. Mayne tied the game with a two-run homer off rook­ie Alan Benes (3-1), Johnson broke it with a three-run homer and Huskey tacked on a two­run shot. 
It was the first home run of 

the year for all three players as 
the Mets set a season high for 
runs in an inning. They have 19 
home runs in the last 12 games. 
Jose Vizcaino also set a team 

record with nine hits in nine at­
bats the last three games. He 
singled in the first, doubled in 
the third, singled in the sixth 
and tripled and scored in the seventh. 
The streak ended when he struck out on a full count against Jeff Parrett to end the eighth. 
Vizcaino has raised his aver­age 96 points to .333 the last three games. Two Mets, Jerry Grote in 1970 and Keith Hernandez in 1985, had eight hits in a row. 
Benes cruised into the sev­enth with a three-hitter before falling apart. Kent led off the seventh with a hit and Mayne followed with his first home run since June 2, 1995, and only the ninth in his six major league seasons. 
Rey Ordonez singled and Benes threw the ball away on pitcher Mark Clark's sacrifice before Johnson hit his first home run. Vizcaino doubled to chase Benes and Bernard Gilkey had an RBI single before Huskey hit his first home run. 
Benes struggled in the first as leadoff hitter Johnson walked on five pitches, Vizcaino singled him to third and Gilkey hit a sacrifice fly. But the only baserunners against him the next five innings were Vizcaino. 
Clark (1-2), like Benes a prod­uct of the Cardinals' farm sys­tem, threw his first complete game of the season, allowing three runs on seven hits. He struck out four and walked three. 
John Mabry tied the score with an RBI in the fourth and the Cardinals took a 3-1 lead in the fifth on two-out hits by Brian Jordan and Ray Lankford. 
Expos 8, Reds 4 Shane Andrews hit his second grand slam and drove in a ca­reer-high five runs Thursday, leading the Montreal Expos to their seventh straight win, 8-4 over the Cincinnati Reds. 
Moises Alou homered for his SOOth career hit as the Expos sent Cincinnati to its fifth con­secutive loss. 
Pedro Martinez (2-1) allowed six hits in eight innings, and struck out eight. He faced one batter over the minimum through six innings and retired 14 straight before Hal Morris hit a one-out single in the sev­enth. 
Andrews, who hit a grand slam April 16 against Philadelphia, hit his third career slam off releiver Tim Pugh in the seventh to help Montreal finish 8-2 on its homestand. 
Henry Rodriguez, who had homered in his previous four games to tie an Expos club record, went 1-for-4 with a double. 
Leading 4-2 in the seventh, Mike Lansing doubled, David Segui reached on a grounder and Rondell White walked. Andrews followed with a shot to left-center for his fourth home run. 
Leading 3-0 in the fifth, Alou hit the first pitch from John Smiley (1-2) over the left-field fence for his sixth home run. 
Smiley, who walked three and struck out six, was charged with four runs on six hits in five innings as the Reds finished 2-8 on a 10-game road trip. 
Eric Anthony hit a solo homer in the Cincinnati ninth. Segui's RBI single opened the scoring in the first. 







Friday, April 26, 1996 
,. ~ . . . . ' 
. ~· 
·...~.··,~,-~ >::J= 

The Observer/David Murphy Coach Lou Holtz will have a difficult time deciding who will lead the Irish at QB next year. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer Classifieds 

University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 
272 7653 256 9656
~~~-~---------------~~J?~~~9)~2~32~-B~44~4~===========, 
~~-MAIL BOXES ETC~ 
uMay Move Out ~96'' 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
10 am-Spm Stepan Basketball Courts Monday, May 6Lh-Saturday, May lllh Wednesday, May 15Lh-Saturday, May 18th Monday, May 20Lh Lyons Basketball Courts Wednesday, May 8Lh-Saturday, May lllh 
In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall Wednesday, May 8Lh-Saturday, lllh Friday. May 1 U!-,1~11t-..... 

$1.00 Off Shipping 
PER BOX 

FREE PICK UP 
Pickup is free, buJ no discounts will be accepted with pickup. 
Permanent Location Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm 
Sat: 10am-6pm 

277-6245 
+ 
LEGALSER~CESPROGRAM 
ofNORTHERNINDIANA, INC. 
During National Volunteer Week, Legal Services wishes to recognize and thank the Notre Dame and SaintMary's students who have given their time and effort to the program over the past year: 
Sheila Zachman (3 years) Anne Anderson (2 years) 
Sarah Bassler KaraCain Kerri Carter Christa Clous Time Croteau 
Katherine Disalle AlexSaksen 
Therese Dyman Debbie Shapiro 
Kim Hart Nicole Smullen 
Betsy Lazzara CarrieSlrobel 
Ryan Liebl Vll1finia 'l7wmpson 
Tim McFadden Pam Tyner 
Sean McSweeney Brenda Wonder 
Diane Myers 
•Volunteers Make Each Day Brighter• 
The Observer regrets our error offailing to list all of these dedicated volunteers on A ril 22. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
QBs 
continued from page 24 
An epic battle was supposed to take place this spring. In one corner, there was the pass­er-a tall, rangy Californian, who after finishing the last two and half games in 1995, was considered the front-runner to back up Ron Powlus. 
On the other side of the coin, there was the runner-the much ballyhooed freshman who possesses the running skills not seen in South Bend since the glory days of Tony Rice. 
"Indeed, the passer, Tom Krug, and the runner, Jarious Jackson, were expected to par­take in a long, bitter struggle for the backup quarterback position. 
However, the battle was over before it started. Given the opportunity to work out with the first team, Jackson has taken full advantage, leaving the incumbent Krug some­where behind in his dust. 
"I've tried to become more familiar with the offense and show the coaches what I can do," said Jackson. "I feel I've had a pretty good spring, but I know I can play better with more experience. It's up to the coaches to decide how much I play next season." 
When Jackson arrived at Notre Dame last August, he was a scrawny 18-year-old kid just trying to make the adjust­ment to college life. Now, eight months later, he is bigger, stronger, and is, believe it or not, a better passer. 
In last Saturday's Blue-Gold game, Jackson completed 13 of 17 passes for 145 yards to go along with 12 carries for 59 yards. 
"When Jarious came here, he was either two bouncing it or overthrowing the ball on just about every pass," said offen­sive coordinator Dave Roberts. "He has worked hard on his 
ERASMUS BO KS I 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,0Xl Hardback and 


I 

Paperback books in. stock 
• Out-of-Print Search Service: $2"' 
• Appraisals large and small . Open noon to six ~uesd.ay through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South8end,IN46617 
Kim Bero (2 years) Ann Olek (2 years) Betsy Parker (2 years) 
Brittney Nystrom 
Mairin Ocheltree 
Nina Pagnotto 
Karyn Rodrigues 
MattRupp 
passing, and the results have indicated that." 
While he was supposed to just be battling with Krug for the backup quarterback posi­tion, Jackson has been so impressive that some are call­ing for him to be the starter next fall. 
His arrival has created a stir­ring among fans who were already getting antsy with the slow footed Powlus and the freak injuries that seem to sur­round him. 
Labeled the "Golden Boy" and the "Messiah" even before his first collegiate game, Powlus has built a solid resume and possesses the arm that NFL scouts drool over. However, after watching Krug's strong performances against Air Force in the season finale and Florida State in the Orange Bowl, critics began to suggest that Powlus could be easily replaced. 
With Jackson's improvement and given head coach Lou Holtz's professed love of the option, even Powlus cannot help but look over his shoulder. 
Once permanently entrenched as the starter, Powlus recognizes that, for the first time in three seasons, the Irish have another option should he not fully recover from his second major injury in three years. 
"At this point, I'm just con­cerned with getting myself healthy and coming back at full strength," said Powlus. "I can't be concerned with worrying about coming back and regain­ing the starting position. Right now, Tom and Jarious are doing a great job." 
Holtz's coaching record shows he is at his best when running the option. And as the Irish struggle to lind an answer at receiver, one cannot help but think that Jackson, with his striking similarity to Tony Rice, is the candidate most suited to lead Notre Dame to its first National Championship since Rice's bunch won it all in 1988. 
"He brings an option that we haven't had here in the last few years," said Holtz. "He doesn't have a lot of experience, but that will come, and he is going to present a lot of problems for defenses." 
However, no matter how much fans may plea, assuming he fully recovers from the bro­ken bone in his arm that side­lined him for the final ten quar­ters last fall, Powlus is a shoe­in at starting quarterback. 
As Roberts points out, the 
page 19 
..

experience factor and the rock­
et arm put the record setting quarterback well ahead of his two challengers. 
"Ron has big game experi­ence and reads defenses as well as anyone I've seen," said Roberts. 
"We are lucky to have three quarterbacks heading into next season. but at this point, Hon is the one who gives us the best chance to win." 
If, following fall workouts, Holtz and HobHrts judge that Powlus is his furmer self, they plan to utilize Jackson in another capacity. 
The coaching staff envisions Jackson in a "slash" role, simi­lar to the one Kordell Stewart made popular with the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
"That is something we have in mind for Jarious sometime in the future," said Hoberts. "He is still learning the offense, so we haven't had time to make any plays for him yet. That is something we will work on dur­ing fall camp." 
So does all this talk about Jackson make Krug the forgot­ten man'? Not so fast. .Jackson has yet to play a down amid the pressure of Notre Dame foot­ball, and Krug, popular among his teammates, has already proved that he is a capable backup. 
"Tom has a good work ethic and has some experience from the two and a half games he played in last year," said Roberts. 
"The team respects him and plays well around him. At this point, I don't have to decide who's going to be the backup quarterback." 
Krug arid Jackson will duke it out for the final time this spring at Saturday's Blue-Gold game. Heading into the final showing, Krug's chances of holding off the surging Jackson for the backup position appear to be slim to none. 
While the Irish coaching staff will not announce who the backup will be until just prior to the start of the season, they insist that both Krug and Jackson will see playing time in 1996. 
"It is a luxury to have three quarterbacks heading into the fall," said Holtz. "Each will play an important role for us. It's nice to be able to bring in a rookie (Jackson) and not worry about him having to handle all the pressure that goes with the position." 
Whether at quarterback or as a "slash" player, Jackson will have his day in the sun. It just might be sooner than people think. 
5804 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza 
277-7946 
~---­

r 
I 
~ 
I 
l 
I
' 
I I 
-. 
I .,.. 
~ 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 




'Catching' up with the hot Irish 
covery that certainly caused succeed back there," said
Lisanti and Wagner 

him some concern. Wagner. "He's really knowl­But Wagner stayed firm in his 
edgeable about the game. I've
have been vital decision to attend Notre Dame, learned a great amount from showing signs of maturity and 
him."
to team success sacrifice to head coach Paul 
Lisanti, who called the pitch­
Mainieri before he ever put on
By DYLAN BARMMER 

es from the dugout for fill-in
an Irish uniform. 
Assistant Sports Ediror 

George Restovich during much
"When we recruited Jeff, we 

thought he would be coming in of last season, credits his yearThere is so much that can be here as our number one catch­off with adding greatly to hissaid of them. 
er," said Mainieri. "I explained knowledge of his position. 
Both Bob Lisanti and Jeff Wagner have meant so much to the change of scenario to him "I think you just learn as you after Bobby told me he wanted
the 33-12 Notre Dame baseball watch others from a different 
to return, letting him know that

team this season, that it is hard perspective," said Lisanti. "It 
I would understand if he

to pinpoint any specific area in was almost like being a coach.
changed his mind about coming which to begin. 

Last year's experience has re­
here. Jeff told me he still want­You could start with their of­

ally helped me control my emo­
fensive contributions, and talk ed to be a part of our program, 
tions out on the field." 
though, which really impressed about how Lisanti, a fifth-year 

me at the time." The Irish can only hope thatsenior who battled back from a 
both players will continue to
season-ending back injury last Not having to put in constant 
labor behind the plate, while contribute the way they have so
season, is having the finest sea­son of his collegiate career at difficult for Wagner, has cer­far this year, aiding them in the plate, while Wagner, a true tainly allowed him to concen­their stretch run towards the freshman, has done wonders Big East Conference tourna­
trate more on his offense, and the results have been highly

with his bat as well, working ment. his way into the cleanup spot satisfactory. '.'We're very fortunate to have
Mainieri saw early on in theand going on to become one of 

two catchers of the caliber of
season just how dangerous thethe team's top run-producers. 

these two guys," said Mainieri.
freshman could be in the IrishOr you could talk about how 

lineup, and tinkered with it "They have both meant a great
different they are as people and players, contrasting the grit largely to make room for deal to this team." 
and experience of Lisanti, an Wagner at the DH spot. Call it the ultimate catch. Wagner, who does see occa­
undersized backstop who is the sional time at catcher, has re­

driving force in the clubhouse, with the laid-back approach of sponded by hitting .323 in 41 
games, clouting seven home­the physically imposing yet un­

seasoned Wagner. runs and 34 RBI, good enough 
MERRILL LYNCH CHICAGO 
for second amongst team lead­
But perhaps what unites 
ers in both categories. His .454

these two players the most is their love for their often brutal on-base percentage also puts 


INVESTMENT BANKING 
job-a passion for catching him second amongst Irish reg­ulars.
which can be understood easily when speaking with either of "Jeff just has such awesome 
FINANCIAL ANALYST -MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS: Two year "He's a true threat at the 
them. power," commented Mainieri. 
"This year, I haven't caught 

investment banking analyst position involving extensive analytics, examination of
plate."
as well as I'm capable of," says 

a client's capital structure and strategic objectives, research on all relevant
Lisanti, who also happens to be Lisanti, no slouch at the plate 
industry and competitive issues, and assistance with presentations and special
batting .364 with a career-high himself this season, also has three homeruns. "The last been awed by Wagner's py­
projects. The position requires attention to detail and an ability to handle 
thing to come back to me after rotechnics this season, and sees 
numerous projects simultaneously. Nights can get long, but the work is 
the injury has been my defen­nothing but greatness in his 
rewarding. Each assignment is different, offering the opportunity to learn at an
future. .
sive skills. I haven't thrown as 

intense and rapid pace. The analyst would be an integral member of the Merger &
well as in the past, but I'm "Jeff has contributed proba­
pleased with the way I've bly as much as any freshman in 
Acquisitions team in Merrill Lynch's 35 person Chicago investment banking office. 
the history of this program,"

blocked the plate this year." "I really enjoy being on the said Lisanti. "He's got the 
Candidates should have outstanding academic performance and excellent
field," said Wagner, who has whole package, and it will be exciting to watch him develop 
quantitative skills.

had to endure sitting on the bench as the designated hitter over the next few years. He for a large part of the season. also has the potential to be an 
Non-Finance related majors welcome. 
"I love catching. I'd catch ev­unbelievable catcher." 
Jill E. Brunerery game if I was able to." Wagner is quick to credit 

Please send or fax resumes, transcripts and Board Scores to: Investment Banking the plate so far this season, 
Originally recruited by Lisanti for his growth behind 
Merrill Lynch Wagner learned soon after his calling the veteran backstop "a 
Mainieri exclusively to catch, 5500 Sears Tower 
great catcher."
verbal commitment to Notre 

Chicago, Illinois 60606 Dame that Lisanti would be re­"Bob's got the leadership and 
(312) 906-6221 

turning for a fifth year, a dis-mental toughness you need to Fax: (312) 906-6261 
"The family suggests that memorial contributions be made to the American 
Heart Association:' When people want to honor a loved one and fight heart disease. 
American Heart ~ Association...~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES 
~ 
... 
1-800-AHA-USA1 




------------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, April 26,1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
Sweet Sixteen Results 

Malicious Prosecution v. Tobasco Cat 21-19 Models, Inc. V. Untouchables 21-17 Beernuts VI: last Call V. Bring out the Gimp II 21-15 Dos Kloskas V. Hoopaholics 21-14 Swoosh Ill v. Hood River Bandits 21-17 CJ's Wooden Shoes v. NBT Ill 21-17 Showtime v. Vanilla Kernals 21-17 CCE v. Sweeter than Candy 21-14 
·,,-~ 

We'll take 20% off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rental! We've got everything you need to make moving easy -a modern clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... conveni~nt coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and all the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend -North 277-0144 South Bend -South 291-1414 




1 --------------------­
Leaving campus? I 

1 Rent a truck from Hertz Penske and get a 20% I discount on your one way truck rental. 
I I Her~z I 

I

20°/o

PEMSKE I
DISCOUNT DISCOUNT 
I
Truck Rents/ 
I 

Aftordable, new, clean buclcs at conlfflnlent rental locations 1 
• 
10'. 24' trucks available • Automatic transmission and 1 

• 
Free unlimited mileage air conditioning . I on one way rentals • 24-hour emergency road serv1ce 


Effective April 1, 189&. 
I 
Oood thru July 31, 1896. 
1 

A "on. way rental" meana your Hertz Pnnake truck ia rented in ona ctty and returned to another. ....,.,, Penake .. • MfVH;O Ql Penake Truck Leaatng Co 
.J
L 
The Observer/David Murphy 

LaRon Moore goes head to head with A'Jani Sanders behind the bookstore as Models Inc. battled Untouchables for the right to advance to the elite eight. 
commit a lot of errors but not 
too overpowering. 
The Irish have been battling continued from page 24 the injury bug lately. Pitcher Joy Battersby did not pitch 

'Hall 
petition, with the Irish and ei­
against Northern Illinois and
ther the Villanova Wildcats or 
conventional wisdom says that
the Rutgers Lady Knights sure 
Miller will not pitch her
to be the Big East South divi­
Saturday or Sunday unless the
sion's representative. Seton 
Irish are in the direst of posi­
Hall is a young team with only 
tions. The staff is already lack­
one graduating senior, out­
ing All-American Terri Kobata,
fielder Melissa Landeck. The 
who until the last the game
Pirates big bat is first base­
with the Huskies was the sole
man/catcher Jen VanderBrink, 
wins leader for the club. 
a second-team Big East selec­
Offense have had some trou­
tion last season. 
bles getting warm recently. In
The Pirates are a team look­
the last six doubleheaders, the
ing toward the future with a 
Irish offensive output has not
large contingent of freshmen 
been in rhythm for the first
and sophomore's. However, 
game but heated up for the sec­
youth almost always is accom­
ond game. 
panied by mistakes. Miller 
,,· Against St. John's,
described The Hall as a good 
Valparaiso, Connecticut and
defensive team that does not 
Ohio State, the Irish won the 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 


Ireland 

October 25 -November 3 October 30 -November 3 
Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend. you can 
(two weekends and a week). 
still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
featuring Irish entertainment. and Notre Dame football­
sightseeing, great jazz and and of course plenty of 
Notre Dame football. Irish entertainment. 
Only Only
$2150 from $1450 from 
Chicago* .. Chicago* 
•o1hcr dcpanure cilic> abo available. MATTERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 
first game of the doubleheader by a combined five runs. However, in the night cap, Notre Dame won by an average margin of over seven runs. Shortstop Meghan Murray and Jennifer Giampaolo have con­tinually the been the punch for the lineup with Liz Perkins and Kelly Rowe coming up with clutch hits late in games. 
"They have got nothing to lose," said Miller. "That some­times changes the momentum. They are going to glad to be here and happy .to be playing. We need to come out strong and aggressive this weekend." 
This is the Irish's last tune­up before the Big East tourna­ment, scheduled at Boston College, May 3-5. 
Notre Dame has all but locked up the first seed in the South division, leaving Villanova and Rutgers battling for the two seed. Seton Ball can play the spoiler in the divi­sion if they can upset the Irish, keeping Notre Dame from the one seed. 
Connecticut is the favorite out of the North division, with host Boston College and Providence scurrying for wins on the last week of the season. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL -

RecSports will be offering 
Drop-In Volleyball on 
Tuesday, April 30, from 8­
11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
No established teams or 
advanced sign-ups neces­
sary. 
IN-LINE SKATING CLIN­IC~ HecSports will be spon­soring an In-Line Skating Clinic on Thursday, April 25, from 5:15-6:30. The clinic will be held in the 
.... parking lot south of the Joyce Center. All equipment will be provided. Register and pay $6 fee in advance at RecSports. 
.. 
page 22 
The Observer • SPORTS 
.lACROSSE 


Irish look to knock out Spartans 
Reid, teammates 
look to jump 

back into top ten 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The Irish lacrosse team will attempt to end its two-game skid when they play tonight under the lights at Moose Krause Stadium. Their oppo­nent is Great Western Lacrosse League member, Michigan State. 
The 7-3 Spartans enter tonight's 7:00 game unranked, but they have received several votes in some of the major polls. 
Eleventh-ranked Notre Dame 

.., 
hopes to reverse its misfor­tunes at home after posting an 0-3 record thus far. 
"We got too wrapped up with being ranked in the Top Ten. 
We just needed to regain our focus," said junior midfielder Tony Reid. 
Notre Dame's success will depend on the continued tough play by their defense. They rank second nationally in scor­ing defense while allowing just 
7.4 goals per game. They have allowed more than ten goals in a game only three times this season. 

On the offensive side, the Irish hope to improve on their disappointing five-goal perfor­mance last weekend against Massachusetts. The leading goal scorers throughout the season have remained virtually unchanged. The top offensive threats to put it in the back of the net are freshman Chris Dusseau, sophomore Jimmy Keenan, junior Will DeRiso, and Reid. 
Brian Gilfillan has also stepped up lately to give Notre Dame some scoring punch. He has been the leading scorer for the Irish in each of the past two games. Against North Carolina, he scored one goal and added three assists. In the Massachusetts contest, Gilfillan scored twice for the Irish to raise his season total to ten goals. 
Tonight's night game will be Notre Dame's first of the sea­son. Although the Irish do not foresee any difficulty under these different conditions, they have made some minor ad­justments in preparation for the contest. 
"We practiced last night un­der the lights, and it didn't af­fect us at all," commented Reid. "If anything, it will affect them more because they will have to get used to playing under the lights, and playing on our field, too." 
Michigan State's most recent game was a 14-13 loss to the Butler Bulldogs. The Irish manhandled Butler earlier in the season by an 11-3 score. 
Friday, April 26, 1996 




Please Recycle The Observer 
Tlte Notre D~une Departtnent of Music presents: 
OPERA WORKSHOP 
WOLFGANG AMADEUS MOZART 

n 

Opera Buffa in Two Acts 


Friday and Saturday! 
April26 & 27 7:3ft p.m. $5 "eneralf$3 student Washin ton Hall 
The Observer/Katie Kroener Junior midfielder, Tony Reid, must spark the offense for the Irish if they hope to end their drought against Michigan State. 

Bed 'N Breakfast Registry Michia11a 's First -Since 198.'J 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
JPW • Graduation Frosh. Orientation • Football 
Phmll': 2l'J -2<J I -715:! 
All packing boxes, tape & peanuts are 50% off when we ship your items home. UPS, FED EX, U.S. Postal. WE SIDP IT AU. Offer good only at: 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
5776-51 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza Mishawaka Phone 273-8382 
We're At 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ... Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and IM'l'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

rHlCKORlJ 

DlLLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


.. 

Friday, April 26, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-


h' ·. f\-h Nt>E.Sl l\r4l' \::_ f'!\o·nor<~l (lE.IIt<lt'C. Ou,-TI-\E 1~ Room, L>jW'IIl ho 'Si:.N•oeS !>IE"\ PP.uSE l<> REfLECT OH 1\-le. •I?. (cut\-\ 
Dll.BERT 
THE lNTE.R.NAL JOB P05TING5 ARE. OUT. H£.R.E'S 
"-J"OB I'D LOVE.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Sill cover 32Walk-ons
t Queen Bilqis's land 35 Braced for a 6Wentfor 
roller coaster ride90emean 38 Comes down
t4Gold 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

21 Cape Canaveral site 
22 Row 23 Bygone leader ::::+=+=+:::-i 28 Part of the Labor Dept. 
~-------------------------,ur---------------------------,
,. 

g " E.XP E.RlE.NCE. RE.QUIR£.0: 
~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 

THE CANDIDATE. 1'\UST BE. A GUY Nfl.ME.O E~IC 1 POT­BELLI ED I NE.Af\51(,1-\TE.D I 
1'\UST DRIVE BRONCO." 
60 Tony-w1nning actress Salonga 6t North of Virginia 62 Deceived 63 Opposite of lack 64 Paintbrush matenal 
DOWN 
t Decline 2Wallace's "Ben--" 30xydol competitor 4 St. Louis's -­
Stadium 5Cop10US 6"-1" (1970 
gold record) 7 Car-racing org. a Southey's 
"Roderick. the Last of the --" 9 Dixon line to M.T.A. : Boston 
--.San 
Francisco tt Freshas­t2 Went ballistic 
1320's auto 
tB Danger for a U-Boot 
fo~ li\"-'I~E. 1-\l'lJ -1f-ll\"t , O•>L>< loP. Foul'-"\~o-ARs. f\,.n h 1-\oLDS 1\ L.o,-Or DE<>R. 
~ 

http·/ WW\'V w1senct.net users/boffofboffo.htm
'-1-2..C..-9r. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
A R.E.O fO~D 
z 

THE.'( MIGHT
.; 
.!: 

H~VE. 501"\E.ON£. 
~ 

IN f"\l~D 
IF I SQUINT. ..

1u "-LREfl.DY 
~ND LEAVE. f''\Y
. 
, 
"CONTROL TOP'' 
... . 
PANT'I'H05E A..T 1-\0""E. ... 
) 
r 


--:c 
f 
'::._..,._ 
~ 
.... 


30 Foreign money 31 "Prelude to a Kiss" composer 32 TV producer Fred 
33 Symbol of industry 34 Hood and 
others Abbr. 36 Texas city on the 
Mexican border 37 Hood 40 Identical 41 Shortening 42 Water-soluble 

gas 

43 Ready to go 45 GraduallY 
increasing in 
speed, in mus. 47 White. ir: a way 48 Water ct,oice 49 Bigwig 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
...... 
50 Cooperstown's Cap­51 Just 53 Sleuth Wolfe ~­54 Increased 56 Afflicted 57 Madre's hermano 58 Poultry buy 

HAPPY IIIRTHDA Y! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Too much emphasis on lhe pmctical and pragmatic could impede romance. Be patient: career and financial progress is slow but sure. Check out an employmenl offer you receive in August. The ideal job for you would include both travel and plenty of public contact. Friendly and loyal. you are likely lo remain on good tenns wilh fanner business associates and old names. A move or relocation is possible early in 
1997. Be open·mmded where tech­nology is concerned. 
CELEBRITIES !lORN ON THIS DAY: comedian Carol Bur· nell, guitarist Duane Edrly, dancer Bambi Linn, architecti.M. Pei. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep your impatience in check if your love life is not exactly to your likmg. You can strengthen family unlly by showing how much you care. Uuymg sometl11ng on impulse would be a mistake. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The vnracty you seck in romance may be more lhan you can handle. Con~istency Wil!i llC\ cr more of a vinue 1han now. Face financial real­ities head-on. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Family :md career require anention at the same wnc. Romanuc partner can be helpful. Use your powers of persuasion 10 sway higher-ups. A raise or promotion is possible if your infonnation pans out. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22}: 
You arc dclt!!htcd at hemp. ;tc;;kcc1 10 IUIII Otll lllllucnll~ll gn111p 01 orl:!:llll­.liltJOn Be honest 1f you cannot afford lhc dues. An older person rnav hail \'Oll out. 
i.EO iJuly 23-Aug. 22) Pannrr­
ship' make ynur hfe full and sn11sl v­
lng Your contact wrth the puhhc '' 
increas1ng. Drc~s for succes~ hy 
hU\ IIH! tr:uhllill1.11 df'lht.'' nn '\:Ill'' 
• OF INTEREST 
The Humor Artists show will be this evening in Hesburgh Library Auditorium featuring new sketches, stand-up, and songs in Humor Artists' last live show of the year. The $1 admission will benefit the Center For The Homeless. Habitat for Humanity is seeking volunteers for their "painting fiesta" this weekend. The interior walls of the Habitat house will be painted on Friday afternoon, all day Saturday, and all day Sunday. Those interested in participating should call Johanna. at 4-4813. ____..... 
•MENU 

Notre Dame Call 631-0111 for more Information 
SaintM~s 

Ocean Pere Broccoli Cheddar Quiche Grilled Steak 


Wanted: 


Reporters, photographers 
and editors. 


Join The 
Observer staff. 
Give yourself murc lime bclurr dec1ding whether tO :~ce<pt a mar nage proposal. 
VIRGO (Aug 23-Sepl 221 Your relatrons wllh your co-worke,-,. tend to OuciUate. Look for ways to develop greater rappon. Protecllng your health should be a top prionty now. If thinktng about making new investments, consult financial expens only. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Return to n shelved creative proJeCt: it may be wonh salvaging. People from different walks of life find you 
fascinating. You h:1vc an cxtru 
incentive to complete an assagnment on time. SCORPIO <Oct. 23-Nov. 21 l: Shon business trips arc necessary to 
submit a contract or strengthen an 
alliance. A personal relallonship could cause frustratron. A temporary estrangemenl will pass 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21 ): Family life IS both deonandmg and rewardtng. Gl\•c your home a facehft by rearrangmg the furniture or appl ymg a new <.:oat of pamI A JOb 111 the health cau: field m;ty soon open up. 
CAPRICOH:'\ (Dec ~2-Jan 

19): Conflicts wuh relmive< mav be 
hard 10 av01d. Do c\'ervthlll£ you 
can lo keep the peace. There may be 
a new computer in your future. 
Employment and educatronal pur­
suits are favored. 
AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Fcb IH1 

Small-scale financ,;ll vcnlurc' 
rc;quirc: extra a11cn11on. t\ return to :1 
former JOb I'; pnc;c;ahlc Watl'h ~our 
p\ and q'\ If plaLC'cllll il 'llllCI"\II"JI'Y 
pos1t1on. 
PISCES (1-ch 1'1-March 201 

Call"' an IOU. SliOdlllllllllt~ d UUol· 
nc'is will put it in a htner po,lllnn 
10 compete Co-workt:r!-. arc wllll·ll! 
to take on cxtr01 duuc' Prnru.o;h.tr· 
ing 1mprovc!\ m;ulagcmcnt-l.d•"r 
rclo.ll1011" 
• 
• 
• 
t 5 Chem1cal prefix t6 Actress Thompson et al t7 What tots did in the malt shop? 20 Auto item with 
rubber flanges 21 Best-furnished 24 --Cat (winter 
vehicle) 25 Application 
datum 26 Word to a doctor 27 Tra1ning system 
ong1nated in Sweden 
somewhat hard? 39 Lout 42 Overpamper 44 Prefix with 
25-Across 45 Part of a "fully loaded" car 46 Powerful D.C. 
lobby 48 Good tidings 52 Not the 
independent sort 55 Shook hands? 59 Month in Managua 
.. 




SPORTS etzd 
• 
Only Seton ti'au 
~­


stands between Miller and 700 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Writer 
-
Softball coach Liz Miller is still courting career win number 700. Last weekend, she was stood up at win number 699 and yester­day, rain postponed her date with destiny. 
Notre Dame's sched11led game with the Northwestern Wildcats
• was rained out, giving the Irish a few more days off before this weekend's match up with Big East foe, Seton Hall. The Hall will be the Irish's last tune-up before the Big East tournament. The weather also may not be kind this weekend, as cloudy skies are projected throughout the weekend. 
Th.e Pirates are basically locked out of post season com-
see 'HALL I page 21 


Softball Track and Field 
• Red Sox streak extended to two 
at Drake and Hillsdale Relays, 
vs. Seron Hall, April 27, noon 
aJ 
see page 18
April 26 and 27 
Baseball



SPORTS 

'1:S
Blue & Gold Game 
vs. West Virginia, April27, noon 

• Patriots find trouble with Husker 
..... 

Saturday, April 27, I :30 p.m. 
at a 
see page 16
riJ

... Lacrosse 
vs.Michigan State, April 26, 7 p.m. 
SMC Sports 

• Hawks take game one from Pacers 
Tennis at Kalamazoo, April25, 3 p.m. 
~
GLANCE 








