
Thursday, November 14, 1996• Vol. XXX No. 53 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
O'Hara reply brings mixed emotions 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
In a move unexpected by many Student Senate members, Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara responded to the Student Senate's concerns regarding student rights via a letter delivered to the Student Senate late yesterday after­noon. 
As a result, Wednesday's Student Senate meeting was devoted to dis­cussing any further action on this issue by that group. 
On Nov. 5. a letter authored by Judicial Council President Ryan Mcinerney and Judicial Council Vice­President Jen Dovidio and signed by all members of Student Senate was sent to O'Hara. The letter requested an open forum for discussion of stu­dent rights at Notre Dame. 
The letter highlighted the apparent de-evolution of du Lac, from 1968, when it was constructed by students, faculty, and administrators in the hopes of promoting community con­cerns and community life, to its cur­rent status as an 82-page booklet the Student Senate letter refers to as being "void of all reference to the religious and spiritual life inherent in the tradition of the Notre Dame com­munity." 
In her response, O'l!ara expressed interest in an open dialogue between students and administrators. O'Hara also wrote that such discussion is "especially timely," because the Office of Residence Life will be carry-
see SENATEl page 8 
The Observer/Katie Kroener Notre Dame participated in a nationwide video teleconference on col­lege diversity last night in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Uve nationwide forum targets college diversity 
By BILL UNIOWSKI 
News Writer 
In an effort to increase diversi­ty awareness, over 200 colleges and universities nationwide took part in the Multimedia Campus Diversity Summit, a project of the Institute for Public Media Arts in Durham, N.C. 
The teleconference, broadcast from DeBartolo Hall last night, was aimed at evaluating the pre­sent state of relations between college students and brainstorm­ing what can be done to improve relationships between different 
ethnic, religious and sexual groups. 
Rodney Cohen, director of urban programs and outreach development for the Center for Social Concerns, said that the purpose of the teleconference was "to provide open dialogue, honestly and with candor, for students and faculty." 
Cohen also cited a recent sur­vey by the Princeton Review that ranked Notre Dame among the 13 in institutions with the worst race relations. 
The first part of the summit, a 
see DIVERSITY I page 4 
Panel concludes: Death penalty fails at goals 
By ALEX ORR News Writer 
Since the 1976 re-institution of capital pun­ishment into the American correctional sys­tem, there have been 313 executions of indi­viduals convicted of violent crimes. Another 3,000 men and women await their own deaths at the hands of the state. 
The moral implications of this policy were discussed in the Hesburgh Library Lounge during the Death Penalty Forum held by Amnesty International last night in the Library Lounge. Panelists included Kathleen Maas Weigert of the Center for Social Concerns, and Father Joseph Ross, a chap­lain to Indiana death row inmates. 
Maas Weigert opened things up by outlin­ing the penalty's recent history, as well as debunking some of the more common argu­ments in its favor. 
The most common grounds for support of capital punishment. the deterrent it provides would-be criminals, is without grounds, said Maas Weigert. She went on to quote Professor Tex Dutile of the Notre Dame Law School, saying, "There is no conclusive evi­dence that [capital punishment] deters potential criminals or reinforces law and order." 
She then explained that, "the state has the right to use tlie death penalty, but the state does not have a 'duty' to use it." 
The killing of criminals is uncivilized in theory, does nothing to preserve the common good, and leads, inevitably, to the execution of the innocent, according to Maas Weigert. "And," she said, "if you know it is likely that 
see PANEL I page 4 



Russo warns of aid scams 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Every year, students place their trust in organizations that search out scholarship money for them. Every year, some of those students fall into the trap of trusting fraudulent corpora­tions to help them with their tuitions. 
"Scholarship sean:;h organiza­tions have been around for a while now," said Joe Russo, director of financial aid at Notre Dame. "A lot of them would make promises that are just outrageous and cannot be taken seriously." 
The New York Attorney General's office has lodged a complaint against one such organization, Academic Investment Money (AIM) of 
New York City,  for  alleged  
fraud.  
The  Federal  Trade  

Commission (FTC), the govern­ment agency that regulates trade and polices businesses for fraud, has released a warning to students about how to avoid potentially fraudulent scholar­ship search organizations. 
The FTC guidelines seem to point to many of the practices that students claim are utilized by AIM in soliciting clients. 
AIM charges a fee of $96 for its services. It says that it will guarantee "up to $1,500" in scholarships for students. The search service says that it will do all work involved in finding scholarships for the student. 

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 
SIX SIGNS OF SCHOLARSHIP FRAUD 
1.• The scholarship is guaranteed. 
2. 
The scholarship service will do all the work. 

3. 
The scholarship service will cost money. 


4. The scholarship is .. just for you... ' 5..You are a finalist in a competition you 
I. 

never entered. 
6. The scholarship sevice n~eds your credit card or checking account number in advance. 
~----------------------------------------------~ 
One major complaint, in addi­tion, by students against AIM was that the service requested checking account numbers and withdrew funds directly from students accounts without clearing a signed check. This corresponds directly to another of the problems cited by the FTC. 
Other student complaints against AIM range from not receiving awards to being ignored during attempts to get help with the search process. Students were told to call only during certain evening hours to reach high officials in the orga­nization. Multiple calls placed by the Observer to AIM ended with a promise of contact from AIM's "legal office." 
A member of the financial aid office called AIM in order to speak with a customer service representative. He spoke with one of AIM's operators and gave her information designed to make him look like a very poor candidate for financial aid. She returned with a promise of up to $1,500 in scholarships and asked for his checking account number in order to deduct AIM's $96 fee. 
One student complained of 
see SCAMS I page 4 


Thursday, November 14, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 


Learning the 
art of 



complaining 
We all do it. We're all guilty. If complaining were a sin. the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame  Lori Allen Saint Mary's News Ediror  
campuses would  

encompass an entire level of hell in Dante's Inferno. I can see it now, the flames lapping at the feet of that biology major who's had one lab too many; or the English major satanically tearing pages from Paradise Lost and watching them burn. Let's not forget the poor accounting major with only his fin­gers and toes to count, the poor lost soul. 
Complaining, however, is not only limited to majors. We the people of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, in order to create an even more stressful environment, have managed to make complaining into an art. We do not simply bring up the weather, for example, to add to conversation; no, we cleverly use the weather in order to practice our complain­ing skills. You won't simply hear, "It's sure not nice out today." Rather, you'll hear someone say, "I definitely don't find the humor in the weather on this meteorological eyesore we so tenderly refer to as South Bend." Much more skillful. This way you're pointing out that the weather sucks, while letting your listener know you've mastered the art of complaining. 
Let's see, what else is there? Oh yes, the soeial scene. What better way to complain? This version allows you to do it weeks in advance. You've got a dance in three weeks? Why wait until the week of the dance, start complaining now. Tell everyone you know how drunk your date is going to be, or even better, how you can't believe that he's going to leave you at the dance to go to Bridget's. The nerve of him. And you just know those shoes are going to hurt your feet. 
How about that football tea~? Losing to Air Force? They do realize that your happi­ness is contingent upon them winning a national championship, don't they? When will they learn? 
Sleep? Who needs it? I've found that it's much more fun to stay awake all night com­plaining to anyone else that may also be up. This way you're in a bad mood the next morning because you didn't sleep, AND you get to complain about it. 
What about the ones that you're complain­ing to? Your so-called "friends." Do they see beyond the complaining, or are they pri­marily the source of your complaining? I mean how many times are you supposed to listen to someone else complain about not having a date to that dance three weeks from now? However. the right friends are very useful. When I feel the need to com­plain, I look no further than one particular friend's room. Here we'll sit and share tales of bitterness while contemplating why some Smarties Candy are crunchier than others. 
The point of this column? You're not going to find out until tomorrow ... hey, it's something else to complain about! 
Stay tuned to tomorrow's edition for The Kaiser's account where she'll tackle the even more pressing isues that most definite­ly need to be complained about. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Bridget O'Connor Heather Cocks Matthew Loughran Mark DeBoy 
Russ Williams Accent 
Sports Joey Crawford Joe Cavato Graphics Lab Tech Melissa Weber 
Dave McCaffrey 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of [he Assodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Tuesday's clash threatens Bosnian peace process 
Hundreds of Muslims t~~:~!;~~ today to arm themselves and reclaim former homes now in Serb territory, a day after a similar confrontation erupted into the worst fighting since the Bosnian war ended a year ago. 
Some 800 angry Muslims massed today at a checkpoint manned by U.S. and Russian peacekeeping troops near Celie in northeast Bosnia, leaving open the possibility of renewed fighting over a village near where Serbs and Muslims clashed Tuesday. 
As today's demonstration grew, international mediators in Bosnia announced the suspension of the refugee resettlement program in the zone of separation, a 2 1/2-mile-wide demilitarized band that separates for­
mer warring factions. L_______________j and prevented Serb police from enter-One U.N. official said this decision put the whole ing the demilitarized zone. But gunfire and explosions Bosnian peace plan in "deep, deep trouble." erupted shortly after daybreak Tuesday. 
Jackson calls for Texaco boycott 
WHITE PlAINS, N.Y. 

The Rev. Jesse Jackson is urging motorists to drive by the Texaco star and buy gas elsewhere in an effort to force the company to settle a race-dis­crimination lawsuit Along with a national boycott, picketing will begin Saturday at Texaco sites unless the $520 million lawsuit is settled by then, Jackson said Tuesday. Texaco execu­


tives are accused of using racial slurs against blacks in a secretly recorded 1994 conversation about the case. Jackson said even after a settlement, the boycott will con­tinue until an equal-opportunity plan is on the table. "There is a culture here that must be challenged, a cul­ture that must be changed," he said outside Texaco's headquarters. "We have to change this culture using our economic sanctions, our disciplined dollars." The Boston­based civil-rights group Organization for a New Equality today announced a national advertising campaign that could encourage a boycott. The ads show women and minorities and say: "At Texaco, they need not apply." The ads do not ask for a boycott but urge readers to con­tact the company "to express your outrage at the dis­criminatory practices at Texaco and how that impacts your decision as a potential Texaco customer." Jackson · said he and ·other black leaders were also urging. investors to sell off their company stock. 
Man drops off corpse after three days 
CROWN POINT, Ind. 

A man drove around with the body of his girlfriend for three days before dropping it off at a jailhouse, police said. Harvey Lewis, 49, told police Monday he had been driving with the body of Valerie Whitehead since early Saturday, the day she died following a fight during a drug and alcohol binge. Lewis, who has no criminal record and lives out of his truck, was being held in the Lake County Jail. He faces a charge of involuntary manslaughter while authorities try to determine the cause of Whitehead's death. Lewis picked up Whitehead, 38, at her home in Gary early Friday and they spent the day drinking wine and smoking crack cocaine, according to a police affi­davit. "She became paranoid and violent with him and wanted out of the truck," said Lake County Police Detective Patrick Tracy. Lewis told police he struck her in the face three or four times and she fell out of the truck. He put her back in and realized later that she was dead, police said. Police said Lewis drove around because he did not know what to do. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
Muslims and Serbs clash sh~~~~d~~; ~!~~~k:~p?;ga~~Jo~o~:~
Confrontations erupt as Muslims threaten to
reclaim their former homes from the Serbs.
American and Russian troops have moved intocalmthesituation. 
YUGO.
(Montenegro) 

AP!Wm. J. Castello moved in to calm the situation Monday 
Police find cult's cache of weapons 
NEW YORK 

A row house where police found a mini-arsenal was the headquarters of an obscure, left-wing cult that attracts young idealists who want to belong to an elite "cadre of revolutionaries," experts said. Police believe the suspects were members of a group called the Provisional Party of Communists; a local expert, Arnold Markowitz, described the group as a nonviolent, leftist cult. An anonymous child abuse complaint led police to discover the cache of weapons, including a submachine gun in a viola case, and take more than two dozen people into custody Tuesday. Three were charged with weapons offenses; the rest were questioned. Neighbors said the suspects occu­pied five apartments in three connected row houses and engaged in odd, secretive behavior, carrying boxes and silver plastic bags in and out, performing house repairs at all hours and barring other tenants from using the back yards or basements. Collins said the group previous­ly surfaced in Brooklyn in 1984, when police raided the same location in another weapons investigation. The Brooklyn group, with less than 200 affiliated m'tlmbers nationwide, uses issues like abortion rights, feminism and the plight of migrant farm workers to attract young, revo­lutionary idealists, experts said. The new members then spend their days mired in highly regimented, isolated existence, cut off from their families. "This was a destructive cult group which really destroyed the lives of a lot of the members," said Markowitz. 
Exiles await pope's meeting with Castro 
VATICAN CITY 

Shouting anti-Castro slogans and waving Cuban flags, Cuban exiles protested at a general audience with Pope John Paul II Wednesday, just days before his expected first meeting with the Cuban leader. "Viva Cuba Libre!" Cubans in the roughly 60-member delegation from Miami yelled out in the Vatican's Paul IV auditorium. The pope said nothing to acknowledge the shouts, and only smiled when one person asked when he would visit Cuba. John Paul is expected to meet with Fidel Castro when he comes to Rome this week for a U.N. food summit, in talks that could lead to the pope's first visit to Cuba. The Cuban exiles said they want the pope to press for human rights and political freedom in the Communist nation. "We hope the pope puts pressure (on Castro) so that Cuba can head toward a more democratic state," the Rev. Miguel Loredo told reporters after the general audi­ence. Chanting and cheers are common at the general audiences, which draw thousands of pilgrims, and the Cuban exiles did not interrupt the pope's remarks. 
still needed to stomp out outbreaks of fighting and appeared to dash hopes that the NATO-led force patrolling Bosnia would be leaving anytime soon. Bosnian Serb police and Muslims fought with automatic weapons and rifle-propelled grenades at Koraj in an exchange that left one Muslim dead and unconfirmed reports that several on both sides were wounded. The fighting at Koraj, once a pre­dominantly Muslim community now in Serb hands, came after a standoff Monday when Muslim refugees from Koraj pushed from Celie into Gajevi, a suburb of Koraj also held by Serbs. American and Russian troops had 

AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures ; 
: 
' \ / ....~..................................., j 
-....'"-··­


16 
The AccuWeather~~~> forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 

~.........._~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pmssurs 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 


{) 
Albuquerque 66 38 Chicago 33 14 New York 40 31 Atlanta 56 42 Dayton 35 18 Philadelphia 39 25
4,~,~9.8Q ~ ~ Baton Rouge 76 50 Duluth 22 4 StLouis 38 27 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunn~ Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 36 26 Houston 78 58 Sioux Falls 31 16 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Caribou 22 12 Memphis 50 41 Wash. D.C. 41 30 

page 3 



Forum addresses Catholic concerns 
By MELANIE GARMAN News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre will present the opening of Edward Albee's "The Lady From Dubuque" tonight. This weekend's pro­duction will be the first of the season for Saint Mary's and will run from Nov. 14-16 at 8 
p.m. and Nov. 17 at 7:30p.m. in the Little Theatre in the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
"The Lady From Dubuque" was written in 1979 by play­wright Edward Albee, who is considered America's fore­most absurdist. Albee is per­haps best known for his clas­sic "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" At the age of 68, Albee is still writing and pro­ducing Pulitzer Prize winning plays. 
"Dubuque" deals with a variety of themes such as alienation, truth versus reali­ty, and the struggle to discov­er one's identity. The play forces the viewer to think on a philosophical level, while at 

be lost." Controversies such as ordi­nation of women, the way in
You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
which bishops are appointed, and moral questions such as birth control, abortion, gay and lesbian issues and pre­marital sex were mentioned as the main issues that are caus­




Do you have Asthma? 
ing polarization of the church. Sheehan took a pragmatic view of the church's position:
You may be eligible to participate in a medical 
"To wait for a perfect church 

research study which will provide: 
~--. 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINANCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.00) 
To be eligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 70 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 


GeoKqfnetyResiEk & Wa~t~ten Jones 
soprano pianist
For more information about being a volunteer 
Sont;s OF AlexandRe G1tecbanznov

for this medical research study call: 
ijnl'l LU~-.ri"• f..,r.,.. 
• ,Q r

(219) 288--0931 or 
k~j~ENv 'w 1--800.-RxStudy (1--800--797--8839) 
2:00 p.m. Sunday, November 17 
Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art
Healtn{\(Advance
Institute 

The concert is free and open to the public.
"' 


the same time provoking deep emotions. While clearly a drama, Albee does incorpo­rate a unique sense of humor in the play which he calls "the laughter to keep from crying." 
The plot revolves around the main female character, J o, who is dying of cancer, and her husband Sam, who is trying to cope with the possi­bility of losing his wife. Along with four of their close friends, the two try to come to terms with Jo's disease. 
As Jo's illness begins to take hold, the audience is introduced to a mysterious older couple who unexpected­ly arrive at their home. Everyone is left to wonder who these strange people could be. Is the woman the Angel of Death or is she real­ly Jo's mother, who she claims to be? These and many more questions are left to be pondered during and after the final scene. 
The play is directed by Katie Sullivan, a Saint Mary's professor and director of last winter's production "Agnes of is to wait in vain." She later stated, "We do not need to reinvent the Catholic Church in our day; we need to reinter­pret it." 
Sheehan also expressed her belief that the primary source of the problems with the Church's unity lies in the lack of education of the lay people. ''I'm very concerned that many young people today don't know what it means to be Catholic. They leave the Church without knowing what they're leaving." 
One of the main concepts of the "Common Ground" initia­tive is to create a better under­standing between people of clashing opinions. Daley pointed out that the way for Catholics to come together is through dialogue between the Church and secular culture. "The idea is not to label and categorize each other, but to understand each other," he explains. 
Ordination of women became the main focus of the audience discussion last night, and sparked some heated senti­ments from the audience. "I know women who come to this university that feel that they are called to full ministry, and they are frustrated," said Beatty. 
An audience member stated that the injustice which women feel concerning their limita­tions within the Church is com­pounded by the rising need for clergy worldwide. Beatty agreed, saying, "There is a need. We can't just cover it up. It does exist." 
Even Freddoso, who expressed his reluctance to women's ordination, stated, "The question [of the ordina­tion of women] doesn't have to do with justice, it has to da with remaining faithful to Christ." He further comments about this controversy, "I don't think it's ever going to hap­pen." 
Throughout the dissension, however, the members of the panel remained positive and optimistic about the unification of the Church. 
"At that one moment of the raising of the bread, we are united. And that gives me great hope," related Sheehan. 
God." 

"I am especially attracted to this play because of Albee's venture into a special mode, via the two unearthly charac­ters who come to assist a young dying woman, her hus­band, and their misbegotten friends." 
The cast is made up of stu­dents from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, along with actors from the outside com­munity. 
"I love absurdist writing, and this play is more than slightly absurd," says Melissa Dunne, a Saint Mary's senior who will play the "lady" from Dubuque. 
Dan Golonka, who portrays the role of Fred, said, "Everyone has been great and we've all worked well togeth­er." 
Tickets are $4 for students, $8 for adults, $7 for senior citizens, and $6 for the mem­bers of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. 
They can be purchased at the box office located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, or at the door upon arrival. 
included a brief speech by each of the panelists, a discus­sion among the panelists, and finally, audience-panelist interaction. 
The four panelists included Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall, Father Brian Daley of the theology depart­ment, who also serves on the "Common Ground" committee, Professor Alfred Freddoso of the philosophy department and Sister Lourdes Sheehan, direc­tor of the Alliance for Catholic Education. 
The members of this panel represented viewpoints rang­ing from the progressive to the conservative. 
Theoretically this "Common Ground" effort would cause Catholics of conflicting inter­pretations of the faith to real­ize what being Catholic really means. 
The main obstacle, however, seems to be the side-contro­versies which commonly do'mi­nate such discussions. As a member of the audience point­ed out, "We're getting so caught up in the issues that we get lost in our own little argu­ment and I'm afraid that the 'Common Ground' project will 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November I4, I996 
ed mailings to students. "Some O'Hara points out that histori­not intended to minimize a stu­companies use such aggressive cally the University has treated dent's rights in disciplinary


ScalDs Letter 
mailing tactics that they are diseipline in a centralized fash­hearings, rather, to "better automatically suspect." he said. continued from page I ion and before 1985, it was describe our existing proee­
continued from page I 
"There are many good data­handled by a single individual dures and to do so in non-legal AIM that they removed money bases out there to find scholar­the book was split into two dif­[the dean of students). language" writes O'Hara. from her account after she ships," said Russo. "One of the ferent versions because it had The Office of Residenee Life, The letter also reads, "The 
expressly asked them not to do best is maintained by Mark become inundated with a vary­with a staff of professionals Office of Student Affairs reads so. Kantrowizc at Carnegie ing amount of information. One trained in dealing with student our diseiplinary proceedings as 
When asked about the prob­Mellon." book, ealled the "Student disciplinary problems, was ere­affording students a number of lems with identifying fraudu­Kantrowizc's database can be Handbook," focused on commu­ated in 1985 to alleviate the important protections. You lent organizations, Husso said, found on the World Wide Web nity resources and the other, du responsibility of the dean of describe the same language as "Some supposedly good schol­on a link from the office of Lac, on policies and proce­students. affording none." arships are out there, but some financial aid's home page, 
dures. O'Hara also points out She states that the Offiee of O'Hara suggests that the lan­probably exaggerate their which is accessible from the 
in the letter that the handbook Residence life works to ensure guage could be reworded to information." University home page. 
was diseontinued around 1993 that students reeeive a fair and "bring the provisions with Husso also warned against Students can also e-mail him 
because of the cost of printing a consistent proeess in hearings. which the Offiee of Residenec companies that send unsolicit-at mkant@cs.cmu.edu. 
book that was rarely utilized by "Although we aeknowledge Life must comply in the discipli­students. that our disciplinary process is nary process into higher pro­O'Hara states that she and different than many other insti­file." 
of anthropology said. She also the Office of Student Affairs are tutions (indeed our entire • Finally, O'Hara identifies added that it was diffcult to have open to diseussing the revision model of residence life is differ­the Campus Life Couneil (CLC)


Diversity 
a good discussion about diversity 
of du Lac to include services ent than many of our counter­as the appropriate body to
when there arc hardly any
continued from page 1 
available to students and a parts), we believe that this serve as a forum for the diseus­minorities in the classes. 
greater emphasis on the com­model has served, and contin­sion of student rights, not the
Cunningham also noted the
30 minute live video teleconfer­munity at Notre Dame. ues to serve, the University Senate, which serves as antension that arises when racialence discussion entitled, "The • Regarding the eentraliza­well," she writes. advisory body for the CLC.
issues are brought up in class as
Way Things Are," featured 
tion of the University's diseipli­• O'Hara writes that the O'Hara points out that the 
a result of students' fears of
minority panelists relating their nary proeess in the Offiee of Office of Student Affairs dis­assistant vice president foroffending someone. "It createsexperiences. This was followed Residence Life, O'Hara states agrees with the elaim that there Hesidenee Life, Bill Kirk, servesthis energy level that's extraordi­
by a 70 minute discussion 
that it is the area in which the has been an attrition of student on the CLC, and it is under hisnary," she said. 
among the participants from 
Office of Student Affairs is open rights in du Lac. The revisions supervision that revisions to du
Tia Likely presented a stu­Notre Dame and another live 
to the least amount of change. made to du Lac in 1993 were Lac are initiated.
dent's opinion of diversity on the
video teleconference entitled, panel and talked about her
"The Way Things Can Be." 
board, three shelves, and a toi­penalty," said Hoss.
struggles as an African­"A popular, but mistaken 
let. A great number of these pris­

Panel

American student. "I believenotion is that American means Those who can afford them oners are worried with theirthat to attain diversity and towhite with Europen ancestry," continued from page 1 have televisions and cassette public image. "They arc eon­attain multiculturalism, it's pret­
said video panelist Ronald 
players. whieh they must listen corned with how outsiders view 
ty much a person to person
Takaki, professor of ethnic stud­some innocent people may be to only through the use of them. They are eoncerned thatthing," she said. "If I believe inies at the University of California, executed, how can you support headphones. Their rooms are people sec them as monsters,"diversity, I feel it's my obligationBerkeley. 
such a system? In the New often decorated with pictures of remarked Boss, who was out toto work toward that goal."
Another topic discussed by the Testament, Jesus is teaehing us their families, and of their vic­dispel this view. "Most are notThe University of Notre Damevideo panelists was affirmative how to live and how to die. He tims' families. repeat offenders. For many ofCultural Diversity Statement stip­
action and California's 
is not teaching us how to kill." The convict's daily routine them, there was a single situa­ulates "Cultural Diversity signi­Proposition 209, legislation to Ross then took over the dis­includes only three hours of tion, somehow related to aleo­fies the University's commitment overturn allirmative action poli­cussion. In referenee to his recreation, whieh must be hol or drug abuse. I haven'tto an atmosphere of hospitalitycies. "People believe that people 
eredentials in the debate spent mingling among fellow met a monster yet."
and dialogue where these vari­of color have gotten what they against capital punishment, he condemned prisoners in the Ross' role as a ehaplainous traditions can together con­have bncausc it's been handed to said, "I am an expert in noth­hallway between cells. ineludes eonvineing the prison­tribute to a sharing of perspec­them, not through hard work," tives in the pursuit of truth." 
ing. I have just been in that "Their lives are very tightly ers, themselves, that they aresaid Michael Dyson, video pan­space and talking with these eontrolled," pointed out Ross. not inhuman and worthless toLikely expressed frustrationelist and author. 
u

men. He nas spent a good "These people are treated society.
and questioned the University.
The video panelists also dis­part of the last year as a volun­like they don't deserve to live," Says Hoss: ''These men are"It's a lot of good [forums, diver­
cussed possible downsides to 
sity statement, etc.]. but when 
teer chaplain at the Indiana he said. "It takes a powerful tortured twenty-four-seven
diversity, including identifying State Prison in Michigan City, toll." knowing that they are con­
does it come into practice?
oursdves solely by ethnic back­Where's the action?" she asked. 
visiting the forty-three mem­As a result of their captivity demned to die. I hope my pres­ground. "It (diversity( invites us Director of Multicultural bers of Indiana's death row. and impending demise, many of ence with them ean say 'Youto acknowledge and accept dif­Student Affairs, Iris Outaw, pro­He proceeded to paint a pic­the prisoners turn introspec­deserve to live. God loves youfenmcns. The downside is we posed one solution. "At an insti­ture of the kind of conditions in tive. "Many of the men are through what you've done."' 
sometimes tend to reduce our tution like this, money talks," she which the conviets live. The very religious, very interested After Hoss deseribed the eon­dill'orences to what we are ethni­said, pointing to the importance death row cells are the biggest in questions about justice, ditions of the inmates on death~~ally," Takaki said. 
of alumni who are diversity­in prison, at ten-by-twelve feet. about forgiveness. Lots of them row, the floor was briefly.... Hepresentitives from the Notre minded toward positive change. They have a bed, sink, cup-are very interested in the death opened up for discussion. 
Dame community took part dur­Stephen Scharper, concurrenting the campus fo"rum following instructor of theology, reminded
the video segment. Led by 
the audience of the time whenCohen, students interacted with 
Catholics were discriminated
local panelisl'i and discussed the 
against as well. "This was a
issues of race and diversity at plaee of Catholic pride in a cul­Notre Dame. 
ture that was very hostile [at the "Issues of diversity are not sys­time]." he said. "It is ironie thattematically built in the curricu­in this eulture, Catholics have
lum of courses," Hilary 
headed toward the mainstream." 
Cunningham, assistant professor 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART. ART HISTORY. AND DESIGN Presents 
,faroi'M.Armstrong; -~ .. •. 
' .. . . ~-. . . . 1<. • -"' . :~ \';.: ... ':· •... 2,,. . .. i.1. ". -.;.:,· .\ ' 
Professoro(Art History·~,~:/ · ,,i/ilt.y·u;,iv~,;,iy olNew.Yo;,. 6raC!uafl! cerite; -·. · "·. ~ 
A..Cfcminine Science?: A.._nnQ ~kins 1:\nd CJhe l.Ear[y <;J?hotogram 


Thursday, November 14 7:30PM Annen berg Auditorium 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Carol Armstrong is a 1994-95 redptent of a Guggenheim Fellowship and is on the editonal c~dvisory bo.ud of Octobtr In 1993, she won the CAA best book award for her scholarship on Edgar De~.1s. 
Thursday, November 14, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Food SuD101it supports refugees 
By RACHEL RICHMOND News Writer 
Last night, David '"'i~·:~h"~···.·•········.~bllfu~;~~.
executive-in-residence in College of Business Administration (COBA), spoke on his experiences in the busi­ness industry, especially dur­ing the 1982 Johnson and Johnson Tylenol crisis. 
Collins, who currently teach­-es business ethics for COBA; worked at Johnson and Johnson for 26 years and was vice-president during the cri­sis. 
The main focus of Collins'· talk was the question of Corporate Social Responsibility. Although he commented that "it is not clear cut that there should be corpo­rate responsibility," Collins stressed the importance of decision-making. 
He explained that due to a recent trend in downsizing and "de-layering, you will increas• ingly be called upon to the decisions that my serliQJ~$< • ,.,,. ,•...,.,, 
made when I entered workplace." 
Collins used the Executive Compass, a technique devised by Jim O'Toole from the University of California, to make his point. At the north end of the compass is freedom, opposed by equality in the south, he said. Efficiency and community make up the opposing east and west ends of the compass. Each oppos­ing pair, Collins believes, exemplifies his "point of view that the overwhelming deci­sion-making ... will be between two rights." Collins continued, "When you go into the busi­ness world you will be faced with these kinds of choices and you have to play the game." 
The prime example that Collins used to show the importance of such decision-
As. a result 35 percent 
..... ... . en 

Consumer employees would have been out ofwork. Based on his belief in the credo, the president of McNe~ Consumer decided to keep<them all employed; a decisi · ... llde without consulting pper management. "You trust your people to make the right deci· sion," Collins said, when asked about the prudenceof such an independent choice. . 
Collins' arguments for corpo­rate social responsibility shqwed the. difficulty in: mak~ ing business decisions, He believes that younger people need to be aware of this responsibility ami.· of· the. fact 
that "it is up to the  in  
industry ... to try to·  ·  their  
perspective."  

By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press Writer 

ROME 
Seeking to rivet attention to refugees' agony in Zaire, the pope and other speakers opened the World Food Summit on Wednesday with warnings of mass starvation and killer epi­demics. 
The passion and bluntness of the appeals showed how much urgency the Zaire crisis has 
.given to the five-day gathering. It also served as a reminder of how volatile and crowded the world has become since a bold declaration was issued at simi­lar conference in Rome 22 years ago: Eliminate world hunger. 
"The pessimists among us say that we've passed the point of no return," U.S. Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman told delegates from 194 nations at the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization, or FAO. "The optimists -if you can call them that -sav we've hit the fork in the road.". 
Zaire clearly represented the 
most pressing challenge, over­
shadowing even the summit's 
overall objective. 

The summit's main document, 
approved in advance, calls for 
reducing by half the number of 
people without enough food ­
an estimated 800 million -by 
2015. 

U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali, who is trying to mobilize a multination­
• SWITZERLAND 


Invalid visa 'traps' Zaire leader 
Associated Press 

BERN 
Zaire's president invalidated a visa permitting him to undergo cancer treatment in Switzerland when he left to convalesce on the French Riviera, the Foreign al military force to open aid routes, appealed to the interna­tional community for help. 
Fighting between rebels and the Zairian military emptied camps of Rwandan and Burundian refugees, who are now scattered in eastern Zaire almost entirely cut off from international assistance. 
Catherine Bertini, executive director of the U.N. World Food Program, predicted that 75,000 people could die of dysentery and cholera within a month without quick assistance. 
"We are seeing the face of hunger in eastern Zaire in a horrible way," she said. 
Zairian delegates were pleased with the flood of support for the refugees. 
Ministry said Wednesday. 

Foreign Ministry spokesman Franz Egle said Mobutu Sese Seko would have to apply for a new visa if he wants to return, but refused to say whether it would be granted. 
"We aren't commenting on a visa request that has yet to be made," Egle said. 
Mobutu has been an increas­ingly unwelcome guest in Switzerland, whose government has come under criticism for allowing him to remain as fight­irig engulfs Zaire in his absence. 
Mobutu underwent surgery for prostate cancer in August in Lausanne, and his visa was extended several times so he could receive outpatient treat­ment. 
Now recuperating at a villa on the French Riviera, Mobutu told a television interviewer on Tuesday that he would return to Switzerland for a final three­day medical exam before going back to his central African country. 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Please submit a resume and one page letter of intent to Ethan Hayward ( 631, 4541) at the Observer office by Friday, November 15, 1996 
"A we inspiring ... a record attendance ... you left hundreds ofus raving about your visit for days!" 
University of Rochester 
Tickets are $3, but you can get a free one from any Student Programmer! 
If you know who we are! When: Tuesday, November 1~th What t1me: at 8:00P.M. Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 14, 1996 
Calendar of Events 
Power Lunch: Sacrament of Marriage 
Thursday, November 14 12:45-1:45 pm Faculty Dining Room 
African American Senior Reflection 

Friday, November 15 9-11 pm Meditation Room Center for Social Concerns 
Interdenominational Thanksgiving Prayer Service 
Tuesday, November19 7:30pm Chapel of the Holy Cross 
Kairos: Thanksgiving Prayer 
Wednesday, November 20 7:30pm Chapel of.the Holy Cross 
Power Lunch: The Spirit of Advent 
Thursday, Novernber 21 12:45-1:45 pm ·~ ·· · 
Faculty Dining Room 

Thirty-third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Saturday, November 16 
Half hour after game Most Rev. Daniel Buechlein, D.D. 
45 minutes after game at Stepan Center Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 

Sunday, November 17 

8 a.m. Rev. James Rigert, C.S.C. 
10 a.m. Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy, D.D. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this coming Sunday 
First Reading: Proverbs 31:10-13 Second Reading: 1 Thessalonians 5:1-6 Gospel: Matthew 25:14-30 



The Coin 
It is just a little custom, something that I got into the habit of doing after my first trip to Ireland. If you've ever been to a foreign country, you know that a hazard of the trip will be a pocket of odd coins, completely useless upon your return home. 
Here is my custom: For years, I would manage to keep one of those coins in my pocket, and every May before the Folk Choir made an overseas musical tour, I would go down to the Grotto, take that coin that I'd been hanging onto, and say a prayer to Mary. I figured it was most appropriate to pray to the Mother of God before a pilgrimage; to the woman who knew exile and pilgrimage so well. As a mother, she more than any would keep her daughters and sons safe on the road. 
For several excursions I kept this habit of dropping a single Irish coin into the slot at the Grotto and lighting my candle, whispering a prayer for safe passage at the same time. But as so often happens, life came along and interrupted this little ritual, for after the third trip to Ireland with the choir, my father passed away. 
I remember my last moments with the earthly temple which I had known to be my Dad. Mter all the grieving and crying by the family, in that precarious moment when the coffin was shut, I asked the funeral director for a last few moments alone with him (I am the eldest son and figured it was my due, after all the experiments that came my way because of this dubi­ous honor). I asked that the casket be opened one last time. I prayed to Mary, and to God, that Dad would have safe pilgrimage to a place in their presence. And then, for some reason known only to the author of all com­passion, I reached into my pocket. My hand came across something that I had been saving: a single Irish coin. I took it out, and placed it in the pocket of Dad's suit coat. "For yourjourney," I said. Then I closed the coffin. 
Five years have passed since that moment, and the choir has made at least one trip abroad during that time. Once, a friend of mine, on hearing my story of the coin, placed one in my hands that my little custom might continue. But upon leaving Ireland in 1994, having many charges on my hands and little time to my own, once again I found myself without an offer­ing to make in May, a little token for the lighting of a candle in a cave. 
Then last week, I had the opportunity to be in Dublin for the Football Game Across the Pond. And as fate would have it, I was there for the Feast of All Hallows. There, on a cold and blustery autumn night as little goblins scampered around the neighborhood pleading for nuts and fruit and an occasional Cadbury bar, I sat for my evening meal with old friends. Anne Marie had made cuilkullin, a traditional meal for Halloween made from potatoes (what else?), kale and onions. I could hear the wind outside. I thought of my own children celebrating Halloween across the Atlantic. 
But here is the thing that brought the night to life for me. As I was sitting down to my meal, I happened to glance down at the plate, and there, slightly hidden by the vegetable-laden dish, was a bright new Irish twopence. When I asked my hostess whence came this little monetary offering, she offered me up a mysterious smile and said, "You know, on the Feast ofAll Hallows the Irish have been known to keep their doors unlocked, that the souls of our ancestors may come in and sit and warm themselves by the fire and gather strength for the rest of theirjourney." 
Of course, you may think, it was my gracious hostess that put the coin on my supper plate. But whom, may I ask, put the thought in her head? Or linked these two symbols so preciously together in my life? You may see the story as you wish. I, for my part, see the hand of God at work. 
Here we are in November, the month wherein we keep holy the memory of our ancestors, those who have gone before us marked with a sign offaith. I can tell you this: the marks are living and vivid and real. I see those that go before me, woven in little symbolic ways, threaded through my life in a tapestry that surrounds me and supports me and keeps me warm. When I doubt my father's safety, when I wonder where are the souls of those whom I love but now cannot touch, it is somewhat easier to remember them when I think of how my father, and my Father, visited me through the gift of a simple coin. 
Steven C. Warner 
0MPUS MINISTRY 

Thursday, November 14, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 




PoliceDlan acquitted of 01urder 
John McCain, 
bomber pJlot 
ought to ha 
October day· 
stranger -a . .nn••-n"""' ah 
soldier .,;....saved hislife.· McCain, now a senior senator, got a Wednesday to thank stranger. He met with 7 year-old Mai Van On, the mari who pulled his broken body from Hanoi's True Bach lake 29 years ago duringil~,h~:.rtmt1~ons. 
Vietnam War. ··· ··· His aircraft going d~~n : · flames, McCain bailed over Hanoi. Dazed by the jolt · of ejecting from the crippled plane, he drifted helplessly .. 
Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Donee ond Theatre presents 
Edward The 

Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 alB p.m.; Nov. 17 at7:30 p.m. Lillie Theatre 

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend to Howard Joh 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing withyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Black activists question motives ofall-white jury 
By CASEY COMBS Associated Press Writer 

PITTSBURGH 
Angering black activists, an all-white jury acquitted a white policeman Wednesday in the death of a black motorist who investigators say suffocated in a scuffle with officers during a traffic stop. 
Blacks chanted, "No justice, no peace!" and an angry crowd of about 50 formed outside the courthouse after John Vojtas, a 40-year-old officer in suburban Brentwood, was cleared of involuntary manslaughter. 
"By any means necessary, justice will be served," said Henry White, who is black. "A jury of peers does not mean all white." 
The verdict came in the case of Jonny Gammage, a 31-year­old cousin of Pittsburgh Steelers player Ray Seals. The Rev. Jesse Jackson had brand­ed Gammage's death a lynch­ing. 
Two other suburban officers are charged with involuntary manslaughter, but their trial ended in a mistrial after 10 days when a coroner blurted out improper testimony last month. A new trial will be held next year. 
Gammage was pulled over in Pittsburgh on Oct. 12, 1995 by officers who had started chas­ing him outside the city. The officers said he had been dri­ving erratically, tapping the brakes of a Jaguar owned by Seals. 
Gammage emerged from the car carrying a cellular phone that police said they thought was a gun. A struggle broke out, and police subdued Gammage by pressing on his back and neck. The coroner ruled he suffocated; defense lawyers argued he could have died from exhaustion or an adrenalin rush. 
The jury in deliberated more than two days. 
Vojtas, who could have gotten up to five years in prison, dropped his head and wept after the verdict. As he left tbe courthouse, he said: "Praise the Lord." 
He said he hoped to return to police work. 
''I'm sorry that a tragic acci­dent happened last year, or a little over a year ago. I know I'm going to learn from this accident. I hope to get trained better," Vojtas said. "I hope that other policemen in our department and surrounding areas -in fact the world ­can learn from this tragic acci­dent and that this thing never happens again." 
Prosecutor Anthony Krastek said of the jury: "I don't know what they were thinking, or what they felt was missing in our case." 

Rioters ravage streets after verdict 
By LISA HOLEWA Associated Press Writer 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 
City officials appealed for calm in the black community Wednesday after a grand jury refused to indict a white police officer whose slaying of a black motorist touched off a night of rioting. 
Police stepped up patrols in the south-side area where the rioting broke out after 18-year­old TyRon Lewis was killed on Oct. 24. People in the area were tense and angry Wednesday and most refused to speak. to reporters. 
"We're not prejudiced, but 
~I 


at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 

Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
IAZZMAN~s 

NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street THURSDAY Nov. 14 STOMPER BoB . FRIDAY Nov. 15 SKALCOHOLIKS 
Doors open 9:00p.m.­2 Dance Floors -DJ's Between band 21 and over with proper ID's 
NEXT WEEK 
Thursday Nov. 21 Friday Nov. 22 SKA-FEST Parents Weekend SKALCOHOLI KS
3 Bands 2-Moon Record Bring a Parent Party Recording bands from NY 
we're telling you to stay out of here after dark," one told a stringer for The Associated Press. 
The grand jury said Officer Jim Knight was justified in shooting Lewis, who bumped the police offic'er four times with his car after a traffic stop. 
"It's unfair," said Joyce Gibson, 56, a black nurse who lives near the site of the rioting. "Anytime a white cop shoots a black man who's unarmed, they say it's okay. He took a life, and they're taking it so Jightly." 
The police chief suspended Knight for 60 days with pay later Wednesday, saying he failed to take "reasonable means to avoid the danger." 
After Lewis was killed, about 300 people roamed the streets throwing firebombs, rocks and bottles, and setting 29 fires. Several police officers and fire­fighters were injured and prop­erty damage exceeded $5 mil­lion. 
On Wednesday, groups of two to four police officers repeated­ly drove past the shooting site in marked and unmarked cars. 
About 40 people gathered in front of a church nearby, hand­ing out a flier that read "KILLER COP GOES FREE." 
"Today, the cold-blooded murder of TyRon Lewis ... was ruled a justifiable homicide," it said. "We will not be shot down in the streets like dogs. Neither will we be pushed into jails for defending our community.... GET ORGANIZED!" 
The Pinellas County grand jury said it had decided the shooting was not racially moti­vated, and that its findings "are the only conclusions that could reasonably be reached." 
Authorities said Lewis failed to respond several times when Knight ordered him out of a car which Knight and his partner had stopped for speeding. 
When Knight moved to the front of the car to peer inside, Lewis moved the vehicle toward him, bumping him twice "in an apparent effort to intimidate or challenge the officer," the grand jury said. 
The panel said Knight's part­ner, Sandra Minor, broke a car window to gain entry and the car moved forward and hit Knight again. He ordered the driver to stop or he'd shoot. 
The car then turned sharply to the left, hitting Knight a fourth time and dropping him onto the car's hood. 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, November 14, 1996 


Decision time draws nearer 
Residents voice concerns to Army over incineration 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT. Ind. 
Hesidents will get a final chance to air their concerns and ask questions this weekend about how the Army plans to destroy 1.269 tons of ultra­deadly nerve agent stored in western Indiana. 
The Army is expected in early December to make its decision whether to use a controversial incinerator on its cache of VX stored there. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
ing out its biannual review and revision of du Lac this summer and will submit its findings to senior staff members of the Office of Student Affairs and the ollieers of the University. 
"I am pleased that she responded so quickly because she showed her interest in hav­ing a dialogue," said Student Body Vice President Megan Murray. 
Student Body President Seth Miller agreed, saying, "The whole issue needs to be addressed through community­wide discusion and I think its going to be a productive, proac­tive, and insightful discussion." 
Additionally, O'Hara expressed support for "the inclusion of more references to the aspirations of the communi­ty," a major concern of the Student Senate. 
O'Hara suggested in the letter that the formation of a separate· committee to address these issues would be unnecessary. She specifically stated in the letter that the Campus Life Council (CLC) -a separate existing branch of Student Government composed of stu­dents, administration and facul­ty -would be the appropriate forum for such a discussion. 
"In light of her response, I think the CLC is the best place to handle this," said Murray. 
The major point of contention for Student Senate members was a lack of regard for the importance of Student Senate as 
The meeting, set for 9 a.m. Saturday at North Vermillion High School in Cayuga, will mark the end of a two-year process of explaining destruc­tion proposals and soliciting comments from people con­cerned about the plans. 
Nationwide, the Army expects to destroy its stockpile of 30,000 tons of VX held in eight states. The price tag probably will exceed $12 billion. 
VX is widely recognized as one of the most deadly sub­stances, and a single pinpoint droplet can kill an adult. 
Hainier Zanger) has been an integral part of this process in Indiana as a member of the Citizens Action Committee that 
·a representative body for stu­
dents at Notre Dame. A majori­
ty of the members who spoke 
during the discussion revealed 
similar views. 

"Do not let Professor O'Hara's 
response change the way we all 
feel about any of these issues," 
said Mcinerney, pointing out 
that a lot of time and thought 
went into the proposition letter 
sent to O'Hara on Nov. 4. 

"What we were trying to do 
[in sending the letter to O'Hara] 
was see if we could empower 
Student Senate as a body itself," 
said Mcinerney, adding that 
O'Hara's response has a "nega­
tive connotation" towards the 
Senate. 

Some Student Senators said 
that the suggestion by O'Hara to 
move the discussion to the CLC 
minimizes Student Senate's role. 
Numerous reasons are includ­
ed by O'Hara in the letter for 
moving the student rights forum 
to the CLC. O'Hara wrote in her 
response letter, 'The Board of 
Trustees created the Campus 
Life Council to provide an 
authorized forum in which stu­
dents, faculty, and administra­
tors can discuss matters affect­
ing student affairs and make 
recommendations to the Vice 
President for Student Affairs." 
As a result of O'Hara's sug­
gestion that the discussion be 
moved ~ the CLC, the Student 
Senate decided unanimously to 
reconvene the original commit­
tee, headed by Mcinerney, that 
targeted the lack of student 
rights in du Lac. 

The Senate voted to have that 
committee construct a proposal 
which will be presented to and 
voted on by the Senate. If the works directly with the Army to research methods of destroying the chemical. 
Zanger) also is a member of Citizens Against Incineration at Newport. 
He has seen the process through from its beginning and said citizens around Newport and Army officials have learned lessons working together. 
"The Army has come a long way to listening to the citizens," he said. "I am encouraged." 
What he hopes the Army now understands is that the citizens are absolutely against incinera­tion of VX and that each of the alternatives the citizens are exploring with the Army is a workable compromise. 
Student Senate approves those recommendations, they will be sent to the CLC for discussion. 
Some members of the Senate were also concerned that the CLC would be inadequately pre­pared to closely scrutinize the student rights issue, given the time constraints and existence of other major issues on that group's docket. 
"The CLC doesn't have the time frame to deal with this issue in three meetings," said Mcinerney. 
Additionally, Student Senators were concerned about the per­ception of power taken away from the Senate. "The letter seems to be taking away a lot of our power," said Student Senator Shane Bigelow. 
O'Hara was contacted last evening for comment, but said that she felt uncomfortable commenting at the time because it was too premature. O'Hara hadn't yet been briefed by Student Government leaders on the Senate meeting, and had not spoken with Student Body President Seth Miller. 
The Student Senate will meet again on Nov. 20 at 4:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune Student Center. 
Clinton will fight budget amendment 
ByALANFRAM AsSociated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
Concerned that remarks by President Clinton might help the prospects of the bal­anced-budget constitutional a m e n d ­m e n t , administra­tion offi­i::ials told reporters yesterday that Clinton meant to emphasize Clinton that he will fight its likely approval by Congress. 
On Tuesday, Clinton told . reporters he believes the 
•·•· amendment is unnecessary, a position he has taken for years. But he added a condi­tion, saying for the first time that he would consider one if it contained an "escape hatch" for recessions, when decreasf;ld business activity normally drives up federal deficits. 
:>Awakening yesterday to ··headlines and news broad­casts that Clinton had soft· ehed his position, adrninistra­tion officials began telephon­ing reporters, saying the president had not meant to flash a green light to the pro­posal. The calls represented an administration attempt to recast the story to their liking 
,;,in hopes of retaining an out­sid13 chance of stopping the 
•.. amendment. or at least fore· ing it to be changed. 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin told The Associated Press he and other economic advisers had asked Clinton 
..... Tuesday whether he had ·:meant to backtrack on his
:Jmv::.·:· 

previous opposition to the 
amendment. 
"He said absolutely not, he was still opposed to the hal­anced budget amendment, and we should actively light against it," Rubin said. 
Rubin said Clinton told them that if it appeared the amendment would be approved, "we should try to get one that's the least harm­ful." But he also said Clinton has "grave doubts about whether you can create an escape hatch that is surfi­ciently flexible to take into account whatever may hap­pen down the road" with the economy. 
White House economic adviser Gene Sperling, who was also telephoning reporters, said administration ofi1cials wanted to make sure that reports of Clinton's remarks didn't encourage lawmakers to vote for the measure. He said the White House wanted legislators to know "we do plan to speak out as to why we think it's poor economic policy." 
The balanced-budget amendment passed the House in 1995 but fell a single vote short of Senate approval. At the time, Clinton helped lobby against it. After passing Congress, a constitutional amendment does not require the president's signature, but does need approval by 38 states. 
With the elections last week resulting in a batch of addi­tional amendment supporters . joining the Senate. the pro­
.. posal seems likely to get the.. two-thirds majority Congress needs to pass it. Republicans plan to take it to the House and Senate floors sometime in January. 
The place t:o go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center (219 )631-8128 
IRISH EXPRESS HOURS --~  Friday Saturday Sunday  12 9pm Sam -9 pm 9am -3 pm  

We Accept Visa, Master Card and Discover Card 4StJi 





VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 14, 1996 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Carolinc Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accenr Ediror, Photo Ediror, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aU£hors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
muni[)' and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through len:ers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNicwpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Election '96: Happy days are·here once again 
Ah, victory! President Clinton is set­tled in for another four years of magiste­rial centrism, and those Wal-Mart pick­eting louts and hysterical housewives on the Christian right have nothing to do but fume. (Sorry, but this is America-a secular society, in case you haven't 
Joshua Ozersky 


noticed.) And fuming, too, are libertari­an nuts I listen to on the radio every night-Perotistas, militia-sympathizers, and other long-time listeners, first-time callers. Generally I'm alarmed by para­noid rightists, with their conspiracy the­ories and red-faced hostility to the President. But not now. Those anarchist nut jobs will just have to take it and like it. 
Old rich people, too, give me the creeps, except for Notre Dame history professors. They have the deep learning in American politics (and deep pockets!) to judge better than I could the fitness of a man for President, no matter what his party. But I don't judge my betters on these matters. I doubt there's a single full professor on the Notre Dame history faculty that didn't vote Republican, except Father Blantz, that good man, and possibly Professor Dolan, in whom the spirit of the sixties burns on. (I hope Father Blantz and Professor Dolan will forgive me this impudence. They may well have voted Republican, but for bet­ter reasons than I, with my limited ken, can apprehend at this stage.) At least the junior faculty votes Democrat, for the most part. 
When you run down the demographics of who did and who did not vote for President Clinton, I find it scary. As with the last election, if it had been up to the white guys, Bush/Dole/Mr. Burns would be president now, instead of the magnif­icently capable leader we have. Some president Dole would have made. If glowering were a leadership skill, it would have been Herbert Hoover who served four terms. And that 15% tax cut! What a laugh that was! It was probably the least conservative gimmick the GOP was forced to invent since the Hydrogen bomb. What pleasure it gave us long­suffering Democrats to see them reduced to such hijinx! Usually, they have the luxury of sitting back and assuming by default the oppositional role to PC, high taxes, drug abuse, black crime and illiteracy, and all the other products of the capitalist state Republicanism now stands for. Corporate welfare, the military-industri­alist complex, the wasteful and fraudu­lent drug war, the exploitation of public lands by private logging interests, oil, and chemical companies -all that is usually left for some shrill wretch on NPR to complain about, marginal types from NORML or the Green Party. 
Not this time. President Clinton is often accused of "co-opting" Republican ideas, but in fact his program is thor­oughly in the vein of Democratic thought. The fact of his signing the wel­fare bill may have been shrewd political­ly, but any leader who saw what is had become in this day and age would have moved to amend it. The more draconian edges will now presumably be smoothed out, but even if they aren't, who will be to blame for that? In the only Democratic administration between the invention of the full-scale welfare state and Clinton's administration, Jimmy Carter did not have the option, political­ly speaking, of reforming the welfare state, and in any case did not do nearly as much to strengthen it as had President Nixon. 
What Clinton really co-opted was the Republican prerogative of representing "common sense" and majority senti­ment, which does not belong to either party, in principle or reality. He did what he was supposed to do, which is to provide leadership based on the majori­tarian vision. If the Republicans hadn't sold the. country a bill of goods on health care reform, aided by their friends in the AMA, the big insurers, and the other legal groups with a vested interest in human suffering, we would have had real health care reform too, and the Gingrich crew wouldn't have been in a position to get the President re-elected with their gleeful, self-important aban­donment of the needy. 
But who cares about any of that stuff now? Not me. I am basking in the after­glow of victory. Kenneth Starr, the spe­cial investigator who has been trying to dig up dirt on the Clintons, looks like a jackass and a party hack. Which he is. Dole looks merely pathetic, so much so that even Democrats are going out of their way to hail him for his fifty-year­old war wound. (Meanwhile, the Pentagon insists that hundreds of Gulf War veterans who all have identical mysterious symptoms and who all were exposed to chemicals, are simultaneous­ly sick by coincidence.) The first thing the President has signed into law is an expansion of national parks. 
Still, as Samuel Johnson said, "public affairs vex no man." Personally, I don't really care about the balanced budget, welfare, and the rest. Everyone knows taxes are pretty much going to stay the same. Protecting the environment from GOP-sanctioned rape is important, but not the sort of thing you wake up in the morning worrying about. And I doubt whether Clinton's education initiatives will do much until principals get the power to kick out bad students without a hassle, and the classroom goes back to the pedagogical practice of 1935, when the classroom was stern and nonthera­peutic and joylessness, uncreativity, and a rigorous and inflexible respect for the language were the rule. 
I certainly couldn't care less about Bosnia, or any of the other so-called "hot spots" soldiers may have to visit in the next few years. Is the army sup­posed to just be a place where you learn how to use computers? Soldiers are sup­posed to go to dangerous places. That's what they're there for. 
I guess the main thing that concerns me about the Presidency is its symbolic function, the office of "chief citizen" they described on TV's "In the News" when I was a boy. The political squid-ink about "character" is particularly ironic here, because it is precisely his character that Bill Clinton is most attractive for. Clinton's "untrustworthiness" and "slickness" are functions of his political life, protective mechanisms which allow him to govern. The Republicans don't really care if he once had an affair, or if he smoked pot once in the early seven­ties. They don't want him to govern; those things are merely a stick to beat him back so they can advance their own political ends. But rant them a discus­sion of character, and what do you have? 
A mal) who, unlike Dole, Gingrich, and Reagan, is still in his first marriage, with a wife who he acknowledges as his equal and a healthy child; who genuine­ly cares (as even the most vehement Clinton-bashers admit) about the weak, the unlucky, and even the screw-ups of society; who is more articulate and pre­cise in his use of the English language than any President in the past thirty years, particularly given the dysfunc­tional syntax of the last two presidents; a man who, if you knew him in high school or college, would have disgusted you with his Dudley Do-Right purity, with his straight-A work ethic and civic idealism. A humane and literate, stand­up guy. Your President. My President. President Bill Clinton. 
And I'll trade body blows any day with the man who says otherwise! 
Josh Ozersky is a doctoral candidate in the history department. He can be reached at Ozersky.!@nd. edu. 
• DOONESBURV 
A HI6H-7ECH 
OKAY, .w!YSC

PI£.45UR£ 
NOT7HifT

PAI-Ac&l~ 
PART...

5eRf(){J§? 
I \ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
IA!HifTI AM 5I3RiaJS ADOUT15 YOUANll Me 5TA!<TING()(JR ()t(JN ~­PANYANC'MAKINo A UFe "TCJGeJHeR! 
""" 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ceremony of inno­
cence is drowned;/ 
The best lack all conviction, 
while the worst/ Are full of 
passionate intensity. 
-William Butler Yeats 
.-----------~---------------------------~--~­
page 10 
Thursday, November 14, 1996 
JUNIOR WELLS Come On In This House 
(out of five) 


TRUSTY 
FOUI\T~ 
Wt$€ 
M~~ 

Courtesy of Dischord Records 
J 
unior Wells does his best work as a session musician. The man seems most at home using 
his harmonica to back up Buddy Guy, Otis 
Spann or Sonny Landreth. However, on this 
latest release from Telarc Blues, Come On In This House, he almost completely abandons the instrument that brought him his fame. Playing with a number of guest slide guitarists, Wells depends on his limited vocal skills to present a polished blues album with an acoustic sound. 
Unfortunately for fans of Chicago blues, he fails miserably. Only six of the fourteen songs on the album are truly acoustic. The others all contain either electric slide guitars, electric basses or an electric harmonica. When Wells belts out tunes on his harmonica, he calls on the spirits of both "Sonny Boy" Williamsons. At one point in the song "Million Years Blues," Wells actually makes the harmonica sound as though it were crying. But those moments are few and far between. 
Often Wells simply lets his impeccable guest musi­cians (such as the legendary National slide guitar player Sonny Landreth) drive the song over his wanting vocals. 
The album hits a low point when Wells tries to cover Tracy Chapman's recent mainstream blues hit, "Give Me One Heason." Landreth (who plays both National and electric slide on the track) seems almost bored while doing the one note slides and electric rings that punctuate the groove. Anyone expecting an acoustic album on the quality of the original "Sonny Boy" Williamson or an old John Lee Hooker album is in for a great disappointment. Junior Wells has done better before, and hop!lfully will return to what has made him famous. For a better idea of Wells' style, check out the older and better "Southside 131ues Jam" with otis Spann and Buddy Guy. 
by Matt Loughran 
A
s the old prank goes, putting sugar in a gas tank kills an engine. The darn thing just chokes up and croups out black smoke. However, Trusty dumps plantations of sweet sugar into the roarin', soarin' rock­and-roll motor and manages to keep the baby going at full speed. All other modern pop-punk bands can eat Trusty's dust. 
Pulling threads of influences out of the entire sweater of modern rock and roll, Trusty manages to reweave some seamless, fresh tunes. Everything from Green Day's three-chord pogoing, Shudder to Think's art-rock deconstruction, and Chisel's infec­
. tious vocal harmonies can be picked up on Trusty's second LP, The Fourth Wise Man. And that's in the first song alone. 
From a city and on a label mostly known for melodic hardcore, Trusty is somewhat of a bastard child. Sure those roots can be seen on tracks like "Orange Line to Vienna," which opens up in lightning 
The Fourth Wise Man 

(out of five) 

fast power-chords. However, the tune melts into a gooey treat that resembles Minor Threat or Bad Brains covering 60's pop ballads. 
Every twist and turn surprises and delights. "Candy" aptly describes the wonderfully Weezerish sing-along, while "Missing Children" easily eould have come out of England's best Brit-pop scenes. The hook-saturated. time-changing "Dana Marie" stands out strong with Oooo-aaa choruses and fist­raising guitar work. These four happy guys even manage to successfully work a sprinkling of organ and harmonica into "Diving Watch" and "JB1 ". 
Yet, when the time comes to toe-tap the petal to the metal, Trusty cranks those strings into overdrive and speedballs straight into your heart and that part of the brain that tends to get songs stuck in it all day long. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 
NICK CAVE AND THE BAD SEEDS Murder Ballads 

(out of five) 


N 
ick Cave offers the listener a collection of stories about death, the murder of adults, children and animals, acts of sexual depravity, and enough tales of misery to last a lifetime -it's a brilliant album. Rarely has an artist captured so closely the darker side of humanity, and from the outset this work is infused with a cold menace tinged, of course, with a humor blacker than black. 
The epic "Song of Joy" relates in suitably chill­ing fashion the events leading up to the slaughter of a family. Cave's voice is impressively suited to his subject, and every line reflects a brooding sense of evil which persists until the end. "Stagger Lee" and "O'Malley's Bar" you would not play before your parents, the latter being a long account of a bloodbath, again not without humor; "when I shot him I was so handsome" being one of many memorable lines. Real fun is had with 'The Curse of Millhaven," a psychotic polka concerning a young serial killer and her eventual capture ­it's impossible not to laugh when one hears quips such as "they ask me if I feel remorse and I answer 'why of course, there's so much more I could have done if they'd let me!"' 
Guest appearances by P.J. Harvey, Shane MacGowan and Kylie Minogue add to the album's distinctiveness, the last of these singing a duet with Cave that is hauntingly beautiful. All combine for the finale, a superb cover of Dylan's "Death is Not the End," yet a cover that alters the meaning of the original by implying that all the preceding torment will continue indefinitely. This is one of the albums of the year; Cave has surpassed mere capability and produced an unforgettable work the audacity, irony and humor of whieh am rare treasures. 
by Julian Elliott 
GOLDEN SMOG 
down by the old mainstream 

(out of five) 


M
inneapolis has spawned many amazing bands. Most notable among these are: Soul Asylum, the Jayhawks, and Wilco. Soul Asylum is cur­rently between tours and the Jayhawks went their separate ways years ago. However, members of these three bands came together with other musicians to write a few songs and just generally have a good time. The result was Golden Smog and its well formed, entertaining album, Down By The Old Mainstream. Golden Smog features former Jayhawk guitarists Gary Louris and Marc Perlman leading and providing the greater part of the vocal performance. Soul Asylum's Dan Murphy adds his guitar to the list of northern notables on this album, followed swiftly by Jeff Tweedy of Wilco. Local solo artists Kraig Johnson and Noah Levy round out the lineup of musicians on this surprisingly tight collaboration. Unfortunately. con­tract obligations for each of the artists involved keeps them from using their real names on the album. This caused Hykodisc, the album's producer, to create a fit­tingly ridiculous, "Travelling Wilburys" type of front. But he himself indicates that is even so much more now. The album bursts to life with the track "V" fea­turing Louris on vocals. The song reminds the listener of old Jayhawks albums. But after the pleasure of hearing what sounds like a new Jayhawks song wears off, the band gets into some very tight, but very amus­ing song-writing. Tweedy adds his brand of pop-folk guitars to liven up each song. The songs have little barbs to them that tear into the happy, sunny way that each is presented. Songs like "Hed Headed Stepchild" and "She Don't Have To See You" are perfect exam­ples. Golden Smog, being a Minneapolis collective work, brings out some of the best talent that the area has to offer. It is even joined by Murphy's band-mate, Dave Pirner, for vocals on the song Nowhere Bound. Overall, this album is a good indication of the talent that does not often rise to the top of bands such as Soul Asylum (Murphy rarely writes SA songs) and a good memory of lost bands such as the Jayhawks. 
by Matt Loughran 
Courtesy of Ver Music 

Louris described the band as originally a "joke band." 


--------~---------------------------------------­
Music to please the soul 
n Saturday, November 9, Bela Fleck and 
the Flecktones performed at the 
Kalamazoo State Theater, supporting 
their new album Live Art. If you go to a concert hoping to hear your basic Top 40 music, you will be sadly disappointed. Hootie and the Blowfish they are not. What they are is a group of three brilliant musicians that will force you to view music from an artistic perspective. The Flecktones consist of Bela Fleck on the banjo, Victor Lamonte Wooten on the bass guitar, and Roy "Future Man" Wooten on the synth-axe-drumitar. Bela and Victor are redefining the standard for the five string banjo and electric bass, respectively, by stretching the musical range of both instruments with increasingly complex music. Together, with Future Man, they put on a show that was an unfor­gettable experience. 
The banjo driven trio formed in 1988, when Victor performed over the phone for Bela. At the time, Bela was looking to form a jazz band based around the sounds of the banjo. lie knew immedi­ately that Victor was his man. Victor's brother, Future Man. was added as the percussionist later, and the band has used a rotating fourth member throughout their eight year existence. This fourth performer has included such stellar musicians as Branford Marsalis, Bruce Hornsby and Paul McCandless. On Saturday, the guest performer was Mike Marshall who played the mandolin, fid­dle. guitar, and mando-cello. 
The Flecktones have played 200 sold-out shows every year since 1990. They play everywhere from downtown arenas to rural clubs and have a world­wide following as evidenced by tour stops in South Africa. Ireland, Mongolia, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines and Singapore. Live music is their art form of the moment. 
From the second the quartet began playing, you knew it was going to be a special night of music. Although categorized as a jazz band, the music inside the State Theater was unclassifiable. It has been called a fusion of jazz, rock, funk, world beat, Celtic, Bluegrass, Latin, classical, reggae and blues. However. even saying they draw from all of these influences limits the sound. During the hour­long first set, the band performed such upbeat, danceable numbers as "Cheeseballs in Cowtown" which wonderfully mixes the banjo and mandolin. Fleck, Marshal and V. Wooten each took turns pro­viding an improvisational melody in the tradition of great jazz bands while Future Man played simple, yet sharp rhythms on the synth-axe-drumitar. "Cheeseballs ... " is always one of the crowd pleasers because it features each artist playing the very fast paced sounds of traditional bluegrass. 
The band moved on from there to slower, but no less moving numbers, including a piece from Mike Marshall's album Brazil that featured Marshall on the mando-cello. Marshall, who just finished tour­ing the world with a mandolin orchestra, was extremely sharp especially when considering this was just his third night back, playing with the Flecktones. After that, Victor Wooten gave a solo performance that you would have to see to believe. With the rest of the band backstage, Wooten 
1. Pete Droge -The Sinnus 
2. 
Division St.-Standing on Ceremony 

3. 
Mazzy Star -Among My Swan 

4. 
Bodeans -Blend .­


5. 
Shawn Colvin-A Few Small Repairs )'t 

6. 
Weezer -Pinkerton '; 1 

7. 
John Spencer Blues Explosion-Now I Got Worry :·J I.. 


8. Chemical Bros.-Setting Sun __ f L 
9. 
The Heads-No Talking; Just Head h -~\ 

10. 
Catherine Hot Saki-Bedtime Stories l I , C.\ 


11. BT-lma / \ 
12. Luscious Jackson-Fever In Fever Out ' \ 
13. Kula Shaker-K ). . 
. 
)

14. Black 47-Green Suede Shoes L. 8X.~) t~~~l ..I 
15. Boxing Ghandis-Howard 1 
16. 
The Lilys -Better Can't Make Your Life Better 

17. 
The Lemmonheads -Car Button Cloth 


18. 
Groovasaurus 

19. 
The Sneaker Pimps-Tesko Suicide 

20. 
The Flamingoes-Plastic Jewels 


unleashed a bass solo that began with a stunning jazz improvisation and ended with a unique inter­pretation of "Amazing Grace." At times during Wooten's solo, it was hard to believe that a human being could move their fingers so quickly, yet, pre­cisely. Wooten's style liberates the bass from its traditional rhythmic support role and places it clearly in the realm of the melodic lead of the music. His solo brought the entire house to their feet, awestruck. Bela described it best after com­ing back on stage, saying that "it sounds like six people are playing sometimes, but it's only Victor." 
The second set began Future Man's solo titled "Interlude-Libation, the Water Ritual." This piece, which was played on the electronic synth-axe-dru­mitar which Future Man invented, combined world beat sounds with rap beats, nature sounds and chants. "Interlude ..." has a spiritual, ethereal feel to it, and ended with Future Man's plead for peace from all nations of the world. 
They then went on to play the number "New South Africa." This African sounding piece was a product of the tour the Flecktones did in South Africa. One of the most beautiful cuts of the evening followed, a piece by Mike Marshall entitled "Dolphins" which featured Marshall on the acoustic guitar. "Dolphins" was a softer, pop based song that only further proved the Flecktones enormous musical talent and versatility. From there, the Flecktones moved on to an energetic medley of the Bob Marley tunes "No Woman, No Cry" and "Three Little Birds." 
Finally, Bela was given the chance to do a solo number on the five string banjo, an instrument that he has single handedly brought into the mod­ern musical scene. He has been called by many "the world's greatest banjo player," and has played with everyone from Jerry Garcia to Spinal Tap. He certainly did not disappoint on this night. The solo opened with an exploration of the banjo's sound. Bela would change the tune of the banjo, while playing, to produce a sound similar to the violin. From there he explored the banjo's varying potential by playing a classical musical piece. During this portion of the solo, he played the rhythm section of the piece with his ring and small finger, while playing the melody with his thumb, middle and index fingers. He ended with the full blown bluegrass number, "The Ballad of Jed" that brought the packed house to their feet again. 
Bela has said, "To play at the highest level, I have to constantly exercise my hands and brain. When I play all of the time, it becomes like talking or walking to me." This was certainly the case with his performance at the State Theater. Simply watching him play, you realize that his playing is much more of an instinctual thing than a premedi­tated action. The Flecktones as a band reflect his musical brilliance. Each member of the band can hold their own with Bela, which isn't always the case when you have a brilliant lead musician. To say that they are some of the best musicians cur­rently touring is to state the obvious. The Flecktones bring music to the plateau of the artistic in a marvelous live performance. 
page 11 





Choral and voca.l exhibi­tions this week 
ByJULIE BRUBAKER 
and MICHAEL ANDERSON 
Accenr Music Critics 
.A~~rit_-~e:e?~:~u~~;~:!::;i~o:t!:!hc~fci:u~t-~~~~ 
cal yariet~ on Cll.mpus this week. This upcoming week has >some choral and ,vocaLe)(hibitions in store for you! 
Fii"st, on Friday night the Notre· Dame Glee Club will 
host its Alumni Reunion Concert in Stepan Center. The 
conc~tt begins at 8 p.m., following the pep rally, and 
student tickets are $2:· The event promises to rival the 
annual Christmas concert. 
We know whatyou're thinking: the Glee Club just had 
a concert two weeks ago. True. But this is the Alumni 
Reunion -over 200 former Glee Club members will be 
here for a Weekend offestivities and singing. 
"The reunion ?nly happens once every three years, 
and preparations for this weekend have lasted more 
than a year," says Michael Peppard, Alumni Reunion 
Coll)missioner of the Glee Club 
According to Daniel Stowe, the current Notre Dame 
Glee Club dii"ector, not only will the performance survey 
some highlights from the lastconc,ert, this event will fea· 
ture many former Glee Club members and former con­
ductors performing more traditional Glee Club favorites. 
•Don'tmiss th(s fun-filled Friday night of a concert b~lanced with classical and contemporary music. If you m1s~ed. the . Glee Club concert last week, you owe it to yourself t{) catch this one. If you did attend the last con· cert, the 1996 Alumni Reunion Concert may be the en~gre yo'l! w~.J'~Jookingfor: Eith~r way, the ~oncert is 
a must-see this weekend. · ·· 
T~~s~~n~!fi ;;!l~f~ ·lf:~ec~~:~;i :::e:;:~ern~!r:~!~: 
Auditorn.tm mt~e Suite Museum ofArt. 
A.hona -fide 9pera star for many years, Ms. Resick is 
renowned on campus for her angelic renditions of 
unique V?cal literatu~e: Her contributi<ms to the Notre 
Dame Opera Workshop have been valuable, as well. 
This concert will feature songs by Alexandre 
Grechaninov. Her pianist is Warren Jones, a distinct, 
ever-so-suave-looking chap often dressed in black whom 
we've se~~ p~rf~rm <i.J.her recitals before. His sensitive 
grac~ful accompaniment will again ·be· a boon for Ms: 
Res~ck's rich soprano voice. · · 
~tithe ~~bedJie fofthis week is the Notre Dame · Fall This concert will be atSp.m. · . most prestigious mixed .. ·• ..... •••• .. . ....... ..r·H·--·~.·_·.~.. t.'_•..~ .• by Alexander Blachly, bet­. · ·•. · · world as the dii"ector orthe early 
m~sic ensembl~, Pom~rium. 
·ifh~.~rst..h<~:lf'igftl!e programwm be entirely(], cappel­
la.:T~e_Cho~ale ~m be performing a mass composed by 
~~gmoL1)tti, ~Itte~ arou~d 1700, along with a num­·he:t•of~ong~<by lf)thicentury composer Felix Mendelss9hn. ·._..··•·•.-. ·... . ·••· ~ s~~Bl14 b-~f ()f. ~e C()qcert·Will feature the singers .•...··. a chaJ:nbe;t("lrche~tra, Performing J.S~ Bach's canta­
W: on the. theme Nun Kom~. der Heiden Heiland -a (Jerman ch?rale ~melody. ~~)at usners i{\ th~ Jiturgical ye1:1;r. Bach s setting allows'for several soloistS, and the caqt~ta~1fers. ~~on~erful s~tting ofthe word"Amen" at tb~ ~nd.: 'thi~ W.9rl< il:; brUliapt and beautiful with its text setting and luxuriant counterpoint <\o\fe'H se~ you i.)J:l ~~~11esdi}:Y forthe Chorale concert­it'$. entertaining and·oric~"t again a great mid-week study break. 
Acurr~I1t radio. conimer~!al for the Wall Street Journal 
L-)make~ th~ ,pi.)tnt of say~g. that not only does it provide 
people ~1th act:urate and ms1de business news, but it has 
mteresting non~business stories, as well. 
'fho Cot:nmerc~~l ~':en mentions the idea of classical 
music-aJ:ticles.as_a component ofa successful newspa~ 
per~ One rather lonely-sounding gentleman is even 
qll·?ted as. saying. ·"I ~ut them [classical music stories. 
etc;J out and send them to my dad!" 
Well, Y?U n¢ed not send our weekly articles to your 
parents/hut we.welcotne·any fan mail that indicates that 
Yoll have · ahead and mailed them to yonr relatives. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 14, 1996 
•NHl 
NHL action heats up as 'Wings, Avalanche rematch 
Associated Press Writer 
DETROIT 

Peter Forsberg and Sandis Ozolinsh scored two goals apiece as the Colorado Avalanche dominated the first rematch of last season's Western Conference finalists, beating the Detroit Red Wings 4-1 Wednesday night. 
Colorado, which beat Detroit four games to two in last spring's conference finals be­fore going on to sweep Florida and win the Stanley Cup, has won five straight and is un­beaten in its last 11 games to tie a franchise record. 
Goalie Patrick Roy, hardly challenged by an anemic Detroit attack, made 21 saves for his league-leading 12th win of the season. 
Forsberg added two assists for Colorado, which outshot Detroit 33-22 and scored three times on its power-play. 
Steve Yzerman had the lone goal for the Red Wings, who lost for the second time in their 
last three home games. Detroit goalie Chris Osgood made 29 saves. 
Forsberg now has 11 goals this season. He is second to teammate Joe Sakic among NHL scorers. 
Panthers 5, Canadiens 3 
MONTREAL 
Florida chased rookie goal­tender Jose Theodore with three first-periods goals, then held to beat struggling Montreal. 
Theodore was lifted at 15:55 of the opening period after Ray Sheppard's power play goal on Florida's 12th shot. Jocelyn Thibault, who missed the last nine games with a broken fin­ger, took over in goal. 
Per Gustafsson and Radek Dvorak had scored earlier in the period, and Bill Lindsay had a goal in the second for the Panthers, who outshot Montreal 34-21. 
Mark Recchi scored Montreal's league-leading fifth short-handed goal of the sea­son, and Saku Koivu added an­other goal for the Canadiens ­2-6-1 in their last nine games. Stephane Quintal closed the gap to a goal at 16:18 of the third period, but Sheppard's second of the game -scored while Thibault was trying to leave his net for an extra attacker with 58 seconds left to play ­clinched the victory for Florida. 
Flyers 2, Rangers 1 
NEW YORK 
Pat Falloon scored the tie­breaking goal at 5:51 of the third period, and Philadelphia hung on behind Ron Hextall's goaltending to beat struggling New York. 
Falloon's winning goal came on a power play with New York's Adam Graves off for a holding-the-stick penalty. The Flyers' right wing beat Mike Richter on a shot from the lower right circle for his fourth goal of the season. 
The Flyers, 5-2 in their last seven games, left the rest to Hextall, who made some key stops in the late going ­including one on Brian Leetch from in close with a little more than seven minutes remaining. 
Hextall made 26 saves overall as the Flyers outshot the Rangers 37-27. 
The Rangers remained win­less in five games (0-4-1), a span in which they've totaled only nine goals. 
And they were booed lustily by a an impatient sellout crowd of 18,200 at Madison Square Garden. Two nights earlier, when the Rangers lost 3-2 to Vancouver, the fans chanted "ree-fund ree-fund." 
Islanders 5, Canucks 4, OT 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
Bryan McCabe scored 45 sec­onds into overtime to give New York a 5-4 come-from-behind victory over Vancouver. 
After Travis Green's power­play goal at 6:15 of the third period tied the game, McCabe won it when he took Derek King's pass near the top of the right circle and snapped a wrist shot through goaltender Corey Hirsch's legs for his second goal of the season. 
Green got the tying goal when he fired King's passout behind Hirsch for his fourth goal. Green also assisted on goals by linemates King and Zigmund Palffy, as the Islanders' top unit combined for nine points. Randy Wood had New York's other goal. 
Pavel Bure scored twice for Vancouver, his first two-goal game since returning after sea­son-ending knee surgery last November. Alexander Mogilny and Markus Naslund also scored for the Canucks, now 5­1-1 in their last seven games and 4-0-1 in their last five against the Islanders. 
Oilers 4, Senators 0 
KANATA, Ontario 
Curtis Joseph picked up his second shutout in a week -his NIIL-leading third this season, 
and set up the first Edmonton goal as the Oilers beat punchless Ottawa. 
The Oilers, ending a six-game road trip at 2-4, managed only 19 shots on Ottawa goaltender Damian Rhodes. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Great pay. For Information, Call  243-0658.  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  Rutgers. 287-1449 eves/weekend.  ADOPTION IS A  
NOTICES  800-562-8524.  REGGAE D. J.  MEGHAN @232-7839  . FOR SALE: 2 Pitt GA's  CHOICE OF LOVE. Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  
Paid house & dog-sitter for 12125­ 234 0705  Need 5-6 USC tickets. Please help.  Eagered to SELL!  act of love. Your child will be raised  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  1/6. Large house close to campus.  Call X4008. Ask for Cyrus.  call X1414  to know this. Caring couple wish to  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  2 medium size. sweet dogs to walk,  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  share our love, laughs, and lives  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  feed, and keep company. 287­ OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­ Desperate for Rutgers tixl!  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­ 
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  3054.  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ $$Will Pay$$  ALL GAMES HOME  tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  6306  Please call Amanda at  AND AWAY  talk and see if we're right for you  
Sun (800)763-5606.  HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  (301)314-8671  232-0058  and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­ 
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  Rooms for Rent F-Ball wknds.  or send email to  24 HAS.  800-213-3960.  
Hey, do you need to get a room?  (813)360-2243.  in home 2 mis. N. of campus cont.  adew@wam.umd.edu.  BUY -SELL -TRADE  
have a room @ the S.B. Days Inn  brkfst inc! 277-8340  Interested in starting a GWAR fan  
for the Pitt weekend that I can't use.  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  HELP!  TICKET-MART, INC.  club here at ND? If so, call Tris at  
Do you have friends/family/signifi­cant other who can? If so. call  basic conversational English in Prague. Budapest. or Krakow. No  FOR SALE  Student needs Rutgers GA's for family.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  x2174. Long live the Sexecutioner.  
Steven @4-44871 Call now!  teaching certificate or European  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  D-Bucks, T-Bone, Phat-t, 0-Bo, TV,  
Demand is high!  languages required. Inexpensive  Dell Laptop Computer  Call Mark at x1487  232-0061.  AMC  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  Like new, '96 model.  Sons of ND,  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  info. call: (206)971-3680  Orig. cost: $2000.  Rutgers student ticket needed.  $$$$$$  You've come to study as free  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  ext.K55843  Sell $1500.  Please call x3755.  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  men, and free men you are. Make  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  8MB, 100 MHz  ALL HOME GAMES.  the memories, and they will live  
CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO.  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Call233-5114.  NEED 3 RUTGERS TIX  272-6551  free in your hearts forever, make  
Positions are now available at  Call Mike 4-4131  them not and our time here will be  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  National Parks. Forests. & Wildlife  DAVE MATTHEWS BAND  n. d. tickets for sale  erased over the years. You've  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  8 GREAT SEATS  LOW PRICE  STUD TIX 4 Sale  271 1635  fought like warrior poets, you've  
Meals. Free Parties. Taxes! Great  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  Call Soon!!  x1251  ask for Tom  X1413  fought like Irishmen, and made  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  N55849  Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ your memories; now you will be  
Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­ House for Sale by Owner  Stu-conv Pitt GA 4-sale  x-2737  Check our price 67 4-7645.  represented across the 4 quads of  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ 1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded  ND, in the year of our graduation  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Estates.  Walk to Notre Dame. 3  Please help! Need Stu/GAs for Pitt  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers  1997. Your hearts are free, have  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Earn up to $3.000-$6,000+ per  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  Brian@ 243-9405  No std -pref. side In  the courage to follow them. And  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  month. Room and Board!  attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths,  Peter 1-800-746-3755  remember: every man dies, but not  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  Transportation! Male or Female. No  1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ I Have 2 Pitt Student Ga's!l!  every man truly lives!!!  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  experience necessary. Call  ment. ale, disposal, all appliances,  Call x1049  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  Sweet P  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  (206)971-3510 extA55848  Security System. Completely  Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer,  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  refreshed to sell. asking 88,500.  NEED RUTGERS TIX  name and number  NO's jazz quartet  
1-800-678-6386  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday.  Brigitte x4055  THE SOULFUL BOWLFULL  
Mazatlan. Sell15 trips and travel  Call219-295-8727  GA.s FOR SALE  GA.s  seen us at Acoustic?  
Spring Break Panama City!  free plus cash. Lowest Price  WANTED, PAIRS OF GA OR  '"""'""'"'"'PITT,  RUTGERs , USC ,  in need of more?  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ 2 Pitt. G.A's for sale.  STUDENT TIX FOR PITT  GA.s  CALL. ....272-7233.  SATURDAY NOV 16  
Hotel, Location. Price! 7 Nights  ages available. Call Sunbreaks.  B/0  x1308  CALL ALEX @ 232-7324  LULA'S  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  800-446-8355.  !! CHEAP TICKET fl  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  NEEDED:! ROOMATE/TURTLE  TICKETS  NEED 2 PITT TIX. CALL BRENT 4-3662  Pitt Student Ticket $35 Call X4-1473  '''SLF IS COMING."' Start preparing early by coming  to  
ILOST & FOUND I LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED  CRK APTS/2ND SEMICALL 634­2059 Bass Player needed for otherwise complete band. Call Brianx3859  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS.  NEED 2 Ga's or conv Stud Tix Big Reward call Christian x3592  Need Rutgers GA's? 3 for sale@ 277-9957 PERSONAL  the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov. 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom. from 8-10 pm. Come to listen or sign up in the DH to read or play music. All are welcome.  
SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND,  BUY -SELL -TRADE  NEED 1 RUTGERS STD TIX  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT X3677.  Part Time Nanny Needed. Flexible hours. Call273-2713  TICKET-MART, INC.  CALL MICHELE @X2984  FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving  Saturday, Saturday, Saturday ONLY ...  
Tickets needed: 2 Pitt GA's, call  at  ROB "BASE" VEGA LIVE,  
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  MARCO'S PIZZA Marco's Pizza is now hiring Drivers  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Eric at 271-9069.  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  in his first stateside appearance at Jazzmen's Niteclub  
LOST: brown leather London Fog jacket@ library on Nov. 6 Call x2653 HUGE REWARDIIII!IIII  for our 1OOth location. Delivery dri­vers earn $5-$6 per hour plus tips and mileage reimbursed daily ($12­$14 total). Full of Part-time. We are located 1 mile from campus  232-0061. FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394  4 Pitt GA's for sale at cost call Chris Kratovil 243-9118 ask for the SCOTLAND ARTICLE I am looking for a student ticket for  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAXt FAX IT FAST!!! 0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center  Doors open at 10 pm sharp Another fine production by Kern, Kratovil and O'Brien, LTD. One Night Only!!! .................................  
LOST-Columbia ski parka near the at SA 23 and Ironwood. Call for Main Building. Brown, green and immediate interview. black. I really need this back. If 243-1111 found, please return. Dan-x3214 II FORRENTWANTED '--------------1 WALK TO CAMPUS NOW IS THE TIME TO CALL 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m. TIX for every home game.  Pitt game. Call Dylan at X2173 if you have one for sale. Need 1 GA or student ticket for Pitt Call Diana @ 243-9432 ########################## FOR SALE 2 PITT student tix  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm · Sun. Noon -Midnight (closed home football Saturdays)  Roxane, I always shroud my heart with common sense. We go star-gather­ing, and though you never knew.all mine I'd give for your least happi­ness. Christian  
LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFORMATION FOR SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN. JAMAICA AND FLORIDA. REPS NEEDED ...TRAV­EL FREE AND EARN COMMIS­SIONS. 800-838-8203 NOW HIRING: University Sales and Marketing, the leader in on campus employment for college students, is hiring at your school. Marketing and Promotions positions available. Work on campus, Flexible hours.  232-2595 7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full bath, wood floor. wash/dry, vaulted ceil, porch, furniture avail. BEAUTIFUL! 273-2580 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call (301) 445-3955 !@#$%"&'())('&"%$#@! I NEED PITT TICKETS!!! Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to GA... CALL 4-4217 ... !@#$%"&'())("&"%$#@! ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ 4 Rutgers student tix call Jenny @ 687-8435 ########################## NEED-Pitt stdt or GA tix Call Anne 289-4922 NEED Rutgers stdt tix Call Matt 232-3609 NEED Rutgers stdt & GA tix Call Anne 289-4922 For Sale: 2 GAs for Pitt and  TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, PART! EST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETTE All undergrad, grad and faculty interested in presenting their work at the 1997 Sophomore Literary Festival are invited to audition on Tues. Nov. 19 at 8pm in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Please prepare a 5-10 min. reading and submit a written sample of your work. ?'s call Meg at x3025.  It's snowing, it's snowing. God I hate this weather. Now l walk hrough blizzards just to get us back together. Welcome to Notre Dame Theresa, Glen, and the Benedict's boys. Enjoy the visit. Happy Birthday Kev. Next year we do Wheelock. I'm here! Wuz up?!?  


Thursday, November 14, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 


Polite Packers have respect for defending champs 

By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
No boasts, no taunts. The Green Bay Packers are saying all the right things leading to Monday night's showdown with the Dallas Cowboys. 
The Packers, six-time losers at Texas Stadium over the last three seasons, insist they never were among the critics dismiss­ing Dallas for its slow start. 
"How can you write off the defending champions?" half­back Edgar Bennett asked. "Until somebody beats them when it counts, you can't write a team like that off. They still have a lot of firepower." 
Wide receiver Anthony Morgan was in agreement. 
"I know they're not going to be a team to just fold and back down," he said. "Now they're all back together. Now they're jelling." 
With Michael Irvin back from his drug suspension and cor­nerback Kevin Smith and receiver Kevin Williams on the mend, the Cowboys (6-4) are right back in the NFC East race, one game behind Washington and Philadelphia, thanks to last week's victory at San Francisco. 
"We were pretty good, too, about five or six weeks ago," said Packers quarterback Brett Favre. "We still are. But we've 
Bairn· chicka bare-nair! 
Ahhh yeah ... our wallflower is FINALLY 21! 
Happy Birthday! 
Love, your home skillets 
·One 16" Pizza for $14.00 

4toppings per pizza 
taken some big blows." 
Green Bay (8-2} was the NFL's dominant team until receivers Robert Brooks and Antonio Freeman were injured, Then came the loss of Pro Bowl tight end Mark Chmura (heel}, whom Favre calls the best run­blocker in the league. 
It's hard to swagger when you're limping. 
The Packers seemed to be everybody's favorite to win the Super Bowl until Green Bay and Dallas reversed fortunes. 
Defensive tackle Santana Dotson, the Packers' best hope to finally clog Emmitt Smith's running lanes, said he knew it was just a matter of time before the Cowboys returned to their winning ways. 
"The season was young," Dotson said. "Now, they're a game out of first. You know how that goes, a month and a­half of football and you try to write teams off? That's not going to happen. They're not going to go away easily. They're going to go away kicking and screaming." 
After Green Bay had fallen at Kansas City, the Cowboys did the Packers a huge favor in the race for homefield advantage by knocking off the Niners (7­3}. 
"The Cowboys' overtime win is going to give them a momen­tum swing," Doston said. "But they helped us as far a the NFC standings. And that's all that matters. Destiny is in our hands. We have the best record in the NFC and it's up to us to keep it. 
''I'd hate to say I was rooting for the Cowboys. But I appreci­ated the win, I guess." 
There, Dallas, even a thank you. 
Yet, when all the pundits picked Green Bay to win the Super Bowl this year, the Packers realized they were encroaching on the Cowboys' turf. 
"Green Bay's been getting all the press," said safety LeRoy Butler. "They didn't get any preseason hype. We got it all. So they have to respect that. 
"But deep down, you know they think, 'Just the intimidat­ing factor that we beat them six times will put just a little fear into their hearts that we can beat them.' And they're wrong. We're not intimidated by any­body. By anything." 
Favre said the Packers don't even discuss their Texas Stadium skid. 
"There's nothing to talk about, really," he said. "It's a new season. We'll give it anoth­er try. If it doesn't happen, we'll see what happens in the playoffs. I figure if we play them enough that eventually we have to win." 
Happy 19th Birthday 
Pat 

From your 
-· 

• COllEGE fOOTBALL 



Grambling players suspended 
Associated Press 
RUSTON, La. 

Four Grambling football players were suspended from the team Wednesday pending an investigation into an accu­sation that they and a fifth stu­dent raped a 14-year-old girl. 
"All of the individual athletes have been temporarily sus­pended from taking part in in­tercollegiate athletics pending results of charges now being investigated," interim athletic director Wilbert Ellis said in a statement. 
All five were being held in the Lincoln Parish Detention Center Wednesday with bond set at $50,000 each. 
The men were arrested Tuesday and each was charged with one count of forcible rape and one count of aggravated oral sexual battery. -­
Two more suspects were being sought by the university police in connection with the incident. The police did not release their names. 
The rape is alleged to have happened in Grambling, on the university campus after Saturday night's homecoming football game. Those arrested were identified as Michael Gooden, 19, of Calumet City, Ill.; Marlon Jones, 20, of Chicago; Emmitt ·smith, 18, of Athens, Ga.,; Dalin Smith, 19, of Harvey, Ill.; and Christopher Sorrell, 19, of Beaumont, Texas. 
According to Grambling sports information director Vernon Cheek, Gooden, Jones, Emmitt Smith, and Dalin Smith are redshirt players on the Tigers football team; however, Emmitt Smith has seen limited playing time this season. 
Sorrell was on the football team last season but was aca­demically ineligible this year. 
J I 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 



Slugger shipped to Cleveland
Padres' Caminiti 
garners MVP honors 
By RONALD BLUM 
As.~ociared Prl'$S Writer 
NEW YORK 
Ken Caminiti. who led San Diego into the playoffs for the first time in 12 years, became the fourth unanimous winner of the NL Most Valuable Player Award on Wednesday. 
The 33-year-old third base­man became the first Padres player to win the award in the history of the team. 
Jeff' Bagwell (1994). Mike Schmidt (1980) and Orlando Cepeda (1967) were the only othP.r unanimous picks. 
Mike Piazza of Los Angeles was secondfollowed by Ellis Burks of Colorado 
Chipper Jones of Atlanta was fourth (158) and Bat·ry Bonds of San Francisco was lirth (132). 
Caminiti set Padres records with 40 homers. 130 B.Bls and 
a .621 slugging percentage, and led the NL during the sec­ond half in average (.360), homers (28) and RBis (81). 
His most memorable perfor­mance came Aug. 18 at Monterrey, Mexico, where the Padres and Mots were playing the first regular-season games outside of the United States and Canada. 
Battling dehydration and an upset stomach, Caminiti took two liters of intravenous fluid just before the series finale, then hit two homers for four RBis in an 8-0 win over New York. 
He refused to be sidelined by injuries, including a torn left rotator cuff that required post­

. season surgery, a right bam­string strain, a severe groin strain and back trouble. 
And his defense was even more spectacular than in 1995, when he won his first Gold Glove award. 
Caminiti, who had a $3.05 million salary' earned a $100,000 bonus. Andres Galarraga of the Rockies gets a $100,000 bonus for finishing in a sixth-place tie with Florida's Gary Sheffield, and Burks and Jones earned $50,000 each. 
By ROB GLOSTER Associated Press Writer 
SAN FHANCISCO 
Matt Williams. one of baseball's top sluggers, was traded Wednesday by the San Francisco Giants to the Cleveland Indians for infielders Jeff Kent and Jose Vizcaino and reliever Julian Tavarez. 
Williams had 247 homers in 10 years as the Giants' third baseman, including 38 in the strike-shortened 1994 season. But he has missed large por­tions of the last two seasons with injuries. 
In Cleveland, he'll be joining a team that ranked sixth in the majors last season with 218 homers but risks losing top slugger Albert Belle to free agency. 
The Indians have offered a long-term contract to Belle, who plans to visit the Florida Marlins for talks next week. But Cleveland general manager John Hart said if players and owners agree on a new con­tract that includes a luxury tax on salaries -a longshot -the Indians might be unable to re­sign Belle. 

• SPORTS BROADCASTING 
ESPN challanged by CNN and SI 
By JOHN NELSON Associatrd Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Billing itself as "The Sports News Network," CNN-SI will start broadcasting Dec. 12, available in more than 2.5 mil­lion Ameriean homes by satel­lite alone, ensuring it a bigger launch than archrival ESP­NEWS. 
ESPN's entry in the 24-hour all-sports news sweepstakes began Nov. 1 to 1.5 million homes, most of them served by satellite. 
CNN-SI is a collaboration of Ted Turner's Cable News Network, which invented 24­hour all-news TV, and the weekly sports magazine Sports Illustrated, which both fall un­der the Time Warner umbrella since the merger. 
Jim Walton. executive in charge of CNN/SI, said more detailed distribution figures would be announced at launch, with the network expected to gramming each day beginning at 7 a.m. EST. He said CNN-SI would be able to use the re­sources of Sports Illustrated to go behind the scenes. To dra­matize his point, Walton then introduced Sports Illustrated football writer Peter King to the news conference live via satel­lite on a big-screen projection TV, sitting with Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones. 
"What we will be about is sports journalism," Walton said. "We did a lot of research before starting this project, and more than three-quarters of the people we contacted responded that the combination of CNN and Sports Illustrated would be something they could trust." 
While Walton refused to dis­cuss the cost or projected rev­enues of CNN-SI, he did say "Turner has a history of launching networks inexpen­sively, and we will be able to draw on the entire CNN infras­tructure." 
The joint venture is owned 75 percent by CNN, 25 percent by Sports Illustrated, Walton said. 
Walton said CNN-SI has hired 118 people specifically for the network and can draw on the more than 220 employees of CNN-SI in Atlanta and another 100 writers. reporters and edi­tors at Sports Illustrated 
Turner has built a 25,000­square foot studio at CNN Plaza in Atlanta, from which the net­work will originate, and CNN-SI also will have a permanent desk at Sports Illustrated in New York. 
Besides the traditional high­lights and talking heads, Walton said CNN-SI would offer a scores ticker, in depth fea­tures and currently plans to do a daily half hour on interna­tional sports. CNN-SI also plans to counter program the half­time shows of big events, such as the Super Bowl or Final Four, with event-oriented news programming. 
"At any rate, we're excited to have Matt Williams. We feel he will help us achieve our goal: to keep a championship contend­ing ballclub," Hart said. "We didn't want be in a position where we were shut out of a hitter of this magnitude, a bat of this magnitude who has hit in the middle of the order and produced." 
The Giants went 68-94 last season. the third-worst record in baseball. Their most glaring needs appear to be starting pitching and a first baseman. "We realize we gave up a four­time all-star who has been with the organization since day one, but we feel very good about the players we got in return," Sabean said. "We're on our way to doing other things be­cause of this deal. In a perfect world, we probably would have done other things lirst, specili­cally first base." 
As part of the deal, the Giants will send Cleveland a player to be named and the Indians will give San Francisco a player to be named and-or cash. 
Sabean said five teams had expressed interest in Williams, whose health was cheeked by Indians doctors before the trade was made Wednesday morning. 


pick up several million homes at least from Time Warner's 
Appearing LIVE at the own 11.5 million-home cable system. lMLihliJ)IT~ (D)N (0)1f~TIEIR Iffi.&IR 
"We have put a lot of effort 

402 EAST MADISON 
into this project. there's been a lot of thought behind it," SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288·3776 Walton said. "And I've got to tell you, we will differentiate Thursday, November 14,Yard Squad ourselves in the marketplace." 
Friday, November 15, Merle Perkins
Walton said not all Time 

Saturday, November 16,
Warner cable systems, includ­ing its largest single operation Jim Cummings & Enigma in New York City, had guaran­
3:00p.m.-3:00a.m.

teed they would immediately carry CNN-SI, although most are expected to give it channel NATIONAL &REGIONAL ACTS dearance. 
HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID
At the start. CNN-SI will be simulcast on CNN, giving it an initial potential audience of 70 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD till1 a.m.
million homes.Without ever 
Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
mentioning the competition by name, it was clear at the news conference that CNN-SI wants to accentuate the differences WEDNESDAYS: open nne Jam rather than the inevitable simi­
THURSDAYS: reggae
larities with ESPNEWS. "Sports fans want highlights, FRIDAYS: blues and they will get them on CNN­
SATURDAYS:
SJ," Walton said. "But high­
classic rock-alternative · retro
lights is not what we are about." national and regional acts Walton said CNN-SI would concentrate on storytelling, with 19 hours of live pro­
Thursday, November 14, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


----~ ---~--~~ ~~ --~ ----~------­
Thursday,November 14, 1996
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU COULD LIVE LONGER. 
~STREGULARLYSOYOU 
CAN AFFORD TO. 


Bearcats get No. 1 nod behind Fortson 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press Wrircr 
CINCINNATI Depth. Defense. Danny Fortson. 
The Cincinnati Bearcats know all the reasons why they're ranked No. 1 heading into the season. They also know what the top ranking will mean when they take the court -every opponent will be gunning for them. 
The only thing they're not sure about is whether they'll act thn part of top cat in the first few weeks. It takes a while to get accustomed to coach Bob Huggins' furious defense and demanding schemes. 
"I'd say it takes a good two months," said Fortson. a junior power forward who averaged 27.5 points and 9.6 rebounds last season. "Especially here. You don't jump right into this and be fully adjusted. It's a lot of pressure." 
What Fortson is saying is that the team that opens the season No. 1 should get better as it goes along. If the Bearcats givn up the top spot. it probably will be sooner rather than latnr. 
That's thn way Huggins' tPams have played traditional­ly: rocky at first, rock-solid late in the season. The Bearcats have won their last five conference tournaments -four in the Great Midwest and the inaugural Conference USA'tournament last season. 
They've been to the NCAA tournament the last five years, going to the Final Four in 1992. They came up one game short of the Final Four last season. losing to Mississippi Stale in the Southeast Regional to finish 28-4. 
Cincinnati ranked No. 1 for the first time in 34 years because it has two starters back -Fortson and Damon Flint -along with leading reserve Darnell Burton. Filling in the gaps is onn of the best junior college recruiting class­es in the country. featuring forward Huben Patterson. 
Junior Jackson Julson, who has been InJury-prone throughout his career, takes over at center, and junior col­legn transfers D'Juan Baker and Charles Williams are com­peting at point guard. 
Huggins thinks the pieces will fit nicely in time. 
"We're not as good early as some people because we're not as traditional," Huggins said. "We do different things. As our guys catch on and con­tinue to improve their skills and knowledge, we get bet­
./ Used, rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.00 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 50'/o 
Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 
Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
ter." 

The first big test of their No. 1 ranking could come Dec. 4, when they play Kansas, ranked No. 2 in preseason, in Chicago. There's also a game Nov. 26 against crosstown rival Xavier. 
The Bearcats were ranked as high as No. 3 last season. The holdovers have an idea of what it means to take the court as a team that everyone wants to knock off. 
"And that's going to be good," Fortson said. "We need to be marked men. We need to have people coming after us so we can go out and play as hard as we can to win and get better as a team." 
Flint thinks the junior col­lege transfers will learn quick­ly that a lot of pressure comes with lofty rankings. 
"I don't think they realize that right now," he said. "After that first game, I think they'll know they have their work cut out for them." 
P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D 
S~hicJlts ffl head of the class 
By JIM O'CONNELL .\sso<;\ated PrC$$ Wtiter 

Fourn:~mbers of.last year's preseason All-America team went on to earn the same honor in the postseason. Tim Duncan has to be hOping that trend continues. 
The 6-f9ot-10 senior center from Wake Forest was one of those four players recognized last season, and on Wednesday he was the only unanimous choice for this year's AP pre­season team. 
Duncan, the leading vote-get­ter on ~l:),st year's preseason team, averaged 19.lpoints a.nd 
12.3 rebounds as a junior. He was named on all 68 ballots by a nationwide media panel. 
Joining him on the preseason All·Arnerica team were Utah forward Keith Van Horn, who was named on 63 ballots, Cincinnati forward Danny Fortson ~fj()), Kan$as guard, Jacque Vaughn (47) and Stanford guard Brevin Knight (43). 
Three .()tiler players from last year'spt~season team also 
.... ::A~::·:: 

went on to receive postseason honors .~ Kerry Kittles of Villanova. Ray Allen of' Connecticut and Marcus Camby of Massachusetts. 
Oklahoma's Ryan Minor was selected to last year's presea­.son team, but Allen Iverson of Georgetown was the fifth mem~ her of the All-America team. 
Duncan averaged 3.8 blocks last season as the Demon Deacons went 26-6 and won the Atlantic Coast Conference title for the second straight year. 
Four starters return from the team that came within one win of the Final Four. and 
Associated Press 1996-97 Preseason All-American Basketball Team 
Tim Duncan (Sr. center) Keith Van Hom (Sr. forward) Danny Fortson (Jr. forward) Jacque Vaughn (Sr. guard) Brevin Knight (Sr. guard) 
Duncan's decision to hold off on the NBA was met with noth­ing but cheers on the Wake Forest campus. 
"I never thought he was leaving," Wake Forest coach Dave Odom said. 
"He was looking for reasons to sustain what he wanted to do anyway. 
Where the reverse of that is usually true, most of them want to leave. they see the money so they look for reasons to sustain that. 
"He wanted to stay. in my opinion, and he looked for all the reasons to justify that and it was easy to ilnd them." 

RET I REM EN T I NV EST I N G 
Wake Forest Utah· Cincinnati Kansas Stanford 


Americ~ns are l~ving longer than ever. So it's quite 
poss1ble you II spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'll need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyle you'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or research. 
SRAs are, easy. No pain, no sweat. 
The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to s.tart at a level that's comfortable and add to your reg•men as you go along. 
~ith TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contnbute through your employer's payroll system. You 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
l. StanJarJ c.:/ PMrj huuran_« &ting.Ana.~Y-'U, 1995; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lippcr·Dir«IIH'J'Analytical Data, 1995 (Qu.anerly). 
For more t:omplete mformahon, mcluding charges and expenses, all I 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a proapectua. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or &end money. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc., diatributea CREI-~ certificate&. 
can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses.1 
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 
~-------~ 


.. 

Thursday, November 14, 1996
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 




Angry Eagle flies away due to false accusations 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
A..sociated Press Writer 

BOSTON 
Boston College cornerback Kiernan Speight, accused but exonerated in the gambling scandal that led to the suspen­sion of 13 teammates, said Wednesday he will not return to the team. 
"Right now, I think the door's been shut as far as I'm con­eerned," he said during a news eonference at the office of at­torney John McBride. 
''I'm going to go ahead and move on with my life and try to finish the semester out and put the whole thing behind me and try to start anew somewhere." 
The BC sophomore was among four players confronted by the team's captains and coach Dan Henning during a contentious meeting following the Eagles' Halloween night loss to Pittsburgh. 
The other three players wer~ among those suspended by the school. but Speight was not. He feels he is entitled to an apology from the school and an expla­nation about how his name wound up on a list of players suspected of gambling. 
Henning said he has tried to get in touch with Speight but hasn't been able to reach him. While not apologizing, the coach has stressed that no member of the coaching staff ever accused Speight of any­thing. 
"If BC didn't put it on a list, who put it on there?" Speight asked. 
Speight ~kipped last week's game against Notre Dame, say­ing he couldn't concentrate on football after seeing his name besmirched. After going home to Washington to think about it some more, he decided not to finish the year. 
"It's just a shame that inno­cent people have become in­volved," captain Omari Walker said before Wednesday's prac­tice. "I feel bad for him." 
Walker said he had lunch Tuesday with Speight and tried to talk him into returning. 
"I apologized for my role in the whole thing," Walker said. "What we were just trying to do was get to the root of the prob­lem." 
'I think it's more than Omari Walker," he said. "He's a play­er on a team just like I am. Obviously he has to answer to someone and he just doesn't make decisions affecting the whole team, somebody is above him who makes these decisions. I don't see it being Omari Walker's fault." 
The school has announced that all 13 players who were suspended will miss the final two games of the season, against Temple on Saturday and the following Saturday at Miami. 
Henning has said that two player's who bet against BC will never be allowed to return to the team. The school could ask the NCAA to reinstate the rest. 

Boston College lost a defensive back despite the pleas of the captain. 
Irish pummel Aussies 
Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team continued their pre-season last night with a 105-75 win over the Australian Junior National Team. 
Junior forward Pat Garrity racked up 23 points and 10 rebounds to lead the way. 
Center Phil Hickey also got into the fun of double-doubles with a 13 point, 10 rebound effort in just 17 minutes. 
The Domers lead by just seven at the half but then went on a 10-1 run over a four minute span. 
Guards, Antoni Wyche and Admore White drained back to back threes to get things rolling. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be offeringDrop-In Volleyball on Tues., Dec. 3, and Dec. 10, from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. For more mformation call 1­6100. 
Late Night Olympic Steering Committee ­Anyone interested in serving on the Late NightOlympic Steering Committee, please call Kara at 1-8237. 
Off-Campus Volleyball ­Anyone mterested in playing off-campus inter­hall volleyball please call Greg at 273-9553. 
The squad took a 66-45 lead with 13:05 remaining and kept the 20-plus lead for much of the remainder of the contest. 
White, a senior point guard, chipped in 11 and was solid behind the arc dialing 3-4 from long-distance. 
Freshman David Lalazarian made his presence felt with 15 points. 
Senior center Matt Gotsch and sophomore forward Gary Bell did not dress due to injuries. 
The team also announced that, as expected, recruits Martin Ingelsby, Hans Rasmussen and Leviticus Williamson signed National let­ters of intent. 
Men 
continued from page 20 

and it's other runners are usu­ally not far behind the pace­setter. 
Michigan State was the District's other qualifier last year, along with Notre Dame. The Spartans do not have a strong front-runner, but finish as a pack. At the Big 10 meet, all five Michigan State runners finished within 13 seconds of each other. 
The University of Michigan beat Notre Dame at the Notre Dame Invitational on October 
4. The Wolverines are similar to the Irish, because it is strong with its first three runners but the four and five finishers have been inconsistent. 
The two other schools in the hunt for Arizona, Illinois and Ohio University, have been "running exceptionally well," according to Piane. The Fighting Illini have had three different runners finish first for the team. Notre Dame finished ahead of lllinois at the pre­Nationals. 
The Ohio University Bobcats are also strong. The Mid­American conferences' top run­ner could pose a problem for the Irish. 
"The Big East meet was a wake-up call," said Piane. "We should have won the meet but we didn't. We have to figure out what went wrong and fix it. Our success will be how well our four and five finishers do." 
The Irish hope its four and five finishers fare well, or there could be no tomorrow. 
Women 
continued from page 20 


seven of the girls running Saturday can realistically be our top five." 
Freshman Erin Lubey and Junior Janel Kiley round out the top seven for the Irish with Freshman Denise Bakula in the alternate spot. 
"If we run as consistent as we have been all year, there is no reason why we shouldn't be in Arizona on November 23rd," Connelly predicted. 
Please 1-"ec~cle 
he Obse~ve~ 

ADVERTISEMENT 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
........ ;_Q····~····o·· SPORJSiffKEND o_·=~::_r:~=~:al 
15 16 17 
HOCKEY/V FOOTBALL/V CROSS· 
MEN'S SOCCER/V VS. FERRIS STATE VS. PITTSBURGH COUNTRY/V BIG EAST STADIUM, 1:30PM
JACC, AT NCAA SEMIFINALS/FINALS 7:00PM DISTRICT IV MEET PISCATAWAY, NJ
(TV: NBC, 1:30PM) 

MEN'S CHAMPAIGN, lL
WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/V BASKETBALL/V SOCCER/V VOLLEYBALL/V AT ST. JOHN'S, 2:00PM VS. KENT BIG EAST AT CONNECTICUT HOCKEY/V 
SEMIFINALS/FINALS 2:00PM
JACC, 4 PM VS. MANKATO ST., JACC, PISCATAWAY, NJ 
2PM 

W /BASKETBALL/V 
AT WNIT TOURNAMENT 
Let your N/KE student rep know the time and location ofyour events for next month. Reach her at: col/een.henshaw@nike.com. 


MIKE PETERS 

CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
YOUR RESUr"\E LOOK'S GOODJ 50... '<OU'RE LOOKING BUT WE COULD ONLY PAY FOR A BRILLIANT HALF OF WHAT YOU'RE ENGLNt.ER Wl-\0 IS MAKING NOW. ARE YOU ACTI\JEL'< SEEKING INTERESTED? 
A PAY CUT'? 
\ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~ 
57 Father fmch. m 


·­
33-Across? 
59 Seafood entree 
60 Popular Chnstmas gift 61 "--Bones Gwine-ter R1se Again" (old song) 
62 Psalms and Proverbs, e g .. Abbr. 
63 Copped 
DOWN 
1 First name in 
folk 2 Extra bright 3 Andean land 

Abbr. 4 "Exodus" hero s Put the lid back 
on 6 Not straight 1 Newswoman 
Poussaint 8A.S.A.P. 

43 Anatomical ring 50 Bouquets, to wine 
45 Ad salesmen connoisseurs have them: 53 Doing, so to speak Abbr. 54 Asian unit of 
46 Eyeopeners weight 48 Weight 55 In--(actually) allowances 57 Writing tip 49 Smart one 58 Bother, with "at" 
Wanted: Reporters, 

photographers
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 

and editors. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Thursday, November 14, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Setf-uouhh evaporate. A job change early in IYY7 means greater finan­cial security. Concentrate on devel­oping a rewarding family life. Your self-relianl nalllre and leadership 4ualities will receive new allention 
next spring. Give innovatjn~ idea~ a 
fair hearing. A personal relationship soars to exciting heights in June of '97. A wedding could take place the following fall. Travel abroad to drum up new business. The people you meet will inspire you' 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: basketball player Jack Sikma. musician Yanni. painter Claude Monet. actress Laura San Giacomo. 
'ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make certain a decision does not backfire. Cut to the chase: lower expenses. A romantic interlude is best postponed while you take care of essential domestic tasks. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: Influential people favor you with their confidences. Be aware that they may be picking your brain. Pro­tect your ideas and resources. espe­cially if working on a secret projecl. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Career developments come fast and furious. Pace yourself. Minor busi­ness gains ran be turned into major advances. Focus on romance tonight. Dining in a cozy restaurant will encourage a loved one to relax and open up. 
CANCER iJune 21 -July 221: An
scorr ADAMS 

excellent day at both home and 
work. Although bargains abound. 
u 

shop carefully. This is no time to run 
. 0 

WELL, 'YOU 
up big bills. Keep any negative
.SUCH AS MY

. HA.'VE TO thoughts to yourself: others may use 
u 

them against you.
SA\liNGS
~ 

CON5IDER 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Others admire your style. Be bold. Dre" regally for social events, conserva­
"' ~ ACCOUNT IF
THE MA.NY 
I WOI\KED

INTA.NGIBLE.S. 
1-\ER.E.? 
\ 

~------------~~~~~~~~~--------_.~~ 
CROSSWORD 
JEANE DIXON 

tl\el~ flu hu .... inL'"" 1uncllon,. lru~. vour inner voice wllL'l\.' a clo"e rela~ iionship i~ concerned 
VIRGO IAug. D-S~pt 22> Silo­lings draw clo~er tcH . .'.L'ther. A finan­ci;~J prohtem pnn·e, surprising!) easy w solve. Sa/vag111g a relarion­
ship will be more laxing. Find oul \Vherc yoUJ money gtle..,. 
LIBRA (Sept. 2:1-0ct. 22): Be prepared to change Jhe direction of your career or hu~ine~:-.. Variety muy be more imp011ant to customers than n1u realize. Tell subordinates whal 
)'ou are looking for. 
SCORPIO !Oct. 2.>-Nov. 21 ): You can exert a positive inlluence on children by setting a good exam­ple. Avoid discussing pri,·ate maners in public. Be a good friend to your mate. 
SAGITTARIUS tNov. 22-Dec 2I): A new pet will delight the entire family. Encourage children to partic­ipate in its care and feeding. Some­thing you thought lost forever turns up in an unusual place. 
CAPRICORN t Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changing your "ork environ­ment will make you more produc­tive. Think about busin2 new book­ca_,es or shell i~g " Although romance cools, a ne\\ friendship begins. Avoid doing anything that could upset a delicate balance of power. 
AQUARIUS (Jan 20-Feb. 18): Take a wait-and-\.ee attitude in romance. A casual relationship could deepen into true love. Be more toler­am of Your friends-foihles. Thev may find some of your habits just .;, irritating' 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Not a good day to give advice or lay 
down the law. Someone who is a 
friend wants a more romantic rela­
tionship. Proceed onl\· if you are 
truly interested' Otherwise. a\·oid 
arotising false hopes. 
9 Hater 10 Confirmation and others 11 Aphrodite's amour 12 "You-­

kidding!" 14 "I haven't--" 16 Mitch of 60's 
rock 21 No longer 
stocking 221nkling 23 Orch. leaders 24 Gov. Landon 25 Russian for 
"peace" 


•tre 
26 Princess' tormentor 30 Fishing basket 31 Atmospheric: Prefix 
32Villa-­34 Stand 35 Words on a 
freshness label 36 Revivalist, for short 37 Skylark or 
Eagle, e.g. 38 Divs. of a day 41 Jeer 42 Wan 

ACROSS 
1 Close m on. old-style 6 P•oneer Dada1st 9 Command m a western 
13 Played 
15 Sea duck 
11 The king has 
drowned, in 33-Across? 18 Yarn 19 --whim 20 She. to Chane! 21 Spread 22 Stable fare, in 33-Across? 24 Bulbous glass vessel 21 Sports finales, for short 28 Gibraltar, e.g.: Abbr. 29 Statutory-­

JO Paddled 33 Th1s puzzle· s theme 39 Con men, in slang 
40 Cauterize 
41 Baths 
44 Whisky 
Rebellion suppressor 45 Noted family of philanthropists 
47 Drag Miss DuBois to dinner, in 33-Across? 
51 Her cow set Chicago ablaze, 1871 
52 Buggy 
53 Cousin of a Comanche 56 Naturalists' 
study 








SPORTS 
page 20 Thurday, November 14, 1996 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish Harriers headed into all important districts 
Men set for 'dogfight' in Illinois 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
The season is coming to a dose for the men's cross-coun­try team and each meet is start­ing to mean a lot more. This weekends' match is the most important meet of the season. 
This Saturday, the Irish travel to Champaign, Illinois to run in the NCAA District IV meet. The harriers will be hoping for in hopes of one of the three quali­fying slots for the NCAA cham­pionships on November 25. 
"It's going to be a dogfight," said coach Joe Piane. "Like the 


-
The Triumverate of Althoff, Seiling, and Rexing lead the Irish pack. 
Big East meet, this is one I would pay to see. There are six teams ranked between eight and thirty, nationally. That's 20% of the ranked teams. It's going to be a great meet." 
The Irish have been running well against tough competition in its recent meets. Notre Dame ran in seventh place at the Arizona Invitational, but a somewhat disappointing fourth at the Big East championships. 
Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling, and Jason Rexing have contin­ually been close to the head of the pack in their races. The trio has consistently put the Irish in a position to win. Unfortunately for Notre Dame the four and five finishers have not been as consistent as the front runners. Althoff and Seiling have traded places in leading the Irish to the finish line while Rexing has been hot on their heels. All three were all-Big East selections. 
"Rexing, Seiling, and Althoff have run consistently," said Piane. "Everyone else has got to step up a notch." 
Six teams, including the Irish, will be fighting for the three qualifying spots. Wisconsin is the defending meet champion. The Badgers' number one fin­isher should be in the top three at the meet according to Piane, 
see MEN I page 18 

• MEN's BASKETBALL 


Gottlieb receives his sentence 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 
As his former team was facing the Australian national team, Doug Gottlieb was facing St. Joseph Superior Court Judge William Albright. Albright dished out the former Notre Dame point guard's sentence for running up over $900 on classmates' credit cards. 
The judge placed Gottlieb on probation for one year after sus­pending a one-year sentence. Gottlieb will be allowed to serve his probation in his home town of Tustin, California. 
In addition Gottlieb has been ordered to pay a $500 fine and to continue counseling. His attorney mentioned that he has already made $800 in restitution. 
The formally highly touted fresh­man replied "Yes" when asked if he displayed "unauthorized con­trol" over his classmates' credit cards. 
Although pleading guilty to a felony charge of theft, Gottlieb was convicted of a misdemeanor. He is now attending Golden West Junior College in Huntington Beach, Ca but he is not expected to join the basketball team. 
But that does not rule out bas­ketball in his future as his attorney mentioned, "From what I've been told he's been contacted by some major colleges." 


The Observer/Sarah O'Conner 

Kelly Peterson hopes her team can earn a slot in the NCAA meet. 
Women's squad set to accomplish goals 
By MARIO ARCE Sports Writer 
At the start of this fall's cross country season head women's coach Tim Connelly had a few goals for his team, number one to become a nationally ranked team ( The Irish are ranked 19th) and number two, qualify for the NCAA championships by fin­ishing among the top two teams in the NCAA District IV meet. The Irish contingent will get their chance to achieve their second goal this Saturday at the District meet in Champagne, Illinois. 
The Irish are the second seeded team going into Saturday's meet, behind only the University of Wisconsin who are currently ranked ninth in the NCAA's. 
"There are live teams that have a realistic shot at the second place spot." Conolly observed. "Wisconsin should win the meet, as we should battle with Bowling Green, Michigan and Ohio State" 
Led consistently throughout the year by the Freshman duo of Joanna Deeter and Nicole Laselle the Irish need only to maintain their three, four and five runners to qualify. 
"At the pre-national meet in Arizona we had our top two runners in before Wisconsin's number one runner," said Connelly. "The top seven run­ners at our first meet will be the same runners competing this Saturday; not too many times can say the same." 
Finishing out of the top at the district meet would not completely eliminate them from the national meet. There are six at large berths given throughout thn nation for teams finishing out of their automatic qualifying stan­dard. If the Irish were to fin­ish third on at large berth would more than likely be granted due to the teams rela­tively high national ranking. If the Irish were to finish out of qualifying all together, the NCM grants the top three in­dividuals on a non qualifying team to advance to nationals. 
Mieke Walsh, Kelly Peterson and I leidi Heichenbach look to be key players at Saturday's meet as they have consistently ran in the top live the entire year. 
"Our top seven have been looking exceptionally well in workouts," said Connelly. "All 
see WOMEN I page 18 
vs. Ferris State, 
vs. Pittsburgh, 


• Matt Williams swapped to Tribe
~ Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 

SPORTS 
~ November 16, 1:30 p.m. 
see page 14
District Meet, 
~. vs. Indiana,
ATA 
~ November 16
.-November 17, l p.m. 

• BC player leaves 
'.' 
vs. Connecticut, 

at Connecticut, 
(.r,.­
see page 18
November 16


GL~ANCE 

@) November 16, 2 p.m . 





