
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 28 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ELECTION '96 
The Observer/Sarah O'Connor 
E.J. Dionne inaugurated the Barbara Hinkle Scholarship Series with a speech on the 1996 Presidential Election. 
Political change on horizon 

By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 

Washington Post columnist E.J. Dionne believes the 1996 election will produce a fundamental change in politics. 
As the inaugural speaker in the Barbara Hinkle Scholarship Series, Dionne discussed how the events of the last 30 years and especially the last four have put the United States on the verge of a politi'cal transformation. He said Americans will start asking themselves where they want government smaller and where they do not. 
"People got tired of a debate that was entirely about the past," Dionne said. Hecent political battles have been a fight between the permissiveness of the 1960's and the selfishness of the 1980's. 
"Americans saw politics dissolving into a series of false choices," he said. Between the Nixon and the Bush presi­dencies, the country witnessed a conser­vative era that saw its heyday during the Heagan years and collapsed with the 1992 election. 
Dionne said several things contributed to the change in the way Americans view politics, including the rapidly changing economy. 
As the Buchanan campaign illustrated, internationalism sparks insecurity. 
Once, workers moved from the farm to the factory; now they are moving from the factory to the information superhigh­way, he said. 
Dionne said the typical Democratic claim that the Reagan tax cuts are to blame for the increasing wage inequality is incorrect. Instead, the growing dis­crepancy in compensation for high skill and low skill work has been influential. 
One area in which Dionne agrees with Republican Bob Dole is the need to address the American moral crisis. Changes in gender equality have affect­ed the make-up of the work force, creat­ing a conflict between work and child care in families. 
Dionne pointed out several major mis­takes in the last four years made by both parties. President Clinton failed in his attempts to establish health care, wel­fare, and political reform, all of which were staples of his 1992 campaign. 
The Republicans made eight major mistakes, Dionne said. They assumed 1994 was an ideological mandate and that they could make major cuts without campaigning about them. 
The Republicans also announced that they controlled Washington. By falsely assuming that a government shutdown 

see ELECTION I page 4 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 

Child: Boarding schools strengthened family ties 
By SHANNON RYAN News Writer 
As the first week of October rolls around, many Saint Mary's students are experiencing the pangs of home­sickness. However, yesterday after­noon in Stapleton Lounge, students and faculty gathered to listen to lec­turer Dr. Brenda Child's insightful sto­ries of Native-American boarding schools and the problems that they encountered ranging from long-term homesickness to death. 
Beginning the celebration of Multicultural Week, Child, a professor at the University of Minnesota, deliv­ered her lecture, "Boarding Schools and the Native-American Families." 
Born on a Chippewa Indian Reservation, Child has a personal relationship to the lives of the children who attended these schools. She can attribute many of her grandmother's stories, both humorous and depress­ing, to life at the boarding schools. 
After a compulsory law was passed 
see MULTI I page 4 
• HAlL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 

Vermin fly high with Hall Spirit 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
And now the results you've been waiting for ... the winners of the Alumni-Senior Club's Hall Spirit Day were announced at the Hall Presidents' Council Meeting last night. 
Carroll Hall won with 76.4 percent of its' residents participating. Fisher Hall finished second place with 70.2 percent and St. Edward's Hall fin­ished third with 49.2 percent involve­ment. O'Neill finished last in the competition with zero residents par­ticipating. 
Freshman J.R. Mellin announced the Keenan Hall Trick-or-Treating activity being planned for Halloween. Each dorm will carve pumpkins and set the jack-o-lanterns in front of the dorms while children from the Boys and Girls Club go from dorm to dorm trick-or-treating. Keenan will pro­vide the candy, pumpkins and t­shirts. 
Students for Life President Maureen Kramlich announced the agenda for Respect Life Week. Activities for the nationally recog­nized event include the Life Chain on Sunday, Oct. 6 at 2:30p.m., a Pro-life Rosary at the Grotto at 6:45 p.m. on Monday, Oct.7, and several speakers and performances throughout the week. 
Details and a suggested schedule were announced for Freshman Class Council elections. Each dorm needs to elect their Freshman Class Council Representative by Oct. 8. The newly elected representatives will attend 
see HPC I page 4 



Officials: Diversity must remain College priority 
Editor's Note: In light of Multicultural Week at Saint Mary's College, this is the sec­ond in a series exploring diver­sity in the College . 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Ediwr 
Statistics define an over­whelming majority of Saint Mary's women to be Catholic, Caucasian, with a middle-to upper-class background. 
The question then remains: is the Saint Mary's education con­
ducive to  the needs  of  all  
women'?  
When  the  College  went  

through its reaccreditation process in 1986, the North Central Association site visit report stated, "Saint Mary's is homogeneous in religion, race, socioeconomic status, academic preparation and aptitude. It is observed that a more diverse student body would be educa­tionally beneficial, and that Saint Mary's has an obligation to serve a broader spectrum of women." 
Following the release of that report, College President William Hickey appointed a diversification task force, which established the Office of Multicultural Affairs along with admissions office programming focused towards recruiting minority students. 
Now, in the ten years since those actions, minority enroll­ment crept up from 2.4 in 1987 percent to 6.8 percent in 1995, according to the College Fact Book. 
"We've seen a steady increase in the progress of the enroll­ment of students of color," said Maricela Ramirez, director of multicultural affairs. 
However, one criticism exists is that, while the College has lit­tle control over students' final college decision, it does hold a considerable amount of power regarding the faculty it recruits and hires. 

Yet the faculty maintains the same homogeny. Of the instruc­tional staff and faculty, 1995 fig­ures state that only 3.5 percent of full-time instructional faculty and staff and 15 percent of part­time instructional staff and fac­ulty as being minorities. 
"In more concrete terms, as a person of color, you cannot see yourself reflected in the class­room, and in terms of faculty, administration, or the Board of Trustees," said Ramirez. "The fact that this is a white, middle­class culture is expressed in so many ways." 

"We're making an effort to change that," she continued. 
While the primary focal point of diversification in the College has been in the area of student population, Ramirez states that, in order to attract minority stu­dents, the College must boast a diverse faculty. 
"We certainly have made steady progress over the years, however, the College is not addressing the diversity of facul­ty as much as it should," said Ramirez. "While we have been attracting more students of color, we need to attract more faculty and administrators of color as well." 
Ramirez stresses that, in addi­tion to a slow but steady increase in numbers of minority enrollment, more importantly, attitudes on campus have been modified to be conducive to diversity. 
"We have created an enviro­ment that is more respectful, by bringing people together in awareness of what diversity can accomplish," said Hamirez. "This transformation has occurred in classroom curricu­lum, as well as the overall cam­pus climate and attitudes." 
However, with statistics con­tinuing to reflect the need for greater diversity in population, Ramirez said, "We need to make more of a commitment to diver­sity. This is a critical issue we must invest our resources in." 
As the American society beyond the college campus cul­ture moves towards increased diversity, many question if this misproportion will sufficiently prepare graduates to meet the challenges of a multicultural society. 
The 1986 report stated, "Diversification is important to the quality and even the very survival of Saint Mary's." 
see DIVERSITY I page 4 


~-------~-~---­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Overzealous ushers and too n1uch -work 
I'm bitter. Russ Williams 
What's so bothersome 
Assistant News Editor 
are the chaotic conditions in the stands at the game this weekend. These con­ditions weren't brought on by rude and drunk fans. It's the ushers. 
My roommates and I have seats in Section 
30. I've been here for three years, and I fully realize that the chances of sitting in my actual seat are pretty slim. While trying to find a place to sit, I was accosted and harassed on at least ten different occasions by ushers telling me to get out of the aisle. 
The line "Get to your seats or you'll be eject­ed" resonated in my ears until I fmally found a place to settle down. One usher ripped an unlit cigarette from behind my friend's ear. Is that in the job description? 
An usher told me to get back to my seat or I'd be asked to leave, so I fmally asked, "Where the heck am I supposed to go? Do you want to go tell everyone to sit in their assigned seats?" His inane response was. "Well, that's not my fault. They're your friends." That's exactly right. I personally invited all10,000 or so stu­dents and told them to sit in seats that weren't theirs. What an idiot. 
When you have a large crowd, it is necessary to take the necessary precautions in the event of an emergency, and these precautions include keeping people out of the aisles. However, the shoddy work of the usher staff and inconsistencies in policies, lack of control, and other stuff really needs to be corrected, and probably won't be. 
Another thing that bothers me is the new attention drawn to an alleged alcohol abuse problem on campus. Campus groups have made this the hot topic of discussion, and it comes after a report by Harvard University naming Notre Dame as the number one school for binge drinking. If I were an administrator or any faculty member, I'd be mad too. This great University doesn't need that distinction, and the powers-that-be have worked very hard for this school to attain national academic prominence. 
I wonder if the people who cite this Harvard study are also aware that there is some study floating around out there that says Notre Dame has the heaviest workload among national uni­versities. 
The students here are overworked, no matter how you look at it. That's not necessarily a bad thing, because being overworked will prepare us all for the real world. But what is odd is that nobody examining the issue has men­tioned this fact. You don't need to have a Ph.D. to see a direct correlation. Students at Notre Dame work hard and don't sleep very much during the week, and when the weekend comes, more than a few alleviate their stress by getting trashed. Maybe professors can stop giving us so much work. 
An increase in drinking by people between the ages of 18-22 is not exclusively a Notre Dame thing, it's a national trend. Here's a message for the people looking to find a way to minimize alcohol abuse at Notre Dame: don't be ignorant and simply focus on the selected facts when addressing the alcohol issue, because you'll never fmd the answers you're looking for. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOI.lAY'S STAFF 
News Production Jillian Pagloicca Belle Bautista Kelly Brooks John Hutchinson 
Sports Accent Dan Cavato Ashleigh Thompson Joe Wider Lab Tech Graphics Brandon Candura Jon King 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Supreme Court justices to decide right-to-die dispute 
WASHINGTON <7~~~~-=~~~--~~--~--~~~~~--=---~ 
The Supreme Court today agreed to decide whether states may ban doctor-assisted suicides, setting the stage for a momentous ruling in the national debate over the "right to die." 
The justices said they will review feder­al appeals court rulings that let doctors in New York and Washington state prescribe life-ending drugs for mentally competent patients who are terminally ill and no longer want to live. 
A decision by the nation's highest court is expected sometime by July. 
The 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in March struck down a Washington state law that barred doctor-assisted suicide, ruling that the law violates due process rights. 
By an 8-3 vote, the appeals court said the ban is unconstitutional "insofar as (it) prohibits physicians from prescribing life­ending medication for use by terminally ill, competent adults who wish to hasten their own deaths." 
In the New York case, the 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in April struck down two laws that barred doctor-assist­ed suicide, ruling that they unconstitution­ally failed to treat people equally. 
It is discriminatory, the appeals court 
L__________
said, to refuse to let terminally ill patients Source: Hemlock Society USA _______________A_P_/-Am-y-Kra_n_jz 
end their lives with medication while allowing other dying patients to end their lives by granting their requests that life-support systems be disconnected. 
Both states appealed. 
Yeltsin requests military funding 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin, intent on avoiding a political crisis while he is hospitalized, indicated Tuesday he wants more government funding for Russia's angry, cash-strapped military. Yeltsin addressed the sensitive issue during a meeting with Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin at the Central Clinical Hospital, where the ailing 

president has been staying since Sept. 13. The Kremlin says he is working two to three hours a day under a lim­ited work schedule imposed by doctors. Footage aired on Russian television showed Yeltsin dressed in a sweater and slacks, speaking slowly but clearly as he sat along­side the prime minister. "I am asking to have the gov­ernment meet and look into the question of financing of the armed forces," he said. 
Ex-shrink, wife found slain 

ENGLEWOOD, N.J. 
Police responding to a 911 call from a screaming woman found a retired psychiatrist and his wife stabbed to death in their home. Their son was charged with killing them, police said today. Police could hear only the woman's hysterical screaming during the call before the line went dead early Monday. Authorities tracked the call to the home of Dr. DeWitt Crandell and his wife, Marion. A neighbor gave a description of a man she saw flee the house and jump the backyard fence. Police seized the couple's 30-year-old son, DeWitt Crandell Jr., in woods a mile away about two hours later. He was wearing a bloody shirt, The New York Times reported today. DeWitt Crandell Jr., 30, was charged late Monday night with two counts of murder. said Detective Commander Ted Chapman. Arraignment was set for today. 
SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

AccuWeather 0 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Friday 1 Saturdayi 
Sunday~ ~ 
FRONTS: 
.........-T"" ..&...a.. .......-....­
Mond~1 < 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 
0lZJ§(:}~u
Tuesday 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
0..........~.~;,.. ..........";.-r...... 

Anchorage 42 27 Honolulu 90 73 New York 61 56 Boston 63 56 Houston 80 59 Philadelphia 66 57 Chicago 55 35 Los Angeles 83 63 Phoenix 94 71 Coldwater 60 44 Miami 89 78 San Francisco71 55 Dallas 78 57 New O~eans 82 72 Seattle 66 52 

A • d
sstste -suicide laws 
Currently, only Oregon allows doctors to prescribe life-ending drugs for mentally competent patients who are terminally ill and no longer want to live. Courts in New York ""~~ \A''""hl..,,.,, 
moved to allow the procedure.  
Mont  N.D.  Minn.  
s.p.  
Neb.  Iowa  
Kan.  Mo.  

Okla. 
Alaska Hawaii 
II 5states that are unclear • Physician-assisted death is

'!:;~:;;~;;~ch 
concerning the legality legal (law is beingis crlminalized. of assisted suicide. challenged in court). 
The Supreme Court in 1990 first recognized the consti­tutional right to die. Assuming that such a right exists, the justices said then that a terminally ill person may refuse life-sustaining medical treatment. 
Bright idea: tax dead for revenue 
SAN FRANCISCO 
The only sure way to avoid taxes isn't such a certainty in Colma these days. That's because some folks in the tiny town a few miles south of San Francisco are consid­ering boosting revenue by targeting those least likely to complain -the town's 1 million dead. The plan: $5 per grave, every year, for eternity. While cemeteries would have to pay the tax. customers could eventually see the average cost of burials double to as much as $6,000, according to some estimates. "The cemeteries don't pay taxes and haven't for 100 years -they can start paying their freight," said Robert Simcox, a retired cab driver and leader behind the proposed voter initiative, which also calls for a onetime $50 burial fee. Simcox said Monday he was just starting to gather the roughly 100 signatures needed to put the tax on a ballot next year. The tax would pay for police, fire and other services in Colma, which was just another farming town until 1914. 
Castrated rapist to be freed 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
Supporters of a rape victim rallied at the state Capitol today in opposition to the governor's plan to release the convicted rapist, who was castrated by vigilantes. Wayne Dumond was sentenced in 1985 to life in prison plus 20 years. Gov. Mike Huckabee announced Sept. 20 that he intended to commute Dumond's sentence to time served. The governor has since met with the victim, Ashley Stevens of Forrest City, and is reconsidering his decision. Carrying signs reading "Keep Dumond Locked Up" and "Keep Women Safe: Don't Free Dumond," more than four dozen people from the Forrest City area quietly walked a picket line in front of the Capitol in support of Stevens. After guarding her identity for 12 years. she told the media last week to publish her name and image because ''I'm tired of everybody thinking I'm a liar. I feel like I'm on trial." 
N.H1 Maine 
VI.! :t _1Mass. 
N.Y. -?'Co~k 
Pa. -N.J. ..:,..,=r,-Del. 
•~' IMd. 


an 9:ltemor!j <Df ·Henri J. M. Nouwen January 24, 1932 -September 21, 1996 Eucharist Thursday, October 3 at 5:00 PM Holy Cross Chapel Keenan -Stanford Hall Reception to follow in Keenan Commons CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  
24th Annual SuJDJDer Progra1ns ND-SMC Students Meeting October 7th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. London RoJDe May 21-June 20 June 15-July 14 Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music PIZZA! Past Students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726  


Wednesday, October 2, 1996 


Where the wild things are... 

The Observer/Sarah O'Connor Preschoolers at the Early Childhood Development Center sat enthralled as University President Father Edward Malloy enter­tained them with fairytales. 
~~-----~ --~------------~-------­



__________, 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Panel debates childrearin 
By NEIL PUNSALAN 
News Writer 
Does it really take a village to raise a child? This question, posed by Professor Peter Aghimien of IUSB, was one of many asked at the panel dis­cussion held yesterday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
"It Takes a Village to Raise a Child: the African Perspective and the Controversy," was the topic fielded by a six-man panel of distinguished experts on African heritage. Hillary Clinton's book, "It Takes a Village to Raise a Child," was the impetus for the discussion. The event, sponsored by the Notre Dame African Students' Association, was followed by a reception for panelists and audience members. 
Each panelist drew from per­sonal experiences in Africa. Originally from Nigeria, Aghimien explained how each member of his village, from teachers to priests, helped him through his youth. 
Professor Sylvanus Udoidem of Notre Dame's Center for Philosophy of Religion, stated that "it's our communal respon­sibility" to help raise each child and "redistribute values." He 
The Observer/Sarah O'Connor African panelists discuss the lack of community involvement in the shaping of childhood values in the United States. 
explained the interdependency between villages and families, saying that a village is a macro­family, and a family is a micro­village. 
"The village cannot raise a child because the way the soci­ety is set up," said Dr. Lugayila Lukuba, President of the African Association of Michiana. "The impedements are there. Hilliary was doing wishful thinking." 
Lukuba is alluding to changes in discipline and community responsibility for children. People worry about being charged with child abuse for publicly disciplining their chil­dren. What Lukuba feels needs to be addressed is, "How can we change society in order to make what Hilliary [Clinton] is saying possible?" 
In their homeland, each pan­elist said that the community did in fact raise each child. The difference in culture was apparent when hearing men and women from Kenya and Benin speak of their up-bring­ing. The panelists agreed that the village raises the child in Africa, but that the United States still needs to find the vil­lage to raise the child. 
• CLARIFICATION 
An article published last meeting was introduced by Thursday on the hiring of a Porter on behalf of the theology professor should Senate's executive commit­have said that Jean Porter is tee. 
I afull professor .in the theolo· The hiring of the professor gy department." has already taken pJace. The 4• . \C re-solution introduced by .·'Als~Z· a usolution at the Porter has not been passedFaculty Senate's Sept. 11 by the Senate. 
<t" 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
THE PERCUSSION GROUP 
t.nYtblDQ I 0 
• :I.e on

I[\\ Mak• DIU I..___... ():x:mag!ne the poaa.i.b:l.J..i.t.i.eal II CONCERT: MASTERCLASS: Sunday, October 6 Monday, October 7 
2:00p.m. 10:45 a.m. 
Annenberg Auditorium Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum ofArt The Snite Museum ofArt Tickets: $5 Generai 
No admission charge 

$2 Students & Seniors TilE J>ERCl'SSIO!\: CiROl I' b n:pll''~:nt~:d hy ()r~:at Lil\<:' l'.:rl"orming ,\rti't A"ol·i.n~:,. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
Multi 
continued from page 1 
in the late 19th century regarding the schooling of chil­dren living on reservations, Native-American parents were 
left with few options  as  to  
where their children  were  
schooled.  

In an attempt to force assim­ilation. these government­funded boarding schools were established throughout the nation. 
Hoping the benefits would out-weigh the sacrifice of sep­aration, many Native­American parents chose the "outing program" as the method of education for their children. 
In this program, Native­American boys and girls rang­ing from ages 6 to 26 were uprooted from their homes and taken to boarding schools. At one of the 25 schools which existed between 1890 and 1940, students worked for half of the day and attended classes in a trade for the remainder of the day. 
"Facing the trauma of sepa­ration, a culturally hostile environment, and the difficult transition of leaving home, these students encountered a myriad of hardships," explained Child. 
Administrators of the learn­ing institutions strongly dis­couraged visitations with fami­ly members. Children would often leave home and not return or see their family for many years. Even returning home during family tragedies was usually forbidden by the school leaders. according to Child. 
In the letters of Native­American parents and students on which Child bases her man­uscript, mothers and fathers pleaded with school officials to visit with their children. 
Unfortunately, the adminis­trators frequently denied visi­tations even in the most tragic cases. Child quoted one parent who wrote to a boarding school official, "It's easier to break someone out of prison than your school!" 
Not only did parents worry about their children's bouts with homesickness, but also with the abundant communica­ble diseases such as tuberculo­sis, meningitis, pneumonia, and influenza. Overcrowded dormitories, underpaid and unskilled staff members. mal­nutrition, and an apathetic board led to the spread of epi­demics in the boarding schools. 
Half of all students were infected with the eye-disease, trachoma, though officials 

7:00 p.m. Fri. -3:00 p.m. Where: 
Still Waters 
Overnight Retreat Donation: $10.00 Deadline: Oct. 16 
For information call: Campus Ministry x5391 
chose to ignore the problem. "They were not just sharing pencils and notebooks," Child told the audience. "They also had to share towels, soap, and often dirty bath water." 
Incorrect medical treatment made the disease worse. Students' eyes were scraped with forceps and rinsed with boric acid. Their eyelids were later rubbed with copper sul­fate which not only led to pain and suffering, but also to blindness. 
Unfortunately, these dis­eases led to hundreds of deaths in Native-American boarding schools. 
The average age of death was 16. Members of 36 differ­ent tribes were buried side-by­side in cemeteries outside of the schools. Ironically. each grave is marked with the name of the deceased's tribe, although the purposes of attending the school were to erase tribal identity and force , assimilation. 
Parents fought back against this goal of assimilation within the schools. In the 1940's when the boarding schools had dwindled, reformers regarded the assimilation era as a dis­mal failure. 
However, Child stated, "the loudest critics were the fami­lies who said this program was not working all along." 
Tears welled up in Child's eyes as she spoke of the strengths of these families. "Their stories point out the real strengths of American­Indian families." 
Although the administrators tried to break the binds between parents and children, they could not stop the abun­dant flow of letters on which Child is basing her book. 
Child went on to say . "stu­dents were forced to surrender some of their language and tradition, but rarely could [the administrators) sever the bond between families and alienate the children from their tribe." 

Election 
continued from page 1 

would be popular and that President Clinton would be blamed, the Republicans fur­ther hurt themselves. 
The Republicans assumed that Clinton would give in, and failed to make a deal with him on the budget. Instead, described him as having no principles, and as being stub­born. 
In addition, the negative Forbes and Buchanan cam­paigns have hurt the Republicans' reputation, he said. 
The portrayal of Dole and the appearance of Colin Powell and Susan Molinari at the con­vention showed that the GOP 
HPC 
continued from page 1 

their first class council meet­ing on Wednesday, Oct. 9, at 8 p.m. 
Big Brothers and Big Sisters are still looking for volunteers. There will be a meeting Wednesday. Oct. 9, at 6 p.m. in the 24-hour lounge of LaFortune for anyone interest­ed in participating. 
Sorin Hall announced its fall break trip to Montreal to work in soup kitchens, and with underprivileged children. They are still short funds and are requesting donations from other dorms to help subsidize the trip. 
A representative from Keenan Hall announced that Keenan Movie Nights will be held every Thursday night at 10 p.m. in Keenan Hall. 
Lewis Hall reminded the council that the Jerk and Pull competition is still accepting entries and clarified that off­campus teams were eligible for the competition. 
n 
N

G 
was well aware of its mistakes. 
He said the 1996 election will leave "two piles of rub­ble:" the failures of Clinton and the Democratic congress in 1993-94, and the failures of the Republican congress in 1995-96. 
Dionne said, "America does not need revolution, it needs reform, and if we learn the lessons of the last four years, we can have politics that we do not have to hate. This coun­try is not at the beginning of a conservative era, but at the beginning of a progressive era." 
Dionne graduated summa cum laude from Harvard and spent 14 years with The New York Times before becoming a syndicated columnist and working for the Washington Post. 
The kicking competition sponsored by Nike was can­celed because of "unforeseen circumstances." 
The Pep Rally committee shared their ideas for "Take Back the JACC," to be held at the pep rally before the Notre Dame vs. Washington football game. The event will include prizes for the loudest dorm and other spirit related com­petitions. 
Applications for the Rockne Award were submitted at the meeting and an announcement regarding advanced notice for security requests was made. 
The next Hall Presidents' Council Meeting will be Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. 
'96 


...,_... I /AND', PANCAkE,BREAK.FAST
' "-:J'l!!<:'{~': .. .'"<-:-<::=r':r,;:;.: ·."', ·. :.~--~-~{. >: .•. :·: :: 
SAi)URti~:Y;'t~'CTOBER 5 
,,. ;j···· • 
11:00 • STEPAN CENTER 



Kairos 
In order to promote the series "The Race Issue at Notre Dame: Who's the Victim?", Kairos will not be meeting tonight. Instead, those of us on the Kairos board encourage all to attend the race relations meeting being held tonight at 8:00 PM in the Center for Social Concerns. 
Kairos will resume its normal meetings next Wednesday, October 9 at 
7:30 PM. At this meeting, Regina Coli, c.s.j. will be speaking and lead­
ing a discussion regarding the issues surrounding women and the Church. 
All are welcome to attend. 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
While progress has been made in the area of racial and ethnic diversification since the 1986 report, the same idea continues to reign true as Saint Mary's begins to enact the recc­ommendations made in the 1996 reaccrediation report. 
Kevin McDonnell, professor of philosophy and a member of the Steering Committee for the 1996 North Central Reaccreditiation, said, "If you look at the numbers, Saint Mary's has almost tripled the number of minority students, but the College started out with very low numbers. Now, Saint Mary's needs to recommit itself in order to go further in the area of ethnjc and racial diver­sity." 
The 1996 Self-Study Report for the North Central Reaccrediation released in the last semester, declared diversi­fication as a major focal area, and reccommended that, "coor­dinated by the Office of Multicultural Affairs. the College should undertake a complete study of the strengths, weaknesses and opportunities for diversification." 
The report goes on to state that "the study should aim to produce a complete diversifica­tion program with recalibrated goals, plans for appropriate funding and support, and ways to ensure full community back­ing." 
When: 

Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • NEWS pageS 

U.S. troops deployed to Bosnia 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Some 5,000 U.S. Army troops will begin leaving Germany "in the next eouple days" for a six­month deployment to Bosnia, where they will protect American troops slated to leave the country later this year, a Pentagon spokesman said Tuesday. 
Troops from the 1st Infantry Division should expect to remain in Bosnia until March, said spokesman Kenneth Bacon. 
Bacon's announeement marked the first time the Pentagon has given such a long-term commitment to the new U.S. force. 
Bacon insisted the new troops will not become part of the NATO-led peacekeeping mis­sion that is due to end on Dec. 20, nor would the soldiers evolve into a "follow-on" mili­tary force. 

Bacon said the so-called "cov-. ering force" will leave "in the next eouple of days." The mis­sion will last "for a defined period of time, which will get it out by March." 
Earlier in the day, the diplo­mat who brokered the Dayton peace accords that ended the former Yugoslavia's four-year civil war told lawmakers that a total pullout of U.S. and allied troops from Bosnia would risk an "implosion" and possible resumption of war. 
Richard Holbrooke, now retired from government and working on Wall Street, went further than Clinton adminis­tration officials on the political­ly sensitive issue of a continued 
U.S. troop deployment. Indeed, Defense Secretary William Perry annoyed a key committee chairman by declining to testify publicly on Bosnia this week. 
"No responsible person can contemplate going from 60,000 troops down to zero," Ilolbrooke told the Senate 
Marie­
Ho-Ho-~ope you: 
were lit !aft night!: 


Happfl2lst!' 
e 

Foreign Relations Committee. "It would risk an implosion. ... The war could even resume." 
Holbrooke continues to serve the Clinton administration in Bosnia on an ad hoc basis, most recently as an observer to the national elections there. 
"Some form of residual secu­rity presence is necessary," he said. With continued U.S. par­ticipation in the peace process, a resumption of war would be "very unlikely," he said. Total withdrawal, he said, "is not a conceivable policy. The conse­quences are far too serious." 
At the Pentagon, Bacon said the new infusion of troops will bolster American forces in Bosnia before possible local elections in mid-November. But he said that number will be drop again as other soldiers begin leaving. 
He said the new troops will be needed to provide security for the U.S. forces who are packing up and leaving. But he did not elaborate on why the force would remain until March, far beyond when the peacekeeping Implementation Force, or !FOR, mission is to end. 
President Clinton overcame congressional opposition to the Bosnia mission by assuring law­makers the deployment would end in late December. The mis­sion involves 60,000 NATO troops, 15,800 of them American, positioned in and immediately around Bosnia. Those troops are scheduled to pull out, but NATO is consider­ing a follow-on force to help mainta~n peace next year. 
With the U.S. presidential election just over a month away, administration officials are saying there will be no immediate decision on a contin­ued troop presence. 
Palestinians, Israelis prepare for peace talks 
By CHARLES J. HANLEY 
Associated Press Writer 

Hebron's Arabs "went mad," the journalist reported, "when they heard that Arabs were being killed by Jews in Jerusalem, and the Mosque of Omar was in danger." 
The mad month was August 1929. The final toll: 207 Jews and Arabs dead. 
A lifetime later, the mosque still looms over Jerusalem. So does the madness. It's the world that has changed. 
Palestine was then a sideshow in the global circus. Later, in the Cold War, it held the center ring, a flashpoint for nuclear Armageddon. But in the 1990s the Arab-Israeli struggle seemed on its way toward final peace, a hopeful spot on a global map of ethnic conflict. 
Now a few days' madness that left 76 Arabs and Israelis dead has threatened, if it spins further out of control, to put Hebron, Jerusalem and the Dome of the Rock -the Mosque of Omar ~ at the heart of a new kind of cold war, the deepening, explosive hostility between the West and militant Islam. 
That's what's at stake in this week's emergency summit talks in Washington. 
In the disputed lands them­selves, a collapse of the peace process would have predictable consequences: 
Israel would tighten controls over the Palestinians. The "rejectionist" group Hamas, coupling nationalism with Islamic zeal, would gain new support among Palestinians. 
Terrorism would spread within Israel. Syria would suspend peace contacts. Lebanon's guerrillas would step up their anti-Israeli attacks. 
. But the impact in the end would involve more than bus bombs and Palestinian work permits. Far beyond Israel's borders, a failed Palestinian­Israeli peace ultimately could affect oil flows and internation­al economics, nuclear buildups and the spread of long-range missiles. 
The Pentagon's Mideast strategy report indirectly addressed those concerns. 
"The development of a more peaceful Middle East," it said, "would help undermine the popular appeal of radical states, such as Iraq, and radi­cal political movements among many Arabs." 
From Algeria to Pakistan, those "radical" movements now will find ammunition in the religious nature of last week's clashes -the supposed threat posed to one of Islam's holiest places by a new exit in an Israeli tourist tunnel and by Israeli control of Jerusalem generally. 
The Islamic party in nearby Jordan may draw new strength from the West Bank bloodshed, and from unfulfilled promises of prosperity through the 2­year-old Israel-Jordan peace. King Hussein's partnership with Israel may sutTer. 
In Cairo, President Hosni Mubarak will come under pres­sure, both from the main­stream and from Egypt's Islamic terrorists, to freeze already chilly relations with Israel's right-wing gov~rnment. 
WONDERING WHERE TO STUDY NEXT SEMESTER OR NEXT YEAR? 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1996  General Information  
12 NOON  -5:30 P.M.  Individual Consultation  
RooM 109 HuRLEY  Applications Available  

······ --AjjpllciitiOn·Dea 1nes: October 15-Spring 1997 December·. 1 cademic Year· 1997-98 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
Counts grow as federal court indicts Kaczynski 
By MICHAEL J. SNIFFEN 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Theodore Kaczynski, the math professor turned hermit, was indicted today by a federal grand jury in the Unabomber mail bomb attack that killed an advertising executive in New Jersey in 1994. 
Already charged with seven other Unabomber bombings in five states, Kaczynski was named in three counts returned by a grand jury in Newark, N.J., in the Dec. 10, 1994, killing of adman Thomas J. Mosser. 
The Justice Department, which announced the action in Washington, said that it intends to prosecute the New Jersey indictment after completion of Kaczynski's impending trial in Sacramento, Calif. 
The 54-year-old former Berkeley math professor plead­ed innocent in June to a tO­count federal indictment returned in California. It charged him with four bomb­ings that killed computer store owner Hugh Scrutton in 1985 and timber industry lobbyist Gilbert Murray in 1995 and maimed University of California geneticist Charles Epstein and Yale computer expert David Gelernter in 1993. 
Arrested by federal agents at his Montana cabin April 3 after an 18-year investigation, Kaczynski was charged in Newark with transporting the bomb that killed Mosser from Montana to San Francisco and then mailing it to Mosser's home in North Caldwell, N.J. When Mosser opened the pack­age, it exploded. 

Kaczynski was charged for these alleged acts with one count of transporting an explo­sive with intent to kill, one count of mailing an explosive device with intent to kill and one count of using a destructive device in a crime of violence. 
Like the charges in Sacramento, the first two counts in New Jersey carry a possible death penalty. The third New Jersey count carries a mandato­ry, consecutive sentence of 30 years in prison. 
Federal prosecutors in both Sacramento and Newark are following Justice Department procedures to determine whether the death penalty will be sought for Kaczynski in either case, according to an offi­cial familiar with the case. The recommendations of each office are reviewed by Justice Department officials in Washington, and ultimately, Attorney General Janet Reno. 
Reno said today's charges "are the result of a multi­agency investigation by the Unabomb task force into a series of bombings that occurred across the United States beginning in 1978." 
"This is an important step in achieving justice for the Moser family. That has been, and con­tinues to be, our primary goal," said Faith S. Hochberg, the U.S. attorney for New Jersey. Hochberg would not discuss the case further. 
On June 28, Kaczynski was charged with three other Unabomber blasts as the gov­ernment unsealed indictments obtained secretly years earlier against a man it was forced to call "John Doe." 


Gingrich survives challenges 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press Writer  the Southern conservative who rose to prominence with  when House Republicans, led by the freshmen, angrily  
flamethrowing rhetoric was  rebuffed efforts by Gingrich and  
WASHINGTON  getting burned by that same  then-Senate Majority Leader  
In the two years after leading  trait now that, as House speak­ Bob Dole to keep the govern­ 
his people out of the political  er, everyone was paying atten­ ment running while they nego­ 
wilderness, House Speaker  tion to his even word and  tiated with President Clinton on  
Newt Gingrich has taken  deed.  a balanced-budget plan.  
Congress in  Democrats assailed him when  Gingrich compounded the  
new and  he urged a revival of orphan­ problem -and opened himself  
sometimes  ages. He was also attacked for  to derision from late-night TV  
bold direc­ saying the agency that adminis­ comics and commentators  
tions while  ters Medicare -and by impli­ everywhere -when he com­ 
facing per­ cation Medicare itself ­should  plained that he had been treat­ 
sonal trials.  "wither on the vine."  ed shabbily on an Air Force  
Throughout the 104th Congress, he Gingrich  Even Republicans blanched when he initially accepted a $4.5 million advance for writ­ One flight returning from Israel Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's funeral. Gingrich said that con­ 
preached the  ing a book for a company run  tributed to the government  
Republican gospel of tax cuts  ·by media magnate Rupert  shutdown.  
and smaller government while  Murdoch, who had an active  The speaker said he was  
awaiting the verdict of a House  interest in legislative matters.  charmed by Clinton during the  
panel sitting in judgment of his  Finally succumbing to biparti­ budget talks. "We came out of  
ethics.  san pressure, the advance was  the budget fight and the close­ 
The Georgia Republican who  renegotiated to $1.  down clearly having been out­ 
considers himself a historian  "The rhetoric he had used to  maneuvered by Clinton. And we  
and likes to think in epic pro­ overturn the institution came  had to stop and rethink and  
portions can look back on  back to bite him," said  restructure what we were  
grand successes -welfare and  University of Maryland profes­ doing," he said.  
farm support overhauls -and  sor Roger Davidson, who stud­ Gingrich, who months earlier  
monumental failures as well,  ies Congress.  had stopped holding daily news  
including the balanced-budget  Altqough he spoke the lan­ conferences because of his ten­ 
fiasco.  guage of radical conserva­ dency to say the controversial,  
As the first Congress with a  tivism, his attempts to push  suddenly went underground at  
GOP-led House in four decades  through major welfare reform,  the advice of other GOP lead­ 
winds to a close, Gingrich is  tax cuts and regulatory reform  ers. He steered clear of the  
besieged by new ethics charges  were thwarted by the intransi­ Sunday news shows and turned  
over whether a college course  gence of the large GOP fresh­ over much of the House's daily  
he taught was a political activi­ man class. This group, molded  operations to Majority Leader  
ty that violated tax laws. In an interview with The  in the speaker's revolutionary image, was disinterested in the  Dick Armey, R-Texas. Freshman Rep. Mark  
Associated Press, Gingrich recalled the magic of that  niceties of political compromise essential in dealing not only  Neumann, R-Wis., who was kicked off an appropriations  
moment in January 1995 when  with the Democratic White  defense subcommittee last year  
he got the speaker's gavel from  House but with the Republican­ for demanding more budget  
the Democrats. He also remem­ led Senate as well.  cuts, expressed sympathy for  
bered the "real exhilaration of  "The problem was he had  Gingrich, saying he was caught  
keeping our word" in those  spawned this Frankenstein's  between the newcomers and  
early days when the new GOP  monster of the militant fresh­ the more cautious GOP estab­ 
majority ramrodded through  men and sophomores who had  lishment. ''I'm not sure our loy­ 
much of its "Contract With  bought into the rhetoric,"  alty to Newt Gingrich ever sur­ 
America."  Davidson said.  passed our loyalty to the people  
But from the very beginning,  The nadir came in late 1995  back home," he said.  

If~ you 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh·computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Macintosh, apply for the Apple• Comguter Loan. So you can take home a tylac; and you won't have to make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus 
store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 
"Offer expires October 11. 1996. No payment ofinterest or principal u•ill be requiredfor 90 tk{l'~· Interest accruing during this 90-tk{y period will be added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be included in/he repayment ;ciJedttle. For example, the month ofMay 1996 had an interest rate of12.15% with an Annual Percentage Rate (APR! of 13.93%. Amonth()• payment of$32.86 for the Pou•er Alae 5260 SJ>Iem ts an estimate based on a Iota/loan amount of $1,913.83, which mcludes a sample purchase price of $1,799 and a 6% loan origination fee. Interest is toariab/e based on the Prime Rate as reported on the 5th busme.'iS tk{J• oflht'month m The Wall Street joumaLp/us aspretid of3.9%. Month(J• P«J•menl andAPR shown assumes deferment ofprincipal and diJes no/ include stale or local sales la.r. TheApple Computer lm11 has an 8-year loan term with no preparmenl pmai/J• and i< subject to credit approml. Mrmlhlr /><ll'JII<11t1· may l'tll')' dependmg on adual mmpuler S)~tem prices. lola/loan amounts, slate and local Sitles la.res and a change in/he monthly mriab/e interest rate. ©1996 Apple Compuler. Inc. All rights resen>ed. Apple, the Apple /o/(0, Mac and Maoillosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer. Inc. PoutT Mac Ll' 1i trailemark ofApple Computer. Inc. All ,1/aon/osh mmpulers are designed to be accessible to indit•iduals with disability. 7b learn more (US. on(rJ. ca/1800-600-7808 or m 800-755-0601. ' 
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Possibilities multiply Irish Cardinal Daly retires 
Associated Press primate's seat -in 1990. Pope province's Catholic minority. He

for Nobel Prize winner 
John Paul II elevated him to car­often clashed verbally with mili­VATICAN CITY dinal the following year. tants within Belfast's hard-line 
By JIM HEINTZ prize, which was first awarded Cardinal Cahal Daly, the Born in a village north of Catholic areas where there is Associated Press Writer in 1901, the academy showed leader of Ireland's 4 million Belfast, Northern Ireland, on strong support for the Irish a strong European bias. Only Roman Catholics and an outspo­Oct. 1, 1917, Daly studied clas­Republican Army. 
STOCKHOLM two of the first 30 prizes went 
ken opponent of IRA violence, sics at Queen's University of Daly is credited with writing
The days before the Nobel to non-Europeans 
retired today, Belfast before his ordination as John Paul's key speech duringPrize in literature is Rabindranath Tagore of Indi<:t 
his 79th birth­a priest at the Republic of his 1979 visit to Ireland, whenannounced are as suspenseful and American Sinclair Lewis. 
day. Ireland's main seminary, the pontiff implored the IRA: 
as a detective novel. In all, the prize has gone to six 
The Vatican Maynooth, in 1941. "On my knees I beg of you to There's a vast cast of char­Swedes and eight residents of 
said the pope Daly represented the Belfast turn away from the paths of vio­acters who look like they other Nordic countries. 
accepted diocese and advised Ireland's lence." 
might win -including John The prize extended its reach Daly's resig­Cardinal William Conway during "As a fellow northerner, I Updike, Bei Dao of China and after World War II and since 
nation for rea­the Vatican II conference in would earnestly ask you to Polish poet Wislawa then has included writers from son of age. He Rome in 1962, which introduced believe that no community in 
Szymborska -but nobody Asia, Africa, Latin America 
was succeed­church reforms that are the Western Europe is likely to be as knows until the last page is and Australia. 
ed by basis of modern Catholicism. sympathetic and supportive
turned. For those who subscribe to Monsignor Sean Brady, 57, a As Belfast's bishop from 1982 towards your .Protestant reli­
That · moment comes the geographical-distribution former rector of the Irish College to 1990, Daly advocated an end gious beliefs and principles as Thursday morning, when the theory, it's notable that the 
in Rome. to the IRA's campaign against are Irish Catholics," Daly wrote Swedish Academy announces prize has never gone to a Daly was appointed as arch­British rule while calling for in his "Letter to a Northern 
the winner of the 1996 prize, writer from the world's most bishop of Armagh -the Irish improved rights for the Protestant" in 1979. worth $1.12 million. populous country -China. The academy doesn't That could make Chinese announce who's nominated poet Bei Dao a top contender. 


100,000 metalworkers strike 
nor does it offer insight into He's a favorite of Svante how the winner is picked. For Weyler, editorial director of By TERRENCE PETIT walked off the job at 50 plants parliament on Sept. 13, and it publishers and literary critics, Sweden's Norstedts publishing Associated Press Wricer across Germany. took effect Tuesday. the secrecy makes speculating house, who correctly guessed Germany is Europe's largest Besides cutting sick pay, it about the prize frustrating and last year's winner, Seamus BONN, Germany and most influential economy, makes it easier for German fascinating. Heaney of Ireland. Carrying banners warning and successful cuts in social companies to fire workers and 
The academy insists that But, Weyler said, he's not Germany's welfare state is benefits there could encourage raises the age workers are enti­there are no quotas for style, confident the academy "would under threat, more than other European Union govern­tled to begin receiving pen­nationality, age or sex; only have the courage to give it to a ments do same. sions. Further cuts are in the
100,000 metalworkers staged to the EU 
the literary quality of the work poet again" right after naming nationwide walkouts and rallies nations are slicing spending to works. is judged. But few believe Heaney. Tuesday to protest a cut in sick become more competitive and Social benefits in Germany those words. If they do show a soft spot pay for all Germans. prepare for planned currency are among the most generous 
"You can't help feeling that for poetry, Weyler said other 
"The next thing you know, union. in the world. 
certain countries are getting strong candidates would be they'll cut into our vacation On Monday, teachers in Workers receive six weeks 
their due" when the prize is Vizma Belshevica from Latvia, money and Christmas bonus­France staged a 24-hour strike vacation, subsidized stays at 
awarded, said Robert Silvers, Gennady Aigi of Russia's es," said 31-year-old Mario to protest government plans to health spas, numerous religious 
co-editor of the New York Chuvashia region and Raster, one of about 80,000 cut 5,000 teaching jobs, part of holidays and often a month's 
Heview of Books. Szymborska, who also is a Daimler-Benz workers who an austerity budget. Italy's gov­salary at Christmas. 
ernment last week presented Kohl says some benefits must its own deficit-fighting mea­be cut to make Germany com­sures, which include across­petitive in the world market the-board spending cuts. and to reduce joblessness, 
Tuesday's job actions in which hit a postwar record 4 Germany at plants owned by million people earlier this year. the Daimler-Benz industrial Daimler-Benz announced last group and automakers Adam week it would implement the Opel AG and Ford were timed sick-pay legislation even before to coincide with the start of a its existing contracts expire. new law enabling German com· Other major concerns quickly panies to reduce sick-pay bene­followed suit, including BASF, fits from full pay to 80 percent. Hoechst, Schering, 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl Mannesmann, Continental and pushed the legislation through Opel. 
Use Your Brain... 
Notre Dame Debate Team 
~--~-~----·------------------1 
Last chance to join for the 1996-1997 season. Informational Meeting Thursday, October 3 at 7 pm Dooley Room, LaFortune 


In the early decades of the favorite of Silvers. 
The William and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 



DANTE~IES: 
"WORK IN Ptr~2 





Offer expires OcJober II, 1996. ~1996 A/Pie CompuJer, Inc. All rights resen>ed Appk, /be Appk logo, Ajf!leCare, LaserlfHier; Mac, Macinlosh, Performa, PowerBook, Power Macinlosh and S/yleWriter are registered trademarks ofAjf!/e Computet; Inc. PowerPC Is a trademark oflnlmwl1onal Bushuiss Machines Corpom/ion, wed under 1/amse therefrom. 
-~---~-------------------~---------~--­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 

Data scrambling tools continue to gain merit 
By lAURA MECKLER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration intends to break a deadlock between law enforcement and the U.S. computer industry with a plan ~~----...-----.. announced today to make it easi­er for com­panies to sell powerful data-scram­
bling soft-
lal:.i""-'S.-.....__ 
ware abroad. Clinton 
Companies could export such technology as long they have a system in place that would allow U.S. law enforce­ment officials -after getting a court order -to break the code in order to intercept com­munications. 
President Clinton will sign an executive order instituting the plan in the middle of October, said Greg Simon, Vice President AI Gore's domestic policy adviser. 
The plan "will make it easier for Americans to use stronger encryption products -whether at home or aboard -to protect their privacy, intellectual prop­erty and other valuable infor­mation," Gore said in a state­ment. 
"It will support the growth of electronic commerce, increase the security of the global infor­mation and sustain the eco­nomic competitiveness of U.S. encryption product manufac­turers," he added. 
The plan changes U.S. export policy and affirms current U.S. import policy, which places no restrictions on the sale of encryption devices within the 

u.s. 
The plan mirrors a proposal by the administration this sum­mer. That proposal, considered more acceptable to industry, has been criticized by a num­ber of computer trade groups and computer user groups. 
At issue is sophisticated soft­ware that allows users to scramble telephone and com­puter messages that move across computer networks and the Internet. Users, particularly businesses. want to keep their data private with few or no restrictions, while law enforce­ment officials have argued that they need the power to unscramble the messages to investigate terrorists and other criminals. 
"Law enforcement has been arguing that this is critical to their continued operations. But virtually everyone else, from industry to the civil liberties community, has opposed these proposals," said Marc Rotenberg, director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. He said he has seen the proposal. 
While the technology is sold domestically, the State Department has blocked efforts to export it, although foreign firms sell their software around the world. 
Under the most recent White House plan, U.S. companies could export the software that scrambles -or encrypts ­data using codes that are up to 56 bits long, Rotenberg said. 

Perot roused by debate ban 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
A federal judge frustrated Ross Perot's hopes of sharing the debate stage with President Clinton and Bob Dole, ruling Tuesday that the courts had no jurisdiction in Perot's dispute with debate sponsors. 
But lawyers for Perot and another presidential candidate, John Hagelin of the Natural Law Party, were granted an expedited appeal of the judge's ruling in order to try and resolve the issue before Sunday night's first debate. 
Oral arguments before the 
U.S. Court of Appeals were scheduled for Thursday, according to Bob Roth, a spokesman for the Natural Law Party. 
"This means they're taking the case seriously," Hagelin said. " ... We're just trying to force the debates to serve their actual purpose: to expose the country to different views dur­ing election years." 
In dismissing Perot's lawsuit, 
U.S. District Judge Thomas F. Hogan, said his complaint "should be with Congress and the regulatory framework it established." That means Perot must deal with the Federal Election Commission in seeking to force his way into the debates from which he has been excluded by the private Commission on Presidential Debates. 
Perot already has complained to the FEC, alleging that the debate commission has broken federal law and asking that it be blocked from sponsoring the debates if he is not allowed in. 

..........,.

But FEC spokeswoman Sharon Snyder said the agency by law must follow a complaint process that cannot realistical­ly be completed by Election Day. 
In declining to act, Hogan let stand the debate commission's decision that Perot should be excluded because he didn't have a realistic chance of win­ning the election. In the most recent CNN-USA Today-Gallup poll, released Tuesday, Democrat Clinton was favored by 57 percent of those sur-.... veyed, Republican challenger :r\-0-cto~be• Dole by 32 percent and \iHll:rtford Reform Party candidate Perot by just 5 percent. There was a margin of potential sampling error of plus or minus 4 points. 
Exclusion from the televised debates "makes it more diffi­cult for us," Perot's running -~ffi*"~" mate, Pat Choate, said after ~­Tuesday's decision. 
"At the same time it gives us a terrific issue and a great example of how closed the political system has become and how outsiders are truly excluded," he added. 
He held out hope that the appeals court might be more sympathetic. "We always feared that at the lower level we'd lose the case. Most deci­time slots for his commercials. 
sions are made on the appel­Perot was a participant in the late level," he said. 
1992 debates with Clinton and 
When the commission voted George Bush, enlivening the 
to exclude Perot from the 
encounters. He won 19 percentdebates last month, the Texan 
of the popular vote in that 
complained, "If I can't get on year's election, but no electoral television, I can't get the mes­votes. 
sage out." 

Hagelin, a physicist. sat at his His lawyers also have filed a lawyers' table. Afterward he 
complaint with the Federal 
called Hogan's decision Communications Commission, "regrettable with respect to 
saying he's been denied prime democracy. 

ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD: 
Entertainment for you from all corners of the globe. (and hey, we're giving away stuff) Be at Fieldhouse Mall -4:00-6:00 p.m. 
NASAND-Native American Dancing Martial Arts demonstrations (can you lay a finger on these people?) TBA Ballet Folkl6rico & FASO Polynesian Chant and Dance 
TASTE OF NATIONS: 
Food & Entertainment from around the world! Friday Oct. 4th, 8:00-12:00 ~.m. It's a great time and all for only $1 
The Fall Festival is brought to you by the Multicultural Executive Council 

----~·------------~-~~-------~ 



VIEWPOINT 

Wednesday, October 2, 1996 


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAMF OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notte Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 3091laggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Edi[Or-in-Chief Elizaherb Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Rol•nd 
N<Ws Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ........................... Ellen Ryan Vi<Wpoinr Editor ............... ~ ... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Perers Sports Editor ....................Timothy Sh~rman Production Managcr ....................... Tara Gricshop Accent Editor ........................... ]oey Crawford Systems Manager .......................Michad Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Carolinc Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......Michad Ruma 
The Ob<crvcr is rhe independem newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Norre 
Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminiS[ra~ uon of either in)tinnion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­tonJls repre~enl the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries,leuen and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Oh.<erver. Viewpoinr space is available ro all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­mumry 01nd to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Ediror-in-Chief 63I-4542 llusincss Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Vicwpoinc 63I-454I Advcrrising 63 I -6900/8840 Sporrs 63 I -4543 Systems/Marketing Depr. 63I-8839 New.,J Photo 6.1 I -5323 Office Manager 63I-7471 Act:cnt/Saint Mdry'!t 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 I >.ty Ediror/Producrion 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu l;enerallnformarion 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• fRIVOLATA 

Denouncing 'sell-outs' often proves difficult 
l.ast fall. as you may rneall, I made a desperate attempt via one or my columns to eonvinen you all-perhaps mysPlf as well-that I hadn't sold out simply bneause I'd taken a job as an attornny. Wdl. it's a year later, and I'm mm·p sum than nver that I haven't sunk to that shamnful status. I still plan to 
Kirsten .. Dunne 

purstw my litnrary and artistic goals as soon as my thin littln poekntbook will allow; evnryone at my ofliee still thinks I'm w11ird; and eomn Friday night, I'm still hanging out at the Exit. Sell-out? Not mn! 
/\rn you sitting there asking, "Why is snlling out sueh a big deal? Is beeoming a snll-out that bad?" If so, you'd better pay dose attPntion, bneause you have a lesson to learn! 
Among the crowd with whom I hang out, if you are branded a poser or a sell­out, you might as well change your namn to Hester Prynne. These words arn downright nasty epithets, and the unfortunate folks who arc now to be among these dreaded ranks are, quite simply, outcasts. 
or eoursn, this sort of denundation bceomes a little more touchy when the alleged sell-outs and/or posers happen to comprise one of your favorite bands, as I learned this summer. You rational­ize. You distort the faets. But in the end, you must faee up to the only logical con­elusion: a sell-out, no matter who it is, is scum. 
I was first introduced to the world of blaek clothing and funky hairstyles when I was 15, and 1 learned, before all else, that the late Sid Vicious was a sort of eult hero for people like us. "Sid lives!" we wrote all over our high sehool folders and our dothes. It was then that I began to wear the lock that adorns my neek even today, as a sort of tribute to Sid, who also wore a loek around his neek. 
When the movie, "Sid and Naney" pre­miered, we stood in line for tickets in the eold and, once inside, watched the film so intently one might have thought we were witnessing ~id himself eome back to life. We were perhaps a little obsessive about Sid, but, after all, it was he who linked us all together in an odd sort of way. And in my own ease, he paved the way for me to hook up with people to whom I eould really relate; people I probably never would have met otherwise. For that, I was eternally grateful to Sid. 
Anyway, it eame about naturally that, because we were such disciples of Sid's, we would also be somewhat fanatic about the music of his band, the Sex Pistols, which was his key to fame. To say that the Sex Pistols had not recorded a great deal of musie is a terrible under­statement, but we took what we had to ehoose from, and listened to it constant­ly. The lyrics to the songs featured on their most famous album, "Never Mind the Bollocks: Here's the Sex Pistols," became indelibly etched in our brains. And because the musie was a very inte­gral part of our beloved Sid Vicious and his legend, we came to love the music as mueh as we adored him. 
As time passed, I found bands I liked more than the Sex Pistols and became less fixated on Sid. But both the person and the music, having had such a great influence on me as a budding gothic gal, have remained special ever sinee. 
So naturally when I learned this past spring that the Sex Pistols were going to be touring, I was elated. Obviously, Sid wasn't going to be there, but hearing the music live would still have a pretty pro­found effect on me. Anyway, Sid would be there in spirit, and certainly the band members would pay some sort of tribute to him. Excitedly I ordered my tickets and awaited The Event. 
Of course, way before I knew that the Sex Pistols were even coming to the U.S., I'd heard some trash-talking about lead singer John Lydon. "Johnny's a sell-out," people had been saying. And I couldn't really deny this. He'd made a commercial for Mountain Dew and, even worse, he had come out and said that the group was doing this tour for no other reason than to make money! But 
' A sell-out is a despicable 
~cumbag, and must be 
shunned-even if he's the 
grandfather of punk rock.. .' 
true to my roots, I defended him. "I don't care if he's a sell-out," I pro­daimed. "He's Johnny, and he's cool no matter what he docs." 
After I bought the tickets, publicity increased, and I heard some things whieh were a little more dubious. John had changed his name back to Johnny Rotten, the alias he'd used while the Sex Pistols were together. That was a little superficial, I thought. And dubbing the tour "The Filthy Luere Tour"? Okay, Mr. ROTTEN, you can sell out and still be okay in my book, but is there any reason to flaunt the fact that you've beeome a money-grubber? 
And for God's sake, don't compare the Sex Pistols to poser-bands like Green Day and Hancid! Oops, that's right, the Sex Pistols are now sell-outs, arguably no better than posers ... Still, I felt I had to go. If for no other reason, for Sid, who couldn't help what the band had beeome since his passing. 
Or so I thought, until about two weeks before the concert date, when I read an artide about the tour in AP Magazine, in which Johnny declared that Sid had been "nothing but a coat hanger taking up space on stage," and stated that it 
page 9 

was "irrelevant" what Sid would think of this tour and the motivating forees behind it. To the latter question, Steve Jones chimed in, "Who [expletive]ing cares?" 
Folks, you cannot possibly imagine how infuriated I was ... and at the same time, how disappointed. For me, this took away all meaning from the coneert. Not only did I no longer want to go, 1 wanted to stand outside and protest the way these two-faeed, insincere sell-outs had insulted a man who was inte_gral to their success and who'd meant so much to me and many, many others as well. 
However, it was only after talking to my ex-boyfriend and current friend Dan that I made an important realization. The 'Dew eommcreial, the return to tlw alias Hotten, the eomments-it all went together. In other words, I shouldn't have expected a bunch of sell-outs to honor the memory of their friend and former band-member, and by doing so, 1 had only disappointed myself. But I've learned my lesson, folks. A sell-out is a despicable scumbag, and must be shunned-even if he's the grandfather of punk roek and his erew. 
So now you see why it's so important that I maintain my good name and never give any inkling of having beeome a low­life sell-out. 
I guess I've left one question unan­swered, though. Why am I so convinced that Sid maintains his good name, while the rest of his erew sold out? Might he not have gone along with the whole deal had he been alive today? Well, the answer is really quite simple. I know it's a resounding "no," because Sid has expressed this to me on more than one occasion. What's that? Well, no, I don't think it's all that odd that Sid and I eon­verse ... but if you do, hey, I'll take that as a compliment! 
Kirsten Dunne. ND '92 and ND Law '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo. Ltd. in Chicago. 1/er column appears every other Wednesday. 
• 000NESBURY 
81JSTIN6 A tuut.., If PROP 
8UYliR5' 21515 APPROVW, 
auB!If/HAT fT'U N&Vlfl?. HAP­
A IAIORW! f'eN Af3A/N... 
~~I ~' ~---::'v.~::.. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOIJ'/1 HAV/3 70 
RNIJA~Y 
, WIJOCTOR. ···•• tuH0 THO/J61.1TITIM49CANtiiR. 

• OuoTE oF THE DAY 
"The worst tragedy for an 
artist is to be admired 
through being misunder­
stood." 
-Jean Cocteau 
10-Z 
--~~--------~~---­
~-------------.-------------------------~----~-------------~--------------------------~--------­




ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday October 2, 1996 
THE BATTLE 
By GREG BARLIN excellent, but Lula's most outstanding feature is Accent Writer their facility and workers, earning them an "A" in 
I 
ambiance. n the bustling metropolis we know as South From Lula's one can drive down State Road 23 to Bend, the bagel is not very well represented. A Studebagels, the most renowed bagel shop of the bagel-lover has pitifully few options to choose South Bend bagel community. Lula's can provide from, especially if he or she does not posess any one with a taste of what a Studebagel is like, but means of transportation off-campus. Still, in an eating in the store definitely enhances the bagel attempt to provide readers with as much informa­experience. One has the opportunity to choose from tion as possible, Accent set out to discover exactly eleven different kinds of bagels, plus a "Bagel of the what the South Bend area had in terms of bagel Day", eight flavors of cream cheese, along with the stores. The topic: the bagel. The assignment: To usual butter and jams. find the best possible bagel dining experience avail­In the store, the bagels are automatically served hie to Notre Dame/SMC students. lightly toasted, with a generous amount of the top­
The first stop was close to home: our beloved ping of your choice. Drink selection covers a wide North Dining Hall. The dining hall bagel is small, range, from Snapple to Coke to expresso. The with a hard outer coating giving it a distinct plastic­atmosphere did not meet the standards of the like texture. Options on bagels were minimal. On bagels, however. A black and white motif is used this day they offered plain, egg, and cinammon throughout the high-ceilinged room, and the black raisin. Toppings were a bit more numerous, includ­and white tiled floor has the propensity to give one a ing butter and margerine, peanut butter, two types headache. Combine that with the piped-in oldies of jelly, but only one flavor of cream cheese. The music, and one may be better off eating outside. first bagel chosen, a plain bagel. was remarkably However, what Studebagles lacks in atmosphere is fresh, with a side of butter to enhance (or cover up!) overshadowed by the fine quality of their bagels. the taste. In terms of atmosphere, the dining hall The next stop was Grains & Grinds Bagel Cafe, a lacked the intimacy of the shops later visited. bageVcoffee shop near University Park Mall. Over 
Lula's cafe, located at the corner of Edison Rd. the sound system, U93 was blasting, to the point and State Road 23 was the next stop. Lula's, better where it was difficult to hear the cashier. In addi­known for their coffee, offers Studebagels' bagels to tion, a small child added his own noise to the racket. compliment their fine beverages. The beauty of Grains & Grinds offered a similar bagel selection as Lula's is not necessarily their food but their upbeat Studebagels, maxing out at twelve different kinds. atmosphere and friendly service. The cafe is full of Where they were far superior was their cream regular tables mixed with couches and other loung­cheese. Offering nine different flavors, from cucum­ing areas. Scrabble, chess, and cards are available ber to cranberry, the cream cheese made the for the patrons to enjoy. The bagels are fresh and worthwhile. If only the bagel could have been 


BAGELNG 
By KRISTEN BOGNER York had a bagel baker's unio Accent Writer which allowed only sons of the 
T
trade. The state continues to he anticipation quickly mounts during the interminable wait. across the country. "Click!" The toaster finally yields to present the warm bagel to A revolution in the mid­the famished, anxious woman. She is now faced with a monu­could mass-produce bagels. mental decision; what should she use to dress her favorite hands a rest while shaping grain group member? She seals her fate as she pulls the lox per hour. However, some and cream cheese from the crisper. shape the ringed artwork by 

At the same time, another eager soul tears his bagel out of its wrap­Enough of the past, though. ping and ravenously munches on the chewy, untoasted dough. He some general tactics involved in avoids both the heating and topping processes either out of preference true of the bagel's origin, it has or for convenience. Which could it be? become a staple of the American 
The bagel, in all of its two hundred seventy calorie, forty-eight car­ally anyone can find something bohydrate gram glory, is quite an unconventional bread product. It the beautiful round roll with a h leaves those who partake open to endless possibilities. Should it be If the bagel patron is so fortun plain, wheat, multigrain, raisin, or even blueberry? Is it better raw or is ready to toast and top this tan toasted, and, if toasted, how dark makes it too crunchy? don't have Lady Luck on their 
As for toppings, should one choose a plain or flavored cream some little suckers can be quite an cheese? Is margarine as good as real, unsalted butter for a full, rich The bagel's round shape makes taste? Should one make a meal out of the crumbless roll by adding be very dangerous. Mark Smith, ham, turkey, lettuce, tomatoes, and cheese, or simply grab this perfect­Department of Emergency ""''u'"u'~;; ly portable breakfast staple to chew on the go? top under-reported injury today. I 
And if these questions aren't enough to occupy hard-core bagel con­of many a would-be breakfastgoer's noisseurs for weeks, even months, without respite, the controversy Fortunately, some benevolent concerning the origin of the bagel must always linger in their thoughts. aides in cutting bagels by holding This article will attempt to put their troubled minds at ease, and to this fantastic invention, he should leave these aficionados at their leisure to contemplate the more rele­one and is willing to share. If this vant topic of bagel consumption. cured, the best advice is to firmly 
The bagel first appeared in text in 1892 in Zangwill's Children of horizontally through half the bagel, the Ghetto. The word "bagel," as used in American culture, did not job carefully on the other half. emerge until the 1930's. It finds its roots in the German language. After the bagel has been sliced, The word "boug" means "ring" and "beugen" means "to bend." fanatics who enjoy the chewy, 
The bagel's ancestry is quite enigmatic. Many cultures claim it as should proceed to topping it, their own invention, but the prevalent notions are that it-stems from most crucial aspect of toasting the the Jewish or German cultures. Other cultures, such as Hungary, when the bagel is done is essential Poland, Russia, and even America claim to have given birth to what is When a bagel is toasted, the now the "bagel craze," but no concrete evidence exists for any of these finally begins. With bagel toppings, assertions. New Yorker who religiously 
A popular tale concerning the bagel's lineage dates back to 1683. A bagel may reprimand the baker presumably concocted this bread in Austria to celebrate the tiona) peanut butter and jelly Polish King Jan Sobieski's success against a Turkish invasion. The it. The key rule is to remember round shape represented a stirrup, as Sobieski was a renowned horse­experiment with some of the many man. Hopefully this article has 
The bagel finally made its way to Russia by the 1600's, where it was have had concerning the bagel's sold on strings, making use of its round shape. It did not travel to the hints on the many condiment United States until the early twentieth century, when it arrived with his or her disposal. Hopefully, some the immigration of many Jewish people from Eastern Europe. This even averse to the art of bagel supports its supposed Jewish-German background. motivated to give it a try, and 
The center of the bagel population was then in Chicago and New bagel's many wonderful aspects h York, presumably due to the great Jewish citizenry in both areas. New base their passions. 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 

If you cou I d i ntlent your own hagel and topping, what would it he? 

"Chocolate chip bagel with oil and vinegar and tomato sauce." 
Dave Allen Sophomore, Dillon 
"I like my bagels stuck in the toaster crusty and burnt." 
Lynn Buhl Sophomore, Lyons 



"Onion bagel with strawberry jam." 
David Guzman 5th year Senior, Off-Campus 
"Bruegger's Bagels with chicken salad and sprouts." 
Pete Wurst Sophomore, Morrissey 



"Cream cheese and strawberry jelly on a plain bagel." 
Patricia Quijano Freshman, Knott 
"Cinnamon ra1s1n bagel with cream cheese." 
Mike Daigler Sophomore, Flanner 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 

--~----~---~-----~~~--·­
ACCENT 
Wednesday October 2, 1996 page II 

F THE BAGELS 
pleasing! The bag1~ls were barely superior to North aspects in each store visited. By combining the Dining Hall's finest. once again sporting the hard, bagels of Studebagels with the cream eheese of plastic-like coating. However, the cream cheese Grains & Grinds, and adding in the atmosphere of was fantastic. Smooth. with excellent texture and Lula's or Barnes & Noble, one can at least come chunks of real fruit. the cream cheese won unani­close to perfection. mous approval. Thank goodness they sell it sepa­ratPiy. 
The dncor was also highly unique, albeit outdated. No bagels were harmed in the writing of this Wall decorations included such beauties as a world story. map that still induded the Soviet Union and East Germany. The tables were funky. with pebbles, twigs, and other small trinkets of nature enclosed within a plastic cover. Unfortunately, the music and thl' child, tlw son of the cashier and thus a semi­permarwnt part of the store, ruined any hope of amhianc1~. So. tlw search continued. 
Having exhausted the supply of stores specializ­ing in bagel production. Accent made one last effort to find an excellent bagnl-eating experience. The place: Barnes & NobilL 
The r.ofT1~e shop in Barnes & Nobll1 is not known for its bag~~ Is. and it won't take one long to find out why. Tlw worst bagel of the trip, it failed to even surpass the low standard set by North Dining Hall. Two words saved the trip. though: Starbucks coffee. To wash down a crappy bagel, try a Caffe Mocha, delinitnly the bllSt in the city. 
The atmosphere inside the coffee shop was mueh like Studebagds, but with the added perks of large reclining chairs and ample reading material. Only Lula's can ofTer a more enjoyable or comfortable plac11 to socialize. It's too bad the bagels left much to he dllSired. 
At last. the journey was complete. The search failed to find a flawless bagel. but found fabulous 
~ 
0


ICS ~ 
0 
e earlier part of the eentury, to become apprentices in the 
\ 
eca for fervent bagel devotees 
Sreds producml a machine that rnalion gave the bakers' tired 1e rate of two to four hundred ~ents continue nvnn to day to 
elish in tlw present and discuss preparation. Whatever may be Jvolved throughout the years to It is such a versatile food: virtu­joys in, on. or wrapped around 
as to rec!live a pre-cut bagel, shel1g treat. However, for those who th1~ task of slicing those cumber­
, deavor. quite a pain to cut: it can actually j of George Washington Hospital's ites bagel eutting accidents as thn
l
fated run-ins have been tho eause arly morning trip to the hospital. 
•uls 
arn marknting a tool which ·m in place. If one dons not own rd a friend or neighbor who has 1traption can not possibly be pro­1the bagel on a flat surfac1~. slice 

•lace 
it on its end, and finish the 


it is time to toast. (Those bagnl 1y texture of an untoastml bagel will be discussed directly.) The agel is timing. A proper feel for ensure complete satisfaction. individualized step of thn process anything goes. While the typical s cnmm clwnsn and lox on hnr :ed consumer for using the tradi­
if that is what tastns good, so be b1~ trun to one's tastn buds and sibilitins. rp any misconcnptions one might tion, and provided some helpful lilies the bagel consumer has at vho were previously apathetie or tralion and consumption will be ~ who understood all along the 
greatnr knowledge on which to 

• ACCENT SPEAKS... 

<Dfj ~age(, 
Q:'ltM C!)age( 
By LESLIE FIELD Accent Copy Editor 

<Come hither, fair bagels, from near and from far, You delight yearning taste buds indeed. Each morning you entice us at all breakfast bars. Through each day, due to you, we proceed. Oh, strawberry, pineapple and plain cream cheese 
spreads, As mere toppings you must not stand alone. But on onion or bluberry, but never plain toasted 
bread, On our dear bagels, why 'tis them you call home. 
II 

<!)n pumpernickle some say that butter's just fine But true connoisseurs they know better. 'Tis Philly light on which they choose to dine Because fat grams and calories Qlatier. "No, no!" shouts the chocolate chip bagel down the 
~e . . 
Life is too short for such chatter. "Dip me in chocolate sauce, savour me, make time, I'm w.orth being but. a mere_ two pounds fatter.:· 
1 ·.' • ••• ~ • • • ' . • • .' ' ·'-• ' 
·.. 

' lll . 
. -., ~:~ 
<!)n those harsh, rainy Saturdays when one cannot 
.rise, . . Neve?'fear'fftafa hagel breakfast has p~sed. F~r our dear pat the bagel, to some people's sur 
. '.prise, . .. 1 . · •> 
. Makes a lunch nearly never surpassed: Oh, cucumbers and sprouts, tomatoes and morel . Pile them high and en mass. . 
. Go cra"zyl Add provolone and pickles galore, It's lunchtime, there's no need to fast. 
. ;,' 
.IV
"l;..,.· 

SDunkin' D~u~ has bagels, buy one get.one free. 'Tis a deal that no student can beat. They are big, they are fresh and supposedly chewy, Come hither, fair Dunkin', you sound neat. Lo, Studebagels gives Dunkin' a run for his money, The veggie light 'tis quite a treat. . ... Fair pumpkin in autum, for you I long to see. Ah, your sweetness can't ever bebeat. 
; ' c ' ~ ~ ' • 
v 

. Qftew York, start spreadin' the news and the butta', · 'Tis the home of the bagel and lox. · ·This mecca~ you must see, is just smooth like that. . You can buy themsplit, whole, even boxed! 
But if Chicago is your kind of town, do not fret, Bagels are loved by the Sox. There are good ones all over and you can certainly 
bet · That agood Chicago bagel just rocks. 
.'

ar·: 
VI 

~e~are ofthe day oldS'which lurk in the dark Their halfpriced reduction's not fly. " The freshness is gone, no more oven fresh spark, Lo, they must go to that bagel_shop in the sky. , Oh, bagel, :my bagel, in ligptn.ess and dark,; Witb~n you a chewy comfort doth lie. ­On oudair land thou has made its mark, ';~," :1. • • · Forev~~·~ my dini~g needs on you relyl S 
1 

· Leslie Field is a senior Engli~h Writing major ·at Saint Mary's. :Her favorite type of bread-pro,duct ,is a. ra(nbow 
tr~~t~C?-:~rz~w,tth,1 ~efe. ~~r~~· :.:; _.~-·: :;:···. ,}·:r. ~ · ,: '::~ .;;lC·'.:-..·:;.··.:~:~?~~>::~'~ ··>~· ~... :.• · :~·;~ ..\ . -:: ~.:·i. 
. :· 

. 
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
Florida tackle guilty of accepting money from agent 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press Writer 

GAINESVILLE. Fla. The shoe could be on the other foot. 
Steve Spurrier once referred to Florida State as "Free Shoes University" because some of its players accepted Foot Locker store merchandise that was paid for by sports agents. 
On the same day the NCAA upheld the Seminoles' one-year probation for not monitoring agents on campus, Florida was trying to make· sure left tackle Mo Collins was the only player who accepted money from an agent's representative. 
"If there is and we find out about it, they won't play ei­ther," Spurrier said at his weekly news conference. 
Collins, a redshirt sophomore who has started every game for the top-ranked Gators, was held out of the 65-0 victory over Kentucky on Saturday when school officials learned he took $500 shortly after the Fiesta Bowl from someone affiliated with an agent. 
Athletic director Jeremy Foley said the Gators' first three vic­tories, including a pivotal win over Tennessee, would not be in jeopardy because the school did not know Collins took the money. 
"I would not say I'm sur­prised it happened here," Foley said. "When Florida State was going through its troubles, I said that the University of Florida would be naive if we did not think that could happen here. 
"When you compete at the highest level, it can happen. And obviously, it has happened here now." 
To what extent will be deter­mined by an investigation that Foley said would take up to five weeks. He said he could not dis­cuss specifics, but 'information we have developed so far indi­cates it is an isolated incident." 
Spurrier, shooting for an un­precedented fourth straight Southeastern Conference cham­pionship, shrugged it off. 
"It really hasn't bothered me that much," he said. "If you coach long enough in college, maybe this will happen." 
He also seemed unconcerned about the effect of Collins' inel­igibility. Spurrier is having to reshape nearly his entire of­fensive line as the Gators pre­pare for a crucial stretch of the season. 
The Gators play at Arkansas on Saturday, then play con­secutive home games against No. 14 LSU and No. 20 Auburn. 
Right tackle Zach Pillar will move to left tackle to replace Collins. Ryan Kalich will move from left guard to right guard, Donnie Young will move from right guard to right tackle and Carlisle Cooper, who replaced Collins on Saturday, will start at left guard. 
"We're not making much of 
it, I can assure you that," Spurrier said. "We've got other players. The rules are you can put 11 out there at a time, and we've got 11 ready to play. 
"We played the ,whole game last week with Mo out of there. We can play again." 
Spurrier was more distraught over the knee injury defensive end Willie Cohens suffered against Kentucky. Cohens is scheduled to have surgery this week and will likely miss the rest of the year. 
"He certainly didn't choose that injury to occur, whereas Mo's situation, he chose to ac­cept some money," Spurrier said. "Wherever it came from, we'll let the investigation take care of that." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classif1eds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  !! FOR SALE!!  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ Beatrice,  
NOTICES  ...FREE TRIPS & CASH" ..  student Call Meghan @232-7839.  WA & Air Force Stud Tix Call 634-1473  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  Without your company, I have only to lay myself down.  
Find out how hundreds of student  NEED 2 GAs for Washington game!  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ To sleep, perchance to dream,  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  representatives are already earning  Call Megan at 243-9047  Need 2 Wash GAs  4273  of you and the wonder of your way.  
!!!!!  FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  and 2 Air Force GAs  Dante  
Anyone interested in playing disc  with America's #1 Spring Break  NEED GA for Washington game.  Call Chad 271-8019  TAKING THE GRE?  
golf, call x0509  company! Sell only 15 trips and  Call Suzy X4034  I need a student ticket/booklet (or  Chestnut House B&B,  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Iff!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  travel free! Cancun, Bahamas,  Washington Student tix for sale call  GA) for the WA game on 10/12.  St. Joseph, MI. Elegantly decorated  
!!!!  Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  All Tix for Sale  234-0913 •  Friend from last yr coming in!  home overlooking Lake Michigan  
CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  (Stud.-OSU, etc.)  Please call Jen or Sarah-243­ and only 40 mins. from ND.  
###########################  ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now!  James x1658  NEED 2 WASH. TICKETS  9019  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ 
Attention all LESBIAN, GAY,  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ 634-2658  vate baths, full breakfasts & hers  
BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  EL  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  NEED 1 WASH TIX  d'oeuvres served fireside.  
students. faculty, and staff: the  (800)95-BREAK!  x2646  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  AND 2 AFTIX  (616) 983-7413.  
second general meeting for the  ALL GAMES HOME  CALL X2765  
group which seeks to address  Need 1 AIR FORCE tic bad  AND AWAY  going to miami of OH this week­ 
your needs is TOMORROW, Sept 3 at 7:30. We'll be  FOR RENT  please call Nate at 271-1846  232-0058 24 HAS.  ########################## For Sale:  end? i'd like to see my sister and parents. please call Rebecca  
discussing National Coming Out  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  BUY -SELL -TRADE  2 Washington Student tix  X2453.  
day/week e.vents and many more.  WALK TO CAMPUS  (206)621-3485  call Jenny @ 687-8435  
Please call the Q-LINE (236-9661)  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  TICKET-MART, INC.  with best offer  Am looking for someone to spend  
for the location of the meeting.  232-2595  Need 3 Rutgers GA's  ##########################  quality time with? call Adam x1686  
###########################  Call Erik @3807  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
Need a place to stay on football  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Senior needs 1 Wash. STUDENT  Now hiring Bartenders and Door  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  weekends?  NEED two Washington tix, GA or  232-0061.  ticket for sister!  People!!! Apply at Bridget's alter 8  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Furnished apartment for short term  student Anne 289-4922  Jeff 233-2460  pm!!  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  rent Full kitchen, living room, two  $$$$$$  
private baths, $70-$90,  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ !@#$%"%"&&/"%"$%@$@#!."  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S  "There's 21,000 of 'em. You'll get  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  4876.  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  ALL HOME GAMES.  CALL MATT x2058  one."·  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR  272-6551  
I -800-418-9487  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ND EXPERIENCE  ·  ·Aaron Dunn performing tonight' on  
ND-SMC EVENTS.  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  n. d. tickets for sale  NEED WASHINGTON TIX  WSND's NOCTURNE 12 to 2am w/  
Textbooks boughVsoldltraded  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ john_d._potter@ notes.pw.com  271 1635  STUDENT or G.A.'s  Nate-n-Bartman 88.9 FM  
5 blks south on ND Ave.  ENDS.  !@##$%"&((•"•%"$#@$#$%."%.  CALL Brent or Tony @ 3662  
233-2342. Pandora's Books.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Powerful Prayer to the Holy Spirit:  
ILOST & FOUND I  243-0658. 1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  Thanks to everyone who responded to my plea for tickets last week. You were friendly and interested in help­ You who solve all problems, Who lights all roads so that I can obtain my goals. You who give me divine  
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  GA's for sale: All home games  ND ALUM NEEDS  ing... I won't soon forget that  gift to forgive and forget all evil  
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green  272-6306  Call x1596 with b/o. Ask for Mike.  OSUIWASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  Have a good life! Your friend, Ron  against me and that all instances of  
stone. Great sentimental value.  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Mueser, Minneapolis  my life are with me. I want in this  
Please call 4-3425 if found.  FOR SALE  Need 1 Wash. Student Ticket. Call Rich or Mike @1306  NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES.  PERSONAL  short prayer to thank You for all things and to confirm that I never want to be separated from You  
Lost  Beds 4 Sale: 3 Combos in 1 ! Like  Wanted: Tickets for any or all  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  even and in spite of all material illu­ 
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  NEW. $150. 634-0926  remaining home games.  FAX IT FAST!!!  sions. I wish to be with You in eter­ 
Sacred Heart  634-1152  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  Sending & Receiving  nal glory. I thank you for your mercy  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable  PowerMac 7200/90  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  at  towards me and mine. The person  
REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  8MB RAM, 0.5 GB HD  I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  THE COPY SHOP  must say this prayer for three con­ 
$1,800  $$$Please call Laura$$$  (219)422-6088  LaFortune Student Center  secutive days. After 3 days the  
Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes  Lima.1@ I 273.0824  @ (219)284-4396  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  favor requested will be granted  
if found call Maria-243-9282  I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's  $$ Please Help!! $$  FAX IT FAST!!!  even though it may appear difficult.  
2 ga's for remaining games  $$$Please call Laura$$$  94 ND Alum Needs  The prayer must be published  
..... Losr··· ..  $80 each 219-271-2837 after6 pm  @ (219)284-4396  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to Ohio St and Wash­ Want a good excuse to go to Chicago? Want to see a way cool  immediatley after the favor is grant­ed without mentioning the favor.  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  $$$$$  Call Joanne- play? Check out-CHILDREN OF  
opener (with three keys) on it over the Purdue weekend. If you found  TICKETS  NEED 4 AF+4 PITT GA 288-9102 $$$$$  516-742-1923 (night) or 212-415-3009 (day)  STRANGELOVE-a new play at the Famous Door Theater from Oct.  Hitman says "We love killing peo­ple!!"  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  5 to Nov. 2. Call Becky at X3792  
REWARD.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  I NEED WASH. ST. TICKETS  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  for coupons and info!!  Hey Mike: Beer= 1/cream of '  
ALL GAMES HOME  CALL 243-9357  67 4-7645 -No student or student  wheat. Long live the procrastina­ 
..  WANTED  AND AWAY 232-0058 24HRS.  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 10 Rows 232-0058  conv. I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  Lucas is a schumck! Hey Johnny, 22 in 11 days! You're old! (But then again, you're only two  tors!! Genia and Fam,  
Help! Homesick Texas looking for  BUY -SELL -TRADE  G.A.s-I need 4 PITT G.A.'s-Call  weeks older than me ... )  Thanks so much for the  
a ride to S.A. for Oct Break. Call  Need 2 WASH. tickets  Shawn 215-676-6685  Tipppacanoe and the hospitality.  
Leticia, 284-5021  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Greg at 2318  Hey Gorgeous.  Call me, Jon: X-1858  
i need tix for washington. if u can  Washington State ....  
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  FOR SALE: 1 Wash. GA. b/o  help, please call RON at 288-9102.  40 yard line .....  5a Shoutouts: Past, Present and  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  X0931.  Love,  Honorary.  
(813)360-2243.  232-0061.  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX!  me  
Will trade 1 Air Force stud. tix  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  L.D. Shoutouts to Tuss.  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Wanted: GAs for BC game  for 1 stud. tix for any other game.  ###########################  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  Need many for family  call Emily x2900.  Need 2 Air F. GA's  Attention all LESBIAN, GAY,  We love you Marty! Why arn't you  
..  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  call Tom x1741  Amy 616-473-5825  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  ever home??  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  1 WAS GA 4 SALE ·cHEAP•  students, faculty, and staff: the  -The Beautiful Women of ND  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  CALL WANG@ 4-3295  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ second general meeting lor the  
www.springbreaktravel.corn  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  LEAVE YOUR NAME,  ENTS!  group which seeks to address  Nelson, sorry about the steak mix  
1-800-678-6386  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  PHONE AND OFFER  CALLX1932  your needs is TOMORROW,  up. It was a nice thought. Thank  
CALL 243-1287  Sept. 3 at 7:30. We'll be  your Grandma.  
AirForce stud. ticket for sale  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  discussing National Coming Out  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Individuals  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  call Jeanie x4128  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  day/week events and many more.  Ryan, It was a step in the right  
and organizations wanted to sell  312.404.4903  Please call the Q-LINE (236-9661)  direction.  
SKI & SPRING BREAK beach trips.  Need Pittsburgh OR Rutgers  Need 4 Air Force Tix  for the location of the meeting.  
Hottest places & coolest spaces.  Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA.  call Jeanie x4128  Call Frank Walters  ###########################  Who's bad ............ Party time  
Check out our web site: www.stu­ Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683  18002439683  
dentexpress.com Call immediately  Needed: 3 Wash. and 5 AF  Leave name and # ­will pay top $.  Spicoli gets all the women now.  
Student Express, Inc. 1-800­ I need 2 Pitt tickets.  GA's. Call Eric at 271-9069.  hey me,  
SURFS-UP  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE  Where do get off calling me gor­ for the papa john's man, that he  
Need GAs for Airforce and Rutgers  or PITT. CALL SEAN x-3311  geous?  delivers hot, steamy breadsticks  
SPRING BREAK 97. CANCUN,  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  X0501 ask for Sean  Miss you too  with all the requested sauces quick­ 
PANAMA CITY. BEST HOTELS,  Cristina@x2339  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's  ly and safely, let us pray.  
LOWEST PRICES. STUDENT  Now very DESPERATE for tix to  call Nick 232-9944  
REPS NEEDED. FREE TRIP +  WANTED  Wash. GA or stud tix·that were con­ Desperate Fisher resident seeks  Need a date for your SYR this  
COMMISSION.$ (800)484-3498  2 GAs for Air Force  verted to GAs. Offering handsome  I NEED OHIO ST, WASH. & AF  date to Friday SYR. Leave mes­ weekend? Call Michael or Joseph  
EXT.6531  Carrie x2344  reward. Call Ryan @ x3592.  GA's.272-6306  sage for Darren Hat 4-3057.  at x-3770  

.. 
----~------------------~----------------~ ------­
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL • COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Umpires threaten to strike Paterno impressed 
By DAVID GINSBURG Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMORE 

Baseball umpires took the field for Tuesday's playoff open­er at Camden Yards even though Baltimore second base­man Hob1)rto Alomar was there, too. 
Less than an hour before the scheduled start of the postsea­son. umpires temporarily h;u:ked ofT their threatened boy­eott over last week's incident in which Alornar spat on umpire John llirschbeck. 
Alomar was given a five-game suspension but was allowed to play pending an appeal. Angered that he wouldn't be penalized until next season, the umpires threatened to disrupt baseball's postseason for the second time in 11 years. 
The day began with baseball going to federal court yet again, trying to force umpires to work. Heplacement umpires stood by rnady to take the field, and the matter wasn't resolved until minutes before the scheduled start of the Orioles' game with Cleveland at Camden Yards. The game was delayed 17 min­utes. 
After two hours of talks in a federal judge's chambers, um­pires agreed to work only through Thursday. the day that American League president Gene Budig agreed to hear Alomar's appeal of a five-game suspension. Umpires agreed to work the remainder of the post­season only if Budig, who can't enforce a suspension until after a hearing, decides the matter on Thursday. 
"From the way they talked, I assume they'll work the first two games (of each series) with­out interruption ... maybe they won't work. I don't know," said Marty Springstead, executive director of umpiring for the American League. 
Before the game, Alomar was cheered by most of the sellout crowd, although there was a smattering of boos. He received a similar ovation before his first at-bat, then bounced a single up the middle on a 1-2 pitch from Charles Nagy. 
The Orioles' 10-4 victory gave them a 1-0 lead in the best-of-5 divisional playoff series. 
Baseball's latest controversy began Friday night in Toronto, when Hirschbeck called Alomar out on strikes. The two argued, 

by Buckeye team 
and Alomar was ejected. The player then spat in Hirschbeck's face. 
The matter escalated when Alomar later said Hirschbeck had become bitter after the death of his son. Hirschbeck's 8-year-old son died three years ago from a rare brain disease and his 9-year-old son also is affiicted with the illness. 
After learning of Alomar's comments Saturday, Hirschbeck ran into the Orioles' clubhouse hoping to confront the player. Hirschbeck didn't work Saturday's game, and Alomar sat out Sunday. 
Alomar issued a written apol­ogy Monday and said he would donate $50,000 to charities fighting the disease that killed Hirschbeck's son. 
Hirschbeck was not scheduled to work any postseason games. 
After the umpires threatened a boycott Monday night, the leagues then filed suit in Philadelphia, asking for a court order to force the umpires to continue to work. Their contract includes a no-strike clause. 

Attention Seniors Free Food Night 
Its food, its free, its at Alumni-Senior Club (the FIRST WEDNESDAY of Each ~~~~h2; 3~eed we say more? 7-9 pm. 
rought to you by the Class of '97 I,1,,J,W<~'''l~J~,~i~ 
By DAVE IVEY Associated Press Writer 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 

Joe Paterno says Penn State won't have to play much bet­ter against Ohio State than it did against Wisconsin. 
"Not much better," he said Tuesday. "Much, much, much better." 
The No. 4 Nittany Lions (5-0, 1-0 Big Ten), who edged Wisconsin 23-20 on Saturday, are on the road again this weekend for a crucial confer­ence battle against the third­ranked Buckeyes (3-0, 0-0). 
"Ohio State is one of the best teams that I've seen in a long time," Paterno said. "We're going to have to play much, much better for us to stay in it. Even then we might not be able to stay with them." 
Paterno said he was not upset about being a 10 1/2­point underdog or about hav­ing dropped one spot in the rankings. He said he was sur­prised, however, to be ranked so high and to already be playing in a game with nation­al championship repercus­sions. 
"That tells me that we're ei­ther a little ahead of schedule or we are a little overrated. One or the other. I'm not sure which," Paterno said. "We are a better football team at this stage than I thought we'd be, though." 
Ohio State, coming off a 29­16 victory at Notre Dame, defeated the Lions 28-25 last season at Beaver Stadium when eventual Heisman Trophy winner Eddie George scored on a 6-yard run with 1:42 to play. The Buckeyes survived a season-high per­formance by Penn State tail­back Curtis Enis, who rushed for 146 yards. 
Enis, averaging 137.5 yards per game this season, said he is even better prepared for the rematch. 
''I've lost 10 pounds and I've increased my speed and my stamina to be a four-quarter back," he said. "I'm able to read defenses better this sea­son and I'm more capable of making adjustments." 
Looking back at the Wisconsin game, Paterno ex­plained why he attempted a fake field goal that resulted in a third-quarter fumble. 
"We had scouted Wisconsin and they gave us a situation in which we felt it would be rea­sonably effective," he said. "I wanted to get the seven and hopefully put the game out of reach and play some younger people." 
Paterno said he hadn't changed his mind about the new overtime rule even though his Lions would have needed an extra period if Wisconsin had made its 58­yard field goal attempt as time expired. 
"I don't like it," he said. "One game last week went three overtimes. You get on television and the game's 3 hours and 15 minutes mini­mum. Now you put a couple of overtimes in there? I don't get paid by the hour. 
"It's ridiculous. I don't see any reason for it. I've played three ties in 31 years," he said. "It puts an extra hard­ship on the kids and you are going,to start to get people hurt.. 
The Society for Human Resource Management & the Management Association would like to invite everyone to attend the 
Donnelly Lecture Series 
In 

Participatory Management 
Delta Management Group 


"The legacy of John F. Donnelly, Sr.: Participative Management at Work" 
TONIGHT, Wednesday, October 2 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 
Friday, October 4 
NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. 
jordan Auditorium, 
Sr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. 
College of Business Administration 
-
12:40 -1 :55 PM 
All meetings are private and confidential. 
-~ ---------­page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 


Red Sox fire manager, leaves players upset 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press Writer 

BOSTON 
When the Boston Red Sox started 6-19 and the rumors first surfaced that manager Kevin Kennedy would be firtJd, clubhouse spokesman Mo Vaughn predicted such a move would .result in pandemonium. 
Here comes pandemonium. 
After Kennedy was fired Monday, designated hitter Jose Canseco demanded to be trad­ed. Kennedy said that short­stop John Valentin called him, "almost in tears." One prospective replacement has reportedly taken himself out of the running out of loyalty to Kennedy. 
Vaughn is holding his tongue for now, but the reactions throughout the clubhouse showed that the biggest prob­lem in having a player-friendly manager may be in firing him. 
"You ask yourself, 'Do you want to play for an organiza­tion that can do this to a man­ager?"' Canseco told WBZ-AM after publicly asking out. 
Outfielder Mike Greenwell, an imminent free agent whose criticism of general manager Dan Duquette was cited as evi­dence Kennedy had lost con­trol, told the Providence Journal-Bulletin: "It seems to me like Dan Duquette is mak­ing excuses. 
"He's putting the blame on the players. Kevin had nothing to do with (the comments by Greenwell and Roger Clemens). He could not have stopped or started (it)," Greenwell said. "Dan pro­voked that. He's all about power. He wants to be the only voice. 
"If he wants to fire Kevin, fine. That's his decision. But to put the blame on me and Roger is bull." 
Kennedy was popular with the players, especially the good ones, for his laid-back style and his laid-back philoso­phy, which he said was simply a matter of treating them like adults. 
But that philosophy angered Duquette, who felt Kennedy could have worked the players harder in spring training and stifled the frequent criticisms of management that came from the clubhouse. 
Agent Dennis Gilbert said Tuesday that he did not know Canseco, who followed Kennedy to Boston from Texas, was going to demand out and wasn't sure if he had cooled down. "He's very good friends with Kevin," Gilbert said. · 
Canseco also said he wouldn't be surprised if Roger Clemens sought work else­where. 
Clemens fumed after the Red Sox fired pitching coach AI Nipper, a good friend and for­mer teammate, following the 6-19 start. The three-time Cy Young Award winner took some parting shots at manage­ment before what may be his last start for Boston last week. 
Clemens doesn't have to demand a trade; he can become a free agent the day after the World Series. His agents, Alan and Randy Hendricks, did not return a call seeking comment. 
All this while the Red Sox are trying to find a new man­ager, a decision Duquette would like to announce this month. Bench coach Tim Johnson, a close Kennedy friend who has interviewed for other managerial jobs, has said he would not take it. 
Former Pittsburgh manager Jim Leyland is said to have a deal locked up with Florida. Former Phillies manager Jim Fregosi, another prospective replacement Duquette men­tioned Monday, is also consid­ered a players' manager. 
Others named by Duquette were the managers of Boston's top two minor-league affili­ates, Ken Macha of Double-A Trenton and Buddy Bailey of Triple-A Pawtucket. 
The Red Sox are committed to pay Kennedy the $700,000 remaining on his contract. Leyland is expected to com­mand a salary near $1 million per year and reportedly has been offered the Florida job. 
"He's everyone's No. 1 guy. But only one club is going to get Jim Leyland," Duquette said. " ... Are we going to shy away from a high profile man­ager because of the money involved? No." 

Kurowski 
continued from page 20 
only 16 games and scored just 
3.3 points. 

Refusing to give up, he mus­tered the courage to come back for a fifth year of eligibil­ity. 
Yet again, it wasn't meant to 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 



MlrDi~POLAv· 
35% OFF ALL NIW YORK.nMIS 
BESTSEWR HARDCOVERS 
THE VENETIAN'S WIFE 
Nick Bantock THE LAW OF LOVE Chronicle -HC 
List 22.95
Laura Esquivel 
Crown· HC 
List 25.00 
.: 
~ 
~ 
t 
I ! 

WIUY WONKA & l 
THE CHOCOLATE ; FACTORY ~ 
Warner ­
~ 


THE CRUSH  TRUE ROMANCE  BEAVIS AND BUTIHEAD  
Warner  Warner  DO CHRISTMAS Sony  
Sale ends October 10, 1996.  

Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 
be. 

Early in the summer, he be­gan to experience back prob­lems and did not take the court during Notre Dame's August tour of Italy. 
After working out recently, the decision was made. 
"He rested until late September, then tried it for a couple of days," MacLeod said. "He was so doggone sore after he tried it that he just couldn't play." 
When the Irish commence practice in two weeks, MacLeod's backcourt will con­sist of just White, Wyche, and freshmen Keith Friel and Jimmy Dillon. 
"It (the loss of Kurowski). means we're losing a lot of ex­perience ... so we're going to miss him," MacLeod summa­rized. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 

. .: , "'-. ­
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Stephanie Doyle has been a member of the Sailing Club for two years. A sophomore from St. Petersburg, Florida, she placed first in the Midwest Regional single handed sail­ing event earlier this year and will go to Stanford University for the Intercollegiate Yacht Racing national competition during fall break. Stephanie is studying for a Bachelor of Arts degree in English. 
Recipients receive (£~~ merchandise from the 

VARSITY SHOP 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 



Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
Intramural Deadlines 
10-3-96 

IH Racquetball-Singles G/F/S Racquetball Co-Ree lnnertube Water Polo Campus Ultimate Frisbee 
Domer Run -3 & 6 Mile Runs -10-5-96 In-Line Skating Clinic-10-7-96 
VARSITY SHOP 
'I~­

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish rebound froiD loss with win at WMU 
I 
I ­I 
I 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Domer Run -Theses 3 & 6 mile runs are scheduled for Saturday, October 5, at 11 a.m.. The runs start and finish at Stepan Center with a Pancake Breakfast to follow. The fee is $5 if you register in advance at RecSports or $6 if you register at the race. Awards to winners in each of six studenVstaff divisions plus a t-shirt to all finishers. For more information call RecSports at 1-6100. 
In-Line Skating Clinic­RecSports will be sponsoring an In-Line Skating Clinic on Monday, October 7, at 5:15­
6:30 p.m.. in the parking lot south of the Joyce Center. There is a $6 fee which in­cludes skates and all safety equipment. You must register in advance at RecSports and all levels are welcome. For more information call RecSports at 1­6100. 
The men's varsity basket­ball team will be conducting try-outs for all walk-ons on October 16th and 17th. Players are expected to attend both the 7:30-9:30 session in the Joyce Center on the 16th and the 
6:30 session in the auxilliary gym (The Pit) on the 17th. 
Football 
continued from page 20 

beat man-coverage is to threat­en them to death with speed. We don't have that," Holtz offered. 
The coaching staff is search­ing for answers. 
"Raki Nelson has to be on the field more. He is the only guy that has some quickness and some moxy. We are impressed with him and he very well could end up at flanker," Holtz evaluated. 
"Another individual I hope will mature this week and I think has a chance to be a very good receiver against man-cov­erage is Jay Johnson," he said. 
Where does this leave the present starting unit of Emmett Mosely and Malcolm Johnson? This week of practice will have to provide the answer. 
Not only are the Irish having trouble getting open offen­sively, but they seem to lack the speed to keep up with receivers like Dimitrius Stanley of Ohio State. The problem, Holtz insists, is not with the 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 

When a team is down, whether it be following an in­jury, after a big loss, or other­wise, it relies on its captains to pull the team through. A good captain will usually respond well to such situations. Senior midfielder Tony Capasso is that kind of player. 
After a difficult 3-0 loss on the road to Indiana, the Irish came to realize just how much they miss having the services of senior sweeper, and tri-cap­tain, Brian Engesser. The team then had to try to get themselves up for a Western Michigan squad which offered little resistance as the Irish pounded them 4-0 a year ago. 
Capasso found his team in what was clearly a tough situation from a motivational point of view, so the second­year captain showed why he was chosen as leader for this team. In the final twelve min­
cornerbacks, but the safeties. 
"Rossum and Covington are playing very, very well," he said. "The safety positions are wide open and I could nof ven­ture a guess who will start for us at the safety position in the Washington game." 
The loss of A'Jani Sanders is becoming more devastating as the season progresses. Although he may be back for Navy, the secondary will need a strong safety, and present starter Benny Guilbeaux may not be the answer. And if the truth be told, Jarvis Edison may lose his hold on his free 
-safety position, just as he couldn't keep his hands on Buckeye tight end D.J. Jones, who broke an attempted Edison tackle en route to the end zone and the game-clinching score. 
Once again, the coaching staff is looking for answers. And once again, they are look­ing distinctly at their freshman prospects. 
"Everything that we have given Deke Cooper to do, he has done very, very well and deserves a look at safety­whether it be free or whether it be strong," Holtz related. 

utes of the first half, Capasso contributed a goal and two assists to break a scoreless tie and stun the Broncos who had held the Irish at bay until that point. 
Although Western Michigan responded with two goals of their own in the second half, the Irish first half burst stood up to give Notre Dame the 3-2 road victory. 
Capasso fed midfielder Konstantin Koloskov for the first goal and assisted forward Ryan Turner's tally to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead with four minutes remaining in the first half. However, Capasso was not finished just yet. A minute and a half later. fellow captain Peter Gansler set up Capasso for what would prove to be the game-winning goal. 
With the win, the Irish moved to 6-2-2 on the season and will prepare this week for an important Big East contest at Syracuse on Saturday. 
''The Race Issue At Notre Datne:
0 

Who's the Vict1tn?'' 
A Three Day Conversation 
Final Session Today 
Wednesday, October 2, 1996 8:00--9:30 PM, Center for Social Concern 
All Students Welcome 
Facilitator: Dr. Beverly Vandiver, Asst. Professor 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

~TUDE•NT 
GOYIIIIIIt 
Today is National Voter Education Day••• 
Are you Educated about Bob Dole's Education Record%% 
o 
In 1995, Bob Dole voted to cut education and training by $31 Billion over 7 years -the most extreme education cut ever 

o 
In 1965, Bob Dole voted against the Higher Education Act (creation of the first federally insured student loans for undergraduates) 

o 
In 1993, Bob Dole voted against the Student Loan Reform Act (creation of the Direct Student Lending Program) 

o 
Bob Dole's proposed budget would deny 2.5 million students Direct Loans 

o 
In 1981, Bob Dole offered an amendment to cut $1.5 Billion in Pell Grants 

o 
Bob Dole recently backed cuts that would deny 380,000 students Pell Grants 

o 
Bob Dole voted against the creation of the National Service Program (Americorps) 

o 
His present education plan would cut Americorps 


How many people so y_ou know would be affected by Dole's stand on education? Would you? 
Listening to 
--i-Educate yourself on the issues. ~v-­
of Counseling Psychology, Penn State University Sponsored by: Campus Ministry 
Center for Social Concern Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Student Government 


~ 
You have a choice. ~ Save your education. . ~ It's your right. ' ~ ~ ~ Paid for by Notre Dame College Democrats 
For more information, call WSND at 631-7342 
Did you know researchers have proven that study­
ing to classical music actually helps you retain 
information and therefore can help increase your 
intelligence? Tune in to WSND 88.9 FM for the best in classical music and news during the day. And when 10:00 p.m. rolls around, put away your books & have some FUN, because WSND has the finest in specialty shows, featuring: 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

*JAZZ 
* ~tetu 
*Folk 
*WORLD BEAT

*COU.EGE ALTERNATIVE 

Wednesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-------~-­

With the Great Taste and Winning Varieties 
of the HOT POCKETS", LEAN POCKETS", and CROISSANT POCKETSr" Brand Stuffed Sandwiches. 

I 
~ I 
~ 
I 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Pitching dominates series 
By JOHN NADEL 
As~oriottt·d Pres~ Writer 
!.OS ANGELES 

Tlw formidabln Atlanta piteh­ing stall f"igurns to pose proh­IPms for tlw slumping l.os An g PIes Il odg~~ rs. And t h n llraVPs may havn a tough limn scoring, too. 
It will lw tlw tnams with the two lowest HHAs in baseball going at it starting Wednesday at Dodger Stadium, and Dodgers manager Bill Bussell forPcasts a sPriPS dnvoid of much scoring. 
"Two great staffs, you pitch right and the games are going to lw low-scoring," lw said he­fort~ Tunsday's workout. 
l·:vnryont~ knows of the ability of .John Smoltz, Greg Maddux, Torn Glavinc, Mark Wohlers and lhn othnr Braves' pitchers. The reputation of Hamon Martinez, lsmacl Valdes, llideo Nomo, Todd Worrell and the 
Sunrayce 1997 
For those who need a little sun in South Bend . .. 
Come help build ND's first solar car. 
Join us for an Informational Meeting: 
f 

remainder of the Dodgers pitching staff isn't nearly so renowned. 
But it was the Dodgers, not tlw Braves, with the best EHA -:{.46 to 3.52. 
"I feel comfortable with my guys," Dodgers second base­man Dclino DeShields said. "They brought us to the dance. Thny may not get the pub that Atlanta gets. I don't think they should right now. Atlanta has done it year after year. Our guys are young guys." 
Smoltz (24-8), the probable NL Cy Young Award winner, will start Wednesday's opener against Martinez {15-6), who has won his last seven decisions and is 21-6 dating back to Aug. 3, 1995. 
Assuming Smoltz wins the Cy Young Award, the Braves will possess the winners of the last six -Maddux won from 1992­95 and Glavine won in 1991. 
"They're the most respected 
Wednesday, October2 
7:00p.m. 353 
Fitzpatrick 
staff in the league, and de­servedly so," Dodgers pitching eoach Dave Wallace said. "(But) I like our staff a lot. I think we've proved all year we can match up with most of the staffs in baseball, or all of them." 
Wohlers, who had 39 saves, said the Braves' starting rota­tion, more than anything else, has been the team's main strength in recent years. 
"And it's going to have to be that way again this postsea­son," he said. Then, with a chuckle, Wohlers added, "They make up half our payroll, so they should carry the load." 
Wohlers said the Dodgers have one of the best bull pens in baseball. Worrell led the way with a big league-leading 44 saves. 
"It's not just the bullpen," Wohlers said. "Their starters are tough and there should be some low-scoring games." 
Cardinals prevail in low scoring affair 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS 

Nine years after haunting the St. Louis Cardinals in the postseason, Gary Gaetti helped them to an October win. 
Gaetti hit a three-run home run in the first inning and Todd Stottlemyre pitched a solid 6 2-3 innings Tuesday as the Cardinals opened the NL playoffs with a 3-1 win over the San Diego Padres. 
The teams will have an off day Wednesday before resum­ing the best-of-5 series Thursday. 
Gaetti, who grew up in near­by Centralia, Ill. signed as a free agent in the off-season hoping to get back to the play­offs as a Cardinal. And like in 1987, when he homered in his first two playoff at-bats for Minnesota, which went on to beat the Cardinals in the World Series, Gaetti made the most of his first NL playoff plate appearance. 
After Joey Hamilton hit Ron Cant with two outs, Brian Jordan singled. Gaetti, who hit 23 homers in the regular sea­son, followed by hitting a 1-1 fastball over the center-field wall, sending a charge into the Busch Stadium crowd of 54,193. 
Stottlemyre, who entered the game 0-3 with a 7.50 ERA in the postseason, allowed five hits, struck out seven and walked two. 
The Cardinals got strong relief from Rick Honeycutt, who retired Tony Gwynn on a pop to short with two runners on to end the seventh. Dennis Eckersley came on with one out in the eighth, and after putting two runners on in the ninth, he got Gwynn on a comebacker to end the game. 
After fielding Gwynn's grounder, Eckersley held the ball up before throwing to first for the final out and his 12th career postseason save. 
Ken Caminiti, a front-runner for the NL MVP, struck out three times for San Diego, which was making its first playoff appearance since 1984. 
In the Padres' first, Stottlemyre gave up a one-out double to Gwynn and hit the next batter, Steve Finley. He then retired nine in a row and 14 of 15 before Rickey Henderson opened the sixth with his fifth career postsea­son homer. 
Hamilton was pushed back from his scheduled start in the regular-season finale on Sunday to give him a chance to start twice in the first round. He threw 79 pitches in six innings, allowing three runs and five hits. 
St. Louis will start Andy Benes (18-10) in Game 2 against Scott Sanders (9-5). 
Notes: St. Louis went 8-4 vs. San Diego during the regular season.... The Padres added pitcher Andy Ashby and in­fielder Luis Lopez to their postseason roster. Ashby, who was on the disabled list at the Sept. 1 deadline, takes the place of Mike Oquist and will start Game 3.... Stottlemyre allowed a team-leading 30 home runs in the regular sea­son.... The start of the game was delayed for 20 minutes after the AL playoff opener in Baltimore was pushed back when umpires threatened to boycott the game. 
-------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
page 18 

• MALOR LAGUE BASEBALL 
Orioles' bats power over the Indians 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 

BALTIMORE 
After the umpires showed up late, the Baltimore Orioles struck early and never let up. 
Brady Anderson opened Baltimore's first playoff ap­pearance in 13 years with a 
I leadoff homer, B.J. Surhoff
I 
homered twice and Bobby
I 
Bonilla added a grand slam as
I 
the Orioles beat the Cleveland
I 
Indians 10-4 Tuesday in the
I 
opener of their first-round AL playoff series. 
I 
I Game 2 of the best-of-5 series 
I ~ 
will be played Wednesday af­ternoon in Baltimore. The Orioles, who set a major­league record with 257 home 
II runs during the regular season, built a 4-1 lead in the opening three innings against the de­fending AL champions. After Cleveland got within a run, Bonilla capped a five-run sixth with his first playoff homer in 14 games. Manny Ramirez homered for the Indians, who led the majors with 99 wins this season -in­cluding seven in 12 games against Baltimore, the wild­card team. Umpires from both leagues threatened to boycott the play­offs unless Orioles second base­man Roberto Alomar was immediately suspended for spit­ting in the face of umpire John Hirschbeck on Friday night. Replacement umpires were on hand in case the regulars stayed away. The scheduled umpire crew finally showed up, but their late arrival delayed the start of the game by approximately 20 minutes. Alomar was given a five-day suspension Saturday, but he appealed the ruling and will not have a hearing until after the World Series. Alomar was cheered by the majority of the 4 7,644 fans at Camden Yards, but there as also a smattering of boos. He singled in his first at-bat and finished 1-for-4 with a sacrifice fly. Leading 4-3, the Orioles used two walks and a single by Anderson to load the bases with one out in the sixth. Alan Embree replaced starter 
Charles Nagy and gave up a sacrifice fly to Alomar before reloading the bases by hitting Rafael Palmeiro. 
Paul Shuey came in, and Bonilla sent a 3-2 pitch deep into the right-field seats to give Baltimore a 9-3 lead. 
Nagy (0-1) yielded nine hits and a season-high seven earned runs. 
Baltimore starter David Wells, who beat the Indians twice dur­ing the regular season, allowed four runs and eight hits in 6 2-3 innings. The left-hander was removed after he was hit on the left ankle by a hard grounder hit by Kevin Seitzer. 
An RBI single by Kenny Lofton got the Indians to 9-4 in the seventh. but Surhoff hit his second homer of the game in the bottom of the inning. 
Anderson, who set a major­league record by leading off a game with a homer 12 times during the regular season, hit Nagy's 1-2 pitch well over the right-field wall in his first ca­reer postseason at-bat leading off the first. 
The Indians tied it on a home run by Ramirez in the second, but Surhoff restored Baltimore's one-run lead with a solo shot in the bottom half. Surhoff, like Anderson, was making his first playoff appear­ance. 
The Orioles made it 4-1 in the third on a run-scoring double by Palmeiro and a two-out RBI single by Cal Ripken, playing in his first playoff game since the 1983 World Series. 
It was the seventh time in the 
history of the AL playoffs that a 
team scored at least once in the 
first three innings of a game. 
Baltimore has done it three 
times. 

Cleveland closed to 4-3 in the 
fourth when Sandy Alomar, 
Roberto's brother, singled in a 
run and Omar Vizquel hit a sac­
rifice fly. Notes: Ore! Hershiser 
(15-9) will start Game 2 for 
Cleveland against Scott 
Erickson (13-12).... Nagy al­
lowed more home runs (two) 
than he did in 15 of his previous 
16 starts.... The Orioles have 
scored 96 runs in 13 games (7.4 
per game) against Cleveland 
this year. They've reached dou­
ble figures four times. 

Perspectives on 
The Path to Justice 
Find out where you 
Come to a 
FREE SHOWING 
of 

DEADMAN 
WALKING 
followed by a panel discussion with 
stand--­
residents of DISMAS HO 
Wednesday, Octobe.. 2 @ 7:00 p.an. in the Lib .. a ..y Audito.. iuan 
brought to you by~
~-and 


(the twin towers of student organizations) 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
Texas wins postseason debut 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Juan Gonzalez, Dean Palmer and the Texas Rangers quickly made up for lost time. 
Gonzalez hit a three-run homer and Palmer hit a two­run shot in the fourth inning against David Cone as Texas, playing the first postseason game in its 25-year history, beat the New York Yankees 6­2 Tuesday night in an AL play­off opener. 
"Everybody can relax now," Gonzalez said. "We have a lot of young guys, and now they've played in a playoff game." 
"It's great for our fans. They have waited a long time, 25 years," he said. 
John Burkett, traded from Florida to Texas two months ago, overcame a shaky start and scattered 10 hits to win. He escaped his biggest jam in the sixth, getting likely AL rookie of the year Derek Jeter on a popup with the bases loaded to end the inning and preserve a four-run lead. 
The AL West champion Rangers will try to take a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 series against the AL East champions on Wednesday night. Ken Hill will start for Texas and Andy Pettitte, who led the league with 21 wins, will pitch for New York. Pettitte was 13-3 when following Yankees' loss­es. 
"The first game is big," Burkett said. "Now we can try to go out and win tomorrow. And ifnot, we have a split and we can go home to our fans." 
The Rangers, whose postsea­son drought extended back to 1961 when the franchise was born as the expansion Washington Senators, actually had to wait even a little longer before making their playoff de­but. 
The start of the game was delayed 10 minutes when the six-man umpiring crew did not take the field until the American League set the site of Roberto Alomar's appeal Thursday for spitting at an umpire John Hirschbeck. 
Only then were the Yankees able to take their positions for the 215th postseason game in team history, covering appear­ances in 36 different years. 
Of the 10 starters in the Yankees' lineup, including des­ignated hitter Darryl Strawberry, who played in place of Cecil Fielder, all but one had been in the postsea­son. Will Clark and Kevin Elster were the only Rangers starters who had been there before. 
Burkett, facing the Yankees for the first time in his career, struck out seven and walked one. He gave up a leadoff sin­gle to Tim Raines and a double to Wade Boggs, but a diving stop by third baseman Dean Palmer on a grounder by Paul O'Neill prevented more dam­age. 
"That play set the tone," Texas manager Johnny Oates said. "If that balls gets by him, it's 2-0 and who knows what happens." 
The Yankees managed a run in the first on an RBI grounder by Bernie Williams, and scored in the fourth on a single by Mariano Duncan. 
But later the Rangers showed that while postseason experience may count for a lot, home runs count even more. 
"That's the type of team they are," Cone said. "When you make a mistake over the plate, they're going to crush it." Gonzalez, who wrecked the Yankees with five homers and 16 RBis in 10 games during the regular season, put the Rangers ahead with a three­run shot after a leadoff single by Ivan Rodriguez and a walk to Rusty Greer. 
Gonzalez hit 4 7 homers this year, but certainly never got a more enthusiastic greeting than the one he received in the dugout. It was his third homer in 19 career at-bats off Cone.Perhaps relaxed after breaking through against a pitcher that had a 1.09 ERA lifetime against them in eight games, Texas kept going. Clark followed with a single and one out later, Palmer, who home­red three times against New York during the year, also sent a drive into the lower deck in left. 
In the Year of the Homer, longballs turned out to be the story of the day. Of the 26 runs scored Tuesday in the Cleveland-Baltimore, San Diego-St. Louis and Texas-New York playoff games, 17 came on a total of nine home runs. 
The crowd of 57,205, the largest in 21 years since Yankee Stadium was remod­eled, surely recognized what Gonzalez had done. In the bot­tom of the sixth, there was a brief delay when umpires met in right field with Gonzalez, who apparently had some small objects thrown at him by fans. 
Cone, in his lOth postseason game, gave up another run in sixth on a walk and singles by Palmer and Mark McLemore. 
Cone made a remarkable re­covery from an aneurysm in his right shoulder in May, yet could not pitch well enough to enable New York to break its four-game losing streak in the playoffs. The skid started with three losses to Seattle that eliminated the Yankees in the first round last year. 
Buddies Benefit for the Homeless 
and 20 year reunion of Vegetable Buddies 
general public invited/all ages show All proceeds from the show to benefit the Center for the Homeless 
Featuring: 
The Fabulous Thunderbirds 
Hit songs include: Powerful Stuff, TuffEnuff, Wrap it Up 
With very special Guests: 
Howard Scott, Harold Brown, BB Dickerson 
from the 70's Supergroup who wrote and performed their hits: Cisco Kid, Low Rider, Slipping into Darkness, The World is a Ghetto 
and the red hot rhythm & blues of 
The Whistle Pigs 
Saturday night, Oct. 5th, 1996 The State Theater-South Bend, IN 
Tickets go on sale Sept 5th: 
Available at:  Heartland Nightclub (or charge by phone): State Theater (or charge by phone): Tracks Records Method Music (Elkhart-Concord Mall)  219-234-5200 219-232-0679 219-277-8338 219-8 75-8880  
Advance TicketDay of show:  s: $1 7 $20  

VIP tickets: $40 (a limited number of preferred seats will be made available. Price includes pre-show reception at the Heartland VIP room [next door] with hors d'oeuvres, and greet the bands after the show in the VIP room). 
Sponsors: Northwest Airlines, WRBR, Avery Dennison, Heartland, Howard Johnson's and The State Theater 
~-..-------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------~--------------~ 
WeJnesday, October 2, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
------------------------------------------~--~--~~--------------------------------------------------~~-­
MIXED MEDIA 

MIKE PETERS 


CAROL, [ NE.£.0 TO DOCUt-\ENT 'fOUR PROCEDURE FOR OROE.RtNG OFFtCE. 5UPPLIE5. IT'S AN 150 9000 RE.QUlREI"\ENI. 
CROSSWORD 
1 The Crtmson Ttde 
32 Star 

35 Summer tops concern 37 Abu Dhabi's 5 Trucker's 
:I 
8 
.. 
0 < 
(II) 
:I
"' 
< 
c 
<
,_
,_ 
0 
'-' 

JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
IIAI'I'Y IIIRTIIDAY! IN TilE lllL'I\1~ A lnn~tlllll' lrll'llll 111.1~ IIL'I,.'d NEXT YEIIR OF YOUR LIFE: spccia!L·ncoura~cnwnt rH lV. F111ancial and emotional pressures VIR(;O illu~ ~1 s,·pt 22t gradually suhside. Make a profes­Nl."w hu...,rrll'\~ dl'vl'lnp111L'I11:-. will sumal pa11ncrsh1p all that it can be 1 keep your 110\t' ltllhl' !!nnd... tonL' till\ Family tics will guarantee that wee\\. inform YIHir m.llL' nr p.:u1llL'I December is truly merry. Develop­about your plan' fo1 the futur<' ing your artistic talents will bring Although some L>ppoSIIIOil " I'"'" applause. Be prepared 10 make a hie. lal~mg things out will he help tough decision when a great job ful. opportunity arises. Launching or LIIIRA !Sept. 2~-lkl. 22): II expanding a business will lake up cooperative al!l!u<k will make this a the hon's share of your lime next highly produclil'l' mormng. Even II spring. Emphasize self-reliance objections surface later, you arc 111 when dealing with someone who is the money for now. Romance has its overly dependent. ups and downs. CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. ~-1-Nov. 21): THIS DAY: fashion designer An excellent day to refine existing Donna Karan. rock star Sting. methods and procedures. Heed the celebrity photographer Annie Lei­advice of experts or informed col­bovill., India·., reknowned religious leagues and look over the acwunt leader Mahatma Gandhi. hooks. Steer clear of people with ARIES (March 21-April 19): whom you have differences of O[lln The success of a work project JOn. inspires you to broaden your hori­SAGITTARIUS iNov. 22-Dec zons. Do not be afraid to set your 2I): Not a good time to take risb sights high1 Marshall your energies with your friendships or money. lo tackle jobs that will produce extra Guard against family upsets by cash or favorable publicity. being supportive in both word and TAURUS (April 20-May 201: deed. Avoid point1ng out the tlaws Day trips could prove quite lucrative in a loved om•'s plan. this month. Those expecting to CAPRICORN iDee. 22-Jan. move up to the executive suite must 19): If answers arc not fonhcoming. be receptive to advice from intluen­keep looking. LISten to both your lial people. intuition and older people if ponder­GEMINI (May 21-June 20): ing a long-term commitment. You Although a struggle is difficult, the need lo smw1en up where money is outcome will be terrific! Higher-ups concemed. are impressed by your ability to per­AQliARlliS (Jan. 20-Feh. Ig) form well under adverse conditions. Discussing a senous issue with fam­CANCER (June 21-July 22): ily members i~ a must. An elderl) Productivity rise' when you work at relative mav need to relocate. lnve'­home. A spirited discussion brings tigate various option~. A neighbor valuable insights. Deal with any seeks your cooperation. family problems head-on. Self­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201 improvement activities yield fantas­Taking a break from your routine tic results. will help you return to your work LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A thrifty refreshed. Others ma\ not under­approach will help you accumulate stand your need for ·a change ol savings. Consult financial advisers scene. Do not try to explain. to get greater returns on invest­ 
• OF INTEREST International Students: Find out about immi­gration laws regarding employment and interviewing, in the Career and Placement Waiting Room, today, from 6:30-8 p.m. A video, "The Employment Interview: American Style," will be shown. Paulo Siepierski of Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco, Brazil, will speak about "Political Impli­cations of Recent Socio-Religious Changes in Brazil" tomorrow at 4:15 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. A memorial service for Henri J.M. Numoen will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m. in the Holy Cross Chapel at Keenan-Stanford Hall, sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. A reception will follow in Keenan Commons. Internet junkies and those who enjoy building and maintaining web pages: Internship Opportunities with CBD can help you enhance your portfolio, increase your pocket money and build your resume. Experience in HTML, Visual Basics, Java or CGI, required. Call Charles Stafford at 273-4348.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Grilled Ham Steak Bacon Lettuce Tomato Soup Tortilla Soup Grilled Pork Chops Grill~d Salmon Fillet Irish Browned Potatoes Chicken Tetrazzini Sour Cream Cheesecake Saint Mary's Rotisserie Chicken Sweet and Sour Pork Potato Cheese Pierogies Mexican Bar  

... 

z
IF 50t-\EONE ~51<.5 FOR 
u 501"\ET~lNG, l C~E.CK THE = SUPPLY CABINET HR5T. ~ THE.N I 5~'<. "TI-'ERE'5 ~ ONE. LEFT. 'fOU CMn Hf:>..VE. ~ IT ~E.CAU5E. 1'1-\E.N WE'D ~ ! 
~ 
Q 

~----~~~~--~~--~ 

53 Symbol of dependency 
57 What people tn a line may be doing 
60 KihdOfV!!ItJ~ 
61 Clanton gang foe &2Par-­63 -Tass news agency 64 ---Ball (arcade game) 65 Woman of letters 
66 Conservative 67 Henri's head 
DOWN 
1 It may go with the floe 2 Auto accessory 3 Dupe 4 Malign 5 Ltke some eyes 6 Score in this 
-

9 Benchwarmer 14 Bulldogs 15 rra trailer 
16 Bel -cheese 
11 Stadtum walkway 
18 Awestruck 
19 Key 20 "My JOY" and "my delight," in an old song 
23 Ill-humored 24 --effect (electrical phenomenon) 
28 Sloppy digs 29 "It's freezingt" 
federation: Abbr. 
38 Mtcroscope slide subjects 40 "­
real!" 41 Haunted house hazards 43 Looks from Groucho 
45 Radius's partner 
46 Oz. and lb. 
47 Accepted greedily, with "up" 
48 Rob or Laura of "The Dick Van Dyke Show" 
50 Ultimatum words 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
puzzle's theme 
7 Cream 29 Rathskeller ingredient offerings 8 Frenzy 30 Confederates 9 Did moles' work 32 Class clown 10 Famed couturier 33 Hall-of-Farner Combs
11 Fam. member 
34 Wasn't upright

12 Take habitually 
35 Binge

13 "You---!" 
36 ---skelter 21 OK 
39 Tractor 22 Vice follower attachment 25 NCO's 42 Nonpareil nickname 
44 Most slippery 26 Web-looted 47 Main road mammal 
49 Old toothpaste 27 Fits together brand 


50 Boxer de Ia 56 Germany's Graf Hoya von--­51 Moccasin, e.g. 
57 Cleveland52 Heron hoopster, for 

54 "Wanna make short 
something 
__?" 58 Lab eggs 
55 Brussels-based 59 "House of org. Incest" novelist 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
Please Recycle the Observer. 
--~--~--------~ 
r .. 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
• BASKETBAll 

-

The Obse!Ver/Rob Finch Notre Dame guard Keith Kurowski's college career is over as a result of a herniated disc in his back. He has been a valuable member of the Irish basketball team for four years. 
Herniated disc ends career of hard-luck guard Kurowski 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
For four years. there has always been a next year for Keith Kurowski. Time, though, has finally run out on the hard-luck fifth-year Irish guard. 
Yesterday, the University announced that Kurowski will miss his entire final season due to a herniated disc in his back. Following the departure of Doug Gottlieb and Pete Miller's deci­sion to leave the team, Kurowski's absence leaves the struggling Irish program with just Admore White and Antoni Wyche as the only experienced guards. 
The 6-foot-2 Kurowski came to Notre Dame in 1992 as one of the nation's top guard prospects after a stand-out career at Christian Brothers Academy in New Jersey. In fact, he was John MacLeod's most highly tout­ed recruit until the arrival last year of Gary Bell. 
But throughout the course of his stay at Notre Dame, Kurowski came to redefine the term "injury-prone." 
"He was a bright prospect, but he was continually nagged by major health problems," MacLeod said. "It's just unbelievable what has happened to him." 
Unbelievable as it may be, the 
injuries were frustratingly real. 
Before he even put on an Irish uni­form. Kurowski suffered a stress frac­ture in his foot and missed his entire freshman campaign. 
The next season, despite being ham­pered by a sprained ankle, Kurowski finally got a chance to show a little bit of his vast potential, as he played in 24 games and averaged 10 points per contest. His career game came against Louisville, as he poured in 23 points, including a 30-foot bomb to force the game into overtime. 
But it was all downhill after that. 
1994 brought about a more serious health problem -Wolff-Parkinson­White Syndrome. 
The ailments caused what amounted to a "short circuit" in the electrical system of his heart and induced occa­sional palpitations. 
A 10-hour surgery eliminated the problem and paved the way for Kurowski to have a solid senior sea­son. 
It never happened. 

The toll the injuries took on his body and an apparent spot in MacLeod's doghouse kept Kurowski on the bench for the majority of Notre Dame's inau­gural Big East season. He played in 
see KUROWSKI I page 14 
• fOOTBAll • VOLlEYBAll 
Holtz expresses need for speed Irish defeated by 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 

With several flaws uncovered in the Notre Dame football pro­gram last Saturday, coach Lou Holtz had many topics of dis­cussion to choose from at Tuesday's press conference. But he was able to isolate one glaring weakness his team dis­played. 
"Speed." 

The best way to beat man-to­man coverage is with speed and acceleration coming off of the line of scrimmage. The only way for a secondary to keep up with potent receivers is to match their speed and quick­ness. Right now, the Irish lack the speed to compete in both of these departments. Thus, Holtz realizes that there is only one way to fix the situation. 
"We are talking about recruiting and we are talking about speed," he emphasized. "We need to get some football players who run track." 
A couple of seasons ago, Holtz thought he had found the answer, the back-up to Derrick Mayes and the future leader of the receiving corps. After a brief stint at Florida State and a short jail term, that answer is now playing at a small college in West Virginia. 
"Well, I think that we knew we would have to replace Derrick Mayes and there wasn't any doubt that (it looked) like Randy Moss would be the guy that you would go to," Holtz said. 
Randy Moss, an answer? 
The simple fact is, nobody has become the heir apparent to Derrick Mayes. Despite Mayes' lack of true speed, he was able to compensate with deceptive speed and the ability to get open despite situations where he faced double cover­age. His technique, also flaw­less, made him a specimen. 
"Derrick Mayes received dou­ble coverage most of the time, and now we don't get that dou­ble coverage and so that extra 
defender is up at the line of scrimmage," Holtz said. With no deep threat. no one 
unranked Cardinals 
forcing the opposing safeties to fall back into coverage, the By JOE CAVATO Irish can likely expect to face 
Sports Writer man-to-man quite often. With the extra pressure this puts on The Notre Dame volleyballthe running game, the receivers team hoped to continue their must develop soon or the Irish winning ways and head into Big run the risk of a stagnant East conference play but theyoffense all season. were blocked by the Ball State 
"The best thing you can do to Cardinals, literally. BSU took advantage of their see FOOTBALL/ page 16 eighteenth ranked blocking av­
erage of 3.04 per game to take the Irish out of their game and not let their attack get into rhythm. The Cardinals amassed 20 blocks as sophomore Becky Inman had and Liz Cothren led the way with 12 and nine respectively. 
The now 8-6 Cardinals upset the twelfth ranked Irish to be­come the first unranked team to defeat Brown's squad in their last 52 matches, 10-15, 15-10, 6-15, 15-9, 15-12. "That (Notre Dame) streak (vs. unranked teams) should still be intact," noted BSU's head coach Randy Litchfield. "If my team would have played at this level the entire season, we'd be ranked." 
Litchfield's squad came in fired up and was helped by a "seventh man". State's Alumni Association gathered a group of area alum to cheer on their team. 
"The fact that we allowed them to think that they could play with us is really disappoint­
Mike Ruma/The Obse!Ver 
ing," Brown remarked as the
Benny Guilbeaux celebrates one of the few defensive victories over 
Irish dominated much of the
the Buckeyes last weekend. 
vs. Washington Notre Dame Invitational ~ October 12, 1:30 p.m. 
October 4 
~ aJ 
first game before finally closing it out. "We lost so many oppor­tunities early and the fact that we let them have the confidence that they could beat us is disap­pointing." 
One might understand how the squad came out a bit rusty as they have not played a match since September 21st, but the Irish refuse to accept that as a reason for the loss. 
"We should have been ready to play," commented senior cap­tain Jenny Birkner. "If we want to be in the Final Four we have to be ready and win matches like this." 
Normally, the Irish get great play from their outside hitters, Birkner and junior Angie Harris, but last night they were off their games. Birkner racked up 11 kills but had an unchar­acteristically high number of errors with seven. Harris stated that her knees which have given her trouble from surgery were not a factor but she came up flat last night with a -.129 hitting percentage. 
'Freshman Mary Leffers car­ried the Irish as she totaled a career high 20 kills with a .364 hitting percentage. Other good performances were turned in by sophomore Lindsay Treadwell who had a .296 percentage with 12 kills and senior Jen Briggs who came of the bench to have 
a .364 hitting percentage in 11 total attacks. 


• Men's soccer bounces back 
at North Carolina 
Notre Dame Invitational 
~ 

October 4, 5 p.m. 
J€& October 4 see page 16 
.~ ....
~ .. ... ' 

Volleyball vs. Concordia
vs. Syracuse 
riJ •Indians lose playoff opener 
(.a, 

~ October 3, 7 p.m. 
October 5, 7 p.m. 
... 
see page 18 

vs. Georgetown
@ October 4, 7 p.m . ~ 
... 








