
Monday Aprill, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 116 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
In the name of the environment 

~ Tnru cubu: ranis of lANDFILL :;"1
5fACf ,, 
I
n honor of Earth Week, the Recyclin' Irish, in conjunction with the Notre Dame Environmental Coalition, sponsored 'GreenFest' at the Field House Mall on Saturday. 
Campus band George and the Freaks (above) joined other musical groups in bringing awareness of environmental responsibility. The festival also offered tye-dying and seed planting. 
"We just really wanted to get stu­dents involved," said Karen Cardinal of Recyclin' Irish. "Next year we are starting a big campaign to get students to reevaluate their personal habits with respect to the environment." 
Other groups involved in bringing these events to campus included the Terra Club and Students for Environmental Action. 



Campus women unite in candlelight march 
By DAVID MURPHY News Writer 
In an attempt to build coalitions between both the women and minority organi­zations of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, as well as to bring women's issues to the fore­front, five differ­ing organizations presented the "Womyn's Solidarity March" at the Fieldhouse Mall Friday evening. 
The event showcased speakers from the . . The Observer/David Murphy 
, The Womyn's So!Jdanty March, begun at W 0 m e n s Fieldhouse Mall, culminated in an open-micro-Resource Cent~r. phone discussion on rape. The march ended in the gender studies Haggar Center at Saint Mary's College. 


P r o g r a m ,
A t I t r I' 
mnes Y n erna wna s cam­pus chapter, Rec.Sports, and the Gays and Lesb!ans of Not~e Dame a!_ld Samt Mary s College. ~ll of the sp~akers
had really Important thmgs to
" 'd . f th 
say, sai co-orgamzer 0 e march, S<l:rah Corson. Accordmg to Corson, there 
were between 50 and70 people
th t tt d d th t 
a a en e e even · althou.gh many .of the P~.?ple w.ere JUSt passmg by. fhe mght ~as phenomenal. I would hked to have s.een ~ore peopl~, but for a ftrst ttme event It was great: I would have been happy If ~.nly ~5 
people showed up, said Corson. She added, "Even a lot of 
h d d II f
men s owe up, an not a o 
them gay." Corson also com-mented that this was the first march of its kind between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"I was reall ha with it" 
· · , yh ppy · ' 
said Erm 1 ra an, eluurperson
of the Women's Hesource Center. "It was needed here because overtly political state­
ments are not often made here 
at Notre Dame. [At the march] students could express them­selves within the group." 
The march also exhibited an open-microphone feature that allowed audience members to discuss their opinions on the subiect. "Ever one was J·ump­
• Y 
see WOMYN I page 4 
• BoARD oF GovERNANCE

Bell: Neglecting black concerns affects whites Tubiak appoints new BOG 
By MAUREEN HURLEY By MARILYN ALIOTO 
Saint Mary's News Editor New,Writn and CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Tlw misconception that only tlw black population will sufTnr Saint Mary's Student Body if nothing is donn to revitalize President-elect has been busy tlu~ir communitins and the job making plans for a landmark rnarkt~t inhibits substantive 1996-97 school year. change, according to Derrick Occupying the majority of her Bdl, a dvil rights advocate and time has been the selection of prof'nssor at Nt)W York Univer­the BOG commissioners for the sity l.aw Sehool. In truth, upcoming academic year. whites will also suffer if black "I felt like a chicken running concerns arc not addrt~sscd, lw constitution is a around with its head cut-off, " 
said. Turbiak said after interviewing
battle cry that discrimi­
"Black pnoplt) are sinking in around 30 candidates for the tlw quicksand of a fast chang­nation is a thing of the 1996-97 Board of Governance ing economy. They are holding past.' last week. a rescull ropt), and on the other Turbiak announced the
-Derrick Bell 
sidll a white man has it around future BOG commissioners over
nation," he stated. 
his neck," Bell said. "Two the weekend, in time for the
Citing examples in history
things happlln: blacks go un­first 1996-97 BOG meeting
ranging from the period of
der. but so do whites." Sunday night. The 1996-97 BOG commis­
slave ownership through the 
sioners are:Bell's tlwme examined how "The meeting was wonder­

present, Bell catalogued the 
• Emily Ruffner, Public Hela­hlac:ks have managed to sur­ful," Turbiak described. "I

treatment of blacks socially, 
tions/Aiumnae Commissioner.

vive a history of others' igno­believe that enthusiasm creates
economically, and psychologi­
She will chair the Student­cally. Alumnae Association, and is re­
rance enthusiasm, and my enthusi­
Btl!! nott)d that allegorical asm is overwhelmed. All of the 
Bell pointed to the Brown vs. 
sponsible for serving as a liai­t)xamplns have been around for new BOG members are Saint

the Board of Education case to 
a long period of time during Mary's women who are aware son between the Public Hela­
reinforce a two-part principle tions/Aiumnae Office and thewhich sonw whitns have shown of the policies and issues, and
of racial policy that he sees 
student body. Huffner is a ju­stupidity over issuns sueh as have a voice."

existent in society. lie said, nior business administrationrace and affirmative action. The 12 appointed commis­
"Society sacrifices black rights 
and communication major,

"Stupic.fity, not justice, keeps sioners will join Vice-President­
to save white policies; and the
blacks as scapegoats; it elect and Student Academic becorrws a stabilizing force of a Council President Beth Ann see BOG I page 4
see BELL I page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April 1, 1996 
• INSiDE COWIVIN 



Baseball fever is back 
Well, there have been Dan Cichalski a lot of Inside Columns 
Accent Copy Editor 
on baseball lately and I feel it is my obligation to add one more to the list. But I'm not going to apologize because the sport deserves the attention it's been getting lately. Yes, I think baseball fever is back. 
A topic so broad as America's oldest major professional sport provides endless possibili­ties for a column. But for those who, like myself, consider today (Opening Day) a major holiday, I think a look at the season ahead will suffice. 
• 
For the first time in three seasons, there will be 162 games played by each team between today and September 30 (161 for the White Sox and Mariners, who got a head start on the season last night). This will also be the first full season since Nolan Ryan retired in 1993. It just goes to show that Ryan's retire­ment, after a record 27 seasons, upset the natural order of the universe, and it took two years for it to get back on track. 

• 
Deion Sanders will not be playing baseball this year. Instead, Deion Sanders will focus all his athletic ability on signing his checks from the Dallas Cowboys. Deion Sanders should stick to a sport in which Deion Sanders can be both arrogant and good enough to jus­tify it. Barry Bonds can be a jerk, but at least he puts up the numbers to back up his mouth. Deion Sanders belongs in the NFL with all those other loudmouths and would fit in well in the NBA too. (I have a feeling that Deion Sanders would call a press conference to announce his engagement, though I don't know if he did or not. But I could see him fac­ing the cameras, saying, "Deion Sanders has proposed marriage to....") 

• 
The Cleveland Indians became the first team in history to sell out their home sched­ule. Those lucky enough to get tickets will see one of the best teams ever, and maybe one good enough to break the American League record for wins in a season-111 set by the 1954 Indians. 

• 
Ryne Sandberg is back at second base for the Chicago Cubs. What is it with Chicago athletes who wear 23 and then retire? As far as I know, Sandberg spent his retirement with his family (not playing basketball) and will stick with the same number, rather than switching to 45. But the Cubs might not have such an easy time winning 70 games this year. 

• 
The American League East division will be the best pennant race in years. Only three of the teams (the Orioles, Red Sox, and Yankees) will be in it, but they could be fighting it out until the last day of the season, which is more than can be said for the AL Central with the Indians, or the NBA. 

• 
This could be the year Greg Maddux doesn't win the Cy Young Award in the National League. However, considering the absence of anyone to possibly challenge him for it, the Baseball Writer's Association might as well make out the nameplate now. If he does win it, they might have to think about renaming it the Greg Maddux Award. And with the writers failing to vote anyone into the Hall of Fame this year, why don't they just put Maddux in there now? 


Well, there will be plenty to enjoy in the next seven months. I know I'll be happy. No more Bulls, Knicks, and Magic every Sunday on NBC (for me): just a summer of scanning the box scores, munching on peanuts, rooting for the Mets, and wondering, like every American boy, what it would have been like to play baseball for a Jiving. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Krisri Kolski Kelly Brooks Sports Mike Day Graphics Tom Roland 

Accent Catherine Deely 
Production 
Nathan Wills Mike Norbut Lab Tech Mike Hungeling 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GuNcE 

Men accused in Oklahoma bombing moved to Colorado 
DENVER ,-----.---------,110-----, 
The two men accused in the Oklahoma City bombing were moved under cover of darkness and extremely heavy security early Saturday from Oklahoma to a federal prison in Colorado, where they will stand trial. 
Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols, previously held at a federal prison in EI Reno, Okla., arrived at 1:25 a.m. aboard a Department of Defense jet at 
~==:=::::±:==::-:::~:;i--""-:::.:.;~ 
lr 
Jefferson County Airport northwest of E:>tW.-7if~±:::a:-:;;-J Denver. 20 miles Heavily armed guards sealed the air-~ port area before their arrival. "It '-------=-l--..-J'------'-'-----L--20-k_m--:-:: 
looked like someone was going to invade us," said Joel Kingham of Stevens Aviation, lo­cated at the airport. 
Then, instead of being driven, McVeigh and Nichols were flown by helicopter to the medium-security Federal Correctional Institution in the Denver suburb of Englewood. 
When marshals arrived at the prison with the two men, the road was closed and more helicopters hovered over­head, said Richard Lane, an attendant at a nearby all-night service station. 
Details on the move and the conditions of their confine-
AP 
ment were being kept confidential for security reasons, said a statement from prison warden W.A. Perrill and U.S. Marshal Tina Lewis Howe. 
The closest maximum-security federal 
prison they could have been taken to is in Florence, about 130 miles south of Denver. 
McVeigh and Nicholas are scheduled to go on trial later this year on federal murder and conspiracy charges in the April 19 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building. The blast killed 169 people and injured more than 500. Thetwo men could face the death penalty. 
A hearing is set for April 9 before U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch, who moved the trial to Denver after determining they could not receive a fair trial in Okla­homa. 
Prosecutors are asking Matsch to deny a defense motion seeking classified government information on ter­rorist groups. The prosecution acknowledges the initial investigation focused on iriternational terrorists, but says that was "largely the result of an initial hesitance to think that Americans could have perpetrated such a bar­rible attack upon their fellow citizens." 

Shin Bet investigated Rabin's assassin 
JERUSALEM 
Israel's Shin Bet security agency briefly investigated Yitzhak Rabin's assassin several months before he killed the prime minister but apparent­ly concluded he posed no danger, a newspaper said Sunday. The revelation appears in a secr~;Jt appendix to the report by the government commission that investigated the Nov. 4 assassina­

tion, the Haaretz newspaper said. Prime Minister Shimon Peres' Cabinet adopted the findings of the three-member commission on Sunday. Its report blamed Shin Bet for failing to heed intelligence warnings of a possible attack by a Jewish extremist and failing to properly secure the area around Rabin, who was shot as he left a Tel Aviv peace rally. The commission said then-Shin Bet chief Carmi Gilon, who resigned in January, was directly re­sponsible for Shin Bet's mistakes. The commission also recommended several other security officials be demoted, that police and the Shin Bet better coordinate protection for high-profile people, and that intelligence information be better distributed. 

Freemen barricade complex from FBI 
JORDAN, Mont. 
The Freemen holed up on an isolated farm where they claim to have their own legal system should surrender and face an established court, a leader of another mili­tant group said Sunday. Others urged that outsiders stay away and not get involved in the stand-off between fed­eral authorities and the Freemen, barricaded on a wheat farm on the snow-covered prairie of east-central Mon­tana. More than 1.00 FBI agents have been keeping watch on the Freemen's compound, 30 miles outside Jordan, since two leaders of the group were arrested on March 25. A third member of the group surrendered Saturday. Authorities won't say how many people are still at the farm, but 14 of them are believed to be wanted on various state and federal charges. Neighbors said the Freemen have built bunkers and openly stockpiled food, fuel and weapons. "Stay home, and let the negotiators and the people on the site handle this problem, so we don't have a Waco or a Ruby Ridge," John Parsons of the 

Atlantis returns to Earth from Mir 
EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. 
Atlantis returned safely to Earth on Sunday after drop­ping off an astronaut on the Russian space station Mir and overcoming mechanical problems that had almost forced an emergency landing. The shuttle ended its nine­day, 3.8-million mile mission at Edwards Air Force Base, touching down during a spectacular Mojave Desert sun­rise. "Welcome back Atlantis," Mission Control an­nounced. "Congratulations on successfully delivering Shannon." "It sure feels good to be home," flight commander Kevin Chilton responded. For two days, cloudy skies over Florida prevented the shuttle from landing at Kennedy Space Center, which would have saved NASA the $1 million it costs to move the shuttle coast-to-coast. Still, the shuttle almost had to make an emergency landing Saturday after its planned landing was called off. Two switches indicated that the cargo-bay doors that must be open during orbit had not swung open. The doors must be open to dispel heat from elec­tronic equipment and are closed for landing. After mak­ing a visual check to confirm the latches were open, the crew was ordered to override the automatic system and open the doors manually. 


Couple finds new career with llamas 
LEBANON, Ind. 
It began ~even years ago when Charles and "Crete" 
Hutton were on their way to Winamac to visit their son. 
The Huttons passed by a sign advertising a llama 
farm."The first time we drove on by," recalled Crete. "A 
few months later we drove by the sign again and decided 
to investigate the out-of-the-way farm. The third time, a 
few months later, we took our trailer with us." Today, 
they are owners of Hutton's Hoosier Llamas off Indiana 
32, west of Lebanon. What started on a small scale seven 
years ago has turned out to be a new career for the for­
mer city folks turned livestock farmers. The Buttons have 
25 head of llamas as well as five head of limousine cattle. 
They breed their llamas on a small scale, raise them for 
their wool, are project co-leaders and teach Boone 
County 4-H'ers how to care for the animals, sell them to 
qualified buyers, and show them at the county 4-H Fair 
and the State Fair. "We needed a career change when 
we retired," said Charles. " ... We decided we needed 

Tri-State Militia of South Dakota said Sunday. another money-making venture." 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, April 1. 

COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Pressure  ~  ~  rf\  
H  L  B  ESI  [II]  0  ~  8  ~  ~c.....__j,  
HIGH  L.OW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

VIa ASSOCIB/ed Press  
Allanta  54  52  Denver  62  29  New York  62  38  
Baltimore  63  37  Honolulu  85  72  Philadelphia 61  35  
Boston  60  35  Los Angeles 71  35  Phoenix  86  52  
Chicago  41  35  Miami  78  72  Sacramento 65  45  
Dallas  66  4t  New Orleans 76  64  St. Louis  50  43  


4,Q,~p~Q  ~  ~ Q  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press Graph1csNer  

Monday, April 1, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Himes: True sexuality involves 'self-giving' 
By 1\ETSY BOWMAN 
News Writer 
The Christian understanding of snxuality involvtls eomplete and truthful self-giving, Father Mkhael Himes said last night in discussing thfl larger coneept of tlw sexual rnlationship. 
In nxplaining his ideas on Christian sexuality llimes be­gan by discussing the ereation of humanity as d!lseribed in (;nnesis. lie qunstioned the rnasoning behind God's cre­ation of thll universtl and hu­manity if emation gives nothing back to llim. lie also noted that (;od needs nothing from anything to increase llis glory or his perfm~tion. 
Himes explained that God cnlatml us because "lle is pure and pnrfm~t lovn, self-gift." And sinen (;od ematl'd humanity in llis image and likeness, then it is intrinsic to human nature to imitatn God. 
!limes explairwd that "in the practiell of self-giving. we be­come ereators of love, more likn God." Furthnrmore, by ernating humanity both male and female, He shows us that mankind is not meant for isola­tion. 
"Christian sexuality," he ex­plained, "is supposed to be a means to completely give one­self away." According to !limes, by giving of ourselves, we be­come more like God, and exist more fully in llis image and likeness. 
"More important to under­standing sexuality is not chasti­ty. It's truthfulness," Himes said. 
Himes went on to explain that the sex act possesses an intrinsie meaning and is not purely a biological function. "Sex is an act of total giving wh,i.~h say_s 'I am yours forev­er, he satd. 
Consequently, when someone engages in sexual activity but still entertains selfishness, then the sex aet itself beeomes a lie and a mockery of the perfect generosity of God, Himes said. The self-giving of sex also implies a permanence. There­fore to have sexual intereourse without intending this complete permanence is also a lie. 
e~~~~:" ~~~;~ialB ~~ }u'
Sweet f" Sour l'hl~.:kcn ~ 
• · Chinese Cuisine 
'Cause on the catwalk 

The Observer/Krlstl Kolski Twenty-two of Notre Dame's finest looking students strutted down the catwalk in The Black Cultural Arts Festival fashion show Saturday. All proceeds from the event, titled "The Show '96, twenty years in the making," will benefit the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship fund. 

Hey Punk 

Look who can If you see news 
is now hiring for the following paidposition: 


finally hit the 

happening,mad do~




Ad Desian StaH 
call
tonight. 

• OffirsJl'!xible hours and gmzt experience 
The Observer 

• Macintosh computer knowledge necessary 
Happ~ 21st,

•Willingness to learn, and enthusiasm extremely important 
at 1-5325.
Mike 

Freshmen are encouraged to apply 
McGuillicuddy

If interested, contact Jed @ 4-1177 for more information 
Teaching and Research Abroad! 
Come hear 
Announcing
Ron Huseman~ 
a branch manager from 
The Fulbright Competition for I997--98. 
Lucent Technologies (forrnerly AT&T), 
All freshmen, sophomores, and especially juniors interested in 
speal{ about 
Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting 
the biggest 
with Professor A. James McAdams 
corporate breal{up in history! 
Thursday evening, April 11, 1996 at 7:00 PM in room 126 DeBartolo 
Wlaen: Tuesday, April 2nd Wla•••·e: Madeleva (SMC), Room #241 
•AGreat Notre Dame Cfradition ofWinnin~ Fulbri~hts •
Ti111e: 6:00PM 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 1, 1996 
Siefert. expand multicultural aware­on campus events and commu­
"To increase communication ness on campus. DeCarli is a nicate their concerns to BOG. on campus, we invented a junior Humanistic Studies Looney is a sophomore
BOG Bell 
continued from page 1 
who served as the BOG elec­tions commissioner and the managing editor of the Blue Mantle last year. 
• Caitlin McKenna and Sarah Siefert, Campus Communica­tions Commissioners. Stressing "improved communi­cation on campus" on their platform, Turbiak and Miller broadened this position into a three-tiered Commissioner position this year. 
The commissioners will be responsible for providing a pri­mary link between BOG and the student body, by publiciz­ing campus events. McKenna, responsible for communication in the dining hall and other campus levels, is a freshman English literature major, who served as the coordinator for the AIDS Awareness campaign. Siefert, responsible for orga­nizing a leaflet for The Observer, is a freshman math and secondary education major, and is the LeMans Spirit Week Chairwoman. Another commissioner who has not yet been determined will oversee McKenna and 
Womyn 
continued from page 1 
ing for the microphone," said Corson. It was during the open-microphone session that a man spurred the discussion on rape. "It [rape] was defiantly our strongest issue," said Corson. 
Other topics that were touched upon included the need for a women's center on cam­pus, inequalities between men three-tiered system," Turbiak said. "The system should cre­ate better campus communica­tion and better networking with the Notre Dame and South Bend community. We are allowed to initiate this change due to the BOG consti­tution which allows for a com­missioner position to be creat­ed." At the end of the year, her position will be evaluated. 
• 
Stacy Davis, Notre Dame Senate Representative. She represents Saint Mary's at the Notre Dame Senate meetings, communicating concerns be­tween BOG and the Senate. Davis is a freshman political science and English writing major with a minor in sec­ondary education. She is also a member of the Saint Mary's track team. 

• 
Laura Lechman, Spiritual Life Commissioner. She will serve as a liaison between BOG and Campus Ministry. Lech­man is a junior Humanistic Studies major, and a member of the Notre Dame Sailing Club. 

• 
KayLynn DeCarli, Ethnic Diversity Commissioner. She works with the ethnic clubs to 


and women in the athletic department, and lack of fund­ing for the gender studies pro­gram. 
According to Jessica Szczepaniak, editor of the Juggler who read poetry at the march, the march served two purposes; it was both "a cele­bration" and "a bridge fo'r the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women's communities." 
According to Corson, the march accomplished its goals of building coalition between both the women and minority orga­
• 
major, and a resident adviser. accounting and marketing continued from page 1 
• Mary Pat Buckenmeyer, major, who also volunteers at Executive Secretary. She is the Center for the Homeless. law recognizes black rights the responsible for recording • Emily Miller, Elections when recognition saves a 
the minutes of all BOG meet­Commissioner. She publicizes greater importance, either polit­
ings, and serving as an assis­and executes all aspects of stu­ically or socially, for whites." tant to the president. dent government elections, According to Bell, "The color­Buckenmeyer is a junior histo­and chairs the election com­blind constitution is a battle cry ry and sociology major, and a mittee. Miller is a junior mass that discrimination is a thing of 
resident adviser. communications major, who the past." Bell blamed the job 
;. Lara Becker and Karey has held BOG positions as the market citing "black people will Weide, Campus Club Commis­Campus Communications suffer under bad economic con­sioners. They will coordinate Commissioner and the ditions they did not create ... The Activities night, and oversee National Association of threat to white jobs is not 
and advise all Saint Mary's Students at Catholic Colleges blacks, as they appear to be, but organizations on fundraising and Universities representa­rather corporate greed (such as and allocations. Becker is a tive. importing cheap labor, deport­sophomore biology major, who The official commissioning ing jobs, and technology)." is the current Regina Hall ceremony for the 1996-97 BOG Bell said that a remedy is "a President. Weide is a sopho­board will take place April 29. new foundation firmly based in more business marketing "Sarah Sullivan [current today's crisis and a re-estab­major, and the president of the Student Body President) has lishment of faith in one another Saint Mary's Christ Child left the key under the doormat to show what blacks can do 
Society. for us," Turbiak explained. without grants and favorable 
• Becky Rodarte, Executive "She and the staff, the admin­court decisions." Bell noted that Treasurer. She will maintain istration, and the present stu­although the jails are filled with records of all student govern­dent leaders have all been so black people who turned to ment funds, and advise the encouraging and positive. The crime, surrendering is not an class, hall and SAC treasurers. people I work with make every option. "The challenge is to Rodarte is a junior accounting bit of my hard work worth it." harness resources to meet the 
major who served as this current crisis," Bell concluded. 
year's SAB treasurer. 
• Sarah Looney, Off-Campus Commissioner. She will keep off-campus students informed 
nizations of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, and in increasing the social concious­ness of the Notre Dame com­munity with respect to women's issues. 
"The goal of the Womyn's Solidarity March was just that, solidarity," she continued. 
Mter the speeches and open­microphone session were fin­ished, the near 50 participants held a candlelight march to Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's where refreshments where provided. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 

Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have 10:00AM-1:30PM open for the rest ofthe year and possibly next year, please sub­mit a resume to Matt Casey at the Observer Office, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 

Attention Students! 

Tuesday, April 2, at 3:00pm 
101 DeBartolo Hall 
Do you want a voice in the future of Information Technology at Notre Dame? Here's your chance to participate! 
Come to 101 DeBartolo on Tuesday, April 2, at 3:00pm. There you may voice your visions, concerns, and needs for. info~mation technology. A representative from Edutech, a consultmg ftrm specializing in IT for colleges and universities, will facilitate this session. The meeting is scheduled to end at 4:00 pm. 
This strategic planning effort is being sponsored by the 
Office of Information Technologies (OIT). As students you are 
one of the most important constituencies on campus. We need 
your input to enable us to effect strategic directions that align 
with yours. Please come and lend your support. 
••• University of Notre Dame
0• 
Office of Information Technologies 0• Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Monday, April I, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Pianist to perform at Moreau's Little Theater 
Special to The Observer 
Pianist Narwlln Solomon will pnrform al Saint Mary's Collngn on Monday, April I al R p.m. in tho Moreau Cnnl1~r for lhn Arts l.illle Tlwatnr. The c:or11:nrt is frnn and opnn lo tlw publie. 
Solomon's 1:onc:nrl will fnaturn "Fantasy quasi Tlwnw a n d Variation" by Slwila Silwr, "Pi­anismus" by Diane Thome, "In llomagn of'... (24 l'mludns)" by Buth Schonthal. "Thrnn Pre­ludns" hy Dianrw (~oolkasian­l!ahlwn, "Bdw,:ca's Suite" by Vivian t\clldhnrg Buelow, "Fan­tasy for Piano" by l·:mma l.ou l>imnnr, and "Sunburst (op. 33)" by Stefania de Kenessey. 


Solomon is a professor of musie at Slippery Hock Univer­sity, where she teaches piano, music history, and form and analysis. She received her early training at Juilliard School Pre­College division. where her teachers included Edgar Hoberls and the late Mme. Hosina Lhevinne. Solomon re­ceived her bachelor of arts de­gree magna cum laude from Yale University, where she was elected to Phi Ucla Kappa. She also holds a masters degree form Yale School of Music, where she studied with Claude Frank, and received her doc­torate form Boston University. 
Solomon's numerous awards indudn lwr fnllowship to Tan­glewood, the Ellsworth Grum­man Award from Yale, winner of the Aaron Hichmond Compe­tition at Boston University. 
Viva Sabor Latino 

~~~­1t4-7U~te! 
~afJIUI 
21a1 

The Observer 
is now hiringfor a position on the: 
Production Staff 
• Gain valuable computer experience 
• Work evening hours 
• Excellent income opportunity 
If interested, contact Tara at 1-5303 


:Mother's Day is on its way! ·rak.e home a taste of Notre Dame! 

.. 

(jreat 'Be&innin&s, (jrand Tina{es. 
Tfie on{y cookbook one needs for making fabu{ous ayyetizers anddesserts. (jreat for ta i[gating and-entertaining. 'Easy to folrow, tried and-true reciyes. 
.J\ny .'Mom wi{{ {ave tfiis junior League of Soutfi 'Bend cookbook. 
.J\vai{ab{e at tfie :Hammes 'Bookstore. 
• RUSSIA 

Yeltsin halts combat operations 
By DAVE CARPENTER cilia tory. scale operations Sunday in eight Associated Press "Without doubt, we will not sealed-off mountain villages of put up with terrorist acts and southeastern Chechnya, and MOSCOW we will respond to them ade­Yeltsin's open-ended statement 
Desperate to show voters he quately," Yeltsin said in taped left it unclear what would will stop the war that is sinking remarks broadcast on television become of troops in such hot his presidency, Boris Yeltsin on Sunday night. spots. Sunday announced a halt to The announcement came just The announcement was met combat operations in Chechnya, 11 weeks before Russia's presi­with skepticism by politicians, limited troop withdrawals and a dential election, with the unpop­analysts and even Russia's mili­willingness to hold indirect talks ular Yeltsin trailing Communist tary commander in Chechnya, with the rebels' leader. Gennady Zyuganov and voters who cast doubt on the feasibility 
But his long-promised peace demanding an end to the blood­of the unilateral cease-fire, plan stopped short of promising shed in Chechnya. which Yeltsin said would begin an end to the fighting and left It also capped a month of within hours. scant hope for an imminent set­withering air and ground at­tlement. tacks on Chechen strongholds, "It's unlikely that combat 
Yeltsin refused to budge on apparently intended to push the operations will be stopped right the separatists' two main rebels into the southern moun­after the president's statement," demands -full withdrawal of tains before the plan was Gen. Vyacheslav Tikhomirov Russian troops and indepen­announced. told NTV Independent Television dence for Chechnya -and his Thousands of troops were from Chechnya. "You under­tone was more tough than con-reportedly continuing large-stand. it's impossible." 
PPE: 
The Concentration in Philosophy. Politics. and Economics 
e concentration in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) is design .. 
• 
faculty and undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting area 

• 
political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many of our '""""Tc. go on to further work in law, public policy, and the foundations of 


PE has three main attractions: 
• 
PPE integrates different approaches to foundational issues in political justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major}; 

• 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members, in courses as well as less formally in advising and conversation (the student/faculty ratio in PPE seminars and colloquia is about 1 0:1 }; 

• 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves, especially through the justice Seminar, PPE's intensive gateway seminar. 



year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can call one of PPE's student 
ultants for the inside scoop: Karla Arenas 4-3881 Sheila Moloney 273-5178 Hans Detlefsen 4-0675 Michael Williams 4-4681 
can also contact Professor David O'Connor, the director of PPE, at 1-6226, O'Connor.2 @nd.edu . 
TIONS and further infonnation are available outside Professor O'Connor's 307 Decio, and at the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shag. application deadline is April 11, 1996. 
-----~ ---~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, April 1, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ............•........... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters 
Spons Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by rhe students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­rion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi-. torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the view~ of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Notre Dame must align itself with Church 
CNDPOW is back. On February 27, vance of a plan ... of the Lord of the uni­proclaims by a definitive act a doctrine teaching authority the Committee on Notre Dame's Position verse. The presence and the role of pertaining to faith or moral." CCC, No. (Magisterium), .. .receives... the faith." on the Ordination of Women together women in the life and mission of the 891. CCC, Nos. 92,93. Note that this infalli­with Student Advocates for Inclusive Church, although not linked to the min­The Bishops, in union with the Pope, bility of the sensus fidei of the people Ministry and the Department of isterial priesthood, remains absolutely can also teach infallibly: 'The infallibili­requires that the "whole people" con­Theology sponsored a discussion on necessary and irreplaceable." ty promised to the Church is also pre­sent to the teaching, "from the bishops papal infallibility, in the context of Pope CNDPOW, however, has ~o reason to sent in the body of bishops when, (which would include the Pope, the bish­John Paul's 1994 apostolic letter, exist. If Notre Dame is a secular institu­together with Peter's successor, they op of Rome), to the last of the faithful." Ordinatio Sacerdotalis. In that letter tion why should anyone care what its exercise the supreme Magisterium, A consensus of the people cannot prevail the Pope stated: "Although the teaching position is on women's ordination any above all in an ecumenical Council. over a teaching of the Magisterium. that priestly ordination is to be reserved more than one should care about the When the Church through its supreme Rather, the people are guided by the to men alone has been preserved by the position on that issue of K-Mart or Magisterium proposes a doctrine for Magisterium: "By a supernatural sense constant and universal Tradition of the General Motors? If Notre Dame is belief as being divinely revealed, ...the of faith the People of God, under guid­Church and firmly taught by the magis­Catholic its position must be the position definitions must be adhered to with the ance of the Church's living Magisterium, terium... at the present time in some of the Church, as definitively stated by obedience of faith." CCC, No. 891. unfailingly adheres to this faith." CCC, 
the Vicar of Christ. So who needs CND­"Although the individual bishops do No. 889. 
POW? not enjoy the prerogative of infallibility," In the words of an explanatory article 
On October 28, 1995, the said Vatican II's Dogmatic Constitution in Osservatore Romano, "the definitive 
Congregation for the Doctrine of the of the Church, "they can nevertheless and infallible nature of this teaching did 
Faith replied to an inquiry: "This teach­proclaim Christ's doctrine not arise with the ... Letter Ordinatio
Charles 

ing [of Ordinatio Sacerdotalis} requires infallibly ... even when they are dispersed Sacerdotalis. In the Letter ... an act of definitive assent, since, founded on the around the world, provided that while the ordinary papal Magisterium, in itself written word of God and from the begin­maintaining the bond of unity among not infallible, witnesses to the infallibili­
Rice 

ning constantly preserved and applied in themselves and with Peter's successor, ty of the teaching of a doctrine already 
the tradition of the Church, it has been and while teaching authentically on a possessed by the Church." Nov. 22, 
set forth infallibly by the...magisteri-matter of faith or morals, they concur in 1995. 
um... [T]he Roman pontiff ... has handed a single viewpoint as the one which In an address on November 29, 1995, 
on this ... teaching ... stating what is to be must be held conclusively." No. 25. John Paul said: The "authority [of the places it is nonetheless considered still held always, everywhere, and by all, as However, "the college or body of bishops Magisterium] includes various degrees open to debate, or the Church's judg­belonging to the deposit of the faith. has no authority unless it is simultane­of teaching...However, this does not ment that women are not to be admitted The sovereign pontiff John Paul ously conceived of in terms of its head, entitle one to hold that the pronounce­to ordination is considered to have a II... approved this reply, ... and ordered it the Roman Pontiff, Peter's successor, ments ... of the Magisterium call for irrev­merely disciplinary force. Wherefore, in to be published." and without any lessening of his power ocable assent only when it states them order that all doubt may be removed...I Is this teaching infallible?. Is it binding of primacy over all.... For in virtue of in a solemn judgment or definitive act." declare that the Church has no authority whether infallible or not? What, or his office, that is, as Vicar of Christ and As Vatican II put it, "religious submis­whatsoever to confer priestly ordination who, determines what is Catholic teach­pastor of the whole Church, the Roman sion of will and of mind must be shown on women and that this judgment is to ing? The Catechism of the Catholic Pontiff has full, supreme, and universal in a special way to the authentic teach­be definitively held by all of the Church's Church (CCC), drawing frequently on the power over the Church. And he can ing authority of the Roman Pontiff, even faithful." Second Vatican Council, states: "The always exercise this power freely." No. when he is not speaking ex cathedra." 
This teaching, it should be noted, does task of giving an authentic interpreta­22. No. 25. not reflect adversely on women. As tion of the Word of God ... has been A teaching can be infallible in a third The case is closed. Maybe someday John Paul said: "The fact that the entrusted to the living, teaching office of way: "The whole body of the CNDPOW, and maybe even the Theology Blessed Virgin Mary, Mother of God and the Church alone ... This means that the faithful...cannot err in matters of belief. Department will get it. But don't count Mother of the Church, received neither task of interpretation has been entrust­This characteristic is shown in the on it. the mission proper to the apostles nor ed to the bishops in communion with the supernatural appreciation of faith (sen­the ministerial priesthood clearly shows successor of Peter, the Bishop of Rome." sus fidei) on the part of the whole peo­that the non-admission of women to CCC, No. 85. ple, when, from the bishops to the last of Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. priestly ordination cannot mean that Who can teach infallibly? First of all, the faithful, they manifest a universal His column appears every other women are of lesser dignity, nor can it the Pope "enjoys this infallibility in consent to matters of faith and morals ... Monday. be construed as discrimination against virtue of his office, when, as supreme By this appreciation of the faith...the them. Rather, it is ... the faithful obser-pastor and teacher of all the faithful...he People of God, guided by the sacred 




7HANK5FOR NOPROB­
COMING L£M, /JCRN. 
UP, Mil<&. U/HifT5UPr 
I \ 

L______________________________________________________________________________ _ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
MIK£, I GOTA PJ<()B(..CM. TM 5TAI<TIN6 7V R&AIJ 7HATRAM­PANTJOBINSCCUI</TY19AMEI/lA 
UH-OH...

CREATION,THifT 7lWU!<E IS.4{;.7l/­
0

4/..L..YUPFRIJM 20YMR'3 AGO... 
"Hypocrisy is the most dif­
ficult and nerve-racking vice that any[ one] can pursue; it needs an unceasing vigilance and a rare detachment of spir­it. It cannot, like adultery or gluttony, be practised at spare moments; it is a wholetime job." 
-W. Somerset Mangham 

VIEWPOINT
Monday, April 1, 1996 page 7 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Student life: Moving on means moving off 

When I first decided to cast my lot in some of the other idiosyncratic rules with Notre Dame three and a half years that mark dorm life, moving off campus ago, orw of the main factors that attract­is a natural progression and an impor­ed me hern was the system of four years tant part of getting ready for post-colle­of residm1ce halls. Coming out of an all­giate life. main Catholic prep school, the appeal of 
living in a small tight-knit unisex com­munity for the entirety of my stay at Notre Dame had an obvious appeal. I had visions of residenee hall life as a kind of elnver hybrid, combining the best elements of dorm life with the tra­ditions and camarad1Jrie which at other universities are found in a Greek sys­tmn. So as I pulled up to my residence hall for the first time in the fall of 1993 there was a real sense of anticipation; this was to he my home for the next four ynars, my de facto fraternity, the focus of my sol'.ial experitmce at college. But today I. like a vast percentage of my s1mior-to-he classmates, am counting down the days I have left until I forsake tlw dorm in favor of an off-campus apartment. Given the senming contra­diction of coming to a sehoul partly lweausn of the strength of its on-earnpus community and then moving off, I'd like to bri111ly nxplain what soured me on the formerly attractive proposition of resi­dmJc:e hall life. 
The avnrage on-campus Notre Dame studnnt's experience with off-campus life is largely restricted to the occasional W11nknnd night visit to a Campus View or Turtle Cwnk party. Thus there is a ten­dency to think of off-campus life as some sort of hedonistic: free-for-all through which s1miors who are more interested in ktlgs than books escape from under the thumb of Patty O'Hara. I would argue that rathnr than being a simple attempt to gnt away from parietals and 

Christopher Kratovil 
For all of its merits-and I do believe that for freshman and sophomores it's a wonderful system-the fatal flaw of the four year residence hall is that it fails to acknowledge the fundamental differ­ences in behavior, outlook and needs of a scared 18-year-old freshman who's away from home for the first time, and a twenty-two year old senior who's more worried about finding a job than a weekend party. People mature and change over the four years of their col­lege experience, but unfortunately if they stay in their dorms, there is mini­mal acknowledgment of this. For exam­ple, a senior (even an RA) breaking "parietals" with their fiancee is as guilty in the eyes of Student Affairs as drunk freshmen hooking up a little too long after a dorm party. What's more, the relationship between the hall's head staff and even an upperclassman remains hierarchical and authoritarian rather than transforming into an adult interaction based on mutual respect. 
It's hard to feel even vaguely like an 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Playing with numbers: Mother chooses odds ofpreborn :S survival 
Dear Editor: 
In his article. Matthew Apple defends a woman's right to a first trinwstnr abortion. emphasizing, "where there is no choice, there is no rnsponsibility." Furthermore, Apple establishes science as tlw nssnntial determinant of the existenee of life. · 
The following response is an abbreviated seientilic breakdown of the first three months of human development. (This informa­tion is a condensed quotation from "Chronology of Life," a seg­nwnt provided hy thP. Human Life Allianee of Minnesota, Inc. The full doeunwntation was distributed by The Observer.) 
Fertilization: The sperm joins with the ovum to form one cell. This one cell contains the complex genetic blueprint for every dPtail of human development-the child's sex, hair and eye color, !wight, skin tone, etc. 
/Jay 20: foundations of the brain, spinal cord and nervous sys­tmn an~ establishml. 
/Jay21: the heart begins to beat in a regular fashion. 
/Jay 28: the baekbone, the rest of the skeleton, and the muscles arn forming-arms, legs, eyes, and ears have all begun to show. 
/Jay.'/5: all of the fingers have developed. 
/Jay 40: brainwaves ean be detected as well as a response to 
touch. 
/Jay 63 (nine wneks): the baby sleeps, awakens, turns her head, curls lwr tollS, and sueks her thumb. When stroked, her palm will make a tight list. 
""*fly 12 weeks, all the organs and systems of the body are func­tioning. Tlw only major aetivity from now until birth is growth­the incrHasH in the baby's size. 
This sdHntilic understanding describes the significance of the first three months of life, inferring the immense interruption of an abortion procedure. Furthermore, as a being of dependency, a pmhorn ehild's protection and care are contingent upon his or her mothnr. The pn~gnant woman's body becomes the vehicle upon which a separate being relies for survival. Provision of this safe­haven is tlw inhnrent responsibility and primary definition of nat­ural motherhood. Abortion, stemmed from "whether or not (we) wish to keep (our) ehildren" (M. Apple) is destructive at any stage of 11fwnlopment. violating human life as well as our own precious rnsponsibility to it. 
MEGAN GREENE 
Sophomore 
Lyons Hall 

adult while residing on this campus not only because of the 112-page rule book we live under but because of the layers of service we receive. Stated simply, we are spoon-fed and coddled in the dorms. Cooking is not an issue, with food pro­vided in the dining halls. We don't have to worry about the utility bills because our vast tuition has evidently already taken care of that. Cleaning is partly done for us, with the hall maintenance staffs attending to the bathrooms and corridors. Some people even have their laundry done for them. I sometimes for­get if I'm at college or a boarding school. 
Inevitably, I must address the "rule" issue as well. As a 21-year-old citizen I have every privilege and responsibility that our law confers; I can drive, vote, drink, be drafted, or get married legally. I have three major credit cards, a Federal security clearance, and own a car. I lived alone in Washington D.C. last summer and traveled all over Europe on my own last semester. Put simply, I'm an adult in the eyes of the law, our government, my parents, the damned IRS and every other concerned party-except the University of Notre Dame du Lac which still has pretensions of acting en loco parentis while I reside on this campus. At this point in my life, I lind that comic. But I'm not implying that I'm some kind of special case; the vast majority of upperclassmen here are intelligent mature people who can han­dle their own lives without a rector, RA, or even a vice-president for student affairs looking over their shoulders. 
Just as the residence hall system eases the transition into college, it is my hope that living off campus senior year makes the move into the proverbial "real world" a little smoother. There are cer­tain day-to-day skills that it is simply impossible to acquire in the dorms. so from improving my cooking to making me turn off the lights when I leave the room it is my hope that off-campus life will provide me with some much needed practical refinements. 
Finally, living off will provide a much clearer distinction between my school life and my personal life. The simple act of commuting a few seconds in the morning and the afternoon creates a clear division between, for lack of better terms, work and home. Right now there is no such distinction as school and dorm life blend together. There's also something to be said for socializing with people of your choice-guests, dinner companions, and neighbors-rather than random dorm mates. 
The current residence hall system is an excellent one and fulfills its functions admirably insofar as underclassmen are concerned. It truly succeeds in fostering a sense of community, easing the transi­tion into college and instilling a sense of "home" into residents. I've enjoyed my time on campus, and will take away a lot of positive memories, but the time to move on has come. As much as it fright­ens me, adulthood encroaches a little closer each day and the dorm just isn't an appropriate venue for that process anymore. Given all of these factors I, like many of my classmates, have cho­sen the brave new world of off-campus independence over the comfortable but stifling cocoon of residence hall life. 
Christopher Kratovil is a junior whose column will now appear every Monday. His new and improved headshot will be appearing soon. 
Dear Editor: 
Thank you for your coverage of my talk, "Gender, Post-mod­ernism, and Development." I would be further grateful of the opportunity to correct a couple of misconceptions in the article about what I actually said. 
One of my central arguments is that we need to overcome economic determinism in stud­ies of gender and development. In the article it is stated: "Crit­ics of the post-Marxist ap­proach reject the post-Marxist's t!)ndency to suggest a deter­ministic relationship between economic and political change." 
Actually, the opposite is true: the post-Marxist critiques that I spoke of work precisely to over­come economic determinism (among other biases) implicit in liberal and marxist de­velopment frameworks alike. 

in addition, an perhaps more importantly, it is stated in the article that I support the notion that "modernization is gener­ally the way to increase wom­en's equality." 
In fact, I argued something quite different, as have the majority of feminist scholars 
working in this area of re­search. Rather, what I sug­gested is that we complicate our analysis of modernization by understanding the contra­dictions that arise in the pro­cess. 
Women do not gain "equality" solely by being incorporated in the market, or by abandoning cultural practices viewed as "oppressive" by western stan­dards. In many cases, the in­troduction of capitalism and the cultural project of modernity bring with them new economic, political and cultural identities that need to be understood in their own right, and not merely in terms of the barometers of modernization and western democracy. 
AMY LIND 
Kellogg Institute 

Human efforts overpower computers 
Dear Editor: 

I never thought that I would be so affected by one of your Inside Columns that I would actually write a letter to The Observer. The reason why I am writing to you is to let everybody know how exhausted I am of listening to people complain, whine, and make fun of DeBartolo Hall's Media On Call (MOC) system. 
In her article "Debartolo: The Ph.D.'s Nightmare," published on Wednesday, March 6, Krista Nannery describes, from her point of view, what takes place in a "typical" DeBartolo class­room. I admit that 1 have to agree with Nannery's opinion that the MOC system causes a lot of problems for both students and professors (I have lost count of how many times the system has broken down during one of my classes), but in her article, Nannery completely ignored a very important and crucial element behind DeBar­tolo's MOC system: the human effort that goes into this system. 
Being a student worker in DeBartolo's Media Resource Center (MRC), I have had the opportu­nity to observe the tremendous amount of work that all of DeBartolo's staff perform on a day to day basis. Running DeBartolo and the MOC sys-tern is not an easy job, believe me! All students have experienced, at one point or the other, the problems inherent in the MOC system. But have we ever noticed all the people that are working extremely hard to solve these problems in less class time? Have you noticed th concerned faces of the people trying to help the professor out? I wish that I could show all of you the number of people required to get that 20 minute movie clip projected on your classroom screen! 
I strongly encourage all of you, especially Krista Nannery, to look back and remember the greatest class presentation, movie, or media showing that you have experienced in DeBartolo. These memories will help you realize what a privilege it is to have DeBartolo Hall at ND. Also, please be aware, as Professor Ed Hums always says, of the human element involved on a day to day basis in DeBartolo. All these people are working very hard, believe it or not, just for you and they deserve your appreciation and thanks. 
MARIA DE LOS A RIVERA Junior Badin Hall 

page 8 
Monday, April I, 1996 

Feathers ruffled in 'The Birdcage' 
"The Birdcage" 
(out **of four) 
Directed by Mike Nichols Starring Robin Williams and Nathan Lane 
Synopsis: Two young college kids fall in love and want to get married. But, alas, there is a problem: the girl's parents are a conservative senator and his doting wife, while the boy's "par­ents" are a homosexual couple. When it comes time for them to meet. the tension and the awkwardness of the situation bloom into a farcical look at the preju­dices that exist between right-wing America and the homosexual culture. 
Fatman: 

Here's a mediocre movie that won't be making it to the Snite or Cushing any time soon. This ironic comedy (about a homosexual couple's son and a right­wing senator's daughter wanting to get married) has enough ideological integri­ty in it to ma,ke the insipid lot at Student Affairs turn the film into the next "Last Temptation of Christ." Unfortunately, "The Birdcage" inspires little more than a few forced chuckles in its vacuous romp through a homosexual beach com­munity in Florida. 
Robin Williams merits no "0 Captain, my Captain"s this time for his role as a sensitive homosexual father to the soon­to-be groom. His purposely excessive wardrobe makes him look strikingly like Tom Selleck-but his acting doesn't quite reach the pinnacle of Magnum's weekly tour de force.,Gene Hackman plays the stodgy senator whose bombast parallels only that of Charlie Rice. The political stereotyping involved with his role pulls his character down to a cari­cature instead of anything resembling a historical Bible-thumper. 
The film never actually pulls itself together. It reduces most of its charac­ters to nothing more than paper figure representations of how a confused soci­ety paints its citizens. From the right­wing senator, to the immigrant server boy, to the neurotic homosexual, every­one in "The Birdcage" comes straight out of an ABC after-school special. Even worse, none of it is very funny. The jokes are trite and the situations con­trived. The movie seems to resign itself to being merely an ideological statement and abandons character and plot devel­opment in favor of cliches. 

In the end, "The Birdcage" is merely a vehicle. Its purpose is to convey a political message of egalitarianism and tolerance for other perspectives. Whether or not you enjoy the film as a piece of entertainment, the message that the movie rather poorly attempts to articulate deserves attention and ratio­nal debate. I know of no other place in America than here at lovely and bigoted Notre Dame where such a movie should be seen, just for the intellectual stimulus it will provide. I don't like the movie, but I think that the issues it focuses on are pertinent to our educational environ­ment, and for that reason I suggest see­ing it. 

Daddy: 
Au contraire, my dear Fatman; I can think of no more apropos film for the Notre Dame campus than "The Birdcage." No other movie fits the tem­plate of Our Lady's destructive and dehumanizing bigotry quite as well as does this selection. As a matter of fact, "The Birdcage" might well be the con­summate propaganda film to give a little cinematic sparkle to the Administration's rabidly fascist dia­tribes. After all, what could homophobes find more pleasing than a movie that perpetuates the ignorance-laden myth that the majority of homosexuals are incompetent, irrational and ridiculously feminine boobs? While watching this travesty unfold, I was struck by a mental image of Patty O'Hara reaching over to tap Monk on the thigh, smiling, and say­
ing, "You see, big guy. they ARE so 
queer and sinful!" 

Therein lies, in my opinion, the prob­lem with this movie. While it undeniably has the potential to stimulate what is becoming an increasingly more essential . dialogue (especially here in late '30s Germany ... oops, I mean, Notre Dame), it shifts the focus from what the rational individual will admit to be the reality of this topical situation to the anomalous extreme: a point on the social spectrum that is all too easily manipulated and spun by cracker-mentality conservatives to justify their repugnant brand of prej­udice. It is important to keep in mind while watching "The Birdcage" that the audience is laughing at the narrative 
subjects and not with them. 

Remember, it is only easy for the big­
ots to justify their discrimination if they 
can successfully convince a large 
enough portion of the populace that 
homosexuals are any different (and, 
therefore, in a mistaken social sense, 
potentially threatening) than the next 
person. Although I am quite confident 
that this unfortunate image was not nec­
essarily the one Mike Nichols and 
Company hoped to create, the atmos­
phere created by "The Birdcage" can 
easily be employed as additional fuel for 
those devastating ideological fires. 

In conclusion, "The Birdcage" is not 
a movie destined to hold a position in 
Daddy's pantheon of fine flicks. Robin 
Williams is full of his normal pedestrian 
humor beans, but Daddy can only wish 
that Robin had considered some of the 
larger implications of the film before 
accepting the role. When matching 
"Mrs. Doubtfire" with "The Birdcage," 
the following message becomes brutally 
clear: society still believes that it is only 
proper for a man to dress as a woman in 
order to salvage the model American 
nuclear family. And so the discrimina­
tion and blatant hatred will continue. 
From the laughter in the theatre, it is 
easy to see that people still fear anybody 
who is, in even the most trivial way, dif­
ferent from them. 

Patman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bazik. 
VIDEOWATCH TOP 10 RENTALS  TOP 10 AT THE BOX OFFICE  
(COURTESY VJDEOWATCH OF SOUTH BEND)  
1. BABE  1. BIRDCAGE  
2. BRAVEHEART  2. EXECUTIVE DECISION  
3. ACE VENTURA II  3. HOMEWARD BOUND  
4. ASSASSINS  4. UP CLOSE & PERSONAL  
5. COPYCAT  5. DOWN PERISCOPE  
6. HACKERS  6. MR. HOLLAND'S OPUS  
7. MURIEL'S WEDDING  7. BROKEN ARROW  
8. VIRTUOSITY  8. ED  
9. Tb WONG Foo  9. RUMBLE IN THE BRONX  
10. A WALK IN THE CLOUDS  10. HAPPY GILMORE  

• Nnw SHOWING 

An unusually good flick 
"The Usual Suspects" Directed by Bryan Singer Starring Kevin Spacey, Gabriel Byrne, and Chazz Palmentieri 
*** 
(out of fourI 
By MICHAEL KURINSKY Accent Movie Critic 
Nowadays, it always seems that after a movie ends and the final credits roll, the only sound that can be heard (besides the soundtrack music) is the jostling of the crowd making its way to the parking lot, where the proverbial "it was good" or "it sucked" opinions are traded back and forth before all discus­sion ceases permanently. There's just nothing to talk about anymore after a movie; to·o many cheap imita­tions have deflowered what was once novel but is now commonplace. Therefore, only a handful of movies each year generate any sort of intelligent con­versation. One of these films is "The Usual Suspects," the sophomore effort of director Bryan Singer ("Public Access"). 
After successfully pulling off their crime, things begin to go wrong for five small-time crooks. Big time. What these five unsuspecting crooks didn't know is that the lineup where they first came togeth­er had been a setup, supposedly orchestrated by the powerful yet invisible Hungarian crime lord Keyser Soze, whose lawyer "persuades" them, with an offer they literally can't refuse, to pull of a multimillion­dollar heist .for him. But they wonder-as does the viewer-just "Who is Keyser Soze?" Only a zinger of an ending, a Ia "The Crying Game" and "No Way Out," provides the audience with this answer. And then, it usually takes another watching to fully com­prehend what's going on. 
A second viewing might also help to truly admire the impressive writing and acting, especially by Spacey. Not a bad performance can be found in the film; the cast is incredible. Although none of these guys are huge stars, they are all underrated and some have their own cult followings. 
What's so great about "Suspects" is the intricacy involved, the incessant flipping from present time to flashbacks as the story unfolds, which requires the viewer's undivided attention. Getting up to make pop­corn in the middle is simply not an option. Because of this, it is probably best to watch "The Usual Suspects" on video, where the rewind button will come in very handy. There's just so much going on at all times that it's very easy to get lost amidst the twists and turns of the script. For his part in creating this masterpiece of complexity, screenwriter Christopher McQuarrie won a well-deserved Oscar at the Academy Awards last week for Best Original Screenplay. 
"Suspects" is breath of fresh air. It's one of those rare suspense movies that doesn't give away the answer too easily, and that doesn't hinge on one itsy­bitsy foolish premise (for example, how the entire plot in "Pulp Fiction" depended on characters being in the bathroom.) 
Not everyone will appreciate the convoluted style of "Suspects," however. A few will undoubtedly feel, and somewhat rightly so, cheated by an incredulous ending. Overlook it; it's but a minor flaw in an excel­lent film. 


FROM THE EDITOR 
A Final Farewell 

It seems like just yesterday that I walked into my first aerobics class. The music was blaring from a tiny boom box and I noticed an easy and happy camaraderie among our class. As I stood awkward­ly on my stepper, I decided that this was something special that I wanted to be a part of. 
Since then, my aerobics class became my home-away-from-home for me. I spent the better part of four years stepping, jumping, twisting, stretching and panting. My parents called me at class before they call me in the room. And my friends always know where to find me. Despite the long hours and the stress, I know I would do 
Europe: John P. Lucas 

it all over again (except for the day I accidentally went to a "step 
CCJtrn~spon111ertts' Roommate: Krista Nannery

and abs" class). This year, I'm not doing aerobics. It's not about a 
something for the effort? 
. and Who Dies: Megan McGrath 

lack of time, however. It's about a lack of desire-I just don't have that fire in my belly anymore. And so I've resigned myself to a semester without aerobics. Pave Tyler But enough about aerobics, I'm supposed to be writing about the Craptastic, after all. We've made 
D~tY$' 

so many memories here-putting together an entire issue, (The whole thing! By ourselves!) last "''...:...-·•·<--~ Wi01bledon Runner;..Up: Mike Norbut semester's kooky Christmas party (when I consumed a entire bottle of grain alcohol and proceeded to 
ofFunk: .. John. Galvin 
. . 

get beaten by several burly South Bend law officers,) and funniest of all, the day I walked into the 
Prie~tess ofLove: Kristi :Kolski

office and found myself hanged in effigy. I'll never forget our lone Sunday night together-getting so many 25-cent hot dogs (they're big and tasty! Yum-yum!) and actually making deadline (All by our­1\:athie Lee Gifford's role played by: Patty O'Hara selves! With no help!) ~~rNot Appearing in this Fil01: Joe Riley
It's hard for me to believe that the Craptastic will all be over after tomorrow, but I'm certain the •Advertising Manager: Wantedlegal ramifications of our actions will stretch on for years, employing lawyers well into the next mil­Behind the Whole Damn Operation: Shirley Grauellennium. But I have confidence in next year's staff. Several are addle-brained and incompetent, but 
T .......h £\1 Bastard: Strom Thurmond
that's nothing new for us. Good luck. ~plnnlgn~~JU:Jebeatah SpringfieldWelcome 
lvuu"'"""'''s Brother

Incidentally, we would like to welcome several freshmen to our staff, but unfortunately, well, hon­estly, we had a pretty hard time convincing anybody to help us out, so instead, we scraped a couple of drunks up off the floor of the 'Backer last Thursday and now they're our new Sports staff. Salud, boys! Also, if you know any advertising majors or people who like to look at the ads in magazines, or even people who like to watch those "Before They Were Stars" specials on TV all the time, we're still looking for an Advertising Manager. 
Special Thanks 

Special thanks to the entire Craptastic staff, Subway (for all their love and support and more free sandwiches than we ever dreamed possible), and the 1980 U.S. Olympic Hockey Team (led by the 're luctcy. LaFortune Hot Dogs ever-stoic Herb Brooks) for always being an inspiration to us all. Where's my father? Where's my reaJly cool folks at The Papers, father? Also, to Kieran Hennessey, who never stopped believing in us, even for a single minute, uslook better than we really are, (except the time we gave him a big 'ol swirlie.) And finally, our deepest condolences to the friends raplt;t;>tt<; .~Vl!ll~a.l:Jmeare one big farce engineered and family of former President Gerald Ford. Gerry, as we liked to call him, was a dear man and a masses. You Cjll) wpy any great friend and we will all miss him very much. Oh wait, he's not dead. My bad. give a sh!t. Craptastic Magazine 
crrtp we print, Monte Cristo 

And Remember... 
warming, Shenanigans or the farting bush. 

Old Craptastic editors never die, they just go on to low-paying fast-food jobs. Incidentally, I would 
sent to Craptastic Magazine where it will 

really hope that Taco Bell decides to rectify past mistakes and abandons the twisted concept of 
•gr•u•.c:u. b, destroyed. Put your name on the letter. 

bacon tacos. It just isn't right. Thank you and God Bless America. 
a list. 'fllinwe'll make a copy of the list. We'll And if anyone asks about it, we'll deny any 
John P. Lucas 
A4vertising rates are available upon request, but 

Supreme Commander Allied Forces Europe 
. we only publish Subway ads so the point, as they 

Hey. Here's a little secret. This is a joke. Lighten up. 

~ 


1996 Commencement speaker named 
BY THEHESA HEINEKEN 
ASST. UNDER SECRETARY Or THE INTERIOR 
In news that happened a month ago but which Craptastic couldn't bring you until now because those mean nasty people in Student Activities have restricted our budget and because our computers broke down and because the stars weren't aligned enough for us to put out an issue, The University of Notre Dame named a 
random North Dining Hall employee as speaker for its 151st commence­ment exercises on May 19. 
She is a world renowned Fries 'Em Right deep frier operator and recently headed the Vatican's dele­gation to the United Nation's fourth Conference on Spam and Other Luncheon Meat Substitutes held in 

Burntfork, Wyoming, last summer. Dinty Moore She has also won the Notre Dame Food Services Employee of the Month Award a record 26 times and patented several unique kitchen appli­ances including the Yeast on Demand Breadmaker and the Bleed No More Electric Knife. She once appeared on Regis and Kathy Lee and stars in informercials endors­ing her products. 
"We are honored, blessed really to have such a distin­guished speaker for Commencement," said University Puppet Dictator Edward "Skunk" Malloy. "One look at her qualifications convinced me that Mott was the obvi­ous choice." 
Students concurred with their supreme rulers assess­ment of the choice. Kiernan Heineken, our managing editor's brother, said he thought the choice was a good one. 
"Spam. Wow! I hope she bring free samples!" he said. 
University Not-so-Public Relations Director Dinty More said he expected a rousing speech. ''I'm sure it will be an excellent speech. I'm sure she'll give seniors some important tips, and will definitely touch on abor­tion and family values." 
Moore said name recognition would not be a problem for this employee. "Any one who knows the Cafeteria Style Food Service Industry or has read the Luncheon Meat publications will know who she is," he said. 
In addition to her roles at NDH, she lead a team of researchers who developed a Nobel Prize winning way of enhancing the shelf life of Tater Tots. In her spare time she publishes scholarly aritcles on Luncheon Meats and her hobby, Vegetable Oragami. 
She lives in South Bend and winters in the Dutch Antilles, with her husband, 14 children and 7 dogs. She firmly believes that the biggest problem in today's 


America is ~~hoolchildren not knowing t~eir state capi-BUSTIN' WIT' PRIDE: Our commencement speaker struts tals: In add~twn, she ~rmly hopes. the Chicago Cubs get her stuH on her own turf. She expects to compete in the their asses m gear durmg the commg season. Tater Tot SpiUing Event at the 1996 Olympic Games. 

f 
r 

"/Jo you like films about Gladiators?" 
-Clarence Oveur 
TilE THl!TII REVEALED"? 
T
lw Gripp was spending a little too much time in tlw bathroom the other day (The Gripp also takes really long showers, for those of you who keep traek of sueh things.}, and he noticed that the lloor til1~s are patterned like Germany's Iron Cross. And sud­denly, The Gripp realized just what horrible powers were at work here. The Gripp already knew that Warner and Beauchamp really controlled things around here, and that Malloy and O'Hara were just puppets, but now its clear the evil tandem are Nazi's trying to start a Fourth Heicl1 right here in South Bend! Leav11 it to the Gripp to do the real tough reporting around here. And Joe Cassidy can kiss my ass. 
THEHE THEY GO AGAIN? 
One of the Gripp's hordes of devotees emailed with this startling news, and The Gripp thinks its just anoth­er example of the administration acting without telling the students anything: The Stadium is being renovated! The Gripp wants to know when this was announced! And why wasn't he consulted? 
And .Joe Cassidy can kiss my ass. 
FILTHY HOTTEN HABIT? 
Aeeording to The Observer, the girls in Farley smoke. Tlwy smoke Marlboro Lights. Sometimes they smoke Camel Lights. They smoke a lot but they used to smoke a lot more than they do now, but the Gripper thinks it's because it's cold outside. If you want to collect Marlboro Miles, you should go hang out on their stoop. And Joe Cassidy can kiss my ass. 
ANOTHEH VAGUE ACCUSATION ABOUT A 
FOOTBALL PLAYER? 

The Gripp has another hot juicy succulent tidbit for his slaves. At a certain South Bend watering hole a certain football player was seen drinking a certain liq­uid that has certain intoxicating effects when con­sumed at a certain speed. This alleged football player was seen urinating out of the eleven floor window of a certain high rise dorm while signing a certain 1950's hit for Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons. This certain football player then counted to 40 in a certain Slavic language and went to sleep. Only to wake to find a cer­tain farm animal draped across his chest. 
And Joe Cassidy can kiss my ass. 

NEXT THEY'LL TELL US WE CAN'T HAVE SEX! 
The administration will make this a dry campus before the end of the millenia. They are clawing into your lives. Yes. Yes they are. They ... want ... to .... get rid ..... of ALCOHOL! Although no official discussion has ever occurred on the topic and people can still drink freely here, The Gripp is sure that the bastards are trying to take your constitutional right to drink before you are 21 away. Rise up and REBEL! As the Beastie Boys said "Fight For Your Right to Party." But then again they also said "I did it like this. I did it like that. I did it with a wiffie ball bat." 

Who did the administration iust hire? 
males who didn't inhale will also be joining the faculty who, incidentally, were all hired through BY MJCIII\l.l.E CHOTCII 
Former IBF Hcavyweiglll Champion 
The Observer classifieds. I asked Kieran Hennessey, a Zahm freshmanEarlier this Wllllk, Tlw Observer reported that and brother of our Managing Editor, what he
the univ1~rsity announced the appointment of 

thought and he said he was really happy with the 
thnw new administra­
new hirings. He says, "These people have ledtors and tw1~lve new fac­colorful, interesting lives. They will bring a lot to
ulty nwmlwrs. Joining 
the classroom. Especially the white males. We
tlw administration this 
need more of that here."
August are Benny In a related announcement, Father Beau
Factor, Hay S. T1~wytion 
Chimp announced the topics of some new exper­and Male Whitn. Thn imental freshman seminars. 
nnw administration 
They include, "Pat Buchanan and you," "How
nwmhnrs Wlll"ll eullnd 
Nazis changed the-world," "Pedophiles are peo­
from n1sponses to a 1-Leonid Brezhnev 
ple too," and "How to ignore sexual harrassment'JOO number. 
in the classroom/workplace." 
Among tlw new faculty are alleged pedophile, 
And in another announcement, this year's
l'oiP ()'floyd, alleged sexual harmsser, Grades l.aerte MPdal will not be awarded until someonel:orsnehs, allegml Nazi war criminal, Siegfried can figure out how to spell it and! or pronouncellllil. and alleged drug pusher and new Turtle it. When that happens, they'll probably give it toCmek rosident, Cokey Kano whom tabloids have that little lady that works the Pastaria in Northlinked to Danny Bonaduce. Eight flatfooted white Dining I I all. 
Why don't we get drunk and screw? 
BY J. MICIIEI.I.E COCKS 
Exewtive Assistant Assndate Managing 
hlitnr 
Musie pulses, liquor l"lows, and bodies press against each otlwr in a wild orgy. My wildest fantasy'? No, (that involves .Josh Ozersky wrapped in Saran Wrap, a garden hose and water buiTalo -stuffed, for safety pur­poses) it's a typical Thursday night at South Bend's most pop­ular hol11 in the wall, er, bar, The Linebacker. 
As part sixty-nine in the 
even Joe Cassidy could hook-up. said senior Valerie Sena. 
Craptastics' spacB-Iilling series "It sounds like a really cool The 'Backer is also a specialon the social activities of Notre place. If I had a good enough place for its dediated employ­Dame students, ineluding road­
ID, I'd go there," said Kieran
trips, memorable SYHs, road­ees. 
Hennessey. Says "Big Man," the rather
trips, working out, unforget­
Students who arc old enough scary looking bartender at thetable SYHs, and how eould I for­
to attend the 'Backer. as it's 'Backer. "You get 'em loaded
gill road-trips, we take a look at affectionately called, either love and they're all over each other,
the only place anybody gets 
it or hate it. and well, I don't need to watch
sornn at Notre Dame (well, 
"I love it," said senior Kelly 'Jurassaic Pork' anymore, if you 
llXJWet for Fatlwr llesburgh's 
Duffy. "Yeah, well I hate it," know what I mean." 
apartnwnt), tlw Linebacker. 

ALMOST VOMJnNG. This student experelnces severe Intestinal dis­comfort after consuming an overly large helping of Food Services California El Dorado Casserole. Makes you wonder If the Nazi's are try­Ing to polson us through food. The Gripp thinks so. And Joe Cassidy can still kiss my ass. 
Well that's all Gripp fans. And keep those letters and cards coming. The Gripp really needs something to do aside from sitting in his bathroom stalls. The Gripp hasn't had a date, well, ever, and his therapy bills are piling up as he tries to deal with this whole hiding his identity thing. So call and talk to him. He's lonely. He's willing. He's waiting. 
Oh, and Joe Cassidy can still kiss my ass. 

The .A~-1 Toastal Committee searched high and low to find a big name band OK with ND Security and willing to come to South Bend. The Results? GEORGE AND THE GREEKS PLAY STEPAN FOR ANTOASTAL! $8 Admission (Wear a Phish T-Shirt or bring an inflatable alligator and get $2 off!)  

TODAY! 4 p.m. 101 DeBartolo 1996 Commencement Speaker Mary Ann Glendon The Rhythm Method: Why starving people in overpopulated countries shouldn't use birth control Confession to Follow Free copies of The New Testement with your unused birth controll Subway sandwiches to the first 50 people!  

·--­

SPORTS 
MEETING AT THE Crossroads 
Olympic hopefuls Hoe, Hynie may never actually meet in their lifetimes, but they are both pretty darn good athletes 
T
BY HUGH G. RECTION, Ill hey live in obscurity nowadays, mere shadows in a forest of superstars. The only difference they share, besides having dif­ferent genitalia, is that one is on the upswing of his career, while the other is slipping. Fast. On one side is Hynie Sanders, the viva­cious and beautiful 1988 Summer Olympics 100-meter freestyle champion representing the United States, who has all but lost the spotlight among the coun­try's latest superstars. She keeps working hard, but she real­izes her attempt at making a comeback before the 1996 games in Atlanta might be pretty hard. "I keep working hard," she said, "but I realize that my attempt at making a come­back might be pretty hard." On the other side is skier Tommy Hoe, the brother of China's senior leader Deng Xiaoping. Hoe is the leading candidate to become the United States' top dog on the slopes in 1998. First, however, he has to become a citi­zen. "I worry about becoming a citizen," he said. "I think since my brother is a leader and everything, he might not approve my defection." Neither Sanders nor Hoe have ever been to Notre Dame, but you can imagine what it'd be like if they did. "I keep thinking about giving her a call and seeing if she wants to go visit," Hoe said. "But then I get nervous thinking about reaching out and touching the Hynie." Maybe you'll see them in the Olympics in the next few years. But they deserve to be on a Wheaties box together. 
SCRAPS FROM THE OBSERVER 


A roundup of the week in sports 
March 1985 to March 1996 
edited by Hugh G. Rection, Ill 
Soon to be National
National Champions! National Champions! Champions!Tony Rice, Raghib Ismail and Co. The women's soccer team beat 
They have the talent and they'rebeat West Virginia a few years ago some other chicks earlier this year getting more recruits! Notre Dame to win the whole enchilada. Sift to win something cool, but who 
basketball is back on the map!
through some old Observers to find really cares about women's sports Watch out Big East, we made a bigthe related story. If you want to anyway? We don't, that's for damn splash, and we're going to just keepwait for some really mediocre cov­sure. But check an old Observer if getting better. Watch out Syracuse, erage of the story, look for our spe­you're really interested. 
watch out Georgetown, watch out cial issue sometime around the turn UConn, watch out world. 
of the millenium. Not National Champions! As far as we can tell froin reading 
Shudda Been National 
National Champions! The Observer the last eleven years, Champions!The fencing team won it not too there have been no other national 
We pitted this year's Irish football long ago, but we don't really cover champions on the campus of Notre team against Northwestern, Ohio fencing so we're not going to pay Dame. We could be wrong, since we 
State and Florida State in Bill 
too much attention to it. It's just a haven't been able to save a copy of Walsh's College Football '96, and bunch of people with swords any­every issue. Call The Observer if you we kicked the crap out of all three ways. We all know that the only real have any other questions concern­of 'em. Pollsters should really take sport on this campus is football. But ing this trivial matter. Football won this into account when they do the check an old Observer for details if just a couple years ago. Isn't that polls. Games aren't meant to be 
you don't believe us. enough for you? 
played on the field anyway. 

Jane Goodall 
The loyal North Dining Hall employee nabbed 18 pesky fresh­men who tried to sneak in last Thursday in NOH's 29-18 victory over South Dining Hall. Singleton also carried 25,193 salad trays and succeeded in overseeing the clean-up of 86 broken dishes and all kinds of spilled taco condi· ments. In her spare time she com­municates with chimps in their own language. 
ATHLETES OF THE WEEK 

Jahidi White 
The Georgetown sophomore ate 831 chicken wings last weekend as he watched the Final Four from his Georgetown apartment. He then called the Gripper to give him his thoughts about the game, but the Gripp thought seeing two foot­ball players wasted at Bridget's last Thursday was more impor­tant. 

Monday, April I, 1996 page 9
ACCENT ­

Campus star Emily Lord has charmed crowds from J.ongmeadow to LaFortune 
By MIKEJACCARINO Accent Writer 
T
horo is a thin crack in a half-op1m bedroom door through which Mother can hear the voi1:e of a songbird singing ...to the quiet of londirwss, to the audience of herself. 
Motlwr OJWns thn door whisp1~ring, "Emily, that sounds so pretty. But why only sing to yourself lu~hind a dosed door'?" The songbird sees h11r motlwr's shapn standing in the doorway and hushes, l"lushcd with red in her face, embar­rasstHI at the thought of someone listening. 
Tm1 years lall~r. still a songbird, still singing into tlw sil1mee. Longmeadow, Massachusetts native, J·:rnily Lord now sings to the quiet of huslwd audienens. forever leaving behind those furtivo pcrformancns hidden by the repose of a dos1~d door. 
Slw is a musician now-a songwriter who counts lwr calling as part of her soul. ller eyes s1w songs nverywhnre: in a man's gait as he slowly walks through the falling rain to her car; in anotlwr who has fallen aslenp, his eyes having grown tirt~d from studying. "I listen to my music and lwar a littln part of myself in each song. It's my way of trying to understand myself. search­ing. trying to find nwaning in diiTernnt corners of lifn." 
"My !wart and soul's in Lord for a live audience, danced before the Acoustic Cafe crowd on a Thursday night during Lord's freshman year. "Coming from a small Massachusetts town and having the enthusiastic and supportive response that I had that night was thrilling. It was the first time I performed an original solo for people I didn't know," she recounts. 
The performance of the song prompted the maker of that year's campus CD to allow An­gelina a place on the CD. That night at LaFortune also marked the beginning of a grow­ing love for Lord; she now describes performing as "A time when I can make a connection, an en­ergy r.xchange with the audience that's exhila­rating." 
"Emily, what made you write songs like 'Dachau' and 'Shores of Alicante'?" The answer lies in the poignant memories of Lord's past. per­vading her music and speaking of the sad, happy, and meaningful experiences of life, as depicted by the memories of her semester in Spain, allud­ed to in the two songs above. 
Each particular song has a reason for being, she explains, as the words of "Dachau" bring us to her thoughts as she searched a morose German sky above thr. WWII concentration camp, looking for answers among its clouds. "Thr.re is so much of me in the music. I want to touch people and make people think and feel because that's what the music does for me," she says. 
Lord, a member of Notre Dame's Army ROTC program, will once again leave America after graduation as she embarks on four years in the military. 
It is music-filled days 
thost~ songs. That might-------------------and nights like those 
makn for a good song,"shn says with a wry smile  'There's so much of me in the  that have brought the songbird to the high  
on  lwr f<u:e. pointing to  music.  I want to touch people  branch she sits atop  
two fornis sitting across  and make people think and feel  today. looking out at  
from nach othnr in the  the future ahead and  
distancn. To know the  because that's what. the music does  so  much  already  

writnr, listnn to the songs for Inc.' 
slw has writllm and sung. 
"l~rnily, nvnr lwar 'Ball in thn Jack' by Irving Bt~rlin'!" asks a voicn in tlw crowd. It was the 
song that brought lwr out 
from lwhind dosed doors. rcvnaling to herself and otlwrs how soft and melodious that song­bini's voice could bn. 
Slw sang it in front of the rnusie teacher and in front of lwr frinnds ... and only because she had to. "Tiw tnadwr wanwd to find out who could sing for tlw rneital. and it was either sing the song or gt~t bootnd. I was scared to death," she n~rnnmbnrs. The song was something of a turn­ing point for hnr. as the success it met brought lwr to pick up the guitar she had put down years before and bngin singing regularly for variety shows and high school choruses. 
"Emily. what's bnhind the song 'Angelina'?"' Angelina, a young Italian girl whose story gained life in tlw first original song ever performed by 
tbaek~ninhde.r frclo'hineyanhaanvx~ 
·~ 

ious night in the base-
Emily Lord ment of LaFortune to 
having released a CD 
titled "Beginnings" 
with her bandmates, Kevin Flemming, Chuck Beck, and Jim McKier­nan. 
It has taken her to the night of April 11th, whr.n she will sing at the Acoustic Cafe and Corby's Pub; among the anonymous listenr.rs in the crowd. there will be executives seeking a record deal. 
Most heartfelt, though, is the sentiment telling her that the music has taken over her heart and soul, bringing her from hidden moments behind closed doors to a peace that has her seeing songs everywhere. "I never associated it with myself back then, but whatever happens, I don't think I could stop now-it's part of who I am," she says. One gets the feeling that those doors will never be closed again. 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATE 
Days of Our Lives 
Now that Bo and Hope are back together in Salem. they have reunited with their relatives. Both barely gave Sean D. a kiss on the cheek before they sent him to bed. Then again, that is noth­ing new for one of the most neglected kids in Salem. Meanwhile, both Bo and Hope are trying to consummate their 'on-again' married couple status, but are constantly being interrupted by happy relatives who are just glad that. once again, Hope is alive. 
The love triangle of Kristen, Marlena, and John goes on as well. Kristen has deceptively told Marlena that John does not love her and that she should tell John he dolls not Illllld to both­er with her anymore. Kristen is convinced that this will bring her and John back together. When Marlena tells John, a reluc­tant-to-give-up John falls into Kristen's arms-just as Kristen predicted. Later, Marlena admitted that she has never been in love with John as much as she is now. 
A couple days later, Kristen asked John to marry her, and he said yes. She also asked him to make love to her. lie agreed. Does Kristen realize that John only does things with her after she asks him to'? If we were in Kristen's place, begging for ev­ery tiny display· of affection from John, we would feel pretty stupid. As desperate as Kristen is, it is time for her to move on before she becomes as evil as Tony was. 
Speaking of evil, Stefano is stalking Marlena once again. First he showed up in Vivian's bed'and had sex with her. ruining her night with Ivan (who, after hearing Vivian moan from behind the bedroom door, threw away the roses he was going to give her, and left. devastated). 
Next, Stefano revealed himself to Marlena, whose screams scared him away. Thank goodness she is living at Kristen's so John can protect her from Stefano's hands-apparently he is doing a real good job! (Don't ask us why she is living at Kris­ten's instead of Mrs. Horton's or Abe's.) 
The saga of Carrie and Austin continues as usual; despite Kate's attempts to get them to admit their love for each other. Carrie went with Lucas to Green Mountain Inn. This inn, if you remember, was the place where she and Austin first had sex and where their honeymoon was to be. Carrie did not know where Lucas was taking her until they got there, and once she was there, all she could think about was Austin. 
As Austin debated whether or not to call Carrie. we sat through flashbacks and dream sequences of the two of them together. Come on, Days writers-end their torture and ours! 
Later, Carrie, clad in a green bikini, coaxed Lueas into the hot tub, where she kissed him. Not to be outdone, Austin also kissed· a drunken Sami. She had mistaken his earlier attempt to set her up with a good time on the town as a date with him; instead, he got a limo and reservations at Salem Club for her and Jamie. After the guy Sami met at the club tried to rape her, Austin comforted her with his kisses. 
Back in Salem, Jennifer, Jack, and Peter are still trying to fig­ure out who Jude was connected to-wel!. not Peter, since he already knows it was himself. Jennifer had doubts about Peter, who was getting a little worried about her loyalty to him . .Jack, however. did go back to Salem after Peter and Jenn supposedly patched things up for good. 
-Erin Kelsey and Christina Fticsar 
;Accent 

would like to extend our sincerest congratulations to the INCREDI­BLE, STUPENDOUS, AWE-INSPIR­ING, MYSTIFYING, WONDROUS, MIRACULOUS AND, MOST OF ALL, LUCKY Cinemark-gift-certifi­cate-recipient Winner of The Oscar Madness Contest! 
We are Pleased to announce: 
JJJ\V@1 If?.?JfPJJlllrBWY!ZJJl~:.iJ of Pasquerilla West 
Don't spend it all in one place! 
Thanks to all those who participated! 

Monday, April I, 1996

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Cm.LEGE BAsKerslu..L 

Near-perfect Wildcats 'Cuse holes filled by prolific Wallace 
By HAL BOCK its first eight games at home in and the Orangmen used the Associated Press the cavernous Carrier Dome momentum to add wins against 
always improving 
and won its only road game in nationally ranked Illinois and 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
His team was ranked No. 1 in preseason, but Kentucky coach Rick Pitino couldn't resist fid­dling with his roster. 
Be started Tony Delk at point guard because he thought it would develop him for the NBA. Forward Ron Mercer, a star freshman, also was in the starting lineup along with senior center Mark Pope, junior Derek Anderson at guard and sophomore Antoine Walker at forward. 
"I was trying to play the five best athletes together," said Pitino, who will send his team against Syracuse for the NCAA title Monday night at the Meadowlands in New Jersey. "I didn't know who was going to play. I was doing a lot of tinkering at that time." 
After two one-sided exhibi­tion victories, Kentucky opened the season with a rocky 96-84 win over Maryland in the Tip­Off Classic. 
In the next game against Massachusetts in the Great Eight, Walter McCarty started in place of Walker, and the Wildcats lost 92-82. 
That loss was an eye-opener for Pitino. The Wildcats needed Anthony Epps to run the offense instead of Delk, the team's best shooter. 
"And then I realized without Anthony Epps we're a good team," Pitino said. "With Anthony Epps, we're a great team." 
Delk didn't have any qualms with moving back to the two­guard spot where he started and excelled the two previous seasons. 
"I think when we played UMass, it gave the coach the chance to see that I'm more of a scorer instead of getting play­ers involved," said Delk, who leads Kentucky with 17.5 points a game. "You have to give a lot of credit to Anthony. He gets everyone involved." 
Although Kentucky (33-2) won a school-record 27 straight games after losing to Massachusetts, Pitino was still using different lineups. McCarty didn't start three games because Pitino wanted him to bulk up to 230 pounds from 222. 
Anderson supplanted Mercer as a starter midway in January because of his intense play on defense. 
NEW YORK 
When coach Jim Boeheim as­sembled his Syracuse team this season, there were some significant gaps in the lineup. 
Gone was the school's career leading scorer, Lawrence Moten. 
Gone was Lucious Jackson, an important up-front player. Gone was point guard Michael Lloyd. 
It looked like a rebuilding year, especially with no heavy­weight recruits coming into the program. 
It turned, instead, into a re­markable season that winds up Monday night in the NCAA championship game against Kentucky. Boeheim seems be­mused by the whole thing. 
First he rebuilt his backcourt, plugging in three-year reserve Lazarus Sims at the point and junior college transfer Jason Cipolla alongside him. Sophomore Todd Burgan inher­ited Jackson's job alongside NBA-bound John Wallace. Otis Hill and J.B. Reafsnyder shared the center job. 
"We started poorly in the exhibition games," Boeheim said. But things began falling in place for the Orangemen when the regular season got under­way. Syracuse played seven of that stretch, beating Providence in the Big East opener. 
That gave Syracuse a comfortable 8-0 cushion as the team set out its first lengthy road trip. But the schedule was dotted with teams like Lafayette, Colgate, Columbia and Bowling Green, teams Syracuse was expected to beat, especially at home. 
"We went to Arizona on the way to Hawaii (for the Rainbow Classic)," Boweheim said. "That, I felt, would be a good test for us." 
Syracuse passed with flying colors, beating Arizona, win­ners of the preseason NIT, handily. The 2-3 zone defense established itself in that game 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL -RecSports will be offering Drop•In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Come by your­self or bring some friends. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE -Course includes four sessions which meet on Rhode Island. 
That put Syracuse in the finals of the Rainbow tourna­ment, where it lost for the first time, beaten decisively by Massachusetts. By then, Boeheim was feeling pretty comfortable with his recon­structed team. 
"We played well in Hawaii and our zone defense was effective," he said. 
There was trouble ahead, though. 
"The trip just seemed to take a lot out of us," the coach said. On the way home Syracuse stopped in Miami and lost again, its first Big East loss. 
"Bad scheduling," Boeheim said. 
Tuesdays from 6-7:30 p.m. The dates are April 2, 9, 16, and 23. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8.00 for the class and is open to students, staff, and faculty. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every bustness day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
THINK.ING OF PRIESTHOOD? Check us out at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/ 
htmVvoc1.html e-mial: frjohnr@aol.com 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks. Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206·971·3620 ext.N55846 
AnTostai?...April Fools? Huh? 
graduating senior looking for roo­mate for next year for Naperville/surrounding area. call kim 273-9840 

ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost: One bra. Last seen after I pulled it out of my sleeve and hung it on the wall. 
Found: In Turtle Creek parking lot: Silver Braclet with little ·suns on it. Call Brent at 273-6183 
Found: Car Key on Quad in front of O'Shag. Call236·9134 and leave message. 
lost: Notre Dame Student ID. Last seen exiting Regina on Thursday before break. If found call Mike O'Hara @273·6183. 
I found a religious medallion in LaFortune last Friday night. If it belongs to you, call Rich at 4-3314 
WANTED 
MAKE MONEY NOW NOT 
SOMEDAY! 
Rapidly growing ! Telecommunications co.needs Reps in this area. Great financial opportunity for full & PfT position. Call today! (219) 287-2053 Mark Wright Independent Rep & Area Coordinator for Excel 
I NEED A RIDE TO 
Minneapolis for Easter Break 
Will help with $ and driving 
Call Monica @ 3694 
WANTED: Good people to earn 
money by becoming reps for 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 
299-1999 evenings. 

EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206·971·3550 ext. C55844 
$ Cruise Ships Hiringl Students Neededl $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaiil) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 extC1114 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING NEXT YEAR? TEACH FOR AMERICA IS LOOKING FOR OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS TO TEACH UNDER-SERVED STU· DENTS IN VRBAN AND RURAL AREAS. CALL 1·800·823-1230 DEADLINE APRIL 3RD. 
Want to get cash for your old Sega games? Call Jonathan 
X 1047 
Are you moving to Detroit after graduation and need a roommate? Me too! I'm a fun roomie and have lots of CO's! Call Amy @ 634-0746 for more information. 
FOR RENT 
Rent a bral It's cheap, it's big, it's for rent... 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO ND. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
Room for fall '96. 5·min drivel 
$250 incl. utilities & extras. Call 1­
4809 I 232-7175 
• • • ROOMATE WANT.ED • • • Prefer Female nonsmk grad std. Beautiful, safe downtown apt $200 heat incl. Priv. 1/2 bath w/ room. hardwd firs, firepl., dine rm, sun rm. garage, WD. On bus rt. Alisa @ 237-1840 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
5 BR; 605 St Peter $925/mo 232-2595 
Room for Fall '96 5-min drive! $250 incl utilities & extrasl 1-4809/232-7175 
Need Summer Housing? Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at College Park for rent. Call X2915 for details. 
NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK CONDOS 273-1738 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
FOR SALE 
Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232·2002 
Europe $199 OW Caribbean/Mexico $189 RT & Domestic Destinations Cheapll 
IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE 
PRICES START YOUR OWN 
DAMN AIRLINE! Air-Tech ltd.. 2121219-7000 info@aerotech.com http://campus.net/aerotech 
Nissan Sentra, 1983, 90000 miles, S Speed, in excellent running condi­tion for $ 1400/obo. Call 277 ·51 06 or 1-5606. 
86 Honda Civic 4Dr., new brakes, clutch, battery. Very dependable. 
$800 271-1289 
1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner, immaculate, 2 full baths, garage, finished lower level, walk to ND, range, dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator, w/d, $77.900, 277-8898 Guitar for sale: 1993· Fender Strat Delux, great condition, will negotiate. Call Max 234-5771. 

For Sale!!! Plane ticket to Boston (5/21) or Providence (5/20) b/o male or female... call Jonathan x1047 
TICKETS 
(4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9 272-7233 
PERSONAL 
05/17 03/19 

0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student CeQter Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
MEXICAN JAIL! OH NO! 
FISHER REGATTA is coming April 13! Build your boat now! Check with your hall presi­dents for an Entry Booklet. Check out our Website: http://www .nd .edu/-fisher/regatta Questions? Call Kevin x1940 or Bill X3077. Ya Gatta Regatta! 
HELP FEED THE HUNGRY I The World Hunger Coalition will be distributing Easter food baskets to the needy tomorrow. We need your help to make and distribute these baskets, Tuesday, April 2nd, from 3 pm to 7pm at Stepan Center. Come give an hour or two of your time in the spirit of Easterl 
E-Thanks for a great year! I love You! -C I got me a job!I!I! 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241·5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE Happily married, well-educated cou­ple will give your baby a loving, stimulating, financially secure home. Confidential, legal, expenses paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­2344 
It must be tough back there ...Aiways being harrassed by the Ad Manager. .. 
Hey Matt-Too bad about the SYR! But who needs a dance to get busy? Call me anytime baby! Love lisa X0848 
1 part Coke 4 parts Rum Thanks for the great time as usual. -Felix 
Quote of the Day: If you fix the copier, I'll take my bra off for you. (You know who you are) 
The things I'll do for The Observer ... 
Hey Sherman, is your brother's friend some sort of utter moron? -lomas 
Kiwi and Dolphin ...on a ledge in Sorin ... where are Ted and plaid boy when we need them? 
Come see Saber Latino, George and the Freaks, Emily lord, God in Salsa, legion of Doom and more at the 
ZAHM HALL ACOUSTICAL JAM 
LaFortune Ballroom, Wednesday, 
April3, 7-10 p.m. Tickets $3 at the 
LaFortune Information Desk. 
Benefits La Casa de Amistad Youth and Community Center. 
@#@#$me in the goat#$#! 
Don't you love it when your friend ditches you just as your personal stalker comes to talk to you. Ask 
Kim -she could tell you how it's done!!! 
Rigs and Todd-Thanks for the entertainment this weekend. My bra enjoyed it. 
Can the Diaper Dandies make it to Bookstore without all five guys get­ting hurt? Injuries suck. 
Soccer girls are cool dressed in cur· tains. Now we know why these girls were national champs! 
Jill or Jessica? Jill or Jessica? That is the question!!!!ll!l!!!!!!l 
No discussing women or beer. You got it! 
To all those Dillon soccer players: my elbows and knees feel great. Thanks for the shelling. It was fun! 
Which is better: Root beer or knockouts? 
In the year of our Lord, 1314, patri­ots of Scotland, starving and out­numbered, charged the fields of Bannockburn. They fought like war· rior poets. They fought like Scotsmen, and won their freedom. 
Davey-­You hoo, you're sexy. 
Greg-­Open mouth and insert foot. 
bullhead. You need to think about things (like helping your buddies), before you react. · 
That goes for you too, Mike. 
Never take me bowling again. 
Every man dies. Not every man truly lives. 
What were you doing, throwing the football around, like the boys? 
Ay, run, and you'll live. At least for a while. 
Look for the Ricker in an upcoming photo poll courtesy of some loser at the observer. 
2 live Crew Rulesl 
Todd-· 
Jerry Curl 
Ron-­Crazy, Sexy, Cool 
Go Syracuse, beat those men 
The White Sox are back. 
Chicago Cubs baseball 2:20 start 

---------------------~------
MonJay, April I , 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 11 

O'Neal, Orlando clinch Atlantic title 
Hy fRED GOODALL 
Ao.,soc.:ioued Pn:ss 
OHI.ANDO 

The eelebration didn't last 
long bneause there wasn't one. 
Tlw Orlando Magic daimed their second straight Atlantic Division titln Sunday, but didn't nwtd in their 1JH-71J victory over tho Nnw York Knkks behind a :!2-point performanee by Shaquilln O'Neal. 
"'It's not pyrottH~hnks, cham­pagrw and streanwrs and all that. but pnrsonally I think w•~·n~ bnyond that," said 1~oaeh Brian llill. who is trying to get Orlando hack to the Finals. 
"This is somPlhing wn want to do, put togt~llwr a string of divisional tillt~s as all great teams do. But I'd he lying if I said it's the ultimatn goal." 
O'Nt~al was morn din~cl. 
"I'm glad WP. dindwd, but it's just a littln step in what we're trying to accomplish. There's no room for celt~hration," the All-Star ct~nt•~r said. "They wuntt~d to give us shirts. We 
r -----------,
KRIS'S
I 
I KOUNTRY : I KITCHEN I 
I I 
I •Cinnamon Rolls•Cookles•Breads• I •Party lray•Special Orders• 
All Products are made with Fresh Ingredients 
I I 
North VIllage Mall• (219) 271 7888 
don't want no stinking shirt." 
Orlando tied the league record for fewest turnovers in a game with three while improv­ing to 34-1 at home, where they won 40 consecutive regu­lar-season games before losing to the Los Angeles Lakers last 
w1~ek. 
The Magic are 20-4 since the All-Star break and, at 54-18 overall, moved within three wins of the franchise record for victorins in a season with 10 games to play. 
"It's exciting, but we have to put everything in perspective," said Orlando's Horace Grant. "You pat yourself on the back for one day and get ready for the next game. We want to get to 60 (victories) and win the championship." 
Grant scored 23 points and AnflmHle Hardaway 20 for the Magic. O'Nnal went 11-for-21 from the field and 10-for-13 from the foul line to win his personal matchup with New York's Patrick Ewing, who had 30 points and 11 rebounds. 
• BASEBALL 

Calling in the reserves . • • 
Notre Dame makes 'emergency' call to Indiana Tech after Villanova can't play 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assisrant Sporrs Ediror 

Sometimes it's best to just 
take what you can get. 

The Notre Dame baseball team should look at this past weekend as an example of fol­lowing such a philosophy, as they took advantage of NAIA school Indiana Tech to up their record to 17-7 on the season, clubbing their intrastate "rivals" 5-0 and 13· 4 in an "emergency" double­header on Saturday. 
The Irish were pressed into the matchup after they learned Friday morning that the field at Villanova, where they were slated to play a three game series with their closest division competitors. was not in playable shape. The news, while lightening the travel load on the team, was disheartening to player and coach alike nonetheless. 
"I'm very disappointed that we didn't get to play Villanova," commented head coach Paul Mainieri. "There are two things you can't con­trol in baseball however­injuries and the weather. We did all we could to get them to come here, but it didn't quite work out. You always want to be able to play your closest competitors. I was disap­pointed, and I think our whole team was disappointed." · "I was really disappointed," echoed junior hurler Darin Schmalz, who improved to 4-2 on the year in pitching five spectacular innings of the 5-0 win against Indiana Tech. 
"This was a big weekend series for us-we're tied with them (Villanova) in the divi­sion. We're just going to have to win most of our Big East games from here on out." 
The series with the Wildcats. who are tied with the Irish atop the American division of the Big East with a 3-1 mark, will not be made up. and the Irish . who are currently 4-0 at home, will play at least 13 more games at the Eck before they hit the road again. 
"When we get home, we're expected to win," said Schmalz of the Irish's home field advantage tlll'oughout the remainder of the season. "It's a lot easier being at home, being able to sleep in your own bed. It's nice to be back at home, and it felt good to get out there on our mound for the first time so far this sea­son." 
Schmalz looked right at home in the first game, sur­rendering just three hits and one walk in striking out eight in five innings of work. The Irish helped his cause at the plate, getting home runs from Mike Amrhein and George Restovich to cruise to a 5-0 win in the seven inning con· test. Wally Widelski combined with Schmalz to surrender just five hits to outmanned Indiana Tech. 
The second game saw the Irish fight off their plucky opponents with a late offensive explosion, extending a 4-3 lead after three innings into an eventual 13-4 rout. Sophomore Dan Stavisky pitched five innings in earning his third win on the year, and a three run seventh inning shot by freshman eatcher JeiT Wagner. who finished the game with a team-high four RBis, helped seal the vietory for the Irish, who outhit their opponents by a B-4 margin. Junior outfielder Scott Sollmann, who swiped two bases in the first game, reached the two hundred hit plateau when he tripled in a run in the first inning, his fourth three-bagger on the year. The hit moved Sollmann into seventh place all-time on the Irish hit list. 
"I really wasn't even aware of it (his 200th hit) until after­wards," commented Sollmann. "I'm just happy for the way things are going for us this year. I know that we have a real strong team. It's just a matter of time before we reach our potential." 
"They competed with us out there," said Schmalz of the 6-8 Tech squad. "They weren't that bad. On the whole I think our team played really well. We're on a roll." 
The Irish certainly are on a roll, having won five straight and nine of their last ten. The team is batting at a .322 clip, and the pitching Is starting to solidify, with the team ERA now standing at 4.69. 
The next scheduled test for tho Irish Is a Tuesday horne game with Bowling Green, but the team may throw in a game at the Eck against Butler today to help fill in the gaps in the schedule. 

-


~ Graduation Announcements ~ ~ Make it easy on yourself ~ ~ We address, stamp, insert, and mail your ~ ~~ ~ announcements for you. ~ ~~ 
~ Memorable Mailings ~ ~ 271-7773 ~ 
[§].[§] 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 
Ireland
Schedule for April 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 
Easter -No Spanish Mass 
domingo, 14 de abril de 1996 1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
domingo, 21 de abril de 1996 · 1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
October 2!5-November 3 October 30 -November 3 
Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a week~rid, you can 
(two weekends and a week), still enjoy the beauty of Ireland
domingo, 28 de abril de 1996 
featuring Irish entertainment, \~22.·}). and Notre Dame football ­
1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
sightseeing, great jazz and :::.,;.(1~..~ and of course plenty of 
Notre Dame football. t::t:?~ :1 B Irish entertainment. 
Padre Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
0 '!K; ;;.::::: Only ~ -'" ;:=:: Only 

\1' • $1450 from$2150 from 
Chicago* • Chicago*
Todos Estan lnvitados 
•o,her tiepanure ciu" "'"' nvnilabk. MATTERHORN TRAVEL------­
(CMPUS 

For complete brochure. phone 1-800-6.'8-9150 or (410) 224-22.'0.
MINI5TRY 


~---------------~---------~­
-
Irish 

continued from page 16 
pair, as they pummeled their opponents, 6-2, 6-0. 
It was a tight match for the team, and in the end they could not pull it out. The Irish fell to the Bulldogs, 5-4. "We just started out flat," stated Hall about the Georgia match, "There doubles teams were very strong. And there were some close matches that did not go our way." 
Velasco summarized her view on this past weekend. "It was great to be No. 6 in the nation. Being ranked is lots of pres­sure. The teams that we play are so pumped. I think that Georgia woke us up. The loss is not going to get us down, and it did not get us down because we were pumped to play Clemson." 
The team did make a quick rebound. as they did defeat the Clemson Tigers, 4-3. In the sin­gles competition the Irish were once again led by Crabtree, Velasco, and Gavin. Hall had a victory at the No.1 spot, as she defeated her Clemson oppo­nent, 6-4, 6-3. Crabtree han-
IRISH CouNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISlRY The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 

Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve: 

Call (219)277·7003 • Fax (219)273·2455 
Make Money Now 
Rapidly growing telecommunications company seeks Reps & Trainers in this area. Positions transferable to other areas of the coun­try. Great financial opportunity for full and part time positions. Call today! 
Michael Summers 
Regional Director 
679-9257 


died her opponent, 6-4, 6-1, and Velasco quickly dismissed the opposition, 6-2, 6-1. At No. 6, Gavin squeezed out a victroy, 6-3, 7-5. 
The Irish had yet another rough time in the doubles com­petition. 
Hall and Gowen showed their power at the No. 2 doubles spot, as they decisively defeated their Clemson opponents by the score of 8-2. 
Lately the Irish have been struggling in their doubles play. 
The team used to consider this their strong point. The Irish have lost two out of three dou­bles matches against Michigan, Georgia, and Clemson. The team feels that they need to fo­cus on their doubles play in practice this week. 
"We have been struggling in doubles," Velasco stated, "We definitely need to improve quickly. 
"The doubles will be the key for us in the big matches that are coming up." 
The Irish are already focusing ahead on the week to come, and hoping that they can ignite another streak as the Big East Championships approach. The team is set to take on some tough top-ranked competition on the road. "These two weeks are going to be tough," head coach Jay Louderback stated, "All of the teams that we are playing are ranked in the top ten. This will be a test for us, but we are looking forward to 
it. .. 
Happy April Fool's Day to our friend Melissa 
Monday, April 1, 1996 
Crew 
continued from page 16 
us where we are so far, where we need to improve, and where exactly our strengths lie," Robinson added. 
The Irish finished in the top­three of all eight races that took place over the 1500 meter course set up at Margaret Prickett park, including first­place finishes in men's Open 8 and the men's Lightweight 8. The men's team also had three second place finishes in the Lightweight 8, 4, and Open 4. 
On the women's end, the Irish finished second in the Lightweight 8, and third in the Open 8, 4, and Lightweight 4. 
Following the strong perfor­mance, the rowers are comfortable with their progress heading into the home-stretch of the season. 
"We were pleased with our finishes in all of the events and we are looking to build on these performances during the rest of the season," said club president-elect Joan Kelleher. 
Next weekend. the Irish will travel to Chicago for a one-on­one match against Northwestern, before heading down south for the Southern Rowing Championships on April 20. That will then leave the Irish a week to train for the Midwest Championships, which stands as the most important meet for the club as the top-three finishers in each race will qualify for the Nationals in Worcester, Massachusetts. 
"We are very optimistic about this season," Robinson said. "I think we have a good chance to medal at the Midwest Championships and qualify for Nationals." 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 
Ca II 234u0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 
I:l1i i:I!~1%i it~l:fld~l:l'J 3:113:iI (1ld;i111ijifl 

Habitat for Humanity is looking for volunteers (students and staff) for the next four Saturdays and Sundays. We work both days in two shifts: 9:00 to 1:00 and 1:00 to Sish, We will be HANGING DRYWALL and placing VINYL SIDING on our house. If you have experience doing these two activities, please contact us. And even if you have no experience with SIDING or DRYWALL, please come and learn. Transportation will be provided from the library circle at the above times. Each weekend is vital the the success of our project. Any questions? Call johanna Ward at 4-4813 
The World Hunger Coalition will be handing out Easter food baskets for those in need. Help is needed to assemble and distribute these baskets. If you want want to make a real difference this Easter, Please join us at Stepan Center tomor­row, Tuesday, April 2ND, from 3:00 PM to 7:00PM 
This service is provided foryou by the Club Coordination Cowu:il. 6314078 206 LaFortune 
------~--------------~-~ 
Monday, April I, I 996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Here comes Peter cottontail. .. 
The office of student Activities Presents 
April 2nd EASTER EGG 
north and South Quad 

Don Palblo's 
Movie Passes 
Olive Garden 
ToGolio Friday's 
Notre Dame Merchandise 
one yrtze yer student must be redeemed by Friday Ayrtl 12th 
Notre Dame students only 
• 



----~ -----­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
• SMC SOH[tAll 

By MIKE DAY 
Assistant Sports Editor 

It is a title that nobody wants. It is a label that one could cer­tainly do without. Nonetheless, it has been tagged to him, but that doesn't mean that it has affected him. 
Call him injury prone, and ju­nior defensive lineman Melvin Dansby merely smiles and ad­dresses the issue. He has been through too much over the past year for it to bother him any more. 
"It is something that I hear a lot, but you can't let things like that affect you too much," said Dansby. "It is unfortunate that I had to get hurt, but that's part of the game. You'd like to avoid an injury, but you can't, so you have to move on." 
It has been almost a year since Dansby earned •the start­ing role at defensive end. 
After an impressive perfor­mance in the 1995 spring workouts, the 6-foot-3, 260 pound Dansby was slated to start alongside noseguard Paul Grasmanis and end Renaldo Wynn. 
However, it all came to a crashing end during the final scrimmage of the spring foot­ball season. Dansby suffered an injury to a pair of disks in his neck, and less than a month later, was forced to undergo surgery to fuse the two separat­ed disks together. 
"It was kind of a freak injury that happens from time to time on the football field," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "It hap­pened at a bad time for him and the football team, but that happens in this sport." 
It was not the first time 
Dansby was sidelined with an 
injury. He missed time with an 
HOUSE FOR RENT 
'96-'97 
•5 
Bedrooms •Furnished •Washer/Dryer 

•Security 
System 


Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 
ankle injury suffered against Northwestern during the 1994 season opener. And prior to his senior year in high school, Dansby underwent arthroscopic surgery to repair torn cartilage in his knee. 
The latest and worst of the injuries kept Dansby out of action for the entire 1995 sea­son. 
Now, after a year of rehabilitation, the Birmingham, Alabama native hopes to pick up right where he left off this time last year. 
"I can't begin to explain how good it feels to be back on the football field," said Dansby. "Now, I just want to get my starting role back and get to the point where I was at before the injury." 
If the first few days of spring drills are any indication, Dansby has returned to the gridiron as strong as ever. 
"Melvin Dansby is a guy we feel will make a great impact on the defensive line for us next year," said Holtz. "Even with him being out for the entire year, I feel he is one of the top people we have on defense." 
During his layoff, Dansby was able to maintain a positive atti­tude even as he struggled to watch every game in street clothes from the sidelines. Dansby credits defensive line coach Charlie Strong and his teammates for helping him through the tough times. 
:·coach Strong always called me to make sure that I was do­ing all right and staying upbeat," said Dansby. "My teammates were very helpful over the last year. I tried to be there with them to celebrate the good times and the bad times." 
Now, Danby hopes to be right there with them on the playing field. 
"I feel like I'm starting from square one, so it will take a lit­tle time to relearn the game," said Dansby. "I just want to do my part in making us the No. 1 defensive line in the country." 
That would certainly erase the unwanted label beside Melvin Danby's name. 
SMART OPTIONS FOR CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Ciry Staffing, specializing in temporary and permanent placement, deals with a variety of Chicago's most prestigious companies. 
CALL US TO SET UP AN APPOINTMENT THAT WILL 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 

312-346-3400 
Weather finally grants split to Belles, Titans 
BY LORI GADDIS The second game proved to Sports Writer be as close as the first. The Belles scored two runs in the 
The weather was no longer a third inning, highlighted by factor as to whether or not the doubles from both senior out­Saint Mary's softball team fielder Laura Richter and fresh­could play their doubleheader man catcher Diane Andrews. against Illinois Wesleyan IWU responded in the fourth University Saturday. with another solo shot by 
The Belles travelled to Kummer. Bloomington, Illinois to face the They followed in the sixth Titans and split with them, 4-3 inning to score three runs but and 6-5. the Belles answered in the sev­
The Belles' record was 6-4 enth with three runs of their going into the doubleheader. own, highlighted by quick bats Saint Mary's knew they were from senior Shannon Heise. facing a tough team, ranked Heise doubled to score senior number 8 in the nation in the outfielder Michelle Limb and a preseason National Softball sacrifice fly by Andrews scored Coaches' Association poll for Heise. However, in the bottom Division III. of the eighth, IWU captured the 
Both the coaches and the winning run on a single by SMC team knew they would Katie Duffin. have to be aggressive on "We made mental errors in offense and stop the Titans on the second game that made a defense to play with success. difference in our playing," stat­
The first game proved that ed coach Jan Travis. "We are SMC could hold their own making better contact with the against a ranked team. The ball and are continually game was tied 3-3 going into improving in that area. We the seventh inning, highlighted have to use this as a learning by senior pitcher Maria Vogel experience that will help us to helping her own cause by send­focus on our next game." ing senior second baseman Travis also indicated that the Amy Misch to second. Belles are down to 12 players Sophomore third baseman due to illness. She hopes that Andrea Arena then singled to once SMC is at full strength, score Misch. they can begin to work to 
The Titans were led by improve those areas with a freshman outfielder Sara strong, healthy team. Kummer, who smashed a solo The Belles will take this home run over the fence, the experience on the road first of two for her on the day. Tuesday when they face Hope 
"We had a strong game and College. really made them work on de­Hope was ranked number 1 fense," said Vogel. "We made in the region in the preseason them commit the errors that we poll and number 7 in the nation used to our advantage." for NSCA Division Ill poll. 
Start Friday 
April 12TH 


MonJay, April I, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Do J'OU have a dlsclpllna!J'headng with Residence uter 
Student Govemment Is available to assist students with their disciplinary hearings with Residence IJie. He are available to advise you before, during and after your hearing. 
STUDBNT OOVHRNMBNT 

IF 11\•v VAc.vvrro ~~ Rl.li., r'f'RSoN"L £)(AC1'1..1! Ne.'l. 1-\ov'l-'-\Jp!.E~ II'>" fP-1''1''-t; !Z£C:.~Ot<~IBI\..IT~ ';> V\ou~L \-\I\liE. fr\E 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE £c.o:;....STErn \NE\tE booN(., To Ll.J•!S.S.l 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A new commitment to business or
C/l.EPI'f£0 \\E.~tE ... ['low PI.J'rTIW'-r 
career goals will produce fabulous 

B-=-+:=+::-l 24 Like the dodo R~=+::-l 21 Addis-­27 Spanish misses: Abbr. 
T~·,...t.. f\w~>-'1 1 ! 
results. Money gains will come through independent sources. Bold moves are favored next September. Agreeing to share profits with a valuable ally will bolster your posi­tion. Behind-the-scenes efforts enhance romance. A wedding is likely before ne~t Valentine's Day! Building a nest egg or new home becomes a priority. Count on an addition to the family to bring great joy. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Debbie Reynolds, basketball player Kevin Duckworth, actress Ali MacGraw, 
actor Gordon Jump. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Candid communication aids both business and romance. Be more cre­ative and less controlling. Changes are inevitable. Do not let stubborn pride interfere with the completion of a valuable work assignment 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mystique gives you an edge over a competitor. You know how to keep others guessing! An open­minded attitude will impress higher­ups. Keep your options open. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pro­mote a commercial venture with an eye to making the largest profits pos­sible. Emphasize cutting nonessen­tial expenditUres. The sacrifices you make now will be richly rewarded. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be wary of strange ideologies or propo­sitions. The surest way to avoid 
JOE MARTIN 
office politics is to work quietly on your own. Spend time looking over 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~----------------------~or-----------------------~ 
important documents. 
~ TI-\AI COULD BE. A. ~ P~OBLEM, GIVEN ~ THE. RECENT CUT5 
~ 
~ TO THE TRAINING 
"" 
~ BUOGE.T. 
~ 
E 
111 En route on the QE2 81 Throat part 81 "The Chinese Parrot" detective 111 River embankment 70 To be, in Brest 71 Not his 72 Build -egg (save) 73 Heads, in slang 
DOWN 
1 Rum cake 2Give--for one's money 3 Conclude one's 
case 4 Humiliated 5 Pale, as a face 1 California mount 7Tic---toe a Actress Sommer 9 Spotted again 
10 Picnics or barbecues 11 Money for a scholar 12 London elevator 13 "--perpetua" (Idaho's motto) 18lnequities 22 Chinese principle 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Accept­
~ t--~-E_A._N_W_HI_L_£.-'-,_I_N_T_H_E._F_l_E_lD---1 
;~~ 
; 
~ 
"' 


28 A hole in the 
head? 30 Untold centuries 32Upper-­
(Burkina Faso, once) 

33 Buddy of "The Beverly Hillbillies" 
35 Querying 
sounds 37 "You bell" 41 New Deal prog. 42 Militaristic city of 
ancient Greece 45 Seoul mates? 59 Tennis's Arthur 48 Unwrap roughly 60 Yemen port 50 Mai-(drink) 62--nogood 

Wanted: Reporters, 
52 River by 63 Strike-Westminster monitoring Palace agcy. 
photographers

55 Song syllables 84 Barely passing 117 It's a plus marks 58 Airspeed unit 87 Blvd. 
and editors. 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Join The Observer staff. 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

ing a special, confidential assign­ment will help you gain recognition from people in high places. Close
ANO H '<OU ORDER 

cooperation with your associates is 
the best way to ensure your financial 
TODA'<, I'LL TI-\ROW 

lN THIS RECTt>.NGULA.R PU\5TIC TI-liNG. 
• 
OF INTEREST 

•A 
blood drive will be held tomorrow in the Band Building from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. Sign up in the band building or walk-in. 

•RE: 
VISIONS #11 is now accepting stories for possible publication. All entries must be typnd, sub­mitted in triplicate (3 copies) with name and address on a removable front cover sheet. Please submit by Monday, April 1, at 4 p.m. to the English department, 356 O'Shaugnessy. There will be a cardboard box, marked HE: VISIONS. Questions, contact Prof. O'Rourke, ext. 7377, 465 Docio. 


•MENU Notre Dame 
North South Tomato Pizza Chicken Teriyaki Beef Turnover Mushroom Quiche Vegetable Lo Mein Seasoned Mini Bakers 
Saint Mary's Veal Parmesan Veggie Stir Fry Egg Noodles 
well-being. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The outlook for reconciling your differ­ences with someone is very promis­ing. All it takes is true understand­ing and a willingness to make intel­ligent concessions. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Busi­ness and professional duties take up the lion's share of your time. Con­tinue to yield to older, more experi­enced associates; they hold all the cards. A friendly reunion means a great deal to both parties. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A wonderful opportunity rests in your hands; you cannot miss it! Banish self-doubt and your social life will Oourish. A change of pace sounds great this evening. Invite a favorite companion to join you. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Business negotiations introduce you to a potential romantic partner. Keep this new relationship very quiet. Console a saddened family member; happy memories prevail. Your dazzling personality helps you win important points in a confronta­tion. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): lnOuential people offer finan­cial backing. Go slow; they could have uherior motives. Implementing new procedures at work will show others who is charge. Travel enjoys beneficial inOuences. 
AQUARIUS (JaiL 20-Feb. 18): Work at devising a new budget You cannot afford to race into the future without first reviewing decisions made in the past. Take stock of who you are and what you hope to accomplish. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You are entering a highly productive cycle. Authority figures are interest­ed in your ideas but need more time to respond. Persistence will help you solve a financial problem. Let others know how they can help. 

.,. 
• 

MISTER BOFFO 
I Mat IJmar11n a\\ l"cnl'l net 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Actress Theda of the sllents 1 Fall flower 10 Girl-or 
boy-watch 14 Greek war god 11 Laminated rock 11 "QB VII" author 17 Attacks from 
hiding 11 Mr. Republican of the old G.O.P. 20 Giant star in Scorpius 21 Gnaw at 
corrosively 23--Carlo 25 Desire 28 Colorado ski 
resort 211 Lumberjack's tool 
IN AN E.FFOI\T TO BOOST 
SALES, LAPTOP CO/'\PUTERS HAVE BEEN GIVEN TO 
EVER'<  MEMBER 0!= TI-\E.  
.SAL£.5  FORCE...  
)  

31 Architectural arch 34 Bit of dental 
work 31 Yo-yo, e.g. 38 Condescending 
type 311 Suffix with 
doctor or elector 40 Holy sites 43 Hirt and Gore 44Bowwow 48D.C. V.I.P. 47 Frasca 
competitor 411 Broad necktie 111 Take steps 53 Actor Quinn 54 The "E" in 
Q.E.D. 5I Dancer Twyla 58 Sherry-like wine 11 Shock 



TOMMAIZZIE MARY BE7HMIC4U Director ofAdvoucy
}udlcW Counclll'relldent 
AllInformation Is heldas strictlyconfidential 


...... 
SPORTS 
page 16 
•LACROSSE 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Regardless of the sport, the great teams always seem to take on some kind of label. In the case of the Notre Dame lacrosse team, the monikor "road warriors" appears to fit the bill quite appropriately. 
The Irish continued their 1996 road domina­tion on Saturday, as they defeated the fifteenth­ranked Hobart Statesmen 6-5 in overtime. This fifth-straight victory raises the Irish season record to 5-1. with all five wins coming on the road. 
This victory obviously did not come easily. The game was tight throughout its entirety. 
The first quarter set the tone for this slugfest. After the Statesmen scored first, the Irish struck back with two goals before the period ended. Brian Gilfillan got on the scoreboard with 5:35 left in the quarter. He scored off of an assist from Tony Reid. Kevin Mahoney then scored 59 seconds later to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. 
After a scoreless second quarter. Hobart tied the game in the third. Again, Notre Dame re­sponded in appropriate fashion. After Mike Maroney put the Irish up 3-2. Mahoney scored yet again off of a Todd Rassas assist. 
The Statesmen scored again to make the score 4-3 as the fourth quarter began. 
Jimmy Keenan increased the lead to S-3 early in the fourth. This was when the real excite­ment began. 
Late in the fourth quarter. and down by two goals. Hobart scored twice in a 25-second span, sending the game into overtime. 
Despite those two late goals, the Irish felt they had the advantage going into the overtime peri­od. 
"We had the momentum going into the over­time because we were a man up," said Gilfillan. "Usually things go right when we're a man up." 
With this momentum on their side, this excite­ment did not last long. Gilfillan put the Irish over the top as he scored 38 seconds into the sudden death ovet:time period. 
"We moved the ball around real well, and this time I just happened to be the one open," ex­plained a jubilant Gilfillan. "It was great." 
Facing yet another stern challenge, the Irish defense rose to the test. They repelled an offen­sive attack that Notre Dame assistant coach Tim Shea called "one of the best" in the nation. Goalie Alex Cade, the backbone of the Irish defense, had eight saves in the game. 
"[The defense] played unbelievable," noted Gilfillan. "They are the strong point of our team. They kept us in the game after we scored only six goals." 
With this victory, the Irish are assured to again move up in the national rankings. Losses by #1 Virginia, #3 Brown, #4 Carolina, and # 8 Duke definitely helped the Irish cause. 
Although this rise in the polls may signify that the Irish do indeed deserve a place among the national elite, they acknowledge that they won't let it affect their play, negatively at least. 
"We don't really pay attention to the rank­ings," noted sophomore midfielder Dan Butler. "We just go out and play the games that we have to play." 

The Observer/Dave Murphy Mike Maroney's third-quarter goal gave Notre Dame a 3-2 lead over Hobart. They went on to win on the road, 6-5 in overtime. 
• CREW 

30-year legacy, COD1D1it01ent to 'lifestyle' the the01es for Irish rowers 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 

For the rowers of Notre Dame Rowing Club, now in its thirtieth year of existence, their jobs involve much more than being mere athletes. 
"The best quote that I've heard to describe it is that rowing isn't really a sport. it is a lifestyle," men's cap­tain Dino Cusumano commented. 
Although this describes the com­mitment of many collegiate athletes, for the Irish rowers. it holds special significance. Most of the ninety-plus members of the club had little to no experience prior to college and now
" 
train two to two and a half hours a day. six days a week, with hopes of becoming a member of the varsity' team. 
Less than half of the total number of members of the club will be named as varsity rowers, leaving the rest to rac·e in the novice category. 
"About eighty-percent of the row­ers had no experience before coming here," Cusumano said. "Usually, everyone rows a year as a novice rower before moving up to varsity." 
Experience has played a key role in the success of the Irish, as evident by the performance last weekend as they hosted the Notre Dame Crew Classic. 
The Irish invited six teams from around the midwest to this annual event including rowers from Case­Western, John Carroll, Marquette, and Wheaton universities, also the University of Chicago and Grand Valley State. 
The Classic serves not only as a chance for good competition, but also as an opportunity to gain some recognition for the Irish club. 
"It is a way of getting our name out there and getting some teams to come and see what we are all about," Vice-president of racing David Robinson said. 
Last weekend's regatta was the second official competition for Irish in the second half of the two-semes­ter season. At this point in the sea­son, with a nearly a month left before the major competition of the season, the Midwest Championships, the Classic served as a marking point in the team's progress. 
"This regatta. in particular, showed 
see CREW I page 12 

• 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club trained in Florida over spring break (above) in preparation for their regatta this weekend. 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame win streak snapped by Georgia 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Wrirer 
The sixth-ranked women's tennis team's hot streak was doused by the fifteenth­ranked Georgia Bulldogs this past Friday. The Irish had been on a roll for awhile drop­ping only two other matches this entire sea­son. The team was forced to bounce back quickly as they were scheduled to face the No. 20 Clemson Tigers on Saturday. The Irish record now falls to 16-3, as they split their matches down South. 
"It was basically a long weekend for us." freshman Jennifer Hall stated, "We just could not pull out our match against Georgia. but we did manage to bounce back against Clemson." 
The Irish had a close match between the Bulldogs, but some of the individual matches just did not go their way. 
A few of the players had some strong show­ings this weekend, as they led the team with wins in both of their singles matches. Senior Wendy Crabtree, freshman Marisa Velasco, and sophomore Molly Gavin all decisively defeated thier singles opponents this week­end. Crabtree, Velasco. and Gavin posted the only three victories for the Irish in the singles competition against the Bulldogs. 
The Irish were unsuccessful in their goal of getting a quick start against Georgia. The No. 3 doubles team consisting of junior Erin Gowen and Hall were the only victorious 
see IRISH I page 12 

Lacrosse Women's Tennis 
• Dansby back in pads, ready to play 

at Harvard Saturday, April 6 
at Texas Thursday, April4 
... 
see page 14 
Track 

Men's Tennis 
vs. Western Michigan Saturday, April6 
at Northwestern Saturday, April 6 
• SMC Softball splits with Titans 
Softball 
see page 14

SMC Sports 
.. 
vs. Butler Tuesday, April 2, 4 p.m . 
Tennis vs. U. of Chicago Wed., 3 p.m. • Baseball collects 'emergency' wins Softball at Hope College Tues., April2 see page 11 





