
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 63 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• FACULTY SENATE 
Malloy's hiring 'erodes' confidence of Senate 

By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 

The long-awaited vote by Faculty Senate regarding a disputed theology department hiring has transpired, and it's not all good news for University President Father Edward Malloy. Additionally, an October decision by the Office of Residence Life to oppose a pro­posed demonstration by the College Democrats was denounced in a differ­ent resolution. 
In last night's Faculty Senate meet­ing, held at the Center for Continuing Education, the Senate voted 29-5, with three abstentions, to approve a resolu­tion which calls into question Malloy's actions in overruling the theology department's hiring committee and its chair this past summer. 
The dispute centers around the pro­cedure followed by Malloy in hiring a Holy Cross priest to a visiting professor­ship at Notre Dame. The professor, who is currently a member of the facul­ty, was hired in June. He visited the campus and met with the theology department's hiring committee from April 10-12 last semester. That com­mittee reviewed a presentation by the professor and his credentials, and issued a report expressing its opposi­tion to his potential hiring. 
What followed was a flurry of com­munications and meetings involving Lawrence Cunningham, chairman of the theology department; former Provost Timothy O'Meara; Harold Attridge. dean of the College of Arts and Letters; and members of the theol­ogy department. The members of the department and the department chair overwhelmingly supported the decision not to hire the candidate. 
But Malloy overruled the theology department recommendation, and his actions inspired a lengthy investigation by the Faculty Senate's Academic Affairs Committee. The investigation 

The resolution passed last night was drafted by the Academic Affairs Committee and was altered during the meeting to state its purpose more clear­ly. 
see SENATE I page 4 

Early grads seek recognition 
By ANN KEARNS 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
As the end of the semester approaches, most students are consumed by finals, papers, and plans for Christmas break. To a select few. however~ it marks the close of their college career. 
Saint Mary's College will be graduating a few of their seniors this December. Among them are, Yolanda Hamirez and Leanne Doms. Ramirez will be graduating with a degree in sociology, and Doms will be graduating with a com­munication degree. 
Currently, they are facing fears of what lie ahead, and they are coping with the emo­tions that go along with gradu­ation. 
They have the added pres­sure, however, of doing this without the comfort of know­ing their peers are experienc­ing the same feelings and without the distraction of cere­monies and parties. 
When seniors finish their graduation requirements at in December, they are given the option of being a part of the ceremony in May. Most do decide to do this, signifying a close to their undergraduate endeavors. 

Doms commented that although she feels she will miss out on a traditional senior year by not completing her requirements in May with the rest of her class, she is looking forward to participating in the activities planned in May. 
Now, however, her attention, as well as Ramirez's, is focused on what awaits them after they complete their last final. 
For Ramirez, she will return to her home in Panama to work for a year and then pur­sue a master's degree in social psychology. 
Doms plans to stay in the South Bend area to work 

before she applies to Notre Dame Law School. 
Although these students have earned their degrees and suc­cessfully completed the gradu­ation requirements, Saint Mary's does not hold a cere­mony or a reception honoring their accomplishments. 
The students have comment­ed that they would prefer to participate in the May ceremo­ny, but they would enjoy a reception acknowledging their early graduation. 
"I think it would be cool to have some ceremony or party. It's a big deal to us, and I would like to celebrate with the families, teachers, and other students," Doms com­mented. 
Teresa Marcy. assistant to the vice president, explained why the school does not hold a reception for the seniors grad­uating in December. 
In the past, a luncheon was held for the students, but this practice stopped when seniors began deciding at the last minute that they were going to 
see GRADUATES I page 4 
The feast is on ... 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

Stamper Bob played to a packed house at the Class of '99 dinner last night at the LaFortune Ballroom. 



The debate continues: Should athletes be paid? 
By JOHN DEBOY 
News Writer 
On Saturday, Southern California quarterback Brad Otton:s 5-yard touchdown pass to Hodney Sermons gave the Trojans a 27-20 overtime victo­ry over the Irish and most likely cost Notre Dame an $8.5 mil­lion Alliance Bowl payout. 
Bowl game or no bowl game, however, the high fees paid by bowl sponsors to participating universities have served to rekindle debate over the exploitation of student athletes by their schools. Additionally, intercollegiate athletes and oth­ers have continued to call for monthly stipends that would give college players a small percentage of the profits gener­ated in big-time college sports. (NCAA), claims that "the wheel 

At Notre Dame, where the of fortune [in college athletics] athletic department ranks is badly unbalanced in favor of among the most fmancially suc­the overseers and against the cessful in the nation, some stu­players." dent athletes claim that sports According to Byers, "the standouts at Notre Dame, many coaches own the athletes' feet, of whom come 
from disadvan-'only two of 2 5 varsity athletic pro­
taged back-

grams at Notre Dame generate more 
grounds, may 

revenue than expense. Should we only pay 
deserve a slice of 

the student athletes in two of those 25 pro­
the pie generated 

in large part by grams? I don't think that would be fair." their successes on the field. Michael Wadsworth 
dollars." 
In response to observations made by Byers and others, many close to the college ath­letics scene have ignited an intense debate over whether or not student athletes should be 

entitled to a portion of the revenue that they help generate for their schools. In a recent Time maga­zine essay, 
In a recently journalist published book entitled the colleges own the athletes' Steve Wulf proposed a $100 "Unsportsmanlike Conduct: bodies, and the supervisors monthly stipend for Division I Exploiting College Athletes," retain the large rewards. That intercollegiate athletes, a mod­Walter Byers, former executive reflects a neoplantation mental­est compensation that he feels director of the National ity on the campuses that is not would provide some financial Collegiate Athletic Association appropriate at this time of high relief for students who come 
from disadvantaged back­grounds. 
While Wulf is quick to admit that student athletes should be thankful for the educational opportunities afforded them via athletic scholarships. he feels that recent increases in the number of athletes who leave early for professional opportu­nities, among other reasons, are indicative of a need for reform in intercollegiate athlet­ics. 
"[Athletes leaving school early is] one of the reasons the NCAA is finally looking into granting intercollegiate athletes ... some financial relief," Wulf wrote. "Other reasons are their susceptibility to glad-handing 
see STIPENDS I page 6 


Wednesday, December 4, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
DART 101: 15 n1inutes ofhell 

It's that time of year Mary Beth Ellis again, kiddies! Women Accenr Copy Editor and men all across campus are just choking on the joy and excitement in the air! Personally, I'm just thrilled it's back in my life again! 
DAHT! Yaaaaayyyy!!!! 
For those of you like me, a mechanically challenged blonde-American, The Observer is proud to present a step-by-step guide to your DAHT appointment-from the first number you dial on a touch tone phone to your even­tual need for large, frequent doses of Prozac. 
1, Get out your microscope and attempt to decipher the classes listed in your DART book. Using your DART worksheet-yours for the low, low price of only $2S,OOO a year-cre­ate a non-conflicting, reasonably balanced schedule consisting of classes required by your major, minor, degree, and college. 
2. 
Now wake up, because the schedule you'll actually get will resemble this in no way, shape or form. 

3. 
Dial DAHT (1-800-YOU'RE-SCREWED). Wait for the solo rifT from the person playing the xylophone on the other end of the line. This is the theme music of.. .. The DART Man. Do not trust this man. This man is EVIL. He may seem genial and deeply concerned about your scheduling welfare, but he is actually­and you heard it here first-the Antichrist. 

4. 
Enter your student ID number, followed by your PIN number, followed by Ore! llershiser's ERA. followed by the semester code, followed by the number of shots you need before you can effectively forget that the USC game ever took place. 


S. By this time you've reached your 7.S minute time limit and DAHT rudely hangs up on you whether you ve finished with it or not. Hepcat Step 4. 
6. 
Enter the course call number of your most-needed class. Await the most annoying noise ever manufactured by mankind. Sorry! The class is full! (OH: The building this class was supposed to meet in is currently being renovated into yet another bank vault to house the checks coming in from NBC! OH: This class never actually existed in the FIRST place, you sucker!) 

7. 
Hepcat Step 6 until you have been closed out of each class you wish to take. 


8. You may begin sobbing now. 
There you go-the complete insider's guide to DAHTing. Okay, class, arc there any ques­tions? 
Q. What does DART stand for, anyway? 
A. Doomed Attempts to Register by Telephone. 
Q. Name the one class in the 1997 Spring Semester DART Book you are just dying to take. 
A. "Understanding Museums", offered at 4:1S on Thursdays. Here's what I want to know: How can you not Understand a Museum? What's there not to understand? You open the door, you wander around speak­ing in hushed tones, you "Do Not Touch" the displays. Who's having problems with this? 
Q. You would definitely get an A in this course, Mary Beth. 
A. I know. Too bad it conflicts with another course of choice, "Hoad Vehicle Dynamics." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Jillian Pagliocca  Ethan Hayward  
Bridget O'Connor  Production  
Belle Bautista  
Sports  John Hutchinson  
Kathleen Lopez  Lab Tech  
Brian Fremeau  Brandon Candura  
Accent  
Graphics  Ashleigh Thompson  
Jon King  Joe Wider  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. AU reproduction rights arc rc:scrvcd. 
• WORLD AT A GlANCE 
Bomb on commuter train kills two, seriously injures 35 
PARIS minor injuries. 
A bomb exploded A witness told on a commuter train France Info radio in a station in the she heard a large heart of Paris during boom when the blast the evening rush­went otT and smelled hour today, killing at something like gun­least two people and smoke right away . seriously injuring "There was a sort of 3S. detonation and a 
Police said there strong odor like on a was no immediate firing range," she claim of responsibili­said. ty for the blast on A few minutes the edge of the city's later, the wail of famed Latin Quarter. ambulances filled French television the area around the said the bomb was station between the made from a gas Boulevard St. Michel canister similar to and the Boulevard those used in the Montparnasse. 199S wave of bomb­"There was an ings claimed by explosive device that Algerian militants. was put in a subway 
Officials said the car," Prime Minister 

explosion occurred at 6:0S p.m. at the Port-Royal station, on the RER regional line used by thou­sands of commuters in and out of the French capital. 
It detonated just as the train was pulling into the sta­tion, where the platform is partially above-ground. French radio said the two people were killed instantly, but that more might have died had the entire station been underground, concentrating the force of the blast. 
Besides those who were seriously hurt, police at the scene told The Associated Press that SO others suffered 
Clinton defends women, children 
LA PAZ. Bolivia 
Hillary Rodham Clinton urged Central and South American nations Tuesday to do more to combat maternal mortality and lamented that the Republican Congress had cut U.S. aid for such efforts. "Without access to family plan­ning, women often turn in desperation to illegal, unsafe abortion procedures that account for half of all maternal 

deaths in this country," Mrs. Clinton said during a two­day visit to B,olivia.. "Deaths from abortion complications are responsible. for 30 to 70 perce))t of m;:tternal mortali­ty in the hemisphere, depending on the country." Mrs. Clinton delivered her remarks at the 6th Conference of Wives of Heads of State and of Governments of the Americas. Earlier, she toured a health clinic and a com­munity bank in poor neighborhoods to commend pro­grams helping women and children escape poverty. 
Fiber-rich food fends off heart disease 
DALLAS 
The more fiber people eat, the lower their risk of heart disease, a new study finds. The research, conducted on elderly men in Finland, found those with the highest con­sumption of fiber-rich food suffered one-third fewer heart attacks over a six-year period than did those with the lowest intake. "It really pays to eat a little fiber, and it doesn't seem to be important in which form," said Dr. Pirjo Pietinen, the study's lead researcher and head of the Department of Nutrition at Finland's National Public Health Institute in Helsinki. The research, published in Monday's issue of the journal Circulation, was based on 21,930 smokers aged SO to 69. The study calculated that for every 10 grams of fiber that the men added to their diets, their risk of dying from coronary heart disease fell by 17 percent. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 

.•.:;:·:·=·=··  
...............  Ht+  L  
Wednesday~  34  28  
Thursday  ~  36  27  
Friday  ~  40  26  
Saturday  ~  39  25  
Sunday  ~  37  21  

4,~,~9-Q.Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Denver 47 19 New York 43 37 Tulsa 57 
30
VIB Associated Press GraphiCSNet 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 4. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
1 s 
FRONTS: 
~ ...&..JIL ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher. Inc. 

Pressure ~~ 
b---... 

H L B ESl [.:}] EZJ ~ ~ 1¥( L_.!. G 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 52 38 Fresno 52 4t Philadelphia 43 33 Boston 42 31 Los Angeles 70 51 Phoenix 66 43 Chicago 33 27 Miami 80 64 St. Louis 42 31 Coldwater 25 24 New Orleans 65 50 Seattle 44 37 
AP Alain Juppe told 
reporters. 

He said officials put back into effect an emergency vigi­lance plan activated after France was hit last year by eight deadly subway bombings. Algerian Islamic extrem­ists claimed responsibility for rpost of the bombings, which involved gas canisters packed with nails, nuts and bolts. 
Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre said France was tightening its borders as a precaution, and train stations and airports across France were on alert. 
Charges accumulate for ex-agent 
MANASSAS, Va. 

A former FBI agent already charged with threatening to blow up a minister has been charged with attempting to murder his wife as part of a divorce battle. Eugene Bennett was indicted Monday on attempted murder and bomb making charges. I Ie was indicted in September on charges of abduction, two counts of firearms violations, burglary, making a bomb threat, and insurance fraud. Authorities say Bennett lured his estranged wife, Marquerite Bennett, and the Rev. Edwin Clever to the Prince of Peace Methodist Church on June 24 and strapped what he said was a bomb to the minister. The bomb. turned out to be a fake, using modeling clay in place of plastic explosives. Attorney Paul Ebert said the attempted murder charge stemmed from allegations that Bennett was plotting to kill his ex-wife for insurance money. Authorities found a real bomb and bomb-making materials in lockers at two college campuses where Mrs. Bennett works. 
Company fined for bootlegged medals 
NEWARK, N.J. 

The company that holds the government contract to make the nation's highest combat decoration was fined $80,000 Tuesday for selling 300 bootleg Medals of Honor. 
H.L.I. Lordship Industries Inc. also will give the govern­ment $22,SOO it received for illegally selling the bogus medals for $7S apiece at memorabilia shows from 1991 to 1994. "True Medal of Honor recipients and their fami­lies have a right to be outraged by (Lordship's) conduct," 
U.S. District Judge William G. Bassler said in imposing the maximum fine allowed under federal guidelines. The family-owned company also could lose its status as a gov­ernment contractor. Its only business is making medals and insignia. The Hauppauge, N.Y., company pleaded guilty before sentencing to a single misdemeanor count of making unauthorized medals. 
-~~~-----~-·-------­
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
l
~ 
I
Playwrights' work comes alive SACC reconsiders i 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
Writing for the stage is a time consuming task that demands continuous editing, a skill that many writers never master. 
In an effort to help the writer revise by offering feedback, three Saint Mary's College stu­dents' plays, written for Ramona Morris' play writing class last spring, were selected as a sampling of the most stageworthy to be performed at a reading last night in the Moreau Little Theatre. 
Under the direction of Mike Morris, the plays of Corinne Hanrahan, Tiffany Bowman, and Katie Brown were per­formed by student actors with minimal rehearsal and little or no scenic elements. 
Hanrahan's play "Better Late Than Never" focused on the issue of young love and sexual pressures. Bowman's play "Once Upon a Street Corner" focused on young teens dealing with physical abuse and the courage to seek help. Brown's play "An Elevated Affair" fea­tured a corporate businessman confronted in an elevator by his wife about an affair he had with another woman. 

teacher evaluations
"This provided a great 
opportunity for us playwrights to see our plays put on with real actors. By seeing my ideas come to life and viewing first-hand what works and doesn't in action, I can revise and possibly enter the play in contests," said junior Katie Brown. 
The plays will be performed again tonight at 8 p.m. at Moreau Little Theatre. There will be a short discussion peri­od following the performance to collect audience feedback. 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN 
News Writer 
Members of the Student Academic Council Committee (SACC) are taking significant steps toward improving stu­dent-faculty relations and improving the accuracy of Teacher Course Evaluation (TCE) forms. 
In an effort to establish "meaningful contact with our students," Barbara Walvoord, director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, is 
attempting to gain direct stu­
dent input and commentary via student organizations like SACC. Addressing a topic of concern to all students, the group, chaired by Brendan 
Apply Now­
Interviews Begin Dec. 2 
Kelly, had many suggestions and criticisms on current poli­cies, including professor office hours, open-door policy, and direct links to friendly student­teacher interaction. 
Walvoord addressed the prob­lem of common abuses of pro­fessor office hours, claiming that "accessibility is really 
• 8 weeks devoted to service-learning important" to student develop­
ment. Unfortunately, according to Walvoord, professors are sel­
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship dom held accountable for keep­
ing their office hours. "In my opinion, you should be at your
• 3 elective credits 
office hours. Otherwise, don't even bother," Kelly further sug­gested that professors accom­
Applications available at the 
modate students in more casual situations, in an effort to devel­
Center for Social Concerns 
op student-faculty relations on from Hall Reps (names on posters) a more personal basis. Similarly, an open-door policy 
See your hall rep. for details 
was suggested to encourage 
student communication with professors. Member Theresa Sullivan admitted, "Decio Hall can be intimidating because the doors are always shut." Other members agreed that "you only ever go when you have a crisis." 
Walvoord went on to address the effectiveness of the TCEs, their uses, and their role in evaluating individual professor performance. Questions focus on subjects such as course con­tent, teaching methods, and work load, including a space for general student comment. 
"How should we slice the data so that it is most useful?" was the question posed by Walvoord to SACC members. 
Kelly suggested including a male-female identifier on the bubble forms to distinguish stu­dent gender for more detailed evaluation. Walvoord agreed that gender could "factor into evaluating student responses." 
Other members mentioned 

that issuing the TCEs at the end 
of the course is very ineffective. 
"By the end of the semester, the 
damage is done and students 
just want to get out of class 
early," Kelly said. Sullivan sug­
gested administering the forms 
at a different time or having 
each teacher make up an indi­
vidual TCE. "I had a teacher 
that handed out his own TCE," 
Sullivan said. "He took the time 
to make his own and he asked 
some pretty tough questions 
asking us to scrutinize him real­

ly hard." Tactics such as these, 
Walvoord agreed, would 
enhance the accuracy of the 
TCEs. 


Just Say YES! to Ireland 

Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT direction Dec.4 
7:00P.M. Room 303, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's College Campus 
Film of Ireland Refreshments! APPLICATIONS DUE DEC. 16 
Exceeding your expectations: 
Join Deloitte & Touche representatives from across the country to discuss summer opportunities and your career. 
TUESDAY: THURSDAY: 
Karaoke Night 
Open Jam Thursday, December 5, 1996 
Area's Premier Bands 5:30p.m.-7:00p.m. DJ starts at 9:00 p.m. 
WEDNESDAY: 
Hottest Spot in Town! Alternative & 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY:

Center for Continuing Education retro 70's 
DJ Dance Party

CD's & T-shirts 
231 Dixieway North 


Deloitte& 
between Cleveland Casual Attire Touche uP and Douglas on 
0 
US31-33 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good 
for all! 
3AM 

~~--~--.-------------------~--------------------------~--------------­
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 4, 1996 

politics and not a matter of the 
Senate." said Blakey. Blakey



Senate 
also questioned the openness of continued from page 1 the theology department hiring committee. He said that the 
Professor G. Robert Blakey, hiring by Malloy opened up the the W. and D. O'Neill Chair at formerly closed character of the the Law School, voiced his sup­theology department's hiring. port of Malloy's decision and In response, Porter pointed initiated debate over the word­out that the hired professor's ing of the resolution, which personal qualities and creden­included a statement that read: tials were never called into "Be it further resolved that a question when the issue was president who makes such deci­raised with the Faculty Senate. sions does not deserve the con­"We haven't spoken to the qual­fidence of his faculty." ifications of the candidate [in 
"I struggle with the wording the Senate]," said Porter, reiter­of the resolution," said market­ating that the resolution targets ing Professor Joel Urbany. the procedure Malloy followed. Blakey and Urbany both ques­In stark contrast to the delib­tioned the strength and appro­erations over the resolution dis­priateness of the original word­agreeing with Malloy's actions, ing. the Senate passed a resolution 
The final version of that denouncing the administra­clause reads: "Be it further tion's denial of a peaceful resolved that a president who demonstration earlier this makes such decisions seriously semester, quickly and without erodes the confidence that a any debate. faculty ought to have in a presi­Particularly, on Oct. 10 dent." Assistant Vice-President for 
The resolution states that Residence Life William Kirk Malloy's decision to hire the denied the application submit­theology professor harms the ted by the College Democrats University as a whole "by for a peaceful demonstration undermining the well-estab­celebrating National Coming lished and beneficial model of Out Day. Kirk opposed the rational collaboration that demonstration because he felt it exists between a departmental violated du Lac, the student faculty and the University's handbook replete with rules administration with regard to and regulations on student life hiring decisions." and behavior. The resolution 
Other concerns were raised passed by Faculty Senate fol­by Blakey regarding the refer­lows a similar resolution ences to the decision by Malloy approved earlier in the semes­and its effect on the University ter by Student Senate. as a whole. University Provost Nathan 
"This is a matter of internal Hatch will address the Faculty 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~www 
~ ~ ~ "As You Wish" ~ 
~ I ~ 




: mports : 
~ ~ 
: Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry, : ~ Accessories, and Much More! ~ 
~ Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • ~ ~ Thailand • India • Ecuador ~ 
~ INCREDIBLE PRICES! ~ 
~ GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! ~ 
'<i? Unbelievable Bargain Corner! <£> ~ •Proceeds from this corner help send ~ ~ 6 Guatemalan children to school. ~ ~ Other Donations Greatly Appreciated ~ ~ LaFortune-Room 108, Dec. 2-7 (Sat) 10-5pm <£> ~ St. Mary's LeMans Lobby, Dec. 10-13, 10-5pm <£: 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
InftWT~Uttional Meeting 
Thursday, December 5th, 
7:30 PM at the CSC 
African American & Hispanic Leadership Intern Program (LIP) 

Summer of 1997 
$2200.00 for 10 week program 
Three elective Theology credits 
St. Procopius 
St. Agatha 
Chicago and Chicago and 
C E N T E R F 0 R 
more SOCIAL more CONCERNS 
Senate on Jan. 11 in the Center academic year a student grad­for Continuing Education audi­
uates, the feelings stay the


Graduates 
same. Nostalgia, relief, and resolutions passed by the 
torium. A full record of both concern are common feelings

continued from page 1 Senate, in addition to the min­
shared among all seniors. utes from last night's meeting, 
stay another semester. "It is As Doms commented, "I just will be available within the next 
not clear until the last minute wonder what I am going to do two weeks on the Faculty 
who will be finishing," accord­and feel when I walk out of Senate internet home page. 
ing to Marcy. that last final." Regardless of when in the 
1997-98 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must be submitted by February 7, 1997. 
For more information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 631-5550 
Expecting the Spae~J'li;.tr;{J~~i~~~~,
t·,. .Ci} ., ~,,,...... iio'~"' q,, "> 

Inquisition? -~} 
The University Libraries have J·ust acquired over ~~2 t1;h:\\~:zf::1,:,~:g;d;~l !';} ~{'(
J·(.:J .l:·:.c~~t~~:f.;·~;~ r·:~ It ~~::: ~;~ ~:::~ 
300 authentic broadsides, letters and other manusthRtl:<kA;~ (:\~ // MJ f~ and printed documents pertaining to ~(.;i~i'::fi~(~~;;{~!·!r:i l ~)f'.~t{P the Inquisition, plus more than 200 A ''M~'i~~=~.. ~')it.J! lr :A1 secondary sources. ,_.,-y1 Q~tr<:::,:f?~:;; t:,:::!i:=~L}~4fi~~~~~~!1i A f~lly search~ble database will be 1 hey'~<'ifB:<~!KdBJ/f!i''lf.~ ' 
available on-lme by January 1. ''x'''·\::.:t~>;:;::,(:i<Ji:t:-" ..,,,. • 
Other recent rare book acquisitions: 
The Library of Jose Durand. Contains some 3,000 volumes, including the reconstructed library of Garcilaso Inca de Ia Vega (1539-1616) on display 
now in the Rare Book Exhibit Room. 
A. A. Luce Collection of the works of Irish philosopher George Berkeley (1685-1753). Over 290 volumes. 
William B. Todd Collection of the works of Irish statesman Edmund Burke (1729?-1797). Over 260 volumes. 
Astrik L. Gabriel Collection of early printed books. Contains 245 volumes­at least one for every year of the sixteenth century. 
Rare Books & Special Collections 
102 Hesburgh Library 
HTTP://WWW. ND. EDU/---RAREBOOK/ 
"where what's new is probably old" 


The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 




Carters target U.S. sweatshops 
center. <%'' . 

The Notre Mary's commup . ....,... , the only ones that er at the center throughout the school year. Other community groups that volunteer time and f.\Jt.l'fc•se money include the South Bend School District, which off()rs tutoring services for children, and Marriott and Burger King, 
which. offer job opportun,,~~~,~ for res1dents of the center.~'':wry 
The shelter started out as ari overnight house and has grown as more rooms. education, par· ent nurturing and job, training classes have become available. The center now has rooms and facilities to,house .HO residents a night. Seventy percent of the 
residents are from St JosePll~!> 
County. .::;t::~~-·~ ·.....,, 

By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
While illegal in the U.S., sweatshops or workplaces that ignore established workers' rights standards exist in sur­prising numbers in several of the nation's major centers of industrial production. 
"You can support the good guys or the bad guys," Iona Carter said, referring to unfair employers as the "bad guys" and characterizing herself, her husband and unions as the "good guys." She and her hus­band travel to different schools and sites in the U.S. presenting their findings and suggesting possible ways to counter illegal labor practices. 
In New York 2,000 of 6,000 clothing manufacturing facili­ties are sweatshops, according to Pat Cronin. Cronin, the Midwest director of organizing for the Union of Needletrades, 
• HALl.. PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Industrial and Textile Employees (UNITE). joined John and Iona Carter, and Kathleen Maas Weigert, the assistant director of academic affairs and research at the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), in a presentation on sweatshops on Nov. 26 at the 
esc. 

One company that Cronin cited as an example of poor labor practices was the Los Angeles-based Guess Inc. According to Cronin, this com­pany underpays workers, does not pay overtime, forces labor­ers to take their work home with them, requires 10-12 hour work days, and conducts fixed inspections of workplaces in order to appear legitimate. 
New Orleans, El Paso, and several other major cities have problems similar to those in New York and Los Angeles, according to Cronin. He also said there are hundreds of sweatshops just across the southern border in Mexico, where unions are discouraged, and the government silences or abducts union sympathizers. 
Cronin encourages student involvement in an effort to eliminate sweatshop conditions. He said phone calls, letter writ­ing, conversations with sales­people, campus-wide activities, and boycotts directed toward companies that violate labor laws would greatly advance the cause. 
John Carter said purchasing alternative products and select­ing clothes that have a union label would help as well. Buying from unionized American manufacturers sup­ports proper labor practices and the U.S. economy, he said. 
The Carters spend most of their energy working on this project, and envision increased efficacy for their activities if college students become active. 
SLF seeks donations for authors 
By SEAN SMITH News Writer 
The 30th annual Sophomore Literary Festival (SLF) needs more financial resources. Stephanie Thomas, SLF's fundraising chairperson, spoke before the Hall Presidents Council and asked each dorm to donate as much money as possi­ble to support the festival. 
The festival features five authors, all of whose expenses must be paid by SLF. According to Thomas, one author can cost up to $30,000 a night -an amount of money well exceed­ing the entire SLF budget. 
The deadline for donations is Dec. 16. Dorms, clubs, or other parties interested in donating money to the festival must con­tact Thomas by this date. 
In other HPC news: 
• HPC's financial budget for this year was disclosed. Part of this $29,635 budget, a sum of $22,000, has already been set aside for special projects and hall allocations. Such projects include the well-known Mr. Stanford contest and the Cavanaugh Karaoke. After reporting the council's fmancial situation, treasurer Lee Hambright advised the dorm presidents: "We'll give you tons of money. Just organize stuff." 
• 
A campus-wide clothing drive will be held on Dec. 12. Representatives from each dorm will visit rooms asking for any unwanted clothing items for donation. 

• 
On Dec. 13 in the LaFortune Ballroom, Student Activities is sponsoring a Christmas Movie Night, featuring holiday films that include "When the Grinch Stole Christmas." 



HALL F 0 RUM 
Significant People • Significant Issues at St. Edward)s Hall 
Professor Charles E. Rice 


Notre Dame Law School 
speaks on: 


''Murder in America: Abortion and Euthanasia'' 
Wednesday, December 4 
7:00 PM St. Edward's Hall Chapel 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 4, 1996 



Court: Hawaii must(Aif(, license gay marriages 
By BRUCE DUNFORD 
Associated Press Wrirer 
HONOLULU 
A judge on Tuesday barred Hawaii from denying mar­rittge licenses to gay couples in a case that has already led Congress to allow other states to refuse to recognize such unions. 
The ruling is certain to be appealed. 
Kirk Cashmere. an attorney for three homosexual coupl~s who sued the state, said Circuit Judge Kevin Chang "in a nutshell ruled that tho sex-based classifieation in the" state's marriage law is unconstitutional." 
Chang said the state failed to show any compelling state interest to deny gay and les­bian couples the right to marry, Cashmere said. 
Copies of Chang's ruling were to be distributed later Tuesday. 
A spokeswoman for the conservative Family Research Council said the ruling defies the wishes of the majority: Polls say 70 percent of Hawaii's residents oppose same-sex marriages. 
"This ruling is a slap in the face of the Hawaiian people who have made it clear that they don't want liberal judges tampering with society's foundational institutions,' Kristl Stone Hamrick said. 
Two gay men and two les­
bian couples sued in 1991 for 
the right to marry, to the dis· 
may of some national gay 
rights organizations that felt the move was premature ~nd would provoke a backlash;'!\' 
It certainly promptedfl1ri~, ous debate. In the stjlte Legislature, lawmakers failed to agree this year on eithf!J:' a proposed constitutional amendment to ban them, or domestic partnership 1egisla· tion giving gay and lesbian .;ouples many of the legal and financial benefits of married couples. 
Congress, meanwhile, approved a law President Clinton signed in September, saying the federal govern71• ment will not recognize gay marriages and alloWing states to refuse to recognize, such marriages licensed in 
other states. "' , , ,, < An appeal of Chang's r~Ungt would send the case back to 
chance to show a oompeUing public interest in,)t !t~~,·, such discrimination:' ,, •f11i 
In a two-week tri~q ,.il} September, Deputy Sta~e Attorney General Rick Eichor argued that Hawaii's .J1}l1fi:.''riage law is intended to pro",, mote the best environment for the procreation and rear••;, ing of children. 
He said children thrive best when raised by biological parents. 



Stipends 
continued from page 1 
agents and boosters, the alarm­ing number of incidents of petty theft and hostility involving jocks-just check today's sports section-and the isolation of athletes from the rest of the campus." 
Others, such as Archie Manning, a former Ole Miss quarterback and father of cur­rent Tennessee quarterback Peyton Manning, agree . 
"I would love to see college athletes have a little spending money," Manning said. "I've been outside college dressing rooms, and I'm ready to go to dinner with my family, and I see kids going back to the dorm who can't afford to do any­thing." 

Many student athletes at Notre Dame have voiced similar opinions. Several, including freshman tight end Mike Gandy, are displeased with the fact that the NCAA, in addition to prohibiting payments to ath­letes, does not currently allow students on athletic scholarship to hold jobs during the school year. 
''I'm in favor of [student stipends] because the NCAA has rules about jobs-what jobs we can hold and when," Gandy said. "Right now they only allow us to have jobs during the summer. Athletes bring a lot of money to their schools, so I don't think that it would hurt to give them a little extra spend­ing money in return." 
While recent protests by ath­letes and others have prompted current NCAA executive direc­tor Cedric Dempsey to appoint a special committee that will explore the financial situations of needy student athletes, many coaches and athletic adminis­trators remain unenthusiastic about the idea of giving period­ic payments to intercollegiate athletes. 
According to Michael Wadsworth, Notre Dame's ath­letic director, offering athletes a pay-for-play stipend could cause serious administrative problems at Notre Dame and other Division I universities. Foremost among Wadsworth's concerns is the question of which student athletes would be eligible for a stipend. 
"Only 2 of 25 varsity athletic programs at Notre Dame gener­ate more revenue than expense," Wadsworth said. "Should we only pay the stu­dent athletes in 2 of those 25 programs? I don't think that would be fair. 
"The student athletes who participate in the revenue-gen­erating programs don't neces­sarily work harder or have greater athletic ability than the student athletes in the other 23 programs," Wadsworth added. "Because of that, I would be very concerned about the struc­tures that a pay-for-play system might create at this or any other university." 
John MacLeod, Notre Dame's head basketball coach, largely agrees with Wadsworth. 
"The problem comes in with the question of who gets the stipend," MacLeod said. "Do you pay the stipend to every student athlete, or just football and basketball players? Do you pay it to partial scholarship athletes, or just full scholarship athletes? That's where the problem is." 
Wadsworth also pointed out that athletic departments at many colleges and universities wouldn't be able to carry the financial burden of having to provide additional funds for their athletes. 
"Not all Division I athletic programs are as financially secure as the athletic depart­ment at Notre Dame," Wadsworth said. "At other uni­versities, paying students might cause athletic departments to have to drop some programs, creating fewer opportunities for student athletes instead of more opportunities." 
Derek Manner, the starting small forward on the men's basketball team, feels that ath­letic departments might be able to meet the needs of student athletes through the use of low­or no-interest loans. 
"I don't want to say I oppose [student stipends], but at the same time I don't really favor the idea that athletes should be paid," Manner said. "However, the NCAA might look into doing a study on athletes' family incomes to see if some students might need a little extra money to meet the lifestyle demands of certain campuses, like Notre Dame. I'd be in favor of a pro­gram that gave low-or no­interest loans to student ath­letes based on need, just like financial aid.~' 
Wadsworth was equally receptive to the idea of an alternative plan. "I think that there may be some way that we can try to evaluate the financial needs of student athletes with­out a pay-for-play structure," Wadsworth said. "There may be some other way that we can help students with financial need attend college without being embarrassed by their financial situations-a way that doesn't involve direct pay-for­play." 
Time magazine contributed to this report. 

1. study for finals ./ 20 put light-up reindeer in window 30 do laundry ./ 40 nah 000 bring laundry home 
./ 50 pack 60 SIGN UP FOR COMMUNITIES ND!! 
Have you signed up for Communities ND yet? 
Don't miss out: 
• meet great people 
• talk about your faith 

• read the Gospel together 
Communities ND invites you to be a part of a small faith community here at Notre Dame. Groups consist of 8 -10 men and women from all over campus. You meet regularly at times convenient to you to reflect on the Sunday Gospels. to ask questions and leam about your faith, and to make great new friends. 
SIGNUPS AND MORE INFORMATION: BADIN HALL OR LIBRARY CAMPUS MINISTRY OFACES NOW nLL YOU GO HOME 
(WITH OR WITHOUT YOUR DIRTY LAUNDRY. HO HO HO.) 
OR CALL: KATE OR DARRELL AT 1-5242 
FIRST MEETING: RALLY DAY; JANUARY 18,1997 
-
(?JviPUSM!NI5TRY 

Wednesday, December 4, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Christmas quiz: put your Santa savvy to the test 

By HUGH MULLIGAN Associated Press Writer  Huston made it into a memorable movie. 10. Who was the surprise guest speaker  Hebrew prophet, prophesied: "But thou Bethlehem Ephrata, though thou be little among the thousands of  
Santas are once more abroad in the  when President Franklin D. Roosevelt lit  Judah, yet out of thee shall come forth  
land, jingling their bells at every mall, sidewalk chimney and department store toy department. On almost every downtown corner Salvation Army trombones pump out "Joy to the World," and towering fir trees, gaily bedight, rise over New York's Rockefeller Plaza, the White House and virtually every village green, city hall and state capitol. It's Christmas again, that "rolling time of the year," as Charles Dickens called it, a time to give and a time to get, and time to get rolling again on our third annual Christmas Quiz. What do you really know about our most celebrated and venerated holiday? Here are 20 questions for you and your guests to mull over with the mulled ale before settling down to a long winter or. at least, an after-dinner nap. Answers and a scoring code follow the questions. THE QUESTIONS: 1. What were the first names of Scrooge and Marley? 2. How many Magi or Wise Men came to Bethlehem? 3. What prompted the Magi to chose another way home? 4. Which Old Testament prophet pre­dicted great happenings in tiny Bethlehem? 5. Who wrote the words to the carol "Silent Night"? 6. When is the feast day of Santa Claus celebrated? 7. What Christmas delicacy did Mrs. Bob Cratchit prepare in a copper cauldron in her wash house? 8. Which renowned Christmas card artist was still turning out "a batch of three or four paintings a week" at age 100? 9. Which of James Joyce's "Dubliners" short stories takes place at Christmastime? Clue: Film director John  the National Tree at the White House in 1941? 11. Which Nativity masterpiece was stolen from a church in Palermo, Sicily, in 1969 and has not been seen since? 12. What were True Love's first and last gifts in the delightful rondeau "The Twelve Days of Christmas"? 13. For what crime did William Sydney Porter, alias O'Henry, the author of "The Gift of the Magi," spend several Christmases in the Ohio State peniten­tiary? 14. What popular revel, evocation of the Middle Ages, takes place in Philadelphia during the holiday season? 15. Which movie has had the most TV reruns during the holiday season? 16. Who were the stars of the film "White Christmas"? 17. Who played Santa Claus in the 1947 original film version of "The Miracle on 34th Street"? 18. Who played the little girl? 19. How did the della Robbia wreath get its name? 20. Sherlock Holmes, Ellery Queen, Inspector Maigret and many other fic­tional sleuths have solved Christmas crimes. What is today's best-selling mys­tery novelist Mary Higgins Clark's con­tribution to the genre? THE ANSWERS 1. Ebenezer and Jacob. 2. St. Matthew, who tells of their visit in his Gospel, did not specify how many. In early Christian times their number var­ied from two to six. A 4th century fresco in the Catacombs of Domitilla, outside Rome, depicts four. By the 6th century, tradition settled on three. Any number from 2 to 6 is acceptable. 3. In Matthew's Gospel the Magi were "warned in a dream" not to return to Herod, who sought to kill the child, so "they departed into their own country another way." (Matthew 2:12) 4. Micah, an eighth-century B.C.  unto me one who is to be ruler of Israel, whose origin is from the begin­ning, from the days of eternity." (Micah 5-2). 5. Father Joseph Mohr, the parish priest in the little Austrian village where the mice had eaten the bellows of the church organ. 6. Dec. 6 is the feast of St. Nicholas, the original Santa Claus. 7. Her Christmas pudding. 8. Anne Mary Robinson, better known as Grandma Moses. 9. "The Dead." Popular trees 10. Winston Churchill. Arizona cypress Fraser fir* 11. Caravaggio's "Nativity," one of the Balsam fir* Grand fir master's last works, painted in 1609, Blue spruce Leyland cypress the year before he died. Canaan fir Noble fir* 12. If sung properly as a rondeau, Concolor fir Norway spruce with each day's new gift followed by a Douglas fir* Scotch pine• repetition of all the previous gifts, the Eastern redcedar Virginia pine• answer is "a partridge in a pear tree." Eastern white pine• White spruce 13. Bank embezzlement. *Top sellers 14. The Mummers Parade. . Projected 15. Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful \ Life." ' 16. Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye. 17. Edmund Gwenn. 18. Natalie Wood. 1 19. It is the family name of an uncle ! and nephew, Luca and Andrea della ! Robbia, acclaimed sculptors in i Florence, Italy, during the early I Renaissance. From their workshop i came exquisite ceramic wreaths j 1993 1994 1995 1996' . sculpted with a floral motif in brightly L-·-·····-····-··········--··..·-·······-···--··--····-·-··---~l'lT.r.'l.~i~T~<:li Sources: National Christmas Tree Association, TheI dename e Ig azed terra cotta. Everything Christmas Book, The Tree & Shrub Expert, 20. Her recent short novel "Silent TreesotNorthAmerica Night," where the criminal trail begins under the tree in Rockefeller Plaza. on Santa's midnight run. 11 to 15 -Up on the rooftops with the SCORING season's headiest performers. Award one point for each correct 6 to 10 -Down the chimney with a answer. Compute your holiday IQ via thud. this scoring scale: 1 to 5 -Meltdown time for Frosty the 20-You are the brightest star on any­Snowman. body's Christmas tree of knowledge. 0 ­Goose eggs are more traditional at 16 to 19 -Qualified for lead reindeer Easter.  



Work faster with it. 
Power Macintosh' 5400 
120 MHz/16MB RAM/J.6GB/8X CD-ROM 
Simplifyyour life with it.
15" buill-in display/keyboard 
Now$1,750 
Communicate to the world with it. 

Apple' Color StyleWriter' 2500 
Up to 72~360 dpi 
Now$299

Have fun with it. Get $150 backwith it. 

Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. 
Right now Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebate when you purchase aMacintosh'personal computer and an Apple'printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to get your Mac: amachine that features some of the Apple' StyleWriter' 1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anything 360x360 dpi B/W you'll encounter in your class schedule. So get to your campus computer
Now$160 

store and pick out your Mac. It'll help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Monday-Friday 8am-5pm 
Power Macintosh' 7200 120 MHzll6MB RAM/1.2GBI8X CD-ROM/15" display/keyboard Now $2,116
Computer/Math Building, Room 112 http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndstore/ While Supplies Last 
©1996 Apple Co~uter; Inc. Ali rights reserved Apple, the.Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh, Performa, Power Macintosh and Sl)•leWriter are registered trademarks ofApple Computer; Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer validfrom November 2, 1996, through january 19, 1997, while suppiii!S last andsubject to availabilily. 7b qual· ify for _rebate,_ prmter. computer and_an Apple ttUmi/or (ifsold separately) must he purchased on the same invoice. Offer good on any Macintosh desktop romputer with any Apple printer. Void where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further ruks and details. Ali Macintosh computers are designal to he accessible to individuals with drsabiltly. 1b learn more (U.S. only), caH 800-600-7808 or 77Y 800·755·0601. 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, December 4, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Busin~ss Manager Patricia Carson Mate Casey Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager. ........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters 
Sports Editor ......... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grii!shop Accent Editor. . ............. joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum ConrroUer .......................................... Tyler Weber 
Photo Editor ............. Michael Ruma 

The Ob~erver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNorrc: 
Dame du La<.: and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the adminisrra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of th~ majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, 
Viewpoint Edi<or, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcntaries.letrcrs and Inside Columns pr~senr lhe views ohhc authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space i~ available co afl membe-rs of the Nom~ Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and co all readers. The free expression of varying opinions lhrough lencrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor·in-Chief 631-4 542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Edi[Or/Viewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Gcnc:rallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obsc:rvc:r@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• WHERE I'M CALLING fROM 

Celebrate the true spirit of the holiday season 
As I sit here munching on cold turkey and the last slice of Mom's apple pie, I am reminded by the robust roundness of my post-Thanksgiving belly that the sea­son of gluttony and cupidity is just beginning. 
While I mourn the passing of Thursday's feast, I take solace in the 
Thomas Coyne 

knowledge that there's plenty more where that came from. So wipe that last crumb of stuffing from your mouth and forget about that giving thanks stuff ­it's time to open up those stockings and dean out that fireplace -it's time to get greedy -ready or not, here comes Santa Claus. 
In anticipation of the onslaught of Christmas columns that will be saturat­ing the pages of The Observer, I want to gel my two cents in before every writer on campus gets on the seasonal soapbox and berates us for our shallow Christmas spirit. I can already hear the plaintiff whining of Christmas crusaders: "Christmas isn't about getting, it's about giving; Christmas is too commercial; Christmas isn't about religion anymore; Christmas is more than Rudolph; Christmas starts too early," etc. 
To them I say, "BAH, HUMBUG!" I'll tell you exactly what the holiday is about and why we love it. It's big, bright, llashy, commercial, obnoxious, tasteless, and gaudy as hell. And we cat it up! It's Americana! We love it for the same rea­son we love Las Vegas -because Americans love to overdo everything. 
And as much as we love gaudy, we hate God-y. We don't like to be remind­ed that religion might be involved in our Christmas fun so we have conveniently taken God out of Christmas and replaced Him with such divine figures as Frosty and a fat, bearded philanthropist. We've opted for "Grandma Got Run Over by a Reindeer" instead of "Silent Night," and the three wise men this Christmas are the Grinch, Heatmizer, and whoever found their kid a Nintendo 64. And if you don't like it, too bad. Go ahead, tell us Jesus is the reason for the season, and I'll tell you to explain that to the store owner at UP Mall with money falling out of his pockets and the home­less guy getting kicked out of the mall because he offends the shoppers. 
You may choose to lament this com­mercializing of Christmas spirit, but I choose to revel in it. What a glorious season! 
Don't waste December in want of the old white Christmas with the carolers and the nativity set -get out to the mall and witness the magnificence of manic mall crowds that trample each other to spend their money on useless gifts for people they don't like; witness the laughable insincerity of Christmas cards sent by the bundle; experience hot, sweaty masses packed with people pass­ing out and others wondering why they even bother coming once a year; hide as relatives invade your home to compete in a round of Christmas Family Feud while they bombard you with pinches and kisses and Christmas sweaters that are always too small. Joy on Earth! Christmas time is here again! 
And we all know Christmas is more than a holiday-it's a game, a competi­tion for victory in the Christmas catego­ry of "net gifts" (gifts gotten minus gifts given.) Sure, giving is great and all that, but have you ever gotten as much satis­faction from buying someone else a new J Crew sweater as you have from getting one? Sing along! 
'Tis the season to be greedy. gimme, gimme, gimme, more, more, more! It's time to cash in for a year of good behavior, time for young kids to collect on all those parental bribes and threats of coal. It's time for getting, and I want a helluva lot more than my two front teeth this Christmas. 

For those of you generous souls who like to give just for .,..,_, 
the sake of giving (ha ha, suckers!). I thought I would enclose my own person­al Christmas want, I mean wish, list. And contrary to popular opinion, I've been a very good boy this year. 
I want: 1) The Main Building-so that my roommates and I can move in and turn it into a 24 hour house of debauch­ery. 2) For S.E. Oross to send me a bot­tle of good Scotch. 3) For S.E. Oross to come over and drink it with me. 4) Three copies of The Rules to give the girls that sent letters to the editor slam­ming me for my dating column. 5) For college to last four more years. 6) For a decent college bar to open up in South Bend (preferably in my backyard). 
7) For red hair to become a campus­wide aphrodisiac. And finally, 8) for peace, joy, and happiness for all humankind (or at least for myself and the people I like.) I might be asking a bit much from old Santa -I'll settle for the Main Building. 
Perchance in the midst of all the holi­day hoopla you might be reminded that Christmas has "Christ" as a prefix for a reason -that holiday means holy day and Christmas was not created by Macy's and Hallmark to boost winter sales. Perhaps you'll see someone fnvfte a lonely stranger into their house for Christmas dinner or someone working in a soup kitchen on Christmas eve. Maybe you'll get a card from an old friend that says more than "Merry Christmas, Love, X" or maybe you'll get a gift from the person that you love, a gift that you'll never use, and you'll think it's the great­est thing anyone ever gave you. Maybe then you will remember something about Christmas that is very easy to for­get. 
But that's a big maybe -in the mean time, let's roast up a couple turtle doves and a few French hens and drink egg nog 'till it tastes like champagne. 'Tis the season for elves and reindeer and twinkling blue lights on plastic green trees and kids who can't sleep because visions of "Gimme!" dance through their heads. The endless lines, the gaudy pines, the Christmas whines, the "hands off, it's mine's!" Sounds like a savior is born to me. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached via e-mail at Coyne.6@nd.edu 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
UM...atel/..,a£'R& OJRR&N!LYR£­VIW!Nr3 7HE JlNC .ALI.a3ATIONS...  JOAN, HWMANY Si&lSa4L.PROSECU­70RSAR& INV&5TI­{itfffNG aJN!VN? I5AY!9,8UTMY fi?/13NP54'1!721/  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"unless you do some­thing beyond what you have already mastered, you will never grow." 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 

-r-------~~---------~----··~-· 



ACC~NT 
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 page 9 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Associate Accent Editor 
D 
espite plastic Santas sitting happily on front lawns each December, most Christians try to remind themselves that they are preparing for one of the most impor­tant religious holidays of the year. It seems as if the story of the Three Wise Men and the baby in the manger has been reenacted by elementary schools since anyone can remember, and the actual event of Jesus' birth seems longer ago than most can imagine. But contemplate this: Before there was Christmas, there was Hanukkah. 
This Thursday evening, millions of Jewish Americans will recall the ancient miracles of Hanukkah as they light the shamash candle as well as the first of the eight remaining on the menorah. Each night, an addition­al candle is lit -not an action to be taken lightly. The Hanukkah candles may not be used for any other purpose than celebration (like reading, for example), and must burn for a mini­mum of 18 minutes. As these serve to advertise the miracles they commemo­rate, they are usually placed in a win­dow for all who pass by to see. 
A typical family Hanukkah celebra­tion in the United States may include a gift exchange and foods prepared with oil such as latkes(potato pancakes) or donuts, while games are played and traditional Jewish songs recited. 
A dreidel is most certainly found amongst this activity, and children gamble upon the letters that land. The letters on the four sides of the dreidel represent the Hebrew sentence, "Nes 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
emmy 

(<Dfj anb~appy
t 

By MEGAN FERSTENFELD 
Accettt Copy Ediwr 



ere comes 
a 
gadol hayah sham," or "A great mira­cle happened there." 
So, what exactly was this miracle? A common Hanukkah story relates the battle 
between a small group of rebel Jews led by Judah the Maccabee around 165 BCE. Although they faced huge numbers of enemy forces, the brave and persistent Jews not only fought well, but actually defeated the Syrians. 
This first Hanukkah miracle is fol­
lowed by a second. A small 
jar of oil was discov­
ered in the 
sacred Jewish temple, rav­aged and made unclean by the enemy during the war. While this jar con­tained only enough oil to burn for one night, the flame inex­plicably per­
sisted for eight. 
The signifi­cance of the Hanukkah story may reflect the perseverance of the persecuted Jewish people. It may serve as a reminder that God continually watches his chil­dren. Perhaps a con­crete interpretation 
just isn't the point of the tale. Orthodox congregations 
may tend to interpret accounts of this historical event literally and com­pletely, while Reformed sects might simnlv r!raw upon the symbolism of the event for strength and inspiration. 
Titi::. Jewish nolidav. while not as imoortant as other-s such as Yom Kippur, remains significant because it marks a victory gaining religious free­dom for the Jewish people. While Passover remembers political freedom, the commemoration of religious free­dom associated with Hanukkah reminds Jewish brethren across the world how hard they have fought ­and continue to fight -for autonomy and peace. 


Unfortunately, Hanukkah slowly has become "Christmas: the Jewish Version." The creation of Hanukkah Harry certainly was intended as a twist on Santa Claus, and the Hanukkah Bush covered with blue and silver balls plays a strange counterpart to a Christmas Tree. Perhaps Hanukkah fell victim to commercialism not long after Christmas did, but it is unfortu­nate that, in this country, it will forever remain in the shadow of its Christian partner. 
While Christmas and Hanukkah cele­brate very different events, the com­monalities they share extend far beyond anything found in a shopping mall. Both acknowledge hope, and recognize the importance and rewards of faith for a people. Light is central and symbolic for both, as well. 
After all of the latkes and fruitcakes have been eaten this holiday season, wondering who received the most pre­sents or commercial air time won't matter. The spirit of excitement, fami­ly and religion will be celebrated by all, just in time for New Year's. 
Accent would like to thank Rabbi Kram and his son Josh for insight help­ful in the writing ofthis article. 
----., 
.:;.... 
I 
j 

------------------------~--------------------~----------------~---------------­
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Florida bruised for title game 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Donnie Young went hunting to get his mind off the loss and escape the telephone calls re­minding him of Florida's doomed perfect season. 
Kicker Bart Edmiston went to the training room to treat his right knee, which he injured while kicking the air in disgust after missing a 41-yard field goal that would have forged a 17-17 tie against Florida State. 
lie was joined there by Danny Wuerffel, who violated a team rule by wearing shoes on the training table. How was he supposed to know? He hadn't been there all year. 
As the fourth-ranked Gators try to recover from their devastating 24-21 loss at Florida State, there is as much concern about their bruised bodies as their bruised egos. 
"Something like that, I don't think you ever get over it," linebacker James Bates said Tuesday. "And you shouldn't. If you love competing and win­ning, you shouldn't get over it as long as you live. But it's not something that's going to fill our heads for the next few weeks. We've got a huge foot­ball game this weekend." 
That's what coach Steve Spurrier will be drilling into their heads all week leading to Saturday night's game against No. 15 Alabama for the Southeastern Conference 

I championship. 
I 
This is the game that Spurrier emphasized even before the Gators (1 0-1) lost to Florida State, perhaps their biggest rivals in a game that most certainly took them out of 
the national championship. "You get a ring for this game," Spurrier said. "You get your names in the record books forever. This is a game that goes down in the history books." 
He might want to check the injury log first. 
Wuerffel took the worst beat­ing of his career, although he managed to get up after every hit and kept the Gators in the game. Still, one can only won­der how his body will respond in one week. 
"It's the sorest I've been this year, probably," Wuerffel said. 
Ike Hilliard, who has caught 44 passes for 826 yards and nine touchdowns, hobbled to the training room on crutches. Defensive end Willie Rodgers hurt his shoulder and probably won't play Saturday. 
But Spurrier believes the Gators will be able to bounce back physically and emotion­ally. 
"All you can do is put the best players you've got out there, coach them up the best you can and go play," he said. "You can't worry about any­thing except putting your best players on the field and having the best plan. The conference championship is on the line. The one last week is history." 
Still, the Gators haven't been nearly as good as they were earlier this season, when they were mowing down opponents left and right. Then, center Jeff Mitchell injured an ankle against Georgia to end his sea­son, and left tackle Zach Piller went down the next week. 
What ensued was a scare by Vanderbilt, a sloppy win over South Carolina and the loss to Florida State. 
The Gators will try to recov­er against Alabama (9-2), a team that has given them fits in recent SEC title games. 
"They play by the rules, they play hard and they get after you," Spurrier said. "We've always had excellent competi­tion." 
Florida will be going for its fourth straight SEC title and is making its fifth straight ap­pearance in the championship game. And the Gators have a history of recovering from emotional games against Florida State, a game played the week before the confer­ence championship. 
Two years ago, Florida blew a 31-3 lead in the fourth quar­ter when the Seminoles scored four touchdowns for a 31-31 tie. The next week, the Gators rallied to beat undefeated Alabama, 24-23. 
"The true test of a team is when they bounce back from adversity," said Young, who may move from guard to tackle to shore up a weak pass rush. "Hopefully, we'll be able to show that we have some oomph to us, that we'll play the very best we can." 
It doesn't take much for Spurrier to get excited about the SEC game no matter what the Gators' record or ranking might be. He never won an SEC title when he played quar­terback for Florida in the 1960s. A victory Saturday would put him one away from Bear Bryant's record of five straight league titles. 
"We realize this is a very big game and will determine what kind of season we'll have," he said. "If we're successful in this one, it will be a wonderful year no matter what happens afterward. If we're not successful, it will probably just be a good year, sort of. 
"It's very difficult for us to win all 13. Some day we may. It's not impossible." 
page 10 

Texas QB predicts three touchdown win 
By CHIP BROWN 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Texas quarterback James Brown has done the talking. Now, the Longhorns' offense has to deliver against Nebraska in Saturday's Big 12 championship game. 
After Brown predicted a three-touchdown victory over the third-ranked Huskers (1 0­1, 8-0 Big 12) on Monday, the Longhorns (7-4, 6-2) were left to figure out a way to move the ball against the nation's fourth-ranked defense. · 
"Defensively, they bring so much pressure on the quarter­back and the run game, it's going to be a full day's work," Texas tight end Pat Fitzgerald said. 
That day's work got even longer for the Longhorns after Brown was asked about being a near-three touchdown underdog and replied, "I think we're going to win by three touchdowns." 
Brown made the statement to reporters in a surge of confidence that also included the comment, "Nebraska tries to intimidate people with their crowd and with their winning tradition. They have to beat me to intimidate me." 
What's surprising is that Brown made the statements after having watched tapes of the Nebraska defense harass­ing Colorado quarterback Koy Detmer in a 17-12 victory Friday that clinched the Big 12 North title for the Huskers. 
"They have big, strong ath­letes," Brown said. "They just overpowered Colorado's offen­sive line. They just pushed them back in the backfield. 
They sacked Detmer on three­
step drops and five-step drops. 
"We might get in the shot­gun some plays, but if they play us man-to-man, they're going to have to hold Wane (McGarity) and Mike (Adams), and with receivers like that, it's easy to beat man-to-man." 
It's not that Texas can't 
move the ball. The Longhorns 
lead the Big 12 in total 
offense, averaging 456.5 yards 
per game, including 241.2 
yards passing. 
But Nebraska's defense has 
impressive numbers: 
-4 7 sacks for 304 yards in losses. The Huskers are only two sacks short of the school record (49 sacks for 383 yards in losses) set in 1985. 
-21 interceptions (second nationally), with 350 yards in returns and four touchdowns. 
Ninth nationally in turnover margin at plus 11. 
-The first-team defense has given up only five TDs in 11 games, none on the ground. 
The front seven is led by ends Grant Wistrom and Jared Tomich, tackle Jason Peter and linebackers Jamel Williams and Jon Hesse. 
When Texas coach John Mackovic was asked if he thought Nebraska would go heavy on the blitz Saturday, he said, "Who needs to blitz when they send ~ur guys and they're in the backfield all the time?" 
The Longhorns figure to use short drops and quick passes to tight end Fitzgerald and to running backs Ricky Williams, Shon Mitchell and Priest Holmes. 
But the key may be Brown's ability to scramble away from pressure and get up field. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 

NOTICES 
LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Furnished room available for '97. ADOPTION IS A Ummmmmm.... STONE. REWARD IF FOUNDI!I Positions are now available at $300/mo. 5-min drive. VERY CHOICE OF LOVE. beer nuts PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331. National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife NICE! Choosing Adoption is an unselfish 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 232-7175. act of love. Your child will be raised THEY'RE GONE FROM THE SPRING BREAK Travel Free Lost, One engraved Zippo lighter, bonuses! Call: 1·206-971-3620 ext to know this. Caring couple wish to OBSERVER, BUT YOU CAN GIVE Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ Inscription reads JDT IV. N55849 REGGAE D.J. share our love, laughs, and lives FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE Cancun Jamaica Bahamas $30 reward for return, If you have 234 0705 with an infant Dad is kind and gen-APOCALYPSE AS A PERFECT Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. any information please contact ALASKA EMPLOYMENT -tie. Mom is friendly and fun. let's CHRISTMAS GIFL.ON SALE AT all-u·can drink daily. Don Surf & Job Turner at 4·1 073 Students Needed! Fishing Industry. 2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW talk and see if we're right for you LAFORTUNE AND HAMMES! Sun (800)763-5606. Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM· and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1· 
Found: 1 chain and charm month. Room and Board! PUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 800·213-3960. Seniors, Seniors, Seniors SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS in Nieuwland Camp lab. Transportation! Male or Female. No 6306 Hand in resumes for first week of 
........,.................................
HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST Identify and claim with Calvin experience necessary. Call spring semester interviews in WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER @4·1772 (206)971-351 0 extA55848 Ride needed from FLORIDA (I'll be Career and Placement Services by 
FOR SALE

INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND in W Palm, but can get to any-5:00 p.m. on Friday, December 6, 1
PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 LOST: Michiana's largest night club and where) to South Bend after 1996. 1 
P.M. ON FRIDAY. DECEMBER 6. 1 Tennis Bracelet newest restaurant is now seeking GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTI Christmas, anytime before school 
Shaped In X's and O's competant, hard working individuals Name a star for someone special. starts. Promise to entertain, share nice socks, froggie. Spring Break Bahamas Party Lost between the library and Lyon's to fill several positions within our $33 Call (800)701·7201 Ext 14 $and driving, and make an other· Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE growing company. Positions now wise boring trip most enriching! call Happy birthday to Brian Dillon! I Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great call JAckie @ X2900 available are: Hostess, Banquet Brian 287-4876 
TICKETS ..........................................
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices and restaurant servers, bus per· 3 week window Increase Soon-Save $50! spring-sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 WANTED positions are ideal for students. If SALE 000000000000000000¢0000000000 Happy 20th Birthday today to 
interested, contact Heartland and 2 NCAA BB FINAL 4 TIX Looking for a unique gilt idea? Johanna Ward I!!! Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Looking to copy a tape of televised The Old Chicago Steakhouse at IN INDY Custom Color Copy Picture Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From Rutger's game. Please call Meghan 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. 2719387 Calendars are now available at Hey give yourself some credit Tom South Bend $419! Prices Increase at x2474 if you taped the game. THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Roland. You give full A.C.O. 
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES· Bahamas vacation package Student Center. Just bring in your Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Have a copy of the movie Midnight TEA AND DON'T KNOW WHAT for two, at less than $398 actual favorite pictures and create a mem-Jean and Ingrid--Good Luck in Cali! Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com Madness? I want to buy it II Call TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE? cost Call Noman @277-4269. orable calendar!! I Choose from We promise not to have too many 1·800·678·6386 Kevin 273·8673 WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS three formats: parties without you· We're holding 
AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL4· (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip out for Bridgets after you guys get 

PERSONAL

Spring Break Panama City! 4843 (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear-Off back!··Smash and Heather Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best NEED X-MAS $ ? I need a girl to {3) 1 Picture Full Year View. Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights deliver morning newspapers for 1 Mail Starved Domers in lnnsbruck 00000000000000000000000000000 Life is good, but very busy 
$129! Daytona-Best Location $1391 week. Or work next semester. Must Need F student to actively care for crave correspondence!! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring· be responsible and an early riser. 3.5 year old child PT in my home. Inn rain 33 RIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN Kill them with kindness that is the breaktravel.com t ·800-678-6386 only way to go!
Call Mike x1186. Hours are flexible. Pay $4.00/hour. A-6020 lnnsbruck NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST-
Please call April at 289·9914 Tirol, Austria MAS -I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL WORDS...TO GO Term Papers, WANTED: MALE HOUSEMATE Europe NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND MY Have fun at the formal, but don't Dissertations, Resumes, Free Pick· FOR NEXT SEMESTER. WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO COME missme too much!!!!

FOR RENT 
Up and Delivery Available. ACCOMMODATION 1 MILE FROM FAX IT FAST!!! OUT ON SATURDAY-PLEASE CAMPUS. 631·5118 Sending & Receiving HELP! THANK YOU Jon-
Competitive Rates, 299·7224 WALK TO CAMPUS at Call Brian 287·4876 I am sad to see that our Tuesday 
• Farley Hall Players Announce 2·3·4·5 BEDROOM HOMES THE COPY SHOP night parties at the Big 0 are end· 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS· Teach 232·2595 LaFortune Student Center SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS For ANTIGONE basic conversational English in Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST you have donal -K Tonight 7·9pm-Farley Basement Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No 7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 FAX IT FAST!!! WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER ?'s~all Monica 4-4266 teaching certificate or European College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND John-Thanks, need I say more! languages required. Inexpensive bath, wood floor. wash/dry, vaulted PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! ing. Here is to the great jobe that 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! -K Room & Board+ other.benefits. For TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6.
ceil, porch, furniture avail. BEAUTIFUL! PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN
lLOST & FOUND I info. call: (206)971·3680 Senior free food night at Alumni 
273-2580 LAFAYETTE
ext.K55843 LUCAS!! Senior Club @ 7p.m. tonight 

"------------~-~ 
·~----------------------------~----------------~----~--------~-----­


RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Jason Jansen, from Springfield, Illinois, is a junior living in Zahm hall. He has worked diligently in setting up a bowling program at Notre Dame. After assisting our office in successfully pursuing a recreation league last year, he turned his attention toward establishing a recognized club. His hard work paid off as he is the first president of the Bowling Club. He has also assisted in starting annual campus and interhall leagues under intermurals. The club is always looking for new male and female members, so give Jason a call. 
Recipients receive <J:~ merchandise from the 

l. VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Qoyce Center) 
VARSITY SHOP 
-~~­
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 


Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ 
mere 1se cour esy o vARsiTY sHoP
hando t f <J:~· and the ,azs.. located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The



'111'
Alt.
ijiZijor 
is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 
0 I 


Wednesday, December 4, 1996  The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT  page 11  

V-ball 
continued from page 16 
limited experience in the seller 
slot. 
"We were a little bummed after Carey got hurt and the two losses over the weekend," Ervin noted. "But it was encouraging to see that Lauren stepped in and did a great job. So, it was good to see that we could play without Carey even tho~.gh we really miss her being out. 
In Monday's practice May was limited to setting but did very well according to Brown. 
"We didn't want her to block or serve yet and she said that she felt some pain but it was something she could play through. We're hoping that she is going to be able to play." 
Hofstra comes into the Joyce with a 19-16 mark and earned the last slot in the region with an America East Conference championship and qualified for the tournament with a triumph of Midwest American Conference champ Siena in an 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

NCAA play-in game. So, the Irish will look to be in action Sunday as well. 
"As best we can figure we would equate them with several teams in the Big East," com­mented Brown whose squad is undefeated in two seasons of Big East play. "So, we kind of know what we're up against and if we play like we did in the conference we anticipate we should beat them." 
"I think we got a great bid in the tournament after a some­what disappointing season," Ervin said. "It's like a whole new season so everybody is really refreshed and excited for this." 
Joining Ervin in Notre Dame's tournament run will be a host of players with experience. Senior captain Jenny Birkner has been a consistent force for the squad as she can usually be counted on for double digits in kills. Another senior Jen Briggs has filled in for the injured Angie Harris and has led the team in kills six times since being placed in the starting lineup. 
head coach 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
By DAVID GINSBURG several candidates. But she fo­Associated Press cused her attention on signing Vanderlinden after he reiter­
(ollegium ;!fmusicum
Ron Vanderlinden, who ated his interest in the job. helped turn around struggling football programs at Colorado "Ron was our No. 1 candi­
;fMusic of 3fosquin 11Bespres anb contemporaries 
and Northwestern, has been date. He called Sunday night hirod to do the same thing at and we spoke at great length 
.mb~g~~~~~-;=ii=l~~r _-~ 
the University of Maryland. Monday," Yow said. "He clear­Vanderlinden, the defensive ly was our top choice, and I 
l11 JHi11ripin coordinator at Northwestern was happy and pleased once since 1992, will be introduced we got into serious discus­
8:00p.m. as the Terrapins' new head sions.'' 
Wednesday, December 4, 1996
coach at a news conference Northwestern won the Big Wednesday, athletic director Ten title and went to the Rose 
Church of Loretto Debbie Yow told The Bowl in 1995. With 
Saint Mary1s College
Associated Press on Tuesday. Vanderlinden as defensive He succeeds Mark Duffner, coordinator, Northwestern led 
This concert is free and open to the public.
who was dismissed last week the nation in scoring defense and had a 20-35 record at last year. Maryland. Vanderlinden followed coach 

Vanderlinden, 40, received a Gary Barnett to Northwestern 
Do all your
five-year contract with an an­from Colorado, where nual base salary of $130,000. Vanderlinden had spent nine Yow had planned to interview seasons. 

Christmas shopping 
at the
1 
eNATir:~;::~G OPPOliUNITY 
Irish Express 
CONVERSATION 
Christmas salel 
is seeking university 
year teaching position in·•n.-u~·r• Attractive salary, 
AII items 20/o off~ 
opportunities. Japanese not necessary 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2, and 3 at Career and Placement Services. 
For Students, Faculty & Staff 
Open to all majors. 
December 5, 6, & .7 Thursday & Friday: open from llam to 7pm
Casting Call 
Saturday: 
SATIJRDAY, DEC. 7TH, 12:00 P.M. TO 4:00P.M. 
open from llam to 5pm
lUSB CAMPUS 
Open Auditions for 15-minute independent film to be shot Dec. 20th-Dec. 22nd. Prior acting experi­ence helpful but not necessary. Male and female roles age 18 and older. For more information con­tact Black Mantle Films, lnc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
(219) 292-1716 or email slandry@indiana.edu 
Sorin Room -off Main Lounge 
Terps name new 
junior Jaimie Lee has led the Domers in kills since returning to her natural hitter position 
· from setter. May had set assist records in '95 and if she can return healthy, the offense has run the more smoothly with her at the helm. With 6-5 blocker Jen Rouse out sophomore Lindsay Treadwell has used her athletic ability and offensive prowess to provide a threat in the middle. The sole starter without NCAA experience is the 6-4 freshman Mary Leffers. Leffers has been dominant at the nets this year as she has ac­cumulated close to 150 blocks on the year. So, experience will be one of Brown's best assets. 
"They definitely realize the magnitude of it and realize that it's a new season and that every match is critical," Brown said of her experienced unit "I think we have a group that's been able to rise to the occasion in the past and I think that's what we're anticipating is going to happen in this tournament." 
"I think that's very important mainly because the experience we have on the floor carries a lot of weight during a game especially when other teams may lack that experience," Ervin observed. 
If the Irish can slip by Hofstra they will need every bit of that 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 1996 
experience to put together a ·"j~~B:eE~ij;~=Ji$iJ
win over the twelfth ranked II! Ohio State Buckeyes on Sunday for a trip to the Regional which will likely be held at the home 
of the top seed,
Florda Gators. 
Note: 
The first 330 students are admitted free. After that, a stu­dent ticket is three dollars. 
I • 
---------------~---------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 
Football 
continued from page 16 
and see what happens." 
When asked about Roberts' comments that Davie requires "a four year commitment," Davie was a little less comple­mentary. 
"That's just not accurate," 

said Davie. "I do think continu­ity is very important in a staff, but there is no kind of guaran­tee whatsoever as to how long someone will stay on your staff." 
The Joe Moore situation is a little more nebulous. The 64­year-old Moore, who recently completed his ninth season as the Irish offensive line coach, 
The Observer • SPORTS 
was unavailable for comment last night, and players and coaches alike declined comment on his status. 
"I don't know about that," said Roberts of Moore's rumored departure. "You're going to have to talk to him." 
"We're not talking about any­thing right now," offered sopho­more offensive lineman Mike Rosenthal. 
WANTED 

Junior Accountancy Majors 
for 

Summer Internships with Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Pizza and information available 7:00p.m. Wednesday, December 4 Monogram Room 
J.A.C.C. 

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P 
Coopers&Lybrand 

a professional services firm 
Please bring your resume with you 
Celebrations ~round the (\{)orld 
All events feature Christmas beverages, and cookies from around the world. 
Brou 
the Multicultural Executive Council 
.. -· ...... ·----·.. __ .--------.....__._......_........... 
CHICAGO 
He could be bumping Shaq or guarding Hakeem or trying to score on Patrick. Instead, Tim Duncan is glad he stayed in school. 
For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thousands of students the chance for a great education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: a place to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, Holy Cross will have alimited amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with astrong liberal arts foundation, small classes and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cross has helped put many students on the road to a successful college education. With our new resident facilities, we can serve our students even better. 
page 13 
.., 
Tim blocked shots. There is 
nothing you can do about that. 
It's talent." 
The 6-foot-10 Duncan 
reached double figures in scor­ing and rebounds for a 14th straight game dating back to last season. Even when he ·didn't block shots, he altered 
their trajectory or angle. 
When Duncan was double 
teamed on offense, he was able 
to get the ball to openshoQters. 
m co ues·· 
*HoLY
CROSS \!i' COLLEGE Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 (219) 239-8400 Fax (219) 233-7427 E-Mail: hwdmi.s@gmz.com 
Web Site: http://home.nm•i.softcomlho{vcross 

© Holy Cros..; I -l99{l 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 4, 1996 
r--------------------~ Weare 
T,ONIGHJJ ! now taking 
' ,, I 
I applications I 
I for next r! ---... I 
---
• Furnished Aparttnents apartments available for
' ' ' -...,

'-... • Central air 
' ' your selection. 
NCAA 1ST ROUND • Swimming pool/Spa 
For more information
• Tennis, volleyball &
6eJjg-~14st (?Jrgmpi1111 
call 272-1441 

Notre Dame basketball courts vs. • 24 hour laundry 
Some apartments still Hofstra • Shuttle bus available for January
7:00 p.-. jotp». e.~ . 
• Flexible lease plans 
occupancy.

First 330 Students FREE 
~--------------------~ 
., 
• HocKEY

-
Simon named to junior squad 
Observer Staff Report Slovakia, Sweden and the U.S. 
In addition to Sessa and 
Notre Dame freshman for­York, five other members of ward Ben Simon (Shaker the junior national team play Heights, Ohio) has been named for teams on Notre Dame's to the 1997 United States 1996 schedule, including two national junior hockey team, players from St. Cloud State­which will 
defenseman Josh DeWolf and compete in the forward Mark Parrish-and a '97 World trio of forwards from Boston Junior College-Blake Bellefeuille, Championship, Jeff Farkas and Marty to be held Dec. Reasoner. 26-Jan. 4 in The roster features 10 re­Geneva and turnees from the 1996 U.S. ju­Morges, .....JIIUI•-..__] nior national team, which won· 
Switzerland. 
Simon is one of just 15 curre.nt collegiate players named to the junior national team and is one of only three players from a Central Collegiate Hockey Association team to be named to the 22-player junior nation­al squad, joining Lake Superior State forward Jason Sessa and Michigan State forward Mike York. Simon and York will face off Friday night. when the Irish travel to East Lansing to take on the Spartans. 
In preparation for the world junior championships, the U.S. junior team will participate in an eight-day training and com­petition camp from Dec. 17-24, to be held in Fussen, Germany. The camp will include a two­day mini-tournament, held Dec. 21-22, featuring national junior teams from Germany, three of its final four games to post a 3-3-0 record and finish fifth at the '96 world juni.or championships, which we-re held in Massachusetts. 

"This team features many players with experience at this level of competition," said Jeff·· Jackson, USA Hockey national coach and the former head coach at Lake Superior. "We look for strong leadership and hard work to provide our country with a good showing. Collectively, this team is very good." 
Jackson's assistant coaches include Greg Cronin, the inter­im head coach at the 

University of Maine, and Mel Pearson, the current assistant at the University of Michigan. 
Simon has played in all 13 games for Notre Dame this season, recording four assists, including a three-assist effort 
in the 7-5 comeback victory at 
then #3 Bowling Green. Prior 
to joining the Irish, Simon 
racked up 342 points (166 
goals, 176 assists) during his 
prep career, which included 
three seasons with the Shaker 
Heights High School team and 
one with the Cleveland Barons. 
Simon has spent the past 
three summers playing in for­
eign countries with various 
U.S. national teams. He played in Japan with the U.S. select­
.17 team before competing with the U.S. junior national team in .. Camrose, Canada, during the summer of '95. Simon spent last summer training in Finliwd with the U.S. world ju­nior national team. 
While with the Cleveland 
Barons last season, Simon was 
his league's third-leading scor­
er after totaling 45 goals and 
46 assists in 50 games. 
Simon's commitments with 
the junior national team will 
force him to miss a pair of 
Notre Dame non-conference 
games at Princeton (Dec. 28­
29 l and a CCHA home game 
vs. Miami University (Jan. 3). 
• BASEBALL 
Lidge to try out for 
U.S. national team 
Obse.rver Staff Report 
Notre Dame sophomore right-handed pitcher Brad Lidge has been invited to participate in the 1997 USA Baseball national team trials, to be held January 8-12 in Tampa. FL. Lidge is among 66 amateur players who have been invited to assemble at Tampa's Legends Field, the spring training home of the World Series champion New York Yankees. The trials will serve as the first step in USA Baseball's evaluation and development process. 
Participating players will he eligible for the 1997 USA bascball team, which will compete in the International Cup. to be held·,1 August 1-10 in Barcelona, Spain. In addition to its international; competition schedule, the USA baseball team will play a domestic' tour schedule in the summer of 1997, visiting several U.S. cities; while playing international baseball powers such as Cuba, Nicaragua, Korea, and Australia. The 1997 squad will be lead by f Bob Milano, the current head baseball coach at the University off 
~~~ ' 
The players will be broken into three 22-man teams and the; USA baseball staff will conduct player skills testing on January 9~ (the session will be open to major league scouts). Two games will~ be played each day, from Jan. 10-12, following morning workouts.! 
Udge is one of two players from the Big East Conference among~
1

the 66 invitees, joining Rutgers sophomore outfielder Adam Neubert. Lidge .and Purdue sophomore right-handed pitcher Andrew Helmer are the only players invited to the national trials\ who play collegiately in the state of Indiana. 
Lidge-who was drafted in the 42nd round by the San Francisco Giants after graduating from Cherry Creek High School-. appeared in seven games last season on the deep Irish pitchingj staff, going l-0·1 while posting a 5.40 ERA. , 
Please recycle the Observer 
I • r 
~-----------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, December 4, 1996 The Observer • TODAY 
i CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER 



IIAPPY BIRTIIDA\'! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF \'OUR LIFE: 
\Vcighing your choices carefully 
wdl pay hig di\"ldends. Use your ingenuity when faced With unex­pected problems Your energy and enthusiasm will inspire those who share your aims. Tensions nO\'-" af­fecting a love relationship gradually fade. A long-term investment will pay off next June. Be opc\lto new experiences a5 summer gets under­way. A larger home or dream vaca­tion could become possible. New business comes through old school ties. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Jeff Bridges, actress Deanna Durbin, actress Marisa Tomei, tennis player Marty Riessen. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Someone may act flaky today. Try not to take a competitor's comments to heart. Your artistic and creative abilities receive new recognition. A freelance assignment proves prof­itable. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ignore someone's big talk. Powerful social allies will provide the finan­cial backing you need. Your apart­ment or house may be too small; move if you can. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Refuse to let life pass you by' Per­fect your skills or acquire new expertise. Paying for purchases with cash lets you avoid credit card charges. Confirm your reservations for a winter vacation in writing. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Explore a new professional interest, even if it is very different from your present occupation. New doors swing open. Discuss an old misun­derstanding with siblings. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work on 
an innovative concept alone or with 
a mentor. Associates are counting on 
your dependability. Avoid disap­
pointing them. It may be time to end 
l'l"\ LOOI<.lNC. FOR A. NEW 
CORPOR-ATE 11\1\I NE.R TO 1-\ELP ME. TEACH CLASSES IN 5TR£.55 REDUCTION 1 CONFLICT 1\E~OLUTION J 
f>..NO TE.M'\WOR.K.. 
~ 
CROSSWORD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
I lli,BERT 
I'll eURN IN '4E.LL ~ .; BEFORE. I'LL 00 i 
'(OUR WOR~ PLU5 ~ MY OWN, '<OU ~ 
FLLTH'< 
64Eyeof-­(witch's item) 65 The best and the brightest 
66 Starts a lawn 67 Part of A.D. 68 Tamerlane 
sacked it in 1398 69 Shoe insert 
DOWN 
1 Throbbed 

2 Greenstreet cohort in "The Maltese Falcon" 
3 Removed 4 Disrespects 5 Gran Paradiso, 
e.g. 6 Summons, in a 
way 7 Crashing type? a--off (switch 
choice) 

9 Rip to shreds 10 Official seals 11 'The American 
Language" author 12 Ex-Sen. Cranston 
13 "Peer--" 18 Kind of party 22 Lupine of film 24 Bite 
27 Power source 
for Fulton 28 Scot, for one 29Sub 30 Wine label info 
-:::-t:+.:-:t.::=+.:-:-1 31 ". . . hear -­drop" 

YOU DRIVE ME 
CRAZY 

YOU DRIVE ME 
WILD 

YOU DRIVE ME 
NUTS 

YOU DRIVE ME 
BANANAS 
WEA5EL!!! ~ :l: "' 

SCOTT ADAMS 
t>..ND 

t>.. GOOD TRAINER 
THEY 

DOE5N'T 1-\AVE. 
I-\IRED 

TO BE A. SU5!EC.T 
YOU? 

foi\ATTER DPERT. 
I 

\ .: 
.. 


32 Ump'scall 52 Ruination 57 Hotspot 33 Black activist of 53 Kind of 58 Heraldic the 60's mill charge 35 Has 54 Vocation 59 One of the 39 Charles or 55 Taste, e.g. Everly Brothers George, e.g. 56 Mandlikova of 63 Ring around the 40 Inclined 
tennis collar? 
43 SkyDome 
locale Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
47"--the 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
season ..." 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 48 Yearned 
Ar.mual subscriptions are available for the so Most best of Sunday crosswords from the last level-headed 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 15 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 



-.. _ ... _______ .__,::., ________ ... _____________ .... _____ ..,J-__ .-.... ­
~~----·-·-_ 
~-­
~

....... _...... __ . 
But you've got to drive me 
SOBER!! 
sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
a dasappolllliil~ rl'lataon"h!p 
VIR<;o CAlif! 2l-Scpt 22J. Focu~ on lucrative projcch while steering clear of dcht-deanng sltua­ltons. "lllOSl' m !>.ale!>. have a red leiter month' Renvmg an old relationship will boost profits 
LIIIRA (Sept. 21-0ct. 22): Final· Ji'.c a decision connected with insur­ance. Ex tend coverage to be on the safe s1de. Your independent attitude could hurt someone's feelings. Lei this person know that you value their good opinion. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: The emphasis now is on rejecting outdated methods and making the best possible use of the latest tech­nology. Your warmth and affection help someone recover from a big disappointment. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): An investment pays off even better than expected. Refrain from splurging on luxury items. Enter­taining at home can be both fun and relatively inexpensive. Others are dazzled by your skills as a host' 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Refu,e to let a new romantic partner smother you. An early decla­ration of independence could pre­vent arguments later on. A part-time business can bring in nice profits, especially if family members are involved. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take charge at work. Do not shoul· der your co-worker.;' responsibilities without proper remuneration. Pam­per yourself before a big social event by getting a massage or facial. A confident attitude will win you new admirers. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Although friends mean well, their information could be faulty. Rely on your own sources. A pet project may have to be shelved until early next year. Avoid being too tough when dealing with small children. 


ACROSS 1 Cry for "poor Yorick" 5 Brothers' keeper? 10 Chase flies 14 Fountain choice 15 Hotelier Helmsley 16Notwell 11 Nafta fighter 19 Fed 20 Uneven 21 Related 23 Gets the better of 25 Paradise 26 Madrid Mrs. 27 Like an old record 31 Blond shade 
34 One place to find Franklin 36---Ball 
(arcade game) 37 Duffer's goal 38 Creator of the 
Morlocks 41 Important 
period 42 "--first ..." 44 Kind of chart 45 Hide-hair 
connector 46 It's all in the 
family 49 Decks 51 Limey 52 Goes off 56 Sign-reading 
site 60 Get used (to) 61 Frequent caller? 62 Noted 1973 
resignee 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -"T--r~-. -:17-1~~ 
~...:....t~HB...,...,. -=t':'+:::+±-:-1'!'!~"" 
~...:....t=i=-1 ~'-'+-'+"-~ ~--:--t'=-iBf-7-i 
-:-!--=-+=::-+.=+:~ 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
0 

.,.. 

• i 
I 
I 
I 
.. 
... 
.. 


...  
SPORTS  
page 16  Wednesday, December 4, 1996  

• VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame makes fifth straight NCAA appearance 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 

For a team that has been hindered with numerous injuries, and has under­achieved with just a 8-10 out of confer­ence mark, a second season wipes the record clean. For the Notre Dame volley­ball squad, this second season comes in the form of the NCAA Tournament and it has already gotten off on the right foot as they received a favorable bid. 
This past Sunday the Irish learned that they were given the fifth seed in their 12­team Central region. A top-notch sched­ule aided the team's seeding as eleven sehools on their schedule made the 48 team field. The bid marks the fifth straight appearance in the tournament for Debbie Brown's squad. (Notre Dame is only one of four schools which saw its teams in women's soccer. men's soccer and volleyball all advance to the NCAA's this season with the others being George mason. Maryland and Washington.) The five slot entails hosting a first round match against Hofstra tonight at 7 p.m. and the possibility of hosting a second round match. The winner of tonight's contest will host the fourth seed Ohio State on Sunday due to facility conflicts in Buckeye land. 
"I don't think it could have been any better for us," commented Brown. "We did not anticipate that we would be able to play at home in the second round as well. At this time of the year the home court advantage is really important, we can get a lot more rest, and we don't have to worry about travel." 
Senior hitter and backrow specialist Kristina Ervin echoed Brown's senti­ments, "We were very excited when we found out we were hosting the first and second rounds. Also, the fact that we will play Hofstra is exciting because we know we can beat them." 
The squad is coming off a tough week­end in which they failed to win a game as Washington State and Pacific swept the Irish setters. Adding to the dismay was a dislocated finger on the hand of setter Carey May who had to sit out this week­end but is hoping to be available for tonight's contest. Filling in nicely for May was freshman Lauren Stettin who has 
see V-BALL I page 13 
NCAA Central Region Women's Volleyball Tournament 
First Round Second Round Regionals December4 


8lllinois State (28-7) 
9 Miami Ohio(24--6t 
5 Notre Dame (21·11) 
12 Hofstra (19-16) 

4Ohio. State 

7 Minnesota (23-10) I 0 Centrnl Acrida(2.1-12) 


2Longbeach State 
*Regionals held at home of highest remaining seed Jon King I The Observer 
• FooTBALL 

Future uncertain for coaches 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Editor 

I ~ 
Transition continues to look anything but smooth for the N otrn Dame football program. as widespread speculation has it that both offensive coordina­tor Dave Hoberts and offensive linn coach Joe Moore will not be returning to the Irish coaching stalT for the 1997 season. 
Hoberts has been considered a strong candidate for a head coaching job since Lou Holtz announced his retirement a few weeks ago, with much of the speculation having him heading down South, whflre both his personal and coaching roots began. 
Hoberts, who turns 50 in February, grew up in Greenville, S.C., and joined the Irish staff three years ago after

I 
I ~ 10 seasons as a collegiate head coach, including a successful live-year stint at Division 1-M
I 
power Northeast Louisiana, whom Hoberts guided to a fourth place ranking in the final 1-M poll in 1992. 
Many sources felt that Hoberts would leave the Irish after this season, citing his having taken a pay cut to remain on with the Irish and enjoy the tutelage of Holtz. Roberts, for his part, is not giving any answers. 
At least not yet. 
"If you're going to stay with Bob (Davie), you have to make a four year commitment," said Roberts when contacted last evening. "''m looking at other

.. 
opportunities right now. trying to see what will shake down." 
With a bevy of college coach­ing changes this season, the opportunities are indeed plenti­ful. There have been 20 head coaching changes in the Division 1-A college football 

I 
SPORTS 
ATA GLANCE 

,.. 
• 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Offensive Coordinator Dave Roberts is a prime candidate for numerous 
available head coaching positions. coaching ranks this year, with 13 openings still remaining. But with a flurry of new hirings in the past few days, Roberts realizes he will have to decide quickly if he is to make the jump back into the head coach­ing circle. "They're starting to fill up real quick, so if something comes up, I'm going to have to jump at it," 
commented Roberts of the remaining vacancies. Just yes­terday, Illinois replaced the 
fired Lou Tepper with Chicago Bears offensive coordinator Ron Turner, and Fresno State hired Baltimore Ravens assistant Pat Hill to replace Jim Sweeney, who retired after 19 seasons at the helm of the Bulldogs. 
Hoberts' departure would leaving a gaping hole in the Irish staff. not only because of his abilities as an offensive co­ordinator, but due to his prowess as a recruiter as well. 
In 1986, Sports Illustrated named Roberts one of the top five recruiters in the country, and his presence at Notre Dame has enabled the Irish to sign Southern talent such as tailback Autry Denson and linebacker Lamont Bryant. 
"I think he's a good offensive mind, and he obviously knows how to call a game," said Irish receiver Malcolm Johnson of Roberts. "I don't know what his plans are, but he is a valuable coach to any program." 
Current defensive coordinator and 1997 head football coach Bob Davie feels no differently. 
"I want what's best for Dave Roberts," said Davie when con­tacted by phone. "I think he's an excellent coach, and he de­serves an opportunity to be a head coach. I'm just going to let Dave mull things over, and wait 
see FOOTBALL I page 13 
• at Providence at Michigan State '\_
• 
Saturday, 4 p.m. 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
at Purdue 
NCAA Tournament 
Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
vs. Hofstra

~ 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 
NCAA Final Four 

; w 
vs. Porrland 
Basketball

~.' Friday, 5 p.m. PST 
~ 

Katryna Gaither has led the team to their highest ever AP ranking. 
aJ  •Simon makes national junior team  
~  
•111114  see page 14  
~  • Texas QB predicts 'Husker defeat  
see page 12  

• WOMENS BASKETBALL 
Gaither again named player of the week 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior center Katryna Gaither was named Big East Player of the Week for the second straight week Tuesday. 
Gaither earned the honor after being named MVP of the past weekend's Comfort Inn Downtown Classic tour­nament, where the Irish claimed the championship. In wins over Ohio and Georgia Tech, she averaged 29 points and 12.5 rebounds, including single-game school records of 40 points and 14 rebounds against Ohio. She recorded a career-high seven steals in 38 minutes of play. In the cham­pionship game, Gaither scored 18 points and grabbed 11 rebounds en route to her 28th career double-double and 
Thursday and Friday TBA 
~ 
AP p 0 11 
Top Ten WOJnen's Basketball Rankings 
Record 
Stanford  6  -0  
2  Connecticut  5  -0  
3  Louisiana Tech  7  -0  
4  Tennessee  6  -I  
5  Georgia  1  -1  
6  Old Dominion  4  -I  
7  Notre Dame  6-1  
8  Alabama  2  -2  
9  Iowa  2-I  

The Observer/David Murphy 






