~.---------------------------------------------------------------------~--------­

Wednesday, October 9, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 33 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Malloy: Alcohol abuse must be addressed 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Stating that alcohol abuse on Notre Dame's campus is the most significant behavioral problem among students, 

Prnsident Father Edward 
M a I I o y 
promis1HI to rndouhle the University's eiTorts to curb 
tlw nxtent of Malloy hinge drink­ing. 
Malloy's remarks, framed within the context of a formal addrnss to the faculty yesterday afternoon, also emphasized the University's continued support of affirmative action policies and provided a comprehensive glance at a number of other University programs. 
Malloy, who served as chair­man of a national commission that in June 1994 produced the results of a survey on alcohol abuse, reiterated some of the survey's points yesterday and called on a University commit­tee to examine the effects of drinking on the academic per­formance of students. 
"(Alcohol abuse has) reached almost epidemic proportions on campuses across the country," he said. . 
According to the report ­which was published by the Commission on Substance Abuse at Colleges and Universities, an organization under the direction of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at' Columbia University -95 percent of vio­lent crimes on campuses nationwide are alcohol related and 90 percent of rapes occur when alcohol is involved. 
Closer to home, the preva­lence of excessive alcohol is not much different, Malloy said. 
Noting that roughly half of all students at Notre Dame have drinking patterns that are con­sidered "binge drinking" ­defined as five or more drinks in one sitting -Malloy said the level of student drinking at Notre Dame is above the national average. 
Malloy pointed out an addi­tional side-effect of excessive drinking that often gets less attention: students who spend time caring for inebriated 
• HALl PRESIDENTS COUNCil 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
Free cigars will be given out at thn Husky Smokeout this Friday at the Fifddhouse Mall. Tlw activity, announced at Tunsday's llall Presidents Council (IIPCI meeting, will be promoted by the Office of Studnnt Activitins in honor of this W!H~kend 's football game against the Washington Jluskies. In addition to the frne cigars. hot dogs and other rnfreshments will be available as well as entertainment from a blues band. 
Students can once again be admitted early to the Pep Hally this week. At the Ohio Stat11 pep rally, 3,600 students took advantage of the early admittance opportunity. Studnnts with their student J.D.'s will be admitted from 
5:30 to 5:45 p.m. this Friday at Gate 1 I. "Take Back the JACC" is the name given to this e!Tort to increase student support at all of the pep ral­lies. To improve participation, upper sections will be roped off for the dorms to sit togeth­er and an incentive has been offered by the Office of Student Activities for the five most spirited dorms. 

Project Warmth, sponsored by Student Government and the esc. has joined forces with Gear outerwear and the bookstore to offer a $20 credit for Gear outerwear in return for each coat turned in this year. The coat drive will be held from Nov. 1 through Nov. 
30 and will provide a $1,000 cash reward to the dorm who donates the highest percent­age of coats. The dorm that places second will receive $500. 
Sean Gallavan, co-chair of GLND/SMC, announced National Coming Out Week and the Purple Ribbon cam­paign. HPC offered its support in co-sponsorship of the 
see HPC I page 4 
SMC expands academic offerings 
By ANN KEARNS 
rusistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The role of women has been undergoing constant change, making it difficult to identify where they stand in today's society. Saint Mary's has recently adopted a Women's Studies program which is offered to students as a minor. With those in the program studying the history of women together, participants are able to help one another gain a bet­ter understanding of women's current situation. 
A minimum of 14 credits with gender as an organizational focus arn required. The cours­es which fall into this category arc typically included in a spe­cific disciplinary framework. 
A student-designed Women's Studies major is also offered. This opportunity is given to extraordinary students who wish to use gender as a basis for their studies. 
Heather Steinmiller, Women's Studies minor and the Women's Studies representative for the Student Academic Council, believes the primary goals of the program are "focusing on where women were in the past, where they are now, and where they could be in the future." 
Steinmiller became interested in the program during her freshman year religion class. A substantial portion of that course's material involved the study of women who had an influence upon Jesus Christ. 
The program is not entirely devoted to the study of women and women's issues. Instead, the discussions are more gen­der-based, integrating the dif­ferent roles men and women play in society and how they affect one another. 
The minor has not only career benefits, but also per­sonal benefits for those who participate in it. On an acade­mic level, Steinmiller said that many companies hiring in man­agement are looking for people who have studied women's issues. She said that they feel that the management style of women is more caring and per­sonal, and this is needed in today's work force. 
On a personal level, Steinmiller feels that the cours­es she has taken have given her a greater appreciation for what 
see PROGRAM I page 6 
roommates and friends. 
Characterizing the loss of time meant for studying or sleeping as "second-hand binge effects," Malloy said those stu­dents suffer as a result of those who drink heavily. 
"That constitutes a serious disruption to the University environment," Malloy said. "We have a moral obligation to renew our efforts (to limit the problems created by excessive drinking)." 
As a result, Malloy charged a University committee to look at the impact of drinking on stu­dents' academic performances. 
One item Malloy specifically told the committee to review was whether the scheduling of tests could be set so that it dis­couraged heavy drinking pat­terns. 
Earlier in his address, Malloy restated the University's intent to recruit minorities, especially in filling faculty positions. "It is important to affirm our com­mitment to an affirmative action policy," he said. 
Malloy recognized the recent nationwide debate over the continued effectiveness of affir­mative action, but said that, in order to achieve the University's goals of hiring more black and Hispanic facul­ty, affirmative action is the best available tool. 
"I am convinced that aflirma­tive action is the best method available to make Notre Dame a more inclusive institution," he said. 
Malloy cited the Colloquy for 
see MALLOY I page 4 
Ross reveals humanity of death row inmates 

By DEREK BETCHER 
i\.o;sisrant News Editor 
Drawing on his experience as a volunteer chaplain in the Indiana State Penitentiary, Father Joe Ross shared his reflections on the right to life with a small crowd in Walsh Hall's chapel last night. Challenging the death penalty, Ross offered his experiences with death row inmates to cele­brate Respect Life Week. 
"I go around and talk to peo­ple, but mostly I just listen," he explained. "Many are very reli­gious, many are remorseful, many pray for the families of their victims." 
Maureen Kramlich, president of Notre Dame Right to Life, introduced Morrissey Hall's rector by labeling the evening a reflection on the right to life. 
Befitting such a preface, Ross' words centered around his assertion that "I don't feel that any of them (inmates) deserve to die." 
Encouraging remarks and comments from the audience as he spoke, Ross began with a description of the death row inmate's surroundings and rou­tine. He described the Michigan City facility as a "stereotypical prison" -dark, old, and crowd­ed. Of the 2005 inmates there, Ross focused on the 43 sen­tenced to die. After detailing the elaborate procedures need­ed to enter their cordoned building, Ross described the inmates' spartan 10'x12' cells and colorless days, but explained that surroundings were the least of the inmates' worries. 
"Death row is torture, there's no way around saying that. Living while knowing that your life is ready to end is torture," he said. 
Despite the weightiness of the inmates' situations, Ross explained that interacting wasn't as difficult as he had feared. 
"You talk to them just like you would anyone else," he said. "The majority of the men 
The Observer/Bra« Hogan 
Morrissey Rector Father Joe Ross expressed his opposition to the death penalty at Walsh Hall. 
are married and have children. Many are into creative things like drawing and painting." 
In highlighting the inmates' human qualities, Hoss hoped to warn against common "eye for an eye" prejudices against the convicted. 
A particularly sensitive expe­rience Hoss retold centered around a visit he made to an inmate who was awaiting a telephone call that would either grant clemency or set an execu­tion date. 
"A guard came and told the inmate his lawyer was on the phone. He turned to me and asked me to come with him to the telephone," Ross remem­bered. Ross told of following the 12-year death row veteran to the telephone and waiting. Upon learning his death sen­tence had been overturned, the inmate crumpled to the floor and sobbed in Hoss' lap. 
"There are unique ways in which He Jives there," Ross explained. 
He continued, saying that much of the inmates' time is spent in legal work because of it's aid in their appeals process. Hoss noted that many people, when criticizing the lengthy appeals prevalent in today's justice system, don't realize 
see LIFE I page 4 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
COTH's hornelessness 
•

ts no act 
We learned yesterday 
Jason Dorwart

that next summer is to Assistant Accent Editor 
be the busiest for con­struction. I should hope -------­so; our campus is in shambles. 
There is a glut of patch up work -most of which is due to the stripping of campus over the past few years. 
Homes have been destroyed, new quads have been erected, and we can finally once again use the Dome for that purpose for which it is meant: to be gazed upon. 
As has been documented before, the ex­patriots of Grace Hall feel lost without the always active weekends of Mod Quad. Soon the residents of Siegfried and Knott will be deported to the wasteland behind South Dining Hall. 
Golf Quad (in its present state) is to Notre Dame as is to New York: 
a. 
New Jersey 

b. 
New Jersey 

c. 
The ice-planet Hoth 

d. 
New Jersey 



Maybe once the women of these dorms move to the new dorms by what is presently a men's hermitage, life will become more enjoy­able. 
The campus feels different than in the past, hopefully the next round of construction can improve this. 
All of this change has brought about the need for even more change. And because of all of this construction there is a lack of fund­ing for the planned performing arts center which was originally meant to be built in a location south of DeBartolo Hall. 
Maybe I am misinformed, but it seems that building new dorms, installing urinals in the soon-to-be-former women's dorms, renovat­ing other dorms into offices, building a new bookstore and hotel, and leaving the possibili­ty of a performing arts complex makes less sense than building offices and a performing arts complex, and leaving the dorms to be. 
It seems that not until after this is done 
should the superfluous erection of a hotel and 
bookstore be considered. 

On the subject of the performing arts, the Department of Communication and Theatre opens this year's mainstage season tonight with Neil Simon's Barefoot in the Park, at 7:30p.m. in Washington Hall. 
As is done by freshman every year, many 
will not show up because their parents bought 
them tickets that they did not want or they 
simply forgot about their opening night tick­
ets. Hence, there still are a few seats for every 
performance. It would be worth your time to 
place your derriere in one of them. 
Plays can run at Washington Hall; why do 
we need a performance complex? 
Because Washington Hall is built for one 
play to run at a time. 

In the past few weeks, three shows have been rehearsing in this building. There will be more directing and other theatre finals in the coming weeks. As Notre Dame has done for its other programs, it needs to support, improve and foster growth in this deprived department. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Russell Williams Jillian Pagliocca Sports Kathleen Lopez  Belle Bautista John Hutchinson Graphics Jon King  
Accent Joseph Weiler Tara Grieshop  Lab Tech Brandon Candura Viewpoint Ethan Hayward  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Yellow fever rises dramatically in Africa, South America 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast 
Yellow fever on the rise 
Yellow fever is mak­
V 
ellow fever is a viral disease occurring in many countries in Africa 
ing an alarming 
and South America. The current worldwide total of 18,735 yellow 
comeback in sub­
fever cases and 4,522 deaths reported from 1987 to 1991 represents
Saharan Africa, 
the greatest yellow fever activity since 1948.
prompting medical 
officials to appeal for Symptoms 
$190 million to con­
~The symptoms of the first stage of the 
trol the disease that 
disease appear 3 -6 days after exposure, 
causes high fevers, 
and include: 

vomiting and death. A study in fever headache 
nausea muscle pains
Wednesday's Journal 
vomiting (especially in the 
of the American 
flushed face neck, back and legs)
Medical Association 
constipation restlessness 
stomach discomfort irritability
found 18,735 yellow 
fever cases worldwide . Where it occurs 
-including 4,522 
deaths -from 1987 to 1991. It said this was the highest inci­dence of the disease since 1948. 
The study was con­ducted by Dr. Susan 
E. Robertson and col­leagues from the World Health Organization in Geneva. 
While reported cases of the virus dropped in 1992 and 1993, they have shot up again in West Africa, most notably Cameroon, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. 
Yellqw fever has not been reported in North America since 1905, when an outbreak in Louisiana killed some 

Ex-Pumpkins drummer pleads guilty 
NEW YORK 
James "Jimmy" Chamberlin, fired as drummer for the rock band Smashing Pumpkins after the group's keyboardist died from a drug overdose, pleaded guilty Tuesday to disorderly conduct. Chamberlin, tieless in a dark blue suit, his jet-black hair spiked, pleaded guilty to the reduced charge before Criminal Court Judge Donna Recant as part of a 
deal in which he will undergo drug treatment. If Chamberlin successfully completes a rehabilitation pro­gram by December, his court records' will be sealed. If he fails, he will serve 15 days in jail. Chamberlin, 32, of Chicago, was arrested July 12 and charged with misde­meanor drug possession after Jonathan Melvoin, 34, of Croan Ridge, Vt., died of a heroin overdose at the Regency Hotel. 
Neighbor chops cheerleaders 
DRYDEN, N.Y. 
An ex-convict who lived next door to one of two miss­ing high school cheerleaders was charged Tuesday with kidnapping the girls, while police said they have found body parts of the 16-year-olds. John B. Andrews, 31, is accused of abducting Sarah Hajney of McLean and Jennifer Bolduc of Dryden, who were reported missing by their parents Friday after they didn't show up at Dryden High School. The girls spent Thursday night at the Hajney horne, next door to Andrews' house, with a 17 -year-old male friend while Hajney's parents were in Maine, police said. The girls were last seen Friday morn­ing and the family car was found later that day in Cortland, several miles from McLean. Andrews, a com­puter lathe operator, was arrested Monday night at his job in a Cortland factory. 
11> The disease is transmitted to humans by mosquitoes. 

"'A remission period follows; a later stage may produce jaundice (yellowed skin and eyes) and dark vomit. 
1,000 people, accord­ing to the report. But the yellow fever mos­quito has recently made its way to the southeastern United States. 
Yellow fever, which is spread by mosqui­toes, is one of the most difficult viruses to diagnose and therefore goes under­reported. WHO esti­mates there are 200,000 yellow fever cases each year, with nearly all in sub­Saharan Africa. 
"Many are in major urban areas in Africa and that's the real danger. that's where you have explosive potential for epi­demics which could really be devastat­ing," said Michael Luhan, a WHO spokesman. 
There is no· cure or specific treatment for 
yellow fever. Doctors can only relieve dehydration and other effects of the disease. 
The U.N. health agency has launched an appeal for $190 million for yellow fever vaccines that would be incorporated into routine inoculation programs. 
PMS victim returns to school 
FAIRBORN. Ohio 
An eighth-grade honor student expelled for giving a Midol pill to a classmate returned to school Tuesday in a white limousine, her punishment reduced to the days she had already missed. Clutching balloons and grinning jubilantly, Kimberly Smartt went back to Baker Junior High School, where a throng of cheering classmates waited outside the school for her to arrive. "I feel really happy," Smartt said. 'Trn just going to be in all the activities I was in and continue how it was and don't ever have to think about this again." Smartt was allowed to return to the school about 10 miles northeast of Dayton after the school board decided late Monday to reduce her 80-day expulsion to the three days she had already served. The board upheld a 10-day suspension she had already served. Smartt was expelled after she took two Midol pills from the school nurse's office Sept. 6 and gave one to Erica Taylor. 
Company condemns web page 
INDEPENDENCE, Mo. 
Jeff Blackmon was unhappy when he quit his job as a computer technician at Gateway 2000, and he wanted the world to know it. But when the South Dakota-based computer company found Blackmon's "Gateway 2000 Sucks" page on the Internet's World Wide Web, the com­pany was not t~rilled. Blackmon finally took down the page Monday after Gateway won a temporary restrain­ing order from a judge who agreed Blackmon's use of Gateway's logo and Holstein cow patterns were trade­mark infringements. Now, the two sides have a deal: Blackmon has agreed to stop spreading his anti-Gateway message, and Gateway won't seek hundreds of thou­sands of dollars in damages. Originally, Blackmon's page included his "Top Ten Reasons Not to Buy a Gateway 2000 Computer." 


·~~~ 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.............,. .............._ ............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ ,--f\ 
H L ED ESI En! 0 ~ 8 "¥ L-J. c:.___:. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vl.t A#OCJIJtfHi Pren 
Atlanta 68 49 Denver 78 43 Milwaukee 51 43 Baltimore 59 52 Fairbanks 26 22 New York 64 56 Boston 60 52 Honolulu 87 75 Omaha 63 34 
S~~~',; T-~t~;,;,s Rain ~~~·;;;~~ ·i~:i=· ~~ -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 53 46 Houston 84 53 St. Louis 59 46 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Coldwater 50 49 Miami 86 72 San Francisco74 56 

Wednesday, October 9, 1996 

,,_ 



9pm-12am 
OPEN ItiiKE 
YOUR CHANCE TO SHOW OFF YOUR 
TAI.ENT! 
WATCH FOR 
$1 OFF COUPON IN CMIPUS l'IAIL 
Lula's Location: Edison Plaza 1631 Edison Road 119-173-6116 Oust a 1/3 mile walk from campus•••near Jamison Inn) 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY: 

The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Exhibit celebrates maturity 
Moreau Gallery display features Sanford:S work 
By ANGELA CATALDO News Writer 
Last week, the on-campus students at Saint Mary's received a postcard featuring a black and white image of a mature woman in an unmis­takably Marilyn Monroe-like pose. An invitation to attend photographer Elise Mitchell Sanford's exhibit, the postcard was labeled "one piece of cam­pus mail that won't be thrown away" by K. Johnson Bowles, director of Moreau Art Gallery at Saint Mary's. 
The photograph is one in a series titled "The Stuff of Dreams," the Little Theatre Gallery's latest exhibit. Addressing the social issue of aging women, the series is the counterpart to "Dreams and Other Realities," a series por­traying mature men. It is cur­rently being showcased in the Hammes Gallery, also found in Moreau. 
Sanford began her profes­sional career in 1951 with a degree in journalism from Tulane University and received her MS in television writing and production from Iowa State University in 1953. Postponing further academic endeavors until her children 
• CLARIFICATION';. 
Regis Philbin, cohost of "Live with Regis and Kathie Lee," will appear at a book· signing at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Saturday beginning at 11:30 a.m. He will be available for about a half hour, according to book­store officials. 
The hook-signing is In recognition of Breast Cancer Awareness Month. 
Living Out the qospe[ofLife 
1Tzree r£venings ofPrayer, ~fCection, Song 1~'Vlalsli Jfa{( Cliape{ oftlie o/isitation 
.~•·"jl (Prayerfor tlie Condemned'' Joe CR._pss, CS. C 
()71 worli,jng on cfeutli mw 'f)ofces of'Faitli ~/ospd Cfioir 7:00pm, rfuesd'ay, 8 Octo6cr 
t'•-'/1 q>rayerfor tlie (Dying'' Dr. cf)a·vicf·Youug, .WiD '77 
otz fizit fi am{ ttwdicine 7/ie :Notre 'Dame 1Fo0(Cfioir 7:00pm, 11iursaay, 10 Octo6er 
t~._.~/1 Prayerfar tfie 'Vn6om 11 Liz Cenedd{a 'JI(D'97 on cfioosing rife Coro :Primavera 7:00pm, Sunaay, 13 Octo6er 
'liie (;osp~{ oflife i.s at t!it Htart vf]uus' mmugt. 'Et-tryt>llt lias all o6lig11tion 10 serF~ fr.fo. 
•J'<>re Joftn IJ'au( I I 0MPUS 
MINISTR/ 

had grown, Sanford planned to begin a career in freelance writing. Identifying the advan­tages of learning the art of photography, Sanford enrolled in the photography program at Ohio University. Here is where she discovered "the language of art." 
For each of her pieces, Sanford has employed mature male and female models in fantasy roles as famous movie stars and other celebrities. The images are created in a "spirit of remembering the enjoyment of dressing up in childhood." 
Since 1990, when she received her MFA in photogra­phy, printmaking and women's studies, Sanford has presented over 50 exhibitions and lec­tures. Her interest in women's studies has become the prima­ry focus of her work and was the impetus that encouraged Johnson Bowles to bring her to Saint Mary's. 
"This exhibit is important, for us here at Saint Mary's especially, to see how it relates to everyday life and to see what older women are really like, not the stereotypes of older women" says .Johnson Bowles, who has known Sanford since graduate school. 
"When she first walked into our classroom she was 60 years old and we thought 'Who is this and why is she here'?" reflects .Johnson Bowles. "Now, though, I know her as a driven, intelligent, and sensi­tive woman who has a unique 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

way of getting across impor­tant social issues." 
.Johnson Bowles identified Sanford's use of humor in her work as amusing but bitter­sweet. "On one hand, we are able to smile, but on another level we are faced with the reality that older women are usually left alone because their jobs as care-giver and wife have come to an end" she explained. 
Sanford says of her work that she hopes to show the "strong, humorous, coura­geous female" and dispel the stereotypical "weak, fragile, dependent, bitter image of women in their later years." Engaging in a continued inves­tigation into the issues of iden­tity, gender and aging, Sanford is creating a genre of art that is not static. The work she has began continues to grow with each generation. The Greta Garbo of the past will become the Meg Ryan for the future generations. 
.Johnson Bowles singled out the Saint Mary's students because "as women at a women's college where we live with older women, it is appro­priate that we address these social issues. We are all going to get older." 
The exhibit will be on display through November 18. The artist will present a slide lec­ture on November 7 at 5 p.m. in 232 Moreau Hall and dis­cuss her work, her modnls and how the photographs originat­ed. 
---~-----­
--~ ---~ -~ ­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
HPC 
continued from page 1 

National Coming Out Week Picnic pending University approval. 
Next Tuesday, a debate between the College Republicans and the College Democrats is scheduled for 7 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Auditorium. The debate, which will last less than 60 minutes, is billed as an excel­lent opportunity for students to familiarize themselves with the positions of the two parties in the upcoming election. 
RecSports is conducting a survey through the dorms to determine what equipment students would like to see in the new RecSports building. Construction on the new build­ing is scheduled to start on November 1. It will include 
Life 
continued from page 1 

that an appeal's most ambitious goal is reducing death to a life­time in prison. 
'The vast majority have taken responsibility for what they've done. I've only ever heard one 
, man say he's had no regret," Ross reiterated. 
r 
He believes the upswing in f faith characteristic of many death row inmates is sincere' f and not simply a tool to gain 
l 
clemency. 
Ross also mentioned asking an inmate earlier that afternoon for recommendations upon what to 
~ 
r 
FINAL 

four full-length basketball courts, an elevated track, an area for rollerblading and rollerhockey, exercise equip­ment, and other recreational areas for non-varsity student use. Largely funded by a $5 million donation from the Rolf family, the $7 million dollar facility will be located near the ROTC building and is sched­uled for completion in January of 1998. 
In other HPC news: 
• 
The Lewis "Jerk and Pull" competition was a success with 15 teams participating. 

• 
The Sorin Hall Talent Show will be this Friday at 8:30 p.m. 

• 
A magician will be per­forming in the Commons of Keenan Hall this Saturday at 10p.m. 

• 
Reusable Grab n' Go bags will be for sale every day this week from Lewis Hall for $5 a bag in the dining halls. 


tell the Respect ,Life Week audi­ence. 
"Tell them we're not mon­sters. Tell them to pray for us, and tell them that I'll pray for them that they don't end up here," the inmate responded. 
"This week is to celebrate Christ," Kramlich concluded, prior to the upbeat gospel singing that closed the presenta­tion. The Voices of Life Gospel Choir framed Ross' words with celebratory music to emphasize the week's Life theme. 
Furthering the week's reflec­tions, Dr. David Young will speak Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Walsh Chapel about working with those close to death. 
r 
r 
Travel Broar{e.rtf71~~i,,r;.d __ _ 
Irelan4~/0gra'~ 
Jp.form~tion Sessions: 'j)\
-!,4'-:.. -~.·-~, r·· t'...., ,.-~· 'i't ~ ..-·-s,.~ J'-··1' 
.,;:.r TONIGHT , !
•·().., t-->lr 
·'/i__ ' Oct. 9 -~ 
. 

' 
¢._.';>_., 7·00 PM <?.
"'t.---? . < Room 30,~'1-Iaggar College)_Center 
S~}ptMary's Camp~s 
Stuq:¢.~tfdi~cu~s plan~!!:$fg:{riculum at ~· f,atncks ~~:\dege,PMaynooth 
APP~~TI-Of(fs DISTRIBUTED 

Meeting 
NOTRE DAME/ST. MARYS EQUESTRIAN CLUB 
Kensingston Riding Center Selected as Home Stable for 1996/97 
Date: Wed. Oct. 9, 1996 Location: Hesburgh Library, Room 222 Time: 8:00 PM 
Bring Checkbook, and Health Insurance Info. 
Fall Semester $215/Spring Semester $285 (/lesson per week with some open riding session per semester) 
Malloy 

continued from page 1 
the Year 2000, the comprehen­sive University self-study that defines the school's goals for this decade, as one of the rea­sons for maintaining an affir­mative action policy. 
"Affirmative action entails setting public goals for our­selves and finding the resources necessary to achieve our goals," the Colloquy states. Malloy noted that "in this area there can be no pulling back." 
Noting the recent hiring pat­terns in each of the different academic schools at Notre Dame, Malloy said, "The con­clusion is that we are making progress in the hiring of women, but we are doing poor­ly in the hiring of blacks and Hispanics. We need to redouble our efforts in the recruiting and hiring (of minority faculty)." 
Malloy also emphasized his belief that the University should commit itself to hiring priests from the Congregation of the Holy Cross to fulfill faculty posi­tions. 
"The University has publicly and consistently committed itself to the hiring of Holy Cross priests, and in the specific departments of theology and philosophy," he said. "I am con­fident that Holy Cross priests, when hired, will enrich (the Notre Dame community)." 
Although he was not explicit, those remarks may have been made in direct response to sev­eral professors in the theology department. Those professors are upset by Malloy's decision over the summer to offer a Holy Cross priest a visiting profes­sorship in that department, after the department's appoint­ment committee had denied the candidate's application. 
The candidate is currently teaching at Notre Dame. The Faculty Senate is conducting an investigation of the hiring. 

Please Recycle The Observer 

"You HAvE CoME HERE To FIND WHAT You ALREADY HAVE." 






MCAw_
s  
When:  Nov. 1 & 2  
7:00 p.m. Fri.  
Where:  Still Waters  
Overnight Retreat  

Donation: $10.00 
Deadline: Oct. 16 
n 
(I



For information call: Campus Ministry x5391 

If you plan to attend, please call our 
Notre Dame Tailgate Hotline 
1.800.468.21 06 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Diana's scandal is royal hoax IRA takes responsibility 
By RON KAMPEAS 
Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

She was tall, blond, fit and up for a little horseplay with the riding instructor -or at least his look-alike. But she was not Diana. 
Britain's best-selling tabloid, the Sun, was seeking a lit­tle shade on Tunsday after revealing that an 80­

Princess Diana 

seeond video purporting to show Princess Diana stripping and playing around with former lover and riding instructor James Hewitt was a hoax. 
The paper's editors had spent the day vigorously arguing that publishing lurid outtakes of the Diana dopplcgangnr nashing a black sports bra at the faux­llnwitt was in "the public interest" because it raised issues of privacy violations. 
But by evening, it was sulk­ing and claiming it was a vic­lim of the "hoax of the dncadn." 
Thn two actors were hired months ago from a west London modeling agency that speeializes in doubles for the royals and their various para­mours, the Sun reported in its early Wednesday editions. 
Independent Television broadcast the original color, dose-up video -editnd for the Sun to blurry black-and-white seemingly shot from a distance. The original color video had benn obtained by the Sun's elosnst compntitor, The Mirror, 
which had determined that it was a hoax. 
The actors, who seem hesi­tant and embarrassed, were told by a man calling himself Richard Evans that they were performing for a television skit. 
"We were conned by cunning fraudsters into believing that a poor-quality film of two people frolicking together were the Princess of Wales and her for­mer lover James Hewitt," a statement from the Sun said. 
"Poor-quality" was not an adjective in the Sun's vocabu­lary when it emblazoned its Tuesday editions with the scenes of actress Nicky Lilley riding the actor's back, kissing him passionately and stripping off her sweatshirt as he gazed at her, smiling. 
Instead, the paper invoked a sinister conspiracy that dove­tailed with Diana's own claims that cronies of her ex-husband, heir to the throne Prince Charles, were intent on ruining her. 
The tape was offered to the paper during a clandestine meeting on Friday in west London, by a man breathlessly described by the Sun as a "smart American lawyer." 
It said the lawyer claimed to be acting for a group of sol­diers or bodyguards led by a mysterious man known only as The Sergeant. 
The paper quoted the unidentified American as say­ing: "This is the material that was going to be used if the princess cut up rough during the divoree negotiations." 
The paper devoted five pages to the video, the frolicking "Diana" booting the tabloid's trademark page-3 topless model to the wilderness of its populist rhetoric on the op-ed page. 
Sky News, which like the Sun is part of Rupert Murdoch's media empire, repeatedly ran the video. 
Throughout the day, Sun edi­tor Stuart Higgins said he had a higher purpose in mind in publishing the outtakes. 
"I think there would be a degree of hurt when she wakes up and sees a copy of the Sun this morning," he told lTV News. "But I would regard that as being justified because it exposes and confirms every­thing she's complained about for the last 10 years." 
His royal correspondent, Charles Rae, went farther. 
"Some sort of sinister outfit watched her every move -and we have to ask the question, who gave that order?" he told lTV. "Someone in government must have signed the paper." 
But the princess hardly seemed "hurt" when she opened an AIDS clinic in London on Tuesday, her first engagement since her August divorce. She was smiling, wearing a bright red suit and a low-cut black shirt. 
That was because she already recognized the hoax. "The Princess of Wales does not recognize either herself or Major James Hewitt in these photographs," a palace state­ment said. 
There was rejoicing at the Mirror as well. 
"The job was to try and make a comedy sketch to sell to TV stations," editor Piers Morgan said, congratulating his staff for recognizing the hoax earli­er. 

for barracks bombing 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press Writer 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
The Irish Republican Army admitted today that it carried out the bombing of the British army's headquarters here, wounding 31 and threatening to catapult Northern Ireland back into bloodshed. 
A telephone caller using a recognized code word told the Dublin newsroom at RTE, Ireland's broadcasting net­work, that two 800-pound bombs had been detonated at the army complex in Lisburn, southwest of Belfast, on Monday night by IRA volun­teers. 
The IRA statement said the target had been personnel con­nected with the barracks and said injuries to any civilians were regretted. 
It was the outlawed group's first bomb attack in the British-ruled province since mid-1994. 
The government had already indicated it believed the IRA was responsible. 
The bombings were "certain­ly consistent with a terrorist organization that declared an end to a cease-fire which it had proclaimed in 1994," Northern Ireland Secretary Patrick Mayhew told reporters. 
Earlier, telephone calls to news organizations in Belfast and Dublin had claimed that the dissident "Continuity IRA" was responsible, but the callers provided no code word to validate the claim. 
The admission ends a policy observed since the IRA cease­fire ended in February to con­fine attacks to the British mainland, in order to avoid retaliation from militant Protestant groups. Those groups have already indicated they were on the verge of returning to arms -and the British-ruled province to bloody conflict. 
The bombings raise the like­lihood that pro-British gunmen will break their cease-fire and retaliate against the IRA. 
"We're in a grave situation. I don't think any of us underesti­mate the impact of what hap­pened yesterday," Michael Ancram, the No. 2 British min­ister in Northern Ireland, said today. 
Ancram joined the chorus of politicians appealing to the province's pro-British groups to maintain a truce. 
But Gary McMichael, leader of a party linked to the biggest such group, the Ulster Defepse Association, said pressure was building to retaliate. 
"There's not much point in holding onto the moral high ground when your country's burning down around you," said McMichael. 
The blasts at Thiepval Barracks, headquarters for the British army in Northern Ireland, injured 21 soldiers and 10 civilian employees. Twelve people remained hospi­talized today including a man suffering from severe burns and a woman with head wounds. 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
•ITALY 

Pope's appendix removed 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press Writer 
ROME 
Surgeons who removed Pope John Paul II's troublesome appendix sidestepped ques­tions Tuesday about hand 
tremors and other health problems but predicted the 76-year-old pontiff would be "sitting in an armchair tomorrow." 

The doc-John Paul II tors did say they saw no signs that a benign colon tumor removed in 1992 had returned. The pope's vital signs held up well during surgery at Gemelli Polyclinic, and he came through it suc­cessfully, they said. 
John Paul quickly regained consciousness after general anesthesia, greeting and thanking everyone. 
"He should be sitting in an armchair tomorrow," said Dr. Corrado Manni, chief anesthe­siologist for the 50-minute surgery. 

"The appendix that was the cause of the pope's ills doesn't exist any more," said Manni. 
The appendectomy aimed to cure what the Vatican said were recurring bouts of inflammation and fever that caused John Paul to cancel some public engagements this year. 
Frequently, the pc;>pe's ener­gy flags and he walks with dif­ficulty. 
That image of the leader of the world's 950 million Roman Catholics generated concern that a bowel tumor, removed 

in  1992  and  described  as  
benign, had returned.  
"This  is  the  moment  to  

demythologize these fan­tasies," said the chief surgeon, Dr. Francesco Crucitti. "I exclude it categorically. There is no secret." 
A radiologist, Dr. Corrado Colagrande, added: "The doc­tors were happy. They are very fond of this pope." 
But even as doctors called the appendectomy successful, they wouldn't discuss other aspects of the pope's health. 

Journalists shouted out ques­tions on whether a marked tremor in the pontiffs left hand is a sign of Parkinson's disease -a neurological disorder marked by tremors and a shuf­fling gait -and what the bat­tery of medical tests showed. 
Crucitti would only say that the pontiff is under the care of "other specialists" for other ailments. 
Crucitti operated on the pope in 1981 after a Turkish gun­man shot the pontiff in the abdomen during an assassina­tion attempt and again in 1992 for the tumor. 
On Tuesday, surgeons first had to remove adhesions, or scar tissue, from the previous operations before tackling the appendix. 
Crucitti said the accumulated scar tissue helped keep the inflammation from spreading throughout the abdomen. 
As a precaution, doctors decided to treat John Paul with antibiotics to help avoid an infection like the one that put him back in the hospital in 1981 weeks after his emer­gency surgery. 
Bloody convent murder scene recalled at trial 
By FRANK FISHER 
Associated Press Writer 
SKOWHEGAN, Maine 
Among the first things ambu­lance worker Mary Jane Parks saw were the steak knives stuck in a chapel wall. Then she saw the four nuns sprawled nearby, savagely beaten, two of them dying. 
Parks choked back tears Tuesday at the trial of the man charged with the slayings, describing the nightmarish scene she found Jan. 27 at the Servants of the Blessed Sacrament Convent and Chapel in Waterville. 
"There were two sisters lying on the floor, blood was splat­tered on the wall," Parks testi­fied. 
By the next morning, Mother Superior Edna Mary Cardozo and Sister Marie Julien Fortin were dead. Sister Mary Anna DiGiacomo and another nun survived. 
Parks testified during the sec­ond day of the non-jury trial for Mark Bechard, 37, who is charged with two counts each of murder and attempted murder. 
Bechard has pleaded innocent and not criminally responsible to the charges. His lawyers acknowledge that Bechard beat and stabbed the nuns, but say the longtime mental patient was incapable of understanding that the acts were wrong. 
Parks recalled approaching Sister DiGiacomo, who was lying in a pool of blood. The nun told Parks she was worried because a policeman seemed upset that she had just pulled a knife out of her head. 
"She was reaching with one hand, asking for help. She reached out and grabbed me and asked if it was OK to hang on to me," she said. 
Moments before, police said, they had pulled Bechard away from a nun he was beating with a statue of the Virgin Mary. Police said he also used a knife and one of the nun's canes in the attack. 
Prosecutors played a video­tape of Bechard that was recorded at the Waterville Police Department after his arrest. 

• SCOTlAND 
UK Bishop to marry parishioner 

Associated Press 
GlASGOW 

A Roman Catholic bishop who created an uproar by resigning last month after disappearing with a parishioner indicated Tuesday he will marry the woman. 
The Scottish newspaper The Herald quoted Roderick Wright, the 56-year-old former Bishop of Argyll and the Isles, as saying he will marry divorcee Kathleen Macphee "at a time that is suit· able," probably in a civil cere­mony. 
Wright, who has a 15-year­old son by a former relationship with another woman, vanished Sept. 9 from his home at Oban, western Scotland. 
On Sept. 16, he issued a state­ment announcing his resigna­tion and apologizing to the fam­ily of 41-year-old Mrs. Macphee, who has three children from her former marriage. 
Wright had been counseling her following her divorce in 1991. 
On Sept. 22, the British tabloid News of the World reported it had tracked down Wright and Mrs. Macphee to a rented cottage at Kendal in northwest England, where they had agreed to give an interview for an undisclosed sum. 
In that interview, Wright 
acknowledged his son Kevin by 
his former relationship with 48­
year-old Joanna Whibley, apol­
ogized for hurting the boy but 
said he didn't know how he 
could bring him happiness. 
Prograin 
continued from page 1 
women have done for the improvement of future genera­tions. Steinmiller used the example of the women's fight to earn the right to vote: "When I heard all that they had 
endured,  I  was  convinced  
never  to  miss  an  election  
again."  



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
I.NFORMATION MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WE 


Wednesday, October 9, I 996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Dole: 'Bozo's on his way out' American, Brit secure 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ Associated Press Writer 
LYNDHURST, N.J. 

Under stormy skies, Bob Dole sharpened his criticism of President Clinton on Tuesday and promised to hit harder on 
the adminis­tration's ethi­cal controver­sies in their next debate. "Bozo's on his way out," Dolo said of his rival. 


Dolo target-Dole ed Clinton's integrity in two fiery speeches before rains from storm Josephine cut short his New Jersey bus tour and chased the 
Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Wednesday, October 9 For tin1e and location of meeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
ACADEMIC YEAR SEM____...__~ IN LONDON 
AEROSPACE OR MECHANI ENGINEERING MAJORS 
interested in going to Londo their fifth semester come to: . 
Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall Thursday, October 10 
7:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. 
GOP nominee back to his Washington campaign head­quarters. 
"His word's no good. My word is good and I'll keep my promises to the American peo­ple," Dole said, telling voters not to believe Clinton's line that the GOP ticket would cut Medicare to pay for tax cuts. 
"Who is this guy? What does he know about it? What does he know about benefits? What does he know about Medicare," Dole demanded at a misty early-morning rally. 
One man in the crowd shout­ed to Dole as he shook hands, "Please get Bozo out of the White House." 
Dole called back, "Bozo's on his way out!" Dole spokesman Nelson 
Warfield sought to play down the offhand remark as a "light moment along the ropeline." But it recalled the final weeks of President Bush's 1992 losing campaign when Bush referred to Clinton and AI Gore as "two bozos" who had less foreign policy expertise than a dog. 
Clinton deputy campaign manager Ann Lewis took note of Sunday's civil debate between the presidential rivals and added, "I guess this means the era of civility lasted a day and a half." 
She said Dole's remark was "particularly glaring" given that the GOP nominee had chid­ed Clinton on Sunday for refer­ring to Bush during the 1992 debates as "Mr. Bush" rather than "Mr. President." 
Nobel economics prize 
Mirrlees conducted separate studies decades apart, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm, Sweden, said their work led to a better understanding of eco­nomic activity, including tax programs, auctions, insurance and credit markets. 
"It's very gratifying, ... very warming," said Vickrey, 82, a naturalized American citizen and native of Vancouver, British Columbia. 
"I was amazed," said Mirrlees, 60, a native of Scotland. He told reporters at Cambridge he was skeptical when he got the call from the academy. "I wanted to make sure I wasn't being teased," he said. 
The annual prize is the third of the six Nobels to be award­ed this year. The Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science is awarded by the Swedish Central Bank in honor of inventor Alfred Nobel. 
Vickrey told reporters he intends to use the windfall to "make the most of the oppor­tunity to keep spreading some of my heretical ideas." 
He has gone against popular wisdom by advocating the gov­ernment take on more, not less, debt. "The insane pursuit of the holy grail of a balanced budget in the end is going to drive the economy into a depression," he said. 
A bigger national debt, he said, will help those saving for retirement. 
"The great increase in longevity has produced a surge in the desire to accumulate assets for retirement," he said. 
By SALLY JACOBSEN Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
An American economist with unorthodox ideas -among them that "it's insane to try to balance the budget" Tuesday shared the Nobel eco­nomics prize with a British professor. 
William Vickrey, professor emeritus at Columbia University, and James Mirrlees of Cambridge University in England were cited for explaining how governments as well as consumers use incomplete data to make deci­sions. 
Vickrey and Mirrlees will split the $1.12 million prize for innovative studies on "asym­metric information." 
The theory, used to explain human behavior, refers to the way in which everyone -from governments and giant corpo­rations to small businesses and consumers -makes decisions based on varying kinds and amounts of data. 
Traditional economic th1;1ory held that all sides had the same information but different preferences, which influenced decision-making. ''Asymmetric information" means one side knows something another side else doesn't. 
A person seeking medical coverage may have health problems, but the insurer won't know it. A buyer won't know as much about a used car as the seller. And govern­ment doesn't know the earn­ings abilities of taxpayers. 
Although Vickrey and 
... ~~,~~. •e-• .............,..-••••·,:,._r.,.6 -·A·•••••••••-••.. -•.. -•.,.. . ... ,l..-,> ,/­
c ­



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
r 
, 
r 
r 
r 
r 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson MarrCasey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters 
Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop 
Accent Editor ........................... ) oey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.. : ....................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the· University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra, rion ofeither insriwrion. The news is reponed as accurarc:ly and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­coriaJs represent rhc opinion of the majority of the Ediwr-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spores Editor. and Saim Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditotNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Da.y Editor/Producdon 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• GOD 'N' liFE 
Religious injustice persists 

While the University of Notre Dame administration prides itself on upholding the teachings of the Catholic Church, injustices continue to be heaped upon the students. Some are excluded from holding activities on campus, others are denied access to information. A specific example of the latter are restrictions 
Julie Ferraro 
against the organization SERV (Students Encouraging Religious Vocations). 
The University has seen fit to prevent this group -formed to assist students interested in priestly and religious voca­tions in service to the Catholic Church ­from inviting representatives· of the dio­ceses or countless religious communities to speak on campus. The only represen­tatives allowed to speak are from the Order of Holy Cross. 
In essence, what the University is say­ing with this policy is that the Order of Holy Cross has exclusive rights to any vocations that are nurtured at Notre Dame. And, by the freedoms guaranteed to those living in America, we all know that this is untrue. 
Worse yet is that the University thinks it can place such a restriction on the divine, individual calling of God. This call urges the one who hears and responds to serve the Church according to his or her unique 
talents. The Order of Holy Cross is nei­ther set up nor able to adapt to the extensive variety of callings within the Church: contemplative, monastic, mis­sionary, teaching, social work, medical, etc. Not only are the different religious charisma necessary, but by their diversi­ty they stimulate and move the Church forward. 
The University has chosen to ignore this fact. It must be asked how such a travesty is possible on a campus where members of the Franciscan, Dominican, Benedictine and other Orders study and work. Is the administration implying that these religious and priests are not "good enough" to seek vocations from among the Notre Dame student body? 
The ridiculous nature of this restriction can be held in direct contrast to the engi­neering, accounting and other corpora­tions that are regularly invited to meet with students to discuss career goals. If the University put a stop to this program, the students pursuing degrees in these areas would experience a tremendous loss. Such a thing is unthinkable! 
It should be unthinkable that the University would attempt to stifle badly needed religious vocations by restricting the students' access to personal visits from members of religious communities. Such interference in the mysterious work of God cannot and should not be tolerat­ed. 
· The University could do no better than to sponsor a yearly "vocation confer­ence." Every interested group of reli­gious should be invited: Trappists, Mercy Sisters, Ursulines and Carmelites, 'Jesuits, along with those mentioned ear­lier, and more. The University of Notre Dame should wholeheartedly support SERV, not suppress it. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center 
Diversity necessary to fully complete education 
Dear Editor: 
The Oct. 2, Observer front page headline read, "Child: Boarding schools strengthened family ties." 
Since arriving at Notre Dame as a graduate student I have become increasingly distressed at the lack of diversity on this campus. 
I am from San Francisco. I did my undergraduate work at the University of New Mexico. I took the multi-cul­tural environment of the west coast and the Southwest for granted, I sup­pose, because although when I visited this campus, and was struck by the uniform whiteness of the university community, it did not occur to me that a lack of racial, ethnic and cul­tural diversity would make any real difference in the education I could receive here. 
I was wrong. 
Education is not simply a matter of pouring the facts into the student, although I have come to see that Notre Dame has a long and self-satis­fied tradition of doing just that. A uni­versity education must not only inform a student, it must develop crit­ical and analytical skills. The world changes too fast for any body of facts to remain current for long. 
Ideas must be challenged, must be 
developed, must be examined from 
different perspectives for a sophisti­
cated understanding of the world to 
emerge. The lack of diverse perspec­
tives on this campus leads to a naive 
conception of education. Cultural 
diversity is important -I would say 
essential-to fostering the intellectu­
al diversity a university education 
ought to provide. 
Such naivete, such ignorance, of the 
value of diversity is reflected in the 
headline for Shannon Ryan's story 
from the "Multicultural Beat" last 
Wednesday. Dr. Brenda Child, from the story I read, was interested in conveying the criminal nature of the Native American boarding school sys­tem. 
She drew the conclusion that despite the cruelty and neglect which were part of the boarding school 
'Ideas must be chal­
lenged, must be devel­oped, must be examined from different perspectives for a sophisticated under­standing of the world to emerge.' 
experience, despite 200 years of dis­criminatory, even genocidal, policies of the American government the Native American has survived. It was not the boarding schools, it was the people who strengthened their family ties. 
The insensitivity of that headline would be more obvious were there more Native Americans on this cam­pus, more blacks, more hispanics, if only because discussion and an exchange of ideas and perspectives would be taking place both in and out of the classroom. But as there isn't such diversity of cultures and ideas, such headlines which reflect naive, uneducated, uninformed thinking will continue to be accepted without com­ment by the majority on this campus. 
MICHAEL MCGUCKIN 
Graduate Student 
History and Philosophy of Science 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"Liberty without learn­
ing is always in peril, and learning without liberty is always in vain." 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 page 9 
• lEITERS To THE EDITOR 
Reaction to OSU Rally shows need for respect 
Dear Editor: Dear Editor: 
First, let me begin by saying that I am not a military fanatic. I do not come from This column is not about political witch hunts; it is not really about politics at all; a military family, nor am I a member of the US Armed Forces. However, I was it is about America's favorite blonde bimbo: that's right, Jenny McCarthy. utterly appalled at the lack of respect shown to Captain Scott O'Grady at the OSU (Applause) It's bad enough that Notre Dame has their own patron Playboy center­pep rally Friday night. fold; it's perfectly nauseating, however, for the Notre Dame community to officially 
During his speech, Captain O'Grady was discussing how he had been shot down endorse such a woman-and I use that word in the loosest sense of the word (pun in Bosnia and was being hunted for six days. At the end ,..----------------------, intended). 
of this segment of his speech, he was about to say that "the most glorious thing he had ever seen in his life was a US Marine helicopter" when he was cut off by many male students who interjected Jenny McCarthy's name. 
These members of the Notre Dame student body acted in a despicable and tasteless fashion. I understand that people were excited for the biggest football game of the season. I also understand how the male sexual drive can be heightened by the sight of Jenny McCarthy. However, sometimes people need to differentiate between what is going on and what they hope will occur. 
Here is a man who was risking his life in our Armed Forces for the safety of the Bosnian people and the American people. Hegardless of your personal beliefs on the military or on war, it is these men who provide us with the security and freedom we experience in our everyday lives. 
Think of every man or woman who ever fought in a war for this country and died to preserve the freedom we take for granted every day. Perhaps we should take some time to remember that fact when someone who was shot down in a foreign land is speaking to us. 
I found it ironic how Lou Holtz spoke about class five minutes after all this occurred. I have nothing against Lou Holtz, but it is amaz­ing how we can worship a football coach with a salute to the tune of th.e 1812 Overture, yet we cannot respectfully listen to a Captain in the United States Air Force. 
The next time someone visits this university and speaks to a large crowd of peo­pie, primarily students, I only hope that we can exhibit the class and dignity that everyone so often speaks about when discussing this university. 
HOB SCHMIDT 
Junior, Flanner Hall 
Let's just examine The Observer's description of Ms. McCarthy: "Just add a touch of humor to a beautiful face and a seemingly perfect body, and you will get Jenny McCarthy.' The physical description ,of McCarthy goes on to place her in the same tradition with such blonde bombshells as Marilyn Monroe although it fails to men· tion McCarthy's honorable title as 1988 Playmate of the Year. 
An evaluation of the Monroe/McCarthy types as the feminine ideal has for years now led to such unhealthy social diseases as anorexia, and to such unhealthy prac· tices as breast and lip implants. As physically attracted to McCarthy as I am (there; I've said it), I can also recog­nize that you do not have to have blonde hair and big breasts to be a physically attractive female. If I did not, only the McCarthys, Monroes, and Pamela Lees would size up (no pun intended). 
Beauty aside, however, The Observer article also describes McCarthy as "a very intelligent woman"-who dropped out of college to become a Playboy bunny and who tries in vain to form a complete sentence in this very article and has "true talent." Exactly what makes McCarthy talented, may I ask? Is it the book she didn't write or the songs she doesn't sing? Or maybe it's such 
high-profile acting as can be found on "Silk Stalkings" and "Singled Out." What I would really like to know, though, is exactly why the Notre Dame commu­
nity would set up McCarthy-a woman who epitomizes the American emphasis on 
the female body to the exclusion of any other significant characteristics-as a role 
model for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. What will be next? Playboy at 
the ND bookstore? Strippers in the Huddle? Hugh Hefner as the 1997 keynote 
speaker? I would not be surprised. 
BEN TRIGG 
Junior, Sr. Edward's Hall 
• WHERE I'M CALLING FROM 
In defense of the satire of a certain 'best friend' 
I'm sure there are many of you sur­prised to see that I'm back, that I haven't crawled under a rock in shame after the abuse I received in last Thursday's "Letters to the Editor." I was quite the whipping boy in more than one letter as my previous column appears to have ruffled some feathers. Good. I'm back and, in the wise words of Elton 
Thomas Coyne 
.John, ''I'm still standing, yea, yea, yea ... " 
For those of you who aren't Viewpoint page regulars, two weeks ago I wrote a column entitled, "In defense of an undergraduate's best friend," in which I discussed in a sophisticated and erudite manner the issue of alcohol at Notre Dame. Actually it was an admittedly ridiculous piece in which I took up the common undergrad point of view that drinking and drunkenness are sacro­sanct. I tried to expose an attitude that is so twisted it is hilarious. I took a seri· ous issue, had some fun with it, and everybody had a good laugh. Well, not everybody. 
Last Thursday's Observer was graced with a letter from a fellow undergrad, Mr. S.E. Oross, which described my arti­cle as "a monumentally pathetic and dangerously ignorant piece of writing." Gee, thanks. 
And the criticism only gets stronger from there. I write for response so I was naturally thrilled by the fact that I was able to illicit such a vehement reaction from someone. I appreciate any legiti· mate and honest critique of my work and I normally wouldn't devote an entire column to someone's opinion of my previous one. But that assumes that one's rebuttal is intelligent and based on an understanding of what I wrote. Your response, Mr. Oross, was definitely not. 
I was going to let it slide, I was going to be mature and say, "Hey, he missed the point of your article, let it go. He's got bigger things to worry about-he put his name on a letter that panned drinking and praised DuLac." I was going to be big and ignore the criticism. But I don't think I will. His letter not only called me an idiot whose mind is something "Notre Dame should be ashamed... that it has produced," but he filled his letter with implied judgments on my character. Instead of separating the words from the writer, instead of reading closely and trying to actually grasp the meaning of my column, Oross aligned me with date rapers and drunk drivers. 
I respond in a personal manner because his attack was personal. Date rape and dnnk driving are not casual topics and when you use them in the same sentence as my last name, one better k•1ow that I am going to have a major ,Jroblem with it. Your letter sound• J like fighting words to me Oross. You called me out in front of the entire student body and I've got some fighting words of my own. 
You were impressed that such a rotted mind as mine could correctly use the term 'exorbitant.' Actually, I can use lots of big words because I read books (like Billy Madison says-"Reading is GOOD"). When you read books sometimes you hear things that are hard to believe and that is when you are supposed to think about why someone would say them. Sometimes they call this satire. Sometimes satire is fun. 
Two weeks ago I tried to think of something fun that is on every Notre Dame student's mind that I could write about. I came up with two things: beer and sex. Then I thought about things that Notre Dame students actually do, so I wrote a column on beer. The student body approaches its imbibing with manic fervor-some students, myself among them, are actually proud in a way that Notre Dame is the #1 binge drinking school in the country. That is sad. That is sick. That is ridiculous. But that is also hilarious. So I wrote a col­umn making fun of my own attitude, an attitude shared by many undergrads here. 
I was disturbed by your response not only because of its irresponsible person­al attacks, but because it brings up what I believe to be a problem at Notre Dame much bigger than drinking. Your letter is a perfect example of the ugliness of the complacent Notre Dame mind-a mind plagued by tunnel vision and will­ingness to accept things at face value. Your letter reminds me that while we say we are here to think and examine, time and time again we refuse to do so. 
Your reaction was so ignorant of any element of sarcasm that I wondered if my column was to blame for not making the satire clear enough. But in your own letter you affirm that in my column there were utterly ridiculous statements that are not even worth printing because they are so unbelievable. So why believe them? Instead of attributing my "ludicrous" statements to my idiocy, why not think if there is something I might be trying to accomplish through such outlandish, bombastic language. 
You say that I was speaking "presum­ably with a straight face." Why presume that? When I wrote that piece my tongue was so far in my cheek I still haven't gotten it out. My column sound· ed like something Homer Simpson would write-do you honestly think I wrote, "BEER, GLORIOUS BEER!" with a straight face? 
As an educated reader you shouldn't presume anything from the writer. Yet you have been programmed to read straightforwardly, to swallow what you are told without thinking what is actual· ly being said. Too many students here want answers without questions; they want to learn without having to think. This is more than an issue of you failing to read between the lines, it is a broader issue of narrow mindedness and lax intellectual curiosity. We study, we learn, we get good grades-but do we stop enough to think, to question, to look at the bigger picture? 
We both wrote in order to expose a serious issue at Notre Darne-l wanted to do it through laughter, while you chose to address the issue through a heavy handed, pedantic, and paranoid proclamation of the evils of drinking. Within my joking I made critiques of the University's policies and offered legiti­mate suggestions for dealing with the binge problem at Notre Dame, but I wanted it to be fun, something people would read, something people would tell their friends to check out or put up out­side their door. And judging by the rna· jority of students' reactions, that is exactly what happened. Every person that laughed or cut it out was thinking in some part of their head, "This is hilarious-this is ridiculous-this is absurd-this is me." 
I suppose a satire isn't any goq_d if everybody gets it-people who both liked and hated my column missed it completely, and I can accept that. And if you don't like my writing, I can accept that too. But I cannot accept your per· sonal insults and attacks on my charac­ter. Several of your statements were way out of line, especially your claim that my "idea of foreplay is waiting for the girl to pass out." For your informa­tion Oross-I never have to wait for that. (SARCASM-can you recognize it now? I make sure to point it out before you write a letter to student affairs calling me a sexual harasser.) 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 


ACCE-NT 
page 10 Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
r 
r 
r 
r 
f 
r. 
r 
f 
r • 
, 
r r 
• ACCENT ASKS... 
What do YOU think is the best PlaY of all time and whY? 

" 'A Man for All Seasons' because Sir Thomas Moore is such a stud." 
Dave Preissler Junior, Stanford 
" 'Anything Goes' because that is my motto in life." 
Angie Kizer Sophomore, Badin 

" 

" Waiting for Godot' because I could see myself as one of the main characters in twenty years." 
Kyle Smith Freshman, Flanner 
" 'Les Miserables' because it is so over­whelming." 
Jennifer Coleman Sophomore, Lewis 


"Rocky Horror Picture Show." 
Dan Buhrfiend Junior, Fisher
• 
" 'Miss Saigon' because it is a great love story." 
Lori Dolan Sophomore, Farley 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
•

Barefoot 1n t 
Theatre department kicks off year with Neil 
By PATRICK WACKERLY 
Accent Writer 
I
n today's modern world of the­ater, very few shows enjoy a long life-span. On Broadway, the need for profit forces all but the most successful of big-named musicals into closing, while the few works that survive often offer little in the way of quality (hey, peo­ple actually shelled out good money to see a bunch of guys singing on roller-skates in "Starlight Express" and, thanks to the blind masses flocking once again to the name of Andrew Lloyd Webber, "Cats," a show devoid of any sort of worth or merit, is currently enjoying the longest run of a show on Broadway). Reflecting on the cur­rent nature of Broadway, where non-musicals hardly ever enjoy the popularity or longevity of their harmonious brethren, one will begin to appreciate the comedies and dramas that have withstood the test of time. We here at Notre Dame have the opportunity to view one of the shows -Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park," which opens this evening, the first of this year's mainstage produc­tions. 
Simon's "Barefoot" explores several days in the life of a newly­wed couple, Paul and Corie Bratter. As the show opens, the couple has just purchased their new home, a three-room apart­ment in a brownstone located in mid-town Manhattan. They soon discover that living in their new abode brings a whole new horde of complications into their life, ranging from the six-flight climb tions to Staten Island and par­takes of more than his share of alcohol. 
The main crux of the show comes after the afore-mentioned trip to Staten Island, which also serves as a blind-date for Velasco and Carie's widowed mother. Paul and Corie have a falling out while reflecting on the day's events, mainly because Corie accuses Paul of being a boring "stuffed shirt," who is "too logical to walk bare­foot in the park" while he insists that she is immature and impulsive. The audi­ence is left in suspense (Yeah, right. This is a com­edy. I think we all know it's going to end happily) as to whether this newly formed union will dissolve into divorce, while also wonder­ing what will become of Velasco and Carie's mom. The previous night, Velasco was gentleman enough to offer Carie's rather inebri­ated mother a ride home, and, from that point on, no one has heard from either person. Yet, do not fear, gentle reader, all comes to a peaceful resolution, with the boring Paul and the equally bor­ing Mrs. Banks going off to live in seclusion in small cabin in north­ern Kentucky while Velasco and Corie plan an expedition to climb 


K ( j u 2 s t  
kidding, but it does end happily).  

The cast is anchored down by Melanie Garman and Craig Pinza, playing the roles of Corie and Paul. Both are solid actors and promise to give strong perfor­mances. Suzanne Mignanelli por­trays Carie's mother, Mrs. Banks. However, the most promising star 
Redford and Fonda go: 
A review of Gene Saks' 1967 movie 'Barefoot 
in the Park' 
By JOSEPH WEILER Assistant Accent Editor 
T
he University of Notre Dame will open it's theatrical sea­son tonight with the hit Broadway play, "Barefoot in the Park". If, however, your schedule keeps you from the posh accom­modations of the Washington Auditorium, you may want to head over to the local video store and check it out for a private viewing. 
Robert Redford and Jane Fonda in a Neil Simon comedy. There could not possibly be afilm which appeals to such a large audience but is known by so few people. ""Barefoot in the Park" is a fan­tastic movie in all respects. Directed by Gene Saks, "Barefoot" is a simple film. In fact, it sticks to the original script almost exact­ly. And why shouldn't it? The screenplay is written by Neil Simon himself. But with a lot more room to work with, Simon is able to open up the characters and give us a more defined set­ting. The transition from the play to the movie is so amazingly exe­cuted that it loses not a single iota of what made the original Broadway play a success in the first place. 
The plot is concise and very easy to understand. Paul Bratter (Robert Redford) and his newly­wed wife Corie (Jane Fonda) move into a "cozy" little apartment after a six day honeymoon at the Plaza Hotel. Paul is somewhat of a stuffed shirt while Corie tends to be be more outgoing and flirta­tious. 
The major action of the movie takes place during a period of two days. The first day consists of mostly physical comedy -a very whimsical phone man, an old, wheezing delivery man, and the flight of stairs from hell. Paul and Corie live on the top floor of a five story apartment complex with no elevator (does this remind any­body of Morrissey Manor?) In fact, it seems that anyone who enters the room is required to be out of breath for at least five min­utes, with the exception of Victor Velasco (Charles Boyer). The only thing left to do is throw in a timid widowed mother and the real action is ready to get rolling. 
Paul is an aspiring lawyer whose idea of having a good time is playing it safe. Redford acts the part perfectly. He is all too effec­tive at ignoring the advances of his sex-crazed wife in favor of worrying about the daily tribula­tions of his life. Redford seems to carry a certain sexual mystique with him from movie to movie, and he loses nothing of it in his performance in "Barefoot". 
When combined with the sassy performance of Jane Fonda the result is electric. They have such great chemistry that even Madam Curie would be jealous. Sticking with really bad cliches, Redford is the salt to Fonda's pepper. It is this cosmic relationship which makes the movie work. It gives the film its pizazz. 
Paul and Corie are not alone in their endeavors, though. Carie's mother (Milfred Natwick) and the 

their younger eoun­ _.___,...._---,  ence is to view him  
tt~rparts.  Mother  as a bad guy.  After  
btHtrs tlu~  attitude of  all,  if  he  weren't  
lwr young son-in-law  around making life  
while Vnlaseo shares  utterly unpredictable  
C01·ie's passion for  for the Bratters, Paul  
lif't~.  Boyer  and  would not look like  
Natwit:k are given the  such a  fuddy-duddy  
job of showing what  in the eyes of Corie.  
Hedf'ord and Paul and  •  They don't call him  
Corio  an~  doing  the "Blue-beard of  
wrong.  They play the  48th street" for noth­ 
part  of  the  wise  ing.  Yet, as the play  
Plders, yet dnmon­ progresses, we find  
strate  the  need  to  out that Velasco has  
maintain the fnrvor of  Photo c ourtesy of Paramount Pictures  far more depth than  
youth.  Natwiek does  Rober t Redford and Jane star in the 1967  for which  we  give  
a  particularly good  Fonda film "B arefoot in the Park."  him credit.  The film  
job in this role.  She  is just begging the  
maintains  a  quiet  audience to blame  

ACC~NT 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 page 11 


• 
18 Auditor1um 
,,'imon favorite 
;nnms to bn Michael O'Malley in 
his performancn of Velasco. <\rnwd with a funky costume and and accent whieh appears to be ttn amalgam of many European dialects, lw appears to run the livns of' his rwighbors from his hasP of opnrations in his alcove in tlw attic. While his character itsnlf appears to bn somewhat ·lidwrl for a contemporary audi­~rJcn, O'Mallt~y is a strong actor, 1ringing with him a sense of 
Vei'VI'. 
orr the stage, thn production is hnad1~d by director Mark Pilkinton. Thn snt, which is the interior of tho Bratter's apartnwnt and indudns a rnally BIG skylight and two working sinks, was ~~signed by Bruce Auerbach. .ight design for tho show was Htndlt~d by snnior Jnf'f' Dodson, ·tnd tlw costumes were crafted by {il:harcl Donnnlly. Our currently ·trnsstHI-out stage manager ndmw Hnuland heads the vari­
JUS other backstage aspects, ineluding tlw set change crew (Clwck out the shorter guy moving tlw couch -it's your very own rnviewer, in the llesh). 
The only of whetlwr or not this 
ill hn truly a great show has nothing to do with the capable cast, the din~ction. or the crew !wiping off in the wings. Hather, tl11~ most t:ritical part will he the audienee reaction to the jokes, 
vhieh lie in a rathr.r out-dated text. 
Many of the jokes might fall llat ·imply because they aren't under­-toocl by the audience. For exam­lin, the roln of the telephone epair person, a woman of wis­lom who sheds insight into the lives of our lead couple while 
nlivnring a phone, has no coun­terpart in our mid-<J(J's eulture l'his previt~wer is not even old 
•nough to n~member the monop­tly that was Ma Bell nor the 

dent tickets are $6. 
ng casual in the park 
upstairs neighbor, Velasco, are piece that has been perfectly cast. party to the zany backwardness of With a strong Albanian accent and "Barnf'oot". Thny snrve primarily an even stronger stage presence, as foils to tlw two main charac­he does not disappoint his audi­lt~rs. They are older and their ence. llis character is somewhat rolns are reversed. Other than difficult to define. that, tlu~y are exactly the same as The initial reaction of the audi­
n~s1~rve throughout most of the him for everything that goes movie, hut every once and a while wrong, but he is essentially a very tlw vigorous cry of' that fabled nice gentleman. inrwr child rings out with a tri­The characters alone, however, umphant laugh. do not make the movie. As good 
Boyer is the final character in a as they are, if the same movie quaint custom of having a phone delivered to your home). 
The entire role Is dated, and, as such looses much of its comic potential. The conllicts and jokes found in the script seem, at the least, to be rather cliched. It seems at times that one is watch­ing a collection of weeknight's sit­coms' greatest hits -jokes that have been heard time and time again, and every character will be instantly familiar to the audience. 
Yet for every joke that might fall flat, this play has at least two oth­ers that will leave the audience rolling in the isles. Most would seem to be generated from the Velasco character. The audience will not help but ~njoy his odd style of entering his house through his window and other mischievious activities. 
However, director Pilkinton says that he enjoys this perspective on history that the play represents. It opened in October 1963, a month before the kennedy assasi­nation, and represents a seeming­ly more innocent time in American life. "Barefoot in the were to be put into a 1996 setting rather than that of the 1967 ver­sion, it would be extremely bor­ing. With no explosions, no mur­der, no crimes committed of any sort and no sizzling bedroom scene, the film relies on it's genre and locale. One is reminded of the old "Mary Tyler Moore Show" or the "Dick van Dyke Show" in all of their simplicity. When we hear the jokes now they are are old and cliched. But back in 1967 they were new and crisp and, surpris­ingly enough, they are actually funny. There is an intrinsic sense of awe watching a young, dashing Redford and a phenomenally efTervescent Fonda at work on the classic silver screen. Asking something like that to be modern­ized would be like asking Keanu Reeves to play Moses in "The Ten Commandments." It would lose its timelessness and be sent hurtling into the great black void where all of the other bad re­makes of good movies spend infin­ity. 
"Barefoot in the Park" puts it all together. With great actors, a fantastic writer, and a timeless setting, you can't go wrong. 
. ~y:l(AISERMEANY 
· ~ainl Mal]''$ At~;e.tir Edit()t· 
\N~ll, tlli$ Wf)ek's Aecent spread concerns the opening qf ":aarefoot in the Park" over at Wahsington Hall. Shipe both .the movie and the video have already been 
p~ . . , andl have yet to see either, 1thought that I'd gi this cohtrnn a different angle. In this day and age, -what exactly doesit mean to walk barHfoot in the park'? 
First, let's take the physical aspects of it. Would you · to take oil' your shoes and walk b<l.r(-(oot In l d•m't know about all of you, but I'm from In certain parts of the city, I wouldn't even to get out of the car, let alone go for a barefoot 111e city is beautiful and all, but I'm not too hip ~u~~JUll~ .the ~>oles of my fe(;lt a collection plate for bro­pr worse. But, I'm dealing with an extreme 
if you were walking in a beautiful, lush. quaint field, you would still run the risk of stepping on tul." l'tH me pose the question or ticks. You can't ev•en:,detecttbose suckers until the Lyme dis(;lase begins ·course. So even those of you from Iowa, or or Michigan cannot try this exercise 
I) (ll).$(}!\tlite<l: 1116 risk is far too great. S,p,$aoildn:g of risk; let's move on to the real topic of this of Neal Simon's endeavor concerns 
· ave just finished their honeymoon life together. Like I said 
• seen the play yet, but I did read 
the left, so I know what's going on. the play terrifies me. It's all 
~;.:.~:emnmitxn.ent. (durn~da~dum-dum) 
a Junior. I ba~ a friend who is . . . relatinship full of flowers, fuzzy parietal breaks. l sit back and watch, my former Bridget's Buddy says that · "stay in" with Mr. Right and watch TV. · on Must-See-TV night!!!! Suddenly er run is overshadowed by a. call from is constantly someone there to hold the 
shopping. Like a deer trapped in th~l teatllll~u~:~. I am paralyzed with fear. SEE WHAT'S HAPPENING? She is 
tSllc.k:ea in~o the beartrap of t~ommitment, and gnaw off a limb to save herself. Before be wedding invitations and I'll be walk­
in a very unflattering bridesmaid's is nothing compared to the sting of willface with her new husband. ·be living on the fifth floor in an 
b'uildi11g an elevator. aJ.ld fighting L'i•n•i•·"'·........'h." '"'~-n Pop·Tart. She'll start wearing '""""'"'...........rnllnel;totm patterns, and he'll lose his hair. to the bathroom with the door other's sentences. I'm telling you, 
:t:Q...nat:,PeJrl......but not to me. 
You s.¢~~xl'l10, the commitment trap. 1 mean, · . courts send committed people. t~srigbJ>xmental Doesn't that tell you onships? Can you not rMd Get committed, get sent to Arkham. roo smart for that! Or maybe it's that .......... I really haven't figured out 
):~;C)J.ri:qii'tm1ent:-st1y that I can't even get a pet. there! Fishes need to be by-the-seat-of-my-pants any dependents on my be mammalian or not! Even dinner me into a panic. I mean....they're just I.Jnchangeable. • Concrete. Unbreakable. <Is or are you breaking out into a cold sweat 
I don't have any guys to choose from. '~·~·~···n loser. No really, I'm not. There are .that write me from prlson beg· relaticmsll.ip, Real men, some even in their be up for parole any year now. 
..,,.,.,;;,,.,.,.,..,_ .....,.,.....,,,.,.,..marriage! So there! . find it hard to party with the Notre way that I do. They just want so h COtiiJ.riii~IllC:in.1tl 1ri.lean, just once I'd like to go to a 
. and make out w1th some random guy But they always call back, and DOESN'T ANYONE BELIEVE IN ANYMORE? and Paul, comm.ltment sntlres most of But I'm fighting it every Oh well, at least I'm in good company Mary's, You know the stereotype, None of 
-, 
-
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 · cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
r 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR need 1 Washington Student ticket, HELP! will trade 2 Washington GA's Have Wash., Pitt., and A. F. GA's. 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT call cara 243-1185. I still need 4 WASH. GAs for 2 Air Force GA's! ! ! Will trade for B.C. tix or to highest
NOTICES 
(813)360·2243. call Chrissy @ 273-2580 Call219-634-1632 bidder. Stephen 607-336·7218 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S #######LGBT######## Hundereds of Students Are Earning ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL I need 2 Washington GA's and 4 Air NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED Attention all LESBIAN. GAY, Free Spring Break Trips & Money! 232·0061. Force GA's. Please call Jessica @ ALL GAMES HOME PERSONAL BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas 273-5833. AND AWAY students, faculty, and staff: Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! 232-0058 #######LGBT######## National Coming OUT Week is this $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! Need a student ticket for the 24 HRS. Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, week. That wonderful group of www .springbreaktravel.com CALL 243-1287 WASHINGTON game? Call Mike at BUY • SELL • TRADE BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING LGBT students is showing a variety 1-800-678-6386 4-4436 students, faculty, and staff: of films for the event. Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA. TICKET-MART, INC. National Coming OUT Week is this 
•••FREE TRIPS & CAsw•• Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683 I need 2 GA's for Washington, not week. That wonderful group of Wed. Wigstock Find out how hundreds of student in the student section please. Call WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S LGBT students is showing a variety Thurs. The representatives are already earning Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game Colleen at 288-0494. ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL of films for the event. Harvey Milk Film FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH Cristina@ x2339 232-0061. with America's #1 Spring Break Need a Black Crowes ticket for the Wed. Wigstock 
For times and locations, call the a­company! Sell only 15 trips and Need lots of Washington tix-GA or SB concert on 1 0/12? face value, $$$$$$ Thurs. The LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, student. Call Meghan @232~7839. call Ashleigh at 4·4985. I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS Harvey Milk Film wear your purple fibbons on Friday Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! ALL HOME GAMES. 
and join us for our picknic at CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS NEED 2 GAs for Washington game! Needed: 3 Wash. and 5 Air Force 272-6551 For times and locations, call the a­Stonehenge on Friday from 11:00 ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! Call Megan at 243·9047 GA's. Call Eric at 271-9069. LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to to 2:00. TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­n. d. tickets for sale wear your purple ribbons on Friday #######LGBT######## EL NEED GA for Washington game. I NEED 4 WASHINGTON TICK­271 1635 and join us for our picknic at 
(800)95-BREAK! Call Suzy X4034 ETS, EITHER STUDENT OR GA'S. Stonehenge on Friday from 11:00 1!!1111!!!!1!!!!1!!!!!!!!!1!!!!1!!!1!!!!1111!!!!1!!!!!!1! PLEASE CALL MICHELLE AT 288· $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX to 2:00. !Ill! SPRING BREAK 97. CANCUN, need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$ 1542!!1 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M·F #######LGBT######## Anyone interested in playing disc PANAMA CITY. BEST HOTELS, x2646 216·650·5264 7-9 PM EDT M·F golf, call x0509 LOWEST PRICES. STUDENT Wash. GA for sale. Hey Montana, write that number !!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!1!11!1!1!!!!!!1!!!1!!!!!!11!1!1!!!1!!! REPS NEEDED. FREE TRIP + Rich Alum Needs WA GA's B/0 X1308 NEED 2-4 GA TIX down. !!!! COMMISSION. $ (800)484-3498 (206)621-3485 ALL HOME GAMES. 
EXT. 6531 HAVE RUTGERS GA'S, NEED CALL 276-2010/288·2877 AFT 5 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­Need 3 Rutgers GA's PITT GA'S. TRADE? 277-3609. COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! cal piano t111ining has openings for FREE TRIPS & CASH! Sell SKI Call Erik @3807 <<>Dave Matthews Tix<>> COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! intra. piano lessons, children 8 & & SPRING BREAK beach trips. WASHINGTON TIX NEEDED, 2 Tix for sale call Mickey 1350 The highest quality full-color up. call Meaghen @ 271-7933 Hottest places & coolest spaces. !@#$%"%"&&•)."%"$%@$@#!•" HAVE RUDGERS TIX TO TRADE copies are now available at 
Call immediately Student Express, CALL MIKE 243-9366. ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs THE COPY SHOP THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Inc. 1-800-SURFS-UP. NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE FOR WASHINGTON. LaFortune Student Center Breakfast Inn has space available Need 2 non-converted GA's togeth­CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 Phone #631-COPY for football wknds. 5 Rooms with FREE TRIPS & CASH! Individuals BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR er for Wash,$180 for pair private baths, $70 -$90, and organizations wanted to sell ND EXPERIENCE @0538 GA Football Tix • Buy/Sell RUSTED ROOT IS COMING!!!!!! Middlebury, 30 miles frdm campus. SKI & SPRING BREAK beach trips. 67 4-7645 • No student or student Tix go on sale at the LaFun info Toll Road, Exit #107, Hottest places & coolest spaces. CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL 4 Wash. GA's for sale-face value! conv. desk on Wed., 10/9. $13.50 for stu­1-800-418-9487 Check out our web site: www.stu­john_d._potter@notes.pw.com Call Steven 4x1159 dents. Bring your ID, max 4 !D's per 
dentexpress.com Call immediately i need tix for washington. if u can person. GET 'EM WHILE YOU Textbooks bought/sold/traded Student Express, Inc. 1-800· !@##$%"&((•"•%"$#@$#$%."%. N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. help, please call RON at 288-9102. CAN!!! 5 blks south on ND Ave. SURFS-UP 219-232-2378 a.m. 233-2342. Pandora's Books. FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME 288-2726 p.m. Need 2 Air F. GA's DOING A 
Ride needed: BOSTON area for GAMES 235·3394 Amy 616·473·5825 LONDON PROGRAM OCT. break. $Will helppay 2 WASH. TIX FOR SALE APPLICATION?ILOST & FOUND I gas,etc.$ call X1408 ALUM NEEDS GA's BEST OFFER. NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS· YOU CAN TURN IT IN NOW, 
for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS CALLX3726 HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­YOU DON'T HAVE TO WAIT Lost 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK UNTIL OCTOBER 18. Golden Medallion of Jesus and His wash stu ticket for sale 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755· 

FOR RENT 
Sacred Heart I need 4 Wash. Tix•• Stud. or GA x4215 4273 Sentimentally Irreplaceable WALK TO CAMPUS Call Clare 243-9282 REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045 2·3·4·5 BEDROOM HOMES Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tix! G· 232-2595 I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's Please call Patti at (610)775·5144 My family needs Ga's to WASH Six months ago I kissed the best 
Found. Photo negative with two $$$Please call Laura$$$ Please help. thing that ever happened to me. exposures. One with 5 small chi!· Need a place to stay on football @ (219)284-4396 I NEED 2 WASHINGTON GA'S Jon -1889 Thank you for so many special dren and one with 3 small_,hildren weekends? CALL MIKE 243-9403 times! Luv, playing outside. Found near I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's -T 
Fitzpatrick Hall. Call Judy at1-Furnished apartment for short term $$$Please call Laura$$$ WASHINGTON STUDENT TIX NEED 2 GAS FOR WASH GAME 5380 or stop by 156 Fitzpatrick Hall. rent. Full kitchen, living room, two @ (219)284-4396 FOR SALE, CALL 234-0913 FOR PARENTS Chestnut House B&B, bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287-PLEASE CALL KAREN X4421 St. Joseph, MI. REWARD 4876. Dave Mathews/Black Crowes NEED 1 WASH GA Elegantly decorated home over­REWARD 1st 1 0 Rows 232·0058 for sister. Call Joe @ PLEASE, NEED 2 AIR F GA'S looking Lake Michigan and only 40 REWARD ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 234-0826 ALICIA 243-1321 mins. from ND. 
ND-SMC EVENTS. Need 2 WASH. tickets Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK· Call Greg at23.18 2 reg. GAs for Wash. for sale Leaving for Fall Break? vate baths, full breakfasts & hors TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH ENDS. Call (219) 250·3150 I'd love your AF Tickets! 'Having d'oeuvres served fireside. BIRTHDAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SELL GA Wsh tix 2775931 friends in! Please call Jen or Sarah (616) 983-7413. 
243-0658. • 243·9019 CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE NEED 3 AF GA's Needed: 2GA's for AF game. Stepan Center Court Time ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE 1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL NOW. NEAR Anne 283-0165 Will pay $$$$. Call 4-4306. #@#@# scheduling meeting for any GAME. CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES NEED 4 PITT +2 AF GAs organizations wanting to reserve 
272-6306 NEED 4 TIX Needed: 2 pairs of GA's for 2 WASH Stud 288-9102 weekly court time at Stepan: CAMERA DESCRIPTION: FOR AIR FORCE Wash. Please call4·4306. Wednesday, Oct. 16 RICOH MODEL Z-1002. FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst FOR MY FAMILY Sell 1 Wash Stud GA 4pm -Montgomery Theatre home. Rms avail for football week­CHRIS @0788 $125 b/o @634·0538 1st Floor LaFortune. PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER· ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from BLACK CROWES GASTAT campus. 219.287.6797 I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S KISS HELP!! Need 3 Air Force Stud tix 860-651-1911. CALL STEVE AT •o867 Black Crowes: SB, 10/12, Row 0 or GA's. Pis call Anne @2625 Danny Mac hits the Big 21 tonight... Kiss: 10/15, 32nd row, floor Go to Bridget's and buy him a drink! 
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette FOR SALE WANTED: 2 WASH GAs or STUD. Call237·2111 or 234-5881 after Two Washington GA's needed for labelled "Letter Perfect1" on Wed upgrade FOR PARENTS. WILL 5pm family from Calif. Call Dave x2030 D.M. says:"No woman is a genius. Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found, Mac llci 20 meg RAM PAY OR TRADE 2 RUTG. GAs They are a decorative sex. They 
please call Jeanne @287-5467. 200 meg Hard Drive CALL DAVE @ 4-1913 NEED 2 WASH GA TIX. I need 2 non-student GAs for Air say nothing at all, but say it charm­Monitor CD Modem CONV. OR REG. Force. Call FRANK at 4-3323. ingly." Go to Bridget's and tell him Programs $800 NEED 4 AF GA'S FOR OUR CALL ALEX@ 232·7324 what you think. 
WANTED 
272 4258 PARENTS. CALL CHRISTINE OR Will trade 2 Rutgers tickets for 2 
SONIA @ 243-9433. USC tickets, call x0847. Ride needed: Fall Break ·to Mac llci 20 meg RAM ·wASH GA FOR SALE• Come hear what the buzz is about. n.e.PAINJ area. Will pay gas, etc. 200 meg Hard Drive WANTED: 2 WASH. GA'S. WILL EXCELLENT SEATS Desperately needed UW tickets. SKALCOHOLIKS Call 243·9357 Monitor CD Modem TRADE 2 PITT GA'S OR PAY LEAVE B/0@ 0878 Please call Carey @ 232-0885 return to Jazzman's nile Club 
Programs $800 CASH. CALL JILL 312·871-0970. Thursday, Oct 10 at 10:30 p.m.!! ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER 272 4258 NEED BC & WASH TIX Skankin' and scorin!l! RIVERFRONT HOME, $300 .STU­312-951-5008 DENT OR PROFESSIONAL 683· •••FOR SALE-WA & AF STUDENT I NEED 1 AIR FORCE GAI!II Asian American Association 3720 DAYS. TKT-B/01 234-9533••• NEED ONE GA FOR SENIOR'S PLEASE CALL KRISTIN X2623 WANTED 4 Tickets to AirForce General Meeting · 
FATHER-LAST CHANCE FOR Notre Dame Game. Call Collect Tuesday, Oct. 8, 1996,9 p.m.@ 
90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF HIM! 901-795-6724. Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge BARTENDER, part time evenings 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277·3569 PLEASE CALL BRIAN 287-4876 AIIWelcome and weekends. Cocktail, breakfast -> NEED WASH STUDENT ••FoR SALE WASH GA Christine and banquet SERVERS, part time LUGGAGE CARRIER for top of car, TIX CALL KEITH AT 0873 <--4-2699 Physics Tutor Wanted ••• for evening lounge and like new. $50. bless you For Physics 221 breakfast/lunch restaurant. Good 616·684-6249. WANTED: 3 GA or upgraded stu­FOR SALE AirForce StudTix pay and steady hours for experi­dent tix to the Air Force game . Call Christine 4·2699 Physics Guru needed! enced dependable people. Located REDUCED!! I • 92 GEO Tracker I NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS -Jamie 4-1501. Call Chris at x-1305. three miles from campus. Please $7,800 olb/o • only 54K, AIC PLEASE CALL X4121 2Wash.stud.tix apply in person, Varsity Clubs of red w/convertible top. Pascal I NEED WASH STUD TIX 243-9357 lv.offer on vmail Have you ever been in a Turkish America, Main and Edison in 687·1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h) 2597or2626 prison? You Have?!? Mishawaka. FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET 
BOOKLETS CALL 4 X4317 Washington GA 4 sale.1·4009. Lost: A gold gross wit h sentimental Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! 5pm-9pm. WANT 2 or 3 Non convert value. If found call Dave x1238 

TICKETS
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK NEED WASH GA'S FOR FAMILY GAs AF, John 634·4219 Packages available!! WILLING TO PAY$$$$$$$$$$$ W.B.­INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA· NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED PLEASE CALL 273-2687-MARK l~eed 4 GA's for Wash. at least Senior ND Band member needs Piay it like you mean it. TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! ALL GAMES HOME OR 243-9476· KATE two together and no student GA's. Wash GAs so parents & aunt can -Maud. Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS AND AWAY If you can help, please call Brian @ experience ND. Call Alyssa 1554 at 232-0058 HELP-NEED 2 WA GA'S OR STU x2182 Ruma. Grazie. Again. Beatrice 1-800-327-6013 24 HRS. TIX CALL KATIE 289-4922 NEED WASH TIX 
--or http://www.icpt.com BUY • SELL -TRADE Need 2 Air Force G.A.'s have 2 Pitt and 2 AF to trade any girl interested in playing on an Stud TIX BOOK Call 634·1632 Call Pete M. 287-5277 off-campus volleyball team, please Ride needed during Fall Break TICKET-MART, INC. 4 Sale -X1413 call Erin @277-2598. anywhere in New England area, up for grabs! 1 Wash GA for sale, b/o NY, or NJ. Will help w/ driving and need 6 GA's for Airforce. Call Cara, NEED 1 OR 2 WASH GA'S 2 Washington GA's! ! ! Mike 234·8129 It wont be long Spicoli, I promise. gas. Please call #1358 Ashley 243-1185. PLEASE CALL COREY @4101 Best Offer, 634-1632 Leave offer on machine Just be patient. 5a Shout Outs!! 




Daniel J. Parrish Salem, OR BBA Business Management University of Portland, 1996 

Thomas J. Williams Western Springs, IL BS Mechanical Engineering University of Notre Dame, 1995 
A M. 
Sugarland, TX BA History BS Chemical Engineering University of Notre Dame, 1996 
Mark A. Woodmansee Uncasville, CT BS Government/International Studies JDLaw University of Notre Dame, 1993, 1996 
The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes The Members of its 1996-97 Candidate Class at 


Moreau Seminary 
For information about the Holy Cross Candidate Program: 
Rev. John Conley, CSC 
Rev. Patrick Neary, CSC 
Vocation Directors Moreau Seminary PO Box 541 Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219)631-6385 
Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 

Jason A. Spak Upper St. Clair, PA BA Government/Public Service University of Notre Dame, 1995 



,........--J~----------­
I
I ~, 
I ! 
l 
/.• 
I
t 
I 
t 
• 
t 
t 
~ ~ ~ 
•
t 
l 
I 

Wednesday, October 9, 1996
pagel4 The Observer • SPORTS
• NBA 
Parish impresses Jordan in camp 

By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 
Asked if any young players had impressed him in training camp, Michael Jordan imme­diately responded by commending the man who has played more games than any­one in NBA history . 
"Young? Chief is the bright side of camp right now," he said, referring to 43-,year-old center Robert Parish. 
"His game is steady no mat­ter who he plays against or with," Jordan said Tuesday. "And he's the first player on the court every day. His enthusiasm is just as strong as if he were young again." 
Parish, who won three cham­pionships with the Boston Celtics during the 1980s, said Chicago -the NBA's oldest team -brings out the kid in him. 
"This is the most competi­
tive, intense camp I've been 
in," Parish said. "No nonsense. 
All business. I love that. It has 
to do with all the champions 
they have here." 
Parish has played in 1,568 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Local business seeks light assembly lirie workers, full or part time positions avail­able. (Great job for students) $6.00 start­ing wage. 
For more info., 
contact Becky Metzler@ 289-0385 ext 258. 

regular-season games. He ranks 13th on the all-time list in scoring (23,173), sixth in re­bounding (14,626) and fifth in blocked shots (2,342). 
He is the only newcomer to a team that won 72 regular-sea­son games last season and rolled to the title. Bulls coach Phil Jackson sees the 7-footer as an insurance policy for starting center Luc Longley and backup Bill Wennington. 
"We're amazed with his abil­ity to compete, but I hate it when a guy I played against is still playing," the 51-year-old Jackson said. 
Parish planned to retire after spending the past two seasons with the Charlotte Hornets. 
"But I thought this would be 
a great opportunity for me," 
he said. "The chance to win 
another championship ­
that's what drove me out of 
retirement." 
Nat Hickey, who was born in 
1902 and played one game for 
Providence during the 194 7-48 
season, is the only man in NBA 
history to play past his 43rd 
birthday. Parish will become 
the second when the Bulls 
open Nov. 1 at Boston. 
There couldn't be a more ap­propriate place for Parish to begin his league-record 21st season. For 15 years, he was the Celtics' man in the middle. Flanked by Larry Bird and Kevin McHale, he centered perhaps the best frontcourt combination ever to play the game. 
The Golden State Warriors drafted Parish in 1976 but traded him to Boston for Joe Barry Carroll in 1980. The deal, which also gave the Celtics the draft pick they used to select McHale, is considered one of the most lopsided in sports history. 
"The Warriors insisted on playing him in the high post and the offense didn't work," said Derrek Dickey, who played with Parish at Golden State and now is the Bulls' radio analyst. "So after a few years, they gave up on him. Big mistake." 
Jackson won't revamp his 
famed triple-post offense for 
Parish, who probably will play 
no more than 15 minutes most 
games. But, the coach said, 
"We've made some subtle dif­
ferences to give him a little 
more room posting up when 
he's in the game." 
PRINCIPLES of SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 

Americans are living longer than ever. So it's quiteIl.possible you'll. spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'll need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyle you'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or research. 
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat. 
The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to your regimen as you go along. ,. 
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contribute through your employer's payroll system. You 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses.1 
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 
I. Slandaril d Ptlflr'.l huuran~e &JingAnaly.tU, 1995; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lipper~Dirrdtw'Analytical Data, 1995 (Quarterly). For more complete inform~tion, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842~2733, extension 5509, for a prospectus. 
Read the prospectus carefully before you mvest or aend money. TIAA~CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc., distributes CREF certificates. ~~ 

Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
Interhall 
continued from page 20 
play, Keough scored on a long pass from Brian Perez to Dave Voitier. The extra point was missed, but Keough managed to hang on for the victory. Keough, despite its mediocre record (1­1), still feels confident of a championship run. 
"Looking at our last two games," Strobel commented, "we feel confident we'll end up with a 3-1 record !wading into the playolls." 
Morrissey 28, Off-Campus 7 
In the most anticipated game of the intBr-hall regular season, the MorrissBy Manorites came out and thoroughly dominated the OfT-Campus Crime, winning by a whopping score of 28-7. This battle of the unbeatens proved interesting from the get­go. Off-Campus fumbled on their very first series, and it was recovered by Morrissey's Bob Glynn. The Manor immediately tested the Crime defense, hand­ing to Mark Tate, who promptly rambled for a 50-yard touch­down run. The Crime attempted to tie up the score on their next 
The Observer • SPORTS 
possession, but again a fumble halted their drive and the Manor took over. Morrissey made the Crime pay again, but this time in the form of a long, grinding drive that ended in a two-yard plunge by Tate. Quarterback John Polk made a couple of key plays with nice runs and two beautiful passes. 
The Crime came back strong near the end of the. half with a drive all the way down the field, only to be thwarted at the goal line by the Morrissey defense. The second half opened just like the first had ended, with Mark Tate once again taking ofT on a thirty yard touchdown scamper. 

LEADING WITH MY CHIN Joy Leno HorperCollins • HC 
List 22.00 
NEW YORK nMIS 
HARDCOVER BESTSELLER$ 
STORE HOURS MON-SAT: 1 OAM':" 1 OPM, SUN: 1 1 AM-7PM 
COOKING FOR HEALTHY UVING 
Jane Fonda 
Turner-HC 
DON'T BLOCK THE
List 29.95 
BLESSINGS PaHi LaBelle 
Putnam· HC 
List 24.95
35% OFFALL 
Sole ends October 17, 1996. 
Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 
THE FIRM BMG CHOOSE FROM: 
Abs, Hips, lh~hs Sculphng; Complete Aerobic Weight Training; Time Crunch Worlcoutor Tough Aerabk MU. 


TOLEDO, SPAIN 
Information meeting with Professor Olivia R. Constable 
Thursday, October 10, 1996 
4:30PM 
1 20 Hayes-Healy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer uestions 
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS 
of St. joseph County 
Attention!Attention!Attention! 
Are you interested in being the best you can be??? Come learn about becoming a Big Brother role model! 

Don't miss this great opportunity to give your help! 
() You'll be glad you did! 0 
' ' 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
I 
~ 
t 
~ 
I 
•
• 
r 
Football 
continued from page 20 
Otherwise, the Husky de­
fense, led by linebacker and 
Butkus award candidate Ink 
Aleaga and lineman Jason 
Chorak, will be at Powlus' 
throat. 
One of the ways to counter a full blitz, besides having deep­threat speed at the receiver ·position, is to run the option. Against Ohio State, the Irish ran the option 10 times for 104 
yards, numbers too big to ignore. As a consequence, the offense may run some option plays to keep Washington's defense honest. 
And for certain, one man who can run that option is Jarius Jackson. 
"I think Jarius Jackson would like to get on the field," Holtz said. "It is possible that a second team could be substi­tuted for a series or a certain segment of them; that is al­ways possible." 
Running the option would bring the safeties back off the line of scrimmage, opening up 
the interior running game and freshman Deke Cooper may get due to injuries to Jeremygiving whichever quarterback the nod to enter the starting Akers.... The squad has not is behind the center some line-up.... Tailback Autry given up hope for the National breathing room. Denson is recovering from Championship. "We talk about 
The option at Notre Dame? surgery on a broken finger. it; you always try to find a Who knows, maybe it'll work. Due to a splint, he may not be way," admitted Denson. "The 
IRISH NOTES: Free safety able to receive punts or catch one bad thing about not con­Jarvis Edison has been expe­passes out of the backfield .... trolling your own destiny is riencing back spasms, and al­Jerry Wisne will return that you have to depend on 
though he is expected to be through the revolving door at other teams to do the job for fine for Saturday's game, left guard to start against UW you. There is still a chance." 

When: Thursday, October 10, 1996 • 7:00-8:30p.m. Where: The University Club, Main Lounge What: Representatives and the University of Notre Dame 
graduates from Morgan Stanley will be present to discuss: 
• 
The Investment Banking Industry 

• 
Opportunities in the Financial Analyst Program 


Refreshments will be served 
, 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
RETREAT
~ 
DATES: 
~ 
FORMS 
AVAILABLE: 
~ 
~ 
SIGN UP DEADLINE:
~ 
~ 
CONTACT:
~ 
~ 
COST:
~ 
[!] 
-
otre 
~ 
ame 
~ 
ncounter 
~ 
~ 
A WEEKEND 
~ 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY 
~ 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with others, to deepen 
~ 
your understanding of yourself, your values, your 
relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian 
community and service. 
~ 
NOVEMBER 8-10, 1996 
~ 
~ 
October 7-11 
~ 
~ 
Before 4:00 p.m.-October 11 
~ 
~ 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
~ 
631-7800 
0MPUS 
~ 
$25.00 -MINISTRY 
~ 
[!] 
~. ~Z'a-~, e.s.e. 



0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

Wednesday, October 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN's INTERHAll 

Dismal weather hinders offensive performances 
By HEATHER CAMPBELL much slipping on the field and end of the game. 
Spons Writer losing grasp of the ball, The Pyros scored both their Pasquerilla East's two touch­touchdowns early in the first 
P.E. 14 Siegfried 6 downs and a single two-point half of the game. Kerry Hanley conversion dominated over passed over the goal line to put 
The light rain showered Siegfried's lone touchdown that the Pyros on the board, and not throughout the game, and after put them on the board at the long after, Ann Searow chal-


Friday, ()ctober 11th: 4:30-():30 ~ee Fooct FIELU HOUSE MALL \~zz .8~ ~ ~ 


. 





!lft;r 
LazYBabyBJ Ues Band 
AND CIGARS TOO!! 
If it rains, postponed to Friday before Air Force Game 
lenged Siegfried for a two-point conversion and gained two more points for the Pyros, mak­ing the score 8-0. When Siegfried gave the ball back to the Pyros four downs later and no score, Pyro Melissa Gorman caught a winning pass and gave PE their final score of the night, 14-0. 
Siegfried never gave up, and with intimidating center Janelle Hansen protecting quarterback Jennifer Laurie from the firey Pyros, defenders were seldom able to tag Laurie and bring her down. In the second half of the game, Laurie sent a perfect spi­ral to Siegfried Offense player Becca Grayville, and although that got Siegfried closer to the line, the ball was given back to the Pyros with no score. Not until two interceptions later, and a big collision between two of Siegfried's players, did Siegfried score their first touch­down. While trying to intercept the Pyro ball, Sarah Lett collid­ed with one of her own, knock­ing her head silly. Although the Pyros dominated yet another football game, Siegfried's Lett felt that "even though we didn't play too well in the first half, we picked it up in the second and had a real good game." 
P.W. 8 Off-Campus 6 
The Weasels and Bulls played quite a battle last night, and al­though both teams showed ex­treme talent and effort, Pasquerilla West walked off with the win at 8-6. The first few seconds of the game were crucial for PW, as Mary Hepburn picked up the 0/C ball and made an award-winning interception on the first play. With loud cheer on the purple side, the Weasels went on to push through the Off Campus defense, and Mary Laflin scored the one and only Weasel touch­down for the night. Kelly McMann followed the TD with a two point conversion, making the score 8-0 before Off Campus could blink. 
Even though the game began in favor of the Weasels, Off Campus fought right back, making outstanding fakes and reverses. Ann Jackoboice, renown for her speed and in­telligence on the field, faked a pass off on a reverse and ran over 60 yards for an Off Campus touchdown, success­fully dodging purple obstacles along the way. Failure to make any extra points left the score 8-6 for the rest of the night, with PW only two points ahead to take the win. 
Several interceptions took place throughout the game, and as 0/C came closer to the goal line for a second score, Weasel defender Amanda Cahill inter­cepted a pass to change ball and field position. Weasel vet­eran Cahill demonstrated skill and ease on the field, and was on the All-Star team last sea­son. She apparently has not lost a bit of her touch as she contin­ues to intercept and score for the PW Weasels. 
Knott 0 Farley 0 
This game was filled with mud, rain, sketchy calls made by the referees, laughs, grunts, and numerous interceptions, but unfortunately no score. Angel Siobhan O'Brien began the game with an interception, giving Knott a chance to begin the game with the advantage on the field. However, no score evolved out of this field gain, and at one point, Offensive player Kristin Langan ran with the ball in confidence, but gained little yardage as she tried to dodge the green Farley players on the field. More yardage was gained on a hori­zontal level than on a vertical level. Smiles erupted from the sidelines, but still, no score. 
The second half of the game screamed ncar winning plays, but due to the intense rain showers, hands kept losing grip of the ball. Angel .len Green began the score of interceptions late in the second half. but Farley's Kelly Shannon turned right around and intercepted it back, once again giving Farley possession and hope for a score. As Farley fought against the rain and the tough Angel defense, O'Brien performed her second interception of the night and gave Angel's hope again. Kathleen Sullivan sprinted past loads of green Farley shirts, and just when it looked like she was home free, she was tagged and the play ended. After Farley gained possession for the last time of the night, Angel Clarrissa Zepeda intercepted the ball, was tagged, and the game was at an end. Although no score means no wins, it also means no losses, and both team celebrated with mud fights. 
page 18 
• WOMEN's WEEKEND INTERHALL RESUlTS 
McKallop rallies PW, Slammers, Chicks win 
By PATTY ANN HANLON Sports Writer 
Pasquerilla West 12 Farley 0 
In the battle between Farley's Finest and the Purple Weasels from Pasquerilla West, the PW Weasels ran away with the game, winning 12-0. The win was the second shutout for the Weasels after a win last week against the Lewis Chickens. After the losing to PE and Off­Campus, the second shutout proved that PW is back to play hard. 
The outstanding teamwork between the quarterback and other team members helped the Weasels win Sunday after­noon. 
In the last second of the first half, a defensive penalty oc­curred and the down was re­played. The PW quarterback, Liz McKallop threw to captain, Kelly McMahon, scoring the first touchdown of the game. As the battle continued, Farley moved the ball back and PW Sophomore Amanda Cahill (DB) intercepted the ball. A thirty­yard pass thrown by McKallop to Mary Laslin, winning the game for the Weasels. 
The loss against PW was an­other disappointment for Farley. Farley had lost 6-0 on Thursday night to Off-Campus. 
Julie Shepard, the captain of Farley, commented, "We have a good team, but the tough calls hurt us." 
Siegfried 7 Off-Campus 0 
After last week's scoreless tie with Farley's Finest, Siegfried came back this Sunday and slammed Off-Campus with a 7­0 win. Although Off-Campus had been trying to improve their season record with a win last week over Farley, they could not compete against the Slammers dynamic teamwork. In the first drive of the game,. Carrie Flood scored a touch­down for Siegfried. As the game continued, the teams' strong defense kept the score­less. 
Siegfried captain Jen Laurie commented, "Our defense worked really hard to prevent Off-Campus from scoring. The offense was great, scoring on the first play. Hopefully, the game will begin a winning streak." 
Lewis 7 Knott 0 
"We are gradually getting better with each game." com­mented Knott coach, Joe Restizo. 
Despite a loss Thursday night to the Pasquerilla East Pyros and the loss Sunday to the Lewis Chickens, the Knott Angels seems satisfied with their progress. 
Knott captain, Maryclare Kenney agreed with Restizo. "We have been working really well as a team." 
Lewis's tough defense and swift moves proved unbeatable to the Angels. The only touch­down of the game was scored on a pass from the Lewis quar­terback to Beth Wilde. Anne Blast scored the extra point for the Chickens, making the score 7-0. 
Lewis was happy with the win over Knott after losing to Pasquerilla West last Thursday night. 
Lewis captain, Angie Auth commented, "The offense did a great job and the defense held Knott back." 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 9, 1996 

Low scoring affairs 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
By NICOLE JOHNSON Sports Writer 
Sunday was a day of shutouts for women's interhall football. The three games that were played proved to all there that interhall at Notre Dame is not just powder puff. 
In the first contest, the Wild Women of Walsh Hall suffered their first defeat of the season at the hands of the Howard Ducks, 6-0. Kim Ryan, captain of the Walsh squad, cited the absence of key players as a cause for the loss. Badin and Lyons Halls were next to take to the gridiron on a day seemingly made for football. It was Lyons who roared to victory 13-0 with the help of a strong, alert defense. 
You are the star! 
Come show your stuff at 
Open-Mike Talent Night 
This Thursday, October lOth 8 ... 10 PM LaFortune Ballroom 
Sign up early at the LaFortune front desk and the dining halls on 
Wednesday or just show up! 
Whoever has the best act receives 2 FREE Rusted Root concert tix! 
•Singing • Dancing 
•Comedy Skits • Music • Poetry 
It was defender Maureen Hill, with three interceptions, one of which was returned for a touch­down, who earned top honors for her team. A pass from quar­terback Kathy Tschanz to Kerry Callahan accounted for the remaining touchdown. Lyons now stands at 2-0. 
Finally, Pangborn took on Breen-Philips in the final game of the day. Pangborn, led by captain Stacie Babi, shut down the B. P. offense to take the game 13-0. 
The new rules regarding blocking, while irksome to some defensive lineman, do not appear to be a problem for the teams. The teams who played this Saturday will play again on Thursday, October 10. 
~ 

I;(ff 
S onsored b SUB 
Chicago Bulls vs "'"co Kings 
:J96 
~o now on sale at _.r,ortune Student _;enter Information Desk 
Cost: $25 per ticket (game ticket only: does not include transportation) 
r-------~------.-------~----------~----------------------------------------~I 
The Observer • TODAY 
JACK OHMAN 

MIKE PETERS 

scorr ADAMS 
,_
r--------------------,0~========~---------, 
z 
RESISTANCE. 
IS II TRUE 
E 
~ 
l~ FUTILE.
0 
ll-lf1.T IF YOUR
... HAS A SEE.MI NGLY
u 
i .,; 
;;• 
YOU WilL BE.
u 
~At'\£ IS
ENDLESS SUPPLY OF 
-.; 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 
MIXED MEDIA 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
OUR. 5TR.ATE.C,IC ALll~NCE IS WOI\KING WELL. MY C.OI'\PANY PROVIDES AMAZING. TECHNICAL SKILL AND YOUR 
COMPANY ... 
I 
CROSSWORD 
E 
THREE-RING 
~ 
·;: 
i 
< 
1>.5511"\ILATED. 
WRITTEN lN
BINDERS. 
"'. > 
~ 
~ 
30 Not excluded from 32 Archibald of basketball 33 Yalies 34 Canine command 36 Home made of glass 39 Transportation 
that's booming? 
40 Gripper 
42 Start, as of an idea 43 Like notebook paper 
A. BINDER YOU LOSE. YOUR SOUL~ 
\ 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAI'I'Y HIRTBI>A Y! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF \'OliR LIFE: You will be asked to make a number of concessions. Be flex ihlc hut uphold your ideals. Your social life hegins to accelerate rapidly next month. Make a timclv investment in your future. A vacation you take in December could lead to alasting romantic connection'. New hobbies attract your notice early in 1997. You find a way to make money from a favorite pursuit. Form a busi­ness partnership if there is too much work for you to handle on your own. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON 
THIS DAY: legendary musician 
John Lennon, songwriter Jackson 
Browne. novelisi Belva Plain, 
"Broom Hilda" cartoonist Russell 
Myers. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Your involvement in a community 
project will win you new respect. 
Put your hard-earned money to 
work for you. Verbalizing your feel­
ings of love will make a promising 
relationship burst into full bloom. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Taking nn occasional break from 
your lahars will actually boost your 
productivity. You return to your 
work with renewed vigor! Your 
keen intellect helps you connect 
with someone prominent 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
Newcomers will be favorably 
impressed by your charm and easy 
manner. Guard against con riding too 
much too soon. Nitpicking will not 
endear you to your loved ones. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Follow-through is essential when 
you are assigned a task. Higher-ups 
will he impress~d by ) our dedica­
tion. Althou~h \'our _,tubbornnc-'' 
occasionally 'woi·ks to your aJvan­
tage. U\'oid overdoing it. 
LEO (July 13-Aug. 22): You and 
your mate 'hould 'hall' LCitillll rinam:ial rcspmiS!hliltiC' Rcscardl· mg maJor purL·hascs wdl help you get better value. Rcma111 opi11111Sioc about investments. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do not hold hack. Sci/.C the hall at work and run with it 1 You kno" how to bring out the best in others A part­ncr will need k1d glove treatment for a while. 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-Ckt. 22): If a family squabble arises. be the pe;u;e­maker. Let others have their say, but insist they ~ay it politely. Exciting developments boost yoU! hopes for a new Jove. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Balance job demands with family fun. Although romance is not every­thing. it certainly can hft your spir­its. Be patient if you want a raise or 
• promotion. 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Jot down original ideas that pop into your head. Someone special deserves a second chance to win your heart. Urge your children or siblings to be more self-reliant. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Investigate the cause of physi­cal or emotional fatigue. A doctor or psychologist may ~c able to help. Reach a new agreement with your business allies. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You cannot be everything to every· one. Co-workers must leam to stand on their own two feel and face up to their mistakes. Lea\'e any work wor­ries at the office when you go home at night. 
PISCES (Feh. Ill-March 201: Help children lind their place in the sun. Be willing to take a bacbem today-'ll that a lo,·ed one may shine. A business paz1ner,hl~ will thrive if you ~how consideration. 
• OF,INTEREST 
Salt Into Summer with an Internship. u~arn how to position yourself for your first job by obtaining 
career-related summer experience. It will be hold to· day from 4 • 5 p.m. in the Notre Dnme Hoom, LaFortune Student Center. 
· A Litany for Life: A candlelight vigil will be lend by 
.F~.Mike Baxter, C.S.C., tonight at 7 p.m. at the Field· house Mnll. Dismas House will sponsor a Hospitality Luncheon on Thursday from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the Center 
for Social Concerns. An Eastern European Stew with Potatoes will be served. Cost is $3. 
ACROSS 
1 Discontinue the countdown 6 Sweet raisin cake 11 Black bird 14 The Pineapple Island 15 An archangel 16 Salt Lake City athlete nOne way to make a million 111 Madrid Mrs. 20 Takes too much, in away 21 Tree trimming 22 Fuss 23 Not "for here" 24 Eventually 26 Israelites' home, in Genesis 29 Continental line 
31 Made a parabola 32 Feline property 35Siobodan 
Milosevic, e.g. 36 Party handout 37 It freezes your 
flippers 38 Gives maximum 
effort 40 Eyelashes 41 Long-eared 
hound 42 Particular photo 43 Frasier's ex 45 -of faculty 46 1979 revolution 
site 47 Stun guns 50"-Lay Dying" 53 "Smoking or 
--?" 54 Tightly sealed containers 
56 Remnant 
57 Caper 
58 China's Zhou 
59 Prefix with functional 60 Play for the Red Wings, e.g. 61 Decisive wins 
DOWN 
1 Besides which 2Madam 3 Half the binary 
system 4 Charlotte of ''The 
Facts of Life" 5 Went quietly 6 Belushi catch 
phrase 7 Mr. Parseghian ·and others 8 Kind of messenger 
9CollapseANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Gore and Capp --.--.--.=-. 11 Small whirlwinds ~~.=:...t~ 12 Open-air rooms 13 Pooped ~.,;,.t7-t~ 18 Converse with ~.;;;..+~'--the deaf 22 Treasonous talk 
23 Damon Runyon's name for gangster Arnold Rothstein 
~+-'-+"'-...,...., 25 Zip ~:-:+-7+-c:f'!!"P!'"'' 26 Short-of-breath 
breath ..:.+..:.+..:.+~ 27 Hydrox rival =+e+:=+=:-i 28 Wild expanse ~...:...J..::...L..:...J 29 Fairway damage 

44 Literary device 45 Trey preceder 48 Ancient Roman 
decrees 49 Business attire so Human rights 
org. 
51 Three-handed card game 52 Sister of Nephthys 54 Anatomical duct 55 Enero-to-enero period 
'8MENU 
... Notre Dame 
North 
Chicken and Dumplings A:tnish:Yegetable Soup Potato Skins Grilled Bratwurst 
I 
Saint Ma.rt~ 
)@@L =•it; ::\.~~~~ 
BBQ Chicken ··illea.n Tostada Meat Loaf 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
Rice ar)d Veggie Bar 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff . 
GETIING DRUNK IS LIKE A COMPUTER VIRUS 
1. 
Your system might crash and cause serious damage. 

2. 
Important information may get distorted or lost. 

3. 
Your system might suddenly and unexpectedly purge itself. 

4. 
You may lose something importa_!!t such as a project or a relationship. 

5. 
You can't just escape (esc) from either one. 

6. 
This problem may infect or affect others. 

7. 
Too much of either one will cause serious problems. Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 


4 1 
I 
.. 
-
South 
Veal Parmigiana Chicken Pot Pie Stir-Fry Vegetarian Pita Parslied Potatotls 
... 
----~-------­
.-------~--------~-· 
.... 


SPORTS 
20 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Redbirds catch Irish snoozing 
By JOE CAVATO walking as they have now lost East player of the week award Sports Writer to two unranked opponents in for the first week of October. a week's time. Before their In every one of the Irish 
The Notre Dame volleyball loss to Ball State last Tuesday matches last week Treadwell team has received their fair the Debbie Brown's squad had set different career high. share of wake up calls but they not lost to an unranked foe in Another switch when the have continued to hit the dead­52 straight matches. Now it Irish were down 0-2 saw ly snooze bar. has happened twice in one junior setter Carey May see 
The Irish suffered their fifth week. her first significant playing loss of the season as Illinois The Irish and Redbirds have time this season. She has been State knocked off the eleventh split their eight previous meet­sidelined with a dislocated ranked Irish last night, 15-7, ings, with the last four match­shoulder the entire season. 15-9, 5-15, 10-15, 15-13. The es going the distance. This May assisted on 50 Irish kills. Redbirds were led by Patti match would see Illinois In game three May connect­Hoppa and Andi Hardwick who State's seventh ranked kills ed with Angie Harris for eight had 25 and 20 kills re­per game battle against the of Harris' team high 25 kills. spectively. Irish blocking which remains Jaimie Lee who had been play­
The color red should certain­in the top twenty. ing in the setter slot moved ly alert head coach Debbie "We were able to take back to her outside hitter and Brown that her team may be in advantage of .their block contributed 16 kills. The trouble as all but one of their early," explained ISU's head roommates, Harris and Lee, defeats have come at the coach Julie Morgan. "It was led the Irish in hitting percent­hands of a mascot wearing the tough for the bigger players, age with .306 and .300, color of passion. The Stanford but Notre Dame adjusted like a respectively. Cardinal, the Louisville good team will. We expected Coach Brown discussed her Cardinals, the Ball State them to push for a comeback." team's performance. Cardinals and now the Illinois After getting flooded early in "We are excited about the State Redbirds have all over­the first two games Brown's way we competed. For most come the Domers. team came just a couple buck­people, it' an upset. In my 
Unranked squads like ets shy of saving themselves. eyes, it's not. We've been Michigan and Villanova have After the first two sets, Brown playing terrible lately." shaken up the Irish in forcing used 6-footers Molly McCarthy Hopefully, the Irish will pull the Blue and Gold to come and Lindsay Treadwell to out of their daydream as they back to win in five setters. storm back into the match. began the season on the fringe Apparently, the Wolverines Treadwell has recently been of the top five, but are now and Wildcats haven't gotten the team's hottest player as struggling to stay in the top the Irish out of their sleep-she was honored with the Big twenty . 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Sophomore Lindsay Treadwell was named Big East Player of the Week after obtaining three career highs in three consecutive matches. 
• fOOTBAll 

Holtz nervous about offense 
By JOHN CRISHAM 
Sports Writer 
Stanford 0, Dillon 0 
In a battle between two win­less teams, it would seem that one team would at least come out with a win under their belt. However, this was not the case in Sunday's game between the Big Red of Dillion and the Stanford Studs. The game ended with a 0-0 score. 
The theme of the game was defense, as neither team could muster anything on the offen­sive side of the ball. One player did manage to make a little im­pact on the offensive side, how­ever. Dillion running back Stefan Molinar had a few nice runs, but not enough to actually score. In fact, the initial first down of the entire game didn't come until the third quarter, when Dillion did manage to move the chains. 
There was o.ne exciting event, as the game approached its fm­ish. The Big Red's Mark Rule completed a long bomb down to receiver Frank Cracchiolo, mov­ing the ball to Stanford's 25­yard line. They lined up for an apparent field goal, but took everyone by surprise -espe­cially the Stanford defense --= by faking the kick. They threw a beautiful pass across the middle but it was dropped at the goal line. A mild scuffle ensued between the teams, but no 
• MEN's INTERHAll 

Low scores plague interhall contests 
penalties or fines were issued. 
Keough 6, Keenan 0 
This game was a defensive and special teams battle be­tween the Keenan Knights and the Keough Kangaroos. Both teams struggled to advance the ball, as the defenses were unre­lenting. The Knights ran the ball relatively well behind run­ning back Mike Rost, but they continually stalled with their passing game. A huge part of their passing woes were due to the defense played by defensive back Eric Salas. Salas came up big with two interceptions in the game. 
Another Kangaroo player that sparked the team was special teams artist Dan Strobel, who sparkled with four bone-crush­ing hits on punt coverage. Keough's running game was working pretty well, but they fumbled late in the third quar­ter, giving the ball to the Knights in good field position. However, true to form, the Keough defense stepped up and on the ensuing play, caused a Keenan fumble to get the ball right back. 
"The defense played spectacu­lar," said Strobel of the effort. "We hounded them (Keenan) all game long." 
The Knight fumble proved deadly, for on the very next 
see INTERHALL I page 15 

The Irish offense led by Ron Powlus will have to step it up in order to overcome an impressive Husky team. 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Ediror 
Lou Holtz is nervous. 
Although it may be appro­priate, he is not even that wor­ried about a vaunted University of Washington of­fense that is averaging 32 points a game and posted 42 points on the board against the same Arizona State defense that shut out Nebraska. 
Holtz has confidence in the defense. 
The Irish offense, on the other hand, has the coach a lit­tle edgy. 
"We're still trying to get set­tled offensively," reported Holtz. "The thing is that is really frustrating to all of us offensively is that nothing seems to mesh. 
"We have a quarterback whose strengths are in one area and you have people that are doing things that are tak­ing his talents away and we aren't good enough to just take and run the football." 
The coach has good reason to be nervous. The Huskies are going to throw an eight or nine man defensive front at the Irish offense, similar to what Ohio State did to disrupt Notre Dame's system. Washington's cornerbacks have the ability to play single man coverage on a consistent basis. 
"We split people out against Ohio State, and they just went out and covered them with one man and played everyone else inside," Holtz recalled. 
The safeties' presence at or near the line of scrimmage almost forces the hand of of­fensive coordinator Dave Roberts' squad. Unless Ron Powlus can connect with his receivers in man-to-man cov­erage, the Irish offensive line will have a rough day opening holes and protecting the quar­terback from a heavily stacked rush. 
see FOOTBALL/ page 16

.. 
vs. Washington at Central Collegiate October 12, I :30 p.m. 
~ Conference 
aJ • Womens interhall power poll 
October 18, 7:30p.m.
at Stanford' October II, 6 p.m. 
~ 
see page 18..... 
vs. Western Illinois Soccer vs. Calvin 

riJ • Parish playing well for Bulls 
October II, 7:30p.m. 
~ October I 0, 4 p.m. see page 14 vs. Providence 
Volleyball vs. Lake Forest October 11, 7 p.m. October 9, 7 p.m. 
~ ~ 
l 





