
Thursday, February 1, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 80 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Council outlines model for dorm coresidentiality 
Plan receives mixed reaction from students 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council's Comrnillee for the Compilation of the CLC Senliment on Coresidentiality presented its first plan for coresidentiality at Notre Dame on Monday, and the response across campus has been mixed. 
The CLC plans to submit a statnmnnt, and possibly a mtl(hd to th•~ Board of Trustnns listing the positives and nnga­tivns of r.omsidentiality. The re­port made on Monday gave stu­dnnts thnir first glimpsn of the possibh~ statement. 
The report stated that "the most overwhelming value" for eomsidentiality at Notre Dame is "the potential for enhanced malt~/female interaction." 
This comment pleased fresh­man Mike Donovan of Flanner llall. who said. "the goal of the 
,. 
University's dormitory facilities is to foster interpersonal rela­tionships. These relationships can and need to be maximized by induding all human beings, not just a single sex. 
"Although loyalty, spirit, and tradition are important to Notre Dame, they must remain subservient to bridging the re­lationship between men and women." 
Others in favor of the plan, such as Flanner Residents' Assistant Jimmy McHale, criti­cized the negatives of coresi­dentiality cited in the plan. "I believe a co-ed dorm would have the same spirit as any other dorm, sort of like the Fischer Graduate Hesidences. There would be no loss of a 'unique hall life;' rather there would be a greater spirit in dorms with both genders." 
McHale complemented the plan's point of limiting the coresidential dorm to 100 se­niors. 
"Limiting the amount of stu­dents to 100 ensures that stu­dents will meet certain eli­
see CLCI page 4 


The Observer/Aiyson Frick 

Looks Can be Deceiving! 
Despite the sunny glow around the Dome, students had to bundle up yesterday as the temperature hovered around 0 degrees. 



Water line floods Flanner 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
A ruptured water line caused extensive damage to the first and second floors of Flanner Hall yesterday morning, flood­ing the hall's first floor lounge and forcing several residents to spend the day drying out their belongings. 
Notre Dame Fire Department arrived at the scene at 9:40 
a.m. and spent just over 30 minutes determining the source of the leak and sealing it ofT. 
A water line connected to a radiator burst on the third floor, allowing water to run down to the two lower levels. 
The reason for the rupture was not disclosed, and phone calls to Notre Dame Building Services last night were not re­turned. 
University employees spent the day cleaning up the dam­age. Water was about two inches deep in Flanner's lounge, commonly refered to as "The Pit," and fans were in operation through last night trying to dry the area out. 
"It's just a mess," said Father Bill Seetch, rector of the dorm. "If this was just a freak accident to one water line, it makes me wonder if it'll soaked with water, aeeording happen to any other lines. to Jared Birnbaum, a fresh­After all, this dorm is 26 years man, and students were wait­old." ing for their computers to dry 

On the second floor, several students also had carpets 
see FLOOD/ page 4 


Students preview Revue 
By LAURA SMITH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
It's that time of year again. The time when those crazy guys from Keenan Hall attempt to entertain, thrill, and even offend the students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
This Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night, the Keenan Review will take place in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
.Since the Revue takes place on the Saint Mary's campus, Saint Mary's Student Government is especially con­cerned with possible objection­able content in the Keenan Revue. 
According to Saint Mary's College Student Government Constitution, two Saint Mary's students, traditionally the Student Body President and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Senate Representative, have the opportunity to discuss the 
• see ACCENT, page 11 
content prior to the Revue at a dress rehearsal. 
"The discussion is not censor­ship," said Saint Mary's Student Body President, Sarah Sullivan . "It's just a forewarning. I want to make sure no personal attacks are made." 
"I was very impressed with the dress rehearsal," said BOG Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Senate Representative Leslie Field. "The show is handled with tact and is in good taste for something as potentially hurtful as the Keenan Hevue." 
BOG Alumnae and Public Helations Commissioner, Jennifer Ligda, also attended the dress rehearsal. "We no­ticed a few things which were derogatory to Saint Mary's, and female students in general," Ligda said. "But the guys were great. They were open to sug­gestions and cut out the most offensive material." 
Not only dons Saint Mary's host the Keenan Hevue, but for the first time in reeent history, Saint Mary's Student Government purchased an ad for the Keenan Hevue Program. 
"The Board of Governance voted unanimously in favor of the ad," Sullivan said. "We feel 
see KEENAN I page 4 


Varying policies promote similar intent 
Editor's Note: This is the last in .a series of articles exploring sexual harassment in A.merican institutions ofhigher learning. 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Assistant News Editor 
Students who believe they have been sexually harassed by a faculty member are put through a range of emotions direetly impacting their state of mind. Fear, anger, self-doubt, and mistrust often overshadow the deeision of whether or not to report their suspicions to the propflr authority. 
I low comfortable the student is with reporting the situation as well as difficulties in know­ing where to direct a complaint can further eomplieate the stu­dent's decision. 
Notre Dame policy as stated in duLac informs students that "Any incident of sexual ha­rassment by a faculty mem­ber ... should be reported to the designated ol'ficer in the Provost's office." Students who ask advice from other University officials are also directed to the Provost's office. 
While this policy offers a clear explanation of the re­porting procedure, the fact that a highly plaeed University offi­cial is the first person to which the student must explain his or her situation often makes stu­dents uncomfortable. 
At many other private uni­versities, the first step in the reporting process allows stu­dents to seek advice from sources outside the university administration-people with whom they may feel more com­fortable discussing the situa­tion. 

Saint Mary's policy suggests several people to whom stu­dents can turn to in their reporting of sexual harassment, including the Director of Residence Life, the Director of Human Resources, the Fresh­man Academic Counselor, and Security. Public Relations Di­rector Patti Valentine stated, "Of course, if they feel un­comfortable about this, they can even go to the Counseling Department which will direct them in the proper procedure." 

Flexibility for the student was also a main consideration in thA formation of sexual harassment policy at the University of Chicago, which is. currently debating whether or not their process of reporting should become more centralized. 
Presently, the university's policy states that "An individual who feels that he or she has been sexually harassed may bring the matter to a Complaint Advisor whose role is to discuss with the complainant how to proceed...Complaint Advisors will be selected and supervised by the Coordinating Officer (a position filled by a member of the Provost's Office)." 
Because there are twelve Complaint Advisors, however, many students have noted the confusion that a student might experience as a result of the policy's flexibility . 
"If students feel confusion because there is no one number to call, than that's a serious concern. I think it's fair to think a student shouldn't have to be going through lots of numbers to call," said Mark Blitz, University Students Ombudsperson at the Univer­sity of Chicago. "A question the University has to think about is how to help students know immediately who to call without removing the flexibility [of the current poliey]." 
The concerns that students have brought before the uni­versity's administration have 
see POLICY I page 4 


Thursday, February 1, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE
r 
! 
' 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The Unnoticed Humor 

My non-English major friends, the engineers, the accountants, the nurses­the people who will be graduating with a job­like to ask me where writ­ers' ideas come from. I always try to answer as truthfully as possible. 
"The Forest Moon of Endor," I tell them. 
Ideas come from get­ting out of bed in the morning. Humor ideas in particular. Humor is not created; it exists. And it exists everywhere. Especially on a col­lege campus. Especially on this college cam­pus. Face it, kids. We are amusing people. We have some of the highest SAT scores in the country concentrated on these two sides of Route 33. And look at how we spend our fall Saturday afternoons: Standing on a plank in obnoxious weather for four hours going-and I quote-"YeahyeahyeahYEAH! OH yeah! WHOOOAAA! Go-ooo-0000-oo-0!" 
There's a wealth of humor in our textbooks. Have you read some of these suckers? I mean, have you read them? 
Take my Psych 101 book. This thing actually opens with the following sentence: "Thank you for buying our text." As if I had a choice. 
Now check the 1995 Notre Dame Football Media Guide. This is a textbook to me. It knows all. With this book, I could ace Random ND Football Facts 301. But an item on page 9 deeply troubles me: "Of the many long-stand­ing traditions at Notre Dame Stadium, one of the most visible involves the crowd reaction to the band's rendition of the '1812 Overture.' Fans get into the act by rhythmically 'conduct­ing' the band with both arms, a behavior which done en mass provides a sea of waving limbs." 
Well, why hasn't anyone told me this before? Somebody call Keith Lockhart of the Boston Pops and tell this boy he's been con­ducting wrong. Apparently to do it correctly one needs to form an L with both hands and scream "LOU!" on the downbeat. It probably works for everything from Fur Elise to Handel's Messiah. 
As long as we're dealing with hard facts, allow me to enlighten you with some highly technical information from page 14 of Biology: A Critical Thinking Approach. Write this down: "Magnifying what we see requires spe­cialized instruments." Thanks for clearing that up. 
Your average math text is basically hys­
terical as well. Math books have conditional 
obsessive-compulsive word problems written 
as if the Earth will fall out of its orbit if you 
can't find the solution: "Notre Dame is play­
ing the Texas Longhorns. If the temperature 
of the game is 42.8°, and if the band plays 
'S'Wonderful' at half-time, and if winds are 
out of the southwest at 7 miles an hour, and if 
the Republicans have a majority in the Senate, 
how many quarters before that idiotic 'Hook 
'em Horns' hand signal becomes truly annoy­
ing?" 
And those are just my core classes. What's 
going to happen when I start working on that 
English major? More ideas, I bet. I hear War 
and Peace is a riot. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


• TonAv's STAFF  
News Bill Connelly Heather Cocks Sports Mike Day Todd Fitzpatrick  Graphics Chris Mullins Production Tara Grieshop Tom Schlidt Lab Tech Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WoRLD AT A GLANCE 
Gingrich's town meetings are strange and free events 
WOODSTOCK, Ga. 
There is poignancy, when mothers wheel in severely disabled children. And there is comic relief, with droll banter about hero worship, shopping and life in Washing­ton. 
The questions cover virtually anything and everything-Internet censorship, cari­bou herds, gay rights, timber salvage, chiropractors, national parks, Louis Far­rakhan and the Ku Klux Klan. 
It's all part of what could be called "Newt Gingrich's Saturday Morning Live" ­regular town hall meetings held by the Speaker of the House in his home district, in the suburbs north of Atlanta. 
"It is," said the star during one show, "a strange and free society." 
Gingrich held 19 meetings last year, his first as speaker. One motivation is political caution -opponents often have charged that Gingrich is too busy pursuing a national agenda to stay in touch with his constituents. 
His 6th District spokesman, Allan Lipsett, said Gingrich pledged after the last elec­tion to keep up a heavy schedule of home events "just to make sure they knew and understood that he had not left them as speaker." 
But Lipsett added that the town meetings expose Gingrich to a wide range of voter concerns that go beyond the day's hot topics back in Washington ... sometimes way beyond. 
"At a Washington news conference, you kind of know the areas the press are going to be interested in that day," Lipsett said. "In a town hall meeting, he's talking to the people who actually elected him, and they'll ask him anything. They'll go back 20 years. He gets questions about history, Notch Babies, about the Trilateral Commission ... " 
Self-described "angry white male" Jerry Smith stood up at a Kennesaw town meeting, for example, and challenged Gingrich to "starting standing up to" Nation of Islam leader Farrakhan and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. 
''I'd say Newt was ready to listen to anyone and tolerate them -up to a point ­no matter what the subject was," said Allan Piggott, an advocate for people with dis­abilities who attended 17 meetings last year. He circulates an informal newsletter on the meetings called "Newtwatch Words." 
Aides have repeatedly suggested screening of questions, but Lipsett said Gingrich rejected altering the free-flowing nature of the town halls in which people simply line up at microphones to ask their questions. 
As a result, the meetings become intellectual tennis matches for Gingrich. 
Washington off-beat 
Favorite desserts 
Lamar Alexander 
Chocolate ice cream 


Patrick Buchanan 
Grand Marnier souffle 
Bob Dole 
Chocolate ice cream 

Bob Dornan 
Apple pie 

Steve Forbes 
........-........................,......•.. 
Apple pie 
'f>i'W 
Phil Gramm ~,'~~%'( No response ~4\' · 
Richard Lugar 
Fudge sundae 
AP/Bob Bianchir 

Clinton aide implicates White House Farrakhan praises Winnie Mandela 
WASHINGTON JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Senior presidential adviser Bruce 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan met Lindsey twice asked a White House Wednesday with Winnie Mandela, saying later he wanted aide about a meeting then-Gov. Clinton to thank her for her contribution to the fight against had with his Whitewater partner, the apartheid. The encounter between Farrakhan and Mrs. aide testified today. Appearing before Mandela was private and neither provided reporters with the Senate Whitewater Committee, Bob details of their discussion. "As you well know, she is well­Nash said Lindsey -both in 1993 and liked both in this country and in America," Farrakhan again last year -inquired about the said of Mrs. Mandela, the estranged wife of President brief conversation a decade ago that Nelson Mandela. "We wanted to show her how much we Nash witnessed between Clinton and James McDougal, appreciate what she has done for Nelson Mandela." owner of Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan. Republicans Farrakhan had a news conference with the president tried to show that the Clinton-McDougal conversation after their meeting Sunday, in which Mandela said he dealt with a sham real estate transaction at Castle lectured the U.S. black Muslim leader on tolerance. Mrs. Grande, a 1,050-acre tract south of Little Rock that the Mandela kept her husband's cause alive during his 27 Whitewater committee is investigating. But Nash said the years as a political prisoner, and was revered for her 5-to 10-minute conversation, which took place at defiance of white rule. She has lost political standing in McDougal's office trailer in Castle Grande, dealt with recent years, in part because of a 1991 conviction in the "pleasantries" and that he was unable to recall specifics. kidnapping and assault of four young men at her home. 

Americans ordered out of Sudan Congressmen may boycott Chirac 
WASHINGTON WASHINGTON 
The United States has decided to suspend its operations Jacques Chirac's state visit to Washington, the first by a in Sudan and will evacuate its diplomats and their fami­French president in 12 years, began Wednesday amid lies from the African country, Clinton administration offi­complaints in the Congress about French nuclear testing. cials said Wednesday. The decision was taken on the Lawmakers called him a hypocrite for suddenly espous­advice of the U.S. ambassador, Timothy Carney. Some 30 ing a nuclear-free world. Rep. Patsy Mink, D-Hawaii, Americans will be evacuated via commercial airlines, urged her colleagues to join her in boycotting his address said one U.S. officials, speaking on condition of anonymi­to Congress. President Clinton, welcoming Chirac official­ty. The airlift follows a U.N. Security Council call ly on Thursday, said he was looking forward to the state Wednesday for Sudan to extradite three suspects in the visit and praised his Monday announcement that France attempted assassination of Egyptian President Hosni was ending its latest series of South Pacific nuclear tests. Mubarak when he attended a African summit meeting in "I was very pleased when the president announced that Ethiopia. Sudan is led by Muslim fundamentalists and its they were through with their nuclear testing and that he relations with neighboring Egypt, an ally of the United would support a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty," States, are tense. Clinton said in an interview. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday, Feb. 1 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 1. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
-t)

H L B E;Sj !Til 0 . [63 ~ ~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VI.! ASBDCiated Pntss 

Atlanta 47 39 Dallas 25 22 New Orleans 55 51 Baltimore 34 24 Denver 5 -6 New York 35 23 Boston 34 21 Los Angeles 65 47 Philadelphia 32 23 Chicago 3 -6 Miami 82 69 Phoenix 64 48 
Via Associated Prass GraphicsNat 
Columbus 21 12 Minneapolis 0 -12 St. Louis 4 0 

0
o I o o o 0 I 0 I I I I o I t I ' 

• • ....,..,,..,. rr 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 



Odell: Unions e01power workers 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Sometimes, you have to fight for what you believe in. 
Saint Mary's alumna Jennifer Odell uses this as everyday mo­tivation in her career. 
Odell, who graduated from Saint Mary's last spring, cur­rently serves as the union or­ganizer for the Service Em­ployees International Union (SEIU) for Pennsylvania. She spoke with students last night in a leeture sponsored by the Political Science Club. 
As a union organizer, Odell talks to health care workers around the state, primarily those working in nursing homes, and tries "to convince them that the best way to im­prove their lives is to join a union," she said. 
"A union is all the workers standing together, and working together, standing up to the boss to make their lives better," Odell said. "It's standing up to­gether to fight for justice." 
''I'm a revolutionary, a teaeher, a therapist, a salesper­son. But of all those, most im­portantly, I'm a revolutionary," she asserted. "I get people to put their asses on the line to try to make their lives better." 
One group Odell is currently working with includes 250 
Special 1o rhe Observer 
Word has been received of the death of Msgr. Francis Sampson, Notre Dame alum­nus, former spllcial assistant to the president of Notre Dame, and University benefactor. He died Sunday morning in a hos­pital in Sioux Falls, South Dakota of cancer. lie was 83 Yflars old. 
A native of Cherokee, Iowa, Sampson graduated from Notre Dame in 1937 and entered St. 
nursing home workers from the Crane Healthcare Corporation. The workers organized under SEIU after working without contracts since November 1995. Concerns included ade­quate staffing, patient care, a safer work place, health insur­ance and job security. 
"We're negotiating for the quality of care for the resi­dents," Odell said. She ex­plained that, due to the nursing homes being extremely short­staffed, the quality of the patient's care can be greatly reduced. "These workers decided they had to take a stand, and risked their liveli­hood for the cause." 
Following a breakdown in negotiations, workers held a 24-hour strike on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. When the 250 workers tried to go back to work, the boss permanently replaced 33 of the women in union leadership. 
Currently, SEIU is in a law suit against Crane, on the grounds that Crane manage­ment committed unfair labor practices. "It's a tough fight, but we [SEIUl have a strong tradition," she said. "We've had workers that have lost their jobs before, and we've always won them back." 
"The trght will be won in the rallies, in the press, through petitions, and by the workers proving they need to negotiate with the bosses," she said. 
There are drawbacks to the job, beyond the fact that she typically works 12 to 14 hour days. According to Odell, man­agement intimidation is a significant problem. Odell said she had death threats tacked under the windshield of her car; one man threatened her with a gun as she approached his wife, a nursing home work­er, about joining a union. 
Despite the problems, "it makes it all worth it when we reach jus-t one person. We're fighting for a worker's life, dig­nity, and for the power over their bosses and their own lives," she said. 
Odell said that coming to a "conservative college like Saint Mary's" made an impact on her career. "In order to speak above the rhetoric here, I had to make my voice louder and stronger," she said. 
She stressed that working the labor movement is ideal for "recent college graduates who want to make a difference, loudmouths like me who want to start revolutions." 
"Every day is an adventure. Every day I make a difference in someone's life; every day I empower someone," Odell said. "It really makes my blood boil." 



Alumnus, veteran dead at 83 
Paul's Seminary in Saint Paul, Minnesota the following year. lie was ordained a priest for the Catholic diocese of Des Moines, Iowa in 1941. 
Sampson served briefly in parishes in Neola, Iowa, and at Dowling High School in Des Moines before joining the U.S. Army as a chaplain and first lieutenant in 1942. 
Sampson served as national president of the United States Organizations (USO) from 1972-1974. 
In addition to numerous arti­cles in popular and religious periodicals, he wrote two books about his military career, "Paratrooper Padre" and "Look Out Below." 
His numerous decorations include the Purple Heart, the Bronze Star and Distinguished Service Cross, the nation's sec­ond highest military award. He also received honorary doctoral degrees from Ripon College, Loras College and Norwhich University. 


raised will be donated to Special Olympics. 
Actual height of Mama Dragon is 22 ft. tall. 
Friday, February 2 7:00PM-4:00AM Joyce Center 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 


The Observer/Aiyson Frick 

An Irish Voice 

Black 47 performed last night in a crowded scene at Senior Bar. 



Potential merger will not affect students 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 

Rumors are circulating about a possible buyout of Apple Computers by Sun Microsystems Inc. This merger would combine Apple's Macintosh System, which ac­counts for approximately 63 percent of national multimedia applications and 47 percent of commercial publishing appli­cations, with those of Sun, whose SPARCs are used for Engineering applications. 
"We at Information Tech­nologies actually hope the merger goes through," said Nazareno Rapagnani, assistant provost of Information Tech­nologies. "I mean, we are talk­ing about non-competing prod­ucts. Apple will exist in some form or another, whether or not the merger goes through." 
"But, " Rapagnani contin­ued, "delivery and component problems that we currently have with Apple will hopefully decrease if the merger goes through and Sun brings in a new management team." 
Students need not fear any immediate changes in Uni­versity computer labs though. "The merger [or lack thereof] will not fundamentally change or affect students in any way," Hapagnani said. 
He dismissed the possibility that Apple would go out of business without the merger. "Eventually," he said, "we will get to a point in time where the computers will be judged on an application level. The operat­ing systems have the same look and feel, it's just a question of who can get the job done more efficiently." 
Both corporations are keep­ing details private, with neither side commenting on whether or not the merger will go through; if it does, life will be much easi­er for the people at Information Technologies. 


•
•


ARCHERY • • 
• 

Mi'ni -Course •••• 
•
•
•

Tuesday &Wednesday •
•


February 6 &7 •
•


7:00-9:00 PM •
•

Joyce Center -Gym 1 •
•

All Equipment Will be Provided •
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 1, 1996 

would offer information and The varying harassment poli­sororities at Notre Dame for then refer students to the prop­cies at universities have shown the same reason we don't have

Policy CLC 
er authority. that it is hard to determine co-ed dorms: bonding and tra­what makes students more will­dition."
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
Georgetown University has ing to come forward. While Father Bill Seetch, Rector of 
prompted a reexamination of the school's sexual harassment policy which may soon be altered in order to ease the process of reporting for stu­dents. According to Blitz, "Recently the administration has been receptive to propos­als, and as a result the policy may soon change. The Uni­versity is still worried, however, that some solutions might take away the current flexibility." 
Suggestions made by students at the university have included creating a centralized office explicitly for the purpose of advising students on the issue of sexual harassment, or simply creating one number which 


Keenan 
continued from page 1 
this ad will help bridge the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities socially. We're willing to host and sponsor the Keenan Revue; obviously we support it." 
"I think the ad's a great idea considering that the Keenan Revue has taken place on the 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------,• thedamage. 
Interested in working production for the Observer? Call Jackie Moser at 1,5303 or 4,1266 

implemented a centralized ap­proach much like the one under consideration at the University of Chicago. The Georgetown sexual harassment policy refers all students with complaints to the Affirmative Action Office for advice and also to initiate an investigation. 
The policy states, "The Af­firmative Action Office, which administers the discrimination grievance procedures, will review and resolve sexual ha­rassment complaints ... Students who wish to file a complaint of sexual harassment may contact the Special Assistant to the President for Affirmative Action Programs.". 
Saint Mary's Campus for 20 years. It's time we formally supported Keenan in the pro­gram," said Ligda. 
"Keenan has made an effort to include Saint Mary's in a positive light," added Field. "Steps needed to be ·taken to recognize Keenan in return." 
Despite overwhelming stu­dent support, Sullivan knows that some students will be offended by the sensitive issues brought out by the Keenan giving them many options gibility requirements beyond Flanner Hall, saw the plan as might allow them to feel more just being seniors," he said. eliteist. "The model tries to put comfortable in relating their However, senior Tom Kelly a good face on a bad idea. The story, limited options make the option under this model would
disagreed. "Why should only
situation less confusing. be the same as off-campus
100 seniors be allowed to stay
Here at Notre Dame, the poli­housing, only on-campus. It
in the dorm? It might end up 
cy referring all students to the 
consisting of 

Provost's Offlce simplifies the 
only the -----------­
decision of where to go but also 
smartest, who 

'we could better 
intimidates many students. 
wouid just

"It's very hard to think you can stay in and improve gender come from a very difficult situa­
study anyway. relations in ways other 
tion where there was a misuse 
"I don't 

of power and have to go all the agree with than coresidentiality.' way to the Provost," said 
this plan or 

Gloria-Jean Masciarotte, assis­
coresi­Father Bill Seetch 
tant professor of English. "It's 
dentiality at 

immensely difficult for some all." 
students because it is such an 
Freshman official title." Joe Cavato echoed Kelly's sen­timents. "If they're going to 
have co-ed dorms, they shouldRevue. 
go all out. A dorm only for"But, I believe the majority of seniors will just anger juniors,
students support the Keenan sophomores, and freshmen,Revue," Sullivan said. "It's 
causing an even greater con­always well-attended and ticket flict over the issue. I myself am lines are incredible. 
not in favor of coresidentiality. "We don't have fraternities or
"Very few on-campus produc­tions are of this caliber," 
Sullivan added. "The time and talent committed to this by the 


Flood

students are phenomenal. Saint Mary's Student 
continued from page 1 

Government definitely supports the Keenan Revue." out to determine the extent of 
The room of 212 Flanner, lo­cated directly under the spot of the rupture, bore the brunt of the damage. 
"It was like a waterfall with all the hot water coming down [because the ruptured line was connected to a radiator]," said Trent Poscharsky, resident of 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Cary Grant andAudreyHepburn star in 
CHARADE 
Career at Equis 
Entrepreneurial companies are the new 
drivers of American business. These 
companies provide the economy with a 
constant stream of new ideas, services 
and products. They outpace many larger, 
more established companies in creating 
jobs and offering opportunities for 
professional growth. 
Equis is an entrepreneurial company. 
Founded eleven years ago, we have 
evolved from a start-up real estate 
brokerage firm into a high-growth 
national services business. 
We have created our own niche, expanded our services and positioned ourselves to represent many of the nation's emerging growth companies and major corporations. 
We have also maintained a corporate environment that rewards performance and results. Equis' flat organization allows our people to create their own paths to the top. Again, performance drives growth. 
For more information on nationwide opportunities at Equis, please contact Traci Nickel or Kevin Fallon at 
1/800-726-2368. 
the model. Freshman Sarah Shirey said, "The University would just lose money on this plan. Since students who want to escape the University's re­strictions would rather move off-campus instead of staying within University bounds, few would want to take part in a co-ed dorm." 
212 Flanner, who skipped classes yesterday to clean up the mess. "I was sweating be­cause of the steam. 
''I'm sure I lost at least six pounds during the day." he added. 
Seetch, too, kept his sense of humor. 
'Til be calling President Clin­ton tomorrow to see whether we can be declared a emer­gency disaster area so we can get federal funding," he said. 
would be an apartment of convenience for elite seniors. 
"We could bet­ter improve gen­der relations in ways other than 
coresidentiality."
Others saw the University losing financially under 

Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Romanian 'smokes' toward world record 
Associated Press 
BUCHAREST, Homania 

Stefan Sigmond wants to get in tho Guinness Book of Hecords in the worst way ­and d1oosing the worst ways to get there. 
In his latest attempt, the 29· year-old from Cluj brought 800 cigarettes into a square in the capital on Tuesday, put them in a bundle-like contrap­tion, lit them and smoked them through a tube, said the Mwspaper Libertatea. 
He plans to contact the Guinnllss Book about his feat, but the book no longer recog­nizes people who risk killing themselves to earn immor· tality. 
"We do discourage that sort of thing," said Guinness spokeswoman Carol Jones, speaking frop1 London. 
The book also won't consid· er another of Sigmond's claims to fame -eating 29 hard-boiled eggs in four min· utes. The book stopped listing gluttony records in 1990. 
Sigmond plans to tell the Guinness Book about the time he jumped into· a lake· from a 135-foot·hlgh cliff .. 




SOPHOMORES!! 
Applications for the JPW 
1997 Chairperson are available at 
the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Return completed applications to 

315 Lafortune, Student Activities 
Office. 

The deadline is Monday, 
February 5th. Sign up for an 
interview on February 6th or 7th 
when you turn in your applica ... 
tion. In regards to any questions, 

call Eric at 4...4274. 

Explosion rocks Sri Lanka 
By NIRESH ELIATAMBY Associated Press 

COLOMBO, Sri Lanka 
In one of the worst attacks in Sri Lanka's 12-year civil war, a truck packed with explosives rammed into the central bank Wednesday, igniting towering fires in the business and tourist district. At least 53 people died, including the driver, and 1,400 were wounded. 
Authorities blamed the attack and a fireball caused by a rock­et-propelled grenade moments earlier on the Tamil Tiger rebels, whose 12-year armed campaign for an independent homeland has killed nearly 40,000 people. There were no immediate claims of responsi­bility. 
In the chaos after the midday attack, dozens of people were trapped atop burning buildings waving for help. Helicopter gunships bristling with machine guns tried to pluck survivors from rooftops but were repelled by the heat. Many were rescued by ladders; those on the streets were taken away in public buses and private cars. 
As darkness fell, soldiers armed with assault rifles pa­trolled the center of Colombo, and drizzling rain forced res­cuers to scale back their hunt through unsteady buildings for bodies and survivors. 
The director of the National Hospital's trauma unit, Hector 

Do you want to help tutor little kids? It's easy! 


Join the NSHP!! 
-we provide transportation -only two hours a week -use for community service hours 
We need tutors for these tim~s and days: 
Tuesday/Thursday 1:00-2:00 Tuesday/Thursday 3:00-4:00 Tuesday/Thursday 3:30-4:30 ~onday/VVednesday 2:30-3:30 ~onday/VVednesday 2:30-3:45 

To sign up call: Nicole x2668 Susan x4238 Randolph x0802 
Weerasinghe, told The Asso­ciated Press that 53 people died. Another 1,060 injured people were admitted to two hospitals, 100 in critical condi­tion. Scores of people released after treatment raised the esti­mated number of injured to 1,400. 
Most of the dead and wound­ed were in the Central Bank building, where Sri Lanka's gold reserves are held and the country's financial policy is made. 
Bank guard Prasanna Wijew­ardhana said a blue truck with three men drove into the se­curity barricade outside the bank. Two men leaped out and started firing automatic weapons. 
Some guards returned fire, but many of them fled, Wijew­ardhana said. The attackers "had the advantage of sur­prise," he said. 
During the gunfire, a rocket­propelled grenade landed in front of a nearby office build­ing, gouging a crater and shat­tering windows at The As­sociated Press office 100 yards away. 
Police said the driver of the truck died in the explosion. Hours later, they arrested two others seen fleeing with auto­matic rifles about a mile from the blast. 
The bank building burst into flames, which spread to a half-
FLOWERS DELIVERED rll7 DAYSrll 


AP 
dozen other buildings. The fires raged for much of the day and thick black smoke blanketed the city, hampering rescue efforts. 
The explosion caused the first two floors of the 10-story Central Bank to collapse. The b11ilding is a few hundred yards from President Chandrika Kumaratunga's office, the naval headquarters and other gov­ernment buildings. 
The blasts shattered the win­dows of the 39-story twin-tower World Trade Center, which was still under construction and only partially occupied. 

Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square 

ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered
51400 US 31 North 
24 Hours a Day 

South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
277-1291 or 1-800-328-0206 

page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 1, 1996 

Primary schedule to benefit Clinton, Forbes· 
By TOM RAUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

This year's abbreviated pri­mary season should have bene­fited GOP front-runner Bob Dole. But publisher Steve Forbes' surge in the polls may be dramatically altering the dynamics. 
The only clear-cut beneficiary of the compressed schedule now, analysts in both parties suggest, is President Clinton, who has no opposition and about $36 million available ­the primary campaign spend­ing limit. 
But if Forbes continues to open up the GOP race, he also would benefit -as the only Republican candidate with plenty of money to run beyond the first round of primaries. By using his own cash and not accepting federal matching funds, the publishing heir has no legal spending limit. 
In contrast, other GOP nomi­nees-in-waiting will soon be broke. 
"I think it's going to be over by the end of March," Dole tells Iowa audiences. Few party pro­fessionals would dispute him at this point. 
In fact, with some 40 pri­maries and caucuses to be held by the end of March, Republi­can leaders are questioning the wisdom of having so many so closely spaced events. 
"Voters don't have time to adjust to the winnowing-out process," said Republican Party Chairman Haley Barbour. "The primaries will go off like a string of firecrackers." 
Barbour has appointed a GOP task force to make recommen­dations to the party on whether it should call for a more tradi­tional, more stretched-out schedule for the next presiden­tial election year -2000. 
Democrats are more reluc­tant to dive into the fray, since the shortened primary season helps Clinton. 
But Ann Lewis, a longtime Democratic operative who serves as deputy campaign 
manager for the Clinton-Gore re-election campaign, suggests it's an issue both parties must address down the road. 
"I think there does need to be some national accountability or we're going to wind up having all our primaries on the day after Thanksgiving," she said. 
The primaries used to be fairly evenly spaced out through March, April, May and even June. They became more and more compressed as states began leapfrogging one anoth­er to grab some of the attention lavished on leadoff states Iowa and New Hampshire. 
"What it's really doing if fur­ther increasing the importance of Iowa and New Hampshire," said Democratic strategist and pollster Mark Mellman. "The keys to the kingdom have always been in Iowa and New Hampshire and that's become more and more true as the pri­mary schedule becomes more and more compressed." 
Clinton benefits because a shorter primary season means, in effect, a longer general elec­tion campaign. 
But, once the GOP primary season is over, he'll be the only one -save Forbes -left with money to spend between then and the party conventions in August. 
Meanwhile, Forbes, in mounting such an effective challenge to Dole, is forcing the Senate majority leader to spend more campaign advertising dol­lars than he otherwise would have this early. 
Even if Dole emerges victo­rious, he will be staggering fi­nancially from April through August. 
The compressed schedule has a built-in bias "for front-run­ners and candidates with money," said Erwin Hargrove, a political scientist at Vanderbilt University. 
The shortened season "is a great mistake," he said. "It's better to have it stretched out over a period of time. That way, voters have an oppor­tunity to learn from previous primaries." 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Ski 

Cannonsburg 
for 
$2 


February 3 

$25 includes lift ticket, round trip bus fare and ski equipment. Bus leaves from Mishawaka Outpost Sports at 2 pm. 
3602 N. Grape Road 428 Baldwin Street Mishawaka, IN Elkhart,IN ' (219)259-1000 (219)262-4419 
Buchanan targets Forbes 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associated Press 

MANCHESTER, N.H. 
An energized Pat Buchanan said Wednesday he's now gun­ning for rival Steve Forbes in the race for the GOP presi­
dential nomi­nation. 
At the same time he lamented the negative advertising by his rivals, Buchanan 


told reporters Buchanan he's planning new ads to outline "sharp" dif­ferences between him and Forbes on trade and illegal immigration. 
·"We beat him not by talking about how much money he has, we beat him on the issues," Buchanan said of Forbes, a multimillionaire publisher. 
"People get tired of the nega­tivism. We have not done that. We're doing comparative ads on where he stands and where I stand. I think that's fair," said Buchanan, who is targeting his appeals to voters in the leadoff­contest states of Iowa and New Hampshire. 
By supporting the NAFTA and GATT trade agreements, Forbes has "surrendered America's sovereignty and sold out American workers -the people who work with their hands -to multinational cor­porations," Buchanan said. 
He also called Forbes a "dove" on stopping illegal immigration. 
"Mr. Forbes is definitely not a dove on illegal immigration," replied Gretchen Morgenson, spokeswoman for Forbes. · 
Indeed, on his own two-day swing through New Hampshire this week, Forbes called for "beefed-up border controls with helicopters and high tech­nology." 
He also said he would reform the Immigration and Naturalization Service to crack down on people who illegally overstay their visas. 
Before Buchanan's first-place showing Monday in Alaska's straw poll, the conservative commentator had considered Texas Sen. Phil Gramm as his chief obstacle to a clear shot at the front-runner, ·Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole. 
Now it's Forbes, who nar­rowly trailed Buchanan -31 percent to 33 percent -in the nonbinding Alaska vote. 
"We definitely see Forbes as a formidable candidate," said Buchanan press secretary Greg Mueller. 
Although it won him no dele­gates to the GOP national con­vention, which will name a nominee, Buchanan is banking on his Alaska victory to boost his already steady fundraising. 
"There's a mythology that we're waging a poor man's war. We've got to have more funds coming in to the bank, but I think we will be helped by Alaska," said Buchanan, who planned to address a fund-rais­er in Missouri by telephone Wednesday night. 
Buchanan finance director Scott Mackenzie said the cam­paign started this year with just $107,000 cash on hand but raised $900;000 in January, mostly through direct-mail small individual donations. 







he 
rovers 
The Drovers' music is innovative with a capacity for 
improvising and sustaining epic musical sideroads. Most 
importantly, the Drovers are true to their musical stream of 
. " 
co"'WTth Seamaisin 

LaFortune Ballroom FRIDAY FEBRUARY 2nd 9pm 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 




Special Olympians v. ND/SMC Faculty & Staff Basketball Ga01e 
Ben Herron  
Paul Hicks  
Shane Holloway Benji Hoover Matt Kier Rolando Owens Mike Palmer  ra~ \(~~~cialOlympics  
Sam Panzica  
Lucas Reineke  
Joe Varano  
Dirk Veen  

Coach-Marvin Wood (Ath) -SMC 
Come and he a spectator and watch as Notre Dame & Saint Mary's faculty and staff take on a team of Special Olympians. Come cheer on your favorite team or coach!!! 
Faculty & Staff Sr. Kathleen Beatty (Rect.) -ND Dr. Xavier Creary (Chern) -NO Mr. Bubba Cunningham (Ath) -ND Mr. Greg Kigar (Ath) -ND Dr. Douglass McAbee (Bio)-ND Dr. Mark McCready (ChernE)-ND Dr. Patrick Pierce (Pol. Sci.)-SMC Fr. Joseph Ross (Rect.) -ND Ms. Julie Schroeder-Biek (Ath) -SMC Mr. Jim Spief (Bus) • ND 
Mr. Wayne Stripe (Chern) • ND Dr. Todd Whitmore (Theo)-ND Coach-Lou Holtz (Ath)-ND 
Friday, February 2 7:00PM-4:00AM Joyce Center 
q 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Wt,?re Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
,,,.,,;..:. 


Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Construction unearths mass grave Reserve 

By ROLAND PRINZ bach, 140 miles west of Vienna. early 20s, with teeth in very Einem said it was up to Upper Associated Press Nazi-hunter Simon Wiesen­good condition, the minister Austrian provincial authorities thal believes the remains are said. None of the skulls showed to find out whether more skele­VIENNA, Austria those of Hungarian Jews who a bullet hole, he said. tons are buried north and south 
Construction was halted perished on death marches Einem said no fragments of of the Lambach site. The gover­Wednesday at a site where between the overflowing clothing were found, making nor of the province, Josef workers unearthed at least nine Mauthausen camp and dozens identification more difficult. Puehringer, ordered several human skeletons. But an of smaller camps in Upper In a former cornfield on the acres cordoned off while the Interior Ministry official chal­Austria province. construction site, human bones investigation of the graves con­lenged claims that workers had Construction continued could be seen on the side of a tinues. stumbled on a mass grave of Wednesday in another area of newly dug pit. Austrian state radio said the Holocaust victims. the site where the plant is to be Horst Littmann, an Interior first skeletons were found on 
Thtl rtlmains were discovered built. But Interior Minister Ministry official who visited the Jan. 25. It was not clear why near the site of the Gun­Caspar Einem rejected calls site Wednesday, said he did not authorities kept the discovery skirchen concentration camp, from the power plant's sup­believe the workers uncovered quiet. which was part of the Mau­porters to continue work just a mass grave. Construction of the hy­thausen d1mth camp. State tele­20 yards from where the skele­The skeletons, he said, were dropower plant was contro­vision reported Tuesday that tons were discovered. buried in separate graves. versial even before the bodies they were uncovered during "We owe this to the dead," There was no evidence to were discovered: Ecologists earth-moving work for a Einem said. trace the origin of the dead, have been trying to stop the hydropower plant near Lam-The dead were men in their Littmann said. project permanently. 

Dexter's not his usual self. 
You suspect the salsa. So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. (Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
Uve off campus? Sign up tor !U~ True Reacll Savings'" and save 25% 
no matter who, how, when or where 
you call in the lJ.S. 
Life can be complicated. A'I&:T True Reach SavingssM is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on your Al&Tphone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem­when you spend just $25 a montlt No other plan gives you ail these different ways to sav~· just calllSOOTRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your True Choice.'M 


AT&T 
Your True Choice 
•Rc.ofcrs to long dLo;t:mce l'il11s billed to Al&Thome or Al&TCalling Card accounL-t Discounl'i offAlaThask rates. Certain exclusion.o, apply. Suhjet.·t to hilling iMiilahility Offer 3V'J.ilahle to residential AT&T customers: Minimum spcndiOR requirement is per residential line. ••eomparcc.l to major Ion~ distance carriers. 01996 A'I&T 
announces major cuts 
By JOHN McCLAIN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Federal Reserve cut a 
key interest rate today, the 
second such move in two 
months, amid persistent signs 
of a weakening economy. The 
move was expected to trans­
late quickly into lower bor­
rowing costs for millions of 
Americans. 
In an announcement at the 
end of a two-day closed meet­
ing, the central bank's Federal 
Open Market Committee said it 
was cutting its target for the 
federal funds rate, the interest 
that banks charge on overnight 
loans, from 5.5 percent to 5.25 
percent. The latest rate cut fol­
lowed similar quarter-point 
reductions in December and 
last July. 
A cut in the funds rate nor­
mally triggers an almost im­
mediate reduction in commer­
cial banks' prime lending rate, 
the benchmark rate for many 
business and consumer loans 
such as home equity loans. 
The Fed also said it was cut­
ting the discount rate from 
5.25 percent to 5 percent. The discount rate is what the cen­tral bank charges for direct loans to banks and is basically symbolic. 
The vote on the discount rate was 5-0 with Federal Heserve Vice Chairman Alan Blinder not voting. lllinder had announced earlier he is resign­ing effective today to return to teaching at Princeton University. The vote by the FOMC on the federal funds rate was not announced. 
The White !louse welcomed the rate cut. "We believe the economy will remain healthy in 1996," said a statement issued by President Clinton's press secretary, Mike McCurry. 
In explaining its action, the Fed said, "Moderating eco­nomic expansion in recent months has reduced potential inflationary pressures going forward. With price and cost trends already subdued, a slight easing of monetary pol­icy is consistent with contained inflation and sustainable growth." 
The Fed action came on a day when the Labor Department reported that wholesale prices jumped 0.5 percent in December after a similarly steep increase in November. 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 1, 1996 
r 





State House 
higher
-~·=f=W;/ . 
INDIANAPOLIS  
The Indiana HGuse voted  
overwhelmingly against rais:­ 
ing speed limits on Indiana  
highways Wednesday, likely  
dealing a fatal blow to the. is·  
sue this session.  
In a, .non~pattisan, 7Q·~8  .  
vote.• the House rejected .a  .,·,~...·~···'"~  
measure;Jo  ise li!Pflll!i limits  

from 55 ....· 65 J,llph on."''" •.. ;"····';.··:·'···,.... ral, four~ ~n ·. tate highWays · and from (:ip mph to 7Q mph on rural interstates. 
Opponents said higher limits would lead to more traffic deaths and higher insurance premiums, and most of their constituents surveyed were against higher limits. 
"The insifranee industry said that raising speed limits will probably result in lj.ri ditional 20Q deaths in . · ... and I'm not teady>to tab .....,i that responsibility,~' said Rep. : Cleo Duncan, R.Greensburg. UDJJOS•e.$1 
The federal government im­posed a national 55-mph high­way speed limit in 1974 as an energy-saving measure during 


Brutal cold grips the midwest 
By STEVE KLINE 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Nebraska 
Just a week ago, Linda Kearns was basking in the sunny Caribbean. On Wednes­day, the temperature in her hometown of Ord dropped to 28 below zero and Mrs. Kearns wondered why she ever came back. 
"If we had wind, this would be unbearable," she said, wist­fully recalling 90-degree days aboard a cruise ship. 
Arctic cold gripped much of the Northern and central states, with record low tem­peratures across the northern Plains and upper Midwest. Temperatures were still below zero during the afternoon from Idaho into Illinois. 
"I have to say I have never been so sick of winter. I have had it," said Marvel Sjostrom at Seeley, Wis., where her home thermometer showed a temper­ature of 48 below zero. 
Tower and Embarrass, Minn., were coldest of all, with read­ings of 55 below. A wind-chill reading of 74 below was reported at Hallock, Minn. 
At least one death was indi­rectly attributed to the cold. In West Point, an 89-year-old man died Wednesday in a house fire that investigators said was started by a space heater being used to thaw frozen water lines. 
It was even cold for Inter­national Falls, Minn., which celebrates itself as the nation's icebox. The city's minus-35 reading tied its record for the date, and it was the lOth straight day of temperatures of 30 below or worse. 
"We were hoping for thaL Our image has been bad for the last couple of years because it's been too warm," said Sonny Nesbitt, 69, a retired state trooper in International Falls. 
Record lows for the date were tied or broken in Wyoming, Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, Iowa, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan and Illinois. 
"You wear tights, and you wear your jeans, and you wear your pants, and you wear dou­ble insulation, and just wear the warmest clothes you got," said Carmen Barretto, a teacher in Chicago, where the low was 11 below zero. "You don't think about how cold it is, because the more you think about how cold it is, the colder you're going to feel." 
In Alaska, where it's sup­posed to be cold, Wednesday's high at Anchorage was 35 ­above zero. The cold was blamed in a fire that destroyed or damaged three buildings. 


CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
A FUTURE FOR CATHOLIC SCHOOLS 
My sister and I attended a Catholic grade school and high school. 
My mom worked to support us and she worked very hard to send us to Catholic schools. She had gone to a Catholic grade school and high school herself, and although she could tell you some of the imperfections in the Catholic schools she attended, she believed that sending us to Catholic schools would be best for us. 
The Catholic schools in our hometown were known for discipline. The Holy Cross sisters (many were paid about $30.00 p~r month) enforced the rule oflaw, so to speak. 
Although discipline was important, I do not remember the discipline first. First, I remember teachers who showed their care for students inside and outside of the classroom, teachers who taught for less money (as undesirable as that may be) because they believed in the mission of the Church. They wanted to be part of a sign of hope that they believed a Catholic school should be. They wanted to be part of an educational endeavor that questions the assumptions that lead people to deny God's love in the world. 
This week is Catholic Schools Week 
Catholic schools are as important as ever, but they must do more than prepare students to be successful in the business of the world. They must help students to call into question the assumptions that lead people to deny the dignity of each and every person. Among other things, they must help students to call into question the assumptions that lead people to snuff out the lives of persons not yet born and persons who are considered to be no longer useful. They must call people to question the assumptions that lead people to discriminate and abuse others because of race or sexual orientation. 
Catholic scho.ols must call people to recognize, in faith, that the way things are in the world is not necessarily the way things should be or Catholic schools have not been and are not perfect. Yet, they have been and continue to be institutions and communities which bring about a lot of good. 
May they and future generations of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students and graduates continue to give life to Catholic schools as teachers, parents or students, helping them to bring about more good than ever. 
-Fr .Bob Dowd, CS.C 


The Feast ofthe Presentation ofthe Lord Candlemas 
5:00 PM Vigil Mass THURSDAY, FEBRUARY I 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

(Bring new candles to be blessed!} 

have to be. Ideally, Catholic schools help people to actively bring about the justice and the peace that this world needs so much.  Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica  
Each year, many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates begin teaching in Catholic schools throughout the country. Many of them are doing so in the Alliance for Catholic Education, a program which  Sat. January 2 7 Sun. January 28  5:00p.m 10:00 a.m.  Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. Rev. Paul Philibert, O.P.  
is based at Notre Dame and supported in many ways by Notre Dame.  11:45 a.m.  Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C.  








VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 1, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar• Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Bwiness Manager joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mikc Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ....................Pat<i Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporu 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Newsll'hoto 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 

TV tips for the serious and not-so-serious student 
Winter dictates that I watch a lot of TV. I'm sure you have the same experience. Freezing roads, murderous winds, the eerie fall of powdery white snow, so reminis­cent of dioxin -all these combine to keep the thinking person immobile in front of his or her television. To sit on a Saturday afternoon in your underwear, ~ating pud­ding while midgets wrestle for your amusement: can any pleasure be compared to this? Add smoking, drinking coffee, and playing violent video games in to the mix, and you have a recipe for paradise found. 
Often when I suggest this idyllic scene to NO students, however, they look at me with dismay. "TV?" they say. "Do you think I have time to watch TV? I am far too busy with my books and lab work to attend to such tripe. Bosh." 
Well, let me tell you something, my supercilious friend. I'm not fooled. I doubt, given Notre Dame's draconian policies against lewdness, that you do anything besides watch televi­sion, and low-grade, sleazy, gnarly television at that. Josh 
Baywatch. Silk Stalkings. Friends. 
You won't heed my pleas to study scripture. You refuse aft1~r your sophomore year to ply your books with diligence. 
Ozersky 
You won't even stop buying those idiotic M.C. Escher prints, despite my repeated warnings that close examination of them is tantamount to idolatry. So the best I can do is offer the first 
of what I hope will be an occasional series, Josh Ozersky's Television Tips. 
Thursday, February 1st: 
(NBC) Scinfcld, 9:00 
I like Jerry a lot, and I continue to enjoy this show, but don't you think he could ease up a little on this Lady's Man business? I for one find it hard to believe that a Jewish nerd like Jerry can find a different supermode~ to go out with him every week. I suspect all the "eye candy" is there to compete with the vile Friends, but I still find it problematic. Elaine has also gotten a littl{l snippety. These quibbles asid11, however. the show is still well worth watching, and I think we should all emu­late the manic selfishness of the principals. 
Friday, February 2nd: 
(1180) Dennis Miller 
live, 10:30 p.m. 
I don't know what to make of this Dennis Miller. A lot of people seem to consider him very intelligent and subversive, at least compared to Xena, Warrior Princess. Personally, I don't think he's as clever as he thinks he is. As a matter of fact, I don't think he's as clever as Xena. I wish he'd shave, too. 
Saturday, February 3rd: 
(Discovery) Paid 
Programming, 2-3 am 
Infomercials are commonly despised and spit upon, and with good reason, but I ask you, where else can such a sinister model of our society be seen with such crys­talline clarity? The sea of elderly faces, laughing mechanically in mindless unison, the disingenuous questions the "host" asks the bow-tied shill-these eerie features show us television for what it is. Woe to us the day they start making hip infomeri­cals! 
Sunday, February 4th: 
(FOX) The Simpsons, 8 pm 
For· my money, this is the best show on television. The Simpsons, because it's a cartoon and therefore a caricature, is paradoxically the most realistic thing this side of COPS. I've gotten to the point where I see the American cultural landscape in terms of The Simpsons. TV is Kent Brockman and Troy McClure. Movies are McBain. The Religious Right are all Ned Flanders. And I leave it to you to decide who the paradigm of American manhood is. 
Monday, February 5th: (Univision) Spanish TV 
(continually) 
Boy, Spanish TV is something. Every time you turn it on, there are two buxom women in tight dresses and lots of makeup talk­ing earnestly to each other while a man with a mustache eyes them sinisterly. I wish someone would tell me what that's all about. 
Tuesday, February 6th: (NBC) Talk Radio, 9:30 Now here's a nice show. Very witty, a lot of chemistry 

between the leads, urbane humor, and a big part for Phil Hartman. The people are good looking, but not ludicrously so. Moreover, there are no big, hound-faced, sad-sack, pity-me schlmeiels moping around, waiting to be on the cover of Tiger Beat. Watch News Radio, and then turn on Beavis and Butthead afterwards. Do yourself a favor. 
Wednesday, February 
7th: (BET) Sanford & 
Son/Benson/Roc 6-7:30 
pm 
Here you have three decades of black sitcoms, two wonderful shows sandwiched around the terrible Benson. The truth is, I don't think Robert Guillaume ever had his heart in it. The black sitcom had to content itself with the unnatural Urkel until Roc came along to restore things. I just wish he would stop yelling all the time. We hear you, Roc! 
Well, there is a basic guide to your coming week. I hope it does no great harm to the pedagogical enterprise that I give you a few tips. 
Working hard won't make you any smarter. You'll just forget it all, anyway. Whereas I still remember Columbo episodes I haven't seen since eighth grade. Of course, I am something of an unnatural person myself, so this does not carry very much weight. 
Also, my parents are not going into a black hole of debt to keep me here, so there is not the same element of throwing Gepetto's money away when I bask in cathode­rays. I hope I haven't done the wrong thing by encouraging your vices. In any case, I welcome your comments. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is Joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd.edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 


"Ido not at all resent criti­
cism, even when, for the sake of emphasis, it for a time parts company with reality." 
-Sir Winston Churchill 

page 10 Thursday, February 1, 1996

ACCE:NT MlASJC 
• ALBUM REVIEW 


THE RETURN OF THE liVE DEAD 






****~ 
out of five 
By DOMINIC DeVITO 
Accent Music Critic 
T
hey're a band beyond description," is a line from Grateful Dead's fourteenth live release, Dick's Picks Volume Three. As the music on this two-disc set reflects the live Dead experience in a manner that can never be recaptured 
due to the passing of guitarist Jerry Garcia, this saying has hardly ever been more true as the Dead rock the house on this smoking concert collection. 
Recorded on May 22, 1977 in Pembroke Pines, Florida, Dick's Picks captures the sonic mastery of the band at one of its many creative peaks. The spring of that year saw the Dead blitzkrieg through the east coast with a fresh batch of songs and new energy which was manifested in precise playing, long-but-not-spacey jams, and increased cohesion among bandmates. For the first time ever, a May '77 show is available on CD with nearly flawless sound. "Dick" refers to Dick Latvala, the official archivist of Grateful Dead live recordings. His job is to listen to those old concert tapes and pick those which avid fans would like to hear on disc. 
This brings us to the actual quality of the music on the discs at hand. To his cred­it, Dick chooses an excellent performance to finish up 1995 (a staggeringly lame year for Dead fans) and start 1996 anew. A playful "Funiculi Funicula" tuning shows the band to be in good spirits. Then, the ride begins with an exquisite "The Music Never Stopped," a Bob Weir tune from which the above quote was taken. From there, we see the first hints of the fun to come when Jerry Garcia pulls out an enormous "Sugaree," which has crescendos so intense that it's impossible to believe that this is the second song of the show. Weir then gets back to the funk (this is the year when disco reigned) with his signature "Lazy Lightning/Supplication" pairing. More disco follows with an outrageous 14-minute "Dancin' in the Streets," which features tasty Garcia licks throughout. To finish up disc one, Dick cuts out some useless songs and inserts the jazz-infested triumvirate of "Help on the Way/Slipknot!/Franklin's Tower," which sets the tone for disc two and all its glory. 
The second part of this set starts with a barnburning "Samson and Delilah," and later Weir classic tale of psychotic religious obsession, "Estimated Prophet." This unusually timed wah-wah-fest snakes its way around a central theme anchored by bassist Phil Lesh for nine minutes until Garcia's licks spiral. upwards into the delightfully bouncy "Eyes of the World." This uptempo swinger shows Garcia at his best; in harmony with the remaining sextet of players, his voice majestic and wry, and with a willingness to just let go and allow the song to play the singer. 
After piling delicious le.ads one upon another, "Eyes" delicately dissolves into a truly breathtaking moment in the Dead's history-the Garcia solo. For almost two minutes, Jerry guides his faithful cohorts with minimal accompaniment. Fluid tones flow from his guitar and pure bliss breaks out in the audience. This haunting pas­sage drops elegantly into "Wharf Rat," a ballad which shows the tender side of the Dead. The fireworks get even better as the second half of the "Terrapin Station" suite pops up, adding an unusual cap to an already intriguing set. 
But of course it's not over-the opening chords of "Morning Dew" bring the crowd to its feet once again. This deeply evocative anti-war ballad stirs up powerful asso­ciations, augmented by Garcia's melancholic crooning and Keith Godchaux's sensi­tive piano fills. This song, which captures so much emotion with so few words, comes to a blistering frenzy twice; the second peak threatening to overwhelm per­former and listener alike if it fails to end when it does. This serves as a truly delightful finale to a concert set which should have left all participants covered in sweat and smiling from ear to ear. 
Unfortunately, the entire show is not able to fit on two CO's, so some gems are missing, while the inclusion of Donna Godchaux's "Sunrise" (which is sung here at probably its best outside of a studio) may puzzle some fans of the band. Luckily, the rest of what is available is the stuff legends are made of. From start to finish, Dick's Picks is a perfect example of why the Dead were musically indescribable. 
Raising consciousness at Notre Dame, Black 4 7 brings their spontaneous blend of Celtic rock and roll to Alumni-Senior Club. 
S 
tanding in the crowd at a big Senior Bar show is an exercise in ... something, to be sure. The acoustics are abominable, the seating beyond dis­cussion .... 
The funny thing is, one gets the impression that no one here may know what's going on. As we find our­selves surrounded by denim-clad bottoms as far as the eye can see, and varying degrees of flannel almost bringing me to the point of suffocation, we remind our­selves: "We have a job to do." 
Our job this evening, for better or for worse, is cov­ering the Irish protest band, Black '47, for their show at Senior Bar Wednesday night. The crowd is full of very enthusiastic Domers, all suddenly full of the Irish spirit of revolution, and none really knowing why they are here. Truly, our class officers have advertised this as a "once in a college career event," but so is Billy Joel at Stepan. What's going on here? 
By 10:45, the audience is getting restless. The usual Wednesday night $3 pitchers have been replaced by $4.50 pitchers ("They're an expensive band!" says the bartender), shedding light on Black '47's "DIY" ethic. The stacks of amplifiers at stageside would probably be more appropriate for Pavement, and Senior Bar is only getting more and more packed. 
There are about 450 people here, and you wonder: do they know why they're here? Their primary expo­sure to Irish music consists of U2's The Joshua Tree and that "Greatest Irish Drinking Songs" disk that ev­eryone listens to. This crowd expects ... validation, per­haps? We are the Fighting Irish. Do we owe this band authenticity? 
Everyone in Senior Bar seems to think so, because at 11:05, a full 35 minutes after schedule, Black '47 takes the stage to a full roar. Black '47 has learned a very essential tactic of playing bars: give everybody another half hour to get drunk, and they'll think you're great. This has to be what made Dexy's Midnight Runners great: it works for Black '47 as well. 
Their first song makes them sound like an Irish Hootie and the Blowfish. The chord progressions are simple, to say the least, and in the middle of a huge crowd of drunken sheep, the lyrics are indecipherable. No matter: the crowd bounces up and down enthusias­tically, and it's clear that being half an hour late was an excellent marketing decision by Black '47: the audi­ence loves them. 
And that, my friends, is funny to see. Before tonight (and I have documented proof of this) most of you thought Black '47 was a rap group from NYC. To your credit, about 1/3 of you knew all the songs by heart. While that was refreshing, it didn't change the fact that most people didn't know why they were there. 
And most people didn't know they were listening to very, very pedestrian music. With the exception of an absolutely stellar trombone/ tinflute player and a saxo­phonist who had as much energy as the crowd, Black '47 did not live up to the hype. Oh sure, their lead singer had red hair. Does that give them authenticity? 
What does give them authenticity is the fifth song in their set. It is best described as a jig. For the first time in about 30 minutes, those who actually have some Irish blood in them realize they are listening to the native tongue. The crowd doesn't dance: they stomp. 

Photo courtesy of EMI records 
It's intense in here. We're getting what we paid for. 
That, in an essence, is what's great about Black '47: they can play a jig like nobody's business, and they're Irish. Aside from that, what did we learn? Nothing. Senior Bar, in case you didn't know, is a crappy place to watch a show-the acoustics are atrocious. And Black '47, despite the hype, is an Irish bar band, But the energy! The passion! If only that made a band great... the next U2 has yet to be found. 
-by Kevin Dolan 


-

Thursday, February 1, 1996 page 11
ACCENT MLASJC 




The Drovers 
Little High Sky Show 
Tantrum Records 
• ALBUM REVIEW 
Drovers deliver a dud 
T
he latnst offering from The Drovers, l.ittle 1/igh Sky Show, is not without its redeeming features. Although tlw songs are as aimless and unstruc­tured as Hegel's l'henomenology of Spirit, the engineering is as bad as that of a Yugo, and the lyrics are as elusive as a Fnderal budget deal, tlwre is a lot more to an alhum than thn strength of its songs, the quality or its production, and the depth of' its lyrics. One should also judgn albums on their lexicographical intngrity, ac:eompanying artwork, and the struc­tural strength of lhn CD easn itself. .Judged ae­eording to these critnria J.i tlle 1/iyh .'•iky Show eornes up trumps: I could rind no single ease of' rnisspnlling in the notes, thn artwork, while no anstlwtic tlwophany, consists or a pleasant blnnd of greens and pur­ples, and to the best of my knowledge the CD ease which protects my like what one might imagine swimming in vegetable soup to resem­ble: everything is just a little bit messier than it should be. The vocals for­ever hover below the level of cl~ar audibility ­which would be quite all right if there was enough in the way of musical interest to take their place; there isn't. It is of course very trendy to bury the vocal line deep down in the aural strata and the vaguest sugges­tion that such a practice is a little tiresome will be immediately dismissed by those of a progressive bent who are out there pushing the great big envelope of musical inno­vation. But it is the des­tiny of those who are forging a new path through the musical wilderness to be mis­understood. The Drovers are trying too hard to be different and escape cate­gorization; they lack the
* creative brilliance to syn­
out of five 
thesize a truly unique sound. At times they 
& The Infinite Sadness 
3. 
Saturday Morning -Cartoon's Greatest Hits 

4. 
Alice in Chains -Self-titled 

5. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers -One Hot Minute · 


6. Four Rooms Soundtrack 
7. 
Jewel-You Were Meant for Me 

8. 
Joan Osbourne-Relish 

9. 
The Jesus and Mary, Chain -Hate ' Rock 'n' Roll .,.,, 

10. 
Jill Sobule -Self-titled 

11. 
Alanis Morissette -·Jagged Littl~ll 


12. 
Seven Mary Three -American Standard 

13. 
Fat Nut-OrganicaUy Grown 

14. 
Indigo Girls -Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee 

15. 
Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning 


-

• AtBUM REVIEW 
Strai!!ht from the stY 

.lourgensen wants "Lava!," "Crumb!" and 
1 sc:are you, "Deadguy!"-the titles of 
nwriea. I guess ~.............................."''....""llllll.""'"'~"'~the songs. 
that explains the cover Besides the harmonica picture of a Conan on Lava, the most laugh-O'Brien-looking, (lOP-able moment of Filth Pig supporting, flag-waving is the Cure-influenced prnppin with slices of raw love ballad, Lay Lady liv1~r dripping gore down Lay, which gets my bet his fac:e. llowever. like for first Buzz Clip of the tlw latex Halloween new year. Jourgensen masks sold in Sp!Hleer uses strings, an acoustic Gifts, the fright-factor is guitar and cheesy soar-little more than that of an ing high guitar notes to I·:d Wood film. Take the create a song which intnrior jacket dose-up answers the long-sought photo of a sear, for exam-question of what would pie. Sure, the 14 -year-happen if Trent Heznor old girlfriends of the collaborated on the new young Beavis and Def Leppard album. The lluttlwad boys that buy songs on Filth Pig this might shudder at the should have been saved sight, hut intelligent for the soundtracks to adults just laugh and pon-Brainscan II and Pet der how Ministry gathers Cemetery IV. such a large following. I can imagine the stage 
Over the hand's history, Ministry for the Filth Pig tour, Ministry has evolved from which will probably have danc:e-tHchno to industri-Filth Pig some menacing name al-danee-grind, to indus-like the "Pork Slaughter-trial-metal and finally to Warner Bros. Records house '96 Tour" or the sludge-metal with pseu-.d "Straight Outta The Sty do-industrial production. ]J. Tour." Jourgensen will Eaeh of tbe one word f f pick up some left over tilled songs on Filth Pig OUt 0 IVe giant pigs from Pink take one ripped off Floyd, douse them in Pantera/llelmet rifT. slow it down enough to test the fake blood and place them on giant skewers behind patience of the most avid Alice In Chains fan. recycle the band. They'll squeal mechanically as they slowly it through a lot of distortion petals, and repeat it for rotate over pyrotechnics. For the epic encore of Filth about b minutes. Meanwhile, in his most menacing Pig the pigs will catch fire and spew fake blood on the voi<:e (which sounds like it's filtered through a stage. Maybe Bob Dole isn't so wrong. Transformers© Optimus Prime Voice EITects MaskTM), 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo
AI .Jourgensen repeatedly spits such things like 


Morning Glory? 
3. Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie & The Infinite Sadness 
4. Goo Goo Dolls -Boy Named Goo 
S. 7 Mary 3 -American Standard 
6. 
Bush -Sixteen Sto11e 

7. 
Kenny Shepherd-Ledbetter 

8. 
Enya-Memory of Trees 


9. Golden Smog -Dow~ by the River 
-
10. Dave Matthews Band -Under the Table and Dreaming ;. 
11. 
Dead Man Walking Soundtrack 

12. 
Don Henley -Greatest Hits 



13. Bruce Springst~n ~ Gho~t ofTom load ­
copy of l.illh! High Sky Show exhibits none of the fragility for which Hykosdisc's jewel cases are notori­ous. 
But back to the aimless songs and appalling produc­tion. The only vaguely memorable track on this album is "If You Cry, Elizabeta", an upbeat folksy jingle strongly reminiscent of the BoDean's "Texas Hide Song." This is nul to say that Little High Sky Show is otherwise devoid of musical interest, it is simply that internst is not sustained for the length of a song (or even, in most cases, the length of' a bar). When fiddler Sean Cleland manages to install some real energy into tlw sound it is soon swamped by Paul Bradley's mashed potato drumming and Mike Kirkpatrick's rice pudding guitar sound. Listening to this disc is a little verge on the brink of grunge but then the sprightly celtic melodies cut in and that's the end of that. With a better drummer, a better producer, and some decent songs, The Drovers might be able to produce a listen­able album. They do, however, have a winner with those sturdy CD cases. 
With the notable exception of Milli Vanilli, most bands are a lot more fun in the flesh than they are in spirit -certainly The Drovers sound like they could kick up a storm. They're coming to campus on Feb. 2, so go check them out, have yourself a dance, and decide for yourself whether or not there's a future in grunge-celtic synthesis. 
-by Tim Bayne 


-
.. 
-
One of Notre Dame's favorite traditions returns tonight to Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium for a three night run, continuing 20 years ofjibes, 
laughter and fun. 
than a bread box, yet smaller 
(though not much) than Saint 
Mary's O'Laughlin 
Auditorium. It's the Keenan Revue, and it's celebrating 20 years of entertainment that spans two campuses. The Keenan Revue is organized and performed by the resi­dents of Notre Dame's Keenan Hall. Students spoof the University com­munity in a series of skits, songs and other talented performances. 
During its 20 years of existence, the revue has been through many changes and has accumulated a long history. It was started in 1976 by two Keenan residents and their rector in order to provide a fun, non-alcoholic event in mid-winter. "It's a Harvard lampoon type of thing, but with tal­ent," comments the current rector of Keenan, Brother Bonaventure Scully, CFX. In the beginning, the event was largely makeshift. It was held in the basement of Keenan, with students improvising props and scenery. As the popularity of the show increased, it outgrew Keenan's basement and was moved in the early '80s to a new home in Washington Hall. The the­ater proved too small for the suc­cessful show, and a few years later the revue was again moved to its present location of O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The first revue, captured on home video for the entertainment of future classes of Keenanites, consisted of all musical numbers, some humorous and some serious. The revue has kept the tradition of having a band which plays several times during the show, but it is now more a show of skits and comedy. The show is not without its serious acts, though, and showcases some serious talent; such talent includes an amazing magic show which leaves spectators speechless, as well as an original song written by a Keenan resident. 
Producer Mark Kiser, a senior from Keenan, promises "a lot of unique things." This year's revue, re­turning to its roots of twenty years ago, is much more musical than in years past and features parodies of songs, performances of old and new favorites and some excellent back­ground music. 
Keenan Revue '96 is the result of weeks of hard work. Over seventy groups auditioned for the thirty skits 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO 
Assistant Accent Editor 
that are included in the show. The 
skits and other performances were 
then pieced together with music. 
"We have some very talented peo­ple," says Scully. He admitted that some feel that women have been picked on too much in the past, and that others on campus feel offended at some of the skits. "You can't spoof too many people these days. It's tricky." Scully reaffirms that the 
'It's been a really good 
year. Everyone's been chipping in. [The Revue] gives everyone a chance to get involved, whether it's as an usher selling tickets, doing lighting, or perform­ing, Everyone can feel like they have a part." 
Ryan O'Neill 
show is meant to be good-natured, and not to hurt anyone. He explains the incident behind jokes about the women of Breen-Phillips and their love for yo-cream. Scully remembers an ice cream shop near campus where students used to go. The shop had a contest where student-cus­tomers wrote down their dorm name, and after a period of time, the dorm that had produced the most customers won free ice-cream. Supposedly, all the Keenan residents always wrote down "BP" as their dorm, and as a result BP won the ice-cream. Hence, the connection between BP and ice-cream. 
One of the most well-received and loved skits of past years has been that of "Piano Man" Tim O'Neill. In the 1994 show, O'Neill performed a spoof of Vice President of Student Affairs Patty O'Hara with "Ode to Patty O'Hara." In his "Ode, " O'Neill sang six or seven songs, one to the tune of Billy Joel's "Piano Man," with O'Hara as their theme. The following year Tim was joined by his younger brother Ryan, now a junior, in a skit along the same lines, singing both current and older songs. Ryan now keeps the tradition going, since Tim has graduated, with a new musical number in which he sings and plays the piano and harmonica. 
ul l
II 
,~\ 
Ryan says, "I don't necessarily like to think about it that way. I don't feel like I have to do it." O'Neill goes on to say that he and his brother are a lot alike and both enjoy performing. He praises the sense of community the Revue gives the dorm, "It's been a really good year. Everyone's been chipping in. [The Revue] gives every­one a chance to get involved, whether it's as an usher selling tick­ets, doing lighting, or performing. Everyone can feel like they have a part." 
Keenan Revue tickets are a hot commodity each February. Keenan residents find themselves visited by guests bearing gifts, saying, "Hey. remember me? I was in your Intro to Philosophy lectur.e four years ago! 
~ 
How have you been? By the way, got any extra Revue tickets?" Reggie 
I 
I
Mactal, a junior from Lewis, described her ticket-finding experi­ence, "My friends and I each had to revise our schedules in order to be able to get in line for tickets. We didn't really want to wait in line, so we tried all our Keenan connections, but they dissed us. They said the only time we came to see them was at Keenan Revue time." 
This year's Keenan Revue, titled, appropriately, "Twenty Years in Revue," lives up to its reputation and provides over two hours of hysterical comedic material as well as plenty o pure talent. The show pokes fun at nearly every aspect of college life, from dating and campus politics to dorm rivalry and the dining halls. There are parodies of songs, movies, and commercials-in addition to stereotypes of life at ND-which will keep the audience laughing from curtain to curtain call. 
The Keenan Revue is a pro­fessionally done performance, with great attention payed to detail and appearance; clearly the skits have been rehearsed and planned and not simply thrown together to make a show. 

Kiser guarantees that audiences will see "something that hasn't been seen in the revue before." This year's show provides new ideas and materi­al, while at the time paying tribute to the nineteen shows that came before. Once again, the Keenan Revue is a must-see; if tickets are hard to come by, it's defmitely for a reason. Scully perhaps puts it best, "Three nights of a full auditorium, there must be something there." 



Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COUEGE BASKETBALL 
Peral, Wake Forest avoid consecutive upsets 
Associated l'ress 
Wake Forest squandered a big second­half lead for the second straight game, but Hicky Peral's 3-pointer with 3:55 left Wednesday night helped save the 12th­ranked Demon Deacons in a 66-62 victory over North Carolina State. 
The Demon Deacons (14-3, 6-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) had blown an 18-point lead in a loss to No. 8 
Odom North Carolina on Saturday and led the Wolfpack by 14 with 13:22 left this time around. 
But an 18-4 run by N.C. State (12-8, 2­
6) tied the score and then a 3-pointer by Curtis Marshall gave N.C. State a 60-59 lead with 4:25 left. 
r•eral, the ACC's top 3-point shooter at 
53.6 pereent. nailed his key shot 30 sec­onds Iuter and Tim Duncan's layup five seconds before the shot clock expired gave Wake Forest a 64-60 cushion with I :02 hlft. 
Todd Fuller's hook over Duncan closed the Wolfpaek to two, and N.C. State had two more chances to tie or win the game down the stretch after Duncan, a 69 percent free throw shooter, missed two 1-and-1 free throw opportunities in the final 30 seconds. 
But a 3-pointer by Danny Strong from the right corner rimmed out and a fast break layup attempt by Fuller over Duncan with three seconds left also bounced off the rim. N.C. State has now lost five ACC games by a combined 17 points. 
N.C. State remained in last place in the ACC and hasn't won consecutive road games in the league since the 1987-88 season. 
The much anticipated center matchup of the league's top two scorers and rebounders -Duncan and Fuller -was pretty much a wash. Duncan finished with 21 points, 16 rebounds and three blocks, while Fuller had 19 points and 10 rebounds. 
Ohio St. 63, Wisconsin 55 
Hick Yudt scored 16 of his 20 points in the second half and Ohio State overcame an error-filled first half by hitting 14 consecutive free throws ·in the last 1:35 to beat Wisconsin 63-55 Wednesday night. 
The teams combined for 41 turnovers. With eight minutes left. they had totaled 69 points. Twelve fouls resulting in 22 points being scored in the final 2 min­utes. 
Shaun Stonerook scored 10 points for Ohio State (9-8 overall, 2-6 in the Big Ten), which won for only the second time in its last nine games and snapped a three-game losing skid. 
Sam Okey led Wisconsin with 16 points while Jeremy Hall had 11 and Mosezell Peterson added 10. 
The loss dropped Wisconsin to 12-8 overall and 4-4 in the conference. The Badgers, who had 23 turnovers and were 3-for-19 on 3-pointers, are 8-50 in Big Ten road games this decade. 
The first half might have been as ugly as any in St. John Arena's 40 years. 
Ohio State had five field goals and four 35-second violations, yet only trailed 21­18. 
The Buckeyes came out and hit three of their first four shots from the field while taking a 9-0 lead, then proceeded to miss all but one of the next 14. 
Wisconsin shot 38 percent from the field and had 10 turnovers, while Ohio State mustered 27.8 percent and also threw the ball away 10 times. 
It got so bad that Ohio State left the court to a chorus of boos at the 4:43 mark after failing to get off a shot in the allotted time on back-to-back posses­sions. At one point, the Buckeyes had only one shot from the field in 11 trips down the floor. 
Vanderbilt 76, No. 22 Auburn 62 
Drew Maddux led a balanced scoring attack with 19 points, and Vanderbilt held No. 22 Auburn's scoring leader, Lance Weems, to five points in a 76-62 Commodores victory Wednesday night. 
Auburn (15-5, 3-4 Southeastern Conference) led only once as Vanderbilt (14-7, 4-4) jumped out early behind Frank Seckar, who scored all of his 16 points in the first half. 
Seckar, averaging 11 points in the pre­vious eight games, started quickly against the Tigers. He hit his first 3­pointer in the first minute and added three more in thP half for a 35-28 lead at intermission. 
Maddux had only one basket in the first half. but scored 15 points in the second half as Vanderbilt stretched its lead to 54-38 on a dunk by Austin Bates off an alley-oop pass from Seckar with 
13:29 left. 
Auburn, playing only its third game in 18 days and first in a week, closed to 62-53 on Wes Flanigan's free throw. Maddux scored six of Vandy's next 10 points as the Commodores pushed its lead back out. 
The Commodores outshot Auburn, hit­ting 49 percent (30-of-61) compared to 39 percent (23-of-58) for the Tigers. 
Pax Whitehead added 13 points for Vanderbilt, and Bates finished with 12 despite battling a stomach virus. 
The Commodores shut down Weems, averaging 14.9 points. Be didn't hit his first basket, a 3-pointer, until five min­utes into the second half. 
Pat Burke had 13 points and 13 rebounds, while Flanigan scored 12 points and Derek Caldwell 11 for Auburn. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Are you missing a ski jacket?  ATTENTION NOTRE DAME  Summer jobs available near Glacier  I NEED TO TRADE A PAIR OF  SMC-ND 23AD ANNUAL SUMMER  
NOTICES  Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25. Call Kim x4946.  WOMEN: City News Service is looking for morning newspaper car­ National Park. The Park Cafe & Grocery in  FRI. KEENEN REVIEW TICKETS FOR A THURS. PAIR.  PROGRAMS IN LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21)  
riers. Work Jess than 1 hr per day,  St. Mary, Montana, east entrance to  IF INTERESTED CALL 4-1501.  AND ROME (JUNE 16-JUL Y 15)  
HELP! Someone must of picked up  make $421week. Must have bike.  Glacier, has positions open in cafe,  TRAVEL IN IRELAND. SCOTT,  
my green, down winter coat Friday  Call Joe at 4-1680.  gift, & grocery store, and gas sta­ FA., GEA., SWITZ., AND ITALY  
DO YOU THINK YOUR BAND HAS  night after a party in 518 Flanner on  tion. Call Kathryn daytime; 406-587­ need ST JOHNS tix  COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC,  
WHAT IT TAKES?  accident.  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­ 1816 for info.  call2342  HIST., BIO., SOC., AND ITALIAN.  
It is waist length and has mittens in  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CAR­ 
BATTLE OF THE CAMPUS  the pockets along with some com­ basic conversational English  Castle Point resident needs room­ ROLL HALL (SMC)--INFO. CALL  
BANDS · THUR MAR 21 9-2 @  puter disks. It you did or know someone who  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide  mate immediately! Rent $250/mo + utils. Will have own room & bed.  PERSONAL  DA. BLACK 284-4460/ 272-3729.  
BENEFIT FOR THE CENTER FOR  found it,  room & board + other benefits. No  Call Sharat at (272-3402(H), 631­ 
THE HOMELESS  PLEASE call Mary at x1496.  teaching background or Asian lan­ 5735(Wk) or email  0o0o0o0o0a0o0o0o0o0o0  Next time you are in UP Mall go say  
A.S.A.P. Thank you.  guages required. For more informa­ msharatc@ bach.helios.nd.edu  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII  hi to ,A,my at Payless  
IF YOU WANT YOUR BAND TO  tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  THE COPY SHOP  
PARTICIPATE-EMAIL XAayRJ@aol.com NOW FOR  MISSING: Long, dark green L.L. Bean coat.  J55842  FOR RENT  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  Theatre! Theatre I  
DETAILS  Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at the  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 0a0o0o0o0o0a0o0o0o0o0  Cavanaugh Hall Players  
Linebacker. It you have it, or if you  Positions are now available at  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  presents:  
are missing a similar jacket-! found  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  219-291-7153  ATTENTION MUSIC LOVERS:  
a similar one the same evening­ Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Have you ever wanted to be on the  LATER LIFE by A.A. Gurney  
please call Kim at x4946.  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  HOMES FOR RENT  radio?  
N55844  232-2595  Here's your chancel  Washington Hall, 2/1 ,2,3 at 8pm  
NEED KEENAN REVUE TIX??  FOUND:  WSNO-FM is looking for announc­ Tix $3 available only at door  
Sorry, can't help you there.  Dark green Columbia "ski jacket.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ 1 BDRM IN 3-BORM. HOME.  ers to till·various classical shifts.  Doors open at 7:30 pm  
But you could go see ...  Found at Linebacker, 1125.  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE  
' DEAD PRESIDENTS '  Please call Kim at x4946.  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL  No experience needed.  IIIAUDITIONSIII  
8:00 and 10:30 Fri.. Sat.  month. Room and Board!  UTILITIES. $300/MO.  Call Amy at 631-7342 for more into.  
2:00 Sun.  I lost my favourite scarf between  Transportation! Male or Female. No  CALL PAUL 232-2794.  ON THE VERGE  
Cushing Aud. $2.00  Newland Science Hall and the post  experience necessary. Call  International Film Festival  
office last thursday. It Is dark green and has a check­ (206)971-3510 ext A55843  FOR SALE  Coming Soon! Cushing Auditorium  Lab at Wash Hall 6 pm Fri Feb 2  
ered pattern on it.  SUMMER JOBS  "II Postino" Feb 4  2 pm Sat Feb3  
To Die For  Please, please, please call Chis at  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp­ "The Promise" Feb 5  
212 -213, 7 & 9:30  4·1697 if you happen to find it.  PRESTIGE CHILOERN'S CAMP­ Receiver with Dual Tape Deck.  Montgomery Theatre  i i i QUEER ? ? ?  
Carroll Auditorium, SMC  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  100 Watts of tunes! Call John at  "Tatie Danielle" Feb 6  1i iCOOLIII  
Free Admission  LOST! II!!  NEAR LAKE PLACID  232-2955 today!  "EI Mariachi" Feb 7  
1-800-786-8373  "Like Water for Chocolate" Feb 8  The original, the incomparable.  
SPRING BREAK!  1.0. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  1984 FORD TEMPO  all movies at 7:30 ... $2.00  GAY AND LESBIAN GROUP  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  Reward tor return. Please call, sen­ WANTED: Good people to earn  5-spd manual transmission  will have a  
BLOW IT!  timental value.  money by becoming reps for  96,000 miles, good heater, always  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  GENERAL MEETING  
Organize group· TRAVEL FREE  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  dependable $800  TONIGHT at 7:30 pm.  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  Call Chris, @ 1662  299-1999 evenings.  Call Chris today at 271-02711  "A MUST SEE BAND"  
$359 Florida $109  -Observer 4/95  BE THERE, BE COOL,  
FREE INFO packet.  Switched: It you have the wrong  Computer Science student capable  JUDAY CREEK gem.  BE QUEER  
Call Sunsplash 1·800-426-771 0  turquoise double-breasted jacket  of programming excell. Earn a  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  FRI 2/2 -CLUB 23  
from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give  great reference for your resume  with a 17 x 25 home office  SAT 213-BRIDGET'S  Join the Fresa/Looby/Monte AlBano  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  me a call. I have yours.  and Subway Subs for your time.  & 3-car garage.  Club. Call284-5118.  
Specials! 111% Lowest Pnce  Andy X1765  Call 289-1288, ask for the General  $154,900.  CD ON SALE AT TRACKS-BUY IT!  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Save $100 On  Lost: A green, Columbia Bugaboo  Manager.  Call Karen 272-3653.  FOR MORE INFO -EMAIL  Way to go Liz­-Your News Department Buddies  - 
Food/Drinks! http://www.sprlng­ Ski Jacket from the coat room at  Looking lor a part-time babysitter,  HONDA CIVIC 1986, RUNS VERY  XRayRJ@aol.com  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678·6386  Senior Bar last Thusday night. It  very flexible with hours and days in  WELL; HIGH MILES; NEW MUF­ ••"Ryan Harding""  
had a purple, inner finer and a ski  my Granger home for 2 children  FLER; NEW EXHAUST PIPE; NEW  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  ....Ryan Harding••"  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  lift ticket attached. I ended up with  ages 1 and 3.  BATTERY;  '"•Ryan Harding""  
Room With Kitchen $1191  a very similar jacket that was hung  II interested, call 273-2695.  MUST SELL;  LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL  Sorry about the messages!  
Walk to Best Bars!  near mine. If you have mine or  $800 NEGOTIABLE;  or Similarly Distinguished?  We didn't mean to take it this far.  
7 Nights In Key West $2591  want yours, please call Travis at  CAMP EBERHART, THREE  LEAVE MESSAGE 273-3165  -C,L.R,K  
Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  X2091.  RIVERS, MI.  The Group that Dare not  
Beaches·Near Disney) $1691  LOOKING FOR MATURE, HARD­ ALUMNI  Speak its Name  Brian,  
Daytona $1391  To whoever took our TROLL at  WORKING, RESPONSIBLE INDI­ MANY BEDROOMS  is holding a  I was just wondering if your instru­ 
http://www.springbreaktravel.com.  Club 23 Sat. night:  VIDUALS FOR OUTDOOR EDU­ 10 MINUTES TO CAMPUS  ment cuts it?  
1·800-678-6386  PLEASE RETURN IT to the  CATION PROGRAM.  SALE OR TRADE  GENERAL MEETING  
ILOST & FOUND I  Library Campus Ministry office! Franxl -George and the Freaks  EXPERIENCE PREFERRED, (WILL TRAIN HOWEVER). MID MARCH TO JUNE. POTENTIAL FOR SUMMER & FALL EMPLOY­ 812-923-8486 TICKETS  TONIGHT at 7:30 PM. For the location, call the Q-LINE (287-6665),  Next time your car is going up in flames! I wonder if you could handle Big D's  
Found a unique 18K gold pin last semester. Please write a full dis­ WANTED  MENT. $140PW INCLUDING ROOM & BOARD. CALL 616 244­ KEENAN REVUE TIX - your info source for all things queer  tiller?  
criptlon to P.O.Box 111 NO, 46556.  5125  Will exchange 4 Fri tlx lor 4 on  at NO/SMC.  What will the East All-Star T earn be  
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  Thurs or Sat.  missing? Join the NO Brent Price  
MISSING: Long, forest green coat  PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start  HELP. Tutor me in German gram­ Call X3842  Rachel- tan club today!! I  
Last seen Thurs. 1125 at  Flexible hours around classes. All  mar. I'll trade for Span., Eng., com­ What exactly is I DC?? I guess  
Linebacker.  majors. Scholarships/Internships  puter stuff or whatever. Bernadette  Desperately need 1 St. John's GA.  we'll find out in the mall bathroom.  Watch out for those grassy knolls.  
Please call Kim at x4946.  CALL 282-2357  284-5118  Call Staph: 634-4638  -Personality Number Three  Please. We need you.  


------~ ~--~­
.----------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 1996 
II -•NBA 
•NBA 
:')~ 
Howard steps out

I Magic's return quiets critics 
By WENDY E. LANE that and he's just a point guard. As the point Associated Press guard he's looking for someone else to set them up. 
Ofwebber's shadow 


INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Ask Magic Johnson a question about his come­back, and he or his teammates will have an an­swer. And they're ready to refute all doubters. 
Can Johnson, who returned to the Los Angeles Lakers on Tuesday night after a 4 1/2-year absence, still cut it? 
It certainly looked like he could against Golden State, hardly a powerhouse but a team that had recently dominated the Lakers. All Johnson did was make half his 14 field goal attempts, score 19 points, hand out 10 assists and take eight rebounds. All in 27 minutes. 
He may be on the far side of 35, a few steps slower and a little thicker in the upper body, but in his first game at least, he showed he's capable of making the Lakers a much better team. 
"The beauty of it," said Lakers coach Del Harris, "is there is room for improvement." 
When he played down low, Johnson drew dou­ble teams, kicking the ball out to one of Los Angeles' three perimeter threats. As point for­ward, he ran the fastbreak, feeding Cedric Ceballos or Eddie Jones for dunks. 
Despite Johnson's impressive line, he himself saw plenty of flaws, but nothing that more game experience can't erase. 
''I'm disappointed in my reading of the situa­tions, but that's because I haven't played," he said. ''I'm disappointed because I missed a free throw. I'm disappointed because I turned the ball over (four times). 
"I know with time, things will get better. I just have to keep working. I'm not nearly in the type of shape I would love to be in." 
Johnson looked at times like he was still in his prime, ready to dish off to Kareem Abdul-Jabbar or Jaraes Worthy. But Harris is asking him to do something much different than he did in the 1980s -play the low post and let someone else distribute the ball. 
"I don't think we're going to be at our best if eveubody bails out and lets him handle the ball," Harris said. "Why? Because at his particu­lar ability right now, what he does with his for­ward position and low-post game, he sacrifices 
"Our best offensive weapon is probably not him finding somebody else but somebody else finding him and letting him make the play. He can score it, as witnessed by his 19 points, and he can deal it, as witnessed by his 10 assists." 
In Johnson's own mind, his performance answered any small doubts he was harboring about his ability to withstand the pounding and maintain the frenetic pace of an NBA game. 
"I was doing it all the time in my practices, I was doing it with the Lakers" in practice, he said. "But you want a real game against an opponent." · 
Even if Johnson's abilities are undiminished by time, will his presence stunt the development of his young teammates and inspire too much awe? 
It sure didn't look like Johnson was hurting team chemistry any. 
Getting feeds from him helped Ceballos score 33 points. Elden Campbell had a career-high eight assists. When Golden State closed to 121­115 with 42 seconds remaining, Johnson spotted Nick Van Exel wide open outside the 3-point line and bounced a perfect pass to him. Van Exel nailed the shot to seal the 128-118 win. 
"I told A.P. (Anthony Peeler), Sedale Threatt, Eddie Jones, Cedric Ceballos, there's going to be a lot of wide-open jumpers for us now," Van Exel said. 
Johnson is being used in a reserve role, allow­ing Campbell to keep his job as starting power forward. Will Johnson be content not starting? 
"The sixth man role is fine with me," he said. ''I'm happy with it. I have no problem with it. I don't want to break up what we already have, so I hope he doesn't insert me into the starting line­up. I hope he keeps me in the sixth man role because we need what I bring in off the bench to our team." 
Among the questions that his first game back couldn't answer is, how far can Johnson take the Lakers in the remaining half of the season and into the playoffs? 
Before Wednesday's games, the Lakers were 25-18, seven games behind Western Conference leader Seattle. 
by injuries at various times. . Led by Howard, Washington · (21-21) is off to its best start ·since 1986-87. ff Howard and 
the Bullets continue on their pre$ent.course,.Washington will m&.ke the playoffs for the first time since 1988. 
> "There's no question he's .NflA.,de~mn·:e:•.· }i<1qur. most reliable player, the ..n,.A ,,Aft•·· guy we• cOunt on night in and night.out," Bullets general .tnanag~;~r Joh{J Nash said, ''We WQuld be in a sorry state 
"if J ·· wasn't available 40 or SQ,'.' sUJlPo:seu to be ttancruse player, · fulfill ..·... . now, Howard is 
mari whom the Bullets are counting on. · "They've got a real chance. They have a lot of talent on this team, starting with Juwan Howard," Vancouver 
,1coach Brian W~ters said last Saturday afterlloward bad 24 points and 12 rebounds in Washington's 102-77 rout of the Grizzlies. · · thrilled named by "He's a very disciplined 
the coaches," he said. "l was player. He can post up on 
a little s:urprised, but 1;his is a you, he can bring you out on 
great honor .for me and the the floor. he can shoot right in 
Bullets." your face," Winters said. "He The 6~ioot-9 forward leads also plays good defense." Washington in minutes played The Bullets expected big and ranks second in assists. things from Howar:d when Most importantly, he's man­they made him the No. 5 aged to stay healthy while Qverall pick in the 1994 NBA starters Webber, Mark Price, draft. No one, however, Robert Pack and Calbert expected him to be so good so 
't..U1:1~J.Jt::Y. hav~.been sidelined quickly. 

-


Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 
Suns cool off Hawks 120-84 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated f'ress 
ATLANTA 
The Phoenix Suns shot 64 pereent from the field and routed the Atlanta Hawks 120­H4 Wednesday night behind Wesley Person's 22 points. 
The llawks, whose 10-game winning streak had ended the previous night at Indiana, suf­fered th1~ir worst loss since a 135-96 defeat to the !..akers nearly three years ago. 
It was Atlanta's biggest honw loss since a 125-84 debacle to Orlando on Dec. 19, 1992. 
Phoenix ripped apart Atlanta's normally stingy de­fense, making 51 of 80 shots. 
The Hawks had given up more than 100 points only once during their winning streak; the Suns went over the century mark with more than nine minutes remaining in the game. 
Phoenix, which led only 28­23 at the end of the first quar­ter, blew it open in the second, outscoring the Hawks 33-16. The Suns made 15 of 19 shots (79 percent) in that period and Person, cheered on by a large contingent from his hometown 
By.the way... It is an aquired taste 
in neighboring Alabama, was 4 of 4. 
Atlanta, by comparison, made only 6 of 20 (30 percent) in the second period and fin­ished the game at 40 percent, including 1 of 16 from 3-point range. 
The Hawks' performance was summed up when Steve Smith, dribbling along uncon­tested, flicked the ball out of bounds off his knee. 
The Phoenix lead never dipped below 18 points in the second half, and climbed as high as 38. 
The Suns, whose slow start cost coach Paul Westphal his job, are 5-4 since Cotton Fitzsimmons took over Jan. 17. 
Phoenix lost its first two games under Fitzsimmons and is still just 19-23 overall, but now has reeled off five victo­ries in seven games, including back-to-hack road victories. The Suns won 114-99 at Miami on Tuesday night. 
Reserve Waymon Tisdale scored 19 points, while Charles Barkley and Kevin Johnson added 18 apiece. 
Barkley didn't play at all in the fourth quarter, amusing himself on the bench by spar­ring with the Atlanta mascot. 
Andrew Lang led the Hawks with 21 points. 
page 15 

•NBA 
Stockton hits key free ·throws to propel Jazz 
ByBOBBAUM AAodated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. John Stockton sank five of six free throws in the final 
1:17 as the Utah Jazz with· stood a wild Portland raUy to beat the Trail Blazers 98-94 Wednesday night. 
Portland's Clitford Robinson was fouled on a 3~point attempt with 5.2 seconds left, hut he missed the first two of his three free throws and Stockton clinched the victory by making two free throws with 4.7 seconds remaining. 
Utah led 86-63 early in the fourth quarter before Clifford Robinson and James Robinson, who got in a scuffle after Tuesday's practice, led an improbable rally. ­
Portland's 26·4 run cut the lead to 90·89 on Clifford Robinson'.s 3-pointer with 
3:09 to play. Stockton's field goal and 
Adam Keefe's free throw boosted the lead back to 93­89 and Portland never man­aged to get closer than three again. 
Karl Malone scored 28 for Utah but was 0-for-7 from the field in the fourth quarter. Stockton had 17 points and 10 assists and Jeff Hornacek scored 15 for the Jazz, win­ners of seven of their last eight. 
Clifford Robinson scored 33, 20 in the second half. Rod Strickland added 15 and Chris Dudley 11 for the Blazers. 
Malone, coming off a 40­point performance in a 106­97 win over Detroit Monday night, scored 13 in the third quarter as Utah took an 83-63 lead. 
Keefe's three-point play to start the fourth period made it 86·63 and the Jazz appeared headed for its sec­ond one-sided romp over Portland in eight days. 

•NHl 
Hawerchuk scores 500th in shutout 
Assocated Press 
TORONTO 

Dale Hawerchuk became the 23rd player in NHL history to score 500 goals as the St. Louis Blues beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 4-0 Wednesday night. 
Hawerchuk scored the his­toric goal on a 2-on-1 break at 
10:26 of the third period. 
Rob Pearson, playing his first game with St. Louis after being acquired Monday from Washington for Denis Chase, set up the 15-year veteran, whose slap shot from between the circles sailed under the cross bar for his 11th goal of the season. 
Hawerchuk, 32, who was born in Toronto, has 1,351 points for 11th spot on the all­time list. He became the fourth player to reach 500 goals this season, following Pittsburgh's Mario Lemieux, Mark Messier of the New York Rangers and Steve Yzerman of the Detroit Hed Wings. 
Grant Fuhr registered his 15th career shutout in the St. Louis net. 
Dave Roberts, Geoff Courtnall and AJ Macinnis also scored for the Blues, who moved within three points of third-plaee Toronto in the Western Conference's Central Division. 
Toronto now is winless in its last seven games (0-5-2). 
After a scoreless first period in which Toronto outshot St. Louis 14-11, the Blues domi­nated the second when they outshot the Maple Leafs 13-3 and took a 1-0 lead. 
Roberts cruised into the slot and slammed Brett Hull's pass from behind the net past goal­tender Felix Potvin on the power play at 14:35. 
Courtnall scored with 2:24 remaining, taking Hull's pass on the wing and ripping a shot past Potvin. Macinnis scored a shorthanded, empty-net goal with 54 seconds left. 

Final shots were 32-25 in St. Louis's favor. It was Fuhr's first shutout of the season. ..... 
Are You Prepared? 
WeAre. 
• 
Limit of 10 Students per Class 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 

• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


...~NCETON 
...REVIEW 
(Cl~ start February 17th! ) 
Call Today! 
800/865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the Educational Testing Service. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 1, 1996 
• COLLEGE ~ASKHBALL • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Knight, Hoosiers cling Griffey signs record contract 
to Big Ten title hopes 
By STEVE HERMAN their final 20 points came on Associated Press free throws, including one apiece by Haris Mujezinovic BLOOMINGTON, Ind. and Andrae Patterson after 
Indiana's Big Ten title hopes Iowa closed within one point in are still alive, although the er­the final seconds. ratic Hoosiers aren't making it Knight, whose normal bom­easy on their 
bast never escalated beyond hard-to­the shouting stage, still found please coach. some positives from the 
T h e Hoosiers' play early in the Hoosiers, game. who have 
won three "Up until that time (in the games in a second halD. we had played five-game really well," he said. "I was streak really pleased with what we
Knight
against Top had done. We got off to a good 25 oppo-start and for the most part nents, are playing well enough maintained it in the first half, to keep Bob Knight's famous and for eight minutes into the temper reasonably in check, second half we were really in but not well enough to satisfy good shape. him. "Then they got back in it. It 
Tuesday night's 76-73 victory was certainly a game that ei­over No. 16 Iowa, when ther team could have won in Indiana blew a 16-point lead in the last couple minutes, and the second half, was a perfect that's what you're always hop­example. ing for ... to have a chance to 
"When you've had the game win," Knight said. in a position to get it out of the The key, he said, may have woods, at least in my case, I'm been the Hawkeyes' improve­always a little bit disappointed ment on the offensive board. that we lose that (big lead)," "They had three offensive re­Knight said. bounds in the first half and 11 
Since Jan. 13, Indiana (12-8, in the second half, and I think 5-3 Big Ten) has also beaten that made a really big differ­Illinois, which has since ence in terms of what was dropped out of the rankings, available to them," Knight said. and No. 20 Michigan, and lost at No. 17 Purdue and No. 10 "The second point that I Penn State. think is a good one for us is 
Against the Hawkeyes on that we hung on. We missed far Tuesday, the Hoosiers' torrid too many free throws (11), but first-half shooting went frigid we made a couple free throws in the second half. Sixteen of (at the end)." 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Ken Griffey Jr. became baseball's highest paid player Wednesday, signing a four-year contract extension worth $34 million. 
The contract for the Seattle Mariners center fielder has an average annual value of $8.5 mil­lion, topping the $7.29 million annual average of the six-year deal Barry Bonds signed with San Francisco in 1992. 
The extension starts with the 1997 season, meaning Griffey will be under contract with Mariners through the 2000 season. 
"I cannot tell you how excited the Mariners organization is to have the best player in base­ball under contract through the turn of the cen­tury," Mariners president Chuck Armstrong said. 
Griffey gets a signing bonus of $2.5 million. In 1997, he will be paid $7.25 million; in 1998, $7.75 million; in 1999, $8.25 million; and in 2000, $8.25 million. 
He is also eligible for a number of other bonus­es, including $100,000 if he is named World Series MVP. 
23rd Annual Sutntner Progratn 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting February 5th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 
London Ron1e 
May 22-June21 June 16-July 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 
Pizza Social 

Past students and faculty will be present. For infonnation call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726 


Thursday, February 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 


Huskies run streak to 19 straight 
The Knights missed four shots and eommitted a turnover before Allen followed his own miss to start UConn (20-1, 1 0-0) on a 19-4 run. Allen had seven points in the run and Sheffer hit two 3-pointers as UConn took a 70-49 lead with under four minutes remaining. 
Huskies center Travis Knight, who started his first game since having two screws put in his fractured left thumb Jan. 26, had 10 points. Damon Santiago had 17 for Rutgers, while Andrew Kolbasovsky and Billy Gilligan seored 13 each. 
No. 5 Cincinnati 78, NCC 64 
Danny Forston scored 23 points against North Carolina Charlotte's depleted front line, leading No. 5 Cincinnati to a 78-64 victory Thursday night. 
Cincinnati (15-1, 5-1 Conference USA) played a ragged game, failing to put away an over­matehed team. But one injury made a huge dif­ferenee. 
NC Charlotte (10-8, 4-3) had big problems without 7-foot-2, 275-pound eenter Alexander Kuehl, who broke his lel't foot in a loss Saturday at Saint Louis. Kuehl was the only 49er with the girth to slow the 6-foot-7, 260­pound Fortson, who is Cincinnati's leading scorer at 21.8 points per game. 
Free to roam inside and shoot over smaller players, Fortson controlled the first half. He and 6-foot-9 center Art Long combined for 22 points in the half -one more than the entire NC Charlotte team. 
Fortson finished with 23 points and 13 rebounds, while Long had 18 points and 11 re­bounds. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper ·production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Liz Foran by 5 p.m. Tuesday, February 6 For additional information about the positions contact Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
Medjugorje.-----------------------, January 25. 1996 Message Our Lady. Queen of Peace "Dear Children! Today I invite you to decide for peace. Pray that God give you the true peace. Live peace in your hearts and you will understand, dear children, without love you cannot live peace. The fruit of peace is love and the fruit of love is forgiveness. I am with you and invite all of you, little children, that before all else forgive in the family and then you will be able to forgive others. Thank you for having responded to my call." For more information on Marian Apparitions, see the Children of Mary homepage: http:/www.nd.edu/-Mary  

• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

The Observer/Rob Finch Sophomore Allen Iverson was one of four Hoyas to reach double fig­ures in Wednesday night's 91-67 rout of West Virginia. 
Iverson, Page spark Hoyas to easy win 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 

Allen Iverson led four Georgetown players in double figures with 18 points, and the ninth-ranked Hoyas used a 31­10 second-half run to defeat West Virginia 91-67 in a Big East game Wednesday night. 
The Mountaineers played tough team defense in the first half and trailed by just five points at the break, but Georgetown (18-3, 8-2 Big East) played even stronger de­fense in the second half, and the 31-10 run sealed the out­come. 
At one point, the tiring Mountaineers -playing with­out suspended starter Gordon Malone-went nearly six min­utes without a field goal, including a spurt in which Georgetown scored seven points in 20 seconds. A 35-30 halftime lead was extended to 71-44 with 7:30 to play. 
While Iverson led the Hoyas in scoring as usual, the game proved that the 6-foot sopho­more guard doesn't have to have an awesome scoring night for Georgetown to win. In fact, two of Georgetown's three loss­es this season came when Iverson scored 40 and 39 points. 
Against West Virginia, lverson didn't score until 5:32 into the game. Most of his points came late in the game after the outcome was decided. 
Victor Page scored 17 points, Othella Harrington 12 and Jerome Williams 10 for Georgetown. Harrington had eight rebounds and Williams nine, helping Georgetown's 49­25 rebounding advantage. 
Reserve Greg Simpson led West Virginia (8-10, 3-7) with 16 points. After making two free throws, Williams had a steal and dunk that excited the crowd in Georgetown's big sec­ond-half run. 
However, Williams, one of the best rebounders in the country, looked uncomfortable when coach John Thompson brieny unveiled a bizarre offensive formation that had the 6-9 for­ward playing point guard. 
Shortly after Williams' slam, 
the Hoyas created two 
turnovers that led to seven 
points in 20 seconds -Iverson 
had two free throws, Page hit a 
3-pointer and Harrington a 
hook -that gave Georgetown 
its first 20-point-plus lead at 
63-42. 
It was in sharp contrast to 
the first half, when the 
Moutaineers scooted away with 
uncontested fast breaks and got 
back on defense to prevent the 
Hoyas from doing the same. 
Georgetown took the lead for 
good at 12-11 on Ya-Ya Dia's 
basket with 12:29 to go in the 
first half. 




page 18 
• COWGE 8ASKETBAU •.•• 
Michig_..,... share of 
By HARRYATI<INS Associated Press 
"''· EAST LANSING, Mic}l;.
Quinton Brooks scored .15 of his 19 points in the seC<hid half Wednesday night, and Michigan State grabbed· a 
three·way share of first place in the Big Ten with a 61~~8 victory over No. 10 Peti'ti State. 
It was just the second loss for the Nittany Uons (15·2, 6· 2 Big Ten); and both of them came in the Great Lakes State; They took a 67-66 loss at Michigan on Jan. 21. 
It was the fourth straight victory for Michigan State(12· 8, 6~2) and tied the Spartans for first place with Penn .State and Purdue. The Boilermakers won 80-59 at No. 20 Michigan. 
Michigan State's victory w~s far from pretty. · ,,,, 
iated Press 

"We said coming in we had to 
play our best game of the year to 
win here, and lo and behold, we 
did it," Purdue coach Gene Keady 
said. ''I'm just happy we got a vic­
tory and we're out of here." 
The win moved the 
Boilermakers (16-4, 6-2 Big Ten) 
into a tie with Penn State and 
Michigan State for the Big Ten 
lead. 
It was Keady's 182nd career Big Ten win, breaking the tie between himself and former Michigan ,State coach Jud Heathcote for 
•fifth place on the conference's career victory list. 
Michigan (15-6, 4-4), mean­while, dropped its third straight 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Outrof-Print Search Service: $2"' 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
the conference fensive gorie,~? sh()t · Penn State. w t lead was 34-32 with 17':23 remain­ing, went almost four minutes without a basket early in the secon~ half; .. ·., ,;"
The Nittany Ljoils then ·hafl another. stretch of 6:30 with~ out a field goal later in the quarter. 
P~mn State etitere.d the gapte leadin~tthe nation in 3-point shooting. at 47,3 percent. But the Spartans defense held Nittany lions to 
from ...,..'!.ru··~ :f•·• 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
facing off against senior 
Elissa Kim at the no. 3 singles 
spot. Kim thus far in the year 
has posted a record of 13-6. 
And the other sensational 
freshmen, Velasco will be 
playing another freshman 
from Northwestern Laura 
Guigon. Guigon has suffered 
only six losses in 21 matches. 
"This match with 
Northwestern will be a good 
one," predicted Louderback. 
"We have lost to them the 
past two years. They are one 
of the top teams in the region, 
and so I think that this match 
will be hard fought." 
Revenge would be sweet for 
the Irish, according to Vitale. 
"Everyone is excited. We 
have a solid team and we 
have been competing well," 
stated Vitale, "I think that we 
have a really good chance to 
win this one." 
The Irish's quest for 
revenge is set for 3:30 at Eck. 
and also saw a 15-game home winning State. 
streak end. The margin of defeat was Michigan's 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. The Wolverines lost at Indiana and worst at home since an 87-62 loss to ~ses in two of its last three games Purdue in their previous two starts and Indiana in 1984-85 and the Wolverines' ked Purdue out of the Big Ten lead. were looking to get healthy on their worst in any game since a 119-95 loss at 1t the 17th-ranked Boilermakers home floor. Arizona in 1993-94. 
ed emphatically Wednesday night "We were throughly handled at home 
L .t they won't lightly let go of their by a team we thought we could beat," Forward Brandon Brantley added 11 two-year hold on the conference cham-Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. points and guard Justin Jennings 10 for pionship. The Wolverines had not lost in Crisler the Boilermakers. Nine of the 14 players 
They handed Michigan its worst home Arena since an 82-77 loss to St. John's who saw action for Purdue scored. loss in 11 years as Chad Austin scored on Jan. 28, 1995. Michigan's last home Two freshmen were the only double­16 of his 23 points in a dominating first conference loss came two games before figure scorers for Michigan as guard half, and Purdue ripped No. 20 Michigan that in a 73-71 setback to Michigan Louis Bullock had 17 points and forward 
80-59. r-----------------------, 

Come Share Your Knowledge With The Rest of The World. -. All majors needed for a wide · variety of full time, post-grad service opportunities. Application deadline: fEBRUARY 28. 
for details. 
631-5779 
Thursday, February 1, 1996 
Robert Traylor 16. 
"Right now we're all disappointed because we know we can play better," Traylor said. "We know we didn't do our best tonight." 
Maurice Taylor and Maceo Baston, Michigan's 6-foot-9 sophomores who came into the game averaging 26.1 points between them, combined for just 13. 
"I don't know what happened," Taylor said. "Offensively we didn't play tough enough; by the time we did it was too late." 
~~~.YJ?CJ· ~ "~~: 
~~ "a.~ ~~~ 
~ THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ~~'~' clPx: DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS :x ~ 
. GUEST ARnST SERIES . 
•t !• : i 
' lUI:
i 1111:: ! 
I( P/1RENTANO . 
0 0 
!
• 2 0 STRING QUARTET
•! 
! 
a 
0
i 
0 
a
0 a 2:00p.m. 0 
• 
Sunday, February 4, 1996 i 

• 
Annenburg Auditorium 


E' 
~x 'lhe Snite Museum of Art ~ ~ -. . e-"..A ~ 
~~ S.' General Admiss1on; S2 Srudenr/Seni« ~~~ 
~~~~---~~~:<. 
NO'Tf<c Dr:i)Vlc
TRACK & FIELD 
Meyo Invitational 
This Friday~ 
{6 p.m.) : 
and Saturdaj. 
•{!~ '}l}qq)•••••• : 






JOE MARTIN
MISTER BOFFO 
,.. 
DILBERT 
THANKS 10 M'-1 L£.1\0ER.­SHIP 1 IHE NEW 1\1 R TRAFFIC CONTROL SYSTEfV\ IS DESIGNED ON TlfV\E. A.ND UNDER. BUDGE.i. 
I 
CROSSWORD 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=-+-=-+:::+.;..+:.....p~..... 11 Postulates ~~-=4~ 12 Begins, as a task 
~=+=--4-=-~ 13 Affair arrangements 
7j~~~~~·· 18Backtalk
.!; 19 Logo 
~=+.:::1.-.:::-+:+.,:.t 22 "Yuck!" .:,:.J.~~:::..JIIIIIIt-==t:=+;,-1 23 Cons' counterpart ::::::++=+:::-l 24 Fair to middlin' 
:..;..L..;....L;;;..&..::...J 25 Stead 
::f I HAD 10 CUT A FEW
0 
u 
_; CORNE R5. THIS BIC,
0.. 
® 
VI 1\ADM\-LOOKINC, THING 
0 ::f.. IS A WALL CLOCK. AND 
..
... 
... !'1\0ST OF THt:. BUTTONS 
u 
0 ARE. GLUED ON.
VI 
57 Town planner's expertise? 63 Listen up 64 Ancient Rome conqueror 65 Fix, as a copier 
66C.I.S. predecessor 
67 English 
68 Dennis the Menace et al. 
DOWN 
1 Head for the hills 2 Atty.'s group 3Guy 4 Air conditioner 
meas. 5 Yuletide, e.g. 6 Served on a 
panel, maybe 7 Dentist's request a Red or White 
team 9"Now--..." 
(town line message) 10 Hot rod part 
26 "Ars Amatoria" author 30 Give the slip 35 Kind of blanket 36 Random decision makers 37 Islamic spirit 38 Cheese in a ball 39 Sans senses 40 The red kind is especially sticky 43 Kind of trip 44Machu--, Peru 

page 19 YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE You agree to investigate a loan or NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: financial policy. Be ruthless when setting priorities. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You A major breakthrough comes when may now feel ready to hare your 
you focus on one goal at a time. artistic or romantic soul. Someone Your instincts are usually correct influential is surprisingly easy to about authority figures. Prudent impress. New friends or plans will management of other people's impact favombly on your future. money will boost your own finan­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): cial fortunes as well. A partnership Reduce anxiety by discussing a will be in the spotlight next fall. Be problem openly. Success will be careful to connect with a romantic hard to achieve if communication is partner who is truly eligible. Extra stilted. Letters could bring about a money could pour in next Decem­reconciliation. Make quicker deci· ber. Build savings. sions. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): THIS DAY: actress Laura Dern, Partner will consent to your plans. singer Rick James, poet Langston Diplomacy is necessary to avoid Hughes, football player Dexter alienating close friends over a sensi­Manley. tive matter. Use your special skill 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): for dealing with groups to get a Hopes raised early in the day could point across. be dashed unless you proceed with SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
caution. Do not allow chatty associ: 21 ): A hunch is accurate. lleed your ates to waste your time. Concentrate intuition. Think about working on a on work' free-lance basis. Your openness 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): sometimes works against you. Learn Tie up loose ends and complete cur­when to remain silent. rent projects. Others will understand CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. if you decide to keep a financial 19): Show your courageous side. arrangement. Take steps to enhance Competition in love brings a com· your work surroundings or home mitment. Others may be talking 
environment. about something you did. Refuse to 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): pamper unreasonable people. Do not Being absentminded could prove expect the path of romance to costly now. Write down things you always be smooth. must remember. Greater trust is the AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I K): 
key to lasting romance. Financial Trust your intuition. Close friends 
changes are good news. will do good deeds to make up for a 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): failure. Look your best if going out 
Someone with big plans wants you tonighr. Being part of a small, select 
to join their team. Weigh your group will give you a thrill. Pursue 
options. Although family support is romance. 
more important than ever, you alone PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
can make the big decision. Romance Plunge ahead with enthusiasm. 
is sweeter the second time around. Transfom1 any hurdles into stepping 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your stones. Prominent people begin to 
lucky streak continues as phone recognize your special skills. Try 
lines or travel link you to wonderful your hand at writing or painting. A 
news. Romance is a source of joy. favorite hobby could become a 
Taking a calculated risk pays off. source of income. 
• OF INTEREST 
An overview of Instruction, Discussion, and Practices in Sound, Silence and Movement with self and group will be given by Freeman Schrock, instructor at Educare, on Thursdays at 7 PM. This will be held at the Center for the Arts of Healing Body, Mind and Spirit, 505 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka. Call 259·9900 for more information. 
Faces of Women will be shown at Cinema for the Snite tonight at 7 PM for $2. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
Call 631 ~0111· for menu information. 
Saint Mary's
Roast Turkey and Gravy Beef Pot Pie Whipped Potatoes 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff . 
... 
.. 

ACROSS 
1 Kind of wool 6 San --, Calif. 10 Ones making a scene 14 Let up, as a storm 
15 Once follower 16 Lumberjack 17 Pamphlet 
writer's expertise? 20 Communicate silently 21 Decorate fancily 22lncline 
26 Mars or Venus 21 Tangle 28 Vault feature 29 Troublemaker 
31 Ave. crossers 32 Gardener's need 
33 Supermarket phenomenon 
34 Studio technician's expertise? 
41 Needing irrigation 
42 Like a Jekyll-Hyde personality 
44 Chest muscle 47 Barn toppers 49 They must be 
pitched 50 German 
pronoun 51 Barley bristle 52 Sought 
transportation, in away 54 Arty 56 Not fully shut 
45 Sonar blips 46 Tower ringers 48 City on the Bay 
of Fundy 49 Get comfy 53 Hem's 
companion 55 U.S.N. rank 56 One opposed 
sa "Keystone" character 59 Chemical conclusion 60SomeCD players 
61 Piece 62 Printers' measures 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

• 

festi 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 1, 1996 



... 
_ 
• 
Irish steal Red Storm's thunder, 86-83 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was a stange time to unveil a flare for the dramatic, but then again New York has always been appreciative of good theatre. 
After Notre Dame's 86-83 upset of St. John's in Madison Square Garden, though, Irish coach John MacLeod may avoid Broadway for quite some time. Certainly he experienced more than enough suspense last night. 
Up by as much as 19 through most of the sec­ond half, the Irish withstood a furious Red Storm rally in the final seven minutes to notch their first conference road win. improving to 7-10 overall (2-6 Big East). 
"We had numerous opportunities to knock them out," said MacLeod. "But we missed some easy two-footers that allowed St. John's to slow­ly get back into the game. We knew we were in for a fight." 
That fight looked to be over early in the second half, as the Irish opened with a blistering 15-2 run to extend a six point halftime lead. The spurt was keyed by two 3-pointers from Ryan Hoover and five quick points from Pat Garrity. 
Notre Dame continued to relentlessly attack the Red Storm basket. frustrating St. John's switching defenses with quick diagonal passes that often led to clean looks at the basket. 
The Irish ran into problems converting on those looks, however, as St. John's began to simultaneously zero-in from the outside. 
The combination resulted in a tense Irish parade to the free-throw line in the waning moments. 
"We were very aggressive taking the ball to the basket, but after they got us back on our heels, it was encouraging to see us respond the way we did," stated MacLeod. 
Notre Dame responded by calmly sinking a majority of their clutch free throws, an unex­pected turn of events for the worst foul shooting team in the Big East. 
After making a miserable 26% in Saturday's loss to West Virginia, the Irish responded by knocking down 21 of 29 (72%), including a 9-12 performance down the stretch. 
Hoover, who was clutch all night, set the tone with a 6-6 performance, finishing with 26 points and three back-breaking 3-pointers in the sec­ond half. Reserve Admore White also played a critical role, making three of four from the char­ity stripe while leading the team with six assists. 
"We got a lot of people involved tonight 

because we were fight_ing the same problems with foul trouble," explained MacLeod. "We made the clutch free throws down the stretch." 
Earlier in the game, it seemed unlikely that the Irish would need such heroics. 
Notre Dame received a strong effort from its bench in building a 35-29 first half lead behind seven points from Marcus Young and five from Antoni Wyche. 
The Irish were also able to hold Red Storm star Felipe Lopez in check, as all of his 15 points came in the second half. However, his produc­tion was mirrored by Garrity, the leading Irish scorer, who also scored all of his 15 points after halftime. 
* * * * * 
A strong performance on the Garden floor may bode well for the Irish future. Notre Dame will play there at least twice more this season, including next Tuesday when they play a non­conference game against Manhattan. 
More importantly, Notre Dame gets its final shot at the Garden during the Big East tourna­ment, with an NCAA tournament bid on the line. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Guard Admore White (left) came off the bench to command the Irish down the stretch as he dished out a team high six assists. Meanwhile, freshman swingman Antoni Wyche (abov~) provided an early spark in the first half as the Irish built a 19 point lead, only to overcome a late rally by Felipe Lopez and the Red Storm. 

Notre Dame seeks revenge 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
SportS Writer 
Tomorrow the women's ten­nis team will be seeking sweet revenge. 
The past two years the Irish have suffered defeats at the hands of the Northwestern Wildcats, and they think that this is their year to get even. 
"We are hungry for this one," stated freshman Marisa Velasco. "I think that we are gonna do it." 
The 15th ranked Irish are set to play the 25th ranked Wildcats in their first home match of the spring season, tomorrow at 3:30. 
The doubles teams will have their hands full according to head coach, Jay Louderback. 
"Northwestern has three very good doubles teams," stated Louderback, "Their no.1 dou­bles team is extremely good, and are definitely one of the top teams in the region. These will be the key match-ups because all of the matches will be tight." 
Senior Sherri Vitale stated this about her and her part­ner's goals at no. 3 doubles, "We definitely need to get a good start. We have been working really hard on this in practice." 
The team has been preparing all week for this first home match. 
"We have had good practices all week," stated Louderback, "All of the team are good com­petitors. and so I think that all of them will play well." 

"Basically. the motto that we have had all week is respect everyone, and fear no one," stated Velasco, "We are not taking anyone lightly, especially Northwestern." 
Senior Wendy Crabtree is set to face Northwestern's Marjorie Gantman. 
Gantman is coming into the match with a record of 14-11. Senior Holyn Lord will play Wildcat senior Siri Eklund. 
The dynamic freshmen will have their hands full at the no. 3 and no. 4 spots, as they face talented Northwestern players. 
Freshman Jennifer Hall is 
see TENNIS I page 18 
Men's Basketball Hockey • G'Town, UConn emerge victorious 
at Georgetown, February 3, noon at UIC, February 2, 7 p.m. 
see page 17 

Women's Tennis 

SPO Women's Basketball 
vs. Northwestern, February 1, 3:30 p.m. • Griffey agrees to $34 million deal at Rutgers, February 3, 2 p.m. 
at a 
Fencing see page 16 Women at Watham, MA, February 3 
Men's Tennis 
vs. Boise St., February 2, 4 p.m. 
Men at Cambridge, MA, February 4 • Magic proves doubters wrong 
see page 14

GLANCE
~;:;::::::. 





