
Friday, December 6, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 65 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Friday Feature 
Grace readies to house administration 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
The northeast corner of Mod Quad may seem more like an abandoned lot of barren rubble than a legitimate part of campus with the current renovation of Grace Tower. But with the renova­tions operating on schedule, the sum­mer of 1997 should see Grace bustling with activity again. 
Presently, most of Grace's existing room walls have been removed, to accommodate administrative offices larger than the areas formerly allotted for. residences. according to Mike Smith, director of facilities engineer­ing. 
The fall's demolition has affected all 11 floors which are slated for renova­tion. Although the basic superstructure of the building has not changed, floor plans redesigned to accommodate administrators are now noticeably dif­ferent from those which had previously housed 500 students. 
HPwiring, drywall, and painting arc among thr. many l'inishing touches workers are currently applying. 
In a relocation frenzy scheduled for early next summer, many departments will be shifted from the Main Building to Grace in order to allow for the for­mer structure's two-year renovation to commence. According to Smith, the offices of financial aid, student accounts, and the office of the registrar will move into Grace provisionally after its $9 million renovation is complete. 
"The human resource types of departments will have to be moved temporarily into Grace so that the Main Building can be taken care of," Smith explained. "They will be moved back, but administrative offices that don't deal with students will remain there." 
Those departments include the offices of development. accounting, and investments. 
At the same time as that Main 
Building project. Flanner Tower will While over 70 workers are laboring to have Grace Hall ready by April to house Main Building refugees, signs from the building's days as a residence hall remain. 
also begin renovations similar to those in Grace, where many walls have been knocked out to accommodate offices. 
"When completed," Smith said, "Flanner will be converted for academ­ic offices currently housed in the library." 
Both towers, built in 1969, were designed for housing very large num­bers of students. But according to Smith, "the most successful dorms, socially, on this campus are those with three or four floors," since they allow for more personal social interaction. 
When this failure of the towers was finally confirmed in recent years. the decision was made by the Office of Residence Life to open four new dorms on West Quad. It was believed that this 
see GRACE I page 4 

Legislation may open security logs to public 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Editor 
Students may have open access to security logs maintained on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses in the near future, pending national legislation. 
A proposed bill to toughen up guide­lines on reporting crimes on college campuses will be up for vote when the 105th Congress convenes in January. 
The proposed legislation, "The Open Police Logs Act," demands that campus­es maintain daily police or security logs "recording in chronological order all crimes against persons or property reported to its police or security depart­ment, the date, time and location of such crimes, and, if an arrest has been made, the names and addresses of all persons arrested and charges against such persons arrested." 
Security on Campus Inc .. a nationwide organization focused on students' rights with regard to safety and security issues, is the primary group rallying behind efforts to increase student safety by making students more aware of crime issues. 
The most notable provision in the bill, which is an amendment to the Higher Education Act of 1965, specifies that "all entries in daily logs shall, unless otherwise provided by State or Federal Law, be open to public inspection." 
"What we are trying to fmd out is the truth, to save lives," said Connie Clcry, who founded Security on Campus Inc. after her daughter was beaten, raped, robbed and murdered 10 years ago in her dorm room at Leigh University in Pennsylvania. 
Officials at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's concur that a pro-active approach is necessary in order to main­tain a safe college environment. 
"I believe one of the best strategies to maintaining a safe campus is being aware," said Phillip Johnson, assista~t 
see SECURITY I page 6 


Life Skills extends athletes' services 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The University Athletic Department has provided a program that will help student­athletes to take better advan­tage of academic and service opportunities available at Notre Dame. Among other things, the Life Skills program assists stu­dent athletes who wish to try community service that they would not normally have the time or resources to be involved in. 
"We have set up the program so that it helps in the holistic development of players." said Frances Shavers, coordinator of the program. Among other things, Life Skills emphasizes community service, academic honors programs. and better access to Notre Dame's Department of Career and Placement Services. 
"We have been working closely with Career and Placement and they have been very helpful," Shavers said. "We also get assistance from Academic Student Services set­ting up study skills classes and ways to help the athletes bring their entire college academic life into focus. We also want to recognize the possibilities for academic positions and awards, such as the Rhodes scholarship, for which the athletes may not have the time or information to apply." 

Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth also elaborated on the purpose of the program. 
"One of the many reasons that we wanted to start this program up," he explained, "was because we want to do all we can, not only to win but also to deal with the education of our athletes. 
"Most of these students," he added, "have strongly focused 
see ATHLETES I page 4 


New Age 'sculpture' drapes SMC in aprons 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 

In the midst of the portfolio review for art majors on campus, junior fine art major Kimm Michalik brings art out of the museum and into the Saint Mary's College community. 
Instead of using clay or bronze in working on her sculpture pro­ject entitled "Found Object in Context," Michalik used adminis­trators in aprons to make her artistic statement. The apron was chosen as her 'object' because of its strong symbolism. The apron has been traditionally associated with the home and the kitchen, and was in a sense a woman's uniform. Various women admin­istrators donned the aprons to show the contrast between this out-dated uniform and the busi­ness suit that has replaced it. 
As a part of the project, male 


administrators also wore aprons to show how men are taking on College President William Hickey more household responsibilities in was one of over two dozen Saint addition to their traditional work-Mary's administrators to don 
aprons as participants in a sym­see ART I page 4 bolic art project. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, December 6, 1996 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Explosion rocks Rockefeller Center during Christmas rush 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

A\Vake to the possibility oflove 
I spent fall break in a Brandon Williams 

children's hospital at Assistam
Stanford University. My Viewpoint Editor
youngest brother, eleven 
years old, was being 

tested for and conclusively diagnosed with a 
ram form of cancer. lie underwent surgery 
and began chemotherapy which he will con­
tinue for a year. Never in my life have I 
known a stronger individual than my brother. 
Seeing someone you love in so much pain, 
especially when so young, is more than just a 
reality check. Only the Lord's strength and 
my brother's indomitable spirit made it bear­
able. 

In a children's hospital you are surrounded by pain. The wails of young kids pierce you like arrows, while the silent oratory of their undaunted souls inspires. The most perspec­tive altering aspect of my experience was the eompleto absence of racial and class barriers at the hospital. My family met a Hispanic woman and her daughter, Sapphire. Sapphire was only nine years of age but already had up to twelve seizures a day. Meanwhile, Sapphire's mother has been diagnosed with breast cancer, and it is spreading to her brain. She will forgo treatment until she is sure that her daughter can be healed. These are two of the kindest people I have ever met. Our two families struck up a friendship instantaneously. 
My family is white, theirs is Hispanic. This raeial di!Terenee alone could be the basis for adamantly opposing political views, self­enforced separations, and even hatred. However, what we shared was something that soeiologists and politicians rarely take into account: when facing pain and death there is no division, only prayer; in a hospital filled with insurmountable odds, only hope; walk­ing down corridors of sickness, only love. 
Why only when faced with the most extreme of circumstances do we open our eyes to the truth? We spend our days sleeping and, only when violently awakened by the most intense of dreams, do we see the sun's light. To our eyes, used to darkness, the light seems over­powering, even painful. The sad thing is it doesn't have to be that way. If we just opened our eyes, we could dream and the light would permeate even the most mundane or disheart­ening situation with beauty and color. 
Here at Notre Dame and in America we point fingers at the poor for being lazy, or at the rich for being stingy, or at the whites for oppressing, or at the immigrants for stealing jobs. In truth, there are problems in our soci­ety, and all the sides have valid points. This neeessarily perpetuates the search for govern­ment or administrative solutions. Why don't we instead solve the problems ourselves by choosing to look higher? We are racist until we fall in love. We argue vehemently until we meet the other side. We engage in class war­fare until we stand at a hospital beside anoth­er human being. 
Housseau said, "Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains." I say Housseau was wrong. Christ made everyone free but everywhere people are sleeping through this freedom. Think of what we could do if we aspire to climb to a Christ-like love before Christ has to pull us up with tragedy. I know that this is idealistic, but it's the Christmas season, and we're a new generation. I know two families from Palo Alto and Montana who have already seen it happen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Derek Betcher  Lab Tech  
David Freddoso  Kevin Dalum  
Sports  Production  
Joe Cavato  Ann Goodwin  
Viewpoint  Brad Prendergast  
Ethan Hayward  Graphics  
Accent  Tom Roland  
Joey Crawford  
Dan Cichalski  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) ;, published Monday through Friday rxcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pre". All reproduction rights are reserved. 

NEW YORK 

Smoke from a restaurant fire at Time Warner's headquarters shot up through the building and sparked an explosion on the roof, rattling win­dows and startling pedestrians crowding Rockefeller Center to view the Christmas tree. 
Two restaurant workers suffered minor burns and six other people were treated for trauma due to the fire, which started in a packed TGI Friday's restaurant on the sky­scraper's ground floor. 
The smoke apparently rose through the ducts and caused an explosion shortly after 7 p.m. in an empty machinery room on the top floor of the 33-story building, said Fire Chief Edward Butler. 
"All I saw was a ball of fire from by the ice machine," said Willie Monroe, who works in the restau­rant's kitchen. "Suddenly the whole restaurant was just shaking. People 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeathereforecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
[~/'---­
_(yJ'-"...,; . ' . 

Friday·,  ~  
Saturday  ~ '''''  
Sunday  ~  
\Monday  ~  
Tuesday  ~  

4.9.~8Q.8 {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V~a Associated Press GraphicsNer 
H 
40 40 37 40 41 
L· 
31 23 24 25 27 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<B> forecast for noon, Friday, Dec. 6 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

.....,......... ......._._ ....-Ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
were just running out. They just panicked." 
Thick black smoke briefly bil­lowed from the machinery room and smothered the roof as workers and restaurant patrons poured into the street. 
"People were coming out with soot and burns," said Anton Ruskaj, who works across the street at the Fashion Cafe. 
Two kitchen workers were in sta­ble condition and being treated for burns. 
Five other restaurant employees and a police officer were treated for trauma. 
The Time Warner building is across th~e street from the head­quarters of The Associated Press and looks down on Hockefeller Plaza, which was filled with people admiring the famous tree and wait­ing for the Christmas show at Hadio City Musical Hall.

AP 
Atlanta  59  
Baltimore  48  
Boston  39  
Chicago  37  

Columbus 41 

Clinton selects Albright, Cohen NBC exec enters Betty Ford Center 
LOS ANGELES 

With a nod to history and politics, 
Don Ohlmeyer, president of NBC West Coast, cheeked President Clinton nominated U.N. himself into the Betty Ford Center for substance abuse ambassador Madeleine Albright on treatment on Thursday, NBC said. "This was a personal Thursday to be the first female secre­decision by Ohlmeyer, who voluntarily admitted himself tary of state and chose GOP Sen. for treatment," an NBC statement said. Ohlmeyer, a William Cohen to be defense secretary. 1966 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, was With trouble simmering in Bosnia, the undergoing treatment for alcoholism and could be at the Middle East, North Korea and central Rancho Mirage desert facility 110 miles east of Los Africa, the president declared that his Angeles for about a month, a source said. "We commend new foreign policy team would "make sure that ... Don for taking this action and support him in this deci­America remains the indispensable nation-the world's sion," said Bob Wright, NBC president and chief execu­greatest force for peace." Clinton also moved National tive. "Don is an invaluable leader and we all have the Security Adviser Anthony Lake t.o the CIA and promoted highest regard and respect for him. We look forward to Lake's deputy, Sandy Berger, into Lake's job in the West having him back as soon as possible." Ohlmeyer, 51, was Wing of the White House. The administration expects named to his position in February 1993. lie oversees the swift confirmations for Albright, Cohen and Lake; activities of all of NBC's entertainment-related business­Berger's new position doesn't require Senate approval. es. 
Police praise boy for saving mom Turbulence hurts 17 people 
INDIANAPOLIS SALT LAKE CITY 
A woman who was beaten, raped and held hostage Severe turbulence rocked an American Airlines flight overnight by an ex-boyfriend managed to summon help over Colorado Thursday, throwing passengers out of by smuggling a note to her son's teacher under the pre­their seats and injuring 16 people on board, including a 
text that it was a permission slip for a field trip, police 7-month-old child. Another flight had a bouncy ride said. The second-grader was hailed for playing along over the mountains about an hour later, forcing the with the ruse as his mother was getting him ready for plane to make an unscheduled stop to bring an injured school. "He is a little hero," said Speedway Police Chief flight attendant to the hospital. American spokesman Jeffrey Dine said. "He did a hell of a job." The ex­John Hotard said there were no storms in the area but boyfriend, Hilton Pittman Jr., was charged with rape, there had been reports of turbulence in the region, so criminal confinement, criminal deviate conduct and seat-belt sign was on when the first plane, an MD-80, criminal trespass. Bond was set at $60,000. Dine said began bouncing at 24,000 feet over south-central Pittman, 33, forced his way Tuesday evening into the Colorado. "It just slammed me into the ceiling. It was apartment where the 27 -year-old woman lives with her like someone had planted a bomb under the seat," said son and 3-year-old daughter. She tried to call police, but Chris Richey of Nashville, whose head struck the over­the man ripped the phone from her hands, chased her, head so hard, he broke a reading light. lie was not tore off her clothes, beat her and tied a pillow case wearing a seat belt. The twin-engine jet was flying with 
around her face, police said. Pittman also raped her dur­69 passengers and five crew members from Dallas-Fort ing the night, according to police. At dawn, she said she Worth to Salt Lake City when it hit the turbulence. Most had to wake her son for school. After he was ready, she of the injured, 14 passengers and two crew members, asked him to bring her the letter from his school that she suffered minor head and neck injuries, bruises and was supposed to sign. "When the boy asked what letter, cuts. Eleven were taken by ambulance to local hospi­she said it was the letter about the field trip she was tals, where most were treated and released. The supposed to sign. The boy brought her a blank sheet of injured infant, Jacob Converse of Tooele, Utah, was paper," Dine said. The note the mother gave her son treated for a minor head injury. His mother, Terra said: "Please call police for me. I been rape and the man Converse, was unhurt. The pilot and co-pilot were still in my house." The school principal called police. wearing seat belts and were not hurt. 
38 34 35 24 28 
Dallas  74  45  Minneapolis  29  23  
Denver  44  26  New Orleans 75  51  
Geneseo  39  32  New York  44  40  
Los Angeles 61  48  Philadelphia 45  40  
Miami  81  68  Phoenix  65  48  

Friday, December 6, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Art presentations provide overview for SMC students 
By ANGIE LITTLE 
News Writer 
A renaissance of sorts will hit the campus of Saint Mary's College. This Wednesday, the fine arts students at Saint Mary's presented their semes­ter art portfolios to be reviewed by members of the art faculty at the Gallery in the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
The majority of student_s embraced the opportunity to gather the work they had accu­mulated from their different art classes and to present them in one display. 
"The review gives you the opportunity to see your work come together," junior Catherine Bohan said. "You can see yourself separate from it, and from that perspective it is easier to pick out your strengths and weaknesses." 
Professor Marcia Richard, chair of the art department, feels that the review is one of the strongest features the pro­gram has. 
"It is a way for students to get an overview of their work, which is something that doesn't happen very often," she said. "Students are sur­prised by the connections that are made from one area to the 
next." 
Professors review each stu­
dent's portfolio, focusing on 
her level of experience, techni­
cal and problem-solving abili­
ties, and training. Then the 
professors have the opportuni­
ty to ask questions and offer 
suggestions. 
"Some students go into the 
review feeling they have had an unsuccessful semester," · Richard said. "But when they see all of their work come together, something happens. Most times they realize they have made a breakthrough, 
and that is very exhilarating." 
Students agree that they ben­
efit from the reviews, and they 
do not take the criticism per­
sonally. 
"The review is great because 
you receive feedback you 
wouldn't normally get," senior 
Erin Whealon said. "I take my 
criticism as being constructive. 
After all, that is what the facul­
ty is here to do. 
Following the review, stu­
dents were either given a 
"pass," a "commendation," or 
a "fail," depending upon their 
performance. About 15 percent 
of the 45 reviews received 
commendations. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
11:15 1:00 2:00 3:45 4:45 6:30 7:15 9:15 9:50 
11:30 12:30 1:30 2:30 3:30 4:30 5:30 6:45 7:45 8:45 9:45 
1:00 1:30* 4:00 4:30 7:00 
7:30 9:50 10:10 
Ghost & The Darkness R 
2:30 5:00 7:45 10:00 

DAYLIGHT (PG-13)* IN DTS 12:00,1:30,2:35, :10, 5:10,7:00,7:50, 9:40, 10:20  
HE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES 1:15,1:45,4:20, :35, 7:15, 7:30, 10:15, 10:20  
ET IF OFF (R) 2:15, 4:50,7:55,10:25  
STAR TREK FIRST CONTACT (PG-13) in DTS, 2:45, 2:00, 3:20, 4:45, 7:10, 7:40, 9:55, 10:05 ROMEO AND JULIET (PG-13) 1:20,4:00,7:05, 9:45 HE ENGLISH PATIENT (R) 1:00, 4:30, 8:00 WINGERS (R) 1:10, 2:35, 5:45, 8:05, 10:30 Times valid through next Thursday *No passes  


So much to say, so much to say ... 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

The Dave Matthews Band played to a packed Joyce Center last night. The band opened with a morose, 
low-key number, closed with "Dancing Nancies," and, in between, performed many of the hits from their 
two most recent albums. 

Security, we have a problem... 


Gasoline leak sets golf cart ablaze 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 

On Wednesday morning, Notre Dame Security rushed to the scene of a golf cart fire on Courtney Lane. 
An athletic maintenance staff member was dri­ving the cart along that road, which runs between the football practice field and the tennis courts, at approximately 9:30 a.m. Rex Rakow, director of Security, reported that the fire was caused by gasoline, whieh apparently leaked out of the tank. 
"I guess the driver noticed he was getting a hot seat, and he pulled over," chuckled Rakow. The fire was not severe, and the driver was unharmed. "I think it was more comical than serious," 
Rakow said. 
In other news, Security apprehended a wanted man following what began as a routine license check early Tuesday morning. 
The man was pulled over for speeding on cam­pus, according to Rakow. After tailing the driver for a few minutes, an officer flashed his lights, and eventually apprehended the man. 
"We ran his license through the national com­puters," Rakow said, "and it turned out there was an outstanding warrant for his arrest." 
The suspicious character, a South Bend resident, was wanted for "malicious trespassing in the Turtle Creek area." Rakow speculated that his crime had been destruction of property. Such instances have been reported as recently as Nov. 26 in the parking lots of that apartment complex. 
Notre Dame Accounting Association 
presents: 


ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
A casual question and answer session with employees from audit, tax, and consulting 
Sophomores: Get ahead of the game and find out what you can be 
doing now to prepare yourself for next year's internship search!! 
Juniors: Did you miss the last Arthur Andersen presentation? 
Get the following questions answered: 
• 
What are the do's and do not's of interviewing? 

• 
How can I prepare for my interviews with the Big Six? 

• 
What does business casual dress mean? 

• 
What will my interviewers be looking for in their questions about my academic life? 

• 
And several other questions that you may have regarding getting a summer internship 


Seniors: Are you anxious about starting your life in the real world? Learn important information: 
• 
What should I expect to be different about a full time job that was not evident in my internship? 

• 
Can the firm I've accepted with help me find an apartment? 

• 
What if I don't have a job yet? What are the opportunities available in the Big Six? th


When? Monday, Dec. 9 , 6:00 p.m. Where? Jordan Auditorium Food? Free PIZZA & SODA!!! 
All students that are interested are encouraged to attend 
r 

..~~--~------~------~--~~--~------~-------------------------------------· 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 6, 1996 
as a creative move which will involvement by former players teams, and the program has strengthen dorm unity for the such as Tony Rice, starting really taken on an entirely new
Grace Athletes 
former tower men. "By moving quarterback for the 1988 life since then." the guys from Grace and national championship football The Life Skills program,
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
Flanner," he said, "we're cre­team. according to Wadsworth, has would allow for the kind of ating different styles of resi­during their entire academic One example of the service effectively helped student ath­socialization indicative of the dence living. I don't think you lives on the one aspect, the one opportunities available through letes extend their experienees University. Grace and Flanner, get a stronger sense of section sport. For many of them this the program is "Athletes beyond the playing field to let on the other hand, were select­unity than you see in Flanner will come to a screeching halt Against Drugs," a program them survive in the day to day 
ed to be converted into office Hall, but they're weaker with at the end of their collegiate which takes athletes to local working world. 
buildings. regard to hall unity, and that is career. We want to give them a elementary schools to talk to Bill Kirk. assistant vice-presi­what we are trying to increase chance to put all they've done kids about how to stay off dent of residence life, saw this with the move." together and present it to possi­drugs. ble employers." "We go to the kids and each 
participants. It showed me a lot 
The program began in June player takes about five or six 
about how the administrators 
1995, when Tom Kelly was pro­aside and talks to them about
Art 

take to the students, that they 
moted to associate athletic how to keep drugs out of their 
are involved with them and not
continued from page 1 director. He was charged with lives," said Scott Palumbo, a 
isolated from their concerns," 
putting together a program kicker on the football team and
place jobs. Michalik said. 
similar to the NCAA Life one of the organizers of the
For both the men and women Michalik chose to do her pro­
Skills/ChAMPS program. program. "We relate to them as
participating in Michalik's pro­ject directly outside of the 
ChAMPS stands for friends, and we have even had
ject, the apron was a reminder administrators' offices in 
"Challenging Athletes' Minds t-shirts made up that we give to
of womnn's heritage and a trib­LeMans Hall in order to expose 
for Personal Success." Kelly the kids. But I do it just to see
ute to the hard work done by students who pass through the 
examined both programs at the smiles on their faces." 
mothers and ~,rrandmothers. hall on their way to their classes. 
other schools and opportunities Palumbo used the Life Skills
Approximately 25 administra­This work of public art provided 
available at Notre Dame before program to organize his idea.
tors participated in the project, the students with stimulus for 
setting out to determine the "Back in the summer, when we
ineluding the associate dean of conversation as well as a greater 
best way to create a campus were at Culver [Military
faculty, Patrick White, who awareness of gender issues in 
program. Academy] for training camp,
incorporated it into his after­the workplace. 
The program now in effect myself, Hunter Smith. Jim 
noon lecture, and College Patti Valentine, the director of 
depends on the Captain's Sanson, Scott Cengia and the
Prnsiden t William llickey. public relations at Saint Mary's, 
Council to help bring ideas for rest of the kickers decided that
"I participated in this project was impressed with Michalik's 
service and tutoring for ath­we wanted to do some sort of
bncause it WIL'> a student project, work. "I enjoyed participating in 
letes. anti-drug thing. Then we went
and if I'm around at the time, this project," she said. "I thought 
"The coaches and players to Ms. Shavers and she asked
I'm willing to help out. It was an that it was appropriate and sig­
have all been really support­us to open it up to all sports
innovative, creative look at art," nificant taking place in an all 
ive," Shavers said, citing
llickey oll'ered. women's college setting." Michalik petitioned various administrators a few weeks in 
EXTRA 
AFFORDABLE 
LUXURY 
1, 2, & 3 
BEDROOM.l\.l'ARTMENTS 
:,=·,:.~ .. ]'' 
Tow£·nioMES from $405 to $595 • gas heat • wasl1cr and dryer • pools • mini blinds • fitness cellter • dublwuse • covered parking • and more... 
INDIAN SPRINGS 
272-5011 
Located only 4 miles offcampus 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6 p.m. Sat 9-5 p.m. 
advance to gain an estimate on who would participate in her 

DOWN
project, and also to receive feed­back from her willing partici­pants. 

HIll
"I was vnry 1~xeited to receive so many responses from willing 

~~a IT~arPJ 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER I3 SWISS VAllEY
,.,,.),• 

BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00PM COST: $27.00 INCLUDES LIFT TICKET. RENTAL AND TRANSPORT 
$18.00 LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT ~.::-~~-=­
DEADLINE: DECEMBER JJ 
or more information pleilse cal 
~~AMERICA, your deepest identity and truest character as 
nation are revealed In the position you take toward the human person. The ultimate test of your greatness is the way you treat every human being, but especially the weakest and most defenseless ones." .. John Paul II, Detroit, :198 7 
-~------~~----~--~----~ 
Friday, December 6, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Dedring: Prevention is key to peacekeeping 

By VIVIAN GEMBARA News Writer 
Juergen Dedring, a former senior official at the United Nations, brought his thoughts on international peace to the Notre Dame campus yesterday afternoon. Moving towards international peace, he posited, will require refocused strategies for the peace research community and changes in the international peace agenda. 
Dedring began the lecture by examining the two pri­mary approaches toward defining peace. Discerning between the "negative" and the "positive" approach is necessary to properly assess the post Cold War world of peace and conflict, he explained. "Negative" peace, he elaborated, concentrates on whether violence is existent or not, whereas "positive" peace is "peace with justice." 
Dedring noted that the three components of positive peace are ecological stability, economic well-being and social justice. He asserted that peace research must assess each area in order to deal with the shifting focus on peace issues in the post Cold War era. The ultimate goal of this, of course, would be to establish something stronger than simply an absence of vio­lence. 
"The relevance of focusing on positive peace in 

The Oliver SyndromJ1"·· 
This Friday, December 6 at Heartland 
Doors open at 8:00 Band begins at 10:30 

Weare 


now taking applications 
for next r! 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Central air 

• 
Swimming pool/Spa 

• 
Tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Flexible lease plans 


Apartments available for your selection. For more information call 272-1441 
Some apartments still available for January occupancy. 

peace research is obvious," Dedring explained. "Non-violent revolution and transformation of integral conflicts has a lot of potential in years to come; the underlying statement is that people have to resist the vio­lence." 
He also emphasized the new and urgent need to focus atten­tion on issues of interpersonal violence. The presence of vio­lence in interpersonal relation­ships begins with the family, he said, while employment groups and social circles also comprise the network of interpersonal relations. Identifying violence at these levels, Dedring explained, will educate peace researchers on the source of cultural vio­lence, and it will help answer questions on how to deal with it. 
"The presence of violence in interpersonal relationships is a basic condition we need to resolve if we want to move for­ward in world peace," he said. 
As evidence, Dedring cited case studies such as one recently conducted in Peru, which exposed both forced sexual rela­tionships within families and societal acceptance of wife beat­ing. As another example, Dedring stated that within South Korean culture, spousal abuse is 
0 F 
also commonplace. 
The necessary reorganization of the priorities on the peace research agenda will take into account the interpersonal aspect of research. Dedring outlined a new agenda with four main pri­orities: first, to aim for a world without violence; second, to fmd a non-violent resolution of inter­group conflict; third, to establish strategies to prevent conflicts; and fourth and finally, to realize a world community with a sys­temic equilibrium. 
Current programs of peace research focus on the peace agenda, but according to Dedring, they still need to pur­sue the new aspects in a more pro-active fashion. 
"It is a utopian thought," he remarked, "but it takes us out of the immediate and lets us focus on the future, showing us how to remedy the problems." 
He concluded with hope that people will remember the old adage that "an ounce of preven­tion is worth a pound of cure." 
"Peace building provided in a preventative fashion means less mitigation when problems erupt," he said. "Prevention is needed to heal a society before it falls ill with a terminal dis-
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288 ..3995 
M..f 7:30..7 
Sat 8..6 
Sun 10..5 

•

"All major credit cards accepted" CHARGE BY PHONE 
wwwwwwww~w~~w~~wwwwwwwww~~www 
wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww'it 
~  w  
~  "As You Wish"  w  
~  Im,ports  ~  
w w  Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry,  w w  
w  Accessories, and Much More!  w  
W  Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil •  w  
w  Thailand • India • Ecuador  W  
W  INCREDIBLE PRICES!  w  
w  GREAT CHRISTMAS GiFTS!  w  
w  Unbelievable Bargain Corner!  ~­ 
W  •Proceeds from this corner help send  W  
W  6 Guatemalan children to school.  W  
W  Other Donations Greatly Appreciated  'it  
W  Lafortune-Room 108, Dec. 2-7 (Sat) 10-5pm  'it  
W  St. Mary's LeMans Lobby, Dec. 10-13, 10-5pm  'it  

~--··~ ·---~ ---~--­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 6, I 996 




Security 
continued from page 1 
director of Security at Notre Dame. 
Strategies to get crime statis­tics and preventative information out to students so far this semes­ter include the Security Beat published in The Observer, 1,500 table tents and over 600 flyers in the residence halls on crime pre­vention and notices posted on Security's link on the University's home page on the lntnrnet, according to Johnson. 

In addition, in the event of a serious crime on campus, alert bulletins arn posted in the resi­dence halls. 
Saint Mary's security depart­ment employs similar reporting strategies. According to Richard Chlebek, director of Security, in the instance of a serious crime on campus, campus watch bul­letins are distributed throughout the residence halls. In addition, the department circulates brochures and flyers on crime prevention, and hosts a weekly programming in the residence halls regarding personal safety. 
"We've done a lot to try to enhance our programs, and tried to reach out to students describ­ing the services of the depart­ment," said Johnson. 
However, despite an abun­dance of information on security issues on the campuses, officials express discouragement over students' tendency to take a safe campus for granted, thus making themselves vulnerable to crime. 
"If you look at the campus, there's relatively few occur­rences of crime [compared to society). Therefore, most stu­dents are living in a way that makes them vulnerable," Johnson said. "Students need to be aware, not fearful. They just need to take good sense steps." 
Chlebek agreed. 

"No one's immune from becoming a victim. We work to build awareness to maintain a safe environment for students to learn, grow and socialize." 
Along with congressional lob­bying and providing legal sup­port for victims of violent crimes on campus, Security On Campus Inc. maintains a home page on the World Wide Web with con­tinual updates on violent crimes reported across the nation. In addition, it provides links to security-related pages on the Internet, including the Notre Dame Security homepage. 
The organization is still most noted for its work to bring about awareness of current legislation created to publish crime statis­tics, and to make that informa­tion more readily available to current and prospective students of colleges. 
Campuses are currently held responsible for reporting crimes to students due to the Campus Security Act of 1990, which requires all colleges and univer­sities receiving federal funds to release annual statistics on mur­der, sex offenses, robbery, aggravated assault, burglary and motor vehicle theft to the public. 
In September, following criti­cism that colleges bury those sta­tistics, the House of Representatives unanimously approved a resolution calling the Department of Education to toughen up on the enforcement of the 1990 act. During that same session, "The Open Campus Police Act" was initially presented, yet tabled until the next congressional session . 
Security officials cite the soci­etal trend of under-reporting of crimes, particularly sex offenses, as the primary problem inherent in compiling campus crime sta­tistics. 
"One of our biggest problems is that the students themselves don't report to anyone some of the offenses that occur," Chlebek said. 'The breakdown of statis­tics may not be totally reflective of what occurs on campus." 
At Notre Dame, tho crime sta­tistics are posted on the Internet, at http:\\www.nd.edu\-ndspd, and copies are made available to students, prospective students and employees, Johnson said. 
Saint Mary's statistics are post­ed in a brochure "Campus Safety Awareness Information." They are given to students at orienta­tion and are always available at the security office, according to Chlebek. 

.J ~ ~~n.J~~n.J~~n.J~~n.J~~n.J~~n.J Come see the••• ~ ~IRISH 
~ The directors and members o/ the Campus Ministry music ensembles -Notre Dame Women's ~ ~ Choir, Basilica Schola, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame n el el Liturgical Choir and the Notre Dame Handbe/1 Choirs-cordially in·vite you to J 
,J' attend an ,...., 
"f cAb~ent ;£essons anb <tarofs • .J ~ 


:J ~
December 8, 1996 ~ 7:15p.m. ~ 
~  Basilica of the Sacred Heart  ~  
n  University of Notre Dame  n  
J  .I  

~~n.;~~n.;~~n.;~~n.;~~~.~~~n.; ~ 
ACCENT 
comedy improv troupe 
M d 
on ay,
oe~~o"J::r 9 
LaFortune Ballroom Admission: $1 

Do all your 
Christmas shopping 
at the 
Irish Express Christmas sale~ AI I items 20% off' 

Fpr Students, Faculty &Staff 
\
December 5, 6, & 7 Thursday &Friday: open from 11om to 7pm Saturday: 
• 
open from 11om to 5pm 
LaFortune Student Center Sori n Room -off Main Lounge 

Castle1Joiot 
Apartments 
• 
Also accepting inquiries/applications for the next academic year (1997-98) 

• 
A SWIMMING POOL, INDOOR AND OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS, RACQUETBALL COURTS, SAUNAS, WHIRLPOOL, FITNESS CENTER, EVEN 


BASKETBALL AND BEACH VOLLEYBALL COURTS ARE YOURS TO ENJOY AS A RESIDENT OF CASTLE POINT 
• FULL PRIVILEGES FOR USE OF THE CASTLE POINT RACQUET CLUB 
Located on the corner ofIronwood and Cleveland Call the sales office for more information: 272-8110 
page 7 
Friday, December 6, 1996 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS 

Ex-official admits trashing papers Clinton lights, dedicates 
Department in January 1995 to Democrats.
By MARCY GORDON 
national Christmas tree
force it to release the trade Luque said that Yee "had
Associated Press Writer 
absolutely no role in deciding
mission documents. 
By lAWRENCE KNUTSON "Hillary and I look forward toFailing to direct Yee to pro­who would go" on the foreignWASHINGTON 
Associated Press Writer being here every year," he said. 
vide her notes of planning trade missions. Yee also made
A former Commerce 
"I told her I never quite get into meetings for the trade missions clear during her sworn testi­
Department official who helped WASHINGTON the spirit of Christmas until I
and other related documents mony Wednesday that she
arrange trade missions dis­On a crisp evening, President come here to the Pageant of
would be "a serious violation never engaged in fund-raising
carded documents related to Clinton pressed the button to Peace." The first lady, wearing a the trips two months after a 
of law," Klayman charged. activities while at the light the sparkling, multicolored bright red muffier and matching But Luque said Yee's notes Commerce Department, Luque
federal judge ordered the national Christmas tree mittens, applauded in agree­department to turn such 
dealt mainly with logistics for said. 
Thursday, 
ment. papers over to a conservative the trade missions rather than According to Luque and dedicating it With the illuminated White group, lawyers said Thursday. "substantive" matters. She Klayman, Yee testified she to peace and House, the Washington
The official, Melinda Yee, tes­said the notes likely covered a threw away the notes in ques­love and the Monument and the Jeffersontrade trip to China and possibly tion and related documents
tified in a deposition young people Memorial serving as background
after she became a senior
one to India.
Wednesday that her depart­props, Clinton said the tree rep­of world. 
A status conference before adviser to Brown in July 1995.
ment colleagues dido't inform "Let us resents "a spirit of sharing andthe federal judge in Judicial Because she was leaving her
her of the Freedom of giving, of gathering with familyrejoice that
Watch's case is scheduled for job in the trade area, Yee reck­
Information Act document and friends, and coming togeth­our nation is
oned she no longer needed the
requests by the group Judicial Friday. at peace and er as one community."
By questioning Yee and other notes, Luque said. The attorney 
Watch and did not ask her to "At Christmas and throughout
in what we
cu,rrent and former depart­said her client at that time was
search for them. have done ... to help other peo­the year the greatest gift we can 
ment officials, Judicial Watch unaware of the judge's order
Vee's testimony was con­ple in other lands to make their give our children is the gift of 
firmed Thursday by both her is seeking to discover whether In May 1995, U.S. District peace," Clinton said. 
peace," the president said. 
the late Commerce Secretary Judge Royce Lamberth ordered
lawyer, Nancy Luque, and It was the fourth time that He then pressed the button
Ron Brown offered U.S. compa­the Commerce Department to
Larry Klayman, the chairman Clinton has presided over the and the tree came alive in an and general counsel of Judicial 
nies invitations to trade mis­turn over more than 30,000 lighting of the 40-foot Christmas electronically changing patternsions as a way of raising cam­pages of documents to JudicialWatch. The group successfully tree on the Ellipse south of the of design and lights, flashing
paign contributions for Watch.
sued the Commerce 

• 
Two 5-week sessions 

• 
More than 75 quality education courses 

• 
French Immersion 3-week Program 


· • College Preview High School Program 
• Pont-Aven Art Program 
For information: The American University of Paris Summer Programs, Box $.4 60 East 42nd St., Suite 1463 New York, New York 10165 Tel. (212) 983·1414 Fax (212) 983·0444 
Web site -http://www.aup.fr Accredited by the Middle Stoles Associo~on Email • Summer@aup.fr 
from white to green to red. 
The White House tree-lighting ceremony has been held contin­uously since 1923. For decades a cut tree was used. But the pre­sent living tree has served as the national Christmas tree every year sinee 1978. 
White House. 

Work fasterwith it. Power Macintosh' 5400 120 AIHz/16MB RAM/1.6GB/8X CD·ROM Simplifyyour life with it.15" hui/1-in displll)'ikerboard NOW $1499 Communicate to the worldwith it. Apple' Color StyleWriter' 2500 Up to 720x360 dpj NOW$240Have fun with it. Get $150 backwith it. Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. Right ?ow Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebate when you purchase aMacmtosh· personal computer and an Apple'printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to get your Mac: amachine that features some of the Apple' StyleWriter' 1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anything J60.r360 d/'i 8/W you'll enco~nter in your class s~hedule. So get to your campus computer NOW$99 store and ptck out your Mac. It II help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price. ·  
Notre Dame Computer Store  
Monday-Friday 8am-5pm  Power Macintosh' 7200 120 MHz/16MB RAM/l2GBt1lX CD-ROM/15" display/keyboard Now $2,116 
Computer/Math Building, Room 112  
http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndstore/  
While Supplies Last  

©1996AppleCcmpU1er,ln~AIIrightsreseroed.App/e theApplelogo Mac Macintosh Performa PowerMacintoshandStyleWrit re ·t edt1llkm ks JjAp, lea l ·t·
ifyfor _rebate,_ printer, computer and_an Apple monitor (ifsold seMrale~} must be purchased ~n tbe same Invoice: Offer good~::ny t~;ntosh desk/~; c%mptter :,::~j;;,Ap,prp~/e~a?o-:J ~h';:;eprooffMb::Jbyfro;: N~t•empab:;: 2, 1996, thro11ugh Jafun~7_!9, 1997, while supplies iast.andsubjecJ ro availability. 7b qual­accessible ro individuals wilh disability. 76/tarn more (U.S. onM, ca/1800-600-7808 or TTY 800-755-060I. · w.•ee tctpa/ing rese erfor rlm:r rules and details. AU Maantosb computers are designed robe 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME O!'FICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's O~rtCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Parricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Ediwr ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Ediwr................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Gricshop Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager .......................Michad Brouillet 
S~int Mary's Editor ................Caroline Blum Comroller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ..... .............. Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publi:oh~d by rh~ students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h docs nor neces.!.arily rdlecr rhe policies of the administra~ 
rion of C"ithcr institution. The news is rcport.cd as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdi~ torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor~ in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lencrs and 1m.ide Columns pre!lent rhc views of thC' aurhors, and nor neu:-s1larily chose of The Ob!oervcr. Viewpoint space is avotilable to all members of rhe None Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity .1nd to all rcaden. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Oflice 631-5313 MJnaging Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 New!o/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Acccnr/S.1im MJry's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General ln(ormo~rion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail ob!l·crvcr@daiWin.cc.nd.edu 

• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
December is traditionally a time to reflect on what was and to peek into the crystal ball on what is yet to be. Thus far this year, the com petition for the honor of top news story on campus has been fierce. Football scores, coaching changes, new stadium seats and lights have rivaled binge drinking, women's rights, racist attitud(lS, the Student 

Gary Caruso 
Senate and Faculty Senate frustrations and free speech demonstrations by gay studnnts. Tragically, most of these events would never have occurred if Notre Dame administrators had shared the philosophy of former Chicago Cardinal Joseph Bernardin. 
The nearby Cardinal was a person many thought could be our first American Pope. Bernardin's mission was one of inclusion and diversity. His eiTorts to heal the rift between American Catholics from the left and right through Project Common Ground is a model for the entire Notre Dame community. And while Bernardin routinely received criti­cism from his peers in Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., at least Cardinal Hoger Mahoney of Los Angeles routinely stood by him in an attempt to make American Catholics tol­erant, humble and forgiving. 
If Notre Dame had a Bernardin in its ranks, several of my alumni friends would not have turned the love and loy­alty of their youth into disgust and frus­tration. They are fed up with the University's obsession for more money and new graduate studies at the expense of NO's renowned undergradu­ate programs. Some have even advocat­ed term limits for all administrators with the rank of vice president or high­er. A few have pointed to Coach Holtz as a classic example of the .need for new blood at the turn of each decade, and some have suggested that Father Malloy's two "no confidence" vote con­siderations by the Faculty Senate in recent years makes him an ideal candi­date. 
The joke circulating in alumni circles concerns the new 20,000 football seats. What ell'ect will it have on alumni? The average price of a sealped ticket will fall from $80 to $60! What else can we expect next football season? My friend answers, "More expensive ticket prices for more seats promised to every con­tributing alumnus but given on the basis of your contribution so those seats are actually nonexistent to us not in the Sarin Society ($1,000 or more contribu­tion). And we can expect more expen­sive parking located farther away from the stadium unless we give $3,000 or more (at which time the University also provides parking near the stadium). 
It is ironic that a University that prides itself on being the most Catholic of all American universities keeps such a keen eye on the financial bottom line and maintains a conservative, closed, self­righteous image. Ask Lou Holtz how he was robbed of a national title in 1993 because of NU's "holier-than-thou" image in college sports. 
Some think that Notre Dame discrimi­nates during its application process by setting aside a quarter of the class for children of alumni. It is known that ND selectively weighs the public relations impact of any decision, especially when it denies gay students recognition or the ability to celebrate coming out day. Yet my alumnus friend finds it hypocritical that the University would accept a $5,000 grant from the Liberace Foundation. As he likes to quip, "Take the fag money, but call them 'fags' to 
cover your butt." Notre Dame takes 
care of its friends my friend charac­terizes as "conserv­ative Catholic Kooks." Certainly NO will never take the lead on issues like ordaining women clergy in the Catholic Church. Yet, it remains silent when the fanatic conservative stu­dents who march goose step with the Catholic Church's 
party line displayJ-_______________.:..;..__________-+ 
their immature prejudice by publishing a trash paper, the Right Voice or Reason or Whatever ... it's not worth knowing its title. If they were not so personal and nasty, but insightful and academically polite, their views might be worth evaluating. 
At times when an injustice is being committed, I give thanks for students who step up above their fellow Notre Dame clones to speak up for what they believe... liberal or conservative. My selections for the best efforts this semes­ter go to freshman Matt McCoyd of Flanner Hall who wrote a letter in favor of free speech for GLND/SMC ·and Observer Copy Editor Sean Smith who wrote an article on fear of the unknown when dealing with GLND/SMC. 
As The Observer celebrates its thirti­eth anniversary, we all can be proud of how much it has improved professional­ly and technologically advanced over the years. Without The Observer, slick deals would be the rule of the day in the main building. 
Authority talks a mean game, but the press always changes the dynamics of the argument by exposing all points of view. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

As we approach 1997, it is only a mat­ter of time before gay issues will prevail throughout our legal system because anything less is discrimination on the scale of raee or physical disability. Notre Dame will be one of the last to recognize gay students. It will only be a matter of time before women play a more active role in the Church, maybe during the next Pope's tenure. Notre Dame will lag a little in that regard too. However, it will be a rather long time before another Cardinal Bernardin emerges in the American Catholic Church. Unfortunately, until tolerance, humility and forgiveness permeate the campus, the next Bernardin will not be from Notre Darrie. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. /louse of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. l/is column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol.com. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Most all the time, the 
whole year round, 
there ain't no flies on me/ 
But jest 'fore Christmas I'm 
as good as I can be!' 
-Eugene Field 


VIEWPOINT
Friday, December 6, 1996 page 9 
• lETTER To THE EDITOR 
Responsibility must be part of ND curriculum 
Dear Editor: 
As much as I hate to spoil Coyne's fun, I'm afraid that I'm not quite ready to give up that last word just yet. However, before I go any further, I will make one solemn promise to those who have grown tired of my letters-this is the last one. But for now, I still have a few matters in mind that I believe are worth clearing up. 
However, before I begin my rebuttal, I'd like to acknowledge the obvious fact that Coyne and I have inevitably wound up addressing different audiences. Therefore, if you're the type of person who is rapidly running out of door space as more and more of Coyne's precious articles appear, then you can go ahead and turn the page -I'm sure that the Accent section's latest soap opera update will hold your attention much longer than I can. On the other hand, if you've ever spent a Saturday night sober, listening to the annoying and pointless babble of the ubiquitous mass of sloshed socialites outside your door, then read on and see if I can't manage to make a little sense. Then later you can trade info with your cooler than cool friends -you can tell them what Oross had to say this time and they can tell you who's sleeping with whom on Days of Our Lives. 
After upbraiding me so righteously in the past, Coyne slipped down into the realm that was suppos­~dly reserved only for the likes of me -the personal attack. He writes. "I know the type of person you are, the standard brooding intellectual who bites his thumb at everything 'mainstream' Notre Dame because of its bile attitudes and compromised morali­ty." He goes on to accuse me of being "a misanthropic teetotaler" and "the quintessential angry young man," then states that the motive behind my anger is basi­cally jealousy for his ability to "enjoy [himselfl both in the bars and lin his column]." 
Guess what? Yep, he's missed it again. While I admit that I do oppose underage drinking, being an actively-recruiting "teetotaler" was never part of my policy. Let's get one thing straight -I couldn't care less if you're over 21 and you drink. Doesn't bother me a bit. While we're at it, why not dispel one more myth -that I'm driven by deep moral conviction. Sorry, but so-called "morality" has absolutely nothing to do with my position. All too often, "morality" becomes nothing more than a hollow buzz word for repressive, ultraconservative, ethnocentric banter. If I had any desire to be "moral," I suppose I'd spend my time attacking Matthew Apple's web page or denouncing the gay and lesbian community -as it is, I'm not inclined to do either. Accordingly, the morali­ty of drinking has never been the issue with me. If you want to know whether it's "right" or "wrong," then talk to a priest, pray to Buddha, consult the Oracle, break out the magic eight ball, chart the stars, or get your palms read, but leave me out of it. (Now I've alienated about a quarter of my audience -still think I'm in this for fame?) 
And you know what? I never said that it was the issue. What I have been arguing for from the very beginning is responsibility, and if I sound a bit angry and misanthropic in addressing the "mainstream" of Notre Dame, that's because I have every reason to be. Look at the situation on this campus. The "national leaders of drunkenness" have quite a nice little home here, don't they? A lax alcohol policy, indifferent rec­tors and RA's, sympathetic faculty members -what more could the aspiring young lush look for in a school? (Farewell to my administrative readers... ) 
But what do the more assertive drunks in the bunch do with all of these boons? They sit back and whine about their lack of freedom. In petty little tantrums, they blame the University for their problems and they ask to be treated like adults. And most of all, they get furious when someone like me, unencumbered by the haze of intoxication, points it all out and makes them own up to what they've· been doing. After all, what's more annoying to a drinker than being pulled out of his or her buzz? 
Unfortunately, no one seems to see the dangerous side of developing in an environment like the one here at Notre Dame where one or two or three (or four or... you get the idea) nights of indulging one's thirst carries with it little or no consequences. But I see it. And I'm not afraid to point it out. And if that makes me a "crusader," then I guess it's a label I'll learn to live with. 
Because that danger lies in the very fact that the people will someday venture away from the Golden Tap and out into the real world. Eventually, they'll be in a situation where their random nights of fun carry a price -both for t.hemselves and for those around them. Don't get me wrong -some of them will be just fine. They'll whisk themselves away to the blissful professional world where the champagne flows in rivers and their three-martini lunches are always just right, and they'll look back on their days here (the ones they can remember anyway) with a fondness you can't imagine. Don't believe me? Take a look at some of our more distinguished alumni when the next home football game rolls around. (Another segment of the readership gone ... ) 
But some of them won't be so lucky. Some of them will take the irresponsibility lessons they learned here and put them to good use. They'll be the ones I spoke of in my first letter -the date rapists, the drunk dri­vers, the domestic abusers, and the twelve-steppers. And to the very end, they'll swear it wasn't their fault. The tease they were going out with, the slippery road, the nagging wife, the pressure of their job -they'll always find somebody to blame. 
Now of course, it won't happen anybody here. They only get drunk every once in a while and only because there's nothing else to do and they never drive when they're drunk -well, except for that one time but it wasn't very far and there was no way around it ­and they'd never hurt anyone else or force them to do something they didn't want to do, only sometimes it's so hard to tell, especially when the "anyone else" is drunk too. No, it'll never happen to anyone here. 
And now, our friends the walking wasted can even breathe a little easier than before -as I said, these are my final words on the subject. 
Oh, and one last note to those who, like Coyne, found me to be more hateful and bitter than enlight­ening: If you're worried that someday in the not-so­distant future I'll be perched atop the water tower with an assault rifle in one hand and a crumpled stack of Coyne's columns in the other, all the while screaming, "they never listened!" you can relax-I'd never find a target that was worth the bullet anyhow. (There, now I've alienated everybody ... ) 
S.E. OROSS Junior Keough Hall 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Timing is everything in abortion, euthanasia 
"II<?W can I give my only boy to the state to kill?", Mrs. Barbara Peterson said as her 18 year-old son, Brian, sur­rendered to Newark, Delaware, police. Brian and his girlfriend, Amy Grossberg, also 18. are charged with first-degree murder for killing their baby boy after she gave birth to him on Nov. 12 at the 

Charles Rice 
Comfort Inn in Newark. Delaware law provides for the death penalty where the victim of an intentional homicide is under 14 years of age. The prosecutors are seeking that penalty against both Brian and Amy. 
The autopsy showed that the full-term, healthy baby died from "multiple frac­tures... with injury to the brain due to blunt force, head trauma and shaking." Their lawyer does not concede that Brian and Amy killed the baby, but they did put him in a plastic bag which they put in a trash container in the hotel parking lot. It is unclear whether the injuries to the baby happened before or after he was put in the trash bin. After the birth, Brian and Amy returned to their colleges. The incident came to light when she was hospitalized for complica­tions from the delivery. The next day a search dog found the body of the 6 lb., 2 oz. boy in the trash bin. 
Mrs. Peterson's question has a point. On what reasoned basis can the State of Delaware claim the right to kill Brian and Amy? They are candidates for lethal injection, not because they intentionally killed an innocent human being, but because they waited ten minutes too long and used the wrong method. Brian and Amy would be in the clear if they had hired an abortionist to solve their problem, even during delivery, by a par­tial-birth abortion, which is legal thanks to President Clinton's successful veto of the ban enacted by Congress. The Supreme Court has decreed that abor­tion may not be banned, even in the ninth month, when it is sought to protect the mother's mental health as could be claimed in a case such as this. Had Brian and Amy exercised their "right to choose" in this way, the abortionist would have dilated the entrance to the uterus sufficiently to deliver the baby's body, except for the head. He would have delivered the baby, feet.first, except for the head. He then would have inserted scissors into the base of the baby's skull and opened the scissors to enlarge the hole. He would have insert­ed a suction catheter and sucked out the baby's brain. The head would have col­lapsed and the abortionist then would have removed and disposed of the body. If they had chosen that course, Brian and Amy then could have gone back to college, not as targets of a homicide prosecution, but as vindicators of the preferred constitutional "right to choose." 
Brian's attorney, Joseph Hurley, said that he "can't imagine" using an insani­ty defense. In fact, Brian and Amy would seem to be more in touch with reality than are the Supreme Court and the State of Delaware. Their boy was no less a human being -and, in truth, no less a person -during delivery, or at his conception, than he was when they killed him or put him in the trash bin. Yet the Court and the State would have mobilized the federal marshals to pro­tect their right to kill him before birth and even during delivery. But because Brian and Amy waited for ten minutes and didn't use an approved method of killing, the State says that they them­selves must be killed. So who's crazy? As columnist George Will put it: "Could Delaware choose to execute (Brian and Amy) by inserting scissors into the bases of their skulls, opening the scissors, inserting suction tubes and sucking out their brains? Of course not. The Constitution forbids choosing cruel and unusual punishments." 
The killing of newborn babies, who could have been legally and secretly aborted, is not all that rare. This case drew attention because Brian and Amy are children of wealth and who could have easily had an abortion. But their case reminds us that legalized abortion will inevitably lead to infanticide and euthanasia. All three are founded on the denial of personhood to the victim. 
In any legal system where personhood is the condition of possessing rights, all human beings are inherently entitled to be treated as persons, especially with respect to the right to live. In Roe v. Wade, in 1973, the Supreme Court ruled that the unborn child is not a "person" at any time before birth and therefore has no constitutional rights. The Court declined to decide whether the unborn child is a human being. Rather, the Court decreed that, whether or not he is a human being, he is a nonperson. The ruling is therefore the same in effect as a ruling that an acknowledged human being may be treated as a nonperson and deprived of the right to live. Once that principle is adopted, it cannot be contained. Partial-birth abortion is one application. Brian and Amy made anoth­er. And euthanasia of burdensome and useless incompetents will predictably follow. 
Through the depersonalization of the innocent, our legal system fosters the "culture of death," described by John Paul II as "a war of the powerful against the weak: .... A person who, because of illness, handicap, or more simply, just by existing, compromises the well-being or lifestyle of those who are more favored tends to be looked upon as an enemy to be resisted or eliminated." (Evangelium Vitae, no. 12) 
To respond to the culture of death, we must insist that the right of the innocent to life is absolute, without exception, because it comes from God. Ironically, the tactics of some opponents of abor­tion have had the unintended effect of reinforcing the abortion culture. In any civilized society, the question must be whether innocent human beings may be legally executed. Some abortion op­ponents have proposed merely to regu­late abortion or to allow it for the life of the mother, rape, or incest. Such com­promise tactics frame the issue in terms of which innocents may be killed. The campaign to ban Partial Birth Abortion was a further retreat, framing the issue not in terms of whether, and not even in terms of which, but in terms of how the killing may be done. That campaign did expose the depravity of the abortion cul­ture. But it reinforced that culture by focusing on the method of killing rather than on the murder as such. Brian and Amy could fairly conclude that if the method is what counts, their method was more humane than puncturing their boy's head and sucking his brain out. 
Brian Peterson and Amy Grossberg, in a sense, are themselves victims of the culture of death. They will be tried according to fair procedures in a court of law. But the ultimate culprits are the judicial and other promoters of a system which sanctions the execution of the innocent in any case whatever. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
;ACCENT
page I 0 Friday, December 6, 1996 




~1~~: 
-~i~· 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assisram Accent Editor 
T
he Christmas season has always been characterized by familiar traditions. Selecting a tree and trimming it, sending the cards, caroling, "It's a Wonderful Life," eggnog and, of course, shopping. 
What once seemed like just another part of the whole Christmas experience has developed into its own entity. There is Christmas and then there is Christmas shopping. 
From gifts and cards to decorations and acces­sories, there is always something to buy in the weeks before December 25. And the retailers do all that they can, and perhaps more, to make sure that the consumers out there do not forget to buy, buy, buy this holiday season. 
At the University Park Mall in Mishawaka, stores hauled out the garland and the trees in the middle of November and the Shopping Season is now in full force. 
Camelot Music brought out its stock of holiday music on November 4 this year, and even that was too late for some consumers. "We had cus­tomers come in here the week before Halloween asking for Christmas music," said Dan, a man­ager at the Camelot store in the mall. "Sometimes, depending on when the [new Christmas) music hits, we've had it out before I Ialloween." 
This year's crop of new Christmas_ "carols" may seem relatively small, but is made up of a few big names in the recording industry. Jimmy Bufl"ett has released "Christmas Island," featur­ing traditional and original songs such as "Happy Christmas (War is Over}" and "IIo Ho Ho and a Bottle of Hhum." 
Vanessa Williams and Michael Bolton have also come out with Christmas collections this year and "Star of Wonder" (country} and "0 Come All Ye Faithful" (alternative} feature holi­day tunes recorded by some of the biggest artists in each musical genre. 
Even though prospective shoppers may feel they are drowning in the tidal wave of retail advertising for the holidays, Dan sees very little change in the shopping patterns each year: "It never changes. Always, the day after Thanksgiving there's mobs of people in the stores shopping like crazy. The traffic patterns never change. What seems to get earlier every year is trying to find people to work. We start looking in October." 

One aspect that shoppers might not consider when the buying blitz begins is that the date of Thanksgiving plays a big role in the crowds out at the stores in December. "Black Friday," the day after Thanksgiving, has a lot to do with that. The only people who have to work that day, it seems, are cashiers in stores. Some consumers choose that day to begin their shopping while those who have already started take advantage of the free day to join the throngs in line at the cash registers 
But those who waited until Black Friday to begin there shopping are a week behind this year. "The calendar's screwed up this year," said Dan. "Last year, [the third week in November] was Thanksgiving week. Sometimes, Thanksgiving comes and you still have another week to go until December. Now, you don't; you've got Thanksgiving and December [was] Sunday. It goes right into it. People are going to start thinking, 'Holy moley, I've got to get mov­ing.' We think there's going to be a bigger crunch." 
If there is any one business that appears to have gotten the most, if not more, out of Christmas (and other holidays for that matter}, it is Hallmark. The Hallmark store in UP Mall has aisles and shelves stocked with cards, orna­ments, snow globes, winter villages and other gadgets and trinkets for Christmas collectors. Designs on boxed cards range from Norman Rockwell reproductions to Elvis Presley to tradi­tional heartwarming religious messages to the zany and amusing Shoebox line. 
Although they are recognized as a card com­pany, Hallmark's biggest draw this time of year is their ornaments. In addition to familiar depictions of Santa Claus, reindeer, nutcrackers and wide-eyed children, there are always unique decorations that can help personalize any tree. For science fiction fanatics, there are "Star Wars" and "Star Trek" figures; sports fans can hang Troy Aikman, Larry Bird, or Nolan Ryan from the boughs; and children will be happy to see Quasimodo, Esmeralda or other Disney characters bending the branches. 
If it seems that Christmas begins before sum­mer is over, that might be because it does at 
the semester ending and all those 
last papers. tests and finals looming in 
the distance; with nearly every dorm on campus trying to hold a Christmas SYR tonight and tomorrow; and with all those last dinners and parties with friends that will be on the other side of the country for a month between semesters. December is perhaps the only month during the school year where there is not enough time to do·everything that needs to be done. · 
And there is definitely not enough time for fun. 
But for those who will put off packing or studying (shh. don't tell Mom and Dad} and take tomorrow or a "study day" to venture out into the frigid Midwest, there are plenty of hol­iday-related things to do. And Chicago has most of them. 
The Windy City kicked off its holiday cele­bration two weeks ago with the tree lighting ceremony and Magnificent Mile Lights Festival. But there·are plenty· or displays and Hallmark. "The ornaments go up in June," said Debbie Bickel, a manager at the store in the mall. "You have so many collectors and so many different series. They come in and if we don't have the ornaments, they put their names on waiting lists. Sometimes [Hallmark] has maybe three or four late (ornament) releases." 
The rush for ornaments is the result of Hallmark's policy of not duplicating ornaments. They come out for six months and when they are sold out, that's it. "Every year they start two or three new series and then they have the con­tinuing, ongoing series," Bickel said. "On October 24, I tried reordering a lot of the orna­ments that I was already sold out of and I couldn't get them. Hallmark was already out." 
Althtmgh the ornaments are on display and up for sale for half the year, Hallmark kicks ofT its Christmas season with an open house each year. "Hallmark Christmas Open I louse is usually two weeks before Thanksgiving," Bickel said. "That's when Hallmark nationally advertises 
their special products for the upcoming season." 
It might seem like few buyers would notice Christmas ornaments in October. let alone June. And it might be hard to believe that such things would be sold so early in the season. Early Christmas card sales are understandable since people want to get them out to their friends and relatives early. But Hallmark is already watch­ing their stock leave the shelves quickly: "This year. they're [shopping) early." said Bickel. "This year I've found that our sales have increased tremendously, even before Thanksgiving weekend. They were up 19%." 
Of course, no shopping season or experience would be complete without a stop at one major department store to find nearly everything with­in the confines of a single outlet. 
Sears is among the largest stores at University Park and they also gear up for Christmas early. "Our first day [with the Christmas merchandise out) was October 13. That's three weeks later than what it was last year," said a Sears manag­er who preferred that his name not be used. "I think we have a well-displayed, tremendously stocked Christmas department." 
"Tremendous" is an appropriate term to describe Sears' selection. Their extensive dis­play of lights includes indoor/outdoor stringed sets in virtually every combination in which such ' 
' 
other events continuing through the mon~ December. ~ 
The heart of the Chicago's Christmas spi located in the area of State and Rand Streets, near Marshall Field's on the nort side of the Loop. State Street was rec~ renovated and reopened to become more d attraction in the city and features lights, s/ ping and Sears' Skate on State ice rink. 1 
The windows facing the street at
1 ' Marshall Field store, are adorned with hoi scenes and the outside of the store is don with trumpeting angels, calling shoppers tourists into the store to spend their m And don't miss the Christmas tree in D Plaza at Washington and Dearborn streets 
Santa Claus hangs out in the Trim-A-H department on the seventh floor of the Ca Pirie Scott store (among other places) Christmas· Eve. The store is located on Street between Madison and Monroe. The'l also a "Breakfast with Santa" until Decelllj 
24 as well but that involves buying ticketsj making a reservation for the breakfast accompanying show. Call (800} 374-3000 
information. 
W'· 
page 11



ACCENT
Friday, December 6, 1996 
can come: multi-colored; red, white and en; all red, green, blue or white; red and 
n. They even carry Kodak and Crayola lights. There are also light sculptures. 
are available in the shape of holiday :reetings ("Merry Christmas" for example) or ymbols (a shooting star). 
For those who prefer the consistent height and :uaranteed fullness of a plastic Christmas tree, here is a small forest from which to choose six­.nd-a-half to nine-foot Montgomery Pines, 1ountain Firs, White Feathers, Bennington 
nes or Arctic Spruces. 
No extensive (and expensive) Christmas dis­rlay would be complete without some animated r lighted figures there to liven up the scene. 'his category includes Santa in the bath tub inging carols or on the scale weighing in at 308 (Ilnds. There is also Mrs. Claus baking a gin­erbread house and Santa ironing his coat.
I 
ears even has several Disney figures, most otably Mickey and Minnie Mouse, all dressed p for the holidays. 
Like Camelot Music and Hallmark, Sears has \ready had good business for the opening of is Christmas season. "The Craftsman Tool lit [wasl already sold out [a week before tanksgivingl." the manager said, referring to ~ir collection of Sears/Craftsman ornaments lich feature Craftsman tools in a festive way. 'e sell out of items long before Halloween. As m as we get [the displays] up, people come in 
l. buy them because they know we only get 1 shipment. When it's gone, it's gone." ears and other stores hope that their ·istmas stock will join the Craftsman Tool Belt leaving empty spaces on the shelves. 
terwise, it might not be considered a success­' season. "Last year, we didn't have anything l, other than some bows, wrapping paper, and 
.aybe some Christmas cards and some lights 'ter Christmas," the Sears manager said. ?eople were coming in for our half-price hristmas sale, and there wasn't anything to uy. And that's the idea: to sell out before hristmas. And. of course, when this is all gone, 1en this section becomes the patio furniture." 
Patio furniture in January. It fits right in with as ornaments in June. 

A couple of holiday theater productions are currently running in Chicago. Through December 30, the Goodman Theater continues its traditional production of "A Christmas Carol," which might be of interest to those who did not get enough of it with Notre Dame's performance. The Goodman is at 200 South Columbus Drive. 
"That's Christmas! Chicago's Merry Musical" is premiering at the Shubert Theater (22 West Monroe Street) until January 5. The show stars Sandy f)uncan. formerly of "The Hogan Family," and features special guest Darlene Love. 
For those who enjoy relating the holidays to the natural world and other cultures, the Adler Planetarium offers a holiday-based exhibit. On Lake Shore Drive east of Soldier Field and north of Meigs Field. the Adler Planetarium presents the "Star of Wonder" sky show which explores possible astronomical explanations for the Star of Bethlehem that led the shepherds to the stable where Jesus was born. 
On the north side of the city, all along as well as beyond Michigan's Magnificent Mile, shop­
/~
,/. 
/ 
,>/;~-y·?:r~: 
pers, holiday nuts and light lovers will fmd more to keep them all Wimn and fuzzy inside. While the stores along Michigan Avenue may have individual displays and various events on the weekends, one thing visitors.can count on throughout Decemb~r are.tbe windows at Saks Fifth Avenue. Compal"~ ~nd co:ritr<>st the dis­plays in the New York-hlj,sed store with that of Chicago's own Marshall Field & Co. 
One of many hotels with public Christmas displays, The Ritz-Carlton on East Pearson Stre.e.i. features a twenty-fjve-foot tree trimmed with handmade ornaments. Just east of Water Tower Place, the hotel also has a sugar-coated "Children's Wonderland" around the Victorian tree throughout the season. 
At the northern end of the Mile, the 900 North Michigan Shops boast a forty-five-foot decorated Christmas tree. Also in the area, Paul Stuart provides entertainment with a string quartet every Saturday throughout the season. . 
Up towards the end.()f~be:M~gnificentMile, on Walton Street justeas~(!lf Michig~J,n Avenue, the Drake Hotelligbt~ ,UP a.twenty-foot tree with 1.000 lights, in case the Daley Plaza and 
.. 

-::.· 
900 North Michigan trees were not enough;{ Two holiday trains chug through a winter vil­lage of sweets lJ,lltil January 1. . . . The Lincol1_1 Park Zoo, located on cannon Drive in LiJi~oln Park along Lake Michigan. cpntaJns more than fifty light displays arra:nged· iJ:l. hBJid{ty and animal scenes. The "Zo,oligfi.i$.>J?~s~ival" is lit up from 6-9 p.m. weekdaystan4 one hour later on weeken{J.s. On December'8.Satita and other holiday char­acters will join caroling grol!JlS m; they sere­nade th~ animals in "Caroling to the Animals." 
If the Windy City cannot provide enough relaxing distractions for overworked. studied­out college students, then the only hope left is to make .it through finals and go home and col­lapse on the couch until Christmas Day. What better exct~rsions can you find for this week,,: end or the middle of next week that can take your mind <>fftheJ~evitable, looming exams? 
The. warll1 lights and friendly visitors and. merchant~ i~ <;ltiic~go are sure to thaw out .·frozenbpq~~s>~ild, 4t.iy~ out any··"Bah~hnm"· bug~· s~ntim~~~~ril.'~ing.~~bin: · 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 6, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

'Huskers eyeing Big 12 crown Gators look to snap 
By R.B. FALLSTROM players to forget that. Our job is overall and 6-2 in the confer­Associated Press Writer to find a way to play them and ence, the unranked Longhorns 
Tide in title contest 
! ­
ST. LOUIS 
John Mackovic can't do much about his big-talking quarterback, except hope he can somehow back it up. 
Texas is a 20-point underdog to No. 3 Nebraska in Saturday's inaugural Big 12 championship game in St. Louis. And if Longhorns quarterback James Brown isn't impressed by the two-time defending national champions, insisting his team will win by three touchdowns, his coach is. 
"After losing early in the year they've kind of steamrolled through their schedule," Mackovic said. "I can't ask our beat them." 
It's a very tall order. Nebraska, the North Division champion at 8-0 and 10-1 over­all, has outscored opponents an average of 48-9 since losing 19­0 to Arizona State on the sec­ond week. 
The Cornhuskers are fourth best in the nation against the run and fifth best against the pass. They have allowed only 12 touchdowns all year and are zeroing in on a shot at a third consecutive national title. If they win, they're headed for the Sugar Bowl against top-ranked Florida State. 
Texas has the top offensive team in the Big 12. But at 7-4 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Texas signal caller James Brown will have to play a flawless game if they hope to pull off an upset of the Cornhuskers. 
are just happy to be in the big show. 
"It's a goal we set and we kind of took the hard way." said offensive guard Dan Neil. "But we're here." 
Texas was 2-2 after consecu­tive losses to Notre Dame and Virginia in September, and 3-4 after consecutive losses to Oklahoma and Colorado in October. Virginia walloped the Longhorns 37-13, but the other three losses were by a com­bined 10 points. 
Since the 28-24 setback at Colorado Oct. 26, Texas beat Baylor, Texas Tech and Kansas. Then came the game that loosened Brown's lips, a 51-15 pasting of Texas A&M last week. Brown was named Big 12 offensive player of the week after passing for 336 yards and four touchdowns and producing 594 yards total of­fense in that game. 
"I think we're going to win by three touchdowns," Brown said Monday. 
Mackovic projects a much quieter confidence. 
"You can't have a season and look back and wonder what if?" Mackovic said. "We're happy where we are. We're doing it at the right time of the year." 
With the exception of the Arizona State game, Nebraska has been doing it all of the time. The Cornhuskers have won 31 in a row in the Big 12. They rebounded nicely from the lone loss, squashing Colorado State 65-9. 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
While James Bates isn't likely to win a national championship ring, he doesn't have to worry about going out in public with bare fingers. 
No. 4 Florida, winner of three straight Southeastern Conference titles, is looking for a fourth Saturday night against No. 15 Alabama in what has become an all-too-familiar pairing in the league champi­onship game. 
"It wouldn't be bad to fill up all four fingers on one hand with SEC rings," said Bates, a senior linebacker for the Gators. 
Alabama (9-2) would like to stop Florida's march and de­fend the honor of Bear Bryant, the only coach to win five con­secutive league championships. Even to this day, the man who wore the houndstooth hat still looms over the Crimson Tide program. 
"I always say the people here love coach Bryant and they tol­erate the rest of us," said Gene Stallings, a Bryant protege who is stepping down after seven years as the Alabama coaeh. "I understand my role." 
The Gators (1 0-1 ), champion of the Eastern Division, have played in all five SEC title games. They would have been going for Bryant's record this year if not a 28-21 loss to Alabama in the inaugural game in 1992. The Tide went on to claim the national champi­onship that season. 
. Alabama played for the next two SEC championships as well, losing to Florida 28-13 in 1993 and 24-23 in 1994, the first year the game was played at the Georgia Dome. The latter defeat ruined the Tide's perfect season and is the most convinc­ing piece of evidence that the Gators may be able to rebound from a devastating 24-21 loss to Florida State last week. 
"The true test of a team is when they bounce back from adversity," said Donnie Young, the best player on Florida's in­jury-ravaged offensive line. "Hopefully, we'll be able to show that we have some oomph to us." 
Two years ago, Florida squandered a 31-3 lead against Florida State. which scored four touchdowns in the fourth quarter to earn a :31-31 tie. A week later, the Gators came through with a memorable fourth-quarter drive against Alabama, using a fake injury and two trick plays to score the winning touchdown. 
Now, Florida is hoping to bounce back from another Florida State disappointment, a game that cost the Gators their No. 1 ranking and almost cer­tainly a chance to win their first national title. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
WORDS...TO GO Term Papers,  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS -Teach STUDENTS-FIGHT THE URGE!  
NOTICES  Dissertations. Resumes, Free Pick­Up and Delivery Available.  basic conversational English in Campus View Apartments are dirty, Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No smelly, and ramshackle-that pool is  Ride needed from FLORIDA (I'll be in W Palm, but can get to any·  Class of 1998 Pick up your DOG BOOK, CLASS  
Competitive Rates, 299-7224  teaching certificate or European closed all the time. and the rent is  where) to South Bend after  T·SHIRTS, & MESH SHORTS on  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  languages required. Inexpensive outrageous! Do yourselves a favor  Christmas. anytime before school  Sat. & Sun. from 3-5pm in.213  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  "FREAKED OUT' over finals?  Room & Board + other benefits. For and rent elsewhere; the conve­ starts. Promise to entertain, share  LaFun. (They make a great SYR  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  Then come see the professional  info. call: (206)971·3680 nience just isn't worth it! I!  $ and driving, and make an other­ gift!!!!!!!)  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  lunatic • HARLEY NEWMAN  ext.K55843  wise boring trip most enriching! call  
all-u·can drink daily. Don Surt &  HOUSE FOR RENT, TWO  Brian 287·4876  Come to the CLASS MASS on Sun.  
Sun (800)763·5606.  Friday the 13th-December  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS.  in La Fun Ballroom at 7:30.  
8 P.M.-LaFortune Ballroom  Positions are now available at NEWLY REMODLED-4/5 BED·  
EARLY CHILDHOOD  Only $3 to see the FREAK!  National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife ROOM, FULL BASEMENT. AVAIL­ 00000000000000000000000000000  
DEVELOPMENT CENTER  Preserves. Excellent benefits + ABLE SUMMER/FALL 97'.  Looking for a unique gift idea?  Are you a man or woman who feels  
CHILDREN'S BOOK FAIR  HARLEY can:  bonuses! Call: 1·206·971·3620 ext. INCLUDES APPLIANCES, MONI·  Custom Color Copy Picture  defenseless at times? Would you  
The Early Childhood Development  'Eat Nails  N55849 TORED SECURITY SYSTEM.  Calendars are now available at  like be able to handle conflicts  
Center at Notre Dame (on Bulla  'Walk on Razors  THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune  calmly?  
Rd. across from O'Hara-Grace Residences) will have quality  'Play with Electricity 'Break boards with his head  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • Students Needed! Fishing Industry. FOR SALE  Student Center. Just bring in your favorite pictures and create a mem·  Come see a demo of the Japanese Budo of AIKIDO on  
children's literature and Discovery  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  arable calendar!!! Choose from  Friday, Rockne, Am. 219,  
Toys available for purchase at our  Sponsored by the  month. Room and Board! BED, COUCH, & ANS MACH  three formats:  3:30PM. Ryan-42292.  
Annual Book Fair from Wed, 12/4­ Student Union Board  Transportation! Male or Female. No ASKING $125, $75, &$20  (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip  
Tues. 12/10. The proceeds from this event are used to purchase additional educational materials  ILOST & FOUND I  experience necessary. Call 2719387 (206)971·351 0 extA55848 GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT!  (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear·Off (3) 1 Picture Full Year View. 00000000000000000000000000000  LUCAS!! Pregnant and considering adop­ 
for the children to enjoy in each of  Michiana's largest night club Name a star for someone special.  tion? Loving couple wish to adopt a  
our activity rooms.  LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED  and newest restaurant is now seek­$33 Call (800)701·7201 Ext. 14  RIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN  white newborn. Home Study com·  
If you are looking for gift ideas for  STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!!  ing competant, hard working indi·  NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST­ plete and approved by Catholic  
children in your life (brothers,  PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331.  viduals to fill several positions with· FOR SALE:  MAS-I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL  Charities. Call lisa and Jim 1·800·  
s1sters. nieces. nephews). we  in our growing company. Positions POOL TABLE· $300.  NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND MY  442·3213  
1nvite you to come and browse  Lost, One engraved Zippo lighter.  now available are: Hostess, DP STAIRSTEPPER · $90.  WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO COME  
through our selection of quality  Inscription reads JOT IV.  Banquet and restaurant servers, BODY BY JAKE WITH VIDEO­ OUT ON SATURDAY-PLEASE  Seniors, Seniors, Seniors  
hard back and paper back  $30 reward for return, If you have  bus persons. Beer Tub and shot $50.  HELP! THANK YOU  Hand in resumes for first week of  
children's books and toys. For  any information please contact  girls. All positions are ideal for stu­CALL 272·3753 AFTER  Call Brian 287·4876  spring semester interviews in  
more information, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344. SENIORS. SENIORS, SENIORS HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND  Job Turner at 4·1073 Found: 1 chain and charm in Nieuwland Camp lab. Identify and claim with Calvin @4·1772  dents. If interested, contact 3:30 OR l V. MESSAGE Heartland and The Old Chicago AND WILL CALL YOU BACK. Steakhouse at 222 S. Michigan St. I SouthBend. -PERSONAL FOR RENT I Mail Starved Domers in lnnsbruck  SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6.  Career and Placement Services by 5:00p.m. on Friday, December 6, 1996. FIN 360/361 HOTLINE We are here to help with questions and problems  
....  PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6.  LOST:  crave correspondence!! WALK TO CAMPUS lnnrain 33  Call X1·8432 Day or Night  
1 Tennis Bracelet  2-3·4-5 BEDROOM HOMES A·6020 lnnsbruck  Come see the neato-est band ....  PREGNANT?  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Shaped in X's and O's  232·2595 Tirol, Austria  Consider the loving  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  Lost between the library and Lyon's  Europe  STOMPER BOB  option of Adoption.  
Meals. Free Parties. Taxes! Great  If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  Caring, devoted couple  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  call JAckie @ X2900  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full FAX IT FAST!! I  at Bridget's on Friday night  wish to share our love,  
Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­ bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted Sending & Receiving at  laughs, and lives with an  
breaktravel.com 1-800·678-6386  WANTED  ceil, porch, furniture avail. THE COPY SHOP BEAUTIFUL! LaFortune Student Center  infant. Call for profile and more info: Andrea  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  273·2580 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  and Lee: 1·800·213·3960.  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Looking to copy a tape of televised  FAX IT FAST!!!  Come see the neato·est band.  
South Bend $4191 Prices Increase Soon·Save $50! Save $150 on  Rutger's game. Please call Meghan at x2474 if you taped the game.  Furnished room available for '97. •$300/mo. 5·min drive. VERY ADOPTION IS A  STOMPER BOB  Hey you . I still think you're gorgeous!  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  NICE! CHOICE OF LOVE.  Love,  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  WANTED: MALE HOUSEMATE  232-7175. Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  at Bridget's on Friday night  me  
1·800·678-6386  FOR NEXT SEMESTER.  act of love. Your child will be raised  
ACCOMMODATION 1 MILE FROM  REGGAE D. J. to know this. Caring couple wish to  We love Blythe A"  
Spring Break Panama City!  CAMPUS. 631-5118  234 0705 share our lov~. laughs. and lives  IRISH ACCENT'S 2nd show  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  with an infant. Dad is kind and gen.  (LAST ONE THIS SEMESTER!)  
Hotel. location. Price! 7 Nights  need roomate for spring sem.  2/.6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW tie. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's  appears MONDAY NIGHTIII  I take no responsibility whatsoever  
$1291 Daytona·Best location $139!  Turtle Creek· I. house  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM· talk and see if we're right for you  Watch for it!  for any personals addressed to  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ interested? call Jeff  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­ (Comedy. We feel it's the right  "gorgeous" that are written by Patti  
breaktravel.com 1·800·678·6386  271-9433  6306 800-213-3960.  thing to do.)  Carson.  


Friday, December 6, 1996 , The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Providence provides first test 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Bring on the bad boys in the Big East, says head coach John MacLeod and his Notre Dame squad.
For one g'arne, at least. Then don't come back until 1997. 
Notre Dame's conference sea­son begins Saturday at Providence against a dangerous Friar ballcluh. The Friars are Notre Dame's only Big East op­ponent before the corning of the new year. 
Providence will challenge the Irish with an explosive starting line-up and a deep bench ready to contribute. MacLeod is espe­cially wary of point guard God Sharnmgod and his divine abili­ties in the back court. 
"(Shammgod) is bullet-quick,"MacLeod evaluated. "There are not many point guards with the acceleration that Shamrngodhas. He is in the (Allen) Iverson category." . 
The Irish will also need to be concerned when the other four Friar starters are on the floor. Providence is loaded with quick, athletic players. 
"Their top four players, (Derrick) Brown, (Austin) 

INTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 

f~e Voices of ,alt~ Gospeflnsem~fe
Presents: 
MELODIES FROM HEAVEN 
Annual Concert 
ltec(•mbet• 8 @ Washington llall 7p.m. 1996 ~ /j A Admission: $5.00 (>; ~ sj Students:$3.00 

/ 

LIVE 
~eaturing:cCJcv Slite of Ule Youth Choir 
Sunday Night 



-r t 
From 6:30 to 9:30 In The 
lJ ' " & f 
*Raffle drawing will be held at intermission.
Dining Room 
111!. 
Italian Cuisine with an Irish View 1412 South &ndAvenue South &nd, Indiana 4&517 (219) 232 -4244
.1!1 
Croshere, (Jamel) Thomas, and (Ruben) Garces give a clear in­dication of where most of their points will come from," MacLeod commented. 
The Friars' defense will also prove difficult to contend with. Providence likes to press their opposition, execute half-court traps with regularity and play a match-up zone in the half-court game. Notre Dame's offense, led by top scorer Pat Garrity, will have to fight against the pressing defense to keep the ball on the offensive end of the floor. 
The Irish offense has been the product of Garrity and freshman David Lalazarian to date. Both players average double figuresin the scoring column, unlike anx of their teammates. 
'We were a bit tentative last year," MacLeod remembered. "This (game} could be a wild affair. We've seei). (Providence's pressure}, and we're going to see it again." 
The Notre Dame defense will do its best to contain an exciting Friar offense, especially center Ausin Crosher. 
"We have to be continually aware where (Croshere) is," MacLeod said. "He likes it out­side, but will drive to the basket, and he's good from the foul line. 
He's a unique player." 
The Irish offense will likely feature the same group that performed in the Indiana con­test. Garrity, as has been the trend, will be expected to keep Notre Dame in the game, al­though MacLeod wou1d love to see others get involved. 
The emergence of Lalazarian as an offensive threat, while a positive sign, is simply a neces­sity as other players besides Garrity must put points on the board. Point guard Admore White, ineffective through the opening stretch, must combine ball distribution with legitimate scoring potential to give Garrity and his low-post cohorts. 
Notre Dame welcomes back the services of shooting guard Antoni Wyche, who contributed to the Irish cause with two assists against Indiana. 
It is uncertain who will start at Providence, Wyche or senior captain Pete Miller, but MacLeod is positive that Wychewill contribute in the Big East opener. 
"(Wyche) gives us some power, speed, and quickness in the line-up," the coach evalu­ated. "He is big, strong, and quick at the two-guard." 
Notre Dame's Big East for­tunes are hard to predict after a strong showing against the fourth-ranked Indiana Hoosiers last weekend. Hopefully their fortune-tellers will see a victory 
-

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 6, 1996 
and as one of the top defenders that," Streiffer said. "I want to season for the Domers. In these The Pilots enter this year'sfinal four in the nation. Besides being a do well for the team, and I want past few games, she has rarely tournament with a new look,defensive stronghold, she has our team to do well, so that is been chalfenged which could be that leaves the Irish in a bit of a 
continued from page 20 
heartbreaking," said Portland assistant coach Bill Irwin. "The girls set their goal this year to get back, and we've got our chance on Friday night again." 
The defending national cham­pions also will discover what it is like to defend their title. The team is not coming into the Final Four as the favorite; in­stead they enter as the under­dol{;
'According to the NCAA tour­nament committee, we still are an underdog ," observed Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We arn the No.2 seed." 
This year the team enters the tournament with a different look. 
"We are more talented," Petrucelli said. "We are better in the back, and we are a little more explosive up front. Having a healthy Cindy Daws has made a &,reat deal of difference for us. 
There are three freshman in the starting line-up, this year. Each have made tremendous contributions. Solidifying the defense is Grubb. She carne to Notre Dame highly acclaimed 
contributed offensively with three goals and ten assists. "I definitely need to make good decisions," Grubb said. 
The Pilots will have to shut­down the other freshman to have any shot at a victory. On the outside, freshman Kara Brown brings to the team speed and excellent long balls. She has chalked up six goals and fif­teen assists. 
Making a hu~e impact in the middle is Stretffer, who joins senior Amy VanLaecke and sophomore Monica Gerardo up­front. Streiffer is one of the fastest members of the team, and with her speed and ball handling skills combine, she is unstoppable. She was named Big East Rookie of the Year, and she has 22 goals and 22 assists in her freshman campaign. Also she is recognized for scoring the only two goals in the defeat ear­lier in the season of the North Carolina Tarheels. 
"I don't feel pressure from 
the only pressure I feel." 
Besides the freshman sensa­tions, the Pilots will have to learn to shutdown Daws to se­cure a victory. Daws simply makes the Irish team. Besides being the captain and a two time All-American, she received Big East tournament MVP and is also a finalist for the Hermann Trophy, awarded to the finest player in the land. In this record breaking season, Daws has become the Irish's all-time· leading goal scorer, and she has the most career points in Irish history. Thus far into the sea­son she has registered 26 goals and 22 assists. 
"I am strong on defense, but I need to do my best to get in on attack and be dan~erous in any way that I can,' said Daws about her role in tonight's game. 
The other crucial performance will have to come from the other captain of the Notre Dame team, senior goalkeeper Jen Renola. Renola has had another stellar a factor. She will have to learn how to overcome that while warding off the shots of Portland. 
Daws and Renola have one thing to their advantage: they will finish out their collegiate careers in their home state. Daws comes from Northridge, Calif. and Renola hails from Lost Gatos, Calif. They are members of the senior dass, a class which has appeared in Notre Dame's only four NCAA championships. 
With all the hype over a pos­sible North Carolina/Notre Dame rematch, the Irish's semi-final opponent has gotten little atten­tion. Portland is seeded third in the tournament, and they enter with the only unblemished record of 19-0-2. 
"Portland is a pretty talented team," Petrucelli said. "It is a very good team in the back. You know that it is going to be well­coached. It is pretty talented group and they will be tough to play against." 
haze. Portland junior Justi Baumgardt will have to be slowed in the midfield. She pro­vides Portland with a lot of offensive opportunities. 
"They have got a really stron~ center midfield with Justi, Daws said. "She has a strong left foot, and she docs a real good job of controlling the mid­field.' 
While the Irish are concerned with the Pilots, they are more concerned over whether or not they know enough about their own game. 
"Regardless of what other teams play, it is about us," said Daws. "We need to make sure that we are ready to play." 
The final for the Irish will con­sist of how well the team knows their own game. Each individ­ual member has had all season to study and prepare for this. Now the question is whether or not they can perform under pressure. Whoever aces the test will walk away a champion. 
• 
Urban Outfitters 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Big Sweaters 

• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Unique Cocktail Dresses 


• Silver Rings -Hemp Jewelry 
We Buy Used Levi's  10%0 with student ID  HOURS: M -F: 10 -7 Sat: 10 -6  Now Open Sundays 12-4p.m.  

Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line
THE 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza
smE 
687-9123
CO., INC. 
-~~ liai ~ v;sr 
-
Make a Differ-·ence With ... OCCUPATIONAL TH·ERAP\' 
Improve Your Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and mental activities for individuals who are chaJlenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and maintain health. 
Join a Rapidly Growing Profession 
According to U.S. Deparunent of Labor statistics, occupational therapy i~ among the ~astest growing health care professions, with the number of available positions totaling 55.000 nationaJly with an expected increase in new positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
Study With the Health Care Team at Midwestern University 
;v!idwem:rn University's College of Allied Health Professions offer~ a .10­mo;Hh. entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a :--.1aster of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 2.3 weeb of full-time clinical experience. You will work closely with students in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of our imerdisciplinary approach ro therapy education. The University, which ts located in Downers Crove, Illinois (a we\tcrn suburb of Chicago) also administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. 
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 
... 
r-----------------J--------­
"' 
MIDWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
OCCUPATIONAL THERAP\' PROGRAM 
Please send me the following information (Check all that apply): 0 OT Program Catalog 0 OT Program Brochure 0 Admission Application Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Undergraduate/Graduate College 
Projected Enrollment Date 
Phone 
Return to Office ofAdmissions, Midwestern University, 555 31st St., Downers Grove, IL 60515 

Friday, December 6, 1996 
Stor01 
continued from page 20 
in her. She'll be very good. Jen Henola can win &ames for us. I hope she doesn t have to, but she can." 
The two-time All-American shares similar sentiments. 
"If we can beat teams without me being a factor, that's fine," Henola said. "We have beaten very good teams without me be­ing a factor, but we have also lost to a team (Santa Clara) without me being a factor." 
Still. the sense exists that Henola will ultimately play a major role. 
Most goalies usually do. 
"It's a lot of pressure knowing I haven't been used that much this year and that my season really could be one or two games," Henola added. "If you ask people, they'll tell you I played well against North Carolina last year and they don't remember much before that. So obviously that's a lot of pres­sure." 
As usual, however, Renola merely shrugs it off. 
"I don't think it's that big of a deal." Henola said. "I think it's just going to be like any other game. I have confidence in my abilities and in our team." 
Still, Henola confirms Petrucelli's assessment that the situation can occasionally be-



LA ESPERANZA 
Authentic Mexican Kitchen "Your Passport to a New Eating Experience." 
Serving lunch & dinner, & catering available Great Prices-Average dinner: $6.50 Averagelunch: $3.95 TACOS... ENCHILADAS... CHIMICHANGAS.. . CHILE RELLENOS... TAMALES... FLAUTAS.. . 
WET BURRITOS & MORE... Open 7 days a week! Mon.-Thurs. 11:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. 
Fri. & Sat. 10:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m Sun. 10:00 a.m.-8:00p.m.  
COME SEE DURING FINALS!!  US  

~ 
~ 
• 
~ 
fllillle 
r') ~ 
Q ~ 
:;
~ 
~ 
..== 
p..
8' ~ 
C'l)
~. TUESDAY: THURSDAY: 
C'l)
Open Jam
Karaoke Night
:::J 
Area's Premier Bands
WEDNESDAY: 
e
Hottest Spot in Town!
Q 
DJ starts at 9:00 p.m. 
< ~ 
Alternative &
:::J 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
retro 70's
~ DJ Dance Party 
(I!)
CD's & T-shirts 
~ 231 Dixieway
Q 
......~ 
Greatest Music between Cleveland 
Q 
... ~ 
and Douglas on 
~ Greatest Food 
r:a...
US3J-33 
and No Cover 4 pool tables, 4 dart
::i 
~ 
boards, big screen
Charge EVER!
s TV's, and good 
~ 
for all! 
~
~ 
Always 3AM 
M·F open at 

come stressful. 
"Jen's kind of a worry wart," Petrucelli noted. "She'll be like 'I've got to train. I'm not ready.' She always knows when the big games are coming around." 
She also knows the caliber of players in front of her. 
"With our team, I don't really think any team is just going to pound us and I'm going to be the reason why we win. I just don't think our team is going to get pounded like that." 
The Iri~h head into the final weekend of the season having virtually dominated almost every opponent this year. While Renola watched the team grow together a year ago, she main­tains that this year's play has reached a level plane. 
"It's been pretty consistent," Renola said. "Last year we went from a total nightmare to being very good, but this year we've been very good consistently. I think we've stepped it up a little now and you have to do that around tournament time." 
In last year's final game against Portland, the Pilots only got a few good looks at the Irish goal, but they were perilous ones. Renola believes a similar situation might arise tonight. 
"Friday's game could be a game where I only see the ball a few times, but they could be dangerous chances," she added. 
The weekend will also mark a homecoming for the Irish net­minder. The native of Los Gatos, California will be return­
-. 
The Observer • SPORTS ing to near her hometown for .... the second time this year. Since the only loss of the year to Santa Clara occurred at the site, Renola has changed the itiner­arr,.
Last time the team and ev­eryone came to my house on Saturday and then we lost on Sunday, so we won't be doing that again," Renola joked. 
Now, her final games in an Irish uniform will take place right outside of Los Gatos. Looking back on her career, it blows Renola's mind to think about the success she has en­joyed at Notre Dame. 
"I came here with the thought that this was a place I could win a national championship," she said. "But if you told me by my senior year, we would have al­ready played in two national championship games with the chance to play in another, I don't know if I would have be­lieved that." 
"ln a sport where only 11 peo­ple play, five or six players can turn a program around and I really think that's what hap­pened here." 
So, the place where Renola embarked on her soccer journey will also serve as the site where it comes to a close. 
"I can't think of a better place to have it," Renola said. She also can't think of a better way to end it. 
"I expect to win," she added. 
Her expectations have never been anything less. 



marco~s 



Pizza. 

FREE EXTRAS Notre Dame 
Extra Pizza Sauce • Parmesan Cheese Crust 
Garlic Butter Crust 
-JustAsk­
.... 
CAMPUS SPECIAL 
LARG&DOUBLETOPPER 
.CHEESE & TWO TOPPING 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS No C04J011 NecesSary Not Valid Wrth Any Other Offer Delivery Exira HNot On CarJ'4)US Umited lime Offer 
I I I I I 
I Only
I 



page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 6, 1996 
.... • HocKEY 
Youngsters need time to develop to become success 

CIT IMVOLVID! J44kl4 DIFFiaiMCI! J44kl ~oua VOICE HIAaDr 
Freshmen & Sophomores: here's your chance to get involved, work for campus-wide gender improvements, and even impress your SYR date! 


Join the Gender Relations Task Force 
First organizational meeting Sunday, December 8, 2:00 PM 
Stop by the Student Government Office, 2nd Floor of LaFortune ~ or call1,4556 'W' Ill~OU THERE! 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team's last victory came two weeks ago on November 22 against Bowling Green. Since then, they have dropped four straight Central Collegiate Hockey Association games, plummeting into a tie for sixth place and lowering their record to 4-8-1 overall and 3-6-1 in the C.CHA. 
To the casual observer, this slide is sincere cause for panic. But, the astute observer sees another trend. He understands that three of those four losses were by one goal margins, and he recognizes that, on any given night, at least two-thirds of this team's starting line-up consists of freshman or sophomores. Such a young team needs time to develop and to acclimate themselves to the high level of play that exists at the college level in general and in the CCHA particularly. 
So what does Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin do to help his young team develop and remedy the situation? Simple. He returns to the basics and to work ethic. 
"We've been working a lot on the fundamentals -stopping and starting and things like that," said sophomore left-wing Aniket Dhadphale. "We have returned to the basics." 
"lie's been working us hard this week," observed sophomore defenseman Benoit Cotnoir. 
About the current slide, "No one's panicking," stated Cotnoir. "Three of those losses were close games, and in most of them we outshot the opponent." 
"We are getting a lot of pres­sure on the other teams," agreed Dhadphale, referring to the large number of shots on goal the team has generated. "Guys, including myself, are just stru~gling to put the puck in the net. 
It's not just the raw number of shots that matters, said Cotnoir, it's the quality of those shots. "We're not getting enough of them [quality shots]," he said. "That's something we need to improve." 
Opportunities for improve­ment will come this weekend, as the Boys of Winter take on Michigan State (at East Lansing) on Friday night and Alaska-Fairbanks (7 p.m. at the Joyce Center) on Saturday night. 
"Michigan State is one of the top teams in the country," said Dhadphale. "It'll be a good opportunity to test ourselves." 
This Irish team seems to play at the level of their opponents, a fact that partly explains the irin­consistency. And it follows that against a good team, like Michigan State, they will play well. 
"We'll definitely pick it up against on Friday night [against MSU]," said Cotnoir. "We ex­pect two points [a victory]." 
The game the following night against Alaska-Fairbanks is sim­ply a must-win game for the Poulin's sqaud. "They're below us in the standings," said Dhadphale, "and we need to beat them. That's what good teams do -they win the games that they should win." 
Cotnoir agreed. "We need to win this game; we have to guard against playing at their level. We have to come out and play our game. If we do that, we'll be successful." 
Success has eluded the team 
over the past fortnight, but the 
astute observer can't help but 
• view it as a learning process for the young team. 

The Irish leers are in the midst of a four game skid. The squad will be looking to get back in the 'W' column tonight against Michigan State. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
rl Studettt eha.m6et: ~ /11 usic ~ecita.l 
)'\(_' 
featuring works by
\
,) )'·· 
Ludwig van Beethoven 
. -· \=j 
Johannes Brahms Benjamin Britten Franz Schubert 
Free admission 
3:00 p.m. 1tldtty, 'l:Jtam6u 6 IJMt116tt fludltotlum CZ:Itt Snltt ,/ltu9tu9m o flu 
Friday, December 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ...Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive StaH • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres ot Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

rfHCKORlJ 
lJlLLACJEfA 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


Coaching questions answered Changes 
Observer Staff Report 
The wheels of the Notre Dame football coaching staff are definitely turning. Just shortly after offensive line coach Joe Moore announced his departure, Greg Mattison has been named the defensive coor­dinator in Bob Davie's staff. 
The past two seasons Mattison was the defensive coordinator for the Michigan Wolverines and he has been a member of that staff for five seasons. 
His work has garnered him as one of five finalists for the Broyles Award which is given to the top assistant coach in the world of college football. 
"I am very pleased that Greg Mattison has decided to join our .football staff at Notre Dame," Davie, who knows Mattison very well since they both worked at Texas A&M from 1989-1991, said. 
"It's obvious when you look at what he's done that he's been successful at every step of his career. He's a close, personal friend of mine, I have great re­spect for him and I have com­plete trust in him as a coach and a person. He will be a great fit for Notre Dame," Davie said. 
Mattison, who will also coach inside linebackers, has con­structed a defense that ranks eighth nationally in scoring de­fense as well in the top twenty for rushing defense , pass effi­ciency defense and total 
Formerly Asia House Restaurant 
THAI 





HousE 

RESTAURANT 
Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisine Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food Dine in or Carry Out (21 9) 257-4875 
20% Discount when you bring in this ad! 

Our Business Hours Tues-Thurs: 11AM-9PM Fri-Sat: llAM-lOPM Sun: 11AM-8PM 
508 W. McKinle , Mishawaka, IN 


SafurJayoooDecellnlber ]_41th Laf<O>rtune BaHr<O><D>m 
8:00PM 
9:00 PM 
9:30 PM 
10:00 PM 
11:00 PM 


1ree jjdmissiun plus... 
*h11l ch11c11lale and c1111kies* *s11da and p11pc11m* 


... lake a break for a lillie Holiday Cheer! You have ;11! week to swtly,... 
Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 
A Christmas Story 
defense. 
In last year's campaign the Mattison engineered defense was up to eleventh in total defense and third in rushing defense. 
He is also no stranger to post-season play as he has coached teams that have bone bowling the last seven years. His collegiate coaching career began as a graduate assistant in Illinois in 1976 under Bob Blackman. 
In addition to Illinois and Michigan, Mattison has also served for the staffs of Cornell, Northwestern, Navy, and at TexasA&M. 
The tandem of Davie and Mattison has produced the "Wrecking Crew" at Texas A&M which in 1991 was the top unit in the country yielding just 
222.4 yards per game. 
Now Irish fans have just one fewer questions on their minds as the future of the rest of the staff remains unclear. 
continued from page 20 
sor to Moore but Moore had a feeling his time with the Irish was running out. 
"I can read people," Moore said. "You learn by watching people, not listening to them. I knew at mid-season coach Holtz would be leaving. I could tell I would be too." 
Though Moore had a sense of bitterness in his voice when interviewed, he emphasized that his time at Notre Dame was special. 
"How could someone be bitter when they had a chance to spend nine years at the Catholic Disneyland. I have had the greatest nine years of my life here at Notre Dame." 
Moore expressed a true love for the players he coached. 
"Those are some great guys," Moore said. "It will be tough to have something like I did with 
those guys.  I'll be sad to not  
have that.  But they may be  
glad."  


Keenan Underground 
Presents 
Friday, Dec. 6 at 10:00 p.m. 

Keenan Basement 
Featuring 
RICH RITTENHOUSE 
I<UNJORN CHAMBUNDABONGSE 
I<EVIN  CUNNINGHAM  
jEFF  CLONINGER  
&  

RYAN O'NEILL Snacks & Refreshments will be Served! 
@)  ~ @)  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~  A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
~  GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY &  ~  
~  STAFF An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, y~ur  ~  
~  relationship wllh Christ, your experience ol Chrlst11n  ~ 
community and service.  
~ ~  RETREAT JANUARY 31 ·FEBRUARY 2, 1997DATES:  ~ ~  
~  FORMS  ~  
~  AVAILABLE: December 9 -13, 1996  ~  
~  SIGN UP Before 4:00 p.m.-December 13DEADLINE:  ~  
~ ~  CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office  ~ ~  
~  103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 -~  ~  
~  COST: $25.00  ~  
@)  ~ @)  

.. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, December 6, 1996 
.. 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Time is now for Irish setters 
By JOE CAVA TO SportS Writer 
If there is a time when a team wants to hit their stride and be at their best, that time is in post-season play. That time has come for the Notre Dame volleyball team and head coach Debbie Hrown is hoping she has her team hitting their stride. 
The squad has been up and down all year as injuries have hampered their progress and they currently have a mark of 22-11. What may be more dis­couraging is that they are just 8-11 in out of conference play which includes drawing the goose egg in the number of wins against ranked foes. But, after their best hitting match of the season in their first round dismantling of the Flying Dutchwomen of Hofstra, they hope to keep that momentum going this Sunday when they host the twelfth team in the nation, the Ohio State Buckeyes. 
Ohio State earned a first round bye and also earned the right to host this contest but they have a facility conflict, which works out to the advan­tage of Brown's squad. 
"We're really excited about that (hosting the match), it's something that is definitely in our favor," explained Brown. "It is good particularly at this time of year with the pressure of finals and everything coming up. and we don't have to miss school and don't have to go on the road. We can be in our normal routine and play some place where we're very com­fortable and I think that helps a lot." 
Senior hitter Jen Briggs echoed Brown's sentiment, "It's nice that it doesn't put us on the road and we get more rest that way. It is also nice for some of our families in the Midwest to get to come." 
The girls from Columbus have accumulated an impressive 26­5 record while playing in the very competitive Big Ten, where the finished third. They are no stranger to NCAA action as it will be their eighth appearance with their best runs making it to the semifinals in both 1991 and '94. Head coach Jim Stone's main offensive threats are Vanessa Wouters who averages 6.47 kills per game and Jen Boleyn who has 
14.8 assists per game. Coach Brown discussed how she hopes to overcome the Buckeyes. 
"The first thing is we have to have good offensive production like we did against Hofstra. The other thing is we have to at leas slow down their big hitter. We're going to try to get the best block we can on her but sometimes we can't control the match-ups due to what the opposing coach does with their rotations. So, we've looked at hitter tendencies and we're concentrating on digging hard shots where she likes to hit it." 
On the Irish side of the net the experienced squad sees the pressure of the match lying and Kristina Ervin join Briggs as the most experienced play­ers while Juniors hitter Jaimie Lee and setter Carey May have been integral parts of the offense in past weeks. Lee earned Big East player of the year and lead the team in kills in their win over Hofstra. Since, May recovered from her dislocated shoulder she has run the offense for several of their best hitting matches of the season. May suffered a setback last week when she dislocated her finger, but she set the majority of all three games Wednesday night. 
"I think playing in the tourna­ment is a real positive for us," Brown expressed of her veteran group. "We're not going to go in playing afraid to lose, we're going in with everything to win." 
According to Briggs winning will not be all that complicated, "We just need to play our game and execute. We've been play­ing better and better and if we continue to improve we'll be fine." 
So the Darners seem to be hit­ting their stride and it couldn't have come at a better time as a win this Sunday at 2 p.m. would mean a trip to Florida for the round of sixteen. 
with the visitors. Briggs dis-,......E~R_A_S_M_U_S_B_O_O_K_S_,. cussed the situation. "We're a pretty experienced • Used books bought and sold 
team so I don't think we will • 25 categories of Books feel that much pressure. We • 25,000 Hardhack & Paperback are just going to play hard and books in stock 
fiery and we're not suppose to •Out-of-Print Search Service:$2.00 win so the pressure is on •Appraisals large and small them." 
Open noon to six
Ti)e only starter who does not Tuesday throu_gh Sunday have NCAA experience is fresh-1027 E. Wayne man Mary Leffers who· has South Bend, IN 46617 played like a veteran all year long. Seniors Jenny Birkner (219} 232-8444 

The Observer/Rob Finch Setter Carey May (3) hopes her injury will not slow down the attack. Mary Letters will also have to play a big part at the nets for a win. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Challenge U Fitness-Sign­ups forthe spring classes. 
Join The 
begin Jan.16, 7:30 a.m. at 
RecSports. Look for the sched­ulein the Jan. 15 edition of Th~ O})seryer as well as 

Observer 
a.rotind campus. ;>' ·.Yoga. and· Tal Chi· Classes 'will be offered second semes­

staff.
t~rli·t Sign~ups begin Tuesday, Jan!'21 7:45 a.m. at RecSports. . Contact x5965 for details. 
Apply Now-
Interviews Begin Dec. 2 
~~•••the best summer I have ever had" 111/earned much more than ll!ave." .: 
(comments from SSP vets) · 
... • 8 weeks devoted to service-learning 
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship 
• 3 elective credits 
Applications available at the 
-
Center for Social Concerns from Hall Reps (names on posters) See your hall rep. for details 

For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thousand~ ofsntdent~ tl1e ch;mce for a!,'feat education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: a place to stay on c:unpus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, Holy Cross will have alimited :unount of residence hall space available. 
AtWo-year, transfer intent college with 
HOLY astrong liberal arts foundation, small classes 
CHOSS and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cross CoLLEGE 
Office of Admissions
has helped put many student~ on the road 
PO. Box 308 
to asuccessful college education. Witl1 our Notre !Jmne. IN 46SS6-0.~08 (219) 239-8400
new resident facilities, we can serve our 
Fax (219) 233-7427 students even better. E-Mail: bccadmisCf!lRml.com 
Web Site: blt{l:llbome.lltll'isoj/.com!bo~J'cro..~~ 
II this action's enoug to make you hungry.  THREE!  
·J~Ud/,~ Saturday • 7:00pm -vs. Alaska-Fairba Joyce Center Ice Arena  
.!c~2t:~D Sunday -2:00 p.m. -vs Ohio State • Students FREE with ID •  

-----~----------------~ 
Friday, October 4, 1996 The Observer • TODAY 
CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


DILBERT 
RATBE.I\T: CORPORATE TRAINER 
LET'S GO 1\ROUNO THE ROOM AND 'SAY Wl-\0 WE ARE ~ND WI-\1\T WE HOPE TO GET OUT OF TI-\E. CLA.55. 
( 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Par amount 
30 "Comprende?" 
Duvalier. 31 Citrus hybrids familiarly 1 Haiti's Fran<;:ois 
33 Mugged a Sistine Chapel 
35 Kind of figures 
agreement15 Cry of panic 
37 Important16 Suffered 40 Gets what's humiliation coming17 Astor Cup, e.g. 
44 City, informally 18 The beginning 45--Lee, who19 Old as lived in aMethuselah, in kingdom by the away sea 20 Floppy takers 47 Belli's bailiwick 22 Bee quest? 
48 Social affairs 23 De Valera's 50 Takes shape 
country 24Con 
51 It meant well to Caesar
26 Convince 52 Set in motion
27 Three-striper, e.g.: Abbr. 54 Inn serving 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

I'M THE. GRJM DOWNSlZ.ER. 
I'M 1-\ER£. TO DECRUrT 
THE ENTIRE TRI\INING DE.PAI\TMENT PLU'S ALL OF THE PE.OPLE. WHO HAVE TIME. TO ATTEND 
CLA'SSE.S. 
) 
~~U-~~~~~~------J 
55 Sidewalk hazard 56 Do-it-yourselfer 58 Alternative to a station wagon 60 Memorable 1969 hurricane &1 Whatnot &2 Prayer, often 63 Times-Mirror paper 
DOWN 
1 Omen 2 Historic plane of Adm. Byrd 3 Blast furnace product 4 Bag mate for a 
steelie 5 Spoil, with "on" &German 
compass point 7 Lovers' guide &Assents 9 Juin through septembre 
10 Bring in the rye 
11 Lots of land 12 March, perhaps 
13 Dragon's home, in song 14 Ballooned 21 Occasion to say 
"Whew!" 24 Site of the George Washington Br. tollbooths 25 Sewers have them 
JEANE DIXON 
faster. Allow loved ones to express themselves. Let up on a family member who dares to follow a dif­ferent path. 
VIRGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your career moves into high gear. Enjoy your time in the spotlight; you have earned it' Others ask your advice on a technical matter. Give it only if you are qualified. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A relocating firm wants you to come aboard. The job sounds wonderful, but you have reasons to stay put. Consult your spouse or romantic p_artner before making a final deci­Sion. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Seek help in managing your money more effectively. Consolidate your debts and devise a payment sched­ule. A business meeting turns into a friendly gathering. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will have to take a hard line where spending is concerned. A loved one's reaction may be unset­tling. Take a good look al your pri­orities. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
191: Become more involved with a group whose actions you admire. A local charity works wonders in the community where you live. Widen­ing your social circle will broaden your perspective. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A mentor offers valuable guidance and support. A relative wants to play a larger role in your life. Friends invite you to a fun social event. Take along a date the other guests will enjoy. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Help a shy person handle a delicate situation. Lunch together in a quiet setting. Refrain from asking probing questions. A night on the town need not be expensive if you split the tab. 

37 Bush country 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
38 Serf's opposite 

happening, call The 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
39 Warriors vs. 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Bulls, e.g. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
41 Split 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

Observer at 1-5323 
42 Trumpet blare 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Pursue both knowledge and addi­tional income. An unusual job op­portunity arises early in 1997. A casual encounter could lead to an exhilarating romance. Your priorities change. Welcome changes in your daily work routine. Business travel is featured in the summer of '97. Financial assistance will come from unexpected sources. Put money into a family-owned business. Loved ones who stay side-by-side will establish deeper rapport. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: lyricist Ira Gershwin, baseball player Steve Bedrosian, actress Janine Turner, base6all play· er Larry Bowa. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Give more thought to your relations with older relatives. Find ways to disperse lingering resentment. Shar­ing a special interest with a new­comer could lead to a wonderful friendship. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends want to make plans for a vacation weekend. Host a trim-a­tree party if interested in gelling to know your neighbors belter. Serve some low-calorie treats along with more fattening fare. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Revise your schedule if good friends drop in unexpectedly. Looking al an old photo album or watching a spe· cia! video will amuse younger guests. Focus on the positive when 
SCOTT ADAMS 
taking a trip down memory lane. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do not let envy mar this promising day. 
Rejoice when a friend or family member gets a great job. A co-work­
~ M'( NAME IS DILBE.RT. 
I'I"\ HERE IN PL!\CE. OF 
er may seek advice about a personal problem.
WALLY WHO tS WORKING 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A secret 
HARD TO BUILD A 
rendezvous makes your heart beat 
BETTER TOMORROW . 
I'M SOMEBODY ELSE TOO. 
) 
...
... 
~v-~~~~~~~~~~~LL~~ 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
28 Nose parts 43 Bob--, TV's 29 Nose 
Fibber McGee 
46 More on target 32Mud 
34 Versified salute 49 "Gymnopedies" 
36 Pirates of composer
Penzance, before they . 51 Liner cans 
were pirates 
53 "Little" Dickens girl 
55 Be an eager beaver 
57 Suffix with glob 
59 Suffix with meteor 

If you see news 
... 
-
.. 

.... 
-



SPORTS Weekend 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola looks to lead No. 1 Notre Dame to their second straight national championship 

this weekend in Santa Clara, Calif. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Forward Amy Vanlaecke and Portland's Wynne Mcintosh (right) fight for a header during the 1995 NCAA final. 
• 
By TIM SHERMAN 
-
Sports Editor 
In addition to consistently developing some of the nation's best offensive lines in the past nine years at Notre Dame, coach Joe Moore has had tremendous success in sending his players on to quality NFL careers. 
Now, it may be Moore's turn to take a crack at NFL success. 
The dean of assistant coaches under Lou lloltz. the 64-year old Moore apparently did not lit into the plans of new head coach Bob Davie and now has a decision as to his future to make. 
"I was fired at quarter of nine on 
.. 
P: -,-i ~ ~ ;_· t. a seeks :L utJl~t:. rn 
._,,, . , .. 
r=--,'1iE d s na~iC'~lA~ seni.f.nat 
oJ 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
They have had exactly four study days to prepare for this final. 
The women's soccer team has had four days since their last test against Maryland, and now they are focusing on the final. The cumulative review takes place today at their NCAA semi-final game against the Portland Pilots. In the other contest, the North Carolina Tar Heels will take on the Santa Clara Broncos. 
The Irish will first learn how much of a factor revenge is. For the past three years the squad has faced the Pilots in post-season play. Last year, the two met in the NCAA finals. It was a tight game that saw three overtimes. The contest remained scoreless until Irish captain Cindy Daws scored ofT a direct kick, lift­ing the Irish over the Pilots, 1-0. 
Revenge will be a huge factor in this matchup. The Pilots vowed that they -,yould return this year but this time leave victorious. 
"We lost last year in the finals, and it was very 
Monday morning," Moore said. "Bob Davie came to my house to tell me." Calls to Davie's office yesterday were not returned. 
There still seems to be a desire in Moore to keep coaching. In fact, he has wasted no time. 
"I already have two offers to coach," Moore relayed. "One is in college, the other is a pro job. I also have an offer in business." 
Moore is widely regarded as one of the best in his field. His track record tells why. 
Every offensive line starter for the Irish under Moore moved on to the NFL after his time at Notre Dame. 
By JOE VILLINSKI comes an issue stems from the Associate Sports Editor fact that the Final Four contains three other teams that can ac­Notre Dame goalie Jen Henola tually play with the 23-1 Irish. realizes what is about to happen The Pilots and Tar Heels pos­this weekend in Santa Clara, sess the speed and ability to California. match-up with No. 1 Notre She understands 
Dame. In last year's the storm that is Final Four, Renola's approaching. ability to control the 
She knows that if box against both the Irish are to Portland and espe­repeat as NCAA cially North Carolina champions, she'll helped the Irish play an integral shutout these two part. Ironic thing national powerhous­is that Renola has es. not faced a major If the Irish defeat challenge yet this Portland in the semi­year. finals tonight, they 
The senior holds will most likely face 
a .710 goals nemesis Carolina in against average the finals on Sunday. 
mark this year. but has only had to make 4 7 saves. What are you going to do when you play on a team that keeps the oppo­sition from crossing over mid­field a majority of the time? 
Renola admits that sometimes it's lonely back there. 
"After the game, people will say to me tluit the team played great today and I'll say, 'Yeah they did. It was fun to watch."' 
The reason Renola's play be-With those teams on the hori­zon, the last line of defense sud­denly becomes vital. 
And there's no one that Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli would rather have towing that line. 
"I hope .len Henola doesn't hav1~ to touch the ball in the game," ho said, "but if slw does I'll have the utmost confidt~nce 
see STORM I page 15 
The Observer/MiKe Ruma 
Last year in the finals against Portland, Cindy Daws see FINAL FOUR I page 15 scored the winner in sudden death as the Irish won 1-0. 
Coach Moore not in future plans 
Included in this group are Andy Heck, Tim Grunhard, and Lombardi Award winner Aaron Taylor. 
The line not only has had individual success, their productivity as a unit was impressive. From 1988-1995, six of Moore's lines blocked for a top 12 rushing attack. 
"I personally recruited each and every lineman," Moore said. "Maybe someone would give me a name but I saw and recruited all of them." 
Now, that task will be in someone else's hands. Davie has yet to announce a succes­
see CHANGES 1page 17 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Offensive line coach Joe Moore apparently did not fit into the new coaching scheme. 

at Providence Michigan State, @ Saturday, 4 p.m. 
• 
Tonight, 7 p.m. 

•Defensive coordinator named
'= 

vs. Ohio State, vs. Providence see page 17@ Sunday, 2 p.m. 
Saturday, l p.m. Basketball •Men set to begin Big East play
NCAA Final Four Roundball Classic see page 13vs. Portland 
Stt 
Saturday, I and 3 p.m.
(•'... 
Today, 5 p.m. PST 









