----~ 
Special Election Edition 

Wednesday, November 6, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 47 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Clinton easily keeps White House 

But Republicans retain control of Congress 
By JOHN KING Associated Press Writer 
President Clinton won a land­slide re-election and political redemption Tuesday night as Americans optimistic about the economy brushed aside Bob Dole's challenge to his charac­ter. Voters went the other way with Congress, keeping Republicans in control of the House and the Senate. 
Clinton won at least 30 states and polled strongly in every region for a victory that made him the first Democratic presi­dent re-elected since Franklin Roosevelt. It was a dramatic to a majority while a Democrat majority. rebound from the 1994 was winning reelection to the With 86 percent of the nation­midterm elections that deliv­presidency, so the combination al vote counted, Clinton was at ered Congress to the was pretty amazing." 49 percent, Dole 41 and Ross Republicans. Fireworks erupted after the Perot 8 percent. Clinton had 43 
"They have affirmed our president addressed a crowd of percent of the 1992 vote. cause and told us to go for­thousands jamming the streets The jubilation in Little Rock ward," Clinton said after voters of Little Rock, Ark. Vice afforded Democrats a brief returned him to office. Still, President AI Gore called it a respite from controversies and Clinton acknowledged that "glorious evening" and indeed scandals raised by Dole and Americans were bent on split­the numbers·were very good for Perot. The president asked his ting the balance of power in the Democratic ticket. Clinton Little Rock rally to applaud Washington. "They are sending won 379 electoral votes, sur­Dole and they did so. us a message: Work together," passing his 1992 total and "I wish him well and I pledge Clinton said. breaking a 20-year GOP hold on my support," Dole said in con­
House Speaker Newt Gingrich Florida and 48-year Republican ceding the race, hushing sup­noted it was the "first time in streak in Arizona in the porters who booed Clinton's 68 years that we have been process. name. Dole and other able to win a majority of the Dole and Jack Kemp carried Republican leaders took solace 
U.S. House" in back to back 18 states with a combined 151 in the congressional returns. elections. electoral votes. Colorado was "We're going to keep the 
"I believe it is the first time in still uncertain. Senate, we're going to keep the American history that a Clinton was coming up short Republican House was elected in his bid for a popular vote 
see CLINTON I page 4 


• BUSINESS BEAT 
ND students, alumnus help failing Estonian economy 
By MICHAEL LEWIS  obstacles, however. Snider said  
News Writer  the participants ran into political  
disputes between farmers as well  
Eight Notre Dame business  as union fights and disagreements  
undergrads and one recent alum­ between small and large farms.  
nus arc cooperating with the  He said the program should help  
Estonian Chamber of Agriculture  business students develop basic  
and Commerce (CAC) on a long  skills such as negotiating and  
term project. The goal is to have a  understanding the commodities  
physical commodities exchange-to  market as well as enhancing their  
help pull the Estonian economy out  creativity. Students should gain an  
of its inefficient state, which is due  understanding of how problems  
to past centralized government.  develop and what to do about  
This project represents an  them.  
unprecedented step toward  Program participants chose  
University involvement in a foreign  Estonia because the country is fair­ 
market. The Notre Dame Council  ly advanced for a nation in its  
on International Business  region. Snider evidenced this  
Development (NDCIBD) is in the  claim, saying that the Estonian  
process of setting up a website for  president's goal was to get every  
information exchange and services  school online by the year 2000.  
related to the final trade.  Regarding Notre Dame's role in  
"We think it can really set Notre  the future of the effort, Snider said,  
Dame apart from other undergrad­ "We're essentially serving as con­ 
uate programs," said Tom Snider,  sultants to get this project going."  
an NDCIBD member and one of the  The students took a trip to  
leaders of the project.  Estonia in February, and six stu­ 
Snider said the project's goals  dents, Snider, Corrine Doran, John  
are to have the web page up and  Kelly, Ryan Kerrigan, David  
the first trades completed by next  Majewski, and Amy Wyss spent the  
spring, and to privatize the pro­ summer overseas, gathering infor­ 
gram and have physical transac­ mation on the agroeconomy, devel­ 
tions in the next few years. The  oping a website, and meeting with  
funding thusfar has come primarily  representatives of firms in the  
from NDCIBD and the CAC.  
The project has not been without  see ESTONIA I page 4  


Cengia's health not certain 
Moriarity, who assists the regarding Cengia's healthPlayer will team in medical matters, early Tuesday morning. said Cengia will undergo a Head football coach Louundergo biopsy biopsy on a growth in his Holtz had told the team in a abdomen to determine the post practice meetingto determine extent of his illness during a Monday evening that Cengia leave of absence from the had cancer, according to two extent of illness University. football players, who wished 
Moriarity could only pro­to remain unnamed. 
By LIZ FORAN vide limited information Two more players, who Editor-in-Chief regarding Cengia's situation, also requested anonymity, citing the confidentiality of confirmed the report 
Notre Dame place kicker the patient-doctor relation­Tuesday evening. One player Scott Cengia has not been ship. stated that the exact words diagnosed with cancer, That confidentiality had used by Holtz were "stom­according to Dr. James already been breached by ach cancer." Moriarity, chief of medicine someone, he added. An account of Holtz's at the University Health The Observer received Center. erroneous information 
see CENGIA I page 4 

j '''#. 

page 2 Wednesday, November 6, 1996
The Observer· INSIDE 


• INSIDE COLUMN 

Seeking the light of understanding 
During my fall break. I made a trip to the llolocaust Museum in Washington, D.C. As I walked from one display to the next and sat through several different movies chronicling the rise of Hitler and the history of anti­Semitism, I reflected on the way people have expressed their hate and fear of other races. 
If you have ever walked through a concentration camp such as Dachau, it strikes you how physically the Nazi projected their hate. They made such Margee Husemann efforts and created such Associate Viewpoint intricate systems to con­
Editor tain a group of people whom they considered a threat. Entirely new methods of death and disposal were invented to destroy life. Elaborate systems of color were used to code the different undesirable societal elements. However, these feelings of distaste and anger, as well as the systems of labeling are not completely alien to contemporary society. It is so easy to dismiss someone on the basis of religion, ethnicity, sex, or class. We have had to coin new words in order to deal with all of the forms of hate and discrimination that we have felt. Innumerable words have had the suffix "its" added to their bases in order to show how someone has feared or hated. The entire "politically correct" movement was spawned by the fear of offending those whom we were marginalizing. It is almost amusing what heights we go to so that we can properly express how we feel towards others when that feeling is negative. We have even developed different studies and surveys to dfltermirw degrees and shades of dislike. The Princeton Heview has determined that Notre Dame is one of the worst universities in the nation for race relations. Everyone in the audience who is surprised by this stunning announcement. please raise your hands. I am, by no means, equivocating this fine University with the Third Heich, so don't get excited. I don't foresee a book burning or the systematic murder of all forty to filly minori­ties on campus occurring. I merely implying that the ignorance underlying the maltreat­ment of the Jewish population during the rise of Nazi Germany is in a way also related to the ignorance which runs in undercurrents on this campus. Is there a way to solve this problem'? It is di11icult to lind a solution when the number of minorities on campus doesn't even adequately represent the real world. However, the University docs provide opportunities to miti­gate this problem. Open discussions regard­ing race and gender help those who want to be helped and who realize that they need help. Prejudice prevention workshops do the same. However. there are some people who des­perately need their minds to be opened to the revelation of equality which America so adamantly preaches. There are some people who do not think that they are discriminating against others. There are some people who just don't believe in equality. At a Catholic university, we should all real­ize our call to love and appreciate all people. It is difficult to be color blind. It is di!licult to relearn how to think. It is dil1icult to discard old notions and stereotypes. However, it is in the striving for understanding that we learn to love those other than ourselves. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Brad Prendergast Laura Petelle Michael Lewis Sports Kathleen Lopez Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Lab Tech Joe Stark  Production Michelle Krupa Maureen Hurley Joe Max Moore Accent Joe Wider Graphics Jon King  

The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam omd vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wrmw AT A GLANCE 
Volcanic eruptions melt ice cap, leash flood waters 
REYKJAVIK, Iceland 

Volcanic eruptions beneath Europe's largest glacier melted the cap of the icy mass on Tuesday, unleashing floodwa­ters that swept away two bridges in Iceland. 
Floodwaters from the Vatnajokull glacier destroyed the 1 ,233-foot-Iong Gigja Bridge as well as another 164­foot bridge along the country's south­ern coast, said Orn Egilsson, spokesman for Iceland's Civil Defense agency. 
Civil defense authorities were con­cerned that a third bridge, the 2,950­foot-long Skeidarar, also would be destroyed by the force of the flooding. 
"The flooding is bad," Egilsson said. "The speed of the water is much more than people imagined." 
The flooding happened in a remote area 185 miles east of Reykjavik, and no people or homes were threatened. 
The eruption in the Loki volcano began around Oct. 1, creating molten rock that melted 70,000 cubic feet of 
Yeltsin recovers after surgery 
MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin's heart bypass surgery was pronounced a success Tuesday and surgeons predicted a full recovery, easing anxiety that has hobbled Russia for months. Yeltsin could take back his powers and the nuclear button in two days, but may not go back to his office until the new year. The operation last­ed seven hours and involved five 

bypasses. Yeltsin regained consciousness about five hours later, was heavily sedated and was still on a respi­rator to guard against postoperative complications. Doctors said they couldn't predict when he could leave the hospital. Dr. Renat Akchurin, leader of the 12-man surgical team that conducted the coronary artery bypass operation, would not specify the number of bypasses, saying only it "significantly exceeded" the three or four doctors initially had speculated might be necessary. Dr. George Noon of Houston, who was among the consul­tants who flew to Moscow to observe the surgery, said early Wednesday that Yeltsin had five bypasses. Doctors said Yoltsin's blood circulation had been improved sig­nificantly. Yeltsin's long illness has left Russia with a part-time leader at best and spawned power struggles among presidential wannabes. Financial markets trem­bled at rumors about his health and the government, by many accounts, was near paralysis. 
Second grade boy shoots friend 
PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. 
Two second-graders who were inseparable friends found a gun in a dresser drawer while they were home alone, and one boy killed the other with a shot to the head, police said Tuesday. Althena O'Conner, mother of the 7 -year-old who police said pulled the trigger. was jailed on charges of leaving a loaded gun within reach of a minor and could get up to five years in prison. Detectives wouldn't say whether the shooting was an accident. The 7 -year-old was placed in the custody of a relative. Eight-year-old Rondell Izzelgean Diaz was shot Monday inside O'Conner's apartment, but his body was found outside in front of the Miami-area apartment house where both families live, police said. On Sunday, in Bonita Springs near Naples, a 4-year-old boy found a pistol and killed his napping father. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 6.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~~/'------H 
Wednesday~  63  
Thursday  ~  61  
Friday 1  ~  43  
{Saturd~y  ~  41  

Pressure
Sund,ay :@~:2l,/ 
41 
H L EE ISS:! 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~ --~./·s-·-··", ..,..;/'.,.!.J 
V1o1 Associs/&d PtfiU 
Atlanta 72 60 Denver 52 22 Baltimore 68 53 Honolulu 83 73 Boston 59 48 Los Angeles 79 58
4,rQ,~9~8 (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow ·Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 48 43 Miami 87 76 
n~ll~c t=:;r:;, A7 r-..1""'' v,..,,.f, en AO ~------------------..-----···~·---­
Via Associated Press GraohicsNet 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
L 
46 32 25 

FRONTS: 
~ ............................ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

water. The water gathered in a crater underneath the 2,000-foot-thick glaci­er. 
Though the eruption stopped on Oct. 12, a vast pool of melted water built up beneath the ice. Under pressure from the melting water, the icc cap on top of the glacier finally cracked Tuesday, unleashing millions of gallons of water onto the surrounding countryside. 
The water was pouring into the ocean along the south coast of Iceland, about 140 miles east of Reykjavik. 
The Loki volcano is not cone-shaped, but rather a fissure in the ground. The eruption took place along a five-mile stretch of the fissure. 
The glacier's edge is near the main 
Loki -named for the Norse god who personified evil -did not erupt as strongly as it had in 1938. But Iceland's coastal highway, and its bridges over glacial rivers, had not been built then. 
Duct tape blamed for plane crash 

LIMA, Peru 
Aeroperu officials had no comment today on a report that duct tape mistakenly left on crucial sensors on a Boeing 757 after cleaning led to a crash that killed all 70 people aboard. The former president of a pilots group, however, said the report that workers put tape over the sensors was a unsubstantiated rumor that has been cir­culating since the Aeroperu jet crashed Oct. 2 shortly after taking off from Lima. NBC reported Monday that workers had placed duct tape over the sensors -which monitor air pressure and help track altitude and air­speed -while polishing the outside of the plane. Minutes after the plane left the Lima airport, pilot Erick Schreiber radioed that his instruments had failed. "What's happening? What altitude am I at'? Why is my ground crash alarm on? Am I over land or sea'?" Schreiber asked air traffic controllers. The plane then plunged into the Pacific Ocean. Victor Girao, former president of the Faucett Pilots Association and a consul­tant on aviation issues, dismissed the NBC report as "unfounded." He said if the sensors had been obstruct­ed, the pilot would have known it immediately and would not have taken off. A woman who answered the phone at the Aeroperu main office said there was no one in public relations and no one else could comnwnt. She refused to give her name, but said the investigation into the crash was continuing. In Seattle, Liz Verdier, said only the NTSB could co~ment on the inquiry. 
HIV positive driver sues state 

OAKLAND, Calif. 
The state Department of Motor Vehicles has been hit with a $5 million discrimination lawsuit for refusing to give a man with AIDS a license plate reading "IIIV POS." "I expected to encounter some bigotry, but I didn't expect it at the state DMV," said Kevin Dimmick, 40, of Kensington, who sued on Friday in federal court. Dimmick, leader of a support group for IllY -positive het­erosexuals, was denied the personalized plate because it "would be offensive to a significant number of Californians and insensitive to many people with IllY," said DMV spokesman Evan NossofL Last year, the department withdrew a plate reading "IIIV NEG" after receiving complaints. "The California license plate is not the place to fight our culture's rhetorical battles," Nossoff said. 
Omaha 50 29 Philadelphia 69 53 Phoenix 78 50 Ridgecrest 80 56 
c-.......... ul.... c-t ."'0 
page 3 
Chicago group needs interns 
By MARILYN ALIOTO "Our long term goal is to help News Writer ensure a safe environment and to help to establish a political The Public Interest Research system that works for the peo­Group (PIRG) is looking to fill ple so that we can control our summer internship positions own destinies," said Vivien with individuals who care Watts, an advisor at the deeply about social issues and Chicago headquarters. PIRG is want to take action. a coalition project and a 
PIRG is the largest group of fundraising enterprise whose its kind in the country. There interests range from a non­are offices in 43 cities across profit environmental program the country from Hawaii to to an active role in politics. Massachusetts. One way PIRG wants to leave 
Interrace ~96 
Did we see you at our last meeting? What are you waiting for? 
JOIN US TONIGHT! 
CSC Coffeehouse 
Dinner 5:30 p.m. 
o~~ topic will be 
datiV\9 


BROUGHT TO YOU BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT 




Kairos 
/ 
(Formerly Fourth Day)/ presents 
Rev. John Dunne, CSC 
speaking on 
Prayer 
Join us in the Chapel of the Holy Cross 
(the chapel between Stanford and Keenan) 
at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday, November 6 sponsored by Campus Ministry 
its mark is through public edu­cation. "We want to have the representatives' voting record available to the voting popula­tion," Watts said. 
"The opportunities are tremendous because people learn about themselves by working with other people and they realize that we can make a difference even though we may not have a million bucks," Watts said. There are currently over four million members of PIRG around the country, including many college stu­dents. 
"We need capable people because this is a self consulting job that requires you to bring your conscience to work every­day," Watts said. The average candidate ranges from a humanities or political major to biological or environmental sci­ence major. Qualities that PIRG is looking for include flexibility, eagerness to learn and an abili­ty to work with other people. 
Vivien Watts will be on the Notre Dame campus in the cof­fee house of the Center for Social Concerns today. Further questions can be directed to the PIRG headquarters in Chicago at (312) 341-0814. 
The Observer/Sara O'Connor Members of the Hall Presidents Council discussed a students' rights resolution and campus improvements, including the installation of an ATM machine in the library, at last night's meeting. 
Zahm Hall withdraws alternative resolution 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
As a result of the decision to approve the College Demo­crats' student rights resolution last week, Zahm Hall withdrew its version of the resolution. 
According to the representa­tives from Zahm, their resolu­tion was intended as an alter­native to the College Democrats' and further discus­sion on that resolution would only confuse things. 
Greg Szilier, a representative from student government, reported some feedback from discussions with the adminis­tration on campus improve­ments. 
Improvements termed "unlikely in the near future" included warm Grab n' Go meals and free off-campus shuttles to University Park Mall. 
Logistical problems make warm Grab 'n' Go difficult and the existence of the Transpo bus makes the shuttle redun­dant, Szilier said. 
An ATM machine at the library is "on its way" and the ongoing problem of social space is under continuing examination. According to Szilier, a test run of the Safe Ride program will occur in December to determine the need and feasibility of such a program. 
In other HPC news: 

• 
Skalcoholics will perform at the women's soccer pep rally on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 

• 
Pasquerilla East donated $200 to the National Breast Cancer Association from the profits on its pumpkin sale last week. 

• 
Pasquerilla East, Zahm and Knott Halls won first, second and third places in Keenan Hall's Great Pumpkin Contest. 

• 
Keenan Hall will sponsor Discomania on Nov. 15. Keenan will donate $1 to the Native Americans for each per­son who shows up in "disco attire." 




FOOD & PRIZES!!! 
m 

&nzzue 

B-1 00 Custom Cruiser --' will leave C-1 parking lot (by JACC) \ at 7:15a.m. THURSDAY MORNING NOVEMBER 7th ~, with a full police escort! 
~ 
D
-

D 


The Best & Most Country! 8 · 
---~----­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
Clinton 
continued from page! 
!louse," Dole said. "Thank You, Bob,"' the crowd cheered. 
There were 34 Senate races on the ballot. Hepublicans won 20 of those and were leading in Oregon. Democrats won 
13. Hepublicans were assured of increasing their majority by one, to 54 seats, and an Oregon win would make it a gain of two. 
Cengia 
continued from page 1 

words to the team Monday evening were made public long before The Observer went to press Tuesday morning. At approximately 1:30 a.m. Tuesday, Father Tom Doyle, rec­tor of Keough Hall, delivered a voice mail message to all resi­dents of the dorm asking them to pray for Cengia because of the reported cancer. 
Doyle later told The Observer that he was approached by a football player who requested the message be sent. 
Upon hearing the request, Doyle called The Observer to verify the information, although the paper had no information on the matter at the time. 
In a press conference Tuesday afternoon Holtz spoke briefly about Cengia's health, referring other questions to Cengia him­self. 
" They're going to have to do some surgery on him," he said. "I don't know how threatening that surgery will be; that will be determined in the future." 
Cengia first got sick last spring, then for a week during the summer and again last 
-----------------------=~--~------~~~ 
Estonia 
continued from page 1 
country's grain, meat, and dairy industries. 
The project has attracted attention in both the United States and Estonia. The South Bend Tribune ran an article in its Nov. 2 issue about the pro­ject, and several Estonians have become involved. The six NDCIBD members who traveled to Estonia met with over 25 businessmen from food produc­tion companies, and the Estonian ambassador to the 
U.S. was part of the venture's establishment. 
The exchange was originally the idea of Igor Grazin, a pro­fessional specialist in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration and a member of the Estonian Parliament. Grazin noticed that inefficient use of commodities has been the result of lack of price dis­covery and price publication in Estonia. 
The Estonian response has been encouraging, with stu­dents finding that the produc­ers and processors have access to the Internet and are recep­tive to the project. 
The advancement of Estonian technology has been a key aspect of the program's pro­gression. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: Assistant Accent Editor Copy Editor Music Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to joey Crawford. Contact Joey at 631-4540 for more information. 
Saint Mary's College Deportment of Communication, Dance and Theatre presents 
Edward The 
Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 of 8p.m.; Nov. 17 ot7:30 p.m. Little Theatre 

~I 
at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 
Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
week, according to Holtz, who described the symptoms as nau­sea and fever. 
"They ran some tests, injected some dye, et cetera, on Scott and made a discovery that he's got a growth on the duodenum," he said. 
Holtz verified that Cengia would be taking a leave of absence from the University after taking an academic test today. 
"He doesn't know if he'll be back after that or not," he said. 
Holtz also confirmed that Cengia did not travel with the team to Ireland due to the ill­ness, but continues to have a "tremendous attitude" regarding his situation. 
"We'll certainly miss him," Holtz added. "He's been a great asset." 
Hunter Smith, a punter for the football team and a close friend of Cengia's, agreed with Holtz. 
"The important thing is that Scott's not panicking. lie's posi­tive and he has faith that every­thing will work out in the long run," he said. 
"We all should follow the way he is dealing with this through prayer and support," he added. 
The Observer regrets any inconvenience to Cengia or his family. 
ow prif;es OD braD Dew stuff. 
Aren't we nutty'! 
THE PRESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
AMERICA 
II 
THE THIRD TWIN SONG OF SOLOMON 
Ken Follett Toni Morrison Crown-HC Penquin·Piume · PB 
List 25.95 List 11.95 
35°/o OFF ALL NEW YORK TIMES HARDCOVER BESTSELLER$ 
COMING NOVEMBER 12 
Mission: Impossible The Nutty Professor Folher ollhe Bride: Port// Heat Get Shorty Mr. Holland's Opus leaving Las Vegas 
Savings based on 

Grumpier Old Men Suggested Retail Sense &Sensibility Turner Price {SRP) 




Sale ends November 14, 1996. 



page 5 

Wednesday, November 6, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• ZAIRE 
Thousands of students defy govern01ent, take t~ streets 
--.__d_t_z_a-iria_n_Tu-tsi-reb_e_ls-
Zazre up a e declared a cease-fire MondayineasternZaire and agreed to allow aid 
agenciestotrytoget
Hutu refugees home to Burundi and Rwanda. 
ZAIRE 20 miles 
~ 
20km 
Migration 
Kigali 0
refugees 
RWANDA 
AP 

@) 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
RETREAT

~ 
DATES: 

~ 
FORMS 
AVAILABLE: 

~ 
~ 
SIGN UP DEADLINE:

~ 
~ 
CONTACT:

~ 
~ 
COST: 

~ 
@)-@] 
Ok, I hear you. "Mr. Advertisement, why should a join a health club when I have a gym on campus?" Well College Student, it's simple really. Because we're not a gyn. We're a health club. The best in Michiana for that matter. Besides having over 25,000 pounds of free weights, we 


have daily aerobics classes in the Boom Rooms, Cardia Center for complete cardia vascular fitness, and one-on-one personal training just to name a few. Drop in for a free tour of the place. Walk around. Kick the tires. Better hurry though, offer ends November 15th. We think you'll like it here. 



<Berman <tfu6 
Overcome the shackles of pant-wearing folk 
Wednesday, November 6 7:30pm 182 Nieuwland 
PINNACLE athletic club 205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545
New members welcome! 
Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 

@] 


Guess who can finally
~ 

use his own I.D.?
~ 
~ 
~ 
A WEEKEND 
~ 

RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY 
~ 

STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue with olh~trs, to dHp•n your understanding of yourself, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experlenc. of Christian ~ community and servk:e. 

~ iJUBWSUnW :J&MSUV 
DECEMBER 6 -8, 1996 ~ 
fa c e i t . 
~ 

November 4-8 ~ 
winter i s n ' t that to n g . 
~ 

Before 4:00 p.m.-November 8 
e e
~ 
~ 

Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
~ 


1n n631-7800 
$25.00 -~ ~ 

2 months for 
~ 

the University of Kinshasa inStudents demand more than 25 buses and dozens of cars that had been stolen the resignation Of night before, just hours after the government decreed a ban
prime minister., on public rallies. More than 10,000 students cause unrest took to the streets, stealing cars and trucks and trashing homes
By BETH DUFF-BROWN 
and businesses of ethnic Tutsis. 
Associated Press Writer 
They demanded the resigna­tion of Prime Minister Kengo
KINSHASA, Zaire 

Wa Dondo, whose mother is a
Thousands of students 
Rwandan Tutsi, angry that he
stormed through the Zairian 
had not declared war against
capital in stolen vehicles 
Rwanda and Burundi.
today, defying a government 
Zaire accuses the two neigh­
ban on public demonstra­
bors of aiding the ethnic Tutsi
tions and demanding the res-
rebels fighting government
ignation of the prime minis­
troops in eastern Zaire.
ter. 
Also today, the Voice of Zaire 
Some students attacked 
radio accused the American
foreign journalists covering 
and South African governments
the unrest, accusing their 
of supplying arms to the
governments of supporting 
Rwandan army and rebels in
the Rwandan rebels who 
eastern Zaire and said Israel
have taken over parts of 
was helping to train the
eastern Zaire. 
Rwandan military. 
The students gathered at 
As foreign journalists approached the University of Kinshasa on foot this morning, children yelled "Rwandans, Rwandans!" at them. 
The reporters were surround­ed by students who demanded to know if they would be reporting the truth about their government's alleged collusion with Rwanda. 
"You tell the world we want Kengo out!" screamed a 23­year-old engineering student who would only give his first name, Mayamba. 
"He's a Rwandan, he's not 
Zairian. All the military is cor­
rupt, all our politicians are cor­
rupt. We want the liberation of 
our land-we want war!" 

Moments later hundreds of 
students scattered into the 
bushes when a truck of soldiers 
sped by, shooting their rifles 
into the crowd. No one 
appeared injured in the melee. 

Across campus, about 50 stu­dents attacked a photographer and cameraman for The Associated Press. Yves Dam Van, a French cameraman for APTV and Joao Silva, a South African photographer, were slugged and hit with batons, but they were not seriously injured. 
The students stole all of their camera and video equipment, about $2,500 and Dam Van's passport. 
Wanted: 
Reporters., photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 


i j 
\ 
' 
f 
I 
_____J 

page 6 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
Trend: E01ptier silos leave world food picture unsettled 
By CHARLES J. HANLEY 
Associated Press Writer 
Decade by decade, the land 

has provided -wheat fields, 
rice paddies, bulging silos of 
corn keeping pace with a grow­
ing world population. But now 
the grain harvests have leveled 
off, the people have ndt, and 
the world is left to wonder 
where its next century's meals 
will come from. 
The blip in the upward slope 

of grain production in the 
1990s has ready explanations: 
Economics, politics and weath­
er conspired to hold down glob­
al output. 
But some specialists believe 

longer-range forces, from the 
Kansas prairie to China's river 
deltas, are also at work -and 
the outlook is troubling. 
Troubling enough, in Africa 

particularly, for the Food and 
Agriculture Organization to 
hold a global summit in Rome 
this week to search for new 
approaches to help poor 
nations grow, buy or otherwise 
get more food."We are in a cri­
sis situation." said FAO chief 
Jacques Diouf. 
!lis U.N. agency projects 
world agricultural production 
must expand by 75 percent by 
2025 to match population 
growth. It's not off to a good 
start. 
New FAO figures show that 
the global grain harvest -fore­
cast at 1,821 million tons for 
1996-97 -will have increased 
by just 2.3 percent since 1990, 
while population was growing 
10 percent. 
Grain is the surest gauge of 
food supplies, since it provides 
most of man's calories, either 
directly or through grain-fed 
meat. 
Because of this lag in produc­tion, grain prices rose and the world's bufl'er stocks of wheat, riee and other grains were drawn down. Heserves now stand at 277 million tons ­some 40 million below what the FAO considers safe to meet emergencies. 
A mix of factors helped stunt the decade's crops: Agriculture collapsed with the political sys­tem in the former Soviet Union; the U.S. and other governments began "de-subsidizing" farm­ers' grain surpluses; poor grow­ing weather plagued America and Russia; Chinese grainland was giving way to factories and exploding cities. 
Some see deeper causes, 

however. Lester Brown of Washington's Worldwatch Institute maintains that fertilizers and high-yield grain varieties have been  at the same time as the indus­try that supports most of its population, agriculture, is col­lapsing. That seems impossible, Alexandratos said.  cannot be complacent. "It's daunting." The specialists say progress must be made on several fronts: -Russia and other former  ,1 hunw,.WOR[u­ 
pushed to their limit in many places. And underground water sources, from Kansas and Colorado to Iran and India, are drying up. "I think each year now it will become more diffi­cult to rebuild grain stocks," Brown said. Worldwatch sees China as a huge problem. Shrinking crop­lands, rising incomes and a growing middle-class appetite  On the broader, global point, the World Resources Institute, a Washington think tank, finds some agreement among major studies that birth rates may slow enough to allow a plod­ding agriculture to keep up with "effective" demand -' the demand from consumers with the money to buy. But that projection comes with asterisks attached: In Africa and other poor regions  Soviet republics must be rebuilt into major grain exporters. -More fertilizer should be spread in Africa and other places where it is underused because of its expense. -High-production regions must cultivate what little good land still lies fallow. -Governments must spend more on agricultural research. Surprising innovations may prove crucial, Tweeten said - ~ Cereal & population The boost in the global grain harvest trails the increase in population. Population is in billions; cereals are in billions of tons: r:J'llll 6 , .. ! ~ *.! 5  
for meat ­an inefficient means for passing along the calories of grain -have combined to turn China, almost overnight, into the world's No. 2 grain  without that money, hundreds of millions will remain under­fed. And a permanently tighter balance between supply and demand will leave the world  for example, an edible "stew" made out of dense biomass like willow trees·or sugar cane. "Science is the key to the future of food," he said.  i, ~ 4 ' :  
importer, behind Japan. "It is only a matter of time until China's grain import needs overwhelm the export capacity of the United States and other exporting countries,"  more vulnerable to weather shocks and price shocks. To Luther Tweeten, the out­come is far from clear. Looking ahead to 2030, the Ohio State University agricul­ At the FAO summit, delegates will be looking for keys to more foTodh toFdaAyO. 800 I e estimates mi -lion people are undernourished worldwide, at a time when high  ' 3 J i ! IJD · !.'· .!2 41"',.....__________~-.!..:  
Brown contended. Others dispute his pessimism.  tural economist stacked the global trend in per-acre yields  prices have undercut interna­tional food aid, slicing it in half  !  :,.................................. ....  
A key FAO forecaster, Nikos Alexandratos, said Brown relies on shaky Chinese statistics. Besides, he said, Brown's sce­nario would have China's econ­ -rising ever more slowly-up against U.N. population projec­tions. The yields lose out. "I don't want to take a Lester Brown approach on this,"  since 1993 to today's 7.7 mil­lion tons of grain a year. The summit will try to ~t~~~~~~!; r~~eC:r~~s=~d ;~~~  1 ~ ' j 0 ~----,---·~  CEREALS ·r-· r  1 ,. r--1  
omy and consumption booming  Tweeten said, but the world  agriculture policies in Africa.  1990  1992  1994  1996  



Gender Issues Week Keynote Speaker/Event 
Keith Meinhold, Full Military Honors, 8PM, Library Auditorium (free) Keith makes national history by being the first and only openly gay man to serve in active duty in the US military, and to retire with full military honors from the US military. Keith will speak on his experiences in and out of the US Navy, overcoming adversity, and single,handedly rewriting American History. 
•Thursday, November 7, 1996 Presentation/Open House at LaFortune at 7pm by Women's Resource Center, possibly CARE (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) and SOS (Sex Offense Services) 
•Friday, November 8, 1996 
1) Movie, The Celluloid Closet, 7:30pm, Snite Museum auditorium This film chronicles the history of homosexuality in the last 100 years of film,making. 
2) After the film: 9:30pm, The Huddle (LaFortune) Gender Issues Open Mic poetry/short story readings. Bring your own writings, or read from a favorite author on issues of gender, feminism, masculinity, and sexuality. 
Wednesday, November 6, I996 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Colletto follows Mallory to the unemployment line 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
WEST LAFAVETTE 

Mallory had to be shoved. 
The result was the same, though. Within a span of four days, the football coaches at both of Indiana's Big Ten col­leges had become lame ducks. 
First was Mallory, who was fired at Indiana last week after the Hoosiers dropped their 13th straight conference game. Then on Monday, Colletta re­signed at Purdue, not so much because of his dismal record, he said, but because he was simply worn out by the job. 
Fittingly, their game against 
$ (!JJJMllMJIEJR 
each other on Nov. 23 for the Old Oaken Bucket will be their last. With one year left on their contracts, both will be assigned next season to admin­istrative posts. 
A return to coaching isn't out of the question, Colletta said. 
''I'm only 52. I'm not over the hill yet. If there's the right opportunity, I'll go back and coach," said Colletta, who goes into his final three games at Purdue with a 20-40-3 record, already assured of continuing a slump that has seen the Boilermakers go without a winning season -on the field -since 1984. 
$IEIf{ WlllCJE 
JP JR. ({))}]IE CJ!§ 
Information meeting: 
November 7 (Thurs.) 
6:30 -7:00 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
find out how you can 
spend eight weeks in a social service agency and earn a $1700.00 tuition scholarship and 3 credits ~ti:-:D-11 
S 0 C I.._ L CONCERNS 

Juniors/Seniors! 
Planning to Attend Graduate School? 
' Learn the Nuts and Bolts of Applying to Graduate School 

•Identify an appropriate course of study 
•Secure 
letters of recommendation 

•Write 
an effective letter of intent 


•Locate funding sources 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1996 
4:00 P.M. -5:00 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ROOM -LAFORTUNE 
Panelists will be: 
Dr. Peter Diffley, Associate Dean of the Graduate School and Dr. Barbara Turpin, Director of Graduate Admission 
Moderated by: 

Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services 
Purdue officially was 5-4-2 in 1994, thanks to a forfeit victo­ry over Michigan State that was confirmed only recently. But loss after loss after loss already had taken a toll Colletta no longer was willing to endure. 
"I like doing what I'm doing, but you'd like to see some suc­cess," Colletto said. "You can tolerate those for awhile, but after awhile, it's enough. 
''I'm really tired. It's hard to explain what you go through. After the game Saturday, I had a little. pain in my back and kidneys from stress. I've been having some trouble with my 
Please Recycle the Observer. 
vision. It was just hard to gen­erate the enthusiasm you need." 
Colletta succeeded Fred Akers, who resigned under fire after the 1990 season. Mallory's first year at Indiana was 1984, Colletta's final year as a Purdue assistant. The Hoosiers were 0-11 that sea­son, including a 31-24 loss to the Boilermakers. 
Mallory was 64-49-3 over the next 10 years, but the Hoosiers were 2-9 last year -including a 51-14 humiliation by Purdue -and have a 2-6 record so far this season, the same as the Boilermakers. 
"I go way back with Jim. I can go back when he was at Xavier and I was coaching Miami. That goes a while back," the 61-year-old Mallory said. " ... I've always had a lot of respect for him not only as a person, but as a football coach. 
"You hate to see these things happen." 
Both schools already have begun searches for replace­ments. 
"At this point, the field's wide open," Purdue athletic 
director Morgan Burke said. "We're going to go back and gather data. If I could find another Jim Colletto ... we would be in good stead. There are many other programs in the country that have a longer row to hoe than we do. 
"I feel the foundation we've got at Purdue ... there's going to be a fair amount of interest. I'm not concerned about any­body but ourselves," he said of possible competition with Indiana for a big-name coach. 
Both schools wanted to make the announcement now, rather than wait until the end of the season. 
"I know how the recruiting calendar is. The longer you delay, it would just strap everybody," Colletta said. 
He told his players just before practice on Monday. 
"It was a lot harder than I thought it would be," Colletta said. "They were a little mel­low. But kids are resilient. They have a tough game (against Michigan) on Saturday. That's got to be in the forefront of their minds." 
AtteiiLtUil Seniors 
Free Food Tonight! 
Its food, its free, its at Alumni· Senior Club (the FIRST WEDNESDAY of Each Month). Need we say. m · 7·9 pm November 6th. 
Brought to you by the Class of '97 
GOING TO THE GAME AT 
BOSTON COLLEGE?· STOP BY AND SAY HELLOJ* @~ ~ ~ rr w(00 (00 liD~ Large Menu: 
Sandwiches,Steaks, Fresh Fish, Pasta and More! 
10 t.v.s, 3 floors, 2 bars, live bands Sat. Nov. 9-Grateful Dead cover band Slipknot-10 pm 
Bring • 2 FOR 1 APPETIZERS! thiS ad • 
Limit 3 FREE, must present this ad. 1 mile from BC at the intersection of Beacon, Centre & Union St.s CALL US FOR DIRECTIONS OR LARGE PARTY RESERVATIONS 
107 Rear Union Stre-et NEWTON CENTRE, MA 
# 617-964-6684 or www.unionst.com 
I -I 
• j 
I 

\ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
• NFL 

Comeback King comes through again in the clutch 

"There's too much time," yards was good, but Turk was ning game because they faced Williams said. "I thought, right called for illegal procedure. long-yardage situations. The when we scored, we've given Pushed back 5 yards, Ford Raiders ended up with only 16 him too much time." missed from 30. rushes. 
The Raiders had 11 penalties White said Turk apparently White said he's happy the for 82 yards, putting them back decided on his own to try to Raiders have only five days to into the NFL lead with 86 trick Denver. prepare for Sunday's game at penalties for 704 yards this "Obviously, in a game like Tampa Bay. They ran and lifted season. Oakland annually this, it points out graphically weights Tuesday, and will not ranks atop the NFL, or among that you can't afford to be a have time now to look at tapethe league leaders, in penalties. heavily penalized team. We had of the toss to Denver. 
One penalty particularly hurt too many penalties, which has "This one hurt. I've had a few the Raiders on Monday night. been the age-old story," White players tell me this hurt as Center Dan Turk moved the said. "People think you lose much as any experience
ball before snapping it on a games only because of they've had," White said. ''I'm field goal attempt in the second turnovers, and we disposed of glad it's a short week. I think quarter, trying to draw the that belief." · when you have a loss that 
Broncos offside on fourth-and-1 The penalties stymied the hurts, I think the faster you can at the Denver 7. Raiders offense, forcing them get it out of your system the Cole Ford's attempt from 25 at times to abandon their run-better." 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 


PEP RALLY!! 
Cheer on the Irish as they head for the Big East Tournament Join Coac·h Petrucelli and members of the team tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom from 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
The Skalcoholics will perform plus a women's soccer attire giveaway 

Don't Miss It! 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT
UIU~UI1n tor Nn111 Oa011
ltu••••G••oo•"••• 


What are you doing for 
C~NTER ~OR 
SOCIAL 
January Break? 
CONCERNS 

A 
January 7 12, 1997 
• 
Participate in outreach and service programs in the Chicago area: Catholic education. social service agencies. parish outreach . 

• 
.-\nalyze and explore the contemporary neighborhoods in Chicago south of the Loop. 

• 
Receive one credit in Theology. 

• 
Pick up applications at the Center for Social Concerns. 


INFO SESSION (optional): Thursday, November 7, 1996 5:00-5:30P.M. at the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS DUE: MONDAY. NOVEMBER 11. NOON 
For more information contact Sr. Mary Ann Mueninghoff 631-7200 
-----------------. ----, 


By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
ALAMEDA, Calif. 
The Oakland Raiders were left praising John Elway and blaming themselves the day after becoming the latest vic­tims of a fourth-quarter come­back by the Denver quarter­back. 
Still struggling with "the hangover of a loss like that," eoach Mike White said Tuesday the Raiders destroyed them­selves with penalties that un­dermined the Oakland offense and nullified a field goal. 
And White continued to mar­vel at Elway. who threw a 49­yard touchdown pass to Rod Smith with 4:14 remaining Monday night, rallying the Broncos to a 22-21 win and completing the 33rd fourth­quarter game-winning drive of his career. 

The Raiders, coming off a bye, spent two weeks focusing on how to contain Elway. But the Denver quarterback scram­bled for a career-best 70 yards, often keeping alive drives and taking the sting out of the Oakland defense. 
"We worked hard on it for two weeks, so it's a major disappointment that we couldn't stop him," White said. "We employed some tactics to stop him, but a few times he just got outside of us. And they just do a tremendous job of cre­ating some seams to run in." 

Jeff Hostetler threw two touchdown passes in the fourth quarter, giving the Raiders a 21-16 lead with a 42-yarder to Tim Brown with 5:01 left. 
But that simply gave Elway a chance to live up to his reputa­tion as Captain Comeback, as he's referred to by Oakland cornerback Albert Lewis. 
"When you're playing John Elway," Brown said, "the clock has to read 0:00 before you can be assured of any victories." 

In addition to the 33 game­winning rallies he's led in the fourth quarter, Elway has taken the Broncos on seven game-tying comeback drives in the final period. Denver went on to win six of those games, with one tie. 
Raiders tailback Harvey Williams looked at the clock when Brown caught the go­ahead touchdown pass and knew Oakland was in trouble against Elway. 
presents: 
THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring: 
SABOR LATINO 
(one of the hottest 11 piece campus bands with horns and congas) 
Doors open 9:00 PM -2 dance floors 
coming: 
.-------------------. ~--------------~--,
Friday, Nov. 15thThursday, Nov. 14th 
SKALCOHOLIKSSTOMPER BoB 
(7 piece band with horns) 

Door prize with this ad before 11 :00 PM Thursday 
....; ...... ..,;~ ..r C.'y Lions ·;."'] t..i:1in l\Ton-Frofit Organizations 
The decision, the opportunities, the challenges, the rewards! 
A panel of area professionals will share their career paths and experiences, offer suggestions, <:nd answer questions 
.. IJill Appleby Purcell Vice President. Non-Profit Regional Train·illg United Way of Elkhart County 
• Maria Kaczmarek 
Executive Director Dlsmas of Micbiana, Inc. 
• Roger Mullins

I • 
Associate Vice President for Human Resources Univer.;ity of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, November 6th 6:00 -7:30 p.m. 
Center for Social Concerns 
l"rf''«"nlrrl hy. 

,Judv (fc~dx·J. Can:"t'r ~ Pl.nr~nu·nt &rvk~~~ r.:U·52UO ~turrn ~kur:<~kt,l"rn1rr for ~M"Inl Cm1rrrn!'l ti:ll·5T/9 

~ ~-----~-----------·
----~----~----------------------------~ 


VIEWPOINT 

Winter months have some redeemina value 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU • QuoTE OF THE DAY 
YOUM#W, YCV 

WHY, I ... I GUESS
P/ENT 7() THIS atJ8 

Y&5.•. I AM, MIU./e.
ANIJ S'"rlOI<el? 
"When you ask God to
/II1AR.I JUANA 

I
OPEN/..Y' send you trials, you 
I 
may be sure your prayer will be granted." 
-Leon Bloy 
,., .. ~· -. ··' .. 

,' ...... 
Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller..............................•........... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by che students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does noc necessarily reflect the policies of che administra­tion ofcirher institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represenr rhe opinion of the majoricy of rhe Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com, muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spores 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Editor/Production 63I -5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Ge~eral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• FR!VOLATA 
The inevitable has happened. The clocks have been set back. and the mor­bid and depressive side of me, which light deprivation always brings out, now prevails. 
But being the upbeat sort of gal I am, I've come up with a plan to survive through yet another six-month night and retain my sanity. My plan is to think 
Kirsten Dunne 
about the good things that come during this half of the year, of which, I must admit, there are plenty. 
Most importantly, Halloween has just passed. Halloween is my favorite holiday anyhow, and this year, it was especially kickin'. A brand new club, Strange Daze, opened up a couple weeks ago, and it's equally cool as the Exit. (If you've saved my guide to the Chicago clubs as a refer­ence for your trips to the city, you should definitely add this spot to the list). A good friend of mine works there, which means I'm perpetually on the guest list. And they a had very special Halloween bash. I regret to say that I can't tell you what was so special about it-I was sworn to secrecy, as nothing has been confirmed yet. · 
But I can tell you this much, since it's public knowledge already: they may have had some pretty impressive live entertainment. And seeing as though I have friends who know the band, I may have met the guys personally! An added bonus: I had the day after Halloween off. Could my Halloween have gotten any cooler? 

One thing's for sure -it certainly made up for last year, when I sat at home with nothing better to do than write my column and make excuses for why I wasn't out on my favorite holiday. 
And if the special entertainment didn't come through? Sure I'd have been dis­appointed. But it still was Halloween, I still went to the clubs, and I still had the next day off. Good enough. 
I've also been anxiously awaiting the beginning of the NBA season, which has commenced. And unlike the usual sce­nario, when there's not much excite­ment early on in the season, every game is going to count this year -at least for the Chicago Bulls, whose amazing per­formance last year has people breath­lessly waiting to see if they can break yet another record or two. 
So you're not a Bulls fan? You can still instill a sense of excitement into the early games by seeing if your favorite team can even come close to breaking our stupendous record. Or if your favorite club is, say, the Vancouver Grizzlies, you might watch to see if the team's record can possibly get worse. Whatever the case, the mere knowledge that you can turn on the tube and catch a game is comforting. After all, even if a game isn't particularly exciting, it can't be boring! 
Another thing that brings me a sigh of relief is that Election Day has come and gone. Not that Election Day itself is a big hoopla, mind you, but we will be spared all the annoying commercials urging us to vote for this or that hypocrite because of this or that false promise. Even more annoying than the commercials was the junk mail the Illinois candidates seemed to love sending me. I've gotten at least five separate flyers in the mail for one guy alone, for God's sake! If he wanted my vote, he'd quit killing trees to send me propaganda that I end up throwing in the trash. At that point, I didn't even want to vote. What I did, however, was write to the candidates who made it into the office. and tell them that their ads did nothing but annoy the living day­lights out of everyone. 
Oops, there's that word again-"day­light." No more of that luxury! But at 
page 7 
least we're free of lying politicians, and that is a plus. 
My birthday is also coming up shortly. What I DON'T like about this is that I'll now be closer to age 30 than age 20, which is perhaps more depressing than the darkness of the winter months. But I must admit that I do usually enjoy my birthday ­when it comes down to it, don't· we all? Especially when it falls on a · 

Friday and we're · L~"iliii'"'----~'..JII'~~.:::,.~~~~:::::____..c.::::._AJooflll!lj!.__JU 
on vacation the· whole week. I'll celebrate with my friends and family and, of course, get some nice presents!! I like presents. Feel free to send some. Don't know what to get me? No biggie-cash is fine. 
Christmas is also right around the cor­ner. One thing I enjoy about the 25th of December is that it reminds me that the 21st of December has gone by. In case you're wondering what's so horrible about that date; it's the shortest day of the entire year. (I told you I had a hang­up with this whole daylight thing, and I wasn't lying!) Starting on the 22nd, we know that it can only get better from there. That's a comforting thought for the obsessive characters like myself. 
Of course, I like Christmas for the more traditional reasons too. I enjoy the annual gathering of family and friends. I like the decorations -and in my neighborhood, there's an abundance of them. 
Last but certainly not least, let's not forget gift-giving and receiving! And if you've missed my birthday, you have another chance to send me gifts (natu­rally, cash will be just fine for this occa­sion as well). 
As if the joy of Christmas is not enough, just one week later, we get to celebrate the new year. In all honesty, I don't get too hyped up about actually beginning a new year -it only makes me feel older -but, like most folks, I like to hang with my friends and ring that new year in properly. Hey, who doesn't welcome an excuse to party? 
January and February are cold, dark months, but at least February is a short one. And by the time it's March, we only have about a month left until we can set those blasted clocks right back where they belong! 
So there -you see how upbeat I am! Geez, there are so many good things happening in this half of the year that I've practically forgotten about the whole Daylight Savings Time crisis. I'm all set! Now, if only I can keep this posi­tive thinking up for the next 162 days, 16 hours, and 49 minutes ... 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '93, ND Law '96, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 

.------------------------------­



ACCENT
page 8 Wednesday November 6, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS... 

What makes a great Resident Assistant? 


"Someone who doesn't tell when you break pari­etals." 
Alika Bryant Sophomore, Off-campus 
"One who likes to drink with you." 
Nate Rackiewicz Junior, Keenan 



"Someone who under­stands you are not per­fect and make mis­takes. Someone who's not out to get you." 
Jennifer Ehren Sophomore, Howard 
"Someone you can talk to. Someone who can be your friend. Someone you're not afraid to tell things to. Someone you trust." 
Stacey Smith Freshman, Howard 



"Maintains order in the dorm. At all chances, he not only extends kudos to himself, but to every­one else in his dorm." 
Dan Sullivan Freshman, Morrissey 
"Bad eyesight, bad hearing, bad memo­ry." 
Kevin Kileen Sophomore, Carroll 


The Observer/Joe Stark 
Resident Assistar 
By MEGAN FERSTENFELD 
Accent Copy Editor 
A
sudden stillness envelopes the hall as the sound of jin­gling keys approaches. Doors shut. Beer cans vanish. Tardy couples break for the near­est 24 hour lounge. In an instant, the typical anarchy of a residence hall becomes the model of order and obedience. Who, you ask, can inspire such exemplary behavior on the part of ND/SMC students? Why, a Resident Assistant of course-the friendly face just down the hall, who greeted you with a smile and a set of keys the day you moved in. 
R.A. 's. That rare breed of seniors vested with the power to make the problems of day to day dorm life disappear, along with the authority to inflict hours of community service upon unsus­pecting violators of DuLac. We see them everyday, but do we know exactly what they do? Just what is their job description, any­way? Since the time when many juniors must make the important decision of whether or not to apply to become Resident Assistants is approaching, Accent decided to set out and explore the responsibilities and rewards that stem from being an ND/SMC hall staff member. 
Often touted as the creme de Ia creme of campus jobs, R.A. posi­tions are among the most compet­itive under the Dome. A large number of students apply each year, seeking the attractive com­pensation of room and board, laundry service and a non-dele­gable parking sticker. Of these applicants only about five or six make it in each dorm (exact fig­ures were unfortunately unavail­able). Applicants can also choose whether or not to be considered exclusively for their residence hall or for all possible halls to increase their chances of being accepted. 
Now, before you jump at the chance to enter the running for one of these highly coveted appointments, you must first meet a series of requirements detailed in the Residence Hall Staff Manual. Specifically, these include senior status (sophomores and juniors are eligible at Saint Mary's), a minimum 3.0 GPA, high moral character, and leader­ship skills. The manual also states that applicants "may not have any other outside work or activities which would interfere with the posi­tion." 
This conse­quently rules out varsity athletes (including Band and Glee Club members), major officers in Student Government or campus organi­zations, and stu­dents holding other paid cam­pus jobs. Any exceptions to these requirements must be approved by the applicant's Rector and the Assistant Vice President for Residence Life. 
The actual appli­cation consists of basic biographical and academic infor­mation as well as an essay. The prospec­tive R.A.'s fill out the applications before Christmas and they are reviewed over break. If the appli­cant meets all of the necessary conditions, that person is then called back for an interview. 
Interviews are usual­ly conducted in an informal setting, such as the Rector's apart­ment, and usually last about 25-30 minutes. After all of the appli­cants have been inter­viewed, the Rector, Assistant Rector (s) and current R.A.'s deliberate to determine who is best qualified for the job. 
Those who make it are then subjected to the infa­mous "R.A. training" (i.e. 
Hall Staff's 
equivalent of 
ROTC boot 
camp) two 
weeks before 
the start of the 
academic year. 
In training, the 
novice R.A. 's 
are transformed from 
ignorant plebes into 
savvy regulation 
enforcers. They must 
become certified in 
first aid and CPR, and 
brush up on dorm 
regulations. 
They also attend 
various workshops 
about how to respond 
to all possible crisis 
situations that could 
arise among students 
during the year such 
as roommate difficul­
ties, loss of a loved 
one, and excessive 
stress. Finally, the 
R.A. 's participate in question and answer sessions with Dean of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara and other officers to learn about what goes on behind the scenes in the disciplinary hier­archy and the rationale behind university policies. r 

Armed with this newly implant-t ed knowledge of the law, the H.A's are then ready to take on their regular responsibilities. Believe it or not, these include 
much more than patrolling the bathrooms during dances. If you think DuLac is a formidable docu­ment, try leafing through the Hesidence Hall Staff Manual. Its 45 pages boast everything from emergency procedures and disci­plinary regulations to alcohol pol­icy and lire prevention. Honest. The amount of information an 
R.A. must know is quite impres­sive. For instance, how many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents know the difference between ABC and C0-2 fire extin­guishers??? 
However, the basic responsibili­ties of a Hesident Assistant are to preserve an environment of friendly community living and to be a resource to students in need. In order to fulfill this role, the 
R.A. must spend one or two nights a week on "dut)' " Although specifics vary frum dorm to dorm, the R.A. on duty is general­ly responsible for maintaining a stable atmosphere in the hall. 
o e b 




' 


A SPECIAL ELECTION 1996 SUPPLEMENT TO THE OBSERVER • Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
''THEY (VOTERS) ARE SENDING US A MESSAGE: WORK TOGETHER. 
Inside ... 
• 
Local races ... page 2 

• 
Campus reaction ... page 2 

• 
National races ... page 3 

• 
Dole reaction ... page 3 


MEET THE CHALLENGES. IT IS TIME TO PUT THE COUNTRY AHEAD OF PARTY." -PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON 
·:---­

~

, 
e> ~ ,
-e ~ 
Q) "C 
Q) ,
Ul , 
iii 
.c 
"' 
" 
0:: 
"' 
Q) 
"' 
c: 
a> 
<II 
0"' " 
.c 
1­
On the campaign trail. Indiana politicians, including U.S. Representative Tim Roemer, Michigan City Mayor Sheila Bergerson Brillson, outgoing Governor Evan Bayh, his wife Susan, and Governor-elect Frank O'Bannon, supported President Bill Clinton at his Aug. 28 campaign stop in Michigan City. Clinton proved victorious in yesterday's election, claiming 379 electoral votes. Democrats faired well in Indiana, as Roemer reclaimed his seat and O'Bannon assumed the helm as governor last night. However, in the presidential race, GOP 
candidate Bob Dole took the state's 12 electoral votes. 
Campus
mock election 

results 


Other 
4o/o

including Nader, Browne and abstentions 
SOURCE: ND Class of 1998 sur­vey in the dining halls, with 1132 students responding 
Due to rounding, totals do not equal 100 percent 



Clinton wins 
'Hail to the Chief' resounds as incumbent gains second term 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press Writer 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. Bill Clinton lived his whole life for this, driven from campaign to campaign 
to the presidency. Now he crime rates and reform the stands before the country, campaign finance system. no longer a slave to the next "We have committed this election but beholden to his­night to continue our jour­tory. "We have work to do," ney ... to give the young he declared. people here and those 
Standing behind the presi­across the country the dential seal, a proud incum­America they deserve," bent celebrating a final Clinton said. "But we have political triumph, Clinton work to do." delivered a sentimental In a homey piece of stage­address that wove images of craft, Clinton walked out his past with promises for the doors of the Old State the future. House hand in hand with 
"Tomorrow," he said, his wife and daughter. "we greet the dawn and Hillary Rodham Clinton and begin our work anew." Chelsea beamed, their eyes 
Before fireworks lit up the sparkling against the pop, night sky, Clinton said vot­pop, pop of camera bulbs. ers had good reason to pro­Vice President AI Gore, duce election results that who hopes to celebrate his gave both Republicans and own triumph in 2000, Democrats reason to cele­strolled out on the same red brate. carpet with his blond-haired clan before he and 
"They are sending us a message: Work togeth­er. Meet the challenges. Put aside the politics of 
see CLINTON I page 4 


division," he said. "It is time to put country ahead of party." 
Tracing outlines of a second-term agenda, Clinton promised to balance the budget, get more children to read, swing open college doors, reform 
welfare humanely, lower 

''IT HURTS TO LOSE. I'M GOING TO SIT BACK FOR A FEW DAYS AND THEN I'M GOING TO START STANDING UP FOR WHAT I THINK IS RIGHT FOR AMERICA." 
-BOB DOLE, 
who lost last night's election to Bill Clinton by 228 electoral votes 

-~~-~

-------~-­

Election reaction

Election '96 


Democrats elated with sweeping state wins 

Dirty race ends with 0 'Bannon, Kernan in Indiana statehouse 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN A.sistant News Editor 
MISHAWAKA 

Bob Dole won the support of Indiana in last night's presidential election. But in local elections, Democratic candidates almost evenly split victories with their Hepublican opponents. 
Analysts have called this year's gubernator­ial race the dirtiest race in Indiana's history. They also considered it one of the closest. 
Frank O'Bannon, the sit­ting lieutenant governor, and Steve Goldsmith, mayor of Indianapolis. fought bitterly until 


O'Bannon Goldsmith finally conced­ed victory to the Democrat late in the evening. 
With the election of O'Bannon to governor and Joe Kernan to lieutenant governor, Indiana will have a Democratic governor for twelve years in a row for the first time ever. 
"I think it's a result of the people of Indiana listening to what IO'Bannon] had to say," said a member of the Democratic campaign who asked not to be identified. "lie knows from a governor's perspective how to run the state, as opposed to a mayor's perspective." 
"People got our message," he said. "For two years we've been telling people what the Hepublicans have done. We had 20,000 peo­ple down in Indianapolis to protest their actions, and people got the message." 
In reference to the re-election of Bill Clinton as President, one local Democratic campaign oflicial said, "I think it speaks well of the direction that the country is headed in. We hope to keep moving in support of jobs and espeeially education on the federal and state levels." 

Students gathered to watch elec­tion returns come in. The Dole win in the campus mock elec­tions sharply contrasted the mood of the nation at large. 
The Observer/ David Murphy 
Student reaction to 
r 
Election '96 divided 
f 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN 
News Writer 
The general attitude at last 
night's 1996 Election Party in LaFortune showed that the political standing at Notre Dame is not representative of that of most Americans. Even before the posting of campus election results, student senti­ment confirmed that Notre Dame is a world apart when it comes to politics. 
"This is a conservative cam­pus -one that's based on tra­dition," College Hepublicans member Kathleen Schlef said. "With the pro-life issue and other Catholic issues, as well as race, it isn't surprising that Notre Dame is so Rep1,1blican." 
Despite this truth, yesterday's campus poll of 1132 students cent. Faithful Democrats like Tina Potthoff, commissioner of Special Events for the Student Union Board (SUB). had sever­al reasons for supporting Clinton. 
As it turned out. Notre Dame students. like the American people, "vote for what the can­didate stands for," Schlef said. 
"It is important to me that Clinton can effectively put in a plan of action," Potthoff said. "After all, if he wasn't doing something right, he wouldn't be here today." 
"I agree with his policy of international relations and his ideas are logical, approach­able, and attainable," Potthof said. "After all, it is the little issues that make you think twice." 
Freshman Aaron Pout dis­

The thrill of victory. Flanked by members of the media, Democrat Tim Romer celebrates winning the District 3 Congress seat. 

Profs: Major change doubtful 
By DEREK BETCHER 105th Congress, professors who were questioned and KELLY BROOKS did not expect massive and sweeping actions out Assistant News Editors of the White llouse. They agreed that while Gingrich and his colleagues would likely operate Don't expect another Contract With America or with less stubborn enthusiasm than two years a second attempt at major health care or welfare ago, the president would not seize the opportuni­
reforms. Voters should not 
expect the sweeping changes that followed the 1994 Congressional elections, according to faculty members in the Notre Dame govern­ment and economics departments and Saint Mary's political science department. 
"If the House gets closer to an even split, perhaps a five to ten seat margin, there could be some doubt among Republicans as to whether (Speaker of the House) Newt Gingrich is providing appropriate leader­ship," said Professor Robert Boucher, mem­ber of the Notre Dame government depart­ment. "House Republicans may not defer to Gingrich set­ting the agenda." 
"You're not going to see as much conflict as we saw after 1994," said Patrick Pierce, a political science pro­fessor at Saint Mary's. "The lesson Republicans and Newt 
• POST-ELECTION PROGNOSTICATIONS 
Dole wins Indiana support, yet GOP loses major races 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
SOUTH BEND 
The atmosphere was supportive, yet tem­pered with disappointment as Joe Zakas walked slowly through the doors of Republican headquarters in South Bend. 
Zakas suffered a sizable defeat in last 
night's Congressional race, falling to Notre Dame alumnus Tim Roemer by a margin of 19 percent. 
"Tim Hoerner is a hard man to beat," said Jackie Walorski. an Indiana Commissioner-elect. "He 

is a tough candidate." Goldsmith 
St. Joseph County, his­torically a Democratic area, was cited as a key victory for Hoerner. "Taking that into account, I'm not at all surprised that Zakas lost," local resident Ken Donnelly said. 
"We presented the issues and the differ­ences between us as clearly as we could," Zakas said after his concession speech. "I think we accomplished that. using all the resources we had." 
Indiana Republicans were dealt another blow when incumbent Steve Goldsmith lost the governor's race to Democratic candidate Frank ()'Bannon. The race was highly publi­cized due to the perceived reliance on nega­tive advertising. 
Walorski expressed her staunch disap­proval of negative campaign ads, but she ruefully noted that "statistically, they work. It seems to be human nature that people love to hear dirt on others. It is wrong that the strategy works, but it does." 
see GOP I page 4 

Clinton Kernan 
What does the future hold? Notre Dame and Saint Mary's professors reacted to last night's election returns, and prognosticated on the future directions of the White House, Capitol Hill and Indianapolis politics. 
I
think he [Clinton) will probably follow through. I wouldn't look for anything spectacular." 
-Charles Craypo, ND professor ofeconomics 
T
here could be some doubt among Republicans as to whether Newt Gingrich is providing appropriate leadership." -Robert Boucher. ND visiting government professor 
W
ith Joe Kernan down there as our lieu­tenant governor, his responsibilities would include economic development. South Bend should benefit." 
-Patrick Pierce, SMC political science professor 
ty to enact mas­sive changes. 
The new crowd of representa­tives simply dif­fers in disposition from the fresh­men Hepublicans who dominated 1994. "They were activists and conserva­tives looking for policy change. and they suffered for their aggres­sive approach," Boucher said. 
As further evi­dence that could trigger presiden­tial tepidity, Boucher cited scandals which could flare up in the coming weeks and entangle the Clinton Administration. If, for example, further Whitewater reve­lations or cam­paign finance improprieties implicate Clinton, his reaffirmed credibility and 

found President Clinton trailing  agreed.  Gingrich learned was it is not a good idea to be  influence could quickly dwindle.  
GOP candidate Bob Dole by a  "With Clinton, social security  as confrontational and obstructional.  You won't  Central to that issue of influence was the elec­ 
mere margin of 41 to 49 per- see STUDENTS I page 4  see the kind of gridlock that occurred." Despite the less-antagonistic nature of the  see PROFS I page 4  

u

------·----~­



(1ft National Results
..... 

Roemer keeps seat in Congress 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
MISHAWAKA 

Last night Northern Indiana vot­ers once again elected Democrat Tim Roemer to represent them in the third district's U.S. 
Congressional seat. Incumbent Roemer beat Republican state senator 
Joe  Zakas  59  
percent  to  40  
percent.  

"I congratu­


late the people  Roemer  
who voted for  
Joe  Zakas,  and  I  extend  my  

promise to work hard for them in Washington," Roemer said in his acceptance speech. "We will be working hard in bipartisan ways to get things done for the people of Indiana." 
One Roemer campaign official said, "Tim is such a class-act because he has done so many great things for the people. I know he will continue his hard work for the people of Northern Indiana." 
Before the results were in, Roemer was able to speak about 
E I e c tio n Th H 
~~ Asof;3op.~~~e 
All 435 seats in the U.S. House of Representatives were up for election this year. Party breakdown: 
•. GOP Dem. Oother 
300 -··-------···----··-·--­

Status quo. Indiana's District 3 Democrat Tim Roemer kept his seat, while the GOP maintained a slight majority in the House. 
his campaign efforts that landed him a large majority win over Zakas. 
"I am very proud of the cam­
paign that we ran. It was one of the few positive campaigns in the nation," Roemer said. "My oppo­nent did use some negative cam­paigning tactics, but we chose the 'high road' and stayed out of it." 
Because many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students registered to vote in St. Joseph County, Roemer will be representing a consider­able student population. Roemer. who received his graduate degree from Notre Dame, and whose father is a former Notre Dame dean of students, acknowledged his connection to the schools. 
He stated several ways in which he has stayed in touch with stu­dents. 
"I visit the schools often. I taught a class at Notre Dame a few weeks ago. I spoke at Saint Mary's just last week. I always listen to facul­ty and staff because I am on the Education Committee in Congress. I listen and learn and reflect their ideas on the Washington level," he said. 
For his next term, Roemer stated that he hopes to "attack problems, not people." He said he plans on continuing his bipartisan approach to politics, implementing main­stream values, welfare and health care reform. 

GOP laments over four more years 
Republican win in Congress gives hope to local GOP 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR News Writer 
SOUTH BEND 

"We've got four more year of Slick Willy," Dale Murphy said shortly after it was announced that President Bill Clinton had the necessary electoral votes to win the election. "It's sad ­the American community doesn't vote like they talk." 
Murphy's reaction was characteristic of the general mood at the St. Joseph County Republican headquarters last night. A group consisting mostly of local residents, who looked if they had fol­lowed several past elections from the same room, came out despite the almost predetermined result of last night's presidential election. Shaking of heads and disillusioned stares were common occurrences as the disappoint­ing results continued to trickle in. 
"When you have the media writing for three months 'stick a fork in him, he's done,' people want to vote for a winner. The media doesn't do anyone a service by declaring a winner so early," Carl Baxmeyer said. 
"When they call the race so early it takes the issues out of the election. People want to back a winner and so they jump on the bandwagon," he said. "The sad part is that it really hurts the rest of the ticket as well. People wind up voting for Democrats straight on down the line. 
"Even if the situation were reversed and Dole had been declared the winner so early, it would still be a disservice to the voters." 
Joe Layne, the Hepublican candidate for County Council agreed that poor presidential results had hurt the rest of the ticket. "It's not looking good for Republican seats as a whole," Layne said. "We just had a heavy Democratic turnout." 
Regarding his personal feelings on the presidential race, Layne shook his head and said, "It just blows my mind that people could re-elect Bill Clinton." 
Ron and Joy Evard were among the partygoers last night who seemed let down by the final results. 
"I was ready for a change," Joy Evard 

E I ectio n The Senate race 
r-e~.~ 
Thirty-four Senate seats were at stake, including two in ~ Kansas. Results: 


State-by-state 
Alabama Jeff Sessions (R) 
Alaska Undecided 
Arkansas 
Undecided 
Colorado Undecided 
Louisiana  North Carolina  
Undecided  Jesse Helms (R*)  
Maine  Oklahoma  
Undecided  Jim lnhofe (R*)  
Ma58a~huset1s  On:gon  
John F. Kerry (D*)  Undecided  
Michigan  Rhode Island  
Carl Levin (D*)  John Reed (D)  
Miruiesota  South Carolina  
Paul Wellstone (D*l  Strom Thunnond (R*)  
. Missbsippi  South Dakota  
Thad Cochran  Tim Johnson (D)  
Tennessee  
Fred D. Thompson (R*)  
Teps .··.······.  
Phil Gramm (R*)  
Virginia  
..,!.?hnW. Warner (R*)  
)fe$t Vltgi$ .·.·•·•·· ..· ·....·•...... John D. Rockefeller IV (D*)  
Wyoming ..... ·.·  
Michael Enzi (R)  
AP  

Consolation prize. GOP's dismay following the Clinton victory was eased by the party maintaining a majority in both houses of Congress . 
said quietly, ''I'm very disappointed." 
Her husband Ron spoke up, saying, ''I'm a former vete·ran and I don't see how any veteran could have voted for Clinton. Here's someone who spoke out against his country as a young man and did all he could to get out of serving his country, but now he has the nerve to decide whether other people should put their lives on the line. If I was a military vet who voted for Clinton, I'd be ashamed of myself." 
As it seemed that Republicans would maintain control of the House and Senate, spirits in general lifted somewhat. 
"I only have one prediction for the next four years: more grid­lock. Not that that's all bad. I'd rather have gridlock than total Democratic control," Ken Donnelly said. 
~ ~~ ----~-~--------­

Election Reaction





Election '96 


~. 
i ~ 
..­
Students 
continued from page 2 
deposits are disappearing," Poot said. "I also want to see a balanced budget, and you won't get that with Clinton." 
Like Poot, other students were also concerned with issues that hit closer to home. "For me, the tax cut is not an issue," Poot said. "I went to Catholic schools, so the issue of education is very important to me." 
"I went to the Washington conference and I found that Bob Dole was right," Schlef said. 'The Department of Education is unnecessary. Schools like Notre Dame are taking care of minorities and the administration, although it is pretty stiff, has liberalized over the years." 
For many students, the future depends on the character of the candidate. "Dole is respected by both Hepublicans and Democrats," Schlef said. "This is important for international relations and our status with other nations. Other countries won't take us seriously if we have a fool as presi­dent." 
"lie [Dole] is trustworthy and he has an upstanding character," Poot said. "We can honor and respect him." 
For many Republicans, Dole's honor and integri­ty supersede the issue of his old age. "I don't see age as a factor," Schlef said. "A lot of people say that Clinton represents us and the younger gener­ations while Dole represents our grandparents. I think his ideals have changed with the times and I would rather he represent our nation." 
Democrats like Potthoff maintain that "the charisma that Bill has is what makes him a better leader." 
Amid cheers of "Dole just took Texas!" students had many predictions about the election outcome. "I think the Hepublicans will keep the House and the Senate." Poot said. 
"I don't know but I think Bill Clinton will take the cake," Potthoff said. Poot and Pothotrs pre­dictions proved to be correct later last night. 
Others. likl) Schell'. stood confident till the bitter end. "It doesn't look too good right now. but you never know," Schlef said. "Hemember Dewny and Truman'! It could happtm again." 

Profs 
continued from page 2 
tion mandate Clinton sought. Pierce felt Clinton could benefit by copying Ronald Reagan's post-1980 election actions. 
"What a mandate is is particularly unclear," he said. "Clinton needs to do like Reagan. He needs to take the lead in defining the nature of his victory." 
Instead of allowing the media that role, Pierce said, Clinton's post­election demeanor and prognosti­cating could set the tone for his administration's future regardless of any specific "mandate" that elec­tion returns show. 
"Evidence suggests that people like divided government," Marc Belanger of Saint Mary's political science department said. Hopefully such division will provide pragmat-
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
the president clutched hands high above their heads. They hugged after Gore introduced the boss. 
This victory celebrated beneath the white blaze of TV lights followed a remarkably disciplined re-election campaign, the final political race for a man who always seemed to be run­ning. 
At 50, this is already his 1Oth race for ollice: The name "Bill Clinton" or "William Jefferson Clinton" has appeared on at least 21 ballots, counting primaries and runoffs. 
From failed congressional candi­date to attorney general to nation's youngest governor, to nation's ic cooperation in the place of 1994's gridlock, he said. 
Clinton should cooperate. He can benefit from a role that effectively places his presidency in the politi­cal ground between the two parties, according to more than one of the professors. His "triangulation strategy" has been successful the last two years and should remain so, barring political scandal. 
"Clinton is in the middle of the spectrum," said Charles Craypo, a Notre Dame professor of econom­ics. 
But though Clinton has the oppor­tunity to gain, Republican control of Congress has also been affirmed. 
"The hands of the more moderate Republicans in Congress have also been strengthened," Pierce said. 
If nothing else, disgruntled Republicans and overly enthusiastic Democrats can temper their senti­ments by keeping that observation in mind. 
youngest ex-governor to governor again and then president, bidding to be the first Democratic president re­elected since Franklin Hoosevelt, Clinton lived for the hunt. 
Ever since he returned to the Arkansas governor's office in 1983, a chastened idealist, Clinton has gov­erned in a constant state of cam­paign. From the moment he won one election, he began running for the next. 
Partnered with since-disgraced consultant Dick Morris, Clinton fash­ioned policy with polls and used his offices to unabashedly promote him­self throughout the political seasons. 
lie raised money in a panic, living in fear he'd be outspent. lie analyzed detailed poll results better than most pollsters. 
Now, there is no next eampaign for Clinton. 

MEMORIAL MASS FOR 

DOUGLAS S. STREITZ 
GOP 
continued from page 2 

Carl Baxmeyer, a mayoral candi­date in the 1987 race, was vocal in his condemnation of other tactics rumored to have been used in the ()'Bannon campaign. lie alleged that O'Bannon representatives made telephone calls in which they claimed that a Goldsmith victory would result in a total loss of Medicare. 
"That is ridiculous," Baxmeyer said. "No such loss would have taken place, and to scare senior citi­zens.. like that is stooping extremely low. 
The crowd slowly thinned out as the Democratic sweep was made official. "We really thought the Hepublicans could break through and take those races," a disappoint­ed campaigner said. 
IIe was wistful, but not melancholy Tuesday night -telling tens of thou­sands in his hometown that 23 years in office taught him lessons for the future. 
"The most lasting and important thing that I have learned ... is this: When we are divided we defeat our­selves but when we join our hands and build our families and communi· ties and our country, America always wins," he said. 
If people stick together "there is no stopping America," he said. 
Celebrating what he called "'the miracle of America," the president ended the first spench in a new life without campaigns by promising to look now to history. 
"I got here, my fellow Americans, because America gave me a chance," he said. "That is what all America's 
children deserve." 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1996 S:OS P.M. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Father Edward A. Malloy, C. S.C. Will preside and preach 
Music by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
I! 
..ll. 

l
l 

I 
I 

Wednesday November 6, 1996 
~ 

i ~ 
1 
~ 

• 
~ 
l 
j 
I 



Given the their vigorous training week last August. 
te misconduct of a close chum. owever. this is one fear that )St R.A.'s were quick to allay. ying their friendships haven't ffered at all. "I don't think tyone views me differently," tims Michael Fessenmeier of umni. ''I'm still just one of the 
.ys." 
)ilion R.A. Charles Cavanaugh 
1ls the same. "I think that my 
lations with my friends have 
tually grown stronger from 
He interaction," he notes. 
td, while a few R.A.'s did con­
;s that some of their friends 
ed to "push their limits" to see 
w far they could go without get­
g reprimanded, most said their pals respected their positions. "Basically, they know I have a commitment to the dorm, so they won't break any rules around me," says Fessenmeier. 
Of course. being an R.A. is not just an infinite abyss of responsi­bility. Aside from the tuition break, the R.A. position offers a number of intangible rewards. In fact, most R.A.'s didn't even men­tion the monetary benefits as an important factor in their decision to apply. Rather, they stressed that they wanted to give back something to their dorm in their final year at ND. 
Some also attributed their desire to be on Hall Staff to past Resident Assistants. For example, Fisher resident David Delgado cites his freshman year R.A. as a major motivation. "My 
R.A. was always there as a resource for me, and I wanted to have the same infl~ence on other peo­ple. 

Other R.A. 's view their position as a sort of ministry. For Mai Ly of Pangborn Hall, the most important aspect of her job is that of service. She sees her duties as a means of ministering to her fellow hall­mates and helping them grow. Likewise, Charles Cavanaugh finds serving his resi­dential communi­ty to be the best compensation. He intends to become a youth pastor and sees his position ~ as a great way to ~ prepare for his \ future vocation. 1 
Finally, nearly all the R.A.'s interviewed said that the job has been a means of mak­ing new friends. "It's a great way to meet people in your section," says McGreevy. Most male R.A.'s especially commented on the importance of "brotherhood", and "bonding" with everyone in their dorm. Still, whatever terminology you choose to use, being an R.A. is an excellent way to build rela­tionships with other members of the University community. 
However, one consequence of the position that most Hall Staff members did not anticipate is that being an R.A. becomes an integral part of their identities. "You're an R.A. all the time, not just when you're on duty. It's like you're always in the spotlight," says David Delgado. 
Darcie Tutin of Pasquerilla West agrees. "Once you assume the role, it's like you become known. They way people look at you, both in and out of the dorm, is definitely different." While being respected and admired can be exciting, it can be stifling on other occasions. 
Still, while it's frustrating at times, R.A.'s tend to take their job in stride. "You have to realize that you just can't be everything to everybody," comments Deborah Barclay from Knott. "You have to do your best and hope it's enough." Also, everyone questioned strongly affirmed that they would go through the whole process again if they had to do it all over. As Katy Pain of Le Mans Hall puts it, "It's extremely fulfilling when you plan a suc­cessful event or see a fresh­man with a smile on her face because of something you've done." So, there you have it­
R . A . ' s revealed. For 
all of you who have ever wondered just what they do when 
they're not carding ID's on 
football week­ends, Accent hopes that you have been enlightened. 

If the idea of actually becoming a Resident Assistant now appeals to you, look for information regarding organizational meet­ings in your dorm over the next couple weeks. Then, grab an application, put on your best smile, and show off your skills. Who knows? You just might land one of the best jobs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. And, if you don't make it, well..... they're always accepting applications at the dining halls! 
---~--------~--­

.. 
Wednesday, November 6, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 10 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 

OSU's Cooper downplays Rose Bowl commitment 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Oddsmakers list second­ranked Ohio State as a 29­point favorite at Illinois Saturday. That doesn't mean coach John Cooper wants to read or hHar about it, though. 
"One thing I would do, if I could get you guys to cooper­ate," Cooper said to reporters at his weekly news conference Tuesday, "is to not print the odds and point spreads in the paper. It would eliminate ev­erybody talking about it: 'IIey, you're a 25-point favorite. Do­you think you ought to be fa­vored by 25 points'?' Otherwise we would not even know about it. But it comes up all the time." 

Gambling on campus is a hot topic, considering what is hap­pening at Boston College. Officials are looking into allegations of a point-shaving and betting scandal involving football players.Cooper said he and his staff and Ohio State administrators go to great lengths to prevent players from getting involved in gambling. 
"Everybody in college foot­ball is concerned. and if they're not, they should be," Cooper said. "We talk to our squad and we have people talk to our squad and they get daily reminders. 
"Our players know how we feel about it. We try to cut down on as many outside influ­ences as we can. We don't have strange people hanging around the locker room or training room." 
He added, "You hope it's not happening. I wish I could guar­antee it's not happening. Obviously I can't do that." 
Cooper also addressed an­other topic confronting the sport, the lack of a retirement program for assistant coaches. 
As a past president of the American College Football Coaches Association, he said he was disappointed the organization did not get behind a one-game national champi­onship. 
"We're leaving $50, $70, $100 million on the table that could be put towards a retire­ment fund for assistant coach­es, AIDs research, minority scholarships or women's ath­letics," he said. 
Cooper spent 14 years as an assistant coach at five different schools before becoming a head coach in 1977 at Tulsa. He's never forgotten what it's like to be an assistant, and still feels compassion for those left without a job when the higher­paid head coach gets fired or resigns. 
"The saddest thing you do in my profession is to go to the national coaches convention and see assistant coaches out of work," he said. "It's sad to see a 55-yard old guy out of a job. It's a young man's game." 
Cooper also discussed his own team. 
-On an ankle injury to starting quarterback Stanley Jackson: "If he's healthy and ean practice, he'll start. But it all depends on how healthy he is at game time." 
Jackson is wearing a special support boot to restrict move­ment to his sprained ankle. If he is not ready to go, Joe Germaine will get the call with Tom Hoying backing him up. 

-On the loss of backup tail­back Joe Montgomery to a sea­son-ending knee injury: "We're concerned about depth at that position." 
He said Jermon Jackson would move in as Pepe Pearson's understudy. If a third-team tailback were need­ed, fullback Matt Keller would most likely be moved or wide receiver Michael Wiley would shift to the backfield. 
-On being alone in first place in the Big Ten for the first time in three years: "We've got to keep winning. Nothing has changed for us. If we win out, we go to Pasadena. If we don't, we stay home. Well, not stay home, but we'll go to some other bowl." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Nice to see you here at SOH  
NOTICES  Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  GAMES 235-3394  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Waldo. sorry for always hanging up first.  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  ALUM NEEDS GA's  232-0058  South Bend $4191 Increase Soon - 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS  24 HAS.  Save $50! Save $150 On Food.  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  www.springbreaktravel.corn  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  ATTENTION BROWER, MEGAN,  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  1-800-678-6386  TICKET-MART, INC.  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  ANDY. GAVIN AND LAURA......  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  1-800-678-6386  Next time we're thinking of a  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING  219-232-2378 a.m.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  roadtrip to Chicago in Old Blue.  
Sun (800)763-5606.  KIDS. MY HOME,  288-2726 p.m.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST,  let's leave earlier so we can hit the  
M.W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$.  232-0061.  PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  Drinking Holes and Dairy Queens of  
INTERRACE MEETING  277-9079  TIX for every home game.  LAFAYETTE  the  
WEDNESDAY. NOV. 6  Call (301) 445-3955  $$$$$$  greater South Side! Hey, at least  
CSC-COFFEE HOUSE  Participants needed for studies in  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  Come see Doug McKenna  we were fed!  
DINNER AND DISCUSSION  memory, language, & perception.  ALL HOME GAMES.  of George and the Freeks  -The Driver  
STARTING @ 5:30PM  call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473  NEED BC TIX!  272-6551  every Wednesday night  P.S-Next time, we invide your  
TOPIC: "INTERRACIAL DATING"  As many as possible  at C.J.'s Pub.  good friend Ryan from South  
RSVP@ 1-6841  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  n. d. tickets for sale  Africa!  
basic conversational English in  or (617) 828-1089  271 1635  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  CLASS OF 1998  PRAYER TO THE BLESSED VIR­ 
Breakfast Inn has space available  teaching certificate or European  Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in  Miss your friends that are study­ GIN (Never known to fail.)  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  languages required. Inexpensive  !@#$%"&"())("&"%$#@!  exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­ ing abroad? Send them a note in  Oh, most beautiful flower of  
private baths, $70-$90,  Room & Board + other benefits. For  I NEED PITT TICKETS!!!  339-7497  the Class Council Care Packages.  MI. Carmel, fruitful vine, splendor of  
Middlebury. 30 miles from campus.  info. call: (206)971-3680  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  Drop them off at the Class office  Heaven, Blessed Mother of the Son  
Toll Road. Exit #107,  ext.K55843  GA...  Need three tickets to Air Force, stu­ (213 LaFortune). Include name and  of God, Immaculate Virgin, assist  
1-800-418-9487  CALL 4-4217 ...  dents or GA's.  address on the envelope and we'll  me in my necessity. 0 Star of the  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  !@#$%"&"())('&"%$#@!  Call Liz at 243-1180  make sure they get there!  Sea. help me and show me herein  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  Positions are now available at  you are my mother. Oh, Holy Mary,  
Cruise/ 6 Days $279! Includes All  National Parks, Forests. & Wildlife  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!!  Buy/sell NO Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ Mother of God, Queen of Heaven  
Meals. Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Please call X3886.  Check our price 674-7645.  Do you know  and Earth! I humbly beseech you  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  LARA WALTERS  from the bottom of my heart to suc­ 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ N55849  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  BC TIX WANTED  ADAM WEILER  cor me in this necessity. There are  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  alum seeks tix for BC game  KEVIN CARRIGAN  none that can withstand your  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ call Paul @ 634-3973  GRETA ZANDSTRA?  power. Oh, show me herein you are  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's  Come see them in  my mother. Oh Mary, conceived  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Call Rob X3014  For Sale--TWO USC GA's  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  without sin, pray for us who have  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  month. Room and Board!  Face Value ....  WOOLF? Nov 8 and 9-7PM Lab  recourse to thee (three times). Holy  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  Transportation! Male or Female. No  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ Call X1468  Theatre Wash. Hall  Mother. I place this cause in your  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  experience necessary. Call  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ hands (three times).  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  (206)971-3510 extA55848  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  NEED 3 PITT STUDENT GA's  Clinton: 60%  Holy Spirit. You who solve all prob­ 
1-800-678-6386  MEGHAN @232-7839  Call Jotm @ 243-1935  Dole: 31%  lems, light all my roads so that I can  
Spring Break Panama City!  FOR RENT  PARENTS HATE YOU?  SOUNDGARDEN IN CHI. Sat 11/9.  Perot: 6% Sexecutioner: 3%  attain my goal, You who gave rne the divine gift to forgive and forget  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Sell me their Rutgers TIX  At Aragon, have 2 extras. Best  all evil against me and that in all  
Hotel. Location. Price/ 7 Nights  WALK TO CAMPUS  Make FAT cash  Offer. 271-7759.  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  instances in my life You are with  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Call Jerry at 4-1798  WOOLF?  me, I want in this short prayer to  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­ 232-2595  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers  an evening of sex, alcohol. and Fun  thank You for all things as You con­ 
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Need 5-6 USC tickets. Please help.  No std -pref. side In  and Games  firm once again that I never want to  
Call X4008. Ask for Cyrus.  Peter 1-800-746-3755  Nov 8&9 7PM Lab Theatre Wash.  be separated from You in eternal  
ILOST & FOUND I  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  Desperate for Rutgers tix!l  1 pair BC-Notre Dame football tix  Hall  glory. Thank You for Your mercy toward me and mine.  
bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  $$Will Pay$$  Nov 9 Best offer 617-730-9747  MISSING: EUREKA TENT, FOLD­ The person must say this prayer  
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY  ceil, porch, furniture avail.  Please call Amanda at  ED IN GREEN BAG. VERY  three consecutive days. After three  
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED  BEAUTIFUL!  (301 )314-8671  TICKETS WANTED. NO Alum  LOVED. REWARD OFFERED FOR  days, the request will be granted.  
SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND.  273-2580  or send email to  needs 4 ND-BC. Not a scalper. Call  RETURN. AMY@634-3525.  This prayer must be published after  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT  adew@wam.umd.edu.  Anton, 617-327-8146 days, 617­ THANK YOU.  the favor is granted. MLM  
X3677.  327-8146 eves.  
Four Bedroom Home  I Need PITT Student or GA's. Call  Top Ten Things You Could Have  You know. people that smoke really  
WANTED  Close to ND Safe with use of all utilities and  Greg at 273-1 007  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  Heard on Brad Prendergast's 21st Birthday  aren't that bad!!  
kitchen privileges.  Need 1 Pitt GA or Stud. ticket ­ Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer,  10. Julie, Tenille and I were talking  Spicoli remembers his friends even  
Notre Dame students  $275 per month  please call Sinead x1759.  name and number  and I've decided you are one of  when they desert him. He is a good  
PART-TIME WORK  Call Paul @ 232-2794  her prettiest friends.  man.  
$1 0.25/starting  HELP!  NEED STUD or GA PITT TIX  9. Did you know that Tenille is the  
Flexible hours around classes.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Student needs Rutgers GA's  PLEASE CALL X 0902  prettiest girl in the whole world?  Fila Neves =The Messiah of the  
Scholarships/Internships available.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  for family.  B. Hey David, Tenille is  Brasilerao  
Eve. and wknd. hours available.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Call Mark at x1487  PIT&RTGRS  so circular!  
Transportation necesary.  ENDS.  1 STU & 2 MARRIED  7. Brad, you finished too soon ...... .  Lohmann-On the 20th of November  
For details call 282-2357  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  2 PITT GA'S FOR SALE x 0781  STU BOOKS  6. Why is it so loud in here? Make  Bahia will be victorious ...Bobo will  
243-0658.  BEST OFFER  it be quiet!  make Vasco look stupid.  
NOW IS THE TIME TO CALL  $$ I need Pitt GA's $$  232-2586  5. Laura, the world is spinning 5  
LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE INFORMATION FOR SPRING BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH  FOR SALE  Call Wendy@ x1360  PERSONAL  times it's normal speed tonight! 4. Yuck Brad! Stop licking my hand!  Welcome back shout outs to Nelson.  
PADRE. CANCUN, JAMAICA AND  89 JeepWrangler-2 sets tires &  PLC:ASE.  3. If you want to appear in Playboy.  Sa props -past present and future  
FLORIDA. REPS NEEDED...TRAV­ doors,4"1ift kit, hard & bikini tops.  NEED 1 GA FOR BC.  FAX IT FAST!!!  I can arange it!  
EL FREE AND EARN COMMIS­ 1OOK $5000/best -289-6849.  CALL4-3112  Sending & Receiving  2. Brad, you got three touchdowns  special recognition to the other six  
SIONS. 800-838-8203  at  and a field goai ....... Go Brad go!  man -Dan, Mike Ryan, Che, Brian,  
ATTN: Native Japanese speaker.  TICKETS  I NEED BC TICKETS PLEASE CALL CARLA 277-0047  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  1. Honey, I want to explore!!  Phillippe.  
Tuitor needed. $6+hr.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Nice haircut Wolfe.  
Call 243-9378 lv mssg.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  !!!!11!1!!!! 4 Pitt student tix!!!l!!!!!!!!!  FAX IT FAST!!!  Chicago:City of Hope?  
ALL GAMES HOME  FOR SALE  Come and See!  John- 
NEED APT/HOUSE NEAR  AND AWAY  !!!!!!Call Jenny @ 687-8435!!!!!  Spring Break Bahamas Party  New Seminar Opportunity  What can I say other than you are  
CAMPUS OVER XMAS  232-0058  leave best offer  Cruise I 6 Days $279! Includes All  January 7-12  all that! Once again, without you I  
Parents visiting for 2 weeks  24 HRS.  Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Info session: Thurs. Nov. 7  would be lost. Until next week..  
email jmuller@nd.edu  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Need tix for Pitt  Beaches & Nightlife/ Prices  5:30-s:oo @ the esc  -Kathleen  
if you can help.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Hank @xt. 1648  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­ Contact Sr. Mary Ann for more info  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  @ 631-7200  Got to much free time? Well Marty  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  2 RUTGER'S GAS NEEDED!  and Jon have plenty of work and  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  NON-CONVERTED.  GWAR will conquer the earth very  would be happy to move your furni­ 
(8 13)360-2243............... -....... . I.-"'~ .  232-0061.  CALL DINO @634-2170  soon .  HEY... THIS IS A FAMILY PAPER  ture. Call us any time!!!  


Wednesday, November 6, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Sun 1113 7 -Fisher 1:00P.M. Stepan North 
Sun 1113 
2:00P.M. Stepan North 

Champion 

,, ,·Y ·/k .-.. -­
Wednesday, NoV,;e~ll,~~-·8, 1996 £"' ~jCtP"P:M'. niversity qf~Na re Dame LaFortune Cente 
Montgomery Theatre 
Pizza and Pop will be served Special College Discount Available to Students Open to ALL Students Interested -JBRTING A JFIDJEND ~ 
For further information, Call 277-4366 

Volleyball 
continued from page 16 
blocks per game averaging just over 1 per game, will be re­placed on the front-line by either 5-l0 Treadwell or six foot junior Molly McCarthy. 
Treadwell and McCarthy rely on quickness and athleticism while Rouse relies on her obvi­ous height advantage. This dif­ference could change the block­ing scheme of the squad. For the majority of the season Rouse and 6-4 freshman Mary Leffers have lead the team to on of the nation's top blocking averages with their imposing statures. 
"With Molly or Lindsay there will be a different chemistry," Lee stated. "Jen's specialty is blocking and Lindsay's is hitting so that could makes things dif­ferent." 
So now Brown will have to make yet another adjustment to her team. The squad has al­ready made plenty of adjust­ments so they are up for the challenge. 
Tues 11112 8:00P.M Stepan West 

Champion 

Wednesday, November 6, --7:OOp.m. --Carroll Auditorium 
Saint Mary's 
Semester Around the World Program 
Open to all ND/SMC students 
Any Questions. call Dr. C. Pullapilly, 284,4468 

4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good times for all! 
,.A·rHabitat tor Humanity

II I International 
Habitat for Humanity would like to thank all the students, faculty, and the Alumni Association for volunteering their time during fall break. Also, Paul Kendle and George Schictinger deserve a special thank you for all their hard work. 
Habitat for Humanity would also like to thank all of the following sponsors who donated their services during the fall break: 
• 
Dunkin Donuts • Macri's Deli • Grains and Grinds 

• Subway • Dominoes Pizza • BW~3's 

• 
Studebagels • Burger King • Bruno's • College Football Hall of Fame 


The fall break week was a success and could not have been done without everyone's help. 
Thank You. 

·-· --------------­
·-~~--­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
• WOMENS BASKETBALl • COllEGE fOOTBAlL 
Irish to make national TV debut Bowden chastised 
Observer Staff Report 12-game Women's Game of the cast the Wisconsin game on Week slate for the upcoming Dec. 9 and the Villanova con­Notre Danw's first-ever na­campaign. test on Feb. 19. The two con­
for his comments 
tional television appearance on CBS against Ohio State on Sat., Jan. 4 at 2 p.m. will be one of seven Irish women's games televised during the 1996-97 season. 
In addition to the Ohio State contest. Notre Dame's Big East matchup at Connecticut in Storrs on Sun.. Feb. 9 at 3 p.m. will be part of Prime Network's 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Drop-In Volleyball 
HecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Thurs., Nov. 7 and Tues., Nov. 12, Dec. 3, and Dec. 10, from 7-10 
p.m. in the .Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. For more information calll-6100. 
Late Night Olympic Steering Committee ­
Anyone interested in serving on the Late Night Olympic Steering Committee, please call Kara at 1·8237. 
Off-Campus A-team 

The Irish will appear twice on a six-game Big East regular season regional package which includes games at Villanova (Sun., Jan. 12 at 2 p.m.) and Providence (Sun., Feb. 16 at 3 p.m.). Both semifinal games of the 1997 Big East Women's Tournament on Mon., Mar. 3 will be part of the package. 
Locally, WHME will broad-
Basketball -If interested in 
off-campus basketball contact 
Jeff Milligan at 271-9433. 
Off-Campus Volleyball ­
Anyone interested in playing off-campus interhall volleyball please call Greg at 273-9553. Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come, first serve basis. They will also be sold at Moonlight Madness Saturday night. Ski Team -An important meeting will be held on Wednesday, Nov. 6 at 7:30 regarding the ski trip to tests will be shown tape­delayed and will be televised on WHME, SportsChannel­Chicago, SportsChannei­Philadelphia and WHT­Satellite 
Adelphia Cablevision in Syracuse, N.Y. will broadcast Notre Dame's game against the Orangewomen on Wed., Jan. 15. 
Colorado. It will be in room 140 DeBartolo. If you have them, bring a copy of your insurance card and final pay­ment on the trip. Any ques­tions, call JP at 634-3414. Basketball Clinic --The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will be holding a free basketball clinic on Sat., Nov. 9 at 10:30 a.m. in the Joyce Center. For more infor­mation and to register all par­ticipants calll-6095. 

ATTtNT ON 

~RC·MCD ~T~DCNT~ 


The Pre-Professional Society will be having acommittee organizational meeting this Thursday, Nov. 7, at 6:30PM in 127 Nieuwland 
-You may also pay your dues, if you haven't done so already ($5). 
***New members are always welcome! 
NEED A. BREA.K1! 
Associated Press 
AUBUHN, Ala. 
Auburn coach Terry Bowden was reprimanded Tuesday for comments he made regarding an official's call during a 28-7 victory over Arkansas. 
Bowden lashed out at the offi­ciating crew for givmg Arkansas possession Saturday ruling a first-quarter screen pass by Dameyune Craig was a lateral. 
"I've got to be the nicest coaeh in the conference when it comes to being mad at an offi­cial, but it was a truly horrible 

call." Bowden said Sunday after reviewing film of the game." 
It happened with 25 seconds left in the first quarter and Arkansas leading 7-0. 
Southeastern Conference Commissioner Hoy Kramer said Bowden violated the SEC Code of ethics by making the remarks and that he could be suspended from eoaching for one or more games if another violation occurs. 
SEC spokesman Charles Bloom said there was no mone­tary penalty for the reprimand. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Why travel here, when you can travel there? 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT NOV.6 7:00P.M. Room 304, Haggar College Center Saint Mary's Campus 
Students discuss travel in Europe and Ireland Everyone welcome! APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 
IIERST 
# 1 Women's Soccer: 
Saturday
I 
Villanova {11am)
CON ... R.NC• 
Men's Soccer: Sunday All played at Alumni Field 


~· 

Wednesday, November 6, 1996 The Observer· TODAY page 15 




CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
WHAT Al=lE YOU 
WI'IICHING NOW?
\ . 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
I'VE. DECIDED 
TO OATE 
OTHE.R MEN. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Go for game 5 Put up with 10 Pinochle holding 14 Onetime B.&O. rival 15 "The Prisoner of 
16 Mimicked 17 One eager for dinner 19 She played Ginger on "Gilligan's 
Island" 20 Rallying words 21 Real one 22 Devious 23 Collectible car 24 Dash gauge 26 Big hit on the 
diamond 
&Call 7 Seals, as deals 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Running mate for R.M.N. 9 Musical talent 
10Yente, in "Fiddler on the Roof" 

-::11:::1111iillll 11 Miniseries, maybe 12 Letterman rival r:::-t_.=+=+:-r~=+-:-t::71 13 Make-or-break F-+7.-t:-:-•r.:t:::-r.-f'!!!'t:-time 18 Hook up with 21 Big inits. in records 24 Winter Palace resident 1';:;-t-;;-t-;-t;:;t;:~ 25 Capt. Pierce portrayer 

31 Overly emotional 34 Terrific, slangily 35 Ethereal 36 Bread spread 37 "Pal Joey" writer 39 Hoods in hoods 40 Change, sometimes 
41 60's battleground, briefly 
42 Former Attorney 65 J.F.K. arrivals 
General Edwin 43 Unwelcome guest DOWN 47 Seven days in May, e.g. 1 Succors 48Wine cask 2 Archangel of the Apocrypha 
49 Tooth doctor's 
org. 3 Rather cool 4 Boards, e.g. 
52 Not together 
5 Flowering shrub 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
IIAPI'Y BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Success come' when you deal wise· 
WEIRD. DRUG~S~ 
UH1 NO~ NOT 
ly with a personal dilemma. Heed your intuition even if you do not 

THEY PULLED OVER 
....-R 16 HT NOW~

SOME GUY WHO WAS 
want to believe what it is telling 
you. Important career and financial 
decisions should not be made in 

SPEEDING--THEN THE: THANKS ... 
GUY 

( 
haste. Give more thought to promo­tional activities. A love relationship 
that blooms early in 1997 could last forever. Be candid about your hopes and dreams. If you and a potential partner have different values, the sooner you find it out the better. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Sally Field, TV. journalist Maria Shriver. director Mike Nichols. musician Glen Frey.
MIKE PETERS 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An effort to impress any authority fig· ure could boomerang. If looking for new employment, do not forget old school ties. Relatives and neighbors may also be able to provide leads. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Minor domestic changes are fa­vored. The overall financial picture impro1·es. /\laking concessions to your pa1tner.will promote harmony. Analyze your priorities. 
GEI\111'\1 ( Mav 21-June 20): Refuse to let an individual with a big ego walk all over you. Lunching with an old friend will prove 1·ery enjoyable. Take a breather. Turn down social invitations if in need of a rest. 
CANCER (June 21·July 22): Tact will help you avoid a head-on 
SCOTT ADAMS 
collision. Postpone presenting a pro­posal until more facts and figures 
"'0 
are available. In the meantime, hit
I ~1"\ 
() NOOQ!!! 
the books. A child is telling the 

0 ..J .. TH~T'S
NOT 
truth. Listen attentively . 
OON'T 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pitch in
@ 

I'M NOT. l 
EXA.CTLY
1-\APPY
en 
and help someone who has a prob­lem. Your artistry or creati1ity receives new attention. A bonus or 
~.<l'i1}1'·b
•.. ,.A:.: .i .:if<.• ... ·: +t.;A>
h$$0Q .!::11}'~()0 . . . , .· ,: -n-!'ir · · · e Nuts a:nd Bolts Gradua.te School Workshop, · · rs. ap~).s(lniprs jtit(lrest~~ iii{;radua.te
55 Makeshift desk 
bl'lldttonight from 4 toiS p;m~ in the 
area 
om••of LaFortune, Toj>ics discussed
57 Highway hauler 
iJ:l~ ~1:1. appropt\!;!1te .. co:nrse of study,
58 Child of the 
·. ... of r~commendation. writing an effec­
50's, e.g. 
letter of: intent~. and locating funding sources,
60 Many 
Jinelists will he DJ.iW(J>eterDifi:ley, Ast:~Qciate .Dean .of 

61 PC communications t-:...-+-+-­
the Graduate School, and Dr. Barbara Turpin, 
62 Small winning margin 63 Short dog, for short 64Greene of "Bonanza" 
·Director of Graduate Admissions ... The moderator will .}).·~···· .Qliv!!J. WilH~ms; Assistant. Director of Career and Placement Services. · · 
..·....•. :·~at('t:;r Opti~.ns ~ith ·Non~profit·O:rganizations: .. U~~ Decision; the Opportunities, the' Cln.lllenges, and 
the Rewards!" is the topic of a panel discussion to be m 6 to}:30 p,tp.. at the Ctln~er for . Th~ panel will consist of area pro~ 
t'essionals w 0 will share their career paths and expe­~j.()ffe~ ~tlgge,~ti()n~ •.and., aJ:lsW~t questions. ·The sioh is'presented by the Cateer and Placement ..... es and s~nter f()r Soc::~al Concerns. . . . .. 
qbli~Jnt~rest R~~earch. Groups ~L be. discussed ~n a general information meeting tonight at 8 p.m. in 
t~e Cep,ter for.So~ialConcerns. 
Wanted: Reporters,

26 Work behind 44 At this time 52 "Make it the scenes, in a 45 Not leave home snappy!" way 46 Big name in big 53 Brazilian soccer 
27 "Chic~.go telescopes star 
photographers and 

Hope, e.g. 49Vapor, in 54 Frenziedly 28 What a marker Greece 55 Skier's aid may mark so Accomplish, as 56 Ages and ages 
editors.

29 Important th.ou might 58--canto periods 51---ski 59 Latin 101 word 30 Baseball's Sandberg 
Join The Observer 

31 Sticky stuff Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 32 Part of the arm are available by touch-tone phone: 33 Oracle 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
staff.

37 Less than rarely Annual subscriptions are available for the 38 "Listen!" best of Sunday crosswords from the last 42-Park, N.J. 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
U you insist on drinking like a fish...... . •••..••may we suggest drinking what fish drink. 
Sponsored by die Office of Alcohol and Drug Edueadon 
ra1~e i~ in the v. or!..:-. Do not kt ofTi­ciou~ type~ irritatL' you. 
VIR(;() (Aul!. 21·Sept. 22): G1vc a fair hcann~ to neV\ concept\ hut avoid kllin~ 'our imagination run riot. A la.,l·Iilllwte fi'iwncial decision will open up new avenues of profit. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your winning way\ will get you what you want' Visitor' produce a happy 'ur· prise. Financial talks with people at a distance prove lucky. A enol head will help ditfuse tension at "or~. Domestic happine" grows. 
SCORPIO !Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Networking leads to valuable lead' and inforn;ation. On-line contacts can spell hig dollars. Positive change~ are on the horizon for ca­
reer or romance. 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Turn on the charm. New friends can help a secret ambition come true. Go through private channels. You will know that a plan is catch­ing fire when higher-ups give you the green light. 
CAPRICORJ'\ !Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone influential singles you out at a professional or social e,·ent. Approach a potential client or cus­tomer in secret. New partnerships and alliances are favored. 
AQllARil'S !Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emphasize practicality: someone influential will be impressed by your good judgment. Joining an influen­tial group "ill help you reach a new audience. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Newcomers are impressed by your efforts and reputation. Membership in a business organization brings good luck. You quickly de,·elop new contacts. A confidential ar· rangement gi\-e!'! romance a boost. Avoid hra~~in~ about ,·our good
fortune. -' -· ­
.. 
M ~ 
_j

_ 
SPORTS 

page 16 Wednesday, November 6, 1996 
• fOOTBALL 
Off the field problems concern Holtz and staff 
to return home due to medicalAllegations and reasons. An examination has discovered a growth in Cengia'sillness surround stomach which will require a 
biopsy to test for cancer.BCgame Recent allegations against and a pending investigation of
By DAVE TREACY 
the Boston College football pro­
Associate Sports Editor 
gram, specifically rumors of four players suspected of gam­Usually. a press conference 
bling and point shaving, on the
with Lou lloltz centers around 
other hand, is not of major con­
on-the-field 
.---~-_,...,,...,.,.,...., 
cern to Holtz and the Irish.
aetions and 
In fact. Holtz could care less
predictions. 
about the controversy.
Tuesday's 
Preparing for this Saturday's
conference, 
game is what's on his mind. 
however. was 
"I don't really know anything
centered 
about (the investigation), nor
around an off 
am I really interested," Holtz
tho field ill­
admitted. "I know that we're
ness for his 
Henning 

going to face a very determined
Notre Dame 
Boston College football team."
squad and a dilemma for his 
"Now, you sound like that's
opponent. 
the only thing up there and that
.Junior kieker Scott Cengia 
this is big. I don't get that im­
will leave the University today
J;W.,. 

Kicker Scott Cengia's health will be heavily on the mind of coach Lou Holtz and the rest of the team this weekend. 
pression. I just get the impres­sion that we're going to play on Saturday, and we're going to play a great Boston College football team, and that I expect they will be there in (their) en­tirety. That's the only ap­proach I'm taking because I don't know anything else." 
Holtz, however, would hate to be in Golden Eagles' head coach Dan Henning's position. Although no players have been suspended by the Boston College athletic department or the NCAA, Holtz acknowledged that bad decision making on the part of a player is a coach's worst nightmare. 
"As devastating as a loss is, as devastating as not playing the way you feel your team should play,... I don't think there's anything as devastating as when players make bad decisions that reflect on the school, the alumni, the students and the football program." 
There are several factors more important to Holtz con­cerning the contest. including facing a team and BC home crowd that considers the Notre Dame game the biggest of the year, starting a true freshman at offensive guard against a more intimidating defensive line, and working with a strained practice schedule. 
"Boston College is a very, very difficult place to play," the coach acknowledged. "The fans are right on top of you. It's astroturf, it's a college envi­ronment. The fans are enthu­siastic, and Boston College al­ways plays us very, very well." 
The last time the Irish visited Alumni Stadium, fans were not quite pleasant. The players were spat on and were doused with beer as they exited the playing field. Yet Holtz says he plans to approach this game as he would any other. 
As a matter of fact, Henning and company feel miffed by Holtz's assertion that he does not consider Boston College as a true rival for the Irish. 


"It's unfortunate when people take something an individual says from honesty and tries to turn it around," Holtz said. "What I said was that Notre Dame doesn't really have a ri­valry other than Southern Cal. 
"Do we have tremendous re­spect for the Boston College program? Absolutely. Do we think they're as difficult to beat as anybody in the country? Absolutely. But is this a rivalry where your whole season is in­volved in it? At Notre Dame you can't do that." 
The emergence of Brad Williams came from necessity, not from prior preparation. Luckily enough, it was a legal gamble that seems to have paid off. 
"(When I considered who to use at guard) I thought, who 

has intensity, who practices hard, et cetera. And the guy that eame to mind was Brad Williams," Holtz reeall1~d. 
Williams had IHlVI~r practiced at guard for the Irish and made the switch on Tuesday, tlw day the team left for Dublin. 
"lie did pretty well. lie's got to play better, but he played pretty well. But there isn't any­body else." 
The Irish have not had a par­ticularly favorable week of scheduling going for them. The team practiced late on Monday to give the players more time to rest, yet many players had aca­demic work to make up and were forced to miss practice. The team will also practice lighter than in past weeks of preparation, and will not prac­tice Friday due to travel. 
• VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame plagued by injuries 
By JOE CAVA TO Sophomore middle blocker Sports Writer and probable front line re­placement for Rouse, Lindsay 
The Notre Dame volleyball Treadwell echoed Lee's senti­team has taken another blow to ments. the chin, or in this ease ...-------, "She has been hurt the hand. throughout her career 
Yesterday in practice and she has been 6-5 senior middle healthy all of this year. blocker Jen House It is so sad to see her injured her thumb and career end like this." will miss the remainder The Rouse injury is of the season. House just the latest in a rash was running a routine of injuries that has blocking drill when the Rouse plagued the Domers this 
ball forced her thumb out of position. The trainers on site could not relocate it manu­ally, thus she went in surgery last night around 6 p.m. 
"I feel sad for her." com­mented junior Jaimitl Lee. "She was in the best of her four years and it was sad to see it all end with a month left in the season." 
season. Junior setter Carey May missed the first half of the year while she was on the shelf with a dislocated shoulder. Outside hitter Angie Harris has missed six matches with her lin­gering knee problems and is still not 100%. Coach Debbie Brown's squad has also had nagging injuries like Jaimie Lee's broken nose and hitter Kristina Ervin's ankle injury. 
This injury comes at a time when the Irish setters seem to be hitting their stride after sweeps of Big East foes Pittsburgh and Syracuse. 
"I thought we played a lot bet­ter this weekend," Treadwell observed. 
"It felt like we were finally get­ting in a groove," Lee concurred. 
This leaves the team wonder­ing who put a curse on them as they have more talent than their 15-8 record displays. 
"I am just thinking, what next?" Lee wondered. "The worst possible injuries have happened to the worst possible players." 
The towering 6-5 Rouse, who ranks second on the team in 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 13 
• MEN's SOCCER 
Irish earn home field advantage 
Observer Staff Repon 

The University of Notre Dame men's soccer team, which lin­ished the regular season with a 10-6-2 overall record and was third in the final Big East regular season standings with a 6-3-2 mark, will be the #3 seed for the 1996 Big East Men's Soccer Championship. 
In its first-ever Big East tournament appearance, the Irish will host #6 seed Georgetown (7-9-2, 4-5-2) in quarterlinal action on Sunday, Nov. 10 at 4 p.m. on Alumni Field. Notre Dame beat the lloyas in Washington D.C., 2-1 in overtime. 
Notre Dame holds a 3-0-1 advantage in the series and has won the last two meetings between the two teams. Last season, the Hoyas dropped a 3-2 decision in their first-ever visit to Alumni Field. 
The winner of Sunday's contest advances to the semifinals of the Big East Championship. The semifinals and final will be held at Rutgers University in Piscataway, N.J., November 17-18. The winner of the championship recieves an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
at Boston College 
aJ •lnterhall playoff brackets 
vs. Rutgers

~ November 9, 3:30p.m.
SPORTS··
.. 
@) November 8, 7 p.m. 

Big East Tournament 
~ 
see page 13 
November 9, 11 a.m.
ATA 
(•' 
at Boston College 
•• •Coletto resigns from Purdue 
(..,­

Big East Tournament 
November 8, 7 p.m. 

November 10,4 p.m. 
see page II
"­

GL~a 
-
J:: ~ 







