~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

Thursday, March 28, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 114 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Health and wellness  • STUDENT SENATE  
Commencement,  
Judicial Board  
top Senate agenda  
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS  
News Writer  
Senior Class President Kevin Kuwik introduced  
the much anticipated commeneement proposal at  
Wednesday's Student Senate meeting.  
For much of the meeting this plan was discussed,  
along with  new amendments to  the Student  
Government Constitution which would affect the  
status of the Judicial Council and its president. The  
meeting was the last for lame-duck Student Gov­ 
ernment President Jonathan Patrick and Vice­ 
President Dennis McCarthy.  
The Commencement Committee is a subcommit­ 
tee commissioned by Student Senate,  lead by  
Kuwik. Kuwik and his staff have been working for  
several weeks to put together a  plan for future  
commencement ceremonies to recognize all stu­ 
n honor of women's week at Saint Mary's, the Wellness Center, in conjunction with the student nurses' associa­Ition and the student government, presented the  dents individually. The proposal features four plans which confronted the issue of individual recogni­tion.  
Wellness Health Fair yesterday.  Major features of these plans include tentative  
Twenty-one organizations were present at the fair to  times and dates for diploma ceremonies for all  
discuss health issues ranging from nutrition to medical information. Freshman Charlotte Albrecht (above) learned emer­gency procedures at the South Bend EMS booth, while Sarah McGuire and Shelly Krok, members of the Saint Mary's Nursing Association (left) were available to answer health questions.  undergraduate colleges. Kuwick said that currently, only the graduate schools recognize degree recipi­ents individually. "If MBA and other graduate schools have these ceremonies, undergraduates should do the same, " he maintained.  
Kuwik and his staff faced problems with facility  
turnaround, the necessity of altering existing cere­ 

 monies, family travel, and staffing for the cere­ 
Swindler disputes 'Bell Curve Myth'  monies. His committee's proposal deals with the potential dil'liculties that may arise from using buildings like  
By SANDRA NASHIF  Charles Murray, the Bell Curve  traits."  the JACC, Stepan Center, and Washington Hall for  
New' Writer  report made its way to the covers of  Also, Swindler saw llerrnstein and  multiple purposes over the course of the three days  
Time  Magazine  and  Newsweek  Murray's study as a seductively mar­ of commencement.  
IL was Lhe sociological study Lhal  where many competing scholars  keted book that exploited the eontro­ "If it could be done during Junior Parents  
rockml the inlelleelual world: the  asserted that it essentially inferred  versial racial implications made by  Weekend, the same could be done for the com­ 
holly dd1ated "B1~ll Curve" report  minorities were at the low end of the  its authors for the base purpose of  meneement weekend, " Kuwik said.  
Lhal assertl'd that human intelli­ socio-economic spectrum because of  profit. Swindler flatly denied the  The central features of all the plans involve  
gence was genetically programmed  their inherited intellectual inferiori­ Herrnstein and Murray theory, stat­ inserting six more ceremonies into the com­ 
and Lhal IQ is Llw substantive faelor  ty.  ing that "the Bell Curve is just wrong  mencement weekend. Kuwik and his staff' endorsed  
in prmlieting futun~ socio-neonomic  In her lecture entitled "Cracking  -it was funded by right wing think  Plan One of thPir proposal, bneause they felt that it  
slalus.  thn  Bell  Curve  Myth:  The  Heal  tanks and neo-Nazi organizations  most effectively deals with any problems that can  
"JiprmstPin and Murray's theory  Sociology of Inequality," Swindler  and is not validated by its data or its  arise.  
resonatns with deeply held and  eitl~d two main reasons for the pub­ logic."  The plan. which closely resembles Plan Two, will  
inherPnlly Anwrican ideas-nanwly  lie's rapid acceptance of llerrnstnin  Despite the faet that the test used  be the best for enabling a parent to see their son or  
Lhal su1Tess is lwld to be found from  and Murray's "outrageous" study.  in their study measured academic  daughter individually recognized, according to  
inside and that intnlligenee is intnr­ First, Ameriea's "constitutional  achievement  rather  than  JQ,  Kuwik.  
nal." Ann Swindll'r, professor at Lhe  and religious value system establish­ llerrnstein and Murray's data were  In it, all undergraduate college diploma cere­ 
University of California at Berkeley  es and emphasizes equality," she  organized in such a way that "fraud­ monies would take place on Saturday of commence­ 
and visiting lecturer, said last night.  said. The result: "Our own  rational  ulently  diluted  the  statistical  ment weekend, and there also would be a  ROTC  
A rarially explosive study by soeiol­ logic justifies inequality by  at­ 
ogisls  llirhard  llerrnstein  and  tributing it  to  personal genetic  see BELL I page 6  see SENATEl page 4  

Studying abroad brings risk of foreign arrest 
l:'tlitor's note: '/'his is the jirsl milling his relative newness to 
attending. result from the substance's ef­of a tu•o-part st'ries examining his job, he added, "As far as I 
The London Program is fortless availability. Nonethe­
Obstacles

the issul's sludt'nls face u•hlm know. for as long as I've been 
equally cautious. less, administrative efforts and llwy slucly abroad. here tl~.ere hasn't been a single 
"We explain to them that student responsibility have kept

Abroad 


they'll be foreigners, that they Notre Dame foreign study rela­By DEREK BETCHER While Bogenschild is not wor­arrest. 
can't expect the same treat­tively free of serious aleohol in­
Part 1 of 2 

Nt·w' Writer ried, the U.S. Oepartment of 
ment over there," said London cidents as well. State is. The severity of recent Program Din~ctor Anastasia Professor Angie Borelli, coor­
While it is unlikely that a

i\ substantial number of arrests prompted them to issue Gutting, hinting at the State De­dinator of the Mexico City pro­
Notre Dame student would be

Amnrkan ritizens. over 2,200 notices to American uni­partment's biggest concern: gram has never been troubled
exeeuted while attempting to

in I1) 1)5 al01w, are being ar­versitins, asking them to warn that citizens realize onee they with legal incidents resulting
return to South Bend carrying a

n~stnd abroad primarily on their students traveling abroad leave U.S. soil. U.S. laws and from publie intoxication of her
suitcase packed full of nar­

drug and alcohol charges. of the implications of gross and constitutional rights no longer students.
cotics, the International Studies 

Noln~ l>anw forPign program illegal misbehaviors. The De­apply. "Of course they're told not to
Program takes extensive

administrators, however, feel partment's Bureau of Consular "We point out the facts to drink in excess, and I've never
precautions to keep its partici­

that tlw exemplary past bdmv­Affairs cautioned that in the re­them, and then it's up to them had any problems," she
pants out of trouble. 

ior of Notrn Danw students cent past American college stu­to make their own decisions. stressed.
"Dangers are explicitly ad­

studying abroad indicates that dents hav1~ been arrested for as They're told that if they use ''I'm sure they drink their
dressed," Bogenschild said. 

fon~ign arn~st will continue to perceivedly minor offenses as drugs in the Program, they'll be beer, but they know the dan­
lie explained that each stu­

lw only warrwd against-not pu blie intoxication and posses­automatically dismissed," gers, that public drunkeness
dent must eomplete four to live

experienced. sion of a third of an ounce of Gutting continued. isn't accepted," Borelli said. 
orientation sessions that edu­

Nolrn Damn Dirnctor of Inter­marijuana. "That's never happened in There hasn't been any evi­
cate attendees about what con­

national Studies Programs, Furthermore, the Bureau London," she quickly added. denee that distance from South
stitutes legal and acceptable

Thomas llogenschild, explains, warns that a growing number While drug trafficking and Bend distances adherence to
behavior while abroad. Then,

"For students in our programs, of countries (e.g., Saudi Arabia, abuse is unprecedented for Du Lac Bogenschild confirmed. 
students undergo orientation

foreign arrest is a very rare oc­Turkey, Malaysia) have insti­Notre Dame students studying "I just visited three programs
seminars appropriate to the 

currence. We don't even keep tuted the death penalty to deal abroad, a greater potential for
individual location they will be 

any statistics on it." After ad-with severe drug offenders. alcohol abuse would seemingly 
see ABROAD I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 28, 1996 



Andy Rooney's dreamworld 
They are every wait­ers nightmare and Andy Leslie Field Rooney's dream. You Saint Mary's Accent know them. They make Editor sunny days cloudy and great burgers taste like your dog Spike's left over Alpo. They show up at your eight o'clock class and tell you over and over again how tired they are and how THEY (oh no, not YOU) have soooo much work to do. 
They are compulsive complainers (CC's, short for the Latin Compulsivo Complainii) and they need help. There have been efforts in the past to start CC hotlines and support groups, however the efforts have failed due to a lack of participation. 
CC's are often unaware of their problem. You may know one or, worse yet, be one your­self. There are ways to determine when a per­son reaches the point of official CC status. Some Psychologists in Sweden, in conjunction with the David Letterman Top Ten writers, devised a list to help those wondering if a friend, loved one or they are... say it ain't so ... Compulsive Complainers. Here are the clinical warning signs of the average CC. 
10. Points out the circles under their eyes. 
9. Yawns and stretches simultaneously and often. 
8. Always too hot or too cold. 

7. Shows scars and/or minor scrapes and cuts to random people on the street. 
6. Takes an absurd amount of credit hours. 
5. Likes nobody and tells everybody. 
4. Groans and mumbles often. 
3. Finds it necessary to comment on all television ads and sitcoms. 
2. Never misses All in the Family re-runs. 
1. Has an autographed poster of AI Bundy over the mantle. 
Have you recognized these signs in anyone? Classmates? Cousins? How about that next door neighbor from home who thinks the Johnson's yard is the root of all that is evil in Suburbia? And, lest we forget the PTA par­ents whose child set off the fire alarm and tied Mrs. Crabtree's shoes together. 
They blame the teacher, the class, the dis­trict's policies on, well, everything and com­plain that their tax dollars are going to noth­ing but the destruction of our American youth and their Johnny. 
These are the dangerous ones, kids. Look out for them because they are the Uncle Sams of the CC's of America and they want you. Avoid them. Run quickly and quietly and don't even bother to collect the two hundred dollars. While You are running, think of all the good things in your life. 
Normally, this is the part where you are told 
to stop and smell the flowers. But not while 
you are running from a CC. No, this is not the 
time. 

Instead, keep in mind just how much misery enjoys company . Don't be their company. Instead, do as the song says and accentuate the positive, eliminate the negative, latch on to the affirmative and never, NEVER mess with a CC. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ImlAY's STAFF 
News Production Maureen Hurley Jana Bruder Derek Betcher Tara Grieshop 
Lab Tech
Sports 

Brandon Candura Betsy Baker 
T. Ryan Kennedy 

Viewpoint
Graphics 

Meaghan Smith Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a membt:r of 
• Wuntu AT A GUNt:E 

U.S. astronauts work with Russians to collect space grit 
SPACE CENTER, Houston .-----, nel to install four experimental panels. 
Two spacewalking astronauts hung the The panels, each 2 feet square and 6 orbital equivalent of flypaper on the SPAC inches deep, hold 1,000 samples of paint, Russian space station Mir on Wednesday to, fibers and metallic and optical coatings collect cosmic grit. tlet being considered for the exterior of the It was the first time in 22 years that pack international space station, as well as a Americans worked outside a space station. , translucent material to trap microscopic 
"It doesn't get any better," shuttle astro-!gg~r~at~~ Mir 'debris. They also have gold, aluminum naut Linda Godwin said during the space-use jet packs and zinc plates to record slightly bigger walk. Space shuttle Atlantis and Mir are to propel micrometeorite hits. 
themselves

docked in orbit more than 250 miles above back to the It was a laborious process. The space-Earth. space station ; walkers almost banged the panels togeth-
Godwin and Michael "Rich" Clifford, 1 er while installing them, and their long spent most of their six-hour spacewalk' Stream tethers kept getting in 'the way. clamping dust catchers and other debris from -···o NASA insisted Godwin and Clifford also
nitrogen

experiments to Mir's docking tunnel. thrusters wear jet packs in case their lifelines broke. NASA wants to see how much and what Because Atlantis was docked, it could not kind of debris is whizzing past Mir to bet-Life-suppon dash after a wayward astronaut.
system 

ter protect the future international space ~ili"i!lfed • Six sets of eyes watched the first-time station. w~.s ho~~ spacewalkers from close range: the three 
Spacewalking astronauts will retrieve the wonhof NASA astronauts inside Atlantis and the dust catchers in 1997 and return them for po~i,g;nnd two Russian cosmonauts and NASA as-analysis. water ironaut Shannon Lucid inside Mir. 
Godwin and Clifford were dwarfed by the SAFER* ! While installing the panels, Godwin and Atlantis-Mir complex, at 522,847 pounds· ·g~~~~~k' Clifford tested new tethers and work plat-the largest spacecraft ever assembled, as !forms designed to fit both U.S. and they clambered up the orange docking tun-':-s-ou-rc-e:_,.N..,.A~SA:--------,.,:-:P::rr~.li::-s~ Russian spacesuits. 
Whitman pulls out of VP contention 
LONG BRANCH, N.J. 
Gov. Christie Whitman on Wednesday said she has taken herself out of run­ning as a possible Republican vice pres­idential candidate. Whitman said she has told likely GOP presidential nomi­nee Bob Dole she'd wants to remain governor of New Jersey. Dole's cam­paign stressed he has "not begun the formal process" of selecting a vice pres­

idential candidate. Whitman, whose name has been mentioned as a possible vice presidential choice for more than a year, said she spoke to Dole on Tuesday. "I told him that I appreciate all this discussion that was going on, but indicated that I still wanted to stay in the state of New Jersey," Whitman said while attend­ing a National Governors' Association education confer­ence in Palisades, N.Y. "So I'm going to continue to be governor of the state of New Jersey. I won't be on any ticket in 1996." Christina Martin, deputy press secretary for the Dole for President campaign, confirmed Whitman and Dole had spoken about the subject. 
More whales found dead in Europe 
COPENHAGEN, Denmark 
Sixteen sperm whales were found dead on a western Danish island Wednesday, bringing to at least 24 the number that have died along North Sea coastlines in re­cent weeks. In late January, six carcasses were found on Scotland's northeastern coast. Two weeks ago, two more of the mammals were found dead in northern Denmark. The beaching of large groups of sperm whales is rare but not extraordinary, said one Danish expert. But Danes still were alarmed by the news of so many dead whales, the most recorded at one time since the 18th century. Onlookers and television reporters rushed to the island to see the dead animals Wednesday. The 16 whales proba­bly had been dead for four or five days, because two of them were in an early stage of decomposition and con­tained gas. The animals appeared to be young, roaming, sexually immature males, said whale specialist Carl Kinze, a marine biologist with the Zoological Museum in Copenhagen. The beached mammals measured about 40 feet long. Adult sperm whales measure up to 66 feet and weigh some 50 tons. 


Georgians cherish Stalin's liquor 
TBILISI, Georgia 

The neat rows of bottles that once graced the table of Josef Stalin lie in a dark vault underneath Tbilisi's No. 1 Wine Factory, covered in black grime and thick cobwebs. But the collection of 350-odd bottles is far from forgotten. In it, Western auctioneers see a valuable sale. And many Georgians, including the factory director who refuses to let the auctioneers have it, see their cultural heritage. For a dictator of the proletariat, Stalin kept a select and well-stocked cellar. Several bottles of 1929 Hennessy cognac lie beside gently aging malt whisky from Scotland and Booth's High and Dry gin. Although many of the wines have gone bad, the hard stuff is still drinkable. The collection was found at Stalin's dacha outside Moscow, where the wily Georgian is said to have enjoyed drinking the quivering members of his Politburo under the table, then making them do humiliating dances. Stalin ruled the Soviet Union with an iron fist for three decades, carrying out ruthless purges that claimed millions of lives. Most experts now agree he is perhaps the worst mass mur­derer of modern times. Older Russians rememeber him leading the Soviet Union to victory over Nazi Germany. 
Baptists debate cemetery rights 
, THOMASVILLE, Ga. 
Members of an all-white Baptist church that was found­ed before the Civil War are angry over a decision by their deacons to remove a mixed-race baby from their ceme­tery. On Wednesday, leaders of the rural south Georgia church reluctantly agreed to leave the body of Whitney Elaine Johnson in the cemetery, where no blacks are buried. "For the record, we are not going to exhume the baby," the Rev. Leon VanLandingham said. VanLandingham, the part-time pastor at Barnetts Creek Baptist Church, wouldn't answer further questions about the racial policies of the church, whose 200 members are white. Last Friday, Whitney was buried at the cemetery next to her great-grandfather, A.C. Wireman. Whitney was born without a completely formed skull March 18. She died 19 hours later. The mother, who lives with the baby's father near Thomasville, had wanted the infant buried in the family plot "so she wouldn't be alone." The crisis began Sunday, when the church's seven deacons voted unanimously to remove the infant's body after learning the baby had a black father. 




Thursday, March 28, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
MBA takes on EnClean case 
Team tackles test problem in conference 
By SARAH TAYLOR News Writer 
Despite the University of Tnxas victory. members of Notrn Dame's MBA competition team found their Monday meet rewarding. 
Adam Jones, Maria Kicheeva, and Hamachandran l.akshmanan wern given a real­fife business policy case replete with linaneial problems to sort through and solve. Twenty-four hours later they had to present their managerial solutions to a panel of live judges. 
Though the Notre Dame team was not awarded the trophy Tuesday night. its members aeknowlndge the positive value of the competition. 
"I think we did a good job, 
Fill Your Head... 
Counseline Gives You the Information You Need. 


Counseline: 



lx7793 
Counseline is an audiotape information service 
sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center. Counseline offers information on stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, self­esteem, eating disorders, and anger. Look around your dorm for our list of tapes. The phones are open Mon-Thurs 4pm to 12am. We are here to provide you with the information you need. 

Sun1mer Sessions 
*Tr-;..'1nsferable Credits 
* Star·t Dates May thru July *Accelerated Sessions 
Register by FAX, phone, mail, or in person. 
In teres ted? Call: 1-800-283-3853 For A Co1nplete Su1nmer 1996 In for1nation/ Application Package 
nonetheless" stated Kicheeva. "I was hoping, working with a team of classmates, to pick up a lot of experience," she added. 
Despite the intensity of the competition, she believed that the team performed well under pressure. 
Jones agreed that his group's case was extremely challeng­ing. "It was a lot denser case than we've ever done before," he said. "It was very stressful and Jkind of frustrating." 
The group's case study in­volved EnClean, Inc.. an indus­trial cleaning service. The com­pany, which had grown mostly through the acquisition of smaller companies, was ex­periencing uncontrolled growth and unmonitored activity. It suffered a major loss of in­come, and its stock prices were plummeting. 
"Basically, we had to come up with a strategy about what it should do," said Jones. 
EnClean was also faced with an industry-wide trend of in­creasing environmental con­sciousness. Its current sector of operations was rapidly be­coming obsolete, and it did not have the resources available to invest in the new "green" tech­nologies. 
·Presented with these facts, Jones, Kicheeva, and Laksh­manan had to decide if EnClean should stay in business or get out. 
Jones was especially proud of the team's solution. "We were the only group who took the position to liquidate the company." 
The group's decision echoed the real-world result: EnClean, Inc. was actually bought out by a larger compa­ny, as the trio later dis­covered. 
Other teams participating in the competition included Georgetown University, Ohio State University, and University of Texas at Austin. 




Campus lllourns loss of fellow student 
Obsetver Staff Report 
A memorial service in honor of Saint Mary's junior Meghan Conley is scheduled for April 3 at 5:15p.m. in the Hall 
Chapel. A reception will follow in the Regina N o r t h Lpunge•. 
Con 1e y died March 12 of kidney 

failure fol~ lowing an 18-year battle with chronic kidney disease. 
She spent the 1993-94 acad· emic year at Saint Mary's, before taking a medical leave from the College. 
She was involved with the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame 

By KATHLEEN POLICY Jesus's friends. N'ews Writer Mitchell makes references to all different aspects of being 
The Saint Mary's Lenten friends. This text calls us to be Lecture Series continued yes­friends of Jesus, but not as indi­terday, as Margaret Mitchell viduals. We are called to be spoke about "To Lay Down friends of Jesus as groups. One's Life for One's Friends." Jesus did not have a best 
The lecture title is based on friend, but He had a group of the Biblical passage from John friends. 15:9-15. Her discussion The friendships of Jesus had focused on this passage, and strings attached. In order to be attempted to make this passage a friend of Jesus, you must fol­relevant for individuals today. low His commandment to love 
Mitchell focused on this pas­one another. sage, as it was the farewell dis­Mitchell feels that there are course of Jesus before He was many things that we get out of cruciried. The theme for the being friends. She refers to lecture series emerges fully these things as "fruits." These when Jesus tells the disciples fruits include: the spreading of that they are His friends and love from one person to anoth­what is entailed by being one of er, joy, freedom, and connec­mixed choir and the Notre Dame Student Manager's Organization. 


She implemented a similar student manager's organiza­tion .at a high school in her hometown of Crown Point, Indiana. 
Meghan's mother, Kitty Conley, will be present for the memorial service. "Meghan loved everything about Snlnt Mary's, even the classwork, along with the whole ambianee of the sehool," she said. 
According to Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry, contributions for the Meghan Conley Scholarship Fund for Student Managers will be col­lected at the mass, or dona­tions can be made through Campus Ministry. 

Mitchell: Friendship is sacrifice 
tions to others who may help you get what you want. 
Adding to the Biblical theme of the lecture, Mitchell further stressed in the lecture was Jesus's commandment " to love one another as I have loved you," and that the greatest way to express this love is " to lay down one's life for one's friends." 
Following the lecture, there was a in-depth discussion with Mitchell in Holy Cross Hall dur­ing lunch. 
The final installment of the lecture series will take place next Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. The next lecture will be given by Nathan Mitchell and is entitled, "Holy Thursday: A Feast for Friends." 

Have some­thing to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
WoRK CATERING FoR GRADUATION 

May 11~19 Free Room and Board $6.50 per hour 
DEADLINE FOR HOUSING EXTENDED T·o APRIL 4TH * * 
** 

Apply in person at Catering Employment Office South Dining Hall Lower Level 

For More Info Call: 
M ; F 1010 a.m. ; 410 p.m. 
631~5449 
Sat 3/30 1010 a.m.; 410 p.m. 

-~ ~-----~------------~--~-------·--. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 28, 1996 
arisen. versity regulations. to assist students in disciplinary Kuwik also noted the impor­The proposed amendments hearings.

Senate Abroad
tance of "convincing the admin­call for a new section which With an interview team, we istration that this should be outlines the duties of the could ensure that students
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
done." He emphasized that he Judicial Council President. The would be getting the best assis­commissioning and service and his staff were not ill-pre­reason for this is to alleviate tance with hearings, and the in Europe. Alcohol is handled work ceremony on Friday. pared to compile the proposal. the amount of pressure that the best qualified advisor," Matzzie differently in other countries, 
The most difficult feature of "A lot of work and research has Judicial Council President is said. 
but generally our students are 

Plan One would be the rapid gone into this," he said. currently under. Patrick agreed, saying, "This good about drinking responsi­turnaround in the South Dome The Senate also debated "A lot has come out of judicial process would improve the na­bly," Bogenschild related. of the JACC. altering the constitution, partic­council this year, under Tom ture of the Judicial Council." 
Gutting explained that in 

ularly sections addressing the Matzzie's guidance, and that Patrick and McCarthy, along London the cultural differences 
It would require a turn­functions of the Judicial Council has been too much for one per­with Matzzie, hope to see a regarding alcohol actuallyaround from the 9 a.m. Arts President. son to handle," Patrick said. more unified Judicial Council, serve to lessen the potential for 
and Letters ceremony Saturday The Judicial Council is a with increased participation abuse. to the 1:30 p.m. Engineering multi-functional branch of The amendments also call for from dormitory Judicial Boards. "Over there, pubs are a cen­ceremony that same afternoon, Student Government which a new method of selecting a "There are 26 [sic] residence ter of public interaction. A to the 5 p.m. Baccalaureate presently is responsible for the Judicial Council President. The halls, and 17 of them have judi­pub's not a bar, it's more of a 
mass that night. The change in operation of Hall Judicial Judicial President is currently cial boards. Most of those lack living room. It's not at all out 
seating in such a short time Boards, and also oversees uni­chosen by a majority vote of the cohesion," Matzzie said. of line for a person to socialize could present problems. versity elections. outgoing Judicial Council. Un­for hours and not but any­Current Judicial Council der a revised constitution, the The Student Senate also thing," she said. The next step for these im­President Thomas Matzzie in­Judicial Council President chose its recipients of the Irish Pointing out the University's provements is for Student Gov­troduced the amendments. "We would be chosen through an in­Clover Award, rewarded to the key and most realistic concern, 
ernment to approve of the plan need to do this in order to pro­terview process facilitated by faculty member and student Gutting concluded, "Theirs is a and for it to eventually be mote efficient operation of the the outgoing Student Govern­who exhibit dedication and special responsibility. We em­passed on to Registrar Harold judicial council," he said. ment President, outgoing Judi­commitment to students' inter­phasize to our students that Pace and incoming Provost cial Council President, and a ests. 
they represent the United Nathan Hatch. Pace and Asso­The Judicial Council presi­representative of Hall Presi­The faculty winner is Father States, American college stu­ciate Provost Sister Kathleen dent and vice-president are dents' Council. Richard Warner, Director of dents, and specifically the Uni­
Cannon have been working responsible not only for over­Campus Ministry and Counsel versity of Notre Dame." closely with the Commence­seeing the Judicial Council, but The selection would be sub­to the President. The student ment Committee in designing a to promote efforts that will fos­ject to review by the Student recipient was Kuwik. new commencement plan. ter greater understanding of Senate. The awards will be presented 
PLEASE

Kuwik was also quick to point University rules and regula­The purpose of changing this at a banquet later this semes­out that his proposals were only tions, as stipulated by the con­amendment would be to ensure ter. The next Student Senate tentative and subject to change. stitution. that a highly qualified candi­meeting, the first with newly 

RECYCLE THE 

He also said that, realistically, They also serve as advisors to date is chosen for this position. elected officers, will be held on no changes could be made for students who have been "One of the primary jobs of April10. 

OBSERVER. 

this year's commencement cer­charged with violations of uni-the Judicial Council President is emonies. 
College deans at the Univer­sity balked when the idea of individual recognition was sug­gested because of concerns that 
·~' 
they would be both over­whelmed and understaffed to 
LO\\tt~ 

handle the change. 
This Friday only 
But Kuwik suggested that campus student organizations 
Introducing assist. He cited the Glee Club as one such club that has helped in the past. 
"This is a good chance for students to get involved and take the pressure off the col­
The Amphibian with an attitude!!! 
leges," he said. Kuwik alluded to Junior Parents' Weekend 
It's mean, green and ? ? ? ? ? 
throughout the meeting, noting that students plan that event 
Tell the bartender the missing word andget 50 cent off 
and no major problems have 
21 or over with proper ID 
For more information call Kelly at 634-2960 
Drawings every half hour for an authentic 
"L~nebacker" glass with your choice of beverage. 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
By the time you have graduated from 
college, you'll have the credentials of an Army officer. You'll also have the self-confidence and discipline it takes to succeed in college and beyond. 



CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor 
Obbligatos and Encores 
Music for Chorus and Solo Instruments plus an encore performance of our American Choral Directors Association Convention program 
Sunday, March 31, 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium • Tickets $10* 

This concert is made possible by a gmntfrom NIPSCO Inc. 
*Discounts available. Box office: 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa, MasterCard 219/284-4626. 


We"re PHttilfl 0Hr ElltTgY
ARMY ROTC: 
I11to Hefpmg You. 
TIE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
Thursday, March 28, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Singled out 










Engineers celebrate centennial 
By VINCE INDRIOLO Although the undergraduate The crown jewel of the mi­News Writer enrollment has declined since croelectronics program is a peaking in the early 1980s, elec­uniquely integrated circuit fab­
From wireless transmissions trical engineering currently main­rication laboratory located on the and x-ray machines to micro­tains approximately 30 under­second floor of Fitzpatrick Hall. electronics, Notre Dame's de­graduate students per class, 70 The. electrical engineering depart­partment of electrical engineering total graduate students, and 22 ment has long been recognized as has been at the 
faculty. Female enrollment in a leader in the fields of communi­forefront of its " electrical engineering is about 15 cations systems, control systems, field -for 100 percent. "We're trying very hard and signal processing. years. Tuesday, to find more female faculty," said Four notable engineers contin­the department Costello. "We believe it is nec­ued the symposium by discussing marked its cen­essary for females to have more future trends in engineering. tennial by look­role models on the faculty." These speakers included Nick ing both to the The tradition of excellence in llolonyak, Jr., a National Medal of past and to the electrical engineering began well Science winner from the present at a Costello before the turn of the century, University of Illinois; James symposium at according to Costello. The first Massey, Notre Dame class of 1956 the Center for Continuing electrical engineering professor at valedictorian and former Education. Notre Dame, Jerome Green, was Freimann Chair Professor of 
The symposium gave Daniel one of the first Americans to send Electrical Engineering; James Costello, electrical engineering a wireless message. Two years Melsa, former Notre Dame chair department chair, an opportunity before Guglielmo Marconi sent his of electrical engineering and cur­to discuss the history of his famous radio message across the rent dean of engineering at Iowa department. Atlantic, Green sent wireless trans­State University; and Henry 
Inspired by the pioneering work missions between Notre Dame and Smith, the MIT National Academy of Edison and Faraday, electrical Saint Mary's College. Green also of Engineering professor. engineering at Notre Dame began achieved recognition by being one Massey was the first member of in 1891 as a program within the of the first Americans to construct Notre Dame's electrical engi­department of mechanical engi­an x-ray machine. neering department to be elected neering. Four years later, electri­The tradition continues today. to the National Academy of cal engineering had become its "Over the past ten years, the Engineering. Also in 1992, he was own department. It continued to department has built a strong awarded the Alexander Graham develop as an undergraduate de­program in the field of micro­Bell Medal of the Institute of partment, until Ph.D. and master's electronics to supplement its Electrical and Electronic programs were initiated in 1946 excellent reputation in systems Engineers. The medal will be and 1963, respectively. engineering," said Costello. showcased in Fitzpatrick Hall. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
CARRYING THE CROSS AT NOTRE DAME 
Next week Notre Dame will hold its annual campus wide, candlelight, Stations of the Cross. 
All are invited to participate in what has become a great way to begin Holy Week and prepare to celebrate Easter. THE STATIONS WILL BEGIN AT THE GROTTO AT 7:00p.m. ON TUESDAY, APRIL 2. 
This Way of the Cross is a way to call to mind that we live in a world where there is suffering and hope. 
The Way of the Cross reminds us that there is suffering in this world that is the result ofselfishness and sin and it should be remedied. 
Notre Dame is called to be a place where people do learn that there is suffering in this world which is the result ofsin and injustice. Notre Dame is called to be a place where the sources of this kind of suffering are continually exposed. More than that, Notre Dame is to be a place where we commit ourselves to try to be part of the solution, whether that be as a businessperson, a teacher, a scientist, a politician, a priest, a brother, or a sister. Notre Dame is a place .of reason, where people are called to use reason, out of faith in God, to remedy suffering that can be remedied. 
The Way of the Cross reminds us that some suffering in this world remains a mystery. 
Notre Dame is called to be a place where, instead of throwing up our hands in resignation, we are called to enter this world with compassion and hope. We may not be able to solve every problem, but being with and siding with those who suffer makes a broken world a little less broken. 
The cross is the sign of hope. The cross reminds us that suffering will not have the last word. 
The cross is the sign that God suffers with those who suffer unjustly and inexplicably. But, the cross also leads to the resurrection, the great sign that somehow all this suffering will not have the last word. God will. 
May carrying the cross at Notre Dame help us to face the reality ofsuffering in our world and enter into it with hope. -Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS: Tuesday, April 2 Beginning at the Grotto at 7:00p.m. ALL WELCOME! 
CONFESSIONS 
to follow at approximately I 0:00 p.m. in Basilica 


BAFOCHI 
Ballet Foll{ori&o de Chile 
a chilean dance group that will perform on Wednesday, April 10 at 7:00p.m. at Stepan Center Students: $2.00 
ALL ARE WELCOME !! 
Fridays at 12:15--1:00 p.m. 2nd Floor South Dining Hall 
PASSION • PALM SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica  
Sat. March 30 Sun. March 31  5:00 p.m 10:00 a.m. 12:00 noon  Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. Most Rev. Joseph Crowley, D.O. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C.  

Sunday Vespers 
Sun. March 31 7:15pm Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
----~~-~­

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 28, 1996 


Bell Brownfields teach environmental lesson 
continued from page 1 
relationship between family background and other environmental factors and future socio-economic status," she continued. 
Swindler assigned Herrnstein and Murray's study to their "personal obsession with the 'eliteness' of elite people." She contended that "inequality is not due to genetic traits. [Rather]. our intelligence is deeply socially conditioned." 
Swindler supported her claim by citing historical fluc­tuations of inequality in America which she later attrib­uted "not due to a concurrently fluctuating gene pool but to transformations in the econo­my and economic policies." 
"We generate vast levels of inequality through many ways, one being an unwillingness to be responsible," she said. "The wealthy have no conception of the responsibility of giving something back to the society that allowed them to accumu­late their wealth." 
She also saw other economic policies as contributing to !he state of socio-economic inequality. "Since 1974 we have witnessed the complete collapse of social policy spend­
By JOSEPH HENDERSON 
NewsWri1er 
One of the most difficult problems facing cities today involves the environmental, legal, and social implications of the rede­velopment of brownfields -urban waste­lands of closed and rotting buildings or fac­tories left behind for the public to take care of. 
This dilemma was the focus of a discussion Wednesday night, the third in a series of events spon­sored by the Environmental Law Society celebrating Earth Week at Notre Dame. 
The discussion, "Seeking Environmental Justice: A Panel Discussion on Brownfield Policy," featured U.S. E.P.A. Attorney Michael Anastasio, Notre Dame economics Professor Dennis Goulet, South Bend Chief Assistant City Attorney Jenny Pittsmanier, American Bar Association Brownfields Policy Representative Eugene Smary, and Executive Director Doreen Carey of the Grand Calumet Task Force. 
Brownfields are abandoned areas of cities businesses no longer view as practi­cal to invest in -as opposed to greenfields, which are fresh sites outside the city. 
Anastasio opened describing brownfields as sites that businesses would avoid both in order to avoid the cost of cleanup and for fear of prosecution by the E.P.A. for conta­mination already there. The problem, he said, was "how to protect public health and environmental health and promote redevel­opment." 
He described the E.P.A.'s trifurcate role in this as one empowering communities to clean up the sites; agreeing with prospec­tive purchasers not to prosecute for waste that was there when they bought the site; and clarifying the law so that purchasers would not be afraid of buying. 

Goulet showed that the problem of brownfields began because of the mistak­ing of economic development for human development. He argued that the process most people think of as development looks only at the immediate and personal costs and returns while failing to consider both social and environmental concerns and the "hidden costs" of the action. 
At heart, it is a problem of developing new land versus redeveloping old land. 
Pittsmanier described the process of redevelopment in the city of South Bend and illustrated with the example of the Studebaker Quarter redevelopment and the city's role in financing redevelopment and condemning sites in blighted areas for pub­lic purpose. The main problem, she explained, was "Who pays?" Smary de­scribed some of the ways in which the problems of liability of potential purchasers is handled in Michigan, where his firm is located. Businesses are "liable if they are responsible," that is, if they did it, they clean it up. 

Carey brought up another point: in approaching environmental jus­tice, it is essential that the commu­nity become involved. She elaborat­ed by detailing her involvement in the E.P.A.'s Common Sense Initia­tive. The first point of this grass­roots movement she relayed was "Identify or establish an appropri­ate local-based authority to oversee the Brownfield Redevelopment 
Project and ensure public partici­
pation and decision making throughout the process." She belabored that the most important point is community volun­teerism. 
Goulet addressed the problem of the cost of cleanup and redevelopment as opposed to development of new sites, by stating that "Developing greenfields is producing future brownfields." It costs less immediately to develop new land, but in the end it is only "deferring costs" to the next generation. 
She stressed that her audience remember that while society can ignore the problem and build around it, it does not go away and it is they who must eventually deal with the problems. 
ing to enhance America's infrastructure. In California we now spend as much on prisons as we do on schools -a ratio that has steadily increased since the seventies." 
"Our basic ideology is that we own ourselves -that our intelligence comes from within. But we do not own ourselves. Our intelligence is attributed to us by our society and our envi­ronment -it is deeply socially conditioned," she explained. 
Swindler is publishing her own book in collaboration with five other authors titled "Inequality by Design: Cracking the Bell Curve Myth," which is due to be released sometime in June by the Princeton University Press. 
NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
The planning meeting for the final issue of the 
NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
will be held 


Thursday, 184 Nieuwland 
6:30 
PM 

Anyone interested in submitting an article or assisting in any part of the production of this publication is encouraged to attend. If you are interested in becoming a part of our organization but 



DeadlinE-: 
April 3 


Dr. Barry Richards:on 
from : 
The Medical College of Ohio 
~ 

will speak on 
cannot attend the meeting, please contact us 

Affirmative~
by one of the following methods: 





Action Medicine
e-mail: scienceq@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
$ $ ~ $ # ~ $ # ~ $ # ~ $ $ ~ $ $ ~ $ # ~ # # ~ $ $ ~ $ # ~ $ # 
phone: 1-5757 


Thursday, March 28th $ 
in person: 238 Nieuwland Science Hall 

7:00 to 8:00p.m. 
ALL ARE WELCOME 


Rm. 117 DeBartolo 

~..................~r-·~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 28, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Living history important to Asian-American vision 
By KELLY BROOKS history," Inada explained. News Writer Inada shared the feelings of guilt he harbored from the in­
Life is about journeys, jour­ternment. "If someone at neys through which people de­school mentioned World War velop their different and as­II, I wasn't there the next day. sorted visions that compose the I think I felt that I caused the landscape of America. So said camp. I felt guilty," he said. Professor Lawson Inada in his "It made me feel better to think reflections for Asian-American that it fit into the American Heritage Week last night. landscape. I've been dealing 
"In our community, because with camps almost everyday of of the way history has been to my life. I see things that re­us, we don't want to stand up mind me of the camps." and be counted. [But) we can't In addition to reading poems let our history fade into the from "Legends From Camp," background either," Inada Inada took his audience on a pointed out. cross-country trip along Inter­
"It's not about us and them. state 80 by opening an atlas By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN you want you really want to problem was of such an indi­This is America which is so and following 1-80 through to Nows Writer do,"' he explained. vidual nature as to be difficult mobile. Identity is so easy to California while pointing out 
However, there is also a re­to determine outside of a case­change." Asian-American spots of inter­
The autonomy to choose the sponsibility on the part of the by case basis. "Individualism lnada was interned with est. option of suicide cannot be patient not to put the physician always wins in American poli­other Japanese-Americans dur­"This is a vision in a geo­usurped when considering in the position where he has to tics. People are going to focus ing World War II in Colorado graphic sense. The further physician-assisted suicide laws, choose. "The right to refuse is on what they want for them­and Arkansas. An accom­west you go, you get into Asian­aecording to a panel discussion different from the right to de­selves," said McDonnell. plished poet and winner of the American territory," lnada last night. mand," said John Robinson, a This discussion was the American Book Award, Inada stated. 
"There are different situa­professor of law and philosophy fourth in a series of seven spon­draws the material for his liter­He pointed out Chicago, tions to be considered here, a at Notre Dame, "The patient sored by the South Bend Center ary work from his experiences. where his father was released patient who is physically able to should not have the right to for Medical Education, the pur­His latest book, "Legends From from internment to work in a do it himself. but asks the doc­demand something of the doc­pose of which is to educate the Camp," focuses exclusively on bullet factory. The bullets were tor for help, financial problems, tor that causes him to lose his community on current medical his internment experiences. sent to the South Pacific where and physical inability to commit integrity. The doctor only loses issues. "What I try to do with the lnada had relatives serving in suiddn," said Dr. Gary Fromm, his integrity when he becomes Dr. Fromm is the chairperson camp experience -especially the American military. While a pulmonary specialist. formally involved in the suicide of the Memorial Hospital Medi­with younger kids, it's like I'm lnada and other family mem­
"Paternalism is the mortal sin attempt." cal Ethics Committee and or­talking about Jurassic Park -bers remained in camps, family hnre," said Kevin McDonnell, The panel responded to ques­ganizes lectures for the South is to make them realize that it's members were lighting in Italy professor of philosophy at Saint tions about making generalized Bend Center for Medical Educa­something that's living, not and Germany and were liberat­Mary's. lie indicated that the rules on physician-assisted sui­tion. McDonnell also serves on something in the past," Inada ing Paris and Dachau. ehoiees for or against suicide cide laws by noting that in over the Memorial Hospital Medical revealed. Inada went on to paint a new had to be made by the patient 30 states, assisted suicide laws Ethics Committee and is an ad­"It represents some aspect of vision of the map across the alone. and that the doctor had have been passed or are being junct professor of medical America when you look at the country, highlighting Cheyenne, to respect the decision of the considered. "Neither suicide ethics at the South Bend Center broader perspective. It's part horne of the largest trial of so­patient as a reasonable, adult nor attempted suicide is illegal for Medical Education. Robin­of history. Part of Columbus. called resistors to internment decision. "We cannot simply anywhere in the country," said son is the director of the Part of European expansion .... camps, and Heart Mountain, say, 'You say this, but we know Robinson. Thomas J. White Center On The camp fits into the interna­the internment camp where you don't mean it. I will tell The panel agreed that the Law and Government. tional and American scope of they resisted relocation. 
The Blacl~ Law Students 
Association of Notre Dame 
Law School 
presents 

"Bridging the Racial Divide in America" 
featuring 
Derricl~ Bell 

Professor of Law, New Yorl~ University Law School 
The Black Law Students Association is pleased to invite you to hear Professor Bell, a well-known and highly respected legal scholar and former Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and Dean of the University of Oregon Law School. Professor Bell left Harvard after serving on the faculty for eighteen years and the University of Oregon for the schools' refusals to hire and tenure women of color and other minority applicants to faculty positions. Professor Bell is the author of four books on the law, his most recent being, Confronting Authority: Reflections of an Ardent Protester. 
All are welcome to attend and are encouraged to join us on: 
Date: Saturday, March 30, 1996 Time:4:00, PM Place:Hesburgh Auditorium, 
University of Notre Dame 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thurj(iay, March 28, 1996 

PROFILE 
avoids aid de 
::.)jj;-t,.~; :.'. :::~.::::'.·:~%:::-. . : 
"'''<<' . . '''"'''h .
Saint Mary's started the PROFILE Analysis when it switched its name from the Financial Aid Form to PROFILE. The PROFILE process is available as e~!.'lY as November;;& J ' · 
The Financial Aid Office has been making awards primarily to new students because or its early availibil~ 
ity. {; ~H;/'h!;, "For upperclass students, we really start to roll our awards out to them right after May because we wait until final grades are in and the final budget is done. I don't really anticipate any significant processing prob· lems," said Nucciarone. 

Explosion rocks Portage steel mill 
Yesterday's blast kills three, 
. . .
tn]ures nzne 
By NANCY ARMOUR Associated Press 
PORTAGE, Ind. 

A high-pressure tank ex­ploded at a steel mill Wednes­day, killing three workers and hurling metal siding and other debris a quarter-mile away. Nine workers were injured, one seriously. 
The cause of the blast at the Beta Steel Corp. plant wasn't clear. Workers said a supervi­sor had been warned Monday that the tank had been leaking. The company also had a history of safety violations, according to state records. 
"All of a sudden there was a huge explosion, like a time bomb," said Lee Spitka, a su­pervisor at Beta Steel 30 miles southeast of Chicago. "People were just running all over the place. They were scattering·be­cause they didn't know what 
Center 
was going to fall next." 
.Kevin Myers, who was killed, had complained about the tank in a written report to a supervi­sor Monday, said a worker who asked not to be identified. Someone welded the tank Monday to keep it from leaking, workers said. 
"We were worried about it, but they assured us it was safe," one man said. 
About 50 to 60 employees were in the mill at the time. But because of a shift change, most were not on the production floor. 
The explosion ripped through a corner of the building, tore gaping holes in a three-story wall and hurled 1 0-by-15-foot sheets of metal siding into the parking lot. 
Spitka said the explosion was in a basement tank that con­tained either water or hy­draulic fluid under high pres­sure. The company would not say what blew up, only that it happened in or near the descal­ing accumulation tank, where water to clean hot-rolled steel is kept under high pressure. 
Beta Vice President Grant 
Ruthizer said he had not heard of a complaint from Myers. He said the only complaints from Indiana's Occupational Safety and Health Administration that he was aware of had been "very minor." 
However, Indiana OSHA records show 16 serious viola­tions over the past three years and $18,400 in fines. In almost every case the fines were cut in half when the company took corrective action. 
State investigators were on the scene, as were agents of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, To­bacco and Firearms. 
"We're looking at several dif­ferent things. We just don't know right now," police Sgt. John Rogers said. 
Myers, 36, Mario Ortiz, 25, and Dennis Janiscewski, 37, were killed. The men worked with the high pressure tank suspected in the explosion. 
Another employee was in se­rious condition with broken bones and internal injuries. 
Beta Steel takes steel pro­duced elsewhere and shapes it into coils and other products for manufacturers. 

The mill, with about 250 em­ployees, opened four years ago in an industrial park on Lake Michigan about five miles east of Gary. 

GlobaJ. Gifts 
Marc/1 27,2lJ,2!J 
nun-profit
ur.s !J:.uu-Gpw 
Friday, March 29, 1996: The Midwest's #1 Rock-n-Roll All-Original Party Band 
They're wacky, they're wild, and they can only be seen at Michiana's Largest Nightclub: 
HEARTLAND 
Come early and dance the night away with some of the hottest DJ music around! Doors open at 7:00 p.m. Band starts at 10:45 p.m. Appetizers served all night. 

UNDERGRADUATES 
Academic Advising Survey 
Please Return to the Social Research Lab 
Deadline: March 29, 1996 
This survey is important for yourfuture. 

--------~---------~--~~­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 28, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME Omn: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: .309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Eli?<tbeth Foran M;lflaging Editors Husiness Manager P .uril:ia Carson Man Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................1\rad Pr<ndergasr Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Vic:wpoint Editor .................. McJghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters 
Spuns Editor .................... .Timothy Sherman fJroduction Manager.......................Tara Gries hop A<ccnt Editor ........................... juey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................ Carolin(' Hlum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor . . .................Mi<hael Ruma 
The Oh,erver i' the independent newspaper published hy the srudents of the Unive"ity of Notre 
ll.unt• du Lat.. .uuJ SJint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily rdkct the policies of rht" administra­tion of c:uher im.riuuuHt. The nt'W~ is rt'portcd as an:urardy and objc.-t:rivdy as pm.siblc. Unsigned edi­tnrioll\ rqm:!IC'IH the opinion of rite majuriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Ace<rll Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Maty's Editor. ( :ommctllarics, letter!~ and Imide Columns present the views of the authors, and not net:essarily rhose of The Oh.\ervcr. Viewpoint i!ipacc is available to all nu·mbers of the None Dame/Saint Mary's com­rnuniry .md ro all rc;u.Jer~. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leuers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-(:hicf 631-4542 Business Ofllce 631-5313 Mana~ing Editor/Vicwpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spon.\ 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 New,./Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 [)Jy Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoim E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Cencrallnform.uion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@clarwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A call for the art ofperceiving irony 
Dear Editor: 

Though I am glad that the writer of the article about the Nazz attempted to be fair about the performances, not falling into the 'popularity contest' trap that many, includ­ing tlw nstemned judges, appeared to find thmnselves susceptible to, I have to take exception at the characterization he made of sonw of my lyrics. Apparently the writer pnrcnived some of my sung (screamed'!) words as gratuitous, specifically a series of "blankntyblank-you"s in the song "The Liar at Work." 
I ran see how these could appear gratu­itous and shocky-schloeky to someone who donsn't know the lyrics of the song and is awarn of the somewhat deserved reputa­tion I have for being, shall we say, forth­coming with my opinions. However, I assure you that these aforementioned 'blue' words urn by no means gratuitous. They arn a part of tlw lyrics of the song and are tlwrn ti>r a n~ason int1~gral to the song (as is every word that I put into an emiLy song). 
The afore nw n t i o ned vu I gari ties are dimrtml partially at myself, partially at my music, and partially at my library. The lyrics of that sedion of the song are "This is it/ this is.../ this is intellectuaV ! you ! you ! you// this is intnllignnce/ put to waste/ another word for philosophy/ this is dPspair." (the '!'s standing in for that noto­riously popular sex rPI'erent). Now, before all you philosophy majors get out your poi­soned dialectical wrenches and come over to my house late at night with injurious intent, let me elaborate on these lyrics: I am a philosophy graduate and I will be attnnding graduate school in philosophy rwxt year, so obviously I am not disparag­ing tlw great enterprise of philosophical inquiry, as a cursory reading of the text might suggest. The song is my own mer<~u­rial rnsponse to myself as philosopher-to­he: thn vulgarities are written sous ralure ("under erasure," meaning that I write llwm and erase them at the same time as rwcnssary but inaccurate words) in a sense, and should he read with all their rhetorical, physical, and arche-typal connotations intad (and then delaclzed). 
This l1~ads me into the purpose of this let­ter, aside from defending tlw dignity of my craft from misinterpretation (assumptions are dangerous without a healthy sense of play): I wish to call for a revival of the art of perceiving irony. To be able to take something seriously and not-seriously at the same time. To refuse to take things at face value, not go with the first gut response ("oh my god he's cussing!") and turn it into an ofT-the-cuff interpretation of a person's outlook or stance. In emiLy's case, I don't think it's unreasonable to expect the audience to engage with the music that we lovingly craft (I'm only being slightly ironic here) enough, at least, that they understand that we are not terribly into 'face values' and that if the lyric says 'f~-you,' those words are them for a rea­son, and should be considered along with the song as a whole, and not assumed to be a puerile excuse to cuss through a public address system. 
I understand that this is kind of a long winded response to a throwaway sentiment in an article, a gut response. I would usu­ally just laugh something like this off and get on with it. However, I felt that it should be responded to because it shows clearly a large problem at Notre Dame (and, I'm sure, many other places): the inability, or lack of desire to engage with music on a more than surface level, and the tendency to stereotype bands and musicians based on the type of music they play, making assumptions about their motivation and purposes. I'm also writing because I still have some faith in the ability of Notre Dame students to cultivate a more so­phisticated response to music and ideas that are not comfortably mainstream and straightforward. Otherwise, I would have stopped trying a long time ago. 
Oh, and you were absolutely right, Tweak was robbed. They play some of the most original, most finely crafted music I've heard on this campus since Chisel. I call upon the bands that 'won' Nazz to either give their money to Tweak, or throw a party with it and invite them to perform. (There is not an ironic bone in this para­graph.) 
JOE CANNON ND'94 
Defending a friend 
Dear Editor: 
Throughout high school, I did a lot of writing for the newspaper. Writing became my favorite way of expressing myself. Then, when I came to Notre Dame, I decided to give up writing for the public to pursue other interests, despite still doing a lot of writing for myself. 
However, I can no longer allow my pen to remain silent. Someone, I feel, must stand up and defend this University. Day after day, I hear peo­ple say that they can't wait to get out of "this place", and I read com­plaints in The Observer about the supposed shortcomings of this University. Each time. my heart grows a little heavier. To remain silent now would be to fail to rescue a friend in her time of need. 
What makes me saddest is my fear that these people will never realizt~ what they have had here until it has ended. Until they experience what It means to face the possibility of going to a mediocre job, coming home to an empty apartment, realizing that the wonder of "real life" isn't so won­derful after all, and remembering how it used to be so simple when they were surrounded by so many supportive people. 
Would it mean anything to you to know how many people would give anything to come here, only to be denied due to health, financial, or acad­emic problems? What about Gary Paschall, who fought cancer in the trenches just to have one year at Notre Dame? That was all he wanted. But even that was too much. 
I understand that Notre Dame has its problems -no university can be perfect. The only ones that seem so are the ones where you are not. And I realize that not everyone has had the experience I have had while here. It's difficult for me to imagine what life could have beeit like at another university. Two years ago, when a close family member took ill, my roc­tress arranged for a priest to take me home. I had rarely talked to my rectress. and I had never met the priest, but that was beside the point. They saw someone in need, and they answered the call. Letters came from my professors, Lou Holtz, and countless friends. They all rnllied to my family's side. This , for me, is Notre Dame. Would this have happened at any large-scale, "free" university'! Would anyone have cared that much about my pain? Would anyone have even known'? It was then that I realized the power of the Notre Dame family. People I didn 'l even know cared; I had never before been the subject of such an outpouring of love. 
I never considered the opportunity to go to Notre Dame my birthright. For me, it was a privilege I had sought for years. Now I know that God had reasons for me to go here that I could not have possibly known back then. 
I know that many students have different opinions from my own. In fact I know that even certain friends of mine will read this and say"Th~re she goes again... she is so content never to question, so blinded by­her Jove for this place." Believe me, I do question. I do hear your com­plaints. 
I challenge you, for once, to look and see the good-before it's too late. 
DIANE GILL Senior Howard Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• DooNESBURY 


"When we lose the right to be different, we lose the privilege to be free." 
-Charles Evans Hughes 

page 10 Thursday, March 28, 1996 

THE GRIFTERS 

Ain't My Lookout 
M 
emphis, Tennessee isn't exactly the place one would expect much modern rock to come from, especially with Memphis' legendary status in the old-time music circles. However, The Grifters, home-grown boys that they are, are able to successfully incorporate elements of the blues and bygone country music into their guitar-driven sound to deliver a rather impressive collection of tracks on Ain't My Lookout. 
There is a so-called "new" genre of music in which The Grifters are supposedly preeminent players (along with Wilco and Son Volt) which is known to many as "country rock." What is it exactly? It seems to incorporate arrangements which are supposedly simpler than other styles. Acoustic and pedal steel guitars and fiddles are used less sparingly than in pure pop music, and listeners should basically feel like they're listening to a hardened rural resident serenading his cows, or something like that. 
The Grifters don't evoke those feelings exactly, but they do come a lot closer to the feel of Hank Williams and Johnny Cash than many of today's modern country superstars. Songs 

(out of five) 

such as "Day Shift" beat today's Tim McGraw two-steppin' clones to the real country finish line by more than a stone's throw. Much of the credit is due to David Easley, proprietor of Easley Studios in Memphis (Pavement and Guided By Voices, among others) and Davis McCain, Easley's co-producer. 
This album isn't for everyone, as the lyrical ambiguities set forth by The Grifters would probably mystify most careless lis­teners. However, the instrumental interplay is intriguing and fun to follow, as many of the songs feature odd time signa­tures and irregular basslines, and "My Apology" gives the gui­tarists a chance to show off their acoustic talents. 
This is not to say that The Grifters can't write a stellar stan­dard radio-friendly song, though. "Pretty Notes," the best song on the album, is a haunting ballad with touching lyrics revolving around a dysfunctional relationship. It is atypical of the overall sound of the album, but if one can appreciate a slight change of pace from the angst-ridden loudness and dis­tortion of today's modern rock, The Grifters might be the rem­edy to those Garth blues. 
-by Dominic DeVito 

· ·>. 
POLVO This Eclipse 

(out of five) 

P 
olvo is one of the most technically intricate and com­line that melts into a dreamy melody. Likewise, the instru­plex bands in America. However, unlike an over-your­mental "Title Track" drifts like a summer breeze... only head complex band, such as Pitchblend or Don there's a slight foul smell upwind. Just when the next note 
s e 

Caballero, or a quirky, complex band like the Archers of Loaf, seems predictable, Polvo drops it an octave or skews the Polvo maintains a steadfast pop sensibility and melodic vocal entire piece with an off note. But after a listen, you wonder styling polished enough for the masses to pass the most inten­why no one's tried it before. sive ROTC inspection. The other two tracks are less impressive in scale. "Titan 
The first two songs alone on This Eclipse are strong enough Up" and "Production Values" return Polvo to their days of to make the stingiest critics' top ten lists. "Bat Radar" packs Atari noise pop. "Titan Up" bears the strongest resemblance more time changes and hooks than most bands are likely ac­to other North Carolinian peers of Polvo, such as Archers of complish in a career. The guitar line alone sticks in your head Loaf, and stands as one of the pop-iest songs in the Polvo like gum in hair, only you don't care because it's so darn songbook. sweet. With a rhythm section tighter than a Manhattan sub­The technical perfection on each This Eclipse song sounds way at rush hour, Polvo stakes its claim for the best indie­as if perfected with lengthy mathematical equations during band in the land deep into the heart of the myriad of unorigi­long hours in a lab. If This Eclipse is any sign of their forth­nal, vampiric bands floating on the airwaves. coming double LP, look for Polvo to leave all other bands in 
"Bombs That Fall From Your Eyes" stop-starts with a bot­the dust. tom-dwelling baseline laid over with a finger-sliding guitar -by Brent DiCrescenzo 
Courtesy Merge Records 

up IAngelique Kidjo I
Tracks ToP 1 Q 
.=am~.,~ 
1. Beatles Anthology 

and Queen ofAfrofunk
2. Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 
ne of Africa's music. Africa is a
3. Sting -Mercury Falling 

musical super­whole continent, it is
4. Kenny Shepherd -Ledbetter 

stars, Angelique not just a country. I
coming O 
5. Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning 
o has just released hear all these differ­her fourth album, Fifa. In between mouthfuls of pop­ent sounds and I put corn, the Beninoise funk diva spoke to Tim Bayne them together with
Glory? 
6. Surrender to the Air -self-titled 

about the tour, the album, and African music. my life experiences.
7. Los Lobos-Colossal Head 
You can't put my

TB: What sort of show can we expect on Friday? music in one catego­AK: The same sort of show that we always put on: ry, and say it is this Courtesy Mango Records 
8. Barenaked Ladies -Born On a Pirate 
Ship 

high-energy, lots of dancing, a very fun show. We will or that. I'm not trying to create one style, I mix every­
9. Spacehog -Resident Alien 

have a large band with us, with musicians from every­thing together. 
where; not only Africans but Americans and Europeans. TB: Do you think of yourself as a cultural ambassador 
10. Adam Sandler-What the Hell 
Happened to Me 

for Benin? it© TB: Santana Pl~Y~\i!iS . .Pffi.fa. J\JC~l ititU'ta cultural am;bassad.otfor the world. I am not 
'Nalma' -howFilidrt •m.: cowe lU:~.!Ji9P't ~enfn or ft9niAfric(\, I am a citizen of the
about? ;>',, "' . <~ 
w6rld. My music is for evceryone:<·
AK: He asked me to tdut with him in '95 which I did, 
1. Bad Religion -The Gray Race 

and that worked out well. So when I was recording Fifa TB: What are your plans for the future? 
2. Presidents of the U.S.A. -selftitled 
I thought it would be nice to have him play on 'Nalma'. AK: I don't know the future, I'm not God. I just want to 
3. Velocity Girl -Gilded Stars and Zealous 
live my life and play my music and practice my spiritu­TB: Some people might say that Fifa is not an African ality. I enjoy what I do, and I want to keep doing it. 
Hearts 

album, that Angelique Kidjo is not an African musician 
4. Pulp -Different Class 

anymore. What would you say to that? TB: What sort of future does African music have? 
AK: What I want to know is, who is speaking? Who is AK: The question for me is, 'What sort of future does saying this? A white man or a black man? music have?' And there must be music, for without 
5. 
Siberia -Damage 

6. 
Possum Dixon -Star Maps 



music there is no life. We have to produce music for 
. 7. Too Much Joy-...finally 
TB: Suppose an African person says this. the sake of the children. We have to overcome the divi­
8. Tori Amos -Boys for Pete 

AK: Th-.;n I would ask them as an African person what sions that exist in this world. One way we can do that is 
music they were listening to when they were growing through music. 
9. Tripmaster Monkey -Practice Changes 
up. Were they just listening to traditional music, or 
Angelique Kidjo is playing at Chicago's "The Wild Hare 
10. Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning 
were they also listening to other sounds, to James 
& Singing Armadillo Frog Sanctuary" on March 29. 
Brown, to Santana, to salsa? Who is to say what African music is? I don't tell Americans to play country -by Tim Bayne
Glory? 



JIM YRIP 

Way Past Blue 
M 
any music listeners think that mope rock, as per­fected by the Cure, was the introduction of darkness to contemporary music. The Cure is dark, true enough, but the blues is Dark-caps intended. Morrissey sings about very tangible troubles, but an intangible darkness per­vades the blues; a fear of sin and retribution rather than redemption. 
Guitarist Jimmy Rip, perhaps better known for his work with Mick Jagger, has released a new album of blues, Way Past Blue. The straightforward title reflects the spirit of the album: no b.s. allowed. With spare production, Rip and the boys get by on guts alone, and the results are sterling. 
Many see the blues as unchanging, but that is not so. Way Past Blue echoes the chord progressions and themes of blues through the ages, but tribute to the greats is part of the game. Besides, Rip has a guitar and lyric style all his own. He avoids strict 1-4-5 chord structures, and his lyrics tend to be more poetic than some blues lyrics. 
While he has a capable backing band, the album is largely 

(out of five) 

Rip's, who plays all instruments on many songs. His playing style ranges from bottleneck on "Snake Eyes" to a more lush, piano-like sound on the title track. In between is a delightfully gritty sound that evokes the sights and smells of a smoky bar or a stifling summer night in the deep South. 
The overall sound of the album is versatile as well. Rip croaks an a rappella line into the opener, "It's Goin' Round," before the band rips into a slow, grinding tune of bad luck on the way. From there, an uptempo cover of Willie Dixon's "Close To You" and a rock-flavored original, "Cold Comfort," keep the listener guessing. 
What really makes the album go, though, is what makes any strong blues go: atmosphere. Rip's lyrics are full of allu­sions to gambling, gypsy women, and other taboos. There are no tales of sin and redemption here; Rip writes and plays like Satan himself will get on the bus at the next stop. Call it "music for the fallen." Everyone experiences this stuff: Jimmy Rip has expressed it masterfully. 
-by Kevin Dolan 



Thursday, March 28, 1996 
page 11 
Expressions of cultural heritage 
Lulac brings their "Latin Expressions" to Stepan Center. 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO involving the whole community," affirms Robledo. In addition, other universities A"i't.tnt Accent Editor have been invited to come to Notre Dame for the event. Some of these universities are even bringing acts which will help make up the 16 student performances com­
H
ow ol'tnn do you express your ethnieity? Are you of English, Chinese, Italian, prising the program. Cuban. Hussian or one of the hundreds of other backgrounds? llow ol'len do Lulac does not limit its involvenwnt on campus to the show. although "Latin you toll your friends about your family's traditions? llow often do you get the Expressions" is considered one of their most important events. They join in srweral opportunity to show your pride in your heritage? With the possible exception of the activities with HAO and NHI, other Latino student groups here on campus. Lulac laq.((~ Irish population, tlw cultural backgrounds of students are not normally also puts together programs and events for Hispanic li(~ritage Month as well as cele­mnphasiz(~d lwn~ at Notr(~ Dame and Saint Mary's. llowever, ethnic student groups brating many Latino holidays, such as La Dia De Los Muertos (All Souls Day). In and dubs on campus are working towards alleviating this problem and students are addition, they bring many speakers to campus and hold a movie festival. allmnpting to bring all of us together in understanding of each other's cultures, As for "Latin Expressions," this year's upgrade brought the need for a lot of whit(~ at tlw samn timH lnarning about their own. "Latin Expressions," a "variety hard work by all of its members. Lulac takes care of the production, advertising, show" of sorts, highlights danees, skits, poetry and songs having to do with the funding, selection of acts and all of the other tasks which go into a production of this Latino culturn. The show is organized each year by Lulae, an on-campus Latino size. Normally, Lulac would have put on the show completely on their own, but political organization. because of the scope of the event this year, it enlisted the aid of Student Union 
This year's program promises to be bigger and better than last year's show. "We Board. Student overseers of the production, including Robledo, also agreed to do a am upgrading it in evnry way." commented Danny Hobledo, one of the event's orga­television interview about the show for a local TV station interested in the fact that nizers. Last y(lar it was held in the Library Auditorium, which seats 300 to 400 peo­Lulac invited the South Bend community to attend, bringing the college community pln. This proved too small a vehicle for the popular show, necessitating a move to a together with the residential community. different locale. The inerease in the size of the show brought with it a 10 to 15 times "Latin Expressions" promises to be an exciting and entertaining experience. It incrnasn in the show's budget from last year which allowed for the change of loca­allows spectators and participants alike to learn about and celebrate the Latino cul­tion to Stepan Center. In additiorr, the event will now be semi-formal, in keeping ture. In our isolated South Bend community we have the tendency to become a bit with tlw show's augmentation. homogeneous. Events like "Latin Expressions," or those sponsored by the other eth­
Tlw grandn finale of this year's program will be a performance by Kid Frost, a nic organizations on campus, are a chance to bring diversity to a campus which is Mnxiean rappnr who is espeeially popular among the Latino community. llis songs sometimes lacking. More importantly, they give us an education we just cannot get promote pride in his Mexican eulture and speak out against gang violence. "It's a inside a classroom. mal positive message," says Hobledo. "That's probably the reason the school let him come." Hobledo feels that the performance will draw a huge crowd to the show, and "Latin Expressions" will be held on Friday, March 29, at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. all involved are very excited about the rapper's part in the show. Tickets are five dollars for students and eight dollars for the public. Tickets are 
"Latin Exprnssions" is not solely for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's populations. available at LaFortune Student Center. and may also be purchased by calling All of South Bend is encouraged to attend and the group is hoping to see community LaFortune and using your credit card. support. esJWcially from the West Side whieh has many Latino residents. "We're 
• fATMAN AND DADDY 
Fatman and Daddy's
Five bands for five bucks? 
Take on the Morrissey
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Editor 
Film Festival 
F
ive bands for just five bucks? Will the insanity ever end? Tonight, South Rend, Indiana beeomes a temporary 
Daddy: On the way back from Cannes the Fatman and I
home for a group of young punk rock-were lucky enough to catch a more petite, though no lessers from Michigan and Illinois. 
impressive, film festival that bears the name of one of the more
First came Woodstock, then came 
antiquated and dank dormitories that populate the Notre DameLollapalooza and li.O.H.D.E., now the South campus. As you may have feared, it is once again time for theBend area continues to rock the tradition Morrissey Film Festival. a jovial gathering of pretensions open towith its first all ages show. The South Bend any individual with a dash of tenacity and the ability to activateState Theater (right across from Heartland a camcorder. This year, in a movtl indicative of incredible bril­for the country music fans out there) houses liance and unrivaled cinematic savvy, the gentile folks at thethe Hegional Musie Showcase, which offers M.fl.F. invited the Fatman and I to join the already impressive live up-and-coming·bands from Notre Dame judging panel. My presence was reqm~sted to gain access to myand Saint Mary's' own backyard. The show keen insight and devastating wit, while the Fatman wa..c;; invitedwill provide a full cash bar for those who are in order to physically "round-out" the jury. 
not satisfied to merely see some true talent It would be a classic understatement to say wt~ meroly likedand who aren't quite ready to give up every­these campy flicks, just as it would be tremendous hyperbole tothing they associate with a Thursday night. 
claim that we really enjoyed them. In any event, we were unde­The concert features five bands under the niably surprised by their inherent inventiveness and their time­Full Range Productions/ Hattlehead label of less charms. While the secreey of the balloting process prohibits St. Joseph, Michigan. Brian Bavito, the owner us from mentioning (or actually reviewing) any partieular piecesof the production label, founded the Regional by name, I can personally guarantee that a trip to this year'sMusic Showcase to outlet new bands. "The M.F.F. will allow you to see filmed entertainment that is, at the ~~..~~~~~~~~~'ij_==~~~:::J South Bend area bars and clubs tend to over-very least, a lot better than anything Rob Lowe or Tanya~ look original bands and choose the 'more Harding has produced recently. In conclusion, I can only urge
popular' cover bands," Bavito explains. 
each and every one of the students (and the crusty old faculty as"Tlwm is a lot of talent out there, finding a showcase for them is the difficult part." And thus the well) to go out this Thursday night and bear witness to a little bit concnpt of' thn Hegional Music Showcase was conceived. "It offers a chance to try to come togeth­of art. While you're doing that. you might as well go to thenr and just havn a good time," Bavito adds. 
Morrissey Film Festival as well.
Tlw fivn bands highlighting tonight's. festival tend to lean towards the punk rock genre. Loud 
•

guitars, screaming, and lots of high energy music eharacterize the venue. The bands include The Fatman: Tonight, at 7:30, in the most embarrassing build­Mushroom llnad Experience, Arnold, Nathan's Hoom, Double Wide, and Section. 
ing on campus, the Morrissey Film Festival comes to you cultur­Arnold, a band from Kalamazoo, perform some eatchy pop on their self-titled CD. They seem to ally depraved denizens of Notre Dame. In spite of any reserva·just want to break out of its shell and turn out barrage of piercing guitars and a tirade of drums. 
tions that you might have -ohhhh, poor baby got some home­Tlwir self-titled album seems a bit restrained, but they are sure to lose some of these inhibitions work! -I strongly urge you to show up. People at this school arein front of a live crowd. 
pretty stupid. We know that. But the young lads and lasses whO"lloy!" Nathan's Hoom returns with a bang to the South Bend area. The band, a favorite put together this hour and half of high octane excitenwnt haveamong thn students on the campuses, features former place kicker for the football team and cap­some taste (we helped too). A lot of pretentious and misguidedtain of the soceer team, alumnus Kevin Pendergast. The band is sure to. translate the same ener­thought went into making these brief cookies of entertainment. 
•

gy Pendergast possessed on the field into their music and their performance. 
The least that you can do is come and show your support orTlw hand Double Wide hails from Kalamazoo. Miehigan. Double Wide, combines the ferocity pedestrian wit.
of punk with thn profundity of rock. Their sound strongly resembles those West Coast punk The M.F.F. is much more than just a grouping of student madebands we know and love, yet urn sometimes so tired of hearing about. Hegardless. Double Wide films. It's a show of support for the common man. These are notis a tafnntnd band and promise to be quite entertaining when they take the stage Thursday night. 
bourgeois propaganda flicks put out by some Gucci elad studioThn Mushroom Head Experieneo is from the South Bend area. This band will offer an alterna­executive. No, these are the sweat and alienated labor of stu­tive to tlw vidous punk rock performed by the other acts, bringing to the Showcase a style remi­dents just like yourselves -students who will earry the bannernisnmt of' Llw (;rateful Dead. But make no mistake, Mushroom llead Experience will be perform­of the revolution. Raise up, you apathetic swine and see theing original songs, not Dead-esque covers. 
beginnings of a new world order tonight.
Thn final group of the night is the hard rockin' skateboard punks from Berriend Springs, Like Daddy said, we are not allowed to divulge the closelyMi!:higan, Sm:tion. Their music is extremely violent and full of vigor, reminiscent of the punk guarded secrets of who will show up on screen. What we can tellhands of the 70's, partieularly the Hamones and the Sex Pistols. Ironically, the lead singer of you is that you'll be sure to laugh and cry and maybe e.ven get aSection. l>nan, sounds re1uarkably like former Pistol Johnny Rotten. It is almost uncanny. 
1Htle sick. The :ru.bject matter might range from bugs. to mi.."lad­
,.~••t·~

Tl111 show sturts tonilfht at 7 p.m. and promises to keep the music blaring until the wee hours ventures in shopping. to Daddy and I tangoing in leather thongs. ·of the night. Drag yourself away from your typical Thursday night activities (Bridget's and Senior Come and see this good old working class fun. Then, we'll see 
-

Bar), and support some talented artists who are waiting to make their big break. And don't for­YOU at the movies. 
gel to bring your earplugs, because these guys are loud. 
-~-----------------------------~--~--~,.----~----------------~------.-..,.....~------~~------------------~--~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 28, 1996 


Ryno returns with new attitude After beaning, Puckett 
By MIKE NADEL fortable," he said. ''I'm happy. this season: "That was some­
is free-swinging again 
Associated Press I'm happy playing baseball thing I had to do. I couldn't 
MESA, Ariz. 
Hard one-hoppers. Tricky high-bouncers. Slow rollers. One after another, they find the pocket of Ryne Sandberg's glove. . No drops. No juggles. No "snow cones." When the base­ball hits the glove, there is no loud "thwack." Just the muf­fled "pffft" of a ball softly set­tling into a leather cocoon. 
"Like he never left," Chicago Cubs manager Jim Riggleman said. 
When he retired after 13 major league seasons on June 13, 1994, Ryne Sandberg was the best-fielding second base­man in baseball history. Of every 100 chances to come his way, he handled 99 without er­ror. 
Now Sandberg is back, still looking fit at age 36, and he's brought his golden glove with him. 
Revitalized by a new mar­riage and encouraged by the Cubs' new management group, Sandberg worked out for four months before spring training even began. By the time the exhibition season started, the 1 0-time All-Star said, "I knew what I was doing -and that was a good feeling." 
"I felt very natural, very com-again." 

Sandberg is just one of sever­al high-profile players hoping to make successful comebacks this season. 
Dwight Gooden has joined the New York Yankees 1 1/2 years after a drug-related suspen­sion. Jimmy Key, Bryan Harvey, Eric Davis. John Hudek and Aaron Sele are trying to return from serious injuries. 
But Sandberg is a special case. When he retired 21 months ago because his mar­riage was on the rocks and the Cubs were going nowhere, Sandberg walked away from what was then baseball's rich­est contract. 
In giving up some $7 million a year, Sandberg also gave up a slice of his reputation as a hard-working, never-stop-try­ing ballplayer. 
Suddenly, Ryne Sandberg was a quitter. 
"I was upset, because we really needed him and he just walked away on us," first base­man Mark Grace said. "But only Ryno really knows what was going on in his head. I knew he wasn't having fun. It all just came to a head and he had to get out. I understand now." 
Said Sandberg, who will make $2 million plus incentives worry about what the public thought." 
Publicly, Sandberg said he left mostly because he felt then­Cubs general manager Larry Himes was incompetent. However, his failing marriage and his dispute over the cus­tody of his two children were bigger factors. 
Sandberg made his decision to return to baseball last September. He was in the stands at Wrigley Field and watched with amazement ­and envy -as Chicago surged down the stretch and almost stole a wild-card playoff spot. 
It became evident to Sandberg that the new man­agement team of president Andy MacPhail, GM Ed Lynch and Riggleman could produce a winning team. To Sandberg, the driving force of the Cubs' 1984 and 1989 NL East cham­pionship teams, that was im­perative. 
With his new wife and his new outlook on baseball, the change in Sandberg has been obvious to those who know him. 
"He was the most tense human being I'd ever seen just before he retired," Grace said. "It's nice to see him having fun, joking and relaxing. It's nice to see him enjoying the game of baseball again." 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 
The image still seems so fresh, as unbelievable and frightening now as it was when it happened six months ago. 
As his blood puddled in the Metrodome dirt on Sept. 28. Kirby Puckett writhed in pain after a Dennis Martinez fastball cracked his jaw. Puckett's sea­son was over, and for one very long winter it remained to be seen how the beaning would ef­fect his career. 
Would he start to flinch at pitches that came in too tight? Would it haunt him the way it did Tony Conigliaro and Dickie Thon? 
The answer. at least through most of an exhibition season, is vintage Puckett -a free­swinging, fun-loving, fear-noth­ing testimony to one of the most remarkable players of his time. 
"I didn't even think about it, man," Puckett said Tuesday when asked how he handled his return to the batter's box. "This just comes so natural. You've been doing something for so long, you kind of don't worry, you know. I didn't worry about it. I wasn't afraid." 
He has been the same old Puck this spring, both on the field and off. He's still the guy who keeps the clubhouse loose, and he's still the most feared hitter in a solid lineup. 
Heading into Tuesday night's game against the Texas Rangers, Puckett was hitting .345 with two homers, three doubles, a triple and 13 RBis in 55 at-bats. 
He was 3-for-3 with four RBis against the Rangers on Monday night, lining a long three-run homer to deep left­center. He was 0-for-3 against the Rangers on Tuesday night. 

"I think it might have been tougher on him if he came back during the same season," Chuck Knoblauch said. "But since it was the end of the sea­son, there's so much of a layoff that he had so much time to forget about it. Not forget that it happened, but I'm sure that whenever he started hitting he wasn't even thinking about it." 
Puckett actually started swinging much earlier than normal last offseason, some­thing he had vowed to do after getting off to an unusual slow start last season. 
If he can continue swinging well when the regular season starts next week, Puckett could be in for a monster season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 
Classifieds 

Lost: $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students -Need Summer Housing? ......RESERVOIR CLOWNS ...... Dana Carvey rocks Key chain with 2 keys, pepper Needed! $$$+Free Travel Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at 
NOTICES 
spray, and a brown leather braided (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) College Park for rent. SEE RESERVOIR CLOWNS Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­key chain. Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Call X2915 for details. AT THE MORRISSEY FILM FEST rapher husband wish to adopt new­Please call Mandy if found. x4083 Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 born. Will provide love, nurturing It's a story. extC1114 environ., educ., financial security. It's about toys. FOUND: Sunglasses at a restau­FOR SALE FISHER REGATIA Hollywood Hills home has large It's called TOY STORY. rant last Monday 3/18. Call Jen @ Are you moving to Detroit after is coming April 13! Build your boat back yard and loving dog. Call Showing @ Cushing X4805 graduation and need a roommate? 1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier. now! Check with your hall presi­818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Fri & Sat @ 8 & 10:30 Me too! I'm a fun roomie and have Good condition. Call Wendy at dents for an Entry Booklet. Confidential. Sun@ 2 lots of CD'sl Call Amy@ 634-0746 273-5818. $4000 or best offer. Check out our Website:
WANTED 
for rnore information. http://www.nd.edu/-fisher/regatta ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE 
SONY CAR STEREO/CD PLAYER Questions? Call Kevin x 1940 or Happily married, well-educated cou­Take A WALK IN THE CLOUDS MOM'S HELPER CDX 5070, DETACHABLE FACE Bill X3077. Ya Gotta Regatta! ple will give your baby a loving, Friday 7 & 9:30 Saturday 9 Love Babies? FOR RENT $200 call Steph 277-1440 stimulating, financially secure Carroll Aud. Free Admission Assistance needed for 2 infants: This nomination isn't only a victory home. Confidential, legal, expenses 
newborn and 8 months. ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE SHARP PORTABLE STERE0,6-for Bob Dole, paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­••••••••••••EARTH WEEK .......... Late April thru Fall HOME. DJSC $100 STEPH 277-1440 it's a victory for Bob Dole too. 2344 ShamROCK Greenfest 50-20 hours VERY CLOSE TO ND. 
an Environmental Musical 6.50/hr-10 a.m.-1 p.m. prefered IDEAL FOR SMC·ND EVENTS. JUDAY CREEK gem. Some advice for MACKENZIE and the only boy who could ever reach Celebration References required 272-6194. Well-rnaintained, 4-bedroom ranch CLARISSA on their 19th birthday: me was the son of a preacher man Saturday (3/30) 1-5pm, Fieldhouse Tel. 272 3237 Leave message with a 17 x 25 home office Clarissa: next time you decide to 
Mall please, if machine answers. Studio apartment in private home, & 3-car garage. cross the border, remember to use REVEREND FUNK 
FREE Food. drinks. tie-dying, seed available June 1. Quiet neighbor­5 minutes to ND. the bathroom! planting, info, and more. STOM­Need graduation tix. Will take any hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo. REDUCED TO $149,500 Mackenzie: next time you plan to winners of the NAZZ, PER BOB AND THE 4X4'S, amount. Call Allyson at X4309. incl. utilities. Phone 631-6072 days, Call Karen 272-3653. party hard, leave your nice earrings funk freak show TWEAK, AND GEORGE AND THE 273-1751 evening~. at home! JAZZMAN'S FRIDAY NIGHT 
FREEKS will be playing! MAKE MONEY NOW NOT You knew we'd never let you guys come & get a free funk injection (rain place: CSC) SOMEDAY I • • • ROOMATE WANTED • • • Waterfront Condos forget!!! • Rapidly growing I Prefer Female nonsmk grad std. 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 HAPPY BIRTHDAY! To the Beeoatch in red: Happy Telecommunications co.needs Beautiful, safe downtown apt $200 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 love, the A-Team 21st. get ready for a night of TONIGHT!!-CLUB 23 Reps in this area. Great financial heat incl. Priv. 1/2 bath w/ room. New Decor heii!From your favorite room in GREEN LANTERN opportunity for full & PIT position. hardwd !Irs, firepl., dine rm, sun rm, EVERYTHING included Jillian Marie-siegfried! Call today I (219) 287-2053 garage, WD. On bus rt. Alisa @ Close to Notre Dame Through you the way to the Mark Wright Independent Rep & 237-1840 BEAUTIFUL! suffering city lmp.cmn,cepl! two weeks ago ...
• NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Area Coordinator for Excel NORTH SHORE CLUB Through you the way to the perfect day ...to never forget.. 
Positions are now available at 5 BR; 605 St Peter 232-2002 eternal pain National Parks, Forests & Wildlife WANTED: Good people to earn $925/mo 232-2595 Through you the way that For God's sake-­Preserves. Excellent benefits + money by becoming reps for runs among the lost QUIT SULKING!III 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 EXCEL Telecommunications. Call CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM Nissan Sentra, 1983, 90000 miles, ext.N55846 299-1999 evenings. UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE, 5 Speed, in excellent running condi­WANT TO COME AND SEE SOME With the United Nations of pitching 
FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED; tion for $1400/obo. Call277-5106 PEOPLE THAT CAN REALLY staffs, the LA The Michiana Paintball Club now EASTERN EUROPE JOBS -SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR or 1·5606. SHAKE THEIR BOOTY? COME Dodgers are looking primed and has an Indoor Paintball field in Teach basic English in Prague, NOTRE DAME. 272-1968. TO SOUTH DINING HALL, EAST ready for a run South Bend -Free membership. Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY 1993 NISSAN PATHFINDER XE, BALLROOM THIS SATURDAY, at the World Series this year. NL 291-9462 certificate or European languages UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES; Jots of options, prof. main!, 28000 MARCH 30 AND WATCH COM­West, be warned! 
• required. Inexpensive Room & FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST miles...$21 ,500. 273·8673 PETITORS FROM OTHER 
40,320 minutes away ... Board +other benefits. For info. MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1968. SCHOOLS AND OUR VERY OWN Phil Jackson is a puppet-In more call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE ways than one.
TICKETS
Attention students! The Morrissey Room for Fall '96 TEAMS COMPETE. EVERYONE 
Filmiest is TONIGHT at 7:30P.M. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -5-min drive! $250 inc! IS WELCOME. I don't understand this attraction to in the Stepan Center. Tickets cost Earn up to $2,000+/month working utilities & extras! (4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 "Billy Madison.• $2 and benefit the St. Hedwig's on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­1-4809/232-7175 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9 Casi Jones-I mean, I like Sandier and all, but 
Outreach Center. Be there! panies. World travel. Seasonal & 272-7233 5 more months and you"ll have come on! full-time employment available. No Furnished Student Apts to do 22! love gamblers graduating senior looking for roo­experience necessary. For more Heat included Cindy,
PERSONAL
mate for next year for information call 1-206-971-3550 ·lg 1 bdrm, $330 Bob Dole can hear you! Tonight you will see the REAL Uda Naperville/surrounding area. ext. C55844 -sm 1 bdrm, $260 come out. 
call kim 273-9840 755 South Bend Ave -t block west 05/17 Casi Jones-Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton of ND Ave deposit, references 1-03/19 5 more months and you"ll have Naehring. Yard. Review is looking for qualified peo­800-582-9320 0D00000D0D00000D000D0 to do 22! love gamblers 
ILOST & FOUND I 

-
ple to teach our test preparation QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! Vaughn. Gone. programs. If you've earned high THE COPY SHOP Sunglasses found last Mon. 3/18 at Lost: scores on the LSAT, GRE or SAT NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? LaFortune Student Center a S.B. restaurant. Call Jen @ Canseco. See-ya. 
Notre Dame Student I D. and would like to work 6-10hrs in CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK Phone 631-COPY x4805 to claim. Last seen exiting Regina on the evenings and on weekends, CONDOS 0D00000D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 Acoustic Cande is coming.. Thursday before break. If found contact Michelle at ( 273-1738 That Harvey Keitel is one ROUGH "The best party of my college call Mike O'Hara @273-6183. (800)865· 7737-Uda lives!! bastard! career." 
Thursday, March 28, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Griffey: Baseball's Mr. Nice Guy Maddux strives for 
By RONALD BLUM good deeds, Griffey's nice-guy "We have a rule; it's pretty Associated Press image attracts as many adver­much no filming of commer­
perfection in game 
tisers as his home run numbers cials during the baseball sea­
PEOHIA. Ariz. do. son," said Goldberg, but ac­
By BEN WALKER with the best of them.
In a sport plagued by Darth "It's not like they said, knowledged exceptions could 
Associated Press Sometimes you say to yourself,
Vaders, Ken Griffey Jr. is Luke 'You're our guy; you have to do be made. 
'How can this guy be so mad?'"
Skywulker. this,' " said Brian Goldberg, The reason Griffey can stay 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. It all stems, says the soft-spo­
lie doesn't thump his chest Griffey's agent. "It was more, focused on so many things at 
Go ahead and ask those who ken, slightly built guy who's
after hitting a home run. He 'You have a clean life and we'd once without becoming dis­
know Greg Maddux best. won an unprecedented four
doesn't eork his bat. lie doesn't like to get baseball back into tracted is his strong family ties. 
They'll admit the most precise straight Cy Young Awards,
give fans the brusholl'. the positive good graces of the Just like he spent much of his 
pitcher on the planet isn't per­from always wanting to do bet­
For major league baseball, fans. Would you do some things boyhood hanging around ball­
fect. ter.
this is no small feat these days. off the field?' " parks when his father starred 
Ask John Smoltz. He'll talk "When you expect to do
"I just love baseball,'' he said Some things? A two-week with the Cincinnati Reds, 
about the time he went bowling something and don't do it," 
one morning as he got ready stretch during the offseason Griffey has 22-month-old Trey 
on a lark with his Atlanta Maddux said, "it can be frus­
for an exhibition game. "When almost is enough to qualify him Kenneth and 5-month-old 
teammate, and all Maddux trating."
you have a job you love, it as frequent flyer gold. Taryn Kennedy around him 
could manage was nine strikes That applies to whatever he's 
shows." "Sometimes it creates a while he's working. 
in a row. doing, to whatever game he's
Hight now, baseball loves schedule that's more than hec­During an exhibition game 
Ask Kathy Maddux. She'll de­playing.
Griffey even more than Griffey tic," Goldberg admitted, "but against the Cubs, Trey was with 
scribe how her husband's hair Nintendo? His golf scores
loves baseball. Junior is the Kenny's not complaining." his mother, Melissa, in the 
is often mussed because of an often beat the ones listed for
sport's most marketable man, Griffey has some detractors, seats behind home plate, play­
odd quirk-he doesn't like the pros like Tom Watson. 
its best hope for cleaning up an had them since attending ing with his toy truck. Taryn 
feel of a comb running through Real golf? He has a handicap
imagn tarnished by strikes, sus­Moeller High School in watched the game from her 
it. His pregame eating habits under 5 and shoots par on
pensions and surliness. Cincinnati, where he drove a bassinet, playing with a silver 
aren't great -hamburgers some of the top courses in the
"lie's able to come to the BMW to class. Buck Showalter, Tiffany teething ring with a 
from Wendy's drive-thru will country, like Pebble Beach. 
ballpark with a smile on his .. former manager of the New baseball attached . 
do. Jeopardy? "He knew the
face," said Jay Buhner, York Yankees who's now man­Griffey said he and Taryn 
Ask his friends. Maddux, they height of the Grand Coulee
Griffey's neighbor in both the aging the expansion Arizona "1-javen't bonded yet." 
say, once in a while enjoys a Dam," said his attorney, Scott
dubhouse and the Seattle sub­Diamondbacks, said Griffey "She doesn't like me right 
good, loud belch. Boras. "How does anybody
urb of Issaquah. "lie stays out showed disrespect for the game now,'' he said. 
"I have a sense of humor that know that?"
of trouble, doesn't cause a by wearing his cap backwards Taryn is one of the few 
the more disgusting it is, the And, of course, baseball. 
ruckus, doesn't create prob­and his uniform shirt untucked. around Griffey who don't. With 
more funny it is to me," he A month before his 30th
lems. lie just comes to the ball­Griffey's response was that he his easy smile and affable man­
chuckles. birthday, his spikes and glove
park and plays hard." was just being himself. ner, he's even a favorite among 
Ask the fans sitting in first­already are in the Hall of
!lis performance, after miss­Compared to other players, his opposing players. 
row box seats. They've been Fame, donated this spring after 
ing 73 games last season with a transgressions do seem tame. All the while, he plays it hum­
warned at times to hold their he helped the Braves win that
broknn wrist, only enhanced his While not at Deion Sanders' ble, never claiming too much 
ears on the rare occasions elusive World Series champi­
reputation as one of the game's level of flamboyance, it's still credit for his achievements. He 
when the man nicknamed onship.
marquee names. Griffey's not clear that Griffey is a star. A evens tries to deflect credit for 
"Mad Dog" doesn't put the ball His 19-2 record last season
in the Michael Jordan class of gold-and-diamond pendant the AL West title, deferring to 
exactly where he wants. He's was the best ever among pitch­
endorsers yet, but his list with his number "24" hangs Buhner and Randy Johnson and 
been known to cuss himself ers with at least 20 decisions,
already includes Nike, around his neck. He, alone on Edgar Martinez, the team's 
when it happens. and his current 18-game road 
Nint<~ndo. Chevrolet, Visa. the team, has a Nike swoosh on other leaders. 
"He doesn't appear to throw winning streak is the longest in 
Upper Deck and Gargoyles his batting practice jersey in­This season, the Mariners 
too many pitches he's not history. He averaged less than
Eyewear. stead of a team logo. hope Griffey will lead them the 
happy with," teammate Tom one walk per nine innings, won
In a pro sports world in The game comes before busi­entire way, and baseball hopes 
Glavine said. "But when he his third straight ERA title and
which players' misdeeds grab ness, but sometimes the two in­he can lead it back into fans' 
does, you know about it. He earned his sixth consecutive
bigger headlines than their tersect. hearts. 
can have a temper tantrum Gold Glove. 

.­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 28, 1996 
• FINAL FouR 

Pitino, Cali pari plan to leave friendship off the court 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Rick Pitino, dedicated alum of the University of Massachusetts, has no one to blame but himself for the predicament he faces this weekend as coach of the Kentucky Wildcats. 
When his alma mater was looking for a basketball coach eight years ago, Pitino had a candidate he was willing to go to the wall for, even offering a little financial assistance in his pursuit. 
That man was John Calipari, and on Saturday night he and Pitino will lead their teams against each other in the Final Four, a familiar spot for a tra­ditional program like Kentucky's, a first-time event for Massachusetts. 
''I've seen a lot of great pro­grams develop, John Thompson at Georgetown, Jerry Tarkanian at UNLV in the desert," Pitino said Wednesday, "but John took a program that didn't have money for a secre­tary, nothing, got an arena built when the state was broke and got them to No. 1 when I thought Top 20 was an impossi­ble task. 

"To say I'm a happy alumnus is putting it simply and there's nothing I wouldn't do for him and I'm sure he feels the same way for me." 
Calipari took the Massachusetts job in 1988, after the program had experi­enced 10 consecutive losing seasons, six of which had victo­ry totals in single digits. 
Pitino had played there in 1973 and 1974 when the team went 20-7 and 21-5. 
"We were a New England program, a regional program," Pitino said of his years in Amherst. "I get the Boston Herald and Boston Globe sent to me now. I don't remember ever seeing a Herald or Globe reporter when I was there. Now there are big inserts all over and there's the television. Winning was difficult but he created an image and that's truly remarkable." 
Pitino was the coach of the New York Knicks when he was asked to be on the search com­mittee as UMass looked for a replacement for Ron Gerlufsen. He knew who he wanted and he even came up with an extra $5,000 to entice Calipari, then an assistant at Pittsburgh, to take the job. 
"My relationship with coach Pitino is based on the fact that I'm the head coach at the University of Massachusetts be­cause he was on the selection committee and felt I would be good for the job and he made the calls to make sure it was done," Calipari said 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Donovan named to head Gators 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Another Rick Pitino protege is coming to the Southeastern Conference. 
The University of Florida n a m e d Marshall coach Billy Donovan as its basketball coach today, taking over for Lon Kruger, who 
left last week 
Donovan to take the head coaching job at Illinois. Donovan, 30, played for Pitino on his Providence team that reached the Final Four in 
1987, and also was an assistant for five years under Pitino at Kentucky. 
He brings to the Gators the Pitino style, which was said to be one attribute the school was looking for in a new head coach. 
"I believe in playing an up­tempo, running and pressing style," Donovan said. "Having a chance to work with Rick Pitino ... I feel very comfortable with that style, and that is the style we will play." 
Under Kruger, the Gators played a halfcourt game. They reached the Final Four two 
-years ago, but went 12-16 this year with a young team and a difficult schedule. 
Donovan had a 35-20 record in two seasons at Marshall, where he took over a program that had gone 9-18 before he arrived. He was named Southern Conference coach of the year in his first season. 
"Billy is one of the top young coaches in the nation and he is a winner," Florida athletic director Jeremy Foley said. "Every step of the way he has attacked ~is job with tremen-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25.000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

dous enthusiasm and with a great work ethic." 
Another former Pitino assis­tant, Tubby Smith, was named coach at Georgia last year and led the Bulldogs into the final 16 of the NCAA tournament. 
Both use Pitino's style of play -a pressing defense, and a transition offense that features the 3-pointer. It was called "Billyball" at Marshall. 
Pitino has said Donovan is "ready for any coaching job in the country." 
"Billy Donovan was a great player, a great person and a great associate for me," Pitino said. "He will flat-out be a great head coach at the University of Florida for years to come. 
"It was tough enough having Tubby Smith at Georgia. Now with the Billy in the league, I'm definitely leaving." 
Donovan told his players at Marshall about his decision Tuesday night after returning from Gainesville. 
Forward John Brown said his teammates understood Donovan's decision but will miss him and were upset about the announcement. 
"It's something anybody would do," Brown said. "If I was the head coach of a Southern Conference team, my goal would be the Final Four and a better conference. I'd make the same move for a bet­ter situation with more money and stuff like that." 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 

Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 

Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
~7 DAYS~ 

Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 277-1291 or 1-800-328-0206 
South Bend 
Wednesday. "I never worked for or played for Rick but he's somebody anytime I've had a problem or needed help I've been able to pick up a phone and he's given me great advice and I hope he feels that way even though he doesn't need anything from me." 
Calipari talked of the upcom­ing matchup of his top-ranked Minutemen and the second­ranked Wildcats. 
"This week he's the other coach," Calipari said. "But, win or lose I'm going to hug him and tell him how much he means to me." 
The two have been on oppo­site sidelines four times and the first victory for Calipari came this season in a 92-82 win in November that vaulted the Minutemen to the No. 1 rank­ing. Only Massachusetts, Kentucky and Kansas held the top spot this season. 
The intensity of running high-profile programs hasn't stopped Pitino and Calipari from remaining close friends, often talking during the season. 

"We have a mutual friend who we're always talking with and both of us have so much fun coaching," Pitino said. "We are not similar in the way we coach but we are similar in that we both absolutely love the game. You have three, four, maybe five good friends in the business. You don't have a lot, but you do have some special relationships.'' 
Calipari sounded a lot like his mentor. 
"I talk to maybe Rick and three other coaches on a regu­lar basis," he said. "I need to do that especially as a young guy going through things I've never seen. I have to talk through those things with somebody. I haven't experi­enced what coach Pitino has experienced. I need that." 
The Observer 
is now hiring for a position on the: 
Production Staff 
• Gain valuable computer experience 
• Work evening hours 
• Excellent income opportunity 
If interested, contact Tara at 1-5303 
THE TOTALLY AWESOME SO'S DINNER 
Thursday 4.30 till 6.30 (Supper Time) 
In ~e O[de 9-(ort/i tJJining !J{a[[ 
Relive the Worst Songs of Your Life! (they're pretty great, though) 
FROM 

s.u.b. wvfi
AND 



_"I_·h_u_rs_d~ay~,_M_a_r_ch__28~,_1_9_9_6___________________-----------------~-T-h~e-O~b~s~er~v~er-·~=S-~-p-()~-R-T-=S-_-_-_-_-_---~~----_-_.__--__---------------------~~~p~ag~e_l_:------~~ • FiNAl fo1.m Candid Boeheim garners praise 
By HAL BOCK Syracuse. Boeheim get blamed. Associated Press ·And when the Orangemen When somebody compliment­fled bleak central New York to ed his coaching after the pul­Of all the Final Four coaches, play in the Maui Invitational sating wins over Georgia and none has received more grief 
one December, Boeheim was Kansas propelled Syracuse to 
from his team's fans than 
asked how he liked Hawaii in the Final Four, Boeheim bris­Syracuse's Jim Boeheim. winter. "It's just like tled a bit, saying "Who said He is the favorite whipping Syracuse," he shrugged. that?" 
boy of central New York, In four years, he had 100 "I coach the same everyblamed for just about ev­
wins, the fastest anyone ever year," he has said. "Sometimes erything but the snow. And if 
reached that plateau. He got to the kids play better, sometimes he were the weatherman, he'd 200 in less than nine seasons, they don't." probably get nailed for that, 
300 in less than 13 and 400 in Sometimes, Boeheim even too. 
less than 17. bashes himself. After John 
Maybe it's his bookish look. 
Still, he gets grief because Wallace's 3-point shot at the He's not an Armani suit guy, like most fans, who are usually end of overtime saved Syracuse often preferring blazer or sport 
a tad less patient than the sta­against Georgia last Friday, the jacket and slacks. He looks 
ble fellows coaching their coach made two confessions. 
more like an English professor 
teams, the Syracuse faithful do He said he almost called a than a basketball coach. But his 
not welcome failure warmly. timeout when Wallace got the track record is flawless -482 
When Lawrence Moten called ball and then added he didn't victories in 20 seasons and the a timeout Syracuse didn't have, think the team's top star would 
winningest program in the leading to a technical foul that make the shot anyway. tough Big East Conference over let Arkansas off the hook and Wallace is a good example.the last decade. 
allowed the Razorbacks to He grew up in nearbySo what's the complaint? eventually beat the Orangemen Rochester and had committed Sometimes, he can be a little 
in last year's NCAA tourna­to Syracuse just before the pro­irritating. When New York City ment, Boeheim got blamed. gram was placed on probation was hit with a crippling bliz­
In 1992, when UMass-not a by the NCAA in 1992, the only ,, zard that disrupted transporta­national power at the time -smudge on Boeheim's two Photo courtesy of Syracuse Sports Information tion and games during the Big eliminated Syracuse in the decades on the bench. Wallace 
Syracuse forward John Wallace will look to gain some respect for his East tournament two years ago, 
NCAA tournament, Boeheim got waffled when that happened
coach, Jim Boeheim, at this weekend's Final Four. 
Boeheim couldn't see what all 
blamed. but the coach sold him on com­the excitement was about. And when Richmond knocked ing anyway and then staying on "Haven't you ever had snow off Syracuse in the first round for his senior year after he 
before?" he said, tweaking 
of the 1991 tournament, the thought about leaving early for those unaccustomed to the 
first time a No. 2 seed had ever the NBA. Arctic climate that is routine in lost to a No. 15 seed, boy did Maybe it's the climate. 

CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We are currently accepting applications for next year. 
FuRNISHED APARTMENTS SWIMMING POOL & JACUZZI TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL, & BASKETBALL COURTS 24 HOUR LAUNDRY & SHUTTLE BUS PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
*Limited Apartments available for your selection* For more information call272... 1441 
• WmVIEw's fiNAL Fotm 
Roundtree works fast for goal 
By TOM SALADINO 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Upon her arrival at Georgia, Saudia Roundtree made a bold prediction: She would take the Lady Bulldogs to a national title. 
That was two years ago. 
The All-America guard and campus about that 1994 pre­Naismith winner as the nation's diction. top woman basketball player is "I wasn't being cocky. I knew two games away from that he had the athletes that could dream. do it. That's why I chose the 
The Bulldogs (27 -4) meet University of Georgia," said Stanford (29-2) Friday night at Roundtree. Charlotte, N.C., in one of two 'I told him I would take us to NCAA tournament Final Four the Final Four and then we games. Tennessee (30-4) takes would win the national champi­on defending champion onship," she said. Connecticut (34-3) in the other Last season, the Lady game. Bulldogs made it to the Final 
Roundtree scored a career­Four, losing to Tennessee in the high 37 points Sunday in lead­semifinals. ing Georgia to a 90-76 victory "Last year was a lot differ­over Midwest Regional top seed ent," said Roundtree. "You and No. 1 ranked Louisiana can't compare the two teams. Tech. Last year's goal was to make 
Roundtree, a 5-foot-7 senior the Final Four. This year our from Anderson, S.C., was asked goal was to win the national Wednesday during a teleconfer­championship, not just make ence call from the Athens, Ga., the Final Four." 
J4ZZM4NS 
~f{£. (.\..~HILL •· • ET 
presents: 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 

THE ELSIE'S PROMISE BAND 
• 
With guest DJs playing your favorite Tootsie Roll, Bootie Call, Hip-Hop, and Old School music between band breaks. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
Must be 21 or over with proper IDs. 

• 
Doors open at 9:00 PM 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Free admission if it's your birthday plus a Birthday Treat 
• APPEARANCE FRIDAY MARCH 19TH BY THE • REVEREND FUNK BAND 
Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
Jazzman's provides uniform security both inside & outside with escorts 

dwindled to 4-3 until Shilliday fanned· Todd Stephens to end the inning. 
At the bottom of the inning, the Irish responded. Rowan Richards drilled a mammoth shot off the left field wall, and scored later on another Indiana State error. Richards' run held up to be the game winner. 
Another star of the game was Sollmann, who with his 2-5 performance now has 198 hits. The junior speedster executed plays that don't show up on stat sheets, such as heads-up baserun­ning and sacrifice bunts that also served to disrupt Sycamore pitching. 
"I didn't know [about the hits]." laughed Sollmann after the game. "It'll be nice to reach 200 but I'm concerned with winning first. It's just nice to be home again. Hopefully we can rip off a few more [wins] in a row." 
The Irish have won eight out of 
their last nine. They will take the 
field against Northeastern Illinois 
today at 4 p.m. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
.,; INDIANA STATE 

000 100 201 4 12 4 t(Jt~kDAME 220 000 1 Ox 5 '11 4 
INDI~~A $TATE NOTRE DAME NAMf!ik AB F1 ti RBI NAME AB R H RBI 
P9,1 Newman dhlp "'·• 5 0 2 o Rowan Rictlards rf 4 1 2 0 s~Wam2!l , .4 1 0 o ScottSollmannct 4 2 ;! 1 TylerTII6mpsoriCI 4,: .o'''l 'p MikeAmrf)einH 3 1 2 0 o~~ Qls11n r1 .·· :,; s;:' 1 ··.;, 1 ,, 0 G. Restovich 11:1 4 o 1 o
o4~ l?al(idUII$ryii, t•W s' 2 •~ JeffWagnerdt> 3 0 2 2 
:: aen w~eoman 3b 5 o 3 o Bob Lisanti c 3 o 1 o Ki;l PrOV!nM 1b S 0 1 J.J. Brock 3b 3 0 0 0 Travi&Maeoolf ,,g;),.o O· .1 PauiTurcoss 4 o o o Chad Aeynolds ph t?> o { o Randall Brooks 2b 2 1 1 o T()!:ld StePhellSlf 2 · 0 0 0 Gregg Henebry p 0 0 0 0 $~!itlly EIOIII'en $S 3 0 0 0 Alex Shilliday p 0 0 0 0 
I!A~!!. Gajewsld p 0 o 0 o 
Totals .::~+ 41 4 12 3 Totals 30 5 11 3 
Nii~ IP H EFI BB I( Name IP H ER BB K Matt Gai<>WSI<i 7.1 11 3 5 4 Gregg Henebry 6.0 8 1 0 3 Pat Newman 0.2 0 0 0 0 Alex Shllllday 3.0 4 1 2 4 
The Observer/Thomas Schbd[ 
page 16 
• 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 

ners and moving to second on the throw. 
The bottom half of the second inning was the Scott Sollmann Show. With Randall Brooks on sec­ond, Sollmann again singled, driving Brooks home and later reaching second himself with his second stolen base in two innings, his 19th in 21 games. 
Then came the heads-up-play of the day. On a rolling bunt down the first-base line by George Restovich, Sollmann raced for third. 
Gajewski picked up the ball and rifled it to the third basemen, who dropped it. On his way to the bag, Sollmann saw the muffed play, so he simply kept on running and dashed for home. The throw was late and the Irish had built a 4-0 lead on strong baserunning. 
For the rest of the way, the Irish did their best to allow the Sycamores back into the game. The Randall Brooks-Paul Turco tandem botched three potential double plays in a four-inning span. After six innings, Brooks had two errors, Turco one. 
But Henebry kept things under 
control. He often got ahead early in 
the counts, keeping the Sycamores 
off-balance with long-looping and 
sharp-breaking curve balls. He 
threw the fastball rare enough so 
that Sycamore hitters didn't know when to look for it. 
For three straight innings, he pitched himself out of a jam and ended the inning with a strikeout. Ironically, Henebry's biggest play did not involve pitching. 
With the bases-loaded, one out and Notre Dame leading 4-1, an Indiana State player bunted the ball 10 feet in front of the plate. With the runners moving, Henebry charged the ball and in one motion shoveled it to catcher Bob Lisanti, who was already standing on the plate. Notre Dame got the force by a whisker. 
"I thought Henebry pitched out­standing, especially in the clutch," said Coach Mainieri. "What a play he made with that scoop to Lisante. It kept us in control." 
But the Irish woes continued on the offensive side. While in one sense they won the game with solid baserunning, they also could have lost the game because of careless baserunning. Picked off at second base in the fifth, Amrhein was the third straight Notre Dame player to be erased from the bases. 
Henebry handed the game over to Shilliday in the seventh with a 4-1 lead. Despite striking out three of the first four batters he faced, Shilliday soon began to struggle. 
The freshman had been knocked 
around days earlier at Providence, 
and his confidence seemed to waver. 
The temperature had also dropped 
some 15 degrees since game time. 
The three·run Irish lead had 
w 
-0 

The Observer • SPORTS 

The Blacl~ Law Students Association of Notre Dame Law School presents Reclaiming Society or Destroying Lives? A panel discussion on the effect of sentencing reforms, including "three strikes and you're out" and mandatory sentencing without parole laws, on inner-city, minority and youth offenders in lowering crime rates. Please Join Us On: Date: Saturday, March 30, 1996 Time: 1 :30 p.m. Place: Notre Dame Law School Courtroom  


~-------------~ -~------~------------------------------~------~-----­
Thursday, March 28, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
Belles travel to trimatch 
By KATHLEEN POLICY 
SportS Wri1er 
Saturday's trimatch against Washington University and Augustana University is a mys· tery for the Saint Mary's ten­nis team. 
The matches are a break froni their usual schedule and the team is unsure of how they will perform. 
Washington University is ranked in the Midwest and has highly ranked individual play­ors. 
"They arc a pretty tough team, but we have been really working hard this week," freshman Elizabeth Gemmer said. 
Though illness and injury plagund Saint Mary's early in tho season, the team heads into this weekend a completely healed team. 
Coming ofT of two impressive .· performances at Hilton Head and against Calvin, the Belles now look to improve their record and their rank against Washington and Augustana. 

Though their No. 6 singles player. freshman Amy Fors, is out for the season with a dis­located shoulder, the Belles' coaches expect junior Nancy Sorota, who plays No. 2 sin­gles and No. 1 doubles, to return to full capacity after a week of illness kept her out of singles play last weekend. 
"We have recovered impres­sively from our setbacks," said junior Kate Kozacik. 
Because the Belles have not played either Washington or Augustana this year, they do not know exactly what to expect from the competition. 
"The win over Calvin gives me a Jot of confidence going into the match against Washington," Kozacik said. "I think that it will be a close match, but I think that we will do well." 
It will be different from other matches that Saint Mary's has played because of the distance that they are traveling, but the Belles are optimistic. 

Need I say More? Toy Story. Fri.&Sat. 8/10:30p.rn Sun. 2p .rn $2.00 at Cushing 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• BASEBAll 

Rookies revel in home debut 
Irish freshmen enjoy first home victory 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assis1ant Spores Editor 
On a bitterly cold late March afternoon, a day too cold to delude one into thinking spring had arrived yet, the Notre Dame baseball team took the field at Frank Eck stadium. 
The game, which saw the Irish down Indiana State 5-4 in front of a handful of Irish faith­ful, was less than spectacular, as the two teams combined to commit eight errors and squan­der numerous scoring opportu­nities. But that didn't really matter. 
All that really mattered was that the Irish had come home. 
"When we were out there at the beginning, it was hard to remember the last day of fall practice, which was the last time we were on the field," mused head coach Paul Mainieri. "It was great to be back, though, it really was. It was just great to be able to play a game at home, and I think the kids were really excited about being back out here." 
The win against the Sycamores marked the first time in twenty-one games that the 14-7 Irish had the oppor­tunity to relax in their own clubhouse following a game, a fact that was certainly not lost on the players. 
"It was just neat getting our first game in here on the home field, to open it up with a win," commented DH Jeff Wagner following the victory. "I was glad that I could be a part of it." The game was the first ever for Wagner, a freshman who continued to aid the Irish cause, turning in a 2-3, two HBI performance. 
Another freshman who played a big part in the Irish's first home win was pitcher Alex Shilliday, who earned his sec­ond collegiate save with a three inning, four hit, four strikeout performance in relief of winner Gregg Henebry. 
"I really feel fortunate to have gotten in this game," com­mented Shilliday, who dis­played a veteran's poise in pitching out of numerous jams late in the game. "It was a great feeling to be out there. It was a little cold, and I had a lit­tle trouble getting adjusted to the cold, but I think I got out of it okay. I try to make it so it 


APPALACHIA SEMINAR TASK FORCE 
We invite you to apply for the '96 -'97 Appalachia Task Force. The Task Force consists ofsix undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experiential learning as a means to enhance higher education; therefore, we are always in need ofinterested, 
enthusiastic, and committed persons to join us. 
If you have participated in the Appalachia Seminar, please consider applying to the Appalachia Task Force. 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Monday, April 1, 1996 
For Further Information: Timbo Hipp. 634-1141, AlexAndreichuk, 634-3650 or Bradley Harmon, 631-9473 

-:!IK & lWIK lWill'12 PLUS 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, MARCH 30, 11:00 AM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
T·SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT 
CIEIITG~'Jl'IVJJ~8 Jli AP[{IIIL 
SPONSORED BY 
7<k-~ 
doesn't bother me that much whether I'm pitching on the road or at home, but it is a good feeling to be back home." 
The Irish, who will follow a weekend series at Villanova with 13 straight games at home, should learn to enjoy the feeling. Of the team's remain­ing 34 regular season games, 26 of those games will be at the Eck, where the Irish won't have to bother with all the headaches that come with road travel. 
"It will be fun to get in the groove and start playing our games at home," said the laid­back Wagner. "It's a lot easier on the body too, you know, staying at home instead of trav­eling every weekend, coming back and then going back out on the road." 
But what about the fan sup· port? Will the day soon come when the Eck will be graced with the presence of a horde of cheering Notre Dame baseball fans? Don't count on it. 
"We won't get those (big crowds) for awhile," said Wagner. "Not until it starts warming up. When it starts warming up, we'll get the fans." 
Good thing there are so many home games left. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT This tournament will be on Saturday, March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There will be men's and women's divisions with t-shlrts being awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will be provid· ed. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday, March 28 and there is a $6 fee. CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BEN· EFIT RUN • March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne Memorial. Thet·e will be six divisions for each run with tt·ophies being awarded to tho top finisher in each division. All regis­trants will be awarded a t­shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. All pro­ceeds from the event will be donated to Christmas in April. Family members of all staff and faculty will be allowed to participate. All family members over the age of 18 need to complete the standard registration and in· surance waiver and all minors need to have their 
parent or guardian sign the waiver for them. All rogis· tration/waiver forms can be obtained in thfl HncSports office and both will also be available at the event. CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE • Course includes four sessions which meet on Tuesdays from 6 to 7:30p.m. The dates are April 2. 9, 16, and 23. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Holt's, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but partie! pants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class. Advance registra· 
tion in t h1> R"'"'nori<: offir<> ;., 

OptiDliSDl 
continued from page 20 
side linebacker Kinnon Tatum said. "The first day is always kind of slow because nobody know what to expect, especial­ly the freshman. But it is fun." 
Tatum envisions that fun continuing right into next fall. 
"Our primary goal is to win the national championship," the hard-hitting inside Tatum proclaimed. "We really don't have any missing links, espe­cially in the front seven." 
While the strength is clear. 
so too is the weakness  -the  
secondary.  
With  three  of  the  four  

starters in 1995 graduating and little experience among the returning safeties, the Irish have plenty of opportunity for younger players to step in. As a matter of fact, Holtz desparately needs them to. 
"We are anxious to see peo­ple like A'Jani Sanders and Shannon Stephens because we have big question marks in the secondary." Holtz said. 
One question mark that was answered yesterday was the status of the offensive line. 
Though he showcased great potential at tackle, the Irish staff has decided to move Mike Rosenthal to guard. 
The only other significant change was the flip-flop of Kory Minor and Bert Berry. Minor. who shined as a frosh, will be asked to take on a bit more responsibilty by moving to the drop linebacker slot, while Berry will be moved back to his natural position of rush linebacker. 
With those areas a bit more settled, the squad can now move on to the more general goals of spring. 
"We would like to be able to evaluate the freshmen, stay healthy. try to find out how acute our problems are at re­ceivers and secondary, and then, of course, work hard on fundamentals." said Holtz. 
And stay optimistic. 
CINEMARK THEATRES 

Recruits 
continued from page 20 
Lalazarian of Tustin High School in Tustin, Calif. have verbally committed to attend Notre Dame. 
While these players cannot be found on many Top-100 re­cruiting lists, each averaged over 20 points a game in high school. All three can also fill a need that concerns MacLeod. 
"We need shooting," MacLeod added. "Each of the three are all 85% or better from the free­throw line. We struggled mightily from the free-throw line and that's something that is critical for us." 
For Lalazarian. Notre Dame was one of many schools he had to choose between. Oregon State, Indiana, Washington, and Washington State were among others, but the 6-7 for­ward could not ignore the lure of the Big East. 
"It was a major factor that Notre Dame was in the Big East," Lalazarian commented. "They're in a good conference with good teams." 
"I also liked the players and the coaches. I thought it was a good place for me and a place where I could contribute." 
When Lalazarian hits the court next year. he will see a familiar face in freshman guard Doug Gottlieb whom he played with for three years at Tustin. In Gottlieb's senior year, the future Irish teammates comple­mented each other, with Lalazarian being the beneficia­ry of many Gottlieb assists. 
"We had a great year togeth­er and when we play together. 


Ellzab~t.h ~lrch on 


HUMAN RIGHTS 
CAMPAIGN 

Thursda4, Marc,h 28 111 Debartolo Hall 7:30PM 
it's like clockwork," Gottlieb said. "Nobody plays better with me than he does. He knows how to score and finish plays." 
"Dave knows when Doug is going to pass him the ball," Tustin head coach Andy Ground added. "I think Dave is going to step in and be a great player. By his senior year, he could be an all-conference player." 
At Tustin, Lalazarian was first team All-Orange County and MVP of his league. In lead­ing Tustin to the state quarterfinals, Lalazarian aver­aged 24 points and eight rebounds a game. 
Meanwhile, Friel, considered by many to be the top player in New Hampshire, was leading the Bobcats of Oyster High to their second consecutive state championship. In his senior season, the 6-3 guard averaged 28 points, 10 rebounds, and seven assists. Oyster River head coach Don Maynard prais­es the versatility of his star pupil. 
"We could use him at either guard spot which is how he's probably going to be used in college," Maynard added. "He's too good an all-around guard to stick at one position." 
While glancing over Friel's statistics, a few jump off the page. In 21 games, Friel only turned the ball over 58 times and also finished the year shooting 44% from beyond the three-point arc. 
"He's a hard worker who just wants to win," Maynard said. "He's not going to be worried about his offense, but about making the Notre Dame bas­ketball program better." 
friel originally seemed to be intent on playing for Pete Gillen at Providence, but a few visits from the Irish coaching staff gradually changed his mind. Of course, the fact that Notre Dame was now in the Big East Kept the Irish in the running. 
"He wanted to be play at the top level and it was certainly something he was striving for." Maynard noted. 
Over at Don Bosco Prep, Todd Palmer was seen as the whole package all year after his early decision to come to a Big East school. Palmer did not disap­point, averaging 21 points a game en route to becoming Don Bosco's all-time leading scorer. 
The Big East may have been less influential in Palmer's de­cision as the 6-8 forward was equally concerned with the aca­demic reputation of Notre Dame. 
"He (Palmer) felt it was the best situation, both in terms of academics and basketball," Don Bosco coach Kevin Diverio said. "He was really looking for a school with a high standard of academics." 

Diverio believes Palmer im­proved over the year, increas­ing his ability to shoot from the outside dramatically. Palmer can play various positions with­in the Irish system. 
"Schools liked his versatility," Diverio added. "For us, he played small forward, power forward, and center against small teams. They were also impressed with his aggressive­ness and athleticism for his height." 
One aspect of Palmer's game that Diverio thinks might sur­prise people is his defense. A visit from Massachusetts coach John Calipari supported Diverio's assumption. 
"No one's ever considered him a great player, but UMass saw something with his tenac­ity," he noted. "And the way they play defense up there at UMass, it says a lot." 
And coach Diverio is not about to argue with a man who will be spending this weekend at the Meadowlands. 

• 
Offirs flexible hours and great experience 

• 
Macintosh computer knowledge necessary 


•Willingness to learn, and enthusiasm extremely important 
Freshmen are encouraged to apply If interested, contact Jed @ 4-1177 for more information 
"GOD, GAYS, AND RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS: AT THE CROSSROAD OF 
CONSCIENCE" 
Elizabeth Birch is Executive Director of the Human Rights Campaign, the country's largest national lesbian and gay political organization. Prior to her appointment at the Human Rights Campaign, Birch was worldwide director of litigation for Apple Computer, where she was instrumental in the development of Apple's landmark domestic partnership and non-discrimination policies. 
Made possible through the sponsorship of. 
Center for Social Concerns Graduate Student Union Government and International Studies University Counseling Center Gender Studies Program White Center for Law and Government 
-Spring's in full swing at the Varsity Shop. 
THURSDAY! 4:00p.m. 

.. vs. N.E. Illinois Eck Stadium 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear." 
Thursday, March 28, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
fOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
MISTER BOFFO 
WWAT I? IT1 1-lON ::>_ 'IOU LOOK WO K'l?l E'D... 


I? IT Aa::x.Jr ME W51N0 THE.. 'KENT NO.J~Y? .ANV 
Gf:.I'TlNto FIR'E.D ?-· 
ANI/ ~GETTING:, WI-1ERE. :r fAfK£9 
11-/E: CAQ ?? 

DILBERT 
Ai l'~£ RI5K OF D'1'1NG !=ROM BOP..EOOM, I MUST INTERVIEW '(OU FOR THE OEPA.RTMENI N£W5LE.TTE.R 
HAPPY BJRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Great books and a loved one's encouragement will help you deal with professional pressures. Finances continue to be tight. Recy­cling old projects creates new prof­its. Before selling a house or condo do some renovating. Special features will up the price. Next December is a wonderful time for romance. Stick close to home and provide loved ones with a holiday they will always remember. At work, others' mis­takes will work to your advantage. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: country music star Reba McEntire. basketball player Byron Scott, actress Dianne Wiest, legendary Hollywood agent Swifty Lazar. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Work projects can be taken to a higher level of success. Avoid let­ting a fear of abandonment get the best of you. Act confident about a romantic relationship's future. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Talks could reveal the hidden side of a relationship. Be willing to build on what exists rather than fantasiz­ing about the "ideal" panner. Snug­gling with a loved one leads to a candid chat about your future. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): End a relationship that has not lived up to its promise. Analyze what is behind a hastily-reached agreement. Others will look to you with new respect when you take a firm stand. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 

~------------------------~ur---~~~~--------------~ 
Direct action will bring the best 

~ LET M£ GIVE '<OU SOME ~ results at work. Refuse to stay in a 
u 
harmful situation. A friend's kind­

5 BA.CKGROUNO BEFORE ... 50 THERE 
ness boosts your morale. Your 
social life moves into high gear. 

~ I \1\L~ f>..{)OUT f"\'( ~ 
l A.M IN 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The 

~ PR.OJ'ECT... l f'\Y /"\OM'S 
rr=======l~l-:::=~=======t==============~~ 
FA.LLOPIA.N 
~ u :, ... 'TUBE ... 
• OF INTEREST 
·~ 

Dianne Pinderhughes from the University of Illinois will lecture on "Why There Will Be An NMCP in tho 
:0.. 
"' 
"' 

21st Century" today at 4:15 p.m. in room 124 of the 
esc. 

"Gender and Communication in the Workplace" workshop will be held on March 30 from 11 a.m. to 3
CROSSWORD 
p.m. at the CSC. To register call 631-9028. 
ACROSS 25 Lover of 53 Having as a 
Welfare reform will be addressed in a panel dis· Pyramus hobby 
cussion held in the CSC on Monday April 1 at 6:30
1 Shoelace end 27 Phrase of 54 Jose Cruz, 
p.m. in room 124. 

e They have agreement notably 
Blood Drive will be on April 2 from 9-4 p.m. in the
arches HC6tede-57 Croat, e.g. 
Band Building. Sign up in the Band Building or just
10 Legal scholar (French entree) 58 Having a pH 
walk in. 

Guinier 
value of less 14 Follow back to than 7 
31 Tore 
32 Lined upthe source 59 Bewitching stare 

•MENU
34 Train company15 Nullify 11 Spanish boystocks 

Notre Dame 

11 It follows deuce 82 Seemingly 3e Leader of 1547in tennis forever 
North
40 "Mother Goose t 7 Reason to wear 83 Schlemiel Suite" composer 

Chicken Fajita 

a hat? 
84 Can't stand the 
Fish Sandwich 
41 Focus (on) 19 Grandmother weight 

Baked Ziti
42 "Aladdin" prince 20Working 85 Popular pencil­43 Certain kitties, 

21 Replay feature and-paper game 
for short 

22 Midwest 11 English music 
45 Fistfight 

university town 48 Less of a mess 
23Japanese cabbage 50 TO's are worth 6 
24 Ones with cases 51 Rap sheet abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=::+:+.±+.::-+=-< ..t~:+:::-t::-1 
~~=-+:,;+.~ 
.;,;.+~~""~ 

emphasis now is on supponing your panner or mate's ambitions. Be pre­pared to play second banana if nec­essary. Go after the things you want, rather than waiting for them to fall into your lap. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Adopting a positive attitude helps you appreciate what you have. A common-sense approach coupled with intuitive insights, makes you unbeatable' Stay out of disputes that arise at work or home. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Net­working is the key to finding new clients or job leads. Corporate head­hunters can be helpful, too. Update your image along with your resume. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Challenging social situations bring out the best in you. Avoid going overboard. Taking other people's problems onto your own shoulders will not help them learn how to cope. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your timing may be off today. An alliance requires careful nunur­ing if it is to la~t. Favors performed now will bring handsome returns in the future. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Trust your instincts. You will 
know what to say at the right time. It 
is senseless to worry about things 
over which you have no control. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
lntenuptions cannot always be pre­
vented. Work at home if doing so 
will help you meet an important 
deadline. Check the financial figures 
before plunging into a new business 
venture. 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Work overtime to finish a major 
assignment. An inexperienced per­
son is eager to learn. Offer encour­
agement as well as practical tips. 
South Southern Fried Chicken Broccoli-Cheese-Hice 
Casserole Tortellini Soup 
festival site 
Saint Mary's Chicken Empanadas 
Sicilian Chop Steak Pasta Bar 
DOWN 

1 Held off 2 Problems for 
high heels 3 Judeo-Spanish 4Real: Ger. 5 British break e Rolls up 7 Opposite of exo­8 Kind of cheese eCar since 1935 
10 --City, Hawaii 11 Eve, biblically 12 Pool hall game 13 From one 
perspective 11 Whence the line "For unto us a child is born" 
24 "Be honest!" 28 Goes chop-chop 28 Banquet 211 Democratic 
doings 30 Pitcher 33 --Pahlevi, 
former Shah 35 Four Tops hit 
"--No Woman" 38 33-0own's 
subjects 

37 Variety of orange 38 Flying 39 Russian city on the Don 44 Unfit for kids 48"HonorThy Father" author 47 Confirmed 
49 Fusses 50 Weightroom 
choice 52 States 55 Word to a fly 58 Scout shelter 57 Liqueur 
flavor eo Poorly 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
y;,.,+~-i 0 J1'f 
CUSHING • $2 
DAY & SATURDAY PM & 10:30PM SUNDAY 2PM 
,

r( j\ __. ::t
:......,.).-r" _. URSDAY • HUDDLE 
.. 
-s­
.. 

f 
I 
I 
j 
---------., 
page 20 Thursday, March 28, 1996 
-~-­

SPORTS 

Class of 2000 
David Lalazarlan Todd Palmes Forward Keith Friel Forward Guard 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 

Conference name aids recruiting 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 

There's something about the Big East conference, that's, well, just so big. 
When Notre Dame entered the con­ference this year, not too many experts were labeling that direction on the right side of the basketball compass as small. 
For it is a league that placed three teams in the top ten most of the year and could be proud of players such as Ray Allen, Kerry Kittles, and Allen Iverson to name a few. 
Nothing puny about that. 
To John Q. Recruit from Starville, U.S.A., which incidentally is how the athletic department must refer to Irish recruits until signing day on April 10, the word "big" in the confer­ence name attracts the big-name tal­ent. 
This proportional adjective meant not only Notre Dame would be assured of quality competition this year, but that the Irish could begin to build a team for the future in the hope of ascending to this upper echelon. Now, after a year of national exposure in the Big East, head coach John MacLeod and his coaching staff know just how large the move to the new conference was in terms of recruiting. 
"It should help us," MacLeod said. "We played in the Garden (Madison Square) three times last year. We had tremendous exposure by being on national television. So there are a lot of things that are positive about join­ing a conference as opposed to being an independent." 
"People now look at us differently," assistant coach Fran McCaffery added. "It now clicks that were a Big East team. I went on the road to talk to recruits this year and they say, 'So you're in the Big East now.' It takes a while before they really look at us as a Big East team." 
Currently, the Irish have three recruits committed to play at Notre Dame next year. In the fall, Todd Palmer of Don Bosco Prep in Ramsey, 
N.J. signed his National Letter of Intent, while Keith Friel of Oyster River High in Durham, N.H. and David 
see RECRUITS/ page 18 
• SPRING fOOTBALl 

Optimism abounds as practice begins 
By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 
Question marks and opti­mism, though a bit paradoxical, are the hallmarks of the be­ginning of spring football prac­tices. This time around is no different for Lou Holtz and the Irish. The task this year though is to hopefully have those questions answered by the end of spring. And still be optimistic. 
Viewing the glass as half-full is usually not Holtz's forte but the Irish boss seemed to have little problem with it yesterday. 
"This is probably the most optimistic I have been in a while," an anxious coach Lou Holtz said. "We have had foot­ball teams at Notre Dame that were more talented, but we have certainly had football teams at Notre Dame that are less talented than this one." 

Not only did Holtz seem con­tent with his talent level, he has been very pleased with the program as a whole. 
"I think our winter program was probably as good as we have ever had," Holtz said. "I am talking about improvements people have made and just the overall attitude of the team." 
The attitude yesterday, as the team took the field at the Loftus Sports Center, was defi­nitely one of enthusiasm. 
"It feels good to be back," in-
see OPTIMISM I page I 8 


Irish finally play ball at Eck 
The Observer/Michelle Sweet 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Cornerback Allen Rossum (15) and teammates listen intently to former Irish star Jerome Bettis as he addresses the squad yesterday before the start of spring practice. 
Turco and Co. sneak past Sycamores in home opener 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
In a game that featured eight errors, the Notre Dame baseball team used defense to prevail over a stubborn Indiana State team, 5-4, yes­terday at Eck Field. Southpaw starter Greg Henebry and freshman Alex Shilliday scat­tered 13 hits, all singles. and then shut down Indiana State when it counted. 
When all was said and done, the Sycamores had stranded 13 runners and Henebry had notched his first win of the year with an impressive performance. 
"I had the fastball and the change-up working well," said Henebry. "I felt comfortable out there. It was cold, but once you get on that mound you warm up." 
Henebry was all over the plate from the outset, confus­ing the Sycamore hitters with a well-mixed arsenal of fast­ball, change-up and curveball pitches. 
A key battle came early on against All-America .438 slug­ger Dan Olson. With two men on, Olson had ripped two shots just foul down the right side before Henebry finally got him to fly out. 

Indiana State pitcher Matt Gajewski, 4-0 coming into the game, wasn't so fortunate. Notre Dame's Scott Sollmann stole the show in the first in­ning with the 59th bunt single of his career, his ninth on the season. 
The fleet-footed Sollmann stole second and Mike Amrhein moved him to third with a single. Freshman cen­terfielder Jeff Wagner then put the Irish on the board with a two-out rope between first and second, driving in the two run-
see BASEBALL/ page 16 

Lacrosse Women's Tennis 
• Freshmen sluggers fight freeze 
a)

at Georgia, Friday, March 29 at Hobart, Saturday, March.30 
see page 17 Softball 
Track ~ 
at Purdue Invitational, Saturday, •Final Four coaches prepare at Rutgers, Saturday, March 30 
...... 

March 30 
.. 
~ see pages 14, 15 at Indiana, Sunday, March 31 
Men's Tennis SMCSports •Sandberg set for comeback 

Tennis at Washington University, Friday, March 29 
~ 
see page 12 




