---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
We'll miss you, Lou! 

Wednesday, November 20, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 57 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'Icannot honestly give you a reason 
for my resignation, except to say I feel it is the right thing to do. People will say there has to be more to it than this, but believe me, there isn't.' 
I
'. Lou Holtz 


The Observer/Mike Ruma (above), Rob Finch (top) 
Irish coach Lou Holtz looks to the media as he announced his resignation during his weekly press conference yesterday, ending an 11-year term as Notre Dame's head football coach. 
• UN!VERSHY REACTIONS 

'uppermost in his 
mind in coming to this decision has been what he believes to be the best interests of Notre Dame.' 
Mike Wadsworth 
'Lou Holtz's record 
on the field speaks for itself. Despite his demurs to the contrary, he has joined the pan­theon of Notre Dame coaching greats.' 

Father William Beauchamp 
After 11 years at 'the best job in the world, 'Lou will move on 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 

L
ou Holtz never wanted to be con­sidered a legend at Notre Dame. He felt that honor was only fitting for great Irish coaches of the past like Knute Rockne, Frank Leahy, and Ara Parseghian. 
But after coaching more games (128) than any of them and winning more (99) than both Leahy and Parseghian, Holtz will become exactly what he never wanted to be considered. 
He will become a legend. 
The road to such a status began yes­terday as the 59-year old Holtz announced that he will resign his posi­tion as head football coach effective at the end of the 1996 season. 
"I cannot honestly give you a reason for my resignation, except that I feel it is the right thing to do," said Holtz in a prepared statement. 
The official announcement came at his regularly scheduled Tuesday afternoon press conference, but it was, by no means, a surprise. 
A throng of more than 100 members of the media attended the event that ended days of intense speculation con­cerning Holtz's future. 
The announcement came about quite quickly and many question the reason behind it. 
Though he emphatically asserted that he left on his own terms, Holtz had other comments that only added fuel to the theory that his decision may not have been 100 percent voluntary. 
see HOLTZ I page 9 


Inside ... 
Campus reaction... 
page3 
Resignation letter... 
page3 
Player reaction.. 
page 24 
Possible successors... 
page 24 
See Friday's Observer for a special section on Holtz's ND career 
Wednesday, November 20, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Plea for cultural diversity 
As we speak, the issue 
of race relations at Notre  Bridget O'Connor  
Dame is gaining an  News Copy Editor  
increasing amount of  
attention. Only a mere  

thirty years after the civil rights movement began, the call for the advancements made in race relations in the rest of the country is being made here at Notre Dame. 
The University recently received the uncov­eted honor of being named among the worst thirteen schools in terms of race relations by the Princeton Review. The irony of this rank­ing can be seen when it is compared to the rankings of the top religious schools. 
According to another set of Princeton Review rankings, Notre Dame is number eight among top religious schools. How can these two distinctions go together? How can a school that supposedly believes in and adheres to Catholic ideals be the same school that ranks among the worst schools for race relations? 
Every member of the Notre Dame communi­ty should be concerned about this situation­not because it might someday effect them or because it effects someone else, but because the fact that it effects any member of the Notre Dame community means that it effects all members of the Notre Dame community. If those of us who are here now do everything we can to make this community a truly open one, perhaps more minority students will want to become a part of it. 
The first step in improving race relations here at Notre Dame is for every individual to examine his or her own beliefs and actions to ensure that they are not contributing to the problem. 
Next, the University should step up efforts to increase the number of minorities at Notre Dame. The striking lack of diversity that cur­rently exists on the campus of this University can not be ignored. The racial makeup of the student body is far from a realistic represen­tation of the outside world. 
Living in the bubble that is the Notre Dame community, students are not provided with an accurate picture of life, nor are they prepared for the interactions they will encounter upon graduation. After four years of studying, eat­ing and socializing with people exactly like themselves, it would seem that graduates are in for a big surprise when they enter the real world. They might even realize that the lack of diversity here has denied them opportuni­ties for personal growth that they would have enjoyed almost anywhere else. It is possible that these graduates won't know to look for positive qualities in others in their differences. 
Members of this community are constantly reminding the world of the unique aspects of the University that make it a wonderful place. This principle applies to the students as well. Some of the most wonderful contributions that come from students are made because of the unique perspective that they bring to the table. 
Both sides of a diverse population would benefit from efforts to promote increased minority enrollment. Minority students would have access to one of the top universities in the country (No. 17 according to U.S. News and World Report) and the University would benefit from their presence and contributions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Jillian Pagliocca  Joe Weiler  
Manhew Loughran  Lab Tech  
Brad Prendergast  Brandon Candura  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen Lopez  Belle Bautista  
Allison Krilla  Maureen Hurley  
Viewpoint  Graphics 
Ethan Hayward  Jon King  
Wednesday~ 40 34 Thursd~y ~ 44 28 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obs.:rver is a member of the Associatd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Pass the cream cheese: Kellogg buys Lender's Bagels 
BATTLE CREEK, Mich.  What's for breakfast?  standing tradition of nutrition and diet,"  
Kellogg  wants  to  With the acquisition of Lender's Bagels, Kellogg Co.  ·'/' '~~j  said Joseph Stewart,  
feed everyone at your  strengthens its position in the breakfast-food market. .  Kellogg's vice presi­ 
breakfast  table,  What Kellogg brings to the table:  dent  of  corporate  
including those who  affairs.  
prefer toasted bagels  The deal is expected  
to Frosted Flakes.  to be completed by  
Kellogg Co.  - the  .; r:~·; ::\1\!~:tn.m'"")lf';?  ·;;~}!,(·~:  i\~are:al brands  the end of the year  
maker of Pop Tarts,  includingRice  and  includes  
Eggo frozen waffles,  Krispies,Corn  Lender's  plants in  
and Frosted Flakes  Flakes, Raisin Bran  West Haven and New  
and  Rice  Krispies  Haven,  Conn.;  
cereals-said Monday  Mattoon,  Ill.;  and  
it is buying Lender's  Buffalo, N.Y. Stewart  
Bagels  from  Kraft  said the plants' 800  
Foods Inc. for $455  jobs  will  not  be  
million. Lender's is  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a~cted.  

the nation's biggest bagel maker -frozen, refrigerated and fresh -with annual sales of $275 million. 
For Kraft, the deal ends its role in the bakery business. It sold off its other bakery businesses -including Entenmann's cookies and cakes and Boboli pizza crusts -more than a year ago to CPC International Inc. for $865 million. 
Lender's "is very much consistent with Kellogg's lo.ng-
Duchess jokes with Letterman 
NEW YORK 

The Duchess of York, who has com­plained of rough treatment from the British media, told David Letterman that she can let her hair down in the United States. "I guess you sort of give me a second chance over here...l sup­pose you cut a chick a bit of flak," the former Sarah Ferguson said Monday on CBS' "Late Show with David 


Letterman." Fergie, 37, said she can travel in America "without people saying, 'She's too fat, she's thin, her skirt's too short, too long."' The Duchess, who was divorced from Prince Andrew in May, began a U.S. tour last week to promote her autobiography, "My Story." Fergie said she spent her childhood "tying up the farm boys' legs and making them run through the mud," maturing very late when she was already on the public stage. Saying all the jokes she knew were too "filthy" for television, Fergie told Letterman one from her daughter, Princess Eugenie. "Why does the giraffe have a long neck? Because it has smelly feet," she said with a grin. 
Airline to provide shock remedies 
DALLAS American Airlines aircraft will soon become the first 
U.S. carriers to fly with defibrillators -electric shock paddles that can revive heart attack victims in the air. The airline was expected to announce its plans today with the American Heart Association, which has been pushing to have defibrillators placed on all passenger aircraft as well as in government buildings and sports arenas. Fort Worth-based American will receive the first of the 4-pound, $3,000-devices in January, and get the remainder by next summer. Australian carrier Qantas, London-based Virgin Atlantic and Air Zimbabwe already carry defibrillators, while several U.S. airlines are reviewing whether to add them. The Federal Aviation Administration said this month it was reviewing whether defibrillators should become part of the required airline medical kit, which now contains a device to measure blood pressure, a stethoscope and medications for chest pain. By delivering an electric shock to the heart, a defibrillator can restart a heart that has stopped or correct abnormal heart rhythms that pre­vent ro er blood flow to the rest of the bod 
Lender's is based in White Plains, N.Y. 
Robert S. Morrison, Kraft's chairman and chief execu­tive, said Lender's did not fit with the company's overall direction. Northfield, IlL-based Kraft is owned by Philip Morris Cos. 
Kellogg's stock fell slightly on the news, down 12 1/2 cents at $68.12 1/2 in late afternoon trading on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Inmate riot wins coveted forum 
PHOENIX 

Hundreds of inmates angered by conditions in their "tent city" jail set fires and held 11 guards hostage for nearly three hours before winning a meeting with the "toughest sheriff in America." Sheriff Joe Arpaio, known for tough tactics such as female chain gangs and banning cigarettes and adult magazines, held two jail yard meetings Sunday, first with a committee of three inmates and later with more than 200 prisoners. Earlier Sunday, more than 400 police lined the Durango Jail, some in full camouflage riot gear and carrying shotguns, while inmates inside held 11 guards hostage, two of whom were injured by being pelted with rocks. Inmates complained about inadequate medical care, guard bru­tality, bad food and the discomfort of living in the tents. Maricopa County Attorney Rick Romley said the com­plaints deserved a response. "-We've been concerned that there might be such a riot because of overcrowd­ing," Romley said. "There have been too many com­plaints out there." The tent jail was empty today. After the riot, all 635 prisoners were transferred to other county jails for up to two days. Guards said it started when they tried to separate two fighting inmates. 
Musicians end strike, restore harmony 
PHILADELPHIA 

The Philadelphia Orchestra has agreed to return to the stage after a nine-week strike, but musicians say their relationship with management isn't exactly har­monious. Musicians voted 54-47 with two abstentions late Monday to ratify a three-year contract that gives a raise in base pay, eliminates automatic royalty pay­ments and creates a new venture to increase recording sales. They had been on strike since Sept. 16. A special concert was planned for tonight and regularly sched­uled performances were set to resume Thursday. Rut tensions remained despite the deal. "There is great anger, and despair, on the part of musicians, who believe the board and management have abandoned their fiduciary obligations to the orchestra," Stuart Davidson, an attorney for the musicians' union, said this morning. "I certainly would expect, after a nine­week strike, that it will take us some time to heal the wounds," said Joseph Kluger, president of the Philadelphia Orchestra Association. The strike was the longest in the history of the orchestra, surpassing a 58­da strike in 1966. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
' 

\ '· .·
(-_/------. H L 
' 

' ' ''' 
Friday ~ 42 25 
\

Saturday ' ~ 38 27 Sund~y 0 37 27 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~ l~..n.r---'-yr' ....\1.....,:
.,..,; v . 

Atlanta  66  53  Juneau  29  19  San Francisco64  53  
q_Q,~cQQQ i) ~ c:=1 Snowers T-storms Rain Fl~,;ies S~~;_;, Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy v... Assoc...ted Press Graph/CSNet  Bahimore Boston Chicago Denver  46 46 40 62  27 32 32 34  Los Angeles 66 Miami 62 Milwaukee 35 NewYor1< 44  58 66 27 33  St. Louis Seattle Tucson Waco  55 75 83 78  42 30 50 55  





The Observer 
Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1996




Holtz resigns 
Page 3 




Despite departure ... 
University feels strong ties to Holtz 
By BILL UNIOWSKI News Wrirer 
As the seconds ticked off the clock at the end of 
the third quarter of the Pittsburgh game, the stu­
dents raised up their hands in preparation for the 
Lou cheer, and the band began to play the 1812 
Overture. 
A feeling of nostalgia swept over the crowd as 
they realized this might have been one of the last 
times this ritual was performed. Yesterday after­
noon, Lou Holtz confirmed the forebodings. 
"I feel it's the right thing to do," Holtz repeated­
ly said as an explana­
tion for his decision to 
resign. "I will always'It seemed he cherish the fact that I 
was vague had the opportunity to 
be a representative of
with his reasons 
Our Lady's school, both and gave no on and off the field." Holtz also addressed
specifics. I didn't 
the students during the understand what press conference, call­ing them clever, witty
he meant by say­
and unparalleled. ing it 'was the "I've enjoyed the right thing to do." enthusiasm. It's fun to 
be around you people," 
he said. 
Tony Ortiz Holtz also mentioned 
the possibility of speak­
ing to the students from a microphone on the field 
following the Rutgers game, his final game in 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
Students throughout campus tuned in to hear 
the outcome of a week's worth of speculation. 
"You would have thought the president had just died," said junior Julie Lyzinski, who watehed the press conference from LaFortune. "It was amaz­ing. 'l:~c place was packed and there wasn't a sound. 
Sophomore Nicole Peoples, an employee at the LaFortune Information Desk, came into work dur­ing the press conference. "I couldn't get in the front door. There were so many people all over," she said. 
Peoples watched Holtz's announcement in her management class. "Our teacher planned to watch it," she said. "We discussed what implica­tions the decision will have with stakeholders in the University and the type of leader Holtz is." 
Students had different reactions following the press conference. "It's like the end of a tradition. I'm glad to have experienced Lou," said Lyzinski. Freshman Pat McCusker was impressed with the way Holtz handled the announcement. 
"It's very respectable how he talks about the University. It shows he's a real classy guy," he said. "It's one aspect we're going to miss. That dimension is going to be hard to be without." 
Freshman Pat Gorman said that Holtz chose an appropriate time to leave the University. "He did a great job here, but it's a good time to go now," he said. "It's time to change." Others questioned the true reasons behind Holtz's resignation. 
"It seemed he was vague with his reasons and gave no specifics," said Junior Tony Ortiz. "I didn't understand what he meant by saying it was the 'right thing to 
d0. '" 
Students also speculat­ed on possible successors for lloltz. Gorman was in favor of Northwestern eoaeh Gary Barnett, while others favored Irish defensive eoOl·dina­tor Bob Davie. 
"He [Barnett) helped Northwestern, a great academic school with mediocre athletes, to the Rose Bowl. I le should be able to bring us up a level," Gorman said. 
"My preference is Coach Davie, but I'll be behind whoever comes in," Irish defensive back and kick returner Allen Hossum said. "Davie is 
more laid-back, but Coach Holtz is rubbing off on him." Senior Gretchen Creten found it hard to 
imagine another coach in Holtz's place because of the rela­tionship he has with the fans. 
"All we know is Lou," she said. Ortiz felt similar­ly. 
''I'd much rather see him stay, even if he didn't win a national champi­onship [while I was here]," he said. 
Students also mourned the loss of Holtz as a member of the Notre Dame community, not just 
as a coach. 
"The University will lose a lot of the fanfare that went along with him." Powers said. "It will be difficult to adjust to another coach, because [Holtz] has proven himself and is well-liked." 

Holtz bids 
farewell 
Editor's Note: The following is Lou Holtz's resignation letter, dated Nov. 19, 1996: 
Today I announce my resigna­
tion as head football coach of the 
University of Notre Dame, effec­
tive at the end of the 1996 sea­
son. 
I wish to publicly thank Father 
Hesburgh and Father Joyce for 
hiring me, and Father Malloy and 
Father Beauchamp for allowing 
me to be part of the Notre Dame 
family for the past 11 years. 
There is no way I could publicly 
thank all the people who have 
contributed to my happiness, but 
they know who they are -and a 
mere thank you seems so inade­
quate for the efforts they expend­
ed. 
I will always cherish the fact that I had the opportunity to be a representative of Our Lady's school, both on and off the field. To a Catholic such as myself, no man could ask for a more impor­tant role in life. 
It is difficult to leave Notre Dame at this time, for many rea­sons, such as: I will miss the stu­dents; and I would have loved to have had the opportunity to coach in the new stadium, which I observed from its original con­ception to its completion. But the main reason I regret leaving is because I will leave a talented group of young men I respect and love. My actions on the field did not always reflect this, but I hope they realize that I think they are special. 
One of the positive aspects of leaving Notre Dame at the pre­sent time is, I think, I'm leaving a solid football program and a tal­ented team that will give the new coach a chance to enjoy success his first year. 
We are leaving a healthy foot­ball program. I base this obser­vation on the 2,500 people that attend our weekly luncheons, the capacity crowds for the pep ral­lies, the enlargement of the stadi­um, the NBC contract, the fact that 88 percent of our games (including every game the last five years) have been on national television, the academic success of our players, the integrity and honesty of our program, the cal­iber of people we have on our team, and the nine-year streak of playing in a January 1 bowl, (despite playing 43 percent of our games against nationally ranked opponents), to mention a few. 
see LETTER I page 9 
'"Th:-'0=== Finch Holtz will run onto the football field at Notre Dame Stadium for the last time on Saturday, as the team faces off against Rutgers. 


Wednesday, November 20, 1996page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Retreat gives perspective 
By ANN KEARNS Awakening. in everyday life chal­Assistant Saint Mary's Editor The first retreat took place lenged her to do the the weekend of Nov. 1-2 at a same in her own life, 
Many students feel the pres­retreat center in Michigan. she said. sure to not only excel academ­Emily Haire, senior at Saint Sister Gertrude ically and socially but also to Mary's, attended the first Anne Otis also assists discover who they are and what retreat and found that her time in the directing of they want from life. Saint to herself helped her to reflect , these retreats. She Mary's College has started a "There is a need for hopes the participants retreat program designed to stillness...time to discover can gain "a deeper help students do this. where we are and where we realization of who 
The idea for these retreats are going," Haire commented. they are and a sense derived from a conference The retreat was led by stu­of a direction for life."
Sister Gertrude Anne Set apart from campus, ''the Solitude" is the home of a series of spiritual retreatsattended by students and facul­dents Amy Goldbeck and Julie for Saint Mary's students titled "SMC Awakening."
ty over the summer. The Kerr, with assistance from Judy is now focusing her it will "give a sense of direction Accommodations are informal
Spiritual Leadership Fean, Director of Campus attention on the upcoming 
for the new semester," marking and house 15 students in pri­Conference helped students Ministry. Fean commented on retreat which will take place a new beginning. vate rooms and are set apartpinpoint what they were look­the effectiveness of the retreat: the weekend of Jan. 17-19. The These retreats are not devel­from campus.
ing for in the College: an envi­"I saw a spirit I haven't seen theme of this will be "SMC oped with a specific denomina­Registration has alreadyronment which allowed them to around campus for a while." Awakening: Come and See." It 
tion in mind, although a begun for the next SMC
bond, share meaningful experi­Not only did she see the partici­will explore the influence of Christian tone unifies the exer­Awakening, and spaces are lim­
ences, and get to know one pants benefitting from the parents, God, and community 
cises. The weekend ends with ited. Contact the Campusanother better at a deeper experience, she also felt per­on personal identity, and also an optional mass at the Church Ministry Office for more infor­level. The result was the new sonally enriched by being the meaning oflife. 
of Loretto. mation. The retreat will run
series of retreats at Saint involved. The genuineness of She feels the time of the 
The environment is also con­from Fri., Jan. 17 to Sun.,
Mary's known as SMC the students searching for God retreat is appropriate because ducive to reflection and prayer. Jan. 19. Donation price is $20. 

Freshman class council posters spark turmoil 
By PATTI CARSON  Notre Dame freshman class  chocolate, etc. with the) SMC  cooperative to our freshman  anticipate such a  reaction on  
Managing Editor  that  hang  in  the  women's  STUDENTS at the bonfire..."  class," she added.  the part of students, faculty,  
dorms read  "  Hey freshman  The Saint Mary's freshman  Due to the "good relations"  and administrators.  
The Notre Dame and Saint  girls: FIGHT BACK!! Don't let  class, however,  posted adver­ between these classes, Beatty  "I was  surprised that their  
Mary's freshman classes are  the SMC girls take all your  tisements  that proclaimed,  indicated that she knew that  posters could be approved by  
co-sponsoring a bonfire on the  guys. Come to the bonfire at  "SMC/ND  presents...THE  the Notre Dame freshman class  the Student Activities Office,"  
Saint Mary's campus tomorrow night at 7 p.m. Each institution  SMC ... RECLAIM MEN ... [date, time,  YOUR place  FRESHMAN Thursday,  BONFIRE! Nov. 21 at  on 7  "meant no harm." She went on to say, "I didn't  Beatty said. She said that she understands that the Notre  
provided its own advertising for the event. The posters created by the  given)." The posters hanging in the male dorms at ND read "GET SOME (smores, hot  p.m...smores, goodies, fun...on the soccer field..." Since the posters have been  think that they would do this with any sort of malice. There are no hard feelings."  Dame freshman class was only trying to generate interest in the event.with such advertising.  
posted  on  the  campus  of  "We  were  not  trying  to  But, she said, "I want to reiter­ 
University of Notre Dame's,  degrade people or to foster  ate the fact that Saint Mary's is  
freshman class representatives  harmful feelings," Wohlberg  a respectable women's institu­ 
have been fielding many calls, according to Matt Wohlberg,  said. "People took it the wrong  tion and will settle for nothing less than respect."  
publicity chairman for  the  way," he added. "We're a fresh­ The Saint Mary's freshman  
freshman class of Notre Dame.  man board and we're bound to  class president expressed hopes  
The freshman class president at  make mistakes...In the future,  that this will not hinder events  
TblJ.rsday. was meeting.,..ij}8,t t}}ere exists a .s .~;:~~~~st~i:!cerit . . ships that nave been endlll'ed atour hands. we ... truly sorry. Along with this apology. 1 thinkit is onlyright that l explain the actions and intentions of. the Freshman Publicity Board, as well as the Freshman Glass Council. We on the Freshman Publicity Board thought thatwe had desigt1ed ~ ~utporous and  Saint Mary's has also received calls from students and faculty members. "When I saw their signs, I was surprised and disappoint­ed," Saint Mary's freshman class president Beth Beatty said. "The Notre Dame class had been nothing but kind and  we will publicize more sensi­tively," he said. The Student Activities Office at Notre Dame stamped the posters for hanging with no protest to their content, like it was "no big deal," said Wohlberg. Because of this, he said, the freshman class did not  co-sponsored by the two classes and that it will not damage relations between the schools, in general. As long as everyone understands that the Notre Dame posters were not mali­ciously created, she feels that relations are ultimately not sev­ered.  
attention~grabbing .tlyer d~sign thatwould. ;ere~~~ ill~rest in.the  



l
! 
bonirre.· ·Our a.dvisor from th~ ;'\c~iVities·.CoUficil'iJifotmed us.that we had not only failed to+make a light nea:Fted advertising attempt. but had potentially created an intimidating environ­ment for thebonfire while setting back gender relations atNotre Dame. Obviously we would not kno\Vingly atterqpt tQ. Up$et everyday ·atthe .·. · Saint Matfs(iuU~ge. 8 1"'· 

A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Jn[ Pl(lUKf or oon1~n onn 

Announcing the Introductory Seminar for the Concentration in Philosophy and Literature 
ENGL 408A: 01 (3882)/PHIL 409:01 (4024) TH 3:30-5:10 -4 credit hours Profs. KrzysztofZiarek and Stephen Watson 
This intensive 4 credit seminar is the introduction to the Concentration in Philosophy and Literature and will pursue interdisciplinary approaches to literary, theoretical, and philosophical texts. This team-taught course will be run as a seminar and will empha­size both analytic and interpretive skills. Students can expect to write 25-30 pages during the semester. This semester texts will include excerpts from Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics, Sophocles' tragedies, Nietzche's Birth ofTragedy, works by Seneca and Schlegel, the poetry ofStevens and Stein, fiction by Borges and Dinesen, and essays by Derrida, Heidegger, Irigaray, and Nussbaum. 


Permission required from Prof. Krzysztof Ziarek, Director ofthe Concentration, 631-5637 
Flyer describing the concentration is available in the English Department 



Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
NASAND in touch with 'native spirit' 
By KELLY BROOKS 
Assistant News &titor 
The Native American Students at Notre Dame cele.. brate Native American Heritage this week with a show of cultural and spiritual life. 
"We want to raise aware" ness on campus." said secre" tary Otakuye Conroy; "We want to show there are Native Americans here and. sh{)w (the rest o(campus] our culture and spiritual life." ·· 
Native American Heritage Week will feature two major events.....,..a·lecture by.Hansol1 
b " 
Ashley,and a performallc~< ¥i
native ztiahcers~ f-Jians~ll:W Ashley!saNavajo elderwith a master~s degree in mtllticl1l~ tural psychology. Active with~ in the>Native Americ<\n tribe, will perform. The White Thunder drum group from the South Bend area will also be featured. 
''One of out goaJs is to make some sort of distinction between the tribes.'' added CO* president Allison Yazzie. "Within our club we are diverse ourselves so we want* ed to bring something from each tribe:" into the week." 
"The whole idea is to show the campus whatwe'ni anot~t. and to show them a different culture," said John Castilleja; treasurer ofNASAND. 
"It's mainl~for the, caJrnPU$.~ The past tly'ee'years I*ve nP.l~n···l 
here [haven't seen .• .. t·.·.fi.'.'''e'·.·'.··.·.· ·c'.···.'.~...··~.·.'t'.·.·.·u•.···.. ·r·.·.',·.e'.··.·>::··'·.·.·.·.)..r'......·.•·.e··..···.p···. ·.. ·e·.'·s···""e··:··•,n··..... r.u ........•~,·.'··.·.··.·.·~'.·.' ..... ·fiY
..•.. w .. ·.··r·· ··"'.···a.·.·.· 
it's time for thecanipus,••.,..,... · cotne and+$ee what IN . >.'.·.· American Heritage Week} ,... 
.an. . < · · · · ·.··. · 
churchrhe will address tTHe+i Hans()n ..lJ~~Q.I.l.n~ Use of Mind~ )Jody
in Healtf'lg.w ·.;.,:.... hrt;wwuwm 
Among other '.:.u..r.l>i·'·''"'······• :r.nrAJ-nlo1'•'""' dancel!Si''fruin. thE~;ii~'~e~~~~;!l:\!:'~~~;sr;$6}1l 




Flu shots available for University staff Thursday 
Special to The Observer 
University Health Services yesterday announced an addi­tional afternoon for University employees, retired staff, retired faculty and their spouses to receive flu shots. 
Health Services will adminis­ter the vaccinations on Thursday from 12 to 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library con" course. 
Short sleeves are required to receive an immunization. 
NOW 

Walk Right In To Meet Our Professional Stylists! 
WILSHIRE PLAZA 
5670 Gr.!!X' Rd. (:\~1r SJm\Clubl 243-1277
~~ 
(Jt·,r!tiTc·,,,-s,{&nttt~/itl Hdu·~"<."u:•l'mJt"r (.iJr.-. MON-FRI 8·8 
F1·irnd/.v stylim,,qreat prim and no appoi,tmtnt is mr 11crdul. SAT 8-6 SVN 10-5 
PROFESSIONAL 1 I I 
I PR<.)DUCTS I 
HAIRCUT HAIRCARE 
I I I ' 

$20FF 
20
0•/. : 20 Tanning 
Sesstons 
Only 
i'O , 
Only 


:\11 proti:ssiorul h.1ir~Jrc &!.lnning produ(ts 
\'llid onlr •t 1\llshirt 1'1= Fonu Hair & Tannin~ Salon. 
\'>lid onl\ at 1\'ilshir< 1'1= 
hcsu H.if & Tannin~ Saloa. \'ahJ •<~k •ilh '"'I'"'·
l'•liJ '"" •nh ''"'I'"' 
:\til \.lhJ nirh Jll\" 'llh..-r 11ti\·r \•• ,J!.J •nh "" '""'' .~h Otl<r "I'"" l'ln ..II. I '1% t~l<1 "i'"'' II<, 31. 1'1'16. NSI·ll7.I. NS2·1F 1 
REDKEN ~ PAU.MfCH:L_L M!ffiatrix H£Xus 
\'llid ook·" \l'ilshin: l'lu.. Fi<su H.lir & T.mnin~ Salon. \".1lklunh fttth ~Htl)lllll 
:-;,. 1JiiJ • nh "" , "'"'' ,nh Otf<T ~'!"''' 1\.:c .11. I'1% 
NS.l-117 

Q..·:i?---~ -:! ... 
• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 



OIT solicits student feedback 
By SEAN SMITH News Writer 
In an attempt to gather ideas from Notre Dame-students on possible ResN et computer hookup sites, Provost of Information Technologies Larry Rapagnani addressed the Hall Presidents Council last evening. 
"What I'm trying to do is solic­it feedback from the students... which is a novel idea here at Notre Dame," he said. 
Once registered, a computer can operate from anywhere in the ResNet community. The question now facing the Office of Information Technologies, how­ever, is where students would most benefit from new hookup sites. 
"Where in the campus might the Resnet environment exist?" Rapagnani asked the council. 
Four locations interested the council most: LaFortune Student Center, Hesburgh Library, O'Shaughnessy Hall, and Debartolo Hall. 
The South Dining Hall will also feature ResNet hookups once planned renovations to the building are complete. 
These new sites will allow stu­dents with laptops to hook directly to the ResNet network in places other than dorms. 
The possibility of providing non-ResNet jacks that would give students access to other dial"up servers at the new sites was discussed, but the likelihood of this occurring does not seem good, according to Rapagnani. 
"We would like to encourage all students to hook up to ResNet," Rapagnani said. 
In other HPC news: 
• Matt Szabo of Morrissey Hall addressed the council con­cerning its role in Project Warmth's campaign to gather as many winter coats as possible by Dec. 3. Gear is sponsoring the campaign and has agreed to give the dorms gathering the most coats prizes totaling $1500. Speaking on behalf of Morrissey Hall, Szabo proposed that the council use the prize money to buy an additional amount of coats. 

"(The $1500] could make the difference between a child get" ting through the winter and get­ting pneumonia." 
Council members decided to solicit feedback from the dorms this week, tabling the vote until next week's meeting. 
• 
The Center for the Homeless is now accepting donated foot" ball tickets for this weekend's game against Rutgers. Donated tickets will be converted into GA's and will be given to the homeless in the South Bend area so that they may attend Saturday's game. 

• 
On Thursday in the South Dining Hall, students will have the opportunity to sign a banner to be given to Lou Holtz. 



The Guide goes on the 'Web' 
By DEREK BETCHER Assistant News Editor 
The Guide will again offer for­mal descriptions and student evaluations of classes offered next spring, but this semester students will find its advice posted on the World Wide Web. 
Student Government decided to post the listings on their Web page to increase the guide's accessibility and cut back on paper and monetary waste. 
"It really does save a lot of money. Our administration has been trying to cut back on excess spending," Seth Miller, student body president, com­mented. 
Becca Fulton, academic com" missioner, and Executive Coordinator of Intellectual Life Kate McShane were responsible for assembling this year's guide, which will bring the same for" mat to its new medium. 
"(The 1997 Guide] is compa­rable to last year's," Fulton affirmed. "It's been up since last Monday, and we worked all semester on it." 
All information is compiled from student surveys. Because many students fail to return the surveys, and because even more professors do not volunteer their class's time for the endeavor, only 27 classes are profiled in The Guide. 
"It's student based, but we need professor cooperation," Fulton said. "Professors and students need to realize that this guide is for them. They need to take the time to sit back and fill out the surveys if they want to see more courses in The Guide." 

Student Government antici" pates increased traffic as DART times approach for underclass­men. 
"Any amount of people look" ing at the page is a positive, but that's not enough if there's 8000 undergrads here," Fulton said. 
McShane and Fulton are already assembling data for next semester's guide, and they anticipate using the Web to dis" play their results again. 
"We figured paperwork gets misplaced, but computer access is unlimited," Fulton explained. 
The Student Government Web page can be found at http://www.nd.edu/-studegov. 
Current Spring Course Information will be available each day of DART at 
under ••registration'' 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 

Loux explores African cultural differences 
By SHANNON RYAN News Writer 
Saint Mary's Associate English Professor Ann Loux experienced a entirely differ-· ent culture last year on her sabbatical to Cameroon, Africa. 
Yesterday, in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge, she brought these experiences to life for faculty, students, and friends as part of the Saint Mary's Justice Education "Conversation Series." 
In her presentation, titled "Women in Cameroon," the Fullbright Scholar imparted her thrill of returning to America after living in what she called a society of extreme contradictions. "I feel so hon­ored to have all of you wel­come me back," she said to the assembly. 
As a stranger in Cameroon, Loux gained insights through the daily trials she faced. 
Dressed in the typical garb of the Baqueri tribe, Loux fash­ioned her wrap-around skirt as one example of their practi­cal lifestyles. 
Demonstrating the numerous uses of the two-layered skirt, she showed its use as a dress, a means of tribe identification, a shawl. a blanket for swad­dling an infant, and a basket for lugging goods home from 
·' the market. \ Her shirt, much like ones worn in Cameroon, was designed so that women can easily breast feed their babies. Comparing western clothing that she said was often associ­
I 
(' ated with sex appeal to what she considered the African's practical clothing, Loux joked, "This shirt was designed for baby and breast, not for men and the breast." 
Her perceptions concerning the role of women in African society focused on its contra­dictions. Living in close quar­ters with the students she taught, Loux was able to observe the daily lives of the African women. 
In the absence of their hus­bands these women were strong, assertive, violent, and proud, said Loux. 
I 
They gathered food, pre­pared meals, raised their fami­lies, and performed many other tasks throughout the 
day. 
However, when African hus­bands returned home from work, their wives bowed down to them on their hands and knees, said Loux. They offered dinner to their husbands, not speaking or eating unless given permission. 
Loux was amazed by these women's complete change in personality in the presence of men. "I had to ask myself if these were the same women I had just noticed a few minutes 
ago laughing about their 
'worthless husbands',"  she  
stated.  
As  the  recipient  of  the  

Fullbright Scholarship, Loux collected stories from her stu­dents as part of her project. She told the group that some people in positions of authority were unwilling to assist her in her endeavors. 
"In fact," she explained, "they made it difficult every step of the way." Although she encountered many obstacles, including having to establish her own press because men were unwilling to publish a collection of women's stories, she succeeded in publishing her work. 
She read "The Escape," a short story by one of her African students, dealing with the perplexities of African society and the restrictions placed on women. 
In the story, a young girl runs away from an arranged marriage. She then confronts her parents with the absurdity of this proposal and argues instead for the merits of edu­cation; at the stories' end, however, she runs away to become a prostitute and for­gets about her dream. 
"What do you think it means that 95 percent of my female students in Cameroon wrote about prostitution? What are your theories?" she asked the audience. 
The stories about prostitu­tion, which Loux described as one of the only growing indus­tries in Cameroon, shows a contradiction between escape and confinement in the life of African women, according to Loux. 
She prompted the audience to put themselves in the place of these women. "An unmar­ried woman is a disgrace among the family. She would rarely be welcomed back into the home of her mother if she chose to live unmarried," said Loux. 
Also, if a female wished to be educated, she dismissed the chance of marriage, according to Loux. "An educated woman would be too mouthy. She could walk away and support herself," she said, imitating responses she received from her male students. 
"Mummy Ann," as Loux's students called her, said she was unsure if the women would take their strength and combine it with their educa­tion to overcome the sexism of their country. 
Loux finished her speech by talking of the way that the cul­ture of Cameroon effected her. "I learned how grateful I am for how well things work here and for families," Loux com­mented. "I learned families mean just as much in America as they do in Africa." 
CNVS honors ND for service 
Special to The Observer The award, presented annu­
ally during the fall meeting of 
The University of Notre Dame the nation's Catholic bishops, received the Catholic Network was conferred Tues., Nov. 12, of Volunteer Service's (CNVS) in a ceremony at the Omni 1996 Father George Mader Shoreham Hotel in Washington, 
Award in recognition of the role D.C. it has play~d in promoting lay Calling the announcement of mission service. the award "a very significant 
moment in our institutional his­tory." University President Father Edward Malloy said that Notre Dame aspires to be "a place where volunteer service is encouraged, not only for stu­dents but also for the faculty and staff members of our University community." 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool •Jacuzzi 


•Tennis~ volleyball~ & basketball courts 
• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Professional management 


Apartntents available for your selection. 
For more information call272-l44l 

d 

Wednesday, November 20, 1996 page 7 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 

ValuJet crash hearings begin 
By CATHERINE WILSON 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 
A federal crash investigator today chastised the company that packed oxygen canisters into a ValuJet plane's hold, say­ing it violated procedures by complaining about evidence scheduled to be presented at a hearing. 
John Goglia, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board panel holding the hear­ing. interrupted today's session to criticize SabreTech Corp .. the company that packed the canis­ters suspected of fueling or sparking the blaze that sent the jetliner crashing into the Everglades, killing all 110 peo­ple aboard. 
The company publicly objected to the airing of videotapes of experimental fires ignited to simulate how a cargo fire may have spread aboard the doomed jetliner. It issued a statement 
before  the  tape  was  to  be  
played.  
His  voice  rising in  anger.  

Goglia called the company state­ment a violation of NTSB proce­dures on the release of inves­tigative material. 
The board considered revoking SabreTech's status as a party allowed to question witnesses, but decided to allow the compa­ny to stay. Goglia warned the company would be removed for any further violations. 
On Monday, the first day of a 
• Stylists specializing in a wide range of styling 
for dances & special occasions • 
weeklong hearing into the May 11 crash. the NTSB released a transcript of the cockpit record­ing of the flight's last minutes. 
Shouts from passengers were recorded three times after fire swept into the cabin. and at one point women were heard screaming, "Fire! Fire! Fire! Fire!" according to the tran­script. 
"I imagined it was my moth­er," Maria Rivera said. "I didn't think of anything else. I just cried and cried and cried." 
Some relatives want to hear the actual tapes, but the NTSB does not release audio tapes, primarily to protect the crews' privacy. Tapes have been issued in the past under a court order. 
"I've got to know if that woman who was screaming was my mother," said Amanda Myers, whose parents were killed. 
In most crashes, voices of the cockpit crew are the only ones taped. But in this case, passen­gers could be heard because the cockpit door was opened after the fire started. 
Six minutes after takeoff from Miami International Airport, the pilot can be heard telling the co­pilot: "We got some electrical problems.... We're losing every­thing." 
A flight attendant can be heard yelling, "We need oxygen. We can't get oxygen back there." 
The last recorded voice from the plane was that of a crew member telling the tower, "We need the, uh, closest airport available." 
The chilling eight-minute tape ends with the cockpit and cabin falling silent, leaving the sound of rushing air, perhaps from a cockpit window that had been opened to let the smoke out. 
Another victim may have called his wife on a cellular phone in the final moments of the flight, according to NTSB documents. But despite repeated requests, the woman declined to be interviewed by crash investi­gators. 
Two ValuJet maintenance supervisors and two executives with SabreTech testified at the hearing Monday. The mainte­nance officials discussed the handling of oxygen-generating canisters suspected of starting the fire in the cargo hold. 
The canisters, which contain a mixture of chemicals, can gener­ate heat up to 500 degrees when they are triggered to provide oxygen to passenger emergency masks. The canisters aboard Flight 592 were being shipped to ValuJet's headquarters in Atlanta and were not for use on the plane. 
A stock clerk didn't know what oxygen generators were but labeled five boxes of them for shipment to Atlanta, court docu­ments said. Shipping caps are supposed to be installed on the canisters to prevent them from accidentally activating but SabreTech mechanics didn't request any, investigators said. 
MICHIANA'S NEWEST lAs ENTERTAINMENr::: 
CRIAT FuM FoR  
NowOP  Parties Availat/e  
243-8163  
2022 South Bend Ave.  
Next door to Coach's Sports Bar  

Themed Laser Games 
Associate Press 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
The National Labor Relations Board plans to charge Yale University over its uncompro­mising response to a grade strike by teaching assistants trying to unionize. 
Jonathan Kreisberg, a labor board lawyer in Hartford, said he would file a complaint unless the school settles with the Graduate Employees and Students Organization in the next few weeks. 
The strike collapsed in January after the university threatened to take away the teaching jobs of assistants who withheld grades. 
The case, which would be heard by a federal administra­tive law judge, could set a national precedent and make it easier for teaching assistants to form unions. 
"The mere fact that there are so few cases in this area means that when any case comes along it could change the playing field," Kreisberg 

J J!) ~) Jr' 'f {' I JJ J {_' {' I I I r)
.!:..) -.._j -J ___. 'J -J ___. '__) ..!:..) 
MEETING 
Wednesday,20 November~ 7:00p.m. ~(9 
Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 

Interested In blkingjraclng with us? 
Road and Trail Riding 
Interested but can't make It? ~ contact Tom thorvath@darwln.hellos.nd.edu 
said. 
The government will argue that graduate students are employees, and that labor law protects their right to strike by refusing to issue grades to the undergraduates students they teach, Kreisberg said. 
In the past, the labor board treated graduate teaching assistants as students rather than employees, a standard Yale maintains should not sud­denly change. 
Private universities could refuse to negotiate with the groups and could even punish students who engaged in job actions. 
The Yale organization, which says it represents about one­fourth of Yale's 2,500 graduate students, sought higher pay, lower health-insurance costs, smaller classes and more training. 
The group claimed the Yale administration threatened to ruin participants' careers and cause those from abroad to be deported. 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
Chunnel blazes under sea Secret papers reveal 
By LIONEL GOUGELOT 
Associated Press Writer 
CALAIS, France 
It was the Chunnel builders' nightmare-intense flames and deadly fumes choking the 31­mile tunnel used to whisk pas­sengers and freight beneath the English Channel. 
Eight people, including a preg­nant woman, were overcome by smoke when fire broke out Monday night on a truck being hauled to Britain on a freight train. 
It was the first serious acci­dent since the tunnel linking Britain and France opened two years ago. Service was halted and could take three weeks to be fully restored. 
i 
None of the iPJuries were life­threatening. But the fire was a ( terrifying example of what can happen-despite elaborate safe­
l 
ty precautions and frequent security drills-in this man­made engineering wonder beneath the sea. 
!I 
"Another five or 10 minutes longer, we'd have all been car­ried out in bags," said truck dri­ver Brian Shilton, one of 34 
people evacuated from the tun­nel. 
"It just filled up with smoke so quick it was just unbelievable. Everyone was vomiting and choking and we all thought it was going to be the end," he said. "It was like being in a tomb."
;( 
I The fire broke out at 9:45 p.m.
' yl 
11 miles into the westbound 
:i tunnel-one of three tunnel cor­? ridors-and roughly a third of the way through the trip from Coquelles, France, to Folkestone, England. The heat and smoke from the blaze were so intense that fire­fighters had to pull back every 10 minutes. It took eight hours to put out the fire. The cause of the fire remained undeter­mined, though Eurotunnel, which operates the tunnel, said arson seemed unlikely. Most of the truck drivers had left their cabs to spend the half­hour tunnel ride in a club car. When the flames and smoke bil­lowed into the car, they sprawled on the floor, breathed 


through handkerchiefs and prayed for their lives. 
"There was panic and we waited in the club car. We couldn't leave," said Benoit Ringaud, a French trucker. 
The freight train was carrying 29 trucks, 31 passengers and three crew members. It was the only train in the tunnel at the time and rescuers quickly evac­uated the passengers. 
The tunnel, called the Chunnel, shut down immediate­ly. Eurotunnel said it hoped to reopen partial service sometime Wednesday, but full service could take three weeks to restore. Eurotunnel was using ferries and planes to provide alternate service to passengers Tuesday. 
A lengthy shutdown could prove financially devastating to the company, which is buried under $14 billion in debt. The company's stock fell nearly 4 percent Tuesday in London. 
The Chunnel opened more than a year late in summer 1994 at much higher costs than projected and Eurotunnel has been losing money ever since. 
Le Shuttle, the train that hauls passenger cars and freight, is distinct from the high-speed 
Thinkofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
1101taav·s, semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Umo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I JNITFn liMO 
~ I • • • -._, -·I Y • """"' 
Your Alrpott Connection, O'Hare & Mldwlly, All Day... Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach­Tennlnals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later) 
4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 
6:00a.m. 8:10a.m. 
8:10a.m. 

8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 
9:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m.1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m.2:00p.m. 4:10p.m. 
3:55p.m.

4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 
5:55p.m.

6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
Eurostar trains, which whoosh 16,000 passengers a day from London to Paris or Brussels in three hours. But both services use the same tunnels, often at the same time. 
The fire forced officials to con­sider the specter of such a blaze aboard a Eurostar, which can carry several hundred passen­gers. 
"This proves that in a tunnel like this, even small accidents can have grave consequences," said Michel Caillaud, secretary­general of the French National Federation of Truck Drivers. "We're worried that in the future, a worse accident could cause fatalities." 
The fire-described by The Sun tabloid in London as the "Chunnel Blaze Terror"-domi­nated British newscasts Tuesday. 
British safety groups criticized French firefighters for waiting an hour before alerting their counterparts on the other end of the tunnel. A British lawmak­er also questioned why the train didn't continue on through the tunnel, the usual safety proce­dure for getting equipment on fire above the ground. 
British Transport Secretary George Young told the House of Commons on Tuesday that the tunnel's safety authority "will want to look again" at the design of the vehicle-hauling trains. 
Eurotunnel insisted Tuesday that the fire proved the effec­tiveness of its safety procedures. Firefighters reached the scene in four minutes, it said. 
Numerous security features were designed into the virtually earthquake-proof tunnel, which opened in 1994 at a cost of $16 billion, far above budget. Among those are a central ser­vice tunnel and electric pumps to deal with possible flooding. There are numerous smoke detectors and exhaust fans, though no sprinklers. 
British arms deals 
By TONY SMITH 
Associated Press Writer 

GOMA, Zaire 
A British-based company sup­plied arms and ammunition to the former Rwandan govern­ment after it began slaughter­ing a half-million of its own people in 1994, according to documents that Hutu militias left behind when they retreated in eastern Zaire. 
The documents, made avail­able to The Associated Press on Monday, indicated the Rwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of machine guns, mortars, 
other military hardware from the company, Mil-Tee Corp., between April and July 1994. 
Some shipments appeared to contravene a U.N. embargo on ~xporting arms to Rwanda, imposed in May 1994 following acts of genocide by the former Hutu-led government against minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus. 
A U.N. Commission of Inquiry has been investigating a British company for allegedly supplying arms to the ex-Hutu govern­ment or its militia allies after they fled to Zaire, it was report­ed earlier this month. 
It could not be learned whether Mil-Tee is that compa­ny. 
The continued arms trade in the volatile region has drawn sharp protests from internation­al human rights groups, which allege that the French govern­ment also supplied weapons to the retreating Hutus after the 1994 genocide. 
France denies it. r 

Public pressure led the South African government on Nov. 6 to announce it was suspending arms shipments to the new, Tutsi-led Rwandan government. 

British arms scandal 
The Rwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of weapons and military hardware from a British company, contravening a U.N. embargo on exporting arms to Rwanda. 
Arms were flown from .... 
The documents were found in a bus, part of a wrecked convoy abandoned by retreating llutu militias in Sake, 18 miles west of Goma. The llutu militias, remnants of the former Rwandan army that fled Tutsi forces in 1994, were fleeing from Zairian rebel troops sweeping through eastern Zaire. 
The documents indicated Mil­Tee is based in Douglas, the Isle of Man, off England's northwest coast, and in Hove, 50 miles south of London. But it is not listed in telephone directories and cotlld not be reached for comment. 
The arms were flown out of London's Heathrow Airport; Tel Aviv, Israel; and Tirana, Albania, via such carriers as Belgium's Sabena, Germany's Lufthansa and Russia's Aeroflot, according to the documents. 
They were delivered to the Rwandan capital, Kigali, and then later-when governmeat forces fled into neighboring Zaire-flown to Goma and Kinshasa, the Zairian capital. Payments were made through Belgium, France and Egypt, the documents said. 
Attention Pre-Professional Society Members 

a~e a~rea~ from ~our stu~ies an~ join us for MUST SEE TV! (committee u~~ate~, too!) Thurs., Dec.~ from ~·11~.m. 
in the Lafortune Ballroom 




Wednesday, November 20, 1996 page 9 
The Observer • LOU HOLTZ RESIGNATION 
me, but I hope it is one of my Rockne, Leahy, Parseghian and has to be more to it than this, and productive as possible. Then, able assistants. If not, I hope the others is reward enough for me. but believe me, there isn't. and only then, will I look for a
Letter 
continued from page 3 
However, these accomplish­ments are pale compared to the advancements this University has made academically and financially, with the vigorous building expansion, the cosmetic enhancement of the campus grounds and numerous other positive developments on cam­pus. I will be proud to tell my grandchildren 1 served under Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce, as well as Father Malloy and Father Beauchamp. 
I do not know who will replace 
' 
new coach will give serious con­sideration to retaining our assis­tant coaches, as they are a spe­cial group of people. Any school would be wise to consider them for any vacant head coaching positions presently open. I feel confident you will hear great things about these coaches in the future. 
I have no desire to become the all-time-winningest coach at Notre Dame. The record belongs to Knute Rockne or some other coach in the future. I am com­fortable leaving here with his record intact, and just to have held the same position as When I was hired, I said I didn't come here to become a legend, but to merely serve Notre Dame. This I have always tried to do. It is up to others to ascertain whether I accomplished this or not. I am sure there will be many coaches in the future here at Notre Dame, but I feel confi­dent when I say none will be any prouder than I was to represent this University or more loyal to its beliefs or more grateful for the opportunity. 
I cannot honestly give you a reason for my resignation, except to say I feel it is the right thing to do. People will say there 
I have absolutely no plans for the future. My health (to my knowledge) is good, and I feel as much enthusiasm for life as I did when I became a head coach at the age of 32. What I will do in the future will be dependent upon the opportunities available to me -but at the present time I have no options, nor do I antici­pate any. My only concern is to do everything possible to help our team win their last two games, and hopefully a bowl game, to help our staff further their coach­ing careers, and to assist the new coach in every way possible to make the transition as smooth job. If I do retire, it will be because I couldn't f'md a job. 

This will be a joyous day for many, emotional for a few, inconsequential to some -but to a small group (including me} this is a sad day -but I feel it is the right thing to do. I have prayed on my decision, so I will not question it. 
In closing, I thank the University of Notre Dame, the players, the coaches, the clergy, students, faculty, fans, subway alumni and others for their sup­port-but more emphatically, for their prayers. They can rest assured God answered them. 
Ever Wonder Why the Birds Fly South? It's Not Just for the Weather. T he flagship of an excellent business school, our MBA "The University of program is nationally ranked Alabama offers one of for high quality and cost­the most low-cost, sought-after MBAs.effectiveness. Check out our references But this doesn't come at right. at the cost of academics." What's more, a booming internation­Tile Princeton Review Student Access Guide al business community (Mercedes, to the Best Business JVC, British Steel) and outstanding Schools, 1996 Edition ., ilH•···•'··computer, research, and classroom facilities make a UA business degre.e an especially great value. Our admission requirementsr Like a lot of things about us, they're a little "Business Week selected 15 qualitydifferent: business schools that offer consumers the most bang for the• Most MBA programs require several buck ••• Alabama has been steadily years' work experience -we want increasing the quality you right out of college. of its students." Business Week Guide • Most programs prefer business to the Best Business Schools, Fourthmajors-· our students come from a Edition wide range of backgrounds, and we like it that way. (Liberal-arts majors welcome here.) We're looking for bright, motivated students-especially those hoping to combine academic challenges with Send tis yourhands-on experience. If your grades and GMAT scores tell us GMAT scores. you have potential, you can get an early start on the education -and We'll do the rest.the career ­you want. Write: The University of Alabama Manderson Graduate School of Business College of Commerce and Business Administration Box 870223 Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0223 Call: toll-free 888/UofA MBA C~BA WWW address:Tire University of Alabama is an equal opportunity educational institution/employer. http://www.cba.ua.edu/-mba And by the way it was 7 3 ° in Tuscaloosa on December 5, 1995  

Holtz 
continued from page 1 

"It is difficult to leave Notre Dame at this time, for many reasons," he said. "I will miss the students; and J would have loved to have had the opportunity to coach in the new stadium, which I observed from its original conception to its completion. 
"But the main reason I regret leaving is because I will leave a tal­ented group of young men who I respect and love." In addition, Holtz's drive to continue at his profession is far from 
gone. "If I do retire, it will be because I couldn't find a job," he said. He emphasized that his decision to leave was not prompted by 
another coaching offer, nor has he been contacted by any college or professional team. The only definite reason Holtz gave for leaving related to the tim­ing and logistics of the move. 
"I felt in the best interests of the University of Notre Dame and to maintain continuity, that the decision be made during the season," Holtz said. "And that's the only reason it was made during the sea­son. And I think this will be fair and allow whoever the coach is to come in and not lose a beat in recruiting." 
Holtz explained the three recruiting visits for next season would occur in December and January, and that announcing his decision now would give the new coach adequate time to prepare for them. 
Right now, the question of just who that coach will be is up in the air. 
University executive vice-president Father William Beauchamp and Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth spoke after Holtz concluded his comments but neither could offer details regarding the search for a successor. 
"We have initiated contact (with prospective coaches} but we will not be in a position now or in the future to answer questions with respect to the people that we are contacting until such time as we 
have a new coach to introduce to you," Wadsworth said. Clearly, though, the day was Holtz's. The 11-year coach of the Irish reflected upon a number of topics 
during his near hour-long conference, but perhaps the one subject that Holtz seemed most emphatic about was his love for the University. 
Though he refrained from any visible sign of emotion, Holtz spoke at length about what Notre Dame meant to him. 
"Championships don't make Notre Dame," Holtz said. "What makes Notre Dame is a love of the school and the discipline and the standards and the way the students help one another." 
"You have no idea how proud I've been when people say he's the coach at Notre Dame or to be a part of the Notre Dame family or just walk across the campus and see the Dome and walk in Sacred Heart." 
''I'll miss that. And I get sad when I think about it." Many members of the Notre Dame family he mentioned will, too, surely be saddened by his departure. 
Holtz took over a floundering Irish program at the end of the 1985 season, but by the end of his second season at the helm, Notre Dame was already back in the national picture. 
The next season, 1988, Holtz led a talented but young squad through a murderous schedule and ended the season with a 12-0 record and Notre Dame's 11th national championship. 
It was the only title for Holtz but twice (1989 and 1993), his squad finished the season as the nation's second-ranked squad in disputed voting. 
Still, Holtz's place in Notre Dame history will long be remembered. 
"We are leaving a healthy football program," he said in his state­ment. "I base this observation on the 2,500 people that attend our weekly luncheons, the capacity crowds for the pep rallies, the 
. enlargement of the stadium, the fact that 88 percent of our games (including every game in the last five years) have been on national television, the academic success of our players, the integrity and hon­esty of our program, the caliber of people we have on our team, and the nine-year streak of playing in a Jan. 1 bowl, (despite playing 43 percent of our games against nationally ranked opponents) to men­tion a few." 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
'& 
Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
jfall (!Concert 1996 
Lotti Bach Handel Mendelssohn Liszt 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday, November 20 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 

• fRIVOl.ATA 
Many would benefit from heeding advice of old adage 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint E.ditor. .................. Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager. .............................. Jed Peters Spotts Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... .Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Photo Editor ........................... Michael Ruma Saint Mary's Editor.. ............... Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
EJ:litar-in-Ori.ef 631-4542 Gmera1 Infornaticn 6 31-7 4 71 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 B.Jsiness Office 6 31 -5 313 Sports 631-4543 ~is~ 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Office Manager 631-7471 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Fax 
OINT 

Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
~~~;fr~A>=~~il:liii§ii 

"If you can't say anything nice, don't say anything at all," they say. As much of my entertainment derives from mak­ing fun of others, I've never had much use for this trite little maxim. However, with a minor change, it's a valuable rule of thumb: "If you can't say anything intelligent, don't say anything at all." 
Kirsten Dunne 
I've found that keeping silent on topics about which one knows little or nothing is a very good idea, which is why both my writing and my conversations with others usually consist of meaningless gibberish. It seems that there are a lot of people who have not discovered the value of this rule, though. And while lis­
.f tening to people spew out nonsensical notions is often highly amusing, you'd think these people might be a trifle embarrassed. Two people who I KNOW are not ashamed to exhibit their ignorance are our family friends -let's call them John and Mary. One night, my mother and I met the couple, along with two of their annoying offspring, for dinner. We were having a decent enough time, until Mary started to talk as if she knew something about criminal and constitutional law. If I recall correctly, she was completely awestruck by a report she'd seen on the news about a high-profile criminal case. What had amazed her so much was the implication in the report that criminal defendants -even convicted criminals, for God's sake!-had any kind of rights at all. Both angered and amused by her unin­
• 000NESBURY 
1 
i,. 
j 
I 
r 
I• 

formed blabbering, I attempted to explain to her that various constitutional provisions and statutes are specifically drafted to protect criminal defendants and, yes, even those who had been con­victed of a crime. She then came up with some outlandish proposal; I promptly told her that it would violate the Eighth Amendment. She didn't know that this is the amendment that, at least in theo­ry, prohibits cruel and unusual punish­ment, so I related this bit of info to her, only to have her retort that "they should repeal that." 
Since she was a family friend, I con­trolled my urge to wring her neck and instead giggled a bit, asking her if she had any idea what she was proposing. Here, she pointed out that the constitu­tional amendment barring alcohol use had been stricken, and again asked why we could not get rid of the Eighth Amendment. 
Momentarily taken aback by the fact that she did, in fact, have a scintilla of knowledge about the constitution, I started to explain to Mary why the Bill of Rights are special among the constitu­tional amendments. Apparently, I'd gone to far for her this time, and she had no real response. She and her husband simply glared at me like I was some kind of monster for arguing in favor of crimi­nal defendants. Of course, she still prob­ably failed to realize that I wasn't even talking about my opinions -which, admittedly, are very far to the left-but instead was merely giving her the facts! Another memorable episode occurred earlier this year, when my gay and les­bian friends in the 'Bend were encoun­tering some friction. (How's that for a change, huh?) Offended by cruel, per­sonalized attacks in a "news"paper pol­luted with propaganda, a couple of my pals stopped the hate from spreading any further by taking the papers from their sites of distribution. Seeing as though gays and lesbians on the Notre 
ANOI(JHO~ 601NS7lJ seTUP /NVtN!a<Y 
CON'f'!!()tror<ttOf!J< TH& PRIJ]EC7EI? /J{}PGe"r CR. 
~-...... MANAGe 
~;:r--~:TJ.IE. AIJP~? \ 
,f ~ ~ 

Dame campus get in trouble when they 
try to gather for coffee and donuts, you 
can imagine that they were reprimand­
ed for this stunt. 
Okay, I'll concede a bit here. These 

people took a mass quantity of a publi­cation which was meant to be freely available to everyone on campus. I cer­tainly can't blame them, but as for . whether it was really the right way to deal with the situation ...? I admit, it was 
not. 
On the other hand, what they did was 

also not a violation of anyone's first 
amendment rights, which is exactly the 
claim which was made by the "Right 
Reason" folks (that's "right" as in Rush­
Limbaugh-like, by the way-NOT as in 
"correct"). A good friend of mine told me 
about this part of the saga on a particu­
larly stressful day at work, and boy, did 
it provide a well-needed gush of laugh­
ter! For, you see, if one reads the First 
Amendment, one will find that it pre­
cludes CONGRESS from enacting certain 
types of LAWS. The courts, in an 
attempt to give citizens the maximum 
benefit of that lofty provision, construe 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

"Congress" pretty expansively ... but it doesn't quite reach this far, folks! 
Don't get me wrong here. If you didn't know that, that's perfectly fine, and I'm not trying to seem arrogant. However, if you don't know something, maybe you should research your subject before speaking out publicly on it. Oh well ­the mistake of the Right Reason folks didn't particularly bother me. In fact, you could say it filled me with glee. There are some people whom I truly like to see making idiots of themselves! 
The recent election, coupled with O.J.'s civil trial. has everyone offering his or her opinion lately. A piece of advice: If you really don't know what you're talk­ing about, SHUT UP! I am certainly going to do so! I think O.J. is innocent, and I voted for the big-eared, wacko bil­lionaire. What the hell do I know? 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND /,aw '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''you don't change Notre Dame. Notre Dame changes you." 
-Lou Holtz 

~--------------------......................------------------------~------------~-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 20, 1996 page ll 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Response to Coyne's dating guide shows misconceptions 

words for a "six foot, hundred pound never works."
somed flower. Oh, excuse me. For all of game, but why? We both think we have
blonde, who he can display to his com­We all have fantasies, there is no 
you confused "girls" who didn't quiet the opposite sex figure out, when nei­
patriots, but won't expect much in denying this. And no wonder. If "he" 
understand, I was talking about a ther of us really have any clue what is 
return, and by no means expect a com­leans over to unlock the car door for you 
woman. going on. We spend too much time try­
mitment." Seems pretty clear, not too nowadays, you've made progress. The
Although I find myself in a sublime ing to be what we think the other wants,
bad. Well guys, wake up! day of chivalry and wooing are over,
state of awareness, that hackneyed instead of just being ourselves. Thus,
"What they want is a challenge,-and fantasy must suffice. Women fantasize
idiom "it takes one to know one," contin­difficulty arises. 
there's the rub-we all want what we about being wooed, opening the door to 
ues to pass through my mind, muddling I suppose commitment is wonderful for 
can't have. No one asks someone out meet a plethora of fragrant flowers and 
my otherwise newly found insight into some, but for the majority of college stu­
that they think they are settling for: tasty chocolates, but we also, at the
the female mystique. I guess what I'm dents, a companion, a friend, is just as
they want someone they're shooting for; same tine, grasp the denotation of fanta­
trying to say is that, and maybe I'm a lit­special. The whole male-female dating
and its always the nice guy that gets sy. Guys, the closest you are going to get 
tle off track, the typical Notre Dame thing is a game, played by both, but
shot down." to Jenny McCarthy is that poster hang­
male is just as confusing. Yes, Tommy, why? What is wrong with being our­
OK, we all want a challenge. There is ing in your room. It is a sick facade, it is 
you heard me right. "Urn, guys here, uh selves and being accepted as just that? 
a difference, though, between settling not real. 
well, are kind of CONFUSED." Spending time together, getting to know
for something and expecting something. "we're drinkers, we're sexually frus­
Guys appear to have it all figured out, one another as who we really are, and
For some strange reason men expect trated; there's nowhere to take a date ... " 
and they will not heed to explain their not just supposing we have it all figured
this "perfect" woman to come walking Does this explain itself, or is it just me?
irrefutable conclusions into the male out. Taking it easy. 
off of the cover of Vogue and into their Drinkers, sexually frustrated-what do
psyche to any inquiring mind. Really, 
lives. "Me, settle, never!" But I will these two words have in common? If
though, if they don't have it all figured TATUM ELYSE MENGYAN
hang out with you until "she" comes you are going out of with your friends 
out, then who in the hell does? All, and Junior
around. Sound familiar? for the evening, then albeit, go out and 
so I've been told, that a man wants is a Saint Mary's College 
"They know what they want in their have a rip roaring time. If on the other
"nice" girl who has it together. Male 
fantasies, but the transition to reality hand, you're in search for romance or 
Realize the implications of 
misjudging the ND female 
Dear Editor: happy ending. 
I am writing in response to R. Thomas Coyne thoroughly misjudges his female Coyne's Viewpoint article entitled counterparts on this campus. For the "Coyne's guide to dating the Notre Dame female." 
I am sure I am speaking for many of the 'There is an inherent dan­women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ger in generalizing 
when I state that I was quite frustrated by Coyne's article. This is not meant to be a women as coy, fickle and inde­personal attack against Coyne; in past cisive. The scenario might go columns, he has a lamented the fact that 
something like this: Girl 
some of his readership often misunder­
doesn't know what she wants, 
stands the intricacies of his tongue-in­cheek mockery. So I'll give Coyne the but I know what I want, then I benefit of the doubt in this instance, and 
might as well take what I 
hope he merely neglected to fully think 
want. Consent goes straight
through the possible repercussions of his words. out the window-after all, Coyne's subject is the ever popular one she may change her mind the of dating at Notre Dame (or, as Coyne 
next second anyway.' 
alleges, the lack thereof,) wherein he attempts to offer advice to his male read­ership on the ever-illusive species of most part, we know what we want. We women. Some of his more insightful com­would like to be treated with honor , dig­ments include stating that females "revel nity, and respect. We don't want to be in the twisted fun of playing games, " and subjected to physical or emotional abuse, 
are essentially, and I quote, "liars." sexual harassment, glass ceilings, nega­Coyne even creatively invents a Latin tive stereotypes; the list could go on and name for females of the Notre Dame com­on. In effect, women merely wish to be munity, "Handsoffis Lessimdru nkis." treated the same way men expect to be However, probably the most harmful treated -like intelligent, worthy, equal theme that Coyne emphasizes again and human beings. again is the stereotype that "women don't So when Coyne states, "it's not just girls know what they want." I'm berating," he's right. By perpetuating 
For those of us who may not be sophisti­a negative stereotype of women, he is cated enough to catch the sarcasm degrading anyone who has ever had or allegedly underlying the playful banter of hopes to have a successful male/female Coyne's writing, there is an inherent dan­relationship, romantic or not. So if you ger in generalizing women as coy, fickle, need any further explanations of the and indecisive. The scenario might go "mysteries of enigmatic species," R. something like this: Girl doesn't know Thomas Coyne, I'll be happy to take you what she wants, but I know what I want, up on your offer to go out for a beer. then I may as well take what I want. Consent goes straight out the window -RENE RIMELSPACH 
woman's fault;Jt's not the Notre T~
after all, she may change her mind the Junior 
Dame man·s fault;wit•s intrinsic. Senior·
next second anyway. One can extrapolate Breen Philips Hall 
You.r~problem is that you w~int to (Badin Hall
many other similar scenarios following blame your misfortunes on some-this mindset, not one of which has a 


page 12 Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1996 Wednesday, Nov. 20
ACCENT 
t~ 
' 
• AccENT AsKs: 
What is your favorite version of "A Christmas Carol" and Why? 

'"The Muppet Christmas Carol' because those wild and wacky guys make me laugh." 
Megan Driscoll Junior, Holy Cross 


"'Scrooged', because it's fun to watch Carol Kane hit Bill Murry with a toaster." 
Mike Gaglia Senior, Fisher 

"Charles Dickens' origi­nal because of the cool sound effects" 
Julie Burk Junior, Holy Cross 
"'The Muppet Christmas 
Carol' because Gonzo is 
the Man." 
Brian O'Reilly Junior, Flanner 


"We like the Mickey Mouse one because it's so fun. It reminds us of being a little kid." 
Devon Battersby/Danielle Weldy Freshmen, Lewis 
"The original one because the lights make me feel like I'm at a disco." 
Tony Schaefer Senior, Flanner 

The Observer/Rachel Sederberg 

tistn 

he will have to bear for his sins. Marley then fore­tells the visitations of three specters and disappears for the remainder of the play. As Scrooge and the ghosts traverse the Christmas past, present and future, Scrooge sees how he has mistreated mankind -partic­ularly his nephew, Fred, and his clerk, Bob Cratchit. This 
versi0 n 0 f the 
By PATRICK CARAHER 
Accent Writer 


,.....1!11111-.he Communications 
and Theater depart­
ment presents the 
first ever stage pro­

duction of the Ken Jones adaptation of this Charles Dickens classic. Jones captures the timeless story of Ebenezer Scrooge and carries it into the twentieth century. His modernistic adaptation focuses on Scrooge's emotions and develops the show into a study of Scrooge's character. 
The aspects of the story focusing on Scrooge's business life remain merely to support the way he has developed into a miserly, stingy scrooge. Marley, Scrooge's former part­ner, appears warning Scrooge about the length of the chain 
"Readers : 

script incites empathy and pity for Scrooge, especially in the scene where he loses the love of his youth, Belle. One cannot help but feel a little twinge of sorrow for Scrooge, as he cringes and winces pleading his youthful image to answer Belle. 
Jones also omits some of the more extraneous scenes, such as those of Marley in the past. He condenses the script to only what is necessary to explain the story (this version runs approximately an hour and five minutes, so don't complain that you don't have enough time to go and see the show). The production crew is headed by director Kassic Misiewicz, who is currently an adjunct professor of communi­cations and theatre. She is a 1989 Notre Dame Graduate, who returned after completing graduate studies in Theater for Young Audiences at Arizona State. She has brought an excellent cast of students to the stage for this family production. 

This show exhibits actors who bring more than ade­quate experience to the stage. The miserly Scrooge is played by graduate student, Randall Smith, who provides an excel­lent portrayal of Scrooge before and after his transfor­mation. The parts of Cratchit and Marley are both per­formed by senior Jerry Lavin, who also turns in an solid per­formance. Other leading parts, the ghosts of Christmas past and present arc per­formed by Sophomore Kimberly Megna and Senior Charles Camosy, respectively. This relatively small cast con­sisting of 1 7 actors plays all 30 of the characters in the play. This cast is quality from Scrooge himself to the most insignificant character. 
Backstage, the production is controlled by Misiewicz. Th scenery, designed by Kevin Dreyer, associate professional specialist and theater profes­sor, consists of a series of columns and a central arch draped with curtains. The set is modern, yet simple, and is symbolic of Scrooge's meta­morphosis. As the play pro­gresses, the curtains are grad­ually removed, representing the removal of the walls 

Alister Sim Brings Di 
By JOSEPH WEILER 
many weeks until Thanksgiving comes around? Just one? Well, then it isn't too early to start getting ready for Christmas! The best way to get into the holiday mood (aside from hitting the malls and spending oodles of cash) is to kick back and take in some timeless classics, and you can't get anymore timeless than Charles Dickens' "A Christmas 
Carol." 
There are literally dozens of ver­sions out there to choose from, but the best is the version with Alister Sim. In this 1951 release of the
Jft~ sign up 

story of Ebenezer Scrooge, you get 
all of the Christmas Spirit you could 
tbe d.jlilig ha.Hs priOr to the 
ask for and a little more. You all vent~· bu(.i-ea.<lers are •welcJjne to 
know the story of miserly old Scrooge being visited by the ghosts . u,;nff;f;l" their Sf;rvices". tbe night 
of past, present and future, which arc all done pretty much on par in this version. but no matter how hard you look, you'll not find a bet­ter interpretation of the scene with the ghost of Jacob Marley. 
From the minute when his ghastly faces appears on the door knocker until he fades away shrieking, "Never shall we meet again!" the scene is completely captivating. Marley comes complete with over-Scrooge has erected prot his emotions. The : changes arc completed l actors moving on sta: view of the audience. element of thcatricalisn veys that it is indeed a tl cal production, not inten 

Lakeya Cook and Carrie GL Christmas Carol" more than 
represent real life. Lighting, designed by Auerbach, Notre D• 
sized chains, which he shakes whenever he decides to be a little overdramatic (which happens a lot) and out of nowhere screams at the top of his lungs in mid-sentence, and then continues right along. It is absolutely one of the most flamboy­ant, yet fitting scenes in film histo­ry. 
You'd also be hard pressed to find a better man to play Ebenezer Scrooge than Alister Sim. Unlike most portrayals of this rich old miser, in which Scrooge is played out as a victim, Sim makes you hate mean ole' Uncle Scrooge until the moment which he redeems himself by buying a Christmas goose the size of Tiny Tim for the Cratchit family, and frolics about his village streets tossing money as he goes. 
Director George Minter stuck basically to the script with this one. In fact, you know he's not going to be too liboral with his artistic license when he opens the title sequence by flipping open the cover to an actual copy of Dickens' origi­nal novel, with the copyright date, publisher name and all at the bot­tom. But what more can one expect of a movie that set the standards for all the remakes which followed. 
It is not much in the way of cine­matography. either, but how many times can you say that you've seen title credits being held up on a piece 
• 


f 
remtere o 


'
ristmas 
aro 
~r completing ; in Theater diences at 
She has llent cast of tage for this 
tibits actors ~ than ade­to the stage. Jge is played ent, Handall :Ies an excel­of Scrooge his transfor­ls of Cratchit ~ both per-Jerry Lavin, an solid per­ler leading of Christmas nt arc per­Sophomore and Senior respectively. tall cast con­s plays all 30 in the play. 1ality from 
to the most tcter. production is 
iewicz. Th ~d by Kevin professional ~atcr profcs­a series of :entral arch Lins. The set mple, and is oge's meta­he play pro­ins are grad­·epresenting · the walls 


n Brings Dicl~ens' Classic to Life 
sized chains, which he shakes whenever he decides to be a little overdramatic (which happens a lot) and out of nowhere screams at the top of his lungs in mid-sentence, and then continues right along. It is absolutely one of the most flamboy­ant, yet fitting scenes in film histo­ry. 
You'd also be hard pressed to find a better man to play Ebenezer Scrooge than Alister Sim. Unlike most portrayals of this rich old miser, in which Scrooge is played out as a victim, Sim makes you hate mean ole' Uncle Scrooge until the moment which he redeems himself by buying a Christmas goose the size of Tiny Tim for the Cratchit family. and frolics about his village streets tossing money as he goes. 
Director George Minter stuck basically to the script with this one. In fact, you know he's not going to be too liberal with his artistic license when he opens the title sequence by flipping open the cover to an actual copy of Dickens' origi­nal novel, with the copyright date, publisher name and all at the bot­tom. But what more can one expect of a movie that set the standards for all the remakes which followed. 
It is not much in the way of cine­matography. either, but how many times can you say that you've seen title credits being held up on a piece 
r-~~~--~--~~~ 
_.h"':"""' i'"'''·'""'''''',,.,,,,.,,,.,,,,,c-,•·i 
'-"L..--'~-...-;~~=---::-:----:=-'"-:-:--::-""7~_.. 
Lakeya Cook and Carrie Gulick help to make "A Christmas Carol" more than just a catchy title. 
represent real life. duction combine to create an Lighting, designed by Bruce interesting mix. This is a play Auerbach, Notre Dame's that has sort of a split person-
of paper? 
Plus, you have to remember that almost all of the effects in this movie, primitive though they may seem, are absolutely amazing for the time in which they were done. 
For instance, the scenes with Marley and the other translu­cent ghosts are astonishing ~"'-' 1111~~ considering how long it took to get Bugs Bunny to talk to Michael Jordan. 
Okay, maybe throwing con­fetti at an hourglass sitting in a cardboard tube to indicate the passage of time seems more suiting to a "B" movie than a great classic such as this, but it 
does make for a good chuckle. 
Now, if you're really one those Christmas afficionados, you'll want to check out these versions, too: 
"A Christmas Carol" -1938, with Heginold Owen, in black and white or color. 
"Scrooged" -1990 , with Bill Murray, Carol Kane, and Bobcat Goldthwait. 
"A Muppet Christmas Carol" -1993, with Michael Kane, Kermit T. Frog, and Gonzo. 
"A Disney Christmas Carol" -1983, with Donald Duck, Mickey Mouse and gang. 
ing system in 
VVashington Hall. The elaborate the­atrical light­ing gives a traditional air to the play. 
The cos­tumes were designed by Hi chard Donnelly, associate pro­fessional spe­cialist and t h e ate r p r o ­fessor here at Notre Dame. The costumes are elaborate replications of 19th century 
attire. Since the play is set at Christmas, most of the costumes 
emp1oy heavy overcoats and scarves. The ele­ments of pro­

ality. equally distributing ele­ments of the classic master­piece and 20th century the­ater. The result is a produc­tion that can be best described as schizophrenic. The produc­tion seems like it has an iden­tity crisis; it can't decide between centuries and sort of bounces between the two. Eventually, it finds it's niche. It doesn't make up its mind, but this leaves the decision to the audience. It can be per­ceived by the individual viewer as traditional or modern. Not establishing a definite time period removes this classic from the element of time, accentuating the fact that it can as easily applied today as when it was written. It is a universal play. 
Is it worth paying the admis­sion? As everyone knows, that is the true test of a successful production. Well, if you were hoping to see a completely modern interpretation, you may be disappointed. If you intend merely to enjoy some great acting, and a well craft­ed new version of a timeless classic, it will be well worth you six dollars. 
"A Christmas Carol" opens Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. There are performances on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights at 7:30 p.m.The is a Matinee at 2:30 
p.m. on Sunday. The admis­sion is $8 for adults, $7 for senior citizens and $6 for stu­dents. 
) 1996 Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1996 
ACCE-NT 
page 13 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 

Dickens Abridged 
By MARY BETH ELLIS Accent Copy Editor 

DISCLAIMER: Because I love you guys, and because the South Bend news media is currently making me want to vomit into my "The Presidents of Notre Dame" Stadium cup, the following col­umn will contain absolutely no references to Lou Holtz's resigna­tion, or lamentations about the End of an Era, or demands that the University hire a coach with the same first name so the Band won't have to throw away the sheet music to "The 1812 Overture." (Applause.) 
A few Christmases ago my godfather managed to snare tickets to 
the hottest holiday play in Cincinnati, "A Christmas Carol." 
He didn't like it. 

He didn't like it because, quote, "I thought there was going to be 
singing. What kind of show with a name like 'A Christmas Carol' 
doesn't have any Christmas carols in it?" 
(Sound of English majors wincing across campus.) 
My godfather is a charming, intelligent person, and I can't judge 
him harshly for not being tremendously hip to the latest word con­
cerning Dickens, because unlike me he can add in his head. This 
man is not stupid. This man, however, did graduate from the 
University of Cincinnati, the same school that -this is true ­
recently thought it might be fun to implode an entire dorm in 
order to create more parking space. (Pause as reader slowly 
comes to the realization thatthere may be better uses for the land 
on which Zahm currently rests.) 
You woulctn•t see a product of ND or my SAINT MARY'S COL· 
LEGE making a literary faux pas like that. No sir. We are well.. 
educated· in the art of the written word. Why? Because we can't 
find Cliffs Notes within .. aten·mile radiu~ of campvs.. tp.at'swhy, 
and have'no choice but to suck it up and actually attempt to.read 
·great gobs of the art of the written word, or·at the very·least get loaded before class so as to have the ability to make any sense whatsoever ofAnimal Farm. That is what separates us from those chincy schools whose mascots are in fact gigantic walking nuts. 
I realize, however, that not all of us are English majors. Some of us are just too busy designing god-awful metal campus "art" or fretting over when those two stupid trains are going to meet to worry about books that do not feature pictures. So for those of you on that other side of the brain, here's a copy ofthe Cliff's Notes version of "A Christmas Carol" I managed to lay hands on. Don't ask how until the statute oflimitations runs out. 
A CHRISTMAS CAROL 
by CHARLES DICKENS 

Famous Excessively Wordy British Author, Now Dead, Thank 
God 

SETTING: England, a long time ago, 18·something, at any rate some crusty old year in which the people who were alive at the time are almost certainly dead by now, with the possible exception of Dick Clark. 
Part I Plot Analysis: We meet miserly Ebenezer Scrooge, a man with a pole shoved up his butt if we ever met one, and his hard· working, severely unappreciated, but for some reason disgustingly cheerful clerk, Bob Cratchit. Scrooge spends a lot of time whining around like a smashed freshman denied Stadium access just because he threw up on the usher at the gate. BoL spends a lot of time being disgustingly cheerful even though he has something like sixty kids and one of them. Tiny Tim, has a limp or something and don't you think if this guy is so poor he really ought to start looking into some birth control? This can't be too much of a prob­lem. I mean, everyone knows there are no Catholics in England. 
REVIE\V QUESTIONS 

1} A small misguided contingent in my hometown is attempting to bring the 2008 Summer Games to Cincinnati. Do you honestly think the International Olympics Committee is going to award the hugest sporting event on the planet to the same city that begot Marge Schott? Explain. 
2) You know that guy who played Theo's friend Cockroach on The Cosby Show? Whatever happened to that guy? Discuss. 
3) a. Am I the only one who's noticed that the University took down the perfectly normal. perfectly functional stop sign by the Grotto and replaced it with a weird short brown ugly one? 
b. Did I mention that the University placed this sign behind a tree? 
Part II Plot Analysis: Scrooge is visited by ghosts from Christmases past, present, and future who show him disturbing scenes from his lonely, miserable life fllled with few friends and long hours of cold, pointless work. 
"My God!" Scrooge said. 'Tm an architecture major!" 
He mends his ways and finds for Tiny Tim a scholarship for Limping Sons of Severely Underappreciated But Disgustingly Cheerful Clerk British-Americans. 
REVIEW 

1) Lou! Don't leave us! NOOOOOOOO! 
2. You can't believe every disclaimer you read, you know. 
Scrooge has erected protecting his emotions. The scene changes are completed by the actors moving on stage. in view of the audience. This element of theatricalism con­veys that it is indeed a theatri­cal production, not intended to director of the theater, is com­plex, yet conservative. The production crew is working with a Star-tech lighting sys­tem for the first time, express­ly designed to create special effects. These lights help to compliment the primary light­
., ... 

\ 
Wednesday, November 20, 1996
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
.\ 
• NFL 
Broncos exceed predictions 
By AARON J. LOPEZ 
Associated Press Writer 
DENVER 
So far, the Denver Broncos have been able to avoid trip­ping over their own hype be­cause there hasn't been any. 
That could change this week when ESPN, HBO, CNN and NBC visit Broncos headquarters to feature the NFL's hottest team as it pre­pares for Sunday's game at Minnesota. 
Denver (1 0-1) has won seven straight games and has a two-game lead over Pittsburgh, Kansas City and Buffalo for home-field advan­tage throughout the AFC play­offs. 
Projected as a 9-7 team, the Broncos have exceeded all ex­pectations -except their own -and now will try to live up to the billing as one of the best teams in the NFL. 
"Sometimes when success comes, people forget what's gotten them there, coach Mike Shanahan said Monday. "They start going out to din­ner on Thursday and Friday nights and quit doing the 
things that have gotten them there through preparation. It's easy to do. 
"If we start to get caught up in the exposure and people patting you on the back, then it's easy to start going in the other direction, but I think we're too mature to do that." 
Although they seem to be taking every victory in stride, the Broncos have not been afraid to show some flamboy­ance. 
Shannon Sharpe struck a Mr. Universe pose and made mock telephone call to the White House on Sunday dur­ing Denver's 34-8 dismantling of New England. 
Sharpe, the AFC's leading receiver, said he was calling to request that President Clinton declare Foxboro a national-disaster area and bring in the National Guard. 
''Our football team has a lot of confidence," Shanahan said. "They've got a lot of belief in each other, and that's where it starts. If you win, you earn respect. In time, if we do what we need to do, that will happen." 
The Broncos, whose best 
16-game season is 13-3 in 1984, should be favored to win at least four of their remaining five games, with a Dec. 8 date at Green Bay being the only exception. 
Some have touted the Green Bay game as a possible Super Bowl preview, but Shanahan has done a masterful job of instilling a one-game-at-a­time attitude that is a big rea­son for Denver's success. 
"I don't count my eggs until they hatch," defensive tackle Jumpy Geathers said. "I've won the Super Bowl before (in Washington), so until I get to that point, then I'll tell you about it. Right now, we're groovin'. Everybody's happy. 
"But if you look at the Super Bowl right now, you will never win the Viking game or none of these coming up. The Super Bowl's way off. We're only two games ahead and guys can come back any­time." 
Denver's pursuers have a tough road ahead. Not only do the Broncos have the league's top offense and top rushing defense, but Shanahan said the best may be yet to come. 
• NFL 

Falcons suffer setback with loss of Odomes 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 

SUWANEE, Ga. 
Nate Odomes is no longer one of the top cornerbacks in the NFL. Back-to-hack injuries on his right knee took care of that. 
But the two-time Pro Bowler pushed himself back from a two-year layoff and was making an impact in the Atlanta Falcons' secondary. 
"He's small in stature, but on the field it's like he's eight feet tall," said Cornelius Bennett, Odomes' teammate during the glory days in Buffalo and back with him again on the Falcons defense. "We were hoping in a few more weeks here, he would begin to rub off on the other guys." 
But Odomes' career suffered another blow early Monday morning, just 24 hours after he took another step in his re­markable comeback by starting at cornerback for the Falcons in a 17-15 victory over New Orleans. 
Odomes was charged with drunken driving after his sports car slammed into a tree in the suburbs north of Atlanta, leav­ing him with a concussion and numerous cuts and abrasions. 
The 31-year-old was treated at a hospital and released a few hours after the 7:20a.m. wreck, lucky to be alive judging from the ncar-total destruction of his Porsche 928 and the half-hour it took for rescue workers to free him from the wreckage. 
Still, it was a definite setback for an aging player who worked hard to prove he was at least a shadow of the player who tied for the NFL lead with nine inter­ceptions in 1993. 
"He's very down," Bennett said. "He's sort of at a cross­roads. He doesn't know which way he wants to go. He's had so much bad luck over the past few years. Even if he doesn't come back to play football, hopefully he'll be fine for the rest of his life." 
Coach June Jones visited Odomes at Gwinnett Medical Center shortly after the wreck and was surprised to learn later that the injuries weren't more severe. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
*****'*****HELP!!!•••••••••••• WALK TO CAMPUS For Sale 2 Rutger GA 243-9384 n. d. tickets for sale IRIS­I lost a gold ring with a purple 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 271 1635 Went 2 the new Juice Bar. What
NOTICES
. I 
stone. It has great sentimental 232-2595 FOR SALE-2 GA's and 1 student happened to Rendez-vous 1900 
value. Please, if you find it, call ticket for Rutgers. Call 634-4985 GA.s FOR SALE GA.s hours? -STANLEY SPRING BREAK Travel Free Nicole x2547-REWARD. 7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 with best offer. ""'"'"""'""PITI, RUTGERs , USC , Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full GA.s CALL. ....272-7233. Mail Starved Demers in lnnsbruck Cancun Jamaica Bahamas bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted I NEED 2 GA's FOR RUTGERS crave correspondence!!
WANTED
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. ceil, porch, furniture avail. CALL MIKE 243-9403 Need Rutgers GA's? lnnrain 33 all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf & BEAUTIFUL! 3 for sale @ 277-9957 A-6020 lnnsbruck ·~ .., .. " Sun (800)763-5606. NOWISTHETIMETOCA~ 273-2580 :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) Tirol, Austria 
LEISURE TOURS AND GET FREE 4 Rutgers student tix Need 4 Rutgers GAs Europe Thank you Lou INFORMATION FOR SPRING ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR for sale Katie x3572 
BREAK PACKAGES TO SOUTH ND-SMC EVENTS. call Jenny @ 687-8435 Hi Court-can't wait to see you MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW PADRE, CANCUN, JAMAICA AND IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­(: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: (: I NEED TWO RUTGERS so you can put Brouillet into place. OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL FLORIDA. REPS NEEDED ... TRAV­ENDS. G.A.'S. URGENT!! GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL. EL FREE AND EARN COMMIS­VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED CALL NEIL 243-9219 FAX IT FAST'!! CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO. SIONS. 800-838-8203 243-0658. ALL GAMES HOME Sending & Receiving 
AND AWAY * *NEED 2 G.A.'s FOR USC* * at 
EARLY CHILDHOOD HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 2 &6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW 232-0058 • *please call 243-0760* • THE COPY SHOP DEVELOPMENT CENTER 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­24 HAS. LaFortune Student Center CHILDREN'S BOOK FAIR (813)360-2243. PUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-BUY -SELL -TRADE 4 SALE: 3 RUTGERS STUDENT Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
The Early Childhood Development 6306 TIX DINA 43144 FAX IT FAST!!! Center at Notre Dame (on Bulla EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach TICKET-MART, INC. Rd. across from O'Hara-Grace basic conversational English in Spacious 2 bdrm. apartment near FOR SALE: 2 Rutgers GAs TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, Residences) will have quality Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No campus, unfurnished, for spring WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 273-2580 PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN children's literature and Discovery teaching certificate or European semester. Call Peter at 234-4779. ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL LAFAYETIE Toys available for purchase at our languages required. Inexpensive 232-0061. Need Student Converted GA for Annual Book Fair from Wed, 12/4 -Room & Board + other benefits. For Rutgers for cousin's first game. ADOPTION IS A Tues, 12/10. The proceeds from info. call: (206)971-3680 FOR SALE FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME Call Steph X4135 CHOICE OF LOVE. this event are used to purchase ext.K55843 GAMES 235-3394 Choosing Adoption is an unselfish additional educational materials Macintosh Power Book 520 with ND FOOTBALL TIX act of love. Your child will be raised for the children to enjoy in each of NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­color screen, modem included & HELP! BOUGHT &SOLD. to know this. Caring couple wish to our activity rooms. Positions are now available at portable color Hewlett Packard Student needs Rutgers GA's AM -232-2378 share our love, laughs, and lives 
National Parks, Forests, &Wildlife printer for SALE!!! 4-1266 Mary. for family. PM -288-2726. with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­If you are looking for gift ideas for Preserves. Excellent benefits + tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's 
children in your life (brothers, bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. 1963 TRIUMPH TR-4. Call Mark at x1487 RUT. STU FOR SALE-35$ -Ryan talk and see if we're right for you sisters, nieces, nephews), we N55849 $3,500 OR B/0. 234-1078 and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­invite you to come and browse LARRY 289-5303 EVE. NEED 1 RUTGERS STD TIX 800-213-3960. through our selection of quality ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­CALL MICHELE @ X2984 For sale: 2 Married Std. Tix for hard back and paper back Students Needed! Fishing Industry. House for Sale by Owner Rutgers. Need 1 ID to use. ***SLF IS COMING.*** children's books and toys. If you Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per 1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded Need 2 Rutgers GA x4519 Start preparing early by coming to would like more information, month. Room and Board! Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3 Paul 243-9403 the Coffeehouse, Thursday, Nov.
( please call Thayer Kramer at 631-Transportation! Male or Female. No Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage For sale: 4 USC tix. Excellent seats. 21 in the LaFortune Ballroom, 3344. experience necessary. Call attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths, Need a GA or Student ticket for Call X1930. from 8-1 0 pm. Come to listen or (206)971-351 0 extA55848 1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­Rutgers game. It's for my little sign up in the DH to read or play 

Spring Break Bahamas Party ment. a/c, disposal, all appliances, brother. Call 4-2340. Ask for Frank. Buy/sell Rutgers tickets -music. All are welcome. Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All NEEDED:1 ROOMATE!TURTLE Security System. Completely Check our price 674-7645 Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634-refreshed to sell. asking 88,500. Fly with IRISH, RUT conv GA 4 THANKSST.JUDEFORFAVORS Beaches &Nightlife! Prices 2059 Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. sale. 2 Rutgers GA's for sale. GRANTED. TKS Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­Call 219-295-8727 14009,2438161. Room avail. if needed. 277-8340 .. breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 Part Time Nanny Needed. So what do we do at the end of the 
Flexible hours. Call273-2713 NEED RUTGERS GA's third quarter now? Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break TRANSFERABLE $1000 2 RUTGERS GA'S FOR SALE 312 951-5008 Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From Roommate Wanted -Male/Female VOUCHER ON AMERICAN CALL CARL @ 4-2004 **OLIGARCHY EDICT** South Bend $419! Prices Increase openminded person wanted to AIRLINES $800 OBO WITH BEST OFFER One Rutgers GA $35, Call Daniel The Chief prohibits all administra­Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on share rent and utilities of 2 bedroom 2719387 273-6428 tion, faculty, and students from Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price apartment near downtown. Grad reading White Weason without Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com student preferred. Ask for Scott -'RENTS IN TOWN? !! FOR SALE!! Need 1 Rutgers GA obtaining a 
1-800-678-6386 234-5795 ROOMS @ ST. MARY'S INN Rutgers Stud Tix call Scot X2005 "Permission to Read Rubbish for 
FOR SALE-CALL 288-0704 Cheap, call X1473 Ridicule Form" from Tom More­Spring Break Panama City! Michiana's largest night club and Man, the Grand Secretary of the Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best newest restaurant is now seeking 1995 Gold Saturn 25,000mls NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED I PERSONAL 
Ministry of the Man. Furthermore. Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights competant, hard working individuals Air, Automatic, anti-lock brakes, ALL GAMES HOME White Weason is hereby disbanded $129! Daytona-Best Location $139! to fill several positions within our dual air bags. $12,900 AND AWAY by the Minister of Philosophical Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­growing company. Positions now Call 257-0238 232-0058 Looking for a place to eat with your Coercion, Dave Dizastern. breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 available are: Hostess. Banquet 24 HAS. parents this weekend? Questions? Call Marshalle 1-800 and restaurant servers, bus per­BUY-SELL-TRADE Come to Guido &Murphy's Italian GO-CHIEF
TICKETS
NEED A QUALIFIED sons. Beer Tub and shot girls. All Restaurant!! Formerly "the Works" BABYSITIER? positions are ideal for students. If TICKET-MART, INC. but now much better!! Keep the LOU CHANT alive!! REFERENCES AVAILABLE interested, contact Heartland and Rutgers GAs for sale: up to 6 seats Call 232-4414 for reservations. Hire Lou Tepper!!! 288-0704 The Old Chicago Steakhouse at together; (219) 250-3150 WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S right, right, right 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL !!!!!!!RUTGERS GA FOR 232-0061. Need a ride to Cherry Hill, N.J. -Jose, now you really gonna have 
ILOST & FOUND I 
SALE!!!!!!!! thanksgiving. Help driving, gas&toll. the ladies with your name in the 
FOR RENT 
·····call Nicole @ 4x28or···· $$$$$$ Call Dmytro 272 6953 . paper! Hi Mona! FOUND: One gold necklace I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS king between LaFortune and Hayes­REGGAE D. J. 2 RUT. GAs 4 SALE ALL HOME GAMES. Where 0 where is my lovely Mike Healy. Call George x3669 234 0705 X2626,2597: lv.offer 272-6551 go? Welcome home Joe. Just 9 Months! 
Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NHL 
Competition heats up as season gets under way 
Associated Press 
KANATA, Ontario 
His opportunities to score a 
goal are so infrequent, de­
fenseman Lyle Odelein doesn't 
always recognize them. He 
made the most of one of those 
chances Tuesday night, though. 
Odelein's first goal of the sea­son broke a third-period tie and gave the New Jersey Devils a 2­1 victory over the Ottawa Senators on Tuesday night. 
The Devils' defenseman 
scored on the power play with 
8:20 left in the game. Right wing Bill Guerin fed the puck from the left faceofT circle across the ice to Odelein, who blasted a hard shot just below the cross­bar for the game-winner. 
"I think it's taken me a little while to know when to jump into a play and when not to," said Odelein, traded to the Devils by Montreal during the off-season. "The last seven or eight games, I think I've found it. 
''I'm more of a stay-at-home defenseman, keeping the puck out of the net, but when I get my chances I like to bury them too. I think I contributed more offen­sively here than I did in Montreal." 
Sergei Brylin had the other Devils goal. Bruce Gardiner scored for Ottawa. 
Senators goalie Damian Rhodes got burnt on just the second shot of the game. 
Defenseman Steve Duchesne was covering Devils defenseman Scott Niedermayer, who got control of the puck at center ice. Niedermayer brought the puck into the Ottawa zone and passed it back between his legs to Brylin, who fired a hard shot past Rhodes to give New Jersey a 1-0 lead at 7:25 of the first pe­riod. It was Brylin's second goal of the season. 
"I don't think we played well the first two periods. All night on both sides, passes were not completed. There were a lot of turnovers," Devils coach Jacques Lemaire said. "But what's great is we just con­trolled the third period. We took over.'' 
Duchesne made up for the blunder in the second period, assisting on the tying goal. Just seconds after a Senators power play, Denny Lambert fed the puck out of the corner to Duchesne at the point. 
His shot bounced off Devils goaltender Martin Brodeur but center Gardiner was there to tap in the rebound to tie the game. J 
It was the third goal of the season for the former fourth­line forward. 
"It's taken a lot of patience and hard work. My linemates and I have been clicking the last few weeks and generating a lot of chances," Gardiner said. "Lately, some of them have been going in the net." 
Rangers 5, Flames 3 
Theoren Fleury scored twice, including the go-ahead goal in the third period, as the Calgary Flames rallied to beat the New 
•MlB 
Ex-Pirate arrested for drugs 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. 
Jose Lind, a former Gold 
Glove second baseman for the 
Pittsburgh Pirates, has been 
arrested for drug and traffic 
offenses, the Florida Highway 
Patrol said. 
Lind, 32, was "visibly drunk" 
and naked from the waist 
down Sunday when troopers 
pulled him over and found a 
gram of cocaine and seven 
cans of beer. said highway 
patrol Lt. Harry Mofield. 
"He actually mentioned that he was a baseball player, but I didn't believe him," trooper Harley Franks said. 
"The reason we didn't do a field sobriety test on the side of the road was because he had no pants." 
Lind, who last played for California in 1995, is charged with leaving the scene of an accident, driving while under the influence, and possession of cocaine. 
He was released from Hillsborough County Jail on 
Monday after Circuit Judge Walter R. Heinrich set bail at $1,250. 
In July, Lind was charged in Kansas with battering his ex­wife, violating a restraining or­der, and cocaine possession. He spent parts of three sea­sons with Kansas City before joining the Angels. 
Lind, of Kissimmee, did not explain why he was wearing only a shirt, and refused to 
take a breath exam or provide a blood sample, Franks said. 

The mission of OMSA focuses on providing for students of color the necessary tools to achieve the wholistic college experience through cultural awareness. social 
interaction and career 
planning:. 
Accordingly, we encourage and assist 
students in the 
utilization of all 
academic and 
leadership 
opportunities at the 
University. 
210 LaFortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 Office: 219-631-6841 Fax: 219-631-8139 E-Mail: ND.omsa.l@nd.edu 
University of Notre Dame 
Office ofMulticultural Student Affairs 

York Rangers 5-3 Monday night. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the third, Fleury scored his second goal of the night on a power play at 7:07, blasting a slapshot from the blue-line past goal­tender Mike Richter. 
Three minutes later, Fleury assisted on Jonas Hoglund's goal on a 2-on-1 break. 
James Patrick and Dave Gagner also scored for the Flames before 18,173 at the Saddledome, Calgary's largest crowd of the. season. 
Adam Graves, Mark Messier and Brian Leetch scored for the Rangers. 
New York led 2-1 following Graves' shorthanded goal mid­way through the second period before the Flames rallied. 
The Rangers, who entered the game with the league's top power play, went scoreless five times with the man advantage. 
Red Wings 2, Coyotes 2 
Darren McCarty scored with 
1:43 remaining Monday night to lift the Detroit Red Wings to a 2­2 tie with Phoenix Coyotes. 

Brendan Shanahan also scored a goal and assisted on the game-tying goal for the Red Wings. 
Jeremy Roenick and Chad Kilger scored first-period goals less then a minute apart for the Coyotes, who are winless in nine of their last 10 home games (1­6-3). 
Phoenix goaltender Nikolai Khabibulin made 34 saves. 
Shanahan set up the game­tying goal when he gained con­trol of the puck to the left of the net and skated toward the crease. Khabibulin made the ini­tial save, but McCarty batted in the puck from the top of the crease. 
Roenick gave Phoenix a 1-0 lead at 9:28 of the first period with his third goal in two games. 
Kilger extended the Coyotes' lead 40 seconds later when he one-timed a Bob Corkum pass past Osgood from between the circles. 
• TENNIS Tennis world says fond farewell to great Sabatini 
By BOB GREENE 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
With four swings of the racket, Gabriela Sabatini loft­ed four tennis balls into the far reaches of Madison Square Garden Monday night. Then she walked off the court and into retirement. 
''To be able to enjoy this moment this evening with all these people, it was really, really special, a very emo­tional moment," Sabatini said of the retirement party held in her honor during the Chase Championships. 
Flanked by the world's top players, Sabatini basked in the spotlight one more time. 
"It's a mixture of feelings. Sad, obviously sad, because I've been doing this for almost all my life, and been sharing so many moments on the court against those play­ers, with all the people that are here tonight," she said. 
A dark-haired beauty from Argentina, Sabatini has been 

a special favorite of fans, especially those in New York where she capture her three biggest victories. 
She won the U.S. Open ­her only Grand Slam tourna­ment title -in 1990, and captured the season-ending tournament at Madison Square Garden in 1988 and 1994. 
The latter year. she pushed Martina Navratilova into retirement by beating the left-bander in their first­round match. 
Monday night, she remem­bered. 

"I probably knew that I wasn't going to play too much longer," Sabatini said of her win over Navratilova. "I didn't know that in two years I was going to stop, but I knew I wasn't going to play that much longer. 
"I've thought about that these days a lot, that two years ago Martina retired here, and now I'm doing that. So it feels strange, yeah, to think about that." 
Whenthe Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
• 
Young gets the go ahead 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS examined by doctors and people won't admit to it, Associated Press is comfortable with getting the quarterback kind of back on the field. becomes a target and he's SANTA CLARA, Calif. "If you want to be ulti­that much more of a target 
Steve Young has the go­mately safe, just don't set than he's been before. ahead from doctors to the alarm clock and stay That's something I've got resume playing. He still in bed. To me, cleared to to think about it." has to convince 49ers play football means The concerns voiced coach George Seifert. who cleared to go take some about the possible career­remains concerned about hits," Young said. threatening effects of Young's susceptibility to "I think his concern is a another serious concus­another concussion. valid concern, something sion also have given 
Young, who has suffered that I appreciate. I'm Seifert pause about two concussions in three sobered over the whole whether to allow Young to weeks, visited his neurolo­issue. I've asked a thou­play. gist Monday and received sand questions and I'm He admitted Monday medical clearance to play. satisfied, and the doctors that he has at least consid­
That left the final say on are satisfied." ered the notion of resting his playing status with But Seifert, apparently, Young, who has missed all Seifert, who expects to isn't satisfied. or parts of eight games, decide by Wednesday According to Seifert, for the rest of the season. whether to start Elvis Young's groin strain, "I'm not suggesting Grbac at Washington next which has bothered him that's what we're going to Sunday or return Young to most of the season, is still do, but it's something that his starting job. an issue. Seifert is con­goes through my mind, 
Young, the two-time cerned Young has lost certainly," Seifert said. league MVP and four-time some of his mobility, leav­"Now if Steve hears me season passing efficiency ing him more vulnerable talking like this, he goes leader, watched from the to crushing hits such as nuts. But that's the com­sidelines Sunday as Grbac the one delivered by petitor in Steve, and I have ran for a score and passed Dallas linebacker Jim to be able to deal with for another in a 38-20 vic­Schwantz. that." tory over Baltimore. Grbac That blow knocked For his part, Grbac said completed 26 of 31 passes Young out of the Nov. 10 he'll be ready for either for 268 yards, the fourth­game with his second con­role, starting or backing best completion per­cussion in three weeks. He up Young. After all, the centage (83.9) in team his­sustained his first concus­quarterback picture has tory, to improve to 6-3 in sion Oct. 27 in a helmet­changed on an almost his nine starts for Young to-helmet collision with weekly basis in San the last two years. linebacker Micheal Francisco this season. 
But Seifert said any Barrow at Houston. "I've kind of gotten used reluctance to put Young "He's released (medical­to it really," Grbac said. back in the lineup ly), but can he in fact pro­"Maybe it's just part of stemmed from continuing tect himself well enough at what the whole or­safety concerns and had this time to where this ganization is about. nothing to do with Grbac's doesn't become a recur­Everybody just has to be play. ring situation," Seifert ready and we'll make the 
Young said he has taken said. "I think what I've got decision on the run and the concussions seriously, to take into consideration you've got to be ready to been examined and re-is in this business, though play." 
r I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
• NFL 
•MLB 

Bad boy Belle close to deal with White Sox 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Imagine a lineup with Frank Thomas and Albert Belle batting third and fourth. Whether that's a fantasy or a bad dream depends on whether you're a Chicago White Sox fan. 
Reports say the White Sox are close to signing Belle, the troubled Cleveland Indians outfielder and prized free agent. Reports said the team could announce as early as today a five-year, $52.5 million deal that would make Belle the highest­paid player in baseball. 
The White Sox refused to confirm the reports Monday, and a spokesman said no news conference was planned today. 
"I don't comment on rumors," White Sox chairman Jerry Reinsdorf said Monday. General manager Ron Schueler was not immediately avail­able for comment. 
In Monday's Chicago Sun-Times, Schueler said of negotiations with Belle: "All those things have to stay with the club. Right now I'm very. very close to making a trade. That's all I'm thinking about." 
Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, could not be reached for comment. The Florida Marlins were said to have offered Belle a four-year. $38 
million dollar deal last week. One report said Tellem was in Miami on Monday talking to the Marlins about Belle, but Marlins president Don Smiley denied the report. General manager Dave Dombrowkski said he hadn't spoken with Tellem, either. 
The Indians, after signing Matt Williams. rescinded a five-year offer worth $39 million to $40 million to keep Belle in Cleveland. 
Belle made $5.56 million last sea­son, hitting 48 homers and 148 RBls. In the strike-shortened 1995 season, he hit 50 homers and 50 doubles. 
Belle also is well known for a series of run-ins with media and fans, including one at the 1995 World Series in which he yelled at reporters in the dugout. 
Two years ago, Belle was sus­pended for using a corked bat in a game against the White Sox at Comiskey Park. And he recently had to cancel an autograph session at a suburban Cleveland shopping mall because of a threatening phone call. 
Twenty-nine players refiled for free agency Monday, raising the total to 101. 
The players had been covered by restrictions against repeat free agency in a five-year span. But they became eligible when teams failed to offer them salary arbitration by Saturday's deadline. 
CELEB RATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD. 


• 1f)ht,t ~ tt ~ t6 de 9411 M­
• ';ii(U(,t ~ ~ ~~ Ut-thwt 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites you to hear gay and lesbian students, friends 



Wednesday, November 20, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• INTERHAll FOOTBAll 
Crime plays spoiler in Otters' Cinderella season 
Off-Campus defense stifles Sorin offense 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON Sports Writer 
All good things must come to an end. Notre Dame students know that well this week, but nobody knows this better than the Sorin Screamin' Otters. After a dismal 0-4-1 campaign last year, the Otters' dream season came to a screeching halt as the Off-Campus Crime handed them a 12-0 loss. 
Several factors contributed to the outcome of the game on 

• SPORTS BRIEFS' 
Bengal Bo~s-A manda­
tory meetirig.for aU interest; ted in nartictp1}ti~g ln t:J)~ . Bengal Jlnuts wjU''be held 
.Wed.~ Nov>20 at 4 p. the Boxing RO()ID hf ~~yce C~nt~J:W Quest nrHolP'i.ol ·contact Johri cat 243-9287. 
-,~ere WDUib'1JDU f1D t~ •••
'• ·.. \ i 
··::::..... ::: 
unearth clay taQ.Iets bearing the oldest kQ,own writing? 
I 
· feel the vellum ~f''~, medieval manuscript? 
11· 
heft gold bars from ··~'''s4nken Spanish galloon? 
examine colonial coins ;nQ. bills designed by <Benjamin
··::::,"':.. ·.
Frankll.n' . 
~ 
>study a map showing Californ ant islan.d? 
irisj)ect ~.~tage stamps issued .. ~. F;ijjnn 1907? I 
check out the classifieds in a I 794 E 
peruse documents from.the Spanish... 1d.uljiJtio.n~ ,, plota course on an 

:re no·olu e-··s:p~ci 
101 Hetbw,.sl1 L HTTP: IIWWW ~·· 
\.
more than 3,500 images on-line 
·.
·.
·., 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Sophomore Sean Neugebauer and the Otter defense could not shut down the Crime's ground attack. 
kept the score tied at zero, by forcing a fumble in their own territory, at the end of the first quarter. 
The beginning of the second quarter pretty much resembled the first. The Off-Campus running game was working well, but the Sorin defense was able to contain the Crime's attack when it was really necessary. The Sorin offense did not fare much better, as the Off­Campus line found 
· · it almost too easy to break through Sorin's pass protection. 
Midway through the second quarter, things started to go the Crime's way. The Off­Campus team mounted a seri­
+··· 
ous drive that took most of the second quarter, and this time the Crime were able to run it in for a touchdown, giving them the lead, 6-0. 
The third quarter saw a return to the reg­ular Sorin game plan. The passing game started to take hold. Several long pass­es put Sorin into Off-Campus terri­tory several time during the course of the quarter, but the gusting wind and the heavy Off-Campus coverage prevented the Sorin comeback. However, the lack of offense by Off-Campus kept the possibility of a Sorin comeback alive, as the third quarter score was still 6-0. 


Again, just when the two 

Please Recycle The Observer 

PRESENTS A 
SKA-FEST 
THURSDAY Nov 11 
J BANDS l·MOON RECORD RECORDING BANDS FROM ST. LOUIS 
(1) 
ISSAC GREEN & THE SkALERS 

(l) 
8ACCONE DOLCE, PLUS N D CAMPUS BAND 


(J) SKALCOHOLIKS Doors open 9 p.m.-2 Dance Floors-21 and over 
FRIDAY NOV 22 SI<ALCOHOLII<S-BRING A PARENT PARTY 18 AND OVER WITH COLLEGE ID FRIDAY 
teams seemed almost even, the Crime proved their superiority by beating Sorin at its own game. Early in the fourth quarter, in the midst of a Sorin drive, an errant pass found it­self in the Crime's hands as an interception return for a touchdown bolstered the Off­Campus lead to 12-0. 
There was still time for Sorin to mount a comeback, but the same defensive pressure by Off-Campus was present for the remainder of the game. Another interception late in the game secured the victory for Off-Campus and solidified the championship game picture. 
Now that the dust has settled, it will be the Off-Campus Crime facing the Flanner Gamecocks for the 1996 interhall football championship. 
The showdown will be this Sunday at 12:30 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. 

page 18 
•NHL 
Penguins in search of defensive leadership 
ingredient, a guy that can come in and do the job for us on the blue line." 
Still, Kasparaitis does not put the puck in the net often; he has only six goals in 232 games. 
And the Penguins' biggest problem is an uncharacteristic inability to score by an offense that is averaging nearly one fewer goal per game than a year ago. 
The problem starts at the top. Lemieux, who won a fifth NHL scoring title last season, has only eight goals and 15 assists after 18 games, com­pared to 22 goals and 30 assists last season. 
Lemieux has lost more than just his scoring touch, too. His intensity level has clearly dropped. 
He often seems disinterested and distracted, rising up only when provoked by an oppo­nent or by the officials' reluc­tance to call obstruction penal­ties. 
Lemieux already has said this will probably be his last season, but few around the Penguins expected him to go out with so pedestrian a sea­son. 
"(The losing} is very frustrat­ing to everybody, myself and the guys who have been here over the years and have been successful," Lemieux said. "When I started here in 1984, it was pretty ugly, and this is not too far ofT it. But we have a lot of talent ... and we have a little addition to our team." 
Kasparaitis, who arrived Monday shortly after practice ended, can't believe a team with so much talent will keep on losing. 
"It's the best lineup offen­sive-wise in the league and when you'd see Pittsburgh last in the standings, you'd think it was a shame," Kasparaitis said. "Now I'm part of this organization, and I'm worried about it, too." 
Meanwhile, Johnston made some line changes Monday, shifting forward Petr Nedved from second-line wing to third­line center. 
And defenseman Ian Moran was sent to the Penguins' Cleveland farm club in the IHL. 
week at Kickers 
J WEDNESDAY: 
) ;r DJ starts at 9:00 p.m. 
I 
Alternative & retro 70's
' J Win CD's & T-shirts
I 
THURSDAY: 
Open Jam Area's Premier Bands Hottest Spot in Town! 

·Greatest Music . Greatest Food 
I 
.~ No Cover Charge: 
between Cleveland and Douglas on 
US31.:J3 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good times for all! 
' 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 

An Open Letter to the Editors of The Observer 
On September 25, 1996, I submitted to The Obseroer a contribution for their Viewpoint page. The letter addressed an issue which has been featured in this newspaper's pages on many occasions this semester, and more to the point, was critical of The Observer's emphases on exclusively local issues and consistent failure to take any editorial position on policy issues. It is quoted in full below: 
Dear Editor: I write in response to Catherine Deely's reasonable column which appeared in the September 23, 1996, Obseroer. Ms. Deely is sympathetic to those who criticize the "whining" of students, but asks the legitimate question of the same critics, "What's your point?" As someone who has made similar criticisms, I would like to offer both my point and a suggestion to The _Observer. My point: The Observer exerts far too much effort on introspection of the minutia of the sorrows (and joys) of life in the glow of the Golden Dome-io the exclusion of many issues facing the greater world. A similar criticism could be applied to some faculty, administrators, and students. Those outside the University are probably justified in wondering why we do not more often turn our talents to the larger j.... sues of the day; the "whining" characterization is consequent. 
My suggestion: The Observer should make it their practice to print a daily editorial. The focus should not be local; the usual topics of parietals, dormitory reassignments, football, The Guide, etc. wear thin after a few readings. Instead, the voice of the students of one of the nation's leading universities should be heard on the nation's leading issues. And there is no shortage of issues. Welfare policy, funding of education, military spending, genetic engineering are just a few examples. A regular articulation of editorial policies may actually stir a local response. And people who are not inside the golden beltway may actually find reason to listen. 
The Obseroer will not print this letter on their Viewpoint page. The letter was originally sent just to Ms. Deely, who agreed with my thoughts and encouraged submission for publication. After so doing, a sporadic and reasonably polite exchange of electronic mail and phone calls with The Observer's editorial board ensued iv which it was first suggested to me that there had not been "opportunity to print it yet." After the passing of more time, I was informed by the Editor-in-Chief that the above letter "is wholly advice to the editorial board," which fails to "speak to the larger community" and, moreover, was "outdated." I suggest there are those in the Notre Dame community who, along with me, would find these reasons unconvincing and may develop alternative hypotheses. 
At the heart of my present criticism, I am discouraged to find that The Obseroers stated publication policy, "Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers," is in reality not the case. According to the Editor-in-Chief's communication to me, "Every le~ter is subject not only to the discretion of myself and the Viewpoint editor, but also to space concerns, relevance to the community and timing." While a wiser policy would publicly articulate these caveats for cases where editorial discretion should and must be exercised, I contend that the above letter would not fall into such categories. Having read regularly this year's musings of Rice, Apple, GLND/SMC representatives, critics of football play-calling, students who enjoy their liquor, etc., I see no reason why my voice cannot be added to the cacophony. When I consider that in years past the Viewpoint page has been opened to Nazi sympathizers from outside the University, and The Observer defended their decision to print on freedom of expression grounds, I am particularly galled to have to resort to renting space to express a rather mild but pertinent opinion when others do so for free. 
In conclusion, in addition to formulating an occasional opinion to supplement the loving attention gar­nished on the football team (of which I am a fanl), I urge The Observer to bring their public words in line with their actual practice, and moreover to take to heart more of the good and noble traditions of a free and active press: a healthy newspaper will be both aggressive in its criticism of the world around it and open to printing criticism of both itself and the same world. 
Joseph M. Powers Associate Professor Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering November 13, 1996 
I .l I ; 
i I I '1 
I ' ' ' 
i 
) 

I 
: 


I 
I ~ 
l 
I ) 
i l"­
I \ 
:~ 
I ) ) 
' 
J
. i 
I ) I I 
I' 
i / 
' I 
By ALAN ROBINSON Associated Press Writer 
CANONSBURG, Pa. 
Darius Kasparaitis has agi­tated and irritated the Pittsburgh Penguins for years. Mario Lemieux hopes he's not ready to change. 
With the Penguins staggering to their worst start in a decade, Lemieux suggests Kasparaitis' intensity will toughen up a team desperate for leadership and a strong defensive presence. 
"You always have to be where he is at all times on the ice," Lemieux said Monday. "You're never comfortable when he's on the ice, and hopefully, he's going to do the same job here." 
General manager Craig Patrick refused to wait any longer for the Penguins to halt their season-long slump, deal­ing unsigned center Bryan Smolinski to the Islanders for Kasparaitis and forward Andreas Johansson. 
The new Penguins will make their Pittsburgh debut tonight against the St. Louis Blues. It will be the first time Kasparaitis has heard cheers in the Civic Arena. 
"Obviously, I'm glad I don't have to play against him any­more," Lemieux said. "He's an agitator and an Ulf Samuelsson of smaller stature. He's going to help us, he's very aggressive and he plays very well defensively." 
The trade was the first, but not the last, the Penguins expect to make to shake up a team whose 5-12-1 start makes even the playoffs an uncertainty. 
Coach Eddie Johnston has kept his job -for now. But he and Patrick met with owner Howard Baldwin for an hour after Saturday's 8-3 loss to the Rangers, and Johnston proba­bly won't stay. around much longer if the losing continues. 
"I think every time you're losing, you look for trades and changes in your team and I think that's what happening," Lemieux said. 
''I'm sure that's not the last trade that's going to occur in the next few Weeks. But it's a good start and we have a new 


-
Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Missouri faces allegations 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA, Mo. 
The NCAA has ruled former Missouri basketball player Jevon Crudup received im­proper benefits from sports agents and should not have played in the NCAA Tournament in 1994, the uni­versity said Tuesday. 
The NCAA Executive Committee determined the uni­versity did not commit an NCAA violation, said Joe Castiglione, Missouri athletic director. 
But Missouri has been ordered to return $97,000 earned from the tournament, Castiglione said. 
Missouri must also delete its tournament record, vacate its place in the final standings of the tournament and return to the NCAA any awards won by the student, the school said in a 
Insight 
continued from page 24 
senior linebacker Bert Berry, sitting dejectedly off to the side as Holtz delivered his resigna­tion speech to a veritable ocean of media representatives, told the story of a man who will be missed as a friend and a teacher to a horde of young men over 11 seasons, as well as an inspiration for millions of others along the way. 
Holtz is a classic representa­tive of Notre Dame's vital char­acteristics, including faith, dili­gence, excellence, and honor. 
He is also a man with a unique sense of humor. 
news release. 
The university has appealed the NCAA decision, arguing it was not involved in Crudup's actions, which were not discov­ered until after he completed his eligibility. The association's Executive Committee will con­sider Missouri's appeal as early as December, Castiglione said. 
Crudup, a 6-foot-9 center, was a second-round draft pick for the Detroit Pistons in August 1994. He signed as a free agent with the Cleveland Cavaliers in September and was later waived. 
"It is a hard judgment for an institution to swallow," Castiglione said. "You're caught in a difficult position. You've done everything right. You have good checks and balances in place .... But in this case the institution suffers some conse­quences even though it was 
He is person who loves Notre Dame with a passion, who sim­ply wanted his every action to reflect that, and who drew crit­icism when he could not achieve the highest goals set not only by himself, but by ev­eryone else. 
After the past week's rumors, questions, and speculations, the announcement could have been very anti-climatic. After all, many have felt that Lou had his time in the sun here at ND, set his records, won a national championship, but had come to an inevitable crossroads. It seems that a collective sigh of relief could have almost been expected. 
Rather, the thought that Holtz really is going is hard to be-determined it wasn't at fault." 
Missouri advanced to the Elite Eight in 1994 before losing to Arizona. 
The violations involving Crudup were first reported by The Atlanta Journal and Constitution in November 1994. The newspaper reported wire transfer records obtained by the Florida state attorney's of­fice and campus police linked agents to at least six college athletes, including Crudup. 
The information was found as part of an ongoing investigation at Florida State, where 11 ath­letes were taken on shopping sprees and given cash as en­ticements to sign with agents before their eligibility expired. 
The newspaper said Crudup received cash and other incen­tives from prospective agents before and during the 1993-94 season. 
lieve. 

What student can honestly remember when Lou Holtz was not the head coach of the Fighting Irish? When was his wit, his determination, and his drive not here? Next year, we'll all be faced with that real­ity. 
Lou Holtz is still with us today, and always will remain a part of Notre Dame's proud heritage, just as Parseghian has, and Leahy, and Rockne. 
As much as many may hurt as he leaves Notre Dame, all are glad to have had him here. 
Lou Holtz is an exemplary man, a talented coach, and a measuring stick for coaches to come. But, no matter what, he still has three games left to win. 
Summer Grants for Under!!raduate Research on International Issues 
Informational Meeting For Interested Students W~~mt~$~ilf~ N(Q)vemlbeJr 2~ JR(Q)Om 111.~ JD>eJB<nJr\t(Q)[(Q) 5~ ({))(()) JPM 
Grant Competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Travel and expenses up to $3,000 
Further information available from Professor Michael Francis Hesburgh Center 312 
• fOOTBAll 

Irish bowl picture comes into focus 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Have you made any plans for 
New Years' Day yet? If you 
haven't, then you might want 
to consider Tempe, Arizona, or 
Miami, Florida, as possible va­
cation spots. The football team 
will probably do the same. 
Thanks to several key events 
over the past two weeks that 
have made the Irish more fa­
vorable to the Bowl Alliance, 
Notre Dame may visit Tempe 
or Miami to play in either the 
Fiesta Bowl or Orange Bowl, 
respectively. 
"We are going to meet with representatives from the Fiesta and Orange bowls next week," Irish athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. 
Lou Holtz's resignation is probably the biggest reason the Fiesta or Orange would use their alliance bowl selections to choose Notre Dame. 
The number one priority of the alliance bowls, like all other business entities, is mak­ing money. Lou Holtz's last bowl game in a Notre Dame cap and windbreaker is an advertiser's dream. Translation: big bucks. 
Notre Dame's televised games already earn higher rat­ings than any other school's telecasts. Just imagine the rat­ings this game would earn for an alliance bowl. 
"(The bowl representatives) continue to be very interested in Notre Dame. They are aware of the interest Notre 
Dame generates.~· Wadsworth said. 
The Fiesta and Orange also should be happy with Notre Dame's three solid victories since the loss to Air Force. The Irish dominated Navy, Boston College and Pittsburgh by an average of 36 points. 
Because of Notre Dame's convincing wins, combined with the misfortune of several top-ranked teams, the Irish have vaulted in the Associated Press rankings to No. 10. 
Last week alone, Notre Dame moved ahead of North Carolina, Alabama and Kansas State after all three Top Ten teams were upset. Northwestern also dropped 

below the Irish despite winning 
their game against Purdue. 
Holtz's resignation, three 
straight blowouts and a top ten 
ranking seem to point Notre 
Dame in one direction: an al­
liance bowl. But which one? 
"Pencil in Notre Dame for the 
Fiesta Bowl. No, use ink," sug­
gested USA Today's sports 
columnist Mike Lopresti. 
But opinions vary depending 
on the source. Others contend 
the Fiesta would be more inter­
ested in BYU, which has a 
large fan base in Phoenix's 
huge Mormon community. 
The debate rages on, but ev­
erything could change if the 
Irish, or any other ranked 
team, loses in the season's final 
weeks. 

Despite everything the Irish have in their favor to earn an alliance bowl at-large bid, Notre Dame still has some unfinished business. 
The Irish absolutely must beat Rutgers this week. This shouldn't be a problem, consid­ering the Scarlet Knights are 2­
7. But stranger things have happened. 
Then the Irish head to Los Angeles for a matchup with ri­val USC. 
If all goes well the next two weeks, Lou Holtz's last game with the gold and blue proba­bly will be at the Fiesta or Orange. 
If Notre Dame falters, howev­er, Holtz will be forced to end his career at a less prestigious bowl game or no bowl at all. 
If the alliance bowls decide to 
snub the Irish, then Holtz and Co. may be forced to consider a second-tier bowl game or the 
Independence Bowl. But Wadsworth believes there are more important factors to con­sider. 
"The significant thing is not the bowl; it's who our opponent will be," he said. 
If an alliance bowl does not offer Notre Dame a bid, there is no guarantee the University would play in a less prestigious bowl. The athletic department will make its decision based on a long-standing philosophy. 
"We will not go to a bowl for the sake of going to a bowl." Wadsworth said. 
Attention all Students and Faculty: 
• 
Interested in preventing discrimination against Catholic and Catholic ethnic groups in the workplace. 

• 
Upset about the way the media portrays your beliefs and culture, whether it be Catholic Hispanic, Catholic Italian, or other Catholic backgrounds. 

• 
Who want the information needed to defend yourself if you are discriminated against 

• 
Interested in being pro-active in showing that your religion and ethnicity should be given just as much a voice as anyone else's 


Please attend the first meeting of the Catholic League for Religious and Civil Rights Tbursday at 9:00 p.. m. in the Montgomery Theater on the first floor in Lafortune 
I 
I 
1 
1 
! l I l l I 
1 1 I 
_.:.)1. 
.. 
... 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
Fencing 
continued from page 24 
mainstay of the program for the past three years. With the depth that we have, we will be strong in our showing at the NCAA championship," Auriol said. 
This will be the second con­secutive year as a captain for Siek. The senior worked hard over the off-season in the hopes of continued improve­ment. The hard work seems to be paying off. 
"Jeremy is by far the best fencer on the men's foil team," coach Auriol said. "He pro­vides a solid example in prac­tice and all of the fencers re­spect him. I am confident this will be his best year as a cap­tain and a fencer." 
Lester and sophomore Luke LaValle anchor a solid men's sabre team. They return from a combined record in 1996 of 131-15. As a two-time All­American, Lester has the op­portunity of becoming Notre Dame's all-time leader in fenc­

I . ing wins this season. The women rely upon two of the most dominant fencers in the NCAA. Sophomore Sara Walsh. the 1996 NCAA wom­en's foilist runner-up, was an alternate on the 1996 United 
~ States Olympic foil squad, 
I: while sophomore foilist Myriah Brown returns from a 1995­1996 season in which she achieved All-American honors. 
Both squads balance their experience with the new blood of an excellent freshmen class. Freshmen James Gaither and Chaz Hayes, in epee and foil respectively, look to add their talent to the impressive men's squad. The women step toward improvement with the addition of freshmen Magda Krol in the foil event. With these additions, depth appears not to be problem. 
"We have a lot of talent throughout the whole team and we look for success in all areas," Walsh said. 
"Yes, there are a couple of fencers who are clearly better than others, but beyond those few the women have great depth," coach Auriol said. "There exists a quality blend of talent on each team. This will only better the results of the team when they compete." 
The team has taken a posi­tive step in their intended direction by performing well in both competitions of the 1996­1997 season. By dominating the competition at their home meet on Nov. 9, the Irish made a statement that they had not lost a step from last year's out­standing season record of 29-3 for the men and 31-1 for the women. 
The Penn State Open also provided the team with a mea­suring stick as they battled the top competition in the NCAA. 
"We competed well with the top schools, and that's reason to be positive. The experience against that caliber of competi­tion enables team members to raise their play to another level," the younger Auriol said. 
With the women sweeping both events with first place fin­ishes by Walsh and Krol, foil and epee respectively, the Irish proved the dominance they have exhibited as one of the top three teams in the nation the past three years. Strong showings were also given by sophomore Nicole Mustelli and Brown, who finished 6th in epee and 5th in foil, respec­tively. 
The men were led in sabre by Lester and LaValle, who fin­ished strong with 5th and 6th places. Siek gave a strong ef­fort in finishing 5th for the foil team. The team realizes the road to a championship will certainly be difficult, but atti­tude will play a large part. This is where the leadership of coach Auriol shines. 
"Coach Auriol teaches us to strive for perfection in tech­nique and to be in constant pursuit of excellence in all ar­eas," Siek said. "He is simply about class and determina­tion." 
With the complete combina­tion of youth, experience, lead­ership and depth, the pieces of the puzzle are in place. Now the team must work through­out the season to put these pieces together and achieve their potential as national champions . 
. . . . .. .. ... ... 
r.tteam signs first ever , squthpaw hurler 
Ol»ervet Staff Repo~' . ·. .. . 
The University of Notre Dame softhan··team has. signed four high school seniors to letters of intent, announced head coach Liz Miller. 
..This.. is definitely one of the p recruiting classes. overall," said Miller. "The combination of pitching. hitting. and speed rnake · it one of our strongest classes. We lOse seniors after this season ·so we will need' alLfour phjyers to come in and contribute imme­
• WOMEN's lACROSSE 
Program inks first prospect 
Observer Staff Repon 
Lael O'Shaughnessy (Alexandria, Va.) has signed a national letter of intent to attend the University of Notre Dame and play for the women's lacrosse team. She becomes the first recruit in the history of the Irish women's lacrosse program which participates for the first time in the spring of 1997 as a varsity sport. 
O'Shaughnessy, a midfielder, has been a three-year starter at St. Stephens-St. Agnes. During her career, she has scored 83 goals and dished off 58 assists (141 points). As a junior, she netted 44 goals and had 27 as­sists. Over the past two sea­sons, St. Stephens-St. Agnes has posted a 38-3 record. 
A member of the United States Lacrosse Association honorable mention All-America team in 1996, O'Shaughnessy was selected to the Washington Post's all-metro team after she led her team to a 19-1 mark and the Independent School League championship. 
She also garnered all-ISL hon­ors and helped her team to the 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
ll·l 
I: 
'I·i
I 


I 
) 
J J .f 
')'
J ' 
I 
( 
USWlA South I tournament crown. 
"We're excited to have a player of Lael's caliber join our program," says first­year head coach Tracy Coyne. "Lael is one of the top recruits in the country this year and we feel very fortunate to get a com­mitment from her early." 
Student Government's Financial Aid Dept. wants YOU!! 
If you're interested in: 
• 
Finding scholarships and aid for others while helping yourself 

• 
Getting involved in Student Government 


Join us at the Student Government office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune on Wednesday at 6:30p.m. 
FREE PIZZA!! If you can't make the meeting, call Mark at 4-3677 

U•1nU1t1 of No111 Da••
........:............. 
-

Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
SMC swimmers rely on experience 
By DEBRA DIEMER gram and finished behind the has been pushed up with all Sainr Mary's Sports Wrirer Belles in the Grand Valley the progress," com men ted Meet. coach Addington. 
Earlier this season in the Yet, Saint Mary's coach Again, Saint Mary's will focus Grand Valley Relay Meet, the Angela Addington hopes the on strong swimmers to anchor Belles competed against Albion Belles will step up to Albion the team. Allison Smith and and Olivete. From that experi­and challenge them in the pool. Shannon Kelleher arc expected 
ence, Saint Mary's is anticipat­The team is motivated com­to finish will the 1000 and 500 ing the results. ing off a one point loss to freestyle events while Tara Albion, a strong, solid team Calvin last week. After Thomas will lead the 100 back­led by a returning coach, fin­Michelle Samreta broke the stroke for the Belles. Samreta ished third in the Grand Valley breaststroke record, all the will use her previous record Meet. swimmers realized that any­breaker to fire her up in the 
On the other hand, Olivete thing was within their reach. water during the breaststroke just revived its smaller pro-"The Belles adrenaline level event. 
& FATHER OF THE 
BRIDE: PART II © Touchstone Piclvres SRP 19.95 
MR. HOUAND'S OPUS © Hollywood Pictures SRP 19.95 

Savings bo~ on Suggested Retail Price .JSRP) 
HiEW
......,,.,----------­
. ..J 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Coach Mike Berticelli hopes to rally his team against UNC-Greensboro. 
back to I. U. (where the Irish lost their first round tourna­
Soccer 

ment games in 1993 and 1994)," admitted Berticelli.
continued from page 24 

"This gives the players who 21-1 on the season, the were here the fi,rst two times a· Spartans possess the best chance at something new and 
different. Sometimes it is bet­
Division I record in the nation. Due to the experience of ter to meet seeded teams in the 
coaching Greensboro during a first round. More seeded national championship season, teams get beat early, rather than late."
Berticelli is well aware of the 

fan support that the Spartans Berticelli, despite his own up­will have backing them on beat attitude about Notre Sunday. Dame's tournament prospects, "It's an exciting place to go feels that it is the confidence of back to," commented the Irish the men who play for him that .. coach. "It'll be a good crowd." will carry the team. 
Berticelli added that he did "The ones that really believe not believe that the crowd in themselves are the players," would have any negative effect acknowledged the coach. 
on his players. The Irish have "(Right now) I am extra proud played a number of solid road of the team. We overcame an games this season, including awful lot of adversity and (by 
regular season wins against winning the Big East 
Syracuse and Georgetown, as Championship) we put a lot of well as their Big East that behind us." Championship run which con­The words of the Irish coach 
sisted of wins over Connecticut appear to indicate that Notre and nationally ranked Rutgers, Dame is right where they want at Rutgers. to be. 
Berticelli is also quite famil­The team, which has been iar with the UNCG Soccer making progress and im­Stadium, in which Sunday's provements throughout the 
showdown will take place. season, is peaking right now. This experience may prove to They have sneaked up on a 
be an asset for Notre Dame, number of teams already this 
especially because it allows the season, and there is nothing to coach to keep a positive out­suggest that it couldn't happen look, despite the fact that this again. 
weekend will mark the sixth In fact, as Berticelli pointed time that the Irish have trav­out, Greensboro may have 
eled to the East Coast for a never been as confident as they match in 1996. are right now. "I have no problem with "They feel that they have 
(where Notre Dame was placed their strongest and deepest by the NCAA committee)," ex­team since they've been in plained Berticelli. "You have to Division I." 
be able to win on the road So the stage is set. 
sooner or later and we have The old Spartan coach is in plenty of experience in the position to return to the place East." where he won back-to-hack The coach was actually able Division III titles 13 years ago, to find some advantages in and make his former team the playing at Greensboro against initial stepping stone to Notre Dame's and his first Division I
the No. 3 seed. ''I'm glad we do not have to national championship. 
THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES/Soundtrack 
NEW ~~J:~,C::.OKS 
THE FAWN 
MAN 

THE ROAD Tony Hillermon LESS HorperCollins · HC 
List 24.00

a-::..::=..::....:::.....:_;.::;_-l TRAVELED AND BEYOND AUAS 
M. Scott GRACE Peck, M.D. Margaret Simon & Atwood 
~~;;.¥.~~ Schuster · HC Doubleday· HC 
-..;.=.:;.;::.=....:..:...;....=.=....:=c'-' List 23.00 List 24.95 
TINY 
f_:'_lll•,U ~ I'DI.Ii ~ 
JlLI..IlJ.BinAL,
.EWINMAN 
35o/o OFF ALL NEW YOIIJC liMES HARDCOVER BESTSEWRS NEW GAIVJES & HARDWARE 
O r<:' NFL97 
• 1 • 5ega SaNm 
Includes Satum 32-bit gami"9
Sale ends November 28, 1996. 
system, controller and 141V cable. 
Quantities limited. Selection varies by store. 

Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271 -0696 STORE HOURS MON-SAT: IOAM-IOPM, SUN: IIAM·7PM
·-­

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
possess phenomenal credentials, par­unlikely that either DiNardo or ticularly the ability to light a blazing Alvarez will be named coach. One
Successors 
fire under the teams they take over. source close to the football program continued from page 24 Coming into 1995, LSU had not com­said yesterday that it will not be 
piled a winning season since 1988 and Alvarez, and upon scrutiny of the bare character, he has integrity, he has it had not played in a bowl game since facts, the statement makes sense. intelligence." that season. But first-year coach Since Wisconsin's Cinderella season 
Athletic Director Michael DiNardo changed all that. Under in 1993, drug problems and other Wadsworth refused to name candi­DiNardo, the Tigers grabbed the allegations have peppered the pro­dates for the position in order to "pro­nation's attention and stunned No. 5 gram's image, the most prominent tect the rights of the individuals with Auburn, later rising as high as No. 14 case being that of running back Brent whom we will be speaking," but he in the country. Moss, who faced severe penalties for did cite stringent requirements for This season, LSU has but two losses. cocaine abuse in 1994. Holtz's successor. The Tigers are led by former No. 1 Wadsworth and Beauchamp would 
"First of all, we will be looking for a recruit Kevin Faulk, who DiNardo vir­shudder at the thought of such a scan­coach who will be able to achieve tually stole from Notre Dame last dal at Notre Dame. For even under superior athletic results, much along year. the iron fist of Holtz, the program in the lines of what Coach Holtz has In all, DiNardo has played in three recent years has had its own share of achieved himself in 11 years. bowl games and coached in five, and problems. Secondly, we will be looking for a per­he has both played and coached for At the same time, word is out that son who will be a role model for the national championship teams, as a DiNardo is under litigation from student-athletes and the students at player at Notre Dame in 1973 and as Vanderbilt for breach of contract. Notre Dame. offensive coordinator at Colorado in Therefore, the chance that he will up 
"The third key objective is a person 1990. and bolt for Notre Dame is already who has the dimension to be an out­Like DiNardo, Alvarez's pursuit of slim as it is. standing representative of the excellence is hardly matched. Still, at this point nothing is out of University because of the very public Alvarez was the architect of one of the question. Certainly wilder things high profile position that the head the best rebuilding jobs in college have happened. The Irish named a coach of the football program at Notre football this decade. After a 1-10 high school coach to lead its football Dame enjoys." rookie campaign at Wisconsin, the team in 1980, and the call on Holtz 
Wadsworth noted that the country is former Notre Dame assistant guided was no less shocking. At this point, full of excellent coaches, but few pos­the Badgers to the Rose Bowl in his the time table within which to hire the sess the culture and values of Notre fourth year in 1993. new coach ranges from five days to Dame. It was, of course, Alvarez who also two weeks, according to Wadsworth. 
The List, then, is short. It is fewer coordinated the defense of the 1988 "We're still putting the names than a half-dozen, which could be undefeated Fighting Irish squad. together as we speak, but we're pretty interpreted as few as three or four These connections to Notre Dame, like settled with who we're going to speak candidates. While Barnett and Davie DiNardo's, will serve as crucial down to," stated the athletic director. are the clear front-runners, LSU's the stretch in the decision of both Some things seem to never stop. Gerry DiNardo and Wisconsin's Barry Wadsworth and Father Beauchamp. And for some, like Bob Davie, the Alvarez lurk in the background. Both On the other hand, it remains highly dreams never die. 
returner extraordinaire he is so successful." Allen Rossum acknowledged Despite all the disappoint­

Reaction 
that, although he would ment, hype, and subsequent continued from page 24 rather Holtz stay, he har­reaction involved in seeing 
bors no resentment or bitter Holtz leave, the playersreacted in similar fashion to feelings toward his friend realize that only one thingFarmer. and former coach. really matters at this point: 
i ) "It comes as a surprise," "It's sad of course to see Holtz has indeed touched declared Chryplewicz. Coach leave, but I've got to the lives of all those con­"Right now, it's all so sud­move on," said Russum. nected with the University.den," said Akers. "It's just "I've got to respect his deci­"He means a lot to me," happened, so it hasn't really sion." noted Chryplewicz. "He's f! i sunk in yet." Cooper was not so amiable been here since my fresh­' Many were not only sur­about the transition he must man year. He's done a lot 
) \\ prised, but saddened, and now make to a new head for the University." wondered aloud what Notre coach, and possibly a entire "We all love the guy," said
;'} 
Dame football would be like new staff. Farme r . "II e ' s a great
) : 
without their leader. "It's going to be like com­coach. Everything he's done l :. "He obviously has the ing out of high school again. has been very positive for
l! 
) I, respect of all the players," If he's (the new coach) going us. We're really going to commented Akers. "It's to come in here and change miss him." · going to be pretty hard to things ... ," said Cooper as his "Everybody's going to miss
! 
replace that. They're going voice faded. him, the University is going 
to have to find somebody to Emotions notwithstanding, to miss him," added senior 
equal the task. It's going to both players and coaches Emmett Mosely. "Everybody 
be tough." noted that Holtz is a man of wants to send him out on a 
Freshman safety Deke great prudence, and would winning note." Cooper could not imagine not have made such a signif­Victories in their final two Irish football without Holtz. icant decision without regular season games as 
"It's going to be hard get­exhaustively weighing all his well as a likely bowl game, ting along ~ithout him options. would be a fitting way to because I can't really pic­"I do believe that, knowing end the "Coach Holtz Era." ture anyone else coaching the man for five years, any­The coach leaves behind a for Notre Dame," stated thing he does is well thought group of young men who Cooper. out," said Chryplewicz. obviously cared for him a 
"Since I've been growing "Anything he does is a smart great deal. 
up, it's been Lou Holtz and decision on his part. As As far as these players
Notre Dame. They've been hard as it may seem, I think and coaches are concerned, 
kind of connected." he knows what's best for Lou Holtz will sorely be 
The ties between Holtz Notre Dame and himself, missed. 
and his players are strong, and that is the course of Farmer spoke on behalf of 
and with the resignation of action he took." the team in general, and the 
a college coach indubitably Stated defensive coordina­seniors in particular, when 
come the questions concern­tor and possible successor he echoed these sentiments. ing the younger players who Bob Davie, "Coach puts "I got a chance to play for still have eligibility remain­more thought into all situa­a legend." ing at Notre Dame. tions than any guy I've ever And it's always sad to see Junior cornerback/punt been around, and that's why a legend go. 
d: 
I / ! 
'.
.'.
I: ' 
I 
) 
)' 
I , f
IJi 

I I 
f. 
I ( 
i 





Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


DILBERT 
THI5 AWARD GOES 
TO liM FOR HI 5 rNCREDlBLE. ACCOM­PLISHMENT. 

0 
0 
(fJ 
.. 
E 
.;, 
j 
WAS HIRED. 

HAPPY HIRTHDA\'! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Put your lively imagmation to work. 
Learn as much a~ you can about the 
world around you. Friends or a for­

mer employer will play a key role in 
a business success you enjoy early 
in 1997. Real estate deals look 
lucrative as next spring approaches. 

The purchase of a second home or 
car becomes possible. A teen-ager 
makes you proud. Be supportive of 
this loved one's goals. A wonderful 
friendship could gradually turn 
romantic. Trust your instincts. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actress Bo Derek, 
actress Veronica Hamel, comedian 
Dick Smothers, game show host 
Richard D<lwson. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Not a good day to rely on emotional 
responses; let logic dictate the 
choices you make. Dealing with dif­
ficult people requires great patience 
and tact 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Higher-ups recognize your talent for writing. Be aware that flamboyant dress or behavior could offend oth­ers. Powerful business connections are at a stake! 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Think carefully before jumping into a new venture; you could jeopardize your reputation. A creati\'e idea needs time to gel. A good book will keep you from feeling bored. Resist an urge to gamble. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The emphasis is on reducing house­hold expenses. Enlist the cooperation of family members. At work. get to know your associates better. Social­ize at lunch or on coffee breaks. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Origi­nality counts big with someone influentiaL Copyright your ideas to protect them. Romance may seem a little tame. Give it time 1 A proposal that sounds good deserves a closer look. 

VIRGO (Aug. 2."\-Scpt. 22): 
Clients m:.ty promise more than they 
can deliver. Recycling an old project 
will lead to new profits. A second 
job may be the best solution to a 
cash shortage. Donate unwanted 
hooks to libraries . 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An 
optimistic attitude is cont~gious. 
Exude confidence' Treating yourself 
to a facial or haircut will lift your 
spirits. Consult your doctor before 
going on a diet. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Deal with an issue that has been 
hanging over your head. You need to 
socialize more. Get in touch with 
old friends and issue a weekend 
invitation. Romance is a guessing 
game. Wait and see. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Overindulgence in food or 
drink is a no-no. Exercise more self· 
control. Take exercise breaks instead 
of heading to the kitchen or snack 
machine. A small legacy or windfall 
will come in very handy. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): You finally receive the personal 
recognition you deserve. Older 
friends share their expertise. A May· 
December romance adds a new twist 
to your social life. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do not leave anything to chance. Others have high expectations. Word a special question carefully and you will get a favorable response. You gain a new perspec· tive from playing the field in romance. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Release pent-up emotions in a con· structive way. Avoid arguing over trifles. Although a lasting love has proved elusive so far, you are still interested. Joining a recently formed club or organization brings new friendships . 
FOR T\-\~T.
COf"\ING YEA~. 



~------~~--~----._--~~~~~~~----~--~--~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Reimbursable 64 Hopalong amounts Cassidy
tin effect 39 Have a look-see portrayer6 Fast one William40 Popular Formula 10 Hindu deity 65 Where JimmyOne formula 14 Persian Gulf Carter teaches 41 Round-the­tongue campfire stories 15 Clothing 42 Rhone feeder DOWN
1& Oscar winner Jannlngs 43 Fightin' words 1 TV handyman
17 Fightin' words 4'1' ~nfant. across Bobthe Pyrenees 
20 Bat wood 2Warlike 48 Formerly,
21 Calhoun of Olympian
formerly
"How to Marry a 3 Lattice strip Millionaire" 49 Polio vaccine 
4 Test figs. 
developer
22 Like some 5 Throw a monkeycolumns 52 Face-to-face test 
wrench into 23 Auto servicing 53 Pop 6 Prefix with 24 "See you later" 56 Fightin' words phonic 26 Fightin' words 60 Aviation-related 7Cione 32 Lifeless 61 Scold, with "off" aGone by 33 Signals approval 62 Flavius's master, 9 East Lansing sch.
34 E.P.A. rating in Shakespeare tO Drench again 
36 Clock 63 Govt. agents 11 African despot 

Wanted: Reporters, 
12 Calf-length dress
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 'Tess of the 
photographers and
d'Urbervilles" cad 18lllustrated mug 19 Emperor after Vespasianus 23 Entice 24 Horse race 25 Foots (up) 
26 Worst possible situation, with "the" 
27 Common design 
goal 2BBeat 29 Remove 
stitching 
46 Ancient Syria 54 Boy with a bow 49 Hit a homer, 55 Gainsay e.g. 
57 Kind of parlor, 50 Polite for short 
editors.
interruption 58 Classical 
51 Drill beginning 
52 Just 59 British defector 
53 Try this! Philby 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
staff. 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
..::....t-~~~ ~4...;....f~ 
30 Arab chieftain 
31 Kind of whale 
35 "Riders of the Purple Sage" author 37 R.I. neighbor 38 Church calendar 39 Exam for H.S. juniors 
41 "The Divided Self" author R.D.­
42 1959 Ricky Nelson hit 
44 Harmony 
45 Boston paper 


. ~ 
·;:.;~.......~-:-~..:·~·}'..~-~-~~....-~~·~·~·=·-'---~· .-~--..;..:....=-.:.:.:p ·< ~ ~-'·.·; ·~.. ~. _,. ............. "-' ..,; .....: •.•._.~:· -~~{..~#.-.J.>~,..=~ ~-~-,..._.......~ ..........J¥16 ... .. 
m-~ 
I~ l
1\J
I 
) 'I r 

I. 
: 


i 
\ ~ 
) ~ 
I ;: , 
) ' 
' 
~H .li 
;-.
I·. ! I·: : ~} I 1 ) 
I 
'i
1r ' ' 
I ! ~ 
I l 
11 
{ i ; 
iL 
11 j! :.._ 
~r
:n 
I'd 
:n 
I' .
I ' I
I \ ' II 
i ' l
' ' 
I \ ) 
• 
I]jI 
I I ,I 
1.
I"
. \I 
I 
II;.:,; 
t ~ iL 
ill!j
ll; . 
I .. ) ~ 
I' 
'~< \)1 ""'-i. I) . , i \ : ,: , 
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, November 20, 1996 
• FOOTBAll 
Announcement marks an end of an era 



Retirement startles majority of team 

By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
With Tuesday's press conference finally came head coach Lou Holtz's confirmation of the ram­pant rumors of his imminent resig­nation. 
Although he has touched the lives of both fans and critics alike, it is obvious that no one has been more influenced by Holtz than those clos­est to him: his players. 
After practice Tuesday, the re­action among team members was unanimous. Despite the rumors that have swirled around the cam­
• fENCING 
pus for almost a week now, not one player really thought the rumors would come to fruition, that Holtz would resign. 
That is, until it actually hap­pened. 
''I'm just kind of taken aback by all this," stated senior tailback Robert Farmer, who was obviously a bit disheartened over his coach's decision. "It was just kind of upset­ting to hear that Coach Holtz was going to resign." 
Fifth-year seniors Pete Chryplewicz and Jeremy Akers 
see REACTION I page 22 
Several rumors swirl over replacements 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Spores Writer 

The media circus surrounding coach Lou Holtz's res­ignation has finally quelled, but the chatter regarding Holtz's successor has only begun. Holtz claimed yester­day that he has neither recommended anyone directly to administrators nor been asked for suggestions. 
Still, the coach's hints at the press conference did not go unnoticed. 
"I hope it is one of our able assistants," stated the Notre Dame head coach, who later rattled off Dave Roberts as an outstanding prospect. Holtz also praised Bob Davie, the obvious front-runner for the position from the pool of Notre Dame's assistant coaches. 
"Bob Davie's just exceptional," lauded Holtz. "He has 
see SUCCESSORS I page 22 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
reflect, and acknowl­edge that the individ­ual will be missed, and has left an important and distinct mark on Our Lady's University. 
Lou Holtz, as fweryone knows, resigned on November 19. 1996 as the head coach of tho Fighting Irish, effective at tho end of this season. Notre Dame simply will not be the same without him. 
The loss of Holtz goes far beyond his position as a coach on the gridiron. Coaches simply come and go, many are successful, and most give their best to the school. 
Not f!V()ryone has always agreed with Holtz the coach; his play-calling has angered armchair quarterbacks across the globe, his tenden­cy to rule with an iron fist upsets others, his unique ability to win the big game and lose the little one, es­pecially at home, puzzles the most stout-hearted of fans. 
But the look on the face of 
see INSIGHT I page 19 

Fencers focus on the future Berticelli no stranger 
By DAVID FRICK Sports Writer 
The men's and women's fenc­ing squads have only one place where they would like to be on Mar. 23 in Colorado Springs, 
Colo., and that is on top as national champions. Though cer­tainly a lofty goal, the teams have good reason to have such 

optimism. With a quality combination of youth and experience, the squad believes they can not only return to the NCAA tournament in force, but prove their domi­nance as the best team in the nation. 
"The second place finish last year gave us the motivation to work harder this year to achieve our goal of a national champi­onship," says sophomore foil team member Stephane Auriol. 
The thoughts of a champi­onship are echoed by Auriol's father, head coach Yves Auriol, who enters his second year as coach of both the men and women fencing teams. 
"Every coach has the goal of winning the national champi­onship each year, but for this 
year's team I think it is realis­tic," says coach Auriol. "I would 
to postseason play 
not tell the team this if I didn't think that they had a shot at winning it." 
With seven out of eight mem­bers from last year's NCAA tournament returning to the strip for the Irish, no one can consider these goals as out of reach. The experienced men's team are led by senior captains Jeremy Siek and Bill Lester, who have been the strong points of the program for the past three years. 
"Our captains, Jeremy Siek and Bill Lester, have been the 
see FENCING I page 20 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
The men's soccer team will journey to Greensboro, N.C. this weekend to play in the first round of the NCAA tournament. But this is nothing new for Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. In fact, almost every aspect of Sunday's rnatchup with UNC­Greensboro will be quite famil­iar. 
Not only has the seven year Notre Dame coach taken the Irish to two past NCAA tourna­ments and carried two previous teams to national titles, but he accomplished the latter as the coach at UNC-Grecnsboro. 
"It's an important part of my memories," Berticolli said of the program. "A lot of my (personal) highlights from the past (are from Greensboro)." 
In 1982 and 1983, Coach Berticelli led the Spartans to back-to-hack Division III cham­pionships (the school's first na­tional titles). Since then, Greensboro has developed into a legitimate championship con­tender in Division I. In fact, at 
see SOCCER I page 2 1 

~~\"!;~/ 
GLANCE 


vs. Rutgers, 


NCAA TournamentNovember 23, 12:30 p.m. 
vs. Wisconsin, 
• Bowl update November 24, 1 p.m. 
see page 19

at Bowling Green, November 22, 7 p.m. 
NCAA Tournament • Men's interhall football results at UNC-Greensboro, 
see page 17 Big East Championships 

November 24, 1 p.m. November 23 
, : 
j! 







