
Friday, March 22, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 110 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Photos courtesy of William Hamlett 
Students hike through rain forests in Belize to learn about the biology of the area, as well as culture of the Central American natives. 
Welcome to the Jungle 
Summer course offers rare opportunity to experience both science and culture 
By JOHN GALVIN 
News Writer 
I 
rnagine being on the coast of the Caribbean Sna, exploring the stunning diversity of landscapes, lush tropical forests, fascinating Maya ruins and the longest barrier reef in the Northern Hemisphere. .lust a daydream'! No. 
Weleome to Nnotropical Natural llistory class, where the assignment is to lnarn about tropical and coastal 1~cology while experiencing Mayan cultun1. For the past several sum­nwrs, both Notre Dame and St. Mary's stud11nts have enriched their education by exploring this tropical 1:lassroorn. 
Tlw course is taught by Dr. W iII iam II amll1 tt, a Notre Dame assoeiate professor of Biology. llis summer course is designed to allow students the opportunity to acquire knowledge of both common and endangered species indigenous to the neotropics. 

The class is divided into two sec­tions: The first half explores terres­trial conservation biology and Mayan archeology, while the second section focuses on tropical marine conservation biology. The students acquire much of their knowledge by visiting selected national parks and reserves throughout the countries of Belize and Guatemala. 
The course begins in Belize, which is an ideal place to learn and explore ancient cultures and tropical ecosystems. A leading country in the role of wildlife conservation, Belize has established many protect­ed areas and sanctuaries in a vari­ety of habitats. Their study areas include the savanna mountain pine ridge and tropical rainforests. In the field, students have the benefit of a bilingual natural history guide, who provides extensive knowledge of the local areas and culture. 
They experience a community baboon sanctuary, the Belize Zoo, an archaeological vault at the capi­tal of Belmopan, ancient caves, deep blue pools fed by underground springs in the rainforest, and the Mayan ruins of Caracol, Altun Ha, 
see BIOLOGY I page 4 

• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
Milos to preside over exec board 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Effective next month, Nikki Milos, Christine Riesenberger, Meg Cernok and Kim Fleming will assume the helm of the Executive Board of Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association. 
In yesterday's elections, the ticket earned 
74.9 percent of the vote, with the remaining 
25.1 percent of voters abstaining, according to Marissa Osterhoff. supervisor of elections for RHA. Twenty-seven percent of the resident student body showed up at the polls. 
The incoming board views their "wide range of experience in different positions on RHA and in the hall councils" as a valuable asset, said Riesenberger, vice president elect. 
Milos is optimistic about her upcoming term as president. 
"I hope we can improve the communication between the residence life staff and students," she said. "As long as we, as an executive 
see RHA/ page 8 

• fACUlTY SENATE 
Members debate need for greater staff involvement 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Increased faculty involvement in the adminis­tration of the University was the main issue of concern at the last meeting of the Faculty Senate on March 7. 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution opposing the decision by the Fellows of the University to drop the provost's automatic membership from that group. The Senate also approved a proposed survey presented by Professor Mario Borelli that would enable faculty members to rate the performance of certain administration officials. 
The Fellows of the University is a twelve­member board formed in 1967. They are re­sponsible for choosing members of the University's Board of Trustees. The University provost has sat on the board since its forma-


see SENATE I page 4 


'Home' away from home 
Non-profit Chiara Home offers 
respite care, special attention 
to needy children of all ages 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 



Saint Mary's women are no strangers to charity. As any nursing major can confirm, charity makes up a large part of their lives. 
Nursing students at Saint Mary's College volun­teer seven to nine hours per semester at the Chiara !lome as a part of a required course in pediatrics. 
The Chiara Home is an Indiana non-profit organi­zation which provides respite care over a brief peri­od of time. It provides temporary relief for those are the primary care-giver of someone who has a developmental disability or mental disorder. 
The home is open twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week and provides out-of-home respite care in a "Home away from Home," so as to help prevent 
see CHIARA/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 22, 1996 

The ntodel 
Saint Mary's 
w-ontan 
As the year draws to a 

Maureen Hurley 
close, the Saint Mary's 

Saint Mary's News 
community searches for 

Editor
individuals who capture 
the spirit of the College 

to honor at commencement ceremonies. 
One Saint Mary's student epitomizes all 
those qualities we search for when looking for 
a role model among our peers. 
Meghan Conley. 

Each one of us can learn so much from her. 
I never knew Meghan-when she was a 
freshman at Saint Mary's, I was a junior in 
high school. But hearing of her life had such 
an impact on me. 

At age three, when most of us were hardly 
thinking about kindergarten, Meghan Conley 
knew she wanted to go to Saint Mary's 
College. And she never gave up on that 
dream. 

She came to Saint Mary's in the fall of 1993. 
She was involved with the Student Managers 
Organization over at Notre Dame, and was a 
member of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame 
mixed choir. 

Last summer, she organized a student man­
ager's organization similar to Notre Dame's, 
and implemented it in a high school in her 
hometown this year. Her next project was to 
petition the governor and Indiana general 
assembly to pass a law demanding that med­
ical personnel report all cases where drivers 
of vehicles have a blood alcohol level over the 
legal limit. 

If Meghan saw a need for something, she 
didn't just talk about it. She took action, and 
made a difference in her community. 
Meghan had a chronic kidney disease that 
took her life on March 12. She faced medical 
problems during her year at Saint Mary's­
she spent time in hospitalization, and campus 
security would drive her from campus to the 
hospital for dialysis. 

Following her freshman year, Meghan took 
a medical leave from Saint Mary's. At a time 
when most of us would have given up, 
Meghan Conley remained enrolled as a Saint 
Mary's student, keeping up with her studies 
by taking classes at Purdue University 
Calumet. She never gave up her dream of 
graduating with the class of 1997 under the 
LeMans tower, and being a history teacher. 
Friends shared countless memories, and 
talked of her constant positive attitude. Her 
mother spoke with pride of her daughter's 
accomplishments, and about how much she 
loved everything about Saint Mary's-from 
friendships to classwork and the campus' 
atmosphere -even the squirrels she would 
feed outside of McCandless. 
Whether it be schoolwork, singing, or 
sports, she loved what she did, and she 
shared that love with others. And no matter 
what happened, family and friends said she 
smiled through everything. 
While the Saint Mary's community mourns 
the death of a fellow student, we should 
reflect on the joy she brought into the world. 
One of Meghan's friends said that she was the 
kind of person who, if she ever did anyone a 
favor, she wouldn't expect anything in return. 
She said Meghan would only hope that person 
would do something good for someone else. 
I think it would be virtually iq_lpossible to ~find another who captures the Saint Mary's spirit as much as she did. We should strive to be more like her. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Hearher Cocks  
Marrhew Loughran  Production  
Belle Baurisra  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Brian Reinrhaler  
Jim Belden  Lab Tech  
Brandon Candura  

• WURUJ AT A GtANCE 
Freight train derails in Oklahoma, evacuating thousands 
LATTA, Okla. A freight train derailed today and 
~:f ~:~;h~af.~e~a;;~~~~gd~~~~~e! f~~~;
100 feet in the air before the blaze was contained. Some (500 people were evacuated. 
There were no immediate reports of injuries. Pontotoc County Sheriff Jeff Glase said it did not appear, as had earlier been feared, that a car was crushed beneath the track. "But we haven't been able to get close enough to make sure," he said. 
Three other cars with denatured alcohol were safely moved about 300 yards away from the derailment site. 
The tank cars each contained 30,000ig gallons of denatured alcohol, a nontoxic 
!8 •• _··.••-·_·.•-_-·. _·_. _·_._I_.!_Mo.i ~~:;i~~~~~e~:;i~h~~:;:~~;~~over and 
h'......

-...L......................................................::: .•.•..... .-.............. "I could hear the racket coming up 
i 

Other cars on the Burlington Northern Santa Fe train contained cornmeal. 
Within two hours after the derailment, the fire in the two tank cars had been contained and crews were letting it burn out. However, a third tank car began to leak, causing a small fire. 
Gorbachev declares for presidency 
ST. PETERSBURG, Russia 
Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, who had said for weeks that ltle intends to run for president in June's elections, made it official today. "With this statement, I declare my intention to run for president," Gorbachev announced at a teachers' college in St. Petersburg. Gorbachev is thought to have virtually no chance of 

winning. He is widely unpopular, and only about 1 per­cent of voters say they would vote for him. He enters a race now dominated by Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov and incumbent Boris Yeltsin. A long-time rival of Yeltsin, Gorbachev said at a recent news conference that his platform would be "an alternative to the current regime and an alternative to Communist fundamental­ism." Gorbachev had long been coy about his political plans, saying he wanted to run but stopping short of for­mally declaring. While Gorbachev remains popular in the West as the man who brought down the Soviet police state, he lost the support of many pro-reform Russians before leaving office in 1991. They accused him of waf­fling on reforms and resorting to authoritarian tactics as his government collapsed. 
Mad cow illness affects British beef 
LONDON 
Britain lost its biggest beef export market today, one day after the government acknowledged that a cattle ill­ness known as "mad cow disease" may have spread to humans. France; which represents 40 percent of Britain's export market, banned imports of British beef. Demand also dried up in British cattle markets, and a private consumer group in Germany called for British beef to be barred. British Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell confirmed Wednesday that the deaths of 10 peo­ple from Creuztfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) may be linked to a brain disease that has infected British herds for the past decade. A scientific advisory committee believed the deaths from a new strain of CJD in humans may be con­nected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), or "mad cow disease," Dorrell said. The incurable diseases cause holes in brain tissue, disabling and death. The Freneh Agriculture Ministry said the British governmen­t's declarations "constitute new elements as to the risks linked to the consumption of British beef." It said France had called for an urgent meeting of the European Union's veterinary committee to respond to the threat on a Eu­rope-wide level. 

the track," said Johnny Sanders, who was out for his morning walk when the train's engine passed him. 
He said he saw the tank cars derail and the ensuing frre and explosion. He flagged down a motorist who called for help. 
School in Latta, a small town about 75 miles southeast of Oklahoma City, was canceled, and authorities evacuat­ed homes within about a half-mile of the derailment site. 
The school is about two blocks from the site, said Connie Smith, a secretary in the sheriffs office. She said the derailment occurred at a small crossing that leads to a housing development. 
State Highway 1 was closed north and south of Latta, state police said. 
Mother wins suit for son's death 
GREENFIELD, Ind. 
The mother of a teen-ager shot to death while hand­cuffed in the back of an Indianapolis police car was awarded $4.3 million in damages today in her wrongful death lawsuit. A jury deliberated for 12 hours before reaching a verdict early today in favor of Nancy Taylor. Police said Michael Taylor, 16, concealed a .32-caliber revolver in his high-top sneakers and used it to shoot himself after he was arrested in September 1987 for allegedly attempting to steal a car. The city presented videotapes showing the scenario was possible, but the family contended that police shot him. "You saw Mike handcuffed," attorney John Moss told jurors, referring to a photo taken at the arrest scene. "You saw Mike searched and searched ... by police officers. There was no weapon found." Mrs. Taylor's suit against the city and the two arresting officers claimed they were negli­gent and violated her and her son's constitutional rights. The jury awarded her $1.2 million on the negligence claim, plus $2.1 million in compensatory damages and $1 million in punitive damages for the alleged rights viola­tions. City Attorney Mary Ann Oldham, who helped rep­resent the officers, said the verdict was wrong and would be appealed. The trial was moved from Indianapolis because of pretrial publicity. 
Couple sues for strip search 
BALTIMORE 
A couple who went shopping at a Victoria's Secret store in a suburban mall said they were both forced to strip by security guards after a store employee accused him of stealing underwear. In a $218 million suit the couple filed Thursday against the store and the mall, they also claimed that a guard subjected the woman to a cavity search. Nathaniel Masterson, 48, and Ruth Cobb, 35, said they had just purchased $22 worth of hosiery from the store last Dec. 8 when they were told to return to the store by two off-duty policemen wearing their uniforms and working as security guards at the Towson Town Center mall in Baltimore County. Before they were al­lowed to leave the store, both Masterson and Cobb were forced to take off their clothes and Cobb was forced to hold open her body cavities in front of a female security guard, according to the suit. "All I know is I found myself in some cramped room with some strange woman looking up my behind," said Cobb, a campus police offi­cer at Howard University in Washington. "Anybody who finds himself in a little room buck naked and cold would be angry," Masterson said at a news conference in Washington. 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, March 22. 
Lines separate high tAmperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V1s Associated Press 

Atlanta  62  35  Chicago  47  24  Miami  76  55  
Baltimore  46  31  Columbus  41  20  Minneapolis 45  22  
Baton Rouge 72  45  Dallas  72  54  New York  48  32  
Boston  47  34  Denver  63  36  Philadelphia 47  31  
Caribou, ME 36  26  Los Angeles 64  52  St. Louis  53  32  

Graphics Brian Blank 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All rcproducdon rights are reserved. 
hiday, March 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Terrorism impedes relations with South Asia 
By TRACY ALLEGA 
News Writer 
The existence of terrorist groups in South Asia is a threat to regional and interna­tional eooperation, according to graduate student Hohan Gunaratna in his lecture yes­terday, entitled "Conflict and Cooperation in South Asia." 
The South Asian region, in­eluding the countries of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, is emerging as a politi­cal power as it grows in both population and military strength. At present, one-fifth of the world's population re­sides in South Asia. 
In speaking of the conflict that exists in South Asia, 
Gunaratna outlined two major threats to regional security. One concern is that of internal connicts in the form of insur­gency and terrorism. "As long as the political environment is conducive, where there is poverty, frustration, and hatred, people look for differ­ent ideologies out of des­peration," Gunaratna said. 
lie described the scale and influence of the numerous ter­rorist groups in South Asia. "Insurgent groups there act more like multinational corpo­rations than terrorists," he said, adding that tremendous popular support exists for the Sri Lankan insurgent group in particular. Members of this group are distinguishable in 
D 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY MARCH 30 & MARCH 31 
JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 28 $6.00 Fee 
r----------~-----------,
r----------------------,
: Unlimited Tanning : : Unlimited Tanning : 1 I 'Till Easter 1 I : 'Till Graduation : 
1 fl>lr I 
I I I I I I 
I I :I $6.5 :I 
L.----------L----------~~~---------~
] ,Voted:
... 
c: AREAs BEST
::: 
0::s TANNING CENTER 
\.:) 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 
272-7653 

TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 
Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet II:30AM-2:30PM $5.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open 'til Sunset Friday Closed Saturday Specialty dishes prepared in our authentic Tandouri Clay Oven! For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berrien Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 
that they wear a potassium cyanide capsule around their neck that, when bitten, induces death in seconds. 
This Sri Lankan terrorist group is known for its exper­tise in the art of bomb-making. Past actions include driving a truck full of explosives through a girls' grade school and hav­ing a woman detonate a bomb attached to her body immedi­ately before placing a welcom­ing garland around the neck of a state official. 
"There has been too much emphasis on eliminating the leaders of insurgent groups when the emphasis should re­ally be on changing the politi­cal and economic environment that breeds the ideologies of insurgent groups," Gunaratna asserted. 
A second problem with South Asian security is the possibility of external threats. Between 1970 and 1990, South Asia and India were aligned with the Soviet Union. Following the end of the cold war, South Asian countries have estab­lished cooperative relation­ships with the United States and Great Britain. 
Despite these rei!J.tions, the threat of an influx of Islamic fundamentalism is of great concern to South Asian lead­ers. "Managing the various ethnicities and religions that cross border lines has become a big issue in South Asian poli­tics," Gunaratna said. 
Gunaratna is from Sri Lanka and is an authority on terror-

The Obsarvar/Brandan Candura Graduate student Rohan Gunaratna spoke on South Asian Terrorism last night. 
ism, insurgency and counter­insurgency movements. He has authored six books on the subjects. 

Competition tests business skills 
By SANDRA NASHIF 
News Writer 
The MBA program will be sponsoring a case study compe­tition from Sunday, March 24 to Tuesday, March 26. The invita­tional competition is in its 15th year, and consists of five four­member teams from MBA pro­grams at Georgetown Univer­sity, Ohio State University, Uni­versity of Texas at Austin and the University of Notre Dame. They will be competing for a trophy to be presented at an awards ceremony on Tuesday night. 
On Monday morning, each team, consisting of three MBA candidates and a faculty advi­sor, will be presented with a current "real-life" business pol­icy case, which will incorporate all facets of business academia. The teams will then have 24 hours to solve the problems and prepare a presentation. 
Each group will be provided with a microcomputer with the Microsoft Office package, in­cluding Power Point, Excel and Word Perfect. In addition, the teams will have access to all re­sources in the Hesburgh and COBA Libraries. 
There will be five judges judging the competition. Professor Ken Smith, the acad­emic head judge from the University of Maryland, and four business judges: John Bycraft, president of Jack-Post Corporation, William Harper, senior vice-president and CFO of National Steel Corporation, 
fi:~:[:,r~·Fi8l:ij\ fl\T l'~~fh. ~-r<r;r~T'Ir
L,iI[ ;~ak,Jt\t fIt~ i~ ~ til U'l ! ~l ~ bIll. 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 631·7361 
Daniel Carrigan, assistant con­troller of Jordan Industries and Gay Willett, manager of execu­tive development for Whirlpool Corporation. 

The Notre Dame team was selected by a prior "in-house" competition and consists of Adam Jones, Maria Kicheeva and Ramachandran Laksh­manan. Kicheeva sees the com­petition, "as a very good learn­ing experience which gives me a chance to better understand the team dynamics process and compete against 'brains' from other schools." 
The competition gives MBA students a glimpse of potential business problems they might encounter on the job, and as Hamachandran sees it, "a chance to apply techniques and skills you learn in the MBA pro­gram to a comprehensive and cogent situation." 
Concert dedicated to Abdo 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its annual Spring Concert today at 8 p.m. in Washington I I all. Admission is $2, and all proceeds will benefit Amanda Abdo, the Notre Dame senior seriously injured in an automobile accident in November. 
The 60-member all-male chorus will present a pro­gram featuring European vernacular songs. Included are 18th and 19th century French and German folk songs, a Latin Henaissance polyphony, and the Italian "L'ultimo di de Maggio." 
The Glee Club, this year celebrating its 80th year, will tour Europe this summer for three and a half weeks, per­forming concerts in Ireland, Spain, France, Germany, Austria and Italy. 
Tickets are on sale at the LaFortune Student Center in­formation desk and at the 
door. 

~ • Vintage Levis • Silver Rings & Bracelets \t •Drop Necklaces •Hemp Chokers ~ THE • Toe Rings • Unique Dresses 
1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133)

tsTYLE 
2 'h miles north of stale line 
Layaway& 
Belle Plaza, Niles
Co., INC• AUerations Available 
687-9123 
10% off t with Student t; 
I.D. ~ 
Hours: • M-F 1o-7 Sal. 1Q-6 Open Sun. 12"" 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------~--~-------------------------------.. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 22, 1996 
through the branches of an-Out of the rainforests and into home to the recently estab­learn the biology and conserva­cient trees, colorful parrots the ocean -the second half of lished llol Chan Marine Re­tion of tropical ecosystems,
Biology 

squawk and tree frogs fill in the course brings the students serve, the newest addition to while exposing them to the continued from page 1 any auditory gaps. The steep-into the tropical waters of the Caribbean's growing trea­mysteries of Mayan culture. sided temples rise to heights of sharks and stingrays. For their sury of marine national parks. Although space is limited, this and Xunantunich. over 44 meters. The dense study of tropical marine con-The class stays at a local sea­summer's class still has a few 
From Belize students travel to rainforest canopy is not far servation biology they returns side resort complete with openings. Tikal, Guatemala. Tikal lies away, making passage within to Belize City and travel by boat thatched-roof cabanas. northwest of Flores in the de-the enigmatic site an unforget-to the converted fishing village Highlights include snorkeling in Students who are interested partment of El Peten. It is a table experience. The many of Caye Caulker, where they the turtle grass and manatee may contact: magnificently restored ancient ruins include plazas, an acrop-swim with the spotted eagle grass beds, visiting the man­Dr. William Hamlett, BOlO Mayan ceremonial site, dating olis, pyramids, temples and a rays, Atlantic stingrays and groves, and experiencing the Haggar Hall. 1-7194. approximately 700 AD. museum. nurse sharks. majesty of the world's second E-mail: 
Its jungle location makes it a Returning to their home base The remainder of the course largest coral reef by both day William.C.Hamlett.l@nd.edu unique site. Towering pyramids in Flores, Guatemala, students is taught at Ambergris Caye, a and night. Netscape Page: rise above the jungle's green travel by boat up the Passion large island nestled along the This class has offered both http:llwww.nd.edu:80/-sbcmel canopy, while down below River to visit the Mayan site of western hemisphere's largest Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Central_America. html howler monkeys swing nosily Seibal. barrier reef. Ambergris Caye is students, the opportunity to 
--------~----~--~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
I don't recall any survey that gave the taking them to Chuck-E-Cheese and 
faculty a chance to express an opinion seeing their faces light up," commented
Senate Chiara
on faculty governance in the University Saint Mary's junior Cynthia McCue. 
continued from page 1 and on some of the key administrators McCandless Hall has sponsored the
continued from page 1
[prior to this survey]," McBrien told The Chiara I lome as their hall charity, pro­tion. South Bend Tribune, or postpone institutionalization. viding books for the children and help­
Dennis Moore, director of public rela­The survey asks faculty members to The Chiara Home was co-founded by ing out at the Christmas party. "Hall tions for the University, said that the rate the quality of leadership exhibited Sisters Gretchen Clark and Sharon Council picked the Chiara Home as removal of the automatic membership of by University President Father Edward Dillon, members of the Saint Joseph of their hall charity because everybodythe provost from the Fellows of the Malloy, Executive Vice President Father the Third Order of Saint Francis con­seemed to like the idea of the 'home' University would be done only to prevent William Beauchamp and Provost Father gregation, in September 1993. It origi­atmosphere. The Chiara Home is a overlap between day to day University Timothy O'Meara. nally provided occasional baby-sitting very dedicated place," stated employees and the Fellows. A survey participant has the option of for children with special needs. McCandless Hall President Kimberly
In fact, Notre Dame's tradition of hav­checking off one of six boxes in response The Chiara Home is governed by a fif­Fleming.ing the University's head officials sit on to the questions regarding the adminis­teen-member Board of Directors, 90 One notable aspect of the Chiara the top governing board is unlike most trators' leadership quality, which read, percent of whom are parents who have, Home is that it takes in children of all other schools. "If you look at U.S. News "Very High, Somewhat High, Neutral, or have had, a child with a ages. "Currently the youngest child and World Report's other top 2~ [univer­Somewhat Low, Very Low, and No developmental disability or mental dis­that we have staying with us is four sities), there isn't a single school where Opinion." order. 
months old and the oldest is sixty nine the chief officer is on an external gov­In other news, the Senate unanimously "The Chiara Home provides the years old," said Clark. erning board," Moore said. "From a fac­passed a resolution honoring the late opportunity to relate to people with The period of time each individual ulty standpoint, our school faculty has Professor Julian Samora, who passed special needs in a relaxed, home envi­stays depends on the temporary break more of a voice in the external govern­away on February 2 at his home in ronment, and we are always looking for needed by the care-giver. Some maying board than any other top 25 school." Albuquerque, N .M. volunteers," said Clark. stay an hour; others stay an entire The survey judging the performance of Samora was a professor of sociology Volunteers are essential to the suc­weekend. administration officials, distributed to from 1959 until his retirement in 1985. cess of the Chiara Home in that they "Volunteering was a nice break from faculty members by Senate Chairman He is credited with being the first Mexi­offer much-needed attention to the chil­the normal, stressful day to day activi­
Richard McBrien, must be completed can-American known to have received a dren. The volunteers play with the ties. It was wonderful to see the chil­and returned by April 4. In a letter ac­doctoral degree in sociology and anthro­children, joining them in activities such dren's faces brighten when I did some­companying the eight-question survey, pology. He also establi~hed Notre as bowling and shopping. They allow thing as simple as putting together a 
McBrien states that administering a sur­Dame's Hispanic Studies Program, laud­for even more respite care to be provid­puzzle with them," said Saint Mary's vey is consistent with one of the appro­ed for its success. ed, which helps the Sisters out tremen­junior Michelle Teets. priate tasks of the Faculty Senate, for­The Faculty Senate will meet again on -dously. Eleven year-old Chiara Home visitor mulating faculty opinion for the purpose April 10 at 7 p. m. in the Center for "I think the Chiara Home is great. I Justin Mars noted, "The best part about of conducting faculty meetings, as stipu­Continuing Education. loved volunteering there, it was a great coming here is making all sorts of new lated by the 1995 Faculty Handbook. The South Bend Tribune contributed experience being with the children and friends." 
"I've been at Notre Dame for 16 years. to this report. 

Garlic Breadsticks 
with any 'Pizza order. 

$5.99 $10.99 
Large 2 Large 
1-Topping 1-Topping 
Thin, Hand Tossed Thin, Hand Tossed Pizza or Deep Dish Pizza or Deep Dish Extra Extra 
Not valid with other offers. Not valid with other offers. · 
We accept all 
Now cotnpetitors
Hiring! coupons. 

Friday, March 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Nichols: Feminism must find medium SMC student trustee 
By PETER KELLY News Writer 
;\ new "middle feminism" can hridgn thn gap b1~tween the ex­tnmw opinions on women's is­suns, according to Mary Nidwls, prof'nssor at Fordham Univnrsity. 
Nidwls presented a new kind ol' l'nrninisrn "rooted in Aristo­llt~." In en~ating it. she con­trasts two contemporary yet extrenw forms or feminism 1:omrnon today; equity feminism and diffnrences fmninism. In lwr lnc:ture, Nichols sought to Pxplain a "middle ground" bdwnen the two and used an interpretation of some of Aris­tfltln's works to dnmonstrate lwr vil~w. 
Nic:hols defined her new fem­inism as a combination of eq­uity ft~rninism, thn belief that tlw law in a lilH~ral society should not take into account any di1Tnrnn1:11S bntwnen gender at all. and difTerenees feminism. llw hnlief that the distinetion lwtwnnn the gnndnrs is impor­tant and desirable in a liberal dt~rnocraey. Shn argued that both forms of' f'mninisrn arc too extrenw. Fmninisrn of equality shows nxtrcmisrn by seeking to 1diminate the diffnnmcr.s in gPndnr. which eliminates the 
Alumni's Irish Wake 
Wake it, Shake it... 
0 

A Party to Honor Every Child's Favorite Friend, 
~Franklirr~ 
This loveable, childlike turtle ha~ captured the hearts of thousands of children! Franklin stories are also treasured by parents and teachers, who find them a gentle and entertaining way to help kids cope with common childhood dilemmas. An international success, Franklin books are available in seven languages to children in nine countries. 

identity of the individual. She added that differ­ences feminism puts so much emphasis on the distinction in gender that the indi­vidual becomes iso­lated in soeinty. 
In seeking a medi­um between these views, Niehols used Aristotle and what she interpreted to be his belie!:s abou~ gen­dtH to perceive a 
view of hum ani ty '""""""""'---'-------------­
• ., The Observer/Brandon Candura 
that compromised Mary Nichols describes her concept of middle these two extreme feminism last night in her lecture in. the views. Hesburgh Library. 
Although Aristotle . .
felt that women were mfenor to b I I k d
men ecause t ICY ac e
"human reason .. Nichols 
. ' 
believed that he also thought 
women played a part in the "politieal rule in generation." In other words, both men and
• I· · . 
women. P tty ~ u?Ique part m 
generatmg ol1spnng. 
Aristotle, Nichols said, criti­cized the "despotic rule of women by men " calling the 
• . . · .. . 
perpetrators of such acts bar­
· .. r l't'
banans. •or po 11ca1 ru1e to exist for both men and women, 
· t tl b I' d 
as ;\ns o e e 1evec1 1 ·1 oes, 
N · 1 1 d h h
1c 10 s asserte t at t ere 
.

must be equality between gen-
d h' k th' ... t"
er w IC 1 eeps mgs JUS ,
h'l · t · · tl d'l'l' 
w I e mam. ammg l.e I er­
ences which provide the 
.. d t ... ·t 
a van age, .one ~ex can g~~erate offspnng without the 0 N~rh. 1 d d b · 
IC o1s cone u e y saymg

th t Arist t1 b Ji ved th t both
0

a e e e a man an~ woman nee? each o~her, With .both eq~al.Ity. and di·ffer?nces mtact. fh1s co~­
promise between extremes IS 
t d !i N' 1 1 · 'd 

w11a e mes IC 10 s new m1 ­
dl ~ .. e emimsm. 
Her lecture, sponsored by the 
p f L'b 1St d' d 
rogram o 1 era u 1es an
h ld · tl b h 1'b
e m 1e 11 es urg "I rary lounge, was entitled "Gender 
Differences  and  Liberal  
Democr.ac~.:  A  Classical  
Perspective..  

_&. .~ CR £AT Restau.rant and ~~ ~uALL Cocktatl Lounge 
~-lJ' ... Authentic Szechuan, .· Bar and Restauraunt ope:·;J·~~::a::;:i~e 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 \'utl'd Bl'"t Oril·nt,d Rl'... t,lllrant
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 in ~lkhi,m,t h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
,\licltiww NoH' 
(next to Randall's Inn) 

r----------------,
1 NAILS BY JODY 1 
IReflect your image with elegant nail~ 
I Bring in this ad and receive lOo/o OFF any nail service I I Call for an intment I 

to present peers' views 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA News Writer 
Student perspectives and con­cerns will be represented at the Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees meeting this April by senior Julie Steinke, the Stu­dent Trustee. 
At the bi-annual meetings held in October and April, Steinke is asked to prllsent the students' opinions on the issues which are important to the Board and are currently being discussed. 
"The Board wants to know how students will most likely react to an issue. They want to know if there is anything they are missing from a Saint Mary's College student's point of view," said Steinke. 
While Steinke does not give an actual formal report to tlw Board, she actively participates by serving as the voice of the students. She also has a seat on the subcommittees for mission and student life. 
"We talk about different as­pects such as recreation and athletics. We work on difTerent programs that the Board would like to get started in the col­lege," explained Steinke. 
The Board of Trustees has reportedly been very respon­sive and are genuinely inter­ested in the concerns of Saint 
•
tna Villan--""·u-, 
Happy 
2JST[ 
Chinese , American 

Mary's College students. "The Board constantly wants to know what the students are thinking," said Steinke. 
Earlier this week, Steinke sent a letter to all students ask­ing for their feedback in order to provide, "a better link be­tween the Student Body and the Board of Trustees." 
"I want to eheck with stu­dents to make sure that nothing they're concerned about is be­ing overlooked and to find out what they think is important," she added. 
Steinke will be available to meet with students today ..in Haggar College Center from noon to 1 p.m., and in the Off­Campus Lounge in Madaleva llall from 1 to 2 p.m. 
• SECURITY BEAT MONDAY, MARCH 18 11 :52 a.m. A Stanford Hall resi­dent reported the theft of mall from the package room In Stanford Hall 5:15p.m. A University employee reported the theft of numerous items from her vehicle while parked in the 82 parking lot. 7:33 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of a brief case from his vehi­cle while parked in the Cl parking lot. The brief case was later found by Security, Intact. 8:54 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of his wallet from the Stepan basketball courts. The wallet was left unattended at the time of the theft. TUESDAY,MARCH19 12:09 a.m. A Zahm Hall resident reported the theft of his watch from the Rockne Memorial. The watch was left unattended at the time of the theft. 8:13 p.m. A Keenan Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his laptop computer from his room. 11:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resi­dent was transported to the Univer­sity Health Center by Security for the treatment of a sports injury. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20 2:46 a.m. Security discovered vandalism to a Stanford Hall resi­dent's vehicle while parked In the 02 south parking lot. 5:58 a.m. A University employee was transported to Memorial Hospital for treatment of an Illness. 2:40 p.m. An off-campus student was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treat­ment of a laceration. 8:53 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported the theft of her bike from outside gate 2 of the Joyce. Center.  
Tax info, toll-free. Tax questions? Call TeleTax for recorded information on about 150 tax topics, 24 hours a day. ~.fl1ii\ Department of the Treasury ~&1/1 Internal Revenue Service htlp:l/www.ustreas.gov  


-~-~ ---~-~ ~------~-~-­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 22,1996 
ay Of efleetion Responses to Abortion after John Salvi 1:00-5:00, Sunday, April14, 1996 The Center For Continuing Education Open to 100 Undergraduates 1:00-1:15 Gathering and Orientation 1:15-3:00 Showing of Frontline (PBS) Document "Murder on Abortion Row" 3:00-3:15 Refreshment Breal(. 3:15-4:45 Small Group Discussion 4:15-5:00 Final Gathering and Comments Pizza Served Afterwards Registered at the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library or e-mail: . jcapizzi@eworld.com Sponsored by Campus Ministry, the Center for Continuing Education, The Center for Social Concerns, the Law SchooL, and the Theology Department See also the letter the editor in today's Observer  

hiJay, March 22, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Panel targets campus diversity 
By MIKEJACCARINO 
New, Writer 
Gathering in the context of Diversity Week, amid an appar­mJtly growing call for minority rnprt1s1mtation, a panel of Notm Damn faeulty and oflidals met yt1slnrday to discuss the topics of allirrnative action and diversity, clarifying univ11rsity policy and 11xpmssing their pnrsonal con­victions on the subjects. 
Tlw discussion of divnrsily, on tlw lwnls of the reeenl student govnrnnwnl designation of mul­tieulturalism as the focus of tlwir annual mporllo the Board of Trustt1ns, characterized a dia­logun whieh Assistant Director of Admission Susan Joyce, d11serihnd as "heating up." 
.Ioyce, who was joined by Marlin Murphy, assodatn pro­fllssor of Anthropology; Kathlenn Biddiek, associate pro­fnssor of llistory; and Joseph Husso. of the Olliee of Financial Aid, d11S1Tihnd univnrsity policy toward minority representation as one concerned with goals rather quotas. Joyce defines "quotas" as mandatory numbers to be filled regardless of the applicant quality, whereas goals strive towards the same ends while keeping the University's standards of acceptance. 
The school has a minimum goal of 15% minority represen­tation in the freshman class. Joyce stated that ethnicity and cultural background are only two of many admission criteria. "If a student's family doesn't speak English and is the first person to go to college in their family, I'm going to take that into consideration," she added. 
"Deciding who is qualified is a complex formula," explained Murphy, who questioned how minority students benefit less in the admission process than the 25% of eaeh class reserved for "legaey children." 
"There are many factors uni­versities use in the admissions 

IRISH CLOVER AWARD We need your nomination of a STUDENT and a member of the FACULTY or STAFF who has exhibited outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community. 
FRANK O'MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE TEACHING AWARD We need your nomination of an outstanding 
undergraduate TEACHER. 
PLEASE CALL 631-4555 TO SUBMIT YOUR NOMINATION FOR EITHER OF THESE AWARDS 
process: geography of home­town, extracurricular activities, legacy, grades; and minority status should also be consid­ered," he said. 
Justifying his call for a more diverse student body, Murphy added, "The student body needs diversity here because you have to prepare yourself for a com­plex world. We need people of different race and gender because people have different perspectives and that offers a more holistic education." 
A supporter of affirmative ac­tion, Biddiek ofl'ered a remedy for the lack of minority and fe­male representation on campus, expressing her frustration at the lack of progress by saying, "Recruitment of women and minorities is appalling for this university: out of 656 faculty members, 101 are women and eight are African American." 
Biddick attacked the weak­ness of the African-American History program and the ab­sence of similar programs for Indian and Asian thought and religions. She criticized the lack of representation in the faculty and the apparent failure of the past administrations in recruit­ing minority faculty members. 
They all referred to the ad­mission of 100 African­Americans in 1990, resulting in demonstrations and protests by the Spring. "The student body and faculty were not eulturally prepared," said Murphy. 
Joyce elaborated on solutions by saying that while the Admissions office has maxi­mized its capacity to increase minority representation, much help is needed from a campus­wide effort to promote diversity. "We feel the University can do better. We've reached a plateau and now have to decide whether we want a diverse student body. It has to be something we believe in." 
Students help Hispanics in voter registration drive 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
Balanced over her crayons and cookies, Ximena Clavijo spent Thursday evening color­ing furiously in the community center of South Bend's La Casa de Amistad. Classmate Adrianna Genera warned her friend Jose Cervantez to stop pressing down so hard and across the table Dora Gomez put the finishing touches on the last of a stack of freshly-made posters. 
Not a batch of local kinder­gartners but a committed group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, Clavijo and her fellow volunteers are part of a nation-wide voter registra­tion drive that is revolutionary in helping the on-campus com­munity make a real difference in South Bend. 
"I'd always wanted to be a part of a voter registration drive, especially for Hispanics," said Cervantez, a Notre Dame sophomore. By participating in the nationwide Latino Vote USA Campaign '96 he is help­ing the project register one mil­lion new Latino voters in time for the November 5 election. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's efforts are not going unnoticed by the members of the com­munity that they are trying to reach out to, nor by the work­ers at La Casa de Amistad where much of the outreach programs originate from. 
"I think it's wonderful that we have young adults like these that come out and want to help here (in the communi­ty)," said Gregorio Chavez, a resident of South Bend who has been volunteering in the area for close to 25 years. He, like many other Latino leaders across the nation, has spent his own free time making posters, organizing registration drives, and speaking with voters to help Latino Vote USA reach its goal. 
South Bend has a Hispanie population of approximately 5,200. Since 1980, voter regis­tration efforts have increased the number of rAgistered voters by close to 400%, from 300 to 1,200 members of the eligible public. Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, and South Bend com­munity members like Chavez are hoping to make that num­ber grow by 1,000 during Easter weekend. 
Saint Mary's junior Tracy Hollingsworth, who not only lives ln South Bend but is also the volunteer coordinator for the Notre Dame Hispanic American Organization, offers two reasons for the importance of the holiday weekend. 
''A lot of people are out that weekend; a lot of people are out buying food for Easter din­ner. so we know that there will be a lot of people out at that time when we register people at local stores. Just as impor­tantly, all registration ballots must be in by April 8 to be able to vote in the primnries." 
Nonpartisan and community oriented, Latino Vote USA relies on volunteers who want to donate their time by distrib­uting bilingual voter informa­tion, computerizing registra­tions, organizing community meetings, and helping people get out to vote on eleetion day. Right now they are especially looking for helpers Easter weekend in South Bend. 
Anyone who is interested can call Mr. Gregorio Chavez at 232-6620 or Tracy Hollingsworth at 284-5081. 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0atter your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
t$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
t$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL T-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601·1117 234-6010 
Did you know... ? 


That you could own a condominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $455* per month? 

A wise investment for students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $52,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ., ~RO~ 


~? C' 
~11)~

North Shore Club ¢
~ ~
'!'­
~ ~QSHO'i.~c.;"V 
Models Opm Daily Sat. &Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Monthlv paymrnrs of P. and I. b.ard un a purchouc prier of S~ I.9'XI ' with 20% down and a 30-vnr 7J7~ A.R.M 
p~ge 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 22, 1996 
Artificial flood will restore Grand Canyon RHA 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN people in those sltates, Associated Press along with California and Mexico. Refreshing the canyon PHOENIX Since the dam was: built 
In an effort to restore the Grand Canyon's natural 
After 33 years of wreaking in 1963, the river's every environment, dammed water will be released to stir havoc on the Grand Canyon, the fluctuation, its color, its up and spread nutrient-rich sediment downstream. government wants to make temperature, its beaches The four-day, 8,000 cubic-foot-per-second flow is 
expected to repair damaged beaches and promote
amends. So it's staging a flood. and even the fish have been 
the growth of vegetation to fortify wildlife.
The four 8-foot-wide jet tubes meticulously managed!. As a at Glen Canyon Dam will be result, the river has evolved opened on Tuesday, sending into something nature water rushing into the Colorado never intended. River and through the Grand Originally a warm, muddy Canyon at a rate fast enough to red river, the Colorado now fill Chicago's Sears Tower in 17 runs cold and clear green, minutes. its sediment left behind the 
The purpose is to restore the dam in Lake Powell. Col Grand Canyon beaches and water has turned the area wildlife that have vanished be­below the dam into one of cause of micromanagement of the nation's premiere fish­the flow of water through the ing spots for rainbow trout, dam. a breed exotic to the area. 
Nothing will return the Cottonwood trees, also for­canyon to its pristine pre-dam eign, have popped up in the days, and the effects of the canyon. week-long flood may well be Until the mid-1980s, temporary. But when the ex­water was released in a tor­periment is over, scientists rent in the morning as might get a better understand­power customers flicked on ing of how much water to re­their lights, and was lease, and at what time of day, reduced to a trickle at Peregrine Bighorn Mule Humpback 
night. falcon* sheep deer Chub fish* 
to help protect the environ­ment. But environmentalists in-Wild and plant life will ultinUltely be affected by sediment distribution. The flood is a departure for sisted that the canyon from flooding into the new high water zone. Refreshed by nutrients, 
the government, which for most needs free-flowing water; new vegetation will grow in sediment deposits, giving the ecosystem .--, 5 of the past three decades has no nutrient-rich sediment a boost. Where canyon life resides: ~_,..;.-~\ i= manipulated the flow to suit the means no beaches and no I .; ~ needs of power companies. plants for some endangered ~:~~: Mesquite Willow j Grasses *Endangered Y--rit m> 
"This event is our first at­animals. And river guides species --r 
continued from page 1 

board, have that open commu­nication, we won't have any problems." 
Major goals for next year in­clude looking into major hous­ing issues, including improving the lottery system and senior housing, according to Milos. The board also hopes to "achieve unity across the cam­pus, not just in the individual halls," she said. 
The first meeting of the 1996-97 executive board will take place April 22. 
According to Milos, applica­tions for RHA committee chair­women will be available at that meeting, and will also be at the Haggar front desk fol­lowing that date. Any resident student is eligible to apply to chair an RHA committee. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a 
tempt to operate the dam for compI a ine d that the un-Sffi;;:ce:cf~EmcimiOOI~mn.ne;;taf!ftUdiies-------------~AiPP environmental purposes," said natural releases of water David Wegner, program man­made their jobs dangerous and and the camp kitchen if you And some of those costs, they 
special
ager for the U.S. Bureau of washed away favorite beaches weren't careful." say, are passed on to ratepay-Reclamation, the government's and wildlife. For about 10 years now, the ers. dam-managing agency. "It was crazy. You'd have this government has toyed with "All over the West we're see-
Observer
·Three million people in Ari­totally schizophreniic river," water levels, hoping to find the ing a move to re-operate dams zona, New Mexico, Nevada, said Brad Dimock, who has led right mix to keep everyone for environmental purposes," Utah, Colorado and Wyoming wooden boats through the happy. But the power compa-said Joe Hunter, executive di­rely on the dam for power. Grand Canyon since 1971. "The nies claim the fluctuations dur-rector of the Colorado River 
ad. 

The dam also provides drink­boat would get beached, or the ing the past decade have cost Energy Distributors Associa­ing water for about 15 million river would wash away the boat them as much as $100 million. tion. 
"WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? A lot! The training and analytical skills The top six, out of 250 job classifications, Do ANY NOTRE DAME MATH MAJORS acquired in studying mathematics are pre­were, in descending order: actuary, soft­GO ON FOR HIGHER DEGREES IN THE cisely what many companies and profes­ware engineer, computer systems analyst, MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES? sional schools look for. accountant, paralegal assistant and math­Certainly. Someof our best students con­CAN YOU BE MORE SPECIFIC? WHAT ematician. This means 4 out of the first 6 tinue in pure or applied mathematics, com­KIND OF JOBS AND WHAT KIND OF top jobs are in the mathematical sciences. puting science, statistics, and other math­COMPANIES ARE SOME OF OUR RE­I LIKE MATHEMATICS, BUT I'M NOT SURE ematical sciences. CENT NOTRE DAME MATH GRADUATES WORKING FOR? THAT IT'S WHAT I WANT TO DO FOR They've gone to places like Harvard, Among our recent graduates two very pop­THE REST OF MY LIFE. WOULD AN UN­Princeton, Chicago, Oxford, Berkeley, and ular kinds of jobs have been as actuaries DERGRADUATE DEGREE IN MATHEMAT­Wisconsin. Many of them teach at colleges and as computer programmers or systems ICS MAKE SENSE FOR ME? and universities across the country. Others analysts. It could very well. As I mentioned earlier, work at places like Bell Laboratories or atA few of the insurance companies hiring a degree in mathematics represents train­government organizations like the National our graduates as actuaries are Allstate, ing in analytical thought and quantitative Security Agency. Massachusetts Mutual, CIGNA, The Trav­skills that are invaluable in many areas of WHAT ABOUT THE PROGRAMS OFFEREDelers, Prudential, Aetna Life and Casualty, and Metropolitan. human endeavor. BY THE MATH DEPARTMENT? AT&T, Arthur Andersen, DuPont, IBM, WHAT ABOUT NOTRE DAME MATH The Department offers, all in the College GE, Eastman Kodak, Morgan Stanley, GRADUATES? WHAT OTHER AREAS of Science, a major in Math with possible 'NCR, General Motors, and Xerox are a few HAVE THEY GONE INTO? concentrations in Life Science, Education, of the companies where our math gradu­I'll name a few: medicine, music, den­Engineering Science, Social Science, Com­ates work as programmers or analysts. tistry, law, engineering, meteorology, busi­puting, and Business Administration. A THAT IS AN IMPRESSIVE LIST. -BUT ARE ness (MBA), applied physics, and theology. student can also double major in Math and THESE DESIRABLE JOBS? These students continued their studies at in, say, Philosophy. The 1995 publication JOBS RATED AL­MANACrated job classifications using the places like Northwestern, North Carolina, The department also offers an Honors criteria of income, outlook, physical de­Stanford, Indiana, Illinois, Yale, Boston Mathematics Major in the College of Sci­mands, security, stress, and work environ­College, University of Pennsylvania, and ence and one in the College of Arts and ment. Georgetown. Letters. Come to our Open House on Wednesday, March 27, from 7 to 8 PM in Room 226 of the Computing Center and Mathematics Building and find out more about our programs. You may also call the Math Office at 631-7245 to arrange an appointment with our Associate Chairman Prof. Migliore or our Director of Undergraduate Studies Prof. Rosenthal.  


_.__ _...... 

--~-~--~~----­
hiday, March 22, 1996 The Observer • ELECTION NEWS page 9 
Perot declares willingness to enter race 
By KATIE FAIRBANK 
A~suciatt·d l,rcss 
DALI.AS 

A eoy Hoss Perot is eontinuing to suggest he will run for presi­dent-if asklld-during a five­state blitz of eampaign-like satdlite TV interviews. 
Perot repeated the same re­l'rain with interviewers from Texas, Florida, New Mexico, Nevada and Oklahoma: 
''I'll eut the grass. I'll take out tlw trash, I'll do anything to makll sure we solve these prob­lems and pass on a gmat eoun­try to our children and grand­ehildrtm," he said. urging view­ers of KHNV-TV in Heno to sign Hnform Party petitions at a local dismunt supnrmarkel. 
Speaking from his hometown of Dallas, Perot said he would 
Nader announces surprise candidacy 
By SCOTT LINDLAW 
Assoriarcd Press 
SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

Consumer watchdog Halph Nader is running for president with no illusions of capturing tlw WhiW llouse and little m­gard for President Clinton or 
Ensemble • 

J 
presents 1JJ ""C}) e­"A rapturovs weaveof irresistabk
d e 0 p
~ sounds of Irish music ... con;urmg a 
spirit oflreland." .o,;,.,s..-r...
)e~os::~8P.M. 
CGJRe --· 
O'laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: S7 (Students), $14 (Adults) 
on sole at the Saint Mary's College 
box office, Olaughlin Auditorium, 
9-5, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, 
MasterCard: 219/284-4626 
DO NOT BE ALARMED. HE WILL NOT SCARE YOU. ALL YOU HAVE TO 
DO IS SEE tn SH.Dlii AN 
ALL WILL BE WELL. 
JUST WATCH IT. 111 SHU YEs, IH SHORl11s GOING TO aE AT CUSHING F.-i. &Sat 8/10:30p. 
AND Sunday at 2p.an. $2.00 
Reft1.eft1.bel',lfl SH.OHll see it AND NO ONE WILL GET HURT. GOT IT? GOOD. ~ 
serve as the Reform candidate if asked, but he held open the pos­sibility that other candidates might volunteer to run if he can get his party validated in all 50 states. 
Perot tuned up his campaign slogans for the fall while taking a dig at President Clinton. lie noted in the Key West interview that Florida farmers are hurt by clu1ap labor in Mexico. "Promises made, promises bro­ken," he jabbed. "Remember who feels your pain." 
Perot's aides and volunteers are working to gather petitions to get his Heform Party on the NovBmber ballot around the country. llis name will appear as a "stand-in" candidate on some ballots until a nominee is chosen at the party's conven­tion, probably around Labor 
Bob Dole. 
Democrats are afraid Nader's run as a Green Party candidate could put a dent in Clinton's general election prospeets in California and a few other states, but Nader also has shown he can siphon votes from Hepublicans. 
Day weekend. 
Perot could clarify his inten­tions on Friday, when he ap­pears on his favorite public fo­rum, Larry King's TV talk show on CNN. He first opened himself up to a 1992 presidential run on King's show. 
Sen. Bob Dole, pressed about the implications of a Perot can­didacy one day after clinching the GOP nomination, said it "wouldn't make it easier" for him to defeat Clinton. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich believes voters already elected a "reform party" in 1994 when they put a majority of Republi­cans in Congress who vowed to "take power out of Washing­ton" and remodel government. 
"That's one of the reasons I find some of Perot's discussions fascinating," Gingrich said to-
Nader, 62, will appear unop­posed on the Greens' ballot in Tuesday's California primary, assuring him a spot on the gen­eral-election ballot in November. Other primary vot­ers on Tuesday can write his name in. 
The prospect of the influen­tial activist mounting a cam­paign in California has sparked speculation that Nader's sup­port will come from defecting Democrats and hurt Clinton in this critical state. 
Indeed, with his name also likely to appear on an assort­ment of other state ballots, Nader says he has been ap­proached by "emissaries" of the Democratic Party. lie said they urged him to consider the potential fallout of his cam-day in a speech in Washington to the National Newspaper As­sociation conference. "The Contract with America essen­tially fits virtually every interest of the Perot voters." 
Republican National Commit­tee Chairman Haley Barbour, for his part, speculated that Democrats "have worn out two sets of knee pads," praying for a Perot candidacy to help Clin­ton "slip back in tpe back door of the White House again with 43 percent of the vote." 
Democratic National Commit­tee Chairman Chris Dodd m,ain­tains that the failure of the Republican-controlled Congress to deliver on campaign finance reform and other issues was "why Ross Perot is angry and that's why his people want him to run." 
paign on Clinton's. 
"They said, 'If you don't like us, Dole is worse,"' Nader re­called. "Between the lines what they're saying is, 'Okay. for another four years, you've got to take bad instead of worse."' 
Clinton-Gore deputy cam­paign manager Ann Lewis said no one from the campaign had been dispatched to talk to Nader. She expressed confi­dence that voters who care about the environment and other issues important to the Gt·een Party ultimately would decide the best way to advance those causes is to back Clinton. 
Some political scientists and Democrats believe Nader would pull votes from both major parties. 
Happy 21st Birthday Kristin! 
Dole begins preparation of platform 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With the Senate as his cam­paign stage, Bob Dole is already gearing up for a gener­al-election fight by making a series of moves to position himself di­rectly oppo­s i t e President ••~•• 
Clinton on 
key issues. 
Dole, the Senate majority leader who is assured the GOP presidential nomina­tion, made a rare appearance as a witness in a committee hearing today to underscore his commitment to reining in the federal government. 
"We are going to shine up the Tenth Amendment. ... We are going to shift power out of Washington," Dole testified in support of a new bill to prohib­it Congress from expanding federal activities beyond those specifically designated in the Constitution. The Tenth Amendment reserves most powers for state governments. 
Dole, who carries a copy of the amendment in his breast pocket, making it a regular prop in his campaign ap­pearances, reiterated his call for turning federal welfare and Medicaid programs over to the states. Sen. Don Nickles made the political point. 
"Giving power back ... it is, frankly, a big difference be­tween Bob Dole and Bill Clin­ton," said Nickles, H-Okla. 
Dole also staked out his sharp differences with Clinton over defense policy, introduc­ing legislation with House Speaker Newt Gingrich to force the $5-billion deployment of a missile defense system, which Clinton opposes. 
"Right now, the United States has no defense -I repeat, no defense -against ballistic missiles. If it's left up to the Clinton administration, it'll stay that way," Dole said at a morning news conference. 
A showdown was shaping up over a bill aimed at capping damage awards in faulty-prod­uct lawsuits, which Clinton wants to veto on the grounds that it would hurt consumers. A final vote was expected this afternoon. 


-----~-~~...._,_----~-----~---­
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 22, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............... : ............... Jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor................. Carolinc Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is reporced as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ed.iror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spotrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries.leners and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4 541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Phmo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Science cannot mediate Catholic dilemmas 
American society wavers between choice and morals 
Dear Editor: 

First a disclaimer: I am not a Roman Catholic, and thus know little about con­temporary official Catholic teachings on sexuality, and so do not desire to engage either the logic of Catholic claims regarding sexuality, or the problems entailed in what Apple perceives as an authoritarian church hierarchy. 
But regardless of the Church's teach­ing on sexuality, the author confuses the questions. First, he confuses "viability" with "existence of life." Not only do many "religions" teach that from the moment of conception does there exist a new human life form in the mother's womb; "science" teaches the same, explicitly accepting the fact that from the moment of conception the zygote is, genetically, a human life form, and fur­ther, a genetically unique human life form, distinct from the mother and the father. 
Is then, viability the issue? Undoubtedly, as the author contends, science can teach us about the moment of viability outside the mother's womb. But what moral reason can be given for accepting "viability" as the criteria for an acceptable abortion? Science can­not give us such a reason for accepting viability as the point at which it is no longer acceptable to abort a pregnan­cy-and it is precisely here where the fundamental flaw in the editorial's rea­soning appears. Apple believes that "religion has no place in the law books," and that "mystical values ... which can­n.et be proven through reason or empiri­cal evidence have no place in ruling society." The problem with this con­tention is that there are no "values" which can be established merely through reason or empiricism. This fun­
• IJOONESBURY 
HeY, KIM, 
YOU'RE
YOU WANT 
avme
7D5ec. 

WeB? NOT
MYHOME­
PVCN!
611?1-PA6&7 
\ 

damental tenet of stereotypical, popular liberalism (allow me to paint with broad strokes) of alternately putting trust in different reasoning processes-that "reason" or "rationality" or "empiri­cism" can lead "all rational individuals" to agree on fundamental issues of "morality"-this tenet has proven to be an empty and vacuous claim. There is no purely reason-based or science­based or rationality-based system that can define good and evil in a manner acceptable to all "reasonable" individu­als. Every person fmds at the bottom of his or her fundamental convictions some foundation which cannot be established or "proven" by empirical or strictly rea­son-based analysis. We do not prove ourselves superior to an "elderly back­woods priest with an expensive hat" -as Apple seems to characterize those who believe abortion to be wrong-by turn­ing to naturalism. This belief that natu­ralism can solve our problems-this belief cannot itself be established by naturalism, or "empiricism," or "rea­son." 
This conversation, of course, points us to one of the perennial problems of the liberal tradition: how do we define the "common good"? How do we define what is acceptable and unacceptable in our society? "Lawmakers have a duty to find a common ground for making just laws, and that common ground is sci­ence," says Apple. I don't know what the common ground is myself, and I readily admit the difficulties inherent in the leg­islative task in a pluralistic culture, but to contend that science can provide that needed common ground is horribly mis­leading, though it is still a commonly believed falsehood. While grateful for the advancements science has brought us, we must not suppose science to be a quick and easy panacea for our trou­bling cultural ills-our problems are deeper than that. A quick survey of twentieth century western intellectual history shows that most thinkers have realized this .. 
Besides this fundamental error in the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
UH-HUH. GRANO­MA GAVe Me THE: 5fTE FOR OIR/57-· 
MA 5, BUT I 7HIM<. 
5Ht'5 GOING 7D SHUT IT {}()WN 500N... 
\ 

article, one also wonders about other assumptions and details of logic in the article. At one point the author contends that "if lawmakers deny choice and force women to be nothing but sexual receptacles, abortion will cease to be a moral issue." In this one sentence alone, three false moves are made: One, those who believe abortion to be wrong do not desire to make women "sexual recepta­cles." This appears to be little more than inflammatory rhetoric, which helps little in the context of an issue in which peo­~le have begun to murder abortion doc­
'lA]bile grateful for the 
V V advancements science has brought us, we must not suppose science to be a quick and easy panacea for our troubling cultural ills-our problems are deeper than that.' 
tors. Two, in the larger context of this statement Apple seems to assume that men and women have no choice about whether or not they engage in sexual relations, going so far as to call absti­nence a form of "contraception." It appears, then, that for Apple women should have a choice about everything but whether or not to engage in sexual relations, in spite of the fact that Apple says that women's "choice" should include choosing the people with whom they have sexual relations. This implicit assumption that the act of sexual rela­tions is not itself something that one can freely choose to enter into or not, this implicit assumption seems very degrading to both men and women. Men and women can and should be allowed to choose whether they enter into sexual relations with another person; but the question of whether they can choose to dispose of the human life form that may 
(IJHAF 8UT IT'S !:JtAlfTI­FUL.! fOJJ COIJ/,1) 

result from that sexual relation is a very different question-whether one be "pro-life" or "pro-choice"-and this lat­ter question should not be conflated with the former one. It may also be quite significant to the discussion of "choice," as many feminists have pointed out, that the women who are aborted in the mother's womb are never given the opportunity to choose if they them­selves will have children; that "choice" is made for them. Three, his logic of "choice" is obviously wrong. If we follow the editorial's contention-"if lawmak­ers deny choice ... [then] abortion will cease to be a moral issue"-then we can say that fraud, robbery, rape, murder are no longer "moral issues," because lawmakers have decided that our society will not tolerate these activities. "If law­makers deny choice ... then rape will cease to be a moral issue." This does not 
follow. 

One wonders why the author finds partial birth abortions "disgusting." In the context of abortion, "choice" appears to be the ultimate value for the author-so why draw the line arbitrarily at three months? This is a line that "sci­ence"-the proposed mediator for our moral dilemmas-can certainly not draw. The author's polemic against those who "rant about American's 'abortion culture'" misses the point; "abortion culture" refers not to some syndrome in which people supposedly enjoy aborting pregnancies, but to a cul­ture in which "choice" becomes the pre­mier value-a cultural stance and value choice that "scientific evidence" can nei­ther sustain nor disprove. In the final analysis, one may still come away valu­ing "choice" as a supreme value in our pluralistic culture; but if one makes that decision, it still is unfair, if not intellec­tually dishonest, to maintain that any­one who makes other supreme value judgements is equivalent to a "back­woods priest." 
LEE CAMP 
Graduate Srudem of Theology 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"probably the most distinc­
tive characteristic of the successful politician is selec­tive cowardice." 
-Richard Harris 
----~~ ------~-=------------~------------------------------~--~~----------~~~~~----~--------~--------------~------~---------­
VIEWPOINT
hiday, March 22, 1996 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spirituality surfaces on campus 
Dear Editor: 
Anne Pettifer's allegation that there are "cool relations" between Opus Dei and the Holy Cross Congn~gation on campus (Viewpoint, Thursday, March 7) is overstated. in my opinion. I lUll a nwmber of Opus Dei, and I am well acquainted with my rector and several I loly Cross priests and brothers, and have twtm gone to dine with them at the seminary. They are very open-minded people, and they accnpt me for who I 1un-just an ordinary layman who tries to lovt~ c;od and makes lots of mistakes. Any enmity between the Work and the lloly Cross ordt~r is merely drnamed up. Blessed .Josmnaria Escriva, the founder of Opus Dei, and Blnssed Brother Andre are probably laughing and slapping each other on the back in heav­en at this very moment (figura­tively speaking, of course). 
Furthermore, anyone who calls Opus Dei "reactionary" or "pre-Vatiean II" should read some of the documents from Vatiean II, such as The Decree on the Apostolate of the Laity. In truth, Opus Dei is virtually the incarnation of Vatican II. 
Finally, as regards the new Archbishop of San Salvador, who is a priest of Opus Dei, he is an excellent successor to Archbishop Oscar Bomero for several reasons. First. he was Homero's personal confessor. Second. Bomero did just as members of Opus Dei try to do (as all Catholics are called to do)-he implemented the Church's social teachings rather than dabbling in marxist inspired class warfare proposed by some Liberation Theologians. And finally, Romero frequented Opus Dei activities for priests with now Archbishop Saenz-and did so on the very day he was mur­dered. This could be taken as an indication that his past words, works, and intentions will not at all be at odds with those of the new Archbishop. 
There is no need to create petty divisions in the Church. Jesus would not have done so, but rather he said to his disci­ples "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give you." (Jn 14:27) 
DAVID FREDDOSO Freshman Grace Hall 

Recycling: A commitment to service 
Dear Editor: A few glaring problems stand out: Why don't 
Notre Dame is a community which prides itself all dorms carry recycling for white paper, col­on its commitment to service. The amount of ored paper, and magazines? Why doesn't the students involved in different service organiza­Huddle have recycling for plastic, considering the tions is truly impressive. There is one simple majority of water and soda bottles sold in the facet. however, where the student body is lack­convenience store are recyclable plastic? Why ing-rtH:ycling. are there so many students who fail to reuse 
l~very dorm and most other buildings on cam­paper or, even better, use vinyl or cloth bags for pus have eontainnrs for recycling everything Grab 'n Go? from glass and cans to white paper and maga­I am not asking the student body to donate zirws. Many studtmts seem unwilling to walk a their life savings to Greenpeace or only wear nat­l't!W extra stnps down the hall to recyele. Many ural eotton. Bather I am encouraging awareness think that it's only one can. that hardly makes a and consideration. It's as easy as turning off the di!Ternnet~. Pretend fmch ean is worth om1 dollar light when you leave the room and taking a cou­and you thrnw orw out everyday of the semester; ple extra steps to put recyclable materials where you just lost over one hundred dollars. That they belong. This would make a huge difference makes a difference. in proving that the people of Notre Dame are 
Tlwre are organizations on campus such as truly committed to service. 
Heeyclin' Irish and Students for Environmental Action that work to educate the student body and maintain existing programs. They need support for tlwir nfforts to be successful. 
Relatively speaking... 
Dear Editor: 
In rmuling tlw Christiane Likely editorial "Bepublicans Whimper and Whim~" (March 6, 199(J), I was shocked that someone as obvi­ously inttdligtmt as J.ikely could be so incredibly simple minded dun to her desire to seek out potential racists and bigots. I read Mike Hoyko of the Chieago Tribune every day, and I read the one in which she mntnnds "Boyko has taken it upon himself to be the poster hoy for the Hepublican eandidate... Pat Buchanan" and "Hoyko apparently holds even stronger views of Mexico than I have lward from Buehanan." 
For orw, Hoyko was ridiculing Buchanan's ideas and campaign, and tlw whole essay by Hoyko was simply a satirieal comment upon Buchanan's ideas about Mexico, which Boyko regards as 
•~xtrmnist and wrong for the country. All of this was made quite obvious, if not through careful, intelligent. and informed r~ading of' tlw Boyko essay, then definitely through following essays of his and responses by himself and the Tribune. To suggest that Royko supports Buchanan or the radieal right is simply not true. It is quill! obvious to me that Likely has not read much if anything by Hoyko other than this one artide. because if she has, she would know that Hoyko detests radical eonservatives. 
J.iknly's implication of the U.S. government as a conspirator and 1wtm an at:tive participant in the drug trade is ridiculous. What bmwfits would the people in power supposedly receive by traffick­ing drugs'? Too much life and money has been spent by the gov­ernnwnt to slop the drug trade for them to actually be trafficking drugs in to the country, the inner eities in particular. Oddly fHlOUgh, the topie of government'S abuse of power is often a topic of Boyko. as lw is often the sole outlet for incredible stories of gov­ernnwntal abuse. 
In tlw closing paragraph, Likely asks what "truly worthwhile thing has tlw United States ever really done?" I feel sorry for l.iknly, as lwr hatn~d for America has obviously blinded her from all tlw advancements that made and continue to make this coun­try grnat. llow many things of modern life were invented in Arrwrica'? l'ag1~s and pages of The Observer could be filled by Anwrkan advancements that Likely uses every day. And even morn important. our system of government, regardless of its many acknowlt~dgnd problems, has never been surpassed for a country with llw amount of •~eonomie, geographic. religious, and racial diversity as the United States. Find a country that hasn't polluted, damaged. or killt!d in its history. a country without prejudice, a eountry where the wealthy and powerful don't eontrol the nation, and I will join Likely in moving there. However, after comparing tlw rest of the world to the United States, I don't think either of us will lw lt!aving 
America.  Pass  nu~  the whiskey, because I'm not going any­ 
wlu~rn.  
MARCUS WOLNITZEK  
Freshman  
Grace Hall  

MICHELLE SHARP Sophomore Lewis Hall 

Turning the tables on 
•

. racism 
Dear Editor: This letter is in response to Christiane Likely's column "Spirituality should eome before societal standards" on March 
20. I was personally incensed by your racist and ignorant arti· cle. In the first paragraph, you writt): "I love Atlanta, Black people as far as the eye could see and I was loving it." Now, i(. I, a Caucasian male, was to write, "I fell in love with Fort Lauderdale over spring break because evorywhere I went there were white people," I would most likely be regarded as one of the biggest racists ever to walk this campus. However, this statement is no ditl'eront than the radst message you are constantly preaching. 
As disgusting as your blatant racism is, it is not my problem with your article. Rather, I am concerned with your lack of respect for the country you live in. In your discussion of Mahmoud Abdul-Raurs fine, you write, "My immediate reac­tion was anger and disgust on the part of the NBA. and pride and respect for Abdui-Rauf." Speaking of pride and respect, you should try having some for your country. Standing for the national anthem is not a "soeieta1 hazard." hut a duty of every American citizen. Aren't you aware that hundreds of thou­sands of Americans have died over that nag to give Abdul­Rauf the freedom to practice any religion he chooses? Do you realize that American men and women have shed their blood to ensure that you have some right to publish your columns every week? 
I would have thought that at some point in your education you would have taken American History, but evidently you have not. You seem to think that America just "became" a country with freedom of speech, press, religion, and countless other freedoms. Men and women haV(~ made the ultimate sac· rifice for over two hundred years so that Chris Jackson can become Mahmoud Abdul-Hauf and practice a new religion. The very least he can do is stand, show respeet, and he thank­
ful he is a free person.  You should think about doing the  
same.  
DAVID HART  
Junior  
Dillon Hall  

Documentary invites reflection, professors invite participation 
Dear Editor: 
J.ast month, we both had occasion to see the powerful two-hour "Frontline" (PBS) doc­umentary, "Murder on Abortion Row," which focused upon the fatal shootings of two recep­tionists in two different women's health centers in Brookline, Massachusetts in December 1994. The gunman, John Salvi, has recently been convicted of murder in Massachusetts Superior Court. 
'The program 
depicts the grief of her loving, Catholic family as they tried to make sense of Shannon Lowney's life and death.' 
Neither of us had a single, unified response to the docu­mentary. We found that the familiar terms of the abortion debate were inadequate to cap­ture the personal and social dimensions of the situation set before us. 
Instead, the program invite us to deeper reflection and further discussion. We would like to invite Notre Dame undergradu­ates to view "murder on Abortion How" and participate in a similar discussion on Sunday Afternoon, April 14, 1995, from 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
What are some of the issues raise by "murder on Abortion How?" one of the victims, Shannon Lowney, was a twen­ty-five year old graduate of boston College. Her deep com­mitment to social justice had prompted her decision to par­ticipate in a Jesuit sponsored volunteer program in El Salvador as an undergraduate; she believed that same commit­ment justified her decision to work at Planned Parenthood. 
The program depicts the grief of her loving, Catholic family as they tried to make sense of her life and death. It also shows the pain of John Salvi's parents, also catholic, as they struggle with guilt and sorrow over the actions of their only son. Interviews with Cardinal bernard Law and radical the­ologian Mary Daly raise ques­tion about the role of the Catholic Church in this nation's painful and divisive debate over abortion, and the media's per­ception of that role. 
The format for our afternoon of reflection is simple, low-,key and designed to facilitate dis­cussion. Our goal is not to pro­vide you with easy, pat answers, but to create an envi­ronment in which nOtre Dame undergraduates can exchange insights with one another about aspects of the abortion contro­versy in AMerica that are not captured in the now familiar debates between "pro-life" and "pro-choice". To provide a eommon basis for discussion, we will ask all participants to read three short homilies give by Cardinal Law shortly after the shootings. The program includes a screening of "Murder on Abortion Row," dis­cussion in small groups (no more than 10 students). each facilitated by a faculty member from the departments of Theology, Philosophy, llistory, or the law School, a brief ple­nary session with faculty resource persons in ethics, law, and American religious history, continued informal discussion 
' Q ur goal is not to provide you with easy, pat answers, but to create an environ­ment in which Notre Dame undergraduates can exchange insights 
with one another about aspects of the abortion controversy in America.' 
and refreshments. 
To sign up for the program, you can send and e-mail to jcapizzi@eworld.com or stop by the Campus Ministry office in the library to register by Monday, April 1. 
We very much hope that some of you will take a few hours on a Sunday afternoon to renect with one another about this important and controver­sial topic. 
TODD DAVID WHITMORE Assistant Professor of Christian Ethics Department ofTheology 
M. CATHLEEN KAVENY .Associate Professor 


~--~.._-....-------·-----------­
;ACCENT
page 12 Friday, March 22, 1996 
-


azz 

The Bands Continue their Battle 
Kevin Dolan praised on more than one occasion in Accent Music Critic this space. The three-guitar attack of Mark Lang, Erik Goldschmidt and Doug 
In the only student-run award for McKenna gives their songs a strong tex­campus bands this year. Scholastic ture, and the rest of the band are simi­named "none" as their favorite. Call it larly strong musicians. The vocal har­what you will: narrow-mindedness, lazi­monies are as you may expect from a ness, or how about just bad timing? group of folk choir vets. Thursday night's battle of the campus Cod in Salsa. After three fairly con­bands, the "Nazz," showed that reports ventional rock acts, Cod in Salsa took of the demise of the campus music scene the stage. The band consists of three are a bit premature. instruments: an acoustic guitar, a clar­
inet, and a tuba. It's difficult to describe 
Stomper Bob and the 4 x 4's. By the music of Cod in Salsa; one observer now, Stomper Bob needs no introduc­compared it to the soundtrack for those tion, as one of the most popular bands films where a flower grows right before to hit campus in awhile. Greeted by the your eyes. Cod in Salsa played four most enthusiastic-and obnoxious­excellent songs. The first was quirky, introduction of the night, Stomper Bob the second was soft and sensitive. The took the stage to an equally enthusiastic third song featured baffiing time-signa­reaction from ture changes, the crowd. all of which Stomper Bob were handled featured the flawlessly. first of several Their final great bass song, featuring p I a y e r s a tuba solo, throughout the was almost a evening. Being rocker. If you the opening act ever have the is tough, but chance to the band began check them to loosen up out, by all and played a means do. set of accessi­Sabor ble, energetic Latino. The pop highlighted defending by very busy champs always keyboards. An look like they observer. not­picked up ing the band's another five or stiffness six members through the on the way to song, remarked the show, but that they were you won't find "too sober." It a tighter group makes you of musicians wonder if he anywhere else meant the in South Bend. band, or the The one band audience: con­that dressed up sidering the a bit for the crowd Stomper show, they got Bob draws at a huge reaction the bars, you when they took might expect the stage to more energy from the crowd. However, tune up. Sabor Latino proved again that they were quite solid. music is truly a universal language, 
Emily Lord. Expectations were high eschewing English for all of their songs. for Lord, who released a CD, They played three songs that had every­Beginnings, earlier in the year. She one in the place tapping their feet, and opened into a rendition of 10,000 spontaneous cha-cha's were breaking Maniacs' "These are Days" which start­out along the fringe. A more textured ed quietly but exploded after the first sound mix would have been helpful, but verse. Following up with the powerful all bands were thusly handicapped. One "Hey Joe," one of her more popular could make the argument that, by virtue songs, Lord demonstrated for the of their style, Sabor Latino was diverse umpteenth time that she is the best enough, but all three of their songs s1nger in any campus band. An acoustic sounded eerily similar. ballad on the album, Lord's backing Reverend Funk. Can I get an Amen! band of Kevin Fleming (drums) and Reverend Funk hit the stage running on Chuck Beck (keyboards) augmented it all eight cylinders, resplendent in odd live, giving it an intensity that the album costumes and nifty hats that hid most of version lacks. On her final song, Lord the band's faces. If you, gentle reader, unveiled a surprise-a rockabilly num­die without having seen Reverend Funk ber that rolled along almost too relent­live, you will be a worse person for it. lessly by the end. Lord would finish in a Singer Dave Fontz bleeds from his ears three-way tie for second, and it was with stage presence. Whipping his well-deserved. lengthy mane of hair around maniacally, 
George and the Freeks. Another Fontz gyrates and jumps and even for­band that came into the Nazz with a ward-rolls all about the stage. His voice dedicated following and high expecta­is, to put it simply, imposing. tions, the Freeks did not disappoint. The rest of the band is pretty solid, Wearing their Dead influence on their and equally loony. The rhythm section is sleeves, they opened with "Stand," and one of ND's best, and Rich Johnigan's segued into a medley of songs that sax would be a fine addition to any simi­would last their entire set. As "Stand" larly-inclined band. Reverend Funk faded into a beautiful piano solo, it opened with "Jungle Boogie," with Fontz looked like some of the audience was lending a manic energy to the song that fading out too. They recovered into a the original never thought about having. slower straight-ahead rock number, They followed with two originals~ however, winning the fans' attention "Hunk" and "Keys." "Hunk" was almost again. George and the Freeks have been too energetic, as the rhythm section tends more toward discordant guitar and general idio­syncracy than Tacklebox. And it paid off in spades. Tweak exhibited musical virtuosity that one, usually does not find in a punk band, and they played punk that you actually have to pay atten­tion to, rather than just trying to bloody someone in the mosh pit. 

emiLy. Emily's set was relentlessly energetic. but by this time, the crowd had dwin­dled. That's a shame, really. because among other surprises, emiLy exudes a melodic instinct that isn't supposed to be in a punk 

began to trip over themselves a bit. 
Overall, however, it was clear that 
Reverend Funk came in to conquer, and 
judging by the huge crowd reaction, 
they were the people's choice-and the 
judges', as it would turn out. These guys 
bring the big heat. 
Luster. Let's be fair here. Luster must have drawn a straw visible only through a microscope to follow Reverend Funk. Still, having been formed from the ashes of the late. great Roadapples, expecta­tions were high, and expectations were not met by a long shot. The trio dis­played an inexplicable fondness for shirtlessness and stuffed-animal-laden clothing. A schtick is a good way to dis­guise the fact that you don't know many chords, and in the set's first song, that's exactly what it looked like. Three chords are fine, but still, they used to be with . the Roadapples! An attempted guitar solo did not help. To their credit, Luster recovered with two fairly strong origi­nals. These guys are more punk-orient­ed than the Roadapples, but they lack 
the sensibility for a hook. 
Tacklebox. Another band of "used to 
be's," Tacklebox rose from the ashes of 
True North. Bassist Rob Johnigan took 
the stage in a three-piece suit with bal­
loons hanging from his guitar. The fear 
of another band for whom "image ain't 
everything, it's the only thing" was 
potent, but as soon as guitarist and 
singer Chad Schaefer struck the first 
chord, reality set in: these guys 
absolutely rock. A three-piece power 
trio with serious chops, Tacklebox lit 
into the tightest, most energetic and 
most engaging set of the night to that 
point. . Johnigan, who has played sever­
al instruments in his time, is a stellar 
bassist, and Schaefer's use of unconven­
tional chord structures gives this punk 
band a rare thing: color. 
Tweak. Tweak came on and did the 
impossible-they outplayed Tacklebox. 
Both bands are energetic, punk-flavored 
trios, but Tweak 
band vet Joe Cannon is one of the best guitarists in the area, and in terms of sheer intensity, he topped all other frontmen (or women). At the same time. emiLy needs to be reminded that subtle­ty is often the better part of valor. A case in point was "The Liar at Work," which contained a chorus of gratu­itous"F--You's." 
Hace Frio. They had a better light show for their soundcheck than their set, but it had been that kind of night. Led by Right Reason's favorite political observer, David McMahon. Hace Frio was the last of several power trios. Similar in style to emiLy, McMahon's voice is a little bit sweeter than Cannon's, but just as unaffected. On their second song, they were augmented by Rose Saari on violin. It would have been great if the audience could have heard her play more clearly, because she's the first violinist in awhile to fit and improve a punk song. For their last song, "So Sore," they slowed it down, and there was a hook or two in there. 
And then it was all over but the shouting. Trying to pick the top two bands must have been insanity, as there were at least five bands who played stel­lar sets. Heverend Funk came in at the top spot, with a three-way tie for second between Emily Lord, Sabor Latino, and Tacklebox. 
The judges made the right call in not splitting it up, but Tweak was absolutely screwed blind. How could they not have made second place? To be fair, there were so many good bands that any of them could have been the winner. Interestingly, the set was pretty divided almost directly in half between main­stream and underground. Maybe there should be two separate Nazz's, because no one can deny Reverend Funk their due. If they play like that ever again, they better have a doctor at stage left. 

band. Campus emily's Doug McEachern leads them through their melodic punk 
set. 


ACC~NT 
friday, March 22, 1996 page 13 
I 

1n 
e! 

MTl' royalty graces Notre Dame with his presettre 



By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

orne men are King of the Hoad. Many are King of the Keg. But there is only one MTV King of the Beach... and he is South Quad's fresh­est and newest Hoyal Family member, Rich Kizer. That's right, kids. Spring 
break's ultimate 

stud is officially not a surfer with an extnnsive col­lection of Ocean Pacific tan lops and a lifH lime supply baby oil, but a sophomore with a terrific combination of confidence and spirit. 
Many people wonder how one goes after a lilln as eovetnd as MTV's King of the Beach. Con­nections? Money? An uncanny abili­ty to l'lnx, smile and ask tlw bikini­dad girl in the sec­
ond row out for a beach burger simultaneously'? Ae(:ording to Kizer, it's all about being one's self. Wlwn Kizer and his friends heard that MTV was going to lw in Panama City, there was no stopping their qw~sl for the crown. "I heard they were intnrviewing for llw show, so I wnnt to the 18-and-over eluh where the producnrs were for the interview. Tlwy had to pick guys and girls out of the crowd." 
Kiwr knew lw had to plan his strategy; he had to be uniqun. "I workml to make eye contact with them." And then. with a knowing glance and bulging arms outstrntdwd, he pointed toward the beach and cheezi­ly inquirnd, "Excuse me, do you know when~ the beach is'?" And that was it. With one profound question, Kiznr had stolen the platinum hearts of the MTV scouts and producnrs. 
"I wasn't cocky. I wasn't too serious. I realized that I was a moron. I just like to have fun-you know. I 
the show, Kizer felt ready to conquer the 
beach. He was prepared to make some 
waves and kick up a little Florida sand. 
With the feel of the "Rocky" soundtrack pen­
etrating Kizer's thoughts of glory. he entered his stage of dreams. Wearing the traditional Notre Dame beach attire (a green polo shirt 
and jeans). Kizer was asked by the judges to change into some of the "clubin' wear" back stage. ''I'm from Omaha, Nebraska, and go to school in South Bend, Indiana. We don't have any clubs, therefore 1 don't have any clubin' wear," Kizer rightfully stated. As show time neared, the final six couples prepared to compete for the title. But Kizer wasn't worried. He, again, opted against oil­ing up and primping. Instead, he chatted with some of the judges and audience members. practicing what he did best: goofing around. The show's hosts were Simon Rex and 
ldalis. The celebrity judges were none other 
than Carrot Top, a favorite Notre Dame cam­pus entertainer, Jamie Fox from the hit televi­sion show "In Living Color," rapper Busta Rhyme and, Kizer's personal favorite (and a 
.,., 

Tommy Boy' and 'Ace Ventura' a few too many times." Kizer got his call back from the producers and went to his interview. In his usual laid back, witty manner, Kizer answered questions ranging from "Where do you go to school?" to "Why would you make a good contestant?" 
Out of the sixty guys and sixty girls, twenty-five of the royal hopefuls repre­senting each gender made it to the semi­finals, the first of MTV's nationally aired 
King of the Beach events. 
\ Once Kizer made it, he said to him­·. self, "Hey, anything to make a fool of , ~ '; myself." From there on out, it was Richmania in Panama City. The crowd went crazy during Rich's performance. While the other guys were greasing up and gelling their sun-drenched locks. Kizer claims. "I was just 
hanging out." 
lie developed a good 

rapport with some of the 
other contestants who 
were, unlike Kizer, exotic dancers, amateur models and body builders. to name a few. (All right, some Alumni residents might argue that he is, indeed, an exotic dancer, but for the sake of the Kizer family name, the point should not be stretched.) 
During the semi-finals, the fifty contes­tants were broken into two groups. mak­ing up two half-hour segments prefaeing the King of the Beach one-hour final. "After Tuesday, I got to scope out the competition. I said, 'I'm going to win this 
themselves. They had little personality,"Kizer recalled. He was ready to have fun with the audience and the judges. And it's no wonder why. On top of getting to play musical chairs with the women during his semi-final round to determine who his partner would be, Kizer had endorsements from many MTV employees on site. "My money's on you," one producer told Kizer during a re­hearsal. "So, going into Wednesday I had a lot of confidence," Kizer said. ~­
~

With crowds who loved his down-to­earth style and his outrageous sense of ' humor, and a flock of Kizer's friends along 
with many other Notre Dame supporters at 
Favorite Artist Favorite Song Favorite Athlete Favorite lVShow Favorite ktors 
Favorite f\clress Favorite Food 
Favorite Part of being oftheBeach 

favorite of many men across the country). MTV's "Singled Out" host, Jenny McCarthy. 
From the dancing to the swimsuit competition, Kizer was a classic hit. However, he doesn't want to give too much of the show away before its airing on Sunday. "I don't ~a.nt to let out ~hat happens right now. Lets JUSt say I don t know how happy ~ my mom will be when she sees this," _ exclaimed Kizer. And what did\1 ..,;-, ~ King Richard have to say about 
.1// the female contestants? "Oh-the ·\ 'If . girls were nice." 
-He was more concerned about mocking the seriousness of an MTV title 1l and going after physical humor, both of "' which he accomplished from the com­\. ments of his friends who were at the victo­ry scene "It was great lie's a goof ball 
· · · He's even more confident in his goofi­ness after MTV," said Flanner 
Sophomore John Hutchinson. 
And what do Kizer's roommates think about having a King in the 
-
house? "It's better now 'cause girls 
talk to us," says Alumni sophomore and esteemed royal roomie, Terry Zeller. John Mosesso. one of the King's other room­
mates, seconded the comment and added, "In the beginning it was just raw talent, but 
we molded him into what he is today." 
Whatever the ease may be, Kizer made the 
t\'. Irish pretty proud by bringing home the crown. So be sure to tune in Sunday night to MTV from 6 to 8 p.m. and support the 
K~~~~ok it to a whole new level," Kizer stat­
ed in conclusion. Way to go, Rich. Long live the King of the Beach." 
Richard Kizer Omaha, NE Class of 1998 Marketing MajorMTV King of tile Beach 
Michael Jackson Billy Jean Tommie Frazier 


Baywatch 
Jim Carey, Chris Farley, David Hasselhoff Meredith Baxter Birney Mexican 
,"?fr.. 
The tropical climate 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 22, 1996 
1996 NCAA Basketball Championshi s 



Geo etown 

Georgetown Georgia Kentucky 
Utah Louisville Syracuse 

Wake Forest 
W k F t
a e ores 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe None Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
WANTED: Good people to earn  1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier.  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ Yeah Pantera. It was a veritable  
~--N_O_T_I_C_E_s__~l  ~~---~-~_N_T_E_o__~  money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  Good condition. Call Wendy at 273-5818. $4000 or best offer.  rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing  Headbangers Ball. The wig is classy. Only from the flatland that  
299-1999 evenings.  environ., educ., financial security.  is Iowa.  
Looking for something to do this weekend? Why don't you GET SHORTY at 8 and 10:30 on Friday  MOM'S HELPER Love Babies? Assistance needed for 2 infants:  ILOST & FOUND I  Got Pac-Man Fever? Arcade size Ms. Pac-Man game for sale. Perfect for any dorm or apartment.  Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  But at least the state DMV has been pretty helpful to 9-C.  
and Saturday at Cushing. You can  newborn and 8 months.  Call Greg at 277-9499.  Confidential.  
also GET SHORTY at 2 pm on  Late April thru Fall  LOST LOST LOST LOST  Crowley might be able to pass  
Sunday at Cushing.  50-20 hours 6.50/hr-10 a.m. -1 p.m. prefered  Green wool coat and wallet Sat, March 2 at Sorin. Would like to eat  PERSONAL  ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE Happily married, well-educated cou­ though.  
It's coming .... the first Four Food  References required  in the near future. Please call  ple will give your baby a loving,  11  
Groups of the Apocalypse  Tel. 272 3237 Leave message  Kristin at X3803.  05/17  stimulating, financially secure  
Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED  please, if machine answers.  03/19  home. Confidential, legal, expenses  Hmm, shall we watch Friends or  
MEAL." Shazam!  ''LOST*'  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­ March Madness?  
A forest green L.L.Bean wool coat  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!!  2344  
EUROPE $229  Nannies needed for the summer in  at Bridget's on 3/7. If found please  THE COPY SHOP  Bookstore Fever grips the  
Be a little flexible and save $$$  Chicago & suburbs. Great families,  call Colleen at 4-2357!  LaFortune Student Center  Join us for the annual "Keeping the  Observer.  
We'll help you beat the airline  great pay, & a great city. Call Erin  Phone 631-COPY  l"aith" Series. This year's topic is  
prices.  at #4021 for info.  FOUND: calculator in the lockers in  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  To Pray and To Serve: Both Sides  I take pride in being the weak link.  
Destinations Worldwide  NSH, most likely for ChemLab. Call  of the Catholic Coin.  
AIRTICHtm 800-397-1098  L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  X2061 to identify.  BARENAKED LADIES  Thursday, March 21 & Sunday,  Bul that's what they once said  
airtich@ netcom.com  Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a  Thursday April 11  March 24. 7 -8:30 pm in the  about Calabria and he turned into a  
year of service creating community  LOST: a silver pin with the  Stepan Center  Stanford -Keenan chapel.  top three NBA pick.  
with persons who are developmen­ enscribed word: BELIEVE. This  Tickets:  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ tally disabled. Responsiblities  piece of jewelery has much senti­ $8.00 students  ATIN: FEMALE SOPHOMORE  Hey, I wonder what Pete Kendall,  
Positions are now available at  include: assist in creating a home;  mental meaning. Please call Kerry  $12.00 general public  ACCOUNTING MAJORS..  Greg Landry and Josh Porter are all  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  develop relationships with mem­ at 4-2493 if found. Thanks.  On sale March 28  Looking for a campus job for next  doing now. Maybe we can go to  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  bers; and assist in personal care  With special guest THE BOGMAN  year?  MA"s and check it out.  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  and community living.  LOST: Woman's gold sapphire ring  Brought to you by SUB  Responsibilities include working 1  
ext.N55846  Requirements include a desire to  with two small diamonds last  hour/day (M-F)  I love the Yellow. The Magenta is  
live with, learn from, and relate with  semester. If found, please call  It's coming .... the first Four Food  Great experience, great pay!!  way overrrated.  
The Michiana Paintball Club now  mentally disabled adults. Benefits  X2446. Reward.  Groups of the Apocalypse  Apply at the MORRISSEY LOAN  
has an Indoor Paintball field in  include room, board, health insur­ Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED  FUND in the Dooley Rm.  Aclually, the composite is kinda  
South Bend -Free membership. 291-9462  ance, and formation in the spirituali­ty and philosophy of L'Arche. To  FOR SALE  MEAL." Hot diggedy damn!  (across from Info Desk in LaFort)  pretty. I'm so confused.  
apply, contact Dottie Klein, 700  Memories of Beer Mountain  between 11:30-12:30 M-F  You won't take me sober I tell ya.  
RUDE AWAKENING  Arlington Rd., Jacksonville, FL  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  He touched my assl. .. what goes on  by April3.  
32211; (904)725-7740.  immaculate, two full baths, garage,  around here? ...! don't think pepl  Animal Crackers ...The Official Food  
Attention! This is a final reminder  finished lower level, walk to NO,  shud have 2 pay 2 ski. .. let's make  SARAH TEITGEN TURNS 21 THIS  of Bookstore Basketball  
that the Morrissey Filmiest is  REWARDING SUMMER JOB­ range, dishwasher, microwave,  like a d'ck & head...it's just a little  WKEND!!!  
accepting student entries until  Orlando, FL-residential camp serv­ refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  dent. ..l wanna see his hair wet...ash  Yeah shirt. My eyes are killin' me.  
Monday, March 25. To submit a  ing developmentally disabled hiring  door opener, $77,900,  in the dump truck ... how old ARE u  Wish Sarah Jane Teitgen a great  
film or for more information, contact  counselors 18+. Live and work on  ph. 277-8898  girls?!...Corona St. ..69?psychic  birthday this wkend!!!  Nomar Garciapaga ...the next  
Andy at X3501 in 203 Morrissey.  wooded, lakelront preserve. Salary  experience...avalanche  Johnny Val. God, the Sox are  
plus room, board & extras 6/9-8/17.  shovei. ..RoRo ... um, I lost my  The 16th annual Alumni Hall Irish  stacked. The countdown to April 1  
FOR RENT  Call407-889-8088 for application.  93 Honda Accord LX 4Dr., only 17K miles, supper condition like  +"%er@$#r!...why r they being so nice to us?...new clubs!...it's the  Wake is here and the coffin is back after a year in mourning. Look for it  is definitely in effect, right dahkie. He peeled his skin off and smoked  
new, factory warranty, $13,700,  end of the world as we no it!...  at 5 today. Wake It Shake It!  it? How was McHale involved  
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Summer Camp Employment  call 272-8696  No More TMI!! ·  again.  
HOME.  Spend one of your best summers  FOR SALE  
VERY CLOSE TO NQ.  ever making a difference in the life  JUDAY CREEK gem.  Top Ten from the Bahamas '96  IBM cmptbl. laptop computer  One day for pleasure, we read of  
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  of a child! Northern Minnesota coed  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  10. Pacific International: AKA  Compaq L TE LITE/25C, Color  Lancelot, by love constrained:  
272-6194.  summer recreational camp seeks  with a 17 x 25 home office  Destination Death!  active-matrix screen, 386, 4MB  Alone, suspecting nothing, at our  
- Studio apartment in private home,  qualified individuals to work as cabin counselors who can also  & 3-car garage. 5 minutes to NO.  9. Towne Hotel-the Bahamian House of Pleasure!  RAM, Loaded w/software(Excei,Word, MS  leisure. Sometimes at what we read our glances joined, Looking  
available June 1. Quiet neighbor­ instruct in various activities. To  REDUCED TO $149,500  8. I even did it left-handed!  Publisher, Power Point, & more),  from the book each to the other's  
hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo.  apply contact Camp Foley, HCR 77  Call Karen 272-3653.  7. Two dollars! Two dollars!  internal modem, carrying case incl.  eyes, And then the color in our  
incl. utilities. Phone 631-6072 days,  Box 172, Pine River, MN 56474  6. Do you really play football for  $900 o.b.o.  faces drained. But one particular  
273-1751 evenings.  218-543-6161 or email at sbf­ Notre Dame?  Call Maria x1573  moment alone it was defeated us:  
house@ uslink.net  Waterfront Condos  5. Alec the Israelite -he's DIRTY!  the longed-for smile, il said, was  
5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys,  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  4. Fig, you're such a Catholic!  JC- kissed by that most noble lover: at  
refrig, stove, partially furnished.  MANAGERIAL POSITION FOR NO  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  3. Hey pretty lady, you want some  My bad. I thought you were the cul­ this, this one, who now will never  
Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  WOMEN: City News is seeking  New Decor  braids?  prit. There will be no more evil  leave my side, kissed my mouth,  
606 N. St. Peter.  ambitious student to be campus  EVERYTHING included  2. So Marcus, is sleeping in the  things going in ... unless you want  trembling.  
289-5999 or 255-9471  manager next year. Earn approx.  Close to Notre Dame  Marriott's lobby comfy?  it that way.  
Mark Kramer.  $100/week. Must work as carrier  BEAUTIFUL!  1. IT'S BEITER IN THE  Beatrice,  
this semester, delivering to  NORTH SHORE CLUB  BAHAMAS!! Yeah right.  Ted, you are a bitter, bitter fool for  "Tis from my lense, and through  
5 BR; 605 St Peter  women's south quad dorms for  232-2002  trying to mess with me. I will take  your eyes in which I see appear  
$925/mo 232-2595  $45/week. Call Joe at 4-1680.  Caeser Romero wasn't Spanish!  you down. You and all your hot  "some of the beautiful things that  
women.  heaven bears."  
Faculty or Student Available in  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  PC SYSTEM FOR SALE  Jebidiah Springfield says:  Your guide  
Aug.-For lease 4 bedroom, 2 full  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  Packard Bell 486 Desktop  A noble spirit embiggens even the  Klepto Clyde (Party of Five dude) to  
baths, furnished appliances-wash­ (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  Computer, Monitor, Printer, Internal  smallest man.  Young Bonnie (E.B.): I love the  Can you rise to the challenge of the  
er-dryer, attached 2 car garage, off  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  Modem, and all accesories.  _out of you.  mile-high club?  
street parking, deposit + utilities.  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  Windows 3.0 and many other pro­ Put me in coach. I'm ready to play  
234-1336  extC1114  grams. Asking $795.00 -289-9508  today. For the Hoyas.  Tacos as big as your head.  Your kicking the keg tonight!  

--~---~~~l 
Friday, March 22, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• NCAA MIDWEST REGION 
'Cats run wild, Demon Deacons sneak by Cards 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Kentucky is considered the deepest and most talented team in college basketball. Utah found out why. 
The Wildcats got contribu­tions from up and down the lineup, and made 13 straight shots during one first-half stretch on their way to a 101­70 victory Thursday night in the semifinals of the NCAA Midwest Hegional. 
Utah had held opponents to 
6:l points and 39 percent shoot­ing, but had no way of stopping top-stHlded Kentucky. 
"I knew what Kentucky was going in and I know even more going out," coach Hick Majerus said. 
''I'm really shell-shocked. I'm punch-drunk and 'pretty soon I'm going to btl drunk, and I'm not llVtm a drinking guy. I'm just worn out." 
Antoine Walker epitomizes Kentucky. The 6-foot-8 forward can score inside and outside and can pass, as he showed with 19 point, eight rebounds and six assists. 
Derek Anderson added 18 points, and Tony Delk and Anthony Epps 14 each for the Wildcats (31-2), who are within one victory of reaching the Final Four for the first time in three years. 
Coach Hick Pitino said his team had spent much of its practice time working on last­minute situations. After all, fourth-seeded Utah (27-7) was ranked in the Top 10 most of the year and has a great player in forward Keith Van Horn. 
"Heally, the game was de­cided in the first few minutes," Pitino said. 
That it was. The Utes opened the game by sagging off of Epps, and the point guard made them pay. He hit three 3­pointers in the first three min­utes, giving Kentucky an 11-4 lead. Utah got no closer than six after that. 
After Brandon Jessie made a 

for: 'rhe Assocjat•on of Colleae Unjons-lnternatjonal Rea•onal Conference occurr•na on the llotre Dame campus •n llowember 1991 sponsored by the oH•ce of Student Actjyjtles 
Rules and Regulations 
• 
Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 

• 
Other pertinent information: ACU-1 Region 9 Conference November 7-9 1997 University of Notre Dame 


• 
The design must be two-dimensional 

• 
Any medium may be used, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 

• 
The design should be in color. 


• 
The design must be contained within a 8 1/2 XII inch piece of paper. 

• 
The design must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 

• 
Deadline for all entries is 3:00 PH on April 4, 1996, at the Student Activities Office. 

• 
The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the University of Notre Dame. 


More information is available from the Office of Student Activities, 3 IS LaFortune Student Center. 
Troop Notre Dame presents 
The 3Ro Annual campus­
Wide Talent Show 
March 23rd, 1996 Was · Hall at 7:30 
Emily Lord 8t Sabor Latino 

~ '-----------' 
ues\S 

c\'3\ ~ s\'e J .___ J r::=> c::-:J-~~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~--. 
Sgt. McCarthy, Jerome Bettis & other campus celebrities 
• special guest host • 
Tickets are $3 avail­able in the dining $4 at the door. lmlls this week 
Ht'lll'lils 1111' Ho~·s r111d <iirls Clul> ot Sl. Josq>ll's Cily. .\11<'1'-p<HIY lwld <ll :\:ortll \'illdgc L<lll<lillg 
free throw to make the score 11-5, Kentucky made its 13 straight shots. Six players scored during that stretch; even little-used Oliver Simmons came off the bench to make a 3-pointer. 
"I subbed a lot early," Pitino said. "I thought we could wear them out, and thought once we did that we could make our run." 
The defeat was Utah's worst since a 31-point loss to Brigham Young two years ago, and the 101 points were the most given up by the Utes since allowing 113 to BYU in 1984. 
·Utah did a decent job attack­ing Kentucky's pressure, but still committed 21 turnovers that the Wildcats turned those into 30 points. And attacking the press helped keep the game at a tempo Kentucky likes. 
"If I had it to do all over again l would slow the game down totally," Majerus said. "I made a major error in judg­ment and put my team in peril." 
How scary was Kentucky? The Wildcats led 56-34 at half­time, and Walter McCarty, one of their best players, had only played three minutes and had­n't scored. 
The Wildcats continued to pour it on in the second half. McCarty scored inside and Delk added back-to-hack 3-pointers as they widened the margin to 30. 
'Delk said the press set the tone, and the rest was easy. 
"At this point we really don't care who scores," he said. "We just want to get out there and have fun." 
Van Horn scored 23 and Ben Caton had 22 for Utah. Brandon Jessie, who came in averaging 14 points, scored only four. 
"All in all, I think we played pretty hard tonight," Jessie said. "It's not the first time Kentucky has done this to a team." 
Wake Forest 60, Louisville 59 
Tim Duncan, healthy again, hoisted his Wake Forest team­mates on his back and carried them into the Midwest Regional final. 
Duncan scored 27 points, in­cluding the go-ahead three­point play with 1:16 remaining, as Wake Forest rallied to defeat Louisville 60-59 Thursday night. 
The All-American center, who played with the flu and was limited to 23 points total in the Demon Deacons' first two tour­nament victories, also had 13 rebounds and seven blocked shots. 
Wake Forest (26-5), the re­gion's second seed, needs a win over top-seeded Kentucky on Saturday to reach the Final Four for the first time in 34 years. Kentucky (31-2) looked all but unbeatable in a 101-70 victory over Utah earlier Thursday. 
Louisville (22-12), which shot 33 percent overall and was 3­of-19 from 3-point range, didn't score after taking a 59-54 lead with 4:52 to play. 
Husty LaHue made a 3-point­er to pull the Deacons within two and the teams traded sev­eral unsuccessful possessions before Duncan hit a spinning, 5-foot bank shot and was fouled 
rr============;:::==~===========::::::;, 
s!K & lWIK !HlUl'fS 
PLUS 
2MILEWALK SATURDAY, MARCH 30,11:00 AM 
ROCKNE MEMORIAL 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT CIEI::HIII3TIYJJ.18 Jl'l APIHIIL 
SPONSORED BY 


MondaJJ. March 25 

PSYCHOLOGY EDUCATION ENGLISH ALPP (Pre-Professional) CAPP (Computer Applications) 
COMMUNICATION & THEATRE ANTHROPOLOGY 
Tuesday. March 26 
ROMANCE LANGUAGES ECONOMICS GOVERNMENT 
by Damion Dantzler. The Cardinals claimed Duncan was fouled before the shot, but he was awarded the free throw and made it to put Wake Forest ahead. 
Louisville's DeJuan Wheat missed two shots down the stretch, including a wild banker in the closing seconds. 
Wake Forest is 0-3 against Kentucky, including a loss in the 1993 NCAA tournament. 
Samaki Walker scored 16 points and Tick Rogers 13 for the Cardinals, who will miss the Final Four for the lOth straight year. Wheat, Louisville's top scorer, was 3-for-15 and fin­ished with only seven points. 
Wake Forest shot 53 p(lrcent, including 1 0-of-1 8 on 3-point­ers, but was hurt by 17 turnovers. The Demon Deacons got only three minutes from point guard Tony Hutland, who has a knee injury. 
The game was tied at 51 when Duncan picked up his fourth foul with 7:59 to play. Walker made both free throws as part of a 10-3 run that gave Louisville its 59-54 lead before Wake Forest's winning rally. 
Duncan scored 11 points as the Deacons took a 20-12 lead 
8:16 into the game. But Duncan didn't touch the ball again on offense for 7 1/2 minutes and Wheat's 3-pointer ignited a 13­5 Louisville run to make it 25­25. 
LaHue finally found Duncan inside for a dunk and Wake Forest led 30-27 at halftime. 
Three-pointers by LaHue, Ricky Peral and Duncan early in the second half put the Demon Deacons in front 41-32. But Louisville answered with 
three consecutive three-point
plays, two by Walker, to tie. The game remained close the rest of the way. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

~-·····················································~ 
: Arts & Letters Departmental Follow-Up Sessions : 
• .
• 
•

• As a follow-up to the Major Fair, the departments listed below are holding 
• 

informational meetings for prospective majors. If you are thinking of majoring •
• 

in one of these departments, please make every effort to attend. • 


4:00p.m.  117 Haggar Hall  
5:00p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
5:00p.m.  203 O'Shaughnessy  
5:30p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
6:00p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
6:30p.m.  114 O'Shaughnessy  
7:30p.m.  204 O'Shaughnessy  
4:30P.M.  118 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00p.m.  118 O'Shaughnessy  
7:00 p.m.  203 O'Shaughnessy  

"-·····················································-~ 
--~-----------------­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 22, 1996 
• NCAA EAST REGION 
UMass, Georgetown set to square off in East Final 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Even with Camby benched for the first 1:13 because he was late for the team bus. the Minutemen scored the first 13 points and were never seriously threatened by Arkansas (20­13), which shot abysmally most of the game. 
The Razorbacks scored the next eight points after UMass' opening spurt but the Minutemen didn't pani-c. Epitomizing the word "team," they showed all of their weapons: hitting from outside, dominating underneath, giving Arkansas a taste of "40 min­utes of hell" at the defensive end. 
Carmen Travieso, who tum­bled off a podium at a press conference the day before, showed no ill effects from his fall, scoring 14 points. 
The Razorbacks, with four freshman starters. appeared to have a serious case of stage fright before 34,614 at the Georgia Dome. 
They made only 5-of-27 shots in the first half and missed their first four attempts to begin the second -a 16 per­cent accuracy rate for a team that entered the game shooting 45 percent. 
Arkansas finished 22-of--64 
(34 percent), including just 3­
of-15 from beyond the 3-point 
arc. About the only thing the 
Razorbacks did well with the 
ball in their hands was shoot 
free throws (16-of-18), which 
had been one of their major 
weaknesses. 
Coach Nolan Richardson 
shuffled players in and out of 
the lineup but could find no one 
with the hot hand. Pat Bradley finally warmed up and finished with 15 points, including three shots from 3-point range. By the time his shots started falling, however, the game was no longer in doubt. 
UMass doesn't appear to have any weaknesses, but the Minutemen still must prove they can get over the regional hump. 
Georgetown 98, Texas Tech 90 
Allen Iverson, unfazed by a poor shooting touch, never stopped firing Thursday night. 
Iverson, despite hitting only 10-of-29 from the field, scored 32 points to lead Georgetown into the finals of the NCAA East Regional with a 98-90 victory over Texas Tech. 
The Hoyas (29-7) haven't been this far in the tournament since 1989, when they lost in a regional final to Duke. Texas Tech (30-2), making its first appearance in the round of 16 since 1976, had the nation's longest winning streak snapped at 23 games and officially 



The Observer/Mike Norbut 
Allen Iverson must continue to put up big numbers if the Hoyas hope to advance past UMass. 
brought down the curtain on Southwest Conference bas­ketball. 
The third-seeded Red Raiders, headed to the Big 12 next season, came into the game looking for respect, but they couldn't overcome a 17-0 run which gave the Hoyas a 72­61 lead midway through the second half. 
Iverson had 6 points during that span, setting up his points with a couple of steals. Othello Harrington, inserted back into the game despite four fouls, added 5 points in the run. 
Georgetown spent most of the final minutes at the foul line and finished a staggering 33-of­
46. Texas Tech was 23-of-35 in the physical game that was marked by bodies tumbling all over the court. .' 
But above it all was Iverson, whose quickness and ball-han­dling skills dictated the pace. It was hardly his best game of the season, but somehow the tal­ented sophomore kept winding up in the middle of the action. He finished with five assists, four rebounds, four steals and only two turnovers. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological andphilosophical books! Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, De Lubac, Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Marsden, Noll, Oden, 
C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoeffer, von Hildebrand. Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, Bibles and biblical studies, prayer, lives of the saints. 
We can special order any book you need! 
:  1oo/o off all books  :  
1  for N.D./S.M.C faculty andstudents with J.D.  1  
I  LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown  I  
I  South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle).  I  
I  287-0349  Open 10-5 Monday -Friday  I  

~-------------------~ 

POMSQUAD 
9nformational }Vleeting 
·.-...:.·~''?/: 


~-~--------~ ~ 
-

--------..-----­
hiday, March 22, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


What You Can Win 
$1.000.000 IN CASH AND PRIZES! 
• 
Compete on the League Level (25 teams per league), Divisional Level (6 divisions in U.S.) and National Level. 

• 
Prizes include: -Dodge Viper'" -13 Dodge• Trucks (new contest every other week) -Trips to the 1996 All-Star game and 


World Series'" -Satellite dishes • Big Screen TV's -Sports memorabilia and merchandise -And much, much more 
What You"ll Receive lor $99.95 -Includes Entrv to "96 Fantasv Baseball 
• 
Soft shelled Arctic Zone'" tote cooler. 

• 
Fanatics Only shirt and bas~ball cap. 

• 
Stats Book from STATS, Inc.'" 


('95 Stats, '96 Projections). • MCI I FOX Sports Pager Certificate.• 
• 
Game book with league rules, player rosters, salary cap info and line-up cards. 

• 
Manager's Phone Card from MCI with one hour free phone time -for exclusive use with Fanatics Only Baseball. 

• 
Access to STATS, Inc:' Baseball Info Line. 


CALL NOW! 
1-800-215-1660 

or send check or monev order Fanatics Onlv P.O. bOX 3931 Englewood. co 80155-3931 
How to Plav 

• 
Use the Manager's Phone Card from MCI to call and play the game. 

• 
Each team consists of 18 players ­6 pitchers (3 starters + 3 relievers), a player at each of the eight fielding positions, an extra OF, 2 extra IF and an extra catcher. 

• 
See "Scoring Formula" below. 

• 
All teams restricted by salary cap. 

• 
You can make up to two "roster changes" per week. 

• 
Scores and standings updated daily ­available by phone, fax or mail service. 

• 
Complete details in game books. 


•. 
FANATICS ONLY I STATS. INC BASEBALL SCORING FORMULA 
HlmNG PERFORMANCE, PITCHING PERFORMANCE, HHDING PERFORMANCE, IYEE QE El!IY !'Qllill1 QAllilQBY EQI!ill1 IYEE QE ELAY !'Qllill1 
GRANO SLAM 6 PERFECT GAME HOME RUN 4 NO HIDER TRIPLE 3 WIN DOUBLE 2 SAVE SINGLE 1 SHUTOUT 
RUN 1 INNINGS PITCHED RBI 1 STRIKE OUT STOLEN BASE 1 LOSS BASE ON BALLS 0.5 BLOWN SAVE AT BAT ·0.2 HIT SACRIFICE 0.5 EARNED RUN HIT INTO OBL PLAY -1 WILD PITCH HIT INTO TRPL PLAY -1 WALK STRIKE OUT -1 HOLD CAUGHT STEALING ·1 
How to Join 

• 
Call the 800 number below and pay just $9995 plus $995 S & H for an entire season of baseball fun. We'll rush you your fantasy kit and merchandise. 

• 
NO HIDDEN COSTS and NO CHARGE FOR ROSTER CHANGES. 

• 
Join with friends and compete against them all season. 

• 
Fantasy League Commissioners -call 


(800) 215-1660 "Commissioners Only Hotline" about discounts for entering your entire league. 

25 ERROR ·1 
10 ROUTINE 0 6 GOOD 1 6 OUTSTANDING 2 3 2 1 
·3 J ·3 
-1 
-1 ·1 ~ ~-~ 
·1 •1"••~':, c~,...l 
3 r 

'Customer wtll rocetve an MCI/ FOX Spor1s Pager Certlltcnte valued at up to $66 tu use towards Sports Now pagmg sei'Vlce lor etlher a purchase or lease option 
No purchau necesury to play lantuy contest por11on ol Fanaltca Only Fantasy Baseball Allernate mall·m means ot entry cloes no\tnclude the Fanahcs baseball hat t-shlrt, 12-pack cooler and MCI I FOX Sports Pager Certlf~eata. Nor does It Include the rule book. player roster or MCI phone card For tnformatlon on the enemata matl·tn means o1 entry. sand a sell·addreu~ atamped 110 envelope wtlh your reqi.Mitl. tnCiudtng your name, addre!l!l. City, &tate, ztp, telephone number and Soctal Secunty number, hand·prlnted on a 3 X 5 card to: Fanatica Only, P0. BoK 1444, Young Amenca, MN 55594·1444 Residents ot WANT may omU return postage ThiS contest begtns 3131196 and enda altha end or regular seal(l(l You mutt beaUS residant 18 cir olDer to play VOid In LOUiatana and where prohibited Thera 11 a llmtt ol two game kits and two anttias per participant You may return the entire sat Wlthtn thirty days lor a lull refund, so long as you have not activated your PIN Number and materials are 1n unused condition Odds ol w1nnmg depend upon skill ol entrant, performance ol playarn and number of antnn Emptoyaat oi11Cirl and directors ol FanaiiCI On~. lhatr aganctas. atllllatas, and/or tubsld18rlas. companies engaged In the conduct ol thiS contest and lhetr Immediate tamlltas are not eligible to play. In the evant ole tie tor a teague or nahonal pnze, the winner will be the contestant with the highest score the prevtous week Th1s contest Is not al1111&1ad Wllh MLB Mel 11 a rag1atar8d HIVIC& mark of MCI 
Communicallonl Cofporalloo 
! 
-
·(' 
page 18 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

graduated twelve players into the professional ranks. 
As good as all this sounds, many believe that the Big East, with the addition of West Virginia, Rutgers. and Notre Dame, only got better this sea­son, especially with the arrival of the Irish. who were paroled from several years of obscure toil in the gulag that is the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
"It's (The Big East) definitely a lot stronger conference than the MCC," said senior pitcher and co-captain Craig Allen. "The teams have a lot more tal­ented players. I played with some of the guys from the Big East in the Cape Cod League a few summers back, and they seemed to be a bunch of scrap­py players. Everyone will be gunning for us, since we're new in the conference." 
The addition of the three new programs led to a division in the Big East, and many pundits are tabbing the Irish to win the American Division, which in­cludes perennial powerhouse programs Seton Hall apd Villanova. 
"Winning the Big East is our avenue to get into the NCAA tournament," commented Irish head coach Paul Mainieri, whose squad will usher in their Big East era with doublehead­ers at Boston College and Providence over the weekend. 
"Before we can do that, though, we have to qualify for the Big East tournament. I realize that around Notre 

Don•tGet 
Left Out In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! 
Plus Gas For Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 

24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool & Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 

Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ 

DlLLA(3E. 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Dame, a lot of people take these things for granted, but it's not just a given. The reason I say that is because I think our divi­sion is the toughest of the two divisions. Our goal is to win our division, which I think would be a tremendous accomplishment." 
The top two finishers in each division, plus two at-large selections from the conference, will advance to the Big East tournament in Norwich, Connecticut from May 14-17. with the winner receiving an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"The Big East is definitely a step up for us in terms of com­petition," surmised center field­er Rowan Richards. "'It offers a much better put-together schedule, and it's exciting to become a part of the con­ference, which we know we can win this year. We're all ready to get it going." 
While the strength of the con­ference schedule is to be com­mended, the dynamics of the scheduling may leave the Irish feeling snake-bitten. 
"This weekend is one of the disadvantages we're up against this season," said Mainieri. 
"When we play Boston College on Saturday, Providence won't be playing anybody, so they'll be able to keep their top two pitchers lay­ing in wait for us. When we play Providence on Sunday. Boston College will be off, so we're certain to run into their top two starters as well. This puts us at a little bit of a disad­vantage, but in the same token, that's the way it is, and our players are going to have to overcome that by being a little bit better than everyone else." 
Doing just that will be any­thing but easy for the 10-6 Irish, as the first four games of the 24-game conference sched­ule come against two teams who have combined for a 12-5 record so far on the season. 
Posing a particularly daunt­ing challenge for the Irish will be 6-2 Providence, who won the conference title last season with a 44-15 mark, including a 16-5 record in conference play. 
The Friars boast a preseason second-team All-American in junior outfielder Pete Tucci (. 314, 12 home runs, and 49 
R.B.I. in '95), and two danger­ous pitchers in senior Mike Macone (7-4, 3.75 ERA, 79 K) 

ersonalized Notre Dame Graduation 
Phone, mail, fax orders: Place orders in person on: Balfour Co_ 
Friday, March 22, 1996 
and sophomore phenom Todd Incantalupo, who was as hard to hit as his name is to pro­nounce last season as a fresh­man, posting a 10-1 record with a 2.47 ERA. 
"This weekend, we need to start taking care of business," said Mainieri. "It would be nice to get off to a good start." 

Uniwrsity of 
Notre Dam£ 


2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. #500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 
March 26 & 27, Tues., Wed. 
800/236-4639 fax -317/241-Q430 
LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room, 9:30-4:30 

---~------·--~ ~ -----~~~----------­
friday, March 22,1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Attention Class of 1999 
Get Your Closs T·Shirts Now! 
Class T-Shirts are now on sale from your Dorm Representatives. The price is $10. They will only be available for a limited time, so get yours today! 
Class Dance! 
The Freshman Class Dance is Tonight. The dance will be in the LaFortune Ballroom from 11:00PM-2:00AM. Dress is casual and you can come and go as you please. Refreshments and pizza will be served. Admission is FREE so come out and join the Freshman Class! 
Class Mass. 
Our Class Mass is this SATURDAY, MARCH 23, at 7:00PM in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel. Father Joe Ross C.S.C. will preside and the Liturgical Choir will provide the music. Come join your Class for Mass this week. 
Time Capsule Update! 
Do you want to see the Class of 1999 go down in his­
tory? The Class of 1999 Time Capsule is now under 
progress! The Capsule will include items from.our 
to your Dorm Representative! 
If you have any questions or suggestions contact your Dorm Representative or come to the Student Government Office in LaFortune! 

~---~­
~-------------·--~

page 20 

uled for March 27, at 6:15 
p.m. in the RecSports office. WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT This tournament will be on Saturday, March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There will be men's and women's divisions with t-shirts being awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will be provid­ed. Also, refreshments will be served. You must regis­ter in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday, March 28 and there is a $6 fee. For more 
.information, call1-6100. CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT RUN -March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne MemoriaL There will be six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All regis­trants will be awarded a t· shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. All pro­ceeds from the event will be donated to Christmas in April. Family members of aU staff and faculty will be allowed to participate. All family members over the age of 18 need to complete the standard registration and insurance waiver and all minors need to have their parent or guardian sign the waiver for them. All registration/waiver forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and both will also be available at the event. DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL • RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays March 26, April 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8-11 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. Come by yourself or bring some friends. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
colder weather." 

Notre Dame will have to once again rely on their starting ro­tation. And judging by a strong showing over the break, the threesome of Terri Kobata, Joy Battersby, and Angela Bessolo should be up to the challenge. 
''I'm very pleased with the way the pitching has been, es­pecially after playing this many games in a short period of time," said Miller. "We still have a lot of games left in the year, and I'm confident they will even get better." 
That task will be a difficult one. All-American candidate 
Outfielder Jennifer Giampaolo is third among Irish regulars in hitting (.329) and total bases (33) and is tied with Murray for the team lead in RBI's with 17. Freshman Kris McCleary has started 20 games for Notre Dame at catcher and has responded with a .264 bat­ting average and a .321 slug­ging percentage. 
"Jennifer and Kris are a ma­jor reason we've been so suc­cessful over the past three tour­naments," said Miller. "I was expecting big things from them before the season started, but they've already exceeded ex­pectations this year." 
BOOKSTORE XXV LAST CHANCE!! SIGN-UPS 
Price: $13.00 
Today 11-3 P.M. 
CASTING & ANGLING 
COURSE Four Sessions 
Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES APRIL 2 APRIL 9 APRIL 16 APRIL 23 

Classes Held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Friday, March 22, 1996 

Happy Birthday, DavidI 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Saint Mary's Day Editor 
Call Caroline Blum at 284-4349 or 631-4540 for information. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, 




The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Freshman and No. 1 singles player Jennifer Hall will lead the Irish against the Wolverines in Ann Arbor on Saturday. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you nud extra monry or valuable marketing and sales experimce? 1l1e Obsen•er offirs: 
• 
flexible Hours around class schedules. 

• 
Exallmt Income Opportunity. 

• 
Valutib/~ Work Experirnce in a Fun Atmosphl're 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900.or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. Resumes are due by 5p.m Friday. 
Notre Dame 
SPRING CONCERT 
l, ·J M l 22 8·00 p.m. Wasbington Hall
·•n ay, arc1 · d r \n pr(lt"l?l!ds t\!Ui?jlI It l~'1t1nJy fUJd,.•1 1 , 1'r:und •'flck<ts on sale attlw LaFortune Box Off;cc and at the oar 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish set for rivals 
--------~~-~---­
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spans Wrirer 
They were set to play, but the 
match was canceled. The 
women's tennis team was 
ready to take on their long time 
rival Purdue, but were thor­
oughly disappointed when the 
Boilermakers had to cancel due 
to inclement weather. 
"We were disappointed that our match on Wednesday was canceled, because we wanted to get some playing time before Michigan," stated head coach, Jay Louderback. 
The Irish will have to quickly get over their disappointment, and gear up for their next regional match. The team is headed to Ann Arbor to take on long time rival Michigan. Michigan was previously ranked in the top thirty, but recently dropped out of the rankings. 
The key to winning this match will be to start out early. Seniors Wendy Crabtree and llolyn Lord will face the No. 1 Wolverines' doubles team. According to Louderback, the strength of the Wolverines' doubles game lies at the top of their line-up. 
Rounding out the other two spots for the Irish will be _rre~h­man Jennifer Hall and JUnior Erin Gowen, and playing at the No. 3 seed will be sophomore Kelley Olson and freshman Marisa Velasco. 
As usual, the Irish are hoping to fare well against the 
SUMMER JOBS 
for the 

Environment 
ONE-ON -ONE CONTEST 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
Wolverines. The team is 
expected to face a tough Chal­
lenge at the top of their singles 
line-up. "The strong point for 
Michigan is in their top three or 
four spots," remarked 
Louderback. 
The team's line-up is pretty much set. Due to some injuries, the face of the ~tand­ings has changed. Hall will lind herself at the No. 1 spot, Lord at No. 2, and Crabtree will be playing at No.3. Velasco will remain at the fourth position, Gowen will stay at the fifth spot, and the sixth position will either be filled by Olson or sophomore Molly Gavin. 
"We can definitely win this match," stated Velasco, "We were disappointed that we did not get to play Purdue. It would have been nice to get another win under our belt." 
"The team has really gained confidence from our new rank­ing," stated captain Crabtree. "Although, we are working hard for more. We are focus­ing each day on the match ahead, so that in the end we can get more." 
The Irish are hoping to cap­ture a victory against Michigan this Saturday in Ann Arbor. 
"This match means a lot to us because it is a regional match­up. If we play well, then I think that we can win. By winning, this would allow us a chance to get a little momentum before our tougher matches in the weeks to come," stated Crabtree. 
Earn 2500 to 4000 
AND AKE A DIFFERENCE 
Campaign to save endangered species, protect national parks, and refonn government Positions available nationwide. 
on-Campus interviews. 

Call Jamie 1·800.75-EARTH 
page 21 
• fOOTBAll 
Holtz Hawaii bound 
Observer Staff Report Notre Dame's Lou Iloltz and Florida State's Bobby Bowden, two of College foot­ball's win­ningest h e a d coaches, have been selected by t h e American 
Football 
L---~~~~ Coaches Association (AFCA) to coach the 1997 Hooters Hula Bowl All-Star Football Classic scheduled for January 19, 1997 at Aloha Stadium. The announcement was made today in llonolulu by the AFCA, Hooters Hula Bowl and AdCraft Sports Marketing. "We are excited about our association with the Hula Bowl because it will allow the AFCA to highlight the best of our profession at all levels of college football," AFCA Executive Director Grant TeaiT said. "Each year our four national Coach of the Year winners and the AFCA's outgoing president will be invited to be a part of the coaching staffs for the all-star teams." Beginning with the 1997 game, the national AFCA Coach of the Year winners from NCAA Divisions 1-AA, II, and Ill will have the opportunity to serve as assistant coaches. Starting in 1998, the Division 1-A Coach of the Year from the previous year will be invited to serve as one of the Hula Bowl's head coaches. 
I INa"'~a 
D-o-JJ-f-3 Little 
fut~r­
~·~ t>l\
lh V\-zes­
_t)oot SnCA'!.\ 
Res~. ·· 
Eri.Jights 9:30pm_-J2mid• 
Regal L_a,nesJ 
~~-25'9-S2D-_9 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 22, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBALL
•NBA 

Cleveland upsets Belles look for weekend sweep 
By LORI GADDIS the weather. them this time around." Sports Writer "We are anxious to get back As temperatures begin to rise
defending champs 
on the field, but not in these this weekend, so do the Belles' 

Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Terrell Brandon scored 27 points Thursday night to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to their third straight victory, 98-85 over the injury-riddled Houston Rockets. 
Hakeem Olajuwon missed his second consecutive game with tendinitis in both knees. The Rockets also were without guards Clyde Drexler, Mario Elie and Sam Cassell, all of whom are recovering from surgery. 
The Cavs held a nine-point halftime lead and stretched it to 14 on Danny Ferry's 3-point­er with 2:30 to go in the third. The Rockets kept pace, hitting seven consecutive free throws to make it 70-61 entering the final period, but never threat­ened in the fourth quarter. 
Cleveland, which got 17 points each from Chris Mills and Tyrone Hill and 14 from Bobby Phills. led by as many as 18 points down the stretch. 
Houston was led by former CBA player Tracy Moore with 17 points. 
Brandon ignited Cleveland from the start with driving layups and outside jumpers, scoring 14 points on 6-of-7 shooting as the Cavaliers took a 26-22 lead after one quarter. 
Moore responded with 14 second-quarter points, almost singlehandedly keeping the 
eight points as the Cavs built a 54-42 advantage, their largest lead of the half, in the final minute. 
Pete Chilcutt hit a 3-pointer with 3.2 seconds remaining to pull Houston to 54-45 at half­time. 
Notes: Olajuwon is still listed as day-to-day. The Rockets next play Saturday against Minnesota... Houston lost ground in its battle with the Lakers for the No. 4 Western Conference playoff slot. The two teams, who appear headed for a first-round series, entered Thursday in a tie. Hornecourt advantage is at stake ... It was Cleveland's first victory at Houston in its last eight tries. 
The Saint Mary's softball team was scheduled to play Olivet College at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday. However, the game was rescheduled for Sunday, April 21 at 1:00 p.m. as a result of the chilly weather that has blown through South Bend for the past week. The field was not covered in snow, but the low temperatures coupled with a vicious wind chill made for dangerous conditions in which to play. 
Although they are disap­pointed at the postponement of the game, it gives the Belles an opportunity to prepare for their game against Wheaton College on Saturday as well as rest up several players who are under weather conditions," coach Jan Travis said. "We are unfortu­nately back to indoor practice today but will be prepared for our game on Saturday." 
The Belles travel to Wheaton College this Saturday for what should prove to be a challeng­ing game. This will be the Belles' first double-header since returning from their Spring Break excursion to Fort Myers and they feel they have something to prove. 
"We split with Wheaton last year," said coach Maggie Killian. "We really felt like we were the better team but just broke down mentally. I know the team feels the same and we are looking to take two from 
HIP-HIP HURRAH! 
IT'S ELLEN'S . SPECIAL DAY. 
HAPPYllND 
LtWe, 

~, Z'ad, S~,& e~ 
hopes of returning with two wins under their belts. They look to the experience acquired from working together in Florida as well as the enthusi­asm they have maintained since defeating 5th-ranked North Central College. 
"Wheaton is strong, both at bat and on the mound," stated Senior Michelle Limb. "We have to be prepared so that we can capitalize on the mistakes they make. We are looking for­ward to starting up where we left off after our huge win over North Central College". 
The Belles go into the double header on Saturday with a record of 5-3. 
Irish 
continued from page 24 

forrnances of veterans like mid­fielders Jimmy Keenan and Burke Hayes, attacker Will DeRiso, and goalie Alex Cade will need to continue if the Irish are to maintain this rating. 
Along with these mainstays, the Irish have also received en~ couraging signs from freshman Chris Dusseau, who scored a whopping four goals in the con­test against Air Foree. 
"Going into this season, we knew [Dusseau] could finish," statPd Corrigan. "With the way teams have been playing us right now, it's leaving him open in the middle, guys are getting him the ball, and he's finishing. 
With the continually improv­ing play corning from all areas of the team, the Irish are poised to surge through the rest of the season. 
Their coach realizes that his players have played well so far, but he offers a warning di­rected both to his team and to upcoming opponents. 
"We're not at the top of our game yet," cautioned Corrigan. "There is room for im­provement, and our guys know that." 
hiJay, March 22, ll)% 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
C..V..1~'-'-Till'> WlloLE. 
'{Y\A(I.fi.IA4~ ... h. Pos>~ I!>L'1 f'r\~12.RoP.C,E l~<•r'C, \I.M ~ou 
\lit. ':;,1Nt.,l£ f(\o~T lmpoi!.T ('Kil~OO~ NME-1 'So T 'rn 
1\N-r""DE(.I"S. l<>r-< Ot~e. u... G,oNNII (:.wE t.tov f\ 
f'{\ME. \rJ \...•fE. \N (Y\11(1.­L•rr~ AO"J•<-t. ... 
\ 
(2_, P.t.E1 t.tou b_E-r ~ou~ BE"!.T fP.•£t<01"\o<>R Lo~EII., 
1\No ~ovR BvS•t<E"S"S "PP..RTNEll.... 1\1...1.­L)p IN 
01'1£ ... 
"-.. 

MISTER BOFFO 
OF (oo.>f1."::>E NoNE 
1 
Af-I,~M 
Of THI"i fV\PoTIHS 
VEOL-CO!YIE. 
~1NC.E t-jo0'~E N~<VEII. 1\c.n.>P.'-'-'-\ \-\M> f.\ qlf~.l.ff!.t£.~
1 
E11? 

HAI'I'Y JIIRTIIDA Y! IN THE VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Real estate and legal matters merit Expect the unexpected. Carefully laid careful scrutiny. An unusual career plans may go awry while unplanned opportunity comes from out of the developments bring significant gains! blue. Tackling a fear head-on will A generous financial gesture you help you con4uer it. make this summer will be repaid ten­LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You fold. Seek a reconciliation with a have a fondness for the exotic. family member. Those who strive to When shopping, resist the tempta­please will attract new admirers. tion to overspend. Timely phone Older friends arc a real blessing. calls will help you land new Heed their financial or business accounts. Catch up on family news. advice. You need to start setting Make a newcomer feel at home. aside funds for investment purposes. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): CELEBRITIES HORN ON Your ESP is powerful now, guiding THIS DAY: mime Marcel you in the right direction. Philo­Marceau, sportscaster Bob Costas, sophical discussions bear fruit. Do landscape painter Rosa Bonheur, everything you can to make a dream actress Stephanie Mills. vacation come true. Money flows in ARIES (March 21-April 19): your direction. Con>ult a banker or Nurture a friendship with people accountant. engaged in unusual occupations. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Working quietly behind the scenes 21 ): Expand a business if financial will help you gain cooperation from backing is available. A psychic important colleagues. hunch is right on target. Go back to TAURUS (April 20-May 20): school to learn new skills. Your Pull yourself out of a mental rut. taste in food may be changing. Try New activities boost your spirits. some new recipes. Check with a knowledgeable accoun­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. tant. Love and money may not mix 19): You are in an outgoing mood. well. An upbeat attitude is essential Problems can be easily solved if you when dealing with teen-agers. trust your intuition. Relationships GEMINI (May 21-June 20): thrive on honesty and consideration . Analyze past triumphs for clues to Consult your mate or partner before their success. Your confidence accepting or regretting any weekend increases when you meet a chal­invitations. lenge head-on. Tear down the walls AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): that separate you from others. Loved ones may feel neglected. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Lavish them with tender loving Say "no" to unethical business pro­care! Romance could be more beau­posals. A strong desire for financial tiful than you ever imagined. Do not change continues to build. You need be afraid to show your sensitive to aim for objectivity when dealing side. Changes involving young peo­with complex problems. ple are featured. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A independent, nonconformist side visit from an out-of-towner could could lead to unexpected gains. A make your day! Change your schedule cynic may try to take advantage of in order to make this person feel wel­your idealism or generosity. Keep come. Stay away from memory lane your feet on the ground. unless you arc in an upbeat mood.  
• OF INTEREST "Keeping the Faith" Join us for a night of singing, prayer and reflecting on the role of service in a Catholic life. This Sunday, March 24th from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford chapel. Sophomore Four This Sunday, at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Come see talented sophomores shine in three hilarious comedies and one powerful drama. Fr. Edward O'Connor, will speak on the topic of fasting today at 7:30p.m. Included in the talk are an­swers to the questions: Is it neglected by many people today as a standard part of Catholic life? And what are the reasons for fasting and the spiritual benefits that tlow from it? This talk is part of the Blessed Mother Lecture Series and is sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Children of Mary. PFL Entertainment "Spring Break Ain't Over'' Jam for all Notre Dame/SMC students. All ages welcome: Under 21 upstairs and 21+ downstairs. Cover only $4.00. Featuring DJ Johnny Mac and D.J Sean Rowell. Shuttle available; call Saturday night at 634-0951. Jazzman's Night Club Saturday, March 23,10 p.m. to 3 a.m. There will be a Senior Citizens' Prom at which stu­dents will be paired up with senior citizens for an evening or music, dancing, good conversation and run at the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday, March 28 from 7·9 p.m. Students interested in attending are encouraged to call Jackie McAllister 4-4002 to volun­teer by Sunday, March 24. Tonight in the Cinema at the Snite the movie Casino will be playing at 6 and 9:30p.m. The cost is $2.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Batter-Fried Perch Winter Vegetable Chowder Potato & Cheese Pierogies Poached-baked Salmon Grilled Redfish Baked Potato Neptune Saint Mary's Lasagna Blanco Chicken Fajitas Red Skinned Potatoes  

WAIT-A-f'\lNUTE. ... l'f'\ Sif..RHNG TO REAUlE 50Mf.THING. 
LJil.BERT 
i' 
I 
l 
t 
1"\'{ JOB TITLE l~ SENIOR A550CIATE, YET I SPEND f'W TIME. DOlNG CLE.RICAL WOP..I\ ... AND ONLESS I'M 
MISTAK.EN, l'f'\ THE. LOWEST PAID E.t'\PLOY[E. 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
JOE MARTIN 
z 
15 THIS
u 
E 
f\ BAD 

~ 
TII"\E?
:;; 
"' ~ 
• 
~ 
.... 
.. 
!
.• 
:::> 
SCOTT ADAMS 


,.. 
• 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Angel's instrument 5 Hardly emotional 
10 What's more 
14 Pain reliever 
15 "Where's -?" 
16 Use U-Haul. e.g. 17 Serve with a summons 18 Sacra follower 19 Famous Ferrara family 20 Dogpatch's --Joy Juice 22 Be servile (to) 24 Revival shout 25 "I Remember 
26 Brazilian dances 29 Downfall 33"lt's-­question" 34 Church belief 350ld World money 36 Capital of Hawaii County 
37 Operatic voice 38 Bangkok buck 39 Bank pymt. 40 Lustrous velvet 41 Amalgamated 42 Vigorous 60's dance 44 Roman statesman 45 Every, in Essen 46 Polio vaccinator 

47 Country singer West 50 Australian marsupial 54 Musical 
conclusion 55 Boring 57 Watermelon 
waste 58 N.Y.S.E. 
counterpart 59ln the bag &o Tribe in the 
Winnebago 
nation &1 Naysay &2 Seeped 63 Rows 
DOWN 
1 Literary drudge 2 Et--(and others) 3 Coli. student's 
income source 4 Tot's game 5 Liberates, so to 
speak &Eagle's grabber 7 Mishmash a Mrs. McKinley 9 Crested parrot 
10 From the 30's, e.g. 11 "---we forget" 12 "For--us a child ... " 
13 Flight attendant, slangily 
21 Word for a Latin lover? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


23 Boding 25 Imposing home 
26 Sir, in Ahmedabad 27 Protein acid 28 Very, in Verona 
29 --match for (couldn't compete with) 
30 Let 
31 Orangish shade 
32 Show up 
34Dugout 

t:y 
I'l. g at: cushi 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, March 22, 1996 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Men's tennis turns to Tobacco Road 
By JOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 

Normally during the month of March, the talk on Tobacco Road is hoops. But, since both Duke and the University of North Carolina have bowed out of the NCAA Tournament, the Notre Dame men's tennis team will look to give the Cameron Crazies and the Carolina Contingent something to talk about. 

The fifteenth ranked Irish will travel to North Carolina where they will be looking to rebound from a somewhat disappointing 1-2 mark in the Blue-
Sophomore Jakub Pietrowski will be counted on to cont1ribute at number two doubles 
with Brian Patterson for the Irish to succeed against Duke and UNC. 
•LACROSSE 

Bulldogs next in line for Irish Lacrosse 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Several fans quickly jumped off the Notre Dame Lacrosse band­wagon after their season-open­ing loss to 6th-ranked Loyola of Maryland. However, more than
• 
a few of those fickle fans jumped right back on following the team's 3-0 spring break record. 
These followers realized that the team was back on the right track. In fact, according to Coach Kevin Corrigan, they never really left it n the first place. 
''I'm not sure how off the track we were," commented Corrigan. "We played well against Loyola but didn't make the plays to win. Now we know what it takes to compete at the Top 10 level." 
The Irish take this newfound knowledge into this weekend's
-.. 
contest with another highly-tout­ed squad, Butler University. 
Butler is 4-1 so far in this young season. Their four wins have not come easy. Rather, they have come against some of the stiffest competition in the nation. Two of their victims have been Rutgers andl Delaware, both ranked in the Top 20 at the time of the matches. 
"Butler is having a great year, no doubt," noted Corrigan. "They are off to a great start, having beaten Rutgers and Delaware." 
As a result of their recent suc­cesses, Butler is the highest vote­getter outside of the Top 20, making them the unofficial 21st best team in the country. 
Coach Corrigan thinks differ­ently however. 
"They really should be in the Top 20," said Corrigan. "Other teams are above simply because of reputation. This team is really that good." 
The Irish are one of those teams ranked above them, but their play as of late seems to merit this position (13th) in the national polls. The steady per-
see IRISH/ page 22 
Gray Classic. The competition will not be any weaker as they will take on the eighteenth ranked Tarheels on Friday and the ninth ranked Duke Blue Devils on Sunday. 
"We're running out of chances," senior captain Mike Sprouse men­tioned. "We have come close to some very good teams but we haven't quite gotten over the hump. This is the weekend for all of us to play consistent and to get over that hump." 
The coaching staff will also be look­ing for more consistency and are hop­ing to pick up some momentum for the home stretch. 
In the Blue-Gray Classic senior John 
J. O'Brien was the only singles player to go undefeated. The rest of the team played great one day and were the polar opposite the next. 
The key to success for the Irish in Carolina will probably be their doubles play. It is always a big lift if they can seize the first point and get off to a good start. 
The young No. 2 doubles tandem of sophomore Jakup Pietrowski and freshman Brian Patterson have provid­ed some spark since teaming up in mid-season and will be looking to improve on their nine wins in dual match play. 
After their trip to Tobacco Road, the Irish will have just six matches remaining before the Big East Championship in Miami. Then the Irish will begin NCAA Regional action. So these two matches will probably be an good indication of how well the Irish will play in post-season. 

The Observer File Photo Senior Brian Gilfillan looks to lead the Irish past Butler this weekend while building on the team's strong Spring Break run. 
• BASEBALL 

The Observer file photo Junior Randall Brooks must turn it up a notch to help the Irish succeed in the Big East. 
Irish prepare for Big East challenge 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Editor 
Everyone knows the clout that the Big East Conference possessed on the basket­ball court this season, what with fielding six teams in the AP Top 25, at one point during the season and sending three of those teams to the Sweet Sixteen in the NCAA Tournament. 
But what everyone might not know is that the Big East is certainly no slouch when the transition is made from the hardcourts to hardball. 
Baseball America's College Preview issue ranked the Big East, which has turned out such big league stars as Mo Vaughn, Craig Biggio, and John Valentin, as the eleventh best conference is the nation, putting it just inside the top third of the 33 Division 1 conferences-across the country. 
Last year alone the Big East, which has produced 17 current big leaugers, sent two teams to the NCAA tournament and 
see BIG EAST/ page 18 
Softhall Baseball
-
a; • Women's tennis preview 
at Western Michigan, Saturday March 
at Boston College, Saturday March 23 23, 12:00 p.m. 
see page 21 
SMC SportsMen's Tennis 
Track at Wabash College Invitational, • NCAA Regional action at Norch Carolina, Friday March 22 
Saturday March 23 
••~ en

Softball at Wheaton College, Saturday 
see pages 15, 16 
March 23 Tennis vs. Calvin College, Saturday • Saint Mary's softball 
Lacrosse 

at Butler, Saturday March 23 March 23 
~ 

see page 22 





