l 
l 
I 

Monday, September 16, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 16 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Brain power hits Notre Dame in full force ... 
Nobel prize winners speak on campus 
Poet Seamus Heaney shares life, laughs, and lauded poetry 
By JILLIAN M. PAGLIOCCA News Writer 
Entertaining the standing-room only crowd with anecdotes from his childhood in County Derry. Northern Ireland, Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney gave a reading of his poetry Friday night in the Center for Continuing Edueation. 
In his presentation, Heaney, winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1995, attributed his Harli11st pieces to his experiences in his farm community. The poet also touched on the diffi­culties of growing up in a strife-ridden Ireland. whieh he explained is implicitly reflected in his work. 
Many of the pieces he read drew on these perceptions in youth, especially "Keeping Going," dedicated to his brother, and "The Ministry of Fear," a recollection of his adoles­c!mt years. The reading was given as part of tlw .Jos1~ph Dun'y lecture series. 
I lt\ltney redted poems, partially from memo­ry, that ranged from early to more recent work. and offered his appreciation at having been invited once again to read at Notre Dame. This is the third time in four years that the Dublin r1~sidm1t has been asked to speak on campus. 
Heaney is a Foreign Member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and held the chair of Professor of Poetry at Oxford from 1989 to I 994. H11 spends part of each year teaching at Harvard University, where he was elected the Boylston Professor of Rhetoric and Oratory in 1984. 
Heaney's latest collection of poetry, "The Spirit l.nvel," is his 13th published since "Death of a Naturalist" in 1966. Other works include thre.e books of criticism and a translation of Sophodes' play "Philoctetes," call11d "The Cure at Troy." 
Professor Seamus Deane, Heaney's lifelong fri1~rHI and fellow poet. introduced the speaker. I>ean!l is the Keough Chair in Irish Studies and spends one semester each year teaching at Notre Dame. Heaney rp,ad a series of poems, "Singing School," from the 1975 collection "North," that was dedieated to Deane. 
!Jeaney dosed the reading with a witty elegy lw wrote for a Hussian poet, strictly modeled al'tnr W.ll. Auden's elegy for W.B. Yeats. 
After the n~ading, I Jeaney met with members of tlw audience and autographed copies of his books. 

The Observer/Jed Donahue Seamus Heaney (above) and Eric Wieschaus (below), a Notre Dame grad, came to campus this weekend to share their Nobel Prize-winning work. 
describes path to Nobel Prize 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN News Writer 
Contrary to popular belief, Nobel Prize winners are peo­ple too. 
Eric Wieschaus, the 1995 Nobel Prize winner in medi­cine, proved this fact during a humorous, yet informative, address last Saturday honor­ing Professor Emeritus Emil Hofman. 
Wieschaus, a 1969 graduate of Notre Dame, related the "nitty gritty" details of how he earned the Nobel Prize for his research in the genetic con­trol of embryonic develop­ment in fruit flies. The first ever Nobel laureate from Notre Dame, Wieschaus had much to say concerning his early years as an undergrad­uate at the University. 
Although Wieschaus admit­ted that his "memories as an 
see WIESCHAUS I page 6 


O'Neill Hall dedication marks start of new era 
By DAVID FREDDOSO News Writer 
Tlw newly nicknanwd "Angry Mob" of O'Neill Family Hall has bntm living in its new quarters for s1weral weeks already, but it of'lieially began its tradition on Friday, when University I' n~s ide n t Father Edward Mulloy dedicated the hall in nwrnory of Notre Dame alum­nus Joseph O'Neill Jr. and his family. 
Thn festivities began in the early afternoon as Malloy ofTtm~d a Mass of Thanksgiving for the new dormitory at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The O'Neill family, the hall staff, and the new dorm's resi­dents were all in attendance. 
Decked out in coats and ties, the "Angry Mob" of O'Neill marched across campus after the Mass through the drizzling rain to see Malloy give the hall his blessing. 
"Bless O'Neill Hall." he prayed, "and bless all those who live here, and now and forever, bless the O'Neill fami­ly. May all those who serve Our Lady's School grow in the grace and favor of your king­dom." 
Malloy was very happy for both the residents and for the O'Neill family, whose contribu­tions in large part made the construction of the residence 
see O'NEILL/ page 4 

Report will appear on Web page 
By AMY SCHMIDT News Writer 
Plans are underway to make access to student government's Board of Trustees report as easy as surfing the net. 
Student government has been developing an agenda for the report since last April, and has decided that the focus of the report should include issues such as examining recreational space across cam­pus and suggestions for a per­forming arts center. 
Student government tradi­tionally makes a report to the Board of Trustees during each semester. The contents of the reports usually focus on topics that most interest the student body. 
"We are really excited about the possibilities for the report," said Student Body President Seth Miller. "It looks at so many aspects of Notre Dame student life, and provides rec­ommendations to the board that are not only consistent with the University's long-term plans, but with what students want and need." 
Rough drafts of the report were completed by last Friday, and student government plans to post the report on its home­page by tomorrow morning. Posting of the report, coupled with the availability of addi­tional copies for viewing in the student government office, will mean unlimited access to the report for students. 
Students will be able to pro­vide feedback to the report all day Tuesday via e-mail. Student government will send the report to be printed Wednesday morning. 
The idea has received a positive response from stu­dents on campus. Most felt that it is important for Student Government to continue to make all information regarding student life as accessible as 
see TRUSTEES/ page 6 
The Observer/Jed Donahue 

Charles Schwab, pictured above with Father Malloy and junior Matthew Lewis, was on campus this weeke~d to witness the dedication of O'Neill Hall. Schwab, a relative of the family, donated money towards the constructron. 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Every 

breath you 
take 

Hey folks. Hopefully you~=====~ 
will excuse the following rant that I call my first col­umn. It is not in any way indicative of what I think of my landlords. They are nice people and have yet to evict me. 
Recently, many off-cam­pus housing develop­ments have decided to Matthew Loughran crack down on drinking. Assistant News Editor But they are not just focused on drinking. The management of these areas decided that they would crack down on parties in general. 
One place announced that any violations of their policy would result in immediate evic­tion. Another sent a memo around saying that a gathering of nine or more people would be considered a party and could be broken up by police. 
What does this have to do with me? Well, I decided to throw a party on Saturday night. I bought a keg. I sank $100 into making sure my friends could come to my apartment and have a good time. When I got all set up, there were at least four security guards roaming the parking lot. While I definitely felt safe, I had to turn away at least twelve of my friends. I knew that if a large group of people was seen at my apartment, we would get busted. So I had the party with a maximum of fifteen peo­ple and we hung out until 5:15 a.m. (At least, that's when I called it a night). 
But this whole sneaking around routine doesn't have to happen. These policies are simply a result of the University's whole "in loco parentis"(Latin phrase meaning "In the place of the parents"] ideal. 
We pay over $20,000 a year to learn and grow as adults and prepare for the real world. Some people, however, seem to have the idea that students need to be led along as though they were still children. My real parents stopped doing that years ago. But some administrators have decided that they are actually very expensive baby-sitters. 
I left the dorms because I could not stand the idea that a rector could call my parents and tell them what I was doing in school. I talk to my parents every week. I tell them what is going on. I don't need an impartial observer to evaluate how I spend my free time. 
Then there is the "student spy" in the form of a resident assistant. These people are your friends, they are students like you. They are sent by the rector to make sure everything stays as it should be. I fmd the whole system to be ridiculous. But they own the dorms, they make the rules. 
The University might think for a minute that the number of students moving off-campus could be a direct result of the watchdog poli­cies that are incorporated into dorm life. Sure, it's less convenient to live off-campus. It also could end up being more expensive. (Except I haven't bought groceries for a few weeks.) 
But the one thing that made it all worth­
while was the freedom. I moved for the abili­
ty to act and be treated as an adult. I moved 
so that no one would watching my every 
move. I moved to escape parents that are 
stricter than my real ones. I left, running in 
fear from "elloco padres." 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  
Russell Williams  Production  
Brad Prendergast  Heather Cocks  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Mike Day  Accent  
Viewpoint  Rachel Torres  
Ethan Hayward  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Sue O'Kain  
Katie Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction Jights are reserved. 
-------------------------------~ 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 16, 1996 
• WOitt.O AT A GLANCE 
As Hortense declines, Fausto picks up along Pacific 
HALIFAX, Nova Scotia H • F t 
Hurricane Hortense weakened to a urncane 8US 0 tropical storm Sunday, after roaring As of5 a.m. EDT Friday into Nova Scotia with 1 OO-mph winds Position: 22.4,N, 11 o.B'W 250 miles that peeled roofs from buildings, Moving: N at7 mph ~ flooded streets and left tens of thou-Sustained winds: 105 mph sands without power. Gusts at: 130 mph 
But as Hortense declined, Hurricane Fausto in the Pacific Ocean moved closer to the Mexican coast. The storm was moving north toward Baja California. 
Residents there were preparing for the strength of the storm, which reg­istered gusts of up to 130 mph over the weekend. 
Late-evening winds were maintain­ing a rate of 105 mph, reports said. Pa#jicOcean Late-season vacationers at 114" 106' 10?' 96' 90" Acapulco were relieved that the hur-s-o-ur-'-'ce'-'-:A-'-c-cu...:-W:..::e~a~th-er'""'ln:::c'"-.-'---=:.::~__:.:.:.__A_JP ricane would bypass the resort, but 
the anxiety expressed by residents further north echoed Tens of thousands of Nova Scotians were without the fear that Nova Scotians felt earlier in the day. power all night into Sunday. The hurricane knocked "It was very terrifying," said Unette Hudson, recover-down trees, left buildings without roofs and blew out ing from hypothermia and sore muscles after being windows. 
Clinton touts four-year progress 
INDIANOLA, Iowa 

President Clinton dashed into Iowa 
to open a three-day Midwest campaign 
swing Sunday, snaring $400,000 at 
political fund-raisers and declaring, 
"We're a lot better off than we were 
four years ago." "You're gonna win," 
a supporter shouted to Clinton from a 
crowd of thousands of people 
sprawled across a sloping field at a """"..a__....__ 
rally. "I am," Clinton exclaimed. "I am if you keep that 
same attitude for the next 51 days." In barely four hours 
in Iowa, the president pumped hands and posed for pic­
tures at a $500-a-couple meeting with contributors at 
River Oak Farm. Afterward, Clinton met privately with 
big-money donors, people contributing between $5,000 
to $25,000. Clinton spoke at the same field four years 
ago in his first race for the White House. "When I look at 
the farm prices, when I look at farm assets, when I look 
at the direction of the economy here, I'd say we're a lot 
better off than we were four years ago and we ought to 
keep going in the same direction. We lowered the deficit 
four years in a row for the first time since before the 
Civil War." 

Chess olympiad opens in Armenia 
YEREVAN, Armenia 

The World Chess Olympiad opened Sunday with a record 209 teams from 127 countries as Armenians enthusiastically welcomed world champion Garry Kasparov as one of their own. Kasparov, the world's highest-ranked player and champion of the Professional Chess Association, leads a Russian team that won the last Olympiad in Moscow two years ago and will contend for top honors again. The 33-year-old Kasparov was born in Baku, capital of neighboring Azerbaijan, to an Armenian mother and a Jewish father. He later moved to Moscow. His presence is a source of pride for Armenians: A crowd of 5,000 people attending Sunday night's ceremonial opening gave him a thunderous standing ovation. "Honestly, many people were skeptical when Armenia expressed its readiness to host the Olympiad, and they were doubtful when they heard that everything was going ahead all right," Kasparov said. "I believe that today everybody was convinced that the potential of this country and its people has no real lim­its." 


5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather<B> forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 16. 
····· ... 

FRONTS: 
~............_ .............. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 82 68 Dallas 89 63 New Orleans 94 75 Baltimore 71 63 Denver 70 50 New York 68 63
Q~~~~~{)~a 
Boston 62 55 Fort Wayne 68 53 Phoenix 62 45
S~~~e',; T-~t~;,;;s Rain ~~~;.;;~~ -~~:-~:· ~~ -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 70 51 Los Angeles 83 62 Pittsburgh 69 55 
Via Associared Press GraphlcsNet 

Columbus 69 55 Minneapolis 67 52 St. Louis 72 55 
Reverend: 'I will weep for Tupac' 
NEW YORK 

Tupac Shakur, remembered by many as a violent rap­
per who died in the gangsta culture he glorified, was 
mourned at his boyhood church Sunday as the victim of 
a society that destroys black youth. "He had the genes, 
he had the ability, could we have provided the society 
that would have made him blossom," the Rev. Herbert 
Daughtry said at The House of the Lord Pentecostal 
Church in Brooklyn. Two days after the 25-year-old 
Shakur died of gunshots wounds suffered in a drive-by 
shooting on a Las Vegas street, the pastor asked: "Who 
will weep for Tupac Shakur? I will weep for Tupac," he 
replied. Though he left Brooklyn in his teens, Shakur still 
is listed as a member of the congregation he joined when 
he was 15, with his mother and sister. Shakur--who 
had served time for assault, weapons violations and sex 
abuse --was hit by four bullets Sept. 7 as he rode in a 
car driven by the head of his label, Death Row Records 
chief Marion "Suge" Knight. Knight, who suffered minor 
injuries, and an entourage of at least 10 cars, including 
bodyguards, have failed to provide any suspects. Los 
Angeles police said the shooting of three Crips gang 
members in Compton, Calif., last week was in retaliation 
for the Shakur shooting. 
'Maximum Risk' tops box office 
LOS ANGELES 

Two new movies, "Maximum Risk," a Jean-Claude 
Van Damme thriller, and the family adventure "Fly 
Away Home" opened atop the weekend box office list. 
"Maximum Risk" was No. 1 with an estimated $5.8 mil­
lion in ticket sales. "Fly Away Home," about an 
estranged father and daughter who help a flock of geese 
migrate, was second with $5 million, according to pre­
liminary estimates Sunday by Exhibitor Relations Co., 
which tracks receipts. Both films were released by 
Columbia Pictures, and the timing of the one-two punch 
is ironic considering that Sony Corp., Columbia's parent, 
had forced out studio chief Mark Canton on Friday after 
a summer of expensive flops including "The Cable Guy." 
"Bulletproof' was third at $4 million, "Tin Cup" No. 4 at 
$3.5 million, and "First Kid" flfth at $3.3 million. Final 
figures were to be released today. The preliminary top 
six: 1. "Maximum Risk," $5.8 million. 2. "Fly Away 
Home," $5 million. 3. "Bulletproof," $4 million. 4. "Tin 
Cup," $3.5 million. 5. "First Kid," $3.3 million. 6. "The 
Rich Man's Wife," $3.2 million. 
swept by raging floodwaters from her car near Ingonish, Nova Scotia on Cape Breton Island. 
"The winds were very high and the current was just like when you go white­water rafting -it was that fast," Hudson said. 
Power was restored to much of the province Sunday as Hortense's winds diminished to 60 mph, bringing it below the 74-mph threshold necessary to quali­fy as a hurricane. 
Hortense left Cape Breton and headed across colder waters, and was expected to weaken even further by Monday. 
Hurricane Hortense made landfall just east of Halifax about 10 p.m. Saturday. Winds topped 100 mph at St. Paul's Island in the Cabot Strait and more than 
5.4 inches of rain fell in Bedford, Nova Scotia outside Halifax. 
~~ndar•.S_epte_mb_e_r_16,_1_9_96____________..:.T..::h.::..e..:::O:.::b:.::se::.rv.:.:e::.r_•_:C=AM:.=:=P-=U=-S=-=N~E=--W,=-=-=S=-----------------------'p'-a-=g_e_3 
• ElECTION '96
Industry Day presents 
Series targets economic issues

unique opportunities 
Observer Staff Report 
By JOHN DE BOY versational setting. 
• fAST fACTS 
News Writer 
The job search will ol'lieially begin tomorrow for students who plan to participate in the College of Engineering's 16th annual Industry Day, a two-day ev1~nt sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council and the Sodety of Women Engineers. 
Industry Day will begin at 
6:30 p.m. tomorrow with a spe­cial reception and banquet in tlw .Joyce Center's Monogram Hoom. 
Michelin Paduch, a Notre Dame senior who serves as chairperson of the Industry Day 1996 Executive Committee, said the event will provide engineer­ing students with a unique opportunity to meet representa­tives from companies in various engineering fields. 
"It's a chance for students to int!~ract with the representa­tives and ask them what their companies are like," Paduch said. "Hepresentatives can talk with students about possible summer internships or even ptmnanent positions. Hopefully, students will make some good contaets and do a little network­ing. It's our opportunity to bring the companies to students." 
Hepresentatives from more than 40 companies will attend. 
Partidpating students will be seated with representatives from companies of their choice, providing the opportunity to mingle with employers in a con-
All company representatives who attend tomorrow's banquet will receive a binder containing resumes from students interest­ed in their corporations. 
The banquet's keynote speak­er will be Patty Pieronek, a 1988 graduate of the College of Engineering who currently works for Andersen Consulting in Chicago. Pieronek also serves on the College of Engineering Advisory Council. 
Industry Day activities will continue on Wednesday with a career fair from 10 a.m.-4 p.m. on the first and second floors of Fitzpatrick Hall. 
Many companies will conduct interviews in Fitzpatrick Hall during the career fair. 
Among the corporations and organizations expected to send representatives to both Industry Day events are several leaders in government and private industry, including Amoco, the Boeing Company, the Central Intelligence Agency, Chrysler, General Electric, IBM, and Procter & Gamble. 
While tomorrow's banquet is intended solely for students in the College of Engineering, other interested students are welcome to attend the career fair on Wednesday. 
For more information on Industry Day or its participating companies, contact the Industry Day World Wide Web site at http://www.nd.edu/-jec/indus­tryday. 

Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadli.ne: Wednesday, September 18 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 

College of Engineering Industry Day 1996: Sept. 17-Banquet Sept. 18-Career Fair 
Recyclin' Irish: 1ST info./ organizational meeting tonite (Mon. Sept 16) at 6:00p.m. in Montgomery Theater (LaFortune) AD Dorm Environmental/Recycling Commissioners: Meeting at 6:00pm in Montgomery Theater Wed., Sept. 18 
Arnold Air Society: Sept. 19 & 20 -Thurs., 5:00 pm prayer ser­vice at the Grotto, followed by vigil at Fieldhouse mall, Fn., 5:00 retreat at South Quad Flagpole 
Asian American Association: Meeting Wed., Sept. 18, at 9:00 pm Faculty Lounge (Hesburgh Library) 
Amnesty International: Meeting Wed., Sept. 18 in the CSC Study Lounge at 8:00 pm 
African Student Association: Tues., Sept 17, Hesburgh 
Center Auditorium, 4:15pm-"History in the Making: Africa at 
the 1996 Olympics" Wed., Sept 18, 102 DeBartolo@ 7:00pm 
Gito L'Ingrat: African Film $1 donation 
Stop by our 2nd floor Lafortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
The second installment of a weekly series at Notre Dame focusing on the 1996 election will be held Monday in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing Education. 
The series, "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good," allows Notre Dame fac­ulty members to present their ideas on all facets of the com­ing elections. 
Professors Jeffrey Bergstrand of the department of finance, Chuck Craypo of the department of economics, and Ed Trubac, associate dean of the College of Business Administration, will speak on "Issues in the Economy" as p,art of the weekly series. 
The presentation, which is free and open to the public, will begin at 4 p.m. 
WHAt: "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good" 
.WHEN: This afternoon at 4 p.m. WHERE: The Center for Continuing Education auditorium OF NOTE: Professors Jeffrey B~rgstrand, Chuck Cra.ypo, and Ed Trubac will speak about economic 
·····#·: 
issues. 

"This series will help people get better prepared to vote and to vote with the idea of the 'common good' in front of them," said Kathleen Maas Weigert, an associate director of the Center for Social Concerns, one of the sponsors of the series. A discussion ses­sion follows the presentation. 
The series will run every Monday through Oct. 14, from 4 to 5 p.m. Future speakers will be announced as they are determined. 
Among the campus organi­zations sponsoring the series are two student groups, the College Democrats and College Republicans. 
SMC prof offers London tour 
Observer Staff Report 
As many students are leaving to study abroad for the semes­ter or academic year, a Saint Mary's professor is offering a taste of London through a one­week tour during Christmas break. 
From Jan. 2 to 9, Professor Claude Renshaw of the busi­ness administration and eco­nomics department will host a tour of London, similar to the tours of Washington, D.C., he has sponsored during semester breaks. 
Renshaw took a semester­long sabbatical in London in 1987, and has visited the city numerous times since. As a result, Renshaw says that the week will provide an insiders' view into the city. 
The group, which he plans to limit to 12 students, will stay in apartments in London and tour the major sights of the city, including little-known spots that Renshaw discov­ered during his experience in the town. 
"England's history goes back thousands of years -it is so interesting to trace it, and then see it," said Renshaw. "There are so many interesting things in London, and it's amazing what you can find, and learn about the history." 
The total cost of the trip is $888, which includes round­trip air fare from Chicago to London, transportation and accommodations. 
There will be an informa­tional meeting tonight at 6 
p.m. in 247 Madeleva. All interested students are wel­comed and enouraged to attend. 

It isn't always clear which one of the big six firms is focused on your future. However... 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 16, 1996 

O'Neill 
continued from page I 
hall possible. 
"It's really exciting to have two beautiful halls, and to do both of the dedications," he said, referring as well to the new Marilyn T. Keough Hall, which will be dedicated in two weeks. 
"The [O'Neill and Keough] families especially appreciate getting to meet some of the stu­dents who are living there," he continued. "I think that means a great deal to them, because you can feel good about giving a building, but when you see the people who are living there, it all comes to life for you." 
Residents of O'Neill had been eagerly anticipating the dedica­tion since the beginning of the school year. Jason Lineen, a sophomore resident, was glad to see that the festivities exceeded his expectations. 
"We are very happy with the turnout of members of the dorm. We were getting excited about this at all the section meetings," Lineen said. "We were just a bit worried about whether they would dress up or if they would all show up, but today we got some great partic­ipation." 

Now that O'Neill Family Hall has become the first men's dor­mitory to be dedicated since 1969, the hall residents have been given the task of estab­lishing for its new home a unique identityand tradition. 
Sean Ziegler, a sophomore and former resident of Grace Hall, was excited at this prospect. "It's a big responsi­bility," he said, "and we are very grateful to the O'Neill fam­ily." 
Malloy also commented on this rare opportunity that the men of O'Neill have been given. 
"The generation of students that live here now will repre­sent all the generations of stu­dents who will live here in the future," Malloy said. "They will come back after they graduate, and they will be able to say, 'That was where I lived. I remember when it was brand new.' It's fun to be a part of history." 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
International Study Programs 
Study at the American University in Cairo 
(Instruction is in English) 



Information Meeting for Spring 1997, Fall 1997 and Spring 1998 
Wednesday, September 18, 1996 
4:30 PM, 306 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students Are Welcome! 
NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you will be called to fill staffing assignments for area families in need of child care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that 
meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 
to find out more! 

Memorial 
Real Italian. Real Fast"'
Home Care® 
52no US Route 33N, South Bend • 277-4008 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 

Monday, September 16, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Trustee's husband succumbs to illness 
Special to The Observer 
Word has been received of the death of Halph Pfeiffer Jr., husband of Notre Dame Trustee Jane Pfeiffer. Mr. Pfeiffer died after an illness. 
Visitation will be Tuesday at Gallagher Funeral Home, 31 Arch Street, in Greenwich, Conn., and the Mass of the Resurrection will be celebrat­ed Wednesday at St. Mary's Church in Greenwich. 
The Pfeiffers were married in 1976, when both were vice presidents with IBM. Mrs. Pfeiffer, who subsequently became chairman of the board of the National Broadcasting Company, had been elected a Notre Dame trustee in 1974. 
Troupe to perform at SMC 
Special to The Observer 
Chicago's Trinity Irish Dance Company kicks off the 1996-97 John M. Dunnigan Series at 
Saint  Mary's  College  on  
Saturday  at  8  p.m.  in  
O'Laughlin Auditorium.  

In drawing inspiration from ancient Celtic myths and sto­ries, the company's perfor­mances explore the develop­ment of Irish dance as a pre­cursor to tap, clog and square dancing, as well as the connec­tion to African rhythms and dance styles. 
The dancers, whose ages range from 15 to 28, offer tra­ditional Irish dance as part of their program, but put new twists on the tradition, in the form of progressive, athletic interpretations, and sleeker costumes. 
The current company was formed in 1990 as an offshoot of Howard's Trinity Dance 

INFORMATION MEETING FOR FALL '97 AND SPRING '98 
Tuesday, September 17, 1996 10 1 DeBartolo 

6:30PM 
ALL SOPHOMORES 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
, ..·­

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 
~ Banquet rooms available up to 200 
R£AT \VALL Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 

ToastJDasters International Publie Speaking Club 
First meetingtonight at 7:30 in room 222 Hayes-Healy 
Academy, which won 12 titles at the World Championship of Irish Dance in Dublin, Ireland. Among the company's high­lights was a specially choreo­graphed performance on one of Johnny Carson's final "Tonight Show" broadcasts. 
Tickets for the Trinity Irish Dancers are $16 for adults, $14 for senior citizens, $8 for mem­bers of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community, and $5 for students. 
SB police cite ten in SUDS raid 
Observer Staff Report 
A police raid of an off-campus party Friday night at Lafayette Square Apartments resulted in citations for 10 students. 
The students were cited for consumption by a minor. No arrests were made. 
The raid, conducted by the Stop Underage Drinking and Sales division of the South Bend Police Department and the Indiana State Excise Police, occurred at 11:30 p.m. 
Police conducted the raid after being alerted of the likely possi­bility that underage students were drinking at the party, said Capt. David Chapman of the South Bend Police Department. 
"Because of the concern of area law enforcement with underage drinking, this raid was conducted, and more are being planned," Chapman said. 


~------~-------~--------~---------------------------~-----­
page6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 16, 1996 
Wieschaus Trustees 
continued from page 1 
undergraduate are kind of a blur," he did manage to recol­lect some of his more humor­
ous experiences and thank the faculty who helped launch his interest in microbiology. Among the science courses he took as an undergraduate, it was during an embryology . course that Wieschaus literally fell across what would become his life-long passion. "I knew, at that time, that was what I wanted to do. I wanted to be a scientist." said Wieschaus. 
"That course, and so many other courses like it, provided a very sound basis for my later development as a scientist," he added. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, Wieschaus went on to pursue his doctorate at Yale University, which he received in 1975. During his research on embryonic development, he traveled to Germany where he continued his studies with the help of colleagues Edward Lewis of the California Institute of Technology and Christiane Nusslein-Volhard of the Max Planck Institute. The scientists began using fruit flies as mod­els for their studies of how cer­tain genes were programmed to create corresponding body parts in humans. 
Wieschaus admitted that his beginning discoveries were the result of trial-and-error and the "foolish mistakes" of any amateur. Yet, as pioneers of a new science, the research he and his colleagues conducted was "widely accepted and read by the scientific community." 
Wieschaus' work with fruit flies embryos opened similar veins in medical research. The identification of certain genes allowed scientists to discover the reason for mutations in human embryos. Once they knew the causes for birth defects in humans, scholars could approach preventive medicine at a microscopic level, perhaps preventing genetic defects from occurring. 
Hofman appeared at the con­clusion of the lecture and com­mented on Wieschaus' perfor­mance as an undergraduate. He joked that even a Nobel Prize winner in medicine can receive a B in General Chemistry, alluding to a class Hofman formerly taught at Notre Dame in which Wieschaus was a student. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

continued from page 1 
possible. 
"I think that this (the posting of the report on the World Wide Web) is a very important idea because almost everyone is on the Web today," said sophomore Leah Toeniskoetter. "Also, the option to e-mail back to stu­dent government is important because it's the easiest way to respond the issues." 
Research to fine-tune the contents of the report was con­ducted over the summer, and an eight-point agenda was decided upon. The agenda includes the following: 
• 
an audit of current student space reviewing the following: office and club space, recre­ational space, study space, and public social space. 

• 
suggestions for the tenta­tively planned performing arts center. 

• 
the possibility of building a large auditorium to be used for special events such as featured guest speakers. 

• 
reflections on food service, including expansion of the South Dining Hall and con­cerns about the Oak Room. 

• 
discussion of the need for increased funding of student organizations. 

• 
consideration of the way the University can implement its plans for enhancing student life in the Colloquy for the Year 2000. 

• 
supporting ideas and statis­tics obtained from targeted surveys of other institutions, dormitory rectors, and student leaders. 

• 
clear recommendations for the Board of Trustees to con­sider in its advisory role. 


Student Body Vice President Megan Murray, who led the research team this summer, said that "there is a great opportunity here to get a lot more social space for students, to create opportunities for a lot of new and exciting events." 
Student Senate approved this agenda for the report at its meeting on Sept. 4, and also approved a proposal for a spe­cial Student Senate committee that would participate in the final editorial process of the report. 
Miller and Murray will pre­sent the final report to the Student Affairs Sub-Committee of the Board of Trustees on Sept. 26. 

Special to Th~ Observer 
)the addr~ss will precede a .• ··· ·····:··>:·"·· paqel discussion moderated by 
· : Pr6minent sculptors, cr1t­ics and museum curators will take part in a symposium on sc4}pture Saturday froiJ:l 1-5 
p.m•. at Notre Dame's Snite Museum of Art. 
The symposium will be fol­lowed by an opening reception for an exhibition entitled "Contemporary American Sculpture," which will run through Nov. 28 in the Snite's O'Shaqghnessy West Gallery. 
The symposium will begin with a keynote address by Robert Morris, sculptor, ar~ the­orist and author of "The Mind Body Problem" and "Continuous Project Altered Daily." 
;:11JAI/eg1ance 
on Campus 

SEPTEMBER 16-17 Finance and Accounting majors Turn in resumes to Career & Placement 
SEPTEMBER 18 Beta Alpha Psi Accounting Career Night 
SEPTEMBER 24 Finance Club Career Night 

OCTOBER 8 Information Session 6:30PM, The University Club 
OCTOBER 9 
Interviews on campus 
NOVEMBER 1 

College ofBusiness Career Day 
bttp:J/www.Baxter.com/ www/NeWCo/AIIeglance.hbnl 

BANQUET 
September 17th 
Hors d'oeuvres 6:30 p.m. 
JACC Concourse Dinner ND Monogram Room 
Father Austin Collins, associate· professOr of art, art history and design at Notre Dame. 
Panelists Include Terence Dempsey, director of St. Louis University's Museum of Contemporary Religious Art; Robert Haywood, assistant pro­fessor of art, art history and design at Notre Dame; Gregory Knight, chief curator at the Chicago Cultural Center; and Lynne Warren, curator of spe­cial projects at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. 
The exhibition, of which Father Collins is the curator, includes sculptures })y 30 con~ temporary American artists including two members of Notre Dame's art faculty: William Kremer Jr.. chair ofthe department of art, art history and design, and Father James Flanigan, associate professor of art, art history and design. 
Both the symposium and the exhibition are being held in conjunction with the Notre Dame Public Sculpture Project, an exhibition of three outdoor sculptures organized by Notre Dame's department of art, art history and design; the Snite Museum of Art; and the Campus Sculpture Committee. 
The Public Sculpture Project exhibition, which includes eight works from the Suite's perma­nent collection and 11 works by Notre Dame alumni, will run through next July. 

Name in Health Care 
A Passage 
For more than 70 years, we've made our name serving hospitals-and health-care professionals. Today, as parr of Baxter International, we are America's leading provider of health-care products and cost-management services. Later this year, in one of health care's biggest spin-offs, we will become an independent company-Allegiance Corporation­with more than $4 billion in annual sales worldwide. In the United States, we'll be known as Allegiance Healthcare. 
A Purpose 
Allegiance means dedication to a cause. Our cause is better health care. By helping medical professionals improve quality while controlling costs, we can help make care more accessible to everyone. 
A Partner 
To pursue that goal, we work shoulder-to-shoulder with professionals at hospitals and health care systems. Our 
success is founded on theirs. We share problems as well as 
opporrunities, risks as well as rewards, aligning our incentives with our customers so we can succeed together. 
A Pledge 
Our pledge is to provide high-quality products, excellent service and new ways of managing costs. By doing that, we help our customers concentrate on their real mission: taking care of patients. So Allegiance 'is our new name. It describes not just a company but a purpose and a pledge ro all those 
we serve. 
INDUSTRY DAY fAIR 
September 18th 
10:00 a.m. -4:00p.m. 
Fitzpatrick Hall 
Representatives from over 30 companies Opportunities for full time employment and summer internships 
Sponsored by }oint Engineering Council and Society of Women Engineers 
QUESTIONS? Visit our World Wide Web Site: http:/ /www.nd.edu-jec/industryday Or contact: jec®nd.edu Michelle Paduch 634-2958 Teresa Anderle 634-2769 

~-­
.. ­

Monday, September 16, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
• THE VATICAN •ITALY 
Pope to have surgery Bossi declares north free 
Italy secession? 
Umberto Bossi, leader of the secessionist Northern League, is planning a weekend of rallies calling for northern Italy to break away from the rest of the country. 
for inflamed appendix Secessionist 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press Wrirer 
VATICAN CITY 

To eombat "news, supposition and rumors" about the pope's health, the Vatican announced Saturday that John Paul II was suffering from an inflamed appendix and would have surgery later this year. 
The 76­year-old


pope's condi-John Paul II tion "is not urgent," said Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro­Valls. John Paul will go ahead next week with a hectic, four­day trip to France. No date was set for the appen­dm~tomy, but Navarro-Valls indi­cated it would take place some­time after Oct. 6, when John Paul is scheduled to lead a beati­lieation ceremony in St. Peter's Square. The pope's personal physician, Dr. Henato Buzzonetti said he 
include the cities of Venice, 
Treviso, Milan, Bergamo and 
Brescia. 

Polls show only a small minority of northern Italians favor secession. By police esti­mate, 10,000 supporters turned out to hear Bossi's declaration of independence, the biggest 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be crowd yet in the three days of protests.
experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
Landing near Venice's Grand WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 Canal in a catamaran, the grav­
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 


$1 Students LITTLE THEATRE 

TRINITY IRISH ORNCE COMPRNY 
...ill ERNST& YOUNG LLP It's ever~ thing 
~ou'd expect -and like nothing 

Learn about maximizing your future ~ou'd imagine... 
with Ernst & Young LLP 
at the Accounting Career Night,
Saturda~. September 21 8P.M. o·~aughlin Auditorium 
in the Monogram Room
TI!kets: $5 (Students), $16 (Adults) on sole at the 
Saint Mary's Box Office, O'Loughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 9om. 5pm, Monday· Friday. .MO~AU 
on September 18th, 6:00 to 9:00pm 
Visa, Moltel{old, and DiltOV81 Older\ c·c= ·rc=D otcepted by phone ot219/284-4626 C, I C 'discounts lor senior titizens and groups 

and others on had ruled out the possibility of an abdominal tumor. John Paul had surgery in 1992 for what the Vatican said was a benign intestinal tumor. 
Buzzonetti said the pope's "transitory episodes of abdomi­nal pain linked with a fever, which have occurred since Dec. 25, 1995," are caused by "recurring episodes of inflam­mation of the appendix." 
The medical team recom­mending surgery included Francesco Crucitti, who did the tumor surgery and two surgeries in 1981 to repair damage from an abdominal gunshot wound in an assassination attempt. 
The Vatican said it released Buzzonetti's medical assessment to combat "the news, supposi­tions and rumors that have been spread in recent weeks." 
In recent months John Paul has often grimaced in pain and seems to tire easily. Last Christmas, the pope became nauseous while reading holiday wishes to a worldwide TV audi­ence and had to break off. The Vatican then said the pope had "something like" the flu. 

Greta Garbo stars in 
Anna 

blasts Rome at political rally 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
A$sociared Press Wrirer 
VENICE, Italy 

As thousands of followers cheered, secession leader Umberto Bossi declared north­ern Italy an independent nation Sunday, in his sharpest chal­lenge yet to the country's politi­cal establishment. 
"We peoples of Padania solemnly proclaim: Padania is an independent and sovereign federal republic," said Bossi, using the name he would give to an independent north. 
The declaration was only a symbolic gesture, marking a dramatic finale to three days of rallies for secession and against the Rome-based government, which Bossi accuses of oppress­ing and exploiting Italy's com­paratively wealthy north. 
Bossi leads the Northern League party, which emerged in the early 1990s as a power­ftd force in the north's wealthy, industrialized regions, which 
Unemployment I 6.7%1 

18.7% 
Public deficit $910,487\ $541,658 
*Monetary figures in U.S. dollars 
elly voiced leader somberly read out a declaration that con­demned the Italian state for "colonial oppression, economic exploitation and moral vio­lence" and denounced Rome for using the north's resources for "Mafia-like welfare for the south." 
"I feel free of Rome," said Andrea Dalla Vecchia, 21, who came from nearby Vicenza to see Bossi. 
Earlier Sunday, Premier Romano Prodi, speaking else­where in the north, declared 
Friuli-Venezia Giulia Liguria Emilia-Romagna Tuscany Marches 
Latium 
•Umbria Abruzzi Molise Campania 

Federal Republic of Padania 
Padania would have its own powers of taxation, law and order, self-representation and decision-making over public works projects. 
API Terry Kola 

that "unity and autonomy must travel together in our country." 
Scores of independence events leading up to the decla­ration were held in cities and towns along the Po Hiver, which runs through the rich industrial and agricultural heartland of northern Italy. 
In Venice, over 4,000 police were on hand to control the crowds. Leftist Mayor Massimo Cacciari urged citizens to stay home. Shoving broke out at another rally in Chioggia, injur­ing a parliamentary deputy. 
Apulia Basllicata Calabria Sicily Sardinia 


Monday, September 16, 1996

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Redwood anti-logging Voters bring cri01e fear to polls 
By JULIA PRODIS Associated Press Writer
rally leads to arrests 
ByJOHN HOWARD "We've tried everything," Bari LONGVIEW, Texas Associated Press Writer said. "These are some of the Daisy Carey double-locks her doors and is most magnificent beings on afraid to go outside. Chuck Brizius won't let his CARLOTTA. Calif. Earth. There is nothing left for wife go out alone after dark, even if it's just to 
Scores of environmentalists -us to do but put our bodies on buy a lottery ticket. including singer Bonnie Raitt -the line." They live on opposite sides of the same east W('re arrested Sunday in a Last year, a similar protest Texas town, she in a neighborhood of dope hous­demonstration against logging drew 2,500 people and about es and derelicts; he in an exclusive fenced-in 
in the world's last privately' 120 were arrested. community with a clubhouse and security guard owned virgin grove of redwood The demonstration by a coali­booth at the front gate. trees. tion of environmental groups He's got a .45. She's got a shotgun. 
The protesters, many of them was aimed at Pacific Lumber's As different as their worlds are, they have one emerging from soggy camp sites plans to remove dead, dying and thing in common -fear of crime. Like so many after a nightlong drizzle, con­diseased timber from about other Americans, when they go to the polls in verged on a quarter-mile 3,000 acres of the Headwaters November to vote for president, crime will be one stretch of road in front of Pacific Forest. issue that factors into their decision. Lumber Co.'s Carlotta mill, The company called it a sal­They also have something else in common with about 280 miles north of San vage operation, and had other Americans: They differ on which candidate Francisco. approval from courts and state would make them feel more secure in their 
Nearly 4,000 people were at forestry officials. homes and on their streets. the site, and by early evening Environmentalists said the "Neither one seems to be as strong on it as I between 300 and 400 of them logging would damage live trees would be," Brizius says, though he's leaning had been arrested and hand­and harm wildlife habitat. toward Bill Clinton over Bob Dole. cuffed on charges of intentional­Several men toting a logging '"Maybe (Ross) Perot would be, but I don't think ly trespassing on Pacific Lumber banner drove to the center of he stands a chance," says the 71-year-old retired land. the protest site. "If we don't log Army aviator, who has become the butt of jokes 
Among the arrested were it, somebody else will," said one as the "only man at a hen party" when he insists families with children, although private timber worker. on accompanying his wife out at night. none of the protesters was being 
jailed. They were processed at the site and released. 
The protesters trickled in throughout the day by bicycle, car and on foot. Raitt was arrested along with her father, Broadway star John Raitt. Bonnie Raitt and Don Henley were among the singers who made appearances to support the cause. 
Private security guards and sheriffs deputies in riot gear were deployed in front of the 
mill. 
Demonstrators went prepared to be arrested for civil disobedi­ence on behalf of the giant trees, said Earth First leader Judy Bari. 

TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 Saturday 10:00-5:00 
In the heart of "yellowdog" Democrat country in east Texas, Longview is an oasis of Republicans who have voted for every GOP presi­dential candidate since Eisenhower. North Longview in particular. the upscale area where piney woods are being bulldozed for new walled subdivisions, is a bastion of Republicans. 
Kathryn and Ben Hauk, who moved to Brizius's secure neighborhood after their old house was burglarized in broad daylight, plan to vote for Dole. 
Dole represents strong family values -and if those are in place, less crime will follow, Mrs. Hauk says. 
"Putting more policemen on the street isn't going to take care of it," says Mrs. Hauk, 73, referring to Clinton's efforts. "We have to start when they're young teaching them values." 
Down the street, across from the clubhouse, pool and tennis courts, Sarah and Brad Olson are planning to vote for Dole mainly because of his opposition to abortion. But crime is a real con­cern for them, especially while raising their two young children. 
Even though there hasn't been a crime here in Town Lake Village for 10 years, Mrs. Olson still worries. "When my husband is gone, I don't sleep well. I leave all the lights on. I have no par­ticular reason, nothing ever happened to me, but in today's society, you have to be concerned," says the 28-year-old stay-at-home mom. 


Students for 
Responsible Business 
New Leaders for Better Business 
Take your classroom skills and improve the lives of others• •. NOW! 
• 
Teach area high school students how the fundamentals of business can enhance their lives. 

• 
Create and conduct SOCIAL AUDITS for local companies and small businesses. 

• 
Participate in a new SRB Entrepreneurial Assistance Program that provides small business consulting. 


• Meet hundred of MBAs and corporate executives at the SRB Global Conference entitled Forces of Change: The En.trepreneurial and Intrapreneurial Spirit of Socially Responsible Business. Conference to be held at Northwestern's Kellogg School of Business. 
• Obtain an INTERNSHIP with a for-profit, non-profit, a community development corporation or an environment management venture. 
To learn more about SRB and its community outreach programs, join us for an Informational Meeting TONIGHT, Sept. 16 at the Notre Dame Business School, Room 161 at 7:00p.m. 
SRB is an international non-profit based out of San Francisco, CA. SRB welcomes sophomores, juniors, seniors and all graduate students 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 16, 1996, 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 H , Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
f.4ror-in-Chief  
(  Elabcth Foran  
Managing Editors  Business Manager  
Patricia Carson  Matt Casey  
Tom Roland  

News Editor ........................Brad Pr~· dergas8 Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Virwpoint Editor ................... Ethan aywar• Ad Design Manager ............................... jed Peters Spona Editor ..................... Timothy herm..; Production Man~ger ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent F.ditor ........................... Joey trawfor.. Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary'• F.ditor ................. Carol e Blun!i Controller .......................................... Tyler Web<r Photo Editor .......................... Mich I Ru~ 
0 ' 

The Observer is the independent newspaper ~blished by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du 1.o~c and Saint Mary's College. It doa. not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of drh<r insriturion. The no:ws is reponedas accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, No:ws Editor, 
Vio:wpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Edit'-• Spotts Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentaries, letters and Inside" Columns prtscnr the views of the authors, and not necessarily rhose 
ofThe Observer. Vi<wpoinr space is available1o all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­
munity •nd to all readers. Th< free <xpression pf varying opinions through letters is encourag<d. 
Editor-in-Chief 
Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNio:wpoint Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spom Sysrems/Marketi~g Depr. 631-8839 No:wsll'horo Office Manag<r 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's Fax 631-6927 Day Editot/l'roduction Vio:wpoint E-Mail Vio:wpoim.1@nd.edu GrnerallntOrmation Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• THE WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
I don't have anything too profound or insightful to share with ydu all this week. The world of nationall politics is exceptionally dull and depressing right now. There are no new local contro­versies raging, and if I choose to write on a campus issue, I'll have to live of accusations of "whining." But I must 
I

confess that this condition ~f pseudo­writer's block is partly m~ fault as well: you see my best friend from high school was here this wee,kend and 
Christopher Kratovil 


usurped my usual column-writing time and energy. But in the process he also provided me with a topic for this thing by forcing me to confront just how "eircumstantially schizoid" my exis­tence has become. 
Now the statement may not make sense to you. Indeed, it shouldn't mean much if you're one of the many Chicagoans or Hoosiers running around this place. But if you, like myself. have to endure a multi-day car ride or transcontinental plane flight every time you go to or from South Bend, then perhaps you have some idea where I'm going with this. I sup­posll it's an inevitable side effect of going to sehool a thousand miles away from home, but it's still disconcerting when you realize that you have devel­oped two full independent, unrelated, complete lives that parallel each other but never-or at least very rarely­intersect. 
I'm sure a lot of you h.ave experi­enced this. You have your life at home, and you have your life here. You're the same person in both places (making my use of the term "circumstantial schizophrenia" somewhat question­able, but, hey, I couldn't do any bet­ter), and the people in each place are sort of vaguely aware of your other reality-you've told them stories or shown them pictures. But nonetheless your two existences remain pretty much distinct. with you yourself as the only bridge between them. 
You have groups of people who are· incredibly dear to you in both places but don't know each other and proba­bly never will. You have stories about your adventures in one place that you tell in the other, but they end up sounding distant and impersonal. You use a slightly different vernacular at school and at home: "hook up", for example, goes from meani~g a random physical encounter with the opposite sex to meeting people for lunch or cof­fee. Your operative name is subject to change, as high school nicknames rarely carry over and their college counterparts seldom make it home. 
Again, I can't expect everybody to relate to this. One of my good friends up here, for example, is from a little town in central Illinois, and on any given football Saturday seemingly has about half of his high school class up here and/or a family-sponsored tail­gater. It's hard for me to imagine that he ever feels too far removed from his "other" life. 
The Chicago people can hop on the South Shore Railroad and be home for any given weekend, presumably less­ening the feeling of having two com­pletely separate lives. And then there are the poor 'Benders who have been here for years ... 
I don't know, perhaps I'm making more of this than it really deserves. But it seems that I'm always missing someone. Over the summer a phone call or letter from a Notre Dame friend was enough to make my day. The 
'you have groups of 
people who are incredibly dear to you in both places but don't know each other and probably never will. You have stories about your adventures in one place that you tell in the other, but they end up sounding distant and impersonal.' 
school year just reverses the situation by bringing me together with my NO friends even as it carries me away from my family and old friends. 
And when the distinct realities do finally intersect at an event like JPW or via a friend's trip, it's downright odd_ For example, my best college friend visited me in Dallas a couple of sum­mers back, and while out with him and a group of my high school buddies, the realization that in a sense my college peer group mirrors my high school peer group hit me. Certain friends in both places have been cast in the same roles in my life_ 
Junior Parents' Weekend provoked similar sensations in many of us as we for the first time brought our real fam­ilies into contact with the surrogate family of friends that we have devel-
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURV 

page 9 
' 
I 
~ 
, ~ 
, 
1 
1 


Coping :with 'circumstantial schizophrenia' 
oped over our time here. I recall many people commenting on how draining and exhausting-albeit fun-JPW was, and I think that this was largely a product of the stress of bringing together the two most important groups of people in our lives; would one approve of the other? 
And. then there is the challenge of trying to explain Notre Dame to an out­sider. A lot of what goes on around here just defies rational explanation: how do we account for things like the Linebacker ("Let me get this straight; your most popular bar is a cinder­block shack that plays Neil Diamond and Frank Sinatra?"), Sergeant Tim McCarthy ("Why are y'all laughing at that stupid pun?"). alumni wearing plaid pants ("Do they issue you guys those things at graduation?"), and parietals ("Isn't that a botany term?")? 
Over the last three years I've free­loaded all over the continental United States, taking advantage of the nation­al scattering of Notre Dame's student body during the summers, and the Diaspora of my high school friends during the school year. This unique distribution has allowed me to stay for free in about a dozen locations, from Baltimore, Maryland, to Seattle, Washington. I even stayed with a guy in Heidelberg, Germany, for a while. I can only hope that I didn't plunge all those people kind enough to take me in into the same sort of introspection and self-analysis that this past weekend provoked in me, but, oh well-at least I got a column out of it. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"you're young, and you've got your health. What do you want with a job?" 
-Evills Nokes 


. 

·-------------------------------------------------------------------~------._--------.---~-------, 
:;ACCENTpage 10 Monday, September 16, 1996 
• Now SHOWING 
Don~t Bother Takins a ~Maximum Risk.~ 
BY MARK TORMA over evidence to government officials body had forgotten about the Cold War Mikhail who knows everything about Accent Movie Critic and implicate the entire operation. Due and "Rocky IV"). If Van Damme's fast­him and his personal mission to turn in to Mikhail's unfortunate turn of events, kick action scenes are your special cup his associates in crime. As soon as she that evidence is still in a bank vault in of tea, then these scenes will rock your sees Alain in action, she falls for him(Out of Four) Nice, so it's up to Alain to recover it and world. Otherwise, they were absolutely and his impeccable morals -and yes, his restore his brother's good name. nothing more than the thrilling window­body, too. This plotline is a great sur­Does Alain do this? Of course he will dressing that should be expected in a prise, as is the fact that Henstridge's eventually, but that's not the real ques­VanDamme movie. character Alex has a whole wardrobe 
In a town in the south of France, a tion. Who knows Alain's Alain and not Then again, there wasn't anything in that's two sizes too small. man runs frantically from two pursuers. Mikhail? The FBI or the Russian Mob? the story of "Maximum Risk" that Alain gets over this flaw in Alex and The man is Jean-Claude Van Damme, That depends on who tried to kill shouldn't be expected. The big thug, the falls for her, too, and they travel back to but he looks far clumsier than usual. His Mikhail in the opening sequence. That criminal organizations out to get our Nice, accompanied by the FBI agents, pursuers are American and consider­would have been a great point of sus­muscular hero, and last but not least, who would like to obliterate the evi­ably more out of shape than he is, but pense, but it only comes up at the the more-than-beautiful woman who is dence implicating them. This includes the chase goes on. moment the question is answered. inextricably mired in a dire situation. obliterating Alain and Alex as well, but 
And then, still at the beginning of his The action instead centers around That woman is Natasha Henstridge, after even more breaking of heads, shat­new movie, "Maximum Risk" ... Jean­Alain's constant battles with a huge, mostly memorable for her "work" in tering of glass, and crashing of cars, Claude is killed! blonde Russian thug (but hadn't every-"Species." She plays the girlfriend of Alain has reclaimed the damning evi­
Wait -dence and obliterated his Russian 
Photo Courtesy of Columbia Pictures Industries. Inc. Photo Courtesy of Columbia Pictures Industries, Inc. 
ing with the Mob in Little Odessa, so Anthropology major from Alliance,
Jean-Claude Van damme starrs as retired Natasha Henstridge stars as Alex Minetti, the Alain has a lot to worry about, on French soldier Alain Moreau in the action thriller girlfriend of Alain's (Jean-Claude Van Damme's) Ohio. 
both sides of the Atlantic, when he "Maximum Risk." murdered brother. 
learns that Mikhail was going to turn 
• MOVIE REVIEW 
'Bogus' Oddly Aimed-Better for Television 
BY JOSH BECK stopped trying to figure it out. thought that "Bogus" was actu-believe that this would have Act" and made them into some­Accent Movie Critic The plot doesn't help, either. ally part of Albert's conscience, made more money if NBC had thing more. Movies are just a The beginning of the movie but later I got confused as he is broadcast it. Also, there is no little bit funnier when she's in As I was watching "Bogus", I portrays a young boy named made out to be a figment of the defmite audience for which it is them. However, this film didn't made a note that this was the Albert(Haley Joel Osmond) and imagination but something aimed. Of the ten people in the bring that out. I don't know way television movies were his mother, Lorraine(Nancy magical is well. The movie theater, two of them could be whether it was the lines or just made. The plot, the acting, the Travis). One night Lorraine, turns out not to be the story of considered children, and the because she didn't give every­script, and everything else who works as a showgirl at a Albert but the struggle for only thing I heard from them thing she could have, but she looked like it should have been Las Vegas hotel, is killed in an Harriet, who was a foster child was the snoring of one and the wasn't as funny and neither molded into an ABC Friday automobile accident. Albert herself. to acknowledge her incessant rocking of the seat were the movies few comedic night movie. This was such a then has to go through the pain imagination and therefore have from another. This movie is not scenes. Her acting is decent, problem that I was almost see­and anguish of losing his moth-a better relationship with meant for kids, although the and so is that of Depardieu, ing spaces where I could flip er while his preconcep-who is cast well as the big, the channel during one of those Lorraine's closest tion of it clumsy, imaginary friend of insane commercial breaks friends try to find might lead Albert. This is the first film where the announcer tells you, a place for him to you to that I've seen Osmond in, and "We'll be back in a moment." I live. They find believe so. his performance was believable also remember parts toward papers saying On the other but a little forced in some the end where if it had been a that the hand, I can't scenes. Norman Jewison 
T.V. movie that I would have Lorraine's closest say it was directed and wrote the script, fallen asleep on my couch. All relative is really an all-but I thought that this film of these attributes go into mak­Harriet(Whoopi out drama. needed more development and ing a movie for television. Goldberg), her The title for better lines. 
However. making a good foster sister it would Because of the plot and the movie has nothing to do with when she was a probably be quality of the lines and the act­where it is viewed. It has to do child. She's con-a 'dark fam-ing, I think "Bogus" would have with something called an audi­tacted in Newark ily film.' been better served as a family ence. Most filmmakers aim where she works The words film that could be watched at their movies at certain audi­as the boss of a drama and home. A little cleaning up of ences. For instance, I wouldn't shipping compa-c o m e d y the language and a lighter plot go see a movie like "First Kid" ny. Through don't apply could have made it just that. unless I were under the age of some legal pro-because this Also, if that had been done, we twelve and extremely gullible cedure(don't ask film was nei-would have at least known if it for my age. Or I could be one what), Harriet ther. The was a film for the kiddies or of those unfortunate parents finds that in the Photo Courtesy of Warner Brothers WOrd family one for the masses. I would who drag their kids to see that event of Gerard Depardieu stars as Bogus, in this new release with Whoopi is used have liked "Bogus" if it hadn't kind of stuff until they've grown Lorraine's death, Goldberg and Nancy Travis. 1 o o s e 1 y moved so slowly and Whoopi out of it. The point is that a she is the moth-because it Goldberg had been at her best. children's movie with a G or PG er of Albert. Albert then flies to Albert. It is a dual journey into isn't made out to be a family But, hey, you can't have every­rating is directed towards just Newark, where on the way he the souls of both Harriet and film. It's dark because of the thing when it comes to movies, that type of audience: children. meets Bogus(Gerard Albert. content of the plot. This movie and "Bogus" proved me right. I couldn't figure out what the Depardieu), an invisible friend As I said before, 'Bogus' is confused more than enter­So, when it comes down to the filmmakers of "Bogus" wanted with whom only he can con-better suited for living room tained. decision of what to watch this me to believe it was. At first I verse and see and converse. viewing rather than the big Let's face it: Whoopi Goldberg weekend, go rent something thought it was a kid's picture. Albert then meets Harriet, and screen. The length of the is an entertainer. She's taken with Whoopi in it. It'll be a lot But as it moved on I became their whirlwind relationship movie, the plot development. movies like "Ghost"(for which better than what you see on the more confused and I finally begins from there. At first I and the acting all fead me to she won an Oscar) and "Sister screen these days. 
..-----~---~--~-------------­
Football 
1996 

Notre Dame Purdue Dominant 
35-0 
"We always look for some­thing to happen and when Autry Denson 
By combining two rushing something happens we do 
scores with one on a 
our best to capitalize for screen pass, he proved the Blarney offense can work. 

With only one penalty on the afte.rnoon. the Irish helped only tlwmselves, never offering Purdue good field position. 


Melvin Dansby and Co. continued to impress on the defensive side of the ball. The Irish 
~.· 
have allowed just 46 net rushing yards in their first two outings. 

the positive. · 
··Lyron Cobbins 

Purdue D-Railed 

Fullback Marc Edwards took a hand-off and went airborne over the Boilermaker defense to score his second touchdown of the season. 
Defense "reigns" as Irish roll 35-0 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Spom Editor 
Notrn Dame delivered a stirring message to its critics on Saturday: paek your bags and get out of town. 
Following an avalanche of criticism after an uninspiring per­formance in the season opener, the Irish answered the critics in rtlsounding fashion, stomping the Purdue Boilermakers 35-0 on a eold and rainy day at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I thought we played very well today overall," said Irish head eoach Lou Holtz. "Purdue eame out and played well. They made some niee throws. Our defense played especially well today." 
Eager to set the tone early, the Irish more than accomplished that on the opening kiekoiT. Kick returner Allen Rossum burst out of' the gates like a well-trained thoroughbred, galloping 99 yards for the game's first touchdown. 
"Tiw way it was designed and the way it worked out, I've rwvPr had that happen before," said Holtz. "But it was a good start." 
Hossum's return was the fourth best in school history and the longest sinee Clint Johnson ran a kiek back for 100 yards against Stanford in 1993. 
Notre Dame was able to control the clock in the first half, pulling together two drives of more than 90 yards to take a commanding 21-0 lead. 

• IRISH INSIGHT 
All the 
way 
L
ast Friday night at the Pep Rally, Notre Dame linebacker Bert Berry told the crowd there are three types of people in life. According to Berry, there are ,----------, 
leaders, followers, ' · 
and those 
f 
who just 
.••. need to get out of the way. 
With a little help Joe Villinski 
from the 
Irish spe-Associate Sports cial teams Editor u n i t , 
Purdue chose the third option during yesterday's opening kickoff, providing one of the most memorable plays to begin a season at Notre Dame Stadium. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
see IRISH I page 2 

Purdue tailback Edwin Watson found little daylight against the Irish. 
see INSIGHT I page 3 

-~---------------------~--------------------------, 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA September 16, I996 
A prophecy fulfilled: Ross urn races the distance, flashbacks abound 
By TIM SHERMAN  "Last night (Friday night) during  Even before he took the kick, the  
Sports Editor  the relaxation period, we went over  5-foot-8, 178-pound junior was  
the opening kickoff verbatim," Irish  seen motioning as if to say 'All the  
The last time Notre Dame scored  coach Lou Holtz explained in his  way'.  
within the first minute of the game  post-game press conference.  "It  "That (the relaxation period) was  
was 1993. The last time they start­ed the season with two wins was  was the middle match (the designed play in which everyone takes one  all that was going through my mind," Rossum said. "I was telling  
1993.  The last time they returned  man).  the  ball  went  to  Allen  myself, 'I want to make a touch­ 
a  kick-off for  a  touchdown was  Rossum, and everyone just got their  down."'  
1993.  block and we scored on it."  He succeeded in that.  Now, it's  
Are you sensing a pattern here?  And it made Holtz look  a  bit  up to everybody else to see if this  
During the year in question,  the  prophetic.  was indeed a precursor to a stand­ 
Irish streaked out to  a 10-0 start  "It just worked out that way,"  out season.  
and finished the season as  the  Holtz said.  ''I've never had that  1993 comes to mind.  
nation's  second-ranked  team.  happen before."  The Observer/Rob Finch  
Though it is still very early in the  Rossum was more entertained  
season, Allen Rossum's 99-yard  than surprised about the pre­ 
kickoff return on the opening play of Notre Dame's 35-0 win over the  diction. "Well, coach had a vision of his  
Boilermakers of Purdue evoked  own," Rossum joked.  "Down at this  
memories of 1993.  thing called 'relaxation', he just  
During the opening game against  went through the game and he said  
Northwestern, Irish linebacker Pete  on the opening kickoff. we'll have  
Bereich intercepted a tipped Len  middle match and I was going to  
Williams pass and took it in for  a  return it for six.  I'm just glad that I  
touchdown.  Later in the year.  was able to contribute to this win."  
speedster Clint Johnson sailed  The play was not just a contri­ 
through the Stanford kick covergae  bution, it was a immediate momen­ 
unit for a 100-yards score.  tum builder.  
r  Rossum's burst up the middle  "That is  a tremendous boost,"  
r  combined those two memorable  Rossum said.  "This was a pick-me­ 
r  scores into one thrilling play.  up.  A couple guys may have been  
r  Taking Chris Arnce's  kick at the  down...l don't know.  But this was a  
one-yard line, Rossum, who is con­ nail in the coffin early."  
sidered to be the fastest man on the  Talking about a coffin when over  
f r r  Irish roster, wasted no time in hit­ting a hole that was quite compara­ble to the parting of the Red Sea. "Everyone contributed to that  59 minutes remained on the clock may have been a bit premature, but Rossum has never been one to lack confidence.  
play,"  an exuberant Rossum said  "(After the touchdown) I was just  
after the win.  That hole was ten  trying to maintain from celebrating  
feet wide.  No one touched me.  The  too much," said the Irish corner­ 
kicker was the closest guy."  back. "I didn't want to get called  
The Observer/Mike Ruma Before his memorable opening kickoff return, Allen Rossum pointed towards the ground as if to indicate this return would be special....  What made the 13 second play even more interesting was the cir­cumstance under which the play unfolded.  back for a celebration penalty." Rossum's excitement wasn't just contained to his actions after the runback.  The Observer/Mike Ruma The speedy Rossum then raced untouched for a game-opening TD.  

Irish 
continued from page 1 
Tailback Autry Denson, starting in the place of the injured Randy Kinder, scored the first of his three touchdowns on a two-yard scamper into the corner of the endzone. 
"The line did it for me," said Denson. "They made great blocks so that I could have huge holes to run through. We played hard as a team, and we accom­plished this as a team." 
Fullback Marc Edwards, who was rel­atively quiet on the day with just 40 yards on the ground and no receptions, capped a nine play, 90-yard drive with his second touchdown of the season. The senior captain displayed his athletic ability, taking a Ron Powlus handoff and diving over the pile from one yard out. 
The score stood at 21-0 with less than a minute left before intermission. After the Notre Dame defense forced a Danny Rogers punt, the sellout crowd all but assumed Irish would run out the clock and prepare for the second half. 
My, how times have changed. This is a different type of Notre Dame offense with a completely different rnindset. In past years, the Irish would have sat on the ball, content with a lead going into the intermission. Instead, Lou Holtz's offense came out passing, and the results speak for themselves. 
With the help of a defensive holding call and a personal foul by PU corner­back Janel Coleman, the Irish moved the ball to the Purdue 19-yardline. 
After finding tight end Pete Chryplewicz open for nine yards at the 10-yardline, Powlus spotted Denson cut­ting across the middle of the field and the sophomore tailback did the rest. He quickly reversed his direction and danced into the endzone for the easy score. 
On the final drive of the half, Powlus. who completed 19-of-32 passes for 238 yards for the game, displayed the confi­dence and leadership that he seemed to lack in the season opener. 
"I have a great group of guys this year that I feel comfortable with," said Powlus. "I know that these guys will do whatever they have to do to protect me Bert Berry, and Kory Minor. version of 9-of-14 opportunities. and I know that they always give every­"It's great playing with all these guys," "You've got to be able to stop them some thing they have." said Cobbins. "It's like playing with a place. We didn't line correctly or get in 
While the offense tallied 459 yards, family that will support you. We always the right place." the story of the game was the Irish look for something to happen and when With the rain and mud finally taking defense. The unit held the Boilers' to something happens we do our best to its toll, the fourth quarter was charac­just 203 yards and 13 firstdowns while capitalize for the positive." terized by sloppy play from both the forcing Purdue quarterback Billy Dicken "We played well this week in the game, Irish and Boilermakers. The Purdue­to run for his life all day long. and we hope to carry it on throughout Notre Dame rivalry is well-renowned for 
"They are a good defensive team," the season." poor weather, and this year's contest said Purdue head coach Jim Colletto. Notre Dame capped its offensive fire­was no different. "Their defense from last year is a year works with 4:20 remaining in the third "I don't care what the forecast is, it older and stronger. They are a physical quarter. Denson, who finished with 51 rains every time we play Purdue," said bunch of guys." yards rushing and 62 more receiving, Holtz. "I can't remember the last time it 
Defensive coordinator Bob Davie's scored from two yards out for his third didn't rain when we played Purdue." bunch recorded seven sacks, including touchdown of the afternoon. Nonetheless, even Mother Nature one apiece for the starting linebacker "They had a lot of third down conver­couldn't keep the Irish from silencing corps of Lyron Cobbins, Linnon Tatum, sions," said Colleto of Notre Dame's con-the critics. 

cashed in his pass of the season. Interception was only big mistake,. butit didn't mat~ ter in 35..0 laugher. · ·· 

gBacksB+ 


Autry Densonl .· ound attack Wlfh ~p ouch:­downs and 66 yards. but Marc Edwards and Robert Farmer remained quiet. 
Receivers A-Malcolm Johnsoncontinued to emerge, and Powlus got help from pri;l(;~lca.lly every receiving threat on the team. 
Offensive Line A-Wisne impressed in his starting debut, and the men in the trenches put in another solid performance. 
Defensive Une A Dansby, Wynn, andMaide.n are a formidapJe trio. Continued pressure helped cause six satks on the day. 

Linebackers A BertBerry continued torrid play, and Minor nearly hada pick. These guys are scary. 
Secondary B+ l.Jnitallowed 159 yards through the air, and manw aged. to not surrender the big play. 
Special Teams A· Rossum's return was a spectacular team effort, but missed field goal and fumbled punt return prevent perfect grade. 
CoacbingA­ln his historic game, Holtz used a balanced attack to keep the Boilermakers guessing. 
Overall Grade 3.67 Home blowout helped erase memories of last two seasons, and the. team's performance helped erase doubts many voiced after Vanderbilt thriller. This is a very talented team. 
-Dylan Barmmer 

September 16, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Receiving corps beginning to catch on...and on... 
star receiver and ball-hog
QB Ron Pow/us 
Derrick Mayes, Powlus has been able to look to more thanspreads the one or two targets during the course of a game this season, awealth in new­luxury that he never seemed to 
enjoy at all last year. look offense "We don't have that one go-to receiver any more," comment­
BY DYLAN BARMMER ed tight end Pete Chryplewicz,
Assistant Sports Editor 
who caught a career-high five receptions for 52 yards on theAs the Notre Dame offense 
afternoon. "But we do havestruggles to forge an identity 
guys you can count on." this stmson, there is one fact 
The Irish counted on two
whieh seems a constant for this hands the number of reliableunit. 
receivers on the day, fromStrength can certainly be 
freshmen Raki Nelson and Dekefound in numbers. Cooper, to senior wideout CikaiDuring the Irish's 35-0 lam­Champion, who caught just his
basting of Purdue this past 
second ball in three seasons.Wllekend, Irish fans were treat­"The offense is designed toed to what has, over the past 
take advantage of whatever
few seasons, come to seem like 
they're not covering," com­
a rarity -an airborne football. mented Champion. "It was niceIn passing for over 200 yards to get involved today and makefor tlw seeond straight game, a contribution."Hon Powlus and the Irish uti­
Contributing in a big way
liwd just about every possible once again was emerging starrm:t~ivt~r on th11 roster. Ten dif­Malcolm Johnson, who led theferent players caught balls for Irish in receiving yardage fortlw Irish, the most since a win the second straight game with over Miehigan State in 1993. four receptions for 75 yards. The Irish even utilized the 
Johnson, a big target who
shotgun, a weapon which seem­
entered the season with zero
ingly had been passed up in career receptions, isn't com­favor of the more traditional Perhaps lloltz's frustration alright." many. Not just for two games, plaining about the increase inbatt~Wing ram for the past sev­lies in the faet that his team The mix has definitely been but for the whole season. passing situations. eral snasons. 
has had problems running the there, but it is the inefficiency While the ground game has "As a receiver, you alwaysWhen asked about the variety 
ball -a problem that Holtz is of the running game which has stalled, it has been the passing want to catch the ball," saidof targets during the press con­not used to, nor one which was caused Holtz the most concern. attack which has kept the Irish Johnson. "Running the ball is
ference following the game, 
expected this season. While Autry Denson and the on top. Powlus was a still our bread and butter, butcoaeh Lou lloltz seemed more "We can't control the line of Irish ground attack tallied a respectable 20-34 for 244 
opening up the attack gives aexasperated than exhilerated. 
scrimmage well enough on a respectable 215 yards on the yards, a touchdown, and one whole new wrinkle to the"We don't really have any consistent basis," muttered ground, they also managed to interception on the day, num­offense, and gives defenses more to show," lloltz quipped Holtz. "We aren't able to run lose two fumbles, bringing the bers which nearly mirror his something else to think about." 
when asked what else he had the ball consistently, and I can't total of lost fumbles to six in 19-32 performance in the It may give the Irish them­up his sleeve. ''I'm not pleased figure out why. If we can mix just two games. Nashville nailbiter the week selves something else to thinkwith where we are offensively ­up the run and pass well and If you know anything about before. about this season as well:not at all." 
run the ball efl'ectively, we'll be Holtz, you'll know that's six too And with the departure of A National Championship. 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Insight
Purdue Notre Dame First Downs 13 28 
continued from page 1 Rushed-yards 26-44 43-215 Passing yards 159 244 
Allen Rossum's 99 yard touchdown return was 
certainly an auspicious way to christen the not­
Sacked-yards lost 6-37 1-3 
quite-new Stadium. It's too bad another 20,000
Return yards 18 20
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
weren't there to witness it.
Passes 14-31-0 20-34-1 
His run could not have been scripted better.
Punts 10-39.5 3-44.0
1. Nebraska (58) 1-0 1662 1 
Before ripping off the fourth longest return in
Fumbles-lost 0-0 3-2
2. Tennessee (5) 2-0 1561 2 
Penalties-yards 1 0-87 1-13 
Notre Dame folklore, Rossum could be seen 
Time of possession 25:32 34:28 
motioning towards the ground as if this was going to be the big one. 
3. Florida St. (4) 1-0 1536 3 
4. Florida 2-0 1519 4 
Individual Statisiics 

The one everyone's been waiting for. 
RUSHING: Purdue-Watson 15-50, Matthews 3-19, Dicken 8-minus 
For two years. 
5. Penn St. 3-0 1369 6 
25. 

After the 1994 and 1995 home openers, severe
6. Texas 2-0 1232 7 
Notre Dame-Denson 15-66, Farmer 7-40, Edwards 9-37, Jackson 3­
outbreaks of depression were visible on campus.
24, Mosley 2-19, Spencer 2-13, Powlus 2-12, Goodspeed 2-8, 
Football optimism was inevitably peaking, but
7. Ohio St. 1-0 1225 8 
Cooper 1-4. 

would be short-lived. For the past two years,
8. Michigan 2-0 1211 11 
widespread optimism received a jolt of reality
PASSING: Purdue-Dicken 14-31-0-159. Notre Dame-Powlus 19-32­
courtesy of Michigan and Northwestern. 
9. Notre Dame 2-0 1099 9 
1-238, Jackson 1-2-0-6. 

Back-to-hack opening home losses forced the
10. Miami 3-0 1071 10 
Irish into a hole from which they could not recov­
RECEIVING: Purdue-Tillman 5-66, Alford 4-36, Olivadotti 3-41, L. 
er. Sure, they won other games, but hopes of that
11 . North Carolina 2-0 926 12 
Johnson 2-16. Notre Dame-Chryplewicz 5-52, M. Johnson 4-75, 
elusive perfect season were dashed immediately. 
Denson 3-61, Nelson 2-17, Carreta 1-11, Cooper 1-9, Champion 1-8, 
12. Colorado 2-1 911 5 
Even before the first official day of autumn,
Mosley 1-6, Stephens 1-6, Spencer 1-minus 1. 
13. Alabama  3-0  764  13  Notre Dame fans were forced to turn in every  
14. Auburn  3-0  746  15  • SCORING SUMMARY  night without visions of a national championship passing and rushing through their minds.  
15. Southern Cal. 16. Kansas St.  2-1 3-0  702 684  16 17  Purdue  1 0  2 0  3 0  4 0  F 0  On Saturday, Rossum and the rest of the Irish made sure those same fans have pleasant dreams for at least another week. Rossum's run energized  
17. Arizona St. 18. Virginia Tech 19. Iowa 20. Virginia 21. LSU 22. Kansas  2-0 2-0 2-0 2-0 1-0 2-0  587 528 454 441 381 360  18 19 21 22 20 24  Notre Dame 14 14 7 0 35 SCORING SUMMARY FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame-Rossum 99 yard kickoff return (Sanson kick) at 0:13 (1 play, 99 yards) Notre Dame-Denson 12 yard run (Sanson kick) at 10:43 (13  a crowd and gave them a moment that will be dif­ficult to duplicate. After squeaking by Vanderbilt. fans entered the Stadium not knowing what to expect, but by the end of Rossum's run, they might have thought any­thing was possible. While Rossum ran it back, fans probably ran the gamut of emotions with him. Just think about it. Rossum takes it at the goal line ... "Gee, I hope we  
23. Syracuse  0-1  214  23  plays, 92 yards)  start stronger than last week." He's at the 20 ... "Mmm, looks like we've formed a  
24. Washington  1-1  174  SECOND QUARTER  nice wedge there. Pass the popcorn."  
25. Oregon  3-0  103  Notre Dame-Edwards 1 yard run (Sanson kick) at 12:58 (9 plays, 90 yards)  Past the 30 ... "Cut left Allen. yards and the mash pit starts."  Cut left.  70 more  
Others receiving Votes: Brigham Young 93, Northwestern 52, West Virginia 47,  Notre Dame-Denson 10 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 14:58 (5 plays, 56 yards)  Down to the 40... "Split those defenders and you're home free. This is unbelievable. To hell with the popcorn."  
Georgia Tech 22, Texas Tech 19, Wyoming 16, Arizona 8, UCLA 8, Utah 8, South Carolina 6, Air Force 5, Wisconsin 4, California 3, East Carolina 2, Texas A&M 2, Toledo 2.  THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame-Denson 1 yard run (Sanson kick) at 12:00 (9 plays, 70 yards) FOURTH QUARTER  Hossum breaks away at the 50 ... "Rossum rules. You can outrun any Boilermaker. You're the man" Passing the 30 .... "Hey, quit grabbing me. He's not there yet, hold ofT on the celebration." 15 ... 10 ... 5 .... "This is a historic moment. I love Notre Dame football and I love Allen Rossum."  
The Observer/ Tom Roland  None  Touchdown ... "We're going all the way this year."  
Just like Rossum.  



. The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Defensive end Renaldo Wynn forces Billy Dicken into another hurried throw. 
: 


, , The Observer/Rob Finch 
M1ddle linebacker Lyron Cobbins, seen here registering one of seven Irish sacks applied pressure on Purdue QB Billy Dicken all day. ' 
Notre Dame 35 Purdue 0 
Notre Dame Stadium September 14, 1996 
• GAME NOTES 

Wisne, receivers, and referees all help Irish 
total yards column of the stat sheet
DEBUT 

(459 to PU's 203), they also fared well left guard Jeremy Akers in the season­
Disappointed with the play of senior 
in the penalty area. The officials whis­opening 14-7 win at Vanderbilt, Irish 
tled NO for just one 13 yard penalty while the Boilermakers were flaggedcoach Lou Holtz opted to start sopho­more Jerry Wisne in his place. The 
10 times for 87. 6'7", 294 pound Wisne did not disap­
"I think we got some breaks on some calls from the officials today and it
point. Early in the contest, Wisne threw a superb block that sprung 
helped some drives," senior fullback Emmett Mosley for a 16-yard reverse. 
Marc Edwards noted. The Tulsa, OK native was also a key cog in the Irish offensive machine that FOR SALE 
The commercialization of Notre
racked up an impressive459 total yards in offense. 
Dame football has perhaps reached a new height, as the University announced that an auction of authentic 
SPREADING THE WEALTH 
pieces of the pre-renovation Notre passes against the Boilermakers. The 
Ten different Irish receivers caught 
Dame Stadium will be held on last time so manyhad receptions was 
November 25th in South Bend. It will be conducted by Christie's Sports
the 1993 game against Michigan State. Tight end Pete Chryplewicz led with Auction. Among the available items five. 
will be the elevator from the press box, "It's great to spread the ball the NO carpet from the locker room, around," said Malcolm Johnson, who 
and the actual sideline bench of the chipped in four. "We do it like receiver 
Irish. by committee." 
TRADITION CONTINUES 
One of the many traditions of a home
ACTION JACKSON 
game at Notre Dame is a fourth quar­future first-string quarterback Jarious 
The much-anticipated debut of 
ter public service announcement con­Jackson was less than spectacular. 
cerning the dangers of drunk driving 
While at times showing great poten­that is given by Sgt. Tim McCarthy of tial, a fourth-quarter fumble and other the Indiana State Police. Sergeant Tim first game jitters caused Holtz to jok­
has provided a pun about drinking and ingly label Jackson "a very good 
driving during each home game since fourth-string quarterback" following 
1960. Playing off the rainy condition of the game. 
South Bend during the game, Sgt. Tim offered, "Never drive like an animal PENALTY BOX when it's raining cats and dogs." Not only did the Irish dominate the 
~-----~-l 
I 
I 

ACCENT j 
Mom ay, September 16, 1996 page 11 
• AT THE VIDEO STORE WITH fATMAN AND DADDY 
Dr. Strangelove. Or, How to Learn to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb 
By FATMAN and DADDY 
Accent Movie Critics 
~ ~ ~ ~ (Out of Four) 
Synopsis: A wacky and renegade United States Air Force.general orders a .nuclear stri.ke on Soviet Russia in order to stop those insidious commumsts from destroymg the punty of our American essence. With only moments remaining to avert the entire destruction of the human species, a group of inept politicians and bureaucrats scramble to avert the impending disaster. Are they successful? Rent this classic film and find out! 
Daddy: When the hierarchy of the Observer asked the F~tman and I to pe~iodica!ly review movies on video so that our audience could both discover a few classic dust1es and gain a little insight as to what makes their favorite critics tick, we were delighted to accept the new responsibility. However, upon learning that pornography and P.re­recorded Journey concerts wouldn't jive with what the man wanted, we were worned that we might he incapable of finding a video· to write about. Luckily enough, we stum­bled into a copy of "Dr. Strangeiove"; and, in doing so, found ourselves right smack dab in the middle of this week's offering. 
Arguably the best movie from prodigious director Stanley Kub~i~k, "Dr. Str.angelov~" is a campy look at the utter madness better k.nown .as the ~.S. M1ht~ry Machme. Set. m the heart of the Cold War, this movie is an mcred1ble remmder of JUSt how darn silly the whole Red Scare was. The movie's main antagonist, General jack D. Ripper, fearing that water fiouridation marks the beginning of Russia's attempt to destroy the U.S., launches his own nuclear attack on our old commie foes. After watching the movie, you will laugh convulsively and ask yourself if any conspiracy scenario could be more ridicu­lous and implausible. The answer to your question is yes. It was called the ."Domino Effect Theory", and it led us to battle the nefarious peasants of Southeast As1a. Hence, the main point and beauty of "Dr. Strangelove". . . . . . . 
"Dr. Strangeiove" is a timeless classic that teaches 1ts audience to fear m1htary mstltu­tions which must constantly generate false threats in order to justify their costly and brutal existences. The idea is no less apropos in 1996 than it was in 1966 ... except our current cardboard nemesises reside in the Mideast and not Eurasia. This movie also teaches us that there can be no fighting in the War Room. Most importantly, this film shows its audience what a damn fine actor Peter Sellers was, and why Stanley Kubrick just might very well be America's finest director. 
Fatman: Of the endless slew of movies that have passed before my sagging eyes throughout the years, "Dr. Strangelove" is one of my favorites. Its cynical, unabashed look at American ignorance and social programming makes it a must-see for anyone whose lQ exceeds Monk Malloy's. 
Stereotyping, blind allegiance to nationalism, and a complet~ lack of perspect~v.e mark the targets of Stanley Kubrick's dead-on dark comedy. The film mocks the politi­cally eX(Wdient depiction of communism as a conspirin~ agency of evil challenging. the divine destiny of American imperialism. It does so not with a heavy-handed, pretentious dissection of conceptions of western political ideology, but rather with a playful sense of humor that makes the impact of its message all the more effective. It still shocks me that "Strangclove's humor and wit transcend 30 years time. . , . . . 
"Dr. Strangelove" also marks the beginning of Stanley Kubnck s stnng of cmemat1c masterpieces. This film was succeeded by "2001: ~Space Odyssey" and "A ~Iock~ork Orange". All three were made consecutively. I don t know of any other Amenc~n duec­tor who has strung together such an impressive streak of artistry. And I thmk that "Strangeiove" is the most remarkable of the three. It'~ incredibly funny while st~ll show­ing us the foibles of our political agenda. It is also Important to note that t~IS ~ttack against senseless violence and mutual ideological prejudice came out at the begmnmg of the Vietnam War. 
Well, Daddy and I heartily recommend this masterpie.ce. I ca~ think of ~o bett~r place than Notre Dame for a film which questions un~avermg all~g1ance to an Jde?lo?I­cal institution to be shown. Watch this, learn from tim, process this. Also, laugh With It. 
Fatman awl Daddy are Jolin Zacll and Scott Bozik. 
Vldeowatch 1, "UP CLOSE AND PERSONAL" 
2. 
"SERGENT BILKO" 

3. 
"EXECUTIVE DECISION" 

4. 
"THE TRUTH ABOUT CATS AND DOGS" 

5. 
"MULHOLLAND FALLS" 

6. 
"THE MUPPETS' TREASURE ISLAND"


TOP 
7. 
"MARY RIELY" 

8. 
"HAPPY GILLMORE" 


10 
9. "FROM DUSK TIL DAWN" 1O."BLACK SHEEP" 
COURTESY VIDEOWATCH OF SOUTH BEND 
ACCENT 
THE STAR WARS TRILOGY 
"BRAVEHEART" "FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF" 
PICKS 
"MONTY PYTHON AND THE HOLY GRAIL" THE INDIANA JONES TRILOGY 
10 of the 
NOVA'S "THE MIRACLE OF LIFE" "GREASE" 
BEST 
"PULP FICTION" "THE BLUES BROTHERS" 
VIDEO 
"ALADDIN"

RENTALS 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 

Days ofOur Lives 
By JENIFER KOCH and JUllE BARBOUR 
Dan ofOur Lives Correspondems 

Howdy y'all! Sorry about that, but we're practicing our Texan lingo for our upcoming trip to UT. Don't worry though, our travel plans won't interfere With our Days correspondence. We take our journalistic responsibilities seri· ously, you know, So, with that said, let's talk about this week on Days. 
''A Child Stolen" plugged up the hourglass as everyone except Bo and Hope end up in Pads helping in the search for Will. Kate arrived with plans for a television spot starring Austin and Sami as the desperate parents pleading for the return of their son. Will's temporary parents saw the news flash and were so overwhelmed with guilt that they immediately bought plane tickets out of France. Hopefully, they are headed for Salem, the forgotten hub of action, and we can get the cast back to the States before their Visas expire. Carrie, the "big sister who's ready to play rough, H failed to !ind Mary through Celeste's psychic powers but later managed to catch the kidnapper while o~ a stress-relieving shopping spree With Billie. Mary refused to talk to the pohce at first, but after a plea from Carrie, an attack by Sami, and a compromise with Rene the French detective, Mary revealed the name and address of Will's buyers. 
Kristen suddenly exploded with pregnancy, padded of course, ending Marlena's suspicions of hypersensitivity to the near miscarriage (or maybe not so near). John, Mr. "I don't miss a detail," attributed the rapid change to the baby shifting positions. Yeah, he's quick like that. 
Peter attempted to make up for forgetting }en's birthday by throwing an impromptu party at the sidewalk cafe, complete with Laura's arrival in Paris. Jack scored bonus points with a sentimental gift for }en, and managed to plant even more seeds of doubt in her mind. Troubles continued to build !or Peter when Celeste, who hired our very own ND Student Managers to pamt on her gold dress, showed up with Daniel Scott as her date. After realizing the identity of his host, Daniel tried to bolt for the door but Laura, who wowed us with her sprinting ability, caught Daniel in a chase through the Parisian alleyways. 
A showerless Vivian and Ivan popped in for a segment from the French prison where their communication through the pipes will continue due to Kate's friendship with the judge in charge of the case. After hearing Kate's horror stories about Vivian, the judge deaied the shameless duo's release. 
Bo and Hope owe us a week's supply of crackers to go with the cheese they've spread. After running in to Mrs. H at the Salem Club (exactly the place we'd want to see our grandmothers), they spent the next few episodes aboard the infamous Fancy Face, which had been overly decorated by the sneaky Sean D. Don't expect wedding bells just yet ... Billie's on the plane back to Salem. 
This week we're predicting the exposure of Peter's background and possibly Will's long-awaited rescue. Who knows, we might even see the start of a miraculous recovery for Victor. But we don't want to get our hopes up for all that-it's only one week. 
Questions, comments, and heartfelt praise may be sent to our Vays duo at fenifer.L.Koclr.6@nd.edu or barb2883@saintmarys.edu. 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Ge11eral Hospital Correseondem 

This week in Port Charles ... 
Robin's going-away party is made perfect when Felicia arrives unhar;"1ed. Robin spends her last night with Jason and leaves a note for Mac explaming about the new HIV drug therapy she plans to become a part of. She comes back as he's reading it, and they share a tearful goodbye. As Jason drops her off at Yale, he tells her he loves her and then, crying, roars off. 
Lucy saves the day by saving both Felicia and Kevin from his other personal­ity. The painful secret from Kevin's past was revealed: apparently, in his child· hood, his mother would take Ryan into the bathroom; unbeknownst to the young Kevin, Ryan was being molested. Oblivious to the re~sons behind h~s mother's attentions to Ryan, Kevin was jealous. One day, he Impersonated h1s twin and narrowly missed being molested himself. He told his father, who responded by packing Kevin up and moving out. For thirty ye~rs, Kcvi.n car· ried the guilty feeling that he had left Ryan and, thu~, has Vl~wed himself responsible for what his brother became. Lucy helps KeVln to realize that there was nothing a child could have done, and a shaken Kevin emerges from his subconscious. He is taken to the hospital and Mac does not press charges. Felicia, on the other hand, is tormented by flashbacks of Ryan and Kevin. 
early, under pressure from Piser, decides to tell Tony who she really is. At the hospital, Bobbie notices the discrepancy between Carly's entrance exam results and the work she has done so far. Tony defends early and then goes to see her. As soon as he walks in, Carly spins her seductive web, ensnaring the hopelessly naive Dr. Jones. Is Tony just dense, or does he do it to get it.on? 
Nikolas, still missing, has the PCPD, Luke, and various Cassadme ~nd Corinthos goons looking for him. Luke finds him in the catacombs and g1ves him some advice: hit the road, kid. Nikolas breaks into the Spencer house to see Lulu. The tender scene is interrupted by an enraged Lucky, who proceeds to attempt to rough up Nikolas ...despite the fact that the latter has a foot and one hundred pounds on him. Luke and Laura return home and Luke tells his wife that he has no idea where the young Cassadine is. They open the door to the bump, bump, splat of the aforementioned Nikolas falling down the stairs · and landing at their feet. Lucky stands at the top of the stairs, looking both horrified and proud. Stefan, informed by a goon of Nikolas's whereabouts, Is on his way over. Will the feud between the families claim another victim? 
Lois gives Ned her permission to stay and defend ELQ from his mother and Jax. "Your fights are my fights," she tells him. Meanwhile, Brenda discovers what her husband is up to, and calls him on it. He answers her truthfully on every point and gets philosophical about why he does what he does. My God, is this man perfect or what? Sonny who?! 
Tune in for more GH excitement next week ... 
L____________________________________________________ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 16, 1996 
The ObseJVer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

SKYDIVEII 
Experience the ULTIMATE 
of all sports 
Training students tor over 
30 years 
1 hour North of South Bend 
Call for class times 
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 
1-800-351-6617 
1-616-628-4892 
Entertainment Electronics Co. 3509 Grape Rd (@ Classic Stereo) 255-1172 Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2 You break it, we'll fix it!!! 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
FOR A GREAT RATE ON 
RENTERS & AUTO INS. 
CALL RANDY 257-9572 
AMERICAN FAMILY INS. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
REWARDII If anyone has or knows someone who has my black Jansport backpack with a camara and datebook inside, I will gladly give a reward for its return II Please, I would really, really,really appreciate it! I NO QUESTIONS ASKEDI! Call 634-1403. 
WANTED 

HELP WANTED-$10.25 Part-time work. Flexible eve. and weekend hours. No exp. required. All majors welcome. Scholarships available. Info-call282-2357 
WANTED: Black Crowes tix!! 
need at least 2 or up to 5. call 
wendy at 243 -9430. 
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3) NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY, ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR TO COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM NO), BUT OTHER ARRANGE­MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235 
Cleaner wanted for 1 hr/wk @ $10 
to clean the on-campus apartment 
of two female students. Call 
4-4158. 
Two Dave Matthews tickets for sale at face value. Call 1-4543. 

WOMEN ARE NEEDED to deliver morning newspapers door-to-door. Earn spending $$ working only 3 or 4 d_?ys a week. Call Mike x1186. 
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game, 9/28. Attend family tailgate, watch 1 yr. old daughter during game. Call Matt at (614)469-3605 during day. 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­
Positions are now availalbe at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 
extN55848 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room &Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
I HAVE A GREAT -HOPEFULLY PROFITABLE-IDEA FOR A COM­PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL TOM 288-5655. 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sella Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
***FREE TRIPS & CASH*** Find out how hundreds of student representatives are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
SOCCER REFEREES Students needed to referee soccer games for southside elementary school (Grades 5-8), located near 
f
ottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All mes scheduled between 4:00PM d 5:30PM, Monday-Friday, Sept Oct.29. $15.00-$20.00 per game. Must have referee uniform. Call291-4200 or 291-8731. ­
SOCCER/X-COUNTRY/BASKET­BALL COACH Responsible stu­dent/grad student needed to coach girls soccer or basketball teams, coed x-country tor southside ele­mentary schoool (Grades 5-8), 
located near Scottsdale Mall on 
Miami Street. Practice 1 :30-2:30 or 2:15-3:15PM, Mon-Thurs. All soc­cer/BB scheduled between 4:00Pm and 5:30PM, Monday­
Friday. Coach Soccer Sept 9­0ct./Basketball Jan-March. Paid position-Please call291-4200 or 287-6899 for application. 
ENGLISH GRAD OR MAJOR: To read & edit school manuals. Good$-your own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5 M-F 
COMPUTER HELP Create layouts, forms, brochures, etc. tor small office. Good pay­your own time. 
IHRD 273-1952 8-5M-F 
Looking for an outgoing public rela­tions rep. to represent a chiropractic center at local health screenings. Paid training. Part time. Average $8 -$9/hour. For more information call (219)282-2828. 
Need F student to care tor child PT 
in home while I work. Near Notre 
Dame. Call Apri1289-9914 
COLLEGE COUPONS -the student coupon book you love to use is seeking a local sales representa­tive! Earn $7/hr. or MORE! Put your sales experience to good use. Must have car. CaiiB00/767-8393 ask tor Janet. 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR. 
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE 
PERSON FOR PART-TIME 
RECEPTIONIST POSITION. 
HOURS ARE 
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT. 
PHONE EXP A MUST. 
$7/HOUR 243-9555 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
232-2595 

Need a place to stay on football 
weekends? 

Furnished apartment for short term 
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two 
bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­
4876. 

ROOMS-NIGELY DECOR. IN PRI­VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340 
House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP APPL. $650. 317-942-2108 after 6-317-942-2408. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 

VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-()658. 

FOR SALE 
92 JETTA 67K 5SP, CRUISE, 
SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521 
1992 Nissan 240SX SE. Auto. 
Loaded. Only 35K miles. $11,800. 
Call233-5409. 
'78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY 
CORVETTE, 30,000 MILES. 
$9,500 FIRM. 
CALL 243-0658. 
2 OSU GA's 4 Sale 271-2837 

12 Speed touring bike Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars $175.00 (219)262-3739 
COMPUTER 4 SALE Mac Classic w/ software, modem, printer $300 Patti -1329 
Get your genuine 

Irish Kilts in time tor football season! Hand crafted, Black watch plaid. 
Call now............................ 288-0116 
TICKETS 
HELP! I NEED 2 GA's FOR WASHINGTON Call Beth at x4265 
I NEED 2 PITT tickets for my little brothers, students or GAs. Call Tara @ 4-4673 
Wanted: An OSU ticket, student or GA. Call Beth at x4265 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI 
WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! CALL 243-1287 
Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 1 o Rows 232-0058 
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND 
RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE 
PLEASE CALL 232-0058 
NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA 
TIX ... WILL PAY$$$ 
Call Gina 243-0771 

WANTED: Black Crowes tix ... 
need at least 2 or up to 5. call 
wendy at 243 -9430. 
Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay 
big $$. x3226 

NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!! 
TOP$$ CALL (21~)277-1646 
WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S 
CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 
RON 

NO Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs). Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­6513 
GA TICKETS WANTED GA ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE 2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR INDIVIDUAL GAMES ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659 
FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS 
GA. RUTGERS 

"CHEAP"............. RUTGERS 272­
7233 RUTGERS.. .. 

**Need Air Force TICKETS!!** 
Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685 
NEED 2 OHIO ST.TICKETS 
G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE 
@634-3847. 

NEED 4 GAs tor WASH 
call CHRISSY @ 273-2580 
Need 1 OSU ticket 
Call Greg at 2318 

Will trade NO home game tix torTexasvs. NO tickets. 288-8418 
$$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ Band member needs THREE WASHINGTON TICKETS for aunt's visit. Stud/GA. Alyssa x1554 
***Hey!*** Help me find two 
Washington GAs for my parent's 
first NO game, calllnga @ X2538 
DESPERATE tor 4 tix to WASH 
game (GA or stud). Need to make 
stud tix into GAs. Offering hand­
some reward. Call 4-3592 for 
Ryan. 

ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 HEY THERE -My Folks wanna see the WASHINGTON game, and so would my brother, Phass. I'd love to see my mom and dad, and Phass, but I need to get them THREE tickets. if you can help me out, call 243-9058 and ask tor Ed. God bless ya. Oh: We also need 2 tickets tor AIR FORCE-same deal applies. 
NEED TIX-HOME GAMES 312-951-5008 
BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850 
Preferred tailgate parking pass needed tor OSU game. Will pay $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-3605. 

TICKETS WANTED-Will pay pre­mium price for 4 tickets tor the ND/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th. No student tickets please. 
"Dynamite" seats only. Call 
BiiVAnna at 800-457-0486. 
NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR 
PARENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS GAs. WILL PAY OR TRADE. CALL DAVE@ 4-1913 
Grad Non-Degree Student needs GA tickets to any games. 
Call Val at 243-0798. 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 312.404.4903 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED 
ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 

WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 
232-0061. 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6551 
N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD 232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726-P.M. 
WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE 
OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL 
DAVE (614)764-7355 
Need Texas tickets tor family who 

lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­
2550. 

FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT YOU I Alum seeks happiness & fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs. OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, but not picky. ?lease call our busi­ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or JENNIFER. 616-925-0629 
WANTED: TICKETS OSU 

VS NO 614-687-0380 CALL COL­
LECT AFTER 9:00PM 
TOP$PAID 
Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE 
913-541-3240 
n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635 
$NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX 
216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 
216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
ND ALUM NEEDS 
OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX 
CALL MIKE 212-372-7214 
Need tickets for N.D.-Texas 
Sept.21 Call1-800-640-3548 

NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­
5719 FOR BILL -ANY GAMES 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
Need Ohio State tickets. 
Call anytime. 302-832-7786 
NEED OSU TIXI 
WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE! 
CALL4-1440 
TRADE ONLY· 2 WA GAs tor 2 
OSU GAs -273-8379. 

ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088 
DESPERATELY NEED WASH. 
GA'S. CALL #2456 Need 2 Pitt GA's call Sean x-3311 

In desperate need of TWO TEXAS TICKETS!! I Will trade two USC or two Rutgers or pay $$$. Call Colby @ 634-1468. 
Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for Family 612-742-7638 Collect 
WANTED-2 GOOD TICKETS TO AIR FORCE $50.00 PER TICKET (515)266-6038 
Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $ for home games. 412/352-2219 
WANTED: ND vs OHIO STATE TICKETS SEPTEMBER 28 WILL PAY$$$ CALL 314-770-2223 
NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call Jason at 4-1 035. 
TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ED -PLEASE HELP!! I 
Family wants to come to a game for my senior year. Please help Would like 2-6 tickets for any home game. Please call Brian at 287­4876. Thank you.
.................................... 
I need 2 tickets to home games for my alum brother. Please help! Call Erin at 634-3806 
SALE 
OSU STUTIX 
2719387 
Need WASHINGTON -1 or 2 ga's OR studs. WILL TRADE ANY STUD. kate x3872 
$$ Please Help!! $$ 94 ND Alum Needs 1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to Ohio St and Wash­Call Joanne­516-742-1923 (night) or 212·415-3009 (day) 
For Sale: 2 ND-OSU GA's 317-251-4240 after 5 
OSU Weekend Hotel Rooms South Bend Marriott Two Rooms -9/27 -9/28 AI Cost (216) 622-8207 
OHIO STATE GA ONE AV FOR SALE CALL (910)725-7543 FOR PRICE INFO 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!II Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FASTIII 
Pro-woman, Pro-life? Feminists for Life will be holding their first meeting on Tuesday, Sept 17 at 7:30 p.m. in the CSC Lounge. Find out what we're all about. 
-Trying to reach the green from here Shooter? -That's not possible. -I beg to differ. In fact, Happy Gilmore accomplished that teat no more than an hour ago. -Well moron, good for Happy Gilmo-OH MY GOD!!!!! 
LUCAS· feel better!-KRISTA 
GANG GREEN. It's not just a dis­gusting disease anymore. 
Hi honey. 
Doughty uses garbage can lids for hats. 
I'm a horny president -Bill Clinton 
Sorry, but I don't like golden show­ers. 
GANG GREEN RULES! 
Miss Hall, sorry you didn't get your wish Friday night. Maybe next week. 
Cheer up PC. Someday, somewhere, somehow, we're never going to see this place again. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR DESPARATELY NEEDS A SPORTS EDITOR, OR SPORTS WRITERS. CALL 631-4540 IF YOU'RE INTERESTED. 
My#$@$ is hanging out. 
Actually, I happen to enjoy being a BAND"GIRL." 
JL-how come you'll ta~e out your appendix but not me?-ashleigh 
SUB CONCERT COMMITTEE !!I meeting: 9/16 at 7pm, 2nd floor 
LaFun. All interested students invit­edil 
Adoption: A cheerful and cozy nurs­ery awaits a newborn. We will give your baby a bright future filled with endless love, opportunities & secu­rity. Perhaps we can help each other. Expenses paid. Call John & Rosemary 1-800-984-9429 
Hey, Zahmbies. 
Sorry if I offended you and your esteemed residence. That can't be the first time you've been insulted. Hope you feel better. 
cora, ash, "churity?" -I'll cook next week. Beware. ash-you up for some heavy duty house keeping today? 
of course not... we'll be at Sally's place. 
that actifed stuff is great before pre­sentations ... out of body...godmother 
Hey you big lug, How's the old appendix? Isn't it ironic that you and the pope have an appendectomy within two weeks of each other... ? 
Krista hopes you feel better, too, you Lardy B. 
Won't you be my neighbor? 
You know, I really don't feel like wearing my.... 
As the sock goes flying across the room. 
Until they are mathematically eli­manted, don't count out the BoSox. 
Are they still mathematically alive. 
Helium, hot air ... lt's all the same to me. I hate that science stuff. 
Ginger snaps rockll! 
We just met. Really, Mr. Corby bouncer, I don't know names. 
Homest. 
Man, home games really stink. 
lhave to spend my own money. 
Khakis..."A cry from the poor". 
TEW, why must you betray my heart? Alas, I hurt. 
Jimmy Stewart Lives On 
The University of Miami is currently ranked right behind the Irish in the 
polls. Not bad considering they 
have had to beat the likes of the Citadel and Memphis with half of their team in the state pen. 
Some day,one will say the Indy Colts are an AFC dynasty. 
The Indianapolis Colts are the new dynasty in the AFC. 
Wait, I got an idea -let's change our name to the Fightin' Amish. 
Mike Piazza is the finest late round find ever in the game of baseball. Why, he's so good he may even win the batting title. 
-1 eat pieces of s--t like you for 
breakfast. -You eat pieces of s-t for break­
fast? 
-...... NO! 
I bet that if you wanted to, Richard Kiel (Jaws from the Bond flicks, Mr. Larson in Happy Gilmore)would let you rent out his services for birth­day parties, bar mitzvahs, wed­dings. He's more fun than a band, and he may even let you shoot nails at his Doughty-sized head. 
There's nothing wrong with a horny president. JFK was a horny presi­dent, but he was a good president. 
Henry the Eighth did it a lot­Well, you know the rest.. .... 

r-------------------------------------·-----------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 16, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Redskins top hapless Giants 
By TOM CANAVAN 
Associated Press Writer 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. 
The Washington HP.dskins lost six straight games to the New York Giants because they couldn't stop the run or make the big play. 
The Redskins (2-1) turned the tablP.s on New York and may have moved the manage­mP-nt of the winless Giants closP.r to pushing coach Dan Heeves out the door with a 31­10 victory Sunday. 
Terry Allen ran for 146 yards and a game-clinching touchdown, Gus Frerotte threw a 30-yard scoring pass on a fake field goal and Tom Carter had two fourth-quarter interceptions for the Redskins, who gained 241 yards on 42 carries, a 5.7 yard average. 
The Giants, who have failed to make the playoffs the past two years, have now started the last two seasons with 0-3 records, the first time that's happened in franchise history. 
Even when New York scon~d. there were boos from the crowd at Giants Stadium, particularly after Reeves elect­ed to go for a short field goal by Brad Daluiso in the third quarter trailing 17-7. 
Although Daluiso made the kick, the boos got louder when Aiten carried five times for 38 yards, capping a 76-yard drive with a 7-yard run for a 24-10 lead on the first play of the fourth quarter. 
Dave Brown, who was 17­for-31 for 201 yards, including a 7 -yard TO to Aaron Pierce, drove New York to the Washington 34 and 27 in the fourth quarter, but Carter twice picked off passes near the end zone. 
ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
Audit Staff Positions in Newport Beach, California 
See the September 9 Weekly Bulletin 
Submit Resumes September 9-10 
to Career and Placement, or via fax 
On Campus Interviews will be held during the fall. 
Gerald Kelly '67-Owner Sean Kelly '92 -Tax Manager Gene Tidgewell '71 -Audit Manager Julie Sheridan '92 -Audit Manager 
Kelly & Company 
Certified Public Accountants 
3931 MacArthur Boulevard, Suite 205 Newport Beach, California 92660 (714) 474-7440 (800) 526-0869 Fax (714) 474-7554 
Finance Club 
page 13 

Moon returns to lead Vikes to win 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Warren Moon has been called too old before. He's been beat­en up on the field and off. Yet he's almost always managed to come back and do what he must for his team to win. 
Back in the lineup after miss­ing the previous 1 1/2 games with arch and ankle injuries, the 39-year-old Moon passed for 239 yards Sunday and led the unbeaten Minnesota Vikings to a 17-14 victory over the Chicago Bears. 
"We're only going to go as far as he takes us. He's the guy we're going to lean on," said Cris Carter, who caught a 30­yard pass from Moon to set up Scott Sisson's tiebreaking 33­yard field goal with 7:25 to play. 
"We don't get concerned about his age. Warren is as durable as any quarterback in this league. He takes shot after shot and gets up. We know he's goingjo be there." 
The first two games, Moon watched as backup Brad Johnson rallied the team to vic­tories over Detroit and Atlanta. Some Vikings fans felt Johnson, almost 12 years younger than Moon, should have stayed in the lineup. 
"That's the nature of quarterback -what have you done for me lately?" Moon said. "It doesn't offend me. It was something you kind of expect, but our team knows who's the guy here." 
In the hard-hitting game against the Bears, Moon went the whole way and was 22-of­44. 
"I got some pretty good shots out there, but I'm still stand­ing," he said. ''I'm proud of the fact that I can still play at this age." 
The Vikings haven't had a 3-0 start since 1975. They next meet Green Bay in a battle of NFC Central unbeatens. 
Carter said these Vikings have "more fight" than previ­ous Minnesota teams of this decade. 
And Moon said the team has rallied around coach Dennis Green, who is involved in legal 
Career Night 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Anderson Consulting 
Arthur Anderson & Co. Bank of America Baxter Healthcare Boston Consulting '"R:Iilllldl• c Cargill, Incorporated Dain Bosworth Dean w· Ford Motor Company General Elec·r· C 
C ·nral Rins~ran·~ Lynch
e d , · 'l I a ll Lynch Private Client Group 
1

ger a R utual -aha NIPSCO Northwest Mutual Life 
k a , l e iscount Stochbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble Prudenrtial Secuial Staff Management The Summit Group 
tl 

Sophomores -Juniors -Seni 
ALL MAJORS 
Tuesday Evening, September 24-7:00p.m. Atrium-College of Business Building 

~~/....flnclub/flnclubhome.html 
,;.., .. 


entanglements. 
"We wanted him to know 
that we are all a part of a fami­
ly and that families come 
together," Moon said. "It hasn't 
been a distraction." 
The Vikings scored all six 
points of the second half on two 
fourth-quarter field goals by 
Sisson. They have outscored 
their three opponents 29-3 in 
the final period this season. 
The Bears (1-2) were more 
than beaten; they were beaten 
up. 
Cornerback Donnell 
Woolford, fullbacks Raymont 
Harris and Tony Carter, re­
ceiver Michael Timpson and 
defensive end Alonzo Spellman 
all suffered injuries. 
Faring the worst was Harris, who is expected to miss eight weeks with a sprained knee lig­ament. Harris was out almost all last season with a broken collarbone. 
The Vikings' defense, led by Derrick Alexander, threw Chicago quarterback Erik Kramer all over the field. Kramer, who played with ace bandages wrapped around his back and left leg, was 18-of-40 for 199 yards and three inter­ceptions. 
Kramer didn't use pain as an excuse for his poor play this season. Sunday's 5-yard touch­down toss to rookie Bobby Engram is his only scoring pass this season after setting a team record with 29 a year ago. And he now has five interceptions after getting picked off 10 times all last season. 
"I have not done my part so far this year," Kramer said. "I take responsibility for that. I've got to play better." 
It was 14-14 when Chicago's Carlos Huerta hit the left up­right on a 44-yard field goal. His kick was low and Alexander said he got a small piece of the ball. 
Huerta, who has missed three of seven field goals since replacing fan favorite Kevin Butler, was booed heavily. And coach Dave Wannstedt said afterward that he would have to "re-evaluate" the kicking sit­uation. 
"My job's in jeopardy every time I take the field," Huerta said. 
''I'm not going to sit here and cry about it or go home and get a voodoo doll. I don't know what's going to happen." 
After the miss, the Vikings drove 51 yards for Sisson's go­ahead kick. 
Kevin Miniefield was flagged for pass interference on third­and-8 to keep the drive alive. And the 30-yard Moon-to­Carter pass on third-and-10 gave Minnesota the ball at the Chicago 22. It was Carter's 499th catch for Minnesota, a team record. 
Sisson added a 34-yard field goal with 6 seconds to go. 
Kramer's TO pass to Engram and a 14-yard scoring run by Minnesota's Robert Smith made it 7-7. 
Woolford intercepted a pass by Moon and went 28 yards for a touchdown to put the Bears up 14-7 midway through the second period. But Kramer was intercepted on Chicago's next two possessions. The second pickoff, by Corey Fuller, set up Moon's 29-yard touchdown pass to a leaping Jake Reed with 1:54left in the half. 
Though the Vikings sacked Kramer only once, they put tremendous pressure on him. 

page 14 .The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 16, 1996 
•NFL 

Marino celebrates birthday with victory 
7~ ~~ ~ Z'ame, ~ ~~ tk 'P«# e~ 7'Ut4U, ~ ~ 4#t ~fuMed~ eHtitted 
Beyond Beijing: 
The Education of Girls and Women as Challenge to Catholicism 
Monday, September 16, 1996 from 7:30 to 9:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 

Sr. Cathy Campbell 
President of Mother Gurin High School, River Grove, IL 
Annette Kane 

Executive Director of the National Council of Catholic Women 
Dolores Leckey 

Director of Family, Laity, Women, and Youth for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops 
Maura A. Ryan 

Assistant Professor of Theology at the University of Notre Dame 
i.• 
•.:i\e;;UJ[-ii~~: SEATTLE 
Marcus Allen reached anoth­er milestone in his career, and Dale Carter did his imperson­a.tion ofDeion Sanders. 
Allen, became the eighth player In NFL history to rush f9r 't1,QOO yards in the Kansas .Ci Cb;iefs' 35-17 victory over 
roll 
,;.,.,,cc····•·.. ;,o:.':/. t " . . him in third place oll'' 

hind Walter Payton {110) and otieofthree by Bono as Kansas Jim Brown (106). City·(3~0) won its 11th straight With 52 yards on a dozen AFC West game and beat carries, Allen increased his Seattle (0-3) for the 10th time career rushing total to 11,012 in 11 games. yards, 224 yards behind O.J. 
Bono also had scoring passes Simpson. of9 and l yards to Chris Penn, The Kansas City defense also who bad the first two-touch-chipped in, holding Chris down li§IU!le of his career. The Warren to six yards on 14 car­.36-year~ot?-Allen, in his 15th rie,s ~nd sacking Rick Mirer ..NI"I,. seasrin, s~ored on 2-yard seven'times. 
;i>rlininlhethtrd quarter to give l.el'l,ding 21-10 at halftime, /;the, Chiefs a 27-10 lead and,the Chiefs took the second half '''again on a 1-yard run withiF kickoff and went 76 yards in 3:19Jeft. " . nine plays into the end zone They were Allen's 104th and with Allen going in from 2 105th career touchdowns,. yards out. 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associa£ed P£ess Wri£er 
MIAMI 
Four Dan Marino passes re­sulted in touchdowns Sunday -one by the New York Jets, then three by the Miami Dolphins. 
On his 35th birthday, Marino shook off Aaron Glenn's early 100-yard interception return and rallied unbeaten Miami past New York 36-27. 
"Obviously, you don't want to get in a shootout with Dan Marino," said the Jets' Neil O'Donnell, whose three TO Marino's 74-yard scoring pass to rookie fullback Stanley Pritchett, and backup tight ends Frank Wainright and Brett Carolan made the first touchdown receptions of their careers. 

"Dan has confidence in everybody," Wainright said. "It doesn't matter if you're a rook­ie or a six-year veteran." 
Rookie Karim Abdul-Jabbar rushed for 124 yards on 2 3 carries, with touchdown runs of 4 and 7 yards for the Dolphins, who scored 33 unan­swered points. 
Miami looked sloppy at times 
passes couldn't prevent the Jets but improved to 3-0 under new from falling to 0-3. coach Jimmy Johnson. 
The Dolphins fell behind 14-"If you can make that many 0, then scored touchdowns on mistakes in a game and still four consecutive possessions. win it," Johnson said, "it says 
The  comeback  began  with  something about you."  
LASALLE BOOKSTORE  
Your source for the finest new  
theological and philosophical booksl  
Find books from your favorite authors and the  
finest publishers-at the LaSalle Bookstore.  
We can special order any title you need!  
-------------------­ 
I I  10°/o OFF ALL BOOKS  I I  
1  for N.D./S.M. C faculty and students with J.D.  1  
I  LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown  I  
I South Bend (at LaSalle St., next to Morris Civic Auditorium).  I  
I  234-0003  Open 10-5, Monday -Friday  I  

~--------------------~ 
Truntan Scholarship 
Information Meeting for 
Juniors interested in Public Service 
Monday, September 16, 1996 4:30, 5:15PM 11 7 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
The panel will be convened by Discussion will be moderated by Todd David Whitmore Regina Coll 
The aim of the panel is to generate further dialogue within the Catholic Community on the issue of the education of girls and women as an outgrowth of last year's United Nations conference in Beijing. 
Monday, September 16, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page IS 
• NFL 
Packers pulverize listless Chargers for third victory 


much point differential. I don't Freeman, 8 to fullback William 
expect these. Guys just keep Henderson and 7 to tight end 
making plays." Keith Jackson. Robert Brooks 
San Diego (2-1) was actually led the Packers with eight 
still in it with 6 1/2 minutes left, catches for 108 yards. 
trailing 28-10 and threatening Favre also had two intercep­
again when Butler stepped in tions, the last of which led to 
front of Terrell Fletcher at the San Diego's only touchdown, a 
Packers 10. 9-yard pass from Stan 
Butler raced down the left Humphries to Tony Martin that sideline for the score, then made it 28-10 with 8:16left. vaulted himself into the stands The Chargers were befuddled as has become customary at all day by the Green Bay de­Lambeau Field. fense. Reggie White and Sean 
"One of the embarrassing Jones each had two sacks on things was not jumping in the Humphries, who was 16-for-31 stands all the way," said Butler, for 130 yards, a TD and two in­who needed some help from the terceptions. fans to get over the railing. ''I'd hate to play quarterback "Because we grade each other against our defense," Favre on that. It was a very low said. "I felt sorry for Stan to­grade." day. It wasn't his fault. Our 
Very little went wrong for the guys were just brining it." Packers. San Diego had only 33 yards 
Favre completed 22 of 34 rushing, and the Packers had a passes for 231 yards and TD 17 -minute advantage in time of passes of 19 yards to Antonio possession. 
Volunteers Needed 
for the NYSP after J' 
\ (]t 
school program 
J' 
0

0 training is Monday, Set. 16 
\\. at 4:30 at the CS It 
? ? ?Questions???
\ ~ I 
G Calli ~4432 
G 

SPORTS 
YOU CAN MAKE ADIFFERENCE! 
Train to be a volunteer advocate for 
Sex Offense Services 
The Rape Crisis Center for St. Joseph County To Provide: Crisis Intervention Emotional Support Information 
For Women, Men, and Children who have been: 
Raped Molested Sexually Harassed 
Call Sex Offense Services at 283-1308 NOW for information on how YOU can help! Training sessions begin on September 26, 1996 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program 

Santiago, Chile 
Information meeting with 
Professor Silvia Rojas-Anadon 
Monday, September 16, 1996 4:30pm 117 Debartolo 
Slide presentation and opportunity to learn more about service projects in Chile. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press Writer 
GHEEN BAY, Wis. 

So far this year, the only com­pntition the Green Hay Packers seem to haV!~ is themselves. 
The offense, defense and spe­cial teams all got to do the Lamlmau Leap in Sunday's 42­10 rout of' the previously un­beaten San Diego Chargers at Lambeau Field. 
"They beat us in every which way, in every phase," said San Diego coach Bobby Ross. 

"There's really not much that I can say, other than the fact that we took the old, butt-kick­ing. It started early and it didn't really stop." 
The Packers, who now are 3­0 for the first time since 1982, have beaten three opponents by a combined score of 115-26. 
"When you're executing in every phase of the game, it makes a difference," Packers quarterback Brett Favre said. 
A huge difference. 
After Favre led the Packers on four touchdown drives, safe­ty LeRoy Butler returned an interception 90 yards for a touchdown and 92 seconds later, Desmond Howard returned a punt 65 yards for a TD in the closing minutes. 
"We beat a good football team," Packers coach Mike Holmgren said. "It always sur­prises me when there's that 
Notre Dame MIS, CS, CE, CAPP, and other computer related majors: 
We are looking for a few highly motivated people with a strong background in computers who are seeking a career or internship in Information Systems. 
If you are the kind of person who is interested in challenging rotational assignments, exposure to senior management, further educational development, and having input into the direction of your career, the ACCENT Program may be the right full time opportunity for you. We are also hiring Summer Interns for 1997. 
Representatives from Travelers/ Aetna Property Casualty Corp. will be on campus for the Engineering Industry Day on September 18th in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering from I 0-4. Please stop by our booth to learn more about these exciting opportunities in Information Systems. 
Travelers/Aetna at Notre Dame 
•Engineering Industry Day: September 18, 1996 •On-Campus Interviews: November 8, 1996 
The Travelers Indemnity Company 
The Aetna Casualty and Surety Compan~ 
Members of TravelersGroupJ 
Travelers Insurance. Hartford. CT 06183. We Are An Equal Opportunity Employer. Committed to Work Force Diversity. Travelers Insurance actively promotes a drug-free workplace. 


I '~··'"l.
:·a·u·y---·a-iie-ca·--------: 

' ' Tracks has used 
:Save a buck on: co•s and uve buy quality used co·s 
i ' each non-sale ' 
for cash or trade
:nevu CD expires : 
' • 8/22/86'
..................................................................... 
........................................................................... 
I

:Buy tvuo,save TRACKS has ~ tvuo bucks on posters,jewelery, ~each non-sale, imported clothing, 
expires ' 
:nevu CD. 8/22/86 ' stickers, insence 
........... -.. -----------.. -------..................... .I 
and more! 
~ Buy three,save~ :three bucks on: 
:EACH non-sale, : oa•Z' 
:nevu CD! expires : State a 
' 8/22/86'
........................................................................... 011 
Yes, you need to bring 
In Campus Shoppes
us the coupon= 277-8338--wuvw.kiva.net/-tracks/ 






page 16 
ByDENNEFREEMAN!.  .,  
As$ociatedPrcss Writer  .·•  ;;.  4  
~  :  

IRVING!Je1t:~ 
Cary Blanchard a~d Jim Harbaugh apparently'didli't get the word that the crippled Colts were supposed to lose to the Super Bowl ehaptpion Dallas Cowboys. 
Blanchard kicked four field goals. including the game• winner from 43 yards with 51 seconds left and Harbaugh threw two touchdown passes sunday as . t1nbeaten Indianapolis rallied from an 18-point deficit to down Dallas 25·24 as Chris Boniol's 57· yard field at the gun hit the 
cross-bar. . . . .N• ..... 
Dallas (1-2) went ahead 24• 22 withl3:26l~fton:a.s~ .., yard field goal by Boniol but his 40·yarder hi~ the right upright and hot1qced away' with 2:48 to go to keep tbe Colts in the game. • ':fM( 
Harbaugh, who was 19 of28 for 244 yards. hit Ken Dilger with a zs,yard pass and zaek Crockett with an 18~yarder to position Blanchard for hls per­fect field goal try. 
After the Colts trailed by 12 at halftime, Harbaugh threw two touchdown passes in the third quarter to rally the Colts (3~0) to a 22·21 lead. The passes traveled 48-yards to Marcus Pollard and S yards to Dilger. 
The Cowboys dominated the rust half, taking a 21-3 lead 

l-· 
and leading21~9 wltb th~ Colts' Qnly pointf! !lOtn.lng 91). Blanchard field goals of 2.,, 2~ .• aqp, a career~loqg s.z.···
yards. ·· ·· ··· · After Blanch.ard had put the Colts up 3•Q, TroyAikman took Dallas 67 yards in 9 playti with the payoff coming on 4th and 1 from the Indianapolis 5 when Aikman faked to Emmitt Smith and rolled out to find fullback Daryl Johnston stand· ing aU alonE! for the touch.£. 
down. · 
The next two touchdowns came courtesy of the defense which was third in the NFL coming into the game.·· 
Tony Tolbert cracked Harba{lghfrom behind aq~ Deion Sanders picked up the'• l()ose fq()tb~ll, r~tt1:rnijlgit ?~ 
yardS for the touchdown;· · '" 
Roger Harper \ntercepted Harbaugh t"¥9 p\ays ·\Mer ~t the Colts 44 and the Cowboys 111~~~e9 ..to tb~ir third ~uctt~ 
dowrt''wbich came on Sinlth'$ 2~yard:run t9 ma.ke.it 21~3. .......• 
The Colts played withO:utsix injured regulars. including running back Marshall Faulk,. cornerbaek·Perrick Frazier and defensive end Tony 
Bennett~ · 
It was the first time they had defeated Dallas since Super Bowl Vin 1971 when they lost on a last-second field goal kicked by Jim O'Brien. Dallas has a 7-4 lead in the series. 
Aikman· completed 17 of 27 for 184yards. 
____ =o ,_ .-.. ---~----~ ._-< •·--------·--h ~ •-• • A • ••--• '• 



V-ball 
continued from page 20 
battled until the Lions came out on top of two games that went the distance, and then some. 
"We played good volleyball. We just didn't make it all the way through the matches," said senior captain and all tourna­ment selection Jenny Birkner. "We were not ready physically to a play a team like that. They were stronger, quicker, and more conditioned for a match like that." 
Lee concurs, "We didn't close out at the end of games three and four. They were both at 14-14 and they just did the lit­tle things, and we didn't. It was disappointing because we played really well, but they are a great team. They handled Washington State who was ranked ahead of them in three straight games in the finals." 
Freshman Mary Leffers con­tinued to impress as she led the team in kills against the Lions with 13. Birkner chipped in 11 while Angie Harris and Tread­well added 10 apiece. 
The squad continues to learn and build on each match as 
page 17 

they remain upbeat and confi­dent despite their tough losses to ranked opponents. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell explains how the team will refine their skills to get to the next level. 
"As long as we keep working on things like blocking and de­fending behind the block, these things will help our passing which makes a better offense. It's like a domino affect. If we keep working hard on all of those things, we will eventually get there." 
"We are making the progress we need to make," said head coach Debbie Brown. "When we compete with a team like that, it is very encouraging. We know we can be much bet­ter." 
Along with the physical aspect of the game, the Irish know that these difficult matches will improve on the mental aspects. 
Lee expressed, "I think we are going to rebound really well. We know we are a good team, but we think we can be a great team. With each tough 
match  we  are  making  im­ 
provements."  
Treadwell  discussed  the  

team's mental game consider­

more schools thanyou -were. 

It's everywhere )IOU -want to be: 
11:11996 VIsa U.S.A. Inc. 

ing their numerous injuries. 
"Things have been kind of tough with all the injuries be­cause we get physically worn down a bit," she said. But mentally, I think the team is very tough. We know we can play through the hard matches, and we need to build a little more confidence so we can go out there and actually win those tough matches." 
Birkner elaborated on how the team would improve on their confidence. 
"The mental side of the game will come with playing more together and having more confidence in each other." 
In two of the team's losses, they had to turn around and play the next day. The squad has shown that they can shake off those losses and can put away their next opponents. In fact, those next opponents, which included Clemson this weekend, failed to take a game as the Irish have swept in all of their wins. 
Brown's squad has not lost to an unranked opponent since they were upset by Michigan State in September of 1994. The triumph over Clemson marked the program's 50th straight win versus unranked opponents. 
Therefore, Brown saw it as a fitting time to rest one of her best offensive weapons, Angie Harris. Harris has played through pain and tendentious in her right knee after off-sea­son surgery. 
Senior middle blocker Jen­• nifer Rouse stepped in with her second best hitting match of her career {.571) while record­ing nine kills and only one error in 14 attempts. She also added seven block assists. 
Brown raved at her team's ability to rebound after a diffi­cult loss. 
"They showed a lot of charac­ter. We are not getting down after our losses. They do not dwell on the past, and they are putting those matches behind us." 
The Irish will next battle two Big Ten foes this weekend. They will look to improve on their 6-3 record as they travel to Ann Arbor to square off against the Wolverines before hosting Purdue this Saturday. 
Notes: 
Birkner's six aces on the weekend moved her into lOth place on the Notre Dame career aces list {82). 
The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 16, 1996 
• SAINT MARY's VollEYBALL 
Belles suffer setback at tourney 
• 
··­
II , 
I 

struggled to score twice to beat a weak Valparaiso team last week, they learned an invalu­able lesson. 
No matter how important fu­ture games might be, no game is ever a given. 
Irish 

continued from page 20 
consistent players for the team this season. 
"The play developed on a great combination," explained Koloskov, "between (Ryan) Cox and (Bill) Savarino." 
Cox, a freshman who is just starting to work his way into the lineup due to an early sea­son ankle strain, played the ball to Savarino on the wing. The junior made an excellent crossing pass to Koloskov who was at the top of the goal box. Koloskov capitalized on the op­portunity by firing the ball past Moutaineer goalie Carlos Iga. 
The senior's tally was all that the Irish would need to stay undefeated almost one-third of the way into the 1996 cam­paign. 
Notre Dame will go on the road today in an effort to improve their record to 5-0-1 and to prepare for what are sure to be two key conference matchups next weekend against No.17 Connecticut and talented Seton Hall. 
It may be tough for the team to avoid overlooking this after­noon's non-conference contest with lowly DePaul. After all, the Irish opened last season by stomping the Blue Demons 8-0 and five of the starters from that DePaul squad were lost to graduation. 
However. when Notre Dame 
• SPDRTSBRIEFS. 

Voll;;b;ll Tour;~ment ~; RecSports will be sponsoring a one night tournament on September 19 at Steparti> Courts. For more informa~ tion[lcontaet fl,ee($p~rf.by Wedr.iesday. September 18~. ·• Challenge U Fitness • Somta: classes are still open/ Plf!as& call R~cSports for detail&. lt you are not able to attend for' any reason, please contact the RecSports office so that we may give the spot to someone else. 

By KATHRYN COUSINO 
Sports Writer 
After capturing first place last weekend at the Hanover Col­lege tournament, the Belles suf­fered a disappointing 3-1 loss at the Ohio Northern University tournament this weekend. 
"There was definite room for improvement in the team's playing level this weekend," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
"But I was excited over the exposure that the tournament gave SMC volleyball and the 
WoiDen 
continued from page 20 
they get." 
·The only momentum Indiana experienced was the one shot they put on goal late in the sec­ond half. The Irish countered that one with 32 of their own. 
"Our goal was not to let them in the game because that's what we did against Michigan State," goalie Jen Renola said. "Putting a couple away early was the key to that." 
Putting a couple away was made easier by an Irish defen­sive unit that took on a familiar look from last year. After play­ing a zone through the first five games, Notre Dame switched to a man-to-man style that brought them success a season ago. 
"Our defenders were awe­some," midfielder Holly Manthei said. " Kate (Sobrero), Jen (Grubb). and Fish (Kate Fisher) are the best marking backs in the country. We tried to make the other one work new freshmen finding their strength. They led the stats with the most kills." 
In the Hanover game, SMC overcame a 14-9 deficit in the fifth game to defeat Hanover 16-14. 
"Freshman Mary Rodovich did wonderfully under incredi­ble pressure," Coach Schroeder-Biek said. "Coming into the game at the 9-14 deficit, she served seven straight points to throw Hanover's defense off and win the game for the Belles." 
Other coaches at the tourna­
and it didn't so we went back to the defense that won us a national championship." 
You ·can't argue with results like that. 
"I thought we dominated de­fensively which is something we hadn't done yet," Petrucelli added. "I think the whole team did a great job, but in particu­lar, the guys in the back were outstanding. They defended really well, and got into the attack." 
Led by the defenders. the Irish steadily pressured the Hoosier end, creating numer­ous scoring chances. Sophomore Shannon Boxx was the first to capitalize, netting her sixth goal of the year on assists from Grubb and forward Amy VanLaecke. 
Before halftime, the Irish went up 2-0 on freshman Jenny Streiffer's fifth goal of the year. Manthei got her eighth assist on the season, placing a perfect ball on Streiffer's head. 
Hoosier goalie Merit Elzey had an excellent game, fending off a majority of the quality Irish chances, including two ment also commented on her great skill to bring SMC out of single digits and force the op­posing team into making errors with her power serves. 
Other freshmen stand-outs included Agnes Bill with 43 kills and Jayne Ozbolt bringing in 35 kills. Co-captain Meg Kelly slammed in 28 kills for the Belles as well. 
Besides the Hanover game, SMC also did well against the ranked Ohio Northern Univer­sity by taking them into the fifth game. 
spectacular diving saves. 
"She (Elzey) really kept them in the game," Petrucelli said. "Against most goalkeepers, we score ten goals today." 
The Irish also had four shots that hit the post, keeping the goal count at five. 
"We haven't really worked on finishing or much offensively because we've been focusing on our defense so much," Renola said. "We didn't finish as well as we could've, but that will im­prove. Once we work in that area more, we'll finish more chances." 
The final three tallies came in the second half courtesy of Manthei, Van Laecke and co­captain Cindy Daws. 
The other co-captain, Renola, only touched the ball yesterday when her teammates passed it back to her, demonstrating how difficult it was for Indiana to even traverse midfield. 
"It's exciting for me when they try to keep me in the game," Renola said jokingly. 
It's also exciting for the Irish when the opposing team never gets in the game. 


Cheeseburger 
• 

Double 
Cheeseburger 
• 

Sept. 16-Sept. 26----10:30 am -3:00pm 
The Huddle 

Monday, September 16, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
ON WEEKENDS I'LL FEEL 
t'\Y PAGER. VIeRATE ... 
I:>UT WHE.N 1 GO TO CHECK IT, I REALIZ.E. 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

IIAI'I'Y 1\IIUIIIl \ \'! IN TilE NEXT YEAI{ OF YOl 1R LIFE: 
h>Cl" on c'Oilllllllllle<lllllll\ lhal will advam.·c your proiL'""'onal and pcr­~oni.ll aim:-.. Thl' ltrwnctal outloo~ sho\"-'" del'tlkd llllJll'tl\ L'lllL'Ill a' Will· ler approaches. Re,c·:u-ch will put 
you in n hl'th:r harg41111111g po"'ition should you decide· 10 buy or expand a husinc". /\, 19'17 hc~ins. ro· mancc Lakl·~ on m:w lu~tcr~ A vaGI­lion you embark on e.uly nexl sum· mer will have unnpecied hu,ine" hcndils. A young-:11·hea11 widow or widower could remam h1 !his linll' ncxl Seplcmher. Be op;_•n.;nimleu. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>A \': ac1re" l.auren Bacall. nw<,lcr 1llusioni't lla1 id Copper­field. hlucsman B B King. !ennis player Rosemary (';,als. 
AI{JES (March 21·/\pril I<J): Head for ihe limelight' Mingling willt YIPs and inllucntial acquain­lances will lay ihc loumlauon for'a new alliance. Collaboralin~ wilh a mlleaguc or prok"t<mal gl~lllp will bring greater tinaJH..:ial \uccc~"­
TAURtJS I April 211· Ma1 20): II' your relation~ "ith "omeonc in aulhoril} arc s1ra1ned. keep a lo11· profile anu he coopcra11ve if asked to perform c.:ertain ta~k .... Romano: 
.and travel are onthl' horit.on. 
GEMINI 1Ma1 21-June 201: Major changes arc in 1hc works. How you rcacl lo 1hcm will deter· 
·mine how much sm·c·e" you enjoy' Taking Ihe inili:lliw 11 ill help you resolve a personal dikmma.
SCOTT ADAMS 

CANCER t.lunc 21-Jul\ 221: 
G 

New comacls will prove encriuting.
> 

Have Ihe courage ol 1our con1·ir­
~ "THERE'S 
u 

1ions. Your enihusiasm will win ihe
= NO TREA1­
hearls of many people. C'hoosmg a pa1111cr will nol he difficuli.
~ f"\ENT FOR 
LEO (Julv 2~-Aug. 221 Bold
i IT. lhinking wili 1urn h~ads 111 ymu
U). 

directi{lll. Get your aka.., aero..,.., in 


"'0 lT'S A. CLASSIC CASE. 
~ 
... 

OF PHANTOf'\-PAGE.R
0 
" 

@ 5YNDR0f'\E.. ITS
U) 

"' COt'\ I"\ON AMONG
0 
" 
" 

49 Leopold and -(1920's murder case) 
50 Bright thought 51 How a surprise 
might catch you 57 Stadium level 58 Utah's-­
Mountains 59De-­
(opulent): Fr. 60 Hourglass fill &1 Japanese 

camera &2 Nerve cell part 
DOWN 1 Brit. W.W. II fliers 2 Mr. Onassis 3 Buddhist sect 4 Zig's opposite s Greek messenger of the gods & Starved 24 The "I" in ICBM
7 Apollo 11 's goal 25 VCR button
8 Arafat's org. 26 Movie theaters
9 Inept soldiers 27 Personal affront
10 Burger side order 28 Hoist 
11 Figure skater 30 Choo-choo Fratianne 
32 Get the suds out 

120pen--­33 Play the role of (unrestricted) 
34 Third place at 13 Revere 
the race track 18 Newsboy's cry 3&Jokingly 22 "--Beso" 40 Singer Bryson 
(1962 song) 

42My-, 23 Christmas bird Vietnam 
• OF INTEREST 
Eight Ball Pool Tournament: There will be an 8­ball tournament in the Gorch Games Room in the LaFortune basement Tuesday at 7:30pm. There is a $5 entry fee and the grand prize is from Best Buy. Free practice for entrants will take place from 7:00 to 7:30pm. Elections Lecture: "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good: Issues in the Economy" will be the topic for a lecture discussion led by Professors Jeff Bergstrand, Chuck Craypo. and Ed Trubac. It will be held on Monday from 4 to 5 p.m. in the CCE auditori­um. Yearbook pick-up: The 1993 to 1996 yearbooks are available at the LaFortune Information desk from Sept. 30 to Oct. 4.. Monday through Friday from 9 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North Vegetable Lo Mein Broccoli Spears Beef Turnovers 
Saint Mary's 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich White Rice Vegetable Lo Mein Candied Sweet Potatoes 
43 Edberg of tennis 49 Thin 
44 Prepares for 52 52, to Flavius publication 
53Rock--­45Gymnast 
Wanted: Reporters,
Oukebox brand)Comaneci 54 Oft-rented outfit
4& Golf hole's locale 55 Outside: Prefix 

photographers
47 --voce s& Cub Scout group 
and editors. Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Join The Observer staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
<Ill Jlll<~t-!111ill1\l.' '"a~. \\ IIIHHII IH.' Ill,;! t..:nnl n>nt<tt 10il.d l<omti1H.'l' ... oar' to nt''''lll'lght~ I:pdatl' ~our 111\i.lgL' 
\'11{(;0 1/\ug. 2'\.Scpt. 221: 1\ hn·l·d one llt'l'd.., IIIOil' Tl.(' Stl'l' 
h.1d and kl lllb,·rs I""~ 111 lhl· IIIIIL'· hl'lll Nl'l L'l dlluhl )our l1:"c ol sup pon. l·amtl) and lnends arc solull: 
hl'11111U ynu Shu" your graliiUdl~ 111 tant!ihlc v. av.., 
LIBRA (Sept. 2~·< kl 221: Carl' lui allcn11on lo detatl wtll prcvcm coSily ml'lakc,. lklav\ or mix-ups could complicalc a prnjccl. Ymu backup plan hall IJCIIer be lernfic. 
SCORPIO lOci. 2.1·Nov. 211: Keep your good lu,·k lo yoursc·ll· 
Put extnt fund~ aVva) lor a ~rc~..:ial vanllton. Dekg.a1111~ toutinc tasko., helps you gel quicke1 l'l'"llh lnllu· cnllal people will he 1n1pressed. 
SA<;I'I'TA RillS INov. 22-llec 
211: Back 10 ihc !!lind. Your co workers arc Jepc1;ding on you lo carry 1hc hall' Take a leadership role. lllll welcome ihen 1npu1. The financial ren11ns lrum a difficuli work prOJl'L'I woll he c.xl'ellcnl. 
CAPRICORN !Del'. 22-Jan 
I'll: L.islenlo your panncr·, iuea' II 
: mo go along woth a clever plan. 
profils will !>Oar. Handle real estale 
mailers prompily. Cosls arc 1101 '" 
high a' you fean·J. 
AQliARiliS i.lan. 211·Feb. IH): A public appearance goe' well Oih· ers arc impressed hy your way wilh wnrtk Accepl a laSI·mlnlltc invita· tion to lunch. A romantic cm;ountcr lea1·es you purnng w11h contenl· menl. Make adale wilh IIllS person. 
PISCES ihh. llJ·March 20): The empha,is now is on being more 'ociablc and people-orienled. l'ul your hcsi fool forward. e'pccially al 11o1k Finish one joh lwforc s1a11ing another. A romanlit' admirer's ex· 1ravagam prnmise' could danle you 
South 
Meat Loaf 
Stir-fry Szechuan Vegetables Chicken Fajita Salad 
' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Give a Bronx cheer to 5 Camel features 10 Dog's annoyance 14 Region 15 W.W. II plane 
·~Gay 
16 Melon throwaway 17 Party munchies, e.g. 19 Within: Prefix 20 Comic book heroes 21 "Return to--" 23 Smart, as students 26 Waterfall 
27 Submarine detection systems 
28 Big name in copiers 29 "--luck!" 30 Army vehicle 31 Brothers 35 "I'd hate to breakup--" 36 Ram, astrologically 37 Rolling in money 
38 Like most postage stamps: Abbr. 
39 Female sweetheart 40 Spotted horse 41 Politico North 43 Teeter-totter 44 Fix indelibly 47 Equilibria 48 Evolution theorist Charles 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


Don't miss the opportunity for students and faculty to meet and mingle at the all-campus picnic following the official opening mass of the school year on September 22. Students and faculty will be seated by department, and both dining halls will be closed during the event. 
Mass begins at 4 p.m. Please join us! 
Brought to you by Student Government 

-
Football 
1996 





page 20 September 16, 1996 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish top Mountaineers to remain undefeated 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team is currently enjoying their best best start since Mike Berticelli took over as head head coach in 1990. Lifted by a game-winning goal from senior midfielder Konstantin Koloskov, the Irish improved their record to 4-0-1 and 2-0-1 in the Big East. 
It was not an easy victory for Berticelli's crew, as bad weath­er and an inconsistent offense slowed the Irish in the first half. Senior midfielder Konstantin Koloskov explained the shaky start. 
"We played well defensively," said Koloskov, "but poorly on offense." 
Such has been the case on a few occasions this season. The defense, which once again shut down opposing attackers for 90 minutes, has played well in each of the five games this year and has helped goalkeeper Greg Velho maintain a perfect guals against average in regulation play. 

However, Velho played even more of a role than usual in Friday evening's contest with the Mountaineers. The sopho­more recorded five saves in the game and completed his fourth shutout of the season. He faced the majority of those shots in second half and quite a few from short-range, but Velho was up to the challenge. 
The Irish, in search of offense in the second half, may have sacrificed a small amount of their defensive strength, as evi­denced by Velho's work load. 
Referring to the offensive ef­fort, Koloskov said, "The coach (Berticelli) made some changes at halftime and we did better." 
The game-winning goal was provided by senior midfielder Konstantin Koloskov, who con­tinues to be one of the most 
see IRISH I page 18 


• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Hoosiers fold under pressure 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
With the Notre Dame women's soccer team leading Indiana 1-0 in the first half 

, yesterday, leprechaun Bryce Emo spotted two spectators departing the stands at Alumni Field. Trying to keep the two from leaving, Emo deadpanned, "It's not over yet." Fact was, however, the state­ment was dead wrong. The two then kept walking and Notre Dame kept on dominating. The No. 2 Irish were in con­trol from the beginning on Sunday, cruising to a 5-0 victo­ry. After a shaky start Thursday in a 5-3 win against Michigan State, head coach Chris Petrucelli was pleased at the play from the outset. "One of our goals was to start fast," he said. "I think in every game it's important for us to start fast because the longer we leave teams in games, the more momentum 
see WOMEN I page 18 


Notre Dame falls again to ranked foe 
By JOE CAVA TO 
Sports Writer 
A loss in which the game could go either way is certainly tough to swallow. Losing two consecutive matches in which a break here or there could change the outcome is even more devastating. But how must it feel to lose three in that fashion? Unfourtunately. the Notre Dame volleyball team knows the answer to that question. 
In Chicago, the Irish split their two matches in the very com­petitive Mizuno Cup. The currently No. 11 ranked Irish dropped a nail biter to the fifth ranked Penn State Nittany Lions (15-10, 6-15, 14-16, 14-16). The Irish rebounded to knock of the Clemson Tigers in straight games {15-12, 15-4, 15-7). 
The Irish are 0-3 against ranked opponents this season, and all of those matches have been filled with high caliber play and play makers. Stanford's all-everything Kristen Folkl and Louisville's Russian Marinia Sinencheko came up with the big plays to overcome the never say die Irish. Friday night, it was last year's Big Ten Player of the Year and tournament MVP Terry Zemaitis' turn. 
The 6-foot-2 middle hitter carried the Lions as she racked up 30 of State's 7 4 kills. 
"I think she is one of the best middles in the country," junior Jaimie Lee expressed. "We did a good job, but I think that we should be able to focus on her in the future because she is their offense.'' 
After splitting the First two, the Irish and Lions battled and 
see V-BALL I page 17 


at Texas, 

• Saint Mary's Volleyball suffers loss 
September 21, 11:00 a.m. 

at Michigan, ar St. John's, 
September 20, 7:00p.m. 
see page 18 September 20, 7:30p.m. 
Volleyball, at Bethel 

• Colts shock Cowboys
September 17,7:00 p.m.
vs. Connecticut, see page 16September 20, 7:30 p.m. 

I ­f 





