----·-------~---------­

Monday, September 23,1996 • Vol. XXX No. 21 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gathering together 
South Bend mayor honors POWs, MIAs 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN the 27th of Mareh, 1973, I just News Writer rof1ected over tho past ynar." "I put into a box all of my 
There is a saying, "Dead men losses -my friends, my mem­hear not the rain that falls." ories -so that I could wrap it The thunderstorm warning last up and deal with it," Kornan Friday should have seen the recalled. The most striking of cancellation of the closing cer-those memories worn thosn of emony to last week's POW and three fallen eomrad<~s. includ­MIA Observance Day vigil at ing his elose collnge friend, the South Quad 11agpole. Mike McCormick. 
Instead, Col. Thomas Hunge In the most moving part of opened the ceremony to an the speech, Kernan rnlat!ld audience of Notre Dame HOTC how on Thanksgiving Day 1973 students from he roeeived 
within the ------------news that auditorium of ' h h MeCormick had 
He s burgh wen I got orne not returned Library. (after Vietnam), home. Hunge intro-· fl d h "Mike hadn't 
duced the I JUSt re ecte overt e been in my keynote speak-past year. I put into a box," admitted er, Jon Kernan, box all of my losses_ Kernan with 
mayor of South t r e m b I i n g Bend and for-my friends, my memo-voice. "lie mer POW. ries _so that I could hadn't beon in Kernan gradu-, d d I my paekage... 
ated from wrap It up an ea and 1 had to Notre Dame in with it.' l'igure out how 1968, to fly for to deal with it." 
Maz1or Joe Kernan 
T
the U.S. Navy ----....:..:.:=~....::...::.:;;_:..:..::;.:.....:..;=. It is beeause in the Vietnam of memories he University celebrated the War. He was shot down in like these that Kernan has 1972 and was a POW for one vowed to "rnmember those that official opening of the year until he was repatriated did not eomn home." Today, in 1973. Kernan servos the South Bnnd
school year with a campus ­

After finishing his service, community not just as a mayor, Kernan went on to several but as a former POW.
wide Mass at the Joyce Center yester­

senior-executive jobs until he The ceremony endnd with a was elected mayor of South piercing rendition of Taps,
day. Father Edward Malloy (left) was 

Bend in 1987. echoing Kernan's last words: "Even now," Runge attested, "Do not forget until that full
the celebrant for the Mass, which 

"he (Kernan) continues to look and final accounting is made for a broader outlook to give for each and evnry one of
was sponsored by Campus Ministry 

the very best his soul can give them." and Student Government. An all­to the South Bend community." Kernan's tribute was the cli-Kernan delivered the keynote max of a two-day ecremony in 
campus picnic followed the service. addrBss on a more emotional honor of POWs and MIAs. A note. "Only three decades ago prayer service at the Grotto on we were in the midst of a war," Thursday and a 24-hour vigil said Kernan. He remembered at the Fieldhouse Mall also the date of his return to the provided HOTC cadets and vet­United States with amazing crans with an opportunity to clarity: "When I got home on remember fallen comrades. 
State legislature seeks Walvoord heads learning center 
By JUSTYN HARKIN Father Timothy Scully, vice Walvoord added. "To help pr,o­
interns for '97 session 
News Writer president and associate ple know what others are provost, commented that doing, to be kind of a facilitator Spocial to The Ohserver "Interns play a critical role While the administration Walvoord's appointment of those efforts, to supportduring the session," works to meet the goals set in involved an exhaustive national those efforts financially and to 
INDIANAPOLIS Mannwciler said. "We rely on the Colloquy for the Year 2000, search of several candidates. be a source of expertise."Indianapolis llouse interns to help staff with the a common concern among "She's a great scholar and an Eventually the Kaneb Center 
HPpublicans and Democrats session's workload. Along 
Notre Dame 
expert in teaching and learning will offer workshops, books are looking for interns inter­with gaining praetieal experi­undergradu­strategy. I'm very excited that and articles, and will invite t•.stPd in gaining first-hand ence, interns get a working ates is she decided to come here," outside speakers. It plans to nxpnrinneo in the legislative knowledge of the legislative whether the Scully said. address such issues as interac­procoss during the 1997 ses­proeess that cannot be found quality of Walvoord expects to spend tive teaching, tho training of sion of the Indiana General in any textbo?,k or taught in their cd uca­the first semester of the pro­graduatB assistants, how to ASS!HnbJy. any classroom. tion will be gram speaking with the faeulty integrate curricular and co­
IlousP Spoaker Paul Gregg noted, "I can pnrsonal­jeopardized to ascertain what is eurrently currieular activities, and the Mannweilor (H-Indianapolis) Iy vouch for tho value of the during the Li.L...--1.......---'----' being done as well as what improvement of teacher-stu­and Democratic Leader John program, since I served as an course of all they feel needs to be done dent relationships.Cregg (])-Sandborn) said appli­intern in the late 1970s. The the changes before anything formal will be The formation of a center 
cations for tiltlir respective on-tho-job experience I gained to the University. implemented. designed to enhance teachingcaucuses' internship programs during that time certainly 
Fortunately for the under­"We are looking for ways in at Notre Dame has been rec­arn now availabln. played a key role in my deci­graduates, one of the most which people would want to ommended by several campus
Internships will begin in sion to make public service an recent additions to the move forward," she said. "A groups over the years, most narly January 19(J7, and important part of my life." University has been made with good teacher doesn't want to recently by tho Academic should end sometime in May Internships are in two basic this concern in mind. stay still. They want to grow. Council in February 1994. Such 
after the legislative session. areas -constituent/caucus University trustee John Kaneb "There is a great deal going a center also was discussed The program is available to services and media/communi­has founded the John A. Kaneb on here in terms of the support during the deliberations of the college juniors, seniors, gradu­cations. Applications must be Center for Teaching and of teaching and learning. University's recent self-study, atns, and graduate students. submitted by Oct. 9, for the Learning . Located in 353 Departments are doing a lot, the Colloquy for the Year 2000. Mannweilnr and Grogg said Hepublican program and Oct. DeBartolo Hall, the Kaneb colleges are doing a lot, indi­Walvoord says that the cen­
that participants ean receive 18, for the Democratic pro­Center will be headed by vidual faculty members are ter wants to be a resource for eollege eredit for their work as gram. Barbara Walvoord, a national doing a lot," she said all faculty, whether they are well as a weekly salary of leader in the field of developing "What the center needs to do 
$225. faculty teaching skills. is support those efforts,"
see INTERNS I page 4 see WALVOORD/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, September 23, 1996
r 
l 
I 
r 
r I 
I 
I 
I r 
I ! 
I 
I r 
r 
! r 
~ 
I 
i 
I 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



A response 
to the 


critics 

It started out as a scolding, evolved into Catherine Deely tongue-in-cheek inserts Accent Copy Editor into select Observer articles, and has now become a wry punch­line for the Notre Dame student body. At issue? It is our complaining, and it's about time it was addressed for once and for all. When an offended alumnus wrote in to 
lambast alleged "whining" by today's Domers, he had every right to vent. I would be willing to wager a significant amount (if I 
had such a thing in my possession, of course) that most of us wandering campus would unashamedly 'fess up to the crime. 
Yes, we complain about football ticket prices. Yes, we whine about why every other premier institution seems to have Labor Day off and we don't. True, a sizable faction of us can be found cursing the great anachronistic unfairness of single-sex dorms. 
What's your point? 

The impression many people who are not students reach from such hand-wringing, both overheard and read, is that the student population at the University of Notre Dame is ungrateful. From the outside, the picture looks damning indeed: here we are, attend­ing one of the most well-respected and well­loved colleges in the world, and we have nothing better to do than moan about pari­etals? 
Beneath that sulky surface, however, lies the truth: no student body loves its alma mater more than the Notre Dame student body does. We are grateful for l?ur school, we are proud of our school, we love our school. Anyone who doubts the sincerity of such a statement need only watch the stu­dent reaction when the strains of the Alma Mater sound, and question no more. 
However, without detracting from that closeness and devotion, the fact remains that nothing, anywhere, is perfect. Notre Dame is not an exception. It has its faults, it has its embarrassments. In short, it has a reason­ably formidable list of aspects only too wor­thy of criticism. 
And yes, to a slight extent, some of the complaining is merely for the sake of com­plaint. It may be childish, but nothing is more helpful in simultaneously unburdening the stresses of everyday college existence and bonding with one's fellow enrollees than voicing disapproval about How Some Things Are Here. (Any alumni who claim they NEVER bitterly cursed the days of an entirely single-sexed school would, guaranteed, not make the same claim if told to do so facing the Golden Dome.} 
But aside from such shallow sighing, the majority of student complaining done at NO has valid provocation. We voice complaints because we want answers. Why DO football ticket prices jump every year, even as uni­versity bankrolls remain, to put it mildly, rather secure? Why WON'T the University seemingly even consider the concept of coed housing? 
We want answers. We came to college to receive the education needed to have ques­tions, to have demands as well, and to make them known. We WILL have our voices heard, even if they don't always leave a soothing impression on every ear. 
We still are, after all, NO. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

•  lODAY'S STAFF  
News Matt Loughran Brad Prendergast Sports Dave Treacy Accent Rachel Torres  Graphics Sue O'Kain Production Heather Cocks Rosanna Ventrone  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Lebanese army sends reinforcements to the south 
RASHAYA 
The army sent 300 commandos to front-line positions facing Israeli forces in southeast Lebanon, a move likely to sharpen tensions in the already volatile region. 
Meanwhile, a five-country monitoring group investigated charges by both Lebanon and Israel that the other side violated a cease-fire last week. 
The Lebanese army said it deployed the commandos in armored personnel carriers to the Rashaya district along the eastern sector of the Israeli-occupied enclave in south Lebanon. 
"The reinforcements are designed to cope with any Israeli venture in the region following increased Israeli threats of large-scale aggression," a Lebanese army statement said. 
Security sources said the reinforce­ments were positioned midway between that the Israeli government had decided to increase its forces in the Golan Heights in response to Syrian troop movements. 

However, Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai told the Maariv news­paper that chances of conflict were small due to a "drop in tension" between Israel and Syria. 
The rare Lebanese army move in that region raised fears about the possibility of new fighting. A Hezbollah rebel leader claimed Sunday that Israel was prepar­ing a massive attack against Hezbollah and Syrian troops. 
"Our information indicates that the (Israeli) enemy has mobilized a large number of forces along the border," Sheik Nabil Kaouk, Hezbollah's comman­der in south Lebanon, said in a televised interview. 
Israel had pounded Hezbollah guerrilla strongholds on Thursday using artillery 
Syrian and Israeli army front lines in L__---'-~--...lL..-'-L'-'-'--"-AP and warplanes after a firelight that left 
southeast Lebanon, which are about five miles apart. 

Israeli leaders have been voicing fears about a recent redeployment of Syrian troops in central and eastern Lebanon. The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported Sunday 
Clinton takes heat from gay activists 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton still was attracting the censure of gay rights activists Sunday for signing a bill denying feder­al recognition of same-sex marriages. Clinton signed the Defense of Marriage Act into law early Saturday after flying home from a four-day campaign trip to six states. He signed the bill in the wee hours of the morning in hopes of mini­


mizing news coverage. On Sunday, about a dozen pro­testers greeted Clinton's motorcade as he arrived for morning services at Washington's Foundry United Methodist Church. They stood a block away from the church, and none approached the president. The demon­stration was among several planned in various cities by the homosexual advocacy group ACT UP. The new law defines marriage as a legal union between a man and a woman and allows states to refuse to honor same-sex marriage performed outside their boundaries. States would still be able to legalize gay marriages, but the unions would not be recognized by the federal govern­ment for taxation or other considerations. 
JFK Jr. weds on secluded island 

CUMBERLAND ISLAND, Ga. John John is the nation's No. 1 bachelor no more. John 
F. Kennedy Jr. tied the knot with longtime girlfriend Carolyn Bessette in a top-secret weekend ceremony on a secluded island. Years of gossip about the man once dubbed "The Sexiest Man Alive" ended with a private wedding Saturday on this island along the Georgia coast. "My cousin John did tie the knot yesterday," Rep. Patrick Kennedy, 0-R.I., confirmed Sunday morning at a fund­raiser for congressional candidate Robert Burch in Steubenville, Ohio. Although he gave no details, his spokesman confirmed the bride was Bessette. Camden County Probate Judge Martin Gillette said his office issued a marriage license to the couple Thursday, though they had not yet returned it to confirm the ceremony took place. Kennedy has been romantically involved for about five years with Bessette, a 29-year-old blonde from Greenwich, Conn., who until last spring worked in public relations for Calvin Klein Ltd. in New York City. 
two Israeli soldiers dead and several wounded. 
The cease-fire committee, with representatives from five countries, met for four hours Sunday , but did not make any announcement. Another meeting was set for Tuesday. 

Nation of Islam gathers for Tupac 
NEW YORK 

Nine days after rapper Tupac Shakur died from gun­shot wounds, the Nation of Islam gathered rappers in Harlem on Sunday for a "day of atonement" to promote peace in the violent world of gangsta rap. "People criti­cized us and said 'Why would you honor a gangster rap­per?"' said Minister Conrad Muhammad, the Nation of Islam's New York leader. "We're not honoring a gangster rapper, we're honoring a black man who is a child of God who was murdered." Shakur, an actor and musician who sold millions of albums, died Sept. 13 in Las Vegas from wounds suffered in a drive-by shooting six days earlier. Shakur and his boss, Death Row records chief Marion "Suge" Knight, were shot in Knight's BMW after the Mike Tyson-Bruce Seldon boxing match. No arrests have been made in the case and police have said they have few clues and have received little cooperation from witnesses to the shooting. On Sunday, police cordoned off two whole blocks around a school auditorium, where Nation of Islam representatives tightly controlled access. Hundreds on the street listened over loudspeakers. An all-black audience of 600 that got inside included several hip-hop pioneers. 

Sources: Missile theory getting a look 
SMITHTOWN, N.Y. 

Investigators trying to figure out what downed TWA 
Flight 800 are taking a close look at whether a missile 
could have passed through the belly of the plane without 
exploding, a source said Sunday. Theories about what 
caused the jetliner with 230 people aboard to explode 
July 17 also include a bomb and mechanical failure. The 
missile theory being examined presumes that the missile 
itself did not explode, a source close to the investigation 
said. "There is no evidence of it exploding inside the air­
craft," said the source, who spoke on condition of 
anonymity. "There would have been all kinds of blast 
damage if it did and we are just not seeing that." More 
than 100 people on the Long Island shore interviewed 
after the crash reported seeing streaks of light or a mis­
sile in the sky before the blast. Investigators believe the 
missile would have been fired from someone on a boat, 
and it would have been guided by radar, the source said. 
The missile might have struck the center fuel tank. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 23.
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
............... ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta Assoctaled Press 



Viewpoint Lab Tech Ethan Hayward Katie Kroener 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 85 62 Columbus 71 57 Miami 90 74 Baltimore 72 47 Dallas 82 65 Minneapolis 61 47 Boston 63 50 Denver 70 38 New Orleans 89 65 Buffalo 65 45 Fort Wayne 68 55 Pittsburgh 71 51 Chicago 69 53 Los Angeles 76 63 Tucson 92 68 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, September 23, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Provost appoints Miller "Sing us a song, you're the piano man..." to Clark chemistry chair 
Sprrial co Tho Ob-.rvor logically important compounds, particularly bnta-lactams, thn 
1\larvin MiiiPr, an organic eorn units o!' pnnieillin and its rlu•mist intnrnationally rneog­n~latives -which comprise nizPd for his work in tlw field thn most important class of of llllW antibiotics, has bnnn antibiotics used throughout the appointnd to 
world·-and microbial iron till' (;porgn transport agents. and Winifn~d ;\ member of the Notre Dame Clark chair farulty since 1977, Miller in chnmistry, rnceivml his bachelor's dogree a<·<·ording to from North Dakota State UnivPrsity u·niversity and his master's Provost degree and doctorato from 
N a t h a n 
Cornnll University. lie was a 
Miller

lfalrh. National lnstitutos ol' Health 
"Millnr is (NIH) fnllow at the University of an outstanding synthetic California, Berkeley, from organic rlwmist wlwsn work is 1975-77. not only fundamentally impor­lin has received an ;\lfrnd P. tant, but is of vital praetie<LI Sloan fellowship (19H l-H5), an liS I' in CO Ill bating OIH1 0 f tlw N Ill rnsearrh career develop­tl'l'l'ib!n probiPms of our tinw mnnl award (l9H3-88), the -that of tlw inl'nmsing bactn­198:1 Award for Outstanding rial rnsistance to antibiotics," Hesna1·ch from Sigma Xi, and said Francis Castl'llino. dean of tlw Collnge of Science's 1994 thn Collt~ge of Scinnen and Shills-Leonard Teaching 1\lnidnn~r-Pnzold professor of Award. rlwmistry and biochnmistry. The George and Winifred "Tiw chair is apt recognition of' Clark chair grew out of a fund his outstanding ac<:omplish­for distinguished professors 
Stolz earns Zahm math chair
nwnts." established by the couple in MiiiPr's rnsearch f1H:usns on 1954 and a bequest from the 
tlw syntlwsis and study of bio-nstate of Clark. Special to The Observer Professor Stolz. I expect that this Switzerland, in 1994. According chair will go far in preserving to Alexander Hahn, chair of the Stephan Stolz, an internation­the union between him and mathematics department, Stolz ally recognized topologist who Notre Dame," he added. was selected to the conference 
has been a member of the Notre A West Germany native, Stolz because of his substantial contri­
NO alum wins ·award 
Dame faculty since 1986, has taught at the University of Mainz butions in the field of topology.been named ~"'"""~------, 
in Germany prior to coming to The Zahm chair honors John to the John 
Notre Dame. He authored two Zahm, a Holy Cross priest who
for superior teaching 
A. Zahm books, "llighly Connected from 1875 to 1892 was a Notre chair in Manifolds and their Dame professor of physics and 
Spo<ial lo The Ohserver University of Chicago, delivered mathematics, Boundaries," and "Transfers chemistry, librarian and curator the lecture, "The Company We according to and J-Homeomorphisms." of the University's scientificPatrick Shelley, who received Keep: The Ethics ofToaching." 
University He addressed the 25th museum. At age 25, Zahm
his bachnlor's and master's Booth's lncturn began this 
Provost International Congress of served as vice-president of thedegJ'IWS from Notrn Damn, is wnekend's three-day confer­
Nathan Mathematicians in Zurich, University.
tlw rncipinnt of the Outstanding ence, developed to instruct edu­Hatch. Stolz l·:duealor's ;\ward prnsented by cators on how to make leaching 
"Stephan 

• SECURITY BEAT
Llw N o t r n ()am e ;\lu m n i mom efl'eetive. More than 150 
Stolz· is one of only a very few 

Association. middle and high school teach­
2:45 p.m. A Pasquerilla West resident
mathematicians ever to have 

MON., SEPT. 16 
reported the theft of her football ticket
Tlw CliiTsidn Park (N.J.) High ers, principals, and counselors 
been invited to address the 

6:11 a.m. A Fisher Hall resident report· book from her unlocked room.
School English teacher was rec­from around the country 
ed the theft of hi$ bike from outside the
International Congress of 

5:17 p.m. A University Village resident
ogniznd at 7 p.m. Friday in the attended. Six students were 
He!!Ptirgh library. The bike was unlocked
Mathematicians," Hatch said of 

reported the theft of his bike from a bike
at ltte time of the theft
C1mtnr for Continuing Education also invited to attend. 
the appointment. "It is an honor 

rack at University Village. The bike was·HiS& a.m. Security responded to a two
as part of thn Excellence in Booth, who has held confer­
locked at the time of the theft.
indeed that he makes his intel­

car accident in the C2/82 parking lot.
Tmu:hing Confnrnnen. ences for the past eight years 
lectual home at Notre Dame." 

There were no injuries reported.
Slwlley, who was mlucalor for for high school teachers is the 
WED., SEPT. 18

2:35 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident report·
According to Francis 

morn than 30 ynars, was chosen author of "The Vocation of a 
ed the theft of his football ticket book and 1:30 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident report­
Castellino, dean of the College of 

ed the theft of his football ticket book from
from 50 nomirwns for his dedi­Teacher" and eleven other 
Science and Kleiderer-Pezold 

Two Fisher Hall residents his unlocked room.
cation to stud1mts by encourag­books. llis awards include the 
professor of chemistry and bio­

.. reported the theft of their football ticket 3:15'p.m. Security responded to a two·
ing Llwm to rnad and advising Lifetime Achievement Award 
chemistry, "Stephan Stolz is a 

d a wallet from their room. car accident In the 06 parking lot.
thn high school's award-win­for Devotion to the Christian 
6:55 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident was
foremost topologist in an 

ning "Mnnmosyne." Faith. 
transported by Security to St. Joseph's
extremely distinguished group at 

TUES., SEPT. 17 
Medical Center for treatment of a sports
Immediately following the The conference was spon­
Notre Dame. 

11 :08 a.m. A University employee was Injury.
pn~ s~~ nta ti o n . Boo t. d ist i n -sored by the Notre Dame 
transported to St. Joseph's Medical
"Our international stature in 

9:13p.m. A Carroll Hall resident was
guisll!'d s1~rvic1~ professor of Alumni Association and Alumni 
Center for treatment of an illness.
the area of topology is in no 

transported by Security to St. Joseph's1:12 p.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported
l·:nglish emeritus at the Continuing Education. 
small way connected to 

Medical Center for treatment of a sportsreceiving a harassing telephone calt. 


THIS POP QUIZ IS 
EASY TO SWALLOW. 

True or False: Fazoli's offers free soft drink refills when you dine in. Ifyou said true, you aced this quiz. So pop in for free refills on pop. Or do you call it soda? 

Real Italian. Real Fast "' 
52770 US Route 33N, South Bend • 277-4008 Injury. 

NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you will be called to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, 
meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 
to find out 
more! 
Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
---~--~--~---~-----------­
~­
---~-------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 23, I996 
where she was named 1987 Maryland Teacher of the year

Walvoord Dole campaigns attack rivals 
in higher education -Central continued from page I 
College in Pella, Iowa, Drake University, and the ByTOMRAUM the past, the two have seldom even though the Clinton cam­
full-time, part-time or adjunct professors, or graduate assis­tants. 
Walvoord joins the Notre Dame faculty after five years at the University of Cincinnati, where she was a professor of English, director of faculty workshops and networks, and co-director of a project to enhance teaching and learn­ing. 
She previously taught at Loyola College in Baltimore ­
Interns 
continued from page I 
In addition, GTE is providing a $2,500 cash scholarship to each caucus that will be given to the intern receiving the highest evaluation on job per­formance from legislators and staff. The scholarship money will be paid directly to the recipient. 
For more program informa­tion or to receive an applica-Universities of Wisconsin and Delaware.-
Walvoord, a graduate of Hope College in Holland, Mich., earned her master's degree in English from Ohio State University and her doc­torate in English from the University of Iowa. 
In addition to directing the center, Walvoord has been appointed a concurrent profes­sor of English and will contin­ue, of course, to teach. 
tion for the Republican pro­gram, contact: Anne Salaymeh, House Republican Internship Program, Room 401­7/Statehouse, 200 W. Washington St., Indianapolis, IN 46204. Phone: 1-800-382­9841 or 317-232-9887. 
For the Democratic program, contact Judson Kring, House Democratic Internship Program, Room 231­U/Statehouse, 200 W. Washington St., Indianapolis, IN 46204. Phone: 1-800-382­9842 or 317-232-9623. 

Dad faces murder rap 
By KAREN TEST A 
Associated Press Writer 
SPRINGFIELD, Mo 

Jon Feeney was so pleased with the gift he'd bought for his 17-month-old daughter that he showed it to his high school chemistry students. 
It's uncertain, though, whether young Jennifer ever got to enjoy her present. Within two days, the toddler was found dead along with her brother, 6-year-old Tyler, and 36-year-old mother, Cheryl. 
Her father is accused of strangling her with a shoelace and beating the life from her brother and mother with a pipe. The state is seeking the death penalty on three counts of first-d-egree murder; the trial begins Tuesday. 
Feeney, 36, claims he was at a teachers' conference at the Lake of the Ozarks, about 90 miles northeast of Springfield, when his wife and children were killed Feb. 26, 1995. 
The prosection, thus far, has failed to gather evidence to the contrary. In the 14 months prosecutors took to get an indictment, Feeney lived in his home, repeatedly walking through the murder scene. 


ANGERS, FRANCE 
1997-98 Academic Year ;~ Day in the Life ofan Angevin" With Professor Paul McDowell 
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 7:30pm Room 118 DeBartolo 
Applications will be available 
, ALL ARE WELCOME! 
!!J?J.&-~~ni;~c., .:J-~~~kn-13 wet:fPtf: ~l ~-nr/lb a~Je-t 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Bob Dole, turning increasingly to negative campaigning as he tries to break out of the second­place doldrums, is portraying 
'President Clinton as a closet liberal who would revert to old ways if given a second term. 
T h e Republican presidential nominee is telling audiences that could mean another attempt at massive overhaul of the health care system and putting first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton in charge of welfare reform. 
And, in another fine-tuning of Dole's campaign style, strate­gists are planning more joint appearances between the candi­date and his wife, Elizabeth. 
Aides hope that having Mrs. Dole as a warm-up act will add electricity to her husband's sometimes low-wattage cam­paign events -as it did at a Sunday rally in Grayslake, Ill. In spoken at the same event. 


With just six weeks before the election, Clinton continues to lead Dole by double-digit mar­gins in most national polls. 
Dole was expected to empha­size his theme of Clinton as a liberal in conservative's clothing today in a speech at a moving company in Springfield, ·va., a Washington suburb. 
"Now the election is right around the corner, so President Clinton will do everything he can to hide his liberal agenda," Dole said Sunday. 
It's a theme the Republican presidential nominee says he'll bring up in the debates. 
Dole said he was looking for­ward to the debates, saying terms negotiated by both cam­paigns over the weekend-call­ing for two presidential debates and one vice presidential one next month -was "fine with 
me." 
He dismissed criticism by Reform Party candidate Ross Perot for pressing for Perot's exclusion from debates, saying, ''I'm not on the commission." 
It was a reference to the Commission on Presidential Debates, which recommended that Perot not be included ­
paign had urged him to be. Dole's forces all along had sought one-on-one debates with Clinton. 
Dole marked the third anniversary of Clinton's propos­al for a health care overhaul by asserting that the president might try to resurrect the failed legislation. 
"There are already hints that, if re-elected, President Clinton might take another shot at a government takeover of health care," Dole told a GOP rally in a packed community college gym­nasium in Grayslake, about 50 miles north of Chicago. 
"Now he says he's going to put Mrs. Clinton in charge of welfare reform," he added to jeers from the partisan audi­ence. Mrs. Clinton has been a favorite target for Republicans for her efforts in overseeing the unsuccessful health care over­haul package. 
A White House task force led by Mrs. Clinton recommended guaranteed health coverage for all Americans by requiring many employers to help pay for insurance, limiting premiums and forcing most people into insurance purchasing coopera­tives. 

We're lookingfor people who look at this glass and say: 
"There's goHa be other glasses of water." 
We need people capable ofgoing 
beyond half-full or half-empty 
thinking. People who see subtleties. 
Who are quite frankly bored by easy 
answers and off-the-shelf solutions. 
People who are constantly 
challenging their own thinking and 
are thirsty for new ideas and 
knowledge. 
You'll have a degree from a top school. Getting a job won't really be an issue. The question is: which job? Which industry? 
You don't want to get locked into one area and then discover three to five years from now that you don't like it. By then you've invested too much. 
© 1990 Andersen Consulting, AA & Co.. S.C. 

Andersen Consulting offers you the chance to work on a variety ofprojects-with clients in a wide range ofindustries. 
We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business advan­tage. Every hourofevery business day, we Implement a solution to help one of our more than 5,000 clients worldwide. 
What makes that possible is the quality ofour people. And the quality of our training. We're known for both. 
Because business and tech­nology are ever-changing, we see training as a continuing process. And our $123-million Centerfor 
Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity employer. 

Professional Education in St. Charles. Illinois, is just one measure ofour commitment. We train you for a career-notjust a job. 
Are you the kind of person we're talking about? The kind of person with an unquenchable desire for challenge and professional growth? 
If so, come talk to us. And find out more about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
Where we go from heres.M 

Sign-ups for interviews with Andersen Consulting will take place today and tomor­row at Career and Placement. Interviews will be conducted on October 14 and 15th. Please stop by the Andersen Consulting Career Day on Tuesday, October 1st from 12:00-6:00pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. All Majors welcome! 
Monday, September 23, 1996 
By ANNIE SHOOMAN A'\sociart·d Press Wricer 
Dorothy Lanwur, tho sultry, sarong-wearing sidekkk of Bob llope and Bing Crosby when tlwy went on tlw "Hoad," died Sunday. She wasH I. 
Miss Lamour's cause of death was not immediately deter­minml. said longtinw friend and former puhlic:ist Frank Liberman. lie said she died at twr North llollywood homo. 
"She had htlell ill," ho said. "Siw was a very popular, sweet lady." 
;\ New Orleans native, she often got typecast as a sort of fmnale Tarzan in a string of island-thmne movies in the late I 1J30s and narly '40s. 
Slw first doruwd the wrap­around garment that made her famous in lwr very first film, tlw 11H 6 movin ".Jungle Princess." Slw wtmt on to play similar parts in thn 1937 .John J."ord spectacular "The llurricarw." "Typhoon" and "Beyond the Bhw Horizon." 
Slw also wore lwr sarong in the firs~ of tho Hope-Crosby "Hoad" pieturtls, "The Hoad to Singaporn," in I 940. It was the start of a fnrtiln comk rnlation­ship. 
Ttw trio wnn t on "Tiw Hoad to/.anzihar," 11J41; "The Hoad to Morocco," I 1J42; "The Hoad to Utopia," 194!i; "The Hoad to Hio," I1J4H; "The Hoad to Bali." IIJ!i3; and "Tiw Hoad to Hong Kong," l%2. (She liknd to quip: "Wtl only count six, because 'llong Kong' ernatod a bomb.") 
Tlw films combirwd adven­turn, slapstick, zany ad libs and insidtl-show-hiz satire. Lamour playl'd tlw tlxotir brunette who fpll in league with ttw playboy with ttw ski-jump nose and his smooth-voiwd pal who vied for lwr attPntions. 
'"It's a pirnic. working with Bob-and Bing, too," she said in a 1942 Associated Press interview. "I never know what's going to happen next. They'd rather tease me than eat, and anything goes." 
"Once I dedded to top one of their gags. It was kind of dirty, but I let fly. You should have seen them. They nearly sank through the floor. They've been pretty good ever since then." 
"I was the happiest and high­est paid straight woman in the business," she recalled years later. 
She saw herself as more than a sarong-wearer, though. 
"I made 60 motion pictures and only wore the sarong in about six pictures, but it did become a kind of trademark" she said. "i\nd it did hinder me. They expect you to always be th11 young girl leaning against the palm trnn. Why should you want to act'?" 
i\mong her more serious films were the 1940 crime melodra­ma ".Johnny i\pollo' and the 1945 film "A Medal for Benny." 
More recently, in the 1987 film "Creepshow 2," she played a sloppily dressed housewife who gets murdered. "Well, at my age you can't lean against a palm tree and sing 'Moon of Monakoora,"' she said. "People would look at that and say, 'What is she trying to do?"' 
Describing a similarly down­beat guest part in a television series, she commented, ''I've always wantnd a part like this. Either they didn't come up with one or people thought I couldn't handle it." 
While "Creepshow 2" was her only film role in two deeadns, she was frequently snnn on tnlnvision. doing guest shots such shows as "The Love Boat." "Murder, She Wrote" and, naturally, a few Bob Hope sptleials. 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN Associated Press Writer 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
One momiant, the laboratory bustled. People poured fluid into tubes, monitored its tem­perature and tended to clamps controlling its flow. 
The next, all work stopped. Everyone in the lab leaned in close as the focus of their labor was removed from a beaker. 
Sitting in the center of one scientist's paJm was a rat heart, the size and hue of a red grape. 
And it was beating. 
Cheers erupted at what appeared to be the successful revival of an organ that had been frozen to its core in liq­uid nitrogen, at 320 degrees below zero. Several people gasped and one woman cried. 
The tiny realm of cryobiolo­gy, which studies the effects of low temperatures on organ­isms, has been set abuzz by the successful defrosting of a tiny, pulsating organ. 
So what's the big deal? 
If such a heart can be trans­planted back into a rat and work, some say, the procedure would be a first step to storing human organs indefinitely, giving doctors limitless time to test tissue for disease and match needy recipients per­fectly to particular organs. Or limbs. Or glands. 
Now the only things regular­ly frozen and brought back are sperm, embryos and some small blood vessels, like veins and arteries. 
Freezing at the temperature of liquid nitrogen has been the goal of cryobiologists world· wide for decades. It's the cold­est attainable temperature, scientists believe, and would presumably immobilize any· thing that could invado an organ. 

So far, however, no one has been able to do this without triggering massive damage. 
The new method made its dehutin the United States ear­liet this month at Alcor Life Extension Foundation, a cry­onics facility in Scottsdale. The South African researchers who invented it were flown here by­local cryonicists, eight of whom witnessed the proce­dure; Cryonicists believe such research will eventually lead to a way to preserve, and revtve,whole bodies. 
The South Africans say they also have frozen and revived rat livers and a pig's heart at their lab in Pretoria. They are raising money for the next research step, transplantation of a revived organ into a lab animal. 
Some cryobiologists, howev­er; are dubious. Until a defrosted organ is transplant· ed into a human and func­tions, they say, celebration is premature. 
The work of biologist Olga Visser and others at the University of Pretoria has been neither published nor present­ed at any major meeting of cryobiologists, so few scientists have reviewed it. Visser has shared it with a few prominent cryobiologists, and others have seen it as reviewers for Cryobiology, a British maga­zine that's contemplating pub­lishing her research. 
Opinions aside, cryobiolo· gists are talking plenty about the beating rat heart. 
"There is quite a lot of inter· est in their results," said Dr. Greg Fahy, head of tissue cry­opreservation at the Naval Medical Research Institute at Bethesda, Md. 
Fahy, who has seen Visser's formula, has been researching organ preservation for more than 20 years. While he cau~ tions that the method is far from human application, he credits it with "miraculously reviving" hope among some cryo biologists. 
To others, success for Visser's work is neither likely nor neeessary. 
With 40,000 people in the United States alone awaiting transplants, donated organs are all used immediately; there is no need for storage, said Dr. James Southard. a biochomist at thtl Univtlrsity ol' Wisconsin-Madison and a leading U.S. cryobiologist. 
Aside from his inherent interest in Visser's work, Southard is also something of a competitor. He developed an organ preservation solution. marketed by DuPont, that extends the life of kidneys, pancreases, htlarts and livers awaiting transplantation. 
But Visser, Fahy and others say long·term preservation offers one key advantage: It buys time. Patients could be perfedly matched to donors. organs could be tested for can­cer, AIDS and other diseases, and a patient's tissue could he readied for the t'oreign organ -all these things take time. 
"A lot of people get diseases through kidney and liver transplants," said Dr. Grant Knight, a biochemist at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand. "And organs sometimes work for some years nnd then they fnil because they are mis­matched." 
Cancer is inadvertently transmitted in 65 of evtlry 150,000 organ transplants, according to Joel Newman of the United Network for Organ Sharing, a federally fundod entity that matches donors and recipients. 
HIV, tho virus that causes AIDS, has been passed on to two organ recipients in the last decade, Nowman said. 

make y o u r 
you analytical? 
Would you call yourself detail oriented? Do you seek out, an·d even welcome, complex, technical challenges? Are you ambitious? Do people consider you to be flexible'? 
If you possess these qualities, _then perhaps you should consider afirm that" embraces them-Hewitt Associates. 
HewItt A11 o cIa t e s is aglobal consulting firm. We are in the business of helping clients become better employers. Our services focus on the design, financing, communica­tion, and administration of human resources, benefit, and compensation plans. With over 
5.500 associates In 55 locations around the world, Hewitt Associates is atrusted partner w~h more than 3,000_COOlpanies. Over 75% of the Fortune 500 companies can be found on our clienfroster. Our commitment to excellence and innovation is resulting in annual revenue growth of 12% to 15%. 


move 
your b· e.s t 
At H8 wItt AssocIates, you will become part of our team environment immediately. As afirm, we empower our teams. We encourage innova~on. From the moment you join us, you are an associate. We refrain frofu "usfng titles as much as possible, and you, as an associate, have the ability to det&rmf~~Yo~r,bwn~areer path. 
W8 a r 8 de dI cat e~ to valuing the diverse attributeS that individuals bring to Hewitt Associates. We see these differences as an asset gi~ng us astronger, more creative work force. Hewitt Associates is currently listed in the books, the 100 Best Companies To Work For In America and The Best Compa/iies for Women. 
Entry I eve I positions are available in six of our ce~ters.: •. , 
0 Atlanta, GA ' 0 Newport Beach, 0 Bedminster, NJ ~;); ;;j.o Rowayton, CT 0 Lincolnshire, ll 0 The Woodlands, TX' 
· Students wIth the following majors have traditionally been;successful in our organization: Computer Science, MIS, Accounting, Actuarial Science, Economics, Finance, or Math. 
l-Ie\vitt Associates LLC 
• 
100 Hall Day Road 
We will be interviewing on campus Sept. 30-0ct. 2, 1996• 

Lincolnshire, IL 60069 (847) 295-5000 
Hewitt Associates 

http:I /www.hewittassoc.com
Helping Clients Around The World Improve Business Results Through People 

-~ ---------~--------------~~---­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 23, 1996 
• GREECE 
Socialists inch toward victory 
By PHILIP DOPOULOS 
Associated Press Writer 
ATHENS 

The governing Socialists were headed toward winning a clear parliamentary majority Sunday in nationwide elections that Premier Costas Simitis called early to get a fresh political mandate. 
Simitis replaced former Premier Andreas Papandreou as Socialist party leader after Papandreou died in June. The Socialists did not have to call an election until next year, but Simitis sought clear public backing of his own. 
His main opponent was con­servative New Democracy Party leader Miltiades Evert, 57, who called for a tougher line in confronting neighboring Turkey over the divided island of Cyprus and other territorial disputes. 
The main difference between Evert and Simitis, 60, was more of style than sub­stance, as both favor continu­ing austerity measures aimed at bringing Greece's economy in line with those of its European Union partners and both are staunchly pro-NATO. 
Evert is known as "the Bulldozer" for his stout build and ebullience, while the low­key Simitis has focused quietly and methodically on winning over international opinion in Greece's disputes with Turkey. 
However. the conservatives turned the tables on the Socialists with populist promises to abolish some harsh taxes enacted by the Socialists after their 1993 election victory. and to provide more social spending. 
A nationwide exit poll showed Simitis' Panhellenic Socialist Movement, or PASOK, was expected to get 42 percent to the New Democracy Party's 38 percent. poll analyst Ilias 
he Greeks will be voting Sunday 
for a new Parliament. Voting is 
mandatory; penalties for not voting 
include jail terms, losing one's 
driver's license, passport and 
permit to open a business or 
practice. At issue are foreign policy 
with Turkey and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 
and national economic problems. 
The country also has a president who is elected by Parliament for a five-year term. His term is unaffected by parliamentary elections. 
The Panhellenic Socialist 
Movement-PASOK 
ruling party 
Premier Costas Simitis­
Economics professor, took over as 
premier in January and party
chairman in June when former 
premier died. 
,t;Pro EU 
-/Advocates economic austerity 
.measures 
..j Foreign policy: deal with perceived
threat of Turkey 
The Democratic Social Movement-DIKKI DimitrisTsovolas-Former finance 
minister in the PASOK party 
,fThe party broke away from PASOK in 1995, saying it has grown conservative 
,t;Pro EU
;!, Populist platform
./Opposed to economic austerity measures 
yi.Wants to raise taxes tor the rich 
;; Nationalistic 
AP average of latest polls, taken 
first 10 days of September 
undecided
7.5% 
KKE-4.4% 

POLAN -4.2% 
Sinaspismos 4.5% DIKKI-5.3% 
The New Democracy Party 
Miltiades Evert-Leader of the party since 1993, known for his confrontational style 
/. Conservative 
..j Pro EU 
..; Aims to improve the economy,
promising increase in farmers 
pensions, more welfare spending
and abolition of some taxes
I Foreign policy: pushes tor more 
confrontational style with Turkey 
The Political Spring Party­POLAN Antonis Samaras-Former foreign
minister in the New Democracy Party 
./ Pulled away from DIKKI and formed POLAN in 1993 ,f Nationalistic on foreign policy;
Macedonia, Turkey and Cyprus
issues 
Coalition of the Left and Progress -Sinaspismos Nikos Constantopoulos-Leftist 
lawyer ./Pro EU 
;;Pragmatic regarding foreign policy 
The Communist Party of Greece-KKE Aleka Papariga I Anti EU and NATO membership 
AP/Terry Kale 


The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
ru®rnc]][l~@C{lw~c]][lw 
2:30 -3:30  Contact  
DARDEN  Allen MCWalters x3331  
SWANSON  Susan Grondin x4268  
EGGLESTON  Kathleen Flynn x4355  
3:45-4:45  
NORTHEAST  Nicole Varneri x4039  
or Jennifer Jablonski x3552  
4:30-5:00  
lASALLE  Pete DiLella 287-5277  

Titn~c]][l~m~c]][lw 
1:00-2:00 
KENNEDY Katherine Murray 284-4435 3:00-4:00 ST.JUDE Sarah Magness 284-5217 

• BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 
Natives foresee more bloodshed in Bosnia 
By MORT ROSENBLUM 
Associated Press Writer 

MOSTAR 
The Bosnian Croats' ethnical­ly pure state was supposed to disappear with Bosnia's nation­al elections. But Herceg-Bosna is alive and well and showing no signs of going away. 
Even if dissolved as planned, it remains a state of mind for those in the rocky mountains at the west of Bosnia-Herzegovina -although any attempts to restore it to reality could rekin­dle war. 
Across the Croat heartland, conservative and Roman Catholic, former farmers maneuver their $200,000 cars through traffic in new boom­towns and plot their state's strategy on mobile phones. Their rationale is simple . 
The Dayton accords gave Serbs an autonomous Republika Srpska within a greater Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Croats want one, too. 
"Dayton solved nothing," said Jozo Pavkovic, who covers the region for the Zagreb daily Vecernji List. "Bosnia is three separate countries." 
Pavkovic predicts more war within the year, although many others expect only hard-edged diplomacy. But few think the Croats can merge comfortably in a Washington-designed fed­eration with Muslims. 
Beyond ethnic politics, for­tunes are at stake. War profi­teers amassed huge sums, and now organized crime influences government, according to European Union officials in Mostar, which is divided between Croats and Muslims. 
Construction booms in places like Siroki Brijeg, a poor farm town west of Mostar, now ablaze in lights and rich with unexplained income. 
Top-of-the-line BMWs cluster outside countless coffee bars, including a popular place in Citluk called The Hague. War criminals, explained a heavily painted blonde, are just part of the fauna. 
''I'm afraid it's not going to be perfect," said Sir Martin Garrod, European Union spe­cial envoy to Mostar, smiling at his understatement. "We worry about fear, intimidation and expulsions (from homes)." 
At a news conference early in September, denouncing "scum" who made Mostar a "cesspit," Garrod named six reputed gang leaders whom he linked to the theft of scores of Muslim homes. 
Police took no action against any of them; a local newspaper editor praised them all as war heroes who defended the Croatian half of Mostar against Muslims across the river. 
Senior European administra­tion officials refer privately to "thugs and Nazis," who they say run rackets, deal in drugs and traffic in smuggled goods. 
Frano Ljubic, economic advis­er to Herceg-Bosna, says local mafias play only a minor role. He said Croats are bringing home money from abroad, and with stability and strong laws, the region will thrive. 
Politically, the situation is clear, from Croat-controlled west Mostar to hamlets high in the Dinaric hills. 
Graffiti reads, "Za Dom, Spremni," or "For the Homeland, We're Ready" -a World War II slogan of the Croatian Ustasha militiamen who backed Hitler's Germany. 

Dimitrakopoulos said on Athens' Mega Channel television. The exit poll had a margin of error of 1 percent. 
"The political supremacy of PASOK is a fact and the difference between PASOK and New Democracy is at least 3 percent," PASOK spokesman Costas Laliotis declared. "The citi­zens voted for a progressive government." 
Four smaller parties, including the Communist Party, were predicted to win at least 3 percent of the vote and win seats in the 300-member uni­cameral Parliament. In all, 33 parties contested the election. 
Simitis, who voted in the working class suburb of Kaminia in Piraeus, the port city near Athens, said his party "has the forces, the policies, to lead the country to a new age, to the world of the 21st century." 
Evert voted in the village of Tavri in the north­eastern province of Evros near Turkey. 
'Today the Greek people speak and with their vote they shape our country's future," Evert said. "I have faith in the citizen." 
Interior Ministry officials said that voting went smoothly at all polling stations. About 8.8 million people were eligible to vote. 
The election was also Evert's first as leader of his party, and his job could be at risk if he loses. 

CASUALTY ACTUARIAL CAREERS 
Presentation and Information Session 
Tuesday, September 24, 1996 6:30 -8:00 pm Foster Room 

All students interested in learning more about the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. 

You're ingood hands. 
.--------~--~-------------~-------------------~-----~----------------------­
Monday, September 23, I 996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• SWEDEN 
Tensions subside between U.S., Hussein 
Aircraft carrier is the first sign of return home 
By DONALD ROTHBERG Associated Press Wrir~r 
STOCKHOLM 

Keeping wateh on Iraq "every day, twery hour," Defense Secretary William Perry says tensions are easing to the point whnrn he is ready to eonsider let­ting one of two U.S. aircraft carriers in tho Persian Gulf return to home port. 
"I truly bulicvt) Iraq is backing o!'f the threatening actions they were taking a week ago," the Pentagon chief said Sunday. 
But, ho said, the 5,000 U.S. troops in Kuwait will r·emain ther·e for several months in order to complete training tlX!ll'l:ist~S. 
President Clinton ordered a buildup of 
U.S. forces in the region af'ter Saddam 
Hussein's government sent troops into northern Iraq to intervene in a clash between rival Kurdish factions and then fired missiles at U.S. planes patrolling the no·t1y zone south of Baghdad. 
As part of the buildup, the aircraft car­rier USS Enterprise joined the carrier USS Carl Vinson in the Persian Gulf. Perry raised the possibility that if there is no increase in tension, the Vinson would leave the Middle East in October and return to Bremerton, Wash., its home port. 
"All the evidence I've seen the last four or five days is positive," Perry said on a tlight from Finland to Sweden where he met with the Scandinavian country's defense officials. 
He will Oy to Denmark today for a con­ference on Baltic security and then going to Bergen, Norway, for a meeting of NATO defense ministers. 
Although encouraged by signs Iraq's behavior was becoming less belligerent, Perry said. "we will watch it very care­fully, very carefully, every day, every hour." 
ln addition to sending the second carri· er. Clinton ordered 3,500 troops to Kuwait to join 1,500 already there for desert training exercises. "We have no plans at this time to send any more forces than we've already sent in," said Perry. When the training .exercise in Kuwait ends, he said. "we'll take a look at what the situation is." 

In an interview yesterday, Nizar Hamdoon, Iraq's ambassador to the United Nations, said the U.S. troops in Kuwait "are only going to raise the ten­sion in the area." 
Saddam's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2, 1990, started a process that led to a 100· hour ground war in February 1991 to drive the Iraqis out. 
Hamdoon said Iraq wants "some sort of dialogue between the two governments. I think there a,re lots of ways to try to fig­ure out how to get an improvement to the situation, to lessen the tension." 
Washington's U.N. ambassador, Madeleine Albright, said on Fox that the United States would agree to allow Iraqi oil sales for humanitarian purposes only after the situation in northern Iraq has become ''such that allows the United Nations to feel comfortable enough to send in monitors/' 
!IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CALL THE OBSERVERAT 1-53231 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Be Service Fair Wednesday, September 25th 7:00 -9:00 p.m. at Stepan Center 
Representatives from the following organizations will be present at this year's Fair. On behalf of the Center for Social Concerns, we would like to thank them for their continued recruitment, training and support of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students who wish to commit to a year or more of full-time service after graduation. We recognize and appreciate the importance of the work undertaken by these students and organizations and for the inevitable opportunities for continuing education as a result of 
these partnerships. 
M-)T't;-Yk.1L 1C S.c. 
Don McNeill, CSC Executive Director Center for Social Concerns 
7~1pu/ 

Alliance for Catholic Education Amate House Amerlcorps/VISTA Andre House Annunciation Volunteer Com. Apostolic Volunteers Archdiocese of N.Y. Teacher Program Associate Missionaries of the Assumption Boys Hope/Girls Hope Cabrlnl Mission Corps Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps Cap Corps -Midwest Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Casa de Esperanza de los Nlnos Catholic Network of Volunteer Services Catholic Foreign Mission -Maryknoll Catholic Volunteers In Florida Channel Program Christian Appalachian Project Claretlan Vols. & Lay Missionaries Colorado Vlncentlan Volunteers Congregation of Holy Cross Covenant House Faith Community Diocese of Samoa Pago Pago Farm of the Child Franciscan Mission Service Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Ministry Franciscan Volunteer Program Good Shepherd Volunteers Holy Cross Associates Inner-city Teaching Corps 
~ 

Maureen Skurski Director, Post-Graduate Service Opportunities Center for Social Concerns 
7~1pu/ 
International Voluntary Services Notre Dame Volunteer -Jamaica Jesuit Volunteer Corps Kids Peace L' Arche Harbor House Lasalllan Volunteers Lutheran Volunteer Corps Marlanlst Volunteer Service Com. Marlst Volunteer Program Mennonite Board of Missions Mennonite Voluntary Service Mercy Corps Missionary Cenacle Volunteers NET Ministries Pallottlne Apostolic Associates Passlonlst Lay Missioners Passlonlsts Peace Corps Providence Volunteer Ministry Red Cloud Volunteers Redeemer Ministry Corps Response-Ability Rose Hill Center Sacramento Food Bank Services Side By Side Lay Volunteer Srs. of Charity of Cincinnati SSND Lay Vols.: National & lnt'l VIDA Volunteer Program Vlnventlan Service Corps We Care -IHM Volunteer Services Working Boys' Center 

STUDENTS: The new resource books describing these programs are now available at the Center for Social Concerns. See at the Fair! 
page 7 

• JAPAN 
Typhoon claimes three lives 
By P.H. FERGUSON Associated Press Writer 
TOKYO 

Typhoon Violet churned through the Tokyo area and other Pacific coast cities Sunday, killing at least three people, leaving one missing and disrupting train, air and ferry service. 
Thousands of Tokyo resi­dents struggled with umbrel­las twisted inside-out by the wind and pressed ahead with soaked clothing to reach shops and restaurants. Downtown Tokyo was pelted with more than 10 inehes of rain in 24 hours, according to the Central Meteorological Agency. 
About 5,000 people man­aged to reach Ariake Tennis Park to watch the finals of the Nichirei Ladies tournament. Rain pelted the closed stadi­um roof hard enough to cause leaks, and play was interrupt­ed about half a dozen times to dry the eourt before Monica Seles beat Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. 
The National Police Agency said at least 28 people were injured as winds of up to 78 mph toppled trees and utility poles, sent branches flying down streets and tossed objects around. More than 2,000 houses were flooded and at least 41 homes were destroyed. 
The public broadcasting network NIIK reported five dead, nine missing and 64 injured. Police said they did not include casualties until they could be confirmed as having resulted from the storm. 
In Kanagawa prefecture, just south of Tokyo, wind knocked a tree onto a car, killing a 64-year-old woman and injuring three other peo­ple, police said. 
In Chiba, east of Tokyo, where the city's international airport is located, a falling tree killed a 64-year-old man, and in Fukushima, 150 miles northeast of the capital. a six -year-old boy died in one of the 84 landslides caused by the lashing rains, police said. 
The center of the typhoon stayed off Japan's east coast, but some areas around Tokyo had over 15 inches of rain in 21 hours, said the Central Meteorological Agency. 
With some tracks under water, East .Japan Hailways canceled 1,250 trains in the area, affeeting more than 
194.000 people. 
At least 40 arriving flights were diverted and 31 depar­tures were canceled at Tokyo's international airport. Munetoshi llirose of the Airport Authority said. At the city's domestic airport, nnarly 200 11ights were canceled. 
At the Tokyo Dome, a scheduled professional base­ball game bntween Tokyo's Yomiuri Giants and the visit­ing Chunichi Dragons of Nagoya was called off because of spectators' diffi­culties with canceled trains. 
Aside from being whipped by the storm, llachijo Island, about 250 miles south of Tokyo, also was jolted by a strong narthquake. 
--~----~­
page 8 The Observer • POLITICAL NEWS Monday, September 23, 1996 
Immigration refornt hits border 
matically that :me out ofthe diminishes my cl'l•\ttU:~$,tQJt$1~(1~ cess/' Perot 
Labor unions: Stretching election law? 
By KEVIN GALYIN Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
The AFL-CIO's $35 million advocacy campaign has re­established labor as a political force, but its ads targeting Republican incumbents are raising questions about whether it is stretching federal election law. 
While the ads carefully avoid advocating the defeat or elec­tion of specific candidates, critics assert that -combined with other labor activities ­the campaign amounts to an illegal effort to elect Democrats. 
The courts have left plenty of wiggle room, not wanting to infringe on the free-speech rights of political activists. 
"I don't think that anyone doubts that their advertise­ments are in connection with an election, but the courts have interpreted that very nar­rowly,'' said Trevor Potter, a Republican former member of the Federal Election Commission. "What they're trying to do is focus ads in par­ticular districts and affect the federal elections, but not use the so-called magic words of 'elect,' 'defeat,' 'support,' 'oppose."' 
Editor's NOTE -This is the third in a weekly series of sto­ries in which voters talk about the issues in the upcoming elec­tion. 
By MITCHELL LANDSBERG Associated Press Writer 
JACUMBA, Calif. 
The new border fence slices through the desert hills like some rusting, corrugated ver­sion of the Great Wall of China. It divides the United States from Mexico, most obviously, but also puts a wall between the Severance family, Pete and Jeri, and the Gallegos, Raul and Leandra. 
For now, it's fine for all con­cerned. A couple of times a week, Leandra Gallego, a trim, dignified woman of 66 whose home sits about 10 yards inside Mexico, hops the fence at its lowest point and goes to work cleaning the home of the Severances, who sit about 10 yards inside the United States. 
But if the U.S. Border Patrol ever follows through with threats to begin prohibiting such crossings -well, the peo­ple of Jacumba, Calif., popula­tion 400, and Jacume, Mexico, about the same size, will have a big problem with that. 
If it's true that all politics is local, Jacumba (pronounced hah-coom'-bah) and Jacume (hah' -coo-may) provide an extreme example. Here, the issue of illegal immigration, a vexing one for Americans everywhere, is cast in decidedly personal terms. 
So far, immigration has not emerged as a major issue in the presidential campaign, perhaps because President Clinton is nearly as conservative a guardian of the border as Republican Bob Dole would be. Clinton has overseen a huge increase in the budget of the Border Patrol, and has called 
FINALLY, it's your turn!! 
HAPPY 21ST CHARITY 
Mom, Dad, Yale & Chipper 
GO TO OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL. 
Put your college degree to work 
in the Air Force Officer Training School. 
Then, after graduating from Officer Training School, become a commissioned Air Force officer with great starting pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation with pay per year and management opportunities. Learn if you qualify for higher education in the Air Force. Call 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES TOLL FREE 1-800-423-USAF 


for doubling its forces in the next four years. Under his watch, the Border Patrol has launched Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego -and built the Jacumba fence. 
For generations, the people of Jacumba and Jacume, on either side of the border about 75 miles southeast of San Diego, have crossed back and forth as if the two countries were, in fact, neighbors. 
People in Jacume would cross each day to work and shop in the United States. People in Jacumba would cross -less often, to be sure -to visit friends and family in Mexico. 
They still do, but now there is the fence. It runs about three miles through dry, rugged hills and across the valley the two towns share. In the hills, it stands 1 0 feet high and consists of solid sheets of corrugated steel. In the valley, where floodwaters can surge, it con­sists of steel fenceposts crossed by a single line of railroad ties, set at about thigh level. 
If there's a typical opinion of the fence, it might be the one expressed by Jose Rangel, a Jacumba resident and U.S. citi­zen who spent his early years in Jacume. His twin brother still lives there. 
Rangel stands in the front yard of his new, double-wide mobile home, watering a profu­sion of morning glories, roses, irises and zinnias. He is a thick­set, slow-moving man whose broad, tanned face is shaded by a baseball cap. He speaks with an air of disgust. 
"They're not going to stop nobody, anyway," he says. He bends the hose in half until the stream slows to a trickle. Squinting in the afternoon sun, he asks: "Why do they want to stop me, if I'm a U.S. citizen and I want to go see my broth­
?"
er. 
Immigration is a gut-level issue for many Americans, but few regard it quite so personal­ly as the people of Jacumba. Still, a highly unscientific sam­pling of local opinion suggests that people here agree with Americans generally on immi­gration issues. 
A national poll by The Associated Press found Americans almost evenly divid­ed over measures to crack down on illegal immigration. One in three said they have a great deal of concern about illegal immigration, but voters were more closely divided on proposals to deny citizenship, health benefits and education to the children of illegals. Overall, voters thought Clinton would do a better job than Dole of dealing with immigration. 
Few people here, on either side of the border, are happy about the fiood of illegal immi­grants from central and south­ern Mexico who have poured through this area since Operation Gatekeeper began pushing the illegal tide further east. 
There are grumblings about drug smugglers, and a general dismay about strangers who have violated the cozy atmos­phere of small-town life. Few people believe the Border Patrol is effective; most see the border fence here as a boon­doggle. But nobody seems to think presidential politics has much to do with it. 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.2 5 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
ATrENTION SOPHOMORES! 
GET INVOLVED IN 1996-97 JPW 
The committee for this year's junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairper­son. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortun Information Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 31 5 LaFortune by September 26th. 


IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL JOHN MENICUCCI X4113 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 23, 1996 
page 9 



• THE DISCOURSE 
.LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
American Dream is fatally flawed grace: Fight racism 
For many persons, achieving the uppnr middle class lifestyle is the fulfillment of the American dream. This includes moving to the sub­urbs, joining a country dub, buy­ing a nice automobile, sending children to the finest schools, alle­viating all debt, and building a the mistreatment of others. The second commandment is where the American dream and Christianity clash. This is unfortu­nate, because the two command­ments are related: to love one's neighbor is to love God. 
Implicit in the second command­

:========~~~~~~~~ment is an obligation to care 
for the poor. Jesus Christ's teachings regarding the treat­ment of the poor are rather explicit. These are best sum­marized in the Catholic hymn "Whatsoever You Do, " which comes directly from the Gospel 

Sean 
Seymore 
according to Saint Matthew. When a person cares for the----========:____hungry, the naked, the thirsty, 
rwst egg for retirement. I have oftnn wondnred if the pursuit and fulfillment of the American dream (~aH be reconciled with fundamen­tal Christian principles. 
Tlw common feature of the vari­ous facnts of the American dream is the commitment to self and immediate family. I have noticed that this dream and the mental inclinations that ensue rarely deal with llw wdl-being of others. The overemphasis on self often breeds indifference, insensitivity, arro­ganee, and of course, selfishness. 
Many fundamental Christian principles are derived from the two grnat commandments given by Jesus Christ: to love God with one's whole heart. soul. and mind; and to love one's neighbor as one­snlf. I bdinve that the rugged indi­vidualism implicit in the pursuit and fulfillment of the American dream prevents many persons from keeping the se<;ond com­mandment. Persons convince themselves that as long as they attend Mass regularly, pray, and make an attempt to follow the "major" teachings of the Church, such actions will compensate for and the homeless, one is doing so to Christ; when one rebukes them, one is rebuking Christ. .'Jesus teaches that those who refuse to perform such acts of mercy will be barred from Heaven. 
I low docs one fulfill the second commandment? Surely not by committing false acts of charity. This includes volunteering to work at a homeless shelter in order to put the experience on a resume; giving one's oldest clothes to the Salvation Army; making a charita­ble donation for the tax break; and adopting a poor family only at Thanksgiving or Christmas. The common feature of such acts is that that donor usually retains the best, and the poor receives the least-whether it be time, quality of food, or quality of clothing. The reason why the clothes racks at Goodwill are only filled with old clothes is because the donor is wearing the newer ones. The donor is always in control; the impoverished are at the mercy of the donor. The poor are perceived to be inferior because that is how they are treated. Even when such acts of charity are done, they are often done on a conditional basis; 

among all races
e.g., 'Til give only if the (poor) 
person is trying to make it." The ····· donor does what Jesus Christ Dear Editor: never did-judging which poor •· The following is in response to Nikole Hannah's letter persons deserve mercy. Therefore, ~ated Friday, Sept. 20, 1996. I am sorry to see that your the second commandment is not experience, as of Sept. 7, has led to the conclusion stated in obeyed by committing such phony your letter to the editor: "We just have to be cautious jn acts, because the "love" is absent, this white wilderness callt~d Notre Dam!~ ... Incident<; like and the poor persons are treated this can easily make one hate people, but they are not as inferiors rather than "as one-worth the effort that hating them takes...! would like to self." thank you for reminding me that Notre Dame is yours, but 
I have always been amazed by with me being a strong Black woman, the world is mine." how many Christians find no fault This conclusion seeks to further the very beliefs you want in the way they treat others. For to condemn. To you, I Qffer some thoughts. example, 1 have walked out of ~he m;fortunate reality of present day Is that racism does many Masses where homeless per-exist. It 1s not, however, exclusive to whites. As a native o sons are assembled around the the environs of New York, 1can assure you that blacks, and church. I have watched parish-all _races for that matter, .par~ako in tl~(~ir fair sharH ol ioners look at the poor persons ractal hatred. Yes, even raCism IS color-blmd. with disgust while walking to their The word ni_gger, you say, " .... sig~ifi~s centuries of bru­BMWs o.r Cadillacs. 1 am also sur-tality. oppresston, and dehumamzatwn of your people. In prised by persons who leave Mass my opinion, although racism in this country eventually and drive to a country club for evolved. from the insti~ut~on ~f slave.ry, it. was not the lunch, which are bastions of privi-under!ymg r(l~son. for tt. fhe m~tltut.w~ of. slavery w~s lege, exclusivity, and discrimina-established pr1marl1y on economtc prmc1ples, namely, 1t tion. It is not surprising that per-was seen at the time as an efficient way to turn profit. In sons continue to abandon fact, blacks and Indians in the U.S., although their numlmr Christianity when they observe is small compare~ to. that of whit(JS, owned sla~es. Perhaps such blatant acts of hypocrisy. eve,n mor~ startlmg IS the fact that slavery -~lXlsted among 
To determine if the American AfriCan tribes, and blacks were sold to the European slave dream can be reconciled with tra-tr~de by their vet·y own people. Slavery was tht} produ(:t o ditional Christian values, one only tnbal wa~fare, pawnshop, and a means to tribal exile. In needs to look at the state of the Europe, It was the product of an old economic system nation. The fact that poverty, big-which. based its~lf upon ranks of servi~udt}. . . otry, and discrimination are firmly R~CISJ?, I. boheve, devel~ped out. of a nt:ed to JUStify tlw rooted in America, even though old mstltutwn of slavery m a society wh1ch had come to most Americans consider them-profess the relatively modern idea of 'All men are created selves to be followers of Christ, equal.' The irrational and immoral conclusion was if' slaves, tells me that the American dream namely blacks, are not equal, they must therefore not be is fundamentally flawed. A recon-human. H~wever, the majority of the A~eri~an people ciliation will require sacrifices that ~oday, .I b~heve, p_rofess a truer understandmg of the found­many persons are not willing to mg pnnc1ple. It IS to the adherence and promulgation o make. this belief. the dignity, regardless of color, of all· peoples, 
that one should strive. Do not tight whittls, rather racism 
Sean Seymore is a graduate stu-found among all races, both here at Notre Dame, where dent in inorganic chemistry. He you as a student play an integral part, and in the world can be reached at sean.b.sey-which is not yours but ours to share. more.l@nd.edu or at 
M.E. GRACE
http://www. nd. edu/-sseymore. 
Pasquerilh1 West 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY
• 000NESBURY 
"Truth often suffers 
more by the heat of 
its defenders rather than 
from the arguments of its 
opposers." 
-William Penn 


page 10 Monday, September 23, 1996
ACCENT 

• AT THE MOVIES Wm~ fATMAN AND DADDY 
The Rich Man's Wife: 'A movie for the ages' 
By FATMAN and DADDY to give The Rich Man's 
Accent Movie Critics Wife the full tally of acco­lades it deserves? I chose to begin with our leading 
Synopsis: Murder, wealth, lust, and lady, the sassy Halle Berry. the questions of fedility. These are the Her performance is nothing things of this movie. The beautiful Halle but consumate, her pres­Berry dominates the screen in this excit­ence is nothing but ubiqui­ing thriller. The plot is intricate and tous. She leads the film's subtle; filled with law enforcement characters on a raucous agents, greedy capitalists, and a particu­on-screen romp which cul­larly frightening villain. To give any minates in a final scene the more would simply be an injustice. magnitude ofwhich has not 
been seen since Demi 

Fatman: There are times when the Moore and company wasteland of Hollywood is as barren and touched our lives in the ridiculous as the concepts of resurrec­timeless classic Ghost. 
tion and the immorality of the soul, and Three cheers. Halle! then there are times -rare times -when Daddy would be remiss if the great den of insipid mediocraty gen­he failed to mention the erates a classic for all time. This is one absolute beauty of this of those times. The Rich Man's Wife is a masterpiece's use of light­film which is invigorating and dashing, ing. Never before have pushing the edge of modern culture and daytime scenes been so exploring uncharted depths of the bright whilst, in stunning human character. Granted, Daddy and I contrast, nightime 
were a bit skeptical upon entering one Josie Potenza (Berry) in happy times before her husband's murder. sequences so utterly dark. 
of our local theatres. Could Shooter I would print the name of McGavin take on this serious role? action. I can't remember the last time I No, we liked this one. We liked it a lot. the responsible gaffer in Could Halle Berry be more than just a a felt this sort of tumultuous exhiliration We liked it so much that we almost gave shining testimonial to his inestimable smiling bimbo? The answer was a during a film. Maybe only Waterworld it our highest prize. Maybe it'll get a contribution to the film, had not my eyes resounding yes! I was so involved in the could match the power of The Rich Gordy in ·March. We want all of Notre been filled with tears as the credits intrigue of the movie the I stood up in Man's Wife. And maybe only Jessica Dame to see this, so run now, lambs of rolled. They were tears of joy mingled one of the more exciting moments Tandy could make me feel as young and God! Run fast to the theatre and enjoy with tears of anger. The euphoria gnawing my finger nails and praying to spry as Halle Berry. some fine cinema. brought on by the movie had been lovely Aphrodite that Ms. Berry might What makes this movie work so well? almost immediately confronted by a tor­not be extinguished by her nefarious I can't say for sure. Maybe the tense Daddy: Indeed, my dear Fat Man, it is rent of bubbling ire. "Why," I screamed. persuer. Oh, my nerves grew weak and drama? Maybe the meticulously choreo­a movie for the ages. Clever filming, "must such movies come to an end?!? strained through all the commotion and graphed action scenes? Maybe the scintillating passion, mesmerising Why can't they go on forever and some­
resolve of the actors not to let the intrigue; these are the fixings of a deli­what lessen the horrible burden of our intellectual weight of the script sag cious cinematic treat! What other film tedious existence?!?" the play and wit of some of the has Daddy recently seen that has literal­Fortunately, I surpassed my emotive lighter moments? There are so many ly tapped into his soul in such an evasive display of indignation. Realizing that 
well done and well executed aspects manner? Eraser, perhaps? Judge. my rage was produced by my inability to jump through the screen and into the
to Rich Man's Wife that the Patman Dredd, perchance? Nay, I proclaim! can't place his pudgy fingers on a The search for a suitable parallel is but lives of the characters of my-favorite 
single one. But, if I were forced to futile folly! There has been no other movie, I traded my feelings of impotence choose -if Bob Dole grabbed my movie that has had such a poignant for an appreciation of the scant few neck with his one good arm and said, effect on your favorite critic. moments of nirvana that The Rich Man's "Fatboy, why did you like this Furthermore, I contend that there can­Wife had bestowed upon me. I take movie?," I'd have to answer it was not, even in the future, be a movie more from this movie both the hope for a bet­
the issues it confronted. Materialism powerful and gripping. After all, how ter life, and the proof that money is only and unsatiated passion for control can an audience gaze into the face of a weapon of repression and wanton 
are fine virtues that our mothers and the cinematic god and then fairly evalu­destruction. It is only in periods of igno­fathers should teach us. If more ate any of its less noble relatives? This rance and utter greed that individuals people could absorb the attitudes of question is as difficult to answer as is mistakiningly equate money with
can the characters that fill this film, the mystery of why the Fat Man would freedom, instead of seeing it as the hor­America wouldn't have a trade invoke the goddess of love and beauty to rible, green shackle that binds us to deficit. I also liked the credits. The seek protection for Halle Berry, when lives of ridiculous toil. I look forward to 
credits were nice. Hera, the goddess of women and mar­the day when young Halle, in the spirit So, this is not another whining film raige would be a much more logical of The Rich Man's Wife, carries forth the -Courtesy of Hollywo~d Pictures review in which Daddy and I lament selection. banner of Revolution, smiting our bour­Berry becomes the pnme suspect and v1ct1m bad film and the death of metaphysics. Where does Daddy begin in his quest geosie foes and emancipating both our of blackmail. lives and our dreams. 
• Now PLAYING 
First Jl7ives ...Last Jl7ives 
T
selfish hubby with an appetite for something younger, speed lane. Many movies have successfully been able By CATHERINE DEELY thinner, and infinitely more vapid. They decide to turn to wring both laughter and tears from their audience; Accent Copy Editor/Guest Movie Critic the tables for once and for all, and so form an official the trick is, the audience isn't supposed to know when organization entitled-go figure-The First Wives Club. each reaction is expected. Too many of the lines in It should be fairly obvious that this is not a male­"First Wives Club" seem forced, and the same can be hree slimeball ex-husbands. Three righteously friendly movie. It does nothing for political correctness, said doubly of the actors' emotions. None of the three bitter-and creative-ex-wives. Three brilliant gender equality, or setting the scene for a good date stars manages to inject more than mild depth into her comedic·actresses. Throw in some hilarious trail­movie. With that understood, "The First Wives Club" role; they are playing stereotypes and they seem to ers and rhapsodizing speculation on Oscar nomina­presents the illusion of a delectably bitchy, vindictive know it, yet they never _quite rise above the cramped tions, and it would appear that "The First Wives Club" black comedy. It should have stayed true to such form; confines. There is a definite sense that each has played is, at last, the long sought-after next "perfect movie" then, it would have stayed funny. Much like the her character many times before, and is even getting fans and critics alike have been panting for since the plights of its walked-all-over characters, trying to be rather tired of it. days of "Forrest Gump". Right? nice ends up kicking it in its cliched backside. The movie could still have been salvaged by a slam­
Wrong. The problem with this film is that it simply can't dunk ending ... but what it offers instead is an incredu­
The plot is not complex. After their old college decide whether to be "The War of the Roses" or "Steel lously patchwork job. It's as though the director, buddy, just dumped by her filthy-rich tycoon husband Magnolias". There are touches of brilliance scattered smelling Oscars in the air, decided to insert every for a vampy young bit of blonde fluff, throws herself off throughout: the wickedly funny casting of two of the imaginable melodramatic element under the sun. a balcony, three long-out-of-touch friends are reunit­entertainment world's most renowned bimbos, Within the final twenty minutes of the film, a kidnap­ed. In the spirit of "Waiting to Exhale", "Now and Heather Locklear and Elizabeth "Showgirl" Berkley, as ping, three incidences of extortion, threatened murder, Then", and their ilk, they have each gone in markedly bit-part "other women"; Goldie Hawn's tongue-in­a broken engagement, a teary-eyed building dedica­separate directions, while managing to end up in cheek affectations as an over the hill glamour girl, tion and an incredibly stupid and implausible romantic exactly the same place. Diane Keaton's Annie is the including the running gag of her collagen-overdosed reunion all manage to occur in pleasant harmony with perpetually apologetic doormat determined to put on a lips; and scenes when things are simply very amusing. one another. Of course, the good girls win and the bad happy face; Bette Midler's Brenda is the wisecracking There are touching moments, as well: a drunken argu­boys are punished and everyone lives happily ever housewife who numbs her pain with food as much as ment that leads to thw ripping open of some very gap­after-everyone, that is, who's supposed to. with one-liners; and Goldie Hawn's Elise is the aging ing wounds, Midler's well-conveyed despair when con­It's a charming thought, really, but it leaves an has-been movie star whose desperation to cling to fronted with the fact that her husband really is with unsettling sense of schizophrenia in the mind of the youth and beauty drives her to the plastic someone else, and a bittersweet karaoke scene in filmgoer who just wanted to see something funny. surgeon ... and the bottle. They have one unifying quali­which the characters finally suggest they are real. fication to hang out together: the men in, or rather, Yet the transitions between nasty and nice-nice have Catherine Deely is a sophomore hailing from leaving, their lives. Each has been left in the dust by a all the smoothness of a souped-up Pinto in the high-Warwick, Rhode Island. She lives in Lewis Hall. 


..-----------~-----------~--..:::--.--------------~-----------_..,--------~----"---~. ·~----­
Football 





Sanson and Co. hook the 'Horns 
By TIM SHERMAN a 27-24 win over the the host 2-1 Longhorns. 
Sports Editor Right before the kick. holder Hunter Smith had a few 
words for the anxious Sanson. 
AUSTIN, TX "I told him I said a prayer for him and if it's meant to be 
The crowd was on the side of' Texas, but the faith was it's meant to be," Texan Smith said. 
on the side of Notre Dame. With the wind at his back, Sanson drilled it straight and 
So too was t.he victory. long. 
In what turned out to be Notre Dame's most exciting "One thing we talked about was faith," lloltz said. 
game since 1993, freshman placekicker .Jim Sanson boot­
ed a 39-yard field goal as time expired to give the 3-0 Irish see FAITH I page 2 
sound familiar 
By TIM MCCONN 
SwmWrircr 
AUSTIN, TX Thn "Luck of the Irish" will undoubtedly domi­naln thn discussions ol' Tnxas fans as they look hal'k on this wenkend 's game in Austin. But how much luck was rnally involved in this !wart-stopping 27-24 victory over the Texas l.onglwrns'? For a whiiP. it snnmed the only luek the Irish had was had. Starting late in tlw third quarter, thP sun lwgan to shirw (literally) on the burnt or­angn and whitn, as tlwy could do no wrong. llryant WPstbrook laid a bonerrushing hit on Irish tailhark Bandy Kinder. At that point, it Sf'PilWd that all hut a l'.oupln ol' tlw record-setting iU,:ll2 fans snl oiT in a mad frenzy OV!H' the 'lloms. Tlll'y tightPnnd down on the Irish rushing attack. Tlwy droV!) down tlw lield with case and look a 24-17 IPad with I0:53 remaining in the ganw. Nothing till' Irish triPd would work. llowPvPr, somPthing stood out to those few Longhorn fans that weren't jumping on top of ('arh otlwr trying to get their l'aees plastered on tlw 'Sony .Jumhotron.' A friend. a former UT football player. said to 
see INSIGHT I page 3 


page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Clutch Powlus leads Irish one step closer to "Now" 
Monday, September 23, 1996 



By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
AUSTIN, TX 

Not even the Sports Illustrated jinx would stop Ron Powlus on this day. 
The world's most popular sports magazine has becomed well-renowned for some sort of jinx that seems to strike its cover boys. No matter who the athlete is, he or she always seems to struggle after appear­ing on the SI cover. 
So naturally, when Ron Powlus appeared on this week's edition alongside the phrase "Now or Never," critics assumed the jinx would hit Powlus -and hit him hard. After all, they didn't believe Powlus had earned the right to grace Sports Illustrated's cover in the first place. 
Against all odds, with the unavoidable jinx primed and ready to strike, Powlus some­how found a way to step up and avoid it. He not only avoided it, he defeated it. 
"I thought Ron played very well for us," said tailback Autry Denson. "He is a leader on this team, and he showed that today. He made the plays when he needed to." 
The Irish senior signal-caller has had plenty to overcome during his time at Notre Dame. So the last thing Powlus was going to do was let some maga­zine hex affect him in arguably the biggest game of his career. 
Powlus finished the game 13 of 24 for 127 yards, with one touchdown pass and no inter­ceptions. But his somewhat humble statistics don't tell the story of what truly happened on Saturday afternoon in Notre Dame's 27-24 victory over No. 6 ranked Texas. 


Rather, it was the confidence, poise, and leadership he dis­played when the Irish needed it the most thattold the story. 
And what a story it was. 
"We were running low on time, and we had to do it," said Powlus. "The understanding was there that we had to do it. We absolutely had to score there." 
With the score tied at 27 and his teammates depending on him, Powlus engineered the biggest drive of his career. 
The Irish took over at their own 45-yard line with 59 sec­onds left in the game. Denson's 22-yard run and a Powlus to Chryplewicz connection helped move Notre Dame to the 24­yard line with 20 seconds remaining. 
On second down, Powlus' pass attempt fell just beyond the outstretched hands of Bobby Brown. As the clock ticked down to 12 seconds, the critics were ready and eager to point the finger at No. 3. 
With the Irish still out of kick­er Jim Sanson's field goal range, they had one play left to either move to a closer distance or take their chances in over­time. 
"We had to give ourselves a chance to win," said Powlus. "That was our goal going in there. We had pretty good field position. We didn't have a lot of time, but we have a lot of 

The Observer/Rob Finch Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus led an effective Irish attack. Powlus' numbers included 13-24 for 127 yards and a touchdown. His poise on the game's final drive was a key to the Irish victory. 
confidence in our offense." 
That's when Powlus reached back for the biggest pass of his career. After checking off two receivers, he found wideout Malcolm Johnson open to his left and delivered the ball right between Johnson's numbers. It was good for an 11-yard recep­tion and a first down. 
"We made a great catch and a great throw on a curl," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz about the critical third down play. 
Johnson's third catch of the day set up Sanson's game-win­ning field goal from 39 yards out as time expired. But it would not have happened if the much maligned Powlus had not helped get them there. 
"He has a lot of confidence in himself, and we have a lot of confidence in him," said Denson. "We know he's going to get the job done." 
Indeed, Powlus took the bull (or longhorn) by the horns and erased the "Never" in favor of the "Now." The SI jinx will just have to find another victim. 

Faith 
continued from page 1 
"Faith in the future, in Notre Dame, in people, and in yourself. Notre Dame was founded on faith and our players exem­plified that." 
Sanson had a similar thought s in mind. 
"I had faith in God." the elated hero said after the nail-biter. "I just wanted the ball. All I wanted was a chance." 
But it was the defense who gave him that chance. 
After the Irish tied the game at 24 on a gutsy six-yard option run by Autry Denson, the 'Horns took over at their own 20 with just under three minutes remain­ing. 
After picking up a quick first down, UT's offense stalled. Facing third and four with 
1:09 left, Irish inside linebacker Lyron Cobbins broke up James Brown's pass, forcing aUT punt. 
"Leaders make plays," Irish defensive end Melvin Dansby said. "Lyron's a leader. He makes plays." 
Love him or hate him, Notre Dame quar­terback Ron Powlus is becoming a leader. And he, too, made the plays that counted. 
Aller a shanked 21-yard Mark Schultes punt, the Irish and Powlus took over at their own 43. 
A 22-yard Denson delay brought the Irish into enemy territory and two plays later, Powlus hit Malcolm Johnson on a tight 11-yard curl to set up Sanson's attempt. 
"It was a great throw and a great catch," said Holtz, who won for the first time in four tries at Memorial Stadium. 
"The game was well-played on both sides and I've never seen a game go back and forth like that one," Holtz continued. 
The game started in UT's favor, as the Longhorns drove 80 yards in 11 plays and capped the drive with a three-yard Mike Adams touchdown reception. 
After a questionable late-hit call against Tyson King gave the Irish new life on their first drive, NO took the ball all the way to the UT one. From there, Sanson got the Irish on the board with his first field goal. 
Texas stormed ahead 14-3 on a Priest Holmes three-yard touchdown leap early in the second quarter, but the Irish run­ning game owned the latter part of the 17 -yard Hunter Smith punt, the UT run­"It seems like Lyron makes an intercep­half. ning game, which had just 63 yards tion every game," Holtz joked. 
An 18-yard option sprint by Robert through the first three quarters, kicked Then, the trailing Irish took eight plays to Farmer cut the lead to four. into high gear. tie the game. 
"They played a lot of man coverage and  Three Ricky Williams carries for 41  "That was the most critical drive that we  
what the option does is that it allows us to  yards were sandwiched around a 16 yard  have had in a couple of years," Holtz said.  
make some big plays," Holtz explained.  burst from Shorr Mitchell. Williams put the  An illegal procedure call took the Irish  
One of those plays come from Denson  'Horns ahead with a one-yard twist at the  from the one to the six before Denson  
with time dwindling in the half.  The  10:53 mark.  danced in on a fourth and goal.  
sophomore stretched 26 yards through the  Just like in their opening win against  "The fullback went the wrong way,"  
UT defense, eventually setting up a three­ Vanderbilt, the Irish trailed in the fourth  Holtz said.  "But Autry made a  great  
yard Marc Edwards TO grab.  quarter.  And just like  against the  effort."  
A lackluster third quarter saw just a 47­ Commodores, they responded.  It was an effort  topped only by that of  
yard Phil Dawson field goal added to the  After a failed fake punt, Cobbins turned  Sanson.  
scorboard, tying the game at 17.  the game around with a vital interception  ''I've dreamed about this happening,"  
Then the fun began.  of a tipped James Brown pass at the Texas  Sanson admitted.  "I didn't think it would,  
After holding Notre Dame and forcing a  35.  but it did."  
Linebackers A­ 

li!} Cobbins' fourt}). quarter interception was a must 'and the stand to give Sanson his chance was crucial. Speed helpe(istring the 'Horn out. Tatum hits. Hard. 
Defensive Backfield B+ 
. T})e Irish secondary looked shellshocked in the 'first half, as they surrendered 162 passing yards, including 76 to Adams. However, Rossum and Co. ·clamped down nicely, though late, allowing just 16 
yards in the final30 minutes to a dangerous Brown. 
Receivers B+ Special Teams A-
Solid downfield blocking helped on big runs wh~le Two words: JiQ1 Sanson~ The frosh was phenome­Johnson came up with crucial catch to set up nal. Smith punted well early, but poorly-executed · a dominating performance but contribu-fake punt hurt. Again, a poor decision on not fielding 
of Mo§}eyand Chryplevicz undeniable. ~punt could've been avoided. 
.... ····":'··:···:·..:·:·::tg::::•.. : 

Offensive. Une A-Coaching A 
running game finally kicked into gear, in large .. Holtz once again proves he is the best big-game due to the bigJellas. Youngsters Wisne and c=oach in..America. A rousing pre-game pep talk by "''"''"""''"'stepped it up. Solid protection provided for Bob Davie set the tone and the Irish caught the 
JII!''Horns blitzing for big gainers. 
Defensive Line B Overall 3.52 
.u.h~t <l~Y{Qt power~ul . in~.tot1gh environment is high­
. ··Maiden combined for The Idsh showed that they belong '0?;1!~~\.~pr: Ine national.;,championship with this 
.·.. . . ;:..::h~:=::· . . . . . .: 
·Tim Sherman 


Monday, September 23, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
-
said an elated Sanson following touchbacks, the game. "I always dreamed keeping Notre

Freshman about playing at Notre Damn. Dame's suspect But I never though I'd have the coverage team chancn to makn a game win­off the tield.
kicker knocks 
ning kick." ''I'm not wor­Deemed "foul ball" by Irish ried about our

one through 
head coach Lou Holtz for his kicker," said erratic hoots in practice, the Holtz. "Just freshman was determined not because I call

the palm trees 
to let a mediocre week of work­him "foul ball," 

outs carry ovnr to the game. doesn't mean By MIKE DAY "It (the nickname) kind of got I'm worried. I A.>Sistant SportS Editnr me mad," said Sanson. "! got a lot of faith 
wanted to prove him wrong in him. That 
AUSTIN, TX 
sort of. I told him to keep call­young man has Tlw "foul hall" kicker hit a 

ing me that so I can prove him tho guts of a honw run. wrong every week." burglar."
And .lim Sanson's YJ-yard 
With two linld goals in Notre The 18-year­

li11ld goal wasn't just your aver­Dame's 14-7 victory over old freshman 
agP four-haggPr. This one was Vand1Hbilt in the opener, CJ'edits his early a ninth inning, game winning 
Sanson teased the Irish faithful success to grand slam. into believing that they had years of work­
"It was a drnam come true," 
found the answer at placekiek-ing out at rr.....-r--,_ __.....,.. ...... "'r1...,......---..,.......,---..-...:....., er. But Sanson's Coronado Park 
embarrassing miss in Phoenix, last week against Arizona. The Observer/Rob Finch Purdue brought the "Back home, Autry Denson (23) and Lyron Cobbins (6) lead a Notre Dame celebration that would not 
have occured without their two key plays late in the game. 
same old questions to wn used to the forefront once practice at a 

again. park, kicking betwnen two palm "If it had reached that point, punter Hunter Smith, Sanson To make matters trees," said Sanson. "Now, I we would have gone for it on cleanly sailed the ball b11tween worse, Sanson's strug­pretend there's two palm trees 
fourth down and played for the palm trees, or rather the gles in practice promt­out there. I try to kick it overtime," said Holtz. "You uprights. Sanson never doubt­ed Holtz to jokingly blltween them as high as I can." only count on a kicker because ed it for a second. 
give him the unflatter­After Notre Damll's opening someone made a mistake." "I knew it was going in, but I On the other sideline, Texas don't think anyone else did,"
ing nicknanw. drive stalllld at the three-yard 

"I told him 'you kick line, Sanson nailed a 20-yard kicker Phil Dawson is well said Sanson. "I felt like for a more foul balls than !ield goal with 5:27 left in the 
known for having one of the while that I was the only one any place kicker in the first quarter to cut the Texas strongest legs in the country, out there celebrating." histroy of thn game,"' lead to 7-3. 
and he lived up to his billing, "I was real nervous, hut all I said Iloltz. But it was his final kiek of the kicking a 4 7 -yard field goal kept saying was 'Give me the 
early in the third quarter. ball.' I knew the offense would
However, on day that forever carved his Saturday afternoon at place in Irish football history. However, entering the game, get us down thnre. All I wanted Memorial Sadium, As Notre Dame faced third 
few had heard of Notre Dame's was the hall, and all I wanted Sanson turned a three down at the Texas 34-yard line 
freshman placekicker. was a chance." The Observer/Katie Kroener year liability at plaee­with 12 seconds left, it looked They have now. lle got his chance, and this Freshman Jim Sanson follows through on Sanson calmly stepped into time "foul ball" put the kick in
kicknr into an effective as though Sanson would never

his decisive field goal. Sanson was 2-2 on the national spotlight and deliv­fair play. In fact, he knocked it
weapon. The fresh­nven get his shot at winning the the day and now is 4-5 for the season. 

ered. With a good hold from out of the park.
man recorded three game. 


TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1. Florida (52) 3-0 1659 4 2. Florida St. (13) 2-0 1612 3 3. Penn St. (1) 4-0 1505 5 4. Ohio St. 2-0 1411 7 5. Notre Dame 3-0 1373 9 6. Arizona St. (1) 3-0 1229 17 7. Michigan 3-0 1207 8 8. Nebraska 1-1 1198 1 9. Tennessee 2-1 1125 2 10. Miami 3-0 1100 10 
11. North Carolina 3-0 991 11 12. Colorado 2-1 891 12 13. Texas 2-1 855 6 14. Alabama 4-0 764 14 15. Southern Cal. 3-1 711 15 16. Kansas St. 4-0 677 16 17. LSU 2-0 662 21 18. Virginia Tech 3-0 577 18 19. Virginia 3-0 543 20 20. Kansas 2-0 440 22 21. Washington 2-1 376 24 22. Auburn 3-1 299 13 23. West Virginia 4-0 155 24. Brigham Young 3-1 100 25. Northwestern 2-1 79 
Others receiving votes: Wyoming 54, Wisconsin 29, East Carolina 28, Iowa 24, Baylor 22, Minnesota 18, Georgia Tech 15, Utah 11, Southern Mississippi 7, Washington State 7, California 5, Oregon 5, Texas Tech 5, Texas A&M 3, Louisville 2, Army 1. 
The Observer/ Sue O'Kaln 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 

Notre Dame  Texas  
First Downs  27  24  
Hushed-yards  54-292  35-134  
Passing yards  127  178  
Sacked-yards lost  1-7  2-21  
Heturn yards  5  51  
Passes  25-13-0  30-14-1  
Punts  5-37.6  5-42.4  
Fumbles-lost  1-0  1-0  
Penalties-yards  8-76  10-71  
Time of possession  34:00  26:00  
Individual Statistics  

HUSIIING: Texas-Williams 17-107, Mitchell10-50, Holmes 3-2, Brown 5-minus 25. Notre Dame-Denson 24-158, Edwards 14-61, Kinder 8-51, Farmer 2-20. 
PASSING: Texas-Brown 30-14-1-178. Notre Dame-Powlus 24-13­0-127, Smith 1-0-0. 
HECEIVING: Texas-Adams 6-76, Jackson 3-42, Fitzgerald 3-33, Lewis 1-14. Notre Damc-Moslcy 3-41, Chryplewicz 3-27, Johnson 3-24, Edwards 3-22. 
SCOHING SUMMAHY 

I  2  3  4  
Texas  7  7  3  7  24  
Notre Dame  3  14  0  10  27  

FIHST QUAHTEH Texas-Adams 3 yard pass from Brown (Dawson kick) at 1.1:24 (11 plays, 80 yards) Notre Dame-Sanson field goal from 20 yards out at 5:27 (12 plays, 82 yards) 
SECOND QUAHTEH Texas-llolmes 3 yard run (Dawson kick) at 8:30 (12 plays, 75 yards) Notre Dame-Farmer 18 yard run (Sanson kick) at 4:08 (9 plays, 80 yards) Notre Dame-Edwards 3 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 0:27 (7 plays, 63 yards) 
TIIIHD QUAHTEH Texas-Dawson 47 yard field goal at 8:09 (7 plays, 43 yards) 

FOUHTII QUAHTEH Texas-Williams 1 yard run (Dawson kick) at 10:53 (7 plays, 65 yards) Notre Dame-Denson 6 yard run (Sanson kick) at 2:54 (8 plays, 34 yards) Notre Dame-Sanson 39 yard field goal at 00:00 (6 plays, 35 yards) 
Insight 
continued from page 1 
me, "They (the Irish) really don't look worried. It's almost like they've been here before." 
Anyone who follows this storied football pro­gram knows that, indeed, they have been here be­fore. This was simply another in a long line of big games. The atmosphere was as hostile as any in which the Irish had ever played, but they had been here before. 
And with a stroke of what some might call luck, the game suddenly turned in favor of the visiting Irish. Lyron Cobbins intercepted a James Brown pass, and just like that, the Irish were baek in the game. 
They had taken shot after shot from the Longhorns, and were seemingly beaten down. 
But all at once, the Irish came out swinging, like a man who had been backed into a corner. Despite what Texas fans thought, the game was not over. The seven-point lead was not an in­surmountable one. The Irish had been here before. 
Just as he had to do two weeks ago against Vanderbilt, Ron Powlus was in a position to show whether he could perform the type of miraculous comeback associatnd with the number he wears. And, despite the pressure-cooker circumstances, do it he did. Powlus and Co. put together two clutch drives to seal the victory. 
They had bnen here before. 
The defense was forced one last time to come up with another momentous stand. Hiding the wave of emotion of Cobbins' interception and the ensuing score, they did exactly what they had to. do: they stopped the potent Texas attaek dead in their traeks. 
They had been here before. 
Last, and certainly not least, was the game-win­ning kick of Jim Sanson. With ice in his veins, the freshman performed in the same clutch manner of predecessors Jim Carney, Reggie llo, and Kevin Pendergast. They had been here before. 
The Irish may not have played a !lawless game. In fact, they may have needed, and reeeived, a lit­tle help from other sources. Nonetheless, on the home turf of another one of the nation's leg­endary programs, they proved to the college foot­ball world that they are indeed for real. 
Luck of the Irish? Maybe, but they did what they had to do to win the big game. As this historical game reached its climactic ending, it was obvious that these guys in Blue and Gold had been here before. 
page 4 

<...: 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Notre Dame tight end Pete Chryplewicz, who hauled in three passes for 27 yards, was one of several injury casualties for the Irish, suffering a sprained ankle. 
The Observer/Katie Kroener After starting strong safety A'Jani Sanders left the game with a torn ACL, Benny Guilbeaux, here seen upending Texas tailback Shan Mitchell, stepped to the forefront, sharing time with junior Ty Goode. 



Notre Dame 27 Texas 24 Memorial Stadium September 21, 1996  

• GAME NOTES now, odds are the Irish would win NICE TRY, LOU the national championship if they Many observers probably scratched could go undefeated. It's a big if, but their heads when Lou Holtz called a with Florida playing Florida State at fake punt pass play in the fourth the end of the season and the Irish quarter, but the idea was actually tackling Ohio State next Saturday, quite clever. only Penn State would remain as a "What it was, we acted like it was a true obstacle. The hindrance of the punt, and the sprinter (coverage man Rose Bowl and a tougher national out wide) runs down and the punter slate for the Irish would most likely (Hunter Smith) throws the ball up put Notre Dame on top come like it is a high punt," said Holtz January. While just a thought, it has about the play. "But he's not sup­to be a nice one for Irish fans to pon­posed to throw it out of the end der. zone." "Their guy would fair catch it, CROWDED HOUSE maybe get away from it, and our guy The pageantry that makes college (Deke Cooper) would catch it, or they football what it is was on full display bump him and it would be interfer­in Memorial Stadium on Saturday. ence." A record crowd of 83,312 burnt­Cooper was bumped but the pass orange and cowboy boot clad Texas was uncatchable. fans were more than happy to give As the saying goes, the best laid the Irish the "Hook 'em Horns" hand plans of mice and men go astray. signal, but in the end, true class reigned.WRONG WAY, MARC Far removed from the crude fans of Surely, Sanson's game-ending kick schools like Ohio State and Michigan, was huge, but Autry Denson's game­Longhorns fans and their southern tying touchdown dive was also rather hospilality shone through. large in importance. Especially "This crowd was loud and enthusi­when one considers he was without a astic," said Holtz. "But they're classy lead blocker. people. They're proud of their team, "Our fullback (Marc Edwards) went have a good self-image, and don't the wrong way," Holtz explained. need to insult the other team." "He (Denson) had to beat a guy to the Though not as loud as last year's endzone, and he did. It was a great crowd at Ohio State, the rowdy Texas individual effort." fans did have a hand in one crucial Quarterback Ron Powlus didn't for­play. get Edwards' error either. Facing fourth and goal from the ''I'll have to talk with him about one yard line, Irish tight end Kevin that," Powlus joked after the game." Carretta jumped before the snap. Luckily, Autry Denson scored on the POLL PONDERING next play from the the six yard line, Not only did the Irish do their part but the impact of the crowd was not in the inane battle of poll positioning, lost on Holtz. but they got quite a bit of help in "That was a tribute to the Texas their drive towards number one. crowd," the Irish coach explained. Just a thought, but as it stands right  

--~ -~---­
ACCENT

Monday, September 23, 1996 page II 
• Now PLAYING 
"Last Man Standing" Explores New Frontiers 

By MARK TORMA Arl"tnl Movie (:ririe 
T
his WPPkPnd. on th.e dusty plains of Tt~xas. thf' Fighting Irish w1~re Pttgagt~d in bloody conlliet with a worthy opponl'nt-and thny lwat llrucP Willis to a pulp. 
Oh, you thought...'! WPII, no, our weekend warriors Wf'n• lwatPn to the LotH' Star state by thP gang of' Irish mobsters in BrucP Willis' nPw moviP. "Last Man Standing". A l'rohibitiotH'ra shoot-'Pm-up, it's a rnmakP of Akira Kurosawa's rlassir "Yojimbo", in whirh a lotlt' wolf samurai plays two war­ring partiPs against each othPr for his own pl'rsottal gain; it look Clint l·:astwood and his spaghf'lli WPstnrns to intmducn Kurosawa's story to AmPriran audi1~nc!'s, so you may n•mPIIlhPr l·:astwood's "A hstful of' Dollars" instPad. 
Now "Last Man Standing" injncts gangland drama into this tall' of douhln-dnaling and dPrPption. l'rospPrtiw vi11w11rs may ask "Is this a WPstPrn. 
his pistols again. Working under the code of the Old West, Smith systematically takes out members of' both gangs, and paid premium for his work by whoever he decides to work for. llowevnr, with the appearance of tho Irish maniac lliekny (Christopher Walken), Smith's luck goes south, and he's rnanhan­dlml by an irate ganglord and his thugs. 
Tlw rest'? It's textbook, really. Dons Smith w~t revnngn? Well, is the title going to lie'? Tlw audience is promised a massacre, and tlwy'm going to get it. Don't let tho suppos­ndly intricatn plot fool you, though; the merit of' "Last Man Standing" lies in its visu­al texture. Evon when the story is pre­dietable, all is easily f'orgivnn by the fun or watching it all play out. I>irnetor Waltnr Hill had tlw right idea in letting his setting take ec~nter stage-except when Bruce Willis was onscrnnn. 
As for Willis. he played Eastwood well. lie was wooden and ill-humored even in his wittier moments, but tho myth of the American shooter demands nothing more. 
Hespect must be 

or a gangstl'r reserved for moviP'!"-and, Christopher tr•rhnil'ally, it's Walken, though. both. Tlw· lilm­lin mfusml to fall 
makPrs havP back on his vast jiiSt !J[UITI'd till' repertoire of psy­Iiiii'S hi'LWI'f'n chopaths and litf' (WO gPIIrPS. created a fresh, if ThP show-ugly, face of' downs art' insanity, kind of a playPd out with middlP-agnd ver­gats rathPr sion of his char­than \\il h six­actor in "The guno.,, hut WI' I>nnrhunter". still gPI litu•s What tlw film­
likP this from counesy of Movieweb makers did fall BrurP I>Prn's Bruce Willis stars as John Smith in "Last Man Standing." back on was tlw 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days of Our Lives 
1' By JENIFER KOCH and JULIE BARBOUR 
Acc<'Jtt Day$ of our tives Correspondents 
Well, Days fans, another week and the saga continues. Once again, we need to Uutnk all of our faithful readers for thoir e-mail. Our "Fans of' th~1 Week'' award goes to Staeey Fuller and CatherinH Synor, who have some interesting predictions for the plot. They have decided that Kristen will get so desperate to get pregnaot that she is going to ask Peter to donate his sperm. Well, girls, that's just sick enough to actually make it. 
llope you all didn't get too excited over Will's return this week, because the conl1iet continued as the French Soeial Snrviee confiscated "l'nogl.ected child #5", while all of the legalities were sorted out. The verdict was that Will could only be returi1ed to his natural parents if they were married. Somebody bettor ligure out where Lucas is. After all the tears, lights, and a slap from "Big Sis", Sami's plan is finally coming together. Carrie told Austin to marry Sami for Will's sake'. 
Bo and Hope at last got out of bed to offer somB public displays of affection in the middle of Salmn Place, where Billie made hPr grand entrance. Despite all the tension, the Three Musketeers decided that their friendships were much too important to let the past interfere. You know-that minor technicality of Bo and Billie's engagement. True to their word, tho three mot for dinner at the Salem Club, where Bo. still trying to connect Franco with the attacks, interrupted a possible assault on Billie. Who else thinks that Franco is Billie's mysterious new boyfriend? 
Jack's hopes that Daniel Scott would conlirm Peter's shady back­ground were dashed when Daniel (in exchange for more money, of eourse) madtl Peter out to bn the epitome of an ethical businessman. With Jack's dreams shattered, Mama Celeste stepped in to save the day. Jack, Laura, and Celeste have formed an alliance to uncover Daniel's secrets. It looks like Peter's long-awaited downfall has begun. 
Sparks flew between John, Kristen and Marlena this week when Marlena walked in on Kristen's glittery brainwashing scheme in ar.tion. John. overwhelmed with his own fantasies, kissed Doc as soon as she stnpped through the door. Kristen tried to write it on· as a "congratula­tions" kiss for Will's return, but Marlena saw it as proof' that John has chosen her. 
Make surn to keep watching, beeause rumor has it that big ehanges are in store for the Days cast. According to some sources (tabloids). Peter is on his way out and, much to everyone's relief. the old Jennifer is coming back to reclaim her role. 
Jenifer Koch and Julie Barbour are so devoted to Days that they were glued to the tube even while in Texas. E-mail them your heartfelt admi­ration at Jenifer.L.Koch.6@nd.edu or barb2883@saintmarys.edu. 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Hospir.rl Correspond~nr 
This week was full of heartbreak. lust and vengeance in Port Charles... 
Stefan and Laura take Nikolas to the hospital, whore Bobbie cares for him. Laura tells Lucky it wasn't his fault. When Spencer men leave, she and Stefan reach out to each other. Luckily, Nikolas has no linger­ing damage. He runs into Gina and they flirt. Luke gives Laura an ulti­matum: either the Spencers or the Cassadines. Make her choose who she loves most and leave the others behind-now. doesn't Luke sound JUST like a Cassadine?! 
Lucy proposes to Kevin as Felicia breaks into the lighthouse with Dara in tow. When Lucy finds out her very best friend is pressing charges, she tries to reason against it, but fails: Kevin is arrest~~d. 
Carly refuses to make Jove to Tony. She leaves the hospital and.uses her tuition money to pay off Piser. Bobbie scolds her and Tony. of course. jumps to her defense. The Joneses bicker. The results: Tony ln early's bed, again, and Bobbie leaving to search for her daughter. 
Ned warns Jax: if ELQ goes down, so will J & J Jax. Lois finds out nbout Jenny's hit and run...and who was driving. She invites Tracy over and records her voice. Is Lois becoming as calculating nnd vindic­tive as the Qs? Hmm. The plan backfires when Lois gets so angry, she goes into early labor. Gloria rushes her panicked daughter into the hospital and the race ls on to find Ned. Where is Nedly, you ask? He's in the Big Apple, being propositioned by Edward. The subsidiaries want Ned back as CEO and the contract is for three years. Ned races home, Brenda gets a call, and Sonny comes in from an ELQ meeting. Everyone is with Lois when the doctor eonfirms false labor. 
Sonny tells Brenda that the takeover is affecting Lois, and Brenda reminds him that she won't get involved in business thnt doesn't con­cern ht)r. She lost him and refuses to lose Jax. Sonny says their prob­lems were about lies, not business. He then complains to Jason that Brenda has a problem with reality. (Hello. you're just realizing this NOW?! She STALKED you!) If the takoover hurts Lois or tho baby. ho will ''take care" of Jax and Tracy. To recap, Sonny will take care of': Jax, Tracy, Stefan and Nikolas. If he ever follows through on all his offers, he'll depopulate Imlf the town. 
Lois tells Ned why she went into labor and her fears abo.ut raising a Quartermaine baby. She loves him, but she's going to Brooklyn where she can be a good mother and the baby will be safe. Will the Port's favorite couple part for theh· real child's birth, or is Rena Sofer gone f~r good? Stay tuned! 
Genevieve Morrill can be reached for questions and shameless Gil gossip at Morr8584@jade.saintmarys.edu. 


shPriiT: "You'n• gonna hafta forgiVP that ol' Bob. Ill' jusl ain't nn1rh for lalkin'." or ('OUrS!', tiH' mall' posturing familiar in both gl'nrl's is tlwrn in full forrP-and. anyway, it's a Bruce Willis moviP. 
Willis is lhP mystPrious .John Smith, just passing through thP town of .IPridJO until lw shoots a wayward glanrl' at a mobst11r's fa\'oritP girl. Smith's 1:ar suf'f'nrs tlw conse­quPIH'I'S, so sitll'f' lw's waylaid in town for a whilt'. lw dPridPs to makn sonw 11asy money. !lis cash cow is till' lwad-to-head eompl~ti­tion lwtWPI'n tlw Irish Mob and their Italian rountPrpart; th11y'n~ lwled up in .Jericho, and no !HIP's moving until they establish boollPgging rights across tlw Mexican bor­dl'r. 
At first . .John Smith sPits his serviens-an iron will and a pair of' blazing pistols-to the Italian Mob, but lw doesn't hesitate to switch sid11s when the wind blows the right way. A ronHliiCP with yet another gangster's moll gives Smith pause, but not for too long; lw wast11s v11ry litll11 time before unpacking 
trind-and-true 
multi-bullet the­ory, i.e., the morn, tho bett11r. Morn lead was drillnd into unfortunate gangstnrs in this movie than even the NHA can imagine, about sev11nty bullets per capita. The glorili­cation of firepower was rampant. gratu­itous. and even (and ol'tnn) ridiculous. Our anti-h11ro, .John Smith, was usually the first 
t.o shoot and then the last. as he usml dip after clip, sometinws against just one indi­vidual. 
Suffice it to say that this is not a subtle movie. Th11 shootouts wnre blatant overkill; .John Ford could be rolling in his grave right now. Nevertheless, it is undeniably enjoy­able-the filmmakers know what titillates. "Last Man Standing" may explore new fron­tiers in movie violence (as did Best Picture "Braveheart"), but at least our Hollywood­crazed society will have a great time as it marches off to the Dark Side. 
Mark Torma is a senior Anthropology major from Alliance, Ohio. 1/e admits that it's a struggle to stay a Jedi Knight. 

Business Film Series Explores Ethics 
By JOSHUA BECK Accenr Film Criric 
B
eginning on Sept11mb1~r 2:{, I1JIJ6, the Notrn Dame Center for Ethics and Heligious 
Valuns in Busirwss will feature a 3-day film series that consists of' three major 
motion pirtun~s that each deal with a specific topic on business ethics. The series kirks ofT on Monday, Snptnmher 23, with the movie "Other People's Money" starring Danny Devito. Tlwn on Ttwsday the 24th, "Wall Street" starring Michael l>ouglas(AcadPmy Award: Best Supporting Aetor), Charlie Sheen, and Daryl llannah will hP shown. Finally, on Wndnesday the 25th "The Big Knife" starring .Jack Palance and Ida Lupino will hi' fnaturnd. All of' thn showings will be at 7:30 p.m. at the .Jordan Auditorium in thn Busirwss Administration Complex. Each film will be preempted by an introdtll'lion from a distinguished speaker. Professor Oliver Williams, C.S.C will speak Monday, l'rof. Barry Keating will introduce "Wall Street," and Prof'. .John llouck will introdtu:e "Tlw Big Knil'n." 
Bning tlw first of its kind, tho Centl~r for Ethics and Hnligious Values in Businnss hopes that it will be a sueenss that will continue in the years to come. 
"Wn feel that them should bn a stimulation of nthieal re!1ection in the business world, and we sen film as the pnrfnet nwdium for doing just that," said Prof . .John Houck, a tearlwr at thn Cnntnr who will introduen "Thn Big Knife." lie also said that they would lik1~ to hav1~ a difl'ernnt series for each year ahead pending the success of tho inaugural version. The film series' official titl1~ is "llow Litnratum and Films Can Stimulate Ethical I Inflection in tlw llusirwss World." Admission is free, and the films arc particularly good vinwing whiln portraying certain ethical values. The Center would also like to stress that this series is for everyone, not just business majors. 
----~-----~~ 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 23, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deatlline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-Classifieds 
FOR RENTNOTICES  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP"............ . RUTGERS 272-?i!33 RUTGERS... .  2 OSU GA Tix 4-Sale Call272-5138 Leave offer  BAND PARENTS!! need 4 GA Air Force call collect  Help! I need a senior bar parking pass for OSU. Will trade JACC pass plus money. Please call  
WALK TO CAMPUS  (414) 208-1632  Allison at 243-9038.  
SKYDIVE!! 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  "Need Air Force TICKETS!! ..  FOR SALE  
Experience the ULTIMATE 232-2595  Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell  EARN MONEY!!!!!  
of all sports  5 OSU Tickets  674-7645  Please help me with my senior  
Training students for over Need a place to stay on football  Need 1 OSU ticket  (219) 232-8082  comprehensive. I need to interview  
30 years weekends?  Call Greg at 2318  2 Wash GA's  1 0 people who grew up in single  
1 hour North of South Bend  FOR SALE  Best Offer.  parent homes between the ages of  
Call for class times Furnished apartment for short term  Willing to exchange 2 hotel rooms  2 OSU Tix  1-612-427-3444  5 and 15. A reward for this confi­ 
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  for 2 OSU tickets.  b/o x0868  dential interview will be granted.  
1-800-351-6617 bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287­ Call {908) 781-6656.  HAVE: 2 Pitt GA's, 2 Air Force  Please call Caroline at 243-9264  
1·616-628-4892 4876.  TRADE 4 PITT GA'S & $ FOR  GA's. NEED: 2 Wash. GA's or Stu  
OSU TIX MATT 282-4213.  tix. Call {610)530-0156  If you've ever seen that girl  
WORLD YOUTH DAY ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­ SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  running across North Quad with  
VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ 4-0931.  2 Stud OSU TIX  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  a futon, her name is Courtney  
WANT TO BE WITH THE POPE IN PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  x2626 or x2597  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s -Call  and today is her 20th birthday!  
PARIS NEXT AUGUST? BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES  Shawn 215·676-6685  Love your ex-s in PW!  
312-951-5008  I need 2 Air Force GA's. Will pay  
Call Jeff 232-0550 House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45  well. Call Becky at X3792.  Need 4 OSU stud tix  Next time, go to the john  
min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK·  Call Doug@243-9224  before you pass out.  
Entertainment Electronics Co. APPL. $650. 317-942·2108  ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  All Tix for Sale  
 
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo) after 6-317-942-2408.  SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  (Stud.-OSU, etc.)  1 OSU GA for sale  To my nice friend who left themes­ 
255-1172  James x1658  Call Mike@243·9224  sage on my  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 1 0·2 ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Preferred tailgate parking pass  computer. Thanks. But the folder  
You break it, we'll fix it!!! ND-SMC EVENTS.  needed for OSU game. Will pay  FOR SALE  may overfill.  
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-3605.  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  1 OSU GA, best offer  
 
- THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and ENDS.  x2646  Call Aaron 634-2058  Joey Joey Joey. It's so good to  
Breakfast Inn has space available VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  TICKETS WANTED-Will pay pre­ share a desk with you again.  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with 243-0658.  mium price for 4 tickets for the  NOTRE DAME'GA'S WANTED  Need 1 STUDENT ticket for WASH!  
private baths, $70 -$90,  ND/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  ALL GAMES HOME  Jell: 233-2460  Oh and yes, I did cry (aka sob)  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. I Bedroom APT; clean, private bath;  No student tickets please.  AND AWAY  when I read it.  
Toll Road, Exit #107, entrance 3.5 miles from campus. 6  "Dynamite" seats only. Call  232-0058  Need 1 OSU ticket  
1-800-418-9487 or 12 month leases only. Call after 5p.m. 232-0355ILOST & FOUND,, FOR SALE  Bill/Anna at 800-457-0486. Grad Non-Degree Student needs GA tickets to any games. Call Val at 243-0798.  24 HRS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC.  Student or GA Please call Darryl @ x4264 G.A.'s FOR SALE NDvs. OSU  GANG GREEN-on the town again. This time: causing trouble during the Texas game at Turtle Creek. "Yeah, I can do a 49 sec­ond keg stand!"  
Lost Purdue weekend: light blue  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  call 634-1708  
rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward. COMPUTER 4 SALE  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Hey, getting my teeth knocked out  
x-2081 DELL LX4100D LIKE NEW  312.404.4903  232-0061.  FOR SALE  and lounge bit in half was worth it.  
8MB, 100 MHZ  1 OSU STU TICKET  We won the game didn't we?  
$1500 CALL233-5114  NEED 2 OHIO ST. GA OR STU­ $$$$$$  CALL 4-1881 b/o  
.....LOST'"*" AFTER 6:30 PM  DENT 271-9278  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  THE BUCKEYES ARE GOING  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  ALL HOME GAMES.  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX!  DOWN!!  
opener (with three keys) on it over COUCH & DORM REFRIG.272­ Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  272-6551  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  
 
the Purdue weekend. If you found 6306  or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  My honey and me.  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  1 OSU GA FOR SALE B/0  
 
REWARD. '87 Mazda 323, Air,  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  BOUGHT & SOLD  NOT ENDZONE  "Now she really can't see. If she  
Automatic, 90k, Blue  Matt-271-3683  232-2378-A.M.  CALL DAVE 4-4040  could, she'd move out of the way of  
Great Condition WANTED Call John 631-6414  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu  288-2726-P.M.  OSU GA for sale to highest bid.  THIS... BAM" .. .''Well how about this bird. BAM BAM BAM. Ok, so  
tix2775931  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  284-4163  that was disgusting.''  
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game, Kenwood 200W Amp  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  
9/28. Attend family tailgate, watch 1 $300  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  DAVE (614)764-7355  ND Parents need tickets for OSU  We're one week away from SIX  
yr. old daughter during game. Call Lux Sound 4-Channel DJ Mixer  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  game! Please call (630)810-0710  MONTHS! And I'm happier than  
Matt at (614)469-3605 during day. Sound Effects, etc.  n. d. tickets for sale  ever.  
$300  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  271 1635  Have Washington, Air Force, and  
95' GRADS NEED 5 WASHING· Call Isaac 289-9025  Call Rob x1902  Pitt GA tix. Will trade for Ohio State  You're off the hook for graduation.  
TON TIX! CALL KRISTIN 273­ $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  and/or B.C. tix. Call Stephen  But I didn't say anything about next  
6136. Compuparts Lab., Inc.  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  (607)336-7218, 335-3129.  Christmas. Uoking, RELAX.)  
Grand Opening! Very Low Price!  Cristina@x2339  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT Big Sales on Computer System  FOR SALE: SR. STUD. BKL T  "No. I can't go out tonight. It's my  
-Students Needed! Fishing and Parts!  I need 2 Ohio State tix, stud or GA  ND ALUM NEEDS  call 271-3696  anniversary. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. I  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000· 8 MB RAM EDO $43  call Gina 273-5833  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  have a girlfriend."  
$6,000+ per month. Room and 8 X CD-ROM $99  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Need 1 WASH stud ticket  
Board! Transportation! Male or 2.0 GB Hard Drive $248  WANTED  will trade my OSU ticket or pay $  Alex is makin the copies.  
Female. No experience necessary. 1 MB PCI SVGA CARD $35  2 GAs for Air Force  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  Melissa x1339  
 
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 and lots more!  Carrie x2344  ALL HOME GAMES.  oh what fun to revel in illegal activi­ 
320 N. Dixie Way (US 31, 1 block  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  FOR SALE:  ty...but get your six dollars worth  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS· south of Cleveland Rd)  Need 213 OSU Tix for guy who got  1 GA FOR OHIO STATE &  
Teach basic conversational English Tel: 243-0421  me my FAKE ID, $150 ea. @0538  Need Ohio State tickets.  1 GA FOR WASHINGTON.  welcome back, liz. hope it was  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  CALL 1-810-355-9140 &  refreshing. get back on the bus.  
teaching certificate or European 87 Mazda 323, manual transm.,  Seeking tickets for OHIO St.,  LEAVE MESSAGE. I WILL CALL  the godmother  
languages required. Inexpensive AC, grey, 4 doors, new muffler,  WASHINGTON, PITT.  TRADE ONLY-2 WA GAs for 2  YOU BACK.  
Room & Board + other benefits. For $2,300 or best, 256-5523  Call Greg 219-273-1007  OSU GAs-273-8379.  PET ADOPTION-1 1/2 yr. old  
info. call:  •'' • • • FOR SALE • • • • • •  female dog, shorthair, mixbreed,  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842 King Size Futon, 1 year old, $150,  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  4 OSU student tickets!!!!  301bs., VERY FRIENDLY & OBEDI­ 
call 256·5523  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  • • • call Jenny @ 687-8435 • • • •  ENT, seeks loving home & respon­ 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  NEED 4 AF + 4 PITT GAs  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  sible owner till May, or permanently.  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT COMPUTER 4 SALE  CHRIS 288-9102  (219)422-6088  KISS TICKETS  Fully vaccinated, doesn't shed ­ 
(813)360-2243. Mac Classic w/ software, modem,  Market Square INDY Oct 15th  serious inquiries call Bill@ 271-9432  
printer $300 Patti -1329  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  Row 23 FLOOR 291-4816  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Family  Sarah, I want to taste the sweet  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money! TICKETSSell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  NEEDED: One Wash. GA or con­verted STUDENT tix. Will pay$$$  612-742-7638 Collect  Will trade two GA Washington tick­ets for two GA Ohio State tickets.  nectar and be the steamed milk on the cream on the crop .... Biiue  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  Kristin 4838  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  Call (919)286-8037(w) or  moon... good luck on your presen­ 
$399, Panama City/Daytona $119! NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  for home games. 412/352-2219  (919)688-7852{h).  tation on le lac. Love, roro  
www.springbreaktravel.com ALL GAMES HOME  Will trade one Wash.,Air Force, or  
1-800-678-6386 AND AWAY  Rutgers GA for one OSU. 277­ • NEEDED: 3 Ohio St. GA's. Call  Need Washington GA or student  MB, you rock my world. I just  
232·0058  2510.  Jason at 4-1035.  David@ 1057 or 0516  wanted to tell you to take a deep  
"'FREE TRIPS & CASH'" 24 HRS.  breath and try to let the week pass  
Find out how hundreds of student BUY -SELL -TRADE  Will trade 2 Air Force or Rutgers  Need$$$  in happiness. I love you and will  
representatives are already earning  GAs for One OSU.277-2510.  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ Will pay cash 4  always be across the hall. I hope  
FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH TICKET-MART, INC.  ED -PLEASE HELP!!!  ND·OSU tix  your paper went well.  
with America's #1 Spring Break  Selling OHIO STATE TIX!  Call Chad@  
 
company! Sell only 15 trips and WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  6 GAs CHEAP!  Family wants to come to a game for  1-800-Trade-it ext. 117  Urn & Mel, you guys are awesome.  
travel free! Cancun, Bahamas, ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call Sandra x4927  my senior year. Please help  I can't wait until we are together for  
Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida! 232-0061.  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  For ND fan since 1943, seeing a  an entire weekend. Puddin', DAVE  
CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  OHIO STATE TIX!  game. Please call Brian a\.287­ game in South Bend is as close to  in 5 days!!!(charter in 6?)  
ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  Selling GAs CHEAP!  4876. Thank you.  heaven as I'm gonna come! Need 2  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV· WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  Call Sandra x4927  to 5 tix for any home game to fulfill  KC: Welcome back! Nikki: I have a  
EL CALL 243-1287  my dream. Call Ron COLLECT at  Wash ticket. Talk to me today.  
(800)95-BREAK!  Help! I need 7 GA/STU tix for  $$ Please Help!! $$  (612)559-4287...  Shannon: Good luck with hell week,  
Have 3 Ohio Stae GA's  PITT.Contact Justin @x1871  94 ND Alum Needs  and bless you!  just think it will all be over on thurs.  
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR. call x3815  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  Jen, Mo, Erin: I love you guys and  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  Need 3(or2) PITT TIX(Stu/GA)  Ohio St and Wash­ Need 2 Air F. GA's  hope your having a good day.  
PERSON FOR PART-TIME Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  Will Trade 2 AF TIX &/or Pay $  Call Joanne- Amy 616-473-5825  
RECEPTIONIST POSITION. 1st 10 Rows 232-0058  Call4-1628  516-742-1923 (night)  For sale:OSU stud ticket. Call3518.  
HOURS ARE  or 212-415-3009 (day)  Need 2 Ohio State tickets. Will  
 
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT. JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  DESPERATE for 3 Wash tix. GA or  trade 2 Wash. tickets and/or$.  HAC, you have friends and you are  
PHONE EXP A MUST. RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  stud tix turned into GA thru  OSU Weekend Hotel Rooms  Leave message 800-582-3212  insane, you should come to charter  
$7/HOUR 243-9555 PLEASE CALL 232-0058  exchange. Offering handsome  South Bend Marriott  X2465  with Urn and I after the OSU game.  
reward. Call Ryan @ 4-3592.  Two Rooms-9/27-9/28  
Are you interested in an internship WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S in public relations and fund raising? CALL COLLECT 215·355-7131  Need lots of Washington tix· GA or  At Cost (216) 622-8207  PERSONAL  Need Air Force GA's. Call Frank at -3323. Peace.  
Send cover letter and resume to RON  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  Need GA's for Air Force, Pitt &  
Michelle Fean Regional Director of  Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Danza slap the Buckeyes  
the American Diabetes Assoc. at ND Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  I ! 2 OSU GAs FOR SALE ! !  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
 
115 Lafayette Blvd. Suite 501 South Call (313)420-1208 or {212)250­ Call 4-1473 w/your offer  WANTED: Washington tickets. stu­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Hey Doug, what was that you said  
Bend, IN 46601. This position is 15­6513  dent or GA. Call Nathan at 4-2031  The highest quality full-color  on Friday about offering the boys  
20hrs a week & intern has the  --Wanted OSU Student Tix-­ copies are now available at  candy? 'Cause, urn, I'd like some  
choice of being paid or earning GA TICKETS WANTED GA  Who wants to sit in GA anyway?  I need 6 OSU tickets  THE COPY SHOP  candy. Urn .... the End.  
credit. Please send resumes by ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  Just supply the ticket and I'll worry  Will pay high prices or  LaFortune Student Center  
 
Oct. 15, 1996. WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE  about the rest. $$$$  will trade BULLS tickets!  Phone #631-COPY  AAAAHHH!!! Bogeyman!  
2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR  Call 4-3005 and ask for Player  Call Jason @ x1225  
INDIVIDUAL GAMES  And Charity is makin the lipton  Did somebody say Jumanji? I'm  
:::::::::::::::::::::;;;277-1659  4 OSU GAs 4 SALE. xOB49  Need OSU GA tix. 259-2207  soup.  sure that I heard the word Jumanji.  


Monday, September 23, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 
Colts hope to continue streak 
Chiefs gain confidence in vi<;;tory By DOUG TUCKER with Jim Brown for No. 2 on 100-ya.rd rushing day at home A11ociared Prl':ls Writer the career list. since Seattle's Chris Warren "It was just an !·formation, got 117 on Oct. 23. 1994. KANSAS CITY, Mo. and the fullback just led The Broncos ~ook the open~ For the first time since through the hole," Allen said. ing kickoff and burned 7:34 off Indianapolis knocked them out "On that drive, we had several the clock on a 14-play, 74-yard of last year's playoff's, the guys make big plays." drive that Davis capped with a Kansas City Chiefs have their ''Everybody looked at each 6~yard run. Elway passed for contidenee back. other in the huddle and said 53 yards and converted four "If we rnaeh our goal of the we're going to score," Penn third downs in the march, in­Super Bowl, we'll point to this said. "The coaches put togeth­cluding a third-and-10 when game," center Tim Grunhnrd er a perfect plan and called he hit Sharpe for 19 yards to said after Marcus Allen's 2· perfect plays. Bono made per­the 3L yard touehdown with 4:09 fect reads and the offensive After.Pete Stoyanovich's 37­remaining lifted the Chiefs over line made perfect blocks." yard field goal made it 7-3 with Dnnver 17-14 in a game pair­Dale Carter's lunging 57 seconds left in the first ing unbeaten AFC West rivals. intHrception of Elway's long quarter. fullback Kimble The victory kept also gave pass gave the Chiefs the ball Anders got loose for a 45~yard the Chiefs the lirst 4-0 start in right back, and the offense pass reception ­his longest as the 37-year history of the fran­picked up two first downs to a Chief ­to key a 7 5-yard TD chise. run out the dock and keep the drive that gave Kansas City the "I think that last drive told Chiefs unbeaton at home dur· lead. Anders, who went to the us something about ourselves," ing the regular season since Pro Bowl for the first timtrlast guard Dave Szott said. "We Dee. 4, 1994, when Denver tri· season, hauled in the pass on haven't felt this eonfident since umphed in overtime. the left sideline, broke Bill we tinislwrl (the 1995 regular "Today we found out that we Romanowski's tackle and season) 13-3." are a good football team," made lt all the way to the 37. The Chiefs had to overcome Elway said. "But we can't beat A moment later. Bono tossed Shannon Sharpe's 131 yards ourselves. We made some mis­an 8-yard TD pass to Danan rceeiving and Terrell Davis' takes that you just can't make Hughes. 14 I yard rushing to go to 4-0 against the Kansas City Denver's Jason Elam missed and stretch tlwir AFC West Chiefs," Elway said. a 52-yard field goal attempt in winning streak to 12 games. Chiefs coach Marty the second quarter and a 34­Davis, who lnd all AFC ruslwrs Schottenheimer said a couple yarder that struck the left with :;20 yards corning in, of players made mistakes on upright in the fourth. broke a 65-yard touchdown Oavis' 65-yarder. The Chiefs appeared to be run in the seeond quarter, tht~ "You don't expect me to driving toward a score in the longest against Kansas City name names, do you?" he said. second quarter when Bono sinee 1977. "We solve those problems threw his first interception in "I don't worry about stats,'' behind closed doors." 93 pass attempts this season. said Davis, who had 130 yards Safety Brian Washington Romanowski picked off the ball in tho first half. "I think we seemed to be taking the bla.me. on the 21, and three plays later outplayed them most of the ''I'm sick about it," he said. Davis was in the end zone after game. But you can only give a "We don't let anybody go ?,5 his 65-yard gallop. good team so many chances to yards for a touchdown on us. Two of the worst passes beat you." Davis burst through a hole Elway has thrown all year pre­Davis' run gave the Broncos on tho right side and outran ceded Stoyanovich's 37-yarder (3-Il a 14-10 lead that stood Mark Collins and Carter, the in the first quarter. Given plen­up until StPve Bono, booed the Chiefs' fastest defender. As ty of time on sepond-and-15 previous series, brought cheers Carter slowly closed the gap, from the Denver 35, the ball from the capacity crowd of Davis veered left, then veered popped out of Elway's hand 79,439 by directing a 67-yard left again, keeping just ahead and went straight up in the air drive for the go-ahead score. him until the cornerback as his arm moved forward. On He hit Danan Hughes for 16 dragged him down in the end the next play, he threw a wob­yards and Chris Penn for 18 on zone. On the previous play, bly pass to Collins, who was successive plays to set up the Elway had scrambled 15 yards standing by himself in the mid­106th rushing touchdown of on third-and-11. dle of the field and returned Allen's career, which tied him The Chiefs hadn't given up a the ball 23 yards.  

"~~ ·~0 '0 ~ '06' ~ o e . ~\)6 ("\~~\~ 6 v t1'ot' ~o"Vt'-\0 0~ ~JC.J• ot'e v \~t' • Tt A e'f..'/(\ \60'<7 0 Ssist • i o o(r---------------___,Inaugural Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group Wednesday, September 25 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Sr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. All meeting6 are private and confidential.  

ByHANKLOWENKRON 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Monday night games are routine for Dan Marino and the Miami Dolphins. Not so with the Indianapolis Colts. 
The Dolphins are playing their 52nd Monday night game, more than any other NFL team. The Colts, who have reached the playoffs only twice in nearly two decades, are at home for a Monday game for the first time since 1993. 
"It's weird seeing the Colts get national publicity. I was in the restaurant watching national TV and all of a sud­den, Jim Harbaugh pops up," said Indianapolis defensive lineman Tony Siragusa, refer­ring to a halftime interview with the Indianapolis quarter­back during last week's Monday night game. 
The Colts, a big surprise in reaching the AFC title game last season, have opened with three straight victories for the first time since 1977. Miami also is 3-0, creating an early­season showdown for first place in the AFC East. 
"All your peers are watehing the game, millions are watch­ing on TV," Harbaugh said. "You want to make a good ac­count of yourself. It's a big game. It's against a division ri­val. It could have implications as far as what happens at the end of the year. It's as good as it gets." 
Harbaugh and his team­mates have drawn the atten­tion of Miami, a team they've defeated three straight times for the first time in almost 20 years. 
"They're a team that never quits. They've got a good play­maker at quarterback," said Miami defensive end Trace Armstrong, a former team­mate of Harbaugh's in Chicago. "They know how to come from behind. They have faith in what they're doing." 
Harbaugh was the league's highest rated quarterback last season, earning his first trip to the Pro Bowl. This year, Harbaugh leads the AFC with a rating of 109.5. 
"He's a playmaker in the pocket and when the pocket breaks down he'll run the ball or throw it," Armstrong said. "lie imposes a lot of problems for you defensively .... 
"lie's a hard worker guy who loves the game. The environment there (in Chicago) wasn't able to show him play the way he was capable. With Indianapolis they run a scheme that highlights what he does best. ... I always knew Jim would work hard, wanted to win and was a great athlete, but if you told me he'd develop 
-

into the kind of player he has, I wouldn't have believed it." 
The success of Harbaugh and the Colts has given him celebrity status -his own local TV show, the cover of national publications and national TV interviews. It also produced a new four-year con­tract worth an estimated $13 million, including a $4 million signing bonus. 
"Things arc going along great now, you're riding a wave. The reviews are coming in good," Harbaugh said. "You enjoy it while it's here and try to keep playing at that level of performance." 
Meanwhile, Marino comes to the RCA Dome with a strong running game to go with the skills that have made him the league's all-time leader in passing yardage, touchdown passes, pass attempts and completions. The Dolphins are third in the league in rushing with a 156-yard average, led by rookie Karim Abdul­Jabbar's 280 yards. 
"We've proven that we can run a little bit," Marino said. "Hopefully, we ean continue to have a well balanced offense. ... It just helps, having a dill'er­ent aspect rather than being one dimensional. Teams have to prepare for a eouple of dif­ferent things, bring safeties up and give you a little more room on the outside." 
The Observer is now hiring a Saint Mary's Sports Editor. Interest in sports preferred. Call Caroline Blum at 63 7-4540 if interested.  
tj.~~~J~~~~................~ TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 Saturday 10:00-5:00 tjltl~ol.LJ~  

-~ ----------~---· 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 23, 1996 
• NFL 
Humphries' arm carries Chargers 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

Nine plays, three minutes, three touchdowns. A first­quarter scoring binge was all it took for the San Diego Chargers to shake ofT a week of doubts. 
Stan Humphries tossed three TD passes late in the first quarter as the Chargers (3-1 ), rebounding from their worst loss in eight years, jumped to an early 21-point lead and de­feated the Oakland Raiders 40­34 Sunday. 
Humphries ended up with

-four scoring passes -three to Tony Martin -as the Chargers shoved aside a 42-10 loss at Green Bay that was their most lopsided defeat since 1988. ''To come back after the shellacking we got was a very big obstacle that we were able to overcome," Chargers line­backer Junior Seau said. "We were facing being .500 early in the year. We didn't want that to happen." The Raiders (1-3) got three touchdown passes by Jeff Hostetler and a couple of TD tosses from Billy Joe Hobert in the final 90 seconds, but never recovered from the early deficit fueled by two turnovers. 
"This seemed to be a case of digging ourselves a hole we couldn't get out of." Raiders coach Mike White said. "We're losing that turnover battle, and that usually means we're not going to win the game." 
Humphries opened the scor­ing with a 6-yard touchdown pass to Terrell Fletcher with 
4:03 left in the first period. Kurt Gouveia intercepted Hostetler's pass on the Raiders' next play, and Humphries passed 7 yards to Martin two plays later to make it 14-0. 
Tim Brown fumbled on the fourth play of Oakland's ensu­ing drive, and Humphries hit Martin with a 41-yard scoring pass on the next play. With 58 seconds left in the quarter, it suddenly was 21-0. 
Humphries went 18-for-25 for 226 yards. Martin, who began the game leading the AFC with 19 receptions, had 10 catches for 138 yards. He has scored six times this season. 
"As solid as I was putting the ball where it needed to be, it was probably my best game since I've been here," Humphries said. "I've got to strive and try to do that every week." 
Martin said most of his catches came against zone cov­erage that gave him a cushion, and wondered why the Raiders didn't try to shadow him more aggressively with man-to-man coverage. 
"I was really surprised," he said. "It's fun when you can go out and do whatever you want to do." 
John Carney added field goals or 28 and 39 yards for the Chargers, and Willie Clark capped San Diego's scoring with 3:40 left in the game on an 83-yard interception return. 
Hostetler, who was 26-of-44 for 293 yards, had TD passes of 4 yards to Derrick Fenner, 6 yards to Rickey Dudley and 6 yards to Tim Brown. Hobert added an 11-yard scoring toss to Brown with 1:29 left and a 28-yarder to Kenny Shedd with 12 seconds left after the Raiders recovered an onside kick. 
Oakland then tried another onside kick, but San Diego re­covered and ran out the clock. 
"It was a real big win coming off that loss to Green Bay. We went in there real flat and they gave us an old-fashioned butt whipping," Martin said. "We came out today and showed the character of this team." 
The Chargers pushed around an Oakland defense that had not allowed a touchdown in six quarters coming into the game. 
With the two interceptions and the fumble recovery, the Chargers have 12 takeaways this season. They did not com­mit a turnover Sunday and have lost the ball just five times this year. 
The Raiders, who pulled within 27-21 late in the third period, used a no-huddle of­fense for much of the second half. But that was not enough to recover from the first-quar­ter debacle. 


P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D R E T I R EM EN T I NV E S T I N G 

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU COULD LIVE LONGER. INVEST REGULARLY SO YOU CAN AFFORD TO. 
Americans are living longer than ever. So it's quite fl. possible you'll spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'II need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyleyou'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or research. 
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat. 
The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to your regimen as you go along. 
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contribute through your employer's payroll system. You 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."" 

can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses. 1 
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher://tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 
I. StaniJanJ d Poor'J IIJJurance Roling Anai)JJiJ, 1995; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., Lip~Mr-Dir«torJ'Analytical Data, 1995 (Quarterly). For more complete information, including charges and expenses, caU 1 800 842-2733, extension 5509, for a prospectus. 
Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or aend money. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc., distributes CREF certificates. 1,<)6 
-------------·-------~­
Monday, September 23, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NFL 
Bills' defense stops Cowboys 
By BUCKY GLEASON sat in the locker room, AssociateJ Press Writer stunned for a second straight 
OHCIIAIW PAHK, N.Y. 

Tlw Buffalo Bills know they wouldn't btl putting much of­fc nso togo the r without Jim Kelly in tho lineup. The only way to boat the Dallas Cowboys was with defense. 
With their starting quarter­back sidelinnd with a ham­string injury, the Bills held Emmitt Smith to 25 yards on 15 earries in a 10-7 victory over the Cowboys on Sunday. 
The Bills (:~-1) also intllr­cepted three of Troy Aikman's passes and limited the Cowboys (1-31 to 192 yards. 
"It was a big-timo outing by our defense," saf'oty Henry Jones said. "With all the weapons Dallas has -with Emmitt and Aikman and Deion (Sanders) -we had to come up big and give our of'fenso a ehanee." 
Smith had his worst game since Oct. 16, 1994, against Phoenix. 
"Tiw key to shutting down Emmitt was a sense of urgency on our defensive sidn," Bills dofensive end Bruce Smith said. "We had to snt the lf~mpo from the first possession.'' 
It can't gnt much worse for Dallas, oiT to its worst start sinee IIJIJO when .Jimmy .Johnson was roach and Dallas was rebuilding. No team has ever started 1-3 and won the Super Bowl. 
"It's like a bad dream," Emmitt Smith said. "I can't believe what is happening and tlw rtHLson why it is happen­ing. Whatever it is, we need to get it corrected quickly." 
After the gamo, the Cowboys week after losing to a team they feel they should have beaten. Dallas lost to Indianapolis last week after taking a 21-3 lead. 
The Bills relied on their opening drive for the bulk of their scoring. Todd Collins, making just his second career start while Kelly recovers from a hamstring injury, led the Bills on a 78-yard drive that ended in Thurman Thomas' 2­yard touchdown. 
"I don't think I did anything special," said Collins, who completed 11 of 17 passes for 88 yards and one interception. 
"A lot of guys on this team had a feeling that something like this would happen. A lot of people were counting us out." 
Collins left the game late in the third quarter after sprain­ing his right ankle while get­ting sacked. Buffalo went with third-stringer Alex Van Pelt the rest of the way. 
Buffalo protected Collins by using an assortment of forma­tions and running low-risk plays, giving the young quar­terback time to operate the sluggish offense. 
"The first drive was the key," Collins said. "It gave us six points right off the bat. It really was a perfect drive. I couldn't have imagined any­thing else that could have started us off in the right direction." 
The defense did the rest. 
Buffalo took a 10-0 lead in the third quarter after Emanuel Martin made the first of his two interceptions. lie picked off Aikman's pass intended for Kelvin Martin and returned the ball 31 yards to the Dallas 9. Three plays later, Steve Christie kicked a 32­yard field goal. 
Dallas didn't score until there was 5:53 left in the game. A 24-yard catch by llorschel Walker set up Smith's 2-yard TO run. Aikman was 16-of-33 for 164 yards for the Cowboys, who wore hurt by costly penalties and turnovers. 
"We made some dumb plays," Cowboys coach Barry Switzer said. "But when you can't run the football, Troy can't have a passing game. When tho offense can't move the ball and put any points on the board, you're going to get beat." 
With about 3 minutes left in the game, Dallas' George Teague caught John Jett's punt instead of allowing it to roll deep into Buffalo territory. The mistake allowed the Bills to avoid poor field position and eventually punt the ball deep into Cowboys territory. 
One play later, the Bills intercepted Aikman to clinch the vie tory. 
Aikman was hit on that play by Bruce Smith and Shawn Price as he released the ball, and the Dallas QB slightly sprained his right knee and ankle. 
The Cowboys have overcome slow starts before. They start­ed 0-2 in 1993 and beat Buffalo in the Super Bowl, but the Cowboys couldn't beat the Bills on Sunday. 
"This football team is not used to being in this position this early in the year," Aikman said. "It's going to test our resolve and see how we bounce back." 
The Finance Club 
invites you to hear about 

"Career Opportunities in Consulting" 
presented by 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
http:/ /www.arthurandersen.com 

Wednesday, September 25, 1996 5:00-6:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Room 112 
Pizza and Refreshments Served Casual At:tire 

Giants triumph in battle of the pathetic 
By TOM CANAVAN 
Associated Press Writer 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
The New York Giants and 
Jets lived down to their win­
less records with. a lifeless 
performance. 
.. Lame offense, mistakes ga­
lore, frustration and plenty of 
well-deserved boos marked 
the occasion. Even the weath­
er cooperated, with intermit· 
tent showers turning to heavy 
rain in the closing minutes at 
Giants Stadium. 
Oh by the way, the Giants 
(1-3) overcame their mistakes 
t.o defeat the Jets 13-6 Sunday as Dave Brown threw a 17-yard touchdown pass to Chris Calloway, and Brad Daluiso kicked two short field goals. 
"At this stage, a win is a 
win," Daluiso said. "We 
needed to win for the morale 
of the team. Obviously we 
can't sit on it, and obviously it 
wasn't a perfect game. It was 
a battle of 0-3 teams, but we 
won and that's the key, This 
locker room hasn't felt a win 
in a while and we really 
needed it." 
So did the Jets (0-4), who 
now face a week of ridicule 
after their $70 million offense 
was limited to field goals of 
46 and 39 yards by Nick 
Lowery by the NFL's worst 
defense. 
"I wish I knew what the 
heck happened out there," 
said a disgusted Jets coach 
Rich Kotlte, who saw his 
offense gain 208 total yards, 
.including 42 and one first down in its final five series. 
"Our offense just stunk up the place today," receiver Keyshawn Johnson added. "If 0-4 is not a wakeup call, I don't know what is." 
For the most part, Giants players weren't gloating. They were relieved. 
"I don't think this has any­thing to do with bragging or us saying we're not the worst team in New York," said Giants defensive end Mike Strahan, who ended the Jets' final series with the fourth sack of Neil O'Donnell, who was 22 of 38 t'or 149 yards. 
"I think we're just happy to win a game. We would not have cared whether it was against Parsippany High School," he added. "We would have taken lt. We're just happy to win and go home with a smile on our face." · 
Winning wasn't the only thing to put smiles on peo­ple's faces. Some errors by the teams were equally humorous. 
Giants linebackt~r Jessie Armstead tripped while returning an interception deep in Jets territory and fumbled away a chance to score with the Jet'i leading 3­0 in the second quarter. 
Scott Gragg, a 325-pound Giants offensive tackle, fell attempting a celebratory cart­wheel following's Brown's TD pass to Calloway minutes later, capping an 80-yard drive f'ol· a 7-3 lead. 
"Was it that bad?" Gmgg said while laughing. "I don't care. I'm just nice to win. What a relief." 
''Nice, Nice... Real Nice! ! ! " Happy 21st Mammen From 1667 

Notre Dame Australia 
1997,98 Information Meeting with 
Professor Mike Etzel 
Monday, September 23, 1996 126 DeBartolo 
4:30PM 
Sophomores in Colleges of Arts and Letters and Business Administration are welcome! 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 23, 1996 

Panthers burn 49er defense 
By JOE MACENKA 
Associated Press Writer 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

The Carolina Panthers keep saying it's going to take time to build the franchise into a win­ner. Tell that to Steve Young and the San Francisco 49ers. 
Steve Beuerlein, starting in place of the injured Kerry Collins, burned the NFL's top­ranked defense with a near­flawless first half that gave the Panthers a 23-7 victory over San Francisco on Sunday. 
It was Carolina's second vic­tory in three games against the 49ers, and it meant that 19 games into their existence, the Panthers are 10-9 and in first place alone in the NFC West. Both Carolina and the 49ers came in as the last two un­beaten teams in the division. 
Collins, 9-6 as the Panthers' starter, sprained his left knee two weeks ago. He spent Sunday's game on the sidelines wearing shorts and a golf shirt and waving a towel as he cheered on his teammates. 
Beuerlein completed 17 of 20 passes in the first half as Carolina (3-0) built a 17-0 lead against a defense that finished No. 1 in the NFL last season and was in the same spot this year. 
Beuerlein, who threw a pair of scoring passes to Wesley Walls, finished with 272 yards on 22-of-31 passing to help the Panthers win for the lOth time in 16 games. 
San Francisco (2-1) gave up 389 yards, including 251 in the first half. 
The Panthers scored on their first three possessions and nearly added to that total on their fourth, when they drove to the San Francisco 11 before Beuerlein was intercepted in the end zone by Marquez Pope. 
At halftime, San Francisco had just 66 yards. 
Young finally got the 49ers on the board by leading a 71­yard drive on their second possession of the third quarter. He found Derek Loville 15 yards behind the Carolina sec­ondary for a 44-yard touch­down pass. 
San Francisco's Tim McDonald intercepted Beuerlein on the opening play of the fourth quarter and returned it for an apparent score that would have cut it to 20-13. But the 49ers' Tyronne Drakeford was called for hold­ing, and the Panthers retained possession. 
Carolina closed the scoring with a 19-yard field goal by John Kasay with 38 seconds left. Kasay has hit all 13 of his field-goal attempts this season, including three Sunday. 
San Francisco came in allow­ing 168 yards per game. Carolina surpassed that early in the second quarter during a 69-yard drive on which Beuerlein completed all five of his passes for 60 yards. 
Beuerlein ended the drive when he found Walls alone in the back of the end zone for a 7 -yard scoring play that made it 17-0 with 12:49 left in the half. 
At that point, Beuerlein had completed 12 of 13 passes for 166 yards, and San Francisco hadn't advanced past its own 26-yard line. 
The Panthers opened the game with an 80-yard, nine­play drive capped by a 19-yard TD pass from Beuerlein to Walls. It was the first time a 49ers opponent had scored a touchdown on its opening drive in 29 consecutive regu­lar-season games, ending the longest active streak in the league. 

Watters runs over Atlanta 

By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Asssociated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Ricky Watters ran over the Atlanta Falcons. He ran by them, too. 
Watters rushed for 121 yards and two touchdowns, including a 56-yarder, and Gary Anderson kicked four field goals as the Philadelphia Eagles cruised past Atlanta 33­18 Sunday night. Derrick Witherspoon sealed the win with a 97 -yard kickoff return. 
Atlanta (0-3) is a team in disarray. Quarterback Jeff George was benched in the third quarter, and was seen arguing with coach June Jones on the sideline, but Bobby Hebert didn't fare much better. 
Watters' performance fol­lowed a 153-yard effort against Detroit as the Eagles (3-1} played a strong game on the heels of their embarrassing 39­13 loss to Green Bay in Week 2. 
Anderson moved past George 

:....._ Blanda and into a tie with Atlanta's Morten Andersen at No. 3 on the NFL's career field­goal list. Andersen kicked one field goal for the Falcons, leav­ing him and the Philadelphia kicker with 337 apiece. Watters, who has the task of carrying a Philadelphia offense that lacks big-play performers, scored his first touchdown on one of the best 2-yard runs you'll ever see. He took the handoff from Rodney Peete and found no running room inside, so he bounced away from Devin Bush to the outside, broke a tackle by Darnell Walker and ran over Brad Edwards at the goal line. Early in the second half, Watters burst through a hole at the Eagles 44 and outraced the Falcons for the longest touch­down run of his career, giving the Eagles a 20-10 lead. With a sparse crowd chanting for Hebert, Jones benched 
George after he threw his sec­ond interception midway through the third quarter. 
Hebert threw an interception shortly after he entered the game and two more in the waning minutes. He finished 17 -of-26 for 149 yards, but did have a 12-yard scoring pass to Terance Mathis with 4:11 re­maining. A 2-point conversion brought the Falcons to 26-18. 
But in a play that summed up Atlanta's night, Witherspoon took the ensuing kickoff at his own 3 and raced down the sideline for the second scoring return of his career. 
Atlanta's run-and-shoot of­fense, which produced four 1,000-yard runners and re­ceivers last year, has managed only 41 points in three games and now the question is: Who will start at quarterback next week at Detroit? 
George completed 16 of 23 passes for 217 yards and pumped up the crowd with a 23-yard touchdown pass to Bert Emanuel with 3:02 left in the first half. That cut the Eagles' lead to 13-7, and Andersen added a 43-yard field goal with four seconds left in the first half to make it close. 
But Watters' second touch­down pushed the lead to 20-10, and Anderson kicked field goals of 39 and 25 yards to make it 26-10 with 12 minutes to go. 
In the first half, Anderson connected from 28 and 33 
yards. 
Blue Plate Special 
M 
Fr~d Chicken,Whipped Potatoee and Gravy, Green Beane-$2.95 
Free Espresso
T 
Free Gourmet Cookie
w 
with any purchase Free 12 oz. coffee
T 
with bagel purchase 



M Pillsbury Doughboy Cookie Jar 
filled with Gourmet Cookies T Burlaps Sweatshirt W Hall Spirit Day Giveaway 
T  Notre Dame Jacket  
~  One Pair of Notre Dame vs.  
Ohio State Football Tickets  

EnU:r a~ often a~ you like--Need not be preeent to win EnU:r from 7:W am -2:30 pm 
Students Only 
Wed. is Hall Spirit Day--Please wear your hall apparel. 
Look who's 22! 
Amy 
s·romek 
Happy Birthday Amyl 
Love, 
Mom, Amanda, andG&G 
11:00 am-1:00pm 
MLazy Baby T Pat Heiden Quartet WJewel & The Future T After Hours J Stomper Bob 



Monday, September 23, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
One pennant race is over, another is heating up 
Atlanta sets record by snaring fifth title 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA This was onn for the record book. 
The Atlanta Bmvns. liknly to hn rmnnmbnred as thn tnam of the ''JOs, madn a bid for even grnatr.r distinction by winning tlwir lifth straight division titln and setting tlwir sights on a second consecutive World Snrins championship. 
Only two other franchises -Nnw York Yanknes (1949-53 and l 9(l!l-h4) and Oak Ian d At h l e tics ( I 'J7 I -7 5 ) -have made five straight postseason appearances. The Braves won the West Division from 199 1­'13 and now the East two years in a row since realignment. 
Even though Atlanta strug­gled down the stretch, losing II of 13 at one point to con­cnde thn bnst rncord in basn­ball to Cleveland. pitching made the Braves a solid favorite to repeat. No other tnam has a rotation like 20­game winner .John Smoltz, four-time Cy Young Award winner Greg Maddux, Tom <;Iavine, Denny Neagle and Steve Avery. 
"We feel like we're still the tnarn to heat," said Smoltz, who is favored the end 
Maddux's streak of Cy Young 
victories. 
The road to another postsea­
son was hardly smooth for the 
Braves, however. 
Right-fielder and No. 5 hitter 
David Justice played only 40 
games before a shoulder injury 
ended his season. Pedro 
Borbon, a valuable left-bander 
in middle relief, suffered a sea­
son-ending injury. Avery and 
shortstop Jeff Blauser were 
sidelined for long periods. • 
Atlanta made a flurry of 
moves late in the season ­
trading for Neagle and third 
baseman Terry Pendleton and 
recalling outfield phenom 
Andruw Jones from the minors 
-but their arrivals coincided 
with the worst slump of the 
year. 
The Braves had losing 
streaks of five and six games 
-the lattnr their longest since 
1991 -and saw a 12-game 
lead over Montreal shrink to 
only 4 1/2 games. The bullpen 
was exhausted, the hitting 
slumped, the defense struggled 
and the team appeared to be 
going through the motions at 
times. 
After one especially galling defeat, manager Bobby Cox paced through his office, curs­ing and telling radio reporters to get their microphones out of his face. Chipper Jones lam­. basted his teammates for men­tal letdowns and urged them to 
get in a playoff frame of mind. 
"We want to send a mes­
sage," he said. "We don't want 
to give people the incentive 

Featurin9 dai!Y lunch specials created by ChefAlan Perry 
Lunch specials for September 23 -27 
Monday-Veal Parmigiana with Penne and Garlic Bread $3.95 
Tuesday-Vegetable and Black Bean Enchilada with Frijoles con Charro and Rice $3.95 
Wednesday-Tarragon Grilled Breast ofChicken with Milced Greens and Fruit $3.95 
Thursday-Pork Tenderloin en Brochette with Potato and Green Onion Pancakes $4.95 
Friday-Grilled Swordfish with Cucumber Mint Salsa and Red Beans and Rice, served with a Vegetable $4.95 
Open Monday -Friday 
Serving breakfast from 7:00am -10:30 am and lunch from 11:00 am-2:00pm 
Located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies on Notre Dame Avenue 
Daily specials are also listed in Gopher--To access information: Enter Gopher/Univ_ of ND Information/Administrative Information/ Food Services/Greenfields Specials 
that they can play with us in the postseason." 
In the end, Atlanta turned to those old reliables -the start­ing pitchers -to snap out of its funk. In a stretch of seven games, Maddux and Neagle had complete-game wins, Glavine went eight and 8 2-3 innings to win twice, Smoltz had an eight-inning win and Avery threw 11 shutout innings in his first two starts after coming off the DL. 
"We look a lot more like the Braves of .June and July, when we got great starting pitching and timely hitting," Jones said. "We're doing the little things again." 
Several players did big things. 
Mark Wohlers established himself as one of the game's top closers with xx saves. .Jones shifted from third base to short, put up MVP-like num­bers and was a leader in the clubhouse at age 24. Marquis Grissom kept his average around .300 all year and closed in on 200 hits. Ryan Klesko made .Justice's loss eas­ier to take with a 30-homer season. Fred McGriff drove in more than 100 runs for the fourth time in his career. Rookie Jermaine Dye had dou­ble-figure homers and was hit­ting in the .290s. 
Now, Atlanta will try to become only the second team since 1978 to win back-to-hack World Series titles. 
"It's Braves' time," Jones said confidently. 

Padres deny Noma; close gap in NL West 
By BERNIE WILSON Associated Press Writer 
SAN DIEGO Hold on for an exciting fin­ish in the NL West. 
The San Diego Padres left Hideo Nomo with a disappoint­ing followup to his first no-hit­ter, beating Los Angeles 3-2 Sunday to pull back within one-half game of the first­place Dodgers in the NL West. 
With a week to go, the rivals are exactly where they stood before splitting this four-game series. And they play each other Friday, Saturday and Sunday at Dodger Stadium to close the season. 
"Looking at the way both clubs played this weekend, you kind of figure that that's how it's going to end up, coming down to that last series," Padres batting star Tony Gwynn said. 
"The two games they won, they dominated," Gwynn said. "The two games we won, we had to scrap. But we split the series. I know they put an im­pression on us, I hope we put an impression on them." 
The Padres took a two-game lead in the wild card race when Atlanta beat Montreal 8­2. 
"Still, we want to win the division," Gwynn said, "And we knew this game for us was an important game." 
Dodgers manager Bill Russell said the pressure is still on the Padres. 
''They haven't been able to put us away," Russell said. "We beat them 7-0 and 9-2. I think that says something right there, but a loss is still a loss." 
Gwynn said here-injured his right Achilles' tendon landing on the bag on his fifth-inning 
League of Black Business Students: General meeting TONIGHT at 7:30p.m. in LaFortune's MontgomeiY Theater. All are welcome to attend. Student-Alumni Relations Group: Raffling 2 Ohio State GAs on Wed., Sept. 25 at the esc at 7 p.m. Tickets are 1 for $2 and 3 for $5 and can be purchased at the LaFortune Info Desk and at the Dining Halls. Pre-Professional Society: Attention pre-meds! First meeting Tuesday, Sept. 24 at 6:30p.m. in 283 Galvin. Collecting $5 dues & selling scrubs. Campus Fellowship Weekend: Hear challenging talks and have stim­ulating discussions, enjoy making new friends. WHEN: Fri, Oct. 4 (6:15 
to Sun. Oct. 6 (1:45 p.m.) Call Mark 634 2195 or Kristin 284 5237 info. Awareness/Students With AIDS Training: Important meet­ing discussing AIDS training and semester activities: Wed., Sept. 25 at 
8:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Montgomel]' Theater. Call Klarissa Garza at 
Physical Therapy Club: First meeting Tuesday, Sept. 24 at 7:30p.m.
127 Nieuwland Science Hall. African Students' Association: "Keita: the Heritage of the Griot"-an African film: Wed., Sept. 25 at 7:00p.m. in 102 DeBartolo. $1 donation. "Tropical Africa: the Aftermath of Independence"-a lecture by Prof. Peter Walshe (with college fellows): Sept. 26 at 4:15 in Snite Museum's African Gallei]'. Free. 
Marketing Club Meeting: Wed, the 25th at 6 p.m. -Lower lounge of COBA. Questions? call 1-9130 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see wllat the 
Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
RBI double that helped knock out Noma. Gwynn missed 30 games from July 2-Aug. 6 while on the disabled list with a frayed right Achilles' tendon. 
"It's sore, but there's not that long to go, so I'm going to make it," he said. 
Nomo (16-11) threw the first no-hitter at Coors Field on Tuesday night. But Ken Caminiti ended any suspense with a bloop single to right field with two out in the first inning Sunday. 
Two other Padres who had been shut down by the Dodgers on Saturday con­tributed in the three-run fifth. Gwynn doubled for San Diego's first run, and Steve Finley fol­lowed with a two-run homer, the fourth time in 12 games that he's had a decisive shot. 
The Padres were patient against Noma, who allowed seven hits and three runs, with three strikeouts and three walks. It was his shortest out­ing since also going five innings at Colorado on June 30. 
Facing San Diego for the first time this year, Nomo failed to reach the sixth inning for just the fourth time in 32 starts. 
"Because my (split-finger) fastball wasn't good, I had trouble," Nomo said. 
Johnny Vander Meer remains the only pitcher to throw consecutive no-hitters, doing it for Cincinnati in 1938. 
Rickey Henderson doubled to left with one out in the fifth. Gwynn, who'd been 0-for-10 with two walks since his last hit on Thursday, doubled to right-center. Finley hit a 2-2 pitch into the right-field seats for his career-best 28th homer, and seventh this month. 
Gwynn said the Dodgers had been pitching him away all se­ries, and he waited for an in­side fastball. 
"I put a good swing on it," Gwynn said. "I hadn't done anything since the first game, so it felt really good to con­tribute." 
...... 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monay, September 23, 1996 
few lulls during the game, but on the whole did an impressive job in the absence of the always-reliable Engesser. Freshman Alan Woods was solid in switching from his nat­ural marking-back spot to the sweeper spot vacated by Engesser's loss, and Phil Murphy filled in amply at marking-back. 
"I thought our guys really stepped up today," said Berticelli of the team defensive effort. "The guys in the middle are doing a great job, and Woods made the move to sweeper without any real prob­lem. Alan Woods is one of the most mature 17-year olds I've ever seen." 
"I was nervous (about the change). but I had Gansler back there to help me," said Woods about the positional shift. "We help each other out back there." 
The Irish will be looking to provide support for one anoth­er next against always-danger­ous Indiana University next Friday night, as the team trav­els to Bloomington with the hopes of avenging last year's 4­2 overtime loss. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
unable to finish their chances, the most painful of which came when defender Peter Gansler had his shot cleared off the goal line by a Connecticut defender. The second overtime period saw Irish forward Ben Bocklage get a few prime chances. but Chavlovich and the Huskies were able to hold on for the tie. 
"''m extremely proud of my team," said Berticelli following the game, which saw the Irish outshoot the Huskies by a 26­17 overall margin. "We missed a few opportunities, caught a few bad breaks, but that's soc­cer. It's always disappointing to not get a win when you out­play a team, but I couldn't ask for more effort and more focus from our players." 
That same effort was there for the Irish on Sunday after­noon. and this effort, combined with the emotional edge follow­ing Engesser's injury, was enough to propel the team to their first win in three games. 
The lone goal was tallied early in the game, and came when Bocklage fed Capasso the ball in front of the far left post. Capasso knocked in Bocklage's service with ease at the 6:15 mark, and the Irish defense once again put the clamps on their opponent for the remain­der of the game. 
"It was a great play by 
Bocklage on the outside," said 
Capasso of his team-leading 
third goal. "He beat a couple 
of guys on the top of the box, 
meshed in a good cross into the 
back post, and it was just easy 
pickings for me." 
The Irish defense did have a Linnea did a good job of open­kills. One of them put Harris ing things up and I think this over 1,000 kills for her career,

V-ball 

was the best attacking game moving her into 7th all time Colleen has played." behind Alicia Turner's 1162.
continued from page 20 

The Irish must know how it Leffers and 6-5 Jennifer feels to lose a match that could House got into the fun with 14 
ever they got the serve. 

have gone either way, which and 10 kills a piece. Against
Sophomore walk-on Audra 

helped them keep things in per­Purdue, Harris also picked upDuda stepped in and picked up spective. ten aces and Jaimie Lee gath­the 14th point for the Irish be­Treadwell expressed, "We ered 97 assists. 
fore the thrilling match ended feel good about the fact that we "Harris is obviously a veryin less than dramatic form on came back and won. It was a good player," Brown com­

a service error by the 

pick-me-up for the team, but mented. "The fact that she has Wolverines, 15-10. 
we have to realize that early in overcome her injury and herOne glaring stat on the score the match we didn't play well return is pretty remarkable.
sheet is that the Wolverine's at all." She is a great team player and Ihitting percentage was .250. 

In the Michigan match, four am glad she is on our team."
Before that match the Irish had 

Irish players gathered double The Irish will next be in
averaged yielding just a .134 

digits in kills. Harris lead the action on October 1 against Ball hitting percentage. 
way with 16, while Jenny State at the Joyce. Brown hasSome of that can be due to Birkner had 12, Leffers 11, and seen her squad play some goodthe play of the setter Mendoza Irvin 10. teams and have had some
and outside hitter Colleen Tll,e Irish came home after weaknesses exposed. So the

Miniuk. Mendoza racked up 65 that emotional match to knock Irish will hope to return withassists while Miniuk had match off the Purdue Boilermakers on those weaknesses a littlehighs in both kills with 24 and Saturday at the Joyce Center, stronger and possibly with in­digs with 23. 

15-10, 15-12, 15-7. jured setter Carey May, whoGiovanazzi raved about their Angie Harris lead the way of­has yet to see action this sea­performance, "Colleen was hit­fensively as she racked up 15 son.
ting shots they hadn't seen. 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

The Irish drew strength from a tough win over the Wolverines to trounce Purdue on Saturday. 
. ,. 
Finance Club 
Career Night 
ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen Consulting ~h 
dersen & Co. 
AT&T Bank of America Baxter Healthcare ~CownAing Group Cambridge Technology Group Cargill, Inci:iA~ C.W. Costello & Assoc. Dain Bosworth Dean Witter ReynolhJ rs h~o NBD Ford Motor Company General Electric GE apitalmu e a Mills General Reinsurance Corp. J.D. Edwards eft, · [ynch Merrill Lynch Investment Banking 
Merrill Lynch ivY: 1ent Group Moosbrugger Marketing Research Mutual of Omaha IPSCO Northwestern Mutual Life Oak Brook Bank 
• ~ ",-i" .•

Olde Discount Stockbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble / _, ..... Prudential Securities Staff Management The Summit Group 
Sophomores -Juniors -Seniors All Majors 
Tuesday Evening, September 24 7:00 p.m. Atrium College of Business Building 
~ 

l 
Monday, Scptc:mhcr 23, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 I 
I 
MIXED MEDIA 
JACK OHMAN 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 


NO, TI-\~T WOULDN'T WE'RE GOING iO H~VE. LOOI<. MANAGEI\LY ... f..N ''IRON Mf..N'' TEf..M­I'LL HAVE. 10 DO SOME­BUILDING COI'\PE.TITION. THING IDIOTIC AND 
WH f.. T f.. BUNCH
HOPE IT LOOKS LIKE OF LE.ADE.P.SHtP...
LEADERSHIP. 
53 Lotion ingredient 
54 1971 Clint Eastwood action film 
60 What fans do 61 Make happy 62 Part of a sound 
stage 63 British princess 64 Keep (from 
doing) 65 Latest news 
DOWN 
1 Cone bearer 2 "Skip to My--" 3 "-My Party" 4 Frisk, with 
"down" 5 Choir members 6 "--Daughter" 7 "Garfield" dog a Kuwaiti export 9Annoyed 
to Much-kicked body part 

t 1 Bluesman who 30Arouse 47 Beauty shop 55 Paris's --desang "I've Got 
3t Expects Ia Cite
My Mojo 49 Singer
33 Acknowledged Midler 56 Concert prop Working" expert 
57--dela
12 Girl-watched 51 Hall-of-Famer
35 Forum robes 
13 Active ones Maravich Plata
36 Low cards 
18 Sign at merging 58 30's-40's film 
38 Sent back to a 52 Where boys 
traffic studio
lower court will be 22 Tax org. 
42 Fide's restraint boys 59 "Uh-huh" 23 Sen. Helms 
44 Lyric poem 24 Word before 
45 Supreme Court city or most Justice Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
25 Not even a appointed in are available by touch-tone phone: half-star 1994 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). restaurant 
48 Maureen of Annual subscriptions are available for the 26 Pointed beard "Miracle on 34th best of Sunday crosswords from the last 27 Eye color Street" 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
II \I'I'' IIJI{TIII>A Y! IN Tl IVI NE\T Yh\I{ OF YOliR LIFE: 
Yllu c·an ma'c 1h1ngs happen lo1 you prok"ltlllally hy sliarpc11111g )'lllll c'OIIIIIIllllll'iliiOII ''ilk Dc·c·clll­her hriiH.!' an L'Xl'ililll! career u1 
l'inilncial7>ppnnunily. Tl;,n, <:ilrdul 
' ly before .:hanging jobs. the pc·rk' may he lwller 11 ilh )'llUI <:UI'I'Ciil employer. A pannc:rship you lorm early in I'!97 c·ould IH>o\1 ~our Income. Be sure to give !hi., nc'll arraiH!t!llll"lll enough time. RomantiC
I 

lies ~,·ill he s1re~1gthened b) !he 
I evenls of next spring. Make a spe­cial effon to win over your mate's family. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: tenor Julio lglc.\las. pianist Ray Charle,, actres\ Mary Kay Place. sculptor Louise Newl,on. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Spend some lillie reviewing your re­cenl choices. Nell' options will ap· pear once you discard old worries. Family members offer excellent ad­vice. ()pen your heart to a 'indred spirit. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Self-help bonks pul you in a positive frame of mind. See' the ~uppo11 of intluenlial people. Overseas hu,i­ness mailers re4uire careful atten­tion. Consult accountanls or lawyers 1 f necessary. GEMt'Nl !~lay 21-June 201: Love on 1he rehound can be haz­ardous. Trust your instincts. Learn more about a pro,pcc:live your mate or partner's philosophy of l1fe. Long-distance travel is best po~t­poned while you take <:are of husi­ness at home. CANCER (June 21-July 22 ): Putting more time inlo a major projecl will make it a hig success. New fi­nancial gains are featured. TIUsl your vast experience. N1111ure !he hOJ'IC' of Ihe young and inexperienced. LEO Uull 23-Au£. 221: Past di'­appointmentS will he... forgonen ont..·c 
~Oll ~XIK'I'tl'llll' 'tllll''" Sl't/l' till 
opp"rlllllll) lo hc'lll'l ll>llr,cll (io 
hac~ Ill ~l'hou\tll 1..'1\1'11\\ Ill ClltllplllCI 
~:la..,,L',, 
\'II{(;() 1Aug. 2.1 Sep1 ~~1: A I'L'L'e/11 profc~"ional triumph h.t~ you 111 line fellle. CrcaiiH' 1dea.., arL' l"a~l· er lo explain. lnll''ll)!ale c'll il 'L'I· \"Icc employment. .-\ do'L' relatlt m ...lup h a \ourct.· of uhplraiHlll 
I.IBRA !Scpl 21-0ct 221 Allen110n to deiail 1' L'"elllial 101 linancial or career 'liC<.'l''' You may feel lhat you are 'P1nn1n!,! your whcds. Do not freL more is happc·n· ing than you realize. 
SCORPIO (ll<:t. D-Nov. 211: 
Your thought procc..,,c, work non­
stop ioday. Foul\ on !he importalll and forget about 1he tri1 1al. (iucsls alway> apprecialc' your generous hospiiallly. Curb a tc•ndc1H:y 10 overindulge in food 111 drink. 
SAGITTARlliS !Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A friend or former lover needs assi~tance during a m1nnr cri~is. Help if you can. htll a1 o1d exhausl­ing your rc...ourcc'. Bu.,.ine'' a"i,nc.:l­ates are imprc~sed hy ) our ~al'l·y and charm. 
CAJ>JHCORN !Ike:. 22-Jan. 19): Family mcmhcr' offe1 financml advice !hat make~ 'ensc. A ~pecial outin~ with a favorite duld will he a 1reat 'for both of vou. Your nu11e want~ to share a r~mwntic evening for two. 
AQUARIUS !Jan. 20-Feh. Ill): Tr) nnl lo focus exclu~ively on money 1oday. Intangible rewards lake on deeper meaning. Domestic acti1·ities occupy your evening hours. Cooking can he therapeutic, especially after a stressful day. 
PISCES (Fch. 19-March 20): New fringe bencfi1s arc likely at work. Stock options. insurance hcn­cfils or even a ta\ break could be involwd. Colleague' offe1 you tech­nical help. Team elfml 11ill hoosl prrk..lucti\'ity anJ prufll,. 
• OF INTEREST 
Art Auction: Park West Gallery will hold a fire art auction today at 6 p.m. at Morris Park Country, locat· ed at 2200 McKinley Ave. in South Bend. 
Information Meeting for Study Abroad: There will be an information meeting on Notre Dame Australia hosted by Professor Mike Etzel on Monday at 4:30p.m. in 126 DeBartolo. 
Lithuanian Club Meeting: The Lithuanian Club willmeet at 8 p.m. in the Dooley Room in LaFortune tonight. All are welcome. Orders will b(l taken for Lithuanian Olympic t-shirts. 
Election Lecture: "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good: Issues in the Media" will be the topic for a lecture-discussion led by Professors Gary Sieber and Jack Powers. It will take place Monday from 4 to 5 p.m. in the auditorium of the CCE­
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Oriental Vegetabl(lS  Beef Fajitas  
Pasta alla Carbonara  Cheese Ravioli  
Spicy Grilled Chicken  Baked Redfish  
Saint Mary's  
BBQ Boneless Pork Rib  
Creamy Seafood Fettuccine  

Southern Chicken and Dumplings 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

WANTED: District 4 Senator Who is elieible? Any sophomore, junior or senior in P.E., P.W., Knott, Siegfried, Flanner, B.P., or Farley Interested? Sign up in the Student Government office by 5 p.m. today and pick up a petition. Petitions are due by 10 p.m. Tuesday.e For more info, contact Jen Dividio at 1-4553. 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Gymnast's move 5 Part of a regiment 10 Air pollution 14 Letter after theta 15 Singer Gorme 18 "Les Miserables" author 17 Scotch and Drambuie drinks t9 Not in use , 20 Actress Skye 21 Fire starter 23 Bartenders' measures 27 Not him 28 N.F.L. gains 29 Signs up 30 Poland's capital 32 Three-time 
P.G.A. winner Sam 33 Labyrinth 34 Bulb unit 37 Pants part 38 Cleared leaves 39 Ending with origin 40Gaelic 41 Daredevil Knievel 42 Vassal 43 Petty officers 45 Act traitorous to 46C.I.A. forerunner 48 Rather of CBS 49 Euphoniums and tubas 50 Occur 
52 Attorney's income 
.. 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, September 23, 1996 
• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish keep pace in Big East 
Victories over Michigan, Purdue boost confidence 
Loss ofEngesser puts damper on 
weekend 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assisranr Sports Editor 

It was a weekend which saw a little bit of everything for the -Notre Dame men's soccer team. A win, a loss, and a tie, but not exactly in that order, found the Irish this weekend, and some­how, through it all, they man­aged to remain unbeaten in Big East play. The Irish tied Connecticut 1-1 Friday night, and beat Seton Hall 1-0 on a beautiful Sunday afternoon, but lost something very important in between. Senior tri-captain and defen­sive anchor Brian Engesser went down following a hard tackle just a little over 20 min­utes into the Seton Hall match, and it didn't take long to realize that he wouldn't be getting back up; at least not by his own power. 
• VO!..LEYBALL 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team, unbeaten in their last fifty matches against unranked squads, figured to have a nice weekend as 
the Irish tan-
,----::: 
gled with BigTen foes Michigan and 
Purdue, both unranked. 
N o t r e Dame came out of the weekend 
Harris
with two more marks in the win column pushing their record to 8-3, but the Wolverines gave everythingthey could handle on Friday night in a five set thriller. 
Michigan's talent is evident despite their losing record. UM has perhaps played a tougher schedule than the Irish, if that is possible. They played in the very competitive Hawaiian Invitational which included the top ranked Rainbows. So, Greg Giovanazzi's squad looked to seize the opportunity at their home court with their pep band and fans behind them 100%. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell commented on playing in the small but very loud Cliff Keen Arena. 
"Actually, playing there was kind of tough, we were trying to keep it spirited, the bench, but it was hard because every time they would have a big plar, the crowd would get into it, ' she offered. 
Senior Kristina Irvin spoke about both sides of playin~ in that type of atmosphere. 'We 

"' 
Engesser, who has started in eight games this season, the 5-''I'm really pleased with what 71 of the 72 games he has been 1-2 and 15th ranked Irish have we're doing defensively," said at Notre Dame since his fresh­allowed just four goals, a stark Berticelli. "I think that has to man year, broke· his leg, thus spelling the end to a brilliant career and opening a large void in the Irish lineup. 
"Right now, my first concern is that Brian is doing OK," said a concerned Mike Berticelli fol­lowing the game. "Of course it's a blow; you lose one of your captains and your most experienced and talented defend­er. But I think we hung in there, and we didn't give up a goal." 
The dominant defense continued to be the story for the 

new-look Irish, sur-S . . . . E . f h · h b k
rendering just a first-en1or tn-capta1n Bnan ngesser IS 1ost or t e year w1t a ro en leg. half goal to the Huskies, who contrast to last season, when become our focus for the sea­entered Friday night's match the team stood at 4-4 and had son. If you don't give up goals, ranked 25th in the given up 16 goals through their you don't lose games." NSCAA/Umbro poll. Through first eight games. The weekend got off to a 
· couldn't hear each other very well. However, when there is that much support in a small area with lots of noise it is a fiery atmosphere and that tends to fire up the court atmosphere. It was fun to play there." The Irish fell behind early in game one, 0-3, but they came hack to pull ahead 13-6. Junior Angie Harris sparked the ND offense as she pulled off a hat trick of aces when things were knotted up at four a piece. However, the Wolverines re­fused to give in to the Irish as they made ND earn the game by the score of 15-10. "I thought Michigan played very, very well, they put a lot of pressure on us," head coach Debbie Brown commented. "I think they did a really good job of siding out." The hosts were certainly not gracious in games two and three as they jumped out to early leads and did not let Brown's squad get comfortable. Michigan's Sarah Jackson scored a career high six aces which helped to disrupt the Irish offense. The Wolverines held on to win game two 15-8 and they dominated much of the action in the all important third game 15-5 to take a 2-1 lead. Sets two and three were the first Brown's squad has dropped to an unranked team this year. Greg Giovanazzi discussed the play of his team. "I was really pleased with how we played. We were really taking care of the match. Linnea (Mendoza) set as good a match as I have seen her set, she kept a really good block off­balance." Michigan had all of the mo-


vs. Ohio State, ~ September 28, 1:30 p.m. 

Notre Dame Invitational Q) •Beuerlein leads Carolina over the 49ers 
~ October 4 
vs. Marquette, see page 16 
September 27, 7:30p.m. 
--=
(•'
~ 

vs. Ball State •• •NL divisional races heat up
~ 

October 1, 7 p.m. see page 17 September 27, 7:30p.m. 
at Indiana 
(.., 
~ 
~ 
mentum and had the Irish on the ropes in game four with a 4-0 lead before Brown called a time out that might have been the turning point in the match. 
"She just told us to calm down, pull together as a team and listen to each other to get the match done," explained Treadwell. 
MU and ND battled and fought to a twelve all score before Treadwell picked up a big ace to push the score to 13­
12. The Irish then forced game five as captain Jenny Birkner served the game out at 15-12. 
The forces of momentum had changed and Irvin helped her squad get a quick lead in the deciding game. The quick start is practically essential in a rally score format as every rally ends with one team getting a step closer to victory. 
"They kept us out of our sys­tem, we usually pass better," Brown elaborated. "I think that Michigan was a little tentative in game five and it can be key to get off to a good start. We felt like we need real points,points that we win on our serve, and to start off with four real points was a real confi­dence boost." 
However the coach did not feel like game four was the deciding game as she felt that her squad was in serious trou­ble. 
"I did not have the confidence that once we won the fourth that the fifth would come," Brown said. "I felt like they had us going into the fifth game." 
On the opposite spectrum, Irish freshman Mary Leffers had a feeling that her squad was going to come out on top. 

"I think all along we knew we realized that." were going to win, it was just a Once the Irish got that lead in matter of how long it was going the deciding set they were not to take us. Coach Brown said about to lose it as they contin­that unranked teams would ued to side out Michigan when-play the match of their life or their year against ranked op­
see V-BALL I page 18ponents. And, I don't think we 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

See Tuesday's Observer for details about NO's Big East wins. 
rough start for the Irish against the tough Huskies, who capital­ized on one of several good scoring chances about midway through the first half, when midfielder Mauricio Rocha bounced a ball by Irish goal­keeper Greg Velho off a direct kick. 
The chances seemed to come by the handful for the Irish. who finally were able to get the equalizer at the 61:54 mark, when midfielder Chris Mathis knocked in a sideways header following a long pass from the then-healthy Engesser. 
The Irish seemed on the verge of victory when tri-cap­tain Tony Capasso was award­ed a penalty kick with just 
10:48 remaining in the game. Capasso's attempt was knocked away by Husky goalie Matt Chavlovich, however, and the score remained knotted at 1-1 throughout the remainder of regulation play. 
The Irish dominated the opening ten minutes of the first overtime period, but were 
see SOCCER I page18 





