
Monday, February 5, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 82 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Newton: Sexuality often ignored in campus life 
By MATrl lEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Sexuality is as important lo human life as is spirituality, yet it is rwvn r st~ rio us ly talked about at Catholic institution sudt as the University of Notre Danw. This was the view pro­posed hy Father Steplum New­ton in a lneture sponsored by Notrn l>arnn Encounter in the Log Chapel yesterday. 
"Oftmt we keep our sexuality apart," said Nnwton, "we see it as had and deny that it is part of our lives. We do this lweausn it has become part of the Christian culture to view snxuality as an unacceptable part of life for singln pnopln." 
Newton proposed that, "Morality is an ideal. Falling short of it is not sin, but think­ing ourselves unacceptable to c;od because of our shortcom­ings is a sin." In this theory, he indicates that people should fo­e us morn on who they are rather than who they are sup­posed to be. 
"I lorwsty is tlw first crucial thing about sr.xuality, " Newton said, "If WP can get beyond the shanw and rnalize that we are not had, hut that wn arn made in tiH' likt~nnss of c;od and that sexuality is part of that, wn will 1~0 m n dosP r to th n ideal of morality." 
"IL is pt~q>lt'xing that the sub­jf't:t is so taboo lat the Uni­versity! wlwn st~XtHtlity is evi­dP nt in ~~~cit st:~i ptu r~ 1.. pa~­
sages as Song of Songs , s<ud Patrick BarrPdo, the NDE rPprestmtal.ivn and a first year Master of Divinity stmltmt. 
In tlw discussion, isstws sueh as eo-residentiality, parietals, and homosexuality were raised. "Although the policy of parietals is officially used to provide each dorm with its own snnse of privacy, " said Newton, "it seems to be an attempt sim­ply to reinforce the idea that all male-female relations are of a sexual natum." 
"If the policy promotes pri­vacy," one student argued, "how can we have guys from other dorms over and stay up until four in the morning anyway? Its not really quiet then either." 
Another student argued against the policy of single-sex dorms. I le indicated that the eo-residential environment of the Notre Damn London pro­gram opnned his eyes to the feasibility of men and women living together. "You could have people over for a movie and not have to be looking at your watch and wondering if you could fit it in before a cer­tain time," he said. 
Newton also addressed homosexuality. "No one has all the answers yet on what causes homosexuality, so no one can say for certain how it can be ineluded in the Christian view of snxuality." 
lie also emphasized the im­portance of finding a eomfort­ahle environment to discuss sexuality. "In our willingness to see the spiritual," Newton said, "we must include the sex­ual in order to bring ourselves doser to God, and thus closer to the ideal of morality." 
Newton is a Holy Cross priest, the rector of Sorin llall, and the diredor of Life Treat­ment Centnrs in South Bend. 

The Observer/Angela Addington 
Late night jam 
Students participate in the Slam Dunk Contest in last weekend's Late Night Olympics, sponsored by RecSports. Students competed in 18 events to raise money for the Special Olympics. 



Event attacks hidden problem Peace-keeping mission 
By MEGAN McGRATH 

claims first U.S. casualty 
N<w> Writer 

National Eating Disoriers 
By JAMES HANNAH 
[=.J Bosnian government· D Serbs
To addmss tlw growing proh­

Associated Press 
Croat federation

Jlt AwarenessWeek vC
lPm of naling disordPrs among 
its studtmts, Notro Dame and 
LAKEVIEW, Ohio 

Saint Mary's are sponsoring 
Monday, February 5 
The television in the dimly lit 
:::.;:

snvt~ral events in conjunction 
room carried repeated reports
10:15 a.m. "Dying to be Thin" Montgomery
with National J~ating Disorders 
Sunday of the death of Sgt. 1st
1:15 p.m. (Multiple showings). Theater ··••
Awarmwss Wt~Pk. 
Class Donald A. Dugan, the first
3p.m.
According to tlw Paling disor­


U.S. soldier to die on peace­
5:45p.m.

dnrs task force of Notro Dame's 
keeping duty in Bosnia. 
9 a.m.-5 p.m. Same movie atSMC
Univnrsity Counstlling Center, 

"He was a good person. lie 
tlw wet~k will highlight con­

was strong, strong-headed,"
'fuesday, February 6 
et~rns, including tlw large nurn­
said his ex-wife, Betty Dugan,
lwr of young wornnn suffering 
sitting on a couch in the family
9:45-10:45 a.m. Anonymous Screening ND Counseling Center 
from disonkrs and the "enor­
room with their two childmn.
7-8 p.m. Second Sreening 
mous amount of shame and 

"lle was a good father. lie
12:15-1 :15 p.m. Anonymous Screening SMC Counseling and 
n~luetancn" involved in coming 

was a good husband."
3-4 p.m. Second Sreening · Career Development 
AP
forward with a problem. 

"I don't understand why my
3-6 p.m. Open House NO Women's 
Hamstein Air Base in Germany

Additionally, the nvPnts sehed­
father is dead, because he was
Resource Center 
on Sunday. No details were
ulml will odueale studnnts eon­

supposed to be over there keep­
7:30p.m. Lecture by Dr. Jean Kilbourne Carroll Auditorium 
available on when he would be

enrned about tlwir lwhavior or 
ing peace," said 19-year-old 
returned to the United States,
the behavior of SOnHHllle dose 

Lisa Dugan. "I would like Bill
Wednesday, February 7 
said Army spokesman Klaus
to thom. 

Clinton to explain that to me." 
Praesent.
Events start today with the 

Her 15-year-old brotlwr,
7p.m. Lecture "Healthy Eatin~ for 218 Rockne 
Earlier Sunday, at an air

showing of the vidtw, "Dying to 
Donald, recalled l'ishing trips
Students. anq Athletes' 
base at the Bosnian town of

lw Thin." Tlw 30-minute video 
with his father. 
by Dr. Becky Cook 
Tuzla, two columns of soldiers

will lw playing in Notrn Dame's 
Dugan, 38, of nearby Belle 
stood at attention bllf'ore U.S.

Montgomery Tlwalnr, on the 
Center, was killed Saturday in
Thursday, Febroary 8/ !" 
and NATO flags as Dugan's

first floor of LaFortune, at 
northern Bosnia when he ap­
casket was loaded onto a plane.
10: I!i a.m., 1:1 !i p.m., 3 p.m., 

6p.m. Lecture "How to Help aFriend Stapleton Lounge, 
parently stepped on a land 
lie had been in the Army

and !i:4!i p.m. It will be show­
with an Eating Problem" .LeMans HaU 
mine. 
since 1978.

by students Ann Potter and nv · · 
ing continuously hotween <J 
lie was the ninth alliance sol­
Dugan's current wife, Mimi,

a.m. and !i p.m. in the LeMans 
Emily Anderson *¥" · 
dier to die since NATO troops
The Oh!oerverfrommy Roland 
lives in Germany.

lobby at Saint Mary's. 
began entering the Balkans in 
His mother, who lives near
Tuesday, both sehools will 

screening test and a discussion to attend. Screenings take December. More than 40 sol­
Kenton in Hardin County, did
host the National Eating Disor­

of the results with a health care place from 9:45 a.m. to 10:45 diers, three of them Americans, 
not want to talk with rnporters

ders screoning program. The 
professional. Students con­a.m. and 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the have been injured, mostly by 
Sunday. Several relatives had

program features a brief lec­
cerned about their behavior or mines. 
gathered at her horne.

turtl, an anonymous written that of a friend are encouraged see AWARENESS I page 6 Dugan's body arrived at 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, February 5, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Something to think about 
It's not just something 
you hear about on the talk 
shows anymore. It affects 
us and people around us 
every day. Actually, it af­
fects more than five million 
Americans right now, pri­
marily women. It's real. 
Five percent of college­
age females suffer from 
clinically diagnosable 
eating disorders, and 
five times as many have 
significantly disordered eating behaviors and 
weight problems. 
Those are the facts, or so I've encountered 
in recent research. And I've also learned that 
it affects many men, too. 
And it is a big deal because this whole eat­
ing disorder thing is mostly targeting people 
our age. That means people we know, if only 
from theology class or the gym. 
These can be people we see nearly every 
week. And the sad part is that we begin to 
see less and less of them with every week. 
And the line between losing weight and losing 
perspective becomes very hazy. 
It's tough, especially when it's someone we 
know pretty well. And we don't want to over­
step our boundaries and start confronting 
people who would rather us mind our own 
business. Why go and mess up a good friend­
ship? Why pry? But I think there comes a 
point when it's not considered prying any­
more. It's an obligation. 
Because if we don't say something now, the 
repurcussions for our friends could be worse 
later. The effects of this condition are star­
tling. Women can cease to menstruate, which 
will eventually lead to bone fragility and preg­
nancy complications. Their hair will become 
dry and thin. Hell, they seriously might begin 
to grow hair in unusual places. No joke. 
Sometimes their skin turns a pale yellow. Not · a pretty picture. 
But no one considers effects like these. 
They just want to be skinny or in shape. And 
so they starve themselves or overexercise or 
whatever. It's hard to see friends do this to 
themselves. So we shouldn't. In a sense, a 
confrontation is necessary. 
And I'm not claiming that it's an easy thing 
to do It's actually very difficult. Maybe it 
would involve talking to a staff member of 
student affairs to discuss possible support 
options for your friend. You could even prac­
tice approaching your friend with a profes­
sional. 
Or maybe offer to accompany your friend on 
his or her initial visit with a professional. 
Chances are, your friend won't be receptive 
the first or second time. He or she may think 
you're prying. 
But what's it going to be? That person's 
friendship or their life and sanity? Maybe 
that sounds a bit extreme, but sometimes 
that's what it comes down to. 
Today marks the start of Eating Disorders 
Awareness Week. It's a good time to take 
advantage of learning how to deal with some 
of these issues. 
But if you don't attend any of the events 
this week, I think you should at least use this 
week to acknowledge and be grateful for your 
health. It's something a lot of us take for 
granted. 
Really. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TonAv's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Kristi Kolski  Mike O'Hara  
Maureen Hurley  Production  
Sports  Mike Norbut  
Caroline Blum  Lab Tech  
Tim McConn  Mike Hungeling  
Graphics  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of <he Associated Press. All reproduc<ion righ<S are reserved. 

• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
At least 22 dead as Colombian plane crashes into suburbs 
ASUNCION, Paraguay 

A Colombian cargo plane caught fire in the air shortly after takeoff Sunday, killing at least 22 people when it crashed into-houses in a suburban neighborhood, the government said. 
The plane's three-person crew and one passenger died in the crash. All were Colombians. The civil aviation office said firefighters found the air­craft's black box in the smoldering de­bris. 
Among the victims were seven chil­dren, including five brothers, who had been _playing an outdoor volleyball match in the streets of the Juan Sinforiano Bogarin neighborhood, 2 1/2 miles northwest of the airport and 9 miles north of the capital. 
Eyewitness Cesar Rivarola told reporters he saw the aircraft's left turbine catch fire in mid-air before the plane apparently went out of control and crashed. 
"It started spinning in the air, as if it was doing acro­batics, and then fell to the ground nose-first," Rivarola said. 
A couple told television reporters they had left their five children with their grandmother, who had taken them to play volleyball. On returning to look for them, the parents 
Dole stresses Midwestern roots 
SPENCER. Iowa 
Bob Dole worked to strengthen his vaunted campaign organization Sunday, aiming to "remind voters why they liked Bob Dole in the first place." With the GOP presidential race tightening just a week before Iowa's precinct caucuses, Dole was banking on his long ties to the state. To connect with party activists ­the most likely participants in the Feb. 

12 caucuses -Dole stressed his Midwestern roots. That theme worked well when he won the precinct caucuses in 1988. "I think we grew up with a common set of val­ues," the Kansas senator said. "We haven't forgotten that." Dole told activists he longed for "the America of our youth," and "the America we risked our lives to pro­tect." Dole aide Mari Massing Will said Dole is seeking to connect with voters on a personal level. "It's a very important connection," she said."It's an emotional con­nection. All the candidates sound very similar on the issues." 
'Honeymooners' legend dies 
LOS ANGELES 
Audrey Meadows, who as Alice on the 1950s comedy "The Honeymooners" played one of television's strongest, most spirited wives, died Saturday of cancer, a spokeswoman said Sunday. She was 71. She had kept her illness a secret, even from her sister Jayne Meadows, until newspapers learned of her hospitalization early this year. "She was so full of life just a month ago," Jayne Meadows, who co-stars on the CBS' series "High Society" and is married to entertainer Steve Allen, told Daily Vari­ety in February. Audrey Meadows starred with Jackie Gleason as lovebirds and sparring partners Ralph and Alice Kramden in "The Honeymooners." Meadows held her own against the bigger-than-life Gleason and his blustering bus driver. "To the moon, Alice!" was Ralph's oft-heard cry, an unfulfilled threat to deliver a shot ­"Pow!" -to the kisser. Alice was unfazed, and many shows ended with hugs and Ralph's admission, "Baby, you're the greatest." A "Honeymooners" memoir written by Meadows, entitled "Love, Alice," was published in 1994. 


Monday, Feb. 5 AccuWeather"' forecast for !\aytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 5. 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
ltndianapoli3 26" I 
FRONTS: 
~ ........._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Q 1996 AccuWeattler, lnc. 

Pressure ~ ~ 
H L EB~ITII 0GS3§~ LJ.U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

VIa Assoclaled PTSBS 
Atlanta  37  
Baltimore  25  
Boston  17  
Chicago  23  
Columbus  26  



found all six were dead. 
The plane, which was not carrying any cargo, crashed into seven houses and burst into flames, destroying the build­ings. Light rain was helping to douse the fires, rescue workers said. 
Parents began a desperate search for children who· had been playing in the streets of the middle-class neighborhood. Firefighters searched for other victims among the debris. 
Television footage showed several peo­ple raking through the debris. One man was seen stealing part of the plane's tur­bine. 
The DC-8 F55, belonging to the Linea Aerea del Caribe, took off from the South American city's international airport about 2:30 p.m. local time. said 
-Artemio Nunes, director of the Interior Ministry's National Emergencies Committee. 
Officials said the plane was en route to Miami via the Brazilian airport of Campinas, near the city of Sao Paulo. It had arrived in Asuncion earlier in the day from Miami via Barranquilla, Colombia. 
The plane had brought an unidentified cargo which was being held at Asuncion airport's customs offices. 
Rabin assassin not 'typical student' 
JERUSALEM 

Under threat of suspended funding, a university presi­dent protested Sunday that a simple oversight led the school to release a fund-raising brochure that depicted Yitzhak Rabin's assassin as one of its typical students. Produced before the assassination, Bar Ilan University's brochure shows a photograph of Yigal Amir, head down and poring over a text. The unidentified photograph ap­pears a dozen times in the brochure, distributed Jan. 21 at a $500-a-plate dinner in New York City. A former law and religion student at the university, Amir has confessed to shooting the prime minister after a November peace rally in Tel Aviv. University president Moshe Kaveh said he was "embarrassed and angry" by Amir's appearance in the pamphlet. Kaveh called it "an egregious error of oversight, not an act of intent or malice." After weekend reports in Israeli media on the brochure, Education Min­ister Amnon Rubenstein said he would demand that the university take action against the brochure's creators. "I am determined to make sure this will never happen again," Kaveh said. 
Teen shot following car chase 
INDIANAPOLIS 

A 15-year-old was shot and critically wounded by a 
Marion County Sheriffs deputy after police say he led 
them on a chase in a stolen, unmarked Indiana State 
Police squad car. About 2 a.m. Sunday, the 15-year-old 
and a 16-year-old female passenger were seen travelling 
in the stolen car on this city's north side. Police said the 
squad car -which was stolen Friday night -was being 
followed by another stolen car being driven by a juvenile. 
A chase began with deputies following the two vehicles at 
speeds of more than 110 mph. Police said the driver of 
the stolen squad car fired shots at them during the chase 
from a handgun he found inside the vehicle. The chase 
ended when the teen-ager driving the stolen squad car 
crashed on the south side of Indianapolis. Officer Mike 
Hoak said after the wreck the occupants exited the vehi­
cle, and the boy put a gun to the girl's head. "Just as she 
was able to back away from him he started to move the 
gun toward one of the officers, and the officer fired one 
round from his gun," Hoak said. The 15-year-old boy 
faces theft and attempted murder charges. 
8 Dallas 50 16 New Orleans 46 20 3 Denver 59 24 New York 20 6 -2 Los Angeles 68 57 Philadelphia 22 -1 -1 Mill<lli 62 39 Phoenix 76 48 -4 Minneapolis 13 -6 St. Louis 35 13 


-------------------------~------------------------­
sign up at the Campus Ministry office in Hesburgh Library by Wed, February 7th at 5 PM 
any questions? call the Campus Ministry Office at 631-7800. 


Monday, February 5, 1996 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Multicultural Invitation 

Saturday night's Hallelujah Night Ill featured multicultural songs, poetry and expressive dance. 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, February 9 (4PM) through dinner, Saturday, February I 0 
Ironwood Circle 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 

273·8986 

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
Students are encouraged to submit VHS-formatted videos for our annual film fest benefitting 


St. Hedwig's Outreach Center 
Films ore asked to be under 10 minutes Any topic or style allowed. 
AWARDS AND CASH PRIZES GIVEN 

Films will be accepted until Mo~ch 25 in room 205 of Morrissey Hall. 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



SMC offers self-defense course 
By KIMM MICHALIK 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's College will hold a self-defense training session from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. tonight as a part of Women's Week. The cost is $2 at the door of the Angela Athletic Facility, with proceeds benefiting Saint Mar­garet's House. 
The session is open to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students wanting to learn some 
Director of libraries to retire 
Special to The Observer 

Robert C. Miller, director of libraries at the University of Notre Dame since 1978, announced he will retire with the title director emeritus as soon as a successor is found. 
"The heart of a great university is its library, and under Bob Miller's direction, Notre Dame's library has improved significantly over the years," said Tim O'Meara, University provost, on Miller's retirement. 
"Bob has been a tireless advocate for the library, never afraid to acknowledge its short­comings and always prepared to work with plans to improve it. The result of his advocacy has laid the groundwork for a vastly strengthened University library system in the future," he said. 
During his tenure at Notre Dame, Miller reorga­nized and expanded the development initiatives self-defense techniques. The instructor in charge teaches a half-credit self-defense course at Saint Mary's College. 
Although the only reports of crime at Saint Mary's since 1992 have been one robbery and seven burglaries, the Col­lege stresses the need to rec­ognize the importance to pre­pare and protect individuals in a dangerous situation. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Anne 
of the libraries' collection and introduced an inte­grated library system and other technology, such as on-line database searching, CD-HOMs, and widespread staff use of desktop computers to the libraries. He involved the libraries in a variety of local, state and national cooperative programs and established a preservation program with re­gional and national outreach capabilities. 
He also acquired, on the libraries' behalf, a number of nationally and internationally signifi­cant collections, among them the Astrik L. Gabriel Collection of Early Printed Books, the Herbert Marshall Archives, and the renowned Durand Collection of rare books and manuscripts. 
His leadership resulted in the organization of a library advancement program, including grant­seeking initiatives. Over his tenure, the budget increased by over 400 percent, and the endow­ment fund balances more than quadrupled. 
Werring said, "I generally don't feel threatened at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, but I would feel better if I knew what to do in case I was confronted by a stranger." 
The session will cover self de­fense techniques necessary for self protection. Campus offi­cials state that any student in­terested in protecting them­selves should stop by to gain valuable information. 
page 4 The Observer· GOP NOMINATION NEWS Monday, February 5, 1996 
Latest polls find Forbes, Rivals fight Forbes' piggy bank 
By JOHN KING


Dole with soft support 
Associated Press 

Campaign spending limits
By MIKE MOKRZYCKI in striking distance of Dole. 
Associated Press Only 38 percent of Forbes's WASHINGTON
Publishing magnate Steve Forbes topped a New Hampshire poll for the
supporters said they definitely As if the polls showing Steve
second time this week and widened the gulf between himself and Senate
NEW YORK would vote for him, while 28 Forbes pulling even or ahead in
Majority Leader Bob Dole.

Surging Steve Forbes's sup­percent said they might change port is just as soft as Bob their mind. Of Dole's support­
Results of N.H. poll*
Dole's, according to national ers, 47 percent said they defi­
Forbes 31%
and New Hampshire polls that nitely would vote for him, 21 highlight the volatility of the percent said they might change 
Dole 22 Republican presidential race as their mind. Buchanan 11 the first votes are about to be Texas Sen. Phil Gramm Alexander 9 cast. lagged with 5 percent and Indi­Gramm 7 A Time-CNN poll released ana Sen. Dick Lugar with 4 Lugar 3 Sunday found Dole still far percent in the poll conducted 
Taylor 1 ahead but Forbes gaining, with Tuesday through Thursday by Forbes 
Keyes 1
much of his new support com­Mason-Dixon Political-Media 
Dornan less than 1
ing from former Dole backers Research of Columbia, Md. The 
*The poll, conducted by the Boston Globe and
and previously undecided vot­error margin for the overall 
WBZ·TV, has a margin of error of plus or minus
ers. sample was plus or minus 5 
5 percentage points.

Dole, the Senate majority percentage points. leader, had 47 percent in the Most other recent New 
Most presidential candidates accept taxpayer-backed matching funds tor their campaigns. As part of that process, the Federal Election Commission maintains 
spending ceilings. 
Steve Forbes, whose wealth is estimated in the hundreds of millions. opted not to accept the matching funds, so the 
spending ceilings don't apply to him. 

National limit If a candidate wants to air a commercial in more than one state, new poll, compared with 45 Hampshire polls also have he can have the cost counted toward the national limit instead percent in a similar survey in found Forbes at least tied with At least $36 million of the state limit November. Forbes, a multimil­Dole. Dole's support in the new lionaire publisher, had 17 per­Concord Monitor poll fell 14 State limits Vary, based on population. cent, up from 4 percent three percentage points since a simi­r7 
• The lowest: $601,200 \_)The highest: Calif. $10,943,283
months earlier. Thirteen per­lar poll two weeks ago. 
New Hampshire aren't worri­some enough to Bob Dole, con­sider this scoreboard: Forbes 516, Dole 71. 
The figures aren't from any poll, or preference ballot at a GOP event. But they are trou­bling nonetheless, representing the number of Forbes and Dole ads that appeared the week be­fore last on Boston television ­the most important way of reaching voters in New Hamp­shire's Feb. 20 political pri­mary. 
For the other Republican can­didates, the Forbes edge is even more lopsided.lt is an advan­tage that the other campaigns have no way of overcoming as they scramble for a way to derail Forbes; by using his own personal fortune to pay for his 
cent were undecided, down Dole has seen his once-formi­
Maine campaign, the multimillionaire from 23 percent in November. dable lead evaporate recently N.H. publishing heir can ignore the 
Thirty-six percent of Forbes in states with early 1996 presi­Vt. spending limits imposed on supporters and 31 percent of dential contests as Forbes other candidates. Dole backers said they "could pumps millions of dollars from "If his name was Forbes Mal­easily support someone else" his personal fortune into televi­colm, he wouldn't be a serious as the campaign goes on. The sion attack ads in those states. candidate for mayor of a city in first GOP delegates will be cho­Forbes has done little nation­New Jersey," former Tennessee sen Tuesday in Louisiana cau­al advertising, however, and Gov. Lamar Alexander com­cuses. nationally, 41 percent of voters plained last week. 
In New Hampshire, a poll of in the Time-CNN poll said they 447 likely voters in the Feb. 20 still don't know enough about As of last week, Forbes' was leadoff primary found 26 per­him to give him a favorability spending on New Hampshire cent supporting Forbes and 22 rating. Seventy percent rated and Boston TV at a rate that percent backing Dole -a sta­Dole favorably. suggests the average New tistical tie -and 16 percent The telephone poll of 1,117 Hampshire resident would have still undecided. Republican and GOP-leaning Other early-contest states already seen 135 of his ads. By 
~~~
The new survey also sug­registered voters, conducted Feb. 20, that exposure will gested that commentator Pat Jan. 27-30 by Yankelovich Hawa;l" aAriz.$1,412,099 grow to perhaps 200 Forbes Buchanan and former Ten­Partners, has an error margin ads, compared to roughly 35
'~ Iowa $1,010,016

nessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, of plus or minus 3 percentage for Dole, according to a Dole 
each with 13 percent, are with-points for the overall sample. campaign analysis. 
AP/Bob Bianchini 
$2.00 admission 
·The Promise feb.5 
r~ushing 7 ::!0 
Tatie Danielle feb6 
lfl•>nlgmw:ry theatre 7:30 
El Manachi feb7 .. , . 
m~.)ntgornery nwdrz: ':J(J 
Like Water for 
Chocolate feb8 

100 Student Unioo Boorti CUltural Artspresents the l'Iifintgu.rner.\'" tiH:ai.:re 7':JO 
------------·~-----~~ -----------------~­
Governors move toward welfare, Medicaid plans 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASIUNGTON 
The nation's governors are moving toward a compromise plan on welfare and Medicaid that moots the Clinton administration's demand that tho poor b(1 guaranteed eligi­bility, several governors said Sunday. 
"It' the governors could bring this together, l think we'd give the president a chanco to rfldeem himself on the promise to end welfare as we know it," said Gov. John Engler. R·Mich. The plnn would turn over more power to the states but keep some fHdtlral requirements. 
Forty-seven governors, in Washington for a four-day meeting, are trying to lind a common approach to welfare and Medicaid reform that would break the deadlock between President Clinton and congressional Hepublicans over an outline for balancing the budget in sevtm years. 
Health eare and financial assistanctl for the poor have been crucial areas of dis­ugrnernent, with the White House saying that Republican plans to turn over those pro· grams to the states as block grants would undermine the federal government's long­time commitment to the well· being of all Americans. 

Engler, like other Hepublican governors, bas pushed hard for the block grant concept, but he said that with Clinton's veto of GOP welfare bill. "we literally have to drop back and reassess the position." 
He said any compromise has to "recognize that there have to be specific guarantees to meet the president's objec­tions, and then there has to be maximum flexibility over· riding that so that the states can run the program and make it work." 
Gov. Roy Romer. D-Colo., who appeared with Engler and Gov. Christine Whitman, H·N.J .. on NBC's "Meet the Press," said the governors "have made real progress, but we've got a distance yet to go." 
"1 think we can find the middle ground," Romer said. 
On Saturday, Gov. Bob Miller of Nevada, a Democrat, said the governors will try to ham· mer out an agreement before the conference ends Tuesday and then lobby Congress and Clinton to adopt it. 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's budget for 1997 -at least a bare bones version -will be formally un­veiled on Monday, but the pres­ident and the country could certainly be excused for won­dering, "Why bother?" 
A president's budget is often declared dead on arrival by an opposition Congress intent on setting its own spending priori­ties, but Clinton's new budget seems to be the ultimate exer­cise in futility. 
While he is presenting a bud­get for the 1997 liscal year, he and the Republican Congress are still locked in stalemated talks over the 1996 spending plan, even though the current budget year is one-third gone. 
"In a sense, the 1996 budget process is being lapped by 1997. We have the runners for the previous race still on the track and the gun is going off for the new race," said Robert Reischauer, former director of the Congressional Budget Of­fice. "This is undoubtedly going to cause a tremendous amount of confusion." 
There's a simple answer why the president is producing a new budget: He is required by law to submit a spending plan to Congress by the first Monday in February that will cover the 
I I I 





Clinton unveils '97 budget 
fiscal year starting the next Oct. 1. 
The administration said it will meet the minimal requirements with a 15-to 20-page document that will sketch in broad outline what his spending recommen­dations are. The actual budget with line-by-line details won't be ready until March 18. 
Administration officials say there won't be any surprises. Monday's budget will track the president's last offer made in early January in the marathon budget negotiations. 
As part of a compromise to end a 21-day government shut­down, Clinton agreed to meet the Republican demand to pro­duce a budget that would be in balance by the year 2002 using economic assumptions from the Congressional Budget Office. 
Clinton released details of his offer on Jan. 18. It would trim growth in Medicare, the big health care program for the el­derly. by $124 billion over the next seven years, compared to $168 billion in the GOP plan. 
It would produce $59 billion in savings in Medicaid, the gov­ernment health care program for the poor, compared to $85 billion in the GOP plan, and it would trim general government programs by $297 billion, com­pared to $349 billion envi­sioned by the GOP. 
On taxes, the president is seeking $130 billion in reduc­tions compared to a more gen­erous $202 billion GOP tax cut. 
Republican leaders have al­ready rejected Clinton's plan as unacceptable, saying they want bigger savings, especially in Medicare and Medicaid. 
As part of the Monday budget submission, the administration will also produce an updated economic forecast. 
Joseph Stiglitz, chairman of the president's Council of Eco­nomic Advisers, said the budget would be in surplus by the year 2002 under the more pes­simistic assumptions of the CBO and would show an even bigger surplus under the administra­tion's more optimistic outlook. lie said Clinton's budget would show the bottom-line impact using both the CBO and administration projections. 
Stiglitz, Treasury Secretary Hobert Rubin and White House Budget Director Alice Hivlin will be on hand to launch the sales job for the budget at an afternoon brieling Monday. 
The stalemate over the 1996 spending plan means not only will the president's full budget be six weeks late, but the schedule for Congress will be pushed back as well. 
Budget analysts said they saw little possibility that Congress would meet its April 15 dead­line for producing a budget res­olution outlining spending and tax limits for 1997. 

on regular users' personal computers. 
and ~[I] 
So far, it is circulating mainly among compa­
• 
I I nies that make anti-virus programs, Ducklin said. Software is available to destroy it. 

Vice President ~[]
I Computer analysts do not know who made the I IACilONIDI!I virus, although there is a clue in one of the mes­snJDBNT OOVERNMBNT sages that Boza occasionally throws on computer
I 

screens: "VLAD Australia does it again with theI world's first Win95 virus," a reference to a well­
I I See the candidates battle for the 
I 

I positions of
I I 


I I Student Body President 
I 

British researchers claim to have found Windows 95 virus 
By SUE LEEMAN Associated Press 
LONDON 

Software saboteurs have created the first com­puter virus specilically targeted at Microsoft's Windows 95 program, British researchers said Sunday. 
The virus can corrupt programs so that they no longer function, and then spread to other users' machines, Paul Ducklin, an analyst for the British software company Sophos, told The Associated Press. 
"It is the lirst virus we've seen that is written specifically for Windows 95," said Dueklin, whose company specializes in writing programs that destroy viruses. 
"So, although it is not particularly well-writ­ten, Boza will go down in history," Ducklin said. 
Analysts have named the virus Boza after a Bulgarian liquor "so powerful that just looking at it will give you a headache," Ducklin said. 
Fortunately for the millions of users of Windows 95, the virus does not appear to be particularly contagious. 
"To infect someone else's machine, you would have to give them an infected program, and they would have to run it," Alan Solomon, chairman of the S and S International software lirm, told The Independent on Sunday newspaper. 
"Most people don't swap programs around like that," Solomon said. Ducklin said Boza is not yet "in the wild" ­computer talk for a virus that Is replicating itself 
I I I I I I I I I 

known group of virus makers. 
Microsoft released Windows 95 in August with­out an anti-virus program. The Hedmond, Wash.-based company early on had to fight a perception that one version of Windows 95 came with a virus already on the diskette. 
Microsoft 95 differs from the company's previ­ous operating systems because it can run pro­grams whose instructions are 32 bits long, rather than 16 bits, allowing greater flexibility through the increased memory. Boza is written specifically to corrupt 32-bit programs. 
The virus attaches itself to existing programs. 
Monday, February 5, 1996  The Observer • NEWS  page 5  

page6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 5, 1996 




Record cold grips nation 

By ROGER PETTERSON 
Associated Press 
Temperatures more than 50 degrees below zero are starting to take a toll on the little north­eastern Minnesota town of Em­barrass. 
"Yesterday I couldn't stand it any longer. We had to go to town and buy some groceries. But that's the first time I'd been out of the house for at least four to five days," said Adrienne Fowler. 
Sunday's low in Embarrass was 56 below zero, the fourth day out of the past five with lows more than 50 below. A couple of days earlier, nearby Tower dipped to 60 below. That's real temperatures, not the wind chill. 
Everyday thermometers can't cope. 
"We have a lot of people in the community who are having to buy new thermometers," said Mrs. Fowler, whose hus­band, Holand, is a volunteer ob­server for the National Weather Service. 
She's been keeping warm in­doors with her sewing. A few in town have been braving the cold to dig paths to their back­yard saunas, some of which have been in use since they were built by hardy Finnish set­tlers in the early 1900s, she said. 
The past week of snow, ice 
Source: AP research 
and record cold had been 

of -3 at the Panhandle city of the state's coldest temperature
blamed for 59 deaths across the Manuel Vela was also dead and 
struggle."

Amarillo and 6 above in Abi­Sunday at 33 below. 
Lower 48 states. Most occurred Arnold Fritz, 14, was dying. Authorities later said Lane's in traffic accidents on icy roads, lene. In Louisiana, Baton Rouge "I don't think there is any The rifle went off again, but courage prevented the blood­
had a record low of 15. pride here over that. Of all the
but some involved Alzheimer's Loukaitas said it was an acci­bath from escalating. After his
And how cold was it in a little records we had to go for, we
patients and others dying in the 
dent. news conference, Lane was sur­

town in Michigan? went for the cold one," she
cold. The boy again told Lane to rounded by parents who shook
"Hell's frozen over," said said.
Te)nperatures fell to record stand, and Lane refused. Then his hand and thanked him. 
Tom Davis, who owns the Hell Wand said she supposes the
lows Sunday from the Hockies, Loukaitas threatened to shoot "It could have been a lot
Creek Ranch in Hell, about an cold would be the talk of the
where it was -14 at Pueblo, 
more students. worse," Police Chief Fred 

Colo., to the East Coast, where hour west of Detroit. Sunday's town -if anyone was out and "I told him to point the gun 
Haynes said. "Jon Lane is the
low there was -11.

Georgetown, Del., bottomed out about talking. "Unless people up and away and I would hero today. He placed his life in 
at 6 above. Ely, Minn., had a JoAnne Wand wasn't particu­absolutely have to come out­stand," Lane said, estimating 
harm's way to help protect our 

record low of 46 below zero. larly thrilled that her town of side, they don't. You don't see he was about 15 feet away. 
children." 

It was the coldest weekend of Elizabeth, Ill., population 700, people just roaming the streets A phone in the classroom be-
This community of 11,500,

the season in Texas, with lows had the distinction of sharing talking about how cold it is." gan ringing. Loukaitas 
located in a potato-farming re­smashed it to the floor. gion between Seattle and in local schools. Potter and number one problem we see in Thirteen-year-old Natalie Spokane, struggled to makeAwareness Anderson's groups will con­the Center, " Potter said. Hintz, whose arm was nearly sense of the tragedy. Some tinue these presentations in "Hopefully, this week will help severed by a gunshot, was in classmates said Loukaitas had 
continued from page 1 dorms on both campuses this people on this campus become great pain and crying. Lane often been picked on by other 
semester. aware of eating disorders as a asked to take her out of the kids, but police offered no mo­
Notre Dame Counseling Center and from 12:15 p.m. to 1:15 
p.m. and 3 p.m. to 4 p.m at the Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center. 
Tuesday also features a talk by popular campus lecturer Jean Kilbourne at 7:30 p.m. at the Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Kilbourne's lectures about images of women in pop­ular culture were made into three movies, "Still Killing Us Softly," "Calling the Shots" and "Pack of Lies." 
In addition, the Notre Dame Women's Resource Center will host an open house Tuesday af­ternoon between 3 p.m and 6 
p.m. The Center is on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune in the student government offices. 
On Wednesday, Becky Cook will deliver a lecture, "Healthy Eating for Students and Ath­letes." Cook, a therapist for the Healthy Options for Problem Eaters program at the Memo­rial Hospital, will speak at 7 
p.m. in room 218 in the Rockne Memorial. 
The week concludes Thurs­day with a presentation by Notre Dame seniors Ann Potter and Emily Anderson entitled "How to Help a Friend with an Eating Problem." The presen­tation, to be held between 6 
p.m. and 7 p.m. in the Staple­ton lounge in LeMans hall, is a modified, updated version of a presentation Women's Re­source Center volunteers give 

AP and lifeless. Fourteen-year-old wall," Lane said. "He didn't· 
Teacher disarms student after three die in rampage 
By NICHOLAS GERANIOS 
CANADA 
Associated Press 
MOSES LAKE, Wash. Math teacher Jon Lane 
Seattle rushed to the algebra class­
Olympia : 5 room two doors down after hearing gunfire and the sound WASHIN~~ of students crying. 
He dove behind the teacher's "--~ l desk when he saw bloody bod­100 miles 
c:::::s
ies on the floor, students OREGON 
100km
cowering in their desks and a 14-year-old boy standing in a AP corner in a trenchcoat with a Lane then returned and twice hunting rifle. The young gun­won permission to remove man ordered him to stand. other students, including the 
"I told him I was too afraid," dying Fritz. Lane recalled at a news confer­Police were outside the class­ence Sunday. room now, and yelled for the 
Police and grateful parents boy to drop his rifle and two 
hailed Lane as a hero for dis­handguns and surrender. arming the boy after his bloody Again Lane returned to the rampage Friday left a Frontier classroom. Loukaitas ordered Junior High teacher and two the door closed and told class­students dead and a third mates to go to the back of the classmate seriously wounded. room. He told Lane he was tak­
The boy, Barry Loukaitas, ing him hostage and ordered 
was to be arraigned Monday on him to come closer. three charges of first-degree "I told him to keep the gunmurder and one count of at­pointed away," Lane said. "He tempted murder. If convicted had his finger on the trigger 
as an adult, he could face life in guard.prison. "He said to put the gun in 
Lane, a short, gray-haired your mouth," Lane said. "I told former wrestling star who also him I couldn't do that." teaches gym, said he crouched At that point, from about four 
behind the desk trying to de­feet away, "I stepped forward, cide what to do. He saw grabbed his hands, and pinned
teacher Leona Caires, bleeding him and the gun against the 

"Eating disorders are the real problem." classroom. The boy agreed. tive. 
Three more reasons to buy a 
Macintosh this semester. 
• 


Power Macintosh 7200 PowerBook Performa 
Power_Payback -+ Printer + Printer Rebate Payback Payback. 
1200 to 1500 on the Power Madntosh 1150 matl-m rebate on ANYMadntosh 1150 on the purchase ofANYqualifying
series when purchased with SELECT PowerBook when purchased with Apple printer when purchased wit!fANY 
Apple displays and/orprinters SELECTApple printers qualifying Perfonna 
Looking for agreat deal on acomputerand printer?Acomplete system that's easy to use and perfect for all your school needs? Well, no need to look any further. Because while supplies last, you can receive up to aS500 mail-in rebates when you buy selected combinations ofApple Macintosh computers, monitors and printers. Check out the latest in Apple Computers on Campus. They have everything for you to take home the power to make any student, faculty or staffs life 

easier. Notre Dame Computer Center 
Located in Room 112 Math and Computer Building North Bend, Indiana 46556 219-631-7477 or on the Web at http://www.nd.edu/-ndmac/ 


page 7 

Monday, february 5, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Jury selection to begin in clinic shooting trial 
A.uociatcd P rcss 
DEDHAM, Mass. 

A man aecused of killing two reeHptionists minutes apart in separate abortion clinics says he wants to face the death penalty if eonvicted. 
Jury selection was to begin Monday in Norfolk Superior Court, where John C. Salvi lil faees two counts of first-degree murder and live eounts of as­sault with intent to murder. 
In the 13 months since the 
Dee. 30, 1994, shooting spree 
in Brookline, Salvi has clashed 
with his own attorneys, who 
trim! to have him found incom­
petent. 
Judge Barbara Dorteh-Okara 

deemed Salvi lit to stand trial. 
Salvi's attomey, J.W. Carney 
Jr., said he will present an in­
sanity ddense. lie said Salvi 
was so obsessed with a per­
ceived eonspiraey against 
Catholics that he was unable to help defend himself. 
"He remains obsessed with a grand conspiracy against Catholics by members of the Ku Klux Klan. Mafia and Freema­sons and is focused solely on his delusional ideas to solve the crisis," Carney said. 
Salvi is accused of walking into both Boston-area cli11ics, asking if he was in the right place, and then pulling a semi­automatic rifle from a duffel bag and opening fire. Killed were receptionists Shannon Lowney and Lee Ann Nichols, who was shot nine times while begging for her life. 
Salvi was arrested in Virginia 

the next day, after police said 
they caught him shooting 
through the windows of an 
abortion clinic in Norfolk. No 
one was injured in that shoot­
ing. 
Indians no longer hide faith 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
Guatemala 
Maya Indians cross them­selves in Homan Catholic fash­ion after walking miles to visit San Simon, a wooden idol seat­
ed in a chair, his fat cigar jutting from beneath a big hat. 
The shrine, 20 miles west of Guatemala City, is filled 

with smoke John Paul II from multicol­ored candles -each signifying a prayer for the icon, whose ori­gins are unclear. Photographs crowd the back wall. 
Such shrines to pagan saints are common throughout Latin America, where many Catholic priests have long tolerated the mixing of Christian and native 

rituals. They are especially German Curuchiche of the pri­woven Maya costumes. 
vate Center of Maya Cultural The trend toward emphasiz­
ing the Maya beliefs has

----------=-----------------------------. Studies.
The Obser''T,er
• ' 
is now accepting applications for: 


Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Liz Foran by 5 p.m. Tuesday, February 6. For additional information about the positions contact Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the 
o ce on the third oor o LaFortune. 
For seven years, Paul Loeb visited 
over 100 campuses in 30 states, 
to explore the beliefs, values, and 
choices of today's students. 
aul 
...... 




February 6 
s the Center for Social Concerns 
prevalent in Guatemala, where uardo Pacay Vide. about 60 percent of the popula­"Something important is hap­tion of 10.7 million is Maya. pening," said Pacay, a school­
When Pope John Paul II ar­teacher who worships at an rives here Monday, he will find outdoor altar in the capital, his a Maya population that more head wrapped in a traditional 
openly practices the animist be­red scarf. liefs long veiled by the cloak of Maya belief holds that a life Catholicism. force resides in every object, 
For the first time since Chris­animate or inanimate. Cere­tianity arrived here five cen­monies are celebrated accord­turies ago, Guatemalan Indians ing to sophisticated calendars 
are increasingly rejecting and often revolve around corn, Christian worship in favor of a food staple the Maya consider ancestral rites, anthropologists sacred. 
and Maya activists say. Since the Spanish conquest, 
"Many are returning to the and the accompanying Homan Maya faith," said Vitalino Catholic evangelization, Mayas Simolox, a Presbyterian minis­have blended their beliefs with ter. "I personally know three those of Christianity. Catholic priests who privately Every year during Easter 
practice the Maya theology." Week processions in the lake­
As many as a fifth of side community of Santiago 
Guatemala's Indians practice Atitlan, an idol similar to San 
their ancestors' faith despite Simon joins Jesus and Mary. 
Catholicism's centuries-old hold Catholics often make offerings 
and a recent wave of Protestant of sugar cane and fruit liquors 
evangelism, said anthropologist to saintly images in brightly 
There are now at least 5,000 launched a debate among Catholic leaders about how
native priests publicly practic­
ing Maya rituals and thousands much much native worship the of others who worship clandes­church can tolerate and still 
tinely, said Maya priest Ed-call itself Christian. 

Bulls Tickets lottery 
Bulls vs. Cavs 
Bulls Game is Feb. 20T11 
Ticket lottery will be 
February 6IJJ. 3:00-5:00 215 LaFortune (Senior class Office) #'s posted at 6:00 


$25.00 tickets if you win the lottery 
7:00 game 
bus leaves at 5:00 
2 senior ID's per student (l tieket per I.D.) 
SENIORS ONLY 
QUESTIONS: CALL 631-5136 


page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 5, 1996 


~OBSERV~~R 
is now accepting applications for the 
1996-97 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Liz Foran by Monday, Feb. 12 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
Congress seeks faster FDA approval of drugs 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Joseph O'Brien was pre­scribed a device that might postpone his hip replacement by pulsing electricity into his diseased joint. But he had to buy the treatment in Canada because it's outlawed here: 
Prompted by critics who say the Food and Drug Administra­tion unfairly blocks such ther­apies, Congress is about to con­sider legislation forcing the FDA to speed new medicines to doctors -and to let Americans buy more treatments sold abroad. 
The goal, said Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., is to "transform the FDA from a growing barrier to innovation into an active partner in innovation." 
The FDA, responsible for the safety and effectiveness of some $1 trillion worth of prod­ucts, is the agency everybody loves to hate. Makers of tobac­co and vitamins and medicine call the agency too regulatory even as consumer advocates rail it's not strict enough. 
But anti-FDA sentiment rose to new heights last year, as House Speaker Newt Gingrich called FDA Commissioner David Kessler a "thug" and conservative think tanks accused the agency of murder­ing Americans by not approv­ing medicines fast enough. Their proposals ranged from letting private companies do FDA's job to selling unap­proved drugs as long as they bore some "consumer beware" tag. 
Now Kassebaum says she's found a middle ground, forcing the FDA to do its own job faster and to help companies cut the 12 years and $350 million they spend developing a single new medicine. 
The bill's biggest change could allow some therapies sold abroad to be sold in the United States before the FDA officially gives them the nod. 
Under this provision, compa­nies would petition for auto­matic sale -based on approval by certain foreign countries -if the FDA hasn't reviewed a therapy within six months. The FDA then would have another· 30 days to block the sale, by declaring the treat­ment unsafe or unproven. 
Doctors aren't sure whether to support the legislation, not­ing that even Europe doesn't require safety controls as strict as the FDA does. 
"While we all chafe occasion­ally at the slowness of the pro­cess of approval, we must re­mind ourselves the tension there is safety vs. availability," cautioned Dr. Nancy Dickey of the American Medical Associa­tion. It is very rare for Ameri­cans not to find a U.S. alterna­tive for a treatment touted overseas, she said. 
Meanwhile, Kassebaum plans hearings this month on her FDA reform bill. Backed by medical manufacturers, it is expected to pass the Senate by summer. The House is writing its own FDA reform bill, which is expected to make even more aggressive changes. 



GM explores internet promos 
Associated Press 
DETROIT The world's largest
automaker is starting an aggressive attempt to become No. 1 in mar­keting cars and trucks on the Internet. 
General Motors Corp. says the World Wide Web site it opens
Monday will become one of the computer net­work's largest integrat­ed projects, with more than 16,000 separate pages and 98,000 links that take browsers from one place to another. 
The major automak­ers and many other businesses have flocked to the Internet in the past year, establishing sites that range from simple to state-of-the-i art. Corporate America is betting that the ! worldwide computer network will be a main conduit for communica­tions between seller and buyers. 
Still developing is the Source: General Motors 
science of making the Internet work as a sales tool and measuring whether money has been well-spent on it. 
The No. 1 automaker's goal is to become the automotive leader in reaching customers on-line, in part by challenging them technologically. 
Computer users will need high-speed modems and the latest versions of Internet com­puter software to take ad­vantage of the audio, video and "virtual reality" features of GM on the Web. 
Latest Internet technology charges up GM's Web site 
The new General  Audio clips feature GM workers'  Clickable buttons automatically  
Motors site, open to  voices (sound files played through Netscape helper applications)  highlight themselves when you pass the cursor over them (Macromedia  
the public at  Shockwave technology)  
http://www.gm.com/,  
includes cutting-edge  
media like sound,  
animationandvideo.  

Video clip of road plays ---"--+--;...r continuously (Macromedia Shockwave technology) 
Panoramic photo files let users examine the interior and exterior of GM vehicles from all angles (Apple Quicklime VR technology) 
The idea is to create a "buzz" so that Internet users will tell each other "you've got to check out the GM site," said GM mar­keting and advertising vice president Phil Guarascio. 
"We want to lead the tech­nology," said Ron Luniewski, vice president for GM market­ing and advertising at Elec­tronic Data Systems Corp. EDS, GM's information technology subsidiary, developed the pro­ject with CKS Interactive. 
The GM "home page" links to pages of GM divisions that are 
AP/Ka~Tate 
developing different features that eventually will be in place for all of them. 
Buick's site allows customers to configure and price a new car. Cadillac's links to the sites of local dealers. Chevrolet's Web site is the pilot point for calculating loan and lease pay­ments with General Motors Acceptance Corp., GM's finance company. Saturn's Internet ~ite soon will allow shoppers to electronically browse the used­car inventory at local dealer­ships. 

NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and. is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use ofthe system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertisers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and acco.unt executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self­motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• CHINA 
Workers help quake victims 


Satire mocks national crisis 
Meeting: 
Tuesday, Feb 6, at 
7!00PM 


I I8 Nieuwland 
~·~·~ 
New Members Welcome! 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
Medics and soldiers rushed into scenic Lijiang in south­western China on Sunday to help survivors of a powerful earthquake that killed at least 238 people and injured nearly 14,000. 
The floors of two local hospi­tals were filled with injured people, the state-run Xinhua news agency said. Doctors also worked outdoors and in tempo­rary clinics set up in tents. 
Television reports showed medics attending to bloodied victims who lay on mattresses on a floor, covered with thick quilts to protect them from temperatures that hovered near freezing. 
On Monday, tens of thousands of injured and homeless people sat huddled under quilts or dug through the rubble of their dev­astated mud and rock homes. 
One young rescue worker sat on the rubble embracing a quake victim and weeping. 
"People from all walks of life have been quick to act to help," said Chen Jie of the Yunnan province government. Teams of relief workers reached all areas that were heavily damaged, she said. 

AP 
The television report said 238 people died, 3,700 were seri­ously injured, and more than 10,000 suffered minor injuries. A male foreign tourist was among the severely injured, but his name and nationality were not immediately known, Xinhua said. Four other foreigners suf­fered minor injuries, the news agency said. 
Most of the fatalities occurred in nearby Dayan town and in the rural areas of White Sand and Gold Mountain, said Ms. Chen. 
The picturesque town of Li­jiang, 1,300 miles southwest of Beijing, is one of Yunnan's most popular tourist areas. 
But the traditional homes that decorate the mountainous region are vulnerable to earth­quakes because they are made of mud bricks, with heavy roofs of rounded gray tiles on wood­en rafters. 
Saturday's magnitude-7 quake damaged the old quarter of Lijiang, a maze of narrow, twisting cobblestone streets and fast-tlowing canals crossed by arched stone bridges. 
About 10 percent of the town's old one-and two-story wooden buildings with pillars and balconies were destroyed, the report said. 
Most of Lijiang's residents were evacuated to temporary shelters set up in tents, and the government was providing quilts, water and food, Ms. Chen said. 
The quake collapsed nearly 180,000 buildings across the stricken area, cut off communi­cation and, in some areas, knocked out water, electricity and roads, Ms. Chen said. 
Nearly 200 aftershocks, in­cluding 18 that measured be­tween magnitudes 4 and 4.8, were recorded in Lijiang County by Sunday, Xinhua said. Seismologists warned that af­tershocks of up to magnitude 6 could hit in the next few days. 
The Hed Cross Society of China appealed for interna­tional humanitarian aid. It was sending dozens of doctors and nurses and $160,000 worth of clothes, quilts and medicine. 
By PAUL HAVEN 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 
The president's chef is heart­broken. The head of state has lied to her. Worse, protesters demanding his resignation have kept him from shopping, so there's nothing to cook. 
r-·~ 
bare ~ n· ~ 
essentials ~~ 
81 5 W McKinley Mishawaka 
!College Square -accross from 
Town & Country) Grand Opening Celebration Feb. 8,9, 10,11 
TANNING I month $30 • Hair • • Nails • 
~~'!)~ 
257-8266 

At least, that was the joke on a TV comedy show last week. 
President Ernesto Samper has been accused of taking mil­lions of dollars from the Cali drug cartel for his 1994 cam­paign, and calls for his ouster have shaken the nation. 
It is Colombia's worst political crisis in decades, and satirists are having a field day. 
A television show mixes the weekly developments into a na­tional soup whose taste pro­vides a barometer of the presi­dent's standing. 
Television news bulletins ­real ones -are followed by satirists singing songs about the scandal and mimic Samper's voice. 
On one radio show, a Samper impersonator pfots his legal de­fense as ministers and ambas­sadors abandon him. 
In real life, three Cabinet members and a half dozen am­bassadors have quit since Jan. 22, when the president's cam­paign chief, Fernando Botero, said Samper knew the world's largest drug syndicate had fi­nanced his campaign. 
Congress began hearings last week that could lead to im­peachment. Military leaders have had to deny rumors they are plotting a coup. And the country's top business associa­tion predicts Colombia will lose about $500 million this year in lost business and investment. 
Samper has vowed he will not step down, though he also has indicated he will abide by Con­gress' decision. Samper, who has pain'ted himself as a cham­pion of the poor since the crisis began, has called for a referen­dum, which critics say could turn rich against poor and trig­ger a civil war. 
The crisis is serious, but it has provided good theater as well. 
After a speech Tuesday im­ploring Congress to judge him fairly, Samper threw a palace cocktail party for congressmen from his Liberal Party, which dominates the chamber. 
Even before the party, many people questioned whether Congress is dean enough to judge the president. At least 14 lawmakers are being investi­gated for drug-related corrup­tion. Three are in jail. 
"There's no way Congress will lind him guilty. They want him to stay in power so they can keep stealing money," said Milady Hincon, a Bogota maid. 
Such skepticism was height­ened following Samper's speech, when a former cam­paign aide followed him to the podium and accused him of taking drug money. 

23rd Annual Sutntner Progratn 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting February 5th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 


London Rome 
May 22-fune21 June 16-fuly 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 

Pizza Social 

Past students and faculty will be present. For infonnation call Prof Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726 

Gimme an "S"I Gimme an "L"I Gimme an "F"I 
(DON'T GET EXCITED, SHE CAN'T DO THE SPUTS.) 
SAT., FEB.l 0: BOB HOLMAN & MIGUEL ALGARIN 
SUN., FEB.ll: TOBIAS WOLFF • 
MON., FEB.12: ALISTAIR MAClEOD 
TUES., FEB.l3: STUDENT READING • r 
WED., FEB.14: FRANCES SHERWOOD . . ;THURS., FEB.15: GWENDOlYN BROOKS 
~~~----------------------­






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Monday, February 5, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Parri Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of rhe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion ofeither insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Sysrems/Markering Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Partial Birth Abortions bring perspective to 'culture of death' 
Two items symbolize how far Dayton, "most surgeons find 2,000 D&X abortions for "elec­House committee that, "if by tion tube into the hold and this nation has institutionalized dismemberment at twenty tive" abortions up to 26 weeks chance the cervix is floppy or sucked the baby's brains out. I what John Paul II has called the weeks and beyond to be diffi­and "non-elective" up to 40 loose and the head slips almost threw up. Next, Dr. "culture of death." First, the cult due to the toughness of weeks, which is full term. Dr. through, the surgeon will Haskell delivered the baby's Supreme court, on January fetal tissues." D&E also McMahon defined "non-elec­encounter the dreadful compli­head, cut the umbilical cord 22nd, the anniversary of Roe v. involves a risk of perforating tive" abortions broadly and list­cation of delivering a live baby. and delivered the placenta. He Wade, refused to review a deci­the uterus. The D&X method ed "depression" as the most The surgeon must therefore act threw the baby in a pan, along sion striking 
avoids frequent "maternal indication" quickly to ensure that the baby with the placenta and the d o w n these dif­for them. does not manage to move the instruments he'd used." Pennsylvania ficulties. Drs. Haskell and Mcmahon inches that are legally required While the effort to ban par­procedural In the told American Medical News to transform its status from one tial-birth abortions will fail restrictions D&X, or (July 5, 1993), that "the majori­of an abortus to that of a living because of the veto, it has
Charles on Medicaid P B A , ty of fetuses aborted this way human child." See Senate exposed the barbarity-of the abortions. proce­are alive until the end of this Judiciary Committee testimony abortion culture. "The moral
R• 
This ruling dure, th procedure." Dr. haskell told by Prof. Douglas Kmiec, of gravity of procured abortion is
Ice reflects the mother's AM News that "two-thirds" are Notre Dame Law School, Nov. apparent in all its truth," said reality that cervix, not dead. After the PBA Act 17, 1995. Pope John Paul, "if we recog­the court t h e was introduced to make such On July 9,1995, Brenda nize that we are dealing with will not entrance abortions criminal, Dr. Haskell Shafer, a registered nurse of 13 murder." Evangelium Vitae, uphold any law that actually to the uterus, is dilated over a changed his mind and denied years' experience, wrote to no. 58. prohibits a single abortion or two-day. period sufficiently to the babies are alive when the Congressman Tony Hall (D.­In any civilized society, the that imposes any serious remove the child's body with scissors are inserted into the Ohio), describing her reaction issue must be whether innocent restriction on abortion at any the exception of the head. brain. when she was assigned in 1993 human beings may be legally stage of pregnancy. On the third day the abortion­Although anesthetics are to Dr. Haskell's Dayton clinic. murdered. Over the past two 
The other item was the stated ist, guided by ultrasound, administered to the mother, Nurse Shafer, who until then decades, however, the pro-life intent of President Clinton to grasps one of the child's legs none is administered to the had described herself as "very movement has sought to limit, veto the Partial Birth abortion with forceps and pull s the leg child. As to the claim that the pro-choice,' described the PBA but not wholly prohibit, abor­Act, which forbids such abor­into the birth canal. he then anesthesia given to the mother procedure: tion, thus framing the issue as tions except where necessary to delivers the rest of the body kills the baby "before it comes "On the ultrasound's screen, I which innocents may be killed. save the life of the mother. The except for the head. The abor­down the birth canal," Dr. could see the heart beating. I The PBA campaign is a further White House said the President tionist then inserts surgical Norig Ellison, President of the asked Dr. Haskell, and he told retreat, focusing on the issue of will veto the bill because "it scissors into the base of the American Society of me that, "yes, that is the heart­how innocents may be legally would represent an erosion of a baby's skull. He opens the scis­Anesthesiologist, testified beat." As Dr. Haskell watched killed. That PBA strategy raises woman's right to choose." sors to enlarge the hole. he before the Senate committee the baby on the screen, he went issues we can discuss in a there are not enough votes in inserts a suction catheter, the that the claim is "entirely inac­in with forceps and grabbed the future column. the Senate to override a veto. brains are sucked out, the head curate" and "contrary to scien­baby's legs and brought them In any event, the murder of The Act defines a "partial-birth collapses and the child is tific fact." down into the birth canal. then an innocent child by jamming abortion" (PBA) as "an abortion removed. Dr. Pamela Smith, Director of he delivered the body and scissors into his brain is quali­in which the person performing According to Dr. Dru Carlson, Medical Education at Mt. Sinai arms, all the way up to the tatively no different from mur­the abortion partially vaginally Director of Reproductive Hospital in Chicago, stated that neck. der by any other method, delivers a living fetus before Genetics at Cedar-Sinai medical "There are absolutely no At this point, only the baby's including morning-after pills killing the fetus and completing Center in Los Angeles, the obstetrical situations encoun­head was still inside. The and other abortifacients. the the delivery." removal of the fluid from the tered in this country which baby's body was moving. His next time one of your profes­
A PBA is also called D&X brain causes "instant brain her­require a partially delivered little fingers were clasping sors extols the "pro-choice" (dilation and extraction). In niation and death." human fetus to be destroyed to together. He was kicking his position, visualize the PBA and another method, D&E (dilation According to Dr. Haskell, who preserve the health of the feet. all the while his little head remember what that choice and evacuation), the abortionist has performed more than 700 mother." Up to the time the was still stuck inside. Dr. really is -regardless of the dismembers the child inside the D&X abortions up to about 25 scissors are inserted into the Haskell took a pair of scissors method of the murder. womb and withdraws the parts. weeks' gestation, 80% are skull, Dr. Smith found no real and inse.rted them into the back However, according to Dr. "purely elective." The late Dr. difference between a breech of the baby's head. Then he Professor Rice is on the Law Martin Haskell, who runs abor­James McMahon, of Los (feet first) delivery and the PBA opened the scissors up. Then School faculty. His column tuaries in Cincinnati and Angeles, performed more than procedure. She testified to the he stuck the high-powered sue-appears every other Monday. 
AS YOU KN0/4 1fT THe COR£ OF8V/3RY 6/<&AT CAMPAIGN ARE JH/3 VOWNTE£1<5 WHO cn:::~.u:;.Lrc:. aJHO SHA~ THe 
{)f<EAMl 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
I 5HARE TH/3. FORBES 
!?ReAM OFA RAT TAX.' 
I BC/...IC.VC..I fAJHOUge Ha<e gHA!<ES 7H/3 PREA/11? aJHO Be/../E.VC-5? 
/ 

"The humblest citizen of all 
the land, when clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the hosts of Error." 
-William Jennings Bryan 
2-5 


Monday, February 5, 1996 page 11 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH FATMAN AND DADDY 

It's all that, a 40 and a bag of chips 
"Don't Be a Menace to South Central When You're Drinking Your Juice in the llood" Starring Shawn Wayans and Marlon Wayans 
(out or four) 
*** 
.'iynopsis: 
"/Jon't 1/e a Menace .. has no plot. nwre is absolutely no story-line or any character del'elopment. It has a lot of liquor and weed mixed with other ill deeds and that is pretty much all there is to it. 
Daddy: 
Acerbic wit, forty's till the cows come home, deftly exploited stereotypes and pot-smoking seniors ... these are the hall­marks of "Don't Be A Menace," a film that is easily the best piece of satire that Daddy has seen since Oliver Stone's ".JFK." 
The inaugural production of Shawn Wayans and his nutty brother (the latest links in the apparently endless chain of eomedic genius created by the talented Wayans family) is a montage of titillat­ing zingers and crass one-liners. all of whieh are in some fashion directed towards the reeent barrage of melodra­matic ghetto sap that has been belched upon the Silver Screen. 
"Don't Bo a Menace" succeeds where .Janet, Tul'ac, and lce-T have failed; it creates loving and dynamic characters that the audience cannot help but fall in blissful love with them. 
Well. actually. this last statement is a little bit of a fib. Knowing full well that lies make Baby Jesus cry. I henceforth promise to be completely honest, and begin this quest by asserting that "Don't Be a Menaee" is truly a most enjoyable and thoroughly diverting motion picture. 
This movie contains gut-busting humor in the most trivial of details, the relatively isolated episodes of its pur­posely trite dialogues, and in the overall scope of the complete package as well. The sum result of these essential parts is a campy look at situations that hitherto had only been dealt with on a ridicu­lously serious plane. 
From baby bottles that dispense malt liquor to portentous posters that fore­cast the theater· debut of RoboPimp II, "Don't Be a Menace" breaks the often palpable sense of racial tension by pro­viding a common medium of interface that everybody can access: that panaeea best known as laughter. The beauty of this satire, and one of the inherent strengths of all pleasing satire, is that it often allows new angles on old problems to be diseovered. 
After all, satire is at its best when it focuses on a subject that is both topical and of some importance or concern to its audience. Hemember, the October revolution of the workingmen and peas­ants began under the common banner of emancipation . 
Such is the case with "Don't Be a Menace," and although it is by no means a solution in itself to the current ills of society, it at least refuses to glamorize (as do many of its predecessors within the genre) alcoholism, infidelity. pure misogyny and drug abuse. Perhaps in this sense it is a step in the right direc­tion. 

Fatman: 

Way down inside, the Fatman longs to be an O.G. He envisions himself illin' through the llood, mackin' on the fly honeys and guzzling the nectar of Old English as if it were sanctified wine. "Don't Be a Menace" allowed me to experience this vicariously through the sordid tales of an inner city youth com­ing to terms with his society in true. Wayans brothers style. 
The film succeeds brilliantly in turning a tragic part of our world into a pretty solid satire. By revealing the absurdities of inner city culture, "Don't Be a Menace" turns laughter into a rather serious, though subconscious, indict­ment of the prevailing situation in these disaster areas. 
The satire slams John Singleton's earnest films ("Boyz in the Hood," "Poetic Justice," and "Higher Learning"), which deal with the inner city. and it criticizes their apparently superficial response to a serious prob­lem. By showing just how ridiculous some of the culture's aspects are, "Don't Be a Menace" refuses to glorify the vio­lence and decadence which plagues the ghetto. 
This part aside, the film also intro­duces the Fatman's most insidious nemesis: The Man. Although the corpus of theology on the Conspiracy of The Man is thicker than any rnligious babble we have ever encountored, the film con­veys some of the essential tenets of the actual Conspiracy. 
The Man is all pervasive. lie encom­passes all and in many ways he is all. llis minions blend into any crowd; they observe and manipulate, waiting for the opportunity to strike. The Hand Corporation, Walt Disney, Boeing, and the Son of Man are among the more .... overt manifestations of this hideous scheme. 
"Don't Be a Menace" risks grave con­sequences by revealing, although mini­mally, the extent to which The Man clutches our world in his hands-the world should be thankful for this sacri­fice. 
Overall, "Don't Be a Menace" is a very funny movie. From the chronic stickers on a little tyke's Big Wheel to the assfro, it provides many a hearty laugh for the jovial souls who see it. Its message is a good one, its hinting at the Conspiracy is a start. and its gags are pretty original. I'd recommend this to anyone who is truly concerned with laughter and the demented forces at work in our world. 
Fatman and Daddy are John Zach and Scott Bozik. 
··~ 

• ANOTHER MOVIE REVIEW 

'The Juror' guilty as charged 
"The .Juror" Directed by Brian Gibson Starring Demi Moore & Alec Baldwin 
* 
By MARK TORMA 
Accenr Movie Critic 
W
Hm I told a friend that I had 
ust gone to see "The Juror," 
they asked, "Isn't that a John Grisham movie?" I said, "no." Emphatically. 
This movie should not be confused with any of the lilms made from Mr. Grisham's novels. It is a rip-off in the most pungent sense of the word. Now, I know that "The Pelican Brief' was not the finest piece of einema to hit the screnns. but "The .Juror" makes it look like "Lawrence of Arabia." It is an ill­conceived waste of two hours -but am I sorry I went to see it'? Noooo. Now I get to pick it apart. 
I'll start oiT with the main attraction, namely one Demi Moore. She was the best part of the movie, but not because she was either pleasantly effective or excitedly erotic in her role. She was neither of these. She was simply not as bad as anything else -and she was not good. I will say this for her: she played a convineing big sister to the eleven­year-old Oliver. Unfortunately, her character, Annie Laird. was his moth­er. Oops 
Unless I misrepresent her, she is also (and actually is supposed to be) a tor­tured artist. a guilt-ridden juror, and a persecuted woman in general. Throughout the course of the movie, I was convinced that the screenplay was persneuting her with more than any­thing Aim: Baldwin could dish out (and you just wait. I'll gel to him). 
Moore was burdened with einematic cliches that did nothing for the audi­enee, downright boring lines, and a sense of motivation that made no sense to me. While she's no Jessica Lange, I think she was trying, but the screenwriter gave her no chance. 

As for Alec Baldwin, he was trying too, though I haven't figured out why. My roommates could have done a bet­ter job of what he had to give to the audience -a psychotic Mafia villain, a role so familiar Joe Pesci could play it in his sleep. 
As the man who drives the action (quick summary -he threatens Moore with harm to herself and family if she doesn't turn the jury to a not-guilty decision on a mobster's murder charge), he mouths the words. but really does not seem to care what hap­pens. 

He is also obsessed with the artist/mother/juror...that is what the screenwriter tells us. Do you know how he proves it to us? Baldwin has Demi Moore's pictures all over his walls!!! 
This very-tired, almost narcoleptic cliche must have absolved Baldwin from having to prove his obsession himself because there was no effort on his part. I could see that, yes, the man is obsessed (l know what pictures-all­over-his-walls mean). but Baldwin had no apparent emotional investment. He could not even convince me that he was sexually attracted to Moore's Annie (and that's not hard to do). 
llowever, it would be unjust of me to isolate these two performances as the reasons for the movie's shortcomings. As I mentioned before, the writing was terrible. Filled with incomprehensible points of action. the body of the movie was taken up by a plodding lesson on the legal process, which upon the end of the trial, turned into a plodding les­son on the criminal underground. 
My advice is rent "Twelve Angry Men" and "Goodfellas" and save your­self some grief. I have a real problem with anything that can make Alec Baldwin seducing Demi Moore (twice!) look uninteresting. 
I'm not finished yet. though. The direction and production were visibly lacking as well. I've never seen such non-descript scenery in a so-called "thriller" before; I liked the idea of a renovated bam-as-house, but they even botched this badly. 
The movie also seemed like a mash of inappropriate allusions -in yet another cliche, Baldwin finishes off a mob killing -and walks on· in a pose a la the evil Terminator!! I thought this had to be the last straw, but no. There is more. 
Ah, the ending. It was horrendous. What took almost two hours to sit through ended in about a half a sec­ond, most unsatisfactorily. Having moved to Guatemala (??), the action takes us and Mr. Baldwin into a Mayan ruin... where Demi Moore and locals she does not even know suddenly show up in the most melodramatic con­frontation I have ever seen. 
I'm not going to say anything more about this travesty. except that Derni Moore does a pretty good Antonio Banderas impression. Unfortunately, I had stopped caring long before. 
Mark Torma is a junior Anthropology major from Alliance, OH. 
.... 


--~---­
:ACCENT
page 12 Monday, February 5, 1996 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES 

.. ­

By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
S
aint Mary's sophomore Kristin Liptak of Aurora, Ohio, tops out at four feet eleven inches, but when she gets dressed for work in the summer it's not unusual for her to step into size 22 shoes. 
That would be because she spends her days away from South Bend at Ohio's Sea World, inside the costumes of Shamu and other walk-around characters. "I love it, I abso­lutely love it," she says, curled up in an out-of-shape bean bag chair on the floor of her dorm room, the walls of which are a conglomeration of Sea World posters and Indian World Series paraphernalia. 
"I Jove what I do. It's very fulfilling when I can make kids happy." Liptak enjoys interact­ing with the grown up kids in the park as well. "People bring picnics in and if I hang around enough, they'll offer me some­thing. It's like a gigantic tail­gate." 
So let me get this straight: You get to play with kids and annoy complete strangers out of food for pay? Can I do this? "Only after years of experience. It's an art form." 
Liptak is no stranger to per­forming. She is the only Saint Mary's student in the Notre Dame Chorale, an elite mixed ensemble that performs classi­cal vocal pieces. Liptak finished recording an album with the group in the Basilica last week and toured with them through several states during semester break. 
Her ties to the Notre Dame family run deep; two of her three older brothers attended ND. Scott, who graduated in 1988, served as president of the Notre Dame Glee Club his senior year, and Brian ('92), also a Clobber, spent his junior year as the Leprechaun. "They always supported my decision to attend Saint Mary's and were excited I wanted to come here," she says. 
Both brothers encouraged their little sister to audition for Chorale. "They enjoyed being in the Glee Club and told me since I couldn't join it-obviously­that I should go for Chorale. I 
'J love what I do. It's very fulfilling when I can make kids happy.' 
Kristin Liptak 
chickened out my freshman year, but last semester I got up my courage and auditioned. And it was the best thing I've ever done since I came here." 
Although she had participat­ed for twelve years in Singing Angels, an internationally tour­ing youth chorus based in Cleveland, Liptak admits to having developed a slight case of the nerves as she found her­self face to face with the Chorale's complex classical style. 
"I thought, 'What have I got­ten myself into?' I'd never sang like this before. But the music is almost more fun to sing than it is to listen to; I never thought I would enjoy the types of pieces we perform." 

Like any Saint Mary's student participating in an overwhelm­ing-in her case, very over­whelming-Domer-dense ac­tivity, Liptak experienced con­cerns about how she would fit in with her peers as she walked into her first practice in Crowley Hall. 
"I didn't know how they were going to accept me, but within a week I had made some great friends. We're a family. It demonstrates to me that you can't believe the stereotypes about Saint Mary's women and Notre Dame students not being able to get along." 
While music plays a signifi­cant role in her life, Liptak turned to other interests when deciding on her major. Her ex­perience at Sea World led her to declare a major in communications. "I never knew what I wanted to do, job-wise," she explains. "I started out with education, but the more classes I took the more I realized that it wasn't for me." 
Liptak began throwing polar career options-biology, physi­cal therapy, media studies­out on the table. "Then I finally sat down and figured out what I really like and which atmo­spheres I thrive in, and I real­ized that I want a public rela­tions job with a major amuse­ment park. Saint Mary's can help me reach that goal." 
"I love the idea of being able to remain a kid at heart no matter how old I get." 
H
ave no fear. we are back after a two week hiatus. First of all, L__ ,a-xy discovered that Celeste is her mother; however, Celeste has no intention of telling her who her father is (Stefano?). Will Lexy ever find out her real name is Alexandra Dimera Carter? Is this the secret that will bring down all of Salem? 
Kate's back! Yes folks. she's still chopping up the catch of the day somewhere in the big blue ocean. Fortunately for her, she has found a friend in fellow fiSherman Jose, who has vowed to help her escape. Kate has revenge in mind for Vivian who is ¢9p.tent at .~he moment with her growing coziness with Victor. 
1 _ 
Carrie and Austin are growing farther and farther apart, especially JlOW that the "brilliant" Austin has decided that Carrie and Lucas are having sex. He, the very perceptive Austin, figured this all out from a single phone call made to Carrie's hotel room where she was in the shower and Lucas answered. the phone. He just seems to get dumber every week. 
However, the rumor mills do say that Victor will eventually (after a possible affair between Sami and Austin -Yuk!) expose Sami's scheme and reunite Carrie and Austin. Sami's plan to be with Austin will not be helped when Will gets sick, needs a blood transfusion, and Lucas', not Austin's, blood matches. 
Once again Hope is presumed dead -a thoroughly exhausted story line. This time as a result of an avalanche and despite the frantic searching by Bo, John. Kristen. Peter, Jack and Jennifer. Unfortunately for Hope; Jude is the one who found her and as the commercial states, her nightmare has only just begun. 
It's a little surprising Hope didn't lose an ear or something to frost bite COQsidering Jennifer got hypothermia after being out­side for a few hours. We suppose it all boils down to the creative juices of th() Days' writing team. 
It seems as ifJohn's fate is now sealed due .to the discovery of a video in which Tony says that John will eventually kill him as he discovers his past. Actually it makes no sense, and the trial itself is more of a farce than anything else, but of course, Peter's 
·going to usethis to convict John. _­-The rumors on this one are that John will be convicted on February 9th, and even finds himself in the gas chamber on February 16th. But don't fret John lovers. he will be exonerated later this spring. In the meantime, however, this video has 
• ._"confirmed'' Kristen's doubts about John, and she is seriously considering the possibility that John did kill Tony. 
Before we go, we should set the record straight about Eileen Davidson (Kristen)'s true sex. It turns out she has always been a she. The rumor was started when a person who did have a sex change and looked remarkably similar to Kristen, showed up on talk shows around the country in the late '80s. Although rather manly, Kristen does have ovaries. 
What to look for this week: Stefano will find out the identity of the Lady in white on Monday, February 5th. Interestingly enough, rumor has it that it is John's mom. 
-Christina Fticsar and Erin Kelsey 
GENERAL HOSPITAL 
H
ello, friends and fellow GH junkies, welcome to the first in a weekly series of the whos, whats and whens of those zany Port Charles folks! Last week was just another example of the chaos they call everyday life. 
Plotting her revenge against Edward for having her Ned thrown in jail and taking over L&B, Lois, with the help of the very hot and very flirtatious Mr. Jax, plans on buying the phar­maceutical company Edward's had his heart set on for ages. She'll use this as a. bartering chip to get what she wants from Mr. Q. You'd think she'd know by now dealing with the Qfamily is never that easy. 
·Speaking of everyone's favorite Quartermaine, the nau­seatingly-perfect-turned-sarcastic-grump, Jason, lies in GH with a bad case of amnesia. Obviously his male instincts are still intact, as he spent some time this week hitting on prostitute­turned-nurse Bobbie, who promptly put him in his place. 
Meanwhile, Bobbie's lifelong nemesis, Lucy Coe, after having visions of Damien dance in her head, consulted the ever-truthful Madame Mia, who confessed to her part in Damien's scheme to tear the good Doc and Lucy apart. Mia helped Lu~y to channel her psychic powers, resulting in Lucy's conviction that Damien is, alas, alive and well in San Antonio. 
Mac, Katherine, Kevin and Justus (the busiest, and apparently only, lawyer in Port Charles) all had a good laugh at this one, until Friday when Felicia left a message for Mac saying she was flying to Texas in search of Damien. 
As for Tom and Felicia, a near-kiss in the attic after Tommy's safe ''return'' led to an intense discussion as to the exact nature of their relationship. After debating the friends-turned-lovers controversy, they decided to take things slow. This inspired Tom to give Simone the freedom and blessing she has been searching for since his return from Africa. Looks like some of that sexual tension between Tom and Felicia might actually be resolved. 
Meanwhile, Port Chuck's least favorite couple, Lily and Sonny, made it to the alter on Friday, much to the disbelief of Brenda (the one thing that girl needs more in her life than Sonny: a clue). 
Even after Miguel flew three thousand miles home to tell Brenda to let it go (worry not -he hopped right back on that plane to Colombia), Brenda showed up lurking at the church where Sonny and Lily were to become husband and wife. Minutes into the ceremony, however, Lily had her first pang of guilt and realized she could not force Sonny into a marriage his heart did not want. 
That is it for this week's edition of the happenings of Port Charles. Stay tuned for all the latest in Port Charles gossip. 
-Jennifer Rubow 

Monday, February 5, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Individual efforts spoiled in loss 
By lAURIE KELLEHER Spons Writer 
In their final dual meet of the season, the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving team held their own against The University of Indianapolis, a Division II school. 
Although the Belles lost the meet, they did a superb job keeping the meet tight. 
Many swimmers claimed their season's best times and placed well. Katie Rose, in her last dual meet of the season, placed first in the 200 backstroke. 
Shannon Kelleher led the Belles in the distance events, placing well in the 500 and 1000 freestyles. Sara Gillen placed first in both the 100 and 200 freestyles. The meet was the last dual meet for the seniors. 
"It was a good meet and we swam well," said senior Natalie Cheeseman. "We had fun so it wasn't so sad that it was my last dual meet. I'm looking for­ward to the Championships in three weeks." The Belles fin­ished the dual meet season with a record of (4-6). Many of their meets were close and against te.ams in higher divisions. 
"It was a challenging season," said senior Jen DiJack. "This meet was great to end my colli­giate career dual meet season with." 
The Belles final meet this sea­son is the Liberal Arts Championships which will take place Febuary 22-24. 


By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Reggie Miller left the shoot­ing to his teammates Sunday, taking only seven shots as the Indiana Pacers defeated the 
\New York Knicks 90-83 to ex· tend their franchise-record winningstreak at home to 17 games. 
"I really didn't have to (shoot)," Miller said after scoring 15 points with 10 
•NBA 

Pacers continue streak 
coming on free throws. 
The Knicks fell behind early as they shot ns frigidly as the below-zero temperatures out­side Market Square Arena. 
Ewing was New York's only effective offensive weapon early, scoring 13 points in the first half. He fmished with 22 points and 13 rebounds. 
The Paeers pulled away in the third quarter by hitting eight free throws in a 10-point spurt. 

The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
===N=O=T=I=C=ES===' 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www.springbreaktrav­el.com 1-800-678-6386--­
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Daytona $139! http://www .springbreaktrav­el.com. 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
HELP! Someone must of picked up my green, down winter coat Friday night after a party in 518 Flanner on accident. It is waist length and has mittens in the pockets along with some computer disks. If you did or know someone who found it, PLEASE call Mary at x1496. A.S.A.P. Thank you. 
MISSING: Long, dark green L.L. Bean coat. Last seen Thurs. 1125 at the Linebacker. If you have it, or if you are missing a similar jacket-1 found a similar one the same evening-please call Kim at x4946. 
FOUND: Dark green Columbia ski jacket. Found at Linebacker, 1/25. Please call Kim at x4946. 
I lost my favourite scarf between Newland Science Hall and the post office last thursday. It is dark green and has a checkered pat­tern on it. Please, please, please call Chis at 4-1697 if you happen to find it. 
=I==~=~=N=T=E=D=== 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students PART-TIME WORK. 1 0.25/start Flexible hours around classes. All majors. Scholarships/Internships CALL 282-2357 
COUNSELORS, COACH­ES: Outstanding Maine girls camp has summer opportu­nities for mature Counselors and Coaches: Tennis, Soccer, Softball, Volleyball, Baksetball, PE Majors, Gymnastics, Lifeguards, WSI, Waterskiing, Sailing, Canoeing, Pioneering, Ropes, Piano Accompaniast, AN's and Video. Accent is on fun and quality instruction. High salary plus travel allowance. Send resume to Camp Pinecliffe, 277 South Cassingham Road, Columbus, OH 43209. 
FREET-SHIRT + $1000 Credit Card fundraisers for fraternities, sororities, & groups. Any campus organization can raise up to $1000 by earning a whopping $5.00/ VISA application. Call 1-800-932-0528 ext. 
65. Qualified callers receive FREET-SHIRT. 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversa­tional English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more information call: (206) 971­3570 ext. J55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonus­es! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experi­ence necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 ext A55843 SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP -ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 
WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings. 
???????????????????? NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUMMER? GREAT APARTMENT TO SUBLET -TWO BATH, TWO BED­ROOMS, ETC. AVAIL­ABLE JUNE-AUGUST. CALL 273-1738. ???????????????????? 
Looking for a part-time babysitter, very flexible with hours and days in my Granger home for 2 chil­dren ages 1 and 3. If inter­ested, call273-2695. 
CAMP EBERHART, THREE RIVERS, MI. LOOKING FOR MATURE, HARDWORKING, RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDU· ALS FOR OUTDOOR EDU­CATION PROGRAM. EXPERIENCE PRE· FEARED, (WILL TRAIN HOWEVER). MID MARCH TO JUNE. POTENTIAL FOR SUMMER & FALL EMPLOYMENT. $140PW INCLUDING ROOM & BOARD. CALL 616 244­5125 
Summer jobs available near Glacier National Park. The Park Cafe & Grocery in St.Mary, Montana, east entrance to Glacier, has positions open in cafe, gift, & grocery store, and gas station. Call Kathryn day­time; 406-587-1816 for info. 
Need caring, qualified per­son to babysit pt in our home. Need own trans. M & w. 273-9512 
Help! Anyone who has 
recordings or pictures (or 
negatives) from the Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch Silver (I played a 
song on stage) 277-2174 Deliver Telephone Books Earn Extra Money No Experience Now Hiring People needed to deliver your new America's Best Book Telephone Directories in So. Bend New Carlisle Mishawaka Granger Osceola Elkhart Bristol Goshen Millersburg Nappanee Wakarusa Lakeville Walkerton No. Liberty & Surrounding Areas To become an inde­pendent contractor you must be 18 years or older Use an insured car van or truck & available a min. of 5 daylight hours daily To reserve a route in your neighborhood Call. 1-800­827-1200 Job #1101 B 1 Oam-6pm Mon/Fri ADSCorp EOE 
Teachers Wanted! -If you love teaching -If you really love teaching -Have the desire to learn all types of software & build your knowledge -Willing to "study" on your own time -Willing to work as a Sub-contract trainer 
• Would like to make "above" average pay -Interested in variable assignments Please list any software you are proficient at: Send resume to: SS Innovations 300 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46601 Fax: 219-237-9447 
FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY 219-291· 7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME. CLOSE TO CAM­PUS. SAFE NEIGHBOR­HOOD. USE OF ALL UTILI· TIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL 232-2794. 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer AM/FM Stereo­
Amp-Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. 
100 Watts of tunes! Call John at 232-2955 today! 

1984 FORD TEMPO 5-spd manual transmission 96,000 miles, good heater, always dependable $800 Call Chris today at 271­0271! 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bed­room ranch with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. $154,900. Call Karen 272-3653. 
ALUMNI MANY BEDROOMS 10 MINUTES TO CAM­PUS SALE OR TRADE 812-923-8486 
'89 BERETIA, V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, cruise, front-wheel drive, air. 
Excellent condition, new front tires & exhaust sys­tem, and new shocks. Call 654-7439 (local call). 
·I TICKETS 
Need 4 Seton Hall GAs Call Ellie 4-1325 
need ST JOHNS tix call 2342 
WILL PAY BIG$ FOR MACBETH TIX; CALL BEN AT X1563. 
PERSONAL 

0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a 0a0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICK­
LY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student 
Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0c0c0c0a0c0c0c0c 0a0 
International Film Festival "The Promise" 
tonight in Cushing Auditorium Montgomery Theatre 

"Tatie Daniells" Feb 6 "EI Mariachi" Feb 7 "Like Water For Chocolate" Feb 8 All movies at 7:30 ... $2.00 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at 

THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# {219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Angie, Hork it, baby, hork it, hork it... 
SLOTH-LIKE ONE! 
SMC-ND 23RD ANNUAL SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21) AND ROME (JUNE 16· JULY 15) TRAVEL IN IRELAND, scon. FR., GER., SWITZ., AND ITALY COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC, HIST., BIO., SOC., AND ITALIAN. MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CARROLL HALL (SMC)­INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460/ 272-3729. 
HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH!!! 
PLACE YOUR VALEN­TINE'S DAY CLASSIFIED ADS-NOW!! 
* * * * • * * * * 
I had scrambled egg cake and I yacked in Europe ... 
If you haven't gotten a Lewis Hall Grab 'n Go Bag then you're missing out on the chance to get a ton of yummy chocolate chip granola bars! Bags will be on sale 2/6&2/7 at both dining halls. Don't miss out!! 
I need two copies of that script--one to take a dump on, one to wipe my butt with. 
Hey, do you like Coconuts? 
Hey, do you like oysters? 
Hey, do you like a cannon ball in your pants? 
Don't be ashamed to admit it--lots of people do. 
Joe Riley really knows how to dance 
LisaLand LisaLand Lisa Land LisaLand LisaLand 
Haybabywhushappeninles groove! 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 5, 1996 
• Cou.EGE BASKETilAU. 

No.I UMass, No. 3 Kansas survive Irish women come 
Associated Press 
Another close call, another win for No. 1 Massachusetts. 
The only unbeaten major school kept its record perfect Sunday by winning its third overtime game in the last nine. Marcus Camby's free throw gave UMass a two-point lead, and Edgar Padilla stole away Xavier's final chance for a 78­74 victory. 
UMass l21-0, 9-0 Atlantic 10) had to go to overtime again, but that's where the Minutemen seem to come up with their best moments. They've won their last 10 overtime games dating to the 1991 National Invitation 
-· Tournament. That was the case again Sunday against Xavier (9-9, 5­3), which led virtually the en­tire game and missed three shots that could have won it in the closing seconds of regula­tion. UMass never trailed in over­time. Donta Bright's free throw and a tip by Tyrone Weeks put UMass ahead 71-68, and the best Xavier could do was tie on a 3-pointer by Darnell Williams. Weeks hit two free throws for a 75-73 lead. After Lenny Brown hit one free throw, Camby matched it for a 76-74 lead with 13 seconds left. Padilla then stole the ball and fed Charlton Clarke for a last­second layup. Camby had 26 points, his best total in four games back after his fainting spell. and Bright added 21. Kevin Carr led Xavier with 17. Xavier turned the game into a special event -the first ap­pearance of a No. 1 team in Cincinnati in 33 years. The school introduced a new cos­tumed mascot during a first­half timeout and at halftime re­tired the jersey of former Xavier star Tyrone Hill, now a Cleveland Cavalier. Feeding off the capacity crowd of 10,118, the Musketeers came out and dom­inated. Xavier pulled away to a 23-12 lead -the biggest lead any Atlantic 10 team has held over UMass this season -by slowing the Minutemen with a 
full-court press and hitting open shots. 
Massachusetts shot just 33 percent in the first half and failed to take advantage of its huge height advantage. The 6­foot-11 Camby towered over Xavier's front line, which in­cludes just one player as tall as 6-foot-8, but his shots repPat­edly rimmed out. 
Camby hit just 3 of 12 m the first half and missed his first four attempts while Xavier pulled out to the big lead. 
Even when Carr, Xavier's 6­foot-8 center, went to the bench with his second foul midway through the half. UMass couldn't get the close-in shots to fall. 
Neither team led by more than 5 points in a back-and­forth second half that featured six ties. 
Carr's basket put Xavier ahead 67-62 with 2:47 to go, but UMass caught up in the fi­nal minute. Bright had a tip-in and Padilla's 3-pointer tied it at 68 with 15 seconds left. Xavier missed two shots in the closing seconds, sending it to overtime. 
Kansas 72, Kansas State 62 
Raef LaFrentz scored 24 points and Paul Pierce had 12 of his 14 points in the second half as No. 3 Kansas held off Kansas State 72-62 Sunday. 
LaFrentz scored on a fast­break layup with 5:37 to play and was fouled. Kansas State coach Tom Asbury called time­out before LaFrentz could shoot the free throw, and was given a technical when he walked to halfcourt to protest the foul call. 
LaFrentz completed the three-point play and Ryan Robertson made one of two free throws for Kansas (18-1, 6-0 Big Eight). 
B.J. Williams then hit a jumper for a 63-50 lead over Kansas State (14-6, 5-3) with just over five minutes remain­ing. 
Elliot Hatcher scored 30 points for Kansas State. His 3­pointer with 2:51 to play brought the Wildcats within 65­56, but that was as close as 
"Is Co.-n.-nunity Service an Acade1nic?" and "Tailoring a Social Conscience; Classroo.-n Alreraeions" 
The MeaningofCommunity in Today's World" "Real Community Projects" ':Advocacy" "Community Based Social Work" "The New Community" 
they got. 
The Wildcats led 34-30 at halftime in the emotionally charged game. but Pierce sparked a 13-3 run at the start of the second half that put the Jayhawks in control. 
Syracuse 81, Alabama 68 
Otis Hill scored eight of his 17 points during a key second­half run as No. 18 Syracuse recovered after wasting a 22­point lead and held off Alabama for an 81-68 victory Sunday. 
Syracuse (16-6) led by 16 at intermission and was still lead­ing 58-44 with 13:44 to play when Alabama scored 10 straight points, five by Anthony Brown on two offensive re­bounds and a foul shot. 
Alabama (11-7) made it 60­57 on a 3-pointer by Eric Washington with 10:44 to play but Syracuse, sparked by Hill, outscored the Tide 14-4 over the next five minutes to push its lead back to 74-6 with 5:02 re­maining. 
Todd Burgan also had 17 for Syracuse, while John Wallace and Jason Cipolla each added 
15. It was a career high for Cipolla. 
Marco Whitfield had 23 to top Alabama, which lost for the fourth time in six games since upsetting Mississippi State 66­65 on Jan. 13. Washington fin­ished with 20. 
A 3-pointer by Washington gave Alabama a 7-6 lead four minutes into the game but Wallace and Marius Janulis sank back-to-hack 3-pointers to ignite the· Orangemen, who al­lowed only Thalamus McGhee's hook and a reverse dunk by Roy Rogers over the next 10 minutes. 

from behind for win 
By BRIDGET CASEY Sports Writer 
The Irish swimmers took their show on the road this weekend, heading south to face the Salukis of Southern Illinois University. The Irish women emerged from the meet with a come from behind victory to keep their dual meet record unscathed in 1996, escaping with a 151 to 146 decision. The Irish men could not match the depth of the talented SIU squad falling to the Salukis 157 to 127. 
"It was definitely an exciting win. It came down to the last relay and Courtney South had an amazing anchor leg to pre­serve the win", commented captain Joy Michnowicz. 
Individual results found the Irish women in first place in nine of thirteen events. Junior Erin Brooks extended her win streak it1 the backstroke events capturing the 100 in 58.53 and the 200 in 2:06.99. 
Sophomore Linda Gallo also won two events placing first in the 1000 Freestyle (10.19.64) and the 500 Freestyle (5:03.04) in addition to her contributions to the victorious last relay, combining with Karen Day lor. Rachel Thurston and Courtney South for the win. 
Individually. South also cap­tured the 100 Free in a quick time of 52.38. 
On the men's side the Irish came up short against the bal­anced attack of the talented SIU squad. Individually, senior captain Tim Sznewajs came up with a victory in the 500 Freestyle finishing in 4:46.57, followed in third place by fel­low senior Dave Doherty in 4:53.03. 
Freshman Scott Zumbach led an Irish sweep in the 200 Individual Medley finishing in 
1:56.95 followed by freshman Jeff Page in 1:57.31, Doherty in 
1:59.48 and junior Matt Rose in 1:59.81. 
Hose also captured the 200 Breaststroke in 2:10.75 leading another Irish sweep with Steele Whowell. James Leverty and Ryan Schroeder finishing sec­ond, third and fourth respec­tively. 
The Irish host Big East rival UConn this weekend in their last dual meet of the season, followed by their debut in the Big East championships in two weeks. 

Have you considere the Holy Cross Candidate Year? 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: Tuesday, February 6th 7 PM in the Flanner Hall Pit 
Members of this years's Candidate Class will share their own experiences and answer any questions you may have. 
Or you may call Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. at 6;~ 
Monday, February 5, 1996 
Casualties 
continued from page 20 
contain lvPrson. 
It was that kind of day for the Irish. 
Tlw kind of day that seems to have haunted tlwir limited Big East existence. Momentum has been more elusive for the Irish than Iverson. 
And just as devastating. 
Notre I>anw hoped to use its victory at St. .John's to start a winning streak. According to lloyas coach .John Thompson, its effect was just tlw opposite. 
"Notrtl Dame's beating St. John's helped us, lweause that's a wakeup call for our team," he commPntPd. 
"I didn't have to givn as many speeches in praeticll this week, berause the kids knew that St. .John's just wore us out." 
Tlw transitive property. though, has never held in tlw world of sports, and it was the Irish who Iwedml a wakeup call on Saturday. 
Tlw Irish learned the hard way that in confer­ence play, a win in the past makes you a bigger target in the future. 
Cllrtainly going on the road and upsetting a top ten tllam is a Jot to ask, but tlw Irish never gave thmnselves a chance against Georgetown. 
Despite a sloppy first half. the lloyas went into the break with a comfortable 15 point cushion dtw partly to lvnrson's heroies, but more to woe­ful Notre Dame shooting. 
Tlw Irish wnre 0-8 from beyond the arc in the first half. For a team with only one threat in the post, thatiwmiHlr spells disaster. 
Yet it was Notre Dame's emo­tional apathy that truly set the tone. 
Perhaps the cavernous dark­ness of USAir Arena sapped the enthusiasm out of the team. Whatever the cause, though, the Irish never looked like they were there to upset a top ten team. 
Early action seemed promis­ing, as John MacLeod unchar­acteristically drew a technical early on, and Pat Garrity leveled Vietor Page with a vicious, though legal, pick. The fire never spread. 
There were no raised fists to ehallenge Iverson's grand­standing. Rather. the Notre Dame players seemed content to let him dictate the pace of the game and be the sole source of drama.After the eight minute mark of the first half, the Irish 

got no closer than nine points. L--~,___..;_~_.....:.;_________~~~--_:..,.;.-"-_..:..:.:.:.......:.;_..i;__ _;__ _j 
, The Observer/Mike Norbut 
1 here was no retort, only slow Sophomore Derek Manner gets help after tripping over an announcer's cord during the suffocation. second half. He finished with 11 points. 
It was painful to watch. The Irish with 13 points. "You hateeffort was there, but without the emotion to 

I • h 
to see the guy hit a 40-footerehannel it, it often became misdirected. ns off the glass." 
Or even comical, as exemplified by Derek The shot was an emphatic

Manner's swan dive into the bench that included continued from page 20 
closing to the only half-open
the dismantling of the announcer's microphone. 

Georgetown visited the Joyce window of opportunity the IrishAs Matt Gotsch noted, the Irish will now have Center two weeks ago. That had all day. 
to "skip over this game and carry the momentum was a game in which the Irish The sequence of failure start­

on to the next." kept it close the entire 40 min­ed when Garrity missed the
Except that momentum needs a force to initiate utes before falling 7 4-69. front end of a one-and-one,it, and right now Notre Dame is still searching 

The scarce USAir Arena which could have cut
for that force. 

crowd in attendance Saturday Georgetown's lead to single 
didn't get quite the same ex­digits. Iverson answered with 

perience in terms of intensity. five points in the final 20 sec­
"Being on the road versus onds to put down the feeble being at home in any league is Irish insurrection. a big difference," Thompson "I don't know if he intended said. to bank it," Irish coach John 
"But it wasn't an easy win. MacLeod said. "But it was part What appears easy to someone of a five-point swing. An eight­observing is often difficult to point half became a 15-point those participating." half." 
It was indeed difficult for the But even an eight-point half Irish (7-11, 2-9), whose rushed may have been insurmountable shots and inability to convert for the Irish. who often found on open jumpers translated themselves suffocated by the into a 38 percent field goal per­lloyas pressure and fast-break centage. style. 
The lloyas (19-3, 9-2) shot "They're not an easy team to only slightly better at 42 per­play catch-up against," cent. but it didn't matter. espe­MacLeod continued. "We had cially with Allen Iverson on the difficulty running our offense. 
floor. We forced the issue a bit." 
The sophomore poured in 27 Georgetown had more points while collecting seven blocked shots and more rebounds and four assists. The rebounds than did Notre Dame, most devastating aspect of his as its defense also held Irish 
game, though, was a 40-foot senior Ryan Hoover to just four buzzer-beater before the half, points in 15 minutes. extending Georgetown's lead to Derek Manner finished with 
15. 11 points while Phil Hickey, 
"It was tough," said Irish for­who made the trip to Landover ward Pat Garrity, who led the by car. had seven. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 

Cary GrantandAudreyHepburn star In 
CHARADE 

directed by Stanley Donen $2 Adults. $1 Students 

page 16 Monday, February 5, 1996
The Observer· SPORTS 


Alma's shooting inferno too much for beleaguered Belles 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Frustrated and tired, the Belles returned home Saturday night after surrendering to Alma College, 80-51. 
"Alma (15-4) is the best team we played all season," Coach Marvin Wood said. "Our girls hustled the entire game but Alma played a flawless game." 
Alma shot an incredible 70% Wood said. "Alma went out to a 20 point lead and we were out of it." 
Wood attributes the loss to the strength of Alma rather than the fault of his team. 
"We should feel good because we played our best and hustled throughout the game," he said. "However, we ran into a hot team on a hot night." 
Seniors Barb Howell and Jennie Taubenheim finished the game in double figures. Howell had 12 and six rebounds while Taubenheim added 11 and six assists. 

"We didn't do anything wrong," Taubenheim said. "We played hard. They were just able to put the ball in the bas­ket more often." 
The Belles' next battle will be in front of ESPN's cameras Tuesday against Lake Forest. 
Last year Saint Mary's led 
Lake Forest at the half, but lost three players to foul trouble and fell in the last four minutes. 
"Lake Forest is tough every year," Taubenheim said. "They are a strong, physical team. We have to work on not getting frustrated by that. We must match their strength." 
The game takes place on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility. A pep rally will begin at 6 p.m. 


Recruits 
continued from page 20 
and Wisne, four more were added to the Parade All­American list: defensive back Mario Strayhorn, running backs Autry Denson and Jamie Spencer, and linebacker Jimmy Friday. 
Yet, even with such acco­lades, the Class of 1999 failed to satisfy two glaring needs, wide receiver and cornerback. With the decision to deny admission to Moss due to acad­emic concerns, the void at wide out became more apparent in the 1995 season when the Irish lacked a second go to receiver. Quarterback Ron Powlus in times of desperation was forced to lock onto a tripled teamed Derrick Mayes in order to move the offense. 
In the defensive backfield the 
Irish started three seniors, 
Shawn Wooden, Brian Magee 
and LaRon Moore, and relied 
on a former walk-on Mark 
Monohan in the nickel and 
in the first half, and finished the game at 64%. 
After witnessing Alma's accu­rate shooting ability, the Belles' defense pushed their opponents behind the perimeter. However, Alma responded with four 3-pointers in a row. 
At halftime, the Belles tried to shed Alma's 14 point lead, but watched them hit seven straight buckets instead. 
"Then the girls lost their zip," 
dime packages. 
In 1996, Mayes, Wooden, Magee, Moore, and Monohan will all be gone. The Irish were able to squeak by without sign­ing a top notch receiver or cor­nerback last year, but this year that will not be the case. 
If they don't fill these desper­ate needs, Lou Holtz may dread the forward pass that Knute Rockne helped create. For the offense won't have the targets to implement the pass, and the defense won't have the cover­age to deny it. 
As Wednesday approaches the Irish may have met one of these needs, but the other is still unclear. They have re­ceived verbal commitments from one of the top receivers in the country, Raki Nelson, and four other players with the height, ability and hands to lend depth to this once promi­nent position. 
The difference between a National Championship team and the team of 1994 relies on only one thing. Signing receivers and cornerbacks. 


&READ THIS (ALL MAJORS) 
Interested •
1n the Following? 

• International Internship Opportunities This summer we had over 45 interns in more than 15 countries. You could be one next summer. Intern with these firms: Citibank, Waterford Crystal, Honeywell, KPMG, Market Access, ABB, National Governor's Assoc., 
Heinz and more.. cities: Dublin, Prague, London, Stuttgart, Frankfurt and more... 

• 
Conducting International Market Research & Consulting 

• 
Teaching English and Business in Developing Countries such as: Estonia, Honduras, Lithuania, and Poland 

• 
Meeting Leaders in Education, Business, and Government from acro$s the Globe 


Find it all in the 

Council on International Business Development, 
the University's largest academic student organization. Find out what we're all about. Come to our Open Meeting, Feb. 5, Debartolo 102 at 7:30 pm. We welcome all majors and all classes. 
·-----------­

Monday, February 5, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS 
"They were prepared, and we utes remaining in the half, Peirick tiedWo01en weren't," said Irish center Katryna the score by hitting two free throws. For Gaither. "They really got pumped up for the remainder of the game, however, continued from page 20 this game. They've improved since the Rutgers dominated the Irish to build a last time we played. They also had a big double-digit margin. Game-high scorer thnw games. advantage by playing on their home Kristen Somogyi contributed 19 points in The Irish shot an uncharacteristic 37.7 court." a winning effort. percent from the field, including 18.2 The Irish kept the score close for much Despite the disappointing loss, the percent from three-point range. One of of the first half, which resulted in five Irish consider this game a positive wake­the few bright spots in the Irish loss was lead changes. Nearly six minutes into up call that could be beneficial as they the play of sophomore Mollie Peirick. the first half, Gaither picked up her sec­play during the home stretch of the reg­Peiriek led the team with 14 points, ond foul. Head coach Muffet McGraw ular season. inducting a perfect 4 of 4 from the chari­decided to pull Gaither from the game "We can't think that any game is auto­ty stripe. and save her until the second half. matic. Anybody can beat you in the Big "It was just one of those nights. They Meanwhile, the Irish struggled to stay East. There are always teams that can were hitting everything. It also hurt us a even with Hutgers. At halftime, the Irish surprise us. This game was a mental lot when Katryna [Gaither) got into foul trailed 28-24. check for us. We can use this game to trouble. We could have played better In the early moments of the second help us in the future," said Gaither. def1mstJ, too," commented l'eirick. half, the Irish mounted a comeback and "The only way to look at this game is All of these problems were too much grabbed the lead on a three-point positively. This game was a wake-up for the Irish to overcome. Hutgers shot jumper by Peirick. Rutgers fought back call for us," stated Peirick. "Every game 63.6 percent from three-point territory, and regained the lead because of bas­is tough, especially away games. We and shot better than 48 percent from the kets from Liz Hanson and Jennifer need to bring our game to the next level. field. Clemente. With more than fifteen min-That starts in practice." 


The Observer/Dave Murphy Guard Mollie Peirick scored 14 points in a losing cause Saturday . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice will be held Monday and Wednesday at 10:15 pm at Loftus beginning January 
29. Mandatory informa· tiona! meeting February 5 at 
9:15 in the Notre Dame Hoom Lafortune. Questions, call Allison 239-7924. 
ESPN will be filming the Saint Mary•s basketball game vs. Lake Forest (7 pm) on Tuesday, Feb. 6. There will be a pop rally before the game beginning at 6 pm. Please come and show your SMC spirit. 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance 
· class will offered on monday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30 • 7:45 in Hockne Rm. 219. All levels are wel­come, but space is limited. You must register in ad­vance in the RecSporl<> office and the fee is $30. For more info .• call 1-6100. Open to all NO students, fac­ulty, and staff. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7 pm in LaFortune. All levels wei· come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236-7266. . 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students of Notre Dame or St. Mary's who are inter­ested in intercollegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason at 4-1065. 
Archery Mini-course: RecSports will be sponsoring an Archery mini-course on Tuesday and Wednesday, February 6 & 7 from 7-9 pm. 

$219 $229 $229 Madrtd $249 Amstenlam $249 Rome $309 Prague $319 
F•K••oachway tom Oicago bastld on rOU'd I'll 
p..r<tla~~. RtolridJono aW(,IillH not ird..dld n:t 
1ar11 subject to change ard/or milabllity. 
Clll to.Uy fill othM worldwldt dtllinttlolll. 
[ij,iiiifijiiTravel ~ 
CtEEo Courx!l oo !J>I•nullooal Eduoollonol E>d>aac• 
1-800-2-COUNC/l 
N-BOD-226-86241 
Calllodav for a00 
Student Ttalleismagazinel 

Monday, February 5, 1996 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 
UIC, Michigan State feast on slumping Irish 
Playoff berth in jeopardy after disastrous weekend for Notre Dame 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
Nothing short of a complete disaster. 
Perhaps that is the best way to describe a weekend which featured a choke, disappoint­ment, and humiliation all rolled into one. 
Just when it seemed the Notre Dame hockey team was heading in the right direction, they suffered through a 24 hour nightmare. It began when the Irish blew a three goal lead in a 5-3 defeat at the hands of Illinois-Chicago on Friday and ended when they were crushed 7-1 by Michigan State on the following night. 
"Losing the way we did this weekend was disappointing to say the least," said junior cen­ter Terry Lorenz. "With Michigan State, it was a case of running into a tough team who was on a bit of a roll. But los­ing to a team like VIC, who we know we are better than, is pretty frustrating." 
When the Irish visited UIC on 
Friday, they anticipated getting an easy victory under their belt before traveling to East Lansing. 
After all, the Flames had dropped six straight games and had a lease on the basement of the CCHA standings. 
And after surging to a 3-0 lead, Notre Dame began plan­ning how they were going to spend their long bus ride to MSU. 
However, the Flames had other ideas. The conference's lowest scoring team suddenly became an offensive juggernaut midway through the second period, reeling off five unan­swered goals to cruise to a 5-3 victory. 
"I think we got away from 
what we were doing, and that 
really hurt us," said senior cen­
ter Jamie Ling. 
"It's especially frustrating 
because it was a team that we 
had beaten and knew we could 
beat. We just have to play a 
consistent 60 minutes of hock­
ey." 
Junior left wing Tim 
Harberts, who was the lone 
bright spot in a dreary week­
end, got the Irish on the board 
just two minutes into the first 
period. 
Defenseman Brian McCarthy 
found Harberts open in front of -the net, and the third year for­ward took advantage of it, slid­ing the puck past Flames goal­tender Adam Lord for his sixth goal of the season. 
"It's disappointing when you lose, no matter how you play individually," said Harberts. "They came out ready to play after we took the early lead, and I think we were a little re­laxed. They made us pay for it... 
Just over a minute later, se­nior center Jamie Morshead, after receiving a pass from sel­dom used forward Chris Bales, found the back of the net for his sixth goal of the season. Morshead helped extend the Irish lead to 3-0 when he set up Harberts for his second goal of the evening. 
With the three-goal lead over the anemic VIC offense, one would have thought that the Irish would have been able to pack up their equipment and get a good night's sleep. 
Well, although Notre Dame 
appeared to try, it didn't quite 
work out the way they were 
anticipating. 
Five different players scored 
in the final 30 minutes as the 
Flames participated in an Irish 
choke that put their CCHA play­
off hopes in jeopardy. 
"We know we have to beat 
the teams that are under us in 
the standings, but we didn't do 
it," said Lorenz. "With the 
playoffs coming up, it puts that 
much more pressure on us to 
beat some of the tougher teams 
left on our schedule." 
Disheartened and frustrated 
from the loss at UIC, the Irish 
never even challenged 
Michigan State on Saturday. 

The first place Spartans jumped out to a 4-0 lead and never looked back, rolling to a 7-1 victory before 6529 spectators at Munn Ice Arena. 
Once again, Harberts was the lone source of life on a corpse­like Notre Dame squad. He scored the lone goal for the Irish after receiving a pass through defensemen Garry Gruber and Justin Theel. 
"He had a good weekend, but we needed more people to step up, and we didn't get it," said Ling. 
"We needed to get a win to help our position in the play­offs. That's what makes this weekend so frustrating." 
It was a disaster, to say the least. 


Toastmasters Meeting: Toastmasters will meet TUESDAY nights at 7PM in 220 Hayes-Healy. Come and become more comfortable speaking in a relaxed environment. Everyone Welcome. 
Open House: Attention everyone! The NO Women's Resource Center will be having its Spring tomorrow, FEB. 6, from 3-6PM. 
Winter Defiance Dance: Flip Side is sponsoring the Winter Defiance Dance in LaFortune Ballroom, SATURDAY, FEB. I0, from IOPM to 2AM. Wear shorts and forget about the frigid South Bend weather. 
'Jus Vitae" & ''Born/Unborn':· ND Right-to-Life is spon­soring the production THURSDAY, FEB. 8, at 7:00PM in Washington Hall to benefit the Women's Care Center. 
This service is provided for you by tire Club Coordination Coundl. 6314078 206 LaFortune 


Are you gay or lesbian? Are you uncertain about your sexuality? 
You are welcome and you belong at Notre Dame Campus Ministry welcomes you and invites you to join us and with each other come talk about... 
...your questions and concerns  ...your faith  
...talking about your sexuality  ...what's going right;  
with family and friends  what's going wrong  

all conversations confidential 
For more information, please call Kate Barrett (1-5242) Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. (1-7800/1-5606) Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. (1-6777) 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


Monday, February 5, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

JOE MARTIN 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY niRTHDAY! IN THE know where finances are concerned. NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Seek expert advice in unfamiliar The emphasis is on exploring new areas. Dislanl affairs hold promise ideas. You are asked 10 make far-despile rumors. reaching business decisions in early VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. ~~): spring. Travel or new s1udies will Group suppon and oulside exp<ns boosl your earning polenlial. July help you jump over professional brings glad lidings and grealer per-hurdles. Co-workers will app~Ciale sonal fulfillrriem. Romance takes on your effons even if an aulhorily tig­a golden glow when you spend more ure queslions it lime with panner. Nexl November, LIBRA (Sept 23-0cl. 22): Per­focus on solidifying a valuable busi-sonal relalionships have their ups ness relalionship. Family lies will be and downs. Do nol frel. Work is slrenglhened by lhe even Is of _very rewarding! Consider :he words 
I 1-\A\JE. OISCOVE.RE.D \HE. CP-.U5E Or YOUR 
I'ROJE.C.T OELA"<S. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Most August births
1 Macaroni or 
32 Tater
cannelloni 33 Author Umberto 
6 Socialist Eugene 34 Nineveh was its
10 Rainbows 
cap.
14 Illinois city 
36 Young fellows 
15 "--a man with 39 Learned
seven ..." 16 Dove or Dial 
41 Consumed 
44. Emcee Jay 
17 Locale for King Arthur 45 Trunk item 19Japanese 47 Word with sports wrestling or squad 20 Artist Magrine 48 Ballroom dance 21 Playing marbles motions 23 Prefix with natal 51 Get the wrinkles 24 Curses 
out 
52 Cathedral city 53 Shoe part 20 Kind of cry ss Pizza part 
26 "I be~ your 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
December. A rela1ive makes a won­derful pledge. 
CELEBRITIES !lORN ON TillS DAY: home run king Hank Aaron, financial columnist Jane Bryanl Quinn, singer Bobby Brown, aclress Jennifer Jason Leigh. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 

Oihers are couming on your leader­ship. Do all you can to make up for lost lime. relying on your own resources as much as possible. Per­severe in your efforls 10 advance your career aims. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be prepared 10 roll up your sleeves and buckle down Ia work. OUiside con­1ac1s and resources help you sell a ma'or proposal. Your business asso­ciales show you new respecl. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A bold approach will impress someone innuenlial. A greal idea gels lhe green ligh1! Cupid could show up al work. Romance needs a new angle. Sil back and let lhings develop al lheir own pace. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romanlic panner could ask some inleresling ques1ions. Take sleps 10 provide for your financial fUiure. Go 
~----------------------~Gr-------------------------­over savings and checking accoums; you could find a mislake 1ha1 needs 
.. 
SOMEBODY IN THIS z 

correcling.\-\£."( 1 l t-\~0£. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Calch
ROOM IS f... PIECE 0~ E u 

up on de1ail work and correspon-
SOME CI\LLS 

dence. You should slick 10 whal you 
DEADWOOD PRE..TE.~D­
lNG TO B[ fl... 1\NO I'M WAiliNG FOR
CONTRIBUTOR! 
of an older relalive before makmg 
an imponan1 decision. 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. ~1): Allow exira lime for a journey, especially if !raveling by car. Unex­peeled delays are possible. You belong in Ihe limelighl. Look for ways lo showcase your special lai­enL,, 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Exercise reslraim when dealing wilh career and financial maners. More infonnalion is needed. Your loved ones' behavior provides clues lo !heir slale of mind. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pu1 your besl fool for~ ard when dealing wilh people "ho know you well. Do nol bum ~our bridges where former employers and co-workers are concerned. A con­versalion wilh a panner strenglhens a valuable bond. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Changes at place of employment will work in your favor. Be alen 10 lhe danger of laking unnecessary risks. Gelling logelher wilh old friends lonighuhould prove highly enjoyable. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20>: A good day lo form an alliance "uh someone whose 1alen1s complemenl your own. A join1 Slralegy holds great promise. Your showing a give­and-lake spiril will slabili7.e an alla~r oflhe hean. 


DILBERT 
INFOAAP-.TIOt-i! 

• OF INTEREST 
Paul Loeb, author of "Generation at the Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the American Campus," will give a presentation Tuesday night in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. A reception will fol­
. low. The lecture is sponsored by the Center for Soeial Concerns along with many other campus organiza­tions. 
570p.­(footnote abbr.) sa Beach robe 

•MENU 
60 "Listen!" 64 Summers on the 

Notre Dame 
Riviera 66 Kind of 

Call 631·0111 for menu information 
tournament &a Russia's -­

Saint Mary's 
Mountains &9 Puppeteer Tony 

BBQ spareribs 
70 "AI,! kidding-­

Chopped Beef Steak Lyonnaise Potatoes 
71 Molasseslike 72 Gen. Rob!. -­73 Cacklers 

Celebrate a
DOWN 
1 Catherine-­(Henry VIII's sixth) 
2 Skin soother 3 Stupefy 
friend's 
4Sounded sAlsa 6 Doctors' 



49 Muscle-builder's 59 Young horse pride 61 His Rose was 

birthday with so Not plentiful Irish 53 Become frozen 62 Clears (of) 54 Explosive 63 Pants part 56 "--were the &sWily 
days, my friend" 67 Old piano tune 
a special 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Observer ad. 
determinations 
7 Diplomat's post 
a Boxer's trophy 
9 Soaks, as 
teabags 10 Silly one 11 Waltz or reel 12 Engraved gem 13 Act Iavey-dovey 10 Most 
domesticated 22 Silly one 2sJai-­27 Reign 2&Grope 29 Good-sized 
plot 30 Cut of beef 35 Adjust 37 Kind of exhaust 38 Limber 40 "Go ahead!" 42 In the vicinity 43 Sawbucks 46Film 
• 


~------------------­
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 5, 1996 



.. 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT mated program to it's past prominence. This Assistam Sports Editor Wednesday another twenty-five young playersBy TODD FITZPATRICK Dame 73-62. The Lady Knights will sign to play for the Irish. 
Sports Writer headed into this weekend's 
Some call it the second most popular sport on They will try to complement, and -if possi­contest with an unimpressive 7­campus, a sport within a sport. It's been ble-exceed the Class of 1999. Last year the11 overall record, including a
After cruising through the accused of causing a cult following that believes Irish corralled USA Today Defensive Player of
4-7 record in the Big East. The

competitive Big East it can predict the future of Notre Dame football. the Year Kory Minor and star receiver Randy
Irish, on the other hand, led the 

.. 
Conference for most of the sea­Then there are those who couldn't care less. Moss. Aside from Minor and Moss, the Irish
Big East with a 9-1 record. An 

son, the Irish were halted by an Either way the recruiting season for the Class signed three more USA Today All-Americans in
Irish victory appeared to be

unexpected road block in New of 2000 is on its final leg. Last year the sports linemen Mike Rosenthal, Tim Ridder and Jerry
imminent, but Rutgers ended

Jersey. world claimed Notre Dame's collection of high Wisne. Including Minor, Moss, Hosenthal, Hidder
Notre Dame's winning streak at

Rutgers shocked the Irish on scho.ol seniors the best in the land. Twenty-five 
Rutgers an unexpected 
Receivers, corners in demand 
road block for Notre Dame 
Saturday by outscoring Notre see WOMEN I page 17 individuals who would return a lagging and deci-see RECRUITS I page 16 
Sp
"• • n • • ~·· .,··.w·>c 
-.,........ o····m,.,:,,
.. , ;;,,,,.,.,.. ,.,_,, 

.. 
at a 
GLANCE 
Men's Basketball 
at Manhattan Feb. 6 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Pittsburgh Feb. 7, 7 p.m. 
Hockey 
vs. Michigan Feb. 9, 7 p.m. 
Tennis 

Men's and Women's at Rolex Indoor Championships. Feb. 8-11 
Track 

at Indianapolis Invite Feb. I 0 
SMC Basketball 
vs. Lake Forest Feb. 6, 7 p.m. 
• Irish hockey drop two 
see page 18 
• Saint Mary's falls to Alma 
see page 16 
• Notre Dame swimmers split weekend 
see page 14 






