
Wednesday, January 24, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 74 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hume receives 1995 Notre Dame award for service 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Ediror 
Hecognizing the 17 -month long cease-lire in Northern Ireland, the University of Notre Dame has chosen to honor one of the major players who prompted this first step towards lasting pnace throughout Ireland and the United Kingdom. 
John llume, leader of Northern Ireland's Social Dmnocratic and Labour Party (SDLP) and member of the British and European Parliaments will receive the 1995 Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service. In announcing the award last week, University President Father Edward Malloy praised llume's instrumental role in the peace process. Malloy also stressed that the University hopes the award will serve as a cat­alyst for peace not only in Northern Ireland but world-wide. 
"For three decades, John llume has consis­tently and courageously rejected the appeal to 
see AWARD/ page 4 

SMC forum probes student unity 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
What are we doing as student lead­ers to combat "involvement" apathy on the part of students? Is the "Student Government Association" as united as it should be? And where is the administration during our softball games? Heck, where are the stu­dents during our softball games? 
These were some of the questions raised last night at the Saint Mary's Student Government Forum. At least these were the questions which time permitted for discussion before the sudden chaos near the end of the meeting. 
Disgruntled students exchanged words at the close of the forum. 
But Student Body President Sarah Sullivan resumed order and called the meeting to an end, possibly frus­trated that the same two or three questions were given discussion time during the ninety minutes in which the forum took place. Sullivan thanked those in attendance and stated that any further questions and concerns could be addressed to stu-

The Observer/Leslie Zielinski 
Saint Mary's student government members (from L to R): Sarah Sullivan, Jen Roach, Racquel Mitchell, Mary Udovich, and Paulette Raczkowski sat on the panel at last night's annual open forum. Nearly 40 Saint Mary's women were in atten­
dance. 
dent government in person or via e­mail. 
The atmosphere at the beginning of the meeting was calm, as representa­tives from groups that make up the "Student Government Association" (the Board of Governance, the Residence Hall Association, the Student Activities Board, and the Student Academic Council) explained the function of their respective groups. 
BOG treasurer .Jen Roach explained 
see FORUM/ page 6 


Stadium expansion crew makes 'visible' progress 

By DAVE PREISSLER 
News Writer 
The winter did not stop the expansion of the House that Rockne built, although many misconceptions may lead one to believe that no progress was made over the break. While the students were basking in the California sun or shovelling snow in the Midwest and on the East Coast, Casteel Construction kept busy prepar­ing for the first visible signs of the stadium expansion project. 
As of yesterday, the first of the 276 columns were set in place on the north side of the stadium with a crane capable of lifting 250 tons. By com pari­son, the crane used for the new dorms Keough and O'Neill could lift only 80 tons. But. that crane is only half it. Mike Smith, director of facilities en­gineering, mentioned that with­in a few weeks, another 250­ton crane will be assembled to double the fun. It will take a 35-ton crane just to put the other crane together. 

Michael Crawford. senior pro­ject manager for Casteel Construction Corp., spoke of the immensity of the project. "It is very important not to come in the perimeter fence for every­one's safety," he noted. No one would want a 18 to 22 ton pre­cast concrete column falling on them. 
The shortest concrete column weighs approximately 18 to 22 tons of and towers at 38 feet. Prestress Services made these precast chunks of concrete in Decatur, Ind., near Fort Wayne. After being trucked to Notre Dame, they now rest in the parking lot south of the JACC and wait to be set in place. Because these columns are so massive, they will be brought over to the construction site on a need basis one at a time. Consequently, from now until August, trucks will be crossing Juniper Hoad frequently. Crawford therefore suggests that drivers use Juniper as little 
see STADIUM/ page 4 

President gives State of the Union, Dole responds 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Clinton challenges Congress 
~rnold: A.ddr~ss appears , with budget, shutdowns 
extraordinarily successful ByTERENCEHUNT fron~-ru~ner for the GOP preside~tial
Associated Press nommatwn -made the Republican By JAMIE HEISLER treading on what had previously been response, outlining differences with Assistant News Editor Republican territory, such as the issues WASHINGTON Clinton and assailing the president as of family values and a reduced govern­
Delivering his State of the Union "the chief obstacle to a balanced bud­
In a manner that pulled out all the ment, but gave them a different spin, address to a skeptical Republican get." He called the president "the rear­stops, l'resident Bill Clinton's State of turning them, for the time, in his favor. Congress, President Clinton traced the guard of the welfare state." the Union Address confronted the many For an hour and live minutes. Clinton themes of his re-election campaign Dole said Clinton was "careening 
dangerously off course" in welfare,

issues that have seemed to divide the presented to the American people a government since the plan that called for unity in order to education, Medicare and taxes. "We 
Hepublican party bring about a better America for indi­• see CHALLENGE/page 6 will challenge President Clinton again 
won a majority in viduals and their families. Citing seven and again to walk the talk he talks so Congress. and it in specific goals for the future, Clinton Tuesday night and confronted the GOP well," Dole vowed. effect put Hepubli­also stressed the necessity of collective on the budget, demanding they "never Clinton proposed several new initia­
cans on tho defensive action in order to achieve these goals. -ever" shut the government again. tives. among them $1,000 college 
for the upcoming "The theme of working together and Democrats rose with loud cheers but scholarships for the top 5 percent of eleetoral year, partnership was very effective," ac­Republicans sat in stony silence at graduates from every high school, and Clinton's challenge. GOP lawmakers -turning the FBI loose on youth gangs. 
according to a Notre cording to Arnold. 
Dame expert on the In an attempt to completely define his particularly the rebellious House fresh­With Hepublicans controlling the leg­men -had been coached by party islative agenda, Clinton's proposals are
subject. political agenda, Clinton touched on 
"Politically. it was extraordinarily numerous subjects including the bal­elders to be on good behavior and not unlikely to see the light of day. espe­successful." said Pnri Arnold, professor anced budget, education reforms, boo Clinton, as some did last year. cially in an election year. 
The speech was brief by Clinton stan­The House chamber overflowed withof government. "Clinton did a skilled crime, economic security, the envi­dards, 61 minutes by one count, 62 by Senate and House members, Clinton's
job of articulating his position and took ronment, the size of the federal gov­the steam out of the Republicans." ernment, and the United States' role in another. Either way. less than last Cabinet, the Supreme Court justices in 
year's record 81-minute marathon. their black robes and ambassadors
According to Arnold, Clinton carefully positioned himself on the offensive by Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole ­
see SPEECH I page 4 see CLINTON I page 6 


---------------------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, January 24, 1996 


Remembering the Challenger 
This Sunday, January Dan Cichalski 28, is a big day. And not 
Accent Copy Editor
because of Super Bowl 
XXX. But, incidentally, Let's Go Steelers! No, Sunday, January 28 is a big day for a more important reason. On the cold morning of January 28, 1986, Christa McAuliffe and six other Challenger astro­nauts lifted off from Cape Canaveral, Fla., only to plummet into the Atlantic Ocean a few minutes later. 
I was in the fourth grade and in Mrs. Brendel's classroom at Point Road School that morning when the principal put the intercom microphone up to the radio. The first words I heard were "Atlantic Ocean" and, for reasons of which I am still unclear, I knew that the space shuttle had somehow ended up there. We were all instructed to head back to our homerooms and soon televisions were rolled in and classes brought together so we could watch what had happened. 
No one talked. No one moved. Some of the teachers, I suspect, probably held back tears. We just watched in silence as the television replayed the routine lift-off and subsequent mishap 7 4 seconds later over and over and over again. I still have the issue of Time with the explosion on the cover: the normal trail of white smoke, the orange fireball that was once the Challenger and its fuel tank and the paths of the two booster rockets diverging to form a giant "Y" in the Florida sky. 
Over the next several months, parts of the shuttle were recovered from the ocean. I remember rumors of a sock with the bones of a foot still inside of it. The February 1996 issue of LIFE reports that McAuliffe's lesson plans for space were found floating in the Atlantic and "when the bodies were brought up, it became clear that some of the astro­nauts had been alive during the three-to-four minute fall to the sea." At least back in 1986 I felt comfort in figuring that the explosion would have killed all seven directly, and none of them would have had any time to realize that they were about to die. 
I still talk with my friends from grade school about the space shuttle Challenger. It was our first "where were you when" experience, like the JFK assassination or the end of U.S. involvement in Vietnam were for our parents. We go through the day much like I'm doing here, remembering our thoughts and feelings and the events of January 28. Back in 1986, shuttle missions were still such big deals for the media that lift-offs were usually carried live on morning news shows and I can remember watching several of them while reluctantly missing others because I had to get to school. Now, though, the Endeavor and Discovery are in space so often, we sometimes do not know it until they are on their way home. 
It's nice to see that Christa's husband, for one, has remarried since the disaster. That was another concern of mine ten years ago: the families, especially the McAuliffes. One minute your mother is taking some time off from teaching (and both my parents are teachers) to become the first civilian in space, and the next she's-gone. 
On Sunday, Rich Scobee, the son of the Challenger's commander, Dick, will lead a for­mation of F16s over Sun Devil Stadium in · Tempe, Az., in memory of the seven astro­nauts who died on that unusually cold Florida morning. And on Sunday I will remember the Challenger crew and think of their families today. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TDOAV'S STAfF  
News Gwendolyn Norgle Jillian Pagliocca Sports Joe Villinski Betsy Baker  Accent Krista Nannery Production Allison Fashek Jackie Moser  
Graphics Brian Blank  Lab Tech Michael Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
.
......... •·•·• ..................... ~ ............ ,. ....... '; ........... , •• 

• WmH.Jl AT A GUNCt 
Five 'notorious evil-doers' slayed in Haitian witch hunt 

PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
Residents of a remote fishing village bludgeoned to death five people they claimed were sorcer­ers responsible for several recent deaths, police said Tuesday. 
The dawn attack took place Monday in the village of Corail, about 150 miles west of the capital. 
Police from the nearby town of Jeremie arrived after the mob had already killed five people, said police investigator Max Harry Isaac. 
Four other people, "whom the people said are notori­ous evil-doers" whom they hired to put spells on their enemies, had escaped into hiding, Isaac said in a tele­phone interview from Jeremie. 
Isaac said residents of Corail told him that 15 children had died in the past month, including one who died early Monday. That child's father suspected a well-known practitioner of black magic, named Nerva, whom he brought to the child's deathbed, demanding Nerva give the child an antidote. 
Nerva did, but the child died anyway. 
A mob of about 50 people "tied him up and tortured him, beating him with sticks. He then denounced other members of a ring of black magicians, nine in all. He admitted they had killed these children for magical purposes," Isaac said. 
One villager told Radio Haiti-Inter that residents took the law into their own hands because authorities had not responded to com­plaints that witch­craft was responsible 

AP/Wm. J. Castello for the sudden deaths. By late Monday morning, the village was calm and the five had been buried in a common grave, Isaac said. Police made no arrests. 
Before the attack, villagers were locking themselves into their hnuses, bolting doors and windows after sunset to prevent evil spirits from entering. 
Haitian believers in black magic claim evil-doers can possess the body of an animal, often a cat, then slip into a home and steal the soul of a victim, usually a child. The victim falls sick and dies, and the evil-doer can take over the body after burial, and use it, for example to turn into a zombie enslaved by the master. 
Princess Di thins Britain's royal staff 
LONDON 

Princess Diana's dwindling personal staff lost two more members Tuesday -her chauffeur and a personal assis-
..... tant. Personal assistant Nicky Cockell · and chauffeur Steve Davies resigned Tuesday, said a palace spokesman speaking for the princess's office on customary anonymity. The spokesman said Diana, 34, often drives herself and probably didn't need a full-time chauffeur. The resigna­tions leave Diana with an office staff of two secretaries at a time when she is negotiating a possible divorce from Prince Charles and her future role as part of the royal family. Diana's most senior adviser, private secretary Patrick Jephson, resigned Monday, and her press secre­tary, Geoffrey Crawford, quit in November. Diana report­edly kept both men in the dark about her decision to grant an interview to the BBC in November. 
Drug lord kills Homecoming Queen 
WILLIAMSON, W.Va. 

A drug boss ordered the slaying of a 17 -year-old former homecoming queen last year because she knew too much about his business and planned to tell federal authorities, according to FBI documents. The documents released Monday said admitted drug boss Robert J. Warren Sr. held a gun to the head of James Pennington, a 20-year­old high school dropout, and ordered him to shoot Michael Ann "Miki" Koontz. The documents cited a statement from Pennington and another witness, who said Warren admitted to having Ms. Koontz killed Aug. 
25. At the time, Warren had suspected his arrest on drug charges was imminent. The release of the documents was the first public allegation that the popular cheer­leader, whose death shocked the town of 4,100, was a drug user. Pennington told authorities he shot Ms. Koontz twice with a .22-caliber weapon when she left home to run an errand. He faces a murder trial in April. 

Joy ride incriminates car thieves 
LUMBERTON, N.C. 

A young man accused of killing basketball star Michael Jordan's father showed up for a date at the wheel of the victim's car hours after the murder, a witness testified today. Melinda Moore said Daniel Andre Green called her on the morning of July 23, 1993, to ask if she and her friend, Delores Sullivan, would meet him and Larry Martin Demery that night. Moore, 21, of Marion, S.C., said Green and Demery arrived in a 1992 red Lexus coupe identified previously as belonging to James Jordan. Prosecutors say Jordan, 57, was shot to death early that morning while he napped in the car along a highway. His body was found dumped in a South Carolina swamp. Green is charged with murder, armed robbery and con­spiracy and could face the death penalty if convicted. Demery has pleaded guilty to the same charges and is expected to testify against Green this week. Prosecutors contend Green and Demery spent July 23 driving around in the $40,000 car. 
Russian parliament chooses speaker 
MOSCOW 

The Russian parliament's upper house today chose a former Soviet Communist Party boss as its new speaker. Yegor Stroyev's election follows last week's selection of a Communist to head parliament's lower house. Stroyev, a former member of the Communist Party's ruling Politburo, has not joined the revived Russian Communist Party and is on good terms with President Boris Yeltsin. But the 58-year-old Stroyev advocates putting the brakes on reforms, and well-known reformer Anatoly Sobchak said he is known for his "orthodox" political views. ''I'm concerned that people with communist views have come to lead both parliament houses," said Sobchak, the mayor of St. Petersburg. Members of the 178-seat Federation Council elected Stroyev on a 147-19 vote. Two other nominees for speaker, Nikolai Fyodorov and Eduard Rossel, refused to run. 

Wednesday, Jan. 24 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 24. 


Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
ViaAssoctatedPrsss 
Atlanta  54  
Baltimore  39  
Boston  33  
Chicago  30  
Columbus  30  

26  Dallas  67  39  New O~eans 63  37  
27  Denver  30  18  New York  35  30  
29  Los Angeles 64  48  Philadelphia 38  25  
17  Miami  79  65  Phoenix  63  41  
15  Minneapolis  11  2  St. Louis  36  25  


·-... -~·-----. ·-·------... ·~·· --~"~---.--.. --------~-------.. ---------------------),. 
.........,'l'.."' 4 Y._•.~-•...Y .. ..-.."'I'.•..•-~-T.'7.T.~..._....~•-•.w....9~·····-~.9.9.9 9'•• '1' ....... 9 .....~ 9 ••••.................a ...................... a.·····.a·~:~ 1
' 

, ,. ........ .,. .... " ...... .., -.., v .. 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Notre Dame fentale 
robbed on Ivy Road 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE off in the vehicle northbound Assistant News Editor on Ivy Road. The suspect then 
A female Notre Dame stu­dent was robbed at approxi· mately 4 p.m. Tuesday after­noon, aceording to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
The student. a resident of Turtle Creek, was walking on Ivy Hoad in the vicinity of the soccer field when a vehicle drove up beside her and a passenger asked her if she wanted o. ride. 
The passenger, a white male wearing a red jacket, then ran up to the woman, grabbed her purse, and sped threw the purse out onto the road after removing the cur­rency. 
The woman, who was not harmed, reported that the ve­hicle was large and white. The make, model, and license plate of the vehicle are unknown. 
Security is still investigating the incident, according to Hurley. 
Students should always be careful when walking off. campus, he added. and should try to walk in groups or get a ride whenever possi­
b~. . 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call 234·0363 
(24 hours) 

SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
By LAURA SMITH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
It's January 24. How are you doing on your New Year's Resolutions? 
Many Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students resolved to make the Dean's List in 1996 or to begin charting their career paths. But the most popular New Year's Resolution is to lose weight and shape-up. 
According to Jan Travis, director of Athletics at Saint Mary's College, the enrollment in Aerobics and Total Body Workout classes this spring is double the enrollment from last fall. 
But this is nothing new. "In the three years that I have been here, there's always an increase in the number of stu­dents working out after the first of the year," Travis said. 
HecSports Fitness Coordi· nator Jennifer Phillips, sees a similar tendency at Notre Dame. 
"We see higher attendance in fitness classes this time of the year," Phillips said, "because of New Year's Resolutions, Spring Break approaching, and the bad weather." 
College students are not the only people determined to have a healthier new year. At· tendance is up at health clubs throughout the South Bend area. 
According to a representative from Aerobics and Fitness, the club's business increases over 60 percent after New Year's Day. But most of these new customers stop exercising after only 90 days. 
That is why Phillips dis­courages New Year's Resolu­tions in favor of a lifestyle change. "As we get further away from the new year, stu­dents forget their New Year's Resolutions. By fall, when stu· dents get busy, the first thing tossed out is exercise," Phillips said. 








Students work in work-out 


We have started to take applications for next year. 

Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 

For more information cal/272-1441. 

Instead of a resolution, Phillips recommends students write down an exercise plan and write it into their schedule. She reminds students that Rec­Sports offers plenty of classes throughout the day to fit every­one's ability levels and time schedules. 
"We even offer an early morning class," Phillips said. "It's a great energy boost for the day and then you don't have to worry about exercise for the rest of the day. 
"I encourage an entire con­cept of wellness," she said. "As people become more aware of the benefits received from mod­erate activity, they increase that activity and stick with it." 
Many Saint Mary's students have already made the lifestyle changes Phillips recommends, according to Kevin Kirwan, Food Service director at Saint Mary's. 
"At Saint Mary's, our students are concerned about a healthy, nutritious, low-fat diet all year round," Kirwan said. 
While such high-fat items as french fries, chicken strips, and Mexican dishes remain fa­vorites with Saint Mary's stu­dents, low-fat items are the most popular. 
Saint Mary's students con­sume 20 cases of bagels, 100 gallons of marinara sauce, 800 pounds of pasta, and 210 gal­lons of no-fat frozen yogurt ev­ery single week, according to Kirwan. 
The most consumed bev· erages are Crystal Light and Natural Spring Water. Students demand "lite" dressings on the salad bar. 
Also, the Saint Mary's Dining Hall provides nutrition informa· tion on every recipe that is pre­pared by the chefs. Quarterly newsletters on health, nutri­tion, and fitness decorate the Dining Hall tables. 
Just this year. Saint Mary's Food Services added "Just In Time" cooking to their menu. "We actually prepare the items in front of you keeping heavy fat items to a minimum," said Kirwan. "Students actually learn how to prepare healthy dishes." 
With the help of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Food Services. Angela Athletic Facility, and RecSports, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students have no excuses for leading an un­healthy lifestyle. 



The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call 631-4541. 
J UNIORS 


u...-----­
Enhance your Summer Interview Opportunities ... 


Pick up the Summer Bulletin 
every Monday at 

Career & Placement Services 
Hesburgh Library/Lower Level 
N 
I 
0 
R 
s 
.---~------~--~------~-------------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
Ireland cease-fire, specifically from Catholic and Protestant



Award Stadiu01
extremists who have not, in the past, shown signs of ceding continued from page 1
continued from page 1 

their positions. However, Hume's groundbreaking deci­as possible during the day in
violence which has plagued his 

sion to engage in talks with order to avqid unnecessary
country's politics," Malloy said. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams traffic.
"By honoring his witness we led to the cease-fire declared Although it may be unnotice­hope to hasten the peace for by the Irish Republican Army able to passers-by, Casteel Con­which he hungers and thirsts on August 31, 1994 and to the struction has made major im­and to quicken such craving in more recent developments, in­provements during the past few all the broken communities of cluding President Clinton's visit m·onths.

the world." 
to Northern Ireland in Novem­
Hume has long been a force ber of 1995, in the name of John DeLee, Notre Dame'sin the politics of Northern Ire­peace. The Notre Dame director of utilities, commentedland. A Catholic hailing from Northern Ireland Awareness that approximately two miles of Derry, he served as an orga­Group has applauded the utility pipes have been laid in

nizer and leader of the non­

University's decision to honor order to re-route the sewer sys­violent civil rights movement in Hume with the Notre Dame tem and other such utilities. 
Northern Ireland during the 
Award.
late 1960's. Spurred on by the "We recognize Mr. Hume's Moreover, more than 5000brutal internment of Republi­courageous efforts in pursuit of cubic yards have been poured

can prisoners by British 

peace in Northern Ireland and for the footings, and transport­authorities, Hume and his sup­especially his dedication to a ing these was a difficult task,porters, though opponents of non-violent resolution," said considering the cement mixingphysical force Republicanism, Co-President Peter Geraghty. trucks can only hold ten cubicannounced their campaign of "We are pleased that the Uni­yards.
civil disobedience against inhu­versity has recognized this as The shortest of the columnsmane internment. 

well, in the form of the presti­will stand at a mere 38 feet,This involvement, in addition gious Notre Dame Award." while the top of the stands will to his extensive schooling at Hume will travel to Notre rise to a height of 70 feet. 
Saint Patrick's College in 

Dame in April to receive the And when the press boxMaynooth, Trinity College in award and the University plans equipped with fiber optics isDublin and Harvard University, to honor him in Dublin, Ireland completed, it will soar 110 feet 
propelled Hume to a seat in 
in November, as part of the over the field. 
Northern Ireland's Parliament 
Notre Dame vs. Navy football
in 1969 as an independent. 

game. With a completion date setAlong with five other non­The Notre Dame Award was before the 1997 football season, Unionist members of the Par­established in 1992 to honor the expanded seating structureliament, he founded the SDLP "persons within and without with the exception of the exter­
in 1970 and has headed the 

the Catholic Church, citizens of nal masonry work will be com­party since 1979. 
every nation, whose religious pleted although not used for the Since that same year, Hume faith has quickened learning, '96 season.
has been a member of the 

whose learning has engen­These and many other visible European Parliament as well dered deeds and whose deeds signs of progress will be re­
as heading the SDLP. Hume 

give witness to God's kingdom vealed as construction of thehas faced serious opposition among us." expanded stadium continues. 
for his views on a Northern 

-------------------.. 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
The people need a predictable, reliable president, and incon­
Speech 

sistency results in a lack of 
continued from page 1 

world affairs. As expected, the issue of a balanced budget seemed to be prominent on the president's list of priori tie. 
In one of Clinton's many chal­lenges to Congress, he called for an end to the possibilities of further federal shutdowns. According to Arnold,techniques in Clinton's speech will benefit him at least temporarily. 
"This is the best job that he's done, and he's even rivaled some of Ronald Reagan's speeches for political effect. It could turn on him, but at the moment he's winning," Arnold said. The only problem that Arnold sees with Clinton's pre­sent approach is inconsistency. "He changes his mind too often. 
trust." 

Clinton called for several measures which would affect college students. Among his proposals were thousand dollar merit scholarships for the top five percent of every high school, increased Pell grants, increased work study pro­grams, and a $10,000 tax deduction for college expenses. 
Bob Dole, Senate majority leader and Republican front­runner, gave the Republican response to the address, in essence attempting to answer the challenges presented by Clinton. 
According to Arnold, howev­er, Dole's response was "lame, sour, and negative." He said, "It shows Clinton had thrown them off balance." 
Summer Internships for Undergraduates The Environmental Research Institute 
ajoint activity of the University of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory in collaboration with the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control is pleased to announce acompetition leading to the award of three summer internships at the Argonne National Laboratory for the Summer of 1996 with afollow-on research appointment for the Fall. 
The applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, be enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, must have completed their Junior Year by the Summer of 1996, and must be registered to return in the Fall of 1996. 
For more details please contact the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
Deadline for application: March 1, 1996 
Jama·ica
ancun
SPRING BREAK 7 NIGHTS: 100% LOWEST PRICE GUARANTEE! 
*From Detroit, Cleveland, Columbus, IndianapolisNY, DCIU•dt, Riclunuml 

$489!
$449!
ALL-INCLUSIVE SPECIAL:* 


/~r frt)r,l ~~.:th Bt·nti \o'.:hh
Air from South'Bend with 
'! N!;~?:~-H(·ld.
5 Breakfasts $35~.:.'.·.. UcetLfed
5 Lunches $ 


.. 'I Nights Hotel. 5<1Ve $.200 on Food 8: Drink Covers!
Ro11ded
5Dinners ·~ fnsured 7nights beverage party ti 
"'%W.«?1r~;.f(.:{.·:,:· -~,: · .. -:=,:;,:·:···::·:::.:·:::'· :· 

Panat11a amas 
Package includes: Round trip airfare (Chic/KC add $20) 7 nights hotel accommodations 


Cruise
(quads), round trip transfers from airport to hotel, Surf & Sun Tours famous welcome 

$129! 
party, FREE pool, beach and hottest night club parties, 24 hour American staff $279! on-site, service charges, gratuities and hotel taxes. Call for full details. OttaHvitw roorn with kikh<:n, This is the best spring break deal anywhere! 
Don't be left in the cold•••can now. 
.., 

Packages include roundtrip charter airfare, seven nights accommodations & no peak week surcharge 
Stop byAnthony Travel in t:he lower level of LaFort:une or call 631-7080 for information on these and other destinations. 
Anthony Travel 
"th~ official trav~l s~rvice ofNotr~ Dame" 
r 
.......................................... 
1\S SI~I~N ON (~US NI~WS "'m IIOIJUS"
.......................................... 










BlEAK 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
'PEll PERSON DEPENDING OH DESDNATIOH ISREAl< DFSTAV. 

Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
MBA program reveals new technology •HPC 
Council

By MELANIE LAFLIN According to Rebecca Mela, speed T -1 communications line. Notre Dame do. 
Assistant News Editor 
Working professionals who are geographically removed from the Notre Dame campus now have the opportunity to re­ceive an Executive MBA degree without setting foot on Notre Dame's campus. 
Thanks to a new distance­learning program students in Notre Dame's Executive MBA program have undergone a graduate business education through live videoconferencing in a state-of-the-art conference room hidden away in the Col­lege of Business Administration (CUBA) since last August. And now the MBA program is ready to go public and proclaim the phenomenal success it has had this past semester with one of Notre Dame's most expensive and best kept secrets. 
The technologically advanced, fully interactive, "wonder" room loeated within the MBA wing of CUBA uses telephone lines to eonnect students and faculty at Notre Dame with the students attending classes off-campus. 
At this time, six professionals based in Toledo, Ohio are the first remote students to be en­rolled in the two-year program. 
assistant professional specialist of the Executive MBA program, these six students serve as the testing ground to see whether live teleconferencing can ex­pand to other areas and be­come a permanent fixture of the Executive MBA program. 
Cameras, audio equipment and video monitors at the Notre Dame and Toledo sites make it possible for live interaction between the faculty and stu­dents in both locations at all times. During classes, which are held all day every other Friday and Saturday, cameras throughout the room can focus on the professor and quickly scan students in both sites. Students press microphones on top of their desks to be heard in the other location. 
"It seems as if everyone likes the new setup," Mela said. "After a while, the faculty soon became used to the new equip­ment, and students began to automatically raise their hand and press the microphone with the other." 
Developed by VTEL Corp., the University's videoconferencing system is based upon two-way audio and video compressed digital technology over a high The line runs between CUBA's classroom and the specially­equipped room at the corporate headquarters of Owens-Illinois Inc., a Toledo-based manufac­turer of packaging products. 

Most students in the Executive MBA program are older, more experienced middle and senior level managers that work full time. This new program will allow even more senior execu­tives to take advantage of Notre Dame's MBA program. 
As of now, three of the off­campus students are employed at Owens-Illinois Inc. "I believe the company is quite satisfied, and they even use the videocon­ferencing equipment to hold company meetings," said Mela of the company, which is the first to experiment with this program. 
A facilitator is present at the Toledo site during all class ses­sions to deliver course materi­als, collect assignments, moni­tor exams and handle adminis­trative issues. According to Mela, students even have a telephone in the classroom with a private line during exams to ensure students off-campus get the same amount of access to the professor as the students at 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1996-97 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, is not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to john Lucas by 4:00 p.m., Friday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the position or application process, contact john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 


Video office hours and elec­tronic mail are used by stu­dents to communicate with fac­ulty and fellow students outside of class. 
"The key benefit of any dis­tance-learning program is ex­tending access beyond the dri­ving range of campus," said Arnold Ludwig, assistant dean of executive programs in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. 
"Students in Executive MBA programs tend to be older, are working full time, and generally have family responsibilities as well. Delivering the program remotely allows them and their employers to save on the time and expense of travel, and that makes them more productive at work and at home," said Ludwig. 
The Executive MBA distance­learning program was an "overwhelming success" in its first semester, according to Ludwig, who hopes to expand the program to other sites in the near future. 
Working professionals inter­ested in the distance learning program can receive more in­formation at (800) 631-3622 or at Mela.2@nd.edu. 

Van Huffell 
::w: 


dead at 61 
Special to The Observer 
Harold "Mike" Van Huffell, 61, died Dec. 29 at Saint . Joseph's Medical Center in 
South Bend of heart failure. 
A 1956 graduate of Notre Dame, Van Huffel was class president in 1952 and a foot­ball manager in 1955. He was a member of the Sorin Society, the Monogram Club, and the Mahoning and Sheenago Valley Notre Dame Alumni Club. Mr. and Mrs. Van Huffel were also mem­bers of the Saint Mary's College Madeleva Society. Van Huffel was president and owner of MidAmerica Sales for 28 years, and worked for 11 years at Van Huffel Tube. Funeral ser­vices for Van Huffel were held on Jan. 2 at Blessed Sacrament Church, All material contributions were made to the Notre Dame Annual Fund in South Bend. 
INFORMATION MEETING FOR THOSE INTERESTED IN THE POSITION OF ASSISTANT RECTOR FOR UNIVERSITY RESIDENCE FACILITIES 
Brown Bag Lunch Assistant Rector Positions 1996-97 
Thursday, January 2 5 
12:15 PM-1:00PM 
Room 110 


Law School 

For'Infonnation Call: Office of Student Affairs 315 Main Building 631-5550 


maps out agenda 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer 
The Hall Presidents' Council met for the first time after the Christmas break last night to discuss dance dates, service ideas and upcoming elections. The cochairs also updated HPC on Campus Life Council's pre­sent deliberation over coresi­dentiality. 
In order to ensure that as few dorms as possible have conflicting SYRs and formals, the dorms were required to announce their scheduled dates. 
Dates are subject to change, but this helps cut back on can­celled dances due to a lack of participation. 
Co-chair Matt Schlatter an­nounced that HPC had money remaining in its budget to go toward service projects and asked for ideas about the best way to spend this money. 
"This money can only be used by the dorms for service or by HPC as an entire body. We are thinking of sponsoring a house for Christmas, but HPC members would have to work at this. But we are also look­ing for other suggestions," said Schlatter. 
Schlatter also informed the council about CLC's debate over coresidentiality. 
"(The discussion at the CLC meeting] was more to see what ramifications there would be rather than to come to a final decision. Basically, most peo­ple think it is a good idea ideologically, but are con­cerned with how it would actu­ally work and how it would affect the traditions of Notre Dame," said Schlatter. 
Elections for the cochairs and executive board of HPC for next year will be coming up soon. 
They are tentatively sched­uled for March 19, and Schlatter encouraged all to begin thinking about it. 
Lewis Hall will be selling vinyl lunch bags for five dollars each to serve as grab-n-go bags instead of the paper bags in order to cut back on waste. 
"About 1800 bags are wasted daily from grah-n-go meals and so we thought reusable bags would really help out the environment. We really want this to be successful and we would like it to continue in the following years," said Michelle Sharp, environmental commis­sioner of Lewis Hall. 
"There will also be a special bonus for all those with the vinyl bags," Sharp added. "Along with the standard items for grah-n-go, each person will get a chocolate chip granola bar with every meal." 
The bags will be on sale next Wednesday at the dining halls. 

Houses for Rent 96-97 
•Furnished 
•Security Systems •Washers/Dryers •4-8 Bedrooms 
Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 


page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
One of the major questions the part of students at all. brought up for discussion. Richter claimed that in her 56 
discussed at the meeting was Sullivan reminded those pre­Some present at the forum home softball games, members


Foru01 
continued from page 1 
the student government trea­sury and Student Body vice­president Racquel Mitchell dis­cussed the function and progress of SAC. 
Mary Udovich followed with an explanation of SAB and Paulette Raczkowski announced that Little Sibs Weekend will take place March 1-3 and will be called "SibFest 
'96."  She  also  said  that  
Women's  Week  will  be  
February 5-9.  

When the floor was opened to questions, however, the tone of the meeting changed slightly, and then drastically by the end of the meeting. 
Clinton's challenge 
Issues President Clinton tackled in his State of the Union address, which he dubbed America's Challenge 
• Family responsibility 
~linton stresses the ~*tt
Importance of children's upbringing. · 

Ill."\......,~ •Education ~ Clinton proposed .W{¢~1\ ~ a $1 ,000 merit ·.., .. scholarship for the nation's top 5 percent high school graduates. He also said he'd expand a federally funded work-study program. 
• Economic security Protect Medicare, Medicaid and workers' j\ pensions; raise the ~ minimum wage. !.. , /~.J 

·l":.-,i
C J,,.J 
•Crime
.. 
·
Clinton called for a new assault on gang-related crime and drug trafficking.
6 
.+.. 
• The environment +~
+,.
Businesses that clean -t+ ..¥ ""' up abandoned +" · •r properties could be + ' +~ eligible for tax breaks. ~ 


• Foreign policy America must continue in its role 
as "responsible peacemaker throughout the world". 
• Government The government <~ · must continue down the path of 

whether or not student apathy is an issue on campus, in terms of whether or not enough stu­dents attend the events planned and sponsored by student gov­ernment groups. 
When lack of attendance at campus events was discussed, several students cited reasons of having other commitments and time conflicts with the planned events. 
Reasons like these were given after it was decided by a major­ity of those present that publici­ty and programming were not necessarily reasons for, what some considered, "low atten­dance. 
And many students stated that they did not feel that there was a problem with apathy on 

Clinton 
continued from page 1 

from around the world. House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Clinton's yearlong nemesis, sat immediately behind the presi­dent, applauding politely on some occasions, and sitting in stern silence when the presi­dent criticized Congress. 
And criticize he did. 

"I challenge all of you in this chamber," Clinton said, "never -ever" shut the government again. He said it was time to "finish the job" and pass a bal­anced budget plan that he could sign. 
Immediately after the speech, C-Span heard from a caller who said it was Clinton himself who forced the government shut­down, by vetoing GOP budget bills. 
Said Sen. John McCain, R­Ariz. said he thought Clinton delivered a "cheap shot" by having a hero from the Okla­homa City bombing stand up by way of setting up his remark "about how we are shutting down the government." 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, listening along her GOP Whitewater critics, was applauded as she entered with her 15-year-old daughter, Chelsea, who was making her first State of the Union appear­ance. 
The president introduced the beleaguered Mrs. Clinton as a "wonderful wife, a magnificent mother and a great first lady," and Chelsea led a standing ova­tion of Democrats and sent that nearly 400 students attended the reopening of the Haggar Snack Bar. 
Though not ·all students agreed that student apathy is even an issue, much time was spent discussing it. 
The "Belles" dispute was also brought up again last night. Several students reminded those present at the forum that only about 60 women showed up for the discussion on the controversy over the nickname of the school mascot. 
Others rebutted that those who cared were the ones who showed up. 
Some said that the timing on the forum could have also been a problem. 
Voting percentages were also 
Republicans alike. 
"The era of big government is over," Clinton said, twice, as if to capture a campaign slogan. Republicans liked that, and an­swered with applause. Democrats hailed Clinton's next sentence: "But we cannot go back to the time when our citi­zens were left to fend for them­selves." 
Clinton began his remarks expressing pride in U.S. peace­keepers in Bosnia. 
He said the state of the union was "strong" and cited eco­nomic and falling crime rates to make the case. In all, Clinton was interrupted 78 times by applause. 
WHAT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 26th FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
claimed that normally only 40 percent of the Saint Mary's stu­dent body votes in student gov­ernment elections. 
One student cited, however, that 16 percent of a student body is the national voting av­erage at most colleges and uni­versities, implying that the Saint Mary's student body is above that average. 
But some students were not content with this explanation. 
"As Saint Mary's women, we should expect more from our­selves," said senior Laura Richter. 
Richter called attention to low attendance at Saint Mary's sporting events. "Where are the students?" she asked. "And where is the administration?" she added. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Systems Manager Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Ifyou have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to nm your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 
of the Saint Mary's administra­tion were only present at two of those games. Richter said she had seen them at Notre Dame games. 
Whether or not the "Student Government Association" is united was also brought up last night. 
But due to the words ex­changed near the close of the meeting and the subsequent abrupt ending, these issues and more may be taken up in the future, perhaps even this week­end at Play of the Mind, the annual women's conference sponsored by Saint Mary's. 
And this was encouraged by a Saint Mary's senior present at the forum. 
"Save it for Play of the Mind," Emily Duncanson said. 

Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
See94~/ 

Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Sun Microsystems prepares bid for Apple Computer 
By EVAN RAMSTAD He then said, "The board of Associated Press directors and I want you to 
NEW YORK 
Sun Microsystems Inc. is preparing a bid for Apple Com­puter, and the struggling pio­neer of the personal computer is expected to accept it, The Wall Street Journal reported to­day. 
Unless some last-minute glitch pops up, a deal between Sun and Apple is "imminent," the Journal said, citing people familiar with the negotiations. Just last week, the company announced a loss and plans for 1,300 layoiTs. 
The paper's report came on the same day as Apple's annual shareholders meeting at its headquarters city of Cupertino, Calif. 
Apple Chairman Mike Markkula opened the meeting by telling shareholders it is the company's policy not to com­ment on such reports "until the time is right." 

know that we understand the seriousness of the issues facing our company today. And we're closely working with manage­ment to develop plans to address the needs compre­hensively." 
Sun also had no comment on the story. 
Specifics about the deal or its price tag were not disclosed by the sources, the newspaper said, but one source indicated it could amount to a stock swap valued at about $4 billion, or roughly $33 an Apple share. 
Apple closed Monday at $30.50 a share on the Nasdaq market. 
Investors took the report seri­ously, sending Apple's stock up $1.87 1/2 to $32.37 1/2, or 6 percent, in early afternoon trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market. Sun shares were down $3.44 to $45.12 1/2, or 7 per­cent, on Nasdaq. 
Sun, a major maker of work­stations in Mountain View, Calif., had been discussing such a takeover of Apple since about September, according to people familiar with the talks. Two weeks ag9, talks broke off. 
At the time, the reason appeared to be a dispute over price. 
However, the Journal said, people familiar with the talks now say the negotiations were merely suspended while Sun waited for Apple's stock to go down after Apple's an­nouncement that it lost $69 million, or 56 cents a share, during the quarter that ended in December, usually its best period of the year. 
Between Wednesday, when the announcement was made, and Monday, Apple's stock fell 10 percent. 
Acquisition of Apple would give Sun access to the fast­growing market for desktop computers. Sun's main focus is workstations and Internet servers. 

Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus this summer (June 24 to August 3) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition credit of $1200. Each
lnfonnation 

coordinator will be in charge of a group of
Session in the 

twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from
Classroom ofthe 

economically disadvantaged backgrounds in
Center for Social 

our local community. These positions are
Concerns 

part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Applications are due to Sue Cunningham in the Center for Social Concerns by February 1, so time is critical. See you at the information session for further details and information. 
Martin luther King, Jr. 

HOLIDAY CELEBRATION 
Interfaith Prayer Service 
TONIGHT 
Wednesday, January 24 
7:15PM Stanford-Keenan Chapel 

A noted and dynamic speaker and theologian: 
Dr. Jamie T. Phelps, O~P. 
Associate Professor ofDoctrinal and Mission Theology Founding Director, Augustus Totton Pastoral Ministry Program Catholic Theological Union, Chicago, /L. 
Acting Associate Director of the ThM Degree Program Institute for Black Catholic Studies Xavier University ofLouisiana, New Orleans 
11Martin luther King, Jr., Theologian, Prophet and Sower of the Word of the God of Jesus Christ" -Dr. Jamie T. Phelps 
music celebration with: 

Coro Primavera Folk Choir Glee Club 0MPUS Voices of Faith MINISTRY 
Will Sun rise for Apple? 
Sun Microsystems Inc. is reportedly close to acquiring Apple Computer Inc. in a $4 billion deal that would reshape the computer industry. A look at the two 
companies: 
r ..J..
}Apple •
~'Computer Inc. . . 
• 
Headquarters: Cupertino, Calif. 

• 
Chief executive: Michael Spinder 1111 Annual revenue: $11 billion, FY ended Sept. 29, 1995 $ Recent performance: $69 million loss, quarter ended Dec. 29 *Employees: 14,592 Ill! History: Founded in 1976 by 


computer enthusiasts Steve Wozniak and Steve Jobs. Set a standard for usability with the 1984 introduction of Macmtosh, incorporating graphical commands. Now the second-largest maker of PCs. Apple finds it tough to keep up with competitors' low prices because it shoulders all of its development costs. Plans to lay off 1,300. 
Source: Company reports, Hoover's Handbook 
Sun ~ Mlcrosystems lncY' 
• 
Headquarters: Mountain Vifm, Calif. 

• 
Chief executive: Scott McNealy 

• 
Annual n.wenue: $5.9 billion, FY ended June 30, 1995 

• 
Recent performance: $126 


million profit, quarter ended Dec. 31 • Employees: 13,500 
• History: Founded in 1982 by four 27-year-olds who saw a market among scientists and engineers for powerful workstation computers that run Unix software. Shot from $115 million in sales in 1985 to $1 billion in 1988. Sun's share of the work­station market is now around 40 percent. Company's profile was raised last year with development of the Java programming language for software that can interact flexibly on electronic networks such as the Internet. 
APIWm. J. Castello 





Man keeps_ keeps sick father from Kevorkian 
JOHN FLESHER for his father, Gerald Klooster, Associated Press to kill himself. "Chip Klooster was appar­PETOSKEY, Mich. ently the only person who felt 
A man trying to keep his bold enough to act," the judge Alzheimer's-stricken father said. away from Dr. Jack Kevorkian "Through his eiTorts. it is not won custody of the ailing 69-too dramatic to say that his year-old in a court battle father's life may have been against his own mother. spared." 
Probate Judge Fred Mul­Legal experts said it may be hauser ruled in favor of Chip the first time someone has gone Klooster, who feared his moth­to court to prevent an assisted er and siblings were arranging suicide by a relative. 



essay contest! 
two categories: undergraduate and
. 

graduate 
$500 first prizes $250 second prizes 
submit a personal narrative, 5 pages, double spaced, to Campus Ministry, Badin Hall 
deadline: February 1 (extended from Jan. 26) 
information:  
Campus Ministry-Badin Center for Social Concerns  631-5242 631-5293  0MPUS  
Multicultural Student Affairs  631-6841  MINISTRY  




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

New!i Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spotts Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Callavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pere Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS COIUiER••• 
Baseball's owners grasping at straws 
Hey there, and welcome back to the column. It still feels sort of weird to be in class again, as if last week didn't real­ly happen. Maybe it's got something to do with all this crazy weather. I'm still annoyed that Minne·sota got a foot of snow and we got zip. 
Originally I had the grand idea to cre­ate a "New Year's Resolution List," at the top of which would have been "I resolve not to expect the Bills to get into the playoffs again until my kids are my age," but it didn't 
feel right. I've never games actually made New against teams that Year's resolutions, are not in that con­partly because they ference. In the seem silly, partly Matthew final tally, con_fer­because I know I'd ence wins deter­never keep them. mine who goes to
Apple

Instead, I've decid­the playoffs (or ed to write about the championship greatest sport of all rounds, or what time, baseball. A bit have you). Games 
cold out there to be talking about a spring-weather sport, I know. Call it wishful thinking, ifyou like. The topic, naturally, is the owners' recent approval ofinterleague play. 
For some reason, baseball alone of all the big-time sports has struggled through a series of labor problems in the past three decades. This past one, which hasn't really ended, canceled the World Series for the second time (the first time occurred way back in 1904 when Connie Mack refused to let his Philadelphia A's play the New York Giants out of fear of losing.) History les­son notwithstanding, the fans took it out on baseball in 1995, with most ballparks showing a decrease in attendance of almost 25 percent from the previous year. 
The owners have now decided upon a new strategy to get their fans back. The idea is to create more fan interest by pitting AL teams against NL teams, teams that normally would never play each other in the regular season. In order to accommodate the additional interleague games into the demanding 162 game schedule, teams would play teams in their own league and own divi­sion fewer times. While this may look good on paper, there are still a number of problems the owners have conve­niently overlooked. 
First of all, these interleague games are worthless. Consider college sports or high school sports: each team plays a certain number of games each season against teams within its own conference 
and a certain num­
ber of 
that are played against teams who are not conference opponents may count in the final team record, but not in the final team stand­ings. The games are meaningless. 
When major league baseball teams play divisional opponents, they try to win them all, at practically any cost. A win for a team versus a divisional rival means a definite gain in the standings, because at least one team in that divi­sion has lost that day. Games against divisional opponents are usually very intense. This has in the past led to many great baseball rivalries (most of which were made meaningless by the shift of teams into the new three-division align­ment.) 
So although interleague games would technically count in the standings, teams are going to treat them as non-divisional games, or even as exhibition games. I wouldn't be surprised if most teams would use all their secondary players in interleague games to rest the starters for the games that count. Boy, fans would really rush to see a Florida versus Detroit game, wouldn't they? 
Second, there are still differences between how the two leagues play. The big one is the Designated Hitter, which the American League adopted in 1973. The union likes it because teams shell out millions of dollars for extra home run hitters and because hitters get a chance to play two or three more years without actually playing. As you can tell, I don't like the rule. It lessens the role of the pitcher, decreases the strategy involved, deprives teams of money that could be used for better players, and takes away a spot on the roster that would be better filled by a younger, more exciting player. 
Obviously, the DH was only invented by owners to supposedly make them money by attracting home run fans. The DH adds nothing to the game and reduces the aspects of baseball that give it the hum of intensive potential energy. It has also affected the manner in which pitchers perform in the American League. One of the reasons hard-throw­ing pitchers like Roger Clemens and Randy Johnson have been so effective is that for years AL pitchers threw nothing but junk. They thought that by learning curves and slurves and forkballs and other soft stuff, they could work their way around the extra hitter. 
As a result of all these pitches that came in at the plate around the batter's ankles, the umpires began looking for them and thereby lowered the strike­zone. And as a result of more low strikes, batters adopted a diving style of swing to try to golf the ball out of the park, which in turn resulted in people believing a good hitter was someone with 30 homers and 100+ strikeouts to go with a sub-par batting average of below .250. If you've ever watched the World Series, you can see many instances of umpires confusing batters in both leagues by calling pitches strikes over different parts of the plate. This strike-zone confusion and lack of strat­egy in general in the American League 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
will continue to be a problem until the DH is eliminated. 
Last, there remains the small matter of a labor agreement. The owners went right ahead and approved two expan­sion teams in Tampa Bay and Arizona, and now have approved interleague play, all assuming that baseball survives until 1998. I think that the fans were fed up with this sort of nonsense long ago, and that all of them want the labor problems to be settled before they believe a word of anything either side says regarding the future of the sport. Frankly, I don't blame them. It's hard to be loyal to a hometown team when you don't know if they're going to bother respecting your loyalty. I have to wonder how it must feel to those who have been loyal to a particular for a long time, only to see a pastime that has become a part of their lives turn around and treat their fans as nothing but sentient dollar bills. 
In short, interleague play is the own­ers grasping at straws. They don't have a clue how to make more people inter­ested in baseball, so they throw history and common sense out the window and turn to the bank. It's very amusing that these same money-grubbing owners come crawling on hands and knees to city hall begging for more tax revenue for more stadiums, I'm not one for tradi­tions, but it seems to me, purist that I am, that interleague play at this point in baseball's history is being considered not as a potentially good thing for base­ball, but as an escape for the owners from their own responsibility to the game. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. 
He can be reached at matthew. t. apple. I @nd. edu. Also. check out his new homepage at http://www. nd. edu:BOI-mapple. Regularly scheduled ranting will resume next week. "Do not adjust your televi­sion set. We control the vertical ... " 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Writers are always sell­ing somebody out." 
-Joan Didion 

HeF£5 ONe ~M...tm?AO, za.JKI 
MAHMOUPOF {)~tt~R}75: "/JO YOU HAV£3. 7lJ CI.&AR. YOUR. 
STRIPS IAJ17H YOU.'R fl."NEJ.WM'eNT:~""1 
IA/Cl.L, MAHMOUl? !AE'R& NOT REQUIRE/? TO E!f tAJ(/, 8lfT AS A MATTB< OF COUI<!C% 
~AJ.WAY5 &-MAI/..-AI?VANt:& PRIXJF5 7lJ THE AI.JIHOR/T/1:33/ 

"7H& '7!RJPI5 7H!W '3C/?lJPUtotE­
I-YOftZK£1)fOR ACCUI<AC-Y, 
PAIRNE$ AN/JtXXJ/J TA57l3. • 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 page9 
• DESIDERATA 
The death penalty: Learning from life preserved 

You might be glancing at this article and wondering why I am writing about the death penalty today, when my very last column was devoted to this subject. I agree that it's rather unoriginal to write two consecutive arti­cles on the same thing, and normally I wouldn't do so. However, the case I am writing about today is very much unlike other capital punishment cases; it certainly stands in stark contrast to the specific one I considered in my last column. George DelVecchio, whom I discussed last time, was killed by the state after he and his attorneys fought a long, hard battle in an attempt to save his life. But today I write about Guinevere Garcia, who did absolutely nothing to stop her execution and even criticized the efforts of those who fought for her life. And much more importantly, despite Garcia's readiness to die, she did not -less than 24 hours before her scheduled execution, Illinois Governor Jim Edgar commuted her sentence to life imprisonment. 
or course, it pleased me more 
than I can say that her life was 
spared -especially by a 
Republican governor who had 
six times allowed executions to
• t O proceed. I see this as a big vic-KIFS en unne tory for the abolitionist move­ment. But aside from the impli­cations of this case for a cause I stand behind strongly, I find it interesting for other reasons. Regardless of the outcome, this was a case in which the con­
demned was ready -even apparently willing to die. And in this type of situa­tion, people may feel torn on what to think. As someone who vehemently opposes capital punishment, I would never support an execution. But on the other hand, if an individual truly wants to die, I tend to think it inhumane to keep her alive against her will. Was it wrong, then, for lobbyists to fight for Garcia's life -and to succeed? Was a victory for our cause won only at the cost of an individual? 
My response is "no." Let me explain. First of all, there has been a perva­sive misconception throughout Ms. Garcia's case that she wanted to die. In fact, Guinevere Garcia never stated that she desired death. Her point was rather that she did not want to beg for her life. She reasoned that, after her efforts in the courts, any further courses of action would amount to begging, and she considered that degrading. Furthermore, having lived for more than three years on Death Row, she had accepted the fact that death was her fate. She was, as they say, "ready to go." But despite her affirmative efforts to stop others' attempts to halt her execution, she never said, "I want to die." And indeed, upon learning that her life would be spared, Guin Garcia was relieved, and she thanked God for His mercy. 
Even assuming, however, that this woman had a death wish -and those who believe this do have a strong basis for their argument -I cannot say that granting her wish under these circumstances would have been proper. 
I do feel that a fully competent, clear-minded adult should be able to make his own decision about whether, in given circumstances, he would prefer to live or die. For example, if someone close to me stated that she would want to die should she become vegetative and then, God forbid, that happened, I would feel that this wish should be honored. I cannot say it would not hurt me deeply to lose a loved one, for death always leaves pain for those who remain behind. But death is also profoundly personal, and if someone makes a well-thought-out decision that, under extreme circumstances, he would rather die than live, this decision should carry more weight than the opinions of other people. After all, we are not the ones doing the dying, and as Justice Brennan once stated, "(a) quiet, proud death, bodily integrity intact, is a matter of extreme consequence." 
However, nothing but the most serious considerations should bear upon whether an individual has a "right" to die. I think we all, from time to time, feel as if we want to die, but normally these wishes are accompanied by traumatic events in our lives, and fade away as things return to normal. Wanting to die is not abnormal or unusual, but when, during stable periods in our lives, we think back on such thoughts, I think we can all say that they were the product of extreme circumstances. And hopefully, we can also say that we are glad that our death wishes were not granted, and that we are happy to be alive. 
Now imagine living the life Guinevere Garcia has lived. At only eighteen months old, she saw her mother catapult herself out of a window and fall to her death. She was raped at age six by an uncle, and this became a pattern to last for years to come. This same uncle led her into alcoholism. By age seventeen, she had turned to prostitution and strip-dancing. She had a daughter, Sara, and she feared that her abusive uncle would gain custody of the child. Rather than condemning her daughter to a life like she had lived, she suffocated the child, and went to prison. Upon her release, she met George Garcia, marrying him shortly thereafter in the hope of finding some stability and normalcy. What she actually found was a man who beat and mutilated her. She shot and killed him in retaliation. For this, she received the death penalty. 
I would hope that, for most of us, a life like this is virtually inconceivable. But consider this: if those of us who have been much more fortunate have harbored irrational wishes to die, what about this woman? Even if she did, indeed, have a death wish, it was obviously not the product of reason. She had live a most painful life, and eventually was told by the judicial system that death was what she deserved. From this perspective, I think it is amaz­ing that she did not say, in a more affirmative manner, that she desired death. But it is also highly evident that, under these circumstances, one can­not make a rational decision on this subject. Choosing death -and a particu­larly degrading form of death, I must add -is, in a case like Guinevere Garcia's, no choice at all. This woman had no capacity to say that she want­ed to die, and when one lacks capacity to do something, it does not demean them to refuse to defer to their wishes; in fact, quite the opposite. Governor Edgar made the right decision -not just for the abolitionist movement as a whole, but for Guinevere Garcia in particular. 
When Guinevere Garcia gave a rare ipterview to a local reporter, she was asked whether she really wanted to die and, if not, what it was she did want. She responded: "A childhood. 'Cause I never had one. But I'd give my life right now for one day of it; for a day to know what it feels like to be a child and not be afraid." A woman who wanted to die? I don't think so. 
The death penalty is always inappropriate, and the unique circumstances of this case do not change that. If anything, death would have been especial­ly egregious here. Life was the correct choice. 
Kirste,n Dunne, ND '92 and '95, is working at the firm of Goldberg, Weisman and Cmro. Ltd. in Chicago. 



ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 



The Observer/ Dave Murphy 
What do you think of the new library chairs? 


"They are harder to sleep in:' 
Michael Peppard Sophomore Carroll 

By KRISTA NANNERY Accent Editor 
F
un? South Bend? Most people, including a lot of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, wouldn't even dare to put those two words in the same sen­tence. For many people, fun in South Bend is a plain, old oxymoron. 
But does anyone ever really give the Bend the chance it deserves? Outside of Cinemark, Bridget's and Don Pablo's, off-campus trips and activities among students are few and far between. 
Jeff Roberts, present director of career and placement at IUSB and former coordinator of career and place­ment at Saint Mary's until 1993, used to joke about being the author of an imaginary book, "You Too Can Have Fun in South Bend." People always found that self imposed title amusing. Their laughter stuck to him like a mosquito bite. 
"I would keep scratching it and scratching it. I kept thinking, what would I recommend to people searching for something to do in South Bend?," Roberts says. 
Some quick brain-storming during a car trip to Milwaukee helped relieve that itch. By trip's end, Roberts had a list of 150 things people could do in South Bend and the surrounding areas. 
Before long, he had whittled that list down to 125 and the first edition of "You Too Can Have Fun in South Bend" was born. 
The first edition, priced at $2, sold 1600 copies. Offering alternatives to the bar and campus party scene, it was aimed primarily at the student populations of 

Flamboyant Leyner ba 
"They are all the same. The students don't have to pick and choose." 
Roger Zeigler Library Monitor 


"The flooding was the library crying for her vinyl orange and green chairs. It's the end of an era." 
Kelly Smith Freshman Lyons 
"The colors remind me of the seats in Madison Square Garden." 
Brian Reinthaler Freshman Flanner 


"It's like sitting in butter." 
Rich Kizer Sophomore Alumni 
"I miss the swiveling chairs.They were better for looking around." 
Maureen Gribbin Sophomore Cavanaugh 

y
L E N E 
..---------­

ACCENT
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 page 11 
~h Bend. Don't laugh. 

'The Bend' is not an 
ball courses and three hot air balloon companies within easy driving distance of campus. And in case you were looking for a creative way to celebrate a friend's 21st birthday, there is a Chuck E. Cheese within driving dis­of tane11 from campus. 
of, Hobnrts also lists eleven outdoor, one indoor and four miniature golf courses, certainly a big change from Burke Memorial. (The guide also tells you where to go if you're interested in Frisbee Golf.) And did you know South Bend has been the cradle of national champions in table tennis for years? Along with new and pleasant surprises, "You Too Can llave Fun In South Bend" also includes such campus favorites as Coach's, The Bengel Bouts, The Sophomore Literary Festival, The Colonial Pancake House, and The Mishawaka Brewing Company. All this fun is for a good cause, too. Proceeds from "You Too Can llave Fun in South Bend" benefit Youth Leadership South Bend/Mishawaka. This program seeks to provide leadership training and build self-confidence for "hidden leaders," or youth with the potential for suc­cess. In publishing "You Too Can llave Fun in South Bend," Hoberts want11d to offer people good, clean fun. It seems to bn working. Already, he's planning a 2 volume, 700 entry edition. "700 things to do in South Bend," you scoff? It's true. And it's fun. In this guide to plain, pure, unadulterated fun, Hoberts truly brings South Bend's fun right to the surface. No longer can we claim that there's nothing to do in town. Hoberts goes out of his way to prove us wrong. 

YOU TOO CAN HAVE FUN IN SOUTH BEND (AND ITS NEIGHBORS) •South Bend INDIANA OVER 380 FuN IDEAS 2ND EDITION COM PILEI> IIY: JEFI'REY DAMIAN ROBERTS  




k with two new stories 
Mark Leyner graced the stage of the 
was powerful, his delivery hilarious are suffering from Leyner withdraw!, called a morph between Beavis and 
with two new, mind-busting stories, e Phone." Leyner is mesmerizing once though the eyes of a pop culture king. 
wisted but hilarious. The first of his two cative of his brute, no holds barred style. ne of his roller coaster rides though the 

is childhood babysitter and her unique nds were being read lascivious tales of odes. From this instance of childhood t Pindar has had on his life, most impor­
mal Beach Volleyball. 
eism is the oflicial belief system of profes­gained commercial stardom, and most his vocational aptitude scores for 
off the charts. This on top of a testing "the four cardinal Pindarian criteria for e from the sport would look good on a ducive to voyeurism. The prose is jam­to the MTV generation, and written in 
Volleyball" is one of Leyner's very best. 
the Phone." Though very Leyner-esque, it of his writing. The story isn't com­
between Einstein and a mafia number between Einstein and actress Mary Astor worse. This definitely isn't Leyner's best 
it may even make you cry. It will dis-you won't want to put him down. It's such a high quality of satirical writing. de Volleyball" is one of his best. Both the paperback version of "Tooth Imprints 
War was a heroic endeavor when the risk of being maimed and killed was greater for the participating sol­diers than for the local civilian populati.g~ •. ~ut today, it's far safer being a soldier than a haples~ bi~ilian huddled 
• . ...:. . : . .::..::=:: .::. '·. ':: '. . ·i?:~.;~~.;::,;:::~~~ 
1n the cellar.; waiting to become aeoJI al damage sta­
·\;;;~r:~~';'~:): .. ·==·:: '·:'=(· . . ··\:.:,y,:)A:·:::;.:,:, ·.. ··' .:····'··· ,:, ·. 
tistic. Sic transit heroic warrior~ Just comp~te Alexander 
··'·:~ \.'. :-:-,:;:;::::=.:::1~~~=·' 

the Great leading his calvary against the Persians at Gaugamela to today's biological warfare expert,. cozily ensconced in his bunker, sipping a diet soda, releasing a cloud of aerosol anthrax pathogen over a village with the flick of his joystick. 
Well, the same equation obtains for sports. If it's more dangerous for the athletes than the spectators--it's heroic. And we Americans like our sports heroic. Why do you think soccer never quite catches on here? Because the chances of a spectator being trampled to death by anthem-crooning jingoistic expatriates or pum­meled by besotted neo-fascist hooligans are far greater than the chances of a player stubbing his toe in the game. Boxing, on the other hand, is still.... ~eroic. You think the mugging glitterati would cram their fannies into ringside seat if the risk of brain damage and detached retinas wasn't greater for the mugging pugilists them­selves? No way. 
-from uvenus de Volleyball" by Mark Leyner 
• ACCENT SPEAKS ••• 
Making fun  
part of the  
program  
ne year ago practically today, somebody up 0there decided to make some changes down here in a lot of people's lives. A new nameplate was or­dered, some new business cards showed up, and Accent had itself a new editor. It was really scary. Krista Nannery One year later and Accent Acccm Editor is still pufling along, bringing you such favorites as "The Days of Our Lives Update," "The Medical Minute" and Thursday's "Music Extravaganza." Getting it all to come together has been fun, if frustrating. But it's only gotten easier as the time has gone by. We're more into fun than ever before. Remember, we got the scoop on the removal of yo-cream from the dining halls and got two female students-one Notre Dame, one Saint Mary's-to switch places for a day. We also hit the streets and investigated why backpacks are so popular and why everyone's wearing them on both shoulders nowadays. There's not too much time left in the reign of this particular Accent Editor-40 days to be ex­act-but there's still enough time to make things bigger and better. We're expanding to two pages everyday, not just two pages most of the time. We're racking our brains for new and funny things to present to you in new and interesting ways. (Watch for our pieces on male pattern baldness and the ultimate Valentine mix tape.)  -•  

And we're way into fun. 
Fun is good. 
Sometimes fun needs to be scheduled though. Otherwise, nothing around here would ever get done and we'd all sit around playing darts. We figured if we wrote our plans down and let you all know, we'd actually stick with them. So here it is, The Accent Schedule of Events. Hopefully, it will last the duration of the semester. 
If you haven't noticed, The Fat Man is back. Yes that's right, Fat Man and Daddy, Accent Movie Afficianados, are reunited (and it feels so good) and back with their big words and a movie review if you're lucky. They're being joined by Mark Torma, providing you with not one, but two movie reviews every Monday. 
The Days of Our Lives Update is back. Hopefully, somebody out there will come through for us and rearrange their schedule to watch General Hospital everyday. We need a GH Update. 
Also on Monday, we'll be profiling some cool person or another. Feel free to give us a call if you know of any particularly interesting person. 
The Medical Minute is back every Tuesday, with John Galvin and Liza Nykiel alternating. We've noticed you like to take quizzes a lot. Maybe you'll get some more. The rest of Tuesday will be dedicated to random fun. Hopefully, this will include some cool web sites. We've gotta keep up with the times, don't we? 
Because we know you like to hear us whine, we'll bring you a photo poll and the Accent col­umn every Wednesday. The Accent Editor gets to write it every other week, when she's not playing the Powerballlottery. The rest of the staff will be drawing straws for the other slots. 
To fill in the blank space in between on Wednesdays, we'll also add some more random fun and a book review or two. You guys should read more. It's relaxing, really it is. Bryce Seki returns as Chief Book Guy. 
Christian Stein and the rest of the Accent Music critics return every Thursday bringing you the best of today's music. Listen in to WVFI every Thursday evening for that day's reviews, live on­air. We'll also try to line up some give-aways. Free stuff always gets people excited. 
And Fridays, oh Fridays. Fridays mean color and a big headache for Accent but a nice looking paper in the dining hall for the rest of you. We'd tell you what we have planned, but really, it's going to have to stay a secret, at least for now. Trust us, you'll like it. 
Anyhow, that's the low down for now and this has got to be the most unamusing column Accent has ever run. Sorry about that. 

~-----~--~----------~~-~----­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 


Reed ignites Indiana's offense in upset of Michigan 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Even Bob Knight, that old 
master of defense, loved this 
offensive show. 

Led by Brian Evans with 29 points and Neil Reed with eight 3-pointers and a career-high 26 points, Indiana pulled away in the second half and beat No. 16 Michigan 99-83 Tuesday night. 
The Hoosiers shot 7 4 percent in the final period and 63 per­cent for the game. 
"We just had an offensive game tonight that was kind of like old times," Knight said. 
Indiana (11-7, 4-2 Big Ten) led only 46-43 at halftime, but built it to 91-79 on Reed's eighth 3-pointer with four min­utes to go. He tied a school record shared by Steve Alford and Jay Edwards, and the Hoosiers' 12 three-pointers overall was one better than the previous record of 11 set against Wisconsin in 1987. 
"Coach really stressed getting out strong. We wanted to try to make a defensive impression. We didn't do that well in the first half, but the second half, I think we did," said Reed. 
It was Indiana's first game since Knight kicked sophomore guard Sherron Wilkerson off the team, following Wilkerson's arrest Friday on a misde­meanor charge of battering his girlfriend. That left only four guards on the roster, and Reed played all 40 minutes .
• 

Wilkerson's replacement, Charlie Miller, played 38 min­utes and had 8 points and 5 assists. 
"Everybody did a real good job," Reed said. ''I'm not sure everyone was really thinking about the Sherron deal. We've had a lot of things happen around here. That's just anoth­er thing. So, we've got a game, so let's go play. That's all there 
is.'' 
Michigan (14-5, 4-2). which stayed close most of the game behind freshman Louis Bullock's seven 3-pointers and career-high 27 points, didn't come, closer than 10 points af­ter that. 
The final score was the biggest margin. 
Evans, who hit all seven of his field goal attempts in the sec­ond half, added 11 assists and 8 rebounds. Todd Lindeman had 17 points, 14 after the break, as the Hoosiers snapped a three-game losing streak to the Wolverines and avenged a defeat that ended their 50­game home winning streak last year. 
"When you shoot the way they did from the perimeter, it opens up inside stuff, and they did both tonight," Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. "They had great balance of outside scoring from Evans and Reed, and when we ran and chased after them it opened up Lindeman inside. 
"They played outstanding. It was more of them playing exceptionally well than us not playing well. We had some things that we have to do bet­ter. I believe we got frustrated when all the physicalness oc­curred inside, and we were re­actors. We tell them, 'You have to act and make your opponent react to you.' We were the peo­ple reacting tonight.'' 
The early part of the game was a 3-point duel between Reed and Bullock, and each topped his previous career high of four by making five in the first half alone. 
There were 11 lead changes and six ties in the opening peri­od. 
Two straight baskets by Maceo Baston gave the Wolverines their biggest lead at 36-29, but baskets by Haris Mujezinovic and Reed and Reed's third 3-pointer tied the game with 3:32 left in the open­ing period. Bullock countered with his fifth 3-pointer seconds later. 
Reed's next 3-pointer tied the game at 41, and the final tie was at 43-43 before Reed's fifth 3-pointer with 25 seconds left. Bullock, who hit his first five 3­point attempts, finally missed with 3 seconds to go, leaving Indiana's lead 46-43 at the half. 
Michigan came within 69-67 with 11 minutes to go before Evans went to work inside. He scored on a fast-break slam, added a tip-in basket and start­ed a six-point streak that put the Hoosiers up 79-70. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents ~er character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1·800-678­6386 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live. DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-B00-426·n10 
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTTEST TRIPS" CANCUN-SOUTH PADRE ISLAND -BELIZE 1-800-328-7513 http://www.studentadV1rav.com FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS 
Spring Break Bahamas Parly Cruise! 7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break 
Specials! 111% Lowest Price ~ 
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel 
From $429! Save $100 On 
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­
breaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Day1ona $139! http://www.spring­break1ravel.com. • 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: pocket knife near 
Stonehenge on 1/17. Call1678. 
LOSTIIIII 
I.D. bracelet. Says "Christopher". Reward for return. Please call, sen­timental value. Call Chris, @ 1662 
Switched: If you have the wrong turquoise double-breasted jacket from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give me a call. I have yours. 
Andy X1765 

WANTED 
ATTENTION SOUTH QUAD WOMEN!! City News Service is looking for newspaper carriers to deliver to the girl dorms in your area. Work 1 hr each morning, make approx. $42 per week. Call Joe at 4-1680. 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext. J55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55843 
REPS NEEDED: One of America's fastest growing telecommunications co. needs Reps. Offers personal freedom and chance to motivate others. No inventory, no delivery, no quotas. Call Julie at 4-4172. EXCEL Telecommunications. 
ZAPPA FANS I am writing the entry on F.Z. for the Dictionary of American Biography. I want to listen to some of his albums before beginning library research. If you have any FZ albums and would be willing to let me tape them, please call2n-9071 


FOR RENT 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
Great Apt. for Sublet! !II furnished apt. minutes from NO 2 BdRm w/ central air, wash & dryer -located at 617 Portage Ave. $375/mo. plus utilities Call Colleen at #233-1495 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH­BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­9005 
MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT. NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2 BATH. $900.00/MO.+ 257-0457 
2 VERY NICE rooms for Sum/Fall '96. 5-min. drivel $250 inc! utilities & extras! 1-4809/232-7175 
1 bedroom in 3 bedroom home Female preferred Use of all utilities 300.00/mo. -Close to campus Safe neighborhood Call Paul 232-2794 
FORsAiE:J 
For Sale: 93 Honda Accord LX 22K. 4-door, auto, air, cruise, cas­sette. Excellent condition; faculty owned. 631-7555. 
FOR SALE! 1985 MERKUR XR4TI 85 K MILES CALL HEINER @ 232-7939 
'90 Honda Accord LX, 66,000 mi., Auto., PS/PB, Air, AMIFM Cass., Cruise, Etc. Excellent Condition. $8500 or best offer. 272-7180 
TRUE BEAUTY 3 MILES TO CAMPUS 237-9718 


TICKETS 
Need 3 or 4 GA's for W. V. Call Ted x3381 $$$ 
Need 2 GAs forW.Virginia game. Call Karen x2371. 
Need GA for W.V. Call Leigh X4179 
Student season basketball ticket available. Call Arlene at 631-8447. 
Offer: 1 or 2 MACBETH TICKETS for Sat. Feb. 24 in exchange for Thurs. (prefered) or Fri. tickets. Please call Claudia (x-4088). Leave a message. 
I need tickets for the St. John's game February 11. Call Jim at 287­4966.$$ 

PERSONAL 
0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0C0a000 
Interested in 

helping out the Environment? 
Call Recyclin' Irish at 
x1283 :) 

Mentalist 
Come let Craig Karges of Leno and Letterman fame read your mind and mystify you with his powers. Appearing Friday, Jan. 26 at 8 p.m. at the Library Auditorium. $$$$$$$$$$$FREE$$$$$$$$$$$ Brought to you by your friends at SUB! 
Oh no, I've forgotten my polo stick in my bungalow and now I can't play .... 
If you or someone you know is los­
ing their hair, we'd really be inter­
ested in hearing about it. All calls 
are confidential. Call1-4540. 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
St. Edward's Hall Players proudly present: One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest Thurs., Fri, Sat. 8 p.m. @ Washington Hall Tickets available at LaFortune Info desk or at the door. 
@@@@@@@@@ 
The NO Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists will hold its first meeting of the year Wed., Jan 24 @ 7 p.m. in the Foster Room (3rd Floor LaFortune.) 
@@@@@@@@@@ 
ACACACACACACACACACA ACOUSTIC CAFE 
will resume this Thursday from 9 pm till12 am in the Huddle. Call John Gavula to 
reserve a time to play, or for a backrub... 4-0632 ACACACACACACACACACA 
'''Bai-Ju's Noodle House'" We Deliver! 271-0125 Delivery Hrs: Mon-Sun 4:30-Mid $8.00 Minimum Order 
This week's special: 'Szechuan Fried Rice 'Chicken Lo Mein 
In the darkness of your room your mother calls you by your true name you remember the faces, the places, the names with the same hot blood burning in your veins Adam Raised a Cain 
Hi Tenille! Love, Dave Hi Elizabeth! Love, Brad 
Yeah, we sure could have sweeped those awards, right Dave? 
I know where Yoda is. It's sick and twisted. Sorry. 
Hey, Listen up!! The SMC Sophomore Class SYR (our theme: "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun") is this Saturday, Jan. 27, from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. in Haggar Parlor. It's an '80s dance, so bring your 
I.O.U.s and, heck, even your jams ... if you really want to Tickets are on sale for $7 per per­son at the dining hall from 4:45-6:45 Wednesday through Friday. The first 100 people wearing '80s attire who show up at the door on Sat.get a "radical" T-shirt. (And we even promise that the dance will not interfere with the "Play of the Mind."). Hey, Kim and Doug are gonna be there. Will you? 
Two worlds collide: guilty. -Kirk 

The parly's going to be a big'un. 
Don't ever give the girls from P.W. 
a pet. I gave them an ant and they 
almost lost it. 
Scull, 

You're supposed to be tough. Just 
down it without blowing the flame 
out. 

Lily, It's been a long time since we've spoken. You sometimes seem to get lost in the shuffle. Between the entrance of a new bed in the room and the destruction of Big Orange due to vomit. I hope you didn't feel like you took a back seat to them. hope you will always consider me a friend no matter if you some of those days where you don't seem so flowery. 
Beware: Kelly's got good vibes about youll!l!! Just take it easy with the happy man. 
GROOS EVERYWHERE! 
HEY COLLEEN! 
Sea monkeys, milli vanilli, 
conversations with all your 
boyfriends, what next? 

I can't wait to meet fat uncle, we are 
going to have the best time ever! 
Yay 3N Lewis! 
-AiiCat 

Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-



Tagliabue testifies in favor of antitrust exemption 
By LEROY TILLMAN tion and the threat of antitrust of courts' perception that the team to relocate. approv'al to move to St. Louis Associated Press challenge is creating an envi­30 NFL owners are economic "Our internal decision-mak­until after a deal was worked ronment where teams are competitors, rather than part­ing process should not be sub­out for the team to indemnify WASHINGTON afraid to act unilaterally in the ners. ject to antitrust challenges, par­the league $29 million dollars. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue belief that a league decision, He said this view was respon­ticularly by league members The commissioner said most 
today told a Senate committee whatever it may be, could not sible for treble-damage litiga­who get the benefit of (belong­of the recent franchise moves 
that a limited federal antitrust withstand antitrust scrutiny," tion in the past and the threats ing to) the league ... and then involved cities bidding against 
exemption would help the NFL he said. of future legal challenges by when it suits their fancy, they each other to either attract or 
keep owners from moving "The very things that we are owners who are not satisfied turn around and sue the retain franchises and adding 
teams as freely as some have trying to do in professional with their current stadium or league.," he said. more favorable lease terms, 
been doing. sports today to ensure fran­lease agreements. "It doesn't make any sense newer facilities and guaranteed Tagliabue, who testified chise stability are the measures Tagliabue cited how the whatsoever. They act as busi­revenues as inducements to before the Senate Judiciary that are subject to antitrust threat of billion dollar lawsuits ness partners for 10, 15, 20, 25 relocate. Committee, said the throat of challenge." from Georgia Frontiere, the years -and when they want to antitrust suits by owners when Tagliabue, who was the owner of then-Los Angeles and file a suit they take one hat off 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

their requests to relocate are league's leading attorney be­now St. Louis Rams, and the and put another hat on as a 
denied, would be remedied by fore becoming commissioner, city of St. Louis were re­business competitor and they Downhlll Sid Trip-RecSports limiting their power to sue. said some form of limited im­sponsible for reversing an own­sue us under antitrust laws." 
will be sponsoring a Down Hill"Tho threat of antitrust litiga-munity is needed because of the ers' decision not to .allow the The Rams did not receive 

Ski Trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, January 26. Transportation provided. 

· Register in advance by January 24, at RecSports. For informa­tion about fees call1-6100. 

Campus Bowling League~ RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League that will com­pete on Thursday nights between February 1 & March 7. Register your 3 person team in advance at ffecSports by January 31. For more infor­mation calll-6100.-
Martlal Arts-The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute is starting beginner classes for the spring semester. Practices are Thursdays from 6:30-8:00 in Room 301 Rock and Sunday 6:00-8:00 Room 219 Rock. For more information call Kyle 4· 
3282. . lnterhall Football-The 
lnterhall football equipment return will be held on January 24 from 3:00-5:00 at Jake Klein Field. 
Racquetball & Volleyball­The RecSports Office is offering !Campus Raquetball Doubles, lnterhall Team Racquetball, Co-Ree Volley_ball and Grad!Fac/Stafl' Volleyball. The deadline is January 24. Please call 631-6100 for date and times of captain's meetings. 
Equestrian Club-There will be a meeting January 24 at 
7:00 in room 222 of the library. 

Be prepared to pay for yourDexter's not his usual self. 
lessons. 
IIIII CIIITIY lEI IIIEAifAIT IECIITIY 
Th• l'ref~=d Registry

You suspect the salsa. 
Reatrved lwurlouii'IIOIIII or prlv1111111111 lor rll/IMC speclllevent Wlllllllllll: 
JPW/Griii.Jfoollllll TD 1'1111'¥1 till (218)277-711113 Fu 121B)2n-2466 

So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. 
(Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
Uvc off campus? Sign up tbr Al&T True Reacll Savings'" and save 25% 
no matter who, how, when or where 
you call in the ll.S. 
Life can be complicated. Al&T True Reach Savings'M is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on your Al&Tphone hill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem­when you spend just $25 a montlt No other plan gives you all these different ways to savt!.* Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your Trne Choice~ 

... 

..

AT&T 

Your True Choice 
•Rcfen; to long distanc:e c-alls billed to AT&T home or AT&TcaJling Card a<xounts. Dis<.'OUill' off AT&Thasic r.ues Certain exclusions appl~ SUI*<-1 to hilling avadahiiii}'.Offer available to residential Al&Truslomers: Minimum .!!-pending requirement is per residential line...Compared ro major long distance carriers. 0 1996AT&T 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
• SUPER BOWl

-
Aching Aikman refuses O'Donnell dedicates game to his dad 
to hang up his uniform 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Troy Aikman has had so many injuries he has seriously thought about taking the gold watch. 
But he decided Tuesday after a long consultation with him­self that No. 8 will be in uni­form for the Dallas Cowboys next season. 
"I've had so much punish­ment this year that I was real close to falling apart," Aikman said. "Every day this season I've felt some kind of pain. I've had knee pain, back pain, and my arm hurts." 
But Aikman was lucky. The quarterback started every game. And he didn't get his seventh concussion. His sixth concussion occurred in the NFC title game two years ago and Aikman, to this day, can't re­member part of the Super Bowl. 
"Some of it is still fuzzy," he said. "I didn't even remember the NFC championship game." 
Unless Pittsburgh linebacker Greg Lloyd takes his head off in Sunday's Super Bowl, as promised, Aikman wants to try his eighth NFL season. 
"I'm planning on coming back." he said. "Don't fit me for that gold watch yet. I'll still be using my Casio." 
He has said in the past that one day he could walk away from the game if injuries become a big bother or if the Cowboys management doesn't keep the players it should to be competitive. 
There has been speculation that winning a third Super Bowl would prompt his early exit from the game. Also, he has been painted as being at odds with coach Barry Switzer. 
"When I decide to quit it will be on my own terms and not because I'm running from something," Aikman said. "Barry and I are after just one thing and that's winning. I think Barry has done a good job this year. I'm OK with Barry." 
Aikman made his strongest statement to date about his future. 

"I still enjoy playing the game," he said. "But when you start getting concussions, and I'm working on my seventh one, then you get concerned. It scared me. You don't want to come out of the game with a damaged brain, that's for sure. But I'm OK now. 
Aikman laughed when asked about Lloyd's threats, saying: 
"He's right, his job is to hit the quarterback. That's fine with me. It doesn't bother me. I know guys on our team like that." 
Lloyd has said a high hit is a good hit. "When you see a guy go back there and he beats a guy and goes up high at the quarterback, that's a clean hit," he said. 
"I've never minded getting hit," Aikman said. "I like standing in there. Most of the time I don't even feel them. I've had people ask me if I re­member a certain hit and most of the time I don't." 
Aikman has won 90 percent of the playoff games he has started, is 2-0 in the Super Bowl, and has been the MVP in one of the wins over Buffalo. 
''I'm committed to win," he said. "If I feel everyone on the team is doing everything it can regardless of the record, then I'm happy. I know I will miss football when I decide not to play. How long it will be, I don't know. I hope it's not anytime in the near future." 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 

TEMPE, Ariz. 
He is the youngest of nine children, and 30 relatives have traveled cross country to share in his biggest moment. It is a king-sized family reunion, and the Super Bowl is its center stage. 
But Neil O'Donnell, whose inner strength and stubborn resistance to losing are so re"spected by his Pittsburgh Steelers teammates, still feels very much alone at times. Everything he has ever wanted is here -except for his mentor, his hero, his best friend, his kindred spirit. 
His father. 

"I've thought about it a lot, and I wish he could be here," O'Donnell said of his father, Jack, a retired car dealer from Madison, N.J., who died late in the 1994 season. "So I'll try to go out and win the game, and try to win it for him." 
All but one of O'Donnell's five older brothers played college football, and there were three sisters, too. Christmas was complicated in the O'Donnell household, and so were the sports seasons, tqo, with so many kids and so many games to watch. 
Jack O'Donnell made sure he watched them all. 
When Neil landed a scholar­ship to Maryland, mostly on the recommendation of Ted Monica, his brothers' h~gh school coach, the elder O'Donnell traveled to nearly every game. When he retired 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assiastant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editors 
Please bring a 1 page personal statement to Krista 
in 314 LaFortune by noon on Friday, Janunary 26lli. Call631-4540 with questions 
from his Buick dealership a few years later, his youngest son said, "All he wanted to do was play golf and watch me play football." 
But, for the final two years of Jack O'Donnell's life, it was Neil who was forced to watch, and it often grew quite painful. 
A stroke in August 1992 forced his father first into a wheelchair, and, later, into a rehabilitation center, and O'Donnell agonized as his fa­ther's health, and life, deterio­rated. 
Just as his father was always there for him, Neil O'Donnell tried to be there for his father. He debated skipping a Steelers game when his father became gravely ill, but decided his dad would want him to play. Sometimes he flew back just for a day, even for a few hours alone with his dad, and he never gave up hope he would · get well. 
Then, suddenly, Jack was gone, before he could watch the biggest season of his son's career, and, now, his biggest game. This has been a break­through season for O'Donnell, one that has elevated him into the elite inner circle of NFL quarterbacks, yet it has seemed like am empty season, too. 
His numbers have been excel­lent, and, even, sensational during the Steelers' transition from a power-oriented, run-at­all-costs offense to one driven by the pass. This is a big game for sure, but it can never be as big as O'Donnell wanted it to be -not without his dad. 
''I'm not a bit uptight," O'Donnell said. "A lot of quar­terbacks never even get the chance to play in the Super Bowl, and I'm going to make the most of it. I know it's what my dad would have wanted." 
That, of course, and a Super Bowl ring for his son. 
"They keep talking in Pittsburgh about winning one for the thumb, about winning a fifth Super Bowl," O'Donnell said. "But I didn't play back then (in the 1970s). I don't want one for my thumb, I want one for my finger." 
And for his dad. 

INDIANAUNIVERSITY 

SournBEND 
CONTU«<TNGEDU~ON 

English as a Second Language 
12 Tuesdays, Feb. 13-Aprll 30 7·9:30 p.m. $189 

1 Improve active use of written and spoken English 1 Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 
1 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 1 Receive individualized attention from the instructor 
To register, or for information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 

~ AUDITIONS ~ 
o'\ ~wnmcr 9itigfjfs <;Dream 
. by 
o/P{//Jru;/, .YAg_,{~·ytFH.I¥ 
• This Production dedicated to Mandy Abdo • Directed by Paul Rathburn 
Friday: January 26, 7:00 pm Saturday: January 27, 11:00 am 
Sunday: January 28 1:00pm .. Call..Backs 
AUDITIONS HELD IN CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
MUSICIANS NEEDED!! 
Endorsed by the Senior Class of 1996
.. 
The College of Arts and Letters The Not..So..Royal..Shakespeare Company 
For more information call 631-5069, or 232-0017 
-~----------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SuPER BowL 
-


Versatile Slash, Swoosh spark Sunday showdown 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 1utionized the sometimes pre­Associa1ed Press dictable NFL game, it's Slash and Swoosh. TEMPE, Ariz. Who is more versatile? 
Kordell Stewart was in a Kordell Stewart or Deion restaurant the other night Sanders? when he spied Deion Sanders Both. at a table across the room. 
The man they call "Slash" "I told our coaches not to let walked over and introduced Kordell Stewart outshine me," himself to the man who wears Sanders said as he sat sur­the Nike "Swoosh." rounded by 300 or so mi­
"We just said, 'Hello. How crophones, tape recorders and are you?' Things like that," notebooks during Tuesday's Stewart said Tuesday. "I want­Media Day. "I might play quar­ed to meet him." terback. I want to do everything 
An appropriate meeting, Kordell does. If he punts, then indeed. I'm gonna punt." For if two players have revo-That's probably the one thing 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
~ 
• AUDITIONS • 

Christ kPassion: Medieval Mystery Plays edited and Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Monday, January 29, 
• NEEDED •
7:00pm 
21 women
Tuooay, January 30, 
23 men
7:00pm 
1 pianist
Callbacks: 
1 percussionist

Wt'.tb~lay, January 31, 
1 dancer
7:00pm 
Lab Theater -Washington Hall 

Get Further info and sign up for an audition time in 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
First Company meeting will be Thursday, February l. First relwarsal will be Sunday, February 25. Perfom1ances are April 17-21. 
•c..IIJ..-."'•·"'.. ~ • .. A ­
COTH is commilled to "non-traditional casting" that is, easting is done without regard to race or ethnicity. Stage "families" need not he of the same race and/or ethnicity. 
neither Stewart nor Sanders wide receiver, sometimes a will do Sunday when the running back. Pittsburgh Steelers challenge "I saw him running routes on the Dallas Cowboys in the the scout team, and I thought, Super Bowl. Otherwise, the two 'Wow!' " said Yancey Thigpen, most versatile players in the the Steelers' top receiver. "I NFL will provide an entertain-asked him, 'Hey, have you ever ing sideshow, even if the game, done this before?' But he's a as usual, is one-sided. 
Stewart is the new face, drafted by the Steelers as a quarterback last April, then enlisted as a receiver and running back. He never played either; he turned out to be a natural at both. 
The world knows Sanders, who likes to say, ''I'm household already." 
The full-time baseball player won his first Super Bowl ring last season with San Francisco, then joined the Cowboys this season for $35 million, including since he started .playing and he became "Slash" -as in quar­terback-slash-wide receiver­slash-running back. 
"It's the first nickname I've ever had in football," Stewart said. ''I'm Slash, he's Prime Time." 
Prime Time was tread­ing water while Stewart was emerging. 
Signed in September, he didn't start at cornerback for the Cowboys until Oct. 29 after recovering from surgery for an ankle injury incurred during the baseball season. And he didn't have the impact during the regular season that he had with San Francisco. 
But in Dallas' opening playoff game, he ran 21 yards for a touchdown on a reverse, his first rushing 

a signing bonus of'------------------------__J touchdown in seven half­

We encourage all talented, interested students to audition 
four more catches for 45 yards 
and a controversial touchdown 
against Indianapolis. Replay
Late Night Olyntpics X 
showed he stepped out of the end zone before the catch. Pittsburgh has won 10 of 11
Friday, February 2 
come to a free --..


7:00PM-4:00AM 
I

GREseminar I 
I 
t 

Date: January 30 



Joyce Center 
Time: 7pm 
The Tenth Annual Late Night Olympics is Scheduled for Fri­day, February 2, 1996. The Proceeds from this All-Night 
Location: 118 DeBartolo 
Sports Extravaganza go to Benefit the St. Joseph County 
Special Olympics. For More Information Contact Your Hall Representative or Call RecSports at 631-6100. 
'96 Late Night Olympics Teams 
Alumni I Walsh I Holy Cross Carroll/ Lewis I Keenan Dillon I Badin I Howard Fisher I Pangborn I Regina Flanner I Siegfried I Pasquerilla East Grace I Breen-Phillips I McCandless Morrissey I Lyons Stanford I Pasquerilla West St. Edwards I Le Mans I Knott Sorin I Farley Zahm I Cavanaugh 

Thl• I>mdlim• for Entl·ring a 'll.·am is :\Iunday, January 21J. 
$12,999,999. great athlete and he can do Stewart, a second-round pick, whatever he sets his mind to." was paid $240,000 to go with His coaches saw the same his signing bonus of $132,500. thing. When Charles Johnson, 
He certainly earned it. Stewart's former Colorado 
A quarterback at Colorado teammate, was lost for the sea-best known for a "Hail Mary" son with a knee injury, pass that beat Michigan in Pittsburgh needed an extra 1994, Stewart was considered a wide receiver. Stewart was it. good prospect by almost every Suddenly, the Steelers' con-NFL scout. servative offense was wide 
But most wanted him as a open. receiver; he wanted to be a Stewart would play quarter-quarterback. He even hired back with five wide receivers Leigh Steinberg, agent to many spread out, including of the NFL's top quarterbacks. O'Donnell. Against Cleveland, At last February's scouting he threw his first touchdown combine, Stewart even refused pass; against Cincinnati, he to work out with receivers or caught a 71-yard touchdown running backs. pass; and late in the season, he 
Early in the season, Stewart began lining up as a running was the fourth-string quarter-back. back behind Neil O'Donnell, Season stats: 15 carries for Mike Tomczak and Jim Miller, 87 yards, including a 22-yard working with the scout team touchdown run; 14 catches for that runs opponents' plays for 238 yards, an average of 16.8 the regulars. Sometimes he was and five completions in seven a quarterback, sometimes a attempts for 60 yards and a 
touchdown. 
In two playoff games, he had seasons (baseball was always first.) But he has 11 other TDs -six on interceptions, three on kickoff returns, two on punt returns and two receiving. 
He's liable to do all those things Sunday. 
"We expect to see him as the third wide receiver," said Dick LeBeau, Pittsburgh's defensive coordinator. "No, come to think of it, he might be their second wide receiver." 
Stewart will play the same role for the Steelers and then some. 
"I want to score every way," he said. "By throwing the ball, catching it, running it and throwing a block that lets my teammate score." 
Sanders will try to prevent it. But he also appreciates what Slash has done for the game. 
"He's a great guy personally and a great guy for the league," Prime Time said. "The NFL has gotten a little boring in the last few years. It needs guys like Kordell Stewart who do everything, guys who are ver­satile, guys who have a little more freedom to be them­selves." 
Slash or Swoosh? 
Both. 

1-800-KAP-TEST get • higher score 




KAPLAN 

Come to a free GMATseminar 

Date: January 30 Time: 7pm Place: 117 DeBartolo 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST

PtJI'(.'hase 2 LNO Raffle 
get a higher score

Tickets for $1.00 From Your LNO Hall Rl•pre­
KAPLAN

customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ever.
sentative. (; rl•at P1·izes!!!! 
tg.u,tj to a lfrcc seminar 
TARGI!TI!D TRAINING 


is the most customized, 1/exible
Friday, February 2 
approach to LSAT study ever. 

7:00 PM -4:00AM 
DATE: January 30 TIME: 7 pm 

Joyce Center 
PLACE: DeBartolo Hall 

631-6100 
Caii:1-800-KAP-TEST 

All LNO Medals:Were Do11tlted by 
TARGETED 
the Notre Dame AlumniAssociation 

KAPLAN

TRAINING 
-
... 
-­ -­ -~~  
page 16  The Observer • SPORTS  

• TENNIS 

Rubin sweats out another epic match 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia 
Sweat flooded down Chanda Rubin's face, soaked her shirt and .skirt, and formed a puddle at her feet as she toweled off, craftily making Arantxa Sanchez Vicario wait and worry. 
They had played 3 1/2 hours. Hit more than 3,000 shots. Run each other ragged for 325 points. And now, with Sanchez Vicario serving at 0-40 in the 30th game of the third set, Rubin paused for a final moment of gamesmanship. 
It wasn't the kindest way to treat a doubles partner, but as Rubin said, "Anything I can do, I'll do it." 
Rubin, seeded No. 13, did exactly what she had to do two points later, lunging for a volley winner on her sixth match­point to upset the third-seeded Spaniard 6-4, 2-6, 16-14 Tuesday night and reach the Australian Open semifinals against Monica Seles. 
This epic-match thing is get­ting to be routine for the 19­year-old American, who is halfway to a career Grand Slam of the longest matches at all the majors. 
She won the longest in Wimbledon history last year, and now she's won the longest in Australian history. Watch out for her at the French and U.S. Opens. 
Last June at Wimbledon, Rubin beat Patricia Hy-Boulais 7-6, 6-7, 17-15 in a duel that set a women's Grand Slam record for most games in a match and in a set. 
A few weeks before that, Rubin put on one of the great­est comebacks ever, fighting off seven match points and a third­set deficit of 0-5, love-40 to beat Jana Novotna at the French Open. 
This time, Rubin and Sanchez Vicario broke Australian women's records for most games in a match and in a set. At 3-hours, 33-minutes, it also was believed to be the longest ever in the Australian. The third set alone lasted 2 hours, 22 minutes -18 minutes longer than the final set at Wimbledon. 
Rubin flashed back to that Wimbledon marathon during this one, "but it was more like disgust because I couldn't put it away," she said. Yet it also gave her a boost. 


"I was thinking I can hang with her for however long," she said. 
When she finally did end it, she knew she had accomplished a lot more than winning anoth­er long match-she'd reached her first Grand Slam semifinals. 
"It's huge," she said. 

For all its drama and brilliant play, the match delayed until nearly 11 p.m. the one most of the crowd of 15,000 had come to see -defending champion Andre Agassi against two-time champion Jim Courier in the quarterfinals. 
Courier led 5-4 with Agassi serving when a cloudburst drenched the court. Though the roof was quickly closed and the court dried, the players and officials agreed at midnight to finish the match Wednesday. That decision angered many fans and threw off the schedul­ing of the men's semifinals, which now will be played Friday instead of Thursday. 
"It would not have been appropriate in a Grand Slam event to resume a match that potentially still had several hours left in it after midnight," Geoff Pollard, president of Tennis Australia, said. 
"It was funny," Rubin said of the fans shouting for the men during her match. "I felt a little bad because I knew everybody was waiting for Agassi and Courier. I felt the same way. It was like, somebody please fin­ish it. But she didn't give it to me, and I wasn't willing to give it to her. So we were going to be out there regardless of what the crowd was saying." 
As unhappy as fans might have been at the end, they saw a women's match of the highest caliber by two players famous for their stamina. 
On Australian television, a Nike commercial during the match showed Agassi and Pete Sampras playing an endless point, with John McEnroe in the broadcast booth, all of them growing beards as the months go by. There were times when Rubin thought her match might never end. 
"A lot of times," Rubin said. "Especially on the second of two match points that I had at 30-40 (in the 28th game). The ball she hit, it was clearly out, 
Notre Dame Marketing Club 


Mr. John McDonough 

Vice-President of Marketing Chicago Cubs 
Friday, January 26 Jordan Auditorium {COBA) 

4:30PM 
and it was so hard to come back after that. 
"I was thinking, 'God, I can't win this. It's just going to go on all night.' " 
Sanchez Vicario punched a backhand volley on that point, and the ball drifted several inches past the baseline near Rubin's feet. But the linesman's view was blocked by Rubin, and the umpire said he didn't see the ball clearly enough to make that call on match point. 
Rubin, who let two match points slip away in the 10th game, tried to stay calm after seeing the match snatched from her grasp by that missed call. She held serve to take a 15-14 lead, then quickly jumped on Sanchez Vicario's serve to push her to 0-40. 
Instead of going straight to the baseline to receive, Rubin paused to towel off by her chair and make Sanchez Vicario wait. 
"I wanted to slow it up a little and give myself time to think, not just rush," Rubin said. "She has a tendency to rush a little, but I just wanted to get my thoughts together." 
She acknowledged that the tactic may have made Sanchez Vicario think a little more about the pressure situation she was in, saying, "That's good." 
Rubin was the aggressor the whole match, attacking at the net twice as often. She made twice as many unforced errors (96 to 48), but also hit twice as many winners (68 to 34). 
"I kept trying to go for it, regardless of what was going to happen," Rubin said. "When I didn't was when I lost it, in the third set at 4-1. I don't think I went for it as much as I needed to. So I just kept trying to go for it and see how long I would have to stay out there before they fell in." 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
DN CAMPUS 
Junior Parent Weekend ~PWAL february 15-18, 1qqb 
Come early; stay late; same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend cost is $40.00 per parent, whether you stay two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. For reserv:aj~on~. call21 ~-631-751.~. 


----------------------~ ~-~­
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 


Bulls cruise past Knicks with third quarter scoring barrage 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Chicago Bulls blew past the New York Knicks with a 19-2 third-quarter run on the way to their 12th straight victo­ry, 99-79 Tuesday night. 
Michael Jordan had 33 points in 36 minutes, the eighth straight game in which he's put up 30 or more. He's averaging 
38.5 during his current streak. 
Jordan's last visit to Madison Square Garden was a night to remember. In just his fifth game back from retirement, he burned the Knicks for 55 points, the most he's scored in any game since resuming his career last March. 
In that game, the Bulls need­ed that kind of effort to eke out a two-point victory. 
Not this time. 
The Bulls opened a 20-point lead in the third quarter with their big run, and the score was 76-56 at the end of three quarters. 
Down by nine at halftime, the Knicks made their best defen­sive stand of the game early in the third quarter, holding the Bulls scoreless for almost three minutes and cutting the lead to 57-50 with 7:44 left in the peri­od. That was the last time New York would be in the game. 
Pippen had nine of his 19 points points during the Bulls' big run, and Jordan made his mark with a pretty reverse layup in traffic. The spurt, which included a 4:49 scoreless stretch for the Knicks, put Chicago ahead 76-52 with 1:26 left in the period. 
Chicago coach Phil Jackson pulled his starters early in the fourth quarter as the Bulls cruised to their 35th win in 3~ games. 
The Knicks, who have lost five of their last eight games and three straight at home, were led by John Starks with 15 points on 6-of-9 shooting. Hubert Davis came off the bench to add 11. 


By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When tennis coach Katie Cromer opened up the envelope with the NCAA's list of the nation's top 20 teams in Division III, she silently hoped that for the first time in history, her team's name would appear on the list. 
As she glanced at the list she failed to locate Saint Mary's. However, Cromer started her search from the bottom of the poll. That's where the problem lied. The Belles weren't mired among "others receiving votes" or even at the bottom spot, rather, they were located at a respectable 16th spot. 
"I knew we had done excep­tionally well in the fall (5-0), but I didn't expect us to be nationally ranked," Cromer said. "We beat great teams, but I really had no idea." 
In addition to their member­ship among the nation's top 20 teams, the Belles rank 4th in the entire Midwest, their high­est ranking ever. 
This year marks only the second year that the Belles participated in the fall competi­tion, something Cromer attrib­utes much of her team's suc­cess to. 
"Competing in the fall season has really helped us," she said. "Not only does it give us a chance to prepare early, but the season is great for the recruiting and publicity of the school." 
Junior Kate Kozacik, the team's leading singles player, currently occupies the 20th spot among singles players in the midwest. However, her goal for the year lies primarily in the success of her team as a whole. 
"I was pleased with my rank­
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 



Belles achieve highest rank ever 

-
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Junior Kate Kozacik, the Belles' leading singles player, currently is ranked 20th among players in the midwest. 
20 YBARS IN RBVUB! 
THE 1996 20TH ANNIVERSARY KEENAN REVUE IS COMING (FEB. 1, 2, 3) II 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 

Notre  Dame  St.  Mqry's  
Friday, Tan. 26  Wednesday, fan. 24  
Distribution 1-3 PM  Distribution 6-8 PM  
No Lines Before Noon  No Lines Before 5 PM  
TACC Gate 10  O'Laughlin Auditorium  

1 ID per Person 2 Tickets per ID 

Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
ing as well as the team's," Kozacik said. "But my main goal rests with the team. Doing this well early on gives us a lot of hope." 
Kozacik's hopes for the sea­son mirror her coach's-a trip to the Midwest Invitational. The invitational invites the top eight teams in the Midwest to compete for a place at Nationals. Last season, the Belles finished in 12th place in the invitational. 
"We still have a lot of work to do in preparation for the spring season," Cromer said. "But the depth and experience of the team this season will benefit us." 
The Belles' line-up includes Kozacik, junior Nancy Sorota who returned to Saint Mary's this year after taking a year ofT, and junior Ashley McArdle who spent last year in Ireland. 

Classmates Anne Underwood and Jen Brahler return again this season, while Amy Fors is the squad's only freshman. In the fall, Sorota played with freshman Rachel Blanchard in the number one doubles posi­tion, but Blanchard transferred at the semester. 
"Rachel leaving is definitely a loss to us," Kozacik said, "but we have four great juniors who are experienced and ready to go. We will come back togeth­er easily" 
Tryouts take place this week to fill the remaining 2-4 posi­tions on the team. 
The Belles begin their season March 2 against one of their toughest rivals, Hope College. 
"This season I would love for us to stay in the top 25," Cromer said. "I know it is within our reach." 
.. 

APPALACHIA SPRING 
BREAK 


SEMINAR 
March 10-16, 1996 

The Appalachia Seminar during the spring break presents a unique service-learning opportumty. Students travel to various states in the Appalachia reg.ion: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examine the political, social, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appalachian people. These sites focus. on several issues including self help, housing construction, envrronmental well-bemg, rural health care, and race relations in Appalachia. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students ex~erience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the sooal forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a 1-credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn in with other volunteers. 


INFO SESSION: Thursday, January 25, 1996-7:00-7:30 P.M. (optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Applications are due: Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
For further Tim Hipp, 634-1141 or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3504 information: Bradley Harmon, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

---------------~~--­
page 18 

we came out and were more aggressive," Nowlin added.
Track 

"We did a better job executing, 
continued from page 20 and we rebounded better." 

fense helped to spark our of­Notre Dame's contest with fense." the Red Storm is the last Irish 
Nowlin agreed with Morgan's home game for two weeks. A assessment of Notre Dame's win would provide an emo­second half improvement. tional lift for the next two road 
"We were sluggish in the be­trips to Miami and Rutgers, re­
spectively. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Freshman Sheila McMillen (left) and the Irish will host St. John's tonight at the JACC. 
ORANGE BOWL MERCHANDISE 

Direct from the Orange Bowl 
Great Discounts on: eCaps ePennants eT-shirts ePins eSweatshirts eChildren's Apparel First Floor LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
We Acce 1: VIsa, Master Card and Discover 
Thursday, Jan. 25 •3:30p.m. • 
h~R~h~t5
1995 Women's Soccer 
NOTRE DAME 
vs.



National Championship 
h~R~h~.23 
... MINNESOTA

T-shirts and Sweatshirts 
The Observer • SPORTS





M• •
IaDll 

continued from page 20 
In fact, after a torrid start, Notre Dame went cold from the floor after halftime, as Miami's defensive pressure started to rattle the Irish. Hoover, whose shooting kept the Irish close in the first half, was significantly affected, managing just two more points the remainder of the game. 
Miami, in contrast, began to find its range. Steven Edwards, the Hurricane's leading scorer who was held to two points in the first half, regrouped to pour in ten for the game, including a clutch three to put the 'Canes up nine. 
Forward Steve Rich, mean­while, was carving out a niche under the boards, riding 6-9 shooting to a team-high 15 points. Rich also benefited from Miami's domination of the glass, as the 'Canes outre­bounded the smaller Irish by 20. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, the loss wasted a strong per­formance from the Notre Dame bench, which contributed 22 points and a definite spark. Miller finished with 12 points, while point guard Admore White had a stellar all around game, adding eight. 
"Admore gave us a tremen­dous effort off the bench," said MacLeod of White's perfor­mance, which included a re­markable first half stretch where he contributed two buck­ets, two rebounds, an assist, and a steal in three minutes. "That was one of his best games so far." 

The Princeton Review is Sponsoring a PRACTICE MCAT 
(free ofcharge, no obligation) 
Saturday, January 27, 1996, 
8:00 AM -5:00 PM, 204 O'Shag. 
(You must sign up for this in 101 O'Shag by )J25/96.) 

A REVIEW SESSION will be held 
Thursday, January 25, 1996, 6:00 -7:30 PM, 204 O'Shag 
NO'Tt<c Dri.Mc 






MEN'S TENNIS 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Center Matt Gotsch scored nine points last night against Miami, but once again was in foul trouble throughout the contest. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 25th, Call631-4540 with questions. 
Sunday, Jan. 28 • noon • 
h~R~h~t5 NOT~E DAME 
vs. 
B«; Cad I£WaJ 
MIAMI 

WE'RE MORE TH"N JUST SPORTSWEAR. 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-

JOE MARTIN 
TEN PERCENT OF YOUR CUSTOMERS ACCOUNT FOR 

NINEIY PERCENT OF YOUR li,; 
;;

SERVICE COSTS. THEY ~ "' 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Family life will expand your hori­zons. New clients or financial back­ers make life easier. Avoid slacking off at work: you need to consolidate recent gains. Take a loved one along when you travel. A traditional mar­riage could suit you better than you think. Set aside money for future investments. You may decide to cel­ebrate the December holidays in a warmer climate. Remember to pack sunblock and a hat! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Anita Baker, football player Mark "Super" Duper. actor Dean Jones. actress Dinah Manoff. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Seize an opponunity to add to your holdings. A long-range investment program should be considered. Banking matters require prompt attention. Pay bills on time, and avoid borrowing money now or later. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Tum the tables on a blue mood. Pos­itive thinking will help banish self­doubts. Concentrate on small-scale projects: larger ventures need more research. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Obey the rules of etiquette. Counesy will earn respect, even from your competitors. Save your hard-earned funds for an important venture. Attending a social event tonight could lead to an exciting new friend­
ship.
scorr ADAMS 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your social skills to work and your 
popularity will reach a new high. Friends can help your business inter­
15 THAT THE SAME 
GROUP OF CUSTOMERS 
ests if you let them. Respond to your 
creative urges and see where they take you. 
WHO ACTUALLY USE. 
OUR PRODUCT? ­
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A busi­ness associate is more cooperative than in the recent past. Do not spec­
ulate with other people's money. All 
signals are "go" in the ans and 'ci­
enccs. Widen your circle of friend'. 
VIRGO <Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The 
scales of fortune tip in your direc­
tion. Develop your leadership abili­
ties by panicipming in politics. Give 
a needy person a helping hand. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A 
domestic situation could get out of 
hand if you allow your emotions to 
run riot. Nobody likes a control 
freak. Be willing to comprombc. An 
accounting may be necessary to sta­
bilize your finances. 
SCORPIO <Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
You arc able to show great strength 
when the circumstances warrant it. 
Do not sacrifice your principles for 
expediency. Blow the whistle on a 
risky venture. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 
21 ): Focus on getting your affairs in 
better order. Revise a budget to fit 
present-day circumstances. Do not 
write to someone in haste. Travel 
enjoys highly favorable intluenccs. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): Put more oomph into the 'er­
vices you provide. Go that extra 
mile to help others. You cannot buy 
happiness with a big bank account. 
Let your heart express what your 
mind has denied until now. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be too emotional now to think straight. Give yourself a chance to analyze things calmly. Friend provide helpful answers. Defuse romantic quarrels before they undermine your relationship's stabilitY. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Playing follow the leader will not bring success. Carve out your own path to fame and fortune. Family members will be highly supponive even if they cannot contribute directly to your work effons. 


DILBERT 

CUSTOMER5. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Half of an old radio duo 
5 German Expressionist Franz-­
9 Like many football stadiums 
14 Queen's home 15 Where most 
people live 16 Out 17 Stock heading 18 Leg crosser 19 Computer 
accessory 
20 1915 film epic, with "The" 
23 Goddess, in ancient Rome 
2 I'VE. ASKED OOGBERT 10 8_j HELP U5 GET RIO OF ~ OUR MOST "TROUBLESOME ® ~ 
.. 
~ 
24 Leb. neighbor 25 Bradbury adjective 29 Not uncut, .as a film 33 "--little 
..
teapot ... 
341960's U.N. name 
36 Met's home 37 1965 Beatles 
lyric 41 Picnic ruiners 42 Red as-­
43 Polite "du" 44 Odor eater? 47 Listen 49 Point of law 5oRock's--
Lobos 

• OF INTEREST 
The Women's Resource Center will have its first meeting of the new semester tonight at 8 p.m. The center is on the 2nd floor of LaPortune in Ole Student Government office. 
A Dynamic Interviewing Workshop will be today in 
...
DeBartolo Hall, Rm. 207 from 6:30-8:30 p.m. This workshop will cover the types of questions typically asked, behavioral interviewing techniques, and verbal and non-verbal behaviors. Presented by Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services. 
The Wrestling Club will have practices tonight and tomorrow night from 7-8:30 p.m. in the JACC wrestling room in preparation for the Edinborough Open on February 20th. 
The Summer Job Fair is offering summer job op­portunities. You are invited to visit on Jan. 25, in the lower level of the CCE, between 1 and 4:30 p.m. BRING RESUMES. 
The Notre Dame Chess Club will meet on Jan. 25 at 7 
p.m. in LaFortune, Rm. 308. For more information call 234-9648. 
51 Classic Poirot case 59 New Age 
musician 60 Creche figure 61 Pressed cheese 
62 Coordinate 63 Shirt stitching 64 Big rig &5 Jason deserted 
her 66 Ajax rival &7 Erstwhile 
despot 
DOWN 
1 Husband of Jezebel 2 Actress Rogers 3 Banking blunders 4 The Brady kids, e.g. 5 Minnesota clinic 6 Since 7 Baltic capital a Dean of "Lois & Clark" 9 Finger or toe 10 Ancient Celtic tongue 11 Barcelona-born artist 12 Jet 13 Slow-witted 21 Columbus landfall, 1492 
22 Snake charmer's snake 


39Verily 40 Do, as hair 
•MENU 
Notre Dame North Spanish Rice w/Beans Stir-Fry Szechuan Beef Neopolitan Spaghetti 
45 Image receiver 55 Stepped (on) 46 Approximately, 56 Park visited by 
Saint Mary's 
in times Sherlock 
Scandinavian Cod 
48 "It's true!" Holmes 
Beef Chimichangas 
51 Valley 57 Buddhist priest 
Ratatouille 
52 0klahoma 58 Mideast bigwig 
South 
Chicken Pot Pie Vegetable Stir-Fry Pita Veal Parmigiana 

city 59 Starchy dish 
Please Recycle
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

The Obseruer. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

26--acid 27 Relaxed sighs 28Likesome 
blockades 29 Throat problem 30 Didn't engage 
in fence-sitting 31 Chilling 32 Obsolete 35 Lincoln's home: 
Abbr. 38 Alienate 


ARE YOU CONCERNED BY THE HIGH COST OF TEXTBOOKS?? 
Consider These Facts: 
Fact 1: The average college student spends more money on beer than books each semester (about $446.00 per student). Fact 2: On average, about one third of a college student's discretionary income is spent on alcohol. Fact 3: It's a lot better to cut back on alcohol than it is to cut back on textbooks. Just ask your professors. 
... 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 








SPORTS 
page 20 
Wednesday, January 24, 1996 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hurricanes put vise on Irish, 72-64 
Notre Dame foul trouble key in Miami rally 
By TIM SEYMOUR  vantage, the Irish stretched  to pull away in the final two  
Associate Spons Editor  Miami to the limit last night  minutes.  
before finally succumbing 72­ "Our effort was good enough  
Valiant efforts are becoming  64 at Miami Arena.  to win, but we didn't play as  
quite common-place for Notre  Already handicapped by a de­ intelligently when they were  
Dame. Unfortunately, valiant  pleted roster due to Gary Bell's  coming back at us," summa­ 
efforts are often synonymous  injury and Phil Hickey's flying  rized Irish coach John  
with futile ones.  phobia, the Irish battled foul  MacLeod, who saw his charges  
Despite competing against  trouble throughout the contest  drop to 6-9 (1-7 Big East).  
almost every possible disad­ before allowing the Hurricanes  A combination of bad deci­ 
sions and questionable calls  
plagued the Irish throughout,  
as Notre Dame's thin front line  
became saddled with fouls in  
the early minutes of the con­ 
test.  
Forward Pat Garrity, Notre  
Dame's leading scorer. sat out  
most of the first stanza with  
two early fouls, while the cen­ 
ter combination of Matt Gotsch  
and Marcus Young fared little  
better, as each accumulated  
three by halftime. Notre Dame  
had so few big people that  
walk-on Nick Wills saw first  
half minutes.  
Despite the personnel prob­ 
lems, though, the Irish went  
into the locker room with a 35­ 
30 lead, sparked by Ryan  
Hoover's 13 points (four 3­ 
pointers) and 10 points from  
reserve Pete Miller.  
"We had a great first half, but  
with so many people in foul  
trouble, we were just trying to  
patch it up out there," ex­ 
plained MacLeod.  
The patchwork was aided by  
poor Hurricane shooting, es­ 
pecially from the charity stripe,  
where Miami spent a consider­ 
The Observer/Kevin Klau  able amount of time during the  
In 22 minutes last night, Marcus Yand five fouls.  oung tallied no points, no rebounds  night. The 'Canes attempted 44  
free throws (making only 24)  
while the Irish shot just six .  

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


Back on track in the Big East 
"It was a physical war out there," said MacLeod. "Given how physical a game it was, I have a difficult time believing that we wouldn't be on the free throw line more than six times." 
Fittingly. Miami sealed the game with free throws in the waning moments, when they finally began to regain their form. The guard combination of Kevin Norris and Steve Frazier was 8-10 from the line as the Irish went cold from the floor. 

see MIAMI I page 18 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Wrirer 
Resilience is a characteristic of any great team. 
The women's basketball team proved it could rebound from a tough defeat by crushing Georgetown on Sunday after­noon. Now the Irish feel they have regained the momentum that slipped away after their loss to Connecticut. 
"We're playing really well right now. The big test was to see how we would respond af­ter the UConn game," com­mented assistant coach Margaret Nowlin. 
"The UConn game, in gen•­eral, was a letdown. But now we need to concentrate on the upcoming games," added junior co-captain Beth Morgan. 
Next up for the Irish is Big East foe St. John's tonight at the JACC. Less than three weeks have passed since Notre Dame handily defeated the Red Storm by 26 points on their home court. Irish players and coaches, however. refuse to succomb to overconfidence. They warn that St John's has made noticeable improvements since their last meeting. 

"They've come on as of late. Against any team in the Big East, you have to come ready to play," noted Morgan. 
"They're playing really well. They have just beaten Seton Hall and Providence," said Nowlin. 
Since playing Notre Dame on January 4, St. John's has expe­rienced its most successful stretch of the season. The Red Storm has won three of its last five games, all of which were against Big East opponents. 
Despite the Red Storm's re­cent improvement, Notre Dame is confident that it can begin a new Big East winning streak and retain its tie with Connecticut as the conference leader. 
Much of the Irish confidence stems from their performance against the Hoyas, especially in the second half. Notre Dame exploded for 53 points after re­grouping at halftime. 
The Irish shot 53.4 percent from the field, resulting in four Irish players in double figures. Morgan and Katryna Gaither led the team with 25 and 22 points respectively. 
Defensively, the Irish limited Georgetown to a 31.6 shooting percentage for the game. Notre Dame also outrebounded the Hoyas 50-37. Morgan pointed out that rebounding and team defense were two of the keys to second half domination. 
"We concentrated on hitting the boards, and we picked up the intensity in the second half. They were playing very physi­cal," she explained. "Our de­
see TRACK I page 18 


... Men's Baketball 
• Belles' tennis break top-20 

vs. West Virginia, January 27, 7 p.m. 
Hockey 
see page 17 

vs. Army, January 26-27, 7 p.m.
Women's Basketball 



SPORTS 

vs. Sr. John's, Tonight, 7 p.m. 
SMC Sports 
• Sanders and Stewart collide 
Basketball vs. Hope, January 27
at a 
Fencing 

2p.m. see page 15 
Notre Dame Meet, Joyce Center 
• Aikman will return next year 
January 27-28 
see page 14
GLANCE 






