.----------------------------~---~--~--~--------------------­

Thursday, January 25, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 75 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Chaves on leave after harassment charge 
By JAMIE HEISLER and mic success to their relation­said. and, in the course of conversa­The student reportedly then Assistant News Editor ship, according to several The student who made the al­tion, said "the benefits of sleep­mentioned her concerns to MEGAN McGRATH sources. legation declined to comment ing with a professor" would Chaves, questioning the pro­News Writer The University declined to on the record to The Observer, include improved pay and bet­priety of a relationship between comment on Chaves' employ­citing pending legal action ter letters of recommendation a professor and a student, ac­
Following an allegation of ment status. "University policy against the University. for graduate school. cording to sources. However, sexual harassment, Associate is to make no public statement When reached, Chaves said, According to the source, the these same sources allege that Professor of Sociology Mark about personnel matters," said "I have nothing to say at this situation developed in late Chaves continued his pursuit of Chaves has taken official leave Director of Public Helations time." September when Chaves al­a relationship with his assis­of his teach­
Dennis Moore. The University became in­legedly told the student he tant, with the comments pro­ing duties, Richard Williams, chair of the volved when the student ap­found her attractive. The stu­gressing in their sexual nature. effective this sociology department, also re­proached the Provost's office in dent reportedly felt uncomfort­A faculty member with whom semester, fused to comment on the situa­early November of last semes­able with the comment and the student spoke said, "She according to tion, saying only that Chaves ter with her complaint. An spoke to several people regard­came to me first for advice be­University was on leave for the Spring undergraduate source close to ing it. cause she could see it [the ha­sources close 1996 semester and is continu­the situation said that the com­"She came to me and said a rassment) coming, but [Chaves) to the si tua­ing his research at Notre Dame plaint was based on comments professor was coming on to had not yet put it all in one sen­tion. for the time being. of a sexual nature made by her," a University official with tence. He had a power over 
Chaves, a William acknowledged that a Chaves both at school and in knowledge of the matter said. her in that respect. She later tenured pro­"situation" occurred between phone calls to the student's "She didn't use any names. I came back to talk to me after fessor, was accused of making Chaves and the student. but home. advised her to follow University the harassment became overt. sexual suggestions to a female said he would not comment. ln one such incident, the policy, which encourages the At that point myself and others undergraduate research assis­"The people involved should source reported that Chaves [complainant] to go to the per­tant. in effeet linking her acade-speak for themselves," Williams called the student late one night son and settle it with them." see CHAYES I page 4 
Conference spotlights quality of life 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Tonight marks the start of Saint Mary's "Play of the Mind" conference. The three-day event turns its spotlight on the College with its topic, "Encompassing Leadership." 
Saint Mary's has hosted the conference for the past six years. Traditionally, other colleges are invited to participate; however, this year the conference takes a new angle. Inspired by a grant from the Fund for the Improvement of Post Secondary Education (FIPSE). the conference looks inward to foeus on the quality of life at Saint Mary's by "raising the issues that seem to be in the most need of leadership and vision," acconling to the grant pro­posal, written by co-chairs GeorgBanna Hosenbush, the director of student aetivities, and Patrick White, associate dmtn of faculty. 
Conference tnam members view the "Play of the Mind" Its an opportunity to improve the College through discus­sion. "It's good that it foeus­ns on Saint Mary's, because 


The Observer/Cynthia Exconde Program coordinators Georgeanna Rosenbush and Patrick White discuss this week­end's "Play of the Mind" conference at Saint Mary's. 
there's things that need to be taken care of here," said Lynette Malecki. "I hope to gain more insight into what others think about Saint Mary's, com­pared with what I think." 
Students. alumnae, administrators and faculty members are involved in conference activities. 
Lectures, small discussion group and workshops cover the weekend, 
esc begins interviews for service projects 
Observer Staff Repon 
Applications for Summer Serviee Projects (SSP) are due by Feb. 9 at the Center for So­eial Concerns. 
The pro­jects, which come with a $1,500 scholarship and three theology cnldits, con­sist of volun­


teering for Cunningham Bight weeks at sites around the country. 
Anyone interested in applying should do so as soon as possi­ble rather than wait until the deadline, according to Sue Cunningham, director of the SSPs. Interviews for applicants have already begun. with juniors being interviewed this week, sophomores next week, freshmen during the week of February 4-10, and later appli­cants during the week of February 11-17. Those who are interviewed earliest have the greatest chance of getting their top location choice, according to Cunningham. 
During the eight week pro­jects, students are required to keep a journal; in addition, they are expected to attend a follow-up retreat upon their return to campus. Applications can be obtained at the esc. 
with topics ranging from "Exploring Saint Mary's cultures" to "Uncovering leadership." 
Tonight, Cheryl Mabey, the director of the women's leadership program at Mount Saint Mary's College in Los Angeles, CA. will deliver the keynote speech at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The topic is "Women in leadership: a special legacy." 
'Progressive' U.S. lagging in women's equality issues 
By PATRICK BELTON News Writer 
Even though Americans con­
sider the United States the world's most progressive coun­try, visiting scholar Diana Zoelle said several other nations are more egalitarian toward women. 
Other nations have seized the lead in such areas as the number of women leaders, constitutional 


equal rights clauses, and ratifica-Davis tion of U. N. documents on women, she said. 
Zoelle joined panelists from India, Bangladesh. and Notre Dame yesterday afternoon and discussed the condition of women at the scholastic, national, and global levels. Notre Dame professor Patricia Davis moderated the discussion. 
The four panelists agreed that "the oppression of women is transhistorical and transglobal." 
The four women also agreed that social struc­tures are as important as laws in the attainment of equality. Sujatha Gopalakrishnan told the audi­ence that in India, husbands often kill their wives when the wives' families fail to pay the dowries they promised. 
These deaths by dowry are strictly prohibited by law, but Gopalakrishnan said "there's not a single day that the newspapers don't report a dowry 
see WOMEN I page 4 




China prepares to bomb Taiwan 
Legitimacy of threat hinges on March election 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
China has warned the Clinton administration that it has pre­pared for a missile attack on Taiwan, The New York Times reported Wednesday. 
A limited attack could be mounted if the expected winner of Taiwan's first democratic presidential election in March doesn't change his ways. the newspaper said. 
While those familiar with the threats do not think China is on the verge of waging war, China experts say the warnings should be taken seriously. 

The threats apparently are meant to prod the United States to rein in the influence of the island nation, which is regard­ed by China as a rebel province. 
China also may be trying to force the nation of 21 million people to abandon the cam­paign of President Lee Tenghui to push for greater internation­al recognition. Lee is expected to win the election in March. 
Kremer Ting, press office director of President Lee, said Lee has been cautious when dealing with issues concerning Taiwan-China relations, and that people in Taiwan should not panic because of the news­paper's report and what were termed other rumors about China attacking Taiwan. 
The most pointed of the Chinese warnings was relayed through a former assistant sec­retary of defense, Chas. W. Freeman Jr., who met this win­ter with senior Chinese offi­cials, the Times said. 
On Jan. 4, Freeman told President Clinton's national security adviser. Anthony Lake, that the People's Liberation Army had prepared plans for a series of attacks against Taiwan. consisting of one con­ventional missile strike a day for 30 days. 
Meeting participants said Freeman quoted a Chinese of­ficial as saying China could attack Taiwan without fear of 
U.S. interven.tion because American leaders "care more about Los Angeles than they do about Taiwan." 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
A 
summer 



alternative 
The first time that a girl proposed marriage to me was last summer... 
I was volunteering at the Boys and Girls Club of Fort Wayne, Ind., as part of the Center for Social Concerns' Summer Service Projects. At the club there was a seven-year-old girl by the name of Danyelle, who chose me as her partner for everything she did. One day, she and I were playing checkers in the library room while discussing the philosophical merits of being the red chips. As she double-jumped two of my checkers, she popped the question: 
"Brad," she said with a twinge of pouting 
that typifies every seven-year-old who wants 
something, "will you marry me?" 
With a response in keeping with any guy 
faced with commitment, I proceeded to dodge 
the question by taking her king. 
"Well, Brad... " 
"Umm, uhh, when would the wedding be?" I 
asked, stalling. 
"How about next Tuesday?" 
"Well, Danyelle, I'd love to get married, but 
I've got a dentist appointment Tuesday, so I 
can't," I replied. "Sorry. Otherwise I would." 
"Oh, okay!" And with that, she went off to 
play with the Legos, her timeless love for me 
having apparently evaporated. 
However superficial Danyelle's proposition 
might have been, it was nice. It meant that I 
had made a connection with her, something 
that didn't happen too often in the summer's 
earlier weeks. I started my project by work­
ing in the club's game room helping kids 
understand the importance of playing within 
the rules and respecting the abilities of their 
opponents. But simply trying to keep the kids 
in line became my overriding focus. Maybe 
the kids were just testing me because I was 
new, but I felt overwhelmed. 
Fortunately, before I knew it, kids like 
Jeremy and Bobby were approaching me to 
talk about their weekends, the interests they 
had in some of the girls at the club or how 
they thought the Cubs still had a chance to 
win their division. And then I realized: Kids 
make sure that a club volunteer is a perma­
nent fixture before they begin placing their 
trust in him. Coming from homes of divorce 
or re-marriage, they were used to growing 
attached to an adult, only to see him leave. 
For them, I became a constant among the 
chaos. And that, more than anything, was the 
best way I could help. 
I saw a lot of problems during my two 
months at the Club: broken families, drug 
problems, child abuse, and abuse of the wel­
fare system. It frustrated me that I was pow­
erless to solve these problems, but then, 
which of them could be solved in a mere eight 
weeks? Though they have dealt with more 
problems than any kid should ever have to, 
their enduring spirit is a strength that I can 
only admire. I know that I was influenced by 
these kids, but I think, and hope, they learned 
a little bit from me. 
Over 160 ND students volunteered all over 
the country last summer, and each person 
had an experience unlike anyone else. Some, 
like me, worked with kids; others worked with 
the homeless, AIDS patients or the elderly. 
Yet all agree that the program is worth it. 
Applications are still being accepted for next 
summer's projects, and interviews began this 
week. If you're thinking about applying for a 
project, but haven't done so yet, here are two 
words of advice: 
Do it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TODAY'S STAFf  
News  Viewpoint  
Heather Cocks  Meghan Smith  
Bill Connolly  Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Mike Day  Tom Schlidt  
Todd Fitzpatrick  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Mike Ruma  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsc:rver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

-~~---~-~-----­
Thursday, January 25, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 


Gallup poll, Nixon had close ties F.ugitive caught in strip club 
WASHINGTON •.~ BATON ROUGE 
George Gallup Jr. recalls relentless Nixon White House requests for polling data. Louis Harris says presidential aides had a "fetish" about his syndicat­ed surveys. By getting results of the independent polls before they were published, Richard Nixon's subordi­nates were able to draft elaborate "game plans" to exploit favorable data 

and occasionally tried to squelch negative.findings, White House memos in the National Archives show. Harris con­firmed in an interview he once killed a column lead after Nixon aide Charles Colson complained. And the records indicate a Gallup survey taken immediately after a Nixon speech on Vietnam used at least one question suggested by the White House. "The Nixon administration pursued Harris and the Gallup Organization in order to manipu­late poll results and public opinion," two researchers found in Political Science Quarterly. 
Sunken ferry holds dead bodies 
JAKARTA, Indonesia 
Five days after a ferry sank in the sea north of Sumatra, authorities are trying to figure out how to raise the wreckage, which could hold as many as 100 bodies. Although rescuers say there is little hope of fmding more survivors, Communications Minister Haryanto Dhanutirto said Wednesday that ships and helicopters will continue combing the ocean for another week. Dhanutirto said President Suharto agreed to plans to try to raise the 555­ton Gurita, which is lying on the ocean floor 900 feet be­low the surface. The Gurita had 210 people aboard when it sank Friday night in a storm near the island of Weh, off the northern tip of Sumatra. 

It was escaped convict Clifton Brumley's love of the high life that finally caught up with him -an hour before closing time at a strip joint A terse note in a man­agement log at The Gold Club tells the story: "At 1 a.m., 1-24-96, customer wearing wig in club matched descrip­tion of a wanted man detailed in an FBI circular dropped off by agent Roger White." An alert "house mom" to the strippers called police. About 20 minutes later, the sus­pect was leaving in handcuffs. Police said Brumley tried to grab an officer's gun but was quickly subdued, and later turned over to federal custody. That ended a four­day, three-state odyssey that began when Brumley drove a tractor away from a prison farm near Texarkana, Texas, on Saturday. Brumley is charged in federal com­plaints with unlawful flight and the robbery of a credit union. During a brief hearing Wednesday, he waived his right to a lawyer and agreed to be transferred back to Texas. In and out of prison since 1980, he was most recently sentenced in May for a parole violation. 
Episcopal ex-treasurer pleads fraud 
NEWARK. N.J. 

The former treasurer of the national Episcopal Church admitted in federal court today that she embezzled more than $1.5 million but said her actions may have been linked to mental illness. Ellen F. Cooke, who had lived in Montclair while she worked at the church's headquarters in New York, pleaded guilty to transferring stolen money and tax evasion. Cooke, 52, faces about three years in prison and fmes of twice the theft when sentenced April 29 by U.S. District Judge Maryanne Trump Barry. She may seek a lesser term since she is being treated by a psychiatrist for what her lawyer called a "bipolar mood disorder," said assistant U.S. attorney Robert L. Ernst. 


Thursday, Jan. 25 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 25. 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 

ILL. 
............_ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 Accuweather, Inc. 
Pmssure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V'ta Associilted Press 
Atlanta 52 37 Dallas 55 45 New O~eans 66 53 Baltimore 39 21 Jamaica, NY 42 20 New York 40 19 Boston 32 19 Los Angeles 65 45 Philadelphia 43 23 Chicago 30 26 Miami 78 68 Phoenix 65 40 Columbus 42 26 Minneapolis 27 22 St. Louis 37 31 
______ ..... _ ----­
-........ 

The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Russian hostages liberated 

Relief marred by conflict with rebel factions 
By DAVE CARPENTER Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Dozens of hostages seized by Chechen rebels in a raid out­side their separatist republic this month were released Wednesday in an exchange clouded by new clashes be­tween rebels and Russian troops. 
The Chechens continued to hold 14 Russian policemen taken after the Jan. 9 raid in neighboring Dagestan that touched off a bloody siege and escalated the 13-month-old war. 
Television footage showed the 46 hostages filing onto a bus in the Chechen village of Novogroznensky after talks between rebel leaders in cam­ouflage fatigues and impas­sioned Dagestani elders in tall sheepskin hats. 
Two hours later, when the police convoy escorting the 40 men and six women arrived at Russian troops ended the tO­day standoff by destroying the rebel-occupied village of Per­vomayskaya in a deadly show of firepower. 

Clashes in the breakaway republic claimed the lives of six Russian soldiers Tuesday night and Wednesday, according to Moscow, and two others were wounded. 
Russian troops reportedly raided rebel strongholds in the Chechen capital Grozny, seizing stockpiles of weapons. 
The Chechens again refused to free the 14 Russian police­men, but Dagestani officials said they hoped they would be released this week. 
"The main demand of Du­dayev's gunmen has been to commit to the earth immedi­ately the dead bodies" of their 42 fellow rebels, police officer and negotiator Akhmed Adiyev told the IT AR-Tass news agency in Khasavyurt. "After the bodies are buried, the mili­tants will agree to let us take the hostage policemen." 
The rebels also are holding about 30 Russian power-plant workers whom they seized in Grozny last week. 
In a desperate two-pronged rebuild Chechnya. 
Yeltsin ordered the release of $3.4 billion to restore the region and pay benefits to refugees and other victims of the war. 
The move nearly quadruples the spending on rebuilding Chechnya that the government had proposed in the 1996 bud­get. Parliament cut most of those funds. 
Analysts said the move sig­nals a turn away from the un­popular tight-money policies that had been expected since Communists dominated last month's parliamentary elec­tions. 
Yeltsin's decree did not speci­fy which foreign loans the funds would come from, but the 1996 budget calls for about $8 billion from foreign lenders, mostly the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. 
"Inevitably, it will hurt the budget," Alexander Livshits, Yeltsin's chief economic aide, told AP-Dow Jones after the announcement. 
As many as 30,000 people have been killed and 300,000 made homeless since the Kremlin sent tens of thousands of troops into Chechnya in De­cember 1994 to put down its three-year drive for indepen­dence.
Leaps and Bounds! 

A member of the Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Gymnastics Club soars above the rest at practice yesterday afternon. The club's first meet will take place on Friday, February 2 at Miami of Ohio. 
FLOWERS Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 

Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
rS17 DAYSrSl 

Plush Animals and Gifts 


~asy 'PatGh 

Clocktower Square ALL MA.JOR CREDIT
51400 US 31 North Phone Answered South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277·1291 or 1·800·328-0206 
INVITATION: 

Of special interest to Urban Plunge Students: 
Come and talk 


effort to end the war and mute
its final destination of 

its disastrous political effects,
Khasavyurt, Dagestan, the 

President Boris Yeltsin is mov­
freed hostages were greeted by 

ing to both crush the rebels and 
relatives with shouts, smiles 

reconstruct war-shattered
and hugs. 

Chechnya in the runup to June
The release, originally 

elections. He is expected to run
planned for the previous day, 
for reelection. 
came after Russian authorities 

A day after pledging to hunt
turned over the bodies of 42 

down the rebels and crush
Chechen fighters killed in the 

their fight for independence,
previous week's fighting, the 

Yeltsin ordered a huge increase 
lnterfax news agency reported. 

in spending, including up to $1
The war remained at a high 

billion in foreign loans, to
pitch less than a week after 
Summer Internships for Undergraduates The Environmental Research Institute 
ajoint activity of the University of Notre Dame and Argonne National laboratory in collaboration with the 
Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control · 
is pleased to announce acompetition leading to the award of three summer internships at the Argonne National Laboratory for the Summer of 1996 with afollow-on research appointment for the Fall. 
The applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, be enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, must have completed their Junior Year by the Summer of 1996, and must be registered to return in the Fall of 1996. 
For more details please contact the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
Have something to say? 


Use The Observer classifieds. 
with gang members from Cabrini Green and Dearborn Housing Projects in Chicago at the Center for Social Concerns 4:30 -5:30 pm Saturday, January 27 (before the w.va game) 

These men can speak candidly about their experience as gang members and answer questions 
(open to all) 
Deadline for application: March 1, 1996 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1996-97 Editor-in-Chief 
.Any und~rgraduate ~r graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Samt ~ary s College Is ~ncouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely ~espons1~le ~or the ?peration of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong Interest ~~ J~urnahsm and possess solid management, public relations, and co~mumcati~~s skill~. Previous newspaper experience or a background in 
wntmg and edmng, while helpful, is not required. 
Appli~ants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to john Lucas by 4:00 P· m., Frzday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the position or application process, contactjohn Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
----------------------------------------------------------------,. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 25, 1996 
formed of the allegations, the earlier than is average, in May and St. Mary's in the enforce­identity of the complainant, 1994. ment of parietal rules. While
Chaves Wo01en
the facts surrounding the According to sources, Chaves from a legal standpoint pari­continued from page 1 allegations and will be afford­continues his research on continued from page 1 etal rules are identical in male 
ed a full opportunity to campus one day a week. and female dorms, one mem­
urged her to go through the Provost." 
In November, following the advice she had received, the student went to the Office of the Provost and accused Chaves of sexual harassment. 
University policy, as stated in the du Lac Supplement, dic­tates that when a complaint is made, the progress of events is then monitored by the Provost. Policy states, "The Provost's office will review and investi­gate the complaint as deemed appropriate to determine the merits of the allegation...In the course of the investigation, the alleged harasser will be in-respond to the allegations." However, the student involved 
A week after approaching was assured by the Provost's the Provost, sources said, the office that she would have no student was informed that further contact with Chaves. Chaves had resigned after dis­Chaves reportedly directed a cussing the matter with letter to the student through University representatives. the Provost's office approxi­
The University would not mately one week after the comment on the length of accusation, apologizing for the Chaves' leave, the reasons for situation and claiming he granting that leave or his sta­didn't realize his comments tus for next semester, howev­were upsetting her. er. "Ignorance of the law is no 
Chaves, 35, has been a mem­defense," a University official ber of the University's faculty said. "I cannot believe he since arriving from Loyola could be that ignorant of the [Chicago] in August 1992. Ac­implications of his behavior. I cording to Williams, he was feel strongly that his behavior awarded tenure three years was flat-out wrong." 

Middle East peace talks reopen 
By BARRY SCHWEID Associa£ed Press 
WASHINGTON 

Israel and Syria resumed peace talks Wednesday with American mediators hoping participation of two generals on each side would spur the com­promises and tradeoffs that seem necessary for a settle­ment. 
The private talks reopened at the Wye Plantation in eastern Maryland with muted expres­sions of hope and a clear U.S. statement that breakthrough was not imminent. 
"We can't foresee a specific diplomatic timetable that will lead us to a comprehensive peace agreement," State De­partment spokesman Nicholas Burns said. 
Nor is the time right, Burns said, for President Clinton to invite Syrian President Hafez Assad and Israeli Prime Minis­ter Shimon Peres to the United States for a summit meeting to hasten settlement. 
"We don't know if a break­through will occur -if it does occur -in February, March, April or May," Burns said. 
The talks are a buildup to a 
17th negotiating trip to Damas­
cus and Jerusalem early next 
month by Secretary of State 
Warren Christopher. The sec­
retary told The Associated 
Press the time has come for Is­
rael and Syria to begin making 
tradeoffs and compromises. 
Security arrangements for the 
sensitive Syria-Israel border 
are high on the agenda of the 


DAYTONA BEACH 
I (4 j'lt,t)!iI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

• PER PB\SON OEP£Nll\IIG ON DESTIN~liOIII BR!AK D~liS ILEIIGTI\ Of Sl~Y. 
t~SGG~.StJ·NCIIA..S·E 
TOLL I'I!EE lllii'OI!W.IITJOIII & IESEI\I.IITIOIIIS 
OR SURF OVER TD Dill WEI SIR AT: 

Wye talks. On Monday, Israeli Foreign Minister Ehud Barak told Christopher that his gov­ernment may drop its proposal for a ground-based surveillance station on the Golan Heights if the two sides can assemble a package of other measures suf­ficient to guard against surprise Syrian attack. 
Syria rejected the Israeli pro­posal for ground surveillance last June, and the talks went into a six-month recess. 
The generals who joined Wednesday's new round near Queenstown, Md., 50 miles east of Washington, were Muham­mad al-Umar and Hassan Khalil of Syria and Uri Dayan and Danny Yaton of Israel. Also, U.S. officials said Assad gave new authority to Ambassador Walid al-Moualem after Christopher met with the Syrian leader Jan. 12 in Damascus. 
The agenda was prepared Tuesday at an unannounced meeting chief U.S. mediator Dennis Ross had with al­Moualem and the head of the Israeli delegation, Uri Savir. 
American Lt. Gen. Daniel Christman, who has accompa­nied Christopher on trips to the Middle East and toured the Golan Heights to make a U.S. security appraisal, also was at the table at the Wye conference center. 
Syria is insisting Israel give up the hilly plateau it captured in the 1967 Six-Day War, which provides a clear view of Syrian tank movements. Peres has hinted he would comply, but only for the right peace terms. 
Israeli opposition leader Ben­jamin Netanyahu again de­nounced the prospective trade­off as a dangerous gamble. 
death." The killings remain acceptable to Indian society even after they have become unacceptable to Indian laws, she said. 
Faustina Pereira told a simi­lar story about her native Bangladesh. In that country, where divorcing a spouse is as simple as saying "I divorce thee" three times, the Hindu Koran is often misconstrued to give only husbands this divorc­ing power. Legally, a woman can have the same right if she asks for it at her marriage, but Bangladeshi sociey has ignored that privilege. 
Pressure from the West is ending these practices, said Pereira, because investment and aid are often tied to reform 
Audience members sug­gested that a similar, although less serious, discrepancy be­tween de jure and de facto practices exists at Notre Dame ber of the audience said that sexist social customs makes the rules more stringent in women's dorms. 
Lisa Siefert, a St. Mary's stu­dent, disagreed that there is sexism in parietals and said that they are to be expected in a Catholic environment. 
However, she questioned whether parietals are intended solely to establish a quiet time in dorms: "Men and women don't make more noise togeth­er than they do on their own," she said. 
The panelists ended with two suggestions toward making America more egalitarian. First, political parties should stop using women's issues and the anti-feminist backlash to gain votes. Second, states should protect women's "posi­tive rights" including education as well such "negative rights" as freedom from harm. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 25th. Call 631-4540 with questions. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 


POWER LUNCHES, 
THAT IS 
THE ONLY PLACE TO 
• learn more about the basics of the Catholic Church 
• meet new people 
• show off your time-management skills 
(you're eating, leaming AND enjoying yourself all at the same time) 
THIS SEMESTER'S TOPICS INCLUDE: <>Vatican II <>Prayer <>Ethical Behavior <> Church Authority ¢Lent <>Easter ¢ Sexuality/Relationships <>The Saints <>Social Justice 
EVERYONE WELCOME EVERY FRIDAY 12:15-1:00 
liMI

2ND FLOOR, SOUl H DINING HALL 
(?-.MPLJS

LUNCH PROVIDED (but not by us!) Bring your tray upstairs or get a grab 'n go MINISTRY Any questions? Call John, Sylvia, Darrell or Kate at Campus Ministry: 631-5242 
Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Serbs to regain Croatian land under ·NATO direction 
By DAVID CRARY Assoliated Press 
SJPOVO, Bosnia 
It's called the Anvil, a region of rugged valleys and ran­sacked ghost-towns where a pivotal question may soon be answered: Will Bosnia's Serbs conclude that peace pays divi­dends? 
The wedge-shaped Anvil, cov­ering 580 square miles in northwest Bosnia, is by far the largest chunk of territory due for transfnr under the U.S.-bro­kmod peace accord -Bosnian Croat militiamen who con­quered it last year are to hand 
1 Bosnian Serbs government­Creal 
New partition line
federation BOSNIA­HERZEGOVINA 
................... "'"' 
·.... 
. Banja Luka 
.._\ Mrkonjic Grad ~:.~····· ..............· ~ 

\....'··t········....s:Ovo\~~~~······················ 
·····... \ 25 miles 
TheAnvll ~ )
... ! ·....· 25km '····" 
50 miles 
50km APN/m. J. Castello 



}(,':;· 
Cakufu.-. 

it back to the Serbs next month. 
British NATO troops, who are assigned to a northern swath of Bosnia with the Anvil at its heart, have taken on the task of persuading the Serbs that they are peacekeepers, not occu­piers -and that the peace they hope to keep will benefit the Serbs as much as anyone else. 
"If we can make it all work, it says to the Serbs: 'We do not regard you as denizens of utter darkness,"' said British Maj. Gen. Michael Jackson. "We want to show absolute even­handedness, and create an atmosphere for the future." 
The British have made re­construction and resettlement of the area a top priority. 
Jackson, the British com­mander, plans to move his headquarters from Gornji Vakuf in government-controlled central Bosnia to Banja Luka, the Serb stronghold just north of the Anvil. 
It would mark the first time since the Serbs launched Bosnia's war in 1992 that either U.N. peacekeepers or NATO established a major headquarters on Serb territory. 
The last Croat militiamen must be out of the Anvil by Feb . 3, and Serb civilians will be free to return to their former homes. 
But a grim sight awaits any early returnees. The Anvil's two main towns -Sipovo and Mrkonjic Grad -have been devastated, first by shelling, then by systematic looting and arson committed by Croats before tl)ey fled the prospect of renewed Serb rule. 
Croats even set their own houses afire rather than let Serb families live there. NATO soldiers have witnessed the destruction, but have no man­date to stop it. 
"It looks like something out of a nuclear war," said Jackson. "It's a very sad place." 
But in Banja Luka, where tens of thousands of displaced Serbs have taken refuge, plans are afoot to resettle the Anvil. The Serb mayors of Sipovo and Mrkonjic Grad came to inspect their damaged towns last week­end, and NATO is urging the Serbs to tackle reconstruction. 
"They want to come home, whatever home might be," said Brig. Richard Dannatt, corn­mander of the British base at Sipovo. 
NATO's primary mission in the Anvil is to provide a sense of security for Serbs and relief groups who will bear the brunt of reconstruction. 
But Dannatt said his troops will also provide help with engi­neering, health care and other services. 


Polish leader resigns amid allegations 
By MONIKA SCISLOWSKA  fell in 1989. He became demo·  alleged evidence against him.  
Associated Press  cratic Poland's sixth prime  Walesa lost his bid to be re­ 
minister in March.  elected president in November  
WARSAW, Poland  The charges that he passed  to Kwaniewski, Oleksy's party  
Poland's prime minister, a  classified documents and  colleague.  
former Communist ln office  other information to Moscow  Walesa had urged Oleksy to  
for less than a year, said today  were first made last month by  resign. Early parliamentary  
he would resign amid charges  supporters of Solidarity hero  elections would "improve this  
that he spied for Moscow for  Lech Walesa, who had just  uncomfortable political situa­ 
more than a decade.  been defeated in his bid for  tion that we have today in  
Prime Minister Jozef Oleksy  re-election.  parliament," Walesa said.  
made the announcement on  Olesky resisted calls by op­ Kwasniewski, a former  
national television hours after  position parties and even from  Communist who once opposed  
the military prosecutor's office  within his leftist coalition to  opening secret service files,  
opened an investigation into  step aside, but suggested he  suggested last week that the  
the allegations, which Oleksy  would consider resigning if a  entire archive be made public  
has denied.  formal investigation was  to end the speculation.  
"Dear compatriots, the pro­ opened.  Opposition leaders warned  
paganda against me and my  "I resign because I am inno·  that the move could severely  
party and the coalition contin­ cent,'' said Olesky, who was  damage Poland's intelligence  
ues, but the governing of the  wearing a black suit. "I have  and counterintelligence agen­ 
state cannot be disturbed,"  nothing to hide. I am not  cies, and some expressed fear  
Oleksy said. "I have thought  afraid of the investigation....  that the 111es might contain  
everything over and decided  Only that can show the truth  damaging information that  
that my affairs and my fate  and clear me of the charges."  would show Solidarity activists  
must be put aside."  Oleksy has acknowledged  had cooperated with the  
Oleksy said he would submit  being friends with a man who  secret police under the  
his resignation to President  later proved to be a top KGB  Communist regime.  
Aleksander Kwasniewski, who  spy in Poland, but claimed he  Despite the controversy.  
was expected to accept it.  had only social contacts with  however, recent opinion polls  
The 49-year-old Oleksy was  him and did not know he was  show the former Communists  
the first former Communist to  an agent.  are gaining support among or­ 
be Poland's prime minister  He also accused supporters  dinary Poles, while the oppo­ 
since the Communist regime  of Walesa of. fabricating the  sition has slipped.  

.99.1 .i:eometri,. i ... ·········· ,.. r~~,~~:ifl'~~.: ii ;;~~im·,i, 


\\OW the '\\-92 ilftacks rMfiJ. 
When it comes to math, it's sink or swim. Fortunately, we've found away to help you keep your head above water: the new pull-down menus, it's as Tl-92. It'll tear through statistics, crunch L!<!J""-""""-"-'-' friendly as Flipper. To see calculus and rip algebra to shreds unlike for yourself why the l'l-92 calculator any other calculator. Of course, the Tl-92 is the biggest fish in any ,? isn't just a piranha of pond, try it out . .~~4-.,.h:;:,. 
power. Wtth easy-to-read on the Internet ~~;.!,~?gm)!~) 
.TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 

Send e-marlto: b-coreslib.com or calli-BOO-n-CARES. Cll995 H 
See the new Tl-92 at: 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, January 25, 1996 
New cooling method Heart disease deaths on rise 


eliminates CFC use 
Air conditioning loses ground to ice-melting unit 
By RICHARD LORANT 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Back around the turn of the century, they air-conditioned theaters by fanning air across giant blocks of winter ice that had been stored underground until the summer. 
Now ice conditioning -the high-tech variety -is back, and its promoters say it will save energy and help phase out ozone-depleting chemicals. 
Office buildings in Chicago's Loop already are cooled by a central plant filled with 5 mil­lion pounds of giant ice cubes. Boston is next. 
Northwind Boston plans to build three downtown cooling plants at a cost of $60 million. The company was formed Tuesday by subsidiaries of Boston Edison Co. and Unicorn Corp. of Chicago. 
The plants freeze large blocks of ice at night, when electricity demand is low and the price cheap. During the day, as the ice melts, the cold water is pumped to the buildings. The process begins all over again after dark. 
The first plant, due to be hooked up next year, could cool up to 10 buildings the size of Boston's largest without using chlorofluorocarbons, or CFCs. The manufacture of CFCs was discontinued this year because of concern over the shrinking ozone layer. 
"We're offering these owners an alternative to changing refrigerants or replacing their whole chiller system," said Rick Zimbone, president of the Boston Energies Technology Group, the Boston Edison sub­sidiary participating in North wind. 
By eliminating their own air conditioning units, building owners could save on mainte­nance. Northwind's cost would 
E 

• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
2ti categories of Books 

• 
25,cm Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $2"' 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46817 (219)232·8444 

be comparable to installing a new system. 
A four-story plant in Chicago owned by Unicorn Thermal Technologies began pumping cooled water to Chicago office buildings in the spring, just in time for a killer heat wave dur­ing the summer. 
"It worked great for us. It kept up all summer long," said Rich Penner, who works in one of those buildings as a supervi­sor at Inland Steel Co. "It was a very smooth transition." 
The 19-story building is one of nine connected by under­ground pipes to the Adams Street plant. 
Two more plants are under construction. 
The Adams Street cooling plant covers half a city block. Above the Osco Drug store on the ground floor, a network of chillers and pumps gives way to two stories of ice tanks. Each tank is the size of a tractor trailer and contains four miles of tubing that freezes the water. 
The 34-degree water from the plant is piped to a heat­transfer station in each build­ing. 
The heat-transfer station, the size of a couple of desks, draws cold out of the water. 
The warm water is then looped back to the cooling plant. 
By MELISSA WILLIAMS 
Associated Press 

DALLAS 
The number of U.S. deaths from heart and blood vessel­related diseases rose in 1993 after falling steadily since 1980, according to new figures from the American Heart Association. 
The association expressed concern Wednesday that the increase may represent a rise in the death rate from cardio­vascular diseases. The rate will be calculated later from infor­mation that allows it to be adjusted to account for the growth and aging of the popu­lation. 
"Rates are stabilizing at best or actually going back up," said Thomas A. Pearson, a New York cardiologist who is vice chair­man of the Dallas-based associ­ation's council on epidemiology and prevention. 
"It starts this huge shotgun blast of questions" about possi­ble reasons for the reversal, from public nonchalance about risk factors to cardiologists' treatment of heart attacks, Pearson said. 
In 1980, more than 999,000 Americans died from cardio­vascular diseases. The figure bottomed out in 1992 at 923,000 and rose to 954,000 in 1993, the last year for which figures are available, the heart association said. 
Stroke deaths also climbed, killing almost 150,000 Americans in 1993, about 6,000 more than the previous year, according to the group's annual statistical report. 
The report suggests that two factors are to blame for the increases: the general aging of the population and, paradoxi­cally, increased survival rates among heart attack sufferers, who are then more susceptible to death from other heart ail­ments. 
As the large baby boom gen­eration starts turning 50 this year, stroke and heart disease death rates will likely surge over the next few decades, Sidney C. Smith Jr., the heart association president, said in a statement. 
Major cardiovascular diseases include coronary heart disease, stroke, hypertension, rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart dis­ease. 
From 1983 to 1993, death rates from heart-and blood ves­sel-related diseases declined by slightly more than 23 percent, 


Call New Horizons Travel ''Your Party Planners" 
(800)639.-4674 or (219)273.-4934 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN 
24 ~~ ~rJttine -(219)277-9749 
WHAT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 

A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY. JANUARY 26th FROM 9:00AM to 5:00PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
from about 238 to 181 per 100,000 people each year, after adjustments for age and popula­tion growth. 
The rising average age of the 

U.S. population should prompt people of all ages to try to re­duce heart-disease risk factors, including cigarette smoking, cholesterol, physical inactivity and being overweight, said Clyde Yancy, a cardiologist who researches heart ailments at The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas. 
"There has not been as much attention placed on treating things like high-blood pressure in older people as in middle­aged and younger people," said Yancy, who is also president of the heart association's Dallas division. 
In 1996, cardiovascular dis­eases will cost the nation $151.3 billion, including medical treat­ment and lost productivity resulting from disability, accord­ing to the heart association. 

4121 SOUTH MICHIGAN...SOUTH BEND 219/291-9200 
5327 NORTH GRAPE ROAD...MISHAWAKA 219/277-8121 
CONCORD MALL ENTRANCE...ELKHART 219/875-8511 
L---------------------------------------------------~--~~~--~-~--------.. -.------~-~.~~-~------------~~--~----------~ 

Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page? 
Forbes stands

Clinton opts for conservative approach 
and the overnight polls once for three things: "More govern­up to flat tax 'Polished' speech again showed high public ment. Bigger government. More 
Clinton's challenge 

approval of a major Clinton meddlesome government." opposition
garners high address. With prospects for a balanced Issues President Clinton tackled in his So on the morning after, budget agreement fading, that State of the Union address, which he By MIKE GLOVERapproval rating Republicans didn't take issue so is the core of a message dubbed America's Challenge Associated Press 

Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 16~ 17~ 18 
Sign ups are: Sat 1127 9:00a.m.-6:00p.m. Sun 1/28 10:00a.m.-3:00p.m. 
much with what Clinton said,
By JOHN KING 

instead focusing on whether he
Associated Press 

meant it. Dole, campaigning in Iowa,BEDFORD, N.H. 
reminded voters that Clinton
Balanced budgets and small­had once again promised a taxer government. Work for wel­cut after failing to deliver onfare. Wholesome television and the one he promised during the 

perhaps uniforms in public 
1992 campaign.
schools. 

"Is there any credibilityThis is decidedly con­
there?" he asked. 
servative, and seemingly 

"A hodgepodge of contradic­Hepublican, turf. But President tions," was how House Speaker Clinton is eager to claim it as Newt Gingrich put it, noting
his own, as evidenced by a 

that even as Clinton called forState of the Union appeal in less government, he proposedwhich he sounded more like a several new, if modest, govern­
compassionate conservative 

ment initiatives, from a schol­
than the man who just two arship program for top high

years ago proposed a massive, school seniors to requiring a

government-regulated health 

chip in televisions so parentscare overhaul. 
can keep their children fromFor Clinton and Bob Dole ­watching programs they findor whomever the Republicans objectionable.
nominate to oppose the presi­"I think, in the long run, thatdent this fall -the November doesn't matter much," Gingrich eleetion is likely to come down said of Clinton's overnight rat­to a credibility contest as much ings. "I mean, I don't agreeas a clash of competing visions. 

with P.T. Barnum that there's a"The era of big government is 
sucker born every minute. I
over," Clinton said, delivering a agree with Abraham Lincoln,line Republicans expected to that you can't fool all of thehear from a new GOP president people all of the time."

a year from now. 

For all his rhetoric to the con­Clinton is a polished orator, trary, Dole said Clinton stood 



CI~~E[\~U~ DlTTHE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
THE 7TH ANNUAL NoTRE DAME 5TUDENT fiLM fESTIVAL 
FR.IDAy & 5A TUR.DAy 
7:30 AND 9:45 PM 5NtTE MusEUM oF AR.T 
THE BEsT STUDENT ftLMS UNDER. THE DoME 
Republicans say they are confi­
• Family responsibility

dent will prevail in the fall, Clinton's skills at salesmanship ~linton stresses the ~t 
Importance of 
tt
notwithstanding. 
children's 

In their view, Clinton can be upbringing. ·· painted as the obstacle to many of the very things he has long promised, from welfare reform 
IJ...,\...,._~ •Education 

to tax relief for the middle class 

~ Clinton proposed

to balancing the budget. "Say 
~ a$1,000 merit

anything, do nothing presi­
scholarship for the

dent," is the favorite anti­
nation's top 5 percent

Clinton slogan in the GOP ranks high school graduates.these days. He also said he'd expand But there are concerns about a federally funded work-study program. 
the party's messenger. At a closed-door Capitol Hill meeting • Economic security ... -_""'""·' Protect Medicare, II;{ 41 
')

of conservative lawmakers and 
Medicaid and workers' f~: ··'11

activists Wednesday, many 
p~n.sions; raise the yt ,; . _{

worried aloud that Dole was 
m1mmum wage. .J-_r-. •• ('!...J

not forceful or animated enough in responding to. 
""""'u Clinton, particularly at the out­•Crime set of his speech. Clinton called for 
"Substantively he was fine, a new assault on gang-related crimebut there was a consensus that 
nd drug trafficking.

we are not going to match Clinton on TV, with Dole or 
• The environment

anyone else in the field," said 
Businesses that clean 

one participant who described 
up abandoned

the session on condition of 
properties could be 
anonymity. 
eligible for tax breaks. 

Dole's rivals were only too happy to agree. 



• Foreign policy
Commentator Pat Buchanan 
America must

told New Hampshire voters 
continue in its role

Wednesday that Dole "was not 
as "responsible

adequate to the task, to put it 
peacemaker throughout the world".

mildly.... A pitcher got shelled and we better go to the bullpen 
• Government
if we want to win the series." 
The government

Dole seemed mindful of such 
must continue 

concerns when he told Iowans, 
down the

"winning this nomination is not 
path of 

just about TV spots, not about reinvention being the most negative and and downsizing. who can throw the most rocks.. 
AP 

MCAT • MCAT • MCAT Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
~ ciJ ~ !:5i1 ~ ~  small classes of 15 or fewer free Caduceus software free extra help with your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams independently verified score improvements guaranteed satisfaction  
,  THE PRINCETON REVIEW  

Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated ~ith Princeton University or the AAMC. 
DES MOINES, Iowa 
As Republican rivals increase their attacks on Steve Forbes, the publisher on Wednesday ripped into "chick­en Iittles and fear mongers" who are targeting his flat tax proposal. 
Forbes -whose personal wealth has been estimated at more than $400 million -also discounted the impact a flat tax would have on his own finances. 
"Let me be candid," Forbes told a Republican breakfast club. "Steve Forbes has been blessed in life. I will do all right if you don't change the tax code. I will do all right if you do change the tax code." 
Forbes has made a 17 per­cent flat tax the centerpiece of his campaign for the Republican presidential nomi­nation. It's a feature of his bar­rage of television advertising ­that and slashing attacks on his rivals. Polls have him gaining ground with the Iowa caucuses less than three weeks away. 
The movement in the polls has prompted other Republicans to respond directly in their own ads, including GOP front-runner Sen. Bob Dole, with many of the attacks focus­ing on the flat tax. 
Forbes' opponents say the flat tax would benefit the wealthy and would devastate housing values and charitable giving by eliminating deduc­tions for charity and mortgage interest. 
But Forbes said a flat tax would drive down interest rates, more than offsetting the loss of the mortgage interest deduction. 
"You have more money in your pocket and the cost of your mortgage goes down," he said. "In the real world that will help housing, not hurt it." 
He also dismissed worries the proposal would balloon the deficit. 
"Contrary to what the chick­en Iittles and fear mongers have said, government rev­enues would go up and not down," he said. 
Concern about a drop in charitable giving assume "the American people need to be bribed by the tax eode to give," he added. 
Forbes' Hepublican rivals also suggest he would benefit personally by a lower tax rate and have called on him to give details of his finances. Forbes has declined to release tax returns. 

Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 

Thursday, January 25, 1996 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
Spanish minister indicted Britons demand IRA disarmament 

ARMY ROTC 

At CUSHING: FRIISAT 8:00/l0:30P.M. >~NRAY GRI;_J;~UNG:..Jl_2~.. 2P.M. 
on 'death squad' charge 
U.S. group favors delay until peace talks begin 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK Associated Press 

BELFAST, N. Ireland 
A U.S.-led commission of­fered a compromise Wednesday to end a disarmament deadlock in Northern Ireland, recom­mending that the IRA and pro­British gunmen keep their weapons until peace talks be­gin. 
The recommendation of the commission, led by former Sen. George Mitchell of Maine, directly challenged the British demand that the Irish Republi­can Army start disarming be­fore the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party negotiates with the province's pro-British Protestant majority. 
But the recommendation fell short of endorsing the opposing position that the IRA and pro­British paramilitaries should not discard even a single bullet before a peace settlement. 
The commission has only advisory powers. It was formed last year in an attempt to break the stalemate that had gripped the peace process in recent months. 
British Prime Minister John 
Major said he welcomed the 
commission's call for com­
promise, but immediately set a 
new condition for the talks by 
backing Protestant calls for an 
election in Northern Ireland to 
pick an assembly of negotiators 
from all parties, including Sinn 
Fein. 

Protestant leaders of the 
Ulster Unionists -Northern 
h·eland's biggest political party 
-say the elections would be 
the only way to determine how 
much public support moderate 
and hard-line parties have. 
RESERVE 

By GARY ABRAMSON 
Associated Press 
MADRID, Spain 

Spain's Supreme Court in­dicted a former member of the prime minister's inner circle Wednesday for allegedly di­recting death squads against Basque separatists. 
The counts against former Interior Minister Jose Bar­rionuevo -the most senior official to be formally accused in the case -cast doubt on Prime Minister Felipe Gonza­lez's denial of government in­volvement in the slayings of at least two dozen people in the mid-1980s. 
Gonzalez predicted Bar­rionuevo would be exonerated, and told a radio interviewer: "My conscience is absolutely clear. I've tried to do every­thing within legal means." 
Supreme Court Justice Ed­uardo Moner accused Bar­rionuevo and then-state se­curity chief Rafael Vera of set­ting up the shadowy GAL, or Anti-Terrorist Liberation Groups, in 1983 to combat the armed Basque separatist group, ETA. 
ETA, an acronym in the Basque language for Basque Homeland and Freedom, has killed more than 7 50 people in its 28-year campaign for in­dependence for Spain's three northern Basque provinces. 

Most  of  the  victims  were  
Spanish s ecurity force  mem­ 
bers.  

Barrionuevo was indicted for alleged illegal detention, mis­use of public funds and asso­ciation with an armed group in connection with the attacks on ETA, most of which took place in the separatists' haven in southern France. 
The. indictments, the judicia­ry's most damning report on high-level government in­volvement in the death squads, says Barrionuevo and Vera or­ganized the death squads and and "assumed the role of di­rectors." 
Vera was indicted last sum-

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
mer on the first two counts. He was indicted Wednesday for alleged association with an armed group. 
Barrionuevo and Vera fi­nanced GAL's attacks with In­terior Ministry funds, the in­dictments said. 
To finance the kidnapping of a suspected ETA member, Vera gave a briefcase stuffed with $198,000 to Interior Ministry subordinates, who channeled it to mercenaries, the indictments alleged. 
The kidnappers, however, snatched the wrong man. 
The indictments are based on testimony from 12 former law enforcement officials and a former Socialist official, all of whom have also been charged. 
Socialist leader Ricardo Garcia Damboranea has testi­fied that Gonzalez himself dis­cussed plans for GAL with him. 
Gonzalez denied it, and the 
court cannot call the prime 
minister for questioning unless 
parliament lifts his immunity. 

Opposition politicians de­
manded that Gonzalez take 
personal responsibility for 
GAL's four-year campaign of 
bombings, kidnappings and 
killings. 

"The electorate will decide 
on March 3 who is politically 
responsible, and to what ex­
tent the Socialist Party is re­
sponsible," said Josep Antoni 
Duran, leader of the Demo­
cratic Union of Catalonia, 
which gave Gonzalez's gov­
ernment a parliamentary ma­
jority until splitting with him 
last summer over the Basque 
killings. 

Barrionuevo, who led the 
interior ministry from 1982 to 
1988, did not appear in court 
to receive the indictment. On 
Jan. 12, Moner ordered him to 
hand over his passport and 
post a $125,000 bond. 

Barrionuevo was expected to 
appeal to other Supreme Court 
judges to have the indictments 
dismissed. If convicted, he 
faces up to 35 years in prison. 


INDIANAUNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CO~GEDUCATION 
Spring begins in February! 
Our spring semester features new classes in building work teams, conflict management, Norwegian, negotiating, grant writing and the healing arts. Plus our regular selection of personal and professional development programs. Also, take note of our series of youth programs. 






·catalog no-w available 
Call237-4261 for your free copy 
Sinn Fein typically receives about 11 percent of the vote in Northern Ireland, exclusively from Catholics. The province's two main British loyalist groups draw support from Protestant areas but their political repre­sentatives get few votes. 
"What I want is talks amongst equals who have a mandate from the people -not talks amongst people who are terrorists and who have no mandate," said John Taylor, deputy leader of the Ulster Unionists. 
Ulster Unionists asked Major to ensure that the vote is held by May. 
Major told the House of Commons in London that Britain believes elections to a negotiating assembly in Belfast offer "a viable, alternative, direct route to achieving the confidence necessary for all­party negotiations." 
Caught off-guard by Major's 

proposal, Catholic leaders re­
acted angrily, calling the elec­
tion proposal another stalling 
tactic to postpone negotiations. 
"John Major has merely sub­

stituted one precondition for 
another," said Sinn Fein leader 
Gerry Adams. "It was an act of bad faith." 
The IRA says its cease-fire 17 months ago should be sufficient for multiparty negotiations on Northern Ireland's future, and elections are a waste of time. 
In proposing further delay, Major was endangering lives in Northern Ireland, said John Hume, a moderate Catholic leader who helped broker the IRA cease-fire. 
Hume accused Major of trying to "buy the votes" of Northern Ireland Protestant lawmakers in the Commons, where Major's governing Conservative Party has a razor-thin majority. 
Mitchell urged Sinn Fein and representatives of the pro­British paramilitaries to com­mit themselves to peaceful means, to dispose of some weapons during the course of negotiations, and to respect the outcome of talks. 
Mitchell acknowledged his recommendations were a com­promise. 
"But if the peace process is to 
move forward, this impasse 
must be overcome," he said. 
In Washington, President 
Clinton said Mitchell's report 
offered a way to "achieve a just 
and lasting peace." 

TIE SMARTEST OOWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

·-~---~-~-------­
-----~--------------------­
Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Clinton 'intrigued' by GOP proposal 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and the Clinton administration signaled inter­est today-in a deal to make a "down payment" on a bal­aneed budget, leaving major spending disagreements until after the November elections. 
Clinton called Gingrich from Air Force One to discuss the possible deal. White House spokesman Mike McCurry said, "The president was intrigued by some of the ideas." 
A Hepubliean aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the two men did not get into details during their 12-minute talk but said it was a "favor­able, positive conversation." Clinton was en route to Louisville, Ky. Such an agree­ment could accompany efforts, moving on a separate track, to avert another partial govern­ment shutdown. 
"We have agreed with the president on enough things I think we can get to a down payment," Gingrich told a Capitol Hill news conference. "This is a good test of how serious his words were last night" in the president's State of the Union address. 

Gingrich proposed Clinton accept his offer as part of a bill extending the government's borrowing authority. Gingrich also said tax credits for fami­lies with children and lower capital gains taxes should be part of any deal. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry cautiously wel­comed Gingrich's remarks, saying Republicans "may feel they've suffered enough pain because of the government shutdown. They seem to be having a more encouraged tone today than they did last night, so we're encouraged too." 
The administration is block­ing an overall balanced-budget agreement by opposing over­haul of major entitlement pro­grams. such as Medicare and welfare, Gingrich asserted on ABC's "Good Morning America." That leaves the option of enacting spending cuts the two sides can agree on and letting voters decide in November which party is cor­rect. 
"I'm prepared to say let's take what we can get, make it a down payment on balancing the budget, recognize the job can't be done this year but we'll go ahead and do the best we can," Gingrich said. 
Those reductions could be attached to a bill renewing the government's authority to bor­row, which Gingrich said could be passed as early as next week. 
Responding to Gingrich, McCurry said, "The president would look very carefully at anything that would result in real budget savings that might be attached to a conti.nuing resolution." 
He stressed the words "look very carefully," adding "obvi­ously we have priorities and concerns that would have to be addressed." 
Gingrich said Democrats and Republicans agree on spending reductions totaling about $100 billion over seven years. 
In his speech, Clinton urged a resumption of negotiations on long-range reductions while calling for enactment of those changes the two sides already agree on. 
House Republicans have drafted another plan that they say could -if accepted by Clinton -prevent a third gov­ernment shutdown. 
Stalemate threatens 



U.S. bond rating 
By RICK GLADSTONE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
One of Wall Street's chief credit-rating services threat­ened on Wednesday to lower the rating on some U.S. bonds because the budget stalemate on Capitol Hill has raised the risk of a government default. 
Moody's Investors Service said it is placing $387 billion in Treasury bonds with inter­est payments due Feb. 29 and April 6 "on review for possi­ble downgrade." 
A downgrade would be a stunning blow to the U.S. gov­ernment's creditworthiness. 
U.S. Treasury bonds are re­garded as the safest in the world because the United States has never defaulted on its obligations. 
"The positions being taken in the current debate over the budget and the debt ceil­ing have significantly increased the risk of a default on the above-mentioned security obligations," Moody's said. 
The amount under review represents only a part of the $2.3 trillion of Tre11-sury debt currently rated Triple-A, the rating service's highest grade. 
Moody's said the possible downgrade doesn't reflect "any underlying deterioration in the fiscal position of the United States Government, but rather from the peculiar circumstances surrounding the present political contro­versy ove.r the direction of federal economic and social policy." · 
Credit-rating decisions by Moody's carry enormous weight in the bond market, where investors buy and sell at prices and interest rates that depend partly on the de­gree of risk that they won't be repaid. 
A credit downgrade can make it more expensive for the government to borrow money. 
That could translate into higher interest rates that reverberate throughout the economy. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
THE FRESHMAN RETREAT 
A Way to Get on with Your Life 
., .. 

'' i> '"f'f' '. 
There was a little controversy a few weeks ago when several students returned from the semester break a little early. 
There may be many reasons why students returned early. One of the reasons seems to be that people felt that the semester break was a little too long for their liking. 
Who would have predicted that some of those who could not wait for the end of the first semester so that they could get out of here would find themselves beating down the doors to get back in? 
Several people I have talked to told me that although break was great, they were anxious to get back to school and get on with things. They are psyched to be back with their friends and, for now, they are even glad to be back in class. They are anxious to get on with their lives. 
Although rest is good, stagnation is not. 
Something deep down inside us calls us to get on with our lives. 
Notre Dame is a place from which people can get on with their lives. It is a place where people who feel God is calling them to explore new ways of getting on with their lives can do so. There are many ways to explore the way God calls us to get on with our lives. 
THE FRESHMAN RETREAT is one way that first year students can explore new ways of getting on with their lives at Notre Dame and beyond. 
This Friday and Saturday 80 first year students, men and women, will participate in Freshman Retreat #3. 
There will be two more ·Freshman Retreats this year: Freshman Retreat #4, February 2-3 and Freshman Retreat #5, February 23-24. 
We are all called to get on with our lives. God calls us to grow in freedom and peace. Jesus shows us that the way to truly get on with our lives is to get on with serving others. 
-Bob Dowd, 
C.S.C. 
THE NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT 
Applications available to any interested freshman for 
retreat to take place, tomorrow,Friday (4:00p.m.) Through Saturday (6:00p.m.) 
Applications available at: 
The Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library call1-7800 or 1-5056 

Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica  
Sat. January 2 7 Sun. January 28  5:00p.m 10:00 a.m. 11:45 a.m.  Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. Godfried Cardinal Danneels Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 25, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE ~AME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Paui Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of eirher insrirurion. The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represem rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Markering Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoim E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
Super Bowl lacks tradition ofyesteryear 
Black Sunday! Does anyone remember this movie? A maniac plans to set off a giant dart-bomb in the Orange Bowl on Super Bowl Sunday, and only Robert Shaw can stop him. The apocolyptic image of the Goodyear blimp crashing into the rim of the stadium, like a mad blind god, still remains in my mind. Robert Shaw, riddling the terrorists with righteous bullets. By God, they don't make them like which has come to represent hollow victory, and the self-aggrandizement of street hoodlums. It is the Super Bowl which, alone of all American spectacles, cries for an avenging blimp to descend from Heaven to punish America for its sins. 
Because make no mistake. The Super Bowl is America. That's why they hold it out west, where his­tory begins and ends with grasping 
that anymore. 

lawlessness. Within rigid parame­
Neither, for that matter, can 
ters, a grid of inflexible rules, huge 
they seem to make a Super 
men strive with atavistic fury at the 
Bowl. They are certainly no 
ball and at each other. 
Their exertions stand in for the 
longer the stuff of John 
Facenda's narratives in the 
great paralyzed masses of 
highlight films, e.g. "Like the 
Americans: prisoners watch the 
Phoenix of legend, the once­
superbowl, and mental patients; 
shut-ins and farmers; and, over­
mighty Pittsburgh Steelahs rose 
whelmingly, the men and women of
from the ashes of theah ohwn 
defeat. .." (behind brassy surfer 
the vast American middle class, liv­
music.) Egad. 
There was a time when every young boy trembled at the thought of the mighty man-beasts clashing their titanic helmets against each other before the eyes of an awestruck world. 
I can hear Facenda's voice in my mind, the way Hercules hears Zeus': "Staubach. Czonka. Namath. These few. These happy few. These band of Super Bowl Brothers." 
Now, I ask you, what would Facenda say ifhe were alive today? Is Deion Sanders the stuff of epic poetry? You're damn right he's not. In the old days, it was The Super Bowl that mattered -there was a sense of self-abnegation, the last traces of the Protestant work ethic. 
God-fearing, square-jawed, life-hating martinets like Tom Landry and Don Shula paced tensely up and down the sidelines, moral guardians of the republic. It's as if they were saying, "I am nothing, Al Davis is nothing, these five gallant behomoths on the line are nothing -it is the Super Bowl that matters, the Super Bowl on whose outcome and on whose excellence the pride of a hundred million men and women depend, the Super Bowl upon which our souls will be damned or blessed by history" 
And it is the Super Bowl which has become an exer­cise in nihilism-the Super Bowl which has been made to represent futility and defeat. It is the Super Bowl ing lives of debt and quiet desperation and dreaming of bacon and breakaway speed. 
Which is why the modern, decadent, lopsided Super Bowl is such an affront to the spirit of America. People feel obliged to have Super Bowl parties, they invite friends over, they have their girlfriends or wives make little Vienna Sausages in Blankets and other horrible snack foods, and they all get pie-eyed drunk in expec­tation. 
And then the same, inexorable, mindless scene plays itself out again. Two weeks of shrill, shreiking fraud play up the possibilities of the conflict, the short­comings of the Jiving Juggernauts. 
The AFC pretenders are, in their turn, blown up; a few highlights from the AFC playoffs, that minor league affair, ·are shown over and over, while the essential unmanliness of the linebacking corps, the defensive line, etc. are glossed over. 
Predetermined speeches, devoid of savagery or nobility, are made by both sides. Then they play the game, and the Juggernauts begin to run up the score and high-five each other, each one hoping to make a more memorable "highlight" than the last. 
The spectacle is dragged out by multi-part commer­cials about'the "I love you, man" guy or digitally ani­mated boogie ants. Finally, the most conspicuous of the bullies is dragged from the field to shill America's richest, lamest, least enjoyable amusement park and Dr. Kevorkian's phone starts ringing off the hook. 
There has got to be another way. Instead of going on about the flat tax, why don't these republican no­goodniks do something to improve the Super Bowl? Their so-called policy statements amount to little more than end-zone strutting anyway. 
I see a future in which election-year candidates run on specific policies about the rookie salary cap, the in­the-grasp rule, and the possiblility of restoring our national greatness by bringing back no-helmet hockey. And yet even these furtive musings depress me. 
Think of these brutal men on the field. Luxury boxes hover threateningly overhead. Astroturf under­neath their feet degrades and injures them. They're not allowed to take dope on the field anymore. A little blood and everyone starts trembling. 
Can it be fairly said that football has any innocence, any inviolability left to corrupt? Like America after Vietnam, do we really have any international reputa­tion left to speak of? 
Let the Super Bowl become an unholy ritual then, its yearly parties an occasion of loss and memory. It's enough that it once meant something; let there be a heaven, though my place be hell. 
In the remains of Super Bowl Sunday, let us hear­ken toward the tomb, drunk with beer and nostalgia, besotted with stoicism and vicarious violence, and dream, Facendalike, of better men, bleeding in the freezing mud of our nation's better days. 
"Like the phoenix of legend, the once-mighty Pittsburgh Steelers rose from the ashes of their own defeat to rise again ..." 
*** 
I am often asked to Super Bowl parties, and seeing 
them as I do as an occasion for despair, I usually 
refuse. But this year, I do plan to attend Archie's 
Super Bowl Party, at 23 just off Eddy street. 
Ten dollars will buy you all the rib tips, macaroni 
and cheese, fried chicken, etc. you can hold, and there 
will be plenty of beer there too, I imagine. You can eat 
nachos at your friend's house anytime. 
Josh Ozersky can be reached over e-mail at: 
josh. a. ozersky.l @nd. edu 


GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
7HAT'51T­

"l?t3AR MR. /XXJIIJ!358URY: W 
PUTALLTHE

YCV tJS/3 QUALITYCf}NTI<Ot..5 
PRE55Uf?£

70 IAJeel) Olffa/&AKM~? 
ONMB!

I CAN77UL. 51Na3REI...X 
\

RK.,7A05." 
"someone will always tell you what you want to hear." 
-Delia Ephron 

;_ 


VIEWPOINT
Thursday, January 25, 1996 page 11 


• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Exercise prudence when locking cars 
Dear Editor: 
Just recently the South Bend Tribune pub­lished a news item featuring the South Bend Police Department and their being called upon more and more to investigate vandal­ized parked cars (locked or unlocked), where the car owners have left their property in plain sight for the passer-by to see, to admire, to contemplate and to BE-HOLDEN, and unfortunately, it is soon gone with the wind. 
Allow me to share with those whom it may concern an experience that had a happy end­ing due to one of Wilmington, Delaware's Finest. As I approached my car, the Officer was dangling my keys in one hand and my valise in the other. As I listened to some very sound advice about security, he bequeathed to me a motto of considerable wisdom which was the beginning of my conversion (hopeful­ly) and my education. 
lie said to me: "My son, never forget that what the eye doesn't see the heart doesn't crave" 
If only more of us would exercise more pru­dence, awareness, and common horse sense in refraining from leaving our belongings in our parked cars in any city or on any campus, we could spare ourselves a heap of grief and red ink in the process and spare our police and security from frustration and from devel­oping ulcers by eliminating their calls to investigate a lost cause. 
For those who still persist in leaving their property in parked cars or trunks for five minutes or five hours, the Apostle Matthew has some very timely advice for us in Chapter 6, Verses 19-21 of Holy Writ: "Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth [or in parked cars), where rust and moth consume and thieves break in and steal; but lay up for yourselves treasures in heavem [not in parked cars), where rust nor moth consume nor thieves break in and steal. For where the tnmsure is also will thy heart be." 
I can't think or a better New Year's resolu­tion for those to whom it may concern-just think of the thousands or dollars saved in stolen goods, the emotional drain on our­selves, and the waste of the resources of our police and security. Let's turn a corner in 1996! 
BROTHER EDWARD COURTNEY, C.S.C. 
Corby Hall 

Enjoy Kit Kats, but lose ND security 
Dear Editor: 
I wnnt to make sure I understand what John !'otter intends by his January 17, 19961nside Column. 
Is he really saying that the University has an obligation to provide security to those students who -in a large part due thei.r preference to avoid many of the .in loco parentis a..<Jpects of dormitory life • have chosen to live away from the constrictions of dorm life, so thnt their' pornography, Kit Kats, cigarettes and beer will be safe from the kids in the neighborhood? 
Or am I missing something? 
FR. STEPHEN NEWfON, 
c.s.c. 
Rector, Sorin College 
b
I r 



Abortion fatally discriminates 
Dear Editor: 

The Rev. Martin Lut~er king said that injustice anywhere was a threat to jus­tice everywhere. He said this about segregation and discrimination: "Let us never succumb to the temptation of believing that legislation and judicial decrees play only a minor role in solv­ing this problem. Morality cannot be legislated, but behavior can be regulat­ed. Judicial decrees may not change the heart, but they can restrain the heartless." (Strength to Love ). 
What might Dr. King have said about our current treatment of the immature members of our species? 
Dr. King devoted his life to opposing the choice to discriminate on the basis of race. But one week after his birth­day we observe the anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, which freed us to choose to discriminate fatally on the basis of "wantedness", physical matu­rity, appearance, sex, health, depen­dence, sentience, parentage, or any other criterion, including race, if it is done before birth. 
Are these criteria any less arbitrary or subjective than race? By what logic shall we choose criteria for excluding others from the protection of the human community? What does the acceptance of such criteria for destruc­tion say about the content of our character? 
ALFRED LEMMO South Bend 


Sign up for Wednesday Lunch Fast 
Dear Editor: 
It's the beginning of the semester and that means it is time to sign up for the Wednesday Lunch Fast. We, the members of the World Hunger Coalition, are writing to urge every­one to take part in this easy way to 
·help so many people. The idea began in the early 70's when one student gave up his lunch everyday to stand outside the dining hall and collect money for hunger organiza­tions. Now it has turned into an activity in which everyone can take part. The Wednesday Lunch Fast con­sists of skipping lunch just one day a week. For each person that signs up, the dining hall gives us the cal­culated cost of that meal. Each semester, the number of Casters dwindles. So, though the dining hall gives us more money each year per lunch, our total is steadily dropping. Last year we earned approximately $4000.00 with only 200 people par­ticipating. We know that we can earn much more on this campus of 7000 students. Every cent of the money will go to organizations around the world. Currently, we contribute to three separate organizations: Caritas, Chol-Chol, and Mara del Plata. These are all grass roots organiza­tions that depend on our help. For their sake, please sign up. 
WORLD HUNGER COALITION 

r 
I I 

ACCENT MV\SJC
page 12 Thursday, January 25, 1996 
• THEATRE PREVIEW 

, 

a 
om e 
t f e ran a t f s e 
By SARAH CASHORE Assistant Accent Editor 
wlence, confusion, lust, love, and 
lunacy: the ingredients of any suc­
cessful drama. These elements are present in abundance in Le Medecin malgre lui, a presentation of L'Illustre Theatre de L'Universite de Notre Dame, under the direction of Professor Paul McDowell. The actors in this production of Moliere's farce were all students in McDowell's French Theatre Production class, a one-credit course offered by the French and Communications and Theatre Departments. This year's pro­duction marks the fifth anniversary of French theatre at Notre Dame, a tradi­tion upon which McDowell and his stu­dents continue to build. 
McDowell originally attracted the interest of the French Department because he combined a strong back­ground in theatre with post-graduate study in French. The French play natu­rally evolved from McDowell's interests and talents and the first French theatre production was staged in the LaFortune Ballroom in January, 1992. 
This latest production has come a long way from the inaugural two-night LaFortune production. Since 1993, the troupe has performed in Washington Hall's Lab Theatre, where Le Medecin malgre lui will have three performances, beginning tonight. 
The performance of Le Medecin mal­gre lui is particularly significant for McDowell, who had chosen the play for the 1994 production. The actors had spent four months preparing for the play and were memorizing their lines over Christmas break when McDowell was diagnosed with a brain tumor and the play was canceled. Fortunately, McDowell's health problems were suc­cessfully treated and French theatre resumed at Notre Dame with last year's production of Le Tartuffe. 
This year, McDowell decided to try Le Medecin with an entirely different cast. "This is one of Moliere's most popular plays, and I chose it initially because I had never directed farce before, so it is a real challenge to me," McDowell explains. 
The title, loosely translated as "The Doctor in Spite of Himself," is a refer­ence to the underlying plot of the farce, in which Martine, played by senior Lisa Schultz, a wife frustrated by her hus­band's drunkenness, abuse, and lazi­ness, plots revenge. Martine convinces two servants that her husband, Sganarelle, played by junior Tony Schaefer, is a gifted physician who has brought the dead back to life. 
Martine cunningly tells the servants, who are looking for a doctor to cure their master's mute daughter, that her husband will only admit that he is a doc­tor when physically beaten. With this revelation, the central events of the play are set in motion and a hilarious sequence of intrigue, deceit, disguise, and utter chaos ensues. From the very first scene, the transcendent humor of the play eliminates any language barri­ers. The English synopsis with which each audience member is provided will also help non-francophones thoroughly enjoy this entertaining production. 
All five seniors who performed in last year's play returned this year, a testa­ment to McDowell's abilities as a direc­tor and instructor, and all agree that this year's production is even better than Le Tartuffe. 
"This play is much funnier," notes senior Mike Douglass. "It will be easier for non-French speakers to grasp the action in this story. This year's cast is also smaller, and we've all gotten close." 
McDowell and his students agree that 
Students rehearse for tonight's production of Moliere's farce Le Medecin malgre lui. This production marks the fifth anniversary of French theatre at Notre Dame. 
the closeness and sense of cooperation able to do something French and also which develops is one of the best aspects something artistic." of the play. "Working this closely with In the intimacy of the Lab Theatre, the students allows it to be so much Paul McDowell and his troupe of student more than a classroom setting. It sounds actors are bringing something rare to cliche, but I really learn so much more Notre Dame: the opportunity to see the from them than they learn from me," plays of writers like Moliere, brought to McDowell observes. life in their original language. As French 
Senior Amy Newman explains one of Theatre at Notre Dame celebr~tes its her motivations for enrolling in French fifth year, McDowell expresses his hope Theatre Production: "This was the only that the tradition will continue and even way I could take an upper-level French spread to other language departments. class with Paul McDowell, and he is one "It's a massive undertaking," McDowell professor who really makes French fun." says, "but it is absolutely worth it." His 
The students concur that learning students and past audiences would French through acting is a way to make emphatically agree. the language really come alive. Schultz notes that "most French classes at Notre Le Medecin malgre lui opens tonight Dame are writing-oriented. This is an at 7:30 Washington Hall's Lab Theatre. opportunity to do something different Tickets are available at the Language with French." Nancy Talbot, another Resource Center. $2 for students. $3 for senior, points to the unique artistic as­the general public. The play runs pect of the course. "It's special to be through Saturday. 
• WVFI CORNER 
The Coctails 

The Coctails 
Carrot Top Records 
out of five
***** 

of December 31, 1995, The CoctaUs ceased tomdst as the 
ntity known as The Coctails. The boy·.s are m.o.v.I'ng on.. 
owever, a new LP has floated up from the sunken Aptly titled The Coctails, it provides exceU~nt closure to . .. Coctails phenomena. . . . . •······· 
The Coctails' music is living proof of Darwinism. lt has evolved from light and playful jazz to full blown experimental jazz to their most recent mature ballads and instrumental, highly textured tracks, They haven't put th~irjazzy origins behif!.d them but keep adding new layers to their style. Tht~ Coctails answers the melan­choly questions asked on the band's previous album, Peel; the last song on Peel leads directly into where The Coctails begins. The album shifts between different musical pondel'ings and.st~te~en~ with vocals included on a handful of the tracks. The album is beau..;; ty in plastic form. It functions as a whole, begging to be played; straight through and making it worthwhile to skip class in order to 
hear the last four songs. . . •.. . . . . !1!! . ....·..•.... .••.·····•· •Y:.lii 
However. if all· terrorists bought this album, they would bably'( loosen up a little or something. Whether you're a terrorist or not, The Coctails is an intimate and personal album that will into your ear that eve · can be all righ(-9-o mat hat 
news tells you. ······ · 
Jim McNamee, 
• ALBUM REVU:W 
I
'm sure that God has turned to us [musicians] because with us he has fewer problems. He has none. We do what he wants." So muses a thoughtful Salif Keita in the BBC documen­tary of his life, Destiny of a Noble Outcast. After listening to Keita's latest release one can indeed believe that God is well­pleased with Keita. 
Although Keita's last full-length release was 1991's Amen, he hasn't been idle for the last five years: he worked on the soundtrack to The Lion King in 1993, released a retro­spective album in 1994 and contributed to Manu Dibango's stun­ning album Wakafrika in that same year. 
Folon is yet another strong album, but it suffers from some of 
the same flaws as Keita's previous work: over­production. Sometimes Keita simply sounds like he is trying too hard to achieve a "univer­sal" sound instead of simply letting the Mandingo groove find its natural resting place. Among the less successful tracks on the album are "Dakan-Fe" and "Mandela." The former sounds like a misguided Alpha Blondy imper­sonation while the latter, although lyrically effective, is musically strained by an awkward chorus. 
But these are the only two weak spots in an otherwise superb album. Particularly welcome is a fine remake of Keita's '78 classic "Mandjou" and a couple of beautiful meditative numbers in "Seydou," as well as the title track "Folon." Both tracks showcase Keita's phe­nomenal voice which fills the soundscape provided for it here. The former track laments the death of the great fashion designer Seydou with effective directness and simplicity, the lat­ter track successfully captures the fear that so often accompanies the removal of pa­ternalistic authority. "Seydou" also fea­tures some great Balafon (xylophone) playing. 
Folon is not all bal­lad and lament, how­ever: it has its share of



Salif Keita 
dance numbers too and they find the


Folan 
groove as only Keita can. The mansa's voice
Island Records 
soars polyrhythmically 
above the "call and 
answer" interplay of
**** 
out of five the vocal chorus and 
razor-sharp brass, gui­tar lines weave in and out of the melody pro­pelling it along with an ever-fluid motion, and a real drummer keeps all the syncopation smooth. 
"Tekere," a track somewhat reminiscent of Soro's "Sina," kicks the album off with a jubi­lant and energetic celebration of the griot; "Sumun" is a Jungle Tale with a mean jungle beat. Jean-Philippe Rykiel's (Youssou N'Dour) contribution on keyboards and brass ar­rangement are, as ever, of high quality. Produced by Beninois Wally Badarou (Level 42), Folon isn't quite the magical album that Soro was but it is nonetheless a welcome return for Keita. Check out the man from Mali. 
-by Tim Bayne 

~--------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------­


;ACCENT MV\SJC
Thursday, January 25, 1996 
• ARTIST PROFILE 
Just another pretty face? 
ombine the serene 
vocals of Tori Amos with 
the "screw you" attitude 
made famous by the late great Kurt Cobain and the result is the acoustic punk genius of Buffalo, New York singer/songwriter Ani DiFranco. 
The release of her seventh album, Not A Pretty Girl, proves that a lot of hard work and dedication can result in sueeBss. DiFranco is no stranger to the ups and downs of the music industry­she has been performing in bars since she was nine years old-or the ups and downs of lif1l. After moving out on her own when she was a young lit'tiHm, it's only been recently that she has entered into a stable lifestyle. DiFranco moved to the heart of it all, New York City, in 1988 and mnbarked on a tour which has yet to conclude, and will more than likllly continue on well into the future. 
DiFranco's experiences 

that grows with each string
during her long musie career 
that is smacked by her plastic
lnd hnr to the conclusion that 
**** fingertips. DiFranco's songs
she should be in control of her out of five 
own fate. The dark side. of the music industry can cause many artists anguish, but DiFranco refused to become its next victim. Instead, in 1990 she created Highteous Babe Hecords located in her home town of Buffalo. There is no doubt that this was a wise decision; DiFraneo has since sold over 200,000 cd's and tapes with an inerease sure to be on the horizon as her popularity grows at remarkable speeds. 
DiFranco has not gone unnoticed. She has received offnrs from a plethora of record labels big and small. llowever, slw is sticking to what she believes in and adamantly refuses to sign on. 
Two years ago DiFranco called up Andy Stochansky, pereussionist extraordinaire, and asked him to tour with her. The addition of drums to her unique sound was the final piece in the puzzle. DiFranco's music was finally com­
·· plete and entirely different than anything else. It is difficult to describe DiFranco's sound because it is in a league of its own. However, it is safe to say that it has strong acoustic roots­only rarely does she use an electric guitar-but with an element of fury. There are no smoothly strummed chords echoing from the strings of DiFranco's acoustic, so don't expect an Indigo Girls sound­alike. Her music is brash as her press-on nails, attached to her fingers with electrical · tape, scratch the strings at lightning speed creating an incredibly full sound. Part two of the dynamic duo of DiFranco and Stochansky works the drums at a similar pace, smashing cymbals and cracking snares with whip-like quickness. The combination of the two results in a deadly sound that is polished off with DiFranco's sweet yet raging vocals. Her songs carry an intensity 
are, in no way, polite. Her lyrics dance around between life in New York City, politics, life on the road, and her own personal experiences. There are no pleasant melodies surrounded by synthesized chords and techno drum samples on Not A Pretty Girl. Instead itis an album that is stripped to the bone. 
DiFranco sums up her feelings when she describes the album's title and theme. "It's sort of a theme that pops up in a few songs: ideas about beauty. But the kind of beauty I'm talking about in the title song has more to do with our behavior than with our physical selves, the notion that any one of us could be perceived as attractive or not attractive depending on how willing we are to jump through certain hoops. The song is about the liberating aspects of leaving all those rituals and routines behind." Indeed she has. 
-by Christian Stein 
• CAMPUS MUSIC 
Come along for the ride 
George and the Freeks 
Join Us For the Ride 
W
en they say ".Join us for the ride," George and the 
'reeks are not by any means implying that the 
ide is over now-hopefully. 
Those of you who have seen the Freeks live know that this is a band with serious, serious talent. Their shows inelude, along with originals, covers of bands like Phish and the Dead-bands that made their money with basic studio stuff that just exploded on stage. The idea of pop with vast space for improv is popular today (have you heard Dave Matthews recently?), and the Freeks have caught the wave in a big fat way. 
Their new album, Join Us For the Ride, displays George and the Freeks solid chops and excellent sense of hanno­ny. Featuring several folk choir veterans, the Freeks know how to put a song together. Guitarists Doug McKenna and Erik Goldsehmidt, the primary songwriters, have an excel­lent sense for the much-maligned "hook." This sense, cou­pled with their live act, has made them one of the more popular bands on campus today. 
Whieh is why the word "potential" is important. Listening to llide, one can easily see what makes this band tough. All tlw members are strong instrumentalists. c;oldsdunidt and McKenna, along with Mark Lang, form a thnw-guitar attaek that is rich enough not to need Eddie Van llalen anywhere. The rhythm section, bassist .JP Hurt and drummers Bryan Ball and "Bongo" Bob Purcell, are solid. Andy Brenner almost sounds like Bruce Hornsby on knys, and the addition of backup vocalist Shannon Dunn has bolstered the Frocks in a way that is surprising, con­sidnring that harmony has never been a problem for them. 
What, then, are the weaknesses in such a band? Oddly 1mough, their primary studio weakness is their instrumen­tal ability. Gnorge and the Freeks are talented, no doubt. Now if they could only learn to stay out of each other's way on disc .... 
Tlw times that Goldschmidt and Brenner solo together 
are numerous. Ideally, both guys would have time alone to 
do their thing. Such is not the case here. Occasionally, 
Goldschmidt is free to lay down a lead-and his playing is fluid, intelligent stuff. Brenner is one of the area's fore­most keyboardists, and he should be given the according space. 
Lyrically, also, the band often comes up short. Opening the album with "Fell" was a bad idea. The song is catchy, if a bit crowded with sound. However, a love song with the simile "Like a deer in the headlights" does not capture the effect. This reviewer recalls hearing the song across North Quad in fall of 1993; moving the narrative out of the scene of a dorm party would fit the Freeks' maturity since. 
Bottom line: the Freeks are a good band, capable of strong vocal harmony and improvisation. This is what brought bands like Yes to the forefront of music in the early 70's. What killed them was their inability to stay out of each other's way. George and the Freeks are a very good band. Still, they play like they need to prove them­selves. Hey Freeks: you've got the talent part down. Give each other room, and you'll have an album that actually surpasses considerable live appeal. 
-by Kevin Dolan 
-
page 13 

1. Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 
2. Natalie Merchant-Tigerlily 
3. 
Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

4. 
Bush -Sixteen Stone 

5. 
Enya -Memory ofTrees 


6. 
Tori Amos -Caught a Light Sneeze 

7. 
Alice in Chains -self-titled 


1 
8. Kriss Kross -Yount: Rich & Dangerous "' 
9. 
Kenny Shepherd -Ledbetter 

10. Dead Man Walking Soundtltck 


11. 7 Mary 3 -American Standard 
12. 
Golden Smog 

13. 
Friends Soundtrack 

14. 
Van Morrisoq-How Long Has This Been Goi~tg On? 



15. Everclear -Sparkle a11d Fade 
V:aughan -Greatesf 
Tra~ks Top 20 is tompiledjrmn" ' sales records, week'en'iJing 
lfMNDTop 


1. No Doubt -Tragic Kingdom 
2. 
Oasis -6What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

3. 
Saturday Morning -Cartoon's Greatest Hits 


4. 
Four Rooms Soundtrack 

5. 
The Presidents of the United States of America -self-titled 


6. Everclear -Sparkle and Fade 
7. Pet Shop Boys-Alternative tl 8. Sparklehorse 1 


9. 
Smashing Pumpk.!ps -Mellon ..... Collie and the Infinite Sadness 

10. 
Radiohead-Just (for colleg§.) 



11. Red Hot Chili Peppers -Oil 
Hot Minute 
12. Lisa Loeb and: Nine Stories ­
0
Tails · 
•·•. 
13. Tripmaster Monkey -Practice . 
Applications ·.-14. ZZ Brides -Beaker 
15. Walt Mink ~;El Producto 
16. Lpud y .. Breathe 
7. ')"or rels • Example 
L~p Dqg~'" Sf!venth Level of ~it4tion 
tilllblifter 
Spac~hog -1lesident Alien 
!18.9 FM's Nocturn~N;ght · . 
.,. ,,,.,. '""·. plays the best in college ra3io from midnight to 2 am. l 
-------··-------­

page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 25, 1996 
-

University of Notre Dame Summer Sesston 1996 Course List 
The 1996 summer session will begin on Monday, June 17 (enrollment) and end on Wednesday, July 31 (final exams). Some courses-primarily in science, mathematics and languages -will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Building) beginning on Friday, February 9. A list of summer courses containing course credit hours, dates and meeting times is available now at the following Web site: 
http://www.nd.edu/SummerSession.html 

Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1996 who are eligible to return in the fall -must use DART (1) to register for summer courses and (2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 21. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
AERO 499  Undergraduate Research  
AME 598  Advanced Studies  
AME 599  Thesis Direction  
AME 600  Nonresident Thesis Research  
AME 699  Research and Dissertation  
AME 700  Nonresident Dissertation Research  
ME 321  Differential Equations and Applied  
Mathematics  
ME 327  Thermodynamics  
ME 334  Fluid Mechanics  
ME 342  Engineering Economy-London  
ME 498A  Engineering, Society and The lnt'l  
Community-London  
ME 499  Undergraduate Research  

American Studies 
AMST 448 AMST 449 AMST 498 AMST 599 AMST 600  News Internship Writing Nonfiction Special Studies Thesis Direction Nonresident Thesis Research  
Anthropology  

ANTH 109  Introduction to Anthropology  
ANTH 488  Archaeological Field School  
ANTH 489  Ethnographic Field Methods and  
Techniques  
Architecture  
ARCH 100 Career Discovery in Architecture at Notre Dame 


Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI251  Art Traditions  
ARHI575  Directed Readings in Art History  
ARHI599  Thesis Direction  
ARHI600  Nonresident Thesis Research  
ARST 209S  Ceramics I  
ARST 242S  Wood Sculpture  
ARST 243S/443S  Metal Casting/Foundry  
ARST 409S/509S  Ceramics Studio  
ARST 499S/599S  Special Studies  
ARST 585S  Photography Studio  
ARST 600  Nonresident Thesis Research  
ARST 676  Directed Readings  
ARST 696  Thesis Project  
DESN 280/480  Multimedia Design  
DESN 282S/482S  Digital Image Making  
DESN 330S  Furniture Design I  
DESN 496S  Special Studies  
AL 298 Visiting Scholar Studies 


Arts and Letters, Nondepartmental 
Biological Sciences 
BIOS 101  Human Genetics, Evolution and  
Society  
BIOS 108  Revolutions in Biology  
BIOS 294  Neotropical Natural Hist and Mgt  
Central Amer Res  
BIOS 494  Directed Readings  
BIOS 499  Undergraduate Research  
BIOS 569  Practical Aquatic Biology  
BIOS 599  Thesis Direction  
BIOS 600  Nonresident Thesis Research  
BIOS 672  Special Problems  
BIOS 699  Research and Dissertation  
BIOS 700  Nonresident Dissertation Research  

---.. -. . ­
-0 'jl,,.. •• -; -. _.._~_-... 

r•••a..••·• ••.:..•••w-._.a ... £M,...Ta...,.••c•# • .••• ··~ .·•• r• ~ •• 
Course call numbers, along with all other course information, will be published in the summer session Bulletin. 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 18 to April 7 and from May 6 to June 21. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 21 must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1996 will be $178 per credit hour plus a $35 general fee. 
Business Administration ACCT 231 Accounting and Accountancy I  Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures  
ACCT 232 Accounting and Accountancy II ACCT 371 Accounting Measurement and Disclosure ACCT 380 Processes in Accounting ACCT 476 Federal Taxation BA 230 Statistics in Business BA 362 Legal Environment of Business BA 392 Business Communication BA 490 Corporate Strategy FIN 231 Business Finance FIN 360 Managerial Economics FIN 361 Business Conditions Analysis MARK 231 Principles of Marketing MARK 473 Marketing Communication MGT 231 Principles of Management  COAJ 111 First Year Japanese I COCG 200 Intensive Greek COCG 511 Z Intensive Greek COCL 200 Intensive Latin COCL 511 Z Intensive Latin COCL 550 Latin Immersion I COCL 551 Latin Immersion II coss 402 Introduction to Syriac Grammar coss 452 Introduction to Syriac Literature coss 500 z Introduction to Syriac Grammar COSS 500A Z Introduction to Syriac Literature COST 530 The Bible in Syriac Communication and Theatre  
MGT 240 Computers in Business  GOTH 204 Basics of Film and Television  
MGT 472 Operations Management  GOTH 205 Introduction to Theatre  
MGT 475 Human Resource Management  GOTH 361/561 Introduction to Film and Video  
Production  
Center for Educational Opportunity  GOTH 374/574 Contemporary Hollywood  
UB 102 Understanding Societies UB 104 Finite Mathematics UB 109 Composition and Literature  GOTH 407 Entertainment and Arts Law GOTH 446 Theatre for Youth GOTH 493A Broadcast Internship GOTH 499 Research for the Advanced  
Chemical Engineering  Undergraduate Student GOTH 598 Special Studies  
CHEG 499 Undergraduate Research CHEG 599 Thesis Direction  GOTH 599 Thesis Direction GOTH 600 Nonresident Thesis Research  
CHEG 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699 Research and Dissertation  Computer Applications  
CHEG 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research  CAPP 243 Introduction to Computers  
Chemistry and Biochemistry  CAPP 315 Management Information Systems CAPP 385 Artificial Intelligence  
CHEM 115 General Chemistry I CHEM 110 General Chemistry II CHEM 117 Z General Chemistry I CHEM 118 Z General Chemistry II  CAPP 395 Applied Multimedia Technology CAPP 497 Special Projects CAPP 498 Departmental Tutorial CAPP 499 Special Topics  
CHEM 119L General Chemistry I -Lab CHEM 120L General Chemistry II -Lab CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry CHEM 223L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I CHEM 224 Elementary Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II CHEM 477 Directed Readings CHEM 499R Undergraduate Research CHEM 599R Thesis Direction CHEM 694 Directed Readings CHEM 699R Research and Dissertation CHEM 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences  Computer Science and Engineering  
CSE 221 Logic Design and Sequential Circuits CSE 232 Advanced Programming CSE 331 Data Structures CSE 498 Directed Studies CSE 499 Undergraduate Research CSE 598 Advanced Studies CSE 599 Thesis Direction CSE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CSE 698 Advanced Topics CSE 699 Research and Dissertation CSE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Economics ECON 123 Principles of Economics I ECON 224 Principles of Economics II ECON 498 Special Studies ECON 599 Thesis Direction ECON 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 697 Special Topics ECON 698 Directed Readings ECON 699 Research and Dissertation ECON 700 Nonresident Dissertation Electrical Engineering  
CE 100A Civil Engineering Concepts CE 100B Civil Engineering Concepts CE 498 Directed Studies CE 499 Undergraduate Research CE 598R Advanced Studies CE 599R Thesis Direction CE 600R Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698R Advanced Topics CE 699R Research and Dissertation CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research GEOS 498A Dinosaur Evolution and Extinction GEOS 499 Undergraduate Research  
EE 222 Introduction to Electrical Science EE 224 Z Electrical Circuits I EE 232 Introduction to Electronic Circuits EE 242 Z Electronics I EE 498 Directed Studies  

~

Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

-

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 1996 
•NBA 
Mills' three pointer sinks Spurs 85-84 
Associated Press 
Terry Mills' 3-pointer with 2.6 seconds left gave the Detroit Pistons their second victory over the San Antonio Spurs in six days, 85-84 Wednesday night. 
Grant Hill led the Pistons with 21 points and 13 rebounds. Joe Dumars added 15 points while Mills finished with 13. 
Avery Johnson, who scored 15 of his team-high 19 points in the second half, gave the Spurs an 83-82 lead on a pair of free throws with 35.8 seconds left. David Robinson blocked Otis Thorpe's shot and Sean Elliott hit one of two free throws to extend San Antonio's lead to 84-82 with 18.8 seconds left. 
Robinson added 17 points and 14 rebounds while spending most of the game in foul trouble. 
The Spurs, who have lost four of their last five games, also fell to the Pistons 100-98 at Detroit last Thursday. 
The Pistons used a 26-7 spurt over the second and third quarters to turn a nine-point deficit into a 54-44 lead with 8:46 left in the third quarter. 
San Antonio rallied to take a 71-69 lead early in the fourth quar­ter, but Dumars scored nine straight points for the Pistons to give Detroit an 80-75 lead with 4:40 left in the game. 
Detroit, which shot 34 percent in the first half, closed the second quarter with a 9-0 run to take a 43-41 lead at halftime. Dumars' 3-pointer with 2.9 seconds left capped the streak, and Mills and Allan Houston combined to score 16 of Detroit's 25 second-quarter points. 
Indiana 97, Milwaukee 89 

Reggie Miller's 27 points sparked the Indiana Pacers to their fourth straight victory, 97-89 over the Milwaukee Bucks on Wednesday night. 
Miller scored 14 of his points in the first period, when the Pacers built a 29-23 lead they would never relinquish. He added four foul shots in the final minute to ice it. 
Mark Jackson added 17 points, and Ricky Pierce got 15 off the bench as Indiana won the season series with the Bucks three games to one. 
Glenn Robinson led the Bucks with 25 points and Terry Cummings had 17, but the Bucks had no solution for Miller. 
They rotated Johnny Newman, Shawn Respert and Jerry Reynolds on the Indiana guard but couldn't stop his deadly long­range aim. 
Miller was 6-of-8 from the field, including 4-of-6 from 3-point range. Overall, the Pacers were 9-of-20 on 3-pointers and Milwaukee was 3-of-14. 
Robinson scored eight points in a 10-1 run that trimmed a 17­point deficit to 69-61 with 2:30 left in the third period. His bucket on the first possession of the fourth quarter cut the Pacers' lead to 74-69, but the Bucks got no closer. 

They were down 91-84 with 1:30 left, but misfired three straight 3-pointers before Cummings was fouled and hit two shots to make it 91-86 with 52 seconds left. 
Jackson swished two foul shots and Miller hit all four of his to thwart the comeback. 
Miller, who scored a season-high 40 in a victory over Phoenix on Tuesday night, had three 3-pointers in the first period. He also swished three free throws after drawing a foul from Newman on a fourth 3-point attempt. 
Miller's open 3-pointer put Indiana ahead 42-35 with 4:15 left in the half as the Pacers began to pull away. Behind Miller's 17 first­half points, Indiana took a 55-45 halftime lead. 
A sore right foot forced Pacers' center Rik Smits to sit out for the second straight night. Antonio Davis started for Smits and had 12 points and nine rebounds, and Dale Davis added seven points and 12 rebounds. 
Johnson's return lifts Suns 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Charles Barkley scored nine of his 22 points in the decisive third quarter as the Phoenix Suns defeated the Minnesota Timberwolves 101-91 Wednes­day night, just their third win in 12 games. 
Jawing with the Wolves bench and swishing fallaway jump shots, Barkley helped Phoenix rally from a five-point halftime deficit by outscoring Minnesota 31-14 in the third quarter. 
With the win, the Suns avenged a loss to the Wolves on Jan. 4, the only time Minnesota has beaten the Suns in 27 games since joining the NBA. 
Kevin Johnson, who along with Barkley returned to the Phoenix lineup Sunday, also had nine points in the third quarter. 
Johnson finished with 21 points and 11 assists. Barkley added a team-high 16 rebounds, and four other Suns scored in double figures. 
The victory improved the Suns' record to 2-3 since Cotton Fitzsimmons replaced Paul Westphal as coach last week. 
It also was the second win in three games with Barkley and Johnson back from injuries; Phoenix was 1-5 without them. 
Tom Gugliotta had 20 points and 14 rebounds to lead Min­nesota, which missed a chance to tie a franchise record with its fourth straight home win. Christian Laettner had 18 points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
Spring Break! Panama Cityl 8 Days  REPS NEEDED: One of America's  ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH­ Offer: 1 or 2 MACBETH  ACACACACACACACACACA  
NOTICES  Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  fastest growing telecommunications co. needs Reps.  BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­9005  TICKETS for Sat. Feb. 24 in exchange for Thurs. (prefered)  ACOUSTIC CAFE  
$2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  Offers personal freedom and  or Fri. tickets. Please call Claudia  will resume this Thursday  
##############  Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  chance to motivate others.  MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT.  (x-4088). Leave a message.  from 9 pm ti1112 am  
Day1ona $1391  No inventory, no delivery, no quo­ NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2  in the Huddle.  
Stamper BoB  tas. Call Julie at4-4172.  BATH. $900.00/MO.+  I need tickets for the St. John's  Call John Gavula to  
& The4X4's  http://www.springbreaktravel.com.  EXCEL Telecommunications.  257-0457  game February 11. Call Jim at 287­ reserve a time to play,  
live at Jazzman's  1-800-678-6386  4966.$$  or for a backrub... 4-0632.  
Thurs night 1 O:OOpm  ZAPPA FANS  1 bedroom in 3 bedroom home  
ILOST&FOUNDI  I am writing the entry on F.Z. for the Dictionary of American Biography.  Female preferred Use of all utilities  PERSONAL  ACACACACACACACACACA  
SPRING BREAK!  I want to listen to some of his  300.00/mo. -Close to campus  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  LOSTII!!!  albums before beginning library  Safe neighborhood  0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0  What's that dam-ned potpourri  
BLOW IT!  1.0. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  research.  Call Paul 232-2794  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII  smell?  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  Reward for return. Please call, sen­ If you have any FZ albums and  THE COPY SHOP  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  timental value.  would be willing to let me tape  TRUE BEAUTY  LaFortune Student Center  
$359 Florida $1 09  Call Chris, @ 1662  them, please call277-9071  3 MILES TO CAMPUS  Phone 631-COPY  Grab 'n Go Bags are coming!  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  237-9718  0o0c0o0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0  This is your chance to make a  
1-800-426-771 0  Switched: If you have the wrong  WANTED: Good people to earn  difference and earn a special  
Anne Leap  turquoise double-breasted jacket from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give  money by becomil)g reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  FOR SALE  Mentalist  bonus for the rest of the semester. Bags will be on sale in both  
Word Processing Specialist  me a call. I have yours.  299-1999 evenings.  dining halls starting Jan. 31.  
Editing-General Correspondence­ Andy X1765  For Sale: 93 Honda Accord LX  Brought to you by Lewis Hall.  
Proofreading-Business Documents­ @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  22K. 4-door. auto, air, cruise, cas­ Come let Craig Karges of Leno and  
Academic Papers-Free Pick-up and Delivery  WANTED  WANTED: THE YODA KNAPPER  sette. Excellent condition; faculty owned.  Letterman fame read your mind and mystify you with his powers.  AUDITIONS!!!!I!!!I!I!IIIIAUDITIONS The Nerd  
"Professional Results at Affordable  For stealing the classic Kenner®  631-7555.  Appearing Friday, Jan. 26 at 8 p.m.  Sat1/27 and Sun 1/28 7:00 p.m.  
Prices"  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­ Star Wars action figure. Please  at the Library Auditorium.  204 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
(219)257-1766  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  return the lovable little green guy  FOR SALE!  $$$$$$$$$$$FREE$$$$$$$$$$$  No preparation necessary.  
basic conversational English  before John Lucas is reduced to  1985 MEAKUA XA4TI  Brought to you by your friends at  sponsored by  
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTTEST  abroad.  tears. If things get any worse he'll  85 K MILES  SUB!  Notre Dame Student Players  
TRIPS"  Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many  film an infomercial, quit his job and  CALL HEINER @ 232-7939  ACTING OPPOATUNITIES!!IIIII!I  
CANCUN -SOUTH PADRE  employers provide room & board +  devote his life to tracking down the  ...Bai-Ju's Noodle House• ..  
ISLAND -BELIZE  other benefits.  real kidnappers. Call 1-4542 with  '90 Honda Accord LX, 66,000 mi.,  We Deliver!  HEY SKIPPY!!!!!!  
1-800-328-7513  No teaching background or Asian  any info. Small reward.  Auto., PS/PB, Air, AM/FM Cass.,  271-0125  Sooo Hot... want to touch the  
http://www.studentadvtrav.com  languages required. For more infor­ You'll be given a code number and  Cruise, Etc.  Delivery Hrs: Mon-Sun 4:30-Mid  hineyll!  
FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE  mation call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  we won't ask your name  Excellent Condition. $8500 or best  $8.00 Minimum Order  Love, Buggy  
FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS  J55842  @#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@#@  offer. 272-7180  This week's special:  

 *Szechuan Fried Rice  
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  ~-F_o_R_RE__N_T__~I  ~~-T--IC_KE__T_s__~  *Chicken Lo Mein  REVEREND FUNK 10:30 TONIGHT AT CLUB 23  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED- Need 3 or 4 GA's for W. V.  St. Edward's Hall Players  FEATURING FREE AIDES TO  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring­ bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Call Ted x3381 $$$  proudly present:  THE FUNK MOTHEASHIP  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  N55844  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  One Flew Over  
CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  Need 2 GAs for W.Virginia game.  The Cuckoo's Nest  
- Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ 2773097  Call Karen x2371.  Goodrich ... please play here.  
Specials! 111 "'o Lowest Price  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Thurs., Fri, Sat. 8 p.m.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Need GA for W.V.  @ Washington Hall  Happy Birthday Paz!  
From $429! Save $100 On  month. Room and Board!  219-291-7153  Call Leigh X4179  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ Transportation! Male or Female. No  Tickets available at LaFortune Info  From your friends on the seventh  
breaktravel.com  experience necessary. Call  HOMES FOR RENT  Student season basketball ticket  desk or at the door.  floor.  
1-800-678-6386  (206)971-3510 ext A55843  232-2595  available. Call Arlene at631-8447.  



·--------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NFL 
Favre named NFL's Player of the Year 
By WALTER BERRY 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 

Brett Favre made it to the Super Bowl, just not in the way he hoped. 
Favre. who led the surpris­ing Green Bay Packers to the NFC title game this season, picked up another honor Wednesday when he was named the NFL's Player of the Year. 
"This is awesome," said Favre, who previously won the league's MVP and NFL Offensive PlayPr of the Year awards. "It hasn't hit me yet and I hope it never will." 
The fifth-year pro set an NFC record with 38 touch· down passes and threw for 4,413 yards, guiding the Packers to an 11-5 record and their lirst NFC Central title In 23 years. 
It was their first 11-victory season since 1966. They beat Atlanta and San 

Francisco in the opening rounds of the playoffs before losing to Dallas 38-27 in the conference championship game. 
Favre accepted his Player of the Year trophy at a Phoenix hotel, posed for pictures and then had to seek refuge in a hospitality room to avoid a swarm of autograph seekers. 
"Life is hectic these days. It's been non-stop interviews for the past couple months," he said. 
"The only bad thing about this year is not getting to the Super Bowl. That's the one thing you strive for. 
"We expect to get there next year. I think we're very close. We need a little more experi~ ence and a little more confi· dence," 
Favre won the Player of the Year honor in landslide fash· ion. getting 70 percent of the 170 votes cast by a nationwide panel of media representa­tives. 

DINE-IN DELIVERY SERVICE 
• TENNIS 
'Marathon' challenger brings aggressive style against Seles 
By PETER SPIELMANN 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE. Australia 
Monica Seles, who hasn't lost 
a set, is taking on marathon 
champ Chanda Rubin, who re­
fuses to lose even if she has to 
play all night. 
lt could make for a fascinat­
ing semifinal Thursday at the 
Australian Open, a classic con­
trast of styles between the 
baseline-bashing Seles and the 
net-attacking Rubin. 
In the other semifinal, Anke 
Huber of Germany takes on 
Amanda Coetzer of South 
Africa, a match up of base liners. 
But all eyes will be on the 
match between Seles, who 
stands literally and figuratively 
head and shoulders over her 
rivals, and Rubin, the rising 
star who has played several of 
the most riveting and pro­
tracted matches in tennis his­
tory. 

Rubin played the longest 
women's match in Australian 
tennis history Tuesday night, 3 
hours, 33 minutes. The 6-4, 2­
6, 16-14 victory over Arantxa 
Sanchez Vicario also set an 
Australian women's record for 
the most games in a set or 
match. 

That was nothing new for 
Rubin. 

She won a marathon match 
at Wimbledon last June, beat­
ing Patricia Hy-Boulais 7-6, 6­
7, 17-15 in a duel that set a 
women's Grand Slam record for 
most games in a match and in a 
set. ... A few weeks before that, 
Rubin put on one of the great­
est comebacks ever, fighting off 
seven match points and a third­
set deficit of 0-5, love-40 to 
beat Jana Novotna at the 
French Open. 
But the 19-year-old judge's daughter from Lafayette, La., may have to be ready to play for days if she's going to topple Seles. The latter comes to the semifinals after polishing off five previous opponents in straight sets. 
Seles is playing the best ten­nis of her comeback and looks unstoppable. But she is still feeling the effects of a groin injury, saying Tuesday that while it isn't getting worse, it isn't getting better. She also in­jured a tendon above her right ankle during Tuesday's defeat of Iva Majoli. 
If the 13th-ranked Rubin keeps playing aggressively and placing her shots along the baselines, as she did Tuesday night, she might put Seles on the run and wear her down. 
"It's going to be a tough one against Monica. I'm going to go out and try to be aggressive," Rubin said, "Hopefully cut down on the unforced errors a little bit, but just see how it goes, just go out and play." 
But if Rubin scatters shots wide and long, as she did against Gabriela Sabatini in the fourth round, Seles will chew her up. 
Rubin and Seles have radi­cally contrasting styles. Seles plays from the baseline, and made only one (unsuccessful) net approach Tuesday in her match against Majoli. 
Rubin loves the net, succeed­ing in 45 of 62 net approaches in her epic match against Sanchez Vicario. 
"Chanda, I have never played," Seles said, "It will be another tough one." 
Despite her catalog of injuries, Seles has devastated her opponents so far, averaging only about an hour per match while trouncing them. She is still the runaway favorite for the finals. 

In the other half of the draw, No. 8 Huber takes on No. 16 Coetzer. 
This is Huber's first Grand Slam semifinal since she top­pled Steffi Graf at the 1993 French Open, and since then she has often been compared ­or contrasted -with her more accomplished compatriot. 
Huber is a consistent baseline player, but isn't afraid to rush the net. as she did Wednesday to upset No. 2 Conchita Martinez 4-6, 6-1, 6-1. Huber's consistency showed in the 23 service winners she fired, to Martinez's 14. 
It takes a top player to thwart Huber. At last year's Australian Open, it was Mary Pierce; it was Graf at Roland Garros; at Wimbledon, Sanchez Vicario; and at the U.S. Open, Seles stopped her. 
Is Coetzer a similar threat? 
Coetzer plays a compact game punctuated by powerful penetrating ground strokes that belie her diminutive size -5 foot-2, 122 pounds. 
A solid baseline player who hits with heavy topspin, Coetzer also occasionally comes to the net. 
Huber said that when she faces Coetzer, "I have to take the ball early and play aggres­sive, and not make too many errors. That is most impor­tant." 
Coetzer advanced to the semifinals by beating 15-year­old Swiss sensation Martina Hingis on Wednesday 7-5, 4-6, 6-1. Hingis contributed to her own defeat with 81 unforced errors. 
Coetzer had been in a slump in recent years, but snapped out of it last August at the Canadian Open, when she ended Grafs 32-match winning streak, then beat Novotna and Pierce before losing to Seles. 
..... 


-----------~----­

~--------------------------------~----------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 1996 
Colorful Steelers overachieve 
Switzer maintains old image despite success 
By DAVE GOLDBERG GAME!" Associated Press It went that way for most of the session. 
TEMPE, Arizona When Switzer was told that Barry Switzer still can't give Charles Haley, recovering from up the Oklahoma analogies. back surgery, said he could So when he was asked what play in Sunday's game even if Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith he didn't practice, Switzer said: and Michael Irvin had done for "He can't play if he doesn't his Dallas Cowboys, he had a practice and he has to practice quick retort. today. You go tell Charles 
"You think coaches win foot-that." ball games? They got us here Then came the inevitable to the Orange .---------------------------, question , 
Bowl,  Er,  I  the  one  
mean the BIG  111 n u 8R p  li  about  his  
Orange Bowl."  decision to  
Switzer's  go  for  a  
news  confer- first  down  
ences  aren't  on  fourth  
always infor­ and 1 from  
mative,  but  his own 29  
they're usually  in  a  tie  
entertaining.  game  in  
Such was the  sr 8 01 uII\.  Phila.  on  
case  on  Dec.  10.  
Wednesday,  The  play  

another press conference day failed and the Eagles took prior to Sunday's game. advantage and kicked the win-
The first question came from ning field goal. Spencer Tillman, a television "Every kid knows and every newsman in Houston who coach knows that you have to played for the San Francisco punt in that situation," Switzer 49ers, Houston Oilers and, be-said. fore that, at Oklahoma for a "But there are times you coach named Barry Switzer. make the decision. Sometimes 
His question was about ways you win 'em. Sometimes you to combat the Pittsburgh de-lose 'em. You roll the dice." fense. And finally: Was Barry bring-
Switzer, who often answers ing a lot of family to Arizona questions he doesn't like with a for the biggest game of his "Did you ever play THE career? GAME?" responded to Tillman "A lot of family? Of course," with a series of Xs and Os. he replied. ''I've got 30 people 
He ended by saying: "You coming in. They're all staying know what I mean, Spencer, in my room. Even my ex-wife. BECAUSE YOU PLAYED THE She's on a rollaway bed." 
By AlAN ROBINS<?N 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
What gives with the Steelers? 
Do they issue quirky person­alities when they hand out numbers each season? Why are they always so colorful, so rough, so tumble, so blue col­lar, so ... well, Pittsburgh? 
"We're just a bunch of over­achievers from a little town in western Pennsylvania," coach Bill Cowher said with the fran­chise one victory away from a fifth Super Bowl championship. 
Cowher is a hometown boy who grew up barely a Terry Bradshaw spiral away from Three Rivers Stadium. He per­sonifies the grit and resiliency of his team. 
As a player, Cowher clung to a NFL job for five years mostly on his persistence and attitude. As a coach, according to defen­sive lineman Brentson Buckner, Cowher can be "a guy who's like your best buddy in high school, or a guy you wish you could hit right in the jaw." 
Cowher does not expect per­fection, but a player better not give less than a full day's worth of perspiration. They may not hear about it from Cowher, but they'll hear about it. 
"In Pittsburgh, the coaches don't have to tell you if you're not giving your best because the fans will tell you first," said linebacker Jerry Olsavsky, who grew up in nearby Youngstown, Ohio, and played at Pitt. "When players come from other teams, they sometimes change and the fans have something to do with it:" 
Maybe that's why some play­ers seem destined to wear Steelers' black. 
Neil O'Donnell, with his coal miner's beard and lunch bucket mentality, wouldn't seem right playing quarterback for the turquoise-and-teal Dolphins. 
Greg Lloyd is a 1990s version of Jack Lambert-with teeth. 
Yancey Thigpen was a special teams player in San Diego, but became a Pro Bowl receiver in Pittsburgh, mostly through pa­tience and work ethic. 
It's the honest-day's-work­for-an-honest-day's-pay men­tality that existed when Pittsburgh was a steel mill town, rather than one whose economy is driven by software firms and high technology. 
"The mills may be gone, but it's still a blue-collar town," Olsavsky said. "The fans are knowledgeable. A lot of them are peewee football coaches themselves, and they know the game. It's not like it was in Los Angeles, where the players were craning their necks to see the 20 movie stars in the tun­nel. In Pittsburgh, it's just foot­ball and you've got to go out and play for the people. You've got to." 
Olsavsky embodies the per­sonality of the team and town he plays for. He injured both knees so badly in a 1993 game in Cleveland that doctors told him he might not walk nor­mally again, much less play football. But he rejoined the Steelers barely a year later. 
Then there is Rod Woodson, who would achieve the re­markable feat of playing in the Super Bowl barely four months after reconstructive knee surgery. The Cowboys' Michael Irvin said his recovery from the same injury took 18 exhausting months. 
"Anywhere else, I'm probably on the injured reserve list," Woodson said. "But I told coach Cowher I thought I could come back, and he believed me." 
The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call 631-4541. 


I , 

....------­
Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 


• SUPER BOWL XXX 
Smith defines Cowboy dominance Road to Super Bowl 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Leave it to Nate Newton, the Dallas Cowboys' 330-pound chatterbox, to define Emmitt Smith's impact on the team. 
"Before Emmitt came, I was just a normal fat guy," the left guard said. "Now I'm a fat guy who goes to the Pro Bowl." 
Emmitt Smith can do that for people. 
He's not the biggest running back in football. Nor is he the fastest. lle'd love to have Barry Sanders' moves and Barry Sanders' speed. 
Yet it's conceivable that if his 5-foot-9, 209-pound body stands up for another six to eight years, he could hold every NFL rushing record. 
"He's not as big as Jim Brown and he's not as fast. But if he continues to play at this level for a few more years, he'll have done everything that Jim Brown did and more," says Dick LeBeau, Pittsburgh's de­fensive coordinator and in charge of finding a way to stop Smith in Sunday's Super Bowl. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Systems Manager Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores enco~~aged to apply. Ifyou have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to run your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 
20 YEARS IN RBVUB! 
THE 1996 20TH ANNIVERSARY KEENAN REVUE IS COMING (FEB. 1, 2, 3) II 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 

Notre Dame Friday, fan. 26 Distribution 1-3 PM No Lines Before Noon TACC Gate 10 
1 ID per Person 2 Tickets per ID 
Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
Consider this: 
-Smith's 25 rushing touch­downs this year were the most in a single season, one more than John Riggins' old mark. His 96 career TDs in just six seasons are fifth behind Walter Payton, Brown, Marcus Allen and Riggins. Next season, he should catch Payton, who has 110. 
-His 1,773 rushing yards broke his own Dallas record, set in 1992. He's already 13th on the all-time rushing list with 6,956 yards, more than halfway to Payton's 16,726, set over 13 seasons. 
-He's also 115 yards away from breaking Franco Harris' record of 354 rushing yards in Super Bowl games. 
-Most important: Since 1993, the first of Dallas' Super Bowl seasons, the Cowboys are 0-4 in games he has missed; 31-5 in games he's played. 
The 1993 season is the best illustration of just what Smith means to Dallas. 
lie held out in training camp and missed the first two games, both of which the Cowboys lost. He joined the team for the third 

St. Mary's Wednesday, fan. 24 Distribution 6-8 PM No Lines Before 5 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
game and the Cowboys went 12-2 the rest of the way and on to the Super Bowl. Dallas became the first team in the Super Bowl era to lose its first two and win the title. 
But it was the last regular­season game that most defines Smith, a game against the New York Giants at the wind-swept Meadowlands. 
Because the Cowboys had lost those two early games without him, they had to beat the Giants to win the NFC East and avoid taking the wild-card route through the playoffs. 
ln the second quarter, Smith was knocked to the turf, his right shoulder separated. He re-entered the game as the Giants rallied from a 13-0 deficit to tie it at 13. 
Then, in overtime, he took over despite what he calls "the most pain I've ever had." Carrying the ball and catching it, he was a one-man show as the Cowboys drove for the win­ning field goal, finishing with 168 yards in 32 carries and 10 catches for 61 yards. 
Without that win, the Cowboys probably would not have won their second Super Bowl -they would have had to play the next week and Smith probably couldn't have played. 
"But that's what you're in the NFL for: to play games like this," said Smith, who later underwent surgery for the injury." 
That's what makes Smith spe­cial. 
His physical ability is only marginally better than other good NFL backs -it kept him from being picked higher than 17th overall in the 1990 draft. 
He was the second running back chosen, behind Blair Thomas, who was taken by the New York Jets at No. 2, never developed and ended up briefly as Smith's backup last season. 
rough and rocky for Steelers, Cowboys 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 

For the Pittsburgh Steelers, it was 3-and-4. For the Dallas Cowboys, it was fourth-and-1. 
The Super Bowl participants didn't have an easy ride to Sunday's game. 
For nearly half the schedule, the Steelers struggled. Just about when Pittsburgh began turning it on, the Cowboys slipped into a funk. 
How they dealt with those critical junctures explains why they got this far. 
The Steelers lost All-Pro cor­nerback Rod VVoodson and quarterback Neil O'Donnell in the season opener. Their prize rookie runner of the previous season, Bam Morris, was over­weight and wound up on the bench. 
By the seventh week of the season, Pittsburgh had four losses, including a 20-16 defeat at expansion Jacksonville. The players were confused, their confidence ebbing and their ranking as an NFL power rapidly disappearing. 
"Three months ago, when we were 3-and-4, a lot of people did not give us a chance," O'Donnell said Wednesday. "And we've lost one game in the past three months. We all came together." 
On and off the field. The play­ers give all the credit to coach Bill Cowher. 
Cowher didn't come down hard on his team. Realizing the Steelers had the talent to win the AFC championship, he told them to evaluate what had hap­pened and then rededicate and refocus for the remaining nine weeks. 
"We were embarrassed on national television at home by Cincinnati on a Thursday night," Cowher said. "We had a chance to get away for the weekend. We got a chance to sit back and maybe do a self• check on ourselves. 
"We came back, we made some changes and we took an 

Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 11 :00 pm 
outlook to look at the bottle as half full instead of half empty. Everybody else was going to tell us about all the problems we had." 
O'Donnell. who missed a month, got untracked. The coaches opened up the offense, began using Kordell Stewart everywhere. 
The Steelers won eight straight, easily taking the AFC Central. 
"They responded," Cowher said. "You can make all of the changes in the world as a coach, but if the players don't accept and believe in it, it isn't going to get it done. 
"And here we are, still play­ing in January." 
There was little doubt the Cowboys would get to January. There was widespread skepti­cism they would get very far into January. 
Dallas went through a horri­ble December after impressive victories over Oakland and Kansas City. 

The Redskins beat them for the second time. The next week, at Philadelphia, came the now-infamous fourth-and-1 play, with Switzer twice going for it at the Dallas 29 in the waning moments. And twice falling short. although the two­• minute warning erased one failure. 
Switzer was lambasted. Cowboys players rallied to his defense. but questioned their own motivation and focus. 
"When you go for fourth-and­1 and don't get it and get blast­ed and people are talking about how your season is over and you are on the downhill side, you have a tendency to say, 'We know we're not this bad,'" Smith said. "So we packed up the wagon and moved on to where we want to be. 
"Was that a turning point? I think so." 
More than anything, the Cowboys were offended by the way Switzer was treated by the media. Headlines such as "Bozo The Coach" didn't sit well with them. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 25, 1996 


I . ! 
t 
I 
I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
•NBA 
Bulls win with supporting cast 
Associated Press 
Michael Jordan scored a season-low 12 points but the Chicago Bulls didn't falter, beating the Vancouver Grizzlies 104-84 Wednesday night for their franchise-record 27th straight regular-sea­son home win. 
Chicago, now 36-3, won its 13th straight game -the second time this season the Bulls have won 13 in a row-behind Scottie Pippen's 30 points. 
Jordan, leading the league with a 31.7 aver­age, scored 15 against the Celtics in the second game of the season when he played just 21 min­utes in a lopsided victory. 
Jordan, who picked up his third and fourth fouls in the third quarter, finally got his first bas­ket of the second half on a stuff with 4:30 left in the period and then hit a jumper to get his ninth and lOth points. The baseline shot gave Chicago a 76-55 lead 
Jordan, just 4-for-10 from the field, didn't play the final period. Pippen hit 13 of 15 shots, including all three 3-pointers, and Dennis Rodman had 16 rebounds for the Bulls. 
Bryant Reeves led the Grizzlies with 23 points. 
The Bulls, 20-0 at the United Center this sea­son, have not lost at home in the regular season since March 24, 1995, in Jordan's first home game after coming out of retirement. The Bulls had a 26-game homecourt winning streak at 


Chicago Stadium from Dec. 14, 1990 to March 23, 1991. Pippen scored 14 of Chicago's first 25 points and the Bulls built a 15-point first-quarter lead. 
Vancouver cut the lead to seven late in the sec­ond quarter before Chicago went back up by 14 at the half with an 8-1 run in the final two min­utes. 
Jordan had only four first-half points, had two shots blocked during one 10-second span and picked up two fouls. He missed four of five shots. 
Hornets 127, Bullets 113 
The Charlotte Hornets found it more than a coincidence that their biggest offensive output of the season came in Kenny Anderson's first game as their point guard. 
"He's defmitely the reason the points were up there tonight," Glen Rice said after the Hornets got double-figure scoring from all of their starters in a 127-113 victory over slumping Washington on Wednesday night. 
Anderson, acquired last week in a trade with the New Jersey Nets, appeared to have an im­mediate calming influence on the Hornets, who have used eight different players at point guard this season. He finished with 12 points and 10 assists as Charlotte snapped a three-game losing streak. 
Ward, Ewing combine to take advantage of struggling Heat 
Associated Press 

Patrick Ewing scored 37 points and Charlie Ward hit a pair of key 3-pointers Wednesday night to help the New York Knicks beat Pat Riley's struggling Miami Heat, 88-79. 
It was the second meeting between Riley and the team he left after last season amid con­siderable rancor. The Knicks beat Miami in New York on Dec. 19, 89-70, when the Heat were without four starters. 
This time the Heat were near to full strength, but New York overcame a six-point deficit in the fourth period anyway. Miami lost for the eighth time in the past 10 games, while the Knicks rebounded from a b~owout loss to Chicago on Tuesday. 
Alonzo Mourning had 25 points and 10 rebounds for Miami but failed to contain his fellow Georgetown alumnus, Ewing. The Knicks center hit 
The Princeton Review is Sponsoring a PRACTICE MCAT 
(free ofcharge, no obligation) 
Saturday, January 27, 1996, 
8:00 AM -5:00 PM, 204 O'Shag. 

(You must sign up for this in 101 O'Shag by 1/25/96.) 
A REVIEW SESSION will be held 
Thursday, January 25, 1996, 6:00 -7:30 PM, 204 O'Shag 
16-of-31 shots, including at least four dunks. 
Miami had its biggest lead, 67-61, when Ward started a 9­0 spurt with a 3-pointer -his first points of the game. Ward also made a steal and perfect pass to John Starks for a breakaway layup, and Ewing's dunk put New York ahead 70­6 7 with 7:30 left. 
Ewing dunked again and hit two free throws as the Knicks built their lead to 78-70. Ward swished a 3-pointer as the 24­second buzzer sounded to make it 81-72 with three min­utes to go. 
A''must see" spectaculal' thl'illel' with musical undel'scol'ing. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BEND 
February 2-3-4, 1996f4 Friday 8 p.m. • Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. 0 -~\.. Sunday 2 p.m. EST f41\1t0Ul\ lickets 811.50 to 843.50
0
1 Ca II 21 9-235-91 90 
Box office open Monday-Friday, 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Charge to VISA, MasterCard, AmeriCIII Express -Group, Student I Senior Chlzen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 

• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 
Iverson, Harrington beat up on outmatched Orangemen 83-64 
Associated Press The Hoyas blew it open again with a 7-0 run aftnr Syracuse was within 74-59 with 4:49 left. 
Allen Iverson scored 26 points and Othella Freshman guard. Victor Page added 17 points Harrington added 23 Monday night and No. 6 for Georgetown. Georgetown held John Wallace in check in an 83-Otis Hill led Syracuse with 19 points, eight over 64 victory over No. 17 Syracuse, the his season average, while Todd Burgan had 15. Orangemen's third straight loss and fifth in seven Nichols finished with three points and Aw did games. not score, but it was their defense that mattered. 
Boubaear Aw and Jerry Nichols had the assign­ment of covering the 6-foot-8 Wallace, who was MSU 68, N'Western 54 <LVnraging 23.1 points per game. He finished with 17, six in the game's final 10 minutes. He had Jamie Feick scored 12 of his 16 points in the 
been held under 20 points only three times all first half as Michigan State built an early lead 
snason and had 22 or more in six of his last and cruised to a 68-54 victory Wednesday night 
seven games. 
over Northwestern.

Meanwhile, Iverson was his usual self for the 
It was the 18th straight victory over the
Hoyas (17 -2, 7-1 Big East). scoring from the out­Wildcats for Michigan State (10-8, 4-2 Big Ten).
side and on drives that had the crowd at USAir 
Northwestern hasn't won in East Lansing sinceArena rising from their seats. Harrington han­1984.
dled the bulk of the inside scoring for Gnorgetown, which has won 14 of its last 15 Feick also had 12 rebounds, helping the games. Spartans to a 32-28 edge on the boards. His de­
It took Wallace 7:48 to get his first points and it fense helped the Spartans hold Northwestern's was even longer in the second half. Geno Carlisle to 11 points, well below his 20.8 
His first points after halftime came with 10:49 average. Carlisle, still in the game with his team to play and it was a 3-pointer that brought the trailing 66-43, missed an uncontested dunk with Orangemen (13-5, 4-4) within 61-44. 
2:51 remaining.

The closest Syracuse got after that was 12 
Evan Eschmeyer had 12 points for
points twice, the last at 64-52 with 8:05 to play. 
Northwestern (6-9, 1-5). 

Nittany Lions claim Big Ten lead 
Associated Press don. He didn't play against 5-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) Northwestern and missed the and 7-foot-2 Serge Swikker 
Pete Lisicky broke out of a only shot he took in the Nittany added 12. shooting slump to score 13 Lions' loss to Michigan. The Tar Heels held Florida points as No. 14 Penn State Purdue cut the lead to 72-64 State scoreless for more than took over sole possession of on Foster's 3-pointer, but Matt seven minutes midway through first place in the Big Ten with a Gaudio scored and was fouled the game to open a 11-point 87-77 victory over Purdue by Roy Hairston, stretching it advantage early in the second Wednesday night. back to 11 points. half. 
No. 19 Purdue (14-4, 4-2 Big Calvin Booth led all scorers Avery Curry's 3-point shot Ten) led 33-32 late in the first with 19 points, 17 in the second with 3:33 left in the half capped half before Lis icky scored 10 half, including a reverse break­a 16-6 run that had given straight points to put Penn away slam with 15 seconds left. Florida State a 34-33 lead. 
State (14-1, 5-1) ahead to stay. Dan Earl added 15 as the But Florida State didn't score
Hiro DeuwateD 

Lisicky, ninth in the country Nittany Lions got their first win again in the half and went in 3-point field goal percentage, over a ranked opponent. scoreless. made 1-of-9 shots against Hairston led Purdue with 14 Florida State (1 0-6, 2-4 ACC) 
Minnesota two weeks ago be­points and Justin Jennings managed to get within three 
fore straining his Achilles ten-added 12. points in the second half on two occasions, the last with 11:17 left on Corey Louis' jump shot. 
No. 11 UNC 82, Florida St. 71 
Curry led Florida State with 16 points. 

Dante Calabria scored 19 
Florida State's James Collins

points and No. 11 North 
scored 15 points, reaching dou­

Carolina shut down Florida 
ble figures for the 48th con­State 82-71 Wednesday night secutive game. 

for its ninth straight win over 
Freshman Randell Jackson,

the Seminoles. 
who made his first ACC start,

Vince Carter, Jeff Mcinnis 
and Shammond Williams all and Corey Louis eached added had 13 for the Tar Heels (14-4, 12 for the Seminoles. 

ORANGE IDWL MERCHANDISE 
Direct from the Orange Bowl 
Great Discounts on: eCaps ePennants eT-shirts ePins eSweatshirts eChildren's Apparel 

First Floor LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
We Acce .t VI~~._ Master Card and Discover 
page 22 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
in the regular season. However, the Irish won when it counted as in each of the two seasons they rebounded to beat Minnesota in the NCAA tournament. 
Tomorrow's match will be indicative of whether the fall season and the few weeks of preparation that the team has had since then have been sufficient. The team returned from Christmas break a week early to practice, and they feel that by doing that has prepared them for the 1996 season. 
"Coming back a week early really helped us focus and prepare for our goal, which is to be a top-ten team," Sprouse said. 
In addition to Sprouse, the Irish have three returning seniors in No. 3 singles player J .J. O'Brien, No. 5 singles and No. 1 doubles player Jason Pun, and No. 6 singles player Brian Harris. 
Experience will be a key in the formula for suc­cess of the Irish, and the seniors are expected to 
ByDAVEIVEY Associated Press 
VILLANOVA, Pa. 

With his team trailing 61-56 with three minutes remaining Wednesday night, Villanova coach Steve Lappas called a timeout to settle his seventh­ranked Wildcats. 
But it was junior center Jason Lawson who took over in the huddle and took over the game, scoring six points down the stretch to help rally his team to a 69-65 win over Providence. 
"I just told the guys don't slack off and play solid defense. And on offense -execute. We'll pull it out," said Lawson, who scored 18 points and grabbed seven rebounds. "We 

be the catalysts in the equation. "I think that all season experience will be one of our strong points," Sprouse commented. 
In addition to the four seniors, the Irish arsenal consists of sophomore Jakub Pietrowski at No. 2 singles, joined by classmate Dan Rothschild to form the No. 2 doubles team, and freshman Brian Patterson debuting at No. 4 singles. 
Sprouse added that junior Ryan Simme, who has been nursing a foot injury, would normally play either number one or two singles but is not certain to play. Simme has been recovering from foot surgery and is slowily working himself back into the lineup. He did not appear on the singles venue against Ohio State, but joined O'Brien at No. 3 doubles. 
Although a victory against the Golden Gophers is at the top of the priority list for the Irish to­morrow, it is only the second match of the season and in the long run will be only a stepping stone of what looks to be a great season. 
"We have a long season ahead of us," Sprouse said. "While a victory is important, it's not the be all end all." 
''I'll just tell the team to go out and have fun, and hopefully we'll win." 

Lawson leads 'Cats over Friars 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assiastant Accent Editor Accent Copy Editors 
Please bring a I page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by noon on Friday, Janunary 26lli. Call63I-4540 with questions 
did." 
Lappas said it was his plan to go to Lawson in the closing minutes. 
"That was our goal. They did a good job early of fronting Ja­son down low, but we knew it would be a positive matchup for us," he said. "When the game was on the line, he hit his shots." 
Villanova (15-3, 6-2 Big East) has won two straight, while Providence (9-7, 2-6) has lost 


cA®ibsummerQ{ligfjfs SOream by o/1/{~wn, ~-¥'e­ 
• This Production dedicated to Mandy Abdo • Directed by Paul Rathburn  
Friday: January 26, 7:00pm Saturday: January 27, 11:00 am Sunday: January 28 1:00pm .. Call..Backs  
AUDITIONS HELD IN CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS  
MUSICIANS NEEDED!!  
I • I I  Endorsed by the Senior Class of 1996 The College of Arts and Letters The Not..So..Royal..Shakespeare Company  
For more information call631-5069, or 232-0017  

The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
three of its last four. It was the first game played on the Wild­cats' new parquet floor at the duPont Pavilion. 
Kerry Kittles had 15 points and Eric Eberz added 13 for the Wildcats. 
The victory spoiled a career game for Providence's Derrick Brown, who had 29 points on 12-of-18 shooting and a team­high nine rebounds. Brown's previous career high was 19 points. 


AUDITIONS 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
The Observer/Eric Ruethling No. 1 doubles player Jason Pun and the Irish doubles team will have a decisive effect on today's outcome. 
APPALACHIA SPRING BREAK 
March 10-16, 1996 
SEMINAR 

The Appalachia Seminar during the spring break presents a unique service-learning opportunity. Students travel to various states in the Appalachia regjon: Kentucky, West Virginia, Tennessee, and Mississippi. They work at a variety of sites which examine the political, social, economic, and cultural forces influencing the Appalachian people. These sites focus on several issues including self help, housing construction, environmental well-being, rural health care, and race relations in Appalachia. Through physical labor and person-to-person contacts, students experience the cultural richness of the area and begin to understand and analyze the social forces that influence the lives of the mountain people. 
THE SEMINAR 
• 
Is a 1-credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow-up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn in with other volunteers. 


INFO SESSION: Thursday, January 25,1996-7:00-7:30 P.M. (optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Applications are due: Wednesday, January 31, 1996 
For further Tim Hipp, 634-1141 or Alex Andreichuk, 634-3504 information: Bradley Harmon, 631-9473 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City---------State _____ Zip___________ 

Thursday, January 25, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
$. '1ov ~"\~ ARe. ~oNrtA "SrP.f!-T L•fTI!'<C..:­
/ ~~e. SA'1 {;,.oot>­13'\" To ~ "·'­
MISTER BOFFO 
~eAC?L.OCK 
i 
I 
I
• 
1-;)'1 -Q(, 
DILBERT 
1'\ATT, YOUR. JOB IS TO TE.':IT 
M.Y NEW INVENTION THAT BLOCI\~ ¥-.I OS FROM SEEING DIRTY PICTURES ON THE 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8=+7-+::::-1 22 One-time link ~.;,..+=-+:-::-~ 26 Kind of tax ~.=...L:;..&.;..:.J 27 Slender nail 
2 
o <! 
should succeed beautifully. Your

r-----------------------~ur-----------------------~ 
HI5 YOUTHFUL > z CURIOSITY IS NO ~ fv\A.TC.H FOR M.Y ~ TECHNICAL BRILLIANCE. t 
59 Single engagement 64 Calliope power 66 Cafe additive 67 Novello of old films 68 "Maria·--" (40's hit) 69 Book after II Chronicles 70 Utah's state flower 71 Pretend 72 Dates 73De--(too much) 
DOWN 
1 Whoever 2 Make a boo-boo 
3 Hence 4 Intelligence 5 Workers' 
homes 6 Rosalind Russell 
Broadway role 7 Certain abstract 
paintings 8 Babbled 9 Out of juice 
10 Polo Grounds great 11 Burg 12 Cove 13 Court pleas, briefly 21 Coring tools 

DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
lF 1-jou SA"\ 'SomETIII!<C.SE)I.I3T I..I~E."~IRV'• 
HAPPY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE A.P.E.. Too \J.kP.l'" oJilE. l::>E.A"I> •• • 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Rely on people who have a proven

Tl\~s. WKI.\ 
track record in business or !inancial

\}lE'F:E L•fTII-IC., 
management. You need to ask ques·W\11\ 'S\\Elt>•N ·' 
tions before investing in a propeny deal. lie skeptical of proposals that

I sound too good to be true. Children will play a pivotal role in a mar­riage. Put your whole heart into everything you do. Good natured and tactful. you have a knack for getting others to cooperate. Your friendships are many and rewarding. Be wary of those who want some­thing for nothing. 
CELEIIRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: model Nastassja Kins­ki, singer Neil Diamond, gymnast Mary Lou Renon. comedian Yakov

JOE MARTIN 
Smimoff. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sharpening your skills will boost your earning potential. Take classes. A change of lifestyle will bring some fascinating people to your side. Be discreet when dealing with envious people. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Curb a tendency to overspend. Oth­ers may ask questions if you stan to splurge. Do not shirk your responsi­bilities. Tend to an older person ·s needs with good grace. The outlook for romance is great tonight. 
GEMINI <May 21-June 20): Caution is advised when pondering major business moves. Do not gam­
E Mail jmartin@wisenetnet 
ble on a new trend; it may not last. Your relations with members of the younger generation are in the spot· light. Use common sense.

SCOIT ADAMS 
CANCER <June 21-July 22): Plans you set into motion now 


"' 
...•. ; 
"!
.. 
"..
..
.. 
28 John's mate 29II's marked with an arrow 30Guinness record, maybe 32 Cardin and Curie 35 "Right you --!" 36 High point at 
the shore 38Punk 39 Homeric poetry 42 Swit and Young 
intuition is right on target. Profits
I HOPE. THAT 
soar! Romance will flower if you 
change your approach. Be consider­ate. 

W~SN'T TI-\E SOUND 
OF EYEMLLS 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You are able to handle more work than
GETTINC, REALLY 
BIG. 
• OF INTEREST 
The NO Chess Club will meet tonight at 7 PM in Room 308 of LaFortune. Contact 234-9648 with any questions or for more information . 
The. Wrestling Club practices Tuesday, Wednesday, andThursday 7-8:30 PM in the JACC Wrestling Room in preparation for the Edinborough Open on February 20th. 
Summer Job Opportunities-Visit the Summer Job Fair on Thursday, January 25, CCE, lower level, between 1 and 4:30 PM. Bring resumes. 
Pizza is now being served ai the Night Oak for $1.25 a slice every night. 
Notre Dame student ticket distribution for the 1996 20th Annual Keenan Revue will be Friday, January 26 from 1-3 PM at Gate 10 of the JACC. Two tickets per ID and one ID per person. Tickets are. as always, FREE! 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South BBQ Beef Pizza Veal Parmesan Chicken & DumpUngs Chicken Pot Pie Cheese Enchlleeda Vegetable Stir Fry 
1. Saint Mary's · 

45 Water in a 59 Kind of band 
1 For menu information call 284-4500 

fontaine 
&OTake on 49 Donne's dusk 
61 Swear up and 51 Painter down 52 Painter's prop 62Canceled 53 Sir or Dame, 63 Word after ear 
e.g. or tear 
Please Recycle

55 Heats up 65 Year in the 56 Staring Yucatan 
Get answers to any three clues 
the Observer. 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
usual. Your self-con!idence grows. Teamwork is the key to lasting gains. If you need to let otT steam. talk to a trusted friend. Seek sugges­tions. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be alert to trouble brewing at home. You need to use more ·diplomacy when dealing with loved ones. An influential person wants your advice. Avoid making "an educated guess." 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A good day to apply for a loan. First impressions are apt to be right. Let· ters and phone calls can take the place of an expensive business trip. An imaginative idea leads to extra income. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Uncharted waters can be risky. A financial offer or flination merits an immediate response. However. you will fare better if you look at all the facts first. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): The road ahead may not be clear. Stop. look and listen at all crossroads. You need facts. not rumors, to make wise decisions. Romantic panner wants to be pam· pered now and then. Be supportive. 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your clever maneuvering helps advance a project when outside resources or talents prove unreliable. Your colleagues· respect helps erad· icate any self-doubts. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): News from those at a distance bene· tits you emotionally and financially. Detennination helps you vault over any professional obstacles. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone·s friendly overtures delight you. A special strategy or bond develops thanks to private talks. A wish will soon come true. There is strength in numbers! Reach out to people who share your values. 
_,... 
.. 
... 
.. 
~ 
. l 
~ 
1 
I 1 

-

lNIERNE.T. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Long time 5 Son of Venus 9 Exhaust a 
person 14 "Cheers" stoolie? 15 Western wine valley 16 Prefix with 
centrism 17 Some exercises 18 Fed 19 South Sea isle 20 Dangerous 
drink 23 Classic auto 24 Numerical 
prefix 25 Atlanta-based cable channel 
26 Fast fliers 27 Unaided 31 "... baked in 
.. 

33 Ticket info 34 Ask urgently 37 -pink 40 Wanted-poster 
letters 41 Usually 43AIIey-­44 Senior member 46 Kind of sax 47 Court 48 Letter encl. 50 Missions 52 Accusation from 
Caesar 54 Big band -­57 Ballad ending 58 Broadcast 

..__ 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, January 25, 1996 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll.. 
Irish weather Red Storm 66-53 


By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
It is almost to the point now where an Notre Dame's wom­en's basketball game has be­come a cliche. You've heard it many times before: the Irish have difficulties handling the ball in the first half, make ad­justments, and run away with the game in the second half. 
Last night's 66-53 victory 
·-­
against St. John's (5-12, 3-6) fit this theme like a glove. Although the Irish handily defeated this squad by 26 points three weeks ago, they knew that they would not be able to let themselves be too confident. The Red Storm had won three of their last five games, including Big East rivals Providence and Seton Hall. 
Coming out of the gate, it was obvious that the Irish were hav-


• MEN'S TENNIS 
• 
.. 
ing trouble with the deliberate game plan of the Red Storm. This was most obvious on the offensive side of the ball. As a result of these hardships on of­fense, the Irish turned the ball over 15 times and were behind 25-24 at the half. 
"We had no intensity," said senior captain Carey Poor. "We're not used to the slow­down game they played, and it really showed in the first half." 
As usual, coach Muffet McGraw and her staff did a wonderful job of making ad­justments at the half. They rec­ognized the weakness of the Red Storm defense: their inside game. Upon seeing this, she instructed her team to look inside to post players Katryna Gaither and Poor. 
Gaither helped the Irish surge ahead of St. John's at the outset of the second half, and they never looked back. The Irish opened the half with a 15-6 run that included 10 points by Gaither, who led the Irish with 26 points and seven rebounds. 
The Red Storm was forced to call a timeout to stop this on­slaught. The timeout, however, proved futile, as Gaither contin­ued her stellar play on the inside. 
When they played her one­on-one, she either scored a layup or was fouled and went to the line. On the occasions the defense doubled down on her, Katryna, who exploded for 18 points in the second half, passed effectively to her cutting teammates, especially to the opposite post Poor, who fin­ished with six points and nine rebounds. 
"They had no answer for Katryna," said Poor. "She couldn't be stopped down low 

No. 16 Irish shutout Buckeyes, prepare for Golden Gophers 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Men's tennis team plays its first home match of the season today at 3:30 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion against Minnesota. 
The sixteenth-ranked Irish opened up their season on Sunday with a 7-0 shutout at Ohio State. Senior captain and number one singles and doubles player, Mike Sprouse, said that the vic­tory over the Buckeyes was a great way to kick off the season and prepare them for the No. 23 Golden Gophers. 
"Ohio State was great start for us," Sprouse noted. "But to­morrow will be a measuring stick of how well we have prepare for the season." 
The Irish have a bit of a history turned rivalry with the Golden Gophers as the last two years they have been defeated by them 

Senior captain Mike Sprouse and the Irish face their first real test of the season when they battle No. 23 
Minnesota today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

Men's Basketball 
vs. West Virginia, January 27,7 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
at Miami, January 27, 7 p.m. 

-
Fencing Notre Dame Meet, Joyce Center January 27-28 
Hockey 
vs. Army, January 26-27, 7 p.m. 
SMC Sports 
Basketball vs. Hope, January 27 2p.m. 

tonight." last 20 minutes of the contest. 
Beth Morgan added 15 points It may not have been the for the Irish, while Meghan prettiest sight, but once again, Burke led the Red Storm with the Lady Irish got the job done. 11 points. With this victory under their 
Helping the cause for Notre belts, the Irish now stand at 13­Dame was the fact that they cut 4 overall, and 7-1 in the Big the number of turnovers in East. half, compiling only eight in the 

see TENNIS I page 22 
• 
Super Bowl XXX coverage see page 18-19 

• 
'Cuse no match for Hoyas see page 21 

• 
Favre wins NFI~s Player of the Year see page 17 






