

Thursday, September 26, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 24 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cunningham: Malloy's decision upset profs 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
By offering a lloly Cross priest a visiting professorship in the theology department this past summer, University president Father Edward Malloy did not violatn University policy. But he did upset professors in the the­ology department and overrule that department's chairman, Professor Lawrence Cunningham. 
As the president of the University, Malloy has the authority to make any decisions regarding the hiring of profes­sors and is entitled to overrule the department's hiring com­mittee, according to the University's faculty handbook, a dogma similar to du Lac. 
The controversial hiring involves a theology professor, and has prompted a Faculty Senate investigation, which came on the heels of a resolu­tion introduced by Professor Jean Porter. Porter, an associ­ate professor of theology, intro­duced the resolution at the Sept. 11 meeting of Faculty Senate. 
The proposed resolution denounces the hiring and the procedure followed by Malloy. The investigation was started after a majority of the senators expressed their desire to fully assess the situation following a report which will be issued by the Senate's Academic Affairs Committee on Nov. 7. 
When asked to comment on the hiring, which has not been passed, Porter said, "It would not be appropriate to comment while the Faculty Senate inves­tigation is going on. I do not wish to influence it in any way." 
The events surrounding the hiring of the professor, who is currently a member of Notre Dame's faculty, started unfold­ing last spring. While the pro­fessor was finishing his PhD at Duke University in North Carolina, he wrote the theology department at Notre Dame and expressed a desire to be consid­ered for a full-time tenured position. Although there were no advertised openings at the time, the professor was extend­ed an invitation to visit Notre Dame. 

From April 10 to 12, the pro­fessor visited the campus, and presented a talk and a paper to members of the department's appointment committee, as well as answered the standard ques­tions presented in an interview. 
The committee met and thor­oughly reviewed the hiring of this candidate. Following the review, the appointment com­mittee notified department chairman Professor Cunningham, who was not a member of the appointment committee, that the candidate's application had been denied. 
Cunningham then wrote a let­ter to College of Arts and Letters Dean Harold Attridge explaining that the appointment committee opposed hiring the candidate, and gave his support to the committee's recommen­dation. 
Included with the letter was a copy of the journal from the appointment committee's meet­ing, signed by all of the commit­tee members. 
The issue was considered dead until June 5, when former 
see HIRING I page 4 

McBrien book continues to draw attention 
By JOHN DE BOY News Writer 
The controversy that began last spring sur­rounding a book written by Notre Dame theol­ogy professor Father Hichard McBrien has continued in recent months. 
Lust April, tlw National,_.,..,.......,..-,= 
Conference of Catholic Bishops' Secretariat for Doctrine and Pastoral Practices released a review criticizing several passages in the third edition of "Catholicism." 
The controversy surround­ing McBrien's book contin-McBrien ued this summer when a prominent Catholic sociolo­gist wrote a scathing criticism of the NCCB review that appeared in several Catholic rwwspapnrs, including The National Catholic Hnporter. 
Additionally, at least two Catholic papers have dropped McBrien's syndicated column following publication of the bishops' concerns. 
Tlw NCCB review, which was sent to the U.S. bishops before being made public on April 9, said that eertain statnments in the latest edi­tion of "Catholicism" are "inaccurate or at least misleading." 
The review singled out as particularly ambiguous statements concerning the "impec­cability of Jesus Christ," the "virginal concep­
see MCBRIEN I page 6 

Convention tackles stigma of Generation X 
By MICHELLE KRUPA Assislant News Edi1or 
"We all have been slapped with this title, 'Generation X,' but we want our voices to be heard. We want to be more than the low voter percentage that we are." 
This hope, described by Notre Dame sophomore Tara Dix, was the main focus of a national issues con­vention for young adults held last weekend in Philadelphia. 
Attended by 250 students and pro­fessionals ages 18 to 35, including Dix, and juniors Tim Vieira and Dave Neville, the convention invited delegates to discuss changes in poli­tics, the economy, communications, technology, population and culture. 
"The aim was to bring together members of Generation X to exam­ine pressing issues of our time, because anyway you look at it, we're going to be leading this country down the road," Vieira said. 
Convention organizers targeted representatives from various cultur­al, economic, and political groups, but no single platform was imposed upon delegates. Instead, all were encouraged to voice their opinions. 

Tim Vieira, Tara Dix and Dave Neville attended the Generation X convention in 
Philadelphia last weekend. 
"People didn't focus at all on who you were or where you were from or how old you were, so much as what you had to say," Dix said. 
"I saw many different views and such a great diversity of people even through there was a small number. It wasn't necessarily us against them but just everyone listening to each other's ideas," Neville said. 
At the convention, the delegates broke into small groups and dis­cussed nine specific issues, including values and tolerance, involvement in world affairs, and the future of urban America. The welfare state and economic polarization pervaded many discussions, according to Vieira. 
"There was a sincere, genuine con­cern of the well-being of Americans," Vieira said. 
After two days of intense brain­storming and conversation about all issues, the delegates presented lists of recommendations to representa­tives from many political parties ­
see GEN X I page 4 



Kommers ·earns Germany grant 
By SAMANTHA SNYDER News Writer 
The grants will enable Kornmers, a prol'e sso r in L..---'--'------' 
the govern-Kommers ment depart­ment and the Law School, to travel to Germany in March of next year to work on his trea­tise on comparative constitu­tional law. The treatise will 
Notrn Dame proft~ssor Donald Kommers is thn recent recipi­ent of three separate grants for tlw purpose of furthering his researeh on ..-----,_.., eonstitu tiona! law and con­stitutional­ism. 
compare the decisions of the 
U.S. Supreme Court concerning issues of private protections with those of Germany's Federal Constitutional Court, Canada's Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights. 
Kommers also intends to explore the underlying social, political, and moral theories which contribute to constitu­tional interpretation in these courts. 
The conflict of liberty versus community, and constitutional­ism versus democracy, which the U.S. Supreme Court has struggled with for years, can now be compared to the deci­sions of other courts engaged in the same kinds of struggles, Kommers maintains. 
"Increasingly around the world constitutional courts are looking to other constitutional eourts for guidance on how to resolve different problem cases that arise in a modern society like ours," he said. 
The grants were awarded by the Alexander von Humbolt Foundation, National Endowment for the Humanities, and the German Marshall Fund of the United States. 
Kommers was one of 12 schol­ars chosen from a pool of 85 applicants to receive this year's fellowship from the German Marshall Fund of the United States. The fund supports its fellowship recipients for up to one year of research on U.S. 
see KROMMERS I page 6 

Prepping for the big rematch ... 

Student pep rally today 
LOCATION: East-west sidewalk of Fieldhouse Mall, north of War Memorial (Rain Location: Stepan Center) 
SCHEDULE: 
7:00-7:45 Elsie's Promise performs7:45-8:30 Stomper Bob performs 
7:45 Sarah Walsh, Notre Dame fencer, speaks about her Olympic experience
8:30 Marching band and cheerleaders 
8:35 Tom Krug speaks with other team members 
9:00 Troop ND performs
9:05 Chris Petrucelli speaks
9:10 Lou Holtz speaks 
9:20 Leprechaun closes rally 
Special to The Observer 
Festivities for this weekend's game against Ohio State will be kicked off by a student gov­ernment-sponsored pep rally tonight. 
"This is going to be one of the biggest games of the season, so we want to harness campus energy and bring it into the stadium on Saturday," said Student Body President Seth Miller. "This pep rally is a great way to begin what is going to be one of the best weekends of the year." 
Students have expressed their disappointment in the 
see RALLY Ipage 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, September 26, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A call for awareness 
The Clinton administration has been receiv­ing a good deal of criticism from GOP party affiliates lately for its lack of both anti-drug funding and its support of new, solid anti-drug programs. With only six weeks left before election day, Clinton decided to invest a hefty chunk of US money in a program which aims to deter drugs from entering the US via Latin America. It is clear that Clinton's sudden interest in the US drug war is coming too late. 
Most people are famil­iar by now with the star­tling new statistics about US drug use. Heroine, the so-called glamour drug of the 60's, has become more popular than ever. Over the past four years, America has seen its use increase over 100%. 
I had the opportunity to meet an eighteen year old heroine addict on the streets of Seattle's Capitol Hill this summer. I was con­ducting an interview for the evening news fea­turing Junkie Town, Rolling Stone's new name for the drug haven of the seemingly pic­turesque Seattle. When I was told about the assignment I was going on, I didn't imagine that the first person we would stop to ask about Seattle's drug scene would be a full fledged member. But he was. I expected his backpack to contain text books and a walk­man. But it didn't. It was loaded with about twenty hypodermic needles, an altoid box filled with black tar heroine, a spoon and a lighter. From the looks of things, "David" may not live to see his nineteenth birthday. 
Despite this, he was more than willing to talk to us about his eighty dollar a day habit. He was even willing to shoot up for us, some­thing which the reporter and I didn't care to see and declined to have him do on camera. 
David told us that heroine was easy to get. It was a phone call away. He loved the scene, the needle, the drug, the life. He laughed at Seattle's new nickname and didn't care about the possibility of death from an overdose. Death didn't bother him in the slightest. At least that's what he told us. 
I think about David often because he has 
potential, dreams, and aspirations.. He could 
be any student at Notre Dame or anywhere 
else in the world. Instead, he is caught in a 
circle of crime and deceit, stealing to get the 
money to support a habit which could kill him. 
So, if Clinton isn't doing much to stop hero­ine use from increasing, what are other, non­government industries doing? Calvin Klein,one of the most renowned advertisers of Generation X, feels that advertising products with trashed models displaying either pseudo or real track marks is making a statement. Why would anyone want to make a statement that promotes the death and destruction of youth? He is simply adding to the rise in American drug use, along with an administra­tion which is focused only on points in the polls right now. And who suffers? David does. And so do you and I. 
How hard would it be to at least make an 
attempt to deter kids like David from destroy­
ing their lives? The President and the media 
have the power to do that. But they are choos­
ing not to. Before you fill out the ballot in 
November or buy your next pair of jeans, 
think about David or, perhaps, about someone 
you know who has been hurt by drugs. It's a 
problem that will not disappear as quickly as 
its victims do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Production Brad Prendergast Maureen Hurley Bridget O'Connor Tara Grieshop Sports Accent 
Todd Fitzpatrick Jason Dorwat Joe Cavato Graphics Viewpoint Melissa Weber 
Ethan Hayward 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Four shot at Oregon Scientology Center 

PORTLAND, Ore. 

A man carried a gun and a can of gasoline into a downtown Church of Scientology on Wednesday, starting a fire and shooting four people, including a pregnant woman. 
The suspect surrendered after walking out of the church's Portland Celebrity Centre with a female hostage who was heard shouting: "Don't do anything. He's got a gun to my head." 
Police talked the man into releas­ing the woman unharmed and drop­ping his handgun. 
Firefighters quickly put out the blaze and it did not cause serious damage. 
The pregnant woman was hospita lized in critical condition with gun­shots to her shoulder and abdomen. Two men were in serious condition and a fourth victim was hospital­ized with a gunshot wound to the hip. 
It was not immediately clear what motivated the shooting. The name of the suspect was not released. Witnesses across the street at The Heathman Hotel said another suspect fled the scene. Police spokesman Lt. Cliff Madison said he had no information on a second suspect. 
GOP accuses Clinton of lawless logging 
WASHINGTON 

Congressional Republicans who want more logging on national forests accused the Clinton administration Wednesday of illegally imposing a new salvage timber policy. "Very clearly, this administration has picked and chosen which laws it intends to follow when it comes to the manage­ment of natural resources," said Sen. ~LA.--~ Conrad Burns, R-Mont. Burns contended that Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman failed to comply with a new law requiring congressional notification and review of new administrative rules when Glickman ordered some forests off limits to logging this summer. But administration officials believe the law, which waives most environmental protections in order to expe­dite logging, also frees them from the reporting require­ment they are accused of violating. Clinton later said he did not anticipate the impact of the logging provision and urged its repeal. · 
Kurdish rebels killed in fighting 
DIYARBAKIR, Turkey 

Turkish troops killed 4 7 Kurdish rebels in three days of fighting in southeastern Turkey, the regional gover­nor's office said Wednesday. Four soldiers and two local militiamen also died in the clashes, part of a major military campaign against Kurdish rebels fight­ing for autonomy in the region. Fifteen rebels were killed the mountains of Tunceli province, after Turkish troops backed by planes, helicopters and tanks sur­rounded the area three days ago. Fighting also occurred in six other provinces. Rebels of the Kurdistan Workers Party have been fighting for auton­omy in the southeast since 1984. More than 21,000 people have died in the conflict. Turkish military chief Ismail Hakki Karadayi claimed Tuesday that govern­ment troops had killed 1,000 guerrillas in the region during the latest offensive that began in mid-August. The rebels claimed to have killed 100 troops Tuesday during a rocket attack at a military post near the Iraqi border in Hakkari province. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon.' Thursday, Sept. 26 
Unes separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
·... 
t"~_....., 

Thursday Friday,;-~. 
FRONTS:
Saturd~y 
""r"'r" ~ .....-a-r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. Pressure 
H L rn E;SJ [Til 0 fZ] ~ (1-~ u
Sundliy 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAJN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCJY CLOUDY
/A,. .,.J:'I""\,
,\;-v """'./ 

"Our reservation manager said she saw two men throw something into the building and a flash of fire and two men run away," said Lorraine Thayer, the hotel's sales manager. 
"Then we were looking out the window and saw the police with their guns drawn and so we got away from the window and closed the blinds and turned off the lights," Thayer said. 
"We saw one man lying on the sidewalk," she continued. 
The building, located in the heart of downtown Portland, fea­tures big displays of Scientology books, and Scientologists often attempt to persuade passers-by to listen to talks about the reli­
gion. "Any shooting is pretty disturbing. But our business 
is for the public so we're not going to keep people 
out," said Barbara Roland, a church community 
organizer. Founded 40 years ago by science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard, Scientology teaches that technology can expand the mind and help solve human prob­lems. 
Vintage plane crashes, killing 32 
DEN HELDER, Netherlands (AP) 

A vintage plane carrying aviation enthusiasts crashed Wednesday off the Dutch coast shortly after its pilot reported engine trouble. All 32 people aboard were killed. A small flotilla of navy and fishing boats headed for the wreckage of the 55-year-old DC-3 Dakota from this fishing town soon after the 4:45 p.m. crash. But would-be rescuers were hampered by mist, fast-fading light and the tangled wreckage of the plane. The lone survivor of the crash was flown to a hospital, but later died. The plane, which had been bound for Amsterdam on a pleasure flight, went down in the Wadden Sea about 35 miles north of the Dutch capital, coast guard spokesman Peter Paap said. It was carrying six crew members and 26 passengers -among them members of the Dutch Dakota Association that owned the plane. The twin-engine prop plane was the only Dakota still flying in the Netherlands. It was used for pleasure flights and dis­played at air shows. The Wadden Sea is a stretch of water between the Dutch West coast and a chain of North Seaislands including Texel. 
Hatians strike for back pay 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 

With the support of their outspoken mayor, about 750 administrative and cleaning employees in Haiti's capital shut down City Hall and went on strike Wednesday to demand months of back pay. They joined 50 nurses at the state university hospital who walked offJhe job on Tuesday to demand eight months' back pay. Patients waited hours for services on Wednesday. Downtown streets were calm Wednesday, a day after street clean­ers -who have not been paid in two years -blocked access to the municipal cemetery and smeared excre­ment on the door of the Finance Ministry. Port-au-Prince Mayor Emmanuel Charlemagne says his government is broke and needs to borrow about $400,000 from the fed­eral government to pay the city's 750 employees. The cash-strapped government of President Rene Preval has yet to respond. More than $300 million in foreign aid is on hold while Parliament considers an internationally­backed plan to trim government and privatize state industries. 
Wednesday­
,/' ......": ,,? 
Lab Tech Dave McCaffrey 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 


~1.!!~::: ~ ~ ~y !:y:::
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction righ!S are resc:rved. 

Via Assoclatfld Press Graph/csNet 
Atlanta  84  62  Coldwater  62  53  Miami  88  75  
Baltimore  71  50  Dallas  88  70  New Orleans 88  68  
Baton Rouge 88  66  Denver  40  38  Pittsburgh  74  48  
Boston  65  50  Los Angeles 80  64  St. Louis  73  62  
Chicago  63  54  Memphis  83  66  Sah Lake City55  42  

Thursday, September 26, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Talk-show guru Donahue to speak on media issues 
Special to The Observer almost 7,000 one-hour shows 
on political and social issues as 
Television talk-show pioneer well as human behavior. 
and 1957 Notre Dame graduate Donahue's program, 
Phil Donahue will discuss "The "Donahue." was the first talk 
Media Today and Tomorrow" show to air on a regular basis 
in a lecture tonight at 7:30p.m. in Russia. 
in the I Iesburgh Library audito­Before going off the air 
rium. recently, "Donahue" was hon. 
The leeture is free and open ored with 20 Daytime Emmy 
to the public. Awards, including nine for out­
Donahue introduced the talk­standing host. In May, Donahue 
show format in 1967 with a received a Lifetime 
program on WLWD-TV in Achievement Award from the 
Dayton, Ohio. lie subsequently Daytime Emmy Awards for his 
became a national personality contributions to· television jour­
and TV host, presiding over nalism . 
• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 


RHA prepares hall activities, fundraiser 
By MISSY LIND 
News Writer 
The Christmas Luncheon scheduled for Dec. 5 was among the many issues addressed at last night's Saint Mary's Hesidence Hall Association IHIIA) meeting. The luncheon, which will be held from 11:30 
a.m. to 1 p.m. will feature Lou Holtz and a guest from the Center for the Homeless spoke about the luncheon. Tables for 8 people can be purchased for $250 or individual tickets will be available for $35 each. 
In other HilA news: 
• 
Kimberly Fleming, HilA treasurer, addressed the issue of hall allotments. HilA mem­bers will vote on three possible options at next week's meeting. 

• 
Meg Cernok, IUIA secretary, addrtlssed the issue of housing. 


A housing committee was established to address housing concerns. The committee has already discussed the issue of senior room picks and has decided to adopt a procedure similar to last year's room. 
A proposal to have one non­smoking floor per hall is cur­rently on the table. 
• 
Nikki Milos, RHA president, announced that the open chair­women positions have all been filled. 

• 
Annunciata I !all announced that it will hold a dance Nov. 


15. The hall blessing took place Sept. 8. 
• 
Holy Cross Hall proposed dance dates for Nov. 1 or 2. Plans have not been finalized. 

• 
The fundraising committee is working with the Student Academic Council to develop a T -shirt to commemorate Saint Mary's third year as a top­ranked women's college. 

• 
The quality of life committee addressed the dance policy, and the HI-lA will discuss the policy further at the next meeting. 


The next RI-IA meeting will be held next Wednesday at 6:30 
p.m. in 304 Haggar College Center. 

Join the Notre Dame Cheerleaders 
Vans leave from the Main Circle on Football Fridays at 3 :30 pm and Return at 5:00pm 
~,~soc. 


~-~~. 
-0
< ·~ :I 
NOTRE DAME 
Spo11sored by tile A/um11i Commu11ity Service Program 
Getting in the spirit... 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne 

S
enior Bar played host to Hall Spirit Day yesterday, when each dorm competed to determine which dorm could dis­play the most spirit. Students wore clothing that bore their dorm's name in order to win the competi­tion, while also taking part in activi­ties such as raffles. The fun at Senior Bar continues today when Student Union Board sponsors a 1980s luncheon. WVFI-AM will broadcast from the bar as well. 
ND awards 14 teaching fellowships 
Special to The Observer 
Fourteen Notre Dame gradu­ate students have been award-


The Center for the Homeless­Alumni Tours 

ed Graduate Teaching Fellowships. 
The recipients are: Guarav Anand, economics; Jeffrey Beshoner, history; James Cavendish, sociology; Carolyn Edwards. history; Lisa Fabin, psychology; Gillian Huang­Tiller, English; and Grant Jenkins, English. 
Also, Deana Julka, psycholo­gy; Charles Kenny, government and international studies; Irfan Khawaja, philosophy; Anita Specht, history; David Weiss, theology; Edward Wingenbach, government and international studies; and Keith Wyma, phi­losophy. 
The fellowships are spon­sored by the Graduate School and the College of Arts and Letters. Each student receives a $10,000 stipend and teaches one section of University Seminar each semester. 
Please recycle The Observer 
0~~:!1£~~ 
1:1tiTt~-f·.• );"~
0 ;r :~ .... 

~\\L·2!A'J 
~"J.~~....v~ca ~J'6~~~~ 
s~ ~ ~c_e;US"Ifi'
~ .1. ~ D STUDY ABROAD 
• Generousgrants & academic sdwlarsldps 
• Coursework, internships & more 
•

• 
Business programs in 3 countries 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 


ZIMBABWE • ENGLAND • ITALY 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • FRANCE 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1·800-235·3472 • DIPA@ suadmin.syr.edu • http://sumweb.syr.edu/dipa 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, Septe~ber 26, 1996 




Hiring 
continued from page 1 
Provost Timothy O'Meara requested a meeting to discuss the candidate. Present at the meeting were O'Meara, Attridge, Cunningham, and the appointment committee. O'Meara indicated that Father Malloy would like to see the candidate hired, at least to a three-year visiting professor­ship, instead of the previously desired tenured position, 
When asked to describe the meeting, Professor Cunningham said that it was "an informal gathering. We had a very open discussion, but we stood by our decision not to hire the candidate." 
On June 27. Cunningham received a copy of a letter writ­ten from the provost's office to the candidate. The letter offered the candidate a visiting professorship, and noted Malloy's desire to have this candidate as a member of the faculty. 
In response, Father Robert Krieg, director of graduate studies in the theology depart­ment, called an ad hoc meeting for all theology professors. The hiring was discussed by the 15 to 20 professors at the meeting. When asked to comment, Krieg referred all questions to department chairman Cunningham. 
Cunningham received a copy of a new letter from the provost's office on July 11. This letter was a copy of a let­ter sent to the candidate con­firming his acceptance of a position in the theology depart­ment. 
It has been suggested by an unnamed source that Malfoy wanted to have this professor on the faculty primarily because he is a young and well­educated Holy Cross priest, characteristics very attractive 
decidedly lukewarm reception given them by the OSU com­munity at last year's game. The student-run rally is intended to foster a more pos­itive form of school spirit among Irish fans. 
"Notre Dame is a classy place and our spirit and enthusiasm are unparalleled. We want the OSU fans to see this as soon as they arrive on to certain upper-echelon mem­bers of the administration. 

GenX

The appointment committee, however, felt that the timing for continued from page 1the hiring wasn't right and the candidate did not fit the role at 
Republican. Democratic, Reform and 
the time, and opposed the hir­Libertarian-as well as Congress. The repre­ing. 
sentatives then gave three-minute responses on Nevertheless, the candidate is behalf of their parties to the group. 
currently a teaching member of According to Dix, the fact that young adults the faculty. 
took time to express interest and take action The hiring also sparked a sep­toward pressing political problems should show arate investigation by College of 
politicians that Generation X is not completelyArts and Letters Dean Harold 
apathetic.

Attridge into the manner in "I really think they (the politicians) were excit­which the hiring was conduct­ed to see this huge group of young people, usu­ed. The investigation has since ally the voiceless generation, coming out to do been completed. 
something in the name of politics," Dix said. 
In the resolution introduced "I think the most important thing is that we by Porter, it is noted that the showed that there are concerned members of 
investigation by Attridge found our generation -that they (the politicians) saw no wrongdoing. 
that we are more than just little apathetic kids 
Cunningham met privately 
playing Nintendo," Vieira said. 

with Malloy on Aug. 27 to 
The convention was sponsored by the 
express the unhappiness that 
Foundation for Individual Responsibility and he and other senior theology Social Trust (FIRST), a non-partisan organiza­
department faculty felt because tion that promotes dialogue to stimulate ideas about the future of national order. A lawyer, John Smith, founded the group in 1995 in Philadelphia after writing an editorial in a local paper about the neglect of Generation X by political candidates. 
After receiving numerous responses, Smith founded FIRST as a forum for young Americans to discuss the future of their nation. The organi­zation has planned a series of annual conven­tions until the year 2000, when a final message will be documented. 
Notre Dame's 1996 student delegates plan to begin a chapter of FIRST on campus with its main focus on education of students. Neville also hopes that within the next two years a regional convention can be started with other area universities to discuss one issue. The local ideas would then be taken to the national con­ference. 
"We have a voice and we do need to be heard, but it's a matter of getting educated before we can get out and vote. It's not easy, and it might sound idealistic, but we do represent a very important part of this country, and it can work" Vieira said. 
of Malloy's decision. 
Cunningham declined to com­How LITERATURE AND FILMS CAN STIMULATE 
ment on what was specifically discussed in the meeting. 
ETHICAL REFLECTION IN THE BUSINESS WORLD
Professor Cunningham limited his comments on the hiring, saying, "I had a meeting with Program ofEvents 'Monk' (Fr. Malloy's nickname) 
to discuss that we were not All sessions to be held at the Center for Continuing Education 
happy. But the hiring was 
Monday, September 30

already an accomplished fact." 
"We're not quarreling with 2:00p.m. his authority. I do not deny his right to make that decision, I just don't think it was prudent 
3:00p.m.

to exercise [that right]." said Cunningham. 
Cunningham stressed that the 4:15p.m. debate should not focus on the professor as much as it should 
5:30p.m.

on the procedure in which he 
7:30p.m.

was hired. "Whatever contro­versy there is, this should focus 
Bernard Murchland, Philosophy, Ohio Wesleyan University: "Mediums, Messages and the Economic Order: The Legacy of Marshall McLuhan Reconsidered" Dennis P. McCann, Religious Studies, DePaul University: "If Life Hands You a Lemon...: Business Ethics from The Apartment to Glengarry Glen Ross" EllenS. O'Connor, Business Administration, Notre Dame: "Compelling Stories: Narrative and the Production of the Organizational Self" Reception and Dinner: Morris Inn ADDRESS: Charles Van Doren, Author: "The Moral Challenge to Business Today" 
on procedure and not the per­Tuesday, October 1 
son. The means of appointment 
9:00a.m.

is what is an issue," he said. 
In keeping with University policy, Malloy declined to com­10:00 a.m. ment. A brief statement from his office said that it is not the 
11:15 a.m.

University's tradition to com­
12:30 p.m.

ment on personnel matters. 
2:00p.m. 

campus," said Megan Murray, 
3:00p.m.

student body vice-president. 

Rally 

Guests at the rally include 
continued from page 1 Stamper Bob, Tom Krug, 4:15p.m.women's soccer coach Chris 
6:15p.m.

Petrucelli, and Lou Holtz. Students are encouraged to 
attend-especially in light of Wednesday, October 2 
the huge crowds expected at 
9:00a.m.

Friday's assembly in the Joyce 
10:15 a.m.
Center. 

The leprechaun will emcee the pep rally, which will take 
11:00 a.m. place on the east-west side­walk of Fieldhouse Mall, just north of the War Memorial, 
12:30 p.m.

from 7 to 9:30 p.m. 
-,....-~· 
~...-a.. 

SAME GREAT BAR. SAME COOL JUKE BOX. 
Michael Goldberg, Rabbi/ethicist: "Doesn't Anybody Read the Bible Anymo'?: Illiterates 
at the Gates" John W. Houck, Co-director, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, Notre Dame: "Five Easy Pieces... for Ethical Reflections in Business" 
Michael Medved, Sneak Preview film critic: "Does Hollywood Bash Big Business?" 
Lunch: Morris Inn Eileen T. Bender, Special Assistant to the Chancellor, Indiana University-South Bend: "Malice in Wonderland: Working Girl Scenarios" 
Patrick E. Murphy, Marketing, Notre Dame, and John W. Houck: "The Story of the Cigarette Industry as a Source of Ethical Reflection: Richard Kluger's Ashes to Ashes" Thomas L. Shaffer, Law, Notre Dame: "Stories of Legal Order in American Business." Reception and Dinner: Morris Inn Speaker: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
David E. Collins, Executive-in-Residence, Notre Dame: "General Johnson Said ..." Teresa Godwin Phelps, Law, Notre Dame: '"If Power Changes Purpose': Images of Authority in Literature and Film" Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., Co-Director, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, Notre Dame: "Other People's Money. Overcoming Self-Deception as the Beginning ofa Moral Life" Lunch: Morris Inn 
'WHERE SOUTH BEND J\<\EITS NOTRE DAME: 
OPEN UNT~L 3:00AM. 
TONIGHT: 

REVEREND FUNK 
TOMORROW: 

FRIDAY LUNCH CLUB 
Open at noon 
SATURDAY: 

ND vs OHIO STATE 
Big Screen TV Open at 10:00 am 
STILL JUST 50~ FOR A POOL GAME. 
I NOW A NEW MENU!
I 
~~~~:j~~· 
d 
t 

~--~-­

..........------~---~------­
--....----­
Thursday, September 26, 1996 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
page 5 
West Bank clash ends in shooting Yeltsin bypass surgery 

By SAID GHAZALI Associa1od Pross Wri1or 
HAMALLAH, West Bank 
Palestinian police and Israeli troops battled with automatic weapons Wednesday, casting Israel and the Palestinians into their biggest crisis in three years. Four people died and more than 350 were wounded as Palestinians cheered on their police against the Israelis. 
The exchanges of fire in the Wtlst Bank towns of Hamallah and Bethlehem began during stone-throwing protests by thousands of Palestinians angered by Israel's decision to open an archaeological tunnel near Jerusalem's AI Aqsa Mosque compound, Islam's third-holiest site. 

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who personally ordered completion of the tun­nel, said in Paris: "The deci­sion was good, but the timing was bad." 
Palestinian protesters and Israeli forces clashed in Arab east Jerusalem and the West Bank town of Hebron. Those scuffies did not involve gunfire and only minor injuries were reported. 
The violence was reminiscent of the six-year Palestinian 





all estivol 
September 30-0ctober 4, 1996 
Sponsored by: 

Multicultural Executive Council 

For every difference that tnakes us unique, there is a con1n1on thread which connects us all. We share the need for hon1e and cotntnuni­ry, for love and respect. May these con1mon threads fonn a beautiful world in which all people and all cultures are honored. 

A Week-long Celebration! 
Phil Donahue, '57 
0 
"The media today and tomorrow" 
Thursday, September 26, 7:30PM in the Hesburgh Auditorium 
Co. Sponsored by: NOTRE DAME 
The Department of American Studies ~G The Department of Communication and Theatre ~,.~~~-·­Student Alumni Relations Group 
studentAlrrmniRELATIONsGRour 
All students and faculty are welcome! 
uprising against Israeli occupa­tion of the West Bank and Gaza Strip that ended with the 1993 signing of a breakthrough peace agreement. Nearly 2,000 Palestinians were killed by Israelis during the revolt. 
But Wednesday's confronta­tions for the first time involved armed Palestinian forces ­30,000 armed Palestinian police were deployed in the West Bank and Gaza Strip as part of the peace accords. 
Palestinian demonstrators said they took to the streets with the encouragement of their leaders. "The Palestinian Authority is giving us the green light to demonstrate and throw stones and return to the upris­ing," said Mohammed Kafkay. 
Palestinians cheered on their police as the officers fired at the Israelis. 
The violence dealt another blow to Israeli-Palestinian rela­tions. which have faltered since Netanyahu took office in June, and comes at a time when Israel's relations with much of the Arab world are troubled. 
Egypt has accused the new government of reneging on agreements and stalling the peace process, and the specter of war with Syria is in the air. 
Historic tunnel 

postponed 2 months 



By SERGEI SHARGORODSKY Associa1ed Press Wri1er 
MOSCOW 
Boris Yeltsin's bypass surgery will have to wait six to 10 weeks to give his damaged heart time to heal, and then he'll need two months to recu­perate from the operation ­meaning Russia will likely be governed from a sickbed into the new year. 
Doctors said Wednesday that Yeltsin must remain in a hos­pital or health resort until he undergoes the triple or quadruple bypass surgery, although he can do paperwork and see visitors. 
"He's mentally as alert as he can be," said American spe­cialist Michael DeBakey, who consulted with Yeltsin's Russian doctors for three hours Wednesday and will return for the operation. 
"There is no reason why he cannot function in his capacity as president" while awaiting surgery, DeBakey said at a news conference. 
However, new details of Yeltsin's ill health, including 
APfTonia Cowan 

Entertainment on the Quad 
Everyday at Fieldhouse.Mall 
·:vP.:-~r-'·'·:,.,· "~~~~:~~:~~-a~t·~ :. 
.," · Firesidt; Chats 
Lectures everyday during lunch, lunch prQvJt:!edl 
.;i;:i\Jf:fM::W==·= 
Taste of Nations 
Friday, Oct. 4 Food and entertainment from <J:¥~~rl~l:~,"around the worldr''1~::·,:,1!x, ·· 

recent internal bleeding and 
the length of his expected 
recovery, are certain to bring 
new demands for his resigna­
tion by the Communist-led 
opposition. 
Hard-liners have already 
called on Yeltsin -who was 
re-elected to a second five­
year term in July -to step 
down. 
"If there's a feeling that the 
presidential staff is ruling 
instead of him, the question 
might be raised" in parlia­
ment, said Communist 
Gennady Seleznyov, speaker of 
the Duma, the lower house. 
Yeltsin's illness was also 
causing anxiety in Washington 
about the future of Russia's 
reform process and its ability 
to carry out a peaceful succes­
sion if Yeltsin dies. 
"Democracy in Russia is 
doing fairly well, but it is hard­
ly an absolute certainty that it 
will take deep root," Assistant 
Secretary of State Thomas 
McNamara said. 
Dr. Renat Akchurin, head of 
Yeltsin's surgical team, said 
doctors told the president the 
bypass operation had an 80 
percent chance of success if it 
was done now, but an almost 
100 percent chance if he wait­
ed. 
The president, who had been 
eager to get the surgery over 
with, "reacted courageously 
and calmly," Akchurin said. 
For two months, the only glimpses Russians have had of their president have been in photos and carefully edited TV pictures showing him standing or sitting stiffly and talking with difficulty. 
The 65-year-old Yeltsin orig­inally said he expected to undergo heart surgery by the end of September. The six-to 10-week delay makes the date early November or even December. The two-month recovery means he wouldn't be back in his Kremlin offices until early 1997 . 
Doctors confirmed Wednesday that Yeltsin suf­fered a heart attack in June after campaigning furiously for re-election. The president and his aides covered up the heart attack until recently. 


The Observer misspelled the word receive in the full page Champion/RecSports advertisement on 9/18. We regret the error. 
ERASMUS BOOKS • Used books bought and sold • 25 categories of Books •25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock •Out-of.Print Search Sel\lice: $2.00 • Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444  
o~1HOPEDIC Sp€ ~0s ~~ c1"l{~~<?' ~ {s>;. Quick Service-Reasonable • Fix any leather goods • Replac.e zipper -Shines • Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist Noire Dame I 00% Guarantee 8-6 Monday­t;; Friday >­9-3 -Saturday Mario"s 8 1025 East• w MadisonMADISON 288-6211  

-----~­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 26, 1996 
"(What Greeley wrote) was strong," McBrien said.

McBrien 
"Obviously I agreed entirely 
with its central point. I don'tcontinued from page 1 

usually use that kind of tion of Jesus," and the "per-rhetoric. That's not my style; petual virginity of Mary." that's Greeley's style. But I 
In McBrien's defense, Father appreciated his support. There Andrew Greeley, a well-known isn't a point he made that I novelist and sociologist at the wouldn't agree with." University of Chicago, wrote a McBrien continued by prais­biting response to the U.S. ing Greeley's academic work, b i s h o p s ' as well as his review of -----------reputation as "Catholicism." 'MYcolumn has an important
Greeley's com-figure in mod-m e n t a r y , been dropped e r n -d a y w h i c h from at least two Catholicism. 
appeared in "He's a good his syndicated papers that I know of, sociologist," column, was and that [the NCCB McBrien said, 
published in "and a keen June by sever-review] was the reson observer of the al Catholic given.' Catholic faith." newspapers . h d"" w h i r e 
throughout the Rzc ar mcBrien McBrien noted United States, that further including The developments National Catholic Reporter. in the controversy surrounding Written as a letter addressed "Catholicism" have been mini­to Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk mal, he said that at least two of Cincinnati, acting chairman Catholic newspapers, The of the NCCB Committee on Catholic Universe Bulletin, in Doctrine, Greeley's column Cleveland, and The Catholic attacked the bishops for pre-Observer, in Springfield, suming that "the book will Mass., dropped his syndicated confuse many Catholic laity." column following the publica­"1 leave aside the question of tion of the NCCB review. whether, with a couple of hun-"My column has been dred thousand copies in print, dropped from at least two you are not locking the barn papers I know of, and that (the door a good decade after the NCCB review) was the reason horse escaped," Greeley wrote. given," McBrien said. "The 
"Rather, I want to know how bishops in both cases used you and your colleagues know that as an excuse, and I was what will confuse the laity. I offended by that." 
submit that you know nothing McBrien feels particularly about the laity and that you puzzled because, he said, the project into an imaginary laity two newspapers dropped his your own fears and misgiv-column despite Archbishop ings. Pilarczyk's assertion that the 
"If the laity are confused by NCCB review of "Catholicism" anything," Greeley continued, "raised no questions about the "it is by the church's dislike of author's standing as a theolo­women ... and by the succes-gian and priest." sion of semi-literate incompe-"I don't see why (the review) tents the Vatican has imposed should affect my column," on American dioceses during McBrien said. the past decade." 
McBrien's response to 
The National Catholic Greeley's column was largely con­
Reporter and Origins 
tributed to this report. 

one of agreement. 

For those living in the fast lane, we present high-speed banking. 
____.. lines. That's why 
KeyBank has so many ways to speed 
up your banking. L1ke automatiC bill 
paying. Phone banking. And enough 
ATMs to keep you from ha,~ng to = the 
ins1de of a bank unul well into the next 
ATM on the Notre Dame campus at 
thejoyce Center (Gate 10) For more 
lime-saving 1deas, enter our phone 
number, 1-800-539-2968 Preferably, 
in your speed dial. 
Kommers 
continued from page 1 
and European developments in the economy, politics and society. 
Kommers has served as a professor in Notre Dame's department of government and international relations since 1964. He was appointed to the Law School Faculty in 1975. 
In that same year, former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh appoint­ed him director of the Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and International Human Rights. 

As the current Joseph and Elizabeth Robbie Professor of Government and International Studies and Law School professor, Kommers teaches classes on constitutional law and com­parative government. He is currently on leave. 
Kommers, whose credits include 10 books and 16 chapters and journal articles, has also served as editor of The Review of Politics, co­director of the Notre Dame Law Center in London and visiting scholar at the universities of Tokyo and Innsburg, Harvard Law School and the European University in Florence, Italy. 
In 1991 he was named co-winner of the American Bar Association's Silver Gavel Award for his contribution to an article examining the issue of privacy. 


If YQU !ee 1),.!;,~!! happentng, call The· Observer 
··~::,;: 

at 631-5323 

The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
mCDrncila:l~@c!lrnOOcila:lW 

2:30 -3:30  Contact  
DARDEN  Allen MCWalters x3331  
SWANSON  Susan Grondin x4268  
EGGLESTON  Kathleen Flynn x4355  
3:45-4:45  
NORTHEAST  Nicole Varneri x4039  
or Jennifer Jablonski x3552  
4:30-5:00  
LASALLE  Pete DiLella 287-5277  

'ffinoocila:l~moocillllW 

1:00-2:00 KENNEDY Katherine Murray 284-4435 3:00.4:00 
ST.JUDE Sarah Magness 284-5217 
5\GG~mG~CDlD Qrt~~lli qCDCDGlli~aa q~m~g This Friday's ND vs. OSU pep rally at the Joyce Center is scheduled to start at 7 P.M. However, the Joyce Center is expected to reach capacity very early. In order to assure admittance to all stu­dents, the Athletic Department and Student Government have devised a plan for this pep rally only: 
From 5:30 -5:45P.M., only stu­dents with a valid student J.D. will be admitted through Gate 11. After that, general admission will begin at Gate 10. 
~. Get there early to cheer on the team! ~ GO IRISH! BEAT BUCKEYES! 
UNIVlUITJ Of NOTlf 0&loll 'TUI>lNI CtJHUUUNT 

Thursday, September 26, 1996 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Clinton, Dole face-off set without Perot 
Analyst 


By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS 

Dropping by the city that was to have played host to the lead­off debate, Bob Dole tweaked President Clinton on Wednesday for puttiug off their first faceoff. ''I'm ready, I was ready," Dole teased. 
llis show of bravado was dimmed by the overhanging question shouted by hecklers in a St. Louis University gymnasi­um: "Why won't you debate Hoss Perot'?" 
Perot, who blames his exclu­sion from the debates on Dole, scheduled an evening rally of his own just across the univer­sity quad to pose the same question. 
A Clinton spokesman joined in on the pre-debate politick­ing, calling Dole "the Titanic juggernaut of debaters." 
Dole left town before Perot arrived, but it was not a clean getaway. Two clusters of stu­dents interrupted his morning rally with clucking toy chickens and taunts of "Don't be chick­en. Debate Perot." 
"Oh, we're not scared of Perot. Never, no," Dole answered. 
The Clinton and Dole cam­paigns have agreed to presi­dential debates on Oct. 6 in Hartford, Conn., and Oct. 16 in San Diego, with a vice presi­dential forum on Oct. 9 in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
The bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates had 
The debate is o 
Clinton vs. Dole 
OctoberS 
Hartford, Conn.
-
October16 
San Diego 
proposed a Wednesday debate in St. Louis, but that was scrapped after President 
come hear the sounds of 



night 
DOORS OPEN AT 8 P.M. 
SATURDAY: open right after the game 

NOTRE DAME 

AFRICAN STUDENTS ASSOCIATION PROUDLY PRESENTS "It Takes a Village to Raise a Child: The African Perspective & the Controversy" 
Panel Discussion Followed by a Reception 

FEATURING: 
I. Prof. James Bellis, Anthropology Dept., Moderator; 
2. 
Prof. Peter Aghimien, Accounting Dept./IUSB; 

3. 
Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion; 

4. 
Dr. Lugayila Lukuba, Engineer, Pres., African Assoc. of Michiana; 

5. 
Paul Morgean, Teacher, Mishawaka High School 

6. 
Kagwiria Mbogori, Graduate Student, CCHRULaw School; 

7. 
Moivabah Fofana, Graduate Student, Peace Studies Program 


Tuesday, October I, 4: I 5 p.m. Hesburgh Auditorium/Peace Studies Free Admission Reception to Follow 
. 

OTHER EVENTS: Thurs., Sept. 26: 4: IS p.m. in the Snite Museum African Gallery: Lecture: "Tropical Africa: The Aftermath of Independence" By Prof. Peter Walshe (Organized by College Fellow Dept.) 
DO NOT MISS THE DEBATE OF THE YEAR! 
accused of  
Clinton and Bob Dole will and Dole's running mate,  spying  
Gore vs. Kemp  By RICHARD KEIL Associated Press Writer  
October9  ALEXANDRIA, Va.  
St. Petersburg, Fla.  A civilian computer  
expert working for naval  
intelligence was accused  
Wednesday of passing at  
least 50 intelligence docu·  
ments to a South Korean  
agent. American officials  
were scrambling to deter·  
APfT. Durand  mine the scope of the secu· rity breach.  
Clinton said it was too close to  Robert Chaegon Kim, 56,  
his speech Tuesday at the  was ordered held without  
United Nations.  bail at least until Monday, 
The commission voted to  when a pre-trial detention  
exclude Perot from the debates  hearing is scheduled in U.S.  
altogether, a decision cheered  District Court here, a few  
by Dole but opposed by Clinton.  miles from the nation's  
Perot filed suit Monday to over­ capital.  
turn the decision.  In a 20-page affidavit, 
On Wednesday, ____Jesse·  the FBI said it has evidence  
Jackson ~Uie court­ that Kim, who worked for  
house steps in Washington and  the Office of Naval  
announced his intention to join  Intelligence, passed dozens  
Perot's !!Uit, saying the com­ of classified records to  
mission-did not "have the  Baek Dong-Il, a South  
moral authority or the right to  Korean navy officer, during  
deny hUn access to be a factor  a five-month span earlier  
in this debate."  this year.  
Dole came to St. Louis to sug­ Officials have not discov­ 
gest Clinton was stalling.  ered any evidence Kim was  
''I'm ready, I was ready. I'm  paid for his efforts, a  
here," he said to a smattering  senior law enforcement  
of cheers for the mostly col­ official said.  
lege-age crowd.  

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisi1,1e 

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 




-R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 1 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
• ...Ut-1•· 
A comedy about sex, love, family ancl other accidents walling to happen. 
ie#!+:!t.ii•h:leftlifj 
"UPROARIOUS! 51DESPLiniNG! A WONDERFULLY MAD ODYSSEY! 
A wild cnsemblc comedy. Ben Stiller makes • supelb slloighl man ... Alan Akll dcllvon wicked "'If-parody... Mary l'yttr Moen and Gt:or,e Scgol plrf their ports delkiouslyl" 
.,.,...~n 
''h!''·:.p.sa ..A WICKED, ANYTHING-GOES SEX FARCE! 
'flirti"9 With Di..,.ltr' careens like an overloaded 18·wft«tlor ... hong on and pJepar< to laughl" 
.$UWIIf'l wto.l.t.&.,.,.,. 
(1(3:i41.ij:lj-ji 
"Two THUMBS UP! ExcmNG AND WILDLY ORIGINAL!" 
Finally the contemporary '90< comedy 
th.lt everyone~ been hoping fofl .. 
"****'
·~$tro~~uu 

FRIDAY, SEPT 27 AND SATURDAY, SEPT 28 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu/~cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 26, 1996 
Campus Ministry••. 
Considerations••• 
TIPPING OUR HATS TOWARDS RESPECT 

When I was growing up in St. Monica's Parish in Indianapolis, there were spring-triggered dips on the backs of the pews. Most children thought that these were the most fascinating things at Mass and found many interesting things to do with them. One could look around at any Mass and see any number of things dipped to the backs of the pews: missalettes, dolls, scarves, gum, sleeves, fingers and tongues. My parents, however, were the rype who would not tolerate any­thing less than perfect attention to the priest, and so I was left to wonder why the church would be provided with such temptations and distractions within reach of curious hands. I was too young to know the term, bur be assured that I understood the concept of"entrapment." 
My reflections, however, are not really about the trials ofgrowing up Catholic; rather, I want to point out those dips as a symbol of an era that is gone. fu many probably recognize, those dips are from the days when no one would go to church, would seldom leave the house without first donning a hat. Since gentlemen automatically removed their hats upon entering the church, the dips served as a way to keep those hats out of the pew and make room for one more family member. 
Except in the Southwest, where getting a cowboy hat is almost a rite ofpassage, it is not common to see a gentleman wearing a hat these days. This is quite a culrural shift when one considers that for centuries, one could identifY many things by the headgear worn: historical era, profession, age and place of origin of the wearer, time of year, and what sott of activiry one was about to engage in. 
Actually, our own generation might be starring a resurgence in the practice of hat-wearing, if the ubiquitous baseball cap is any indication. It is practical, travels well, crosses lines of gender and age, and is mulri-purpose. It can be worn front or back, or turned defiantly to the side. The problem is that while the practice ofcovering the head has returned, the understood etiquette of hat-wearing has been lost, especially by the gentlemen. 
Men used to instinctively remove their hats upon entering any building. Ifcircumstances did not warrant this, at least they thought to remove or tip their hats in the presence of a lady. It was unthinkable to wear a hat at a dinner table, or in church, and it was nearly a reflex to stand and 
remove the hat for the playing of the National Anthem or when saluting the flag. For our ances­tors under the Dome, there was also the custom of standing and removing the cap whenever the Alma Mater was played. 
Today, customs and traditions are suffering from neglect. Many forget to stand and remove their caps when a prayer is about to be offered or when the flag is being saluted or do not know the words to the National Anthem (Note: the National Anthem is not America the Beautiful). It is a lost cause to remind gentlemen to remove their caps in the dining hall or classroom. There are even some protests of"hat-head" when gentlemen are reminded to remove their caps in a dorm chapel or in the Basilica. 
When I was in high school, the Glee Club came and at the end of the concert they sang the Alma Mater. The four N.D. alumni in the faculry immediately sprung to their feet. We were amazed not only at their reflexes, but at their loyalry and obvious love for the school. Today, about the only custom we seem to respond to with similar reflexive reaction is the throwing of arms over a friend's shoulder and swaying for the Alma Mater. At the last Glee Club concert I attended, there was an obvious lag time between the start of that song and students rising to their feet. And at the end of the Purdue game, I did not see many remove their caps for the band's rendi­tion ofour most hallowed of Notre Dame songs. ' 
I've given up hope of returning to the days when "Sunday best" meant more than a dean t-shirt. I don't expect gentlemen to remember to tip their baseball caps as they pass a lady on the quad. I am not even sure that we would want some people to remove their caps in the dining hall. But if actions speak louder than words, then I would like to make an appeal to the Notre Dame com­muniry to show its respect for God, for Our Lady, for worshiping communities, for our country, for our Universiry and her alumni by remembering to remove our caps in churches and chapels and for the playing ofour National Anthem and for the Alma Mater. 
Ir's a simple thing, and I am sure that it won't solve any major problems. But at least this week­
end when we are being paid so much attention, let's show the world that we still remember 
respect at Notre Dame. 
David Scheidler, C.S.C. 

Campus Ministry Events Thursday, September 26-Thursday, October 3  
Power Lunch: Litur~ of the Word, the Lectionary and the Liturgical Year  
Thursday, September 26, 12:45 ­1:45 pm, Facul!Y_Dining Room  
Keough Hall Dedication Friday, September 27, 4:00pm  
Campus Bible Stud~ Tuesday, October 1, 7:00pm, Cmpus Ministry-Badin Hall  
KAIROS (4th Da~ Wednesday, October 2, 7:30pm, Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford Chapel)  
Power Lunch: Litur~ of the Eucharist Thursday, October 3, 12:45-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room  
Memorial Service for Henri Nouwen followed by reception Thursday, October 3, 5:00pm, Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford Chapel)  
Come Join us... Power Lunches-Thursdays, 12:45 p.m.-1:45 p.m., Faculty Dining Room Spanish Mass -Sundays, 1:30 p.m., Stanford-Keenan Chapel Campus Bible Study-Tuesdays, 7:00p.m., Campus Ministry-Badin Hall KAIROS(4th Day) -Wednesdays, 7:30p.m., Stanford-Keenan Chapel For information on RCIA, Confirmation, Catechist Formation, music and liturgy, call 631-5242  

1WENTY-SIXTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 

Sat. Sept. 28 Sun. Sept. 29 SSat. Sept.28  Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Half-hour Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. after game 8:00a.m. Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C. 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 11:45 a.m. Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch, D.O. aturday Mass at Stepan Center 45 minutes after game Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C.  Scripture Readings For This Coming Sunday 1st Reading Ezekial 18: 25-28 2nd Reading Philippians 2: 1-11 Gospel Mattew 21: 28-32  


VIEWPOINT 

Thursday, September 26, 1996 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran MaRaJing Editoro Business Manager Parncia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ..................... , .. B111d Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Virwpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sporu Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Acunt Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary'• Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Edhor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs nor ncccssarily reAect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prcsenr the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's commu­nity and to all readers. The free exprcssion of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 l>ay Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Gcner.~l Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• WHEN PIGS fLY 
English-only more complicated than it seems 
This whole English-only movement in the U. S. is a wonderful idea. I take great pride in knowing that my nation values academic and scholarly achieve­ment so much that it tags people who speak more than one language as "undesirables" and rewards the one­tongued. Backwards, third-world coun­tries like Switzerland and Germany, where multilingualism is regarded as a 
Bernadette Pampuch 


boon and not a hindrance, have little to teach us-common sense tells us that trying to operate in today's world using nothing but English will open all kinds of doors. 
It is in this vein that I propose the fol­lowing: since everyone from the govern­ment on down to local leaders have insisted that the English First movement is one of the most important steps that we as a nation can take to preserve our culture and way of life, I want to ban all words of a foreign nature from our tongue. 
Now, no one has targeted Spanish specifically, but I think we all know that this language is the root of all evil. By striking all words of Spanish origin from the English language, the U.S. will be a happier and more wholesome place in which to live. 
I begin with chocolate. Spanish word of Aztec origins. Bastion of all things addictive and vile. America will be much better off without it; once we banish it from our vocabulary, we will go back to being the healthy, exercise-loving nation we were before. Nestle and Willy Wonka may not be amused, but the rest of the world will be. 
Tobacco. Same argument as above. We will no longer have discussions about the addictive qualities of the stuff because we will no longer have a name for it. Industry giants, consumers and the government alike will be able to rejoice knowing that the problem was nipped in the bud. No word, no prob­lems. 
Mosquito. Innocuous as it may seem, it is at its very core a word with Spanish origins, and must therefore be expelled (deported, if you like) from existence. By removing the word "mosquito" from our vocabulary, it will cease to exist. No more stings. No more bites. We will replace it with a more American word; "Bugger," maybe. Off! Skintastic and Skin-So-Soft will now be known as Bugger Repellents. 
Hurricane. What could be more evil and destructive than a hurricane? With the word banned from our language, not only will Willard Scott and most of the Weather Channel staff be reduced to soundlessly twiddling their thumbs dur­ing the rainy season, most of Florida will be able to breathe a sigh of relief. 
Speaking of which, we will also have to drop the following states from every­day conversations: Texas, Nevada, Colorado, California, Montana, the aforementioned Florida, and New Mexico. All have Spanish roots. Suggestions for new names can be for­warded to the governors of each respec­tive state, but I would not suggest using the U.S. Postal Service. According to the latest ruling on English-Only, English is the only language that can appear on government documents (although there is a magnanimous allowance due Latin, being-! suppose-one of the few non­English "civilized" languages), and I would hate to be held responsible for banned words like "Houston, Texas 77459" being passed through the hands of government employees. 
Also, we have to stop mentioning cities like Los Angeles, San Antonio, Santa Monica, and the like. 


There are plenty of other words that we would be better off without. Bronco (as in "O.J. Simpson's white Ford Bronco ... "), rodeo (known for extensive animal-rights abuses), and cafeteria (gluttony embodied). 
Locally, we are going to have to do something about Nick's Patio. One of my friends suggested "Nick's Concrete Block," but it doesn't exactly have the kind of ring to it I would like. Not that it matters; anything would be better than letting the Spanish-influenced "Patio" find its way into the South Bend area. The same thing goes for Don Pablo's, which will now be known as Mr. Paul's, and Hacienda, which will be ... um ... nameless. Chi-Chi's, incidentally, will have to be translated into English, which is not going to make too many people happy once they find out that the closest translation from the Mexican vernacular is probably "Hooters" (no joke). Taco Bell will now be known as "Folded Faux Mexican Food Bell." 

No more siestas. No more tequila shooters at Senior Bar, no more margar­itas at Friday's or Mr. Paul's (a.k.a Don Pablo's). No more nachos as Appleby's, no more Fritos from the corner store. And on a more serious note, no more Macarena. Ever (although in all honesty, this is probably a good thing). 
So in conclusion I'd just like to say that limiting our vocabulary by taking out all words of foreign extraction (especially the Spanish ones) will wonderfully increase our intellectual capabilities. The government is right; knowing more than one language is probably not such a good thing after all. It takes a much more smarter person to know one lan­guage really good than for someone to bother learning all those darned foriegn wordz. The less we know, the better. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a senior English Writing major at Saint Mary's College. Her column appears every other Thursday. 
•  DOONESBURV  GARRY TRUDEAU  
NO«/, ta'Re HIT­TING CAJ,IfORNIA TH!t; /!.leeK. Hit:: LA~Y'~ 60JN6 707l3XA~...  HOPIAEJaJT I C.OV&!<. It:WAAN/?NEWHAMP­SH!R&FO!<. Yah 13/R.?  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"We die only once, and for so long!" 
-Moliere 


-------------.-------­
....----....----~-~---~~-­
ACB€NT

page 10 Thursday, September 26, 1996 
Folk singer, King, visits ND 
Special to The Observer 
O
n October. 8th well known folk signer Charlie King will bring his unpredictable mix of songs to several unique events on and off campus. 
He will be performing at the La Fortune Student Center in the Notre Dame Room from 12-2 p.m. In addition King will be per­forming at the Broadway Christian Church from 7-9 p.m. 
All proc!)eds from the per­formances will benefit the Center for the Homeless. 
King began his folk music career in 1963 with the Goliards, which he calls "your basic blue blazer trio." 
He continued through the '70s as a soloist "paying my dues to the New York City bar scene," he says. 
During the '80s he played with the cabaret troupe Bright Mourning Star, but eventually he went back to being a solo singer and song­writer. 
Performing at a First Night '95 Festival in Massachusetts was good exercise for King, running from the Children's Stage to the Irish Tent to the Folk Coffeehouse venue. 
His diversity keeps him on the move. He has been col­lecting songs form North America, Ireland, Australia, England and Scotland for over 30 years and he has been writing his own songs since 1972. 
His repertoire is vast and you never know what's com­ing next. Sometimes sad, sometimes whimsical, some­times outrageous, he says "Abbie Hoffman told me I could be anything but bor­ing." He sings hundreds of songs from dozens of genres but he's best known for those he wrote himself. 
He has nine solo albums to his credit, and his 1984 Flying Fish was selected·as one of the top three folk recordings of the year. 
"I grew up on Hank Williams, Buddy Holly and my dad's collection of Broadway musicals," he says, "then I got caught up in the 1960's 'Great Folk Scare.' In the early '70s I traveled to England and Ireland which led me back to the rebel songs of America. The song­writer's revival in the 80s taught me to craft a good bal­lad while my kids were teach­ing me to lighten up." 
King released his latest LP, Inside Out, in September of 1995; its songs reflecting the political and persona; climate of the '90s. It's soon to be followed by a double album children's CD. 
Billboard praises his ability "to remind us of the resilience of the human spir­it." The Ann Arbor Observer cites his "storytelling genies." New Haven, Conn.'s Advocate gives him four stars and their readers selected him for best folk act for 1991. The Los Angeles Times recommends his blend ·or "politics, music, and tenderness." 
Tickets will be available through the Center for Social Concerns, which is sponsor­ing the show, and will cost three dollars. 

THE EAST VILLAGE Soundtrack 
I 
n recent months there has been a new phenomenon in the cyber-world. This mar­vel has been the presence of "cyber soap-operas," as they are called. The idea is to create the addictive draw of a soap opera, over the super­expensive medium of the inter­net. Big money to be made hear. 
Marinex Multimedia Corporation, the creators of the first of these serials, "The East Village," has decided to pimp as much as they can out of this. 
Let me just say that serials have degenerated much since the days of Charles Dickens, and the East Village music scene (at least as it is portrayed on this compilation), has done the same, since the days of the Talking Heads, Ramones, the Real Kids, Television and Blondie at CBGB's in New York's East Village. 
The album is a compilation of 11 East Village bands, which can be heard on the site's 24 hour RealAudio radio station. This is the first time a Web site has inspired an album release, which also prompted the com­pany to launch its own record company, East Village Records. 
Company president Charles Stuart Platkin seems to admit that the project is their own lit­tle whore, "What we tried to do was take the energy from the East Village and create a brand name from it." 
This is a collection of angst driven alternative sounds. Nothing groundbreaking, noth­ing like what the Village used to churn out. 
The trend here is to make sure that every other line of your lyrics rhymes, by means of contorting your diction ridiculously, and even if it sounds like your third grade brother came up with a list of rhyming words for you. 
Take, for example, "Not Phair" by Mommy: "Working for the man, (pause) with­out a plan." The rest of the songs laments the fact the he isn't half the man that Liz Phair and Juliana 

(out of five) 


Marinex Multimedia Corp. has put out a comiplation, of New York bands from the East Village area, based on its cyber soap-opera "The East Village". It is the first album to be released that is based on a Web site. 
Hatfield are, "chicks are much cooler than men." The problem is because of the simplicity of the lyrics and the generic angst (teenage sarcasm?) it is impos­sible to tell if this is an insult or praise. 
The most interesting song on the album mixes the beats of techno, the synthesizers of Olivia Newton John's movie Xanadu, the vocals of the group America (you know, "Horse With No Name") and a couple of "yeah's". It sounds like it should have come out during 1979, but the jazz piano solo adds something and it is worth dancing to. 
Spitball has a track on the album that sounds like a mix of Dick Dale, the Beach Boys and Supernova, and ·is by far the most original song except for the whining, nasal tendency in the vocals. 
The rest of the album is a mix of slow grunge tracks, bands mixing Nine Inch Nails with Prong, and bands doing that new folk/alternative thing. 
The album is not inherently bad, there is just nothing new that can't be heard elsewhere, if I want these sounds any col­lege radio will do, I don't need a compilation of bands that have little else to offer than what is already out. 
East Village should mean music revolution and change, not more Seattle and Cincinnati type music. 
-by Jason Dorwart 


WEEZER 

pinkerton 
R
ivers Cuomo needs a woman. Nine out of the ten 
songs on Weezer's second album, pinkerton, deal 
with crushes, long-distance infatuation, sexual frus­tration and heart-on-the-sleeve proposals. 
During their first album Weezer was a high-schooler. You know, the kid in Mu Alpha Theta who liked Kiss and the Cars? Played Dungeons and Dragons? You could describe his socks from top to bottom even when he was wearing pants? Skates? Planted his shoulders on the wall of the post-football game dance? 
The old lyrical topics covered universal teen frustra­tions-sugar-coated and laid over popping power-chords. 
Now, Weezer is a college guy. Definitely an arts and let­ters major. Shops at Structure. Has had a couple girl­friends by now. But still finds himself frustrated and lone­ly with a guitar every night. 
Accordingly, the sound of the "new Weezer" is much more in-your-face, raw, aggressive and blunt. These frus­trations must add up. The drums wallop. Guitars buzz, saw and chunk. River even lets his voice give in, strain, 
(out of five) 

and scream every so often. 
But the music is still sweet, hummable honey. Just think of it as those greasy-spoon restaurant sugar shakers with lots of mysterious black specks sifting around. 
"Tired of Sex" kicks things off and sets the tone. The sound of guitars powering up and drumsticks clicking breaks the silence. Buzzing keyboards, beautifully har­monized vocals and guttural bass bore the song into your powerless gray-matter. Every tune follows in suit. 
"Getchoo's" 70's groove, the three part bluesy, acoustic, punk epic "El Scorcho," and "Pink Triangle," the first commercial song to deal with falling for a lesbian, are prime examples of Weezer's inhuman ability to write pop hooks and sing-along choruses. 
In ten years, Weezer's going to be the guy at the high­school reunion in the nicest clothes, a gold ring, and a $40 hair-cut. Every woman will be whispering "Can you believe that's really Rivers!?" Weezer will be smiling. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 
REPUBLICA 

Republica 
F
ollowing on from their MTV-happy single, "Ready To Go", this self-titled debut by British group (yes, another one) Republica is a bouncy, energetic work exuding confidence and the promise of greater things. 
While not a classic album in itself, it nevertheless deserves our attention because of its relentlessly upbeat tempo and collection of catchy numbers. 
The most appealing of these are the aforemen­tioned "Ready To Go" and "Drop Dead Gorgeous", both of which are the type of tracks that stay in the head long after the disc has finished playing. 
The art of a good pop group is to create simple, memo­rable songs, and here we find no difficulty. These two rousing anthems combine pounding beats with rock-style synthesizer accompaniments to create an intense, driving sound all too often missing in other groups which have attempted similar tasks. 
It is perhaps best to let the band speak for itself.. and in describing their sound as "techno pop punk rock" they give us a brief idea of what they are trying to accomplish; 

(out of five) 

this is techno that you can sing along to, pop suitable for the club atmosphere. 
The punk and rock elements are less evident, but occa­sionally surface in the edgy quality possessed by the female vocalist -her confrontational style adds an extra dimension which rescues the album from potential bland­ness and mediocrity. 
This is not to say that all is good however; "Picture Me" is too slow and cliched to hold our interest, and its senti­ments have been heard a million times before. 
"Wrapp" is another such failed attempt, painfully demonstrated by its poor and unimaginative showing in comparison with some of its sister tracks. 
Yet overall this is an album worth having if you enjoy the fusion between pop and techno, but don't expect any­
thing seminal from Republica. 
Yet. 
-by Julian Elliott 

-----------------.------------------------~~-~----~-----------------------~----------------~----~----------­
;AC§€NT

Thursday, September 26, 1996 page 11 
• WVFI CORNER 
THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS 
Factory Showroom 
·C(·tr~ 
(out of five) 

l«~arnnd morn about side my high-rise apart­instead (much like their 
l 
wns twa rd -n x pans ion ment, exquisite dead guy, inside joke on the song 
from They Might Be hanging by a sky hook ... " "Fingertips" on Apollo 18). 
Giants' ".Jamns K. Polk" and "...how can I sing like a "Spiraling Shape" from than in Mr. Lindo's girl and not be objectified the Why Does the Sun /\mnriean llistory class. as if I were a girl. .." are a Shine ep finds a home 
I don't know if this couple of the earth shatter­here, as does the afore­ndlnets morn on my intnlli­ing prodamations made on mentioned "James K. Polk" genen, Mr. Lindo's teaching the album. (an acoustic version of the style, or the far reaching There are plenty of oth­song from the "Istanbul" vision of Thny Might Be ers where those came single). Giants. from. Both are excellent tracks. 
That single is back, along The trademark They "Spiraling Shape" break's with tho band, on their lat­Might Be Giants theme pro­things down with a xylo­nsl album Factory gression brings "Metal phone solo while "James K. Showroom. Detector" from a keen Polk" features a singing 
This is llwir stwenth full organ melody straight into saw (as well as some histo­length (if you indude the b­a brash power chord ry). sidn rolledion). knock-about. !\ third part All of the necessary They 
.John and .John are adds John L.'s accordion Might Be Giants ingredients baeknd by a full hand (as (what album would be have been added here. on John 1/enry), helping complete without it) and The low song count provide a full sound lacking samples that could have means that there aren't llw drum machines eharac­been off their lirst album. any of the fun shorts a Ia lnristie of their early "Exquisite Dead Guy" "Spider", "Kiss Me, Son of endeavors. begins with a brass God" and "Minimum 
On Factory ,C.,'Iwwroom, arrangement done vocally Wage." llw boys invok1~ disco, vocal (one of the album's most Maybe they've matured. jams, and early phono­incredible moments), then A straightforward rela­graph recording technolo­changes to a syncopated tipnship song like "Pet gy. duel between high-hat and Name" adds to this theory. 
Whil1~ far from being viola. I lowever, when they say Tlwy Might Be (;iant's best Perhaps They Might Be " ... everyone's your friend a Ihum. it dons ol'fo r up Giants had received some in New York City ... ," I get somn ingnnuity on S(Won or criticism for t.he number of the feeling that they night ~~xcnllt~nt tracks. power horn progrnssions haven't lost any of their 
Thn lyrics say much on th ealbum John 1/enry, early wackiness. about nothing, as llwy usu­and they decided this time ally do. to put a twist on the idea 
"Exquisite dnad guy, out-and sing the progression -by Jim McNamee, WVfl 

Nocturne 

Stom er Bob~s oel Cummins 
'Unplugged~ 
ByJULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANDERSON 
Accent Writers 

The lights dim, the room gets quiet, and presently a trendy man wearing a white oxford and loafers walks to the piano. . 
Although this is really the Snite Museum of Art, Joel Cummms would mold the atmosphere into a different sort of place -a relaxod setting where he and his audience could savor the sounds of a rich Steinway grand piano. . 
This past Sunday at 2 p.m. Joel Cummins, the keyboardist of the highly-acclaimed band Stemper Bob, performed a solo program that has never been heard at Corby's or Jazzman's. 
The recital was given in fulfillment of the requirements for the Department of Music. 
However, whereas most senior music majors perform a selection of Bach, Mozart, and Beethoven,; Cummins performed a selection of Kabalevsky, Cummins, and Cummins. 
It seemed like he was the only one in the room as he performed his twentieth century and 'pop' music. In many repsects, his casual man­nerisms and attire turned this recital into a "jam session." 
Cummins began his program with Dmitry Kabalevsky's Sonatina No. 1 inC Major, op. 13. 
Characteristic of a modern work, this first movement highlighted expressive dissonances and sound combinations not heard in any other era. Cummins demonstrated his musical prowess by playing the piece with a high degree of musical accuracy. . 
The second movement of this twentieth century piece was simple and slow, with minimalistic accents. Cummins' mechanical execution of the expressiveness let us catch a glimpse of "the Joel we didn't know." 
It was· obvious by his face during the third movement (presto) that Cummins was "into" the music. He demonstrated to his audience the passionate power of modern music as he performed the fast runs with a passive evenness of tone. 
Then Joel took us out of the Snite Museum and into his sphere of relaxation. Just like the title of his new album, Suspended In Time, we were 'suspended' in our seats as he performed ten of his original compositions. 
i\11 written in 'pop' style, tlwre is no question that these pieces could have just as easily been performed by a performer on MTV's Unplugged. . 
Looking (and sounding) a little like Billy Joel at the piano, 1t was obvious that tl1is is the music Cummins was meant to play. 
The first piece, Stadium, was meditative and filled with full chords. True to its title, the sounds evoked the picture of a small boy dream­ing about playing football under the watchful eyes of "Touchdown Jesus." 
The piece entitled "Dawn" was characterized by beautifully ped­aled, quiet runs in a Brahms-like texture. The sound made you nostalgic for the time you ran through a stream with your lover, even if you never did. In looking around, we could see that the entire audience was capti­
-
vated. 

In a jazzy New Orleans style, Cummins performed his Salamander Strut (our favorite) with great foot-tapping rhythm and a brilliantly crafted "walking-bass" intro. Closing your eyes a bit, you might think his style mimicked tracks from Harry Connick Jr.'s Lofty's Roach Soziffle album. 
The next two songs, "Song for Tenzin" and "Lullaby for Jesus", took on "a religious figure," ~nd were very un-Stomper-ish. Simple in nature, these pieces hold the key to Cummins' great breadth of emo­tion. ' 
The following pieces switched styles again, this time to a Debussy­like, sweeping melodic line coupled with Nintendo-sounding interjec­tions. 
Cummins ended this segment of original pieces with "Epilogue" which seemed to be an evocation of sorts. 
i\lthough he had some trouble controlling the loudness in his runs, Cummins performed delivered with good technique, emotion, and a simple jazzy charm. 
The last segment consisted of about twenty minutes of sheer impro­visation. Though highly resembling the pieces from the second seg­ment, this "through composition" of a minimalistic texture confirmed his style, and it left the audience demanding an encore, which they received. 
In the final consideration, we were impressed with Cummins dex­terity and ability to communicate what he was feeling with his execu­tion at the piano. 
Most of the pieces in the second section appear on Suspended In Time, Cummins' recently released compact disc. We love this epic album, and we loved how he expanded upon these pieces at the con­cert. 
In retrospect, this wasn't your typical senior recital. However, Cummins isn't your typical music major. (His role in Stomper Bob and the Glee Club testify to his love of performance and popular music.) 
Although this past Sunday it was only the Snite, keep your eyes peeled because one day it may be Joel Cummins, 'unplugged', at the real MTV Studios. 
Top Ten Albums 
1. 
The Cardigans · first band on the moon 

2. 
Mango Jam · Flux 

3. 
Watsonville · Patio 

4. 
Brendon Benson · One 


Mississppi 
5.Trainspotting Soundtrack 
6. 
Bluetones · Expected to Fly 

7. 
Screamin' Cheetah Wheelies · Magnolia 

8. 
Groove Collective · We the People 

9. 
Buzztonic -Prime Time People 

10. 
Sublime -Sublime 


Top Five Songs 
1. 
60 Cycle · "DaDa" 

2. 
Watsonville · "Lavender" 

3. 
The Cardigans · "Lovefool" 

4. 
Nirvana· "Aneurysm" 

5. 
Pusherman · "Sold" 


----~-------~­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 1996 
.... The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
95' GRADS NEED 5 WASHING­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  KISS TICKETS  
NOTICES  TON TIX! CALL KRISTIN 273­6136.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  Upto2 OSU tickets for sale  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Market Square INDY Oct 15th Row 23 FLOOR 291-4816  
to the highest  232-0058  
DOG FOR ADOPTION: see per­ TICKLER'S COMEDY CLUB  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  bidder.  24 HRS.  Need OSU GA tix. 259-2207  
sonals  Now Hiring:  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  Senior student  BUY -SELL -TRADE  
• Waitress/Waiters  CALL 243-1287  tickets.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Need$$$  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  • Marketing  Call Bryan  Will pay cash 4  
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  • Ticket sales  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  273-2812  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  ND-OSUtix  
255-1172  Flexible work schedules.  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call Chad@  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  Call232-7777 or apply in person  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  232-0061.  1-800-Trade-it ext. 117  
You break it, we'll fix illll  123 W. Wa:;hington -above  DESPERATELY SEEKING 4 OSU  
BW-3's  WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S  TICKETS. CALL KEVIN AT X1913  $$$$$$  For NO fan since 1943, seeing a  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  game in South Bend is as close to  
Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  FOR RENT  RON  Need OSU stud tix email Mark @ wach @voicenet.com  ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551  heaven as I'm gonna come! Need 2 to 5 tix for any home game to fulfill  
private baths, $70 -$90,  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  my dream. Call Ron COLLECT at  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  WALK TO CAMPUS  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP"............ .  $$$$$  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  (612)559-4287...  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  RUTGERS 272-7233 -RUTGERS .. ..  Need 2 GA OSU tix. Rich Alum  BOUGHT & SOLD  and bless you!  
1-800-418-9487  232-2595  847-473-6511  232-2378 -.A.M.  
Need 1-OSU ticket  lv. message  288-2726-P.M.  Need 2 Air F. GA's  
ILOST & FOUND I  Need a place to stay on football weekends?  Call Greg at 2318  For Sale: 2 OSU GA's  n. d. tickets for sale  Amy 616-473-5825  
Furnished apartment for short term  NEED TIX-HOME GAMES  Call Rob (312)528-3542  271 1635  Need 2 Ohio State tickets. Will  
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  312-951-5008  trade 2 Wash. tickets and/or $.  
stone. Great sentimental value.  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Leave message 800-582-3212  
Please call 4-3425 if found.  4876.  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ (206)621-3485  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  X2465  
ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
Lost  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  SELLING Ohio State GA's  OHIO STATE ticket for sale.  
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  ND-SMC EVENTS.  b/o X1049  NO ALUM NEEDS  call erin at x2721.  
Sacred Heart  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ TICKETS WANTED -Will pay pre­ OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable  ENDS.  mium price for 4 tickets for the  NEED 2 or 3 GAs for WASHING­ CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  2 OSU GAs for sale  
REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  TON  NOT conv. stud. tix  
·····LosT······  243-0658.  No student tickets please. "Dynamite" seats only. Call  Call Ed 243-9058  NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES.  Greg @ 634-1770  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  AFFORDABLE THREE ROOM  BiiVAnna at 800-457-0486.  ........NEED OSU STD TIX  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  POTATO HOUSE NEEDS OSU  
opener (with three keys) on it over  OFFICE IN CONVENIENT LOCA­ CALL FRED 3744 .........  TIX...PLEASEII! Paul 243-9403  
the Purdue weekend. If you found  TION ACROSS FROM SOUTH  Grad Non-Degree Student needs  Need Ohio State tickets.  
it, please call Paul at634-1519.  BEND, DOWNTOWN U.S. POST  GA tickets to any games.  I have OSU GA. Brett232-7718  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  IIIOSU GA GIVEAWAY CON­ 
REWARD.  OFFICE. JOIN A CPA AND  Call Val at 243-0798.  TEST! II!  
ATTORNEY, PRESENT TENANTS,  2 WASH GA's 4 SALE -b/o  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  4 OSU GA'S TO WINNER.  
WANTED  IN THIS HISTORICAL HOUSE. GREAT FOR BEGINNING PRO­ BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 312.404.4903  CALLx2005  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  Tell us why you need tix-be cre­ativell Best story wins.  
FESSIONAL. FOR MORE INFOR­ $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  (219)422-6088  Call219 273 9747 anytime and ask  
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING­ MATION, CALL 219-233-7928.  Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  Ohio State Tix  for BoBo.  
Anyone interested in coaching the  or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  Student ticket for sale. Please call  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  
synchronized swimming team,  1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  243-9381 and leave  Family  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ 
please contact Beth at x2725. Must  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  your name, number, and price  612-742-7638 Collect  ENTS!  
have experience, enthusiasm and  272-6306  Matt -271-3683  quote.  CALL X1932  
be willing to volunteer time and  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  
effort.  FOR SALE  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu tix2775931  Need 3 Rutgers GA's  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ED -PLEASE HELP!II  NEED: 4 GA'S for Air Force for my FAMILY. Chris x0788  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Call Erik @3807  Family wants to come to a game for  
Positions are now availalbe at  Compuparts Lab., Inc.  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  my senior year. Please help  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Grand Opening! Very Low Price!  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  Needed: Ohio St. GA's Call Meg at  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Big Sales on Computer System  232-7839  game. Please call Brian at 287­ 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 extN55848  and Parts! 8 MB RAM EDO $43  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents Call Rob x1902  FOR SALE: 1 OHIO STATE GA.  4876. Thank you. ................................  Need 4 Air Force nx Call Frank Walters  
8 X CD-ROM $99  PLEASE CALL X4-4985. WILL  18002439683  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  2.0 GB Hard Drive $248  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  TAKE BEST OFFER.  $$ Please Help!! $$  Leave name and #-will pay top$.  
-Students Needed! Fishing  1 MB PC! SVGA CARD $35  Cristina@x2339  94 NO Alum Needs  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ and lots morel  WANT TO GO TO OHIO STATE  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  I NEED 1 Wash. student ticket.  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  320 N. Dixie Way (US 31, 1 block  WANTED  GAME? I have 1 STUDENT TICK­ Ohio St and Wash­ PLEASE call Amber at x4292.  
Board! Transportation! Male or  south of Cleveland Rd)  2 GAs for Air Force  ET for sale. Call Dylan at  Call Joanne- 
Female. No experience necessary.  Tel: 243-0421  Carrie x2344  x2173 in interested. AM TAKING  516-742-1923 (night)  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE  
Call (206)971·3510 extA55847  BEST OFFERS.  or 212-415-3009 (day)  or PITT. CALL SEAN x-3311  
FOR SALE  Seeking tickets lor OHIO St.,  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS·  1 OSU GA  WASHINGTON, PITT.  1 OSU Student ticket 4 sale  Need GA's for Air Force, Pitt &  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's  
Teach basic conversational English  call X1276 b/o  Call Greg 219-273-1007  Call Dave at 288-91 02  Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736  call Nick 232-9944  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  
teaching certificate or European  FREE DOGGIE!! see personals  TIX2 SELL  All NO St. tix for sale (with OSU  I need 6 OSU tickets  OSU GA for sale -Best offer  
languages required. Inexpensive  Call Bing X2230  game!). Call Arpita at 4-4425 or  Will pay high prices or  Call 273-8384  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  300 videogame system: w/2 con­ 1-9351.  will trade BULLS tickets!  
info. call:  trollers, 11 games including  Help! I need 7 GAISTU tix for  Call Jason@ x1225  WILL TRADE PITT, RUTGERS,  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  Wolfenstein 30 & Panzer General.  PITT.Contact Justin @x1871  If you need 2 OSU student tickets,  AND/OR $$$ FOR 2 WASH TIX  
$150. 234-8129  we have them!!!  BAND PARENTS!!  GA OR STUD KEVIN 634-3286  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  Chris 282-4213  need 4 GA Air Force  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  call collect  4sale: OSU stu tix @1207  
(813)360-2243.  Real Men Wear Kilts  NEED two Washington tix, GA or  (414) 208-1632  
Order your Irish Kilt now!  NEED 2 GAs for Washington game!  student. Anne 289-4922  4sale: osu gas @1225  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Call 288-0116  Call Megan at 243-9047  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  Married student booklets 4 sale.  67 4-7645 -No student or student  OSU GA's/stu for sale, x0500  
- Sella Trips & Go Freel Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  1 STUD. TICKET w/10  -Wanted OSU Student Tix-­Who wants to sit in GA anyway?  271-8648;271-9549.  conv.  cheapest on the market!  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  B/0 by Thurs. 634-1394  Just supply the ticket and I'll worry  I@#$%A%A&&')'A%A$%@$@#!'A  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  OSU tiks 4 sale. Call 288-2917.  
www.springbreaktravel.com  about the rest. $$$$  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  GAs -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s -Call  
1-800-678-6386  LAPTOP 4 SALE  Call 4-3005 and ask for Player  BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR  Shawn 215-676-6685  Need OSU tix for alum! Top$  
Compac 486 Subnotebook  NO EXPERIENCE  Call Kevin@ 4-3170  
...FREE TRIPS & CASH" ..  $1000 b/o call Ken 4-2089  2 OSU GA Tix 4-Sale  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  FOR SALE  
Find out how hundreds of student  Call272-5138  john_d._potter@ notes.pw .com  1 OSU GA, best offer  OSU student ticket 4sale 277-4273  
representatives are already earning  1984 4-door Honda Accord  Leave offer  !@##$%A&(('A*'JfoA$#@$#$%'A%'  Call Aaron 634-2058  
FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  Runs PERFECTLY and I'm Selling  ..For Sale" 4 OSU Stud. Tix.  
with America's #1 Spring Break  Cheap.  TRADE 4 PITT GA'S & $ FOR  TIX FOR SALE: 1 OSU GA and 1  Need 1 OSU ticket  Same section. Call x1480. Leave  
company! Sell only 15 trips and  Call Sebastian@ 273-3179  OSU TIX MATT 282-4213.  Stud Tix., Leave Message with b/o.  Student or GA  b/o  
travel free! Cancun, Bahamas,  @ x4095.  Please call Darryl @ x4264  
Mazallan, Jamaica, or Florida!  computor  2 Stud OSU TIX  2 OSU Stud. Tix 4-sale x0847  
CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  233-6903 evenings  x2626 or x2597  G.A.'s FOR SALE  
ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now!  For Sale:  NO vs. OSU  1 OSU GA 4 SALE  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI  PLEASE help save my SALAMAN­DER He's been ABDUCTED by ALIENS from uranus I need 4 OSU  I need 2 Air Force GA's. Will pay well. Call Becky at X3792.  4 OSU student tickets call Jenny @ 687-8435 .......•............................  call634-1708 FOR SALE  CALL MIKE @ 234-8129 W/ B/0, LEAVE OFFER ON MACH.  
tix to save his life Call PAT 2508  All Tix for Sale  1 OSU STU TICKET  I NEED OHIO ST. WASH. & AF  
SPRING BREAK  (Stud.-OSU, etc.)  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  CALL 4-1881 b/o  GA's.272-6306  
Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed!  TICKETS  James x1658  GAMES 235-3394  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIXI  I have OSU & Wash. student tix. If  
Sell 15 trips and travel free +cash!  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  FOR SALE  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  you want them call  
Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  For Sale: 2 OSU GA's  x2646  20SU GA'S  243-9442, ask for Roberto.  
Call x1651  Call Jeff @232-0550  NO Parents need tickets for OSU  
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  FOR SALE: 1 OSU stud. ticket  game! Please call (630)810-0710  2 MARRIED STUD BKLTS  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  2 OSU Non-student converted GA's  Call Steve with b.o. @ 232-7324  NEEDED: 1 student ticket to Wash  FOR SALE. CALL 287-3181  
PERSON FOR PART-TIME  Call x3815  Game for younger brother  Have Washington, Air Force, and  
RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  UW SA NEEDED Call Zane @  Call JP@ x3414  Pitt GA tix. Will trade for Ohio State  stud OSU TIX 4 sale. 1-4009  
HOURS ARE  OSU ticket for sale  2938  and/or B.C. tix. Call Stephen  5pm-9pm.  
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  Student-GA  FOR SALE  (607)336-7218, 335-3129.  
PHONE EXP A MUST.  Call Rick at x2153 with best offer.  Need 2 OSU GA's  40 yd line OSU GA  SELLING 3 OSU STU-TIX  
$7/HOUR 243-9555  Ted X3439  X12761eave offer  FOR SALE:  Call Sebastian 273-3179  
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  1 GA FOR OHIO STATE &  
Are you interested in an internship  ALL GAMES HOME  Need 3 Washington tix bad  !!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!11!!!11111111111!!!!!11!111111!111111  1 GA FOR WASHINGTON.  OSU stu. ticket for sale.  
in public relations and fundraising?  AND AWAY  please call Nate at 271-1846  HAVE WASH. GAs 271·8279  CALL 1-810-355-9140 &  x4215  
Send cover letter and resume to  232-0058  ..DON'T" CALL UNLESS  LEAVE MESSAGE. I WILL CALL  
Michelle Fean Regional Director of  24 HRS.  •• 2 Ohio St. GA's ''  YOU HAVE$$$ TO SEE  YOU BACK.  OSU STUDTIX  
the American Diabetes Assoc. at  BUY • SELL -TRADE  Call: Marc x1930 or Joey x1942  THIS 4-0 NC TEAM  FOR SALE  
115 Lafayette Blvd. Suite 501 South  TICKET-MART, INC.  4 OSU GAs 4 SALE. x0849  Call Joe w/ bo @ 1175  
Bend, IN 46601. This position is 15­ ... HAVE 1 OSU GA •••  1 OSU GA for sale  
20hrs a week & intern has the  I NEED 2 WASH. GAs FOR PAR­ CALL MATT 312-296-0671  Call Mike@243-9224  NEED 2 Ohio State GA's  Wash. ticket for sale  
choice of being paid or earning  ENTS. I HAVE 2 RUTGERS GAs.  and Ohio State Student Tix  B/0 Heather @ x2695  
credit. Please send resumes by  WILL PAY OR TRADE.  SELLING (1) converted OSU  OSU GA for sale to highest bid.  and Washington Student Tix  
Oct. 15, 1996.  CALL DAVE@ x1913  GA. sec 32 for $175. @0538  284-4163'  PLEASE CALL US! !I x4856  

see CLASS/ page 14 
;------------­
page 13 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 26, 1996 
-
r 
0 

Notre Dame vs. OhiO State
. 

Student Pep Rally " 
Thursday, September 26th 7:00 P.M.-9:30P.M. at Stonehenge 
Featuring: Lou Holtz Notre Dame Marching Band Stamper Bob 

Elsie''s ProrrflS'' 
·~, 
·~,.r~ 

Sara Walsh (OlympiC Alternate) Troop NO 
plus very special guests 

Join us as we show the Buckeyes what spirit really means. 

Rain location: Stepan Center 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT. OUR SPIRIT IS PEPPER SPRAY-FREE. 
l1NIYtR\Irv t11 NotRt DAMt StllflfN1 <OuVIMNMtNI 
• 
• 
' 

-

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 1996 
•NFL 
Signal callers for Bears, Dolphins sidelined 
Durable Kramer out, 37-year-old veteran Krieg in 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 

Quarterback Erik Kramer, who has missed only one play in the Chicago Bears' last 20 games, was in the hospital Wednesday with a herniated disk in his neck and will be sidelined indefinitely. 
Doctors told Bears coach Dave Wannstedt that the injury shouldn't be season-ending but didn't know when Kramer would be ready to play. 
"This was truly a surprise," said Wannstedt, whose Bears (1-3) have been ravaged by in­juries, especially on offense. "We were concerned about his ankle. We figured we'd tape it up and he'll be fine. But when this other thing developed, it caught us off guard." 
Asked if he was encouraged that Kramer is expected to re­turn this year, Wannstedt said: "We don't have this year. We've got now." 
Dave Krieg, the 37 -year-old insurance policy Wannstedt signed in the offseason, will 
.. start Sunday against the Oakland Raiders. Krieg ranks eighth in NFL history with 35,668 yards, most accumulated in 12 seasons with the Seattle Seahawks. He also spent two years with the Kansas City Chiefs, played su­perbly down the stretch for the 1994 Detroit Lions and started 
all 16 games for the Arizona Cardinals last season. 
"He's done it for a lot of years with a lot of different teams and he'll do it this week," Wannstedt said. "He'll know what to do, he'll be prepared and he'll move this team. I re­ally believe that. This is why we got him." 
Now the Bears are asking Krieg to help stop a three-game losing streak. 
"Because I've been around for a while, I don't perceive any major problems or nervous­ness," Krieg said. ''I'll be fine once I get that first snap out of the way and not fumble it." 
Krieg is the NFL career leader in fumbles. His 145th came two weeks ago against Minnesota, when he dropped the ball while setting up to pass. 
That's the lone offensive play Kramer has missed since the start of 1995. Kramer was the only quarterback in the league to take every snap last season, when he set team records for passing yards and touchdowns. 
This season, he has struggled with the rest of the team, going 73-of-150 for 781 yards, with three touchdowns and six in­terceptions. 
Kramer was admitted to 
Northwestern Memorial 
Hospital on Tuesday. Tests 
Wednesday revealed the disc 
problem. Trainer Fred Caito 
said he'd remain hospitalized 
until Friday. 
It's just the latest injury for the Bears, who have been espe­cially decimated at running back and tight end. 
Rashaan Salaam, who rushed for 1,074 yards as a rookie last season, missed the first three games with knee and ham­string injuries and wasn't at full strength last week. His backup, Robert Green, has a knee prob­lem. Fullback Raymont Harris is out at least six weeks with a knee injury and his backup, Tony Carter, is slowed by ham­string troubles. 
Starting tight end Keith Jennings hurt his groin in the opener and has barely played since. Backup Chris Gedney is out for the season with a bro­ken foot. And third-stringer­turned-starter Ryan Wetnight missed Wednesday's practice with a sore knee. 
In addition, rookie Chris Villarrial is expected to start at right guard for Todd Burger, who has a sprained knee. Tackle James Williams, the Bears' best lineman, is ques­tionable with a sprained ankle. 
"This is not much fun," Wannstedt said. 
Offensive coordinator Ron Turner said he won't change the game plan for Krieg. 
"Everything for us is based on running the football. That's where it all starts, mixing in some play-action and high-per­centage passes," Turner said. "We still have some weapons. We just have to get the ball into the hands of the people who can do something with it." 
In 1994, Krieg started the final seven games for the Lions. They went 5-2 and made the playoffs. 
"Somebody comes in and, for whatever reason, things click," Turner said. "You see that all the time." 

Kosar, Erickson to battle for void left by Marino 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press Writer 

DAVIE, Fla. 
With Dan Marino on the bench, the Miami Dolphins' quarterback job is up for grabs. 
Marino required surgery Tuesday to repair a slight frac­ture in his right ankle and he is expected to be sidelined four to six weeks. He'll be replaced by 
Bernie  Kosar  or  Craig  
Erickson,  coach  Jimmy  
Johnson said.  

"Both of them will get equal time in practice this week," Johnson said. 
Marino was injured during Miami's first series Monday night in a 10-6 loss at Indianapolis. Kosar replaced Marino and played the rest of the game. 
An MRI test Tuesday deter­mined the extent of the injury. Because the Dolphins have a bye this week, Marino might miss only three more games ­at home against Seattle on Oct. 6, at Buffalo on Oct. 13 and at Philadelphia on Oct. 20. 
The Dolphins had originally said Marino would be sidelined for three to four weeks. The .estimate was revised following his 90-minute operation Tuesday night. 
Kosar and Erickson were with Johnson at the University of Miami in the 1980s. Johnson may be leaning toward starting the younger Erickson, who was released by Indianapolis just before the season began and signed with the Dolphins on Sept. 2. 
"He hasn't had a single snap with the first or second unit, other than running the oppo­nents' plays," Johnson said. "But with his experience and knowledge and intelligence, I think he'll be able to position himself to where he would be able to play next week." 
With Kosar. 32, at quar­terback against the Colts, the Dolphins generated just three points and 120 yards in 3 1/2 quarters. He completed 15-of­22 passes for 122 yards but was sacked five times. 
"I was disappointed in our performance offensively, and the quarterback is a reflection of what we do offensively," Johnson said. "There were times we didn't execute well ­both Bernie and the rest of the offense." 
Marino, 35, has been side­lined by injuries three of the past four seasons, and each time his right leg has been involved. 
Marino sat out two games last year with injuries to his right knee and left hip, and missed the final 11 games of the 1993 season with a rup­tured right Achilles tendon. He also had bone spurs removed from his ankle in March 1994. 
"As time goes on, a lot of these injuries do relate," Johnson said. "But our medical people are very optimistic that we can rehabilitate (the ankle) to the point where it shouldn't be any more of a problem than what is already there." 

Fri~ay, ~eptemDer Llili /:J~ pm vs. Marquette ~un~ay, ~eptemDer l~th 1:~~ pm vs. Georgetown 
Ticket Information 

*Free mini.-soccer 
Adults: $4 Children: $2 (under 16) 

balls and T.-shirts Notre Dame Students: Free 
after every Irish 
Tickets will be available at the gate goal! 
_,. 
All-American Mid-Fielder, Cindy Daws 
----~---­
Thursday, September 26, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
-
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
Yankees clinch AL East, end post-season drought 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
The last time the New York Yankees won the AL East title, Andy Pettitte, Derek Jeter and Mariano Rivera were just start­ing out in Little League. 
Now, the three young stars will have a chance to start a new era of glory for a team that has not reached the World Series since Reggie Jackson, Hon Guidry and Dave Winfield led them there in 1981. 
The Yankees clinched their first division title in 15 years Wednesday, finishing off a sea­son full of individual comebacks and highlights for owner George Steinbrenner's team. 
-Dwight Gooden, suspended from baseball in 1995 because of drug problems, pitching a no-hitter. 
-David Cone, sidelined by a career-threatening aneurysm in his right shoulder, returning to piteh seven no-hit innings. 
-Darryl Strawberry, out of the majors until the All-Star break, hitting three home runs in a game. 
"It's not like we're some 
young, upstart team," manager Joe Torre said. "We expect to win." 
No, although youth helped a team that won the wild-card spot last season but then lost to Seattle in a five-game playoff. 
Pettitte, at 24, went 21-8 and established himself as the lead­ing candidate for the AL Cy Young Award. 
Rivera, at 26, was considered the team~ MVP by many peo­ple. The setup man was unhit­table for most of the season, breaking Hich Gossage's club record for strikeouts by a re­liever and becoming the main reason John Wetteland led the league in saves. 
"It's nice to know we have a dynamic duo like Mariano and Wetteland," Cone said. "Last year, I felt sort of naked, espe­cially in Game 5. I knew I was in there for the duration." 
Torre was among many first­time Yankees sharing in this success. 
Tino Martinez, acquired from Seattle in the offseason, drove in more than 100 HBis and made fans stop rumbling about captain Don Mattingly's retire­ment. Tim Raines, known more 


Is accepting membership applications for Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College & Holy Cross Faculty and full--time staff. 
Dues = $50 per year 
Call631,4678 for membership applications or for more information 
his speed than power, hit sev­and Mike Aldrete, all acquired eral key home runs in the during the season, had their stretch. moments. 
Catcher Joe Girardi made up Bernie Williams, Wade Boggs for Mike Stanley's departure and Paul O'Neill each hit over and utilityman Mariano Duncan .300, with Williams approach­filled in neatly for the departed ing 30 homers and 100 RBis. Randy Velarde. What the team lacked in 
Cecil Fielder, Charlie Hayes power -it ranked 12th in the 
Class 
continued from page 12 
MUST SELL: 5 Ohio St. GA's Will sell for face value or best offer. Call Jill (x0718) or Mary (x4702). 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FASTIII 
Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FASTIII 
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING-Anyone interested please come September 30th for a meeting at the Rock at 8 p.m. 
This sidewalk ain't for fancy walkin'. It's for normal walkin'. 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 In the LaFortune Student Center Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am • Midnight Wed. 7:30am • Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm Sun. Noon · Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
SABOR LATINO Saturday 9/28 10pm atthe C S C SABOR LATINO 
PC phone home. 
Think of it. Pancakes, bacon. And Cara eating omlets when she's sober. 
BUST A NUT. A buckeye, that is. 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
invites the entire student body of Notre Dame to Jazzman's at 1 0:30 this Friday for a night of wild music. 
18 and Over! 18 and Over! 
PLEASE ADOPT MY DOG!! I don't want to send her to the pound, but I'm facing eviction. She is very friendly, housetrained, small (30 lbs.), has shots, doesn't shed. If you take her till May, I'll assume ownership after 271·9432 
doin' it to you in eardrum ... R E V E R E N D F U N K 
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% TONIGHT CLUB 23 with opening band ROCKABILLIES HEAL YOUR RIGORMORTIS 
Hey Gorgeous, Do you really want me to tell you what I told him? Love, me 
Helpl I need a senior bar parking pass for OSU. Will trade JACC pass plus money. Please call Allison at 243·9038. 
EARN MONEYIIIII Please help me with my senior comprehen­sive. I need to interview 10 people who grew up in single parent homes between the ages of 5 and 15. A reward for this con­fidential interview will be granted. Please call Caroline at 243-9264 
Tony-Are you talking? Joe. 
Dave-Your hair looks incredible today, love. You know who this is from ill 
GANG GREEN: On the town again this weekend. Look out tor the danger. They are coming to bust the buckeyes. BUST THE BUCKEYES! Gang green ...... not just a disgusting dis­ease. 

AL in home runs -it made up for with outstanding defense, a rotation that included Jimmy Key's return from rotator cuff surgery and one of the deepest bullpens in baseball since the Nasty Boys of the 1990 World Series champion Cincinnati Reds. 
TOP TEN REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD VOLUNTEER AT CLARISSA DAL­LOWAY'S COFFEE HOUSE: 
10) You'll find out what Is In the carmel sur­prise. 
9) You'll have access to four microphones and some pretty loud speakers. 
8) You'll see some great entertainment. 
7) Your resume will look better. 
6) You'll have a great excuse to procrasti· nate. 
5) You'll meet new people. 
4) You'll be a part of the new and Improved Dalloway's. 
3) You can smoke (cigarettes, that is). 
2) You can drink (free coffee, that is). 
1) You get to hang out with Lisa, Jen, and sweeeeet Carolyn. There will be an informational meeting for anyone interested in volunteering on Monday, Sept. 30, at7:00 p.m. at Dalloway's. Dalloway's is located In the lit­tle white house next to Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. EVERYONE IS WELCOME! 
Well, you know that would never happen. First of all, Bugs Bunny and the Road Runner are friends. And second, Wile E. Coyote could never catch the Road Runner. 
I think you are hot and cute. At least for the last six months anyway. SIX MONTHS. Wow. I don't even use the same tooth­brush for that long. 
Adam-this ad Is especially tor you,darlln', so that everyone knows that Adam Ortega rocks my world!! 
Lucas I 
and I really do think you're gorgeous ... 
SAW Tailgate! 
9:30a.m. Saturday 
Look for Mike's red Suburban with balloon. 
Linda, I want the red sweater! Now! Anyway, hope you had a happy B-day, M.D. 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 

Remember when your b1ggest career concern was runn1ng out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was JUSt a summer JOb? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of respons1bilit1es. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in wh1ch we work. Our JOb is to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Andersen Consulttng ts. an equal oppurl\inlt~ emp\oyef 

Please stop by the Andersen Consulting Career Day on Tuesday, October 1st in the LaFortune Ballroom, 12:00-6:00pm. Presentations will take place at 12:30pm and 4:30pm. Casual attire is appropriate. All majors welcome. If you have not yet signed up for an inteNiew with Andersen Consulting, you will have the opportunity to sign up at the Career Day. 
... 
ANDERSEN CoNSULTING 
Where we go from here; 

-----· ----~--~~------------------~--------~ 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 26, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll • GOlF 
Seattle halts skid, keeps slim playoff hopes alive 
By KEN PETERS 
Associated Press W rirer 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Dave Hollins had four hits and four RBis as the Seattle Mariners routed California 11­2 Wednesday, stopping a three­game losing streak and staying in the playoff race. 
Seattle, which has five games remaining, pulled within 2 1/2 games of idle Texas, the AL West leader. The Mariners be­gan the day 1 1/2 games be­hind wild-card leader Baltimore, which played at Boston on Wednesday night. 
Alex Rodriguez broke 2-2 tie in the seventh with a two-run double, and Dan Wilson hit a three-run homer off Darrell May in a six-run ninth as the Mariners ended the skid that followed a team-record 10­game winning streak. 
Seattle, which trailed Texas by nine games on Sept. 11, heads to Oakland for a four­game series while the Rangers are home for four games against California. The Mariners would play a makeup game at Cleveland on Monday if it's necessary. 
California, which lost a 13­game lead against Seattle last season and was beaten 9-1 by the Mariners in an AL West playoff, had won the first two games of the series. 
Salomon Torres (3-2) gave Seattle a good pitching perfor­mance, allowing two runs and· seven hits in 6 1-3 innings. 
Joey Cora led off the game with a homer, but Randy Velarde tied it when he home­red in the bottom of the first. 
Hollins connected in the sec­ond, the Angels-record 40th homer allowed this year by Shawn Boskie (12-11), but con­secutive doubles by Velarde and J.T. Snow made it 2-2 in the fifth. 
After the double by Rodriguez put Seattle ahead 4­2, Hollins singled in a run in the eighth. May walked Mark Whiten with the bases loaded in the ninth, Hollins hit a two­run single for an 8-2 lead and Wilson hit his 18th homer. 


New Pickup Point Effective September 30, 1996 
Starting September 30, United Limo will pick up by the main gate across from the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
For schedules and other information, consult your travel agent or call us at 254-5000. 
The multi-level nite club offering the best in off-campus fun and entertainment where ifyou don't like what's on one floor you can go party on the next floor. 
PRESENTS: THE RETURN OF ELBOW THURSDAY's A/k/A LINCOLN THURSDAY'S 
Doors open at 9 PM DJ's playing your favorite Hip-Hop and Booty Call dance music. 
FRIDAY OCTOBER 27 

PRE-GAME OFF-CAMPUS PARTY 
AIK/A PHAT FRIDAY'S OFF CAMPUS PARTY NIGHT 
Featuring 
GEORGE AND THE FREAKS 

OJ between Band Breaks -Both Dance Floors 
open until close -multi-level club 
FREE )UMBO HOT DOG WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 PM THURSDAY ONLY. 21 AND OVER PROPER I. D. IUQUIRED-UNIFORM SECUI<IlY PROVIDED BOTH INSIDE AND OUTSIDE 
0 

Tiring Tiger needs rest, withdraws 
Associated Press 
PINE MOUNTAIN, Ga. 
Tiger Woods, who has played virtually non-stop golf and had his every move followed by fans and media since turning pro a month ago, withdrew from the Buick Challenge today, citing exhaustion. 
"The past five weeks have been the most challenging of my life and at the same time the most physically and emo­tionally draining," Woods said in a statement released by his agent. 
"I realized last night that I was actually mentally ex­hausted and that if I played I would be doing a disservice to myself and to those who came to watch me play." 
The 72-hole event begins Thursday at Callaway Gardens, about 70 miles southwest of Atlanta. 
"I am going to rest for the re­mainder of this week and I hope and plan to be back next 

week in Las Vegas," Woods said. 
Woods had commuted to play in the Las Vegas Invitational next week and the Texas Open the week after. By moving into the top 150 on the money list last week Woods also became eligible to play in the season­ending Disney Classic Oct. 17­20. 
"His agent said he was just exhausted," said PGA tour spokesman Lee Patterson 
Woods has been on a hectic schedule since the first round of the U.S. Amateur Championship on Aug. 19. He played nine rounds of golf in seven days at the Amateur. Then, on Aug. 27, two days af­ter winning an unprecedented third consecutive Amateur title, Woods announced he was turn­ing pro. 
The next day he held a news conference at the Greater Milwaukee Open. Woods' pro debut was less than glittering -he finished tied for 60th and earned only $2,544. 
But his next three events were impressive: 11th in the Canadian Open, fifth at the Quad City Classic and third at the B.C. Open, winning a total of $137,650 in those three events. 
That gave Woods $140,194 in earnings and moved him to 128th on the money list, guar­anteeing him unlimited sponsor exemptions for 1997 and putting Woods easily within striking distance of the top-125 finish needed to earn his full­time PGA Tour card. 
Woods gained entry to the Buick Challenge and six other tournaments by accepting the seven sponsor exemptions non­tour members are allowed un­der PGA Tour rules. He needed those events to earn enough money to avoid going to qualifying school. Now, howev­er. he is in a position to be more selective. 


To find out more, visit us on the World Wide Web at: http://www.careermosaic.com/em/ge 
• 

An Environment Without Boundaries 
An equal oppot111nity employer. 

How would you describe GE's work environment? Open, inspiring, charged, fast-paced, non-bureaucratic, apolitical. We think you'll agree these are partic­ularly appealing adjectives. 
We believe in being "boundary­less." We're taking down walls that divide people, eliminating hierar­chies and stripping out bureau­cratic processes company-wide. And it's working. We are a 70 bil­lion dollar global enterprise whose extremely diverse range of businesses are number one or number two in their markets. Others look to us for manage­ment best practices and our finan­cial results have shareholders cheering. 
We'll be on campus this fall. Please check with the Placement Office for more details. 
We want to hear from Bachelor's and Master's degree candidates. Ifyou are bright, creative, passion­ate about your work· and deter­
mined  to  make  things  
happen,  we  want  you  to  know  
we  find  these  to  be particularly  

appealing qualities. 
-----~ ~---~------------~-~­
.........--~-....._......... ~ 
Thursday, September 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Wuerffelball takes a licking and keeps on ticking 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press Writer 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Being able to grasp the com­pltJx Fun 'N' Gun offense at Florida has made Danny WuerfTel one of the most prolif­ic passers in Southeastern Conference history. 
Being able to shake off one big hit after another also helps. 
"I don't think I could take that much punishmont," receiv­er Reidel Anthony said. "He's gelling hit right under the chin two or three plays in a row sometimes for the past two or three years." 
Wuerffel clasps his hands for what he calls a thank-you prayer after throwing a touch­down pass. He might consider doing the same thing after a sack; they seem to happen about as often. 
Through three games this year, two of which he played only sparingly, Wuerffel has thrown seven touchdown pass­es and has been sacked seven times. 
It is a trend that irks coach Steve Spurrier, who realizes Wuerffel cannot be as effective unless he has time to set up and throw. 
Still, it's nothing new. One of the lasting images of Nebraska's 62-24 victory in the 
Fiesta Bowl is Wuerffel picking himself up from one of seven sacks. The previous year, he was sacked five times and knocked on his keister count­less others in a 23-17 loss to Florida State in the Sugar Bowl. 
"That was the hardest I've ever seen a quarterback get hit," said linebacker James Bates. 
Amazingly, Wuerffel has not been forced out of a game since the end of his freshman year, when he missed the SEC cham­pionship game and the Sugar Bowl after arthroscopic knee surgery. 
He seems unfazed by all the hits, like the character "Jaws" 
''THE JOURNEY 
of the 

INTERNATIONAL STUDENT'' 
A Panel Discussion Featuring the following Graduate Students: 
Takatoshi lchino Xinyu Li Faustina Pereira Jose Rodriguez .. Japan ... China .. Bangladesh .. Venezuela 
Facilitated by Dr. Dominic Vachon 

This Sunday, Sept. 29 4:00 ·5:00pm Fischer Graduate Residences Community Center 
ALL WELCOME! 

Sponsored by: Fischer Q,hara Grace, University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry 
·-:: 
EXPRESS 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
llow on sale: Commemorative 
liD vs. OSU t-shirts! 
Lafortune Student Center 

(219)631-8128  
IRISH  Friday  12 •9pm  
EXPRESS  Saturday  8am· 9pm 
HOURS  Sunday  9am -3 pm  

Yisi~ our SECOND location south of the stadium! 

We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover 
in the James Bond movies who simply dusts himself off and goes ahead with his business. 
"I don't think I'm jinxing him," Bates said cautiously, "but Danny is the last person I would expect to see in the training room on a constant basis." 
Wuerffel, deeply religious and realistic when it comes to his fate in football, doesn't worry about how often or how hard he gets hit. 
"That fits into the category of things you can't control," he said. ''I've been hit in the chest hard. You can get there 10 to 15 times in a row and get the wind knocked out of you, but get up and play. And then someone can step on yotir pinkie toe and you can miss two weeks. If it's going to happen, it's meant to be." 
It hasn't happened yet, and Spurrier is determined to make sure it doesn't. Wuerffel's health is even more important this year because the one proven backup, Eric Kresser, transferred to Marshall this year for his senior season. 

"Danny is a very strong man. You don't have to worry about Danny," Spurrier said before the season began. 
The top-ranked Gators have two new starters on the offen­sive line this year. Wuerffel was sacked three times against Georgia Southern. a Division 1­M school, and four times in a 35-29 victory last week over Tennessee. 
But Spurrier says the offen­sive line isn't always at fault­the tight ends and running backs have also missed key blocks. 
And with four and sometimes five receivers lined up wide, it doesn't take much for Wuerffel to feel the heat. 
CD Tutors W 
The office of Academic Services for Student­Athletes is hiring tutors for the following sub­jects. If you are interested in tutoring and have demonstrated proficiency in the following subjects, please stop by 309 Main Building or call Jean, 1-5585 for information. 
Accounting (All Levels) BA 240 (Computers) BA 230 (Stats) Spanish Finance (All Levels) Writing Marketing (All Levels) Engineering 
B RUN 0 'S 
Twol2" Pizzas 
$1 2. 60
for 

6 items per pizza 
Bruno's South is now accepting reservations for 
Ohio State Weekend " 

Trinity College University College Dublin Academic Year, 1997-98 Spring 1997 
Information Meeting With Professor Patrick Murphy 
Thursday, September26, 1996 4:30-5:30P.M. 119 DeBartolo 
Sophomores and Juniors are Welcome 
<'· 
-
• 
,. 

page 18 
Rosie 
continued from page 20 
True to form, Rosenthal was an imposing force in his first game at right guard. 
"We had trouble running up inside ·on them, and we became predominately a right­handed football team," Holtz said. "We ran the overwhelm­ing majority of our plays, and I know the opposition knows it, behind (right tackle) Mike Doughty and Mike Rosenthal." 
Rosenthal has continued to impress Holtz with his perfor­mances against Purdue and Texas. 
Next up for Rosenthal and Co. is the Buckeye defensive line, which has been labeled by some experts as the nation's best. Defensive ends Mike Vrabel and Matt Finkes have combined for more sacks than
-
The Observer • SPORTS 

Captain 
continued from page 20 

definitely have to pick up the slack." 
Considering Capasso's track record and soccer background, the Irish should be just fine. The real concern for Notre Dame, at this point in time, is maintaining the momentum that the team has built up in the first half of the regular sea­son, and carrying that momen­tum into the stretch run. And there is at least one player who has just that thought on his mind. 
"We are challenged to take ourselves to a new level each week," stated Capasso. "There are some big games on the road we have to play toward the end of the season." 
Once again, Capasso's experi­ence with the Canadian nation­
Thursday, September 26, 1996 
ent players, traveling, and the media." So what does it mean to be a leader? 
According to Capasso, it is all about the desire to contribute and to be there when the team needs him most. 
"It's not just the title of leader," Capasso said, "I want to be a leader." 
And that is exactly what he is. 
.:~-~ ~-\~~~--: 

(:luh ~ Aifin,~r~st~d · ·J3R~ling Clt1h, ~ gen~ *to~~~t· ... ·.. ~etin:g 
e lu~lu;; ·.. ~pndf!.Yi :rnber 30 ll.t 6 p.rn,yin ontgomery Theate1F in . 
ne, If interested and t6 attend, call Jason La. .. .. 883 with questions. "k% .·.· 
•S,IP. pllhfl'ealil. • Anyone fn, tf!res~ed ufeither, there will l)e an informational and or· 
meeting


By JOHN NADEL 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

The Dodgers caught some breaks in Los Angeles and San Diego, moving clos­er to their second straight NL West championship. 
Now they might have to beat San Diego just once in three games at Dodger Stadium this weekend to put the Padres away. 
The Dodgers won for the 23rd time in 31 games Tuesday night, beating San Francisco 6-2 thanks in part to a three-run sixth inning in which they were aided by good luck and shoddy defense. 
"We got some breaks tonight, which helped," said Dodgers reliever Todd Worrell, who pitched a perfect ninth with two strikeouts. "Usually, they go against the team in the race." 
One big one did in San Diego, where the Padres lost to Colorado 5-4 in 11 innings. 
The game ended when Rockies second baseman Eric Young left his feet to spear a soft liner hit by pinch-hitter Chris Gwynn and then doubled Steve Finley off second. 
The Padres had loaded the bases with one out after Dante Bichette hit a solo homer in the top of the 11th off ace San Diego reliever Trevor Hoffman (9-5) to put the Rockies ahead. 
A couple inches higher, or to the right or left, and Gwynn's hit would have been a game-winner. 
But it wasn't."Tough loss, definitely," said San Diego's Ken Caminiti, who hit a two-run homer in the seventh, his 39th, to tie the game 4-4. "But you have to come back and forget about it." 
Entering Wednesday night, the Dodgers led the Padres by 1 1/2 games and had a magic number of four -any combination of four Dodger wins or Padre losses and Los Angeles clinches the division. 

Los Angeles had five games remaining -two with the Giants and three with the Padres. San Diego had four left ­one with the Rockies Wednesday night and the trio at Dodger Stadium. The Padres, though, held a 1 1/2-game lead over Montreal in the NL wild-card race. 
The Giants, who swept a four-game series from Colorado over the weekend, started four rookies against the Dodgers. 
ATTENTION RESIDENTS OF FARLEY, KNOTT, SIEGFRIED, FLANNER BREEN-PH,LLIPS, P.E., AND P.W.: 
Vote today 
in the District 4 Senator Election 
Vote in residence hall lobbies from llam-1 pm and 5-7 pm 
Sponsored by the Judicial Council ofStudent Government 


• 
-
Thursday, Septc_m_b_e_r_26--.:'_1_9_9_6______________:T~h:..:.e....::O::.:b:.:s.::.:er~ve.::.:r_•_T=--=O:....:D=-=-A::..:Y=----------------------..:...p_::ag::_e_1_9 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 

ACROSS 30 Fuel that's burned
1 Football 
31 Makes livable, 
executive Hunt 
as a house
6 Proofreader's 
35 Escape
direction 36 1980's invasion 
10 Opposite of 
site
"absent" 14 Run off together 38 Gnaw at 39 Settles 
15 Olympic sport elsewhere discontinued after 1936 41 Batting 
, backstop 16 Poles connector 42 Bowling alleys 17 Spills (over) 43 Hold 18 Garden stte protectively 19 Equips 45 Ditch 20 1957 Cooper/ 48 Aquatic bird Hepburn film 49 1951 Grable/ title, literally Carey film title, 23 Fleet runner literally 25 Circular homes 53 Pub round 26 Some art 54 Way to go 27 Biographical 55 Former swimsuit data cover model 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-,717171 
-:-:-1-':-i..;:-iEi 
58 Building regulations 59 "Caro nome," e.g. 
&OZhou-­61 Jailer's need 62 1994 Jodie 
Foster film 63 Musical bars? 
DOWN 
1 Article in 
France-Soir 2 Exclusively 3 1941 Ameche/ 
Grable film title, literally 4Select 5 Vacation destination 
&Incantation 7 Kind of list a Mountain sign 
abbr. 9--ofvoice 10 Bring under 
control 11 Leaves 12 Amendment 
subject 

-:-t::-tiillliill 13 Largest section of a dictionary, usually 
.-..,•+:=-filii..-R-4=--lioii!!~~Ei 21 TV's "Emerald 
Point--" 22 Where George Orwell was born 23 PowerBook 
maker 24 Fantasize 27 Beach terrain 28Timesto 
remember 29 Intention 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A long-sought goal comes into view. Refuse to be distracted from crossing the finish line' A money situation will improve as Thanksgiving ap­proaches. Continue to monitor spending. Once 1997 begins, chil­dren will play an increasingly impor­tant role in the decisions you make. Travel could prove more educational than profitable next spring. Keep in touch with the people you meet. Marriage enjoys highly favorable influences throughout the summer of '97. Keep loved ones' secrets. 
CELEBRITIES !lORN ON THIS DAY: composer George Gershwin, singer Olivia Newton­
MIKE PETERS 
John, country musician Lynn Anderson, actress Linda Hamilton. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Prophetic visions are featured. A change of residence could follow. Keep your career moving forward by dint of hard work. A May-De­cember romance may be irresistible I 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Traffic snarls or flight delays are possible. Have a realistic back-up plan. The passage of time works to your advantage where romance is concerned. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Handle a difficult situation with your usual finesse. Good timing is vital for success in business. Be willing to take an occasional risk. Keeping a secret will show a friend that you are trustworthy. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Keep a close eye on investments. An older individual could be the ideal business or romantic partner. It is time to improve your living arrangements. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Clear your mind of confusing thoughts. A flatterer may be trying to soft-soap you. A romantic fever abruptly cools when the truth is revealed. Show your modest side. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make reservations for a weekend getaway. A discussion touching on philosophical issues invigorates your thinking. Do not be afraid to stand up for your principles. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): High­er-ups are evaluating your job per­formance. Carry out instructions to the letter. Acquiring additional edu­cation will transform your life. Joint financial dealings could prove very lucrative. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Giving in to impulse could prove costly. Keep your emotions in check. Someone deserves a second chance. Try to be more relaxed about a new role you must play. Comfort a griev­ing friend or relative. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Help someone who is going through a difficult time. You will never regret your kindness. Pay cash when shopping, reserving credit cards for emergencies. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Postponing a business decision until next week would be a mistake. Act immediately to reduce stress. Finding peace of mind will improve your personal and professional rela­tionships. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Safeguard your money by keeping it in the bank. A new push for success sparks exciting career develop­ments. Compromise is the best bet when handling domestic affairs. Lis­ten closely to teen-agers before offering advice. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do not be thrown by someone' s aloof attitude. They may be going through tough times. Keeping things under control at work will help banish ten­sion-related headaches. Answer a loved one's questions with candor. 
• OF INTEREST Van Training Session tonight at the esc at 5:00pm. "The Age of Humanitarian Crises," the title of a lecture to be given by Raimo Vayrynen this afternoon, has been cancelled. "Tropical Africa: The Aftermath of Independence" is 
a lecture to be given at the Snite Museum in the African Gallery today at 4:15pm. Admission is free. 


Wanted: Reporters, 
Puzzle by Stanley B. Whitten 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North Buffalo Hot Wings Vegetable Crepes Marinara Meat Ravioli Tortilla Soup 
Saint Mary's Spaghetti with Meatballs Chicken Diablo • 
Spinach Quiche 
31 Entertai~ grandly 
32 1979 Heard/ Hurt film title, literally 
33 Boy Scout rank 34 "Skittle Player Outside an Inn" 
painter 36 Place for peaks 37 Competed 40 Specs 41 Purplish-red 43 Former mile 
record holder 44 Scoundrel 

South Roast Turkey Breast Bread Stuffing Whipped Potatoes Hamburger Soup 
45 Pancake 50 Mediterranean arrangement port 
46 Daphnis's lover, 51 Exhausted, with in Greek romance "out" 
47 Slender 52 Letters 56 Gangster's second or third, 
48 Take first, 
gun in the Olympics 57 Family member 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
' 
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, September 26, 1996 
• fOOTBAll 
Rosenthal leaves impression on opponents, coach 
By TODD FITZPATRICK When he heard about Holtz's Sports Wrirer compliment, however, Rosenthal's first inclination 
Take one look at Mike was to credit his coach and Rosenthal, and you can see that teammates. he has been blessed with great "I know Coach speaks from size and strength. He stands 6 the heart," Rosenthal said. feet, 7 inches tall. He weighs "But (center Rick) Kaczenski more than 300 pounds. But has a great knowledge of the there's so much more that game, too. And Ron (Powlus) makes Rosenthal one the na­also has great football knowl­tion's best young offensive line­edge. man. Rosenthal played in every 
Mike Rosenthal has the regular season game last sea­brains to match the brawn. son except the home opener, 
During a speech this summer, and he started in three. He a member of the audience continues to add strength and asked Lou Holtz who is the experience. Rosenthal weighed smartest player he has ever in at 290 when he began col­coached. lege one year ago, but since 
"There are two," he said. then he has bulked up to 310 "Ron Powlus and Mike on his imposing 6-7 frame. Rosenthal." After playing tackle last sea­
Many Irish fans might have son, Rosenthal switched to predicted that Holtz would right guard in the spring. choose Powlus, the senior So why did Rosenthal move quarterback who has led the from tackle, the position he had Irish offense for three consecu­played since high school, to tive seasons. right guard? 
But Holtz may have paid the "Coach said he wanted to put greatest compliment to the best five people on the Rosenthal, Notre Dame's field." sophomore right guard. Holtz The four remaining starters says that Rosenthal is similar to on the offensive line are se­Powlus because he has been niors. blessed with great football Notre Dame's season opener knowledge. He learns the game at Vanderbilt was Rosenthal's plan, makes good decisions and first test at his new position. quickly adjusts to different game situations. 
see ROSIE/ page 18 

points this season. He has the games in Atlanta, CapassoMidfielder's three goals and one assist and gained some valuable experi­has been major all-around fac­ence against some of the topmaturity key to tor in Notre Dame's excellent players in the world and 5-1-2 start. learned how to deal with all 
Irish success 
The Irish have surprised all kinds of situations. of the critics with their play so ''I'd like to think that it has far, especially in the confer­helped me," said Capasso,
By BRIAN REINTHALER 

ence where they have posted a "because I've been thrown into 
Sports Writer 

3-0-2 mark. different roles and I've had to "We've even surprised our­deal with changes. Day in and
What does it mean to be a 

selves," commented Capasso. day out there were different
team leader? 

"We're really starting to circumstances -some good,
Most will agree that being a 

believe in ourselves now." some bad."
team leader means setting pos­

Capasso's versatile style of This makes the Irish appear
itive examples. They will say 

play is a huge reason for the even more fortunate to have
that it means helping those 

pleasant surprise. Although he Capasso around because they
around you to be best that they 

has always contributed to the have recently been faced with
can possibly be. They will say 

team in multiple ways, Capasso a very tough situation indeed. 
that it means setting a stan­

attributes some of his skills to One of just seven players in
dard of consistency. They will 

his experiences last spring. the history of Notre Dame soc­
say that when the team needs 

While the rest of the cer to serve as a two-time cap­
its most, the leader is the per­

midfielder's teammates were tain, Capasso came into this
son who gets the job done. 

taking their second semester season as a tri-captain along
There are very few people 

classes and enjoying the off­with fellow seniors Peter
who exemplify these ideals as 

season here in South Bend, Cansler and Brian Engesser.
much as Tony Capasso. 

Capasso was back home train­However, in Sunday after­
f 
Capasso, who was the lone 

ing and competing with noon's conference matchup
Irish captain in 1995, was one 

Canadian Olympic team. with Seton Hall, Engesser suf­
of only two Irish players to 

When asked about the differ­fered a broken leg in a collision
start all 19 games last year. 

ences between collegiate soc­with a Pirate player. The play
He was the fourth leading scor­

cer and international play, ended a brilliant collegiate ca­
er for the team with two assists 

Capasso mentioned the maturi­reer and left the Irish with a
and eight goals, including two 

ty level of the game. void in what has been a very
game-winners and three tallies 

"International players are a solid defensive backfield thus
in Big East play. 

lot more seasoned," explained far.
The Winnepeg, Manitoba na­

Capasso, "and they have more "Brian always gives 110 per­
tive has already begun to lead 

weapons. Players in college cent effort," said Capasso, "and 
by example in the 1996 cam­

are a little less refined and people follow his work ethic.
paign. Capasso is tied with 


The Observer/Mike Ruma some are one-dimensional." We (Gansler and Capasso) will
freshman Andrew Aris for the

Senior midfielder Tony Capasso should be a stabilizing influence as Despite the fact that the
team lead in scoring with seven

the Irish advance toward post-season play. · 
Canadians failed to qualify for see CAPTAIN/ page 18 


vs. Ohio State, 
vs. Ball State, 

QJ • Yanks win AL East
~ September 28, 1:30 p.m. 
@ October 1, 7 p.m. 

~ 
see page 15
vs. Marquette, 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
~ ......
(e•_, 
September 27, 7:30p.m. 
October 4 

•Bears, Dolphins lose quarterbacks ~
(_, 
at Indiana, 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
see page 14
-
September 27, 7:30p.m. 
~ October4 
~ 





