
~-~~~------------~ 
Tuesday, Aprill6, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 124 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students respond to Kaptur • SMC HAll ELECTIONS 
Commencement choice evokes mixed reactions from SMC class of 1996 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
'iainr Mary's Ediwr 
All students at Saint Mary's will agree that otw advantage of attending a small college is the influence one voice can have on the rest of the population. 
Aerording to Patti Valentine, Director of Public Hnlations at Saint Mary's, a member of the class of 11J'J6 usml her voice this year to suggest the nanw of recently chosen Commencement speak­er. 
"This year tlw speaker was suggested by a mPmlwr of the senior class," Valentine said. "It was tlw rneommendation of this senior that prompted rnsmtrch into Marcy Kaptur." 
Following in tlw tradition of prestigious female ComrniHJcement speakers at Saint Mary's, Kaptur, otw of only 56 women in the 535 mem­ber Congrnss and the highest ranking DIHJloeratie woman on the Appropriations Con11nittee. was announced as the 1996 Comnwneenumt speaker over the weekend. 
Some seniors haVI~ gre1~tcd the announcement wilh satisfaction. "I think it's really great. In the four y1~ars that I've been here, I can't remember having a politieal figure here. I'm curious to hear what she has to speak about...espeeially consid­llring that graduation is only thirty-three days away," said Senior Laura Ferguson. 
Senior Megan Kenn11dy, however, feels differ­llntly "I think that the seniors should have had more of a say as to who speaks at the eomm!Hlcement. most people I know have absolutnly no idea who Marcy Kaptur is." 

SMC senior Laura Ferguson 
"I personally do not like the idea of having Kaptur as the commencement speaker because she is a political figure during an election year. It seems like Saint. Mary's is trying to present a forum for Kaptur to impose her political views upon us," said senior Sara Leavitt. 
While many students do not like the idea of a highly political commencement figure, other stu­dents, like Ferguson, support Kaptur based on her record in Congress and her efforts in the community. 
Pundits debate political views 

By KRISTI KOLSKI 
AS>i\IJIH New> Ediror 
Political satirists P . .J. 0' HourkP and Mirhael Moorn disagnw on praeti­eally nvnrything. Perhaps tlw only thing tlwy do agnHl on is that politicians stink. 
Last night, tlw two met in what was titled "Satirists llniPaslwd: The UltimatP Hight vs. Left Dlll>atn." Moving bnyond tlw political spnctrum of H11puhliran against I>Pmocrat. tlu~ two debated extrnme consnrvative and lilwral bnlinfs. 
O'Hourkn. Foreign Affairs Editor for "Holling Stotw Magazine," started tlw evening daiming that govnrnnwnt has metamor­phosnd into tlw politics of worry. 
"This is tlw most opti­mistic tinw in history. The Sovint Union has fallnn. wn havn mom lib11rty and pos­snssions than th11 begin­ning of eivilization," O'Hourkn said. "We should be nnjoying our­selves and we are not. America is 11 whining, cry­baby plaen." 
Thn story of 3,000 peo­ple laid niT work from the Flint. Miehigan Gnneral Motors l'aetory, after the company recorded profits of sllvnn billion in the pre­vious fiscal year, is reason enough for people to eom­plain, aeeording to Moore. 
Thn award-winning pro­duenr of the film "Hoger 
·--,----·~......_.-.
. . .. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Michael Moore presented the liberal point of view say­ing that American politics needs a conscience... 
and Me," a parody about the CEO of the GM ear cor­pontlion, questions when the actions of businesses pleasing the share holders and Wall Street become immoral. 
"If it's legal to lay off pnople and move compa­nii\S to Mexico, why not just let them sell crack?" Moore asks. 
lie claims that the peo­ple that profit tlu~ most in soeiety are not the hard working individuals but corporate America. 
"Between NAFTA and subsidies. corporations are the biggest welfare moth­ers in America," Moore said. 
O'Rourke retorted with skepticism elaiming that the only alternative is to let Congress make all the decisions. 
"I'd rather Congress be in control than the Board of GM," Moore responded. "The American dream used to be, you work hard, your company prospers, then you prosper. Now you work hard, the com­pany prospers and you get laid off." 
The Industrial Revolution might not have benefited everyone, claims O'Rourke, but it brought a number of advancements to our soeiety and that is better than a centrally controlled alternative. 

"Zero sum economics is simply not true. Our econ­omy is infinitely expand­able," O'Rourke said. "We are not going to set up a better society by giving things away." 
But Moore claims that society should offer a more equal social and economic environment. Affirmative action is one step toward 
see DEBATE/ page 4 
Holy Cross residents to return for third run-off 
By LAURA SMITH 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The Barbara Nolan, Adrienne 
Sharp, Karen Ciaciura, and Ellen Coleman ticket won the Regina Hall Council runoff in yesterday's Saint Mary's Hall Council elections, while absten­tions at Holy Cross Hall have forced future Holy Cross Hall residents to return to the polls yet again to vote for their Hall Council Representatives. 
In yesterday's elections, 54 percent of future Holy Cross Hall residents who voted a b-stained. 
As this was a majority of res­idents, an open election will be held next week. 
The Erin Battison, Bridget Sullivan, Melissa Lind, and Megan McLaughlin received 41 percent of the vote, after a de­duction of 10 percent of the votes they received for a previ­ous election policy violation. 

Holy Cross residents voted. 
"I believe we will run again," said Battison. "Everyone will start from square one." 
The Nolan ticket won 55 per­A new election will be held cent of the votes in the Reginanext week in the dining hall, Hall Council runoff. The .Jenny 
according to Christine Riesen­berger, Vice-President elect of see ELECTION/ page 4 

• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 
Preacher: O'Hara's response inadequate 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Associare News Editor 
In response to Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's establishment of the Universit~ group Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students, two resolutions were presented for discussion at yes­terday's Campus Life Council meeting. 
The resolution, submitted by Ava Preacher, dean of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters and Faculty Senate representative for the council, proposed that the CLC lind O'Hara's Open Let­ter in Response to the Ad l·loc 

Preacher
Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs (printed in the April 2 issue of the Observer) "inadequate in meeting the needs of gay and lesbian students." The resolution presented for discussion also proposed that the council urge O'Hara to "reconsider her response and begin a respectful dialogue with Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College." 
The other proposed resolution presented by Student Body President Seth Miller and Vice President Megan Murray called for the council's encouragement of Notre Dame's gay and lesbian community "to utilize whatever organization they feel serves their needs." 
It also proposed that after one semester of exis­tence, O'Hara "evaluate the organizational re­strictions placed upon the new Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students in her response to Recommendation Five" in her Open Letter. In this section of her response, O'Hara listed characteris­tics of the University group, which distinguish it from a student group: 
• 
The group is facilitated by one or two mem­bers of the faculty or administration. 

• 
The group stands in a special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs. 


• The group shall assist gay and lesbian students 
see CLC/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April 16, 1996 



A year of 
monumental change? 
This year may be a sweep--------­
ing one in world politics. Or it may pass virtually unnoticed. Only time will tell. 
Regardless of how history will judge 1996, one aspect cannot pass unobserved ­an unprecedented number of elections will take place throughout the world, many of which will occur in strategically 
important countries. 

The stage was set last fall in Poland where the Communist candidate, Alexander Kwasniewski, defeated Lech Walesa, the former Cold Warrior and Solidarity leader who had seemed invinci­ble up until election time. Within weeks after the new year, Japan and Italy saw a change in government when the political atmosphere forced their respective prime ministers to step down. Benin, a small west African country, recently reelected its national leader. This vote was the first among 18 elections that will take place on the African continent this year -the most ever. ­
Although most of us probably failed to note the Australian elections last month, Prime Minister Paul Keating's defeat evoked a plain­tive response from Fr. Bill Miscarnble, C.S.C. who described Keating's successor as one who actually enjoys bowing to Her Majesty The Queen. Another former British colony, India, now the world's largest democracy, is bracing itself for national elections which will take place in May. 
A pivotal election is scheduled for May 28 in the still volatile Middle East. In what amounts to a referendum on the peace process, Prime Minister Shimon Peres squares off against Benjamin Netanyahu, the 46-year-old Likud leader who seeks to be his country's first Israeli-born prime minister. This dramatic race has been shaped by an assassination, bombings in Israel, and the ongoing Israeli attacks on Lebanese guerrillas. 
Perhaps the most interesting and monumental race, however, will occur in Russia where the Communist candidate, Gennadi Zyuganov, leads the field. He challenges President Boris Yeltsin who, according to some Kremlin offi­cials, may not step down even if he loses the election. Ultra nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovsky adds color the race with his outpourings of sen­sational utterances, and Mikhail Gorbachev has resurrected himself from the ashes of the Cold War by tossing his hat into the ring. Although Gorbachev's contribution to democracy may be appreciated by some, his presence serves only to divide the democratic vote, propelling Zyuganov to victory. 
The upcoming election here in the United States has stirred little excitement since the fortunate demise of Pat Buchanan-with two moderate candidates, no serious shift in U.S. policy can be expected. This situation certainly was not the case, however, after the New Hampshire primary when the prospect of a Buchanan White House and Zhirinovsky Kremlin frightened a good number of people. 
The world has witnessed several key elections in recent years, but not in the numbers it will during 1996. If the incumbents are fortunate, which they many times are, the year will pass from the world political scene with scant last­ing attention. If Poland has set the precedent, however, the world will be poised to enter the new millennia with a much altered political scene. Whether that scene will be a favorable one is a question only time will answer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News Production Deborah Schultz Heather "What's in a Matt Loughran name?" Cocks Sports Rosanna "Sloppy Joe" Stephanie Buek Ventrone Tim Sherman Graphics Lab Tech Christopher Mullins 
Katie Kroener 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tom Snider Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
• Wmu..oAl AGLANCE 

Tornado rocks Arkansas, kills seven 

SYLAMORE, Ark. 
The smell of sap from freshly splin­tered trees hung over the Ozark Mountains on Monday after a tornado ripped through during the first big tourist weekend of spring, killing seven people. 
Three of the victims were tourists stay­ing at a campground. 
At least 30 people were injured. 
Buddy Marsalis struggled to hold back tears as he waited for sheriffs deputies to let him to look for any belongings that remained from the destroyed home of friends who were killed outside Sylamore. 
His friends, Larry Carney, 52, and his 
wife, Jenny, 50, "were supposed to be baptized at the church last night," Marsalis said. "If they'd have gone, they'd be alive." 
Near the town of Fox, about 15 miles southwest of Sylamore, uprooted pine trees leaned against the roof of Skyland Baptist Church, which remained stand­ing. The tornado struck while about 30 people were in the hilltop church for 
Jewish leaders shun Farrakhan 
WASHINGTON 
American Jewish leaders dismissed Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan's latest offer to reconcile as "an olive branch without any leaves." "Rhetoric is cheap," said Matthew Brooks, executive director of the National Jewish Coalition, a Washington-based group of Jewish Republicans. "We've seen no action 

whatsoever that indicates his seriousness about mending fences with the Jewish community," Brooks said Monday. In a lengthy interview broadcast Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes," Farrakhan insisted that he doesn't hate Jews. He said he was willing to visit rabbis and to speak with Jewish scholars. "I do not hate people because their skin is white," Farrakhan said. "What I hate is evil and injus­tice and exploitation, whether a black does it, whether a white does it, whether a Jew, a Muslim or a Christian does it. "I am willing to visit a synagogue and speak to the Jewish people because I do not want Jewish children to believe that they have somebody who, if he comes into great power, will put them in ovens," Farrakhan said. 
Quayle analyzes Russian elections 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Relations between Russia and the United States have fallen from the euphoria following the collapse of the So­viet Union to a new. "cold reality," former Vice President Dan Quayle said Monday. Quayle said relations could worsen if hard-liner Gennady Zyuganov, a former Com­munist Party functionary, wins the upcoming presidential election. Quayle recently returned after a week-long pri­vate visit to Russia, where he met with several presiden­tial candidates. A hard-liner victory "means you're going to have a more aggressive foreign policy; this means the former republics would be threatened and Central Europe would be less secure," he said. With anti­Western sentiment on the rise, Washington has limited opportunities to back Boris Yeltsin, its favored candidate, Quayle said. "It's very difficult to try and get involved." Yeltsin and Zyuganov are expected to face each other in a run-off election. But with supporters of democracy out­numbered over 4-1 by communists and nationalists, Yeltsin faces a tough time in the presidential field. 
::5 \ 
::.c:: 1 
o I 
I 
II 
I
I 


Thesday, Apri116 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



~,~,~~~~ ~ 
Showers Twsforms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Vis Associated Press GraphicsNet 

~ ~  Bayonne  60  41  Denver  70  
Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boston  53  40  Miami  76  
Calgary  -6  -22  Milwaukee 64  

_ ARKANSAS / of Emergency Services. m<("-.)1 Campground employees said four 
} 50 miles people were killed there: Carl and fj . ' ) ~ Eleanor Allen of Memphis, Tenn; 
v, _ 

LOUISIANA
1-\ 50 km Howard Smith of Germantown, Tenn.,
! --------------'-----' 
and Juanita Belcher of Cabot, Ark. 
AP/Carl Fox 
Sunday night services. 
"I looked out the window and I saw a building go by," said the Rev. Ron Ivie as he helped church members clear away the trees. 
The tornado hopscotched along hilly 
terrain in north-central Arkansas for 
some 45 miles. 
Hardest hit was the Holiday Mountain Resort, a campground at Sylamore with hookups for recreational vehicles and easy access to fishing 


MISSOURI spots. "It's a pretty nice place," Reggie Harrell said, then paused. "It was." 
Monday, Gov. Jim Guy Tucker declared Stone and Izard counties dis­aster areas, making residents eligible for financial aid. Preliminary damage estimates ranged from $4.5 million to 
j $5 million, according to the state Office 
MISS. 

The Aci~;:"'eather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 16. 
"-""',._.__60s 
........................... ~ 
Potpourri big business in Guatemala 
EL CRUCE 
Carlos Acuna and others left Guatemala's coastal plain to carve out a new life in the jungle as farmers. The poor immigrants weren't bent on destroying the fragile rain­forest, he says, "but we did come here for land and to plant corn, so we have to burn down the jungle." Con­servationists have long worried about such threats to the world's rainforests, so one group came to the villagers of El Cruce with a proposal for making a living without harming the trees: Harvest the products of the jungle it­self. Peasants hand pick detritus from the forest floor. They dry the leaves, dye the seeds and perfume the wood chips, which are exported to be sold in elegant packaging as exotic potpourri in chic stores in the United States and Europe. They also gather ingredients for the beauty-care industry. Business is booming. "People thought we were mad when we told them we would pay money if they brought us what was on the jungle floor," said Acuna, who oversees the daily operations of the village's pot­pourri center. Now, about a third of El Cruce's 300 fami­lies are involved in the business and keen to protect the rainforest they once slashed and burned. Guatemala's tropical rainforest is the largest in Central America. 
Jesse Helms' opponent tries again 
RALEIGH, N.C. 
In his four previous bids for the Senate, Jesse Helms faced a new opponent each time. Nobody wanted to come back for more punishment. Until now. "It's never as bad as it looks," said Harvey Gantt, who lost to Helms in 1990 after enduring attack ads that accused Gantt of support­ing racial quotas in hiring and distorted his facial fea­tures and speech to make him seem ominous. "He threw everything at us including the kitchen sink in 1990," Gantt said. "He won the election, but he didn't knock us out. The proof of that is that we're back." But before Gantt can get to what he calls "Gantt-Helms II," he has to win a May 7 Democratic primary against former Glaxo chief executive Charlie Sanders. There are indications that Gantt, the first black mayor of Charlotte, may have underestimated the primary battle as he focused on a re­match with Helms. "I would like to be judged on the mis­takes I've made as a senator," Helms said, lowering his voice and breaking into a sly grin. "If I've done anything worthwhile, I'd like for folks to remember those, too." 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L m ESI II!] 0 . 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-SIDRMS FLURRIES Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 76 44 Chicago 58 Baltimore 58 37 Dallas 81 
[Z] ~ (} b u 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
30 New York 53 42 55 Philadelphia 55 41 46 Phoenix 84 60 62 St. Louis 70 45 36 West Windsor 57 39 

Tuesday, April 16, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Union orders workers to terminate GM strike 
By TIIOMAS SHEERAN 
Assndated Press 
I.OHDSTOWN, Ohio 

Just Wtleks al'ler a crippling strike at two GM parts factorills, production at a giant assllmbly plant stopped Monday after worknrs dllfied their union and walked out to protest the firing of their shop chairman. 
United Auto Workers Local I I 12 told the worknrs to Bnd thn wildcat strike in an order signml by the local's president, Tony Zorw and by the fired shop chairman. ;\I Alii. 
But by IWtming, enough work­t~rs had shown up to run limited production on tlw plant's sec­ond shift, c;M spokeswoman Linda MeGill said. She said she could not say how many work­ers were on the job, but a full shift would have been about l,HOO employees. 
She said tlw plant would have to wail for the next shift at 6:18 lUll. Tunsday to see if that shift would be able to run. 
"We will have to wait and sm~." Md;ill said. 
c;erwral Motors Corp. spoknsrnan Hay Deibel said the union rnemlwrs must return to work, but he wouldn't say wlwtlwr they will bll limd. The company was not talking with tlw union about tlw walkout. 
Ddbtd would not say whether tlw walkout will affect GM's otlwr plants. But since Lord­stown is an assembly plant, the walkout would nul have the same impact as last month's strike at two Dayton. Ohio, brak1~ plants. That 1 H-day strike created parts shortages and shut down much of GM's North American operations before it was setllnd March 22. 
About 1,800 members of Lo­cal 1112 work the first shift and roughly the same number work the second, GM said. The local represents about 5,500 active workers at the plant, which as­sembles Chevrolet Cavaliers and Pontiac Sunfirns. 
Deibel said the workers showed up for their 6:18 a.m. shifts Monday and walked out thrne hours later. 
The Tribune Chronicle of Warren reported that Alii was fired Saturday for improperly docking out. Alii told the news­paper that he clocked out the same way he has for 20 years. 
Deibel said Alii was fired "for improper conduct in the plant. conduct in violation of GM rules that apply to that." 
lie refused to give details but did say it was not related to contract negotiations between GM and Local 1112. 
Alii, the union's lead negotia­tor. has been deadlocked in talks with Lordstown manage­ment over use of outside sources for the manufacture of some parts, an issue that was central to the Dayton strike. Staffing and health and safety issues also were unresolved. 
lie said late last month he was considering whether to au­thorize a strike notification. 
Alii and Zone could not be r1~ached Monday for comment. ;\ woman who answered the phone at the union local said no one was available to talk. 


LEWI· COFF 
9:00PM Lewis Lobby 
• Bagels... • Cookjes..• 

• Read•nas.•• 
• "usjc.•• 
...and of course COFFEE! 

ALL ARE WELCOME! 
TUESDAY, APRIL 16 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Katharine Hepburn, Joan Bennett andFrancis Dee star in 
LITTLE WOMEN 
• ENGLAND 
.Man stands trial for war crimes 
Defendant faces first indictment under 1991 act 
A~sociated Press 
DOHKING 
In Britain's first Nazi war crimes c.ase, an 85-year-old retired carpenter will stand trial on charges or murdering Jews during World War II. 

After a 22-day hearing in­cluding testimony from 20 wit­nesses, magistrate Peter Badge ruled Monday that there is enough evidence to try Szymon Serafimowicz on charges of killing three Jews in his native Belarus in the early 1940s. 
Nicholas Bowers, Serafi­mowicz's lawyer. said his client denies the charges and "has instructed me to prepare a full and vigorous defense." 
The magistrate ordered Serafimowicz, who is free on bail at his home in Banstead, a commuter town southwest of London, to appear at London's Old Bailey court on May 10. 
Serafimowicz, now thin and frail, listened intently to the court proceedings, at times ap­pearing bewildered. His two sons observed from the public gallery. 
Serafimowicz, who came to Britain in 1947 and is now a British citizen, is the first per­son charged under the coun­try's 1991 War Crimes Act. The law gives British authori­ties permission to prosecute people suspected of' war crimes in Germany or German-occupied territories during World War II. Before the 1991 law, Britain had no mechanism for prosecuting Nazi war crimes. 
An estimated 200,000 Jews were killed during World War II in Belarus, then a republic of the Soviet Union. Survivors say Serafimowicz, a district police commander during the Nazi occupation in 1941 and 1942, was responsible for thousands of' th(~ deaths. 
Serafimowicz is charged with killing three unidentified Jews in 1941 and 1942, one 
each in  the  towns  of Mir,  
Krymiczne,  and  Dolma­ 
towszczyzna.  


FBI searches Kaczynski's cabin 
ByBOBANEZ Associated Press 
HELENA, Mont. 

FBI agents searching Un­abomber suspect Theodore Kaczynski's cabin found ad­dresses of corporate executives, maps of San Francisco, bus schedules, guns and a bottle of anti-depressant medicine, ac­cording to an inventory re­leased Monday. 
In a filing released in federal court, the FBI also confirmed published reports of three type­writers found in the cabin, as well as several unspecified doc­uments and notes. 
However, none of the docu­ments were identified as the original text of the Unabomber manifesto. the 35,000-word tract published in The Wash­ington Post last year. A source told The Associated Press last week that agents found what appeared to be the original of the diatribe against modern technology. 
Kaczynski, 53, was arrested at the cabin near Lincoln two weeks ago and is being held on charges of possessing bomb components. He has not been charged with any of the Un­abomber attacks, which killed three people and injured 23. 
In its list, the FBI did not specifically link any of the more than 600 items to the Un­abomber or his crimes and did not even use the word "Unabomber.'' 
One item simply read: "One 'Calumet Baking Powder' can containing soldering wire." Another specified a pair of brown and green hikcing boots with a brand name, Northwest Territory. One entry said "let­ters"; another read simply "documents." 
Dozens of the entries were for chemicals. A pipe bomb was found, as was an "improvised explosive device" in a box, and five guns. Among the weapons were a .25-caliber gun, bolt­action .22-caliber rifle, Hem­ington model .30-06, .22 cal­iber black-handle revolver and a hand-made gun. 
The list doesn't identify the corporate executives or list the addresses. 
A bottle of Trazadone, a pre· scription anti-depressant drug, was found. 
The list also described a hooded jacket, a blue zippered sweatshirt and hood and two pairs of plastic glasses. ;\ wit­ness who saw the Unabomber plant one bomb described him as wearing a hooded sweatshirt and aviator glasses, resulting in the widely circulated sketch. 
The references to San Fran­cisco and to corporate execu­tives were cryptic. The item contained papers, clippings, bus schedules, addresses of corporate officials, and maps. 
concentration in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) is desig faculty and undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting area political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many of our udents go on to further work in law, public policy, and the foundations of litics. 
PPE has three main attractions: 
• 
PPE integrates different approaches to foundational issues in political justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major (and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

• 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members. in courses as well as less formally in advising and conversation (the student/faculty ratio in seminars and colloquia is about 10:1 ); 

• 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves. especially through the justice Seminar. PPE's intensive gateway seminar. 


,...,"...~" year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can call one of PPE's student 
ultants for the inside scoop: Karla Arenas 4-3881 Sheila Moloney 273-5178 Hans Detlefsen 4-0675 Michael Williams 4-4681 
can also contact Professor David O'Connor, the director of PPE, at 1-6226, r O'Connor.2@nd.edu. 
JIONS and further information are available outside Professor O'Connor's ice, 307 Decio, and at the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shag. application deadline is April 18, 1996. 
-----------~--------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April 16, 1996 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
achieving this goal. 
"Colleges and Universities should reach out to make sure those that don't have 

, opportunities get them or, if only for a selfish reason, to create a better, safer society," Moore said. "People earning a decent wage tend not to com­mit crime." O'Rourke criticized affirma­tive action as a weak source. "Minute rights assigned ac­cording to who you are rather than what you do is a recipe for hatred, violence and disas­ter," he claims. "Your attempt­ing to correct one wrong while committing another." In addition to splitting on the political issues confronting so­ciety. both Moore and O'Rourke differ on the impor­tance of political parties. "People do not vote because they are apathetic, but because there are not enough choices," Moore said. "I call our current parties 'Republicrats' because they are basically the same." O'Rourke countered with the idea that the less people that vote, the better the reflection on the state of society. 

Election 
continued from page 1 
Wejman ticket, including Gwynn Murray-Nolan, Maureen Gill, and Jennifer Sessions received 40 percent of the votes. 64 per­cent of Regina Hall residents voted in yesterday's elections. 
"We are thrilled to have the opportunity to serve Regina Hall next year," said Nolan. "We appreciate all the support we received throughout the elec­tion. We're very pleased with the high voter turnout. Now, we start planning to accomplish our goals for next year." 
"We're happy with all the sup­
"Politics should not be very important in our lives. People staying at home is good be­cause that means they have something better to do than vote for morons," O'Rourke said. 
"When everyone is coming out and voting it is a sign that something is wrong. Besides, the main political ideas which govern our society are bad enough without bringing in fringe groups," he added. 
Once again the divide emerged between conservative and liberal beliefs. 
"The more ideas and groups the better," responded Moore. "I would rather the Michigan Militias have a party and two seats in Congress than plan the next Oklahoma City." 
Moore has gained attention for his work as a producer in the film and television indus­tries with such works as the political satire, "Canadian Bacon," and the television newsmagazine "TV Nation." 
O'Rourke is the author of several best sellers including "Parliament of Whores," "Give War a Chance," and "All the Trouble in the World." 
Publications such as Time and The Wall Street Journal have titled him "the funniest writer in America." 
port we received from our class­mates," said Wejman. "We all worked hard and did everything we could. I think Barbara Nolan will do a great job. If they do everything on their platform I will be proud to be a resident of Regina Hall next year." 
"I'd like to congratulate every­one who ran for Hall Council Representatives and congratu­late them on their campaigns," said Riesenberger. "I encourage them to continue to work with RHA." A mandatory meeting for the Holy Cross Hall Council elec­tion candidates will be held tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the Haggar Game Room. 
One person from each inter­ested ticket must attend this meeting. 

Chinese , American A-~ CR£AT Restall:rantand'uALL Cocktail Lounge 
,.. .. Authentic Szechuan, Manderin & Hunan Cuisine 

. Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at __ $4.25 \'oted Be~t
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 OriL"nt.d RL"~t.turant
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
in 1\tichi.tn.t h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
Michiww i\'(111' (next to Randall's Inn) 
Attention College of Business Administration So homores 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to: Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, room 101 College of Business Administration, 
no later than April 19~ 1996. 
If you need more information 

call631-6602. 
• PAKISTAN 

Hospital staff works amid ruins 
By ZAHID HUSSAIN 
Associated Press 
LAHORE 

Doctors and nurses salvaged a few instruments from the ruins of a hospital outpatient clinic and returned to work Monday, a day after a bomb blasted through the waiting area, killing six. 
"We have to stay open for the people," said former Pakistan cricket star Imran Khan, who runs the cancer hospital. He said outpatient services at Shaukat Khanum Memorial Trust Hospital had been shifted to another part of the building and the department reopened. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
in coming together to fund mutual support and to explore common issues within the con­text of this community and the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
• 
The group's right to receive University funds, publicize its meetings and use University facilities for its meetings comes through its advisor(s). 

• 
The vice president for Stu­dent Affairs plays a role in the selection of the advisor(s). 



.Miller and Murray's resolution also called for O'Hara to "issue a written report on these limita­tions and the effectiveness of this group and the Standing Committee as outlined in Recommendation Six in serving the needs of our gay and lesbian community" to the CLC no later than February 1. 1997. 
Following the meeting, Shane Bigelow, District One represen­tative, offered his response to the resolutions submitted for 
THE 

The 11-pound bomb, hidden under a sofa, killed six people Sunday and wounded 20 oth­ers. At least 10 of the injured were listed in critical condition. 
The blast also damaged the hospital's chemotherapy ward, a reception area and parts of the cafeteria. It will take up to three months to repair, Khan said. 
Although investigators have not named suspects, they said they believe the bombing was aimed at Khan, seen as a po­tential political rival to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. 
Analysts say Khan, the popu­lar captain of Pakistan's 1992 World Cup champion cricket team, could pose a real chal­lenge to Bhutto's ruling Pak­istan People's Party as well as to the opposition Muslim League. 
Khan has acknowledged his political ambitions. His said the bomb would not halt his cam­paign against government cor­ruption or derail his plans to unveil his political platform later this month. 
"Those people who feel threatened by me. the bombing was a clear message from them," Khan said. 
Bhutto visited the blast site Sunday, and blamed opposition militants for the attack. 
satisfaction with O'Hara's re­sponse. "It's going to have a reverse effect," he said, "It's going to cause people to look at the gay and lesbian issue and gays and lesbians in a negative manner. It doesn't do anything to solve the problem of the big­otry at this University. As a Catholic university, this needs to be addressed." 


discussion. "I feel that more time has to be taken in order to properly address the situation. We need to delve further into the theologica-l and academic sides of the argument if the new CLC is expected to make a deci­sion that's worthy of the magni­tude that this deserves," he said. 
District Three Representative Mark Leen expressed his dis­
~---~--­
~Smit&-­
4/16/96 

Z>ad' eu«t ~ ~.P~. -1alf!UI. 7~. ~. eu«t~ 









OPY 
HOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
We're open late so your copy order will 
be completed on time! 
Mon.-Thur.: 7:30am to Midnight Fri.: 7:30am to 7:00pm • Sat.: Noon to 6:00pm Sun.: Noon to Midnight 
Most orders delivered by 
9:00 a.m. the next weekday 
Call 631-COPY<631-2679) for Free Pick-Up & Delivery to University Departments 


--• • i . .. • .. • •· .. L_ • • I ~ i_ ::.__ \. ..._ " •.. "-' \ '· .;_ 4. ' ~-f. 1. ~ ~ l ~ \ ' ... • I .. I • •• • • '
I II 1.1 · 

Tuesday, April 16, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
•LIBERIA .lEBANON 
U.S. government reports 20 Americans missing 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

As a five-ship naval group steamed toward Liberia on a still-undefined mission, the State Department said Monday about 20 of the 470 Americans who wnre in the eountry a W!lek ago rnmained unac­counted for. 
SpokBsrnan Glyn Davins said SOm!l of the 20 may have slipped out of the troubled country by means other than tlw evaeuation carried out by Air Foree helicopters that be­gan last week. 
The remaindHr are either content to rnrnain in Liberia or haVfl been prevented by fight­ing from making it to thn em­bassy compound for evacua­tion. 

As of Sunday, 65 helicopter sortins had nvacuated 1,795 peopln from Monrovia, includ­ing 30(J Anwricans. The evac­utws hailed from 64 countries. 
A spokesman for Charles Taylor. a top rebel leader, criti­cized the U.S. airlift. "We do not think that tlw erisis is deep enough to warrant the airlift of people," said the spokesman, Heginald Goodridge. 
Meanwhile, a three-ship am­phibious group aecornpanied by a destroyer and a tanker was heading for waters off the l.ibNian coast where they were to await instructions and to be ready if needed. 
Senior defense officials said there were no plans for an 





0MPUS 
ambitious landing. During a previous Liberian crisis, in 1990, U.S. warships stood by for four months and left with­out intervening. 
Davies said that as of 12 noon Monday, the number of Americans at the U.S. embassy compound was 24 -all U.S. officials. He said 14 Americans had left over the weekend. 
The remaining officials, Davies said, "will continue their work of assuring the safe­ty of American citizens and facilitating their evacuation from Liberia." 
They will also try to help negotiate an end to the fight!. ing. 
Despite dose historical ties to Liberia, Davies suggested the United States does not plan a major initiative in Liberia. But he said it would be wrong to suggest the United States has abandoned liberia. 
"The fact that we're staying in a very dangerous situation is one strong measure of our in­terest and our ties to that na­tion," he said. 
Nigerian Foreign Minister Tom lkimi accused the United States of failing to give enough financial or technical aid to the Nigeria-led peacekeeping forces from West Africa, known as ECOMOG. 
"The United States has now failed because ... the U.S.A. did not give full support to the ef­forts of ECOMOG," Ikirni said. "They did not put at their dis­posal urgently needed re­sources or equipment." 
Happy Birthday Ben! 
"U/«4 LtWe, 
Z'ad, ~, /IHUf, SC<Jtt, 
?ltaa, fl~, ad ~uhee 


MINISTRY Fr. 

Israelis refuse to initiate talks 
By HUSSEIN DAKROUB 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT 
Israeli aircraft and artillery bombarded Hezbollah targets in Beirut and southern Lebanon on Monday in an effort to ratch­et up pressure on Lebanon and Syria to cripple the guerrillas. 
Israel said it was ready to ne­gotiate an end to its 5-day-old offensive, but would not initiate talks. Hezbollah, however, sent more rockets crashing down on northern Israel and claimed to have dozens of suicide bombers ready to attack. 
"Our human bomb brigade is going to concentrate vengeance on Israel. We'll strike at the United States when it directly intervenes against us," said Hezbollah's second-in-com­mand, Sheik Nairn Qassem. 
"We have deployed a shield of suicide bombers in the south ready to devastate any enemy ground force that dares to at­tempt a thrust into south Lebanon. We'll have them an­nihilated," Qassem told the Lebanese Broadcasting Corp. in a televised interview. 
llamas. the Palestinian group whose suicide bombings have Israel reeling, said it has joined the rocketing of northern Israel from Lebanon. A spokesman called on llamas activists in the West Bank and Gaza Strip "to carry out their assigned mis­sitms." 
Seven Lebanese civilians were killed and 20 people were wounded in the Israeli attacks Monday, Lebanese police re­ported. Eight Israelis were slightly wounded by Hezbollah rockets. 
All told, 35 people have been killed and 133 wounded since skirmishes between Hezbollah and Israel ignited into a major Israeli offensive last week. Apart from one Israeli soldier, the dead have all been Lebanese civilians. 
Despite a rush of diplomatic activity, prospects seemed dim for a cease-fire. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher sought ways to end the bloodshed in talks with Lebanese leaders and the for­eign ministers of Israel and Syria, which has 40,000 troops in Lebanon and controls its government. 


Israel hopes the air raids and the hundreds of thousands of fleeing refugees will pressure Lebanon and Syria to disarm the Iranian-backed Hezbollah. For years, the Shiite Muslim guerrillas have attacked Israeli troops and fired rockets at Is­rael to drive Israeli troops from southern Lebanon. 
Apache helicopter gunships fired rockets Monday at the Hezbollah strongholds of Mraije and Bir Hassan in Beirut's southern slums. 
Minutes later, Israeli fighter­bombers hit the Bsaleem power station on the hills overlooking the city, sending flames and black smoke billowing into the sky. 
In southern Lebanon on Mon­day, Israeli jets, helicopter gun­ships and artillery battered sus­pected guerrilla hideouts in communities that have been largely abandoned by residents. 
Guerrillas have fired rockets on Israel from the market town of Nabatiyeh and the southern port city of Tyre, and those dis­tricts have been heavily hit. 
Pillars of black smoke shrouded Nabatiyeh, largely deserted by its 50,000 inhabi­tants, as buildings burned Monday. A Hezbollah-run hos­pital was also hit. 
Israel urged the few people still in Nabatiyeh and 10 vil­lages around it to flee. Four­
• CORRECTION . Composer Libby Larson's name was mis­
spelled in yesterday's edition of The Observer. Larson will receive an honorary doctorate of 
Relationships



seXual Ethics 
with 

Mark Poorman, C.S.C. 

Brina a friend! Brina a da-e! Brina your rooma-e!
~[})fll[f)®lJ 
teen other villages near Tyre received similar warnings. 
The Israeli offensive has dri­ven some 400,000 residents of the south -10 percent of Lebanon's population -from their homes. 
Hezbollah claims it has suf­fered no casualties in the Is­raeli onslaught. There was no way to verify that claim. It was clear that the offensive had failed to curb the attack on northern Israel: Hezbollah fired 90 Katyusha rockets Sunday and unleashed intermittent salvos Monday. 
The Israeli army said several Katyusha barrages hit Galilee on Monday, slightly wounding eight people. One rocket fell outside a synagogue in the bor­der town of Kiryat Shemona. 
Schools and businesses in towns within Katyusha range were closed, and dozens of chil­dren were bused from Na­hariya, an Israeli resort town on the Mediterranean Sea. to central Israel on Monday. Other ~hildren had been evacuated earlier. 
In Nahariya, Prime Minister Shimon Peres said Israel was prepared to talk peace, but would not set talks in motion: Truces with llezbollah that Is­rael has initiated have proven fragile, he said. 
"We didn't turn and will not turn to anyone," Peres said. "On the other hand, if requests are being made to us, we will respond to such requests and consider them." 
Asked what kind of agree­ment would satisfy Israel, Peres replied: "Anything that will guarantee security in the north­ern part of Israel...provided it will really bring back the secu­rity." 
The intensity of the campaign against Hezbollah, while not unprecedented, has been col­ored in part by Peres' desire to prove to Israeli voters before May 29 elections that he is not soft on security. 
Prime Minister Halik Ilariri of Lebanon, who has visited Syria and Egypt in an attmnpt to end the bloodshed, warned in Paris: "If Israel continues its attacks on Lebanon, we can say good­bye to the peace process." 

fine arts at the Saint Mary's Co\lege Commencement ceremony in May. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

Celebrate 
a .friend's birthday 
with 



a special 
Observer ad. 


-----~-----------­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, Aprill6, 1996 
• SOUTH KOREA 
U.S., China offer mediation in peace negotiations 


seek final 
Clinton

approval for the initiative in a meeting with South Korea President Kim Young-sam on this resort island Tuesday morning, Korean time. Discussions about the proposal have been under way quietly for about two months, an offi­cial said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Until now, the United States has insisted that North and South Korea negotiate directly with each other on a perma­nent peace accord to the long.: unsettled Korean conflict. 
North Korea has tried to force the United States into direct ne­
.INDONESIA 

Soldier opens fire in airport 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA 

A gun battle broke out Mon­day when an army lieutenant opened fire in an airport hangar in New Guinea. The military said at least 14 people were killed and 11 wounded. 
The shootings occurred in a region that has been the scene of violence linked to a U.S.­owned copper mine. The army said there was no link between today's incident and the mine. 
A human rights group said the shootings apparently were caused by a dispute between two military units. 
The gunman, identified as a member of the Indonesian spe­cial forces unit known as Kopa­sus, was captured and was be­ing returned to Jakarta. His name was not made public. 
An airport official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 16 people were killed and 15 wounded. 
The official said witnesses re­ported 11 of the dead were sol­diers and five were civilians. The differing casualty reports could not immediately be recon­ciled. The army lieutenant had been escorting the bodies of two soldiers hacked to death Sunday by villagers who accused them of raping two women from a vil­lage near Timika, the airport official said. 
The lieutenant began firing randomly in the hangar, the official said. 
The military statement quoted army chief of staff Lt. Gen. Soeyono as saying "the soldier was believed to be under severe stress." Soeyono said there was no link between the shooting and the copper mines. 
The Legal Aid Institute, a human rights group, said the shooting appeared to be a fight between Indonesian two mili­tary units -local forces keep­ing order in the region and Kopasus. which is seeking the release of hostages held by pro­independence rebels. 
the island attractions and the president replied, "Time will take care of that." 
In their talks at a hotel abut­ting the East China Sea, Clinton also was expected to reaffirm to Kim that the United States is committed to defending the South while urging the North to stop violating the border area. 
About 37,000 U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea. 
During a refueling stop in Alaska en route from Washing­ton, Clinton told reporters he was optimistic about maintain­ing peace on the Korean Penin­sula, which was devastated in the 1950-53 war in which the United States and its U.N. allies backed the South against the North and its Chinese and So­viet defenders. 
The war ended with an armistice instead of a formal peace treaty; the Demilitarized Zone was established to keep the two sides separated. Today, the DMZ is the most heavily for­tified border area in the world. 
"We're working on ways not only to keep the nuclear prob­lem under control and even­tually eliminate it but also to try to do what we can to pro­mote an ultimate reconciliation and an end to the conflict," Clinton said. "If that could hap­pen, then the world would be a much safer place -the whole world." 

The nuclear problem to which Clinton referred was North Korea's attempts to cre­ate a nuclear weapons ca­pability. 
In October 1994 the United States negotiated directly with the North to achieve a deal providing new nuclear power reactors to the North in exchange for its forswearing any nuclear arms ambitions. 
Some believe that by dealing directly with North Korea on the nuclear issue, the Clinton administration may have en­couraged the North's leaders to believe that in creating others crises they could eventually force the United States to nego­tiate a peace treaty to replace the armistice. 
Their aim is to cut out the South, which they regard as a puppet of America. 
Defense Secretary William Perry, at a news conference in Tokyo on Monday, said he told Japanese officials the adminis­tration believes North Korea's staged troop movements inside a sensitive part of the DMZ known as the Joint Security Area were more of a political statement than a sign of im­pending hostilities. 
"I pointed out that I thought this provocation was political in basis, not military -not lead­ing to a military conflict but was intended to try to force the United States into bilateral meetings with the North Kore­ans to try to reach a final peace agreement," Perry said. "This provocation will not be success­ful." 
After sending heavily armed troops into the Joint Security Area on three successive nights, North Korea stopped the incursions one week ago. Last Thursday the U.N. Security Council appealed to North Ko­rea to adhere to the armistice, calling it the only legal instru­ment keeping the peace on the Korean Peninsula. 
Perry said Clinton would reaf­firm to Kim that "a peace agreement on the Korean Peninsula has to be made be­tween the two principal parties -the North and the South." 

By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
CHEJU-DO 

President Clinton will propose unconditional peace talks be­tween North and South Korea with the 
United States and China as participants, 
U.S. officials said. 
The presi­dent was expected to 

gotiations, which would put South Korea into a secondary role. Clinton's initiative is a new diplomatic formula for a peace process. 
Some U.S. officials believe that North Korea staged mili­tary incursions into the Demili­tarized Zone earlier this month after learning about the initia­tive. That way, North Korea could claim the United States was reacting to its move, in a form of concession. 
Clinton has tried to make peacemaking a hallmark of his presidency, boasting of efforts in the Mideast, Haiti, Bosnia and Northern Ireland. Any movement in the 43-year-old Korean stalemate would be an election-year plus for the presi­dent. 
After a 20-hour flight from Washington, Clinton arrived here before dawn. Accompa­nied by his wife, Hillary, the president was greeted by Kim and his wife at a seaside hotel. "We're glad to be here," the president said, complimenting Kim on the beauty of the island in the early morning hours. 
Kim said he hoped Clinton would be able to see more of Tueaday, April 16, 1996 

• RUSSIA 
Germany objects to Trojan gold display 

By DAVE CARPENTER Assnda1cd Press 
MOSCOW 

Hussia unveiled a stunning collection of gold from ancient Troy on Monday -the most dramatic volley yet in its battle with Germany over World War II "trophy" art that had been shrouded in secrecy for a half­century. 
"This show should have 

btHlfl optmed long ago," muso­
um director Irina Antonova 
told a news conference. 
"These an-1 remarkable trea­
surns of the past." 
The Trojan Gold, also known as King Priam's Treasure, was nxcavatcd by a Gorman ama­teur archeologist, Heinrich Sehlil-llTiann, in 1H73 and sent to Berlin. lfr. was eonvinced at the time that it belonged to Priam. king of the city that was featured in Homer's epie. The Iliad. llowever. the hoard -discovered in what is now northwestern Turkey -was later dutermined to date to the Bronw Age and about 2500 B.C., long before Homer. 
The treasure. whieh begins a ymtr-long public showing on Tuesday, had lain in Moscow's Pushkin Museum vaults since the victorious Red Army seooped it up in Berlin in 1945. 
(;!lrmany. embroiled with Moseow in a high-stakes eul­tuml tussle with political and nationalistic implications, voir.od displeasure over the exhibit. 
Ambassador Ernst York von Studnitz said the opening should have been done in cooperation with the Gormans, who still possess the majority -albeit the less glittering ptlrl-of thfl collection. 
"I think it is a step towards 
normalcy that these things 
now, finally. after 50 years in 
hiding, arc surfacing again," 
he said in an interview after 
speaking at the Pushkin Mu­
seum news conference. But, 
he added, "I would not say 
that this is a matter of rejoic­
ing." 
The German Embassy issued 
a statement lamenting that the 
problem has arisen "when 
Gorman-Russian relations are 
especially close and built on 
trust, and when Germany re­
g~rds i~se!r as the best partner 
of Russm. 
Moscow and Germany signed a treaty in 1990 provid· ing for the mutual return of booty seized illegally from each other during World War 
II. But Hussia remains reluc­tant to give back its major treasures, which are not fully eatalogued and are worth bil­lions of dollars. 
The Pushkin stunned the world in 1993 by revealing it had the Trojan treasure. Its show consists of 259 of the most valuable pieees -golden diadems with pendants in the shape of idols, basket-shaped gold earrings, a two-handled golden sauceboat. 
Trying to upstage the ex· hibit, Berlin put 500 objects from the collection on display at the Museum for Pre-and Early llistory on Friday. But von Studnitz aeknowledgod that the Hussian pieces are the "crown jewels." 
Trojan Gold is Russia's fourth major trophy art show and the most sensational yet. Last year, the Hermitage in St. Petersburg displayed hun­dreds of drawings by European Masters and dozens of plundered French paintings, 

The Observer • NEWS page 7 

House debates tax amendment 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
·With an eye toward Election 
Day, House Republicans spent 
Tax Day debating a constitu­
tional amendment that would 
make it much more difficult to 
raise federal taxes. 
GOP leaders had scheduled 
the vote for a few hours before 
the midnight tiling deadline for 
1995 income tax returns. 
Democrats said that was aimed 
at attracting maximum news 
coverage and began a series of 
procedural maneuvers de­
signed to delay the vote as late 
into the night as possible. 
Supporters eoneeded their 
chance of victory was slim but 
said the vote would illustrate 
the difference between 
Democrats and Republicans. 
"The overwhelming majority 
of Hepublicans will vote for it. I 
think it's a question of how 
many Democrats vote for it," 
IIouse Speaker Newt Gingrich, 
~-Ga .. told college students and 
business leaders in Atlanta. 
"Most Americans agree that 
it's too easy for politicians to 
raise their taxes and that we 
need some kind of additional 
protection," he said. 
A two-thirds majority of both the House and Senate is re­quired to send the amendment to the states. For approval. three-fourths of state legisla­tures then would have to ratify it within seven years. 
•THE VAJICAN 

Democrats complained the amendment was being brought to the floor without considera­tion by the House Judiciary Committee, where chairman Henry Hyde, R-Ill., opposes it. And they denounced the pro­posal as a ploy for votes in November. 
"It deserves better treatment in the IIouse than a rush job to meet a politically sexy vote deadline that the majority ad­mits is a matter of symbolism. The Constitution should not be used to make political state­ments," said Hep. David Sk­aggs, D-Colo. 
The amendment requires that any law "to increase the in­ternal revenue by more than a de minimis amount" be ap­proved by two-thirds of the House and Senate. Congress could waive the restrietion for up to two years in the event of a declared war or other major military conflict. 
Opponents, including the Clinton administration and the bipartisan anti-deficit group. The Concord Coalition, argued the amendment would make it harder to close tax loopholes and would cement political gridlock in the budget def'ieit debate. 
Thirty-four senators from 17 states -representing as little as 10 percent of the nation's population -could block a tax increase if the amendment were in the Constitution. 
"A democratic majority rule 
is clearly preferable to rule by 
a minority in determining the 
direction of the nation's fiscal 
policy," Treasury Secretary 
Robert Rubin said in a letter to 
House leaders. 
But supporters said the amendment would prevent what a lead sponsor. Hep. Joe Barton, R-Toxas, called a "tyranny of the majority." 
"You want consensus.... You don't want a slim majority in the heat of the moment taking action that will affect future generations," he said. 
A dozen states require a su­permajority vote of their leg· islatures or voter approval of a tax increase and it's worked well for them, slowing but not preventing tax increases, Barton said. 
About 20 people gathered at a noon rally in Lafayette Park. aeross the street from the White I louse, to support the tax limitation amendment. The third annual "Taxpayer Day of Outrage," was sponsored by Americans for Tax Heform, a conservative organization. 
Meanwhile, Jaek Kemp, hcms­ing secretary in the Bush ad­ministration, and former Delaware Gov. Pete du Pont ap­peared before a Senate Judi­ciary subcommittee to plug the Senate version of the amend­ment.Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, the presumptive GOP presidential nominee, has promised a vote by the end of this month in the Senate. 


Pope revisits Rome synagogue 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II welcomed a Jewish delegation Monday as "dear friends" as he marked the 10th anniversary of his his­toric visit to Rome's synagogue. 

Student Business Board 
e Now taking applications for Assistant General Manager of The Student Business Board. 

e Great on-campus business experience creating financial statements for ND Video and Irish Gardens. 
e Open to all business majors. 
l-Ie told Rome's chief rabbi, Elio Toaff. that the "climate of sincere friendship" established between them is a "sign of hope" for a world searehing for the authentic values of brother­hood. 
The April 13, 1986, visit to the monumental main syna­gogue facing the Tiber !liver, spiritual center of what is be­lieved to be the oldest Jewish community in the West, was the first recorded by a pope to a Jewish house of worship. 
John Paul pledged at the time that the Roman Catholic Chureh would further its efforts to remove all forms of preju­dice and drew particular applause when he referred to Jews as "our elder brothers." 
The pope has spoken out of­ten against anti-Semitism and removed a major thorn in Catholie-Jewish relations when he forged Vatican ties with Is­rael two years ago. 
Toaff welcomed the pope during the 1986 visit, and John Paul returned the courtesy, warmly greeting the rabbi in the pontiff's private library. John Paul said his "feelings of joy" over the return visit were extended both to the Jewish community in Home and the entire world. 








VIEWPOINT 

page 8 Tuesday, April 16, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendecgast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Edicot!Viewpoim 631-4541 Advercising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Depc. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accem/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Learning some tricks of the trade 
Let's say it's a Friday night. Now, you suspect that the safest thing to do is either rent a movie or watch basketball on TV and get wasted with your friends. 
Of course, you could always pretend you have a life, which would necessarily mean some sort of interaction with members of the appropriate sex. At Notre Dame, this evidently concerns that hallowed high school tradition of the dance -the modern sexual game, which necessitates its own peculiar rules for both hopeful parties. 

Matthew Apple 
The first thing to is, naturally, choose a potential partner. This need not con­cern those who already consider them­selves a "couple," as they should know by now that couples have better things to do than hanging around pathetic dances. The key for guys is to make sure you never ask out a woman you know will reject you. 
The most interesting way is to let friends match friends, which usually provides for amusing results for the devious matchmakers. However, this game-within-a-game has its own com­plicated series of rules. For now, let's assume that you have a date. 
The next step is for the man to get a car, and for the woman to expect the guy to get a car. The woman undoubted­ly realizes that a car is totally useless in South Bend, as the only places to go are sports bars and the Mall. But it allows th~ woman to determine the man's opin­ion of his own genitalia, as the relation­ship between reality and imagination are in a direct inverse proportion to the age, stereo system, and paint job of a car. 
For the guys, a word about car stereo 
• Dm.lNESBURY 
GEE, I /}(JNNO ABOIJTTfiE 50LAR. CO/..UCTV!<'3 CON­
V&NT!ON, 5/P. I'Ve 
60T~MANY' RE­
5PON'3!BILJT/Y3 
H/3/?E ... 
music: do not, under any circumstance, play Green Day or Snoop Doggy Dog, or especially Led Zeppelin's H.unes album. Get copies of Enya, Bjork, or anything else you'd never listen to otherwise. 
Of course, you women know that the men only listen to certain groups for the express purpose of attempting to appear sympathetic, and the men know that the women know. Relax. As long as every­one maintains appearances, everything goes according to plan. 
(Of course, if the guy shows up without a car and has the guts to still ask the woman out, the woman will know one of two things: either the guy's parents have no money, or he is a seething cauldron of unrelenting passion, or both. In the last two cases, the rules of the game obviously no longer apply.) 
Okay; now you're in the car, now what? Well, you-both know you can't show up to the social event on time. That would be definitely uncool. In a move of near-desperation (because he has no idea what else to do on a date), the man suggests a movie. The woman agrees, and suggests the Snite. This will allow her to further test the man's abil­ity to bow before her every desire to get what they both know they want. 
He reluctantly agrees and tries to be enthusiastic, and is rewarded when he realizes the Snite is instead of an artsy, real movie showing a mega-blockbuster such as, say, Braveheart. 
It couldn't be better: he gets blood and gore and that amazingly American nationalistic feeling for another country without studying any history, and she gets drippy melodramatic romance scenes that would make the average man want to choke a dog but which she thinks will make the man more re­sponsive to her needs as a woman. 
What's more, the theater is packed with couples who look just like each other, with the women all dressed up and the men wearing t-shirts and NO baseball caps. Now, the important part of any movie date is knowing how to act like the other party expects you to act. 


HOL-Y MOL-Y... JlET 
7H!NI<.IA/HAT I OJU!.P PO IAI/TH 7HATMON£Y.1 I OJU!.PHElPFUNP 
'31</N CANCER 
~/ 
For women, this means sighing at the kissy kissy scenes, as if they can't imag­ine anything more romantic than a grubby aging Australian actor treating them like a French princess. This also means the women must show outward disapproval of the gory bits, or at least let out a few "icks" to allow the men next to them to feel all manly and pro­tecting. 
For the men, this means tolerating the kissy kissy stuff, maybe even using it as an excuse for physical contact by trying to get the women to lean their heads on the men's shoulders (a tried and true method, obviously). 
During the bloody fight scenes, the men are required to bellow "cool" or "gross" (in the good sense). or even "awesome" if they get carried away, fully expecting the women to show some sort of revulsion. In fact, if a woman doesn't respond the expected way, or even appears to enjoy a good hack and slash, the man can generally assume her to be a tomboy or , heaven forbid, a dyke. 
Remember, ladies, there's nothing more frightening to a guy that the prospect of a woman being his equal or better. Act appropriately and you will be rewarded with dog-like affection and the chance to act motherly. 
In other words, this ritual requires a mutual application of shallowness. Additional tips for would-be sensitive men: during movie scenes of possible tragedy, cough instead of cry (don't worry; all the guys will be doing this, which, excepting the lack of cheap cig­ars and loafers, will make them sound like a room of grandfathers); and make sure to laugh at the hokey points in the movie which were designed for a laugh track. 
Not laughing at these crucial moments will make it look like you're either not really watching the movie or you have a strange sense of humor (the former the woman knows anyway but pretends not to, and the latter will brand you with the indelible label of "weird.") 
YOUOJU!.P INPEa?-' IT'IJBCA 
MA6NI­
f!U3NT 6CGTUR&1 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
OR KEeP fTI IcaJW !<&£PIT 
fORMYSEI.F! 
I 


After the movie, make sure to vacate the theater immediately, as this will show the other party that you really only have them in mind and not the movie. You can then proceed to the dance, which will most likely be as lame as you all know it will be, or head directly to the room of the woman's choice. And after the brief conclusion of the sordid affair (which, as both parties are repressed Catholics in an even more repressive Catholic environment, will generally be a 5 minute slam session that both will think romantic). the man promises to call on Sunday, the woman believes him, and they both ignore each other from that point on, occasionally passing on a random sidewalk and averting their eyes or saying a noncom­mittal "hey." 
Or, if in the event of mutual de­sire/need/masochism, the two decide to stick it out, after four years they turn into a somewhat happily married Mom and Dad. And to think, you won't even have to go see Sense and Sensibility, after all. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame who thought TV Nation was the best show on television since Monty Python in early 
'70s.  Your  thoughts  at  
matthew. t. apple.l@nd. edu  or  
http://www. nd. edu/-mapple .  

• QUOTE OF THE DtW 
"If you steal from one 
author, it's plagiarism; if you steal from many, it's research." 
-Wilson Mizner 

~ -----------------~----------­

VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, April 16, 1996 page 9 
• MAY THE fORCE BE WITH You 
College years give seniors chance to relive prom experiences 
Ah, the prom. Cummerbund-bedecked boys. Corsage­sober when filled with alcoholic substances. toting girls. Couples grinding in slow motion to Los Del Thankfully, this time around, most of us learned to Sol's "Macarnna." Making-out in Dad's Oldsmobile to avoid certain tacky prom behavior, like drinking put the finishing touch on the event. Purple Passion in excess or putting fresh flowers in our 
OK. I'm not sure about the last one. Hecent movies hair. As beautiful as that look was in 1968! such as Dead Man Walking have shown us this might Still, attending high school prom teaches one some not be a good idea. But then important lessons. And prepares 
again, how smart is going to the prom in the first place? I remember prom as an April evening of yore reserved for a dis­
Kara

gruntlml date, tasteless food and a had deejay. Flashback: Senior Prom. 1992. 
Pavlik 

Tlwre I am at "Midnight Masqtwrade" in a bright green polka-dot drtlSS trimmed at the 
hem with rosettes. Stunning. After jamming wilh Donny llerzog to poignant songs like "ll's the End of the World as We Know It" by H.E.M., it's off to the Econo Lodge with 50 of my closest fritmds. The romance in this evening came with Donny choking-up after I refused his advances. Looking back, I think I rnissml out on something special. Not! 
Anyway, if there's a lesson to be learned out of this it's rwver end a date at the Econo Lodge. A bit of infor­mation I took into account when planning my last prom of sorts, Saint Mary's Senior formal. 
In theory, last Saturday's formal held at the Century Ctlnter had much in common with many high school proms. Many Suint Mary's seniors still agonized over selecting a date, choosing what to wear and how to act 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
people, especially men, for sequel events to come --like the all­important Senior Formal. 
Keep in mind that a prom is like to Senior Formal as a regular NFL game is to the Super bowl. One prepares you for the other, but the latter is twice as sweet. 
With this said, it's quite evident that men learn to behave at cer­
tain "formal" events because of evolution. And this is why prom is so important. Prom promotes a process of continued etiquette training, that if successful, culminates at future college func­tions. Note: I'm talking about formal events here. Obviously, this never includes the SYR. 
Several observations from Senior Formal suggest that most men learned something from high school prom: 
1. Dressing-up in formal attire has its perks. Men have learned that when they dress-up beauty will deliver --deliver gorgeous pictures that is. And dress-. ing-up can rekindle some first-date jitters; for few of us initially recognize our dates in formal attire. 
2. People are discriminated against if they don't bring spirits. Enough said. And except for certain senior men living in LaFayette Square, most have learned to come with red wine instead of warm Busch Light. 

3. Eating in public with a minimum of three forks requires confidence. I overheard one man say that in high school he nearly lost his dinner struggling with the decision of what fork to use. His prom experience made him aware that sometimes more than one fork is present on a table. As for last Saturday night? Well, he was prepared for the utensils --even saving the fork on top of his plate for desert! 
And it's only fair to add that many Saint Mary's seniors wouldn't have paid $80 plus to attend last Saturday's gala event had they not wished to make amends for past prom errors of their own. As for myself? I'm proud to say this time I took an emotional­ly stable date (I think), went in a simple black dress and ended the evening with friends at home instead of opting for the Econo Lodge. 
Today my head is held high just knowing I've made vast improvements in the way I go about attending for­mal events. 
By the way, if you get the urge to bad-mouth your high school prom, don't. You've got to learn to take any negative prom memories in stride. Since prom is not the last formal event that most of us attend, we might as well suck it up and build upon past prom attending mistakes. 
Certainly I had nothing to lose. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at pavl7087@jade.saintmarys.edu 

'I didn't want to' 

Dear Editor: 
Too often these words are spoken by somAone who has been torn down, degraded, and scarred. A pllrson who has been sexually ussaultlld. 
Rapo is not just a crime that tor­tures u person's body, it is one that shutters it's victim's life, leaving them with vivid and puinful memo­ries of violation and often takes away the ability to trust. Unfortunately, this is also the crime that our society most often hides from, sweeping it under the rug ber.ause it is too gruesome to look ut. 
The problem of rape does not belong to just one group. One in three women and one in ten men will be sexually assaulted in their lifetime. This means you probably know someone who has or will oxperience this trauma. It could be your mother, daughter, sister, brother, or son. It could be you. 
For these reasons, we the mem­bers of' Campus Alliance for Hape Elimination (C.A.Il.E.J. are sponsor­Ing Stlxual Assault Awareness Week, to bo hold April 14-19. The week will begin with the annual "Takll Hack the Night" man~h. 
CAlLE. joined by "Safewalk" will begin the march at the War Mernoriul, walk to the grotto for a prayer sBrviee, and then walk ovor to Saint Mary's. Candles will be providfld. The purpose of this mardi is to send the message that pflople have the right to walk at night without f1mr of attack. 
Other ovents include speakers from Antioch College, as well as oth­ers who have worked with survivors of sAxwtl assault, and an interactive piny dealing with date rape to be ptwformed by members of the Notrtl Dame/Saint Mary's community. 
We believe that thll best way to stop this erinw is to edueate people about it's implications. Hownver, Wfl cannot do this alone. We need your support. Together, we will make a dill'tmmco. 
THE MEMBERS OF CAMPUS ALLIANCE FOR RAPE EDUCATION 

Homosexuality pervades intellectual discourse 
Dear Editor: 
Four years ago I introduced for the first time a new course to the curricu­lum: "OutSpoken Headings: Questions of Homosexuality in Literature," a course that I plan to teach again next semester. Like today, the Fall of 1993 was a diffi­cult time to talk about homosexuality on this campus. As a matter of fact, I chose deliberately this title to protect students who wanted to take this course but, for personal reasons and because of societal attitudes towards homosexuality, prefer to have the second half of the "homosex­ual" title omitted from their transcript. The course was conceived as a way to approach intellectually the issue of homosexuality, and to call-attention to hitherto neglected fields of study. I also wanted to raise consciousness, create a space for dialogue where gay and les­bian students could relate to experi­ences they share, and to expose straight students to issues that are not often dis­cussed in the traditional classroom -or outside. 
The course continues to be necessary for many of the same reasons I intro­duced it. Such a course breaks the con­spiratorial silence that has traditionally surrounded this topic in literary analy­sis. For political reasons, there has been a subtle effort to obliterate the gay literary tradition because of the resis­tance within academia to dealing with topics that threaten to disrupt the struc­tures and values of the system. The exposure of a gay or lesbian content not only challenges the deeply ingrained cultural pressure to silence homosexual­ity, but what is equally important, it ren­ders explicit the homophobic and het­eroscxist bias in literary analysis. Hereading the canon candidly and unabashedly from a gay ·and lesbian perspective inevitably exposes the dis­torting homophobic forces that lie behind the liberal facade of the academ­ic world. The potential gay and lesbian studies have to generate new meanings and correct the bowdlerized past is not fully recognized yet. It can enrich a given text, a given painting or musical composition by adding new meaning and new interpretations to already existing ones, and as it does so, it rein­terprets literary conventions. 
Examining the works of some overt or covert homosexual writers helps also to see how certain "universal" formula­tions depend upon a denial or sublima­tion of the implicit homosexual content of a text, thus demonstrating that "uni­versality" very often depends on the bias of the heterosexual critic or the way in which the author has succeeded in encoding its homosexual motifs through pronoun swapping or through other more subtle means of obfuscation. The effort to heterosexualise homosexual writers has been most evident in the tendency to leave out love rel(\tions between men or between women that were the source of inspiration behind some of their works. The Jist of the texts we study from this perspective is too long to be included here. It is a serious omission if one remembers that homo­sexuality, as a way of being in the mod­ern world "can influence completely a person's life and shape its meaning and direction" (Grahan), not because of any inherent peculiarities in homosexual identity, but because of what society has made of it. 
The course has also become a much needed meeting place on this campus, a place free from the cordon sanitaire and the supervision "big mum" wants to impose on us, her "misbehaving" kids, an occasion to bring into discussion, together with other intellectually inter­ested students, human realities misun­derstood and conceived in terms of cate­gories and stereotypes. There are some texts that address more immediately and precisely the psychic and emotional the needs of the gay and lesbian reader, and when one considers the fact that gays and lesbians have grown up with­out significant contemporary or histori­cal role models except the negative stereotypes the media and the popular mind has for centuries kept alive, the need to read not for art's sake but for life's sake becomes an urgent one. What this prejudice contributes to is the perpetuation of bias, ridicule, and self­hatred. Needless to say, nobody gains from it. Although the curricula of some universities have made changes to meet the needs of their gay and lesbian stu­dents, or of the untroubled student interested in the subject from a human or intellectual point, we at Notre Dame still have a long way to go in identifying and effectively addressing these needs. The benefits of examining the works of some overt and covert homosexual writ­ers go beyond the merely literary. It offers the opportunity to expose social and political myths at the same time as it explores the problem of authenticity and sincerity. 
Homosexual art, contrary to what a deep-seated homophobic tradition has taught us, is by no means devoid of insight into heterosexual life, out of which milieu it grows and whose notions it imitates and even repeats. The con­flict between the instinctive nature of individuals and social taboos, issues of social and personal identity, the spiritu­al crisis that its search can provoke, the need to love, love as an existential prob­lem, the lack of sensibility in a world that crashes innocence and vulnerabili­ty ... all of these are issues inextricably interwoven in some of the texts we ana­lyze in class. And this is a salutary reac­tion I have heard repeatedly from stu­dents who do not necessarily partake in the intimacies evoked in some of these gay texts. 

Overcoming the prejudices that our educational system and society has per­petuated when dealing with homosexu­ality is not an easy task, even in the 1990's. Moreover, there are fears of identification among some students, especially male straight students. This is not the case, however, with straight women, who have made up over 50 per­cent of the class in the past. It is also a course fraught with susceptibilities, although, I am glad to say, by mid­semester the atmosphere established in the class is so relaxed that the original fear of offending someone is easily over­come due to the common understanding that class discussion promotes. So, what was once conceived as peccatum illud horribile, inter christianos non nomina­tum, (that abominable sin not to be named among Christians), after three or four weeks into the semester the "sin" cannot shut itself up. And what is most surprising is that in spite of this lack of reticence, the world continues to roll on, unconcerned about the intellectual dis­cussion that goes on in the class. But these few difficulties are insignificant compared with the rewards I get from influencing people in their perception of a human reality they will inevitably encounter in the real world, whether in their dealings with friends, colleagues, family or even in the development of their own sexuality. More than in any other course, students thank me for what they have learned, because it has helped them perceive disparities between various truths and their claims, how to affirm one's own individuality without erasing another's. And this is something I have duly seen, among other proofs of it, in the congeniality that the class participants demonstrate, which is something else that makes this course a pleasure to teach. One broad­ens one's self understanding and deep­ens one's understanding of other people, facilitating at the same time an intellec­tual debate that does enhance the possi­bility to alter socially unhealthy situa­tions. I can achieve this by assigning the reading of some of the greatest writers of the Western tradition; it is a step towards human liberation. 
CARLOS JEREZ-FARRAN 
Associate Professor of Romance Lmguages 
ACCE,NT

page 10 Tuesday, Aprill6, 1996 
OVELESKI STADIUM 

TAKE ME OUT TO THE BALL GAME 
By MELANIE WATERS Assistant Accent Editor 
A
re you tired of getting your professional baseball fix on ESPNet? Frustrated that your favorite team is hundreds of miles away? Do you find yourself driving to Chicago in search of hardball adventures? Your quest for baseball satisfaction need not go further than Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium, home of the South Bend Silver Hawks. 
While most Darners have probably experienced a taste of Coveleski, many have not looked past their Friday night formals in the Upper Deck press box. The view of the field at night is spectacular, but Coveleski really comes alive from April to September with the Class A Silver Hawks. A minor league affiliate of the Chicago White Sox, the Hawks bring exciting baseball action to South Bend as they battle other teams in the Midwest League. 
According to Julie Magrane, Assistant General Manager of Promotions and Marketing, the Silver Hawks are the perfect solution to college-student bore­dom with the social offerings of South Bend. Magrane said that much of the entertainment comes between innings, with events such as crowd-participation sumo wrestling. 
"It's all the entertainment of Coach's or other sports bars, but it's outside and it's exciting ...that's the magic of it," Magrane said. For the true sporting even enthu­siast, there's always the refreshment offerings to con­sider, which Magrane pointed out are "cheaper than any bar around here!" 
As a minor league affiliate of the Sox, the Silver Hawks are a great place to look for a glimpse at the future of professional baseball. Two promising players 

The Silver Hawks welcome fans to Coveleski Stadium on opening day, April 5, 1996.
hail directly from Notre Dame's baseball program, with Ryan Topham and Tim Kraus recently joining the look into vending and concession opportunities, espe­will be in the vicinity this summer, don't miss the Hawks. The same is true for many of the "farm cially those-with lungs of steel who can scream "Famous Chicken" on June 26 or the Blues Brothers teams" in the Midwest League, which feature upcom­"BEEEEEEEEEER HEEEEEERE!" incessantly for sev­on July 14. Fan appreciation days are August 30 and 

ing players who 

eral hours at a time. 31, giving students the perfect motivation to check outoften work their If you can't get to Wrigley or Comiskey, or you some of NO's own as the Hawks finish their home sea­way up the minor missed out on tickets at Jacobs Field, then you son against the Michigan Battle Cats. 
league ladder 

might be interested in some of the Much cheaper than aand eventually 
upcoming events at Coveleski 
S 0 ut h 8 e n d movie and with better hot 
sign in the Stadium. For a much needed dogs than the dining hall,

majors. 

break before finals, the May 3 the Cove is the perfect place 
In addition to 

game against the West Michigan to take a date, or several
low-priced and 

Whitecaps features a once-in-a­dates, or a bunch of bud­
high quality 

lifetime opportunity for fans to see dies, or all of the above. 
entertainment, 

the "E Team" -E as in Elvis, of General admission tickets the Silver Hawks course; but these are no ordinary are only $4, with the bestorganization also Elvises, as they will skydive their seats in the house, Club
has something 

way onto the field in a truly...inter­Boxes, costing only $7. 
more important 

esting spectacle. Ticket information and 
to offer college 

If Elvis and baseball just don't availability can be found by
students: poten­

photo courtesy of the South Bend Silver Hawks mix for you, other early May promotions include calling 235-9988. Magrane hopes that the Hawks will 
tial jobs. 

a batting glove giveaway on May 4 vs. the Quad draw close to 300,000 fans this year, so stop gripingAccording to Magrane, the Silver Hawks do sponsor an City River Bandits, or the Mother's Day/Diamond about the South Bend social scene and flock on downinternship program, and currently employ two Notre Giveaway sponsored by Zales as the Hawks take on the to the Cove to catch the Silver Hawks in action. 
Dame students. Enterprising entrepreneurs might also 
Fort Wayne Wizards on May 12. For those of you who 



By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor ALLISON KOENIG News Writer 
R
emember recess in grade school? Hopscotch, jump-rope, boys chase girls. It was the best part of the day. even better than snack-time or show and tell. 
Volunteers from the English Department will be providing the Saint Mary's campus with recess periods this week. There won't be hopscotch or freezetag, but they will come as a wel­comed break from normal day to day activity. 
"Random Acts of Poetry" will consist of poems read aloud by English majors who will be popping into all sorts of places on campus this week. Whether it be classroOlllS, lounges, offices, resi­dence halls or lunch rooms, the "recess" times should prove to be a fun enter­prise. 
Beginning tomorrow, this first time event will include a range of poetry from famous poets to works from the students themselves. 
'"Random Acts of Poetry' is a great opportunity for writers on campus to share their work and for students to become mote aware of the beauties found within," said English writing major Jennifer Lewis. 
"Random Acts of Poetry" is the initial event coordinated at Saint Mary's to cel­ebrate National Poetry Month . "This event is important because poetry tends to be thought of as something few peo­ple do, when in actuality it is something that is inside all of us and is part of a national enterprise that should be cele­brated everyday, not just one day or one month," said Saint Mary's English Professor Max Westler. 
The volunteers hope to break up the general monotony of the next few days, and even provide a quick series of stress relievers as the end of the semes­ter stress begins to build. 

The students are planning their ran­dom acts for places such as the balcony of Haggar College Center during a pass­ing period, teachers' lounges during the lunch hour, residence hall lobbies, and even a visit to Dr. Hickey's office. 
Enthralling poems such as William Carlos Williams' "The Red Wheelbarrow" are some of the selec­tions. 
so much depends 
upon 
a red wheel 
barrow 
glazed with rain 
water 
beside the white 
chickens. 
"Peggy Lenczewski's rendition of 'Oh Captain, My Captain' on top of our English professor's desk today was real­ly a unique, fun break," said junior English Literature major Stephanie Buek about one of the first acts of the week. "I think that 'Random Acts of Poetry' is a great way to promote National Poetry Month as well as the English department," she added. 

All students planning to be on the Saint Mary's campus this week should keep their eyes peeled for the poetry in progress. If all the volunteers take Lenczewski's desk climbing initiative, they should not be hard to miss. 
Enjoy the brief recesses wherever, whenever you can. The "Random Acts of Poetry" aren't freezetag, but then again, we aren't in grade school any­more. 
No student or place will be safe from these "random acts of poetry" as swat teams of students team up to live the words of poets past. 

ACCENT

Tuesday, April 16, 1996 
page II 


By MELANIE WATERS 
Assisram A(ccnt Ediror 
F
orget about visions of Agatha Christie and Sherlock Jlolnws. This week at Washington Hall, audiences will have the opportunity to experience Christ's Passion: Medieval Mystery Plays, giving a whole new meaning to the term "mystery" in drama. 
Dirtlcted by Notre Dame Communications and Theater llnpartnwnt Chair Dr. Mark Pilkinton. tlw plays are a combina­tion of several medieval cycle dra­mas, also 1:alled "mysl!lry plays." Tlw plays are designnd to give modern audiences a glimpse at the way Bihhl storillS wenl Lold during tlw Middle Ages. 
l,.rom tlw 14th to the 1f1th centu­ry, r.ydl'. dramas Wl'rn performed for entinl eommunilillS in order to nl-affirm tlwir faith and to share Christ's nwssage for salvation with the largely illiteraltl population of tlw time. Tlw play would begin with tlw Crtmtion story and end with Doomsday, lumen the term adaptation of the Mystery Plays, Pilkinton combines portions of three extant English cycles, Chester, N-Town, and Wakefield, as well as sources from the little-known, non-English Cornish cycle. His pro­duction features the stories of Creation and the Fall of Lucifer, as well as the Fall of Humanity through Adam and Eve, Noah's Ark, Advent, The Crucifixion, The Harrowing of Hell, The Hesurrection and Ascension, and Doomsday. 

Pilkinton said that over 84 

• World Wide Web Site of The Week 
Love Tips from Cyberspace 

By JASON HUGGINS World Widr Wch Corrr>pondrnr 
S
pring is here and so is the Spring Formal, the last big dance before finals and the IHJd of the school year. It's also your last opportunity to ask out that special someone you've been lusting after all semester. But, how do you ensure you'll luck out-that you'll get that date and have a great time, too? 
Well, just because you don't have all the answers doesn't mean you have to give up all hope. With the help of your trusty World Wide Web browser and sonw time to kill, you can find almost all the adviee you need on tlw net, without having to go see Dr. Buth. In the quest for cheap love adviee, I took to the Internet and scoured the web at "Search.com" lhttp://www.search.com) for dat­ing tips. While most of the stuff I found was garbage, I was able to find two useful sitllS. 
First. I found the "Official lloplllllss Homantil:s llome Page" (http://www. prinwnnt. eom/-nj one s/hrhonw.htrnl), featuring the best of thn alt.romanee newsgroup with additional eommentary by thn author, Erie Jones, a romantic hobbyist. llopelnss Homantics fea­tures visitor-submitted love 
"cycle drama." Medieval pro­ductions of these plays could t;:::::~l:a'l~:""'oo""''
last for more than three days, ......,,.....__ 
with each craft guild of the town responsible for a different portion of the cycle. The title of .......,.,,,_,_,. 
"mystery" play, which might mislead modern audiences, stems from the use of the term mystery to describe these differ­ent guilds. which were part sec­ular trade union and part reli­gious fraternity. Mystery plays refer to the guilds involved, and not to the actual content of the plays.
While the original productions ~ii2~~~::...--3iliiii~A'i~:..;:,_..J 
of these dramas could last for up to three days, Pilkinton has "dis­tilled a great amount of material into a 'taste' of this vital form of theater." lie believes that the pro­duction appeals to modern audi­enees because the content is still timely. "The plays speak to issues that people will find very relevant now," Pilkinton said. 
The drama is built around the conflict between Jleaven and Hell, with earth as the battleground 
where Good meets Evil. In his 
poems, stories of romantic encounters, and information on many topics, ranging from first date and gift ideas to how to give massages. 
The site explains the hidden meanings of flowers, and teaches you the different ways to say "I love you" in dozens of languages. llopeless Homantics even has a list of cheesy pick-up lines, including my personal favorite: "Do you believe in love at first sight or should I walk by again?" The real value of this page, ho.w­ever, is all the free advice. You're advised on the importance of body language, and given humor­ous advice on what not to do on the first date with tips like, "Avoid calling your date 'stupid' unless absolutely necessary." 
The second web page I found was created by romance expert Greg Godek, entitled "The World of Homance." Godek is the author of five books on love and relation­ships, and is a featured speaker, appearing on such popular shows as "The Oprah Winfrey Show" and "Donahue". ·He has a plethora of insightful love advice. However, Godek stresses. "what people need is a practical book tilled with specific advice," not another "cute" book on love. 
Godek has included large excerpts of his books on the web students are involved in the pro­duction, from actors to stage crew to costume and lighting design. "Visually, it's just stunning," Pilkinton said, referring to the breathtaking set that depicts Heaven, Hell, and Earth with daz­zling lighting effects and powerful imagery. The center of the stage features a large revolving wooden platform, where the action on Earth takes place under the scruti­ny of both God and Lucifer. 
Pilkinton's work assures today's audiences that the style and mes­sage of these Medieval dramas survives in the 20th century. Christ's Passion: Medieval Mystery Plays opens tomorrow and plays through Sunday, April 21. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or can be purchased by calling 631-8128. Tickets are $8 for general admission, $7 for senior citizens, and $6 for stu­dents. Evening performances begin at 8 p.m., and the Sunday matinee starts at 2:30p.m. 
site, but also has included many other useful resources, including a fairly long list of other romance­related links on the Internet for further reading. 
Godek's advice is pretty straight-forward stuff presented in an easy-to-follow manner. You can heed such flirting tips as "Be funny! Be witty!" or follow Godek's lead on practicing romance. an artform which he calls "the demonstration of a per­fect emotion." His theory is that romance is the balance of two concepts: "Action speaks louder than words" and "It's the thought that counts." 
"Hopeless Homantics" and "The World of Homance," are conve­nient sources of love advice for you and your soon to be (or not be) significant other. If you have some time to blow at the comput­er lab this week between trips to the mall and the hair salon and the flower shop, I highly encour­age you to check these sites out. 
Jason is a sophomore MIS major from Thousand Oaks. CA. currently living in Keenan Hall. E-mail him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd.edu or check him out at http://www. nd. edu/-jhuggin 1 

• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Knocking Out Knee Problems 
By LIZA NYKIEL 

Accent Medical Correspondent 
S
o there you are. playing bookstore on a glorious South Bend afternoon, pulling up for a beautiful 
jump shot in front of all your adoring fans, and 
just as the net makes that beautiful whoosh as the 
ball falls through, you feel a lightning bolt of a pain 
shoot through your knee. Next thing you know, 
you're rushed ofl'to Memorial by Notre Dame Security 
(slightly excited that you'll finally appear in the 
Security Beat in the next day's paper) and end up on 
crutches for a week. This scenario is all too common 
now that the weather is warming up. As the student 
body ventures out onto the basketball courts, soccer 
fields and running paths, weak knees respond in quilt) 
an unfriendly manner. 
An estimated 50 million people have suffered knee 
pain or injury, ranging from sprains, torn cartilagt) or 
even torn ligaments. It's no wonder that there are so 
many injuries to the knee joint since it wasn't 
designed to handle the stresses we inf1lct upon it. 
According to Dr. James Fox, knees were not meant to 
play football or soccer, nor are they equipped for 
squatting or kneeling all day as the knees of a car­
penter or a plumber endure. So if you're one of the 
countless felons of knee abuse, here are a few things 
you can do to make amends. 
The first suggestion that Dr. Fox makes is, in 
essence, to take a load off. For every pound you 
weigh, that's multiplied by about six in stress placed 
across the knee area. Therefore, if you're ten pounds 
overweight, that's an extra sixty pounds your knee 
has to carry around. It's something like putting a 
Mack truck on Volkswagen tires. 
Following any activity that causes knee pain, imme­diately rest the area and apply ice, compression and elevation (RICE). Ice can do wonders for reducing inflammation, helping you to regain some of your mobility. For relief of knee pain, sometimes winter­green lotions produce soothing heat. Keeping in mind ·that such lotions are only temporary relief of symp­toms, oftentimes applying them and then wrapping the knee can be quite relaxing. Care must be taken when wrapping the knee after applying such oint­
ments, as they can burn or irritate sensitive skin. 
When it comes to using heat for pain relief, be cau­
tious. When there is no swelling present, using a heat 
pad before exercise can let you be active with less 
pain. Don't use heat after you've done an activity, for 
heat will only irritate the joint already irritated by the 
exercise. For relief of the pain and inflammation that 
often occurs with knee injuries. reach for an over-the­
counter painkiller. Ibuprofen, found in Advil or 
Nuprin, can reduce the inflammation without causing 
the stomach problems that aspirin can cause (do I 
sound like a commercial yet?). necent studies have 
also shown that Ibuprofen can significantly improve 
joint mobility in those people with acute knee liga­
ment damage. 

Once a knee injury has been inflicted, the next best 
tWng to do is to strengthen the joint with exercise. 
The only thing holding the knee together are the mus· 
cles and ligaments, therefore it is essential that you 
build up strong quadriceps and hamstring muscles to 
support the joint. Keep in mind that care must be 
taken when exercising an injured knee. If pain is 
experienced, then stop. God gave us pain for a rea­
son. Stretching, warming up and cooling down are 
also very important and often extend the time you can 
spend at your favorite sport when you're old and 
gray. Be sure to update your athletic shoes as well. 
If the shock of your activity is not being absorbed 
partly by your shoes, it's got to be absorbed some­
where, and the knee joint is the perfect release valve. 
As for knee braces, buyer beware. Some braces are 
meant to be preventive, and can often be very com­
plex and designed strictly for you, but these types of 
braces often run anywhere from $300 to $1000. The 
wraps and lycra braces that can be purchased in 
sporting good stores often don't do much good and 
can even be harmful. The majority of store-bought 
braces try to protect the knee by pushing the kneecap 
into the joint, something which not all knee injuries 
need. 

Liza Nykiel is afourth year science student at Notre Dame. 
I 
I I I ·I I 
I 
I I I I I 
... 
.... 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 16, 1996 
• 100nt BOSTON MARATHON 
Pained Pippig, upstart Tanui capture historic Boston wins 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Weakened by an upset stomach and menstrual cramps, two-time defending champion Uta Pippig kept falling farther and farther behind in Monday's tOOth Boston Marathon. 
She almost dropped out after four miles and even after 24 it seemed as if maybe she should have. But Pippig, a heavy favorite to capture a third straight title, overcame a 30-second deficit with 2.2 miles to go and won by 1 minute, 25 seconds. 
"I felt not nice," the 30-year-old German said. "I was thinking several times to drop out because it hurt so much. But in the end, I'm OK because I won." 
Moses Tanui pulled away from three-time defending champion Cosmas Ndeti at the end of Heartbreak Hill and led a sweep in which Kenyans finished 1-2-3 and captured seven of the top eight spots. He finished in 2:09:16, 10 seconds ahead of Ezekiel Bitok. Ndeti was third in 2:09:51. 
"We feel that was the start of the race," said Tanui, who cramped on the 187-foot hill between the 20th and 21st mile last year last year and placed second to Ndeti by a minute. 
They call the climb Heartbreak Hill because it can spoil the dreams of pretenders who think the course's worst is behind them. But Ndeti refused to be heartbroken. 
''I'm not disappointed. Losing is not a big shock," he said after failing in his effort for an unprecedented fourth consecutive Boston Marathon crown. "I can still say I am the best because I hold the course record and I won here three times in a row." 
This was the sixth straight year a Kenyan man has won in Boston. Kenya used this race for its Olympic trials. Tanui said he would skip the marathon at Atlanta in favor of the 10,000-meter run. 
Pippig, who blew kisses to the crowd in her first two victories, hammed for the cameras with a mile to go before the finish in Copley Square. She was timed in 2 hours, 27 minutes and 12 seconds, short of her course record of 2:21:45 set in 1994. 
Tegla Loroupe of. Kenya was second among the women in 2:28:37, followed by Nobuko Fujimura of Japan in 2:29:24. 
A 61-year-old Swedish man, among the record field of 38,706 runners, died of an apparent heart attack after finishing the 26.2-mile race. 
Kevin Collins of Cicero, N.Y., was the top U.S. finisher, in 31st with an unofficial time of 
2:18:54. Sharon Stuhler of Minnetonka, Minn., also finished 31st, timed unofficially at 2:42:34 to lead U.S. women. 
Jean Driscoll of Champaign, Ill., won an unprecedented seventh consecutive wheelchair race, and Heinz Frei of Switzerland took the men's wheelchair division. 
• MEN'S GOLF 

Season ends on sour note for linksters 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Sports Writer 

A last place finish in the weekend's Legends of Indiana Intercollegiate has ended the Notre Dame mens golf team's post season hopes. Prior to finishing eighteenth in Friday and Saturday's strong field, the Irish linksters had held a legitimate shot at qualifying for the NCAA tournament. 
Although one meet remains on his team's schedule, Coach George Thomas admits where his team effectively stands. 
"For all practical purposes, our season ended at. Indiana Intercollegiate. We played the best teams in district four. All of the top schools were there except for Ohio State and Kent State. We had a chance," Thomas said, allud­ing to the NCAA's playoff structure that allows teams to qualify for the post season based on their performance against other top teams in their district. 
Joel Hepler and Bryan 
Weeks each shot 73s once during the 54 hole competi­tion. but for the most part, the Irish players couldn't crack 80 strokes. Notre Dame finished with a three-round score of 958, while Ball State, in comparison, shot a 910 to grab the tournament champi­onship, 
Miserable weather, accounted for such high scores across the board. In fact, to the Irish squad, weather was the story of the weekend. The first day of play was marked by 30-40 mph winds, and the second day brought steady rain and cold­er temperatures. 
"Friday we didn't think it could get any worse, and the nest day it poured. Even as bad as the weather is here, it was worse there," Bill Moore lamented. 
"Some people handle it bet­ter than others. We started off poorly and the weather didn't give us a chance to turn things around. The meet was real frustrating." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

95 sick of the burbs Grad  Moving off-campus? Bed, Shelves,  ??????????????????????  Fred can't wait for tomorrow,  
NOTICES  Looking for roommate for Downtown Chicago ASAP  FOR RENT  etc ... For Sale!! (Must Sell) Call273·5818  Ask DR. RUTH whatever  because Jillian's lookin' better every day.  
Call Andy@  you would like  
Michiana Paintball · If you've never  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  For sale: '93 Mazda MX·3. Low  "Sexually Speaking with  Skippy­ 
played you'll love the game · If  work 312-321-8032  HOME.  milage, and perfect conditions.  llove you  
you've played before you'lllove the  Home 708·584-9458  VERY CLOSE TO NO.  Call Eduardo@ 271·8262.  DR. RUTH"  
field. 291·9462  IDEAL FOR SMC·ND EVENTS.  ..Quig Tostallll is coming ..  
Are you working in D.C. this sum·  272-6194.  Moving off?  This Friday @ Stepan  ..Quig Tostallll is coming••  
IRISH GARDENS  mer? I am looking for possible  Desk· $60  7:30pm -Tix $3  ..Quig Tostallll is coming**  
APPLICA TIONSI!!  roommates. Please call Connie at  NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  Small refrigerator · $40  Available @ LaFun. Info.  -See Quig or T for details ....  
Applications are NOW available in  2667  AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT  Call Jon at 287·0578  Desk  
the basement of La Fortune.  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  blumdog- 
Need housing Winter sem 1997?  COMPUTER  ???????????????????????????  A favor returned. not be sad  
Fill one out and return it by Wed.,  Seeking female grad/prof student to  2 very nice Rms w/priviledges for  PC 486, 500 hd, 4 ram, cd-rom,  about speeding ticket. At least the  
April17. Don't pass up the chance  share big apt. Cheap, furnished,  Fall '96. 5 min-drive! $250 incl.  14.4 modem· $1100 O.B.O. call  ······Mystery Madness.........  bit@# got one, too. And I bet the  
to work at the best job on campus!! I  walking distance. 634·2972  utiI. 1·4809/232· 7175.  Jason 3277  A scavenger hunt sponsored by  pain and suffering and aching  
Siegfried Hall  limbs will subside within a few days  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS •  Summer sublease at Turtle Creek.  to raise money for  after the b·ball game. not be sad.  
Teach basic English in Prague,  Furnished efficiency apt, with a/c.  Waterfront Condos  MANDY ABDO  
ATTENTION ALL SOCIOLOGY  Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching  May 10-July 31st, rent negotiable.  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  April 25th  JIM­ 
MAJORS!  certificate or European languages  Call273·0580.  2 Bedrooms from $80.000  Details to come!  What was up with the questions on  
(ESPECIALLY SENIORS)  required. Inexpensive Room &  New Decor  Monday's lntro to Acting Test?  
Board + other benefits. For info.  Female graduate student seeks  EVERYTHING included  Thank you St. Anthony for a good  Where did you come up with those?  
The Senior Reception and AKD  call: (206)971·3680 ext.K55841  housing close to campus May 20­ Close to Notre Dame  friend and answered prayers.  That test was something else.  
Induction Ceremony scheduled for  Aug 17. 634·2972  BEAUTIFUL!  Don't you not like us, or what  
Wed, April 17 have been postponed  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ NORTH SHORE CLUB  ADOPTION:  seems to be the problem? We'll try  
until Tues. April 30 at 4 pm in the  Earn up to $2.000+/month working  5 BR; 605 St Peter  232·2002  I'm a very happy little girl named  to be good. But on that test, we got  
Library Lounge. Please note the  on Cruise Ships or Land· Tour com­ $925/mo 232-2595  Caitlin who is adopted. I would love  ripped off or something.  
changed date.  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  a baby sister or brother to play with.  
full·time employment available. No  CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM  MOVING SALE! Love Seat,  My parents are NO grads. Dad's a  lsi-antony and cleo ... 2 out of 5?  
experience necessary. For more  UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE,  Computer Desk, Bunk Beds, and a  lawyer and mom plays with me full  
information call 1·206-971·3550  FRIG,UTIUTIES INCLUDED;  Pinnacle Club Membership. Call  time. We have a wonderful life, with  bets and bets and more bets.  
..  Doing a year of service after gradu· ation? Let Maureen Skurski at the  ext. C55844  SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR NOTRE DAME. 272·1968.  273-4959 .  plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn  Bookstore Basketball Referees  
esc know who you are  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY  MOVING!  collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential  Wanted  
X1-5779, so you won't be left out of  Positions are now available at  UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES;  289·9274  &legal.  Meeting, Wednesday, 4/17  
the Volunteer Send-Off Service  National Parks, Forests & Wfldlife  FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST  dble&sngle bed, desk, dressers,  @9:00pm  
commencement weekend.  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  MONTH: NEAR N.D. 272·1968.  hideaway, TV cart, lamps, end  Foster LaFortune Room  
ILOST & FOU_ND I  bonuses! Call: 1·206·971·3620 ext. N55847  NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER?  tables  ADOPTION · We understand the strength it takes to choose adop· lion. You can have peace of mind  $10 per game They may very well be the best 2·  
ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT·  CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK  EVERYTHING MUST GO!  that we will cherish your newborn  10 team in sports history.  
I HAVE SOMEONE'S NAVY BLAZ·  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  CONDOS  sofas, tables, lamps, gas grill, bike,  and provide a loving and secure  
ER (IT HAD $5 IN THE POCKET)  Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per  273·1738  bed, desk and more  home. Expenses paid. Please call  I heard Adam Sandier is going to  
....  FROM A SMC FORMAL HELD  month. Room and Board!  277·2131  Donnamarie and Roger at 1-800·  make an appearance at the Irish  
OFF CAMPUS IN THE FALL. IF  Transportation! Male or female. No  232·6519.  Accent Show tonight.  
THIS SOUNDS LIKE YOURS  experience necessary. Call  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  85 Accord 2 dr hatch auto air  
THEN YOU PROBABLY HAVE  (206)971·3510 ext A55845  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  stereo tape new valves-carb  To all the MCAT takers:  Actually, that's just a vicious rumor.  
MINE. CALL DAVE AT 0876  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  ask 2700.00 · 219·272·0825  Good Luck! I'll be thinking of you on  
04/19  Grad. -Football games  saturday! Love Clare  Someone also told me that Todd  
LOST VELVET POUCH WALLET  NANNY  219·277-7003  D.J. Mixer  Murphy is funnier anyway though.  
IN FRONT OF BOOKSTORE  SMC Alumnus looking for live-in  4 Channels, Cross-Fader. 6 Band  Graduating Senior looking for room·  
on thursday April 11th at 1 pm  summer girl to care for 6 children in  3 bdrm brick ranch, 5 min drive to  Equalizer, Mic. Talk·Over. 6 Sound  mate for North Chicago suburbs  You can decide tonight at the Irish  
please contact bookstore or  our Lake Forest, IL home. Must  campus, pool, full basement, $850  Effects, Cue Switch, etc... by Lux  beginning August • call Larry x3593  Accent Show. It's at 8 pm in the  
campus security REWARD  love to swim and play with kids. Call  month + deposit 289·3663,  Sound.  LaFortune Ballroom. Someone  
Dorothy Wehmer (847)234-8125.  2731144.  $240 Flat  said that you should be afraid. Very  
LOST!LOST!LOST!LOST!LOST!  Calllsaac  Want to DANCE  afraid. I'm not sure about that but I  
Blue NBC sports fanny pack con­taining keys and other important items. Last seen Thursday before  Want to move off-campus? We need a 4th Fem. roommate for a T.C. Townhouse! Call X4907  FOR SALE .I 1421 N. Oak Hill Dr.. condo, two full  634-1668 r-,--P-E_R_S_O_N_AL___,  with TROOP NO? Then come to TND classes! Tues & Thurs Apr. 16, 18, 23, 25 9·10Pm 219 Rock  bet you'll have a better time there than at a Mantell Jordan/Pantera show. And that's saying something.  
Easter. If found call Mike @273­ 1 or 2 roomates wanted to live  baths, walk to NO, finished lower  .  Slayer rocks.  
6183.  off campus in a house  level, all appliances, garage, one·  0o0a0a0o0a0a0a0a0a0a0  
( in walking distance!)  owner, $76,900, 277-8898  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  It's too bad someone couldn't write  
LOST!LOST!LOST!LOST!LOSTI  call #3602  THE COPY SHOP  an inside column about it. But  
..  85 Mitsubishi Mirage, 92K, NC  LaFortune Student Center  ATTENTION ALL SOCIOLOGY  that's ok. there's probably one  
Found necklace on sidewalk in  Looking for 2·3 summer roommates  Sun roof, 5-speed, runs great.  Phone 631-COPY  MAJORSI  about the pristine national pasttime  
between Farley and NOH.  in Campus View Apt. Compare to  $650 OBO. 4-3616  0a0a0a0a0o0a0a0a0a0o0  (ESPECIALLY SENIORS)  anyway.  
call x3604 to claim.  NO: $320/7wks vs $405, $400/9wks  
vs $520. Paulina x2985  88 Honda CRX  COME AND BUST A MOVE WITH  The Senior Reception and AKD  Hey, does anyone know how to per­ 
·­ WANTED  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed!$$$+ Free Travel  white, 5 spd, SR, cd. $3,325 obo Call Eric X-1737.  THE BALLROOM DANCE CLUB TONIGHT IN STEPAN CENTER 6:30 BEGINNER QUICKSTEP  Induction Ceremony scheduled for Wed, April 17 have been postponed until Tues. April 30 at 4 pm in the  form the heimlich Manuever on sharks. If so, fax resume and cover letter to Augusta National.  
I need a ride to IU for the Little  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  8:00 ADVANCED SAMBA  Library Lounge.  Unlimited advancement potential.  
500, April 20th. I can help pay  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  Mac Pwrbk 150 for finals! like new,  Please note the changed date.  
gas and drive. Kelly x2984  Necessary. Gde. 919·929·4398  loaded, $800. Sega+CD+games,  I guess it takes ·~he champ" to  Belle, Hac, MB, & Kevina, Doug:  
extC1114  $200. 1·4151  show 'em how it's done now!  You guys rock my world., Ro Ro  

Tuesday, April 16, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

R s 

·' 
\Yhcn the Commencement Ceremony ends; throw that Tassel to the other side of your Graduat.ion Cap hut. keep the nwmorv forever. Ord('r ~:o11r soun~nir \'femory Tassels and Graduation Cap & Gmm today. 
Graduation Cap and Gown Orders will be taken at the Notre Dame Bookstore: Tuesday, April 16 and Wednesday April 17 from 9am -5pm 
The Ham1nes 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" Open Monday-Saturday 9am-5pm 

-


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April16, 1996 
OL 
continued from page 20 
have a couple of guys who have got to step up -so far Wisne, Ridder and Rosenthal have stepped it up. When I was a freshman, the older guys took me in and showed me how it was done. Now I'm trying to do the same, and sharing some of my experiences with them." 
Besides his experience, Akers has dis­played a versatility that most linemen lack. As a junior, he moved from tackle to right guard against BYU, then switchBd to left tackle at Navy, then switched again to left guard vs. Flordia State·and Air Force for his fourth differ­ent starting position of the season. Nevertheless, Akers will play at his usual left guard spot next season and does not foresee any further position changes. 

"The coaches situated us in a position comfortable to us now, and since we go pretty deep, changes shouldn't be neces­sary." 
"I assume Clevenger will be at left tackle," said Moore. "Now at fall camp, Akers and Wisne will decide [who starts.] If the worst of the two beats out Rosenthal, then that player will move to right guard." 
While some questions remain, two things are nearly certain: come next fall, Jeremy Akers will be a mainstay in a bonecrushing offensive unit of size that South Bend has not seen in since 1993. 
Notre Dame heads down the stretch 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
With 36 games now under their belts, the 26-10 Notre Dame baseball team is ready to begin the stretch run of the season. The Irish are sched­uled to play at least 17 more games this season, 10 of which are Big East Conference games of immense importance. 
The Irish's 6-4 mark in con­ference play puts them in a tie with Rutgers for second place in the Big East National Division. 
The team's 1-2 performance against Rutgers this past weekend, coupled with the cancellation of their three game series with Division leader Villanova due to weather conditions, puts the Irish in an essential must win situation if they are to reach the Big East tournament and a shot at the NCAA tourna­ment. 
The following is a synopsis of the Irish's strengths and weaknesses in certain areas of the game thus far this sea­son. 
Hitting: 
This may be this team's greatest asset. The Irish are batting .317 as a team on the season, and boast seven starters who are batting at or over .300. 
The Irish also boast a healthy .492 team slugging percentage, and are averag­ing 6.7 runs per game. While Irish bats have flourished this season, they could also benefit from being more selective. Irish hitters have struck out 202 times, while collecting just 139 walks. 
Notre Dame's hitting has also come through in Big East games, with their .328 clip second only to West Viginia's .341. 
One are which must be improved on is the team's clutch hitting. Of late, the Irish's inability to drive in runners from scoring position has caused concern on the part of head coach Paul Mainieri and his staff. On the season. the Irish have left 259 men on base. 
Pitching: 
A little bit of a sore spot. While the pitching has shown sighs of solidification follow­ing a shaky start, this staff is still marked by inconsistency. Junior Darin Schmalz has been the most effective of the starters, and senior Rich Sauget seems to be stepping into the closer role. 
The team ERA stands at 
4.33 on the season, and Irish arms have limited opposing batters to a .266 average on

-
the year. 
Particularly of concern is the staffs performance in 10 conference games this season. The Irish's 5.40 ERA in league games is the fifth worst mark in the conference, and they have surrendered 95 hits in just 80 innings of work. 
Top Individual Performers 

By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Edftor 
Several Notre Dame baseball players are having strong seasons lor the 26-10 Irish, both at the plate and on the mound. The following is arundown of some of the Irish's top pertormers and their numbers so far this season. (Team highs are in boldface). 
Offensive Leaders 
Randall Brooks (28): George Restovicll (18): Mike Amrhein (LF): Rowan Richards (RF): 
J.J. Brock (3~: · Jeff Wagner ( /DH): Scott Sollmann (CF): 
Pitching Leaders 
Mike Balicki (RPJ: Darin Schmalz~ P): Alex Shilliday ( P/RP): Rich Sauget (RP): Dan S!avisky (SP): 
1996 Big East Baseball Standings 
American Division 
St. John's West Virginia Providence Connecticut Pittsburgh Boston College 
National Division 
Villanova 
Notre Dame 
Rutgers Georgetown Seton Hall 
.317 BA, 38 H, 22 RBI 
.295 BA, 38 R, 438, 31 SB 
2.75 ERA, 14 APP, 19 2/31P 
2.88 
ERA, 5·3, 50 IP, 3CG, 2SHO, 35 SO 

3.00 
ERA, 5·1, 391P, 34 SO, 18 BB, 2SV 


3.00 ERA, 16 APP, 30 IP, 34 SO. " 5SV ' 
3.67 ERA. 4-1, 341/31P, 21 SO, 14 BB 
w  l  Pet.  GB  
8  3  .727  
11  5  ..688  0.5  
6  6  .500  2.5  
6  6  .500  2.5  
6  8  .429  3.5  
1  11  .083  7.5  
w  l  Pet.  GB  
11  2  .846  
6  4  .600  3.5  
6  4  .600  3.5  
4  9  .308  7  
3  10·  .231  8  

Sunday, April 28 
2:30 p.m. Little Theatre 
For ticket information call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri., 9am-5pm 
(Overall) 
15-8 20-15 19-9-1 13-15 20-14-2 
8-16 
(Overall) 
15-11 
26·10 
18-13 12-22 12-18 


The Observer/Rob Fmch Outfielder Scott Sollmann is among the team leaders in runs and stolen bases. The fleet-footed Sollmann is a prototypical table-setter for Paul Manieri's power hitters. 
SUMMER AT LOYOLA 
EARLY SESSION Six weeks beginning May 17 (6 pm) 
LATE SESSION Six weeks beginning june 28 (6 pm) 
• 
Day, evening or weekend classes. 

• 
Courses in business, arts and sciences, education, nursing. 

• 
All courses applicable to Loyola University Chicago degrees. 

• 
Classes held at Loyola's Lake Shore (Chicago), Water Tower (Chicago), Medical Center (Maywood), and Mallinckrodt (Wilmette) campuses. 

• 
Convenient Touch-Tone registration (TTR) system. 




r-------------------------------------------------, 
THE SUMMER SESSIONS To receive your free copy of the 1996 l Loyola University Chicago The Summer Sessions bulletin, I 820 N. Michigan Avenue return coupon or call (312) 915-6501. l Chicago,!L 60611-2196 l 
I ------------------------------------------I
Name I 4 
~~~----------------------------------------: 
I 

~a-,y--------------------~s~••~,.--------~Z~ip________ l 
I I 

L-------------------------------------------------~ 
L___________________________________________________________________________________________________________ -­

----------~--~-------­

---~----------~------------­
Tuesday, April 16, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Varsity hopefuls serve
• 
as cruel hosts, go 7-0 


By MEGAN McGRATH Senior Staff Writer 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse club has something to prove this year, and they'are doing it at the hands of the rest of the lacrosse teams in the midwest. In their attempt to achieve varsity status, the squad has dominated their competition en route to a 7-0 record. 
Saturday, the Irish sponsored their first tournament, hosting Toledo, Dayton, Buffalo, Purdue and Indiana. The tour­nament showed how far the club has come in the past three years. as Notre Dame cruised to the championship despite frigid weather conditions. 
But the rag-tag days of women's lacrosse at Notre Dame appear to be over. While the ground-work was laid by it's officers, seniors Martin and Erin Breen and junior Tara Pierce, much of the club's suc­cess this year can be credited to it's talented freshman and sophomores. 
From the outset Saturday, it was the youngsters who lead the way for the Irish. 
Freshman Stephanie Fox scored four goals as Notre Dame shut out Toledo 13-0 in their first game. Sophomore Amy McGann had three goals and several assists. while class­mate Kara Winn combined with junior goalie Catherine 
Are you in in International Business 

BA49l Post-communist markets of Europe 
Dr. Igor Grazin 
11:45AM-1 :00PM M&F 
call #4520 

Sexual Assault Awareness Week April14-18 
Sunday-"Take Back the Night March" a march from ND In SMC agamsl violence and crime begmnmg at F~t:ldhouse Mall with speakers and music cndmg at Dallnway's Cafe for refreshments 6:30PM 
Monday-"When a Kiss is Not Just a Kiss" an interactive play adapted for Notre Dame life* 7:00PM in the Little Theater (SMC) 
Tuesday-"Not Just Bad Sex: Rape on Campus" a discussion with Melissa Dessert from Washington 

Accepting Applications
University on the realities of rape 7:00PM in Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva (SMC) 

for Transfer Orientation Executive Staff Committee 
Wednesday-"Verbal Consent and the Antioch 

Applications Available at 
College Sexual Offense Policy" 

Student Activities
a discussion with Karen Hall from Antioch College on their radical sexual offense policy 

3rd floor of LaFortune 
7:00PM in the Montgomery Room (Lafortune) 

Application Deadline 
Simmons for the shut-out. 
The next round against Purdue was much of the same. Sophomore Rachel Cain led the way with four goals. Fox added three, and McGann, senior Jill Piper and junior Mara Grace each had two goals as the Irish beat the Boilermakers 14-4. 
Dayton was no match for the club, as they picked up an easy 13-1 win over the Flyers to advance to the championship. Junior attack wing Tara Pierce was a dominating force on offense, firing five goals. Freshmen Margaret Cholis and Fox each added two scores. 
After Indiana stunned Buffalo 7-4, the Hooisers were the Irish's next victims. In the clos­est, but coldest. game of the day, Notre Dame earned a 7-3 win to claim the championship. Freshmen Fox, Cholis and Kerry Callahan scored quick goals to give the Irish an early lead. Callahan added three more in the second half to put the game away. 
"We've beaten IU before, so we had confidence heading in to the game," Callahan said. "We got some early goals so we could play with the lead, and just kept them out of it." 
Notre Dame travels to Wheaton College Saturday, and then has the Women's Collegiate Lacrosse League Playoffs at Toledo next week­end. Last year the Irish took third, falling to Ohio State. 

• WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish take 8th at PU 
By DEREK BETCHER Sports Writer 
Katie King fired a 79 in the fi­nal round to tie for seventh place, the top individual finish of the year for the Notre Dame womens golf team. ller 239 af­ter 54 holes coupled with Tracy Melby's equally laudable 241 to pull the Irish to an eighth place finish at this weekend's Boilermaker Invitational. 
Touring the links in West Lafayette's less-than-welcom­ing cold and wind, Notre Dame finished 29 strokes behind Michigan's tournament topping team total of 950. 
Only three strokes separated the Irish from a bevy of team's tied for fifth. Competing against many of the midwest's best teams, Coach Ross Smith was not disappointed with his team's final standing. 
"It was a strong field, so I was pleased, but I still would've liked to have dropped five strokes so we could've finished in the top five," he said. 
"I was especially pleased with the way Katie King and Tracy Melby played. Eighty strokes is our measuring stick, and both of those girls were right around that mark." 
"We can really compete and move into the next echelon if our girls can do that," Smith added. 
King dismissed the weekend's wind and the cold as "less than ideal" and attributed her suc­cesses to consistent play. 
"If I had a bad hole, I got over it quickly. Even though my putting wasn't the best, I stayed out of trouble. and my iron­work was good," she explained. 
Smith is optimistic about the upcoming weekend's Illinois Spring Classic, hosted by the Fighting Illini is Champaign. Based on recent strong individ­ual performances like King's and Melby's, he expects his squad to begin placing more highly as a whole. 
King shares her coach's posi­tive outlook on the team's lone remaining meet. 
Thursday-"Ask the Administrator" the Director of Residence Life, Jeff Shoup, discusses Notre Dame's sexual offense policy 

Wednesday April 17, 1996 
2:00PM in the Dooley Room (LaFortune) 

Return Applications to Student Activities by 5:00.
sponsored by Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
* adapted from Brown University 
page 16 
The Observer· SPORTS 
CJ's advances despite Hoover's struggles, seeds see first action 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Build it and they will come. 
This statement may apply to baseball. as Kevin Costner so aptly portrayed, but former varsity player Ryan Hoover and the 8th-ranked CJ's Wooden Shoes discovered that this say­ing has its place in basketball as well. 
Bookstore Basketball, that is. 
Despite the inclement weather conditions, the crowds flocked to Stepan courts yesterday to see the first-round battle between Hoover's squad and Five Fresh Cocks. They came to watch the former Illinois high school and Notre Dame star show ofT his renowned long range prowess, this time out­doors. 
They did not exactly get what they expected. In his first ever Bookstore 
Basketball experience, sharp­shooter Hoover and his team­mates had a rough go of it. Hoover's first shot of the game, an airball, proved to set the tone for the remainder of the contest. He and his teammates had trouble finding the basket from the outside throughout the game's entirety. In fact, Hoover began the game by missing his first 6 shots before he finally hit a layup. 
One fan was even overheard asking Hoover if he and his teammates were building a house. 
"I couldn't buy a basket," exclaimed Hoover. This seemed to fit into the strategy of the 'Cocks. 
"Three-pointers don't count in Bookstore," said freshman Mike Wilcox. "We wanted to make him shoot from as far away as possible." 
Toward the end, Hoover 
The ObservE~r/Mike 
Ryan Hoover played in his first Bookstore game yesterday. 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 
Ireland 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 

Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend, you can 
(two weekends and a week), still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
featuring Irish entertainment, \~2.2.· .1:, and Notre Dame football ­
sightseeing, great jazz and :::.:,{1~-~ and of course plenty of
. 
Notre Dame football. 0::!4 ~\ · ;, B. Irish entertainment. 
0 • ',; :<:: 
Only 0 • · ;::: Only
$2150 from . " · $1450·from
Chicago* • Chicago* 
•o'"" ~epanure en;<, al'u ""liable. MATIERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 
began to sink a few. How iron­ic that he should hit a jumpshot to end the game 21-10. 
Although Hoover was having his problems at the outset of the game, there was an even deeper plot thickening. This match had the intensity of a Final Four game, with plenty of trash-talking, diving for loose balls, elbows flying, and shov­ing to give all the fans a good show. 
This high level of emotions led to a brief squabble that was broken up quite quickly by Bookstore commissioners and surrounding fans. 
"We had to bust it up and take control," commented commis­sioner Dan Delaney. "After that everything was fine." 
"Emotions were pretty high," noted Wilcox. "It was much difTerent than we expected. We weren't used to the physical nature that they played." 
For their efTort, the five fresh­men earned the respect of Hoover. 
"For a first-round opponent, they were really tough," said Hoover. "That's good, because we didn't want to play anyone weak." 
Also making their first appearances of the tournament were second-seeded NBT III and 27th-seeded All the President's Men. NBT, last year's runners-up, did not have quite as difficult time, as they soundly defeated Yours is to Question 21-4. 
Monk Malloy's team, sans the priest/roundballer who usually does not participate in the tour­nament until the later rounds. advanced by beating Team 115 21-12. 
"I was anxious to get things started," stated sophomore Arlin McCann. point guard for NBT. "We wanted to get this over and move on to the next round." 


"The Bee" and his garb exemplify the best that the early rounds of Bookstore Basketball action have to offer. 
Bookstore Referees Needed. Meeting tonight in the Foster Room in LaFortune. 9:00PM $10 per game and all the heckling you can ever want guaranteed. 
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $150 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 
1996 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 

P.O. Box 308 • Notre Oame, IN 46556 Session 1-May 20 to june 2 7 (219)239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219)233-7427 Session II -july I to August 9 e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
.,, /:;
~1 f; HOJ.Y 
·. CROSS ir;f ·--~ COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions 


-----, 
page 17 

-
okst 

REfB:IS 
GAMES 
Shown here in weekend action, O'Doyle Rules and Tons 0' Bird had their eyes on the ball and a second 
Basketball 
All the President's Men del., Team 115,21-12 NBT3 del., Yours is not to question, 21·4 Flying Sammy Hagar's del., BTP, 21·7 Marcus Young Fan Club Plus...def., Flagrant Bludgeoners, 21·1 0 Motherbutlers del., Guy with 2'Cocks and some seamen, 21-13 Taking the 01' One to to ...def., Five Fornicating Flippers, 21·5 4 Convicts and a Cop del., We won't last as long as..., 21-11 Brad ...del., Early Exit, 21-14 Sweet Scent of Disoriente...def., 5 Guys who Enjoy... , 21-15 Major Woody, Private Parts...def., Saxual Frustration Ill, 21-16 Jumanji del., Booshwackers, 21·5 Joe Mamma's laying something.def., Patrick and astud..., 21·8 Busch Lite Daredevils del., Shaggy, Scrappy, and 3 , 21-17 Orangeboom def., Absolut Tuff Guys, 21-10 Latrine del., 4 Nuts and a Melon. 21-14 CJ's Wooden Shoes del., 5 Fresh Cocks, 21-10 

round round berth. Only O'Doyles got their wish. 
Now Open 
CHESAPFAKE 

BAGEl, BAKERY. 


•
Fresh Baked Bagels 

•
Homemade Soups & Salads 

•
Hot & Cold Deli Sandwiches 

•Seating 
On Premises 

•Open 
Early Seven Days A Week 

• 
Gourmet Coffees 

• 
Cappuccino & Espresso 


1!1 Grape Road 


5920 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 Phone: 219-272-9415 • Fax: 219-272-7775 
~-------------~-----~~-~----~--------------------------­
BUY6 BAGELS
Free 
AND GET 

Buy 1 deli sandwich & get 1 of equal or 
3FREE 
CSE 432 01 4157 MARK 384 01 1951
lesser value 
CSE 498A 01 4159 MARK 476 01 1952
FREE. 
DESN 282S 01 0657 MARK 476 02 1953
Must be presented at tim<: ofMust be presented at time of 

ECON 315 01 0385 MATH 102 01 1081 
purchase. Not Vlillid with oilier 
ECON 410 01 3639 ME 425 01 3115

purchase. Not valid with other 
ECON 416 01 3806 ME 466 01 1064
offers of promotions. One per

offers of promotions. One per customer. Valid only at Grape 
ECON 453 01 3807 Ml 422 01 3530

customer. Valid only at Grape 
ECON 484 01 3242 Ml 556 01 3992
Road. EXPIRES 5120/96Road. EXPJRES 5/20/96 

ECON 486 01 3808 MUS 220 01 2784 ENGL 301E 01 3823 MUS 220 02 4001 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP~IN VOLLEYBALL • 
RecSports will be offering 
Drop-In Volleyball on 
Tuesday, April 16, 23, and 30, 
from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce 
Center. No established teams 
or advanced sign-ups neces­
sary. 

Basketball to watch ••• 
TWEEK llvs.COORDINATION 
Stepan 2, 6:15p.m. 
BRING OUT THE GIMP II vs. ME BYE 
Stepan 3, 4:00p.m. 
SERIAL Kl LLA vs. BIG POPPA, ... 
Stepan 7, 6:15p.m. ABSOLUTE KURLIES vs. DR. SUGARDADEE Bookstore 10, 6:15p.m. 
CLOSED COURSES AS OF 7:00P.M. 4/15/96 ENGL 301F 01 3824 ACCT 383 01 4224 ENGL 301G 01 3825 ACCT 383 02 4225 ENGL 3848 01 4304 ACCT 472 04 4227 ENGL 3928 01 3461 ACCT 475 01 3100 ENGL 393A 01 3831 ACCT 475 02 1203 ENGL 4138 01 3835 ACCT 475 03 1393 ENGL 415F 01 3836 ACCT 476 03 3105 ENGL 470E 01 3850 AFAM 321 01 3716 ENGL 494C 01 3856 AFAM 329 02 3717 ENGL 495A 01 3480 AFAM 432 01 3721 FIN 361 01 1801 AFAM 453 01 3723 FIN 370 01 1805 AFAM 486 01 3725 FIN 380 03 1807 AMST 308G 01 3544 FIN 470 01 1808 AMST 313G 01 3152 GE 440 01 3151 AMST 316E 01 3296 GEOS 403 01 4144 AMST 369H 01 3734 GEOS 457 01 4145 AMST 398E 01 3462 GOVT 308 01 3543 AMST 399E 01 3739 GOVT 325 01 3325 AMST 411 01 3669 GOVT 347 01 3552 AMST 413 01 3740 GOVT 373 01 4343 AMST 415 01 3383 GOVT 386 01 3890 AMST 465 01 3741 GOVT 588 01 3561 AMST 487E 01 3744 GSC 495A 01 4333 AMST 497E 01 3745 HESB 413 01 3900 AMST 513 01 3746 HESB 491 01 3556 ANTH 436 01 3755 HIST 308A 01 3916 ANTH 444 01 3756 HIST 326A 01 3493 ANTH 444A 01 3757 HIST 361A 01 3926 ANTH 454 01 3216 HIST 385A 01 3933 ANTH 457 01 3431 HIST 453 01 3940 ARCH 565 01 2975 HIST 453A 01 3941 BA 362 01 1504 HIST 456A 01 3363 8A 363 01 1505 HIST 458 01 3275 BA 392 04 2748 HIST 458A 01 3277 BA 490 06 1513 HIST 466 01 3381 BIOS 420L 01 3030 HIST 474A 01 3197 BIOS 420L 02 3029 HIST 486A 01 3950 BIOS 521 01 3026 liPS 256 01 4132 CAPP 216 01 2827 liPS 320 01 2605 CAPP 303 01 3260 liPS 484 01 3244 CAPP 331 01 1182 liPS 486 01 4134 CAPP 361 01 1568 LAW 591A 01 1298 CAPP 368 01 1149 LAW 591C 01 1036 CAPP 380 01 2825 LAW 616 01 1924 CAPP 395 01 2823 LAW 631A 01 1927 CHEG 445T 01 4481 LAW 631B 01 1928 CHEG 459 01 1588 LAW 631C 01 1929 CHEM 119L 02 3313 LAW 6310 01 1930 CHEM 119L 04 3229 LAW 6508 01 4254 CHEM 223L 07 1300 LAW 676 01 1933 CHEM 420 01 1628 LAW 679 01 3249 CHEM 461L 02 1223 LAW 695 02 1935 GOTH 435A 01 3800 LAW 695 03 1936 

MUS 221 01 2481 MUS 226 01 2079 MUS 228 01 4002 NSCI 411 02 2123 PHIL 220 01 4016 PHIL 222 01 1243 PHIL 228 01 4017 PHIL 229 01 4018 PHIL 232 01 3572 PHIL 235 01 4019 PHIL 239 01 0306 PHIL 241 01 4367 PHIL 241 02 4368 PHIL 244 01 4486 PHIL 246 01 2149 PHIL 247 01 3366 PHIL 247 02 4020 PHIL 248 01 3576 PHIL 256 01 3578 PHIL 261 01 1141 PHIL 261 02 0415 PHIL 264 01 0414 PHIL 264 03 0366 PHIL 269 01 2781 PLS 481 03 1359 PSY 461 01 2314 PSY 470A 01 4050 PSY 470E 01 4376 PSY 4768 01 0098 PSY 480A 01 4051 PSY 483A 01 4378 PSY 4838 01 4379 ROFR 426 01 4060 ROFR 443 01 4061 ROFR 490 01 3185 ROSP 318 01 3191 ROSP 328 01 2453 ROSP 328 02 0809 ROSP 597 01 0072 soc 303 01 3261 soc 332 01 3179 soc 338 01 4087 soc 459 01 4091 soc 486 01 4092 STV 383 01 4080 STV 454 01 3217 THEO 237 01 4104 THEO 265 01 1357 THEO 278 01 4109 THEO 2908 01 3118 THEO 290C OJ 3116 THTR 276 54 9754 THTR 276 56 9756 THTR 276 58 9758 COURSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00P.M. 4116196 ENGL 470E 01 3850 HIST 486A 01 3950 LAW 679 01 3249 MUS 220 02 4001 MUS 221 01 2481 PHIL 222 01 1243 PHIL 232 01 3572 
Team 267 del.. 3 Germans. a Buscha..., 23·21 Makin' doin' shots del., Team 336. 21-14 Check or Box Out del.. We're Gonna Dribble All Over.. .. 21-10 Creamy Projectile Cheeseballs del.. Caustic James .... by forfeit House of Slizot del., Bubba Come. 21·5 Bloodborne Pathogens del., Team 431, 21-18 Ain't No Love, Part 3 del., One Round Wonders. 21·4 Five Crossers del.. Five Bored Guys, 21-15 Steve Miller's Band del., 911 Rescue Squad, 21·3 Prime Time del.. MBIS, 21·9 Kerbdog del.. Berserkers. 21-1 Team 261 del.. JT and Trash-Talkers. 21-10 Iguanas del.. Lucky #7. 21·4 Vince's 'Lil Unit del.. Vivacious Ball Handlers. 21·9 Team 435 del.. 4 under 6 and the Messiah, 21-17 Woody Harelson, Christopher...def.. What the Hell ... , 21·2 5Dipsticks from Hazard County del., Ladies down under. 21·7 Wandering Charismatics del.. Team 164.21-10 

~-----· 
~-~~ 


page 18 

-
SMC 
continued from page 20 
overall success for the day. 
"(Sorota) did awesome," 
Cromer said. "She won both 
singles and doubles. She 
played really well, to come off 
that test all morning and then 
score two points for us." 
Junior Ashley McArdle, #4 
singles, agreed. 
"Their match was the decid­
ing factor for us," McArdle 
said. "They were the only ones 
left on the court. It was a big 
win for them as a doubles 
team." 
Sorota said that, after nearly 
five hours of testing, she just 
wanted to play tennis. 
"It wasn't a big deal," Sorota 
said. "It was a close match, 
and it was a good win for us. I 
wanted to just play our best 
tennis." 
The Belles' victory at Wheaton was a big win for the entire team. With the Midwest Invitational Tournament ap­proaching this weekend, cou­pled with the expectation of an updated ranking today, SMC must be at the top of their game against strong teams if they hope to advance in both team and individual standings. 
Kozacik made progress to that end Saturday, beating Wheaton's #1 singles, in a tie­breaker, 7-6 (8-6) 6-3. To date, Kozacik, ranked twenti­eth in the Midwest. has beaten the thirteenth and the nine­teenth ranked players in the Region, losing only to two play­ers tied for eleventh in the Midwest. Both Cromer and Kozacik have high expectations for the Midwest Invitational. 
However, before the Invitational, the Belles travel to Greencastle, IN today for a match against DePauw, post­poned earlier this season due to inclement weather. Though 
Are you prepared? We are. 
• 
Limit of 15 Students per Class 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 

• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


THE 
, PRINCETON 
REVIEW 
Call today! Classes are forming now. 
(800)865-7737 
The Observer • SPORTS 
SMC beat DePauw 6-3 in the 
fall season, that score is no 
indication of the team's success 
today. 
Last fall, DePauw suffered 
the loss of their #1 singles play­
er. Katy Lowe, to illness. A 
national contender as a sopho­
more, Lowe has been one of 
Kozacik's rivals for nearly a 
year. 
"(Lowe) is a huge asset for 
(DePauw)," Kozacik said." She 
is one of my personal rivals. 
DePauw is just one of those 
teams you love to beat." 
While DePauw will be at full 
strength today, the Belles line­
up will also return to complete 
capacity. For a month, fresh­
men Betsy Gemmer and Morey 
Graham have stepped into the 
line-up to take up the slack 
that the absences of junior 
Anne Underwood and fresh­
man Amy Fors left in the ros­
ter. 
Today, Underwood will resume her position at #5 sin­gles, while Graham will move to the #6 spot. According to Sorota, the moves should strengthen the Belles line-up against DePauw. 
''I'm excited for Anne," Sorota said. "With her back, the line-up should be stronger, because Betsy will have had more experience that a lot of the competition at #6." 
McArdle said that a win against DePauw could prove to be the impetus the Belles need clinch an invitation to the Midwest Tournament. 
"There are a lot of good teams (at the Invitational), " McArdle said. "If we beat DePauw, that will give us the confidence that we need." 
1:00.7:00 pm Fun Flicks: make 
your own music video (LeMans Lobby) 
3-6:30 pm Fun Stuff. Caricatures, lye Dye, Face Painting, Toyland (Ubrary Green) 
3:30-5:30 pm Canoe Races (Lake Marion) 
FREE!! FREE!! FREE!! 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
nineteenth in the country in 
doubles play, while Zimpfer 
and Lucy are ranked thirty-sec­
ond. Zimpfer and Lucy scored 
an upset for the Badgers, but it 
was a hard fought win as the 
lead changed hands numerous 
times. 
Crabtree and Lord displayed their magic, as they hit some phenomenal shots and took advantage of their flat-footed opponents, to take the lead. Unfortunately, their effort f.ell short and, they lost, 8-9. 
The only doubles victory for the Irish came at the No. 2 position. Junior Erin Gowen and freshman Jennifer Hall. Hall and Gowen jumped out to an early lead, but saw it quickly vanish as their Wisconsin oppo­nents battled back. Gowen and Hall used persistence and placement to capture their vic­tory, as numerous volleys and overheads fell just out of their opponents reach. 
They outlasted Wisconsin, 9­8. 
After dropping the doubles point, the netters charged themselves up for singles play. The singles competition did not go exactly as they had planned. Hall, who is ranked twentieth in the country, dropped her match at no. 1 singles to Wisconsin's Zimpfer, who is ranked thirteenth. 
The match was tight but Zimpfer overcame Hall's one set lead, and cruised to a win, 1-6, 7-5, 6-2. Lord fell at the No. 3 spot to the Badgers' Lauren Gavaris, 5-7. 4-6. The Irish also lost at the No.5 spot, as Gowen fell, 6-3, 7-6. 
T 

Crabtree overpowered the Badger's Barbara Urbanska, 6­2, 6-1. "It was lots closer than the score showed, there were numerous close points and games," stated Crabtree, "I think that I played really well, because I was aggressive and patient. In the end, that really helped." 
Velasco also chalked up a victory as she beat her oppo­nent, 6-3, 7-6. "Lately, I have been doing well. I have been really pleased with the way that I am playing," commented Velasco about her game. 
Sophomore Molly Gavin ral­lied back to win her match 6-1, 4-6, 6-0. 
"We have had trouble against the tough teams," commented Crabtree about the team's per­formance in the past week. 
"The schedule has been tough these past two weeks. We just can't finish off the close matches." 
The Irish need to work on that as the BIG EAST tourna­ment is rapidly appraching. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Day Editor 
Please contact Brian Tierney, at 631-5303 with any questions regarding the position. Applicants should submit a letter detailing their qualifications and why they want to work for the Observer. Letters must be received no later than 5:00pm on Monday, April 15th at the Observer office, 314 LaFortune. 

4:30 pm 11Spring Ahead" Athletic Event: 2 
mile1181/wal</rolelblade, starting at Angela 

4:30-6:30 pm SMCNIC: good food and great friends, get your co-ex soon! (Library Green) 
8:00·10:00 pm Global Village!!!! Don't miss this spectacular concert! (Library Green) 
$$CASH$$ PRIZES!! 
--------. 
Tuesday, Aprill6, 1996 



Tuesday, April 16, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
PILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r------------------------,or------------------------­
~ ~ 

• OF INTEREST Class of 1996, The map of the USA has been posted down in the Career & Placement Office to aid in your hunt for that apartment/house-mate you'll be looking for when you leave campus and head out into the real world. Stop down and check lists often! Tonight in the Cinema at the Snlte "How to live In the Federal Republic of Germany" will be playing at 7 p.m. and "Tampopo" at 9 p.m. Admission is $2.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Beef Bourguignon Garden Quiche Turbot Almandine Hatatouille Spaghetti Pie Italian Grilled Sole Rice Pilaf Saint Mary,s Chicken lo Mein Chopped Beef steak Cheese Tortellini  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
TIIEP.is julr f'lo 1-\~op.  f:\ l3oo~E Ni'ME 'St~o\l\..0 lk  lilt~  1'\P.mE \-!.>.~ l'\•r<E  
)t-~\~t~ lEAfY\ 1'\~ME..  fvr<N't .. lT St'lout..i>  e,.,. ~•f"­ Cf TtiAT.  
IJ-l•"fl'' l:>o-'Bo...E  f'/\EANINl,  ('..o  
'SP.T•P.E ... ·  

MISTER BOFFO 

THI~ DOC, IS SPEC.IA.LL'f TRA.INEO TO OE.TELT WA)TE.O R£.50URC.ES. 
8 HE.'LL HE.LP ME FINO ~ OUT WH'< YOUR PROTECT ~ IS BEHIND SCHEDULE ~ EVEN AFTER ADDING ~ t'\E. P-..5 /'\A NAGER. 
0 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Leading 30 Pirate's
1 Reply to an 
punishment

insult 33 Ski lilt 
5 Fleece 10 On vacation 
36 Capri currency 

38 Hardly Mr. Cool 15 Robert of "G.E. 39 Looking peaked College Bowl" 
14 Prefix with scope 
40 Marzipan 16 Toasty ingredients 11 Stratford's river 42 Command to 18 Jargon Rover 19 Philosopher 43 Intestine part Hoffer 
45 Practice 20 Franklin pugilism aphorism 
46 Extorted from 23 Gilbert & 
47IS hip 

Sullivan 
49 Actor Martin 

pnncess 24 Grab DOWN
51 "Peter and the Wolf" bird 

25 Cagney's 1 Shoe covers
portrayer on 53 Protracted 2 "Rosemary's 
80's TV battles 
Baby" author 3 Redolence 4 Stickum 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Beach memento 6 Abuse 7Thus 29 Eye soothers 
a Beside 31 175-year-old9 Update, as a canal 
story 32 Hightailed it 10 Overwhelm 33 Quirks
11 Shermanism .:,...+=::::++.::-i 12 Waterless 34Gale 
...,.~'--t:-.,-t 13 Community org. 35 Night watchman's cry 
~7-+=+::::-t 21 First person in 37 Premed course: 

-,~§t~~!l~!llilllli~ll· Bavaria Abbr.
S! 22 Dublin-born dramatist 40 Fear and -=-+=+-:-+=-+::;; 26 Dallas-to-Austin 
trepidation dir. 41 Oscar winner ~~.;;:...J.,'-'-'--' 20 Prepares to fire Marie, 1931 

L-----~U-~~~--~------~~L---~--~------~--..------J 
57 Conclude, with 
I\ up" 
59 Reply to a boaster 62 Miss Marple discovery 64 Motionless 65 Swenson of "Benson" 66 City south of Lillehammer 67 Comedienne Fields 68 Change course 69 Hoof it 70 Late bloomer 71 French 101 verb 
DAVE KELLFTT YOUR HOROSCOPE 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Curb a tendency to make snap deci­sions. A quickly-rejected opportuni­ty could haunt your thoughts for years to come. Go slowly when meeting new people and choosing business projects. Romance is more eventful than in the recent past. Next fall, surrender to a desire to travel. Good luck crowns a special finan­cial venture, bolstering your bank account. An old and valuable friend­ship can be renewed if you make the first move. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: basketball legend Kareem Abdui-Jabbar, actress Ellen Barkin, dancer Merce Cunningham,
JOE MARTIN 
aviation pioneer Wilbur Wright. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Be cautious in money matters. A void making loans or carrying a lot of cash. A social event could be sub­lime if you meet someone special. Do not come on too strong with a reserved individual. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It may be time to make a big change. Ship out if job conditions drive you bonkers. Pay attention to what the people close to you are saying. An older person may need immediate attention. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Have a specific plan for both work and leisure hours. You will be setting a good example for someone who is too inclined to drift! Dress your best for a special date this evening. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone independent and generous wins your good will. A long-lasting
: 

and meaningful alliance could 
develop. Making overdue changes
WE.'LL C>E.GIN
; 

on the home front will reduce stress.
A5 SOON AS HE.'5 

!u LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work slowly and accurately. Painstaking attention to detail is essential. Be 
DONE PLAYING. 
AR.OUND.
• 
.~ 
... 
.., 
.!!
.. 
.. ::> "'.. 
Q 
t 
"? 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
JEANE DIXON 
truthful and understanding with a family member who is going through difficult times. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Avoid making business promises you may not be able to keep. If you get a chance, take time out from your busy day to phone someone who cares. Avoid discussing sensi­tive subjects with touchy people. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take well-intentioned advice with good grace. Show that you are willing to change tactics if doing so will bring better results. Be patient with off­spring. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Your work can take a lot out of you. If married. guard against neglecting domestic responsibilities. The sur­prises may come thick and fast this afternoon. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Avoid exchanging confidence with people you cannot trust. Halt a relationship with anyone who talks out of tum about your activities. A complex task is time-consuming but will ultimately bring profit and praise. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A financial transaction works out well. You are proud of your ability to help others. A neighbor may be a better friend than you real­ize. Reward someone who helps out in a family emergency. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be firm if you are not interested in someone's overtures. Otherwise, this person may not get the message. Work and family obligations must come before pleasure. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Resist reneging on a promise to go out with someone. Meeting new people will be good for you profes­sionally and personally. A phone call hoost' your 'Pirits. 

.. 
44 "Put--Happy Face" 46 Apiary unit 48 Soli drink brand 50 Singer Dam one 52 Some choristers 
54 0ld World animal with a ringed tail 
55 Gung-ho 56 Frame score 57 Flatboat 58 "Lohengrin" 
miss 60 Eartha of song 61 Tennis's 
Nastase 63 Stir-fry fryer 
When: Thursday, April 25, 6:45pm 

When: Monday, April22, 11:30-1:00 
Where: Gym 1, Joyce Center 

Where: Foster Room, 3rd Floor LaFortune 
Why: Earn $$$, gain leadership skills, 

Who: All Faculty, Staff & Students 
attend specialized workshops, stay in 

Why: Learn more about your health 
shape!!! 

How: Contact Jennie Phillips CJ£1l1_!'·Et1G£ 
631-6100 
·­
SPORTS 

Tuesday, Aprill6, 1996 


No.7 UW pulls rank on Irish 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ stated Velasco. "We didn't Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Spons Writer make them play. Basically, we Lord, the No.1 doubles team, gave them the match. We are banged it out against 
The eighth-ranked women's hoping that we can get it Wisconsin's Melissa Zimpfer tennis team put up a galliant together before the BIG EAST and Colleen Lucy. Crabtree effort against the Badgers, but tournament." and Lord are currently ranked they just fell short. The Irish The other two matches were 
see TENNIS I page 18just could not put away the intense and drawn out. Seniors 

match,, and watched their record fall to 18-6. 
Irish head coach Jay Lourderback characterized the match, "It was a good college match, because there were no major blow-outs." 
The doubles competition was a heated one. The Badgers and the Irish matched up well. In fact, two of the three doubles matches were so intense that they went to tie-breakers. 
The No. 3 doubles team of sophomore Kelley Olson and freshman Marisa Velasco were quickly dismissed by their Wisconsin opponent, 1-8. The two had an off day, and basical­ly could not get anything start­ed. Olson and Velasco tried to bounce back by making some big shots and trying to over­power their opponents in long rallies, but it was too little too late.· 
The Observer/Michelle Sweet "The main problem is that we 
Senior Holyn Lord took a straight set singles win yesterday over 
weren't making our returns,"
Wisconsin... 


• SPRING fOOl'BAll 
0-line looks to regain form 
Veterans and talented youngsters look ahead to 1996 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
The hallmark of the Notre Dame offensive line has always been its lightning quickness and mas­sive bulk. Notre Dame football is eternally praised for turning out star quarterbacks, but behind every humming spiral and behind every fourth-and-one sneak are the 300-pound men in 

the trenches. The sole difference this time around is depth. 
Two years ago, the Irish line was decimated with injuries. Starters lost proved irreplacable as Ron Powlus was sacked 25 times . Although offensive line coach Joe Moore might not agree, the Irish line, achored by fifth-year senior Jeremy Akers, is finally back and full steam ahead. 
"If we were sensational, why would we be here? We'd all be in the NFL. I'd like to see us block somebody. I'd like to see us without a let­down in a big game," said Moore who, like any Notre Dame coach, tends to raise expectations with his players. 
But Moore, even with the loss of stars Ryan Leahy and Dusty Zeigler, did acknowledge the line's depth. "As of now, we have seven who can play: Doughty, Akers, Kaczenski, Clevenger, Ridder, Wisne, Rosenthal. Clevenger is out all spring but will be ready in the fall, and Akers and Kilburg just returned." 
According to Moore, if the Irish had to suit up today, Mike Rosenthal would start at right guard with fellow freshman Jerry Wisne at the left guard spot; Mike Doughty would shore up right tackle with Tim Ridder at left tackle and Rick Kaczenski centering. 
However, it is Jeremy Akers who provides the key experience. Akers has recently returned to the practice field with a mission. In a practice last September 6, he dislocated his kneecap, and was virtually out of commission for the rest of the year despite playing sparingly in the last two games. Then, shortly into the spring session, he sprained his shoulder. While it has been frus­trating, Akers remains confident and helpful in the development of the underclassmen. 
"I definitely think we have a strong line. We 
see OL I page 14 


Sorota, 14-5 Belles pass tests with flying colors 
By STEPHANIE BUEK third consecutive win 5-4. 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor Sorota, a biology major at SMC, chose Wheaton for her Nancy Sorota took the Dental test site in hopes of being fin­Aptitude Test Saturday, but ished in time for her 2 p.m.
that was only one of the tests doubles match. The OAT she aced iast weekend. began at 8 a.m., and Sorota 
Down 4-4 in cold and windy took the court at 1:15 p.m. conditions, the Saint Mary's #1 According to Belles Head doubles team of juniors Kate Coach Katie Cromer, Sorota's 
Kozacik and Sorota came individual play proved to be an through for the team in the important factor in the team's clutch, taking Wheaton College 
overall success for the day. to 8-6, and securing the Belles' 

Baseball 

• Bookstore XXV coverage 
at Northwestern Tuesday, April 16 
Men's and Women's Tennis 
see pages 16 and 17 
at Big East Championships Thursday­
Lacrosse 
Sunday, April 18-21, 3p.m. 
SPORTS 
vs. UMass Saturday, April 20, Noon 

• Wrap-ups of golf action 
SMC Tennis 
at a 
Softball 

at DePauw Tuesday, April16, 3p.m.j 
see pages 15 and 18 
vs. UConn Saturday, April 20, Noon 

• ND Baseball statistics 
see pagel4 









