
Friday, February 16, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 91 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ex-Flanner resident dies of cancer 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
Gary Paschall, a former Flan­ner Hall resident who entered Notre Dame as a freshman in the fall of 1994, has passed away. 
Paschall died at his home in Wichita Falls, Tex.• finally suc­cumbing to the bone cancer that he had been battling for several years. 
Father Bill Seetch, rector of Flanner, recalled Paschall with fondness. "He was quiet, very friendly, and hard-working," Seetch said. 
"What he wanted the most was to have a year here at Notre Dame, and he wasn't ablH to get it. That was a real shame." 
Paschall was forced to with­draw from the University mid­way through his first semester as a freshman because of his health. 
lie made an attempt to return to school following Christmas Break of that year, but was only able to stay for another month. 
"We'll miss him," said Hon Fodor, one of Paschall's room-
see PASCHALL I page 4 

EPA cites power plant for emissions 
said. The stacks also failed a sulfur dioxide test in February 1995. 
The notice of violation was issued under the Clean Air Act of 1990. 
According to EPA officials, the stack emissions could exceed legal discharge limits by more than 400 tons of par­ticulate matter per year, and the sulfur dioxide emissions could exceed discharge limits by more than 500 tons per year. 
But those results would only occur with all boilers running at maximum capacity for the course of a year, according to Dennis Moore, Notre Dame's director of public relations and information. Currently, not all boilers are operating. 
"Two of the three boilers are not in operation right now," he said. The boilers are mainly used in the fall and in the summer to generate steam for use in heating and cooling campus buildings, he added. 
According to Moore, the Uni­versity has already done work on two of the three boilers, and "last time they were test­ed, their emissions were both within EPA standards." 
Notre Dame representatives recently met with EPA officials 
see EPA I page 4 


ND aims to meet standards of Clean Air Act 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
The Environmental Protec­tion Agency (EPA) cited the University of Notre Dame last month for air pollution viola­tions of the Clean Air Act of 1990, according to a statement from the organization. 
Excessive particulate matter -fly ash, smoke and dust ­and sulfur dioxide emitted from the Notre Dame Power Plant was the reason for the notice of violation, the EPA said. The emissions came from three of the four coal­fired boilers at the Power Plant that supplies steam and electricity to the campus. 
The citation came from the EPA's Region 5 office in Chicago that monitors the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin. 
"Seven stack tests performed between February 1991 and July 1995 on the coal-fired boilers recorded particulate matter emissions beyond lim­its allowed by Indiana air pol­lution regulations," the EPA 

• SMC STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Sullivan, Mitchell true to campaign platform 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saim Mary's News Ediwr 
Sarah Sullivan and Hacquel Mitdwll had one year to fulfill their campaign promises as student body president and vke-president. 
Among their goals were stu­dent access to Alumna informa­tion via the internet, trans­portation vehicles for volun­leering, a weekly newsletter of all campus events, a seminar on Saint Mary's history and new steps for the step aerobics classes. 
Although they fulfilled some of these promises, a few points on their platform were dropped. It is difficult to criti­cize, however because in all ar­
see SMC I page 4 
Junior Parent's Weekend 1996  
Schedule of Events  
FRIDAY  
1-7p.m.  Hospitality Room for parents and students in the Dooley  
Room, First Floor of LaFortune.  
1-7p.m.  Classic ND films in the TV lounge of LaFortune.  
3p.m.  Campus tours leaving from the hospitality room in LaFortune.  
7p.m.  Office of Minority Student Affairs sponsors "Biak Kofee House"  
9p.m.-1a.m.  "Sail into the Night" Gala.  
SATURDAY  
9:30-noon  Academic Workshops for each of the four colleges.  
11am-4p.m.  Hospitality Room in the Dooley Room.  
11 am-4p.m.  Classic films in the main TV lounge of LaFortune.  
10:30a.m.  Tour of the Snite Museum.  
11 :30a.m.  Tour of the Snite Museum.  
12:30-2p.m.  Hall Luncheons.  
1 & 2p.m.  Shenanigans, at the Snite Annenberg Auditorium.  
2-4:00p.m.  London Reunion in the LaFortune Ballroom.  
2-3:30p.m.  Honors Program reception in 210 O'Shaughnessy.  
2:00p.m.  Army ROTC Reception in Pasquerilla Center  
2:00p.m.  ND Jazz Band performance in Washington Hall.  

2:30-4:30p.m. Air Force ROTC reception in Pasquerilla Center 2:30-4:30p.m. Navy ROTC reception in Pasquerilla Center. 2:30-4:30p.m. Open House at the CSC for participants in service projects 2:30-4:30p.m. International Studies Program reception in the Notre 
Dame Room of LaFortune. 3:00p.m. Campus Tours leaving the Hospitality Room in LaFortune 3-4:00p.m. Theology Department Open House in the library Lounge 5:30p.m. Mass, Joyce Center South Dome. Fr. Malloy, presider. 7-10:00p.m. "Ambassadors' Dinner," Joyce Center North Dome. 
SUNDAY 
9:30-noon "Bon Voyage Brunch," Joyce Center North Dome. 

Hurley moonlights as coroner 
By HEATHER COCKS Assistant News Editor 
Three and a half years ago, Chuck Hurley accepted the chance to make an intriguing addition to his resume. 
The Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security spends one week per month working as a deputy coroner for St. Joseph County. "I've had previ­ous experience with homicides and other investigations," Hur­ley says. "This has been an in­teresting way to utilize that knowledge." 
He explained that there is one 


coroner and three deputies; of those three, Hurley is the only one who is not a doctor. "From previous work, I had quite a good understanding of the re­quired medical and legal back­ground," he says. 
Hurley has studied and re­searched violent deaths at both the FBI Academy in Virginia and the University of Louisville Southern Police Institute. 
During his 20-year tenure with the South Bend Police De­partment, Hurley was able to spend some time as a homicide investigator before taking a po­sition with Notre Dame Security in 1988. 
"One of the doctors ap­proached me when there was a vacancy at deputy coroner," re­calls Hurley. "The ability to be involved in some form of public service really appealed to me." 
His duties include dealing with deaths caused by acci­dents, suicide, homicide, or natural causes, and he is also present while the local patholo­gist performs autopsies. 
Hurley acknowledges that, al­though gruesome. this aspect of his work is significantly easier than notifying the victims' fami­lies. "It's difficult to see them hit with so much grief," he says. "Watching them deal with the pain can be very intense, very sad." 

He maintains that every situation calls for the utmost compassion. "The families have a right to hear the news as gen­tly as possible," he says. 
All the deputy coroners work on an on-call basis; Hurley says that most calls come at night and on weekends. "It is a little tiring," he says. 
The long hours aside, he em­phasizes the personal benefits he reaps from his job. 

"I do love the opportunity to work in public service, plus it keeps me in touch with the local police department, which is advantageous in both lines of work." 
Occasionally, conflicts arise with his work at Notre Dame Security. "That is my first priority. If I am needed here, I am here." lie notes that the doctors with whom he works are very cooperative -they willingly substitute when Hurley is called to campus. "I do the same for them," he said. "We do this as a team." 
While balancing his two ca­reers, Hurley also finds time for a little recreation on campus, acting as head coach for the Fisher interhall football team. "I love working with the stu­dents on a level that doesn't in­volve my security duties," he laughs. 
"Plus, when we won the championship I got one of those great letter jackets." 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 16, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Along awaited thank you 
Throughout my child- Stacy Ward  
hood, I stated quite mat- Associate Viewpoint  
ter-of-factly that I was  Ediror  
not having children-I  

was having a bird. Birds do not bark or scratch like other pets, nor make messes and talk back like kids. My bird and I were going to face the world's challenges together. 
As the real world looms more realistically in my path, I think that maybe a bird wouldn't be all that fulfilling. Someday, I would like a husband, a dog, maybe even a few children. 
When I think about being a parent, I have many questions about my own childhood. For instance, I wonder how many times I have actually thanked my parents for being my mom and dad. I have given them many mate­rial thanks such as Mothers' and Fathers' Day cards and birthday presents. Yet, they have received little in the way of genuine, heartfelt appreciation for the daily chores that are sim­ply a part of parenting. It has taken me a long time to realize that those are the aspects of my family life for which I should be most thankful. My parents provide me with an environment where I am surrounded by unconditional love, concern and support. Today, I would like to thank them for all of their dedicated actions and love that as I child I didn't appreciate. 
In elementary school, Mom always put our coats on the radiator, so as my sister and I walked to school each morning we would be toasty warm. I never noticed that not every­one had a radiator-warmed coat and I know that I never appreciated mine. 
One year, I bought my mom a "Mom's Taxi" key ring, little did I realize how appropriate that small gift was. I always assumed that mom or dad would drive me whenever and wherever I wished. My father dedicated his share of hours to this cause as well. In fact, he still chauffeurs the 5:00 am shuttle to the airport so that I can make a 9:00am class after going home for break. 
How many birthday and Christmas gifts did I receive with the 1-didn't-ask-for-this look? A lot. For instance, even this Christmas I received a huge goose down coat. I have worn it everyday since I've been back on cam­pus, just as mom predicted. 
I realize now that for years I have taken home and my parents for granted. I needed to leave home to recognize what I missed and how special my parents are to me. Part of Junior Parents' Weekend is to be acquainted with the people behind the names "mom" and "dad." Their responsibilities as parents cer­tainly aren't over and never will be, but they are becoming involved iQ my life in a different way. I know there is a lot more to mom and dad than carpools and warmed coats, but I want to thank them for warming my coat and driving me without my appreciation for so long, because now I am beginning to under­stand the meaning behind those actions. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TtmAY's STAFF  
News  
Jamie Heisler  
Brad Prendergast  Production  
Jason Dorwart  Belle Bautista  
Tom Schlidt  
Sports  
Jim Belden  Lab Tech  
David Murphy  
Graphics  
Brian Blank  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


• WURUl AT A GLANCE 
AIDS toll increasingly borne by blacks 
deaths among black men ages 25 to 
AIDS is exacting a growing toll on 44, up from 28 percent the year blacks. The virus is now responsible AIDS deaths before, and 20 percent among young for a third of all deaths among black white men, about the same as in men ages 25 to 44, the CDC said AIDS takes the 1993, according to the CDC. Thursday. iup 13 AIDS caused 22 percent of deaths ATLANTA 
lives ofmore blacks

percent
AIDS also accounts for about a fifth among black women of the same age
as compared to 

group in 1994 and 17 percent in
of the deaths among black women in 
whites. Rates of 

1993, compared with 6 percent
the same age range -a higher pro­
those age 25 to 44: 

among young white women in 1994 the Centers for Disease Control and portion than among young white men, 160 
and 5 percent the year before. Prevention said. The CDC report is the 
The death rate from AIDS for young latest to demonstrate changes in the 
black men in 1994 was 177.9 per epidemic since the first cases were 
1994. 100,000, almost four times greater reported 15 years ago among gay 
than the rate for their white counter­
120 
1993 

parts, 47.2. The rate for black menwhite men. 
I'
(Per 100,000)

"This is an epidemic that is affect­
rose 13 percent from the previous ing every segment of society," said 
year, while the rate for white men Cornelius Baker of the National As­
remained about the same, the CDC sociation of People with AIDS. said.
80

AIDS is now like other sexually The toll among women is growing. transmitted diseases, which tend to The rate for young black women, strike minorities harder than whites, 51.2, rose 28 percent from the 1993 said Dr. John Ward, the CDC's chief of rate of 40.1. The rate for young white AIDS surveillance. He pointed to the women jumped 30 percent, from 4.4 
40

link between sex and drugs as another in 1993 to 5.7 in 1994. reason for the growth of AIDS among The CDC expects death rates for blacks. blacks and women to continue climb­
At least 41,930 people died of AIDS ing as their proportion of AIDS cases in 1994, up 9 percent from 38,500 the grow, while cases and deaths among previous year. About three-quarters of 0 white men are leveling off. "The dis­the victims were 25 to 44, and AIDS parity in the burden of the AIDS epi­remains the leading killer for that age demic will be increasingly borne by group, the CDC said. 
black communities in the country,"
Source: Centers for Disease Control 
In 1994, AIDS caused 32 percent of AP Ward said. 
Buchanan co-chairman takes leave Highway won't run over 109 year-old 
WASHINGTON TAMPA, Fla. 
A co-chairman of Pat Buchanan's 
A 109-year-old man ordered out of his house so the 
presidential campaign stepped aside state can expand a freeway through his land can stay for 
today amid controversy over his I now, an appeals court ruled in an emergency order 
appearances as a speaker at meetings ~ Thursday. Julius James, who inherited the property from 
organized by white supremacists and his slave ancestors and has lived there all his life, had 
right-wing militia leaders. "I don't been ordered to move into a new home by Monday. His 
want to be the reason Pat Buchanan niece, Gussie Anderson, who has cared for him the past 
doesn't do well," said Larry Pratt, who two years says, "He said, 'Oh, thank you, Jesus.' I tell 
added that he finds racism "completely you, he looks so good. It's unbelievable." The state needs 
wrong" but took part in at least one anti-government 21 of his 60 acres to improve a congested freeway run­
meeting looking into the Ruby Ridge incident. "I was ning by his farm's eastern edge. Circuit Judge William 
interested in getting to the bottom of that," Pratt said Swigert ruled Tuesday that James had to relocate. 
today in an interview on CNN. "There were people at that Michael Brown, James' lawyer, wants his client to be 
meeting that I would not choose to be associated with." allowed to live with his niece and family on a knoll deep 
Pratt said he wanted to "address these charges and put in the property, land the state doesn't need for the high­
them to rest" to avoid harming Buchanan. "I hope to way. Department of Transportation manager John Gray 
rejoin the campaign;" he said. hopes to resolve the issue and "move along the project. 
School hungover about 'evil' beer ad Court limits doctor's concealed guns 
FLORENCE, Ala. ALBANY, N.Y. 
They love him, rna-a-a-n! (Sob.) Uh, unless he's going Sometimes four concealed weapons just aren't good 
to sell beer. Charlton Heston's appearance in a Bud enough. An New York emergency room doctor took his 
Light commercial led an Alabama Christian school to case all the way to New York's highest court after his 
cancel his speech at its annual fund-raiser March 22. 
application to carry five firearms was denied by an The commercial -which uses the catch phrase "I love 
Albany city court. He felt he needed another ven though, you, rna-a-a-n!" and a fake sob -first ran during the he already had a license to carry four semiautomatic 
Super Bowl on January 28, 1996. David Vester, presi­handguns. Dr. Jerald O'Brien told the licensing officer dent of the Mars Hill Bible School, said, "We're a that he wanted to carry more guns because "it makes meChristian school, and part of our purpose for being is to feel better." The reason didn't seem to fly with theteach against the evils of drinking." Heston's screen licensing officer -or the state Court of Appeals. Judgeroles have included Moses and Ben-Hur. "If my light­Carmen Ciparick ruled Thursday that O'Brien couldn'thearted commercial broadcast during the Super Bowl demonstrate "a need-or much less, any reason" for aoffended anyone, I respect their beliefs," Heston said license that would let him carry so many guns. 
Thursday in a statement released through an aide. 


Friday, Feb. 16 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 16. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Pte88 
Atlanta 49 18 Denver 62 31 New Orleans 50 29 Boston 31 24 Houston 64 28 New York 34 
24 Chicago 31 15 Kansas City 51 24 Phoenix 82 56 

Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Cincinnati 36 18 Los Angeles 72 54 Salt Lake City48 
20 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
CO 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Cleveland 30 15 Miami 62 46 Seattle 54 
41 
Friday, February 16, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Conflicting schedules cancel Ada01s lecture 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Gerry Adams, leader of the political party Sinn Fein in Northern Ireland, will not be coming to campus this spring because of a scheduling eon­met. the second time this year that arrangements with Adams by Notre Dame student organizations fell through. 
Adams was originally sched­uled to visit Notre Dame in November, but was forced to cancel when President Bill Clin­ton announced plans to travel to Northern Ireland that month. At that point, efforts by the Office of Student Activities and Student Union Board were made to reschedule Adams' visit for a date in the spring. 
Following a report released by Sen. George Mitchell (D­Mairw) on Jan. 31 that said Sinn Fein should be allowed to remain a part of peace talks in Northern Ireland as the cease­fire continued, Adams an­nounced his intentions to re­sume his U.S. lecture tour. Adams' lecture agent informed the OSA and SUB that Adams would be available during the week of March 11. 
Because Notre Dame students will be on spring break that week, OSA and SUB were forced to decline and withdraw their offer to have Adams speak at Notre Dame. 
In a letter submitted to The Observer yesterday, Kevin Klau of the OSA and Julie Wallman of SUB stressed that their deci­sion not to invite Adams to campus was due to the sched­uling conflict and not because of the end of the cease-fire and the bomb explosion in London on Feb. 8, an event for which 
see ADAMS I page 4 
' 
The Observer/ Mike Rume 

ND Stadium reaches new level 
Observer Staff Report 
Construction continues on the addi­tions to the Notre Dame football stadi­um. 
Yesterday, local union iron workers (top) installed around 30 more seating beams. the average daily amount. The seating beams weigh approximately 12,000 pounds apiece, and were built by Prestress Services in Decatur, Ind. 
Hunway ramps (left) for access to. the upper level of the stadium addition are also in progress. The ramps are sup­ported by 70-foot high columns placed by Casteel Construction, the contracting firm overseeing the stadium expansion 
When the expansion is completed, the stadium will hold 20,000 more specta­tors, making the facility the 14th largest in the United States. The expan­sion project will be completed in time for the 1997 football season. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
'1/..&~~~p~ 



IRISH,.VILLAGE 
Authentic Wood Replicas of Notre Dame Buildings ~~~t! THE VILLAGE IS GROWING! 

r • Snite Museum 
• N.D. Cornerstore

Weare 
• Washington Hall

Pleased 
• Hurley School 

to Amwtmce 
of Business

Additions 
• Walsh 

to our 
•Dillon 

collection of 
• Howard I I all 

Notre Dame 
• Morrissey Manor 

Buildings 
• Law School 
'-• School of 
Architecture 

Welcome Junior Parents! Browse among our other unique handcrafted items. Visit us in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center! 

Officially licensed products by
631-6714 
The University of Notre Dame 



page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 16, 1996 
creased contact with the South Bend community," Hosenbush
SMC EPA
said. Leslie Field, BOG Notre Dame 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 
student representative also eas, the pair seemed to make commends Sullivan and in Chicago at the request of the an honest effort to accomplish Mitchell on their outstanding University in an attempt to 
their goals. job of upholding platform is­comply with EPA regulations, Sullivan and Mitchell demon­sues. "Sarah (Sullivan) demon­Moore said. strated determination to create strated excellence in running He said the University is 
a more visible student govern­BOG, she really kept the board working on plans to alter the 
By AL~NDRA ZAVlS ban proposal showed he was ment on campus. They took together well." remaining boiler, which is cur­
Assodat~ Press determined to battle the vio­upon themselves the task of The mid semester break up of rently in operation. 
lence on several fronts. carrying over the Haggar reno­Hesidence Hall Association gen­The EPA said breathing high 
-=~~;::::::.::··

·,i't········ CAPE TOWN ''Let me make it abundantly vation towards the end of last erated tremendous response concentrations of particulate 
President Nelson Mandala clear that anyone who elects semester that had been started from the student body. "Our matter has been shown to 
challenged Zulu nationalists to defy the laws of the land by the previous administration. BOG board was unified that worsen the condition of per­
to.· defy him Thursday, will be punished fully," "I think that they did an excel­night. RHA really showed them sons with heart and lung dis­
amtouncingthat a ban on the Mandela told Parliament on lent job in renovating Haggar, that there are a lot of issues on eases. Sulfur dioxide may pen­
q}}lh~, spe.ars and other Thursday. and I am looking forward to the campus that need to be dealt etrate deep into the lungs, 
weapPQS they insist on carry­Mandela also urged Inkatha renaming," said Saint Mary's with. Apathy is not a way to causing alterations in their lin­
ing iii public would take to rejoin the constitution­junior Kristin Meek. solve a problem. This derailed ing. 
effectwithin days. writing process, which it "Twenty percent of the Saint me from BOG but the problems 
The ban is part of a broad­abandQned over the ANC's Mary's community will be were solved and everything 
er anti-crime campaign. refusal to bring in foreign polled some time next week re­was put back on track," 
Mandela argues that such mediators to help determine garding the renaming process Sullivan said. 
Ada01s 

weapons make it too easy for how power should be divided of the Haggar College Center "The problems with RHA continued from page 1 
political rallies and marches between provincial and snack bar. The names being should only show that negative 
to deteriorate into bloody national governments. 
things will happen and that the Irish Republican Army later 
riots; lnkatha wants more auton­The Bridge and Crossings," Sul­there are ways to make it claimed responsibility. 
considered are The Athenium, 
When Mandela first raised omy for KwaZulu-Natal, 
through," said Mitchell, who Sinn Fein is the political arm 
the possibility of a ban during accusing the ANC of pursuing According to Georgeanna described her position as a of the IRA. 
livan stated. 
a'speeth to Parliament last autocratic powers with which Hosenbush, director of student hard-working learning experi­"The decision not to invite 
wee~. ZlllU nationalist leader to wipe out Zulu culture. 
ence. "I am happy with the Adams to speak at Notre Dame Marig(isiitlm Buthelezi The ANC, which won theactivities at Saint Mary's Col­unity in student government this spring was made before the 
\¥arped tl)~t his followers nation's first all race elec­cease-fire ended and hostilities
lege, both Sullivan and Mitchell 
would fighJ t() protect their tions in 1994 to head the completing projects from the siasm I see in Jenn Turbiak and resumed," Klau and Wallman
have showed true leadership in and impressed with the enthu­
"God~givenright to carry national government, advo­previous administration. "They Beth-Ann Miller (president and said. "It... was made solely 
their cultural accoutrements cates strong central govern­had developed manuals for vice-president elect) and I am because of the logistical diffi­
when:ever they wish to do ment. It accuses lnkatha of looking forward to working culties."Moreover, Klau and 
so;'~· · opposing democracy in with them for the next two Wallman said the original invi­
Board of Goverance, recon­The •.... conflict between KwaZulu-Natal in a bid tostructed the constitution to 
months," Sullivan said. tation to Adams last fall was Buthelezi's In.katha Freedom retain control of the region.
make it more readable and in-
not an endorsement of Adams 
Party and Mandela's African Earlier Thursday, Buthelezi or Sinn Fein. 
iN~Vonal .Congress is the again called for international "The fact that we extended 
in that one semester. We got 
along great with him," Kohn · greatest threat to stability in mediation. The ANC says the

Paschall 
the offer in the fall should not
said. "He loved his music, his 
Sottth Africa since the end of dispute should be worked out continued from page 1 talk shows, and his computer." be viewed as a show of support 
wliite ttdMi'lty rule. with other parties in the con­
for Adams or his political
Paschall's disease put an end 
•. Thousands have died over stitutional assembly it con­
mates. "He was a really nice to a promising and already-il­party," they said. "The primary the lllst dec<J;de in the ANC­trols. 
motivation behind this lecture 
lnkatha power struggle in the Buthelezi was not presentguy and a good friend." lustrious athletic career. 
Eric Kohn, another room­was to hear first-hand from a ZulU stronghold of Kwn.Zulu· during Mandela's speech, asIn his senior year at Notre 
mate, echoed that sentiment. Dame High School in Wichita key party in the negotiations 
Natal province. he had already left to prepare "Even though he was only Falls, Paschall led all fullbacks about the nature of the conflict 
Mandela has called for a for a gathering of Zulu chiefs here for about one semester, in the state of Texas in rushing and the prospects for lasting 
peace conference to calm the to discuss Mandela's call for we got to know him really well yards, Seetch said. peace." 
pr~vince, but his weapons a peace conference. 
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
, 
r





r --------------------,
$5.99 DEAL $4.99 DEAL
I I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5.99 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4.99 

I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal! Call1-6902 
Cal/1-6902

I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 
L -1
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 

~ -----------1 r---------­
$10.99 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10.99 I I Pizzas for Only $9.99 I Call1-6902 Call1-6902
I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
L ...1 L ...1 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
Frida~ February 16, 1996 -~~-T~h~e~~~b~s~er~ve~r~·~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p=ag~e~5 
Berry: 'Universe is a communion' 
~£co-theologian'  come and learned to take the spirituality of the continent but  crossing point. In the future, Berry believes, every life situa­ 
discusses role of  we came as predators instead." Berry feels that what is hap­ tion division will be "between those who work with the natu­ 
future education  pening now is not just affecting humans, but the chemistry and  ral world and those who devas­tate it."  
By MARGARET LENNON News Writer  actual creation of the entire planet. "The beautiful world outside had to exist before the  In order for humans to be present on the planet in a "mutually enhancing way",  
Unless educators begin to teach today's generation the necessity of preserving the earth, the current rate of devastation to the planet will continue, according to Fr. Thomas Ber~y, ~ self-described "eco-theologmn. "When the mast was first seen on the horizon, every liv­ing being on this continent might have shuddered as to what was coming," Berry said. The difficulty from the be­ginning is that "we might have  beautiful world inside could," he said. "The tragedy now is not just pollution, but a soul loss, an imagination loss result­ing from when the children cannot see the stars." Describing his own genera­tion's relationship to the non­human world as "autistic," Berry focused on the culpability of government, business, edu­cation, and religion and their history of considering non-hu­man things valuable because of their use to humans. But that trend is now at a  Berry says, "we must under­stand the universe is a com­munion of subjects, not a collection of objects ... and those subjects have rights." In many ways, ecologists don't have a chance in the U.S. today because, as Berry says, "our Constitution only guaran­tees life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to humans." The solution, Berry said, is two-fold. First, universities must teach people how to build "a new mode of intimacy be­tween humans and the non­ 
human world."  Thus far, near­ 
ly 200 universities worldwide  
When the Great  have agreed to found their teaching on how to deal with these issues. Secondly, Berry emphasized  
American Dream isn't great enough  the necessity of every human being taking responsibility be­cause "what was once an in­herent dynamic of divinely in­spired process -now nothing will happen that we are not in­volved in."  
The challenge that all people  
face is to be able to identify not  
Have you considered  only with humankind, Berry  
said, but with the entire uni­ 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR?  verse of which humans are a part.  
A one-year progra.m at Moreau Seminary at the  
University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime  ERASMUS BOOKS  
of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother.  •Used books bought and sold  
Scholarship assistance is available.  •25 categories of Books  
•25,000 Hardback and Paperback books  
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C.  in stock •Out-of-Print Search Service: $2.00 •Appraisals large ami small  
Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C.  Open noon to six  
Congregation of Holy Cross  Tuesday through Sunday  
Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  1027 E. Wayne 
(219) 631-6385  South Bend, IN 46617  
(219)232-8444  
1811 S Ironwood Dr  
Between Lincoln­ 
way and Calvert!  
233·7272  
54533 Terrace Ln  
Next to Subway  
on SR23!  
271·1177  
Perfect Pizza.  
Perfect Price.  
Everyday.  

You don't have to be a philosophy major to come to grips wi[h the [ruth aboU[ pizza. All you have to know is Papa John's delivers the perfect pizza at [he perfect price. And then you need to know a number to call to make it happen. Beuer yet, use the numbers 
n ~ 77 1?.-.J._. n-1 above. Easy, huh? Perfect Pizza. Perfect price. Everyday. 
vutV-e,.,irJ 1 tJe ~t nzza. 
;-i;;m;sie~~-:----~~~~----rF~MfunM5hs~~;~ 
I Large : . . : Large 1-Toppmg, : 1 Topping Pizza : 1 Topping Pizza : Bread Stix, & 2 Cokes 1 I 1 95 9pm-c/ose : 95 : $1 ooo ~ : 
: $5 .. riiiljlij : $6 ·• ~ : . ·• ~ 
I 

L 
-----------~------------~-----------~ 

Photojournalist feels ethics must be upheld 
By MIKE JACCARINO News Writer 
The nature of a picture, once an historical image capturing the truth of reality at its mo­ment of occurrence, has been irrevocably changed, accord­ing to John Long, a photojour­nalist of twenty-five years with the Hartford Courant. 
With allusions to the past, Long spoke candidly last night about the dangers which have arisen in his field. 
According to Long, the use of electronics in altering the nature of a photograph has become increasingly prevalent throughout photojournalism. 
The debate over ethics in photojournalism arises over 
The Observer/ Brendon Candure 

the use of electronic machines, John Long, a photojournalist, which can accomplish what in spoke on the question of ethics. the past took days of painstak­
stood in stark contrast to the 
ing dark-room work. 
computer-edited photograph
According to Long, there is a of O.J. Simpson's mug-shot as 
pact between the reader and 
it appeared on the cover of 
the newspaper which guaran­Time Magazine. 
tees that any picture appear­"Once that shutter clicks and 
ing in a publication is a fair a moment in time is captured,
and accurate window into the it is in violation of the ethics of 
reality of history. 
photojournalism to run the 
"When photojournalists 
picture any other way but the 
begin to alter images, the 
way it stood at that moment. 
power, authority and value of That moment is sacrosanct in 
those photographs is lost." 
photojournalism," he said. 
This shift from documentary Long also felt that the 
journalism to impressionism is 
manipulation of a photo­
a trend from which photojour­graph's contents before that 
nalists will emerge with their picture is taken also consti­
credibility lost forever, accord­tutes a breach in the ethics of 
ing to Long. "The American photojournalism.
people are losing faith in pho­In possibly his most reveal­
tographs as documents of his­
ing anecdote of the evening
tory," he said. 
Long ended by saying that the 
Throughout his lecture, Long golden age of photojournalism, 
employed the use of slides to 
when men revered the 
illustrate the difference 
moment, has past. . "I'm a 
between past and pre!!ent in horse and buggy type photog­
the field of photojournalism. 
rapher," he said, "but today
The power of the immortal 
photojournalism is a new car 
Vietnam War image of a South and, sadly, I'm unknowing of 
Vietnamese soldier standing the path it will come to ride 
with a gun held to his head upon." 
Have something to say? Use the Observer classifieds. 
ll/IIIVIUIT\' 01 .. OUt D.UU 





URBAN 
INSTITUTE 
ll$if!IWM 
INYITB YOU TO AffiND 
1995-96 
PAULM. 
AND BARBARA HENKElS VISmNG SCHOLARS SERIES 
COUEGEOF 
ARTS AND LmERS 
UNIVERSilY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
SEPARATE AND STILL UNEQUAL 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1996 
PROVOST'S SERIES OF DISTINGUISHED WOMEN FACULTY PRESENTS: 
EVELYN BROOKS HIGGINBOTHAM 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
"REMEMBERING PLESSY AND THE RACIAL CONSTRUCTION OF CITIZENSHIP" 
8:00P.M. HESB~RGH LIBRARY A~DITORIUM 
Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham is Professor in the Harvard Divinity School and the W.E.B. DuBois Institute lor Afro­American Studies at Harvard. The author of Righteous Discontent: The Womens Movement in the Black Baotjst Churcb, 1680·1920, her research focuses on racial and gender equality as manifested through religion, and on African-American womens history. She holds the Ph.D. 
from Harvard University. 
For more inforrrMdion Tho Honkolo VloiUng 
~odby:

pleaa con!Kl: Sc:holln Series II o Alrlcon-Amortcon Cr. Roland B. Smith. Jr. Progrom of lhe Colloge SIUdioo Progrom. Dopl<><Dr. Dc'lld L Hoy. 
ot Arts IIOd Len... ot Sociology. c.nr.. 
Tho lkban lnoiiMo. 
ond lo medo poalblo lor Soclol Concerns. 
Unlv. ol Notro o.m.. 
by • generous endow­Wld U'ban Institute for Tol (218) 1!3HI708 men! provk:fed by Paul 
Conwnunlly """ 

Of 031.0015 M. & Borboro Honkolo. Educotlonollnl"""'-. 
TUES.. FE·B. 27TH. JOHN W. BORKOWSKI. ROOM 124 CSC TUES.. MARCH 19TH. DOUGLAS MASSEY. ROOM 124 CSC 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 16, 1996 
• WAlES 


Tanker runs aground spilling part of cargo 
Associated Press 
SAINT ANN'S HEAD 
An oil tanker ran aground in western Wales on Thursday, leaking more than a million gallons of oil. 
The Sea Empress, which sails under a Liberian flag, lost 1.8 million gallons of its 37.6 mil­lion gallon cargo, according to a statement from the Milford Haven coast guard. By contrast, the 1989 Exxon Valdez spill was 11 million gallons. 
It was the second time in four months that a tanker ran onto rocks in western Wales. 
Early reports said a steering failure might have caused the 77 ,350-ton tanker to run aground Thursday as it entered the Milford Haven estuary en route to a Texaco refinery, one of two refineries in the inlet. 
However, Acomarit, the 
Glasgow, Scotland-based com­pany that manages the 20­year-old ship, said there was no steering failure. Company officials did not specify what the problem was. 
"The port's full pollution con­trol plan has been put into effect," said Texaco Oil emer­gency coordinator Phil Thompson. "The vessel is, how­ever, remaining in position while experts discuss next moves." 
Coast guard tug boats towed the ship off rocks at Saint Ann's Head, at the tip of the mouth of the estuary. It ordereJ all ships to keep clear of a ten-mile ra­dius of the area while the ship was mired. All 29 Russian crew members were safe. 
Last fall, another large oil tanker, the Borga, ran aground in the same area and was re­floated without any spillage. 

UC regents approve affirmative action plan 
By MICHELLE LOCKE 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
After a dispute that nearly cost the new University of California president his job, regents quietly approved a compromise plan Thursday on when to drop affirmative action. 
By voice vote, the regents voted unanimously to get rid of race and gender considerations in undergraduate admissions by spring 1998. Student regent Ed Gomez, a supporter of affir­mative action, said later he had meant to vote "no" but the voice vote caught him by sur­prise. 
Last July, the regents voted to drop race and gender from admissions decisions effective Jan. 1, 1997. ')Last month, UC President Richard Atkinson said the new policy wouldn't take effect until fall1998. 
UC officials explained that the university admissions year begins in November, so a change in January 1997 would affect students applying in November 1997 for the follow­ing year. 
Under pressure from several regents, including Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, Atkinson agreed to implement the new policy for graduate and profes­sional students entering in September 1997. 
But he insisted that he wouldn't be able to get rid of affirmative action in under­graduate admissions until fall 1998. 
Ten regents then ordered a special meeting to review Atkinson's performance, a measure last taken in 1967 when Clark Kerr became the first president in UC's 127 -year history to be fired. 

Happy 19'" BIRTHDAv 
Tony, 



YOU BIG 
BANANA! 
•THE BOYS IN 18 


Rocket explodes, kills four 
Blast destroys second satellite tn one year 
By RENEE SCHOOF 
Associated Press 

BEIJING 
The explosion of another Chinese rocket -which destroyed a television satellite and caused an unconfirmed number of casualties -raised new questions today about the reliability of China's commer­cial satellite launch program. 
Hong Kong radio said four people were killed and dozens injured in the explosion early today, but Zhang Lihui, a spokeswoman for the govern­ment aerospace agency, said there were no deaths. 
The newly developed Long March 3B rocket carrying the Intelsat Inc. satellite veered toward the ground and explod­ed moments after liftoff at 3:01 
a.m. (2:01 p.m. EST Wednesday), television footage showed. 
The force of the blast blew away roofs and knocked out windows and doors at a mili­tary base near the Xichang Launch Center in remote southwestern Sichuan province, a military official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
He said two soldiers were slightly injured and medics were sent to the scene. 
It was the second explosion in China's commercial satellite launching industry in just over a year. In January 1995, a Long March 2E rocket explod­ed minutes after launch, killing six people and injuring 23. A Long March 2E also exploded in 1992. 
The latest explosion "puts another big question mark over the overall reliability of China's launch systems," said Brian Jeffries, editor of the Asia-Pacific Space Report in Hong Kong. 
"It's really quite a big set­back because of their past problems. They haven't really demonstrated that they can be reliable on the international market place," he said. 
China should be more open about what goes wrong with failed launches to help cus­tomers feel more confident, Jeffries added. 
China has aggressively pro­moted its commercial satellite launching industry, offering low prices and flexible terms. 
Although current launch prices are not known, China put its first satellite into space for a foreign customer, AsiaSatl in 1990, for $30 mil­lion, about half the amount Western competitors charged at the time. 
The state-run Xinhua News Agency, in a brief report, said only that the Chinese-made rocket failed after ignition. 
"This accident should not adversely effect China's coop­eration with other countries, because the cause of the acci­dent is still under investiga­tion," said Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofang. 
Chinese authorities cut video transmission just after the rocket started to plummet. Chinese TV reports later said nothing about the explosion. 

The Center for the Homeless 
Auction'Q 
Saturday, February 24 • 6:30 p.m. The Century Center's Great Hall 


Here's just a few ofthe exciting items being offered at Auction '96: 
* 
An all inclusive trip for two persons for five nights, including airfare to the five-star Grand Udo Resort on Negri! Island, Jamaica, courtesy of Anthony Travel. 

* 
Notre Dame Football Fantasy -Notre Dame vs. Ohio State-Your memorable day includes limo service to 


the game, four tickets to the game, and diuner at the Morris Inn, then a limo ride home. 
* Annchair Quarterback-You and a guest will experience the 
action of Notre Dame football up close personal. Attend pre-game Mass and team meal before heading to the locker room. After the game, viewed from the sideline, visit the locker room to hear Coach Holtz's post-game talk Game of your choice. (University policy permits only men in the locker room.) 
* 1\vo tickets to Notre Dame vs. USC in Los Angeles, airfare and two night 
stay at the LA Airport Marriott Hotel, and a two nights stay at the Marriott's Palm Desert Resort and Spa in Palm Springs. Airfare courtesy of Signal Travel. 
* 1\vo football season tickets for the 1996 Notre Dame season. 
Other exciting items include: NFL on FOX signed memorabilia, local restaurant gift certificates and entertainment packages, television scripts signed by cast members, and lots of surprises! New items are added daily. 
Call282-8700 for more information and ticket sales. Reservations are required. Absentee bidding available. 
Mark your calendar and don't miss the biggest party of'96. 


BORED??!! Looking for something to do??!! Think that South Bend has nothing fun to offer?? Think Again!!!! 
YOU TOO CAN HAVE FUN IN SOUTH BEND BOOK is available free of charge at the Office of Alcohol and Drug Information, 1 Mezzzanine Level, LaFortune. This book contains 380 fun places and things to do in our community. 
STOP BY AND PICK UP YOUR FREE COPY!!!!! 
Friday, February 16, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page7 
Experts suspect sabotage in train wreck Guilty plea 
Railroad calls in FBI to further investigate site 
By MARGARET TAUS 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 

A runaway freight train trav­eling up to 50 mph slammed into a railroad office building, injuring nine men, and authori­ties said today that sabotage was suspected. 
"There appears to have been somn tampering with the train. As a result we have called in the FBI," said Dick Hussack, a spokesman for Burlington Northern Santa Fe in Illinois. 
Hussack dedinnd to elaborate 
on  why sabotage  was  sus­ 
pt~cted.  
The  Burlington  Northern  

train, carrying lumber, grain and other cargo, originated in Minneapolis and was bound for Galesburg, Ill., when its brakes failed just before midnight Wednesday, said Rick Ellis, a BN division superintendent. It was approaching the freight yard of Canadian Pacific Rail­road. 
.one of the injured men was pm~ed for.three hours bene~th a car holdmg 15 tons of gram. ~le was freed after rescuers dug mto the frozen ground to jack up the car. . . 
He wa~ upgr~~ed from cnb­cal. to fair conditiOn today, suf­fermg from hypothermia. Wind chills had been below zero as rescuers worked to free him from the wreckage. . . . 
None of the other InJUries, mostly fractures and sprains, appear.e? to b.e lif~-threatening, authontws said. Five men were tr~ated and released. . fhe. FBI. be~an a preliminary mvestigatwn mto whether fed-era! laws were broken, agency sp.okeswoman Coleen Rowley sa...d. . 
Clearly It appears the brakes failed, but in an investigation one has to .look at everything," Hussack s~Id. . 
Th~ tram was mspected and nothmg.unusual was detected before It left the North town yard, acc?rding to Russack. Aft.er leavmg Northtown, the tram ~ade a !outine stop in St. P.aul, m~ht miles before the ac­cident site, to let another train go by, h~ said. . . 
Canadmn Pacific officmls said 

7~ 
MORRISSEY FILMFEST 
is currently accepting student film. Please submit a film or call Andy at 634-0870 for more information. 
App ications are now being accepted for Food and Supply Manager at the Alumni-Senior Club for the 1996-1997 school year. 
44 rail cars and six locomotives 1""""'..,...,~......... -.... 'l""""!~~........,.~~~~
der~iled, including cars and CANADA;R'i cuts mafia 
engmes that were knocked off the tracks by the oncoming train. Cars were twisted in 

trial short 
every direction, some upside down, some on top of each 
By RICHARD PYLE other. The impact knocked the Associated Press 
rails off their bed and wiped out a steel pedestrian bridge 
NEW YORK 
over the train yard. 

A much-anticipated court­
Big sheets of plywood spilled room confrontation between out of railway cars like decks of mob defector Salvatore cards, and grain poured onto "Sammy Bull" Gravano and 
the frozen gravel beneath the famed defense grillmaster F. wreckage. Cleanup crews were Lee Bailey fizzled Thursday
siphoning diesel fuel out of the 

train stopped just five feet from
tanks and off the ground. 

the room.
"It's amazing there was not 

The impact of the cars hitting
any explosion and fire. That's a 

the building pushed one man
miracle," said Mike Mc­

through the floor, covering him
Donough, a Canadian Pacific 

with rubble, Johnson said, and
electrician 

he was sure everybody would
The trai~. with two locomo­

have been killed had the train
tives and 89 cars, hit some of 

not hit the locomotives before
the six CP locomotives parked 

plowing into the building. 
outside the CP office building in 

"It was the most incredible
the freight yard in southeast St. 

thing you could ever imagine
Paul. Then dozens of cars from 

because you knew you were
the BN train derailed, some 

going to die but then it stopped 
slamming into the building. 

just before you did," he said. 
Ellis said he could not esti­

The injured were taken to St.
mate how fast the train was go­

Paul-Ramsey Medical Center.
ing, but that the average speed 

Seven were Canadian Pacific
in the area was 35 mph. St. 

employees. Two were on the
Paul Fire Chief Tim Fuller esti­

Burlington Northern train. 
mated that the train was travel­

Canadian Pacific spokesman
ing 40-50 mph. 

John Bergene said the track is
Mike Johnson, a freight car 

a main line for Burlington
inspector for Canadian Pacific, 

Northern and Canadian Pacific
said he was in the lunchroom 

trains. Several CP trains were
with five others getting ready 

backed up because of the de­
for a night's work when they 

railment, he said, and officials
heard a switchman issue a ra­

were trying to reroute them.
dio warning about the runaway 

Last October, one person was
train. That was about three to 

killed and 78 injured in the sab­
five minutes before it hit. 

otage of Amtrak's Sunset
"Everybody ran out," he said. 

Limited in the desert near Hy­
"I didn't know what way to 

der, Ariz., about 55 miles
go." He said he just bent down 

southwest of Phoenix. 
and covered his head, and the 

Beds, Booths & Euros I Open 7 Days a Week I Convenient Hours I Student Discounts I I 
-272-7653 I I 
; UNIVERSITY COMMONS BY U.P. MALL I 
I I 
•256-9656 I 
GRAPE & MCKINLEY 
I 
NEAR K-MART 
I I 
.,, "'WS:" I 
______._.J
"'iiY 
Pick up applicatio at the office o Student Activities. 
when Bailey's mobster client 
abruptly pleaded guilty to mur­
der conspiracy. 
The surprise move by Gam­bino crime family associate Joseph Watts, 45, came on the second day of his trial -just before Gravano was to testify as a government witness. 
It would have been the eighth such appearance for Gravano, who has been called the most important Mafia turn­coat in the United States. His testimony proved vital to the 1992 conviction of his formerly close cohort, Gambino boss John Gotti, and a succession of lesser hoodlums. 
Originally sentenced to only five years in prison, Gravano is now in the federal witness pro­tection program. His court ap­pearance would have been his first in 16 months. 
Bailey had been expected to accuse Gravano of perjury on grounds that in admitting un­der oath to 19 murders, the gangster had failed to mention two others. 
In rendering that issue moot, Watts' plea may also have dealt a setback to Gotti, who is appealing his life sentence for murder and racketeering on the same grounds. By discrediting Gravano, Bailey could have at least indirectly bolstered Gotti's bid for a new trial. 
U.S. District Attorney Zachary Carter declined to speculate on the eiTect on Got­ti's appeal. 
Defense lawyers said they were delighted with the deal, which calls for Watts to spend six years in prison. Watts hill'Y­self seemed relieved, smiling broadly and shaking hands with attorneys and friends. 
Each side said the deal was the other's idea. 
Watts attorney Alan Futerfas said prosecutors were con­cerned the aggressive Bailey might destroy their star wit­ness. 
Carter denied that and said prosecutors had no qualms about bringing Gravano out in public again, despite his status as a protected witness. 
JPRING BREAK 
CAN<UN 
7 Nigh! Packages Non-Slop From Indianapolis 
$4)9 
BEACHFRONT HOTELS AVAILABLE OASIS • DAY'S INN • CALINDA ·HYATT 
f~eklgu Include: 
• 
Round· Trip Non·Stop Airfare From Indianapolis 

• 
7 Nights Beachlronl Hotel Accommodaltona 

• 
Round· Tnp Airport to Hotel Transfers 


• College Tours famous VIP P•rty Pachg• FREE 
cover charges, FREE parties, FREE food & drlnka,
Come Join the 

EXCLUSIVE a ecial events, OVER $150 in uvin sl 
LOWEST PRICES· BEST HOTELS ·BIGGEST PARTIES ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl
Team! 

cALL COLLE~E TOURS 
-rooP-"1 800-)95-4896 
'nc.• ptlr penon, plu1 tu.•• Pub~c Charterw via Alegro Air Tour{)ptl,.lor It Funqu.tl Vacallont O.llollt II} OpJPart Contract 

page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 16, 1996 
Police find lead in string of Indiana Amish attacks 
Kevorkian trial narrows jurors 
•Class Rings Sized... US31 North 
In most cases wnile you wait-Village Mall 
South Bend, IN 46637

500/o off! 
(219) 277-1515

•Jewelry Repair 
•Gold Chains Centennial Place 324 W. Cleveland Granger, IN 46530
• Engagement Rings 
(219) 277-1010 

r--------------------------------------, 
~ 
~-(Q>WJ[]ill/J~~ 
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. • Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. • Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 7:00p.m. • Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
By NANCY ARMOUR 
Associated Press 
NAPPANEE, Ind. 
At least 10 or 15 times since January, Amish men on bicy­cles have been beaten and robbed on their way home from work, sometimes with metal pipes and tire irons. 
The Amish are seen as easy prey because their pacifist be­liefs prevent them from fighting back and they are reluctant to take their problems to police. 
Police think they have finally cracked the case with the help of an Amish man who stepped forward out of fear someone would eventually be killed. But questions and concerns remain. 
The attacks have horrified people in Nappanee, where 


·Questions,r~of mqtive~;:u 
dominate Salvi trial 
ByKATIIARINE WEBSTER · Associated Press 
DEDHAM, Mass. In a voice "like a preacher," ,John .c. Salvi Ill shQuted, / ..This is what you get! You ··should pray the rosary!" as he shot a receptionist to death at 
· an abortion clinic, witnesses testified Thursday. Salvi, 23, of Hampton. N.H.• is charged with murdering the receptionist and a second woman and wounding five others in attacks on two abor­tion clinics on Dec. 30, 1994. The former hairdresser bas pleaded insanity. Witnesses said he walked into an anteroom and waited to be acknowledged by recep­tionist Lee Ann Nichols, then reached into a duffel bag and pulled out a gun. "Then he took a step to his left, lifted his gun and shot me,' said Jane Sauer, a patient administratQr who was the first to be hit. Sauer said she rolled herself into a ball behind a column and where she heard Salvi telling Nichols: "This is what you get! You should pray the rosary!" as he pumped 10 bul­lets into her. Clinic security guard Richard Seron descrl.bed Salvi's voice as high-pitched and loud, yet "eloquent" and "like a preacher." Seron, who 
hitching posts stand outside banks and grocery stores and traffic signs warn motorists to watch for horse-drawn buggies. 
"My feeling was disgust," said Brooke Box, a non-Amish resident of this town of 5,510 people about 45 miles southeast of South Bend. "Disgust and embarrassment, because we live in this community." 
Nappanee's quiet, black-clad Amish, who number about 2,500, have always had good relations with other residents, and they are vital to the econ­omy. Tourists from across the country travel to Amish Acres, a historical farm and education center, and buy Amish-made crafts and furniture. 
The attacks began in early January, when an Amish bicy­
exchanged gunfire with Salvi, said the gunman's eyebrows were arched, his brow fur· rowed, his mouth taut and his eyes un})linking. 
In the first cross-examina~ tion of the trial, .SalvPs lawyers challenged the sug· gestion that their client was motivated by his anti-abor~on. views, rather than by delu­sions of a conspiracy against Roman Catholics. The shoot­ings, the defense Claitns, were triggered by the murders of four Catholic priests in Algeria three days earlier. 
Prosecutors say Salvi's ac· tions were the work of a man who was in full control of his senses and had carefully planned his crimes. 
Seron said he saw Salvi picketing outside the clinic two to three weeks before the shooting. Yet he conceded un­der cross-examination that he did not correctly identify Salvi from mug shots imtnedi11tely after the attack. 
"Is your memory better now than it was a year ago?" asked defense attorney Janice Bassil, suggesting Seron was motivated by the $100,000 reward offered for informa­tion leading to the gunman's capture. 
Seron, who was shot in the attack. said he wasri't influ. enced by the rewatd ·and re. ceived no m()p.ey. 
~1.\~ 

clist was struck by a car. Police said it may have been inten­tional. Two days later, an Amish man riding his bike was attacked and robbed of $280. 
"It was very unexpected," said a Amish woman who spoke on condition of anonymity. "We always thought things like that happen in the big city .... We were scared because we didn't know what to expect if we went on the road." 
The Amish are a Christian sect that generally shuns mod­ern conveniences such as elec­tricity, cars and telephones. Many farm, use horse-drawn buggies and follow a simple way of life. They don't like drawing attention to themselves and avoid bright clothing. The Amish also are reluctant to be 
By BRIAN AKRE 
Associated Press 

PONTIAC, Mich. The assisted-suicide trial of 
Dr. Jack Kevorkian o ned 
Thursday 
with a judge 
questioning 
the 60 
prospective 
jurors herself 
to keep the 

lawyers from delving into such matters as religion. Kevorkian, 67, is accused of aiding in the 1993 deaths of 

interviewed or photographed and will rarely give their names to a reporter. 
"They're very vulnerable be­cause of their religious beliefs. They don't fight back," said David Kolbe, the Kosciusko County prosecutor. Attacking the Amish is "analogous to do­ing it to children." 
Police began receiving anony­mous calls, with each caller telling a similar story: An Amish man on his way home from work had been followed by a car carrying at least two people and was assaulted with a pipe or tire iron and robbed. 
The attacks usually occurred on Thursdays or Fridays ­payday at the recreational-ve­hicle plants where many Amish work. Between $100 and $300 
two people who inhaled carbon monoxide in apartments he rented. He was charged under Michigan's now-expired ban on assisted suicide, which carries up to four years in prison. 
Circuit Judge Jessica Cooper questioned the jury panel her­self after a few days of wran­gling over defense attorney Ge­offrey Fieger's bid to ask prospective jurors such ques­tions as "Does your religion forbid suicide?" 
Cooper said last week she would allow such questions but reversed herself on Monday after an appeals court ordered her to explain herself. 
JEWELERS 
was stolen from each person, Kolbe said. 
Though they knew about the attacks, police could do little because none of the victims would give his name. The Amish believe justice should be left to God and don't see the legal system as a way to resolve disputes. 
"As a police officer it bothers me quite a bit," Detective Sgt. Tom Brindle said. "I also know how the law works. If a person is not willing to back law-en­forcement and report the crime, then law enforcement can't do anything about the crime." 
Finally, an Amish man re­ported being chased by a car filled with people, one of whom was waving a tire iron. 
On Thursday, the judge told Fieger and prosecutor Gregory Townsend she might let them ask some follow-up questions. 
By midafternoon, Cooper had dismissed four prospective ju­rors, three men and one woman. The woman had told the judge she might be affected by her religious beliefs. 
One man said he couldn't be fair; another said he would be influenced by the fact that the law Kevorkian is charged with breaking -a nearly two-year moratorium imposed by the Legislature -has expired; and the fourth person said he knew two people on a witness list. 

Please Recycle The 

NOTRE DAME 2.77..1166 
Wall(infl Distance from N.D. 
Must be 18 or older. One per customer. 
Not valid with any other offer. Expires 2/25/96 
L

Observer 
hiday, february 16, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• ENGLAND 
Theater district bomb bears trademarks of IRA 
By RON KAMPEAS warnings when a truck bomb 
r?Z%\JETIT!l!:?'lll~ 
Associated Press exploded, killing two people, wounding more than 100 and LONDON causing an estimated $125 mil­
Police deactivated a bomb in lion in damage. London's theater district The bombing broke a 17­Thursday hours after the Irish month cease-fire in the IRA's Hnpublkan Army appeared to campaign to end Britain's reject demands for a new eight-century rule of Northern H .. . / ·"""''""''"''···r cease-lire. lreland. 
No one daimed responsibility Just after 12:30 p.m. Thurs­them about three hours after­for thn small bomb found near day, barricades went up after the warnings. Shal'tesbury Avenun, famous for police received seven coded The bomb was found in a its theaters and restaurants, warnings. Some people were sports bag in a phone booth on but Scotland Yard said two evacuated. others told to stay Charing Cross Road after two coded telephone warnings inside. "imprecise" warnings, a Scot­"bore all the hallmarks" of the Police sealed off Piccadilly land Yard statement said. IHA. Circus, Trafalgar Square, the Police described it as small, but 
Police were evacuating build­bustling shopping district along such devices have killed ings in a London business dis­Oxford Street and half a dozen passersby in the past. trict last Friday after similar subway stations, but reopened In the IHA's first pronounce­

• DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Search party finds 'black box' 
ment since claiming responsi­bility for Friday's bombing, it made what appeared to be a threat of further attacks, saying it "will continue to assert Irish national rights in the face of British denial for as long as is necessary.'' 
The statement blamed British Prime Minister John Major for the breakdown of the truce and repeated its demand for all­party talks on the future of Northern Ireland. 
The IRA wants its political ally, Sinn Fein, included in the talks. 
The British and Irish govern­ments have barred elected cab­inet members from contact with Sinn Fein. Irish civil servants 
By PETER MUELLO 
Associated Press 
RIO DE JANEIHO 
Brazilians pulled bodies from the muck Thursday and looked for someone to blame for mud­slides that killed at least 71 people, many in hillside shanty­towns of handmade shacks. 
The body of a young boy was found under mounds of garbage in the shantytown of Cidade de Deus, or City of God, in Rio. In nearby Sitio do Pai Joao, civil defense workers pulled two more bodies from the red mud that buried shacks. 
Twelve people were still missing in Cidade de Deus, civil defense officials said. Hesidents said there were twice that plan to meet Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams on Friday in Dublin. 
The British and Irish gov­ernments have demanded a new cease-fire. 
Protestants, the majority in Northern Ireland, largely favor British rule. 
The IHA draws its support from a minority within the Homan Catholic community, about 40 percent of the popula­tion. 
From 1970 to 1994, the IRA killed more than 1,700 people. Pro-British paramilitaries killed about 900 people, mostly Catholics. 
British soldiers and police killed about 350. 
By JOSE MONEGRO 
Associated Press 
Investigators into the plane crash that killed 189 pnople last week got their first big break Thursday when they located one of the plane's "black box" reeordnrs on the deep sea floor. 
It was not immediately known whether the recorder was the one for flight data or the one that records talk in the cockpit. Eitlwr onn could be crucial to discovering the cause of the Feb. 6 crash. 
Encouraged by the discovery, searchers began mapping the rugged ocean floor 12 miles off thn north coast of this Caribbean nation where the Alas Nacionales Flight 301 went down, carrying mostly Gnrman tourists returning from Carihbmtn holidays. All aboard were killed. 
The investigators hoped to determine the exact depth of the recorder and chart any other debris from the downed Boeing 757 before sending a robot to recover the recorder. 
Initial mapping could take two days, said U.S. Embassy spokesman Cesar Beltran, who was told of the find in a tele­phone call from the captain of the 105-foot search vessel, Seaward Explorer. 
President Joaquin Balaguer, meanwhile, declared Thursday a day of national mourning, and churches across the coun­try held services to honor the crash victims. 
Flight 301 crashed into the Atlantic Ocean minutes after takeoff from Puerto Plata's in­ternational airport. 
The plane was leased by Alas, a small Dominican company, from Birgenair, a Turkish com­pany that has said it was responsible for all Alas opera­tions. 
Investigators so far have been hampered by a lack of evi­dence. Hescuers recovered only 72 bodies from the sea and could find no airplane scraps bigger than a suitcase. 
Dominican civil aviation au­thorities leading the probe have said there was no warning the plane was in trouble, but ground controllers say the crew might have been trying to turn the plane around and return to Puerto Plata. 
Information stored in the flight data and cockpit voice recorders is crucial to the investigation -and includes details such as the jet's pitch, airspeed and direction, and conversations among the crew and with ground controllers. 

Mudslide to blame for deaths of at least 71 
many. About one-fifth of Hio's 6 million people live in its 660 slums, but few have an ad­dress. 
Heavy summer rains caused 100 deaths in similar tragedies in 1966, 1967 and 1988. 
Maia, however, blamed the victims for refusing to evacu­ate. "They resist," he said. "We 
remove  them  and  they  go  
back."  
Joel  Portela,  a  Roman  

Catholic priest, recalled how residents sat marveling at rain­bow halos above water cascad­ing down a slope. The slope then crashed down, killing at least 17. 
"They should have spent their time evacuating, hut they didn't know the danger they were in," Portela said. 
Arthur Andersen is proud to announce the following University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have accepted employment offers to join us after graduation. 
Thomas Ahern, New York Nicole Allen, Chicago Amy Amoni, Washington, DC David Bangert, Chicago Robert Brett, Cleveland Patrick Casey, Chicago Carrie Christianson, Chicago David Clairmont, Boston Michael Clark, Chicago Anna Dematatis, Chicago Keith Deussing, Philadelphia Matthew Entrekin, Chicago Kathryn Fox, Pittsburgh Michelle Frasier, Chicago Kevin Goodwin, Atlanta Shannon Griesemer, Chicago Matthew Gunter, Chicago Wendy Hawrylak, Chicago Elizabeth Heimann, Boston 
Benjamin Herrig, Chicago Christopher Irwin, Boston Matthew Jennings, Chicago Michael K.loska, Chicago Kevin Krayer,Miami Marc Liebman, Phoenix-Tucson Eric Lorge, Chicago Julie MacKinnon, Boston Elena Maguire, New York Jay Matushak,Minneapolis Natasha Mazzei, Rochester Marcus McDonald, Chicago Jennifer Mehl, Chicago Amy Mertz, Chicago John O'Connell III, New York Kathleen O'Connell, Baltimore Michael O'Neil, Milwaukee Jonathon O'Reilly, Boston 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
AlmruRANDERSEN&Co SC 

Ryan Plutnicki, Philadelphia Kristen Polcari, New York Kari Pulley, Chicago Joseph Riley, Chicago Vanessa Rollings, Chicago Adrienne Samardzija, Chicago Jill Satanek, Chicago David Skinner, New York Mark Staub, Chicago Brian Sullivan, New York Joseph Taylor, Chicago Margaret Vida, Chicago Oanh Vo, Chicago Isabel Wagner, Sarasota Dean Wikenheiser, Minneapolis Michael Willis, Chicago Ann Marie Zielonka, Chicago Brian Ziolkowski, Chicago 
--~·------~-----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 16, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhe views of the aurhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the NO£re Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and £O all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTER TO THE Eom:m
• EDITORIAL 

'Right Reason' reveals ignorance
Congratulations and advice 
Dear Editor attacking a word such as multicultural· 
The campus of Notre Dame has now ism or feminism. Instead of taking the 
been graced by yet another issue of academic approach of applying critical 
An Open J.Ptter to the Incoming Student Government 
to new student leaders 
"Right Reason." Once again. I have theory and researching what is meant To Seth Miller. Megan Murray. Jen Turbiak and Beth Ann Miller: 
been instructed in the rigors and apti· by these terms, they attack them whole­First of all, congratulations on your victories. Your hard work and eagerness to 
tudes necessary for a good Catholic gen­sale. Another interesting fact about this serve your respective campuses clearly· demonstrate the depth of your commit· 
tleman. These instructions include paper is the manner in which some of ment to your schools. . 
changing my beliefs to embrace the free the articles rely upon the "Word of God" But realize your new jobs are not passes to campus wide power, perks, and a 
market and to embrace an end to free­as an authoritative argument. I hate to post·graduation job. The path you have chosen will be a difficult one, filled with 
thinking at a University. The editors of be the one to tell the editors, but that tremendous responsibility arduous tasks and a myriad of challenges. The student 
"Right Reason" note that the liberals type of argumentation lost credibility bodies of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's face some tough times ahead, and 
here at NO "haven't even been able to with the Enlightenment. will look to you to provide the direction, or the answers to problems when no one 
coordinate a response." ("Right At times, I am thoroughly disgusted else can or will come up with them. There are crises to be faced, and now you 
Reason" Feb. '96) My response, as a with the appalling ignorance of the edi­are in the hot seat. 
liberal, would be that there is really no tors. For instance, their snide little col· Some suggestions: 
response to be given. How does one umn about eating disorders being spiri­
respond to a newspaper that casually tual disorders is the most absurd piece a visible instrument of student voice from one end of Notre Dame, Indiana to the 
• Be leaders. This might seem obvious, but stand up for your constituency. Be 
regurgitates dogma as absolutist I've read in years. To attribute eating other. Without you making points for us, the student bodies are just cash cows 
"Truth" and indulges in petty little disorders to the "sexual revolution" and grazing on Holy Cross farmland. On the other side, learn quickly the things that 
tirades about the kind of musak that to God's desire for beautiful "souls" is at are worth fighting for. If you confront the administration at every single turn, 
should accompany the grand scheme of once repulsive and sexist. "Right you'll spend the next eight months beating your head against a brick wall. 
God's medieval plan? I am anxiously Heason" really covers the bases when it 
awaiting the next issue of this conserva­comes to ignorance: racism against been a hibernating bear: large and powerful and sometimes awake long enough 
• Return activism to student government. For too long student government has 
tive tabloid. Perhaps there will be an native Americans, anti·women's rights, to be quite potent, but too often just lethargic and stumbling through the 
article on the Ptolemaic ordering of the pre·militarism, and equations of 1:{\0tions. Take a stand in office, in fact, take a whole bunch of stands. There are 
Universe and how it was right to burn Catholicism with money-making. too many vital issues dogging both student bodies for you to ignore-Gender 
Galileo. They miss the point of NASAND's issues, multi·cultural issues, gay and lesbian student concerns, and the need for 
But seriously, I do chuckle a few times requests. The larger picture includes a ~ore student input. At Notre Dame in particular, the need for a student member 
at the pages of this paper. With titles restructuring of the manner in which Of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees should not be overlooked. At Saint Mary's, 
such as "Eunuchs for the Kingdom of we view history. We have a museum in tflere is a ne.ed for a stronger, clearer identity, whether students care to admit it 
God," how can one help a slight guffaw? DC for the Holocaust in Europe, but as a or not. And for both schools. work for better relations between their students 
On the other hand however, we have the nation. we have yet to come to terms and their administrations. The list goes on. Make sure it starts to get smaller. 
self·proclaimed righteousness of the with the plunder and genocide prac­
paper that places Hitler as a liberal and ticed, and being practiced, against the without much fanfare. When you get right down to it, does Harry Ca.ray Day, an 
• Don't let trivial issues bog you down. Small improvements can be achieved 
the Indians as a "savage" and "inferior" indigenous populace in the Americas. ATM machine or a dining hall cup patrol really mean all that much? While such 
culture. This is disturbing stuff. In fact, Removal of the murals from the Dome is efforts are worthwhile, they should not become hallmarks of your administra· 
it seems to me to be bold·faced racism. only a band·aid solution for a very large tion. 
With an article bashing the ideas of problem. Eleven out of the most impov­
multiculturalism. the editors reveal not erished twenty counties in the US are Matt Orsagh showed, many students on this campus find the very idea of student 
• Smash the student government myth. As the election of Dave Hungeling and 
only their ignorance and refusal to Native American reservations. government useless and absurd. They believe that members of student govern­
progress toward a deeper critical However, "Right Reason" prefers to glo· ment are smug little bureaucrats in training, or even worse, politicians who care 
understanding of race relations in the rify and exonerate the Catholic "mis· only to build the strength of their resume for their plunge into the job market. 
country, but they also show us their sionaries" who worked hand·in·hand Prove them wrong. Be effective. but remember, it won't be easy. 
simplistic longing for some sort of with the military to eradicate a culture 
return to the days of yore when it was and steal their lands. The paper is filled students want to get involved-they just need a little motivation. Keep students 
• Make communication more than just another cliche. Be vocal. Remember. 
easy to talk in such overtly racist style with inadequate explanations. bungled abreast of every development in your tenn by talking with The Observer, the 
with impunity. Well, I guess they can editorials, and thinly veiled hatred. In Scholastic, or WVFI. Tell everyone who will listen. 
get away with their archaic backlash short, "Right Reason" remains a plat­These are just a few suggestions we offer as you step into your new roles. This 
against progress at an institution such form for spouting dogmatic buffoonery. coming year holds a lot of uncertainty for the student bodies of both Notre Dame 
as Notre Dame. It is so easy for and Saint Mary's and also promises to be the busiest of your lives. 
Conservatives, and the right·wing DAVID MCMAHON Good luck, you're going to need it. 
Christian Coalition for that matter, to Senior drum up support in their ranks by OffCampus 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• l.lOOHESBURY 
A£ter the money's
been deposited, I'll 
reveal my name to 
you, along with full documentation. Tomor­row night, you break the story of the year. 

• QuOTE Of THE DAY 
"An idea that is not danger­ous is unworthy of being called an idea at all." 
-Oscar Wilde 

2-16 
VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 16, 1996 page 11 
• LOCAL COLOR 
Remembering when Uncle Bud didn't come to the door 
I remember some years ago sitting in the living room of my mother's house in Florence, Alabama, the town where I was born. ller brother, my uncle Bud, was telling me stories, including one about an old friend who had disap­peared and was presumed dead. He's vanished out in California, the tale went, and they never found his body, just a suidde note and his clothes, folded on the beach. 
Carol Bradley 

"Y.ep," Bud said gleefully, and blew out a long stream of cigarette smoke. "Poor man's Chapter 11." 
I think of my uncle this time of year, because it was eight years ago this month that he ended his own life with a single bullet from a .357 Magnum pistol. lie left no note behind. only a handwrit­ten will in which he deseribed himself as "of sound mind. though badly depressed." 
"I was at home," my father told me lal!~r. "I ain't real sure anymore why I was home, but I was. I had taken 
• ,., JM THI: BAYOIJ 
Margaret to the beauty parlor, and I'd come back here, but I don't remember why I was at home to start with, and not at work." · 
"But I was here, and the phone rang, and I answered it. It was a lady from his offiee, telling me that Bud did not come into work that day. He had been there at work the day before, and had left at his regular time. But he did not come back the next morning. They had called his residence a number of times and got no answer. Someone had gone to his house and found out that his house was locked and his car was there, but no one came to the door." 
"So I went to his house. His car was there. The lights were on in the house, and there was a crack in the drapes wide enough that I could see almost everywhere, enough to tell that there was no one there, that the house was unoccupied." 
"lie was building an A-frame storage building out back. I pushed it open, and I could just see a silhouette. He was just sitting there, sitting on a folding chair." When my father stepped near him, the gun fell out of his hand. 
I was haunted by that image later, of him sitting there in the cold in the dark. My mother couldn't get it out of her mind either, she told me, only in her mind he was the sixteen-year-old baby brother she'd adored, not the sixty-year­old he'd been when he died. 
The last time I saw my uncle, he told me a story about our hometown Florence, Alabama, in the wild days of the 1930s, and I thought about it later. 

'so I went to his house. His 
car was there. The lights were on in the house, and there was a crack in the drapes wide enough that I could see almost everywhere, enough to tell that there was no one there, that the house was unoccupied.' 
I'd heard parts of it before, about the time when a little girl came walking down the street, carrying a baby and smoking a cigar. "It wasn't hers of course, the baby," Bud told me. "She was only about twelve herself, a litile bitty thing. She had to rare way back to carry it. 
"They'd been feuding with the family next door. All of them lived in these big two or three-story houses, old ram­shackle things. And each family would steal their firewood from the other hous­es, they were all about to fall down." 
It is carnival season in Louisiana as Fat Tuesday is not far away. 
And in the rice plains of Louisiana where I live, Mardi Gras is still cdehrated as it was meant to be-revelers chase through tlw stn~nts of small towns taking ehiekens, pigs, and whatever dse from loeal farmers to make a big pot of gumbo for any and everyone to eat. Cajuns take advantage of this one last oppor­tunity for some debauchery before Lent's austerity sets in. Mmmwhile, in New Orleans, Mardi Gras is a more lavish affair with elaborate floats, beads, and insane numbers of 'hurri­eanes' eonsumed by sometimes half naked Louisianians and tourists alike. 
I think living in Louisiana is finally going to pay ofT. In a few days most 
Mardi Gras festivi-
D R• 
ties will he well 
ave lngunder way. And whether I spend a few days in a small eountry town help­ing to chase a chick­en, or a night in New Orleans, Mardi Gras festivities are sure to please. Or at least intoxieate. 
Actually, l have never been to a Mardi Gras parade or party; yet, I think I have a fairly good idea of what to expect. This is thanks to simply listening to the radio ("Bayou 104") and talk­ing with the natives. But perhaps I am ready for my first Mardi Gras due to my students answers to' the following short essay topie..."Write a few paragraphs about a Mardi Gras adventure you had in the past." 
Needless to say, the papnrs I received were written with the honesty (and grammar) of teenagers eager to educate a raw Northerner about Louisiana's Sodom and Gomorrah. The prin­cipal's daughter, Ginny, describes the parades in Lafayette, a town of 100,000, as quite a spectacle. She describes how "the people on the floats threw beads with one hand while holding a beer in the other." Mayhem apparently reigned in the crowd as well; she writes that there were "police to keep all the drunks under control. There was trash everywhere, that includes p1mple and papnr." 
The Mardi Gras cnlebration in Iota, a tiny farming eummuni­ty near where I teach solieitHd the wrath of one junior, Krystal. Shn eornrnentml that "all during the parade the people !who were! dressed lin eostumesl ran around hugging and touching everyone." She writns that she will never go back since "their joh was to run around and make people laugh, not touch them." Krystal offers some sound advice: "Mardi Gras is l'un ... hut you eannot trust anyone behind a mask." 
Without a doubt, New Orleans-the big city to my small town Cajun students-holds an elevated rank in Mardi Gras lore. A senior, Conrad, recounted how when he was seven his uncle "ran under a noat to get some beads and his foot got run over erushing it completely ending lmy] Mardi Gras for that year." Oops. 
Another seemed to have better luck celebrating in New Orleans. Of his first Mardi Gras there, Brandon writes that "I can't really go into detail about what took place because you'll probably throw me out of the class, so I'll just say that I had a good time." Brandon is barely 16 years old and something tells me I probably would have thrown him out of class. 
Several students took time to warn me of potential danger lurking in New Orleans, especially during this time of year. Although most people visit "to (just] have a great time," writes Jessica, "you have to worry about...getting by the wrong kind of people." Indeed, another student did not even attend the parades one year "to avoid the temptations of certain things." I wonder what exactly he means by that. (This student also avoids the temptation of my class; he has been absent twenty­four days already.) 
Perhaps the best description of New Orleans during the Mardi Gras season comes from a ninth grader, Robley, who has never even been there. Robley imagines that "Mardi Gras should be a fun place to go to. And Mardi Gras is a great thing. Mardi Gras is a very great thing for everyone." He too was sure to warn that the sheer size of New Orleans could pro­vide some problems though. You see, "New Orleans is a very big city. Almost everyone lives in New Orleans. But some parts of New Orleans !are) dangerous. And some parts are nice in New Orleans. Especially where the water is, that's where it's nice at." 
So, if you have plans to venture down south for this coming Mardi Gras weekend, laissez les bons temps router. But also be careful. As a student screamed out in my class the other day, "you know somebody was killed last year in New Orleans during Mardi Gras." Another student reminded me that, in fact, it was a teacher that had been killed. 
This comment brought offers from about a half dozen stu­dents to personally drive me to New Orleans for the festivities. 
Dave Ring, a former assistant news editor for The Observer, is teaching French in rural Louisiana. 
"Anyway, this boy told some of them to tell her he was gonna kill her, he's going to shoot her dead for stealing the siding for firewood. So when these kids come running up to tell her, she shifts that baby onto her hip, clamps the cigar in her teeth, reaehes down in her pock­et, and pulls out a pistol. And she twirls it around her linger, and looks them in the eye and says, Well, you tell him he better make a sure shot, cause he ain't gon' git but one." 
Not long after Bud's funeral, my Great-Aunt Catherine sent me a Polaroid snapshot of the grave and a note: We are still in shock over Bud. I made this picture for you. It was the next day after the funeral and the wind was so strong the caretaker had laid all the flowers down. You can't tell, but they were beautiful. I don't believe I've ever sen so many employees at a funeral before --it looked like a hundred men. 
I put the note and picture in the family Bible, along with a dipping of the obitu­ary they'd printed in the paper. It cheered me up a little, knowing how it would have made him laugh. "Died at his residence," it said, "after a short ill­ness." 
Writer and photographer Carol C. Bradley teaches magazine writing at 
Saint Mary's College,  and  can  be  
reached  via  e-mail  at  
carol. c. bradley. 7@nd. edu .  

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Parental innuence affects issue ofcoresidentiality 
Dear Editor, Numerous letters and articles 
have  been  written  in  the  
Observer  regarding  coresi·  
dentiality.  

Most often student input has been on the pro side and various arguments have been presented extolling the positive values that coed living will bring to student life. 
In these missives the University Administration is usU· ally berated for pursuing a pol\­cy described as old fashionei:J and which in turn exhibits a non-trusting attitude toward the students of this institution. 
Indeed in a recent article the current policy has been char­acterized as "misplaced Ideal­ism" on the part of the Administration. 
I suggest that there is another dimension to this question which is very rarely, if ever, discussed. This dimension relates to parental influence. 
I think it is fair to say that in most cases the decision to attend Notre Dame is a family one with a great deal of parental approval. 
There are, of course, many obvious reasons for this, viz., academic reputation, Catholicity, parents went here, etc. 
Perhaps another reason for this parental Emcouragement, embedded in the above, but never specifically spelled out by Mom and/or Dad is the fact that there are no coed dorms at Notre Dame. 
If this is true it would appear to me that student complaints to the Administration about the lack of coed dorms on campus are off target. 
MORTON FUCHS Professor of Biological Sciences 

ACCENT
page 12 Friday, February 16, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS 

How did your parents meet? 
"My mom went on a blind date with some guy and met my dad on the date." 

Sunday Patterson Sophomore, Lyons 



"My parents met at a party in the woods." 
Matt Duddy Junior, Alumni 
"My parents met in 
Laos, my mom is French 
and my dad was in the 
Air Force." 
Pat Ertl Junior, Morrissey 



"My dad went to Notre Dame and my mom went 
to I USB and they met at a 
dance." 
Sara Burke Freshman, Pangborn 
"My parents met at a big brother/big sister picnic in Iowa." 
Rebecca Ovel Freshman, Lyons 



"They were camp counselors together at an overnight camp." 
Chris Trenta Junior, Fisher 

What is the Typical 
Here's to You Mr. Robi 
M
hough mo one in the Robins hey've aJways been big Irish obinson.. He grew up in the Saturday aftermoon, he watched th teams. When iit came time to apply Dame, but his family's financial sit attending Catho~lic University where h It was soon after he graduated fro wife, Thelma. It was anything bu O"Connor's Batr (oh, the irony). Jol 
the timeless pipick-up lines , "Your. ning throughugh my mind all nigh "jocky" as slhe poured a drink o and ask Thelma to go see "Brea Audrey Heplburn fan, Thelma ace 
During thte date, John and The obsession with Notre Dame footb married tw~d two years later. Jo 
Michy in Michigan. They dmme students. 
Sarah and Knute were children realize that it Sarah, the older of the ~ to BC, but her parents 1l 
· haappier. Two years Jat~ Thelma were a were overjoyed. Sa~ in Zahm, and1 Zahm, and loves to han! 
This is the first real weekend the Rol ven the Jeep Cherokee down from t They've never really had time to enj< work schedule. Mrs. Robinson made 1 there are just so many beautiful things 

Mad About Plaid------­
M
eet Dillon and Angela Morrissey and their children Sorin , and Regina. (Angela and Regina could pass for sisters Gl • couldn't they?) Sorin is a fifth generation Domer and a 0~-. descendent of "the" Morrissey. Dad was a football player back in l.. the 60s and lives for Notre Dame football. The family has never missed a game since dad graduated back in '67. Check out the pants and you'll understand. Sorin has obviously caught the plaid bug, too. Dillon grew up in northern Illinois. He was born and raised to be a member of the Fighting Irish Football squad. While other kids were dreaming of leaving the Midwest, Dillon dreamed of thriving in the Midwest, namely at Notre Dame. He never quite made a 
name for himself as a football player at Notre Dame, but nevertheless. he had his moments. Today, he is a lawyer in Chicago, making sure he never strays too far from his beloved Notre Dame. 
Dillon met his wife Angela one rainy Wednesday at the library. He once described her as "His golden dome dur­ing a long, dark night." Angela, a New york native, swooned instantly over the towering youth. 
Regina has followed in her mother's footsteps and is a student at Saint Mary's College. Father Hesburgh and Patty O'Hara are her godparents. 
The Morrisseys own a cockerspaniel named Domer. Although they live in a suburb of Chicago, they still insist 
on bringing Domer and their 36 ft. long green motorhome to every  
game. "Irish Mobile" is emblazoned on each side of the camper and  
it is equipped with Dolby surround sound speakers to facilitate the  
incessant playing of the fight song.  
Each member of the Morrissey family has their own, personal  
Jeep Cherokee, Eddie Bauer Edition.  
"At a bar, my dad walked  
up to my mom and said,  
'I'm going to marry you'  
and he did!"  
Kathy Pain  
Senior, LeMans  

"My parents grew up 1 0 miles away from each other, but didn't date until college." 
Tim Monahan Freshman, Flanner 



ACCENT
Friday, February 16, 1996 page 13 
otre Dame Saint Mary's Family? 
The Tradition 
family has ever attended Notre Dame, supporters, particularly Mr. John le class suburbs of Baltimore. Every Blue and Gold wreak havoc on opposing 
Continues 
for colleges, he wanted to apply to Notre 
ation wouldn't allow it. John ended up The McCarthy family hails from a suburb right outside of ~ lettered in football all four years. Boston. Pat, head of the McCarthy clan, used to be in the the Catholic University that he met his future Irish Guard. Son Kevin, at 6'4, is continuing the tradition. love at first sight. The couple met at Mom Mary Kate is the type of mother who knits matching hats, tried to "pick up" Thelma using one of scarves and mittens for her children and all of their roommates. lt~gs must be tired, because you've been Even Lou, the cocker spaniel, has a couple of McCarthy scarves. long." Thelma accused John of being too Mrs. McCarthy also sends fantastic care-packages and makes his head. Later, John would apologize great cookies. At least twice a year, Pat and Mary Kate fly at Tiffany's," with him. Being a big out for a football game and take everybody (kids and roommates) out to Macri's or CJ's. The McCarthys a discovered that they possess a similar throw great tailgaters. (Get there early for the cook­
II and the rest as they say is history. They ies.) 
n took a job as a top executive in a com­Pat and Mary Kate met nearly forty years ago, when .,..•,.".rt to mold their children into Notre young Patrick fell off a swing set at the wholesome young age of eight. Mary Kate rescued the ill-fated a couple of years later. Little did the Patrick from the ground with a kiss on the knee. At their destiny to attend Notre Dame. the rip old age of ten, she was an older and more Hobinson children, really wanted to go mature woman. Since that fabled day, the couple has 
ally pushed ND and now she couldn't be not spent more than two days apart. 
r, when Knute was accepted, John and Daughter Meghan, a Walsh resident and English major, is a h lives in Farley, right across the quad cheerleader and during away games, when the McCarthys are out with her friends on the Farley stoop. back in Boston, everyone on the block comes over to see Meghan 
_.,..,~...s have been out to visit. They've dri­and Kevin on TV. She is famous for her air tumbling expertise. ir home in Michigan to visit the kids. As an early graduation present, Kevin (the tall one in the skirt), a campus before, beeause of John's busy Sorin resident and chemical engineering major, received an Eddie 
ure John packed all the cameras because Bauer limited edition Jeep Cherokee. You'll usually find it parked to photograph! in the first spot behind the bookstore. Look for the Domer '97 plates. 
What is... Football? .. 
Y
ou know, they sent their kids to Notre Dame and Saint mary's because of The Academics. They never even heard of football. Edna and Zach Arnerds have made the long trip from Washington D.C. in their Jeep Cherokee to visit their children for the first time at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The duo are two of the most highly touted astro-physicists in the world. 
Zach and Edna met twenty five years ago at a Star Trek convention in New York City. Zach commented on young Edna's pocket protec­tor. Edna politely smiled at Zach's feeble attempt to pick her up, but little did he realize that she was politely trying to keep from laughing at the string of cheese Zach was sporting )J•. on his lower lip along with his thick eye-wear. When Zach caught a glimpse of himself in Edna's equally thick glasses and 
f realized how foolish he looked, he took refuge behind the ~ Vulcan exhibit. Apparently she, did not want to let go of this ~ suave young man, for she chased him behind the exhibit, only to 
a: trip on a life-size Klingon. They were joined together by clumsi­1 ness. They caught each other in a Vulcan death grip of love, and :::. married shortly after the incident at the Star Trek Convention. ~ ~ The two began their careers, hoping to go where no cou­~ t: pie has ever gone before: space. Sadly this dream was ~~ denied because of their terrible allergies. So they raised ~ ~ their children in their image to be over-achievers, with an i lii uncanny ability to trip over objects. 
'E ~Jl Their son Peter rebelled against them to become a film t::z:l~:.:r:;,;;;;;;; j ~~ director. He went to NYU, ~only to be banned from the film 5~ ~ 0 department for breaking too many cameras. He transferred l~ H· to Notre Dame last year to live closer to his sister, who is a 
... '§~ ~ student at Saint Mary's. Neither had ever heard of Notre ~~l ~ ~ Dame, let alone the game of football, but opted to attend these ~iu~~ two fine schools for of all things ... academics. After his disastrous stab at ~~l~ ~ film, he changed to a double major in mechanical engineering and PLS. Peter ><,s~<ii is really looking forward to showing his parents UNLOC this weekend. ~i!~} Daughter Zoe has never set foot on Notre Dame's campus. 

"They met at Stepan Center. "My mom was a cheer­My dad went to Notre Dame leader and my dad was and my mom was at St. the basketball coach." Joe's Nursing School" 
Tracey Furjanic Paul Burke Freshman, Regina North Sophomore, Fisher 

"My dad threw a snowball at
"My dad went to Notre Dame and my mom my mom's face during a huge
went to Saint Mary's . They didn't date until snowball fight at Northeastern
they graduated and were in Washington University."
D.C. My dad asked my mom's roommate 
Dan Doorakian 
on a date, she couldn't go so my mom did." 
Alumni, SeniorPeggy Wolf 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura and SMC staff
Freshman, Badin 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 16, 1996 
• PROFESSIONAl Bmmm 
HIV victim, boxer Morrison blames lifestyle 
By KELLY KURT 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. 
Tommy Morrison's voice quivered and 
his face flushed. Never did he think this 
could happen to him. 
"I honestly believed I had a better chance of winning the lottery than con­tracting this disease," he said. "I've never been so wrong in my life." 
On Thursday. a second test confirmed that he did, indeed, have the virus that causes AIDS. 
''I'm here to tell you I thought that I was bulletproof, and I'm not," Morrison said. 
He described a life of promiscuous sex and how he was ignorant about the way AIDS is transmitted. He also said, how­ever, he believes he could have contract­
.. ed the virus through bloody bouts in the ring. "I don't know how I got it and it's real­ly not important," he said at a news con­ference. Morrison entered the news conference composed and confidant, the same air he took into the ring. But his face red­dened and his voice cracked as he spoke 
of an uncertain future and expressed concern for his family and for women with whom he had relations. 
"I hope I can serve as a warning that living this lifestyle can only lead to one thing," he said. "And that's misery." 
The 27-year-old from Jay, Okla., learned he tested positive for HIV just before Saturday's scheduled Las Vegas fight against Arthur Weathers. Morrison said he had no symptoms and had re­ceived no notice from previous sex part­ners to indicate he might have the dis­ease. 
He spent the past week calling former sparring partners and sexual partners, encouraging them to take an HIV test. So far, none of them, including his girl­friend, have turned up positive, he said. 
"My prayers go out to them nightly and their families that somehow every­thing will be OK," Morrison said. 
The announcement of Morrison's posi­tive test Monday prompted boxing offi­cials nationwide to call for mandatory HIV testing. But the national Centers for Disease Control have received no reports of HIV transmission through athletics, spokeswoman Michele Bonds said. 
But anytime bodily fluids are 

exchanged there is a risk of transmis­sion, she said. CDC studies of the NFL show the risk in that sport is extremely low. 
While boxers are more likely to be bloodied during competition, "it would take quantity and duration" of exposure to the virus for possible transmission, she said. 
As far as requiring AIDS testing for boxers, the CDC encourages any precau­tions and education that could help re­duce the risk, Ms. Bonds said. 
"We feel the risk is low, but we need to make that risk even lower," she said. Morrison said he endorsed mandatory HIV testing. 
"They'd be crazy not to," he said. 
His last boxing opponent, Lennox Lewis, said despite a bloody battle in October he was not worried. 
"I heard different reports that I should get tested and there was a risk of me getting it," he said in a conference call from Jamaica. "I really didn't let that bother me. There were no cuts on my side in the fight. I didn't bang heads with him. The fight wasn't really a clinching fight, it was more at a dis­tance. Although there was a lot of blood, it wasn't on me. 
Morrison was suspended from world­wide boxing after the positive HIV test in Las Vegas. He pronounced his boxing career over Thursday and said he plans to pursue AIDS awareness activities. 
"I will have scored my biggest knock­out ever" if by speaking out. he prevents another person from contracting the dis­ease, he said. 
''I've been turning negatives into posi­tives my whole life. This is just a bigger negative," he said. 
His promoter Tony Holden and his trainers stood by the boxer's side as he made the announcement. His parents, sister and girlfriend also were present. 
''I'm sorry that I've had to drag you through this," he told him. His mother buried her face in her hands. 
Morrison said he plans to work with Los Angeles Lakers star Magic Johnson, who also has the AIDS virus, on educa­tion and awareness activities. After speaking with Johnson about the illness, Morrison said he does not consider it a death sentence. 
"It's puzzling. I don't feel sick. I don't look sick," he said. ''I'm just hanging in there." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 

You're running out of time. So, do the right thing and go see Spike Lee's "CLOCKERS" at Cushing on Friday and Saturday at 8:00 and 10:30 
Take a study break and go see Spike Lee's CLOCKERS on Sunday at 2:00 at Cushing 
College Coupons is looking for interns, part-time from March 16­May 16. Great chance to build your resume and gain valuable sales experience with a nationally recog­nized company. See Summer Bulletin on Monday, February 19 for sign-ups in the Career and Placement Center. Pick up applica­tions in Career Center. We will be interviewing Tuesday, February 20. 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­break1ravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169! Day1ona $1391 http://www.spring­breaktravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Sunglasses between Badin 
and the bookstore on 2/4. Call 
x1678. 
LOST: gold rope chain necklace 
somewhere on North Quad or by 
the JACC on either 2/10 or 2/11. If 
found PLEASE call x1334. 
WANTED 
Students needed to deliver the 
Chicago Tribune to rooms in their 
dorms. Call 684-4302 for more 
information. 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week r11ading children's books, building with blocks and singing songs with children, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ND) or Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (SMC). Please join our fun filled days. 

???????????????????? NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­MER? 
GREAT APARTMENT TO SUBLET 
-TWO BATH, TWO BEDROOMS, ETC. 
AVAILABLE JUNE-AUGUST. CALL 273-1738. ???????????????????? 
EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. 
NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­ERENCES. CALL (941 )425-4404 OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL­
BERRY FL 33860 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. 
Seasonal & full-tirne employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-971-3550 ext.C55843 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED 
TOP$$$ PAID 
(800)269-5849 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­
Positions are now available at 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 
ext.N55845 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teachirig background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 
THE STUDENT UNION BOARD 
IS ACCEPTING 
APPLICATIONS!!! 
If you are interested in: planning 
concerts, running the movie series, 
designing cultural arts events, 
bringing in comedians and lectures, 
planning Antostal, the Sophomore 
Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz 
Festival, 

SUB WANTS YOU!!!! 
n addition, SUB needs controllers to help handle money, graphic design­ers to create advertising. and any­one interested in PR or relations. 
SUB is the largest organization on campus with opportunities for everyone, INTERESTED??? Come get an application in 201 Lalortune or call1-7757!!1 APPLICATIONS DUE FEB 16 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaiil) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext C1114 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a diHerence in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 16 through August 11. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. 
Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49855, (906)228­5770. 
FOR RENT 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
Irish Co. B&B Registry Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. JPW -Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO NO. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
TURTLE CREEK SUMMER APT 
SUBLET 1 BDRM IN 2BDRM APT 
PARTLY FURNISHED $270/MO 
+1/2 ELECTRIC. JUNE THRU 
AUGUST CALL JOHN@ 634-4131 
MCKINLEY TERRACE & 
MISHAWAKA 3 BDRM HOMES. 
AVAIL NOW.272-6551 
Rm for Sum/Fall '96, 5-min drive 
$250 incl. util & extras! 1-4809 or 
232-7175 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 
232-2595 
Old studebaker home, 
new interior, close to downtown. 
safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect for 3­
4 students + appl. $625/ mo. 289­
77281v msg 
NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­
MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­
MINIUMS-8UBLETTING FOfl 
MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. 
CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH 
AT273-1738 
2 BOA APT @ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER ONLY. BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 

FOR SALE 
Pair of 3-way Fisher Speakers. 10" woofer-CHEAP llllcall4-2166 
OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 12-2 
1539 OAKHILL CONDOS Don't miss this spotless two story; two bedroom, two full bath condo . featuring a large loft and a fireplace in the living room. Agent on duty: Jane Borowski Listing Agent:: Pam DeCola 
Cressy & Everett 219-233-6141 
OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 12-4 
225 MARQUETTE AVE Welcome to this beautiful two story brick house, located in the NORTH SHORE TRIANGLE. This great house was built with bricks left over from the construc­tion of NO FOOTBALL STADIUM. Featuring a new kitchen and a fin­ished basement. Listing Agent: Pam DeCola 
Cressy & Everett 219-233-6141 
JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. $154,900.Call Karen 272-3653. 
1991 DODGE COLT *** MINT CONDITION ••• 
NEW TIRES -NEW BRAKES NEW BATTERY, AIR I AUTO 2/DOOR HATCH ­
ONE OWNER $4,800 OR BEST OFFER 259-1864 
TICKETS 
NEED: 2 SETON HALL GA TIX. CALL CHAD 4-2107. 
I need two tickets for the Seton Hall game on 2/24. Please call Maureen @ 4-3721! 
Need Seton Hall GAs x2895 
Do you have Seton Hall (Feb. 24) GA's? Please call Michelle 4-45301 
PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
SABOR LATINO Saturday 2/17 
esc 
10pm -1 am SABOR LATINO 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ The Price is Right Is Comingl March 2 Stepan $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Dear Brian, Although we can't be together, I am thinking of you! Happy Valentine's Day I JeTame, Clare 
Mags, Lisa, Kathryn, Simone, & Julie, Have a great V-day. I miss you alii Love, Clare 
Wanna make a BIG impression at this weekend's dance? Give her flowers from SUZANNE'S FLORAL! at the corner of Edison and Ironwood. 288-7551 
I give German lessons. Call273 3856 
FOR SALE -IBM cmptbl. laptop, Compaq Contura 4/25dx, 486dx, 8MB RAM, Internal modem, color VGA active-matrix screen, only 2yrs. old (still under warranty!) loaded w/ Excel, Powerpoint, Word. MS Publisher, and much more, carrying case included. $1200 o.b.o. 
-call maria X1573 
HAl HA! HA! HA! HA! HA! HAppyJPW! 
Valentine's Day Spectacular! HA! is coming to Washington Hall! The Humor Artists will present an hour of sketches, stand-up and songs! The FREE show will be held in Washington Hall at 7 p.m., Friday. 
BRING YOUR PARENTS! 
SABOR LATINO Tomorrow Saturday 2/17 esc 10 pm -1 am 
all welcome! Juniors and parents: come dance the night away after JPW dinner! 
SABOR LATINO 
Hey bus driver, keep the change bless your children, give them names 
Its a wonder any1hing gets done around here when Tyler's not in the office 
Hey Omaha! Welcome to NO. Hope the weekend is fun for all. 
Happy Belated 22nd Birthday Megan McGrathstein from all your friends at The Post, er... The Observer 
RAYO', 
THANK YOU FOR THE FLOW­ERS. YOU SURE KNOW HOW TO DO THINGS RIGHT. KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK. LOVE, MRS. G. 
it's such a shame when you get puke on your pants. 
Andria--Tnere was so much magic it was truly unbelievable. We owe it all to you. Love, Your literary gods and goddesses 
hey FASO-dancers: 
great job at ISO!!! we rock. 
it's great to know that some people (Elizabeth) will go to overwhelming lengths, despite broken toes, just to dance between clapping sticks (are you crazy?) 
so, should we start practicing for next year? 
belle:) 
hey girls of bp -thanks for a really unforgettable night last lriday. it's one that many of us will never for­get, or one that some of us will try forget at all costs. oh. i still have a camera and a pair of black heels in my room. come claim or else they're mine forever. 
Shenanigans JPW Concerts 
Saturday, February 17, 1996 1:00 and 2:30pm 
Our Concerts: 
• 
Fun: High Quality Entertainment 

• 
More Concerts: We've got two of them --1 :00 and 2:30 pm 

• 
Campus Unity: Everyone is invited 

• 
Free Stuff: Admission is Freel 


Annenberg Auditorium (Snite Museum) 
Saturday, February 17, 1996 1 :00 and 2:30pm 
Researched Rehearsed Really Fun 
Shenanigans JPW Concerts 
jello after physics makes the world a better place, at least for today. 
hey there audrey, you're a babe. 
MAHBUHAY, prima and henna I! have a great weekend. 
Lucas says: i want out. 
Dole, Buchanan, NO II 
Brent Price in '96 Join the BP Club today (no\ the bay of pigs) 
we all say: get us out. 
Hey Friedpoops, how's the popo? ..... .T atanka!! !Ill! 

friday, February 16, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish 
continued from page 24 

Admore White. "We have to play them as a team, not as just Ray Allen." 
One of the ploys Notre Dame will have to contend with is the Huskies' suffocating 2-2-1 press, the most devastating full court defense in the confer­ence. UConn has forced oppo­nents into 420 turnovers this season while dictating a frantic pace. 
This could pose problems for the Irish, who have had their share of difficulties hanging onto the ball. In conference games, Notre Dame has turned it. over 39 more times than op­ponents. 
"The biggest thing is just to concentrate on our passes," said Manner. 
"We've watched the films, so we understand where the spots are that you can't pass it, and we have to make sure that everyone goes to meet the ball." 
The most effective way to beat a press, however, is to prevent it from forming, some­thing that matches well with Notre Dame's new up-tempo philosophy. 
To compensate for problems in the half-court offense, the Irish have emphasized the transition game in recent weeks. 
This strategy, though, could backfire against the run-and­gun Huskies, who average 85 points per game. 
"Hopefully we can make them miss their shots and get the rebounds," said White. "Then we can get out in transi­tion and score some points." 

The Observer/Brian Hardy National Player of the Year candidate Ray Allen will be the focus of the Irish defense. Allen is averaging 23 points per game while shooting 49% from beyond the three-point line. 
».--::>#?~GREAT \YALL 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Authentic S:{echuan, Manderin & Hunan Cuisine 
SPECIAL CHINESE $895 Sun. Feb. 18@ 1::30 AM·.9:00PM NEW YEAR BUFFET Mon. Feb. 19@ 5.00PM·9.00PM 
ALL YOU CAN EAT Children under 18 half price. Includes: Soup, Salad Bar, Appetizers, B Entrees and Deserts 
Other menu items also available. 
at Randall's Inn, South Bend, IN 


page 15 

The Observer/Scotl Mendenhall Senior Holyn Lord breezed past Volunteer Kristin Bachochin 6-2, 6-1 Thursday evening as the Irish knocked off No.9 Tennessee. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
from her original spot at No. 3 singles to No. 2. She met the challenge, and quickly dis­missed Spinner, 6-2, 6-0. 
"It was a good match," re­marked Hall, "I played well. I felt that my ground strokes were pretty strong, and it clinched the game for me." 
After rallying back in her doubles, Velasco quickly dis­missed her singles opponent, Lowrey, 6-1, 6-0. According to Velasco, the key to her vic­tory were her ground strokes. 
"I played well," stated Velasco, "I was on top of my ground strokes. The last games went on forever, but fi­nally I put it away." 
"The freshmen were really focused for this match," stated McNamara, "They both were really confident and both played extremely aggressive." 

Filling in for Vitale in singles was sophomore Molly Gavin. Gavin played at the No. 6 spot. She downed Tennessee's McEvoy, 6-4, 6-0. Also victori­ous was Lord, who at the No. 3 spot dismissed the Vol's Bachochin, 6-2, 6-1. 
The only two losses that the Irish suffered were at the No. 1 and No. 5 singles. Crabtree was defeated by Lepsi, 2-6. 4­
6. No. 5 Gowen was beaten by Woodside, 4-6, 3-6. 
"Everyone was really pumped for this match," stat­ed Velasco, "I wasn't surprise that we beat them, because everyone played so well." 
The Irish are looking to ride the momentum of this victory into their matches this week­end. The Irish take on No. 21 Alabama on Saturday at 3:00 pm. Then on Sunday morning they face the Kentucky Wildcats, who just upset No. 4 Georgia. 
We know you are cutie, Even when you look 
like Howdy Doody. Now that your 21, You can legally have your fun. 
~ve, 
Mom, Dad, and the Brothers 

WVFITalkBiock 
Sunday Nights 
-----------------------------> 6.00-7.00 
SPORTS-TALK 
This Week's Guest: 
Derrick Mayes 
(football player) -----------------------------> 7.00-8.30 
Poetrylanguage. Thought 
This Week's Guest: 
Stephen Fredman 
(professor) 
640AM 
-

j~.._""~ANNA JOSTER WILL PRESENT FH.t""~1v1 nIE SNO\V TO Til!:: SuN: TilE POlTRY OF Ar\NA AKIIMATOV.I\ .1\ND GRACE NICHOLS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21 AT 4:30 P.M. i\1 W·\SHINGTON IIALL 
GARETH ARJV\STRONG WILL PRESENT HAND IN HAND TO I-JELL: AN AcToR's PERSPECTIVE o~ RICHARD Ill AND MACBETH TLIESDAY, FEL1RLIARY 20 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON HALL 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 16, 1996 
Irish squad lies in the upper­classmen, as five seniors and twelve juniors fill out the Irish roster. Besides Lisanti, the Irish will look to leadership on and off the field from seniors George Restovich (DH/1 B/C), Rowan Richards (RF), Rich Sauget (RP), and staff ace Craig Allen, who is also returning for a fifth year. 
Richards will shift from cen­ter field to right, a position which Mainieri feels is better suited to his skills, and Allen (4­1, 5.53 ERA in '95) will anchor a staff which will look to improve on its 4.53 ERA from last season. 
"We need Craig Allen to be healthy," mused Mainieri. "We need him to pitch as well as he can. But I have all the confi­dence in the world in the rest of our staff." 
Major standouts in the junior class include number two starter Darin Schmalz (8-3, 
4.01 ERA in '95), left-handed closer Gregg Henebry (4-2, 
4.47), infielder Mike Amrhein (.386, 7 HR. 69 RBI), and the spectacular Scott Sollmann (.406, 11 3B, 23 SB), who will shift from left to his more natu­ral center field position. Sollmann in particular will once again be an integral part of the team's success, serving as the spark plug of a potentially deadly offense. 
"Sollmann is going to be the catalyst for this team," com­mented Mainieri. "I expect him to lead the way. He's an out­standing outfielder, a terrific base runner, and a tremendous competitor." 
The Notre Dame record hold­er in triples after just two sea­sons in an Irish uniform, Sollmann earned first-team All Star honors in the Cape Cod league this past summer, and is currently third on the Irish all-time Batting Average list with a .404 career mark. 
At the head of the sopho­more class this year would have to be pitchers Dan Stavisky and Christian Parker, who together compiled a 9-6 record in their rookie campaigns. 
"Both Stavisky and Parker have the ability to be outstand­ing pitchers," commented Mainieri on the two pitchers who will round out his four man starting rotation. "They were inconsistent at times, however, and I will expect more out of them this season." 
Mainieri is banking on the 
fact that experience gained from last season will propel this seasoned team to the NCAA bid it missed last season, and is op­timistic that the Irish will meet this goal and more. 
"Our team last year hung to­gether through a lot of tough moments," reflected Mainieri. "I think there's a carry-over effect from what they did last year. They believe in them­selves now, and they realize that when adversity strikes, it only makes them tougher. This team has a lot of confidence in themselves, and I have a lot of confidence in them as a result." 


ST'-1I>EN""T U"'N"I~N" D<:lt.A..R..I> ~ 

• .... ~C> 
oyou r 

see me CLOcKeRS at 
-CUSHING OR ELSE I WILL CLOCK 
YOU!!! $2.00 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
the return of players such as fifth-year senior and team leader Bob Lisanti, who will return to action behind the plate following an entire sea­son's absence due to a back in­jury. 
"I love Bob Lisanti," gushed Mainieri. "He's the kind of guy that you'd follow into battle anytime. With Bobby, it's like having a coach on the field." 
Mainieri is determined to be cautious with Lisanti, however, in light oflast season's injury. 
"We don't want to overdo it with his back," said Mainieri. 
"I think that Jeff Wagner is go­ing to be an outstanding player at Notre Dame. He should prove to be a very capable backup to Lisanti." 
Wagner, a 6'3" powerhouse from Louisville, Kentucky, is just one of several freshman who will most certainly be see­ing a good deal of playing time this season. Switch-hitting Allen Greene, an outstanding athlete from Seattle, will pla­toon with junior Bret Poppleton in left field, freshman Chris McKeown, a hard-throwing 6'4" lefty from Arlington Heights, Illinois, may see time out of the bullpen, and Floridian Paul Turco looks to have won the starting shortstop job. 
But the true strength on this 
The Fighting Irish baseball team bears much resemblance to the .. which compiled a 40-21 record last season, although there are some , 
-
changes in the look of the team. The following is the projected starting lineup and pitching rotation for the 1996 Irish, along with some of their 
statistics from last season. 
Starting Rotation Craig Allen (senior, RH) Darin Schmalz Ounior, RH) Dan Stavisky (sophomore, RH) Christian Parker (sophomore, RH) 
Bullpen Mike Balicki Qunior, RH) Rich Sauget (senior, RH) Gregg Henebry Ounior, LH) Alex Shilliday (freshman, RH) Wally Widelski Ounior, LH) 
Starting Lineup 
1. 
Scott Sollman Ounior, CF) 

2. 
Randall Brooks Gunior, 29) 

3. 
Mike Amrhein Qunior, 1 B/38) 

4. 
George Restovtch (senior, OH/1 

5. 
Rowan Richards (senior, RF) 


6. Bob Lisanti or Jeff \AI••"'"·"• lfrA<>I'>m<>to 
1995 Statistics 
~ 
(4-1, 5.53 ERA) 8-3, 4.01 ERA, 50 5-1, 5.85 ERA) 4-5, 5.14 ERA). 


Friday, February 16, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Duncan slams Terps for 33 Camby rallies UMass 
By DAVID GINSBURG Georgia Tech on Saturday af­a three-game suspension frpm Associatod Press ternoon. the NCAA. 
past La Salle 70-53 
Duncan, who had 14 points Maryland led 52-4 7 early in long bank shot and drew a foul. UMass coach John Calipari, up­set with the slow whistle, drew a technical for his complaints. But Smith missed his free throw, Mike Gizzi missed both the technicals, and by the time the Explorers could recover it was 57-44 and the last chance to close the gap had passed. The game went according to form for the first 10 minutes, as UMass jumped to an 18-8 lead. But La Salle answered with 20 of the next 22 points to finish the half. 
Conference  by  beating  
Maryland  85-78 Thursday  
night.  

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 6:30 -7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register in advance in the HecSports office and the fee is $30. For more information, call 1· 6100. Open to all ND stu· dents. 
lntercolJegiate Bowling: Any students of Notre Dame or St. Mary's. who are inter· ested in Intercollegiate bowl­ing competition, please con­tact Jason 4-1065. 
Women's Lacrosse: Practice schedule change beginning February 20 and will now be Tuesday and Thursday at 10:15 p.m. Questions? Call Allison at 239-7924. 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

Tim Duncan scored a career­high 33 points on 12-for-14 shooting as No. 8 Wake Forest tightened its grip on first place in the Atlantic Coast 
The victory gave the Demon Deacons (17 -3, 9-2 ACC) their first sweep of the Terrapins sinee the 1992-93 season. Tony Rutland scored 13 of his 18 points in the second half to help Wake Forest increase its ACC lead over idle Georgia Tech to a full game. 
The Demon Deacons visit 
and 15 rebounds in the first game between the teams last month, had 17 second-half points in the rematch. He shot 5-for-5 from the floor in the second half and finished with nine rebounds. 
The 6-foot-1 0 junior center easily eclipsed his previous high of 27 points against Furman earlier this season. 
Johnny Rhodes scored 27 and Keith Booth had 16 for the Terrapins (12-9, 5-6). 
It was the second straight conference loss for Maryland, which played without starting point guard Duane Simpkins, who earlier in the day received 

Performing songs and dances ofEastern Europe 
appearing 

Sunday Feb 18th at 3:00 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorum St. Mary's College Tickets: $10.00 
to order tickets call (219) 284-4626 
Hungary, Poland, Croatia, Slovakia, The Balkans, Russia, Ukraine & others 
: \VILL PRESE~T HAND IN HAND 10 HELL: ·.,* AN ACToR's PERSPECTIVE oN 
' RICHARD Ill A~D M'\CilFTH TLIESLJ.o\Y, FmRUARY 20 AT 4:30P.M. AT WASHINGTON ~ IALL 
]('ANNA l O:JTER \\ILL PRLSENT rR('M THt SN('W l(' THE SuN: THE r('ETRY or 
Ar-.;~,'\ AKH.'vi.'\TO\r\ A~D CR,'\CE NICHOLS WEDNl-"DAY, FmRLIARY 21 Al 4:30P.M. Al W·\SfiiNCTON ~ I:\[L 

Company of40 Vivid Costumes Junior Parents Weekend 
the second half, but Rutland made a pair of 3-pointers and Duncan had four points in a 10­0 run that gave Wake Forest the lead for good. 
Jt was 60-54 before Maryland used a 7-2 spree to close to 62­61 with 9:44 to go. Duncan then made two free throws and Rusty LaRue hit a jumper to make it 66-61. 
Maryland again cut the deficit to a point, but LaRue sank a 3­pointer and Duncan followed a Terrapin turnover with a three­point play for a 72-65 lead with 
5:04 left. 

The Demon Deacons never let the lead shrink below four points the rest of the way. 
Duncan scored 10 points to stake Wake Forest to a 29-16 lead midway through the first half, but Maryland battled back with a 13-2 run to get within two points. 
After Duncan made two straight baskets, Booth sank a pair of free throws and Laron Profit added a dunk to spark an 11-4 surge that gave the Terrapins a 40-39 halftime ed'ge -their only lead in the opening 20 minutes. 
Duncan had 16 first-half points on 7-for-9 shooting. Rhodes had 11 points and six rebounds for the Terrapins. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
FRENCH BAROQUE CHAMBER MUSIC 
Rameau Marais Leclair Blavet Couperin 
WENDY WILLIS, baroque flute MARY ANNE BALLARD, viola da gamba DARLENE CA TELLO, harpsichord 
WITH 
JOHN PATRICK MORRISSEY, tenor 
WASHINGTON HALL University of Notre Dame 
Sunday, February 18, 1996, at 2:00 p.m. 
Admission Free; Open to the Public 
Reception following the concert 
For information phone Department of Music Publicity Office 219-631-6201 
By JIMMY GOLEN Associared Press 
AMHERST, Mass. 
Marcus Camby had 26 points and a career-high 15 rebounds on Thursday night to help top­ranked Massachusetts rally from a 10-point, second-half deficit and beat La Salle 70-53. 
Donta Bright scored 19 and Dana Dingle had 10 rebounds for the Minutemen (24-0, 12-0 Atlantic 1 0). Romaine Haywood scored 13 to lead La Salle (5­19, 2-9). 
It was another scare for UMass, which holds the na­tion's only umblemished record despite trailing or being tied at the half 10 times and needing overtime in three games this season. 
The victory preserves Saturday's showdown with No. 10 Virginia Tech at Blacksburg, Va., and clinched the Eastern Division title in the Atlantic 10, earning a No. 1 seed in the league's postseason tourna­ment. 
La Salle, a 26-point underdog coming off its worst loss in 50 years, didn't go down as easily as expected. 
UMass pushed the lead to 53­42 when Shawn Smith hit a 
THE BEST THINGS 
IN LIFE ARE SUCiAR FREE. ~-··(
Nonfat frozen yogurt with  
NutraSweet®. Only 20  (  \  
calories per fluid oz.  ~~  )  
andNO FAT!  

CINEMARK THEATRES •Mr. Hollllllll~ Opus (I'll) 1t.51, u•.1•. 1.. ••lerOld Men (PG·13) 1:1D, :tl5, 5:41, 7ili,18:11 •IIIII II lla8s (PG) 1Zili, 3:111,5:11, 7::15, t45  
•Brlilla II Mldlmll'.lldy (PG·13) 1Z:45, t.41i, 7:ZI •[ylll' • [yl (R} 1t11  
•City IIIII (II)* 1:41,4:41,7:41, 11:15  
• Bla Dill! (PG-13) 1:15,l1i, 5:ZV6,1:55  
• ...Grll (R)* 1:ZI, 4:115, 7:11, t41  
••La VIlli (ll) 1:..4:ZI, 7:1i, til  
•Balli SIIIIIIIY (PG) 1:15.4:15,7:15, 1tllli •TwllviiiiiiUJI (R) 1:45.4::15, 7:Zi, 1t15 $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM *NO PASSES-SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED  

----, 

50~ OFF 
Buy a regular or large cup or cone of frozen yogurt & receive 50 cents off! 

Umpus Shoppes 1837South Bend Ave. 1 2n-9540 
oo~r good only at pan;c;p.tins l'ull..u.d I Can't 0..1~~ 
I 

It's Yogurt4D otores. Coupe---tid with any ott-offe<l-~ns~ 3/3~1<Mt....:!!<~io>!.!!! Y~ltd. _ 
RECEIVE $2 OFF I I ANY PIE OR CAKE I I 

-~-~-~-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 16, 1996 
• COI.lEG£ BASKETBAll. 


Purdue chases third NCAA adds overtime tie-breaker 
By DICK LIPSEY games in the Big Sky, Ohio once in an NCAA championship 
Associated Press Valley, Yankee and Mid-Eastern game. Allegheny beat Lycoming Athletic conferences. It gives 21-14 in the first overtime in
straight Big Ten title 
By RUS1Y MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Porter Roberts had 14 points, including five of 11th­ranked Purdue's last seven points, as the Boilermakers held off Ohio State 63-55 Thursday night. 
Purdue (20-4) won its sixth in a row and moved to 10-2 in Big Ten play to maintain a one-game lead over Penn State heading into their show­down Saturday in West Lafayette. 
Brad Miller led Purdue with 16 points, while Todd Foster 
~-had 12-on 4-of-7 3-pointers -and Chad Austin added 11 points. Neshaun Coleman had 12 points and Damon Stringer 11 for Ohio State (9-12, 2-1 0), which lost its fourth in a row and 11th in 13 games. The Buckeyes, beaten by an average of 16 points in their Big Ten losses, pulled even at 48 on Rick Yudt's looping jumper with 8:20 left, but bas­kets by Brandon Brantley and Miller gave Purdue the lead for good. Ahead 54-51, Miller hit two free throws and Roberts rebounded a missed Miller free throw at the 3:45 mark to put the Boilermakers on top 58-51. But Ohio State made it inter­esting on a pair of foul shots by Steve Belter and Jason Singleton's jumper with 1:37 
Don't Get 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included inYourRent! Plu6Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 

left, cutting the lead to three. 
After Purdue's Herb Dove was charged with an offensive foul with 1:03 left, the Buckeyes actually had a shot at tying but Coleman missed a 3-pointer with 40 seconds left. 
Porter then hit a free throw with 32.6 seconds left. An Ohio State miss was followed by two foul shots by Austin with 
18.1 seconds left. Roberts closed the scoring with two more free throws. 
The Buckeyes have not led at halftime in a Big Ten game this year and they didn't again against Purdue. The Boilermakers built a 35-26 on a 14-5 run -Foster hitting two 3-pointers and Miller also scoring six points. But Ohio State scored the next eight points to pull to 35-34. Purdue, however, closed the half with Miller scoring on a tip-in with a second left for a 37-34 lead. 
Purdue ran its record to 17­0 in games it led at the half. 
The victory was the Boilermakers' seventh in a row over the Buckeyes. 

B R U N 0 'S 
PIZZA NORTH 
Delivery 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM
273-3890 Sun-Thurs
Lunch and 
'Till 2 AM Regular Hours 
Fri 

JPW Special 
2 ·141nch, 2·Topping PIZZAS· 
$10.50 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 288-3320 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. Overtime will be part of major college football this fall. 
The NCAA football rules com­mittee voted Thursday to require a tiebreaker in all NCAA football games. 
"The committee was particu­larly sensitive to the over­whelming mandate of the Division I-A coaches because the .tiebreaker was already be­ing used in other divisions," said Vince Dooley, the rules committee chairman and Georgia athletic director. 
The decision by the rules com­mittee came during its annual meeting in Kansas City, and fol­lowed a vote of support for the tiebreaker at a meeting of Division I-A football coaches on Feb. 11, the organization announced. 
The decision does not require further approval and takes ef­fect with the 1996 season. 
The system was used in Division I-A bowl games this past year and is the same pro­cedure used in lower-division NCAA football championships and regular-season league 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 


Clocktower Square ALL MA.JOR CREDIT Phone Answered 51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 
Stay at the Moose Krause House or other approved homes lor JPW I Graduation. 

each team a chance to score after regulation. 
The tiebreaker was used for the first time in the Las Vegas Bowl in December, with Toledo beating Nevada 40-37 in the first overtime. 
The game lasted more than four hours, but the overtime ended quickly when Toledo needed only four plays to score the winning touchdown from the 25. 
Nevada had the first posses­sion of overtime, but could man­age only a field goal after failing to make a first down from the 25. 
Nevada coach Chris Ault said he was happy with the overtime rule, despite the loss. 
"Tie games are a crime in col­lege football," Ault said after the game. "The old guard needs to get off their butts and have tiebreakers in all games." 
The Las Vegas Bowl matched the champions of the Mid­American and Big West confer­ences. 
The tiebreaker has been used the 1990 Division II contest. 
"People who have been in­volved in the tiebreaker report it is very exciting, and it will help resolve problems deter­mining conference champi­onships," Dooley said. 
Because ties do not count to­ward the six-victory require­ment for postseason bowl quali­fication. the change may allow a few more teams to be eligible for bowls, Dooley said. 
West Virginia coach Don Nehlen, vice president of the American College Football Coaches Association, said Big East coaches were less support­ive of the change. 
"I prefer a sudden-death foot­ball game," Nehlen said. "If you put (the ball) on the 25-yard line, the game could go on for­ever." 
The overtime system is not sudden death as used in the NFL, and the clock is not a fac­tor. 
Each team gets one posses­sion, starting on the opponent's 25. 
Finance Club Chicago Trip 
Tour the Chicago Board of Trade floor -during trading! Visit with Notre Dame graduates working at an investment bank Stay at the Chicago Marriott Downtown Sunday, Monday and Tuesday of Spring Break (March 10th, 11th and 12th) 
272-1880 
Call or stop by today and w;,'ll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
rHICKORlJ 
DILLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

Details and Applications are available in the Finance Department Office Total cost: $40 http://www.nd.edu/-finclub/finclubhome.html 
~~---~---------~-----~---~-~-­
Friday, February 16, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


1 
·.:: I 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 16, 1996 
•NHl •Nfl 
Rangers deny Gretzky Woodson signs record contract 
By JAIME ARON Jones adamantly refused to mantled. And guess what­Associated Press give a more detailed list, saying here's Darren and he's here for 
coming to Big Apple 
only. "There were several ... the long term." Steinberg said. 
By KEN RAPPOPORT Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Wayne Gretzky is not coming to the New York Rangers any time soon. And likely never at all. 
"Nothing is happening -no trade is imminent," Rangers general manager Neil Smith said before Thursday night's game with the Montreal Canadiens. "I don't foresee a trade (for Gretzky) for the New York Rangers." 
But while the Rangers are now out of the chase, the Chicago Blackhawks. St. Louis Blues and Toronto Maple Leafs are reportedly interested in the Great One. 
"He will be traded," one management source told The Associated Press on Thursday. 
Smith said he had called a news conference to "put the rumors to rest" about the most prolific scorer in NHL history coming to Rangers this week from the Los Angeles Kings. 
"I've been flooded with calls and I haven't had the chance to return them. which is not usu­ally the way I do business," Smith said. "This was my first opportunity to say to you that the Rangers have no trade pending." 
As for a trade for Gretzky down the road, Smith said: "I never say never." 
He said he wasn't disap­pointed about not making the deal. 
"Not for me," he said, "but I'll do anything to find other options for the Rangers to get better." 
Gretzky is in the final year of his contract. He becomes a free agent after this season, and the Kings would lose him without compensation. 
The Rangers appeared an obvious attraction for Gretzky. He would have teamed with 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

Hf Jdlutlvw "'ilh rht hlauJ\ fi«Jsl bnMiful "''m<~n. But lu· Ji,/n't ~l<lnd «duma. until« gmll f'<KI, P.tblo NnuJii, >:a~( l1im tltt (mnagr 11nJ rhe Mrds ttl ~<in l1a lti'iltl. 
'"THE POSTMAN' DELIVERS!" 
·lhrhn~ e\d.>m•. JI.I'W \<lkK I'O'il 
"****!A\VINNING ROMANCE!"
-
·\ttdwtlli,.:htt~r•-tto\ lll nn \1.\(j-'/l'd 
"SWEETLY ROMANTIC!'' 
Academy Award Nomination for Best Picture Friday and Saturday 7:30 and 9:45 pm World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
Mark Messier and Kevin Lowe, all pals from his days in Edmonton, where he led the Oilers to four Stanley Cups. 
Barry Melrose, who coached Gretzky for three seasons with the Kings and now serves as an analyst for ESPN. thinks Los Angeles is certain to make a trade. 
"He hasn't been happy there for some time," Melrose said. 
Gretzky, 35, has expressed a desire to win another Stanley Cup and play in the Olympics before he retires. That would mean he would have to play at least two more years after this season, and probably play for a team other than the Kings. 
When Gretzky was traded from Edmonton to LA in the summer of 1988 in a deal that stunned the hockey world, he inspired the Kings to a higher level of play. By 1993, Gretzky had led the team to the Stanley Cup Finals for the first time. 
Since then, though, not many good things have happened to the Kings. 
Owner Bruce McNall's finan­cial problems, a change in management, injuries and bad player decisions have all con­tributP.d to making the Kings a mediocre team. 
Earlier this season, Gretzky went public with demands for management to upgrade the Kings' roster. Otherwise, Gretzky said he wanted to go to another team that had a chance to win the title. 
Gretzky's actions were not only uncharacteristic, they were ill-timed as far as the 
N H L was concerned. 
came right before the All-Star Game, at a time when the league was hoping to showcase itself. 
Even though Gretzky is on the downside of an unparalleled career. the price tag will still be pretty high for the most lumi­nous name in hockey. 
IRVING. Texas 
·The Dallas Cowboys took care of their top offseason priority Thursday by making Darren Woodson the highest-paid safe­ty in NFL history. 
Working against a 3 p.m. free agency deadline, the Cowboys avoided having to designate Woodson as their franchise player by working out a six­year deal worth $18 million, with a $5.4 million signing bonus. 
"We know what he's meant to the three Super Bowls we've won and we know what he means to our future," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. 
"There was no way possible that we weren't going to do what it took to keep Darren Woodson." 
Dallas is hard against the salary cap, but team vice presi­
dent Stephen Jones stayed upr---------------------------, all night to make some room. J
s 

He got there by restructuring,
the contracts of numerous play­ers, including Kevin Smith, Erik 
w/ piano. Qn. bds. Smoke-free. A/C. 
Swim breakfast 

OFFICERS' TRIIIIIG C 0 R P S 
some were small amounts, some were bigger." 
Woodson was a 1992 second­round pick by the Cowboys who became a starter in his second season and blossomed into an All-Pro by 1994. 
He made his second consecu­tive Pro Bowl appearance this year. capping a wonderful sea­son marked by big plays and really big hits. 
Immediately after the Super Bowl. Woodson told agent Leigh Steinberg he wanted to remain a Cowboy no matter what. Steinberg finalized mat­ters Thursday morning during a flight to Dallas from New York. 
"Everyone in the National Football League has waited for the wheels to drop off, for the core of their team to be dis-
u~~ ·nrue~
.....,\.

YlPR-t:A 
1 

We've. got yo~!" ~owel"s fot" this weekend's dance 
*La~"gest selection of Fl"esh-c"'t 
I"OSeS 
*Daily delivery to campt-ts *Srndent discOL-tnt 
•Located on col"nel" of t.dison 
and Jt"onwood *All majot" cl"edit cal"ds accepted 
288-7551 
Woodson, who earned $670,000 last season. becomes the third-highest paid defensive back in league history behind Cowboys cornerback Deion Sanders and Pittsburgh corner­back Rod Woodson. 
Darren Woodson said he had no lavish plans for his new­found riches. 
He does, however, plan to donate money to impoverished children in Dallas and his hometown of Phoenix. 
"I just want to let them know there's someone out there who cares for them," Woodson said. 
Woodson was grateful that his teammates were willing to rework their deals to accomo­date him. 
Woodson promised to be just as compromising should the need arise. 

SUMMERSCHOOL FORPEOPLE ON THEIRWAY TO TilE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an Army officer. You'll also have attending Army ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and 
course in leadership training. beyond. 
IRMYROTC 
TIE SMIRTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CD TAlE. For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

hiday, February 16, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• NOTRE DAME TRACK • SAINT MARY'S TRACK 
Irish battle for first Big East crown 
"~t f!'~ f~ c:.afJU . 
The New Number on Cam
lr.ittJmhoti'!: : 
IIf!t Ur.msta f~ rAfili . 
frjcnmmtrl'~ 
1 

Uf!f fl'lrrm!~t ~~ 4".af/fi 
111 ~Jmma'!,= 
~~~~ f{~ ~~ t"Af[f I 
PamfOiin'~ , 
ff~ ~fm,s f~ rAflU 
Pomfrrea'~ 
ff~t fllmtl fWJ rAflll 
Onmfnn·~ i------­
6«,, tr~ t:m; rJJffU 
1 

.~ r; ni frr t'1 ~~, 
r·~ lmr: fr. 
r--------,r--------, 
-

1 • • 11 1-Topping 1 : With an_y PIZZa ::Thin or Hand Tossed: 1 order. 11 Pizza I 
Not valid with other offers. .J
L .J L 
Season opens with Chicago 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

Track and Field coach Larry Szczechowski led his team to a landmark year last season, setting the school record for most points scored in one season. 
In his tenth year as head coach at Saint Mary's, 
Szczechowski encourages his team to better the record. With their largest schedule in recent history, the Belles' sights should be easily attained. 
The team opened their season with a successful practice indoor meet last Saturday at Huntington College. Although no score was kept, the Belles displayed a stel­lar performance with two first 


place finishes and several outstanding others from new freshmen. 
"We're really excited about the freshman this sea­son," first-place finisher junior Paula Kivinen said. "On Saturday most placed in the meet which gave them a good experience for their first meet on the collegiate level." 
Paula Kiviner'l., in her third year on the track and field team, has her eyes set on breaking the school record in the high jump again this year. The record stands at 5'3" for outdoor track, and 5'2" for in­door track, which was set by Kivinen during the indoor season last year. 
At Huntington College, Kivinen jumped 4'10", good enough for first place. 
"I wanted to hit five feet," Kivinen said. "But I'm happy with my performance because it was a great way to begin the season." 
Freshman Stacy Davis earned the team's other first place on Saturday with a school-record break­ing performance in the 55 meter dash, 7.3. 
"If she gets the same time this weekend," com­mented Kivinen, "she will qualify for indoor nation­als." 
Freshmen Kelley O'Donnell, Angela Pompili, Elizabeth Johnson, and Sarah Gallagher also 
1996 SAINT MARY'S TRACK AND FIELD SCHEDULE 
INDOOR 
Sat 2110  at Huntington w/ Tri-State  Noon  
Sat 2117  at University of Chicago  11:00 am  
Sat2124  at Huntington College  11:00 am  
OUTDOOR  
Sat 3/16  at Polar Bear Invitational  Noon  
at Indiana Wesleyan University  
Sat 3/23  at Wabash Invitational  tba  
Sat 3/30  at Manchester Invitational  11:30 am  
Sat 4/13  at Little State Meet  10:00 am  
at Indiana Wesleyan  
Sat 4/27  at Earlham Invitational  11:00 am  

chipped in points. 
O'Donnell placed fourth in the triple jump, 26'8", and third in the long jump, 13'. Pompili, in her first time ever competing in a meet, earned fourth for her 3:12:81 finish in the 800 meter. Johnson placed fourth in the shot put with a 30'5" toss, and Gallagher took third in the 55 meter hurdles, breaking the former school record with a 9:45 per­formance. 
Freshman Carrie FerkenhofT, who is expected to contribute greatly to the team, was absent from the meet. 
Sophomores Alisha Barbee and Keary Sullivan brought in fourth places in their events, Barbee with a personal record of 12'9" in the long jump, and Sullivan with a 7:14 finish in the mile. 
Junior Theresa Zamarelli took third in the 300 meter with a time of0:51.15. 
The Belles bless the return of seniors Michelle Wenner, Jill Jusick, and Julie Govorko. Wenner runs the 800 meter, 1500 meter, and 4 x 400 meter relay. Team captain Jusick, talented in several areas, competes in the 100 meter, 200 meter, and 4 x 100 meter relay in addition to the triple and long jumps, and captain Govorko leads her team in the discus, shot put, javelin throw, and 4 x 100 meter relay. 
The Belles will travel to the University of Chicago Saturday for an indoor meet that will begin the score keeping of their 1996 season. 
"The University of Chicago and North Central are always good teams," Kivinen said. "Several other Division II teams will be there to give us tough com­petition as well. 1 hope that the meet will help us determine where we are. We use the indoor season as a conditioning to see where we are and what we need to work on." 
By JAMES BELDEN 
Spans Writer 
This week1md the Fighting Irish track squads will travel to Syracuse to challenge the Big East powers in their inaugural Big East ( :hampionships. 
It may be hard to believe but these championships may provide the Irish with tougher eompetition than the Big East Basketball tourna· nwnt. 
"You might think I'm on drugs or something, but traek and cross country are the best sports the Big Eas.~ has year·m and year-out, l'iane said. "It's a fantastic conference." 
The defending champion lloyas will have a tough job of repeating this year. Georgetown will be chal­lenged by the Irish as well as Seton Hall and Villanova in this weekend's champi­onships. The Huskies of Connecticut will also make a strong push as they return three individual champions from last years champi­onships. 
The Irish are ready for this weekend's events, but the faet that this is their first Big East Championships keeps them on edge. 
"I think our kids are really excited," Piane stated. "The interesting thing about track is it's a mixture of a team sport and individual efforts. 
But the objective of the meet will be to score points for Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame will have its best opportunities on the men's side, where the Irish are favored in a number of events. Senior captain Mike Fleisch has had his best year in the shot put, and will be the favorite this weekend. 
Errol Williams should set the pace for the 200 meters where he is ranked first, and he will be a factor in the 55 meter hurdles where he looks to move up his number two ranking. The Irish will be represented by Lamar Justice in the triple jump, and his superb perfor­mances this year will hope­fully carry over into the championships. 
The number five ranking of Notre Dame's Berit Junker in the 800 meters is indicative of the talent with­in the Big East. While she has already provisionally qualified for the NCAA's she will be seeded behind two runners from Georgetown, one from Villanova and another from Pittsburgh. 
This weekend's champi­onships represent the focal point of the team's season and the biggest challenge the Irish have fuced this year. The Irish will finally get their chance to prove that they belong among the greats of the Big East. 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 16, 1996 
~~----------------------------------------------~~~~~--~~~~---------------------------------­
/lllen'd. cwui w~'d.
A~es (or lun~L. 
n:RtUS 
...­
SATURDAY • 3:00P.M. #16 NO Women vs. #21 Alabama SUNDAY • 10:00A.M. #16 NO Men vs. Kentucky 
SUNDAY •1:00 P.M. 
#16 NO Women vs. Wisconsin 
--,_ • HOCKEY 
Michigan jeopardizes playoffs 
By MIKE DAY 

Sports Writer 
Fighting an uphill battle is a difficult task, but it's made even harder when you're riding up on a tricycle. 
Likewise, the Notre Dame hockey team already has their work cut out for them in their battle to reach the CCHA play­offs, but the fact that they en­counter No. 5 Michigan and No. 4 Michigan State this weekend only compounds things. 
"Being in our position, it's tough to go out and make a move against teams like Michigan and Michigan State," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "But these are the teams you're going to be play­ing in the playoffs, so you have to be ready." 
Preparation should not be a 

~-t·f!li~ 
~ 

The Observer/Kevin Klau Defender Davide Dal Grande will be counted on to halt the explosive attack of the Wolverines. 


Alternative Dance Music 
LARGE DANCE fLOOR 
Friday & Saturday 8 PM· JAM 
$5.00 Cover 
(except lor special events} 
Call Anytime 683-7998 

-
problem for the Irish. After playing Michigan off their feet for two periods before falling 4­1 last Friday at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame is confi­dent that they will more than hold their own against the Wolverines tonight at the Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit. 
Despite the fact that the large majority of the 20,000 fans will be pulling for the Wolverines, the Irish are listed as the home team at the so-called "neutral" site. 
"Playing at the Palace is real­ly something special," said sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler. "Last year, I was ner­vous at the beginning, but once we got into the game, the ex­citement just kind of carried me through." 
It's a gross understatement to 
say that Eisler will have his hands full trying to contain the 
Michigan offense on 
Friday. The unit averages nearly six goals per contest, and their explosive trio of Kevin Hilton (54 points), Brendan Morrison (51). and Jason Botterill (26 goals) gives oppos­ing goaltenders the heebie jeebies. 
"They are a free wheeling offensive team with a lot of big guns," said Poulin. "They have a lot of weapons that can beat you at any time. To make things worse, they have one of the top goalies (Marty Turco) in the league." 

As if the Wolverines weren't enough to contend with, the Irish will visit East Lansing on Saturday for a showdown with the first place Spartans (25-7­0). 
While the Irish will receive a great lift with the return of se­nior defenseman Davide Dal Grande, they will have to re­ceive some help at the offensive end to keep up with the tal­ented Michigan State squad. 
Senior center Jamie Ling (31 points). freshman right wing Brian Urick (23), and junior left wing Tim Harberts (21) have been solid over the last three weeks, but someone else will have to step up if the Irish are to pull off what would be the league's biggest upset of the season. 
"There's not much getting around the fact that we have to score more to have any chance of being successful," said Poulin. 
Notre Dame (8-20-3) has fall­en into ninth place in the CCHA, one point behind Alaska­Fairbanks and two behind Ferris State. The Irish would like a win this weekend to over­take either the Nanooks or the Bulldogs for the final seed in the conference playoffs. 
"We know that because of the position we are in, we can't af­ford to come home empty hand­ed," said senior defenseman Jeremy Coe. "It's just a matter of going out and playing 60 minutes of consistent hockey and avoiding the occasional mental breakdowns." 
Thus, the uphill battle begins. 
The Finanee Club Presents: The 32ND Annual Finance Forum 
The IPO 
AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS FROM DIFFERENT STANDPOINTS. 
• Mr. Jeffery Boetticher 
CEO and President 
• Mr. Thomas Grieg 
Managing Partner 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 
Tuesday, Feb. 20, 7:00PM, Jordan Auditorium • Refreshments to Follow • 


The Observer/Kevin Klau If the Irish hope to knock off Michigan or Michigan State, they will need senior captain Jamie Ling to lead an aggressive attack. 


Friday, February 16, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
-----------------------------------~--~~--~~--~----------------------------------------------~~--­


FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
I CAN'T BELIEVE THEY EXPECT US TO SIGN THESE NEW Et<\PLOYMENT AGREE­
ME.NT fORI"\5. 
-.~~~~~~~----~--_J~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~~~----~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Succor 33 Desert dare
1 Subject of "The 
38 Jose or Juan,

Bridges of e.g.
Madison County" 39 Humongous 
11 Tree house 40 Connects (with) 
44 Medical wished for 
15 Not to be 
specialist's prefix

16 Self starter 45lt's been
17 Comprises rubbed the
18 Gin 
wrong way

19 Pol. affiliation 
47--ball 20 Big tops 
(popular toy) 22 TV's Ricky 
51 Count's place 24 Freed hostage 
55 One of the 13 25 Half of a famous colonies: Abbr. comic duo 
56 Head of the 29 Nicholas of class "Room 222" 
57 New York 30 For all times eatery 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:--+,:-:+.:0-r.~ 
=+=+:=+::-i 

..t-.::-t...-t~rl..t7' '!!!!~t=t-::;-t 21 Social register i-=1-:+-::+.,.,-i WOrd 23 "----Old Cowhand" ..-t....t~...-t....-t;.-1 26 Linguistic suffix ~...-+..-hn 27 "--said ..." ....ta+.mrl 20 Oysters --­season 
0 
'" 
<>
_; 0 
... 
@) 
en 
..0 ... 
'" 
.... 
.... 
0 
<> 
en 
;; E 
w 

1 
g: 
Q 

G r;:::============-,
I>.CCORDING TO THI~ I ~ 
WHAT DO YOU SUPPOSE IT 
ANYTHING WE EVEN ~ 
MEANS WHEN THEY 

THINK OF BECOMES THE ~ 
COP'I'RIGHT OUR ''DNA 

COMPI\N'f 'S PROPER.T'<. I'r-'\ I 
AND ALL DERIVATIVE. 

SURPRISED THEY DON'T ~ 
WOP..I\5"? TI-\E.Y'D 1-\AKE AN 
CLAir-\ OUR FIRSTBORN 
l 

EXCEPTION FOR 
50N5! .. 
! YOU. 
·;; 
"' ) 
.. 

59 Wise about &oOian embryonic layer 61 Opposite of alway 62 Does poorly in a Congressional election 
DOWN 
1 Clear of thought 2Two--c­
(court situation) 3 Sells 4 Minnesota 
twins s Alamo rival 6 Puncher 7 Oracle's 
reading a Pollock and Kline. e.g. 9Coinflip outcome, in a 
saying 10 Fix, as a napkin 11 Actor Lane 
-:-t::-:+=+:-+::-i..._.,. 12 Continental hybrids -=+:;:+::+..; 13 Home, to Yanks -=-t'!!'t~-;-:+-;-:+:-f'!!!" • ..t-:--t=-1-:-i 14 # 1 at Wimbledon 

Puzzle by Randolph Ross  
30 Brussels-born  42 Real London  50 Police officers,  
fashion  ending  in slang  
designer  43 Place for  52 Last wrapper  
31 Record writing  Jefferson  53 Guitarist  
34 Pinafore, e.g .  46 Maine town  Nugent et al.  
35 Ambulance  48 Tomato blight  54 Boxcar cargoes  
driver: Abbr.  49 Kindled anew  58 Dr. of rap  
J&Date  
37 Quotation  

Get answers to any three clues
notation 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
38 Affix, as a date 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
41 Tolerated 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Creative endeavors will bring the most profitable and long-lasting results. Public recognition follows. Your personal relationships take on new luster when you show a cooper­ative spirit. Guard against trying to dominate your romantic partner. The best relationships are based on equality. Family members wish that you would to quit trying to impress them. They think you are great just the way you are! Plan a special trip with loved ones. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: tennis star John McEn­roe. guitarist Andy Taylor, actor LeVar Burton, actress Gretchen Wyler. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The financial outlook is brighter than in the recent past. Family mem­bers offer intriguing suggestions. Follow up on them if they are practi­cal. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The emphasis now is on finding new outlets for your talents. The feed­back you get from contacts or clients at a distance is highly favor­able. Plan a small celebration with your mate or partner. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your hunches will pay off today. An influential person wants to form a new company and obtain your ser­vices. The risks are high. perhaps too high. Go slow. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Ride with the tide today, collecting the benefits and profits that nonnal­ly come your way. Extreme mea­sures are not recommended. Friends may look to you for advice. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do everything you can this morning to avoid getting entangled in red tape. An emotional attachment may be thrilling but hard on your budget. Be honest about any financial con­
• OF INTEREST 
Today at 4:00 p.m. Ashok Ahuja, "Aadharshlla'' (foundation Stone), a story of young peoplo at a point of beginning in their lives. Winner of the Mannheim International Film Festival will be playing in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
.. 

HA Sketch Comedy Show Humor Artists pre· sent an hour of sketches, stand-up, and songs. l'ree at Washington Hall 6:30 p.m. tonight. Bring your par­ents. juniors. see the all new Valentine's Day Spectacular. 
Shenanigans JPW concerts Fun. high quality entertainment. There will be more concerts. two of them at 1:00 p.m. and 2:30 p.m. in the Snite Annenberg Auditorium. Everyone is invited and admission is free. For more info check http://www.nd.edu/-shenana 
Tonight and tomorrow night In the Cinema at the Snite, "The Postman (II Postlno)" will be play­ing at 7:30 and 9:45p.m. The cost is $2. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame North South 
•

Breaded Cheese Sticks Shrimp Poppers Grilled Tuna with Lemon Oven Roast Potatoes Stir Fry Chicken Turkey Steak Mozz 
Saint Mary's Lasagna Blanco Chicken Fajitas Fried Onion Rings 
-


straints. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You would go miles out of your way to aid a worthy cause. Try to lunch with someone who is both open­minded and responsible. Romance is almost magical! Seize an opportuni­ty to travel. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Heed your intuition today. Although financial tips abound, you need to consult experts before making investments. Your social plans go well. Concerns about a loved one are dispelled by a phone call. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful not to act overbearing or arrogant. Your keen powers of per­suasion will get you what you want if you do not press too hard. Unex­pected developments will make romance seem even sweeter. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You have a real appreciation for good food, art and entertainment. This is great so long as you do not let self-indulgence deplete your resources. Spend quality time with each child. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A serious conversation will motivate someone to solve a prob­lem. Quiet activities like reading 
..

help you relax while adding to your store of knowledge. Keep a close eye on your expenditures today and tomorrow. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things feel a little up in the air today; by tomorrow they will be back on solid ground. Long-distance concerns merit a phone call or fax. Complete important paperwork before leaving the office. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A 

marriage proposal. business agree­
ment or major new contract has the 
lion's share of your attention. One 
way or another. you can expect to 
reap rewards through new ties. 
.. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, February 16, 1996 
5: WOMEN'S TElliS 

No. 9 Vols fall to surgin·g Irish 



The Observer/Scott Mendenhall OF Scott Sollmann returns to the baseball diamond, as he leads the Irish baseball team against Georgia Tech in the 1996 season opener. Sollmann hit for a .406 batting average last season. 
Experience key to success for Irish 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports W ricer 

After taking a small break, the women's tennis team is back, and making their presence known. The No.16 Irish upset the No. 9 Volunteers last night, in grand fashion. With this victory, Notre Dame's record improves to 7-1. 
"Basically, the whole team played really well," stated Assistant Coach Maureen McNamara. "Everybody just stepped up and showed that they wanted it." 
The team captured all three of the doubles matches, and started the momentum going. 
Seniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord dis­missed Tennessee's Margie Lepsi and Kristin Bachochin, 8-4. Following their teammate's lead junior Erin Gowen and freshman Jennifer Hall beat the Vol's Carrie Spinner and Heather McEvoy, 8-3. 
Sophomore Kelley Olson stepped in to fill injured senior Sherri Vitale's spot, at No. 3 dou­bles. Olson teamed up with freshman sensation Marisa Velasco to defeat Tennessee's Emily Woodside and Erin Lowrey. 
"We were down 5-2, but then we woke up," stated Velasco. "We kicked our play up a notch." 
When asked the key to the upset, McNamara remarked, "Getting the great start in doubles was the key. It was a big deal. We won at the No. 1 and No. 2 spots, but we were down in the match at No. 3. Then Velasco and Olson came from behind for the win. It definitely made us more confident for the singles." 
The freshmen once again had another impres­sive showing in yesterday's match. Hall moved 
see TENNIS I page 15 
-a
~ ASEBALL 
.. 
• 
-
chance at him the last time we 
Marcus Young's recent improvement under the boards sparked the 
played them (a 85-65 UConn win 
Irish over Pittsburgh last Tuesday. 


Allen poses 'ultiiDate challenge' 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Spons Editor 

Come late Saturday afternoon, Irish forward Derek Manner may wish this was one honor he didn't earn. 
Manner is the lucky winner of Notre Dame's 'Who-gets-to­guard-consensus-all-American­Ray~Allen' award as the Irish travel to Storrs to take on No. 3 Connecticut, winner of 22 con­secutive contests, for a televised 
1:30 p.m. tip on Saturday. 

"I guess you could look at this as the ultimate challenge," laughed Manner. 
in December), so this is my oppor­tunity." 
It's an opportunity that few relish. 
Allen, only a junior, is one of the front-run­ners for National Player of the Year honors, av­eraging 23 points while shooting 50% from the field and 49% from beyond the arc. 
At 6-5. 200-pounds. Allen is the epitome of the 'silky swingman,' a who can score 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
inside or out. 

"He's pretty much a complete all around play­er," said Manner. "You can't forget about him even for a second, because he can be quiet for a while and then just explode." 
At 6-6, Manner has the height to counter Allen, something that was missing in the matchup earlier this season when 6-1 Ryan 
Hoover shadowed him. 

But as the Irish are aware, 
stopping one of the country's 
most explosive scorers takes 
more than just one person. 
"It's important that we all 
carry out our defensive as­
signments and be aware of 
where Allen and (fellow back­
court mate Doron) Sheffer 
are," said guard Keith 
Kurowski. "We're going to try 
and switch on and off and 
keep fresh legs on him." 
Despite Allen's heroics this 
season, including .a 29 point 
effort in a victory over No. 4 
Villanova, the Huskies have 
ascended into the country's 
elite based on a complete 
team effort. 

UConn shoots an incredible 
48% from the field, while its 
top six players each average 
more than seven points per 
game . 

"(Allen) is one of the best 
players in the country, but 
Connecticut is where it is be­
'----------..-,,------------:Th~a-Obse-:---rve-,-IBfian-.-H-ar--'dy cause the entire team has ' 
UConn and Notre Dame's last meeting included some fireworks as contributed," explained guard, 
Huskie center Travis Knight and Irish captain Ryan Hoover had to be -----------­
se.p~~at~d in the second_~-~~~--__ see IRISH I page 15: 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
While present conditions in South Bend may not compel you to grab that dusty old mitt of yours off the shelf and go outside for a game of catch, over thirty Notre Dame stu­dents will be knee-deep in baseball this weekend. 
And they will be up for much more than just a friendly game of catch. 
with one player," commented Mainieri. "What I'm hoping for is that, collectively, all of the players that have a year under their belt and are more com­fortable because of that experi­ence, will be better, and that we will be better as a whole team as a result." 
Mainieri definitely has reason for such hope, especially with 
see BASEBALL I page 16 


The Irish baseball r----------------, team begins their 1996 campaign this week­end with a two-game series at #13 Georgia Tech, kicking off their first season as a mem­ber of the Big East Conference, and their second year under head coach Paul Mainieri, who led the oft-injured Irish to an impressive 40-21 record last season. This year's version of the Irish, with the notable exception of Mr. Everything Ryan Topham (.335 BA, 18 HR, 79 RBI), will bear a striking resemblance to last season's squad, returning more than a 
dozen monogram win­
ners, inClUding the L---------,T:::-h-e::cOb:-s-erv-e--::r/Sco::--:-tt:-:-M-:-e-nd:-en-:-h--:fall 
entire pitching staff. Entering his second season, coach Mainieri "I don't think you looks to improve on last year's 40-21 replace Ryan Topham record. 
SP 
Men's Basketball Men's Tennis 
• leers battle Michigan, Michigan St . 
.­
ar Connecricur, February 17, I :30 p.m. 

vs. Wisconsin, February 18, 3:30p.m. 
see page 22 

. ,Q.) ..
Track 
Women's Basketball 

Big Easr Championship, February 17-18
RTS 

a 
a 
ar Pirrsburgh, February 17, 7:30p.m. 
..... 
•Belles open indoor track season 
Hockey 
see page 21

• Women's Tennis 
ar Michigan, February 16, 7 p.m. 
vs. Alabama, February 17, 3 p.m. 

SMC Sports 
•Camby, Duncan continue dominance 
vs. Kenrucky, February 18, 10 a.m. 

Baskerball vs Oliver, February 17, 1 p.m. 
......= ~ 
see page 17
GLANCE 










