
Tuesday, March 5, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 103 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUtlCU.
COBA to initiate 
diversity program in accountancy 
1\y MIKE JACCARINO New' Wri~t·r 
Citing tlwir mutual inlnrests in diversity, officials with both Notre Damn and the Big Six accounting lirrn of Coopers & Lybrand have come to tnrms on funding for tlw dnvelopmnnt of a diversity program in tho Coll1~gn of Busirwss Administration. 
Concnivnd hy Thomas Frecka, ehair of the Coll1~ge's dnpartment of accountancy. and Brent Inman, national director of recruiting for Coopers & Lyhrand. tlw program will focus on minority accounting studnnts in the College. Funding for the program will span a fiVfl-ynar period and will be comprised of a $200,000 contribution from Coopers & Lybrand as well as $350,000 in individual dona­lions from tlw firm's lfJO-plus Notre Dame alumni. 
l:unding will lw allocated for additional staff involVIHIHHJt, supporting more extensive mentoring, advising, and tutoring for students within the ac­counting program, said Freeka. The program allows for llll inenlasnd number of internship 
opportunities available to accounting students, the dnVPiopnwnt of workshops and seminars on cultur­al divnrsily, as well as tlw possibility of funding for minority scholarships and linaneial aid. 
"Wn want to attract minority students to the Collt•ge of Business Administration as well as retain llwm hy oiTering a supportive environmnnt, con­dticive to keeping tlwm lwre," explained Jannifer C:rill.nndon, student advisor for the Collngn and one of the arrhitects of tlw program. 
Tlw program rPilncts tlw rnlativnly low minority partiripation in arrounling and consnquently the growing nPPd and dnsin~ for minority repre­sentatives in thl' prof1~ssional aecounting market­plan•. 
"A small numlwr of minorities go into accounting and in gPrll'ral tlw acrounting firms want to inrn•asn diversity in tlw workplace in order to ndate to a mon~ divnrse l'iflld of clients," said l:rPrka. "Notrt' J>anw has one of tlw top accounting programs in llw country and so is a logical plaen for llw dl'vPiopnwnt of a modnl diversity program to PVentually lw implnmPnWd at schools aeross the nation." 
ThP prograrn. which will bn fully in pl;u:n by the fall of 1«)«)(,, indil'atf~s a growing pursuit by Notrn llanH• ol'lirials of a more divnrsn studnnt population and tlwir n·alization of tlw hnnnlits of such. 
"Making NotrP J>anw likn the rnal world -the real world Notrl' J>amn studnnts are going to nxperienee ai'Lnr rollngl' -givns tlw studonts lwrn a better undnrstanding of how to livn in a divnrsn world and how to utilizn tlw talents of diiTernnt cultures," hC'rka said. "J>iv1~rsity also makes Notn~ Dame morn attractiVP to corporations seeking to improve llw divnrsity of tlwir own work fore e." 
Thn pursuit of divnrsity has taken shape across 
see COBA I page 4 

Council discusses Ad Hoc report 
program for gays and lesbians the best eompromise possible," said
Preacher maintains 
formed by Campus Ministry, and the Patrick. "We hope the GLND/SMC support group recommended by the will now take steps toward com­

University should 
ad hoe committee last week to be promise as well as we try to pro­set up under the authority of the mote an inclusive environment at

supporlGLND/SA1C -con-
Office of Student Affairs Notre Dame. By BILL CONNOLLY 
cerned Ava Preacher, assistant dean "The new group suggnsted by the News Writer of the College of Arts and Letters. report could unite all gays and les­As a result, Preacher proposed her bians into one group," Patrick 
The Campus Life Council dis­
own resolution on the issue, meant added. "The challenge is for cussed the findings of the Ad floc for discussion only, at the start of Professor O'Hara to agree with us." Committee on Gay and Lesbian 
the conversation. Preacher responded by stressing Student Needs' Final Report yester­
After restating various parts of the that self-determination is important day, resulting in 
Ad Hoc Committee's report, to all eampus groups, a key compo­differing opinions 
Preacher's resolution concludes: nent of her resolution. According to "Be it resolved that we (the CLC) Preacher, the Ad lloc Committee'sand a new resolu­tion submitted for 
once more call upon the fifth recommendation would not discussion. Administration to recognize allow for self-determination for the GLND/SMC as the University group recommended group since the advi­
The possible splintnring or the 
of gay and lesbian students, deserv­sor of the group would be chosen ing of all rights and privileges from a list of names submitted to
gay and lesbian accorded other campus groups." O'Hara.
community into Student Body President Jonathan Father Terence Linton, another
three different Patrick, a member of the Ad Hoc
groups -Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame and committee defended the commit­see CLC I page 4 Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC), a 
tee's decision. "We tried to make 
Get your tickets here 

Senior Ken Maverick sells raffle tickets to sophomore Dave Griffith to win football tickets outside South Dining Hall. The proceeds of the raffle will benefit the social program "There are Children Here." 


Alumni to serve in Appalachia 
Special 10 The Observer 
Eight Notrn Danw alumni will join sonw I00 current stud1mts in thn Univnrsity's annual Ap­palarhia Seminar service­lf~arning project during spring brnak. 
A one-credit c:oursn in tlwol­ogy, thn Sf~minar is dnsigrwd to introduee students -and this year, for tlw lirst time, gradu­atns -to the rultun~ and the so­c-ial issuns of Appaladtia and to assist r ~~side n t s oI' that impoverislwd n~gion. From March I0-15 tlw Notre Damn contingm1t will work at I0 sites in four stalf~s to provide hnalth earP, honw repairs and other Sf~ rvi ens through eo mmun i ty and rc~ligious organizations. 
The Notre Dame alumni will work w i t h n i rw stude 11 t s in Cary, W.Va., a former coal town that has been plagued by economic hardship in recent years. The project is jointly sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association Community Sorvice Program and the Cen­ter for Soeial Concerns (CSC) in conjunction with McDowell Mission, an ecumenical home building based in Gary. 
"Many of our alumni worked on similar service-learning pro­jects during their undergradu­ate years at Notre Dame," said Jay Brandenberger, the cen­ter's eoordinator of experiential programs. "Now, five, six, seven years after graduation, this project gives them an op­portunity to once again work and learn side by side with stu­dents and residents." 
Other components of the Ap­palachia Seminar have been desigrwd to both serve the re­gion and provide students with career-related experiences. 
"Sometimes people think these projects are just about volunteering to help others in need," said Brandenberger. "That's important, but what we're really doing is integrating service with learning." 
The Appalachia Seminar has been offered each semester during fall and spring break since 1980. Three other expe­riential learning projects are scheduled for spring break 1996: students will live for a week with people with disabili­ties at the L'Arche community in Toronto; an environmental issues seminar will be based in Chicago; and the annual Wash­ington seminar will provide stu­dents with direct contact with political, Church and service leaders in the nation's capital. 
Panel encourages students to offer service to others 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 

In an effort to increase awareness in creating commu­nity among races within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, Saint Mary's Jus­tice Education Department pre­sented part four of their "Conversation Series" entitled "Is Community Still Possible?" yesterday evening. 
A four person panel gathered before faculty and students to raise questions and suggest ideas as to how community ser­viee can fit into students' lives while on campus, and more importantly, how community service within interracial grounds will fit into students' lives after college. 
The pam~l, comprised of ac­tive community service leaders in the South Bend and Chicago areas, have strong back­grounds in social work and community involvement on a day to day basis. The goal of the panel and serins is to "pro­vide models of community based on social services as well as to encourage and to provide opportunities for volunteer work," according to the series sponsor, the Justice Education Department. 
Senior Alia Paige, a featured panelist, spoke of her personal experienees within the ND/SMC community. Paige, a noted 
sec DIVERSITY I page 4 
Tuesday, March 5, 1996

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Take me out to the ballgame 
It's March once again,  Melanie Waters  
which to sports enthusi­ 
asts means the anticipa- Assisranr Accenr Ediwr  
tion of that long-awaited  

and much heralded event of athletic excite­ment: OPENING DAY! 
Oh, come on, you didn't think I was talking about basketball, did you? Sorry, but basket­ball fanaticism is obviously not in my blood. Being from Cleveland makes cheering for bas­ketball pretty pointless. Actually, I think the Cavs' uniforms are heinous enough to turn me off to the whole sport. Let's face it, the city of Cleveland seems to be a little clueless when it comes to picking colors for their teams. 
Anyway, back to my quasi-point. I was going to explain my philosophical beliefs on why I could care less about "March madness." but I was told ever-so-gently and with only a few threats of physical violence that if I did, no man on this campus would ever speak to me again. That is not so good for my social life. So, I will concede my argument and avoid having to enter the witness protection program by wishing you all a very happy bunch of playoff games. 
You can call me in April, though, when it's time to welcome the joys of warm weather with the start of baseball season. OK, so April in Cleveland isn't exactly tropical. But if you, too. have been counting the days since the end of the World Series ... well, then you prob­ably need professional help as well because that's really pathetic. Seriously, though, you people from cities with a history of good, or at least tolerable baseball teams just wouldn't understand. Let me tell you how it feels. For the last 40 years, the Indians couldn't have beaten eight-year-olds in T -ball. Until two years ago, you could walk into an Indians game in the fourth inning and buy field box seats a row behind the plate for less money than it cost to buy a hot dog. 
I saw my first Indians game when I was eleven, and there were enough empty seats for the entire population of North Dakota. I didn't care, though, because I was watching a real baseball game in a real stadium. My pony-league softball mind was in a whirl, especially at the fact that there were absolute­ly no dandelions to pick in right field. What did they do for fun out there? I was amazed that they really spent the whole time playing the game, and I had so much respect for the players afterward that I don't think I was nailed in the head by a pop fly for the rest of the softball season. 
If I couldn't be a baseball player, and "bat girl" wasn't a career option, I had to settle for being a dedicated baseball fan, even if it meant being loyal to teams that were. well, Jess than stellar. I think I've been a fairly respectable fan, as far as annoying technical knowledge goes. A lot-OK, most women I know, would rather have a root canal than sit through a full nine innings. I tried in vain to interest my mom in the finer points of the sport last year, but I gave up when she looked at the field and said, "Are we the blue pants 
Railroad car carrying propane explodes 
WEYAUWEGA, Wis. 

Thirty-five cars of a Wisconsin Central freight train derailed today and a tanker carrying propane exploded, setting fire to nearby buildings and forcing the evacuation of the entire town, authorities said. 
"It exploded near a co-op which has some fertilizer which they're afraid could ignite," Waupaca County Sheriffs Department spokeswoman Mary Robbins said. 
"They're concerned that there are other cars with propane on them." Bob Jones, a Wisconsin Central spokesman, said 17 c.f the 35 cars that 
50 mite~... 


derailed were carrying hazardous 
~ ILLINOIS evacuated as well as 200 people at the materials, with 15 of those carrying liq­L....::..___:..___:~-~-------"----:::!AP Weyauwega Health Care Center and 
uid propane gas. 
He did not immediately know what the other two were carrying. 
No one was reported injured, Robbins said, but wit­nesses reported more than a dozen ambulances were at the scene in case they were needed. 
Robbins said a feed mill operated by the Wolf River Coop was destroyed by fire, but the blaze did not immedi­ately spread to the farm co-operative's adjacent gasoline station or fertilizer store. 
Lakeview Manor nursing homes just outside town, Robbins said. 
Two railroad employees were on the train when the de­railment took place, but they were at the front end of the train and it was the 19th through the 53rd cars that went off the tracks, Jones said. 
Some residents were being buses to an old gymnasium in Waupaca. Robbins said. The fire was reported visible as far away as New Lon­don, about 13 miles to the east. 
Kevorkian likens goal to executioner 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
Surprising his own lawyer with his choice of words, Dr. Jack Kevorkian compared his intent Monday to an executioner's duty to "implement jus­tice." Defense attorney Geoffrey Fieger, seeking to dispel the image the analogy had created, quickly asked if Kevorkian feels he is an executioner. "Not at all," Kevorkian replied in his 

second day on the stand at his assisted-suicide trial. A key question at the trial is whether he intended to kill when he helped two people die by breathing carbon monoxide in 1993. Michigan's assisted-suicide law, now expired, exempts someone who gives medication or pro­cedures that may hasten ·death as long as the intent is to relieve pain or discomfort, not to cause death. "When a executioner pulls the switch on the electric chair, is his wish to kill a human being?" Kevorkian asked .. "Or to ful­fill his duty to ... implement justice and uphold the law? What's his aim?" 

Disabled student dies unnoticed 
PHOENIX 

A disabled university student who slipped into a coma and sat slumped in his wheelchair unnoticed for a week by his fellow students has died. Ellis Mather was 21. Mather, once a star wrestler in his tiny Alaskan home­town before he was disabled in an accident, was found in his dorm room at Arizona State University in November after others finally smelled a persistent odor and sent po­lice to check on him. He spent more than two months clinging to life in a vegetative state in a Phoenix hospital. He died Feb. 10, said Jeff Byrd, chief executive at the American Transitional Hospital. Mather's parents, Elsie and James Mather. sat vigil by his bedside and said they received support from many strangers in Arizona and around the nation. "It was just really heartwarming to get the kind of response we did," Mrs. Mather said. The couple has since returned to their home in Bethel, Ala. Doctors believe some sort of illness initially weakened El­lis, leaving him to suffer in silence in his wheelchair in his room. Over the course of the week, he apparently experienced a shortage of oxygen to hi:; brain. 
The propane car and the mill still were burning four hours after the 6 
a.m. derailment, but sheriffs officials said the blaze was under control. 
The Wisconsin Department of Transportation closed about a five-mile stretch of highway Wisconsin 110. 
"The front of the train was by the industrial park and the back end was over by the co-op," said Kristi Laux, a waitress at the Country Cafe. 
The train was headed from Stevens Point to Neenah when the derailment took place, Jones said. 
All residents of the central Wisconsin community of about 1,600 were being 


Video store workers found shot dead 
ALBUQUERQUE,N.M. 

George and Pauline McDougall regularly came to pick up their 19-year-old grandson when his late-night shift at a video store ended. So when authorities couldn't locate them after the grandson and two co-workers were slain, they feared the worst. Detectives pleaded today for in­formation that might help them find the McDougalls. "Somebody has had to have seen their car or them or something," said Tony Herrera, Albuquerque Police De­partment spokesman. Police feared they might have seen the slayings and been abducted or hurt, he said. The McDougalls' grandson, Zachary Blaylock; Jowanda Castillo, 18; and Mylinh Daothi, 30; were found bound and shot to death Sunday morning at Hollywood Video in the city's southeast heights. Employees reporting for work Sunday morning found the victims in a back room, Herrera said. Herrera said investigators believed the shootings occurred after the store's scheduled closing at 2 a.m. Sunday. He cited robbery as a possible motive, although detectives had not determined if money had been taken. 

Hepburn treated for pneumonia 
NEW YORK 

Katharine Hepburn was critically ill with pneumonia and at one point expected to die, but has left a hospital and returned to her Connecticut home, the Daily News reported Monday. The 88-year-old actress' business agent, Eric Hanson, did not return telephone calls for confirmation. The News quoted unidentified hospital officials as saying Hepburn, who divides her time between New York and Connecticut, was admitted to Lenox Hill Hospital last week under an assumed name. They told the newspaper she was very ill and that her doctors at one point had not expected her to live. Karen Zipern. a spokeswoman for the hospital, said Monday that no one named Katharine Hepburn had been regis­tered at Lenox Hill and that the hospital would not con­firm she had been there. It was not clear when Hepburn was released. Family members told the News that Hepburn was resting comfortably at home Sunday. As for whether she was out of danger, a sister-in-law, identi­fied by the paper as Mrs. Robert Hepburn, said: "No, l can't say that. She's working through it." 

or the red pants?" So, I apologize in advance to my weary friends who probably can't bear the thought of listening to me rant and rave through another season. Stock up on your patience now, because there's 27 days to go ... but who's counting? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
News  
Melanie Laflin  Production  
Deborah Schultz  Belle Baurisra  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Joe Villinski  Lab Tech  
Kathleen Lopez  Katie Kroener  
Graphics  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th(' Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


' ' ' ' ' ... ' ' ... ..:.. . .·:·..;: --­
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 5. 
20s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


............. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Q':l 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PTBSSUIB 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB Assoc1atBd Press 
Allan Ia  70  54  Dallas  79  56  New Orleans 75  64  
Baltimore  59  48  Denver  34  24  New York  50  45  
Boston  41  31  Los Angeles 68  49  Philadelphia 57  43  
Chicago  32  28  Miami  82  71  Phoenix  68  50  
Columbus  77  53  Minneapolis  15  11  St. Louis  87  73  

~--------~----------------------..------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
'li.tesday, March 5, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Rabin's widow: Fight for peace to continue 
By CHRIS OLERT 
Am>ciareJ Press 
IIACKENSACK, N.J. 
Hours after a terrorist bomb 1~xplodnd in Tel Aviv today. the widow of slain Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Babin said Is­rael will continue to fight for peace and will ov1~rcome its en­emies. 
"To our enemies. we say we will continue to fight most now, and in the futurn," Leah Itabin said during a ceremony at Fair­leigh Dickinson University here to honor lwr and her latn hus­band. "W1~ will 1:ontinue de­fending our homes and our fam­ilies. 
"W1~ will eontinue our search for p1~aee and at the same timn we will purstw you and hit you hard," slw said, quoting her husband's words. "We will elim­itwtn you. We will overcome you." 
Babin aceeptml honorary de­gnws for herself and her late husband amid news of today's bombing at a Td Aviv shopping cnnwr. tlw fourth Wrror attaek in lsraPI in llw past nine days. 
Th1~ honorary degrees were given as a nwmorial tribute to tlw late prime minister. and in 
h -~ GR£AT Restau.rant and ~~ ALL Cocktail Lounge 
~-""'" '"'h<mk &~h"""· . Bar and Restaurant open~"':;: :u:ne~u~ine 
Lunches starting at__ $4.2 5 \'otl'd BL'!-.I
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 Oril'ntal Rl'staur,tnt
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 in f\til'hian<~ h, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
Michiww Nou· 
(next to Randall's Inn) 
recognition of his widow's con­tinuing public support of the peace process. FDU is affiliated with the BioTechnical Institute in Tel Aviv. 
Habin was assassinated Nov. 4, 1995, in Tel Aviv. Yigal Amir, a 25-year-old law student, is charged with the murder. The late prime minister would have been 74 on Friday. 
On Sunday, at the opening of a photo tribute to her husband at a Manhattan gallery, Mrs. Rabin said, "There is no alternative to peace. We just have to continue on that road." 
The exhibit portrays Habin in 30 photographs, with his family and in the company of such notables as President Clinton, Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion leader Vasser Arafat. Golda Meir and Hichard Nixon. 
Mrs. Habin, speaking Sunday, said of the recent bombings: "Again we are so shocked by the horrible activity that had only one purpose, to destroy the dream." 
And referring to her husband, she added: "We all have to be very strong like he was." 
The exhibit is scheduled to tour the New York area and dties around the United States. 
Chinese ~ American 


Spring cleaning? 
The Observer I Brandon Candura 

In light of recent renovations, these workers are preparing to move boxes of materials into the Preservation Office, newly located to the left of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union off of Douglas Road. 





Auction to benefit homeless 
and a member of the Notre Dame athletic department for 27 years, will be the keynote speaker. 
Established in 1988, the Cen­ter for the Homeless is an out­growth of community concern for those in need of shelter and related services. 
The project is a partnership sponsored by four sustaining members: Notre Dame, the city of South Bend, the United Heligious Community, and the Junior League. 
Special to The Observer 
The Center for the Homeless in South Bend will receive a majority of the proceeds from a fund-raising auction to be conducted March 15 by the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
The auction will be held in conjunction with the club's Universal Notre Dame Celebration, an annual event to update alumni on the state of the University. 
Billy joel ... Greg Louganis ... NCAA Tournament Trip. • • 
These and other events this year were brought to you in part by StudentActivities 
Want to help plan events next year? And get paid for it? 
Three positions for programming assistants are available for 1996-97 for students who are creative, disciplined, and have leadership abilities. Be responsible for improv­ing campus lift by bringing lecturers, comedians, and entertainers to Notre Dame. 
Applications are available in the Students Activities Office 315 LaFortune and should be returned by March 8th. 

Interviews will be conducted March 19th and 20th ... Please remember to sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Call Gayle Spencer with questions @ 631-7308 
As a part of the UNO Celebration, the Fort Lauderdale club will honor talk-show host Regis Philbin, a 1953 Notre Dame alumnus and classmate of club president Harry Durkin. Philbin, who previously has donated his ser­vices in support of the Center for the Ilomeless, will assist in the auction of some 40 major items. About 60 items also will be available in a silent auction. 
George Kelly, special assis­tant to the athletic director 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., MAR.1 
7:26 p.m. An off-campus student re· ported the theft of his wallet from the Joyce Center field house. The wallet was left unattended at the time of the theft. 
10:07 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Edison Road. There were no injuries reported. 
SAT., MAR. 2 
12:52 a.m. A Knott Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
12:51 p.m. An off·campus student was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center by Security for treatment of a sports in­jury. 

3:19 p.m. A Grace Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
11 :55 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident in the 616 parking lot. There were no injuries reported. 
SUN., MAR. 3 3 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported receiving a harassing telephone call. 
7:07 p.m. A contractor reported the theft of tools from the basement of the power plant. 
11:17 p.m. A Farley Hall resident re· ported the theft of her vehicle from the 02 south parking lot The case is under investigation. 
MARDI SOIR CHEZ MARJTAJN 
A series of T ucsdA!J c>Jc:ning lectures on CAtholic thou9ht 
MichAel S. Sherwin, O.P. on "Reconcilin9 Old Lovers: John PAul II on Science And FAith II 
• T~csdi\.!;1 1 MArch 5, 7:30p.m. MArltAin C<nter, 7J4 Hcshurgh LibrAry 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 5, 1996 
after deciding on the ad hoc committee's report. 
Patrick announced that O'Hara had asked for an exten­sion for her decision on both resolutions. The CLC decided to ask Patrick to advise O'Hara to deliver her decision on the co­residentilaity resolution the week before March 18, and her decision on the du Lac revision resolution the week before March 25. 
Thus, the CLC will now meet three more times: March 18, March 25, and April 1. This will also afford them the time to discuss other issues they have worked on this year. 
Different members of the CLC updated the council on the progress of these issues yester­day. The campus calendar pro­ject and the project to improve RecSports through student in­put are both near completion. According to O'Hara, the sur­veys regarding the transporta­tion needs of different groups of students are coming back now. A report will be made by Stu­dent Government on the matter and sent to O'Hara by the end of the school year. 


COBA 
continued from page 1 
campus. The program institut­ed by Coopers & Lybrand is only part of a more encom­passing diversity program established within the College in October 1995. The program is developed in the tradition of a similar program in the College of Engineering, insti­tuted with tremendous success in 1987. 
According to Colonel John Miles, assistant dean of the College of Engineering, the im­plementation of that program has resulted in a 57% increase in the number of minority stu-
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
leader of multi-culturalism within the community, is presi­dent of the Sisters of Nefertiti, an African-American women's group that promotes aware­ness of various cultures. 
Paige focused on the aware­ness "that has to be developed and present on campus if after college we will be able to build any sense of community at all." 
An experienced social work­er for the South Bend School District, Elly Wynia focused on the notion that no sense of building a community will be realized unless "people feel important and that their com­munity is respected by others outside the community for any pride to foster and grow." 
Panelist M.J. Murray, an '82 Saint Mary's graduate and a local family therapist, reflected on building community in 1996. Murray expressed how much sadness she feels when in this age of 20th century technology and advanced com-dents completing the require­ments of the College of Engi­neering once enrolling in it as freshmen. 


The College of Business Ad­ministration program will con­tinue to rely on the donations of corporations such as Cooper & Lybrand after the five year contribution period has expired. 
"Right now the accounting industry has been interested in diversity related issues so they've been very supportive in the area," Crittendon said. "We hope Coopers & Lybrand will continue to be leaders in their support, but we hope they prompt others into fol­lowing suit in their attention to diversity related issues." 
THE 





OPY 
HOP 
CLC 
continued from page I 
member of the committee, countered that O'Hara would only have a say in choosing an advisor for the first year the group exists. According to Linton, this allows the group to be focused at its inception. Patrick agreed with Linton, and reminded the CLC that all advi­sors can be called into question by the Office of Student Affairs. 
Preacher then stated the main theme of her resolution by expressing her frustration over the events surrounding the issue. "In the spirit of Christianity," Preacher said, "all O'Hara has to do is say, 'We accept you into the community.'" 
Father Patrick Sullivan em­phasized that Preacher's reso­lution was simply a repetition of last year's CLC resolution to O'Hara which O'Hara rejected. He further stated that the best way to make headway on the issue is to endorse the ad hoc committee's report as strongly as possible. 

Preacher expressed concern that the leaders of GLND/SMC, whose work she feels has gone unappreciated, will continue to be part of an illegal and not funded group. According to Preacher, even if O'Hara sup­ports the committee's recom­mendations, most members of GLND/SMC will remain in that illegal group since they desire the level of recognition that the new group proposed by the committee will not supply. 
However, Patrick stressed that various gay and lesbian leaders had advised him that gay and lesbian students would join the proposed group if the package presented to them was to their liking. 
In other CLC news, the Council agreed to meet three more times before the end of the year instead of just once. This was done in order to hear O'Hara's decisions on the CLC's resolutions on co-residentiality and du Lac and to have the time to respond to O'Hara through further res.olutions if need be. It will also give O'Hara time to formulate her decision munication, it is even neces­sary to talk about developing community within inner city areas. 
"Especially for such a ho­mogenous college community such as Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, it is more of a chal­lenge to develop a sense of community within all racial communities and having a basic understanding of how diverse life outside of this col­lege community actually is," said Murray. 
Rounding out the panel was Hobert Price a Notre Dame ar­chitect graduate, who works for a Chicago firm which focuses on inner city develop­ments. 
Price stated that "an effec­tive mode of action is to get involved with community and get to know your neighbors to help eliminate fears to build bridges." 
"The conversation series builds awareness not only for social work majors, but the college community in general, which is a stepping stone to developing community unity," said sophomore social work major Sara Kuenhne. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Alumni Family Hall 
The on,campus, summer hotel for Alumni 

LaFortune Student Center 
and Friends is now accepting applications for: • Desk Clerks • 
TVe're open late so 


• Childrens Supervisors • • Night Monitors • • Housekeeping • Full and part~time employment opportunities available for enthusiastic students. Benefits include an hourly wage, paid accommodations, and unique opportunities to meet Notre Dame Alumni! 
Applications are available from Marilyn White in the Alumni Association Office Room 201 Main Building. 
IAPPLICATION DEADLINE Monday, March 18 by 5:00 PM 
You will be asked to sign,up for an interview time when turning in the application. Interviews will be held March 19TH and zoTH. Questions? Call Amy at 634'0746 




ATTENTION JUNIORS 
INTERESTED IN THE RHODES AND MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, will have a tneeting to inforn1 you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
.Tuesday, Marc·h 5, 1996 6:00PM 101 Law School 
If you arc unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information 1nay be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the 1nccting date. 



your copy order will be completed on time! 
...

Mon.-Thur.: 7:30am to Midnight Fri.: 7:30am to 7:00pm Sat.: Noon to 6:00pm Sun.: Noon to Midnight 
Most orders delivered by 
9:00 a.m. the next weekday 
Call 631-COPY<631-2679) for Free Pick-up & Delivery to University Departments 

~--------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
Tuesday, March 5, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• GREAT BRITAIN .ISRAEL 

Gays kept out of armed forces 
A...o~iatcd Press 
LONDON 

A ban on gays in the military will remain because of fears that a change in policy would undermine the effectiveness of the armed forces, the govern­ment said today. 
A policy review team ap­pointed by the Ministry of De­fense concluded that any re­laxation of the ban "is likely to have a detrimental effeet on op­
erational effectiveness," Armed 
Forces  Minister  Nicholas  
Soames  told  the  House  of  
Commons.  

Four gay people have chal­lenged the policy in court, so far without success. They are seeking to appeal to the House of Lords, the final appeal under British law. 
"There would have to be a non-defense reason to change the current policy," Soames said. "Accordingly, we will fight this case every inch of the way if we have to." 
The case was brought by for­mer Lt. Commander Duncan Lustig-Prean, 36, ex-Royal Air Force Sgt. Graeme Grady, 32, ex-Royal Air Force nurse Jeanette Smith, 28, and former naval weapons engineer John Beckett, 25. 
They have said they will ap­peal to the European Commis­sion of Human Rights if they do not prevail in ~ritish courts. 

By YURI KAGEYAMA 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
Munching on crackers, op­position lawmakers blocked the door to Parliament's budget committee room into the night 

The Spectrum of the Law 
Tuesday, March 5­
7:00 p.m. 136 DeBartolo A panel of lawyers representing a number of legal careers 
will discuss their career paths. ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
Ha01as strikes again; II die with boiDber 
By MISH COFFEY 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 
A Barnas suicide bomber blew himself up yesterday
outside Tel Aviv's biggest h k IIing at
sopping center, i 
least 11 other people and wounding more than 100. Victims included children 
dressed in costumes for a Jewish holiday. 
Israel army radio said at least 18 people died in the attack outside the Dizengoff Center shopping mall, the f~urth bombing in Isr~el in nme days. Forty-four mno­cents died in the three previ­ous bomb attacks, including 
18 in a bus bombing in Jerusalem on Sunday. 
· 
::o· 
The Muslim militant llamas group claimed responsibility for today's bombing, as it did for the other three. The bombing war, which has struck at the heart of Israel's two major cities, has traumatized the country and left peacemaking with the Palestinians in a sham­bles. 
Tel Aviv Police Chief Gabi Last said the suicide bomber was on foot, crossing with shoppers at the busy intersection of King George and Dizengoff streets when he set off the bomb. Wit­nesses said the attacker struck next to a line of people waiting at a cash machine. 
Witness Eli Shurany said he saw bodies flying through the air, among them a woman and a girl, about 10 years old, who 
• JAPAN 





~ t ·. 
C: \\ ,••-~\··
• • :. I '/
m ~ ·\ .. I ,/, 
c: j.'t,~_,..,;: 1\. TEL AVIV , 
~ ~i~y Hal~i:o->,r ·..._ & i ..,L "W.-·'t,f~,~J·~ (( .!(,..-!/ 
~ ,¢_:JC.".uL-:iL5i....... :V 
~ " f[ ][""'•('! ";/'/' '\[ l'i 1{.
"1'r'"·.....o·.-4f _, ,,:·Eoyds.

Dizengott~\~:'""i\~=·-\ it_~! 
__j 

Ki~g · '\.·/j\~:~~;./•-· Hioo ~. 
George-·1;. ·--·'\ Lee: .. " ,;' . 1r:, . ,. 
· "''~-. 

~ . -· ·I.: .;· 37..~:·..:':'.' / ~ ·1j:{0>·,-· \l';,Cr;·..~ "·' .... ~"' .~~~~/ ••-:;::.!.}~' ·ISRAEL ·"(~;~~.;:;_·"""J~l !L '-JORDAN ·r .j0JI.r01d J~ffa.T""·· t? ~... ?ti~ ,,, w 26km <~ • · , .. 
AP were killed instantly. "There was one girl with the bottom of her leg blown off," Shurany said. Children in costumes for the Purim holiday, which starts tonight, were among the casu­alties. A woman said she was at the mall with three daughters in costume when the blast went off. "The children were covered with glass," said the woman. One of her daughters was cut. "All her baek was full of glass fragments. She was bleeding. She has a hole in her back. It was horrifying," said the woman, who did not give her name. Witnesses said they saw dead children, but those reports could not immediately be con­firmed. 
Opposition blocks vote on bailout plan 
Monday, trying to stymie a gov­ernment plan to use taxpayers' money to help bail out failed housing lenders. 
The plan, which has domi­nated debate in Parliament this year, would use $6.5 billion in taxpayer money to help seven bankrupt housing loan compa­nies clear up bad debts of at least $61 billion. 
Most of the debts stem from ill-advised loans to real estate speculators in the late 1980s and early 1990s. 
Prime Minister Hyutaro Hashimoto says taxpayer money is needed to clean up the mess and restore interna­tional confidence in Japan's fi­nancial system. But polls esti­mate 80 percent to 90 percent of Japanese oppose the bailout. 
Critics charge that the bailout is only protecting corporate lenders, inel uding financial in­stitutions linked to Japan's powerful farm cooperatives. The institutions lent heavily to the housing lenders but are in­sisting on getting most of their money back. 
To allay the mounting public uproar. the governing coalition asked businesses that founded the failed housing eornpanies to pay $4.8 billion to help end the political deadloek, Kyodo News reported. 
But by late Monday. no agreement on that had been reached. Party offieials said meetings continued late into the night. 
Parliament's budget eommit­tee had been scheduled to hold final debate on the bailout at Monday's blocked session. It planned to try again to meet on Tuesday. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 5, 1996 
• fRANCE • Et SA!..\fAJH.!R 
Net surfers carve out Top leaders duel over war 

niche in cyberspace 
By PIERRE-YVES GLASS 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

In their unending war to pre­vent English-language domina­tion, the French are turning their attention to the most glob­al realm of all: cyberspace. 
As Internet use spreads, French-speaking Internet pro­moters -from France's Ministry of Culture to cy­berspace crusaders in French Canada -are working on the first-ever online French search­ing software and a French vo­cabulary for Net users. 
The goal: to allow Franco­phone "cybernautes" to use the Net without submitting to English, which dominates the worldwide computer network. 
"For me, the Internet is the theater for a new colonial war," said Alain Caristan, are­searcher at INRIA, France's computer research institute. 
"Anglophones created the In­ternet. They're at the heart of its growth," he said. "There's a danger it'll stay that way." 
Challenging the English­speaking world's cultural bull­dozer is nothing new to the French. 
Since January, radio stations have been required by Jaw to play a minimum of 40 percent French-language music. Similar laws require adver­tisements and product labels to be in French. And France spurred the European Union to limit non-EU -i.e. American -television programs. 
On the Internet -a global, often anarchic web of intercon­nected computers -most in­formation and user jargon is in English. 
Search programs like Yahoo (http://www.yahoo.com) or the popular software Webcrawler (http://www.webcrawler.com) are tools that enable users to find what they're looking for and are virtually all in English. They also are geared to find English-language information, though links to foreign sites are certainly plentiful. 
That puts non-English speak­ers at a disadvantage. They must understand English to use the "search engines," even to find information in their own languages. And search engines often can't handle accented let­ters. 
In February, a group of French researchers put the first all-French search engine (http://www.iplus.fr/lokace) on the Net. Francophones use it to find information in any of the thousands of French-language sites. 
The Montreal Computer Re­search Center in Quebec plans to launch another all-French "moteur de recherche" in com­ing weeks. 
Many users also want to stop a new Internet "Franglais" from taking hold -the use of English slang by some French Net surfers. 
Scientists, professors and other users in France, Canada, Belgium and Switzerland feed proposals to an office of the French Ministry of Culture, which recently began a list of French Net jargon. 
-Many of the terms come from Quebec, which has a tenth of France's population but about as many Internet users -be­tween 100,000 and 400,000. 
Words Quebeckers coined that are now in widespread use include "fureteur" for Internet user and "mitrailleur" (machine-gunner) for flamer, someone who shoots off an an­gry, often obscene e-mail dia­tribe. Other proposed cy­berspace slang includes "autonome" for offline-when you're no longer hooked into the Net. 
For Pierre Oudart, who over­sees the list, the Internet is a chance to unite Francophones around the world. 
"In geographical space, the French-speaking world is dis­persed," he said. "But in vir­tual space, via the Internet, the entire French-speaking world is at your fingertips, from France to Quebec or else­where." 
Classes begin tonight! 
great scores••• 

---------t 
Call: 1-999-555-1212 get a higher score 
Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 

ByJOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR 

Gerson Martinez, a former guerrilla chief, and Rene Figueroa, a comfortable mem­ber of the Salvadoran estab­lishment, might have shot each other a few years ago. 
And they would have been praised by their friends for do­ing it. 
Today, they lead their respec­tive parties in Congress. While sharp differences and social problems remain, the rancor that split this Central American nation is softening as the coun­try rebuilds from war. 
With the Cold War over, the United States, which pumped more than $4 billion into the country in the 1980s, no longer smothers it with attention but still spends millions to un­scramble the egg that was El Salvador. 
After a 1992 peace accord ended 12 years of war that claimed 75,000 lives, former combatants are finding they can at least tolerate each other. 
The main problems of this Massachusetts-size country aren't lingering hatreds but youth gangs, soaring crime and stubborn poverty. 
Figueroa, head of the conser­vative ARENA faction in con­gress, said he has a good work­ing relationship in the leg­islature with the former rebels, a relationship that began in 1994. 
"We will not be enemies again, only political adver­saries," he said. 
Martinez feels likewise. 

"I believe we are working to­ward a congress that can func­tion without too much emo­tional baggage," said Martinez, congressional leader of the Farabundo Marti National Lib­eration Front. 
·The FMLN, as it is known, fought a series of U.S-backed 





KAPLAN 
• As documented In the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Pertormance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 


HEY! Interested in winning a new car? 
Salvadoran governments and now is a legal party. 
The human-rights outrages that smudged the country's im­age in the 1980s and helped fuel the war are virtually gone. Now there is at least a veneer of economic recovery, especial­ly in the capital. 
The name "El Salvador" de­fined terror in the 1980s, when rightist death squads ran unchecked, slaughtering sus­pected leftists at will. At one point political murders aver­aged about 1,000 a month. 
"We can say that the aspect of violence and human-rights abuses in a systematic form has changed," said Victoria Marina de Aviles, the government hu­man-rights prosecutor, a post created by the peace accords. 
"It continues but it is no longer politically inspired, and violations are no longer pro­tected by impunity. 
"We fight as always the elitist position that to work for human rights is to work for delin­quency and for the sectors of the left." 
The United Nations reported in January that twice as many complaints were filed with her office in 1995 as in 1994 and said that was "testimony to Sal­vadorans' increased confidence in this institution." 
Most complaints involve po­lice brutality or legal proce­dures. Mrs. de Aviles says loss of social and economic rights now are a greater concern in a poor nation. 
The poor are as poor -poor­er say some -as they were before the war. 
Sixty percent of the nation lives in poverty. The capital remains crowded with thou­sands of people who fled here to avoid the war in the country­side, and they continue to live wherever and however they can. 
"Maras," or gangs of poor youth, many inspired by their Los Angeles counterparts, and nurtured by a shattered society and rule the streets in some ar­eas. 
Their estimated 10,000 mem­bers are blamed by the govern­ment for everything from petty crime to murder and trafficking in guns and drugs. 
There were 7,877 murders in the country of 5 million last year, 21 a day. 



TUESDAY, MARCH 5 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. Gregory Peck and Robert Mitchum star in 
CAPE FEAR 
The original, directed by J. Lee Thompson $2 Adults, $1 Students 
NoTI~E DAME AccouNTING 
ASSOCIATION 
& 

BETA ALPHA Psi 
Presents: 
'~n inside look at yourfirst year in the Big Six 
Arthur Anderson first-year staff attempt to answer the following and more: 
How much did my classes really teach me? What's the balance between work and play? How do I find an affordable apartment? Where do I fit in with my new peers? Am I right for the Big Six? 
March 5th, 6:00 PM, Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Free Pizza following!!!! 
All Club Members and Accounting Majors are encouraged to attend. 







OINT 
'lucsday, March 5, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME Oi'I'ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAIW'S 0FHCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... john Poncr Viewpoint Editur .................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................jen Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Ac<ent Editur ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Saint Mary's Editor .......,............ Patti Carson Observer Marketing Direcmr .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Ohs<rvcr is the independent newspapt•r published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame Ju Llc JnJ Saint M.uy's College. lr does not necessarily rdlect rhe policies of the administra~ tion of eirher imlimrion. The new~ i~ rc.·poneJ as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ toriJI~ repre,em tht· opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief, MJnaging Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editur, Accrnt Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :ommemJrie\, lerrt"r~ and ln~idc ( :olumm present the view::. of the audtors, and nor necessarily those uf The OhserVl'r. Vit'WfWim .~pale is availothle lO all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro .JII reaJerll. The.· free expression of varying opinions rhruugh letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-<:hid' 631-4~42 Business OITice 631-5313 MJnJ~Ing Ediror/Vi~wpoinl 631-4S41 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 ~porr!l 63 I -4543 Systems/Marketing Dcpl. 631-8839 Nt'w,/Phutu 6.1 I -S.l23 Office Manager 631-7471 A1.:L:rm/So~im M.uy's (,JJ-4~40 Fax 631-6927 I)Jy h.liwr/PrO<.Iw.:tiun 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Vicwpoinr. I @nd.edu ( ;t"lll'rallnfnrrnatiun 6.11-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• MAY THE FoRCE Be WITH You 
Irish pubs foster St. ·Patrick's Day spirit in Americans 
llappy St. Patrick's Day! Irish­Americans, pull-up a seat and listen. The unrelenting voice of the pub is once again ealling your name. So grab your fags (cigarettes) and that favorite wool sweatnr -prefprahly the one with the hole in the left elbow -and prepare to expt~ri•~nee the pinnaele of Irish culture at tlw pub. 


Kara Pavlik 
h11· many of us with Irish roots, the pub is a place wlwre we are instantly comfortt~d by a warm crowd of like­rnindtHI p1wple laughing and drinking. But wlwtlwr in tlw Emerald Isle, or here in South Bend. a pub is not just a bar, a plcu:e to grab a bottle of beer or half­warm pint of Irish stout. The pub, on Mareh 17, serves as a taste of Ireland; a taste of Irish social life. Hememhcr, in ln~land. the pub is thn cultural epicenter for activity. 
Thus, spn1Hiing Paddy's Day in a pub is a great idna for us Irish-Americans. And tlw nmson goes far beyond needing to drown our longings for Ireland in whiskt~y. It's the pub atmosphere, more than thn pint, that makes this holiday. Without the pub, St. Patrick's Day in Anwrica would be unlmarable. 
A good Irish pub, no matter where it is located, brings much more along with it than actual drinks. At a true Irish pub, pnoplt~ lind gossip and adviee, friendship and love and always craie (the Irish tnrm for "fun"). They also lind seisiuns -informal gatherings for singing nwlancholy songs that are best accom­paniml by guitar. Iiddle and a bodhran, an Irish circular drum. 
And when Irish bars offer chips (pota­to fries with vinegar and salt), Guinness and fags, its an added comfort -espe­cially when served in pub with a Victorian Dublin look. A style associated with curved dark wood arches, paneled walls and sandblasted opaque glass. 
So where to find such a place if the spring break funds cannot sport a trip to Ireland? These days, all you need is a major city in the United States. Since 1992, Guinness, the brewer with Irish roots, has been on a mission to "plant" Irish pubs nationwide. Although American law forbids any real connec­tion between brewers and pubs, Guinness has recently helped investors find everything from a pub site to an Irish staff with the all-important "gift of the gab." 
To Notre Dame student, Terry McGivern, a native of County Down, St. Patrick's Day this year will revolve around a pub, specifically Gaelic Park located in Chicago's South Side. But at horne in Northern Ireland, the holiday was not usually spent drinking. 
"In Ireland, St. Patrick's Day is a holy day where we go to mass in the morning and play a match of football in the after­noon," McGivern said. "The whole bar aspect of St. Patrick's Day came from America." 
Traditionally, the holiday is celebrated as the day when St. Patrick converted Ireland to Christianity in the 5th-centu­ry. St. Patrick is renowned for mission­ary work, such as baptizing thousands and assisting the sons and daughters of Ireland to become disciples of Christ. With this in mind, everyone can "go to the pub to enjoy themselves and be reassured that St. Patrick is working towards saving our souls," McGivern said. 
And with added protection against the penalty of sin, I see absolutely no reason to avoid the pub. In fact, the only thing to avoid, according to McGivern, arc "plastic shamrock joints." 
MeGivern speaks of those bars that stick a mere shamrock on the window and tout an Irish name. You know, I can't think of any of those places in South Bend. 
Besides, McGivern wanted to send out a warning: visit one of those places on March 17 and you'll get what you deserve, a second-rate St. Patrick's Day. Thanks, McGivern! 
the establishment, by all means, move on to another. 
Realize that what I have described is typically an Irish-American version of St. Patrick's Day; the Irish would tend to be "a wee bit more refined" in their plans, McGivern said. 
But also realize that there's no holiday more to Notre Dame than this one ­

My personal advice for just the right plac·e to spend Paddy's Day is to find an Irish-American pub where the crowd gets rowdy. Look for a bar where the patrons shake bottles of beer, cover the tops with their thumbs, and spray one another until their faces are wet and sticky. Select a pub where the owner, preferably Irish, partakes in the fun. No St. Patrick's Day celebration is ever complete until a bar's owner is hoisted onto the shoulders of some burly woman and thrown wildly about a room. 
Keep in mind that the glory of this hol­iday comes from fun. You might try climbing up on the bar, and running up and down while shimmying and scream­ing for joy. And if you get ejected from shamrock icons, guardsmen in kilts, that leprechaun clad in Kelly green, all pro­vide reason for lovers of the University to celebrate. 
So I have a proposal for all you Domers and the lovely women across the street. It's provocative, a little edgy, but it's an impeccable Irish-Ameriean tradition: Lose all restraints on March 17, and saunter through the doors of an authentic Irish pub as if you're Sinead O'Connor. I guarantee, you won't be disappointed. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at St. Mary's who spent her sophomore year abroad in Maynooth, Ireland. 
• DooNESBURY 
MR. a/0/..F&, I UJON!?t3R. IF I COUW TAU< 7D YOU ABOt/T TH£ UNUSUAUY HIGH NUM­/Jt3R Q&= RAC15T 5TAFFERS THE8t.DIANAN CAMPAIGN 
5CEMS 7D HAVe A77RACT/30... 

NO, BUAIEt YOUR. PR&­M17i3 IS W!?ICROU5! al/3 
IJON7HAVe ANY RACIST 
5TAFF£3R'3.' 7HEY'REALL.ON LeAVE, acARIN6 7H£1R NAM£.Sl 
GARRY TRUDEAU • QUOTE OF THE DAY 
a!HY? !31XAUSC PAT BUCHANAN !?0!3N'T HAV/3 A 8/GOT£/? BON£IN HIS !301?Y/ He I:Je5P/5eS "since a politician never INTV£ERA!o./C£ IN ANY 
(3()1S£., ANI? aJitL NOT believes what he says, he 7DL.CRATE IT IN HIS 
is surprised when others
CAMPAIGN.' 

""'-, believe him." 
-Charles de Gaulle 

r 


:ACCE-NT
page 8 Tuesday, March 5, 1996 
My So-Called Li in the Hud 
The ups and downs (and dents) of one night on 
~~ 
<:> 


By ANDREA JORDAN 
Accent Copy Editor begins. When I step outside, it ~r-----.. _______________,js no longer just raining, but o~ 
H
ello, guys and gals. Many of you may know me, and for those of you that don't, 1 am one of the infamous Huddle drivers. I am one of those notorious maniac Huddle drivers that derives a certain amount of pleasure from watching pedes­trians scatter like bugs when I whip amund corners and prepare for the double thump as they disappear under my wheels. In my opinion, "pedestrian" means predestined to pouring down enough rain to C submerge a good-sized city. As I drive to Lewis, I wonder what is the best route, considering all the space renovation of the Main Building takes up, either side will be long and tedious. 
I decide to take the route near the Basilica with a pathway guarded by a rail and a fence. At first, the pathway looks big enough, but I guess I judged incorrectly. I hit the railing because I can't see how close it is b1~cause of the rain. I decide to back out and go the other route. Big problem -l hit this fence, too. Then I decide to get out and take a look at the trouble. Well, I just happen to be trapped inside the Huddle-mobile 
aren't much better. 
be hit. ( I'm only joking, I 1-------,_..,r----,...~~ since the space 
really don't drive like this.) But enough about my dri­ving skills; let's talk about about the real concern that many Huddle Drivers have ­tips. Tips on an average night are pretty bad, and tips on a good night are To be more specific, tips are either non-existent or barely enough to pur­
chase a pretzel at the Huddle. This is the general case after a delivery shift of two hours and four deliveries. All non-tippers and skinflints should feel ashamed of themselves because delivery people bust their buns doing deliveries. 
Go o11 One delivery means that the delivery person must trek around the Huddle gathering the u ufood for the order. Then they have to make sure everything is packaged correctly. Afterwards, they go to the Huddle cart and climb in with their arms overloaded. It is a 
good possibility that they have two or three deliveries at one time. If this is the case, they must make every second count while driving and delivering the food. One order may be in North 
o quad and the other in South quad, requiring some cross-campus maneuvering. When this hap-
o0 pens, they do everything short of giving blood to get the food out in a timely manner. And one0 would think after all that hustle and bustle, a person would give a tip, but they usually do not. If that scenario did not convince people to give up the green, then perhaps the next might. 
A typical delivery shift can be either awful or good, and this does not just depend on the tips a person~ receives. The weather factors into whether or not a delivery shift is good or bad. If it is warm outside, then a driver generally has an easy time of getting to their destination whether it is day or night. But, D that applies ~asically to the ~~~i~g and summer months. . . 0D ~ For the wmter and fall, II Its only cool not extremely cold, then this IS still good weather. However, snow and rain are a Huddle driver's worst enemies. If there is snow, forget about driving with ease. We drive to survive. Ice and the Huddle-mobile wheels are like oil and water; they just don't mix. The.same applies for rain-windows fog up o0 and visibility turns to zero. In the rain, I generally drive with the Huddle-Mobile door Q0 open just so I can avoid having an accident. After describing the best and worst driving conditions, I'd like to share an account of one of the worst possible delivery shifts a per­
son could have. It's Monday, February 19, 1996, and I am on a delivery shift from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. It is 
10:00 p.m. at the Huddle and, finally, after a long wait, I get an order for Sorin Hall. The 
·· · consists of a sandwich and an order of breadsticks totalling $5.40. That is no problem to make. It only takes 10 minutes tops to get this order ready and bagged up. At 10:15 p.m., a sec­ond order is called in for Lewis Hall. The order calls for a sausage and a pepperoni calzone, with an orange flavor ice: grand total, $6.75. Once again, no problem. This order takes approximately 15 minutes to prepare and bag up. I am out the door by 10:30 p.m. When I open the door, what do I see? Hain, and lots of it. But if I drive carefully, every­thing should be okay. First stop is Sorin. I run inside and slow to a walk to deliver the order. Okay, food delivered and the tip is $.60. What? I take the tip, give the person a look of disgust and say thank you. Next destination is Lewis 
Hall, and here "o is where ?Yatrouble 
., c::),o 
• 0 
F/ between the railing and the door is roughly an inch. Great. No time to panic, I tell myself. Just keep thinking calmly, and eventually you'll make it. I keep at it for about fi 
eral attempts to move fo 

Since I am back on Visibility is zero, but and the lluddle-Mobile sidewalk. I jar my neck within inches of yet anoth second accident within fi 
to watch out for those sneaky curbs. The lluddle-m no bumps or bruises for either one of us. 
I knock on the door and deliver the food, si gives me a ten with the response of" Keep the quarter for me. Quickly, I decide whether to throw a disgusted look. I decide on the latter, and I add forks over a dollar to go along with her lonely q Huddle-Mobile once again with my final destin 
Taking the route by Saint Ed's heading towards tracks, jerking my head forward into the window s from the ground is a black rail. This rail just behind one of the wheels of the Huddle-MP~ile. 
rescue looking lifting it back as on Budd at night, that d night, I Grand Great of three waste Hemem and lluddle through food to The 



:ACCENT
Tuesday, March 5, 1996 page 9 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 

Drink, Drank, Drunk 
By JOHN GALVIN 
Accent M~dical Correspondent

le­
the delivery trail 
'IPPII minutPs, and I IHu·k out after snv­arcl and harkward. k again. I !wad for Lewis once more. I)<:J lrohiPrn until I miss seeing tlw curb,~ 
I'S a "Dukes of llazard" jump ofT llw nd stomp on hrak.-s, roming to a stop 
•r rurh. Now I worry, since this is my 
minutes of my first. I driw~ with thn door opnn hilt~ and I makP it to Lewis in one piece with~~\)~\ 
1ping for a good tip. I tell hnr $6.75, and she ~" and giw 1111' tlw hills." Okay, that nwans a '" quarlPr in hPr face or give yt~t another person 
arrounl of my past two acddents. Suddenly, she With a quirk thanks, I am outta there and in the ~ 
l'k at tlw lluddln. ~~ ;hington llall, th" lluddln-Mohih~ stops dead in its ~ ld. I gPt out and see that slicking up about a foot PliPd to PsrapP my pye, but managml to get stuek 
if I haw nol IH'I'Il traunuttizPd pnough that night, I 
•ly 
gPt on tlw lluddle walkie-talkie and call for help. 

•n 
timns I say Llw dPspPratn linns of "Huddle one to vo," hut no answer grnets me. I walk slowly to the itying mysPlf along llw way. 


n~arh llw lluddl!~ and tell the manager, she forms a rty of four IH'opln (nw includml). We reach the pitiful­uddlP-Mohiln and in about ten seconds rescue it by 1p and away from thn rail. Sonwbody else drives it ll walk hark to tlw lluddle. To end the night, I am put ~-MohiiP probation -no driving of tlw lluddiP.-Mobiln iruiPiinitely. If ~sn't top my :ount my tips. 
otal: $l.HS. nny for a total 
•·l'idl'nts and a 
of an hour. er non-tippers 
dwapskaws, drivers go lot to get your 
u promptly. 
stn~tch 
I'!S and 0, 
•al l'asl~" 
t insult 1 
'[I 
your 
If you're a crazy college kid, it's about that time. Yes, it's about time to put away those books and pull out your l.D. Spring Break is here, and you're 'going to have the time of your life. Don't waste your time pre-tanning or bickering over accommodations because next week at this time, you're going to be somewhere warm and happy. No tests. no papers, no snow...just you and a mass of other beautiful college nuts indulging in lifo. Yes, a place where the water meets the shore and pleasure meets risk... Hisk'! Yes, your indulgence of fun and sun ean be distorted by the popular pasttime of intoxication. You're not thirsty, hut, heck, you're in college ... so you drink, and you drink, and you drink. What do you drink? A choice college toxin, of course -like beer or a mixed drink. Why'? Beeause it's proven that the higher your Blood Alcohol Concentration (BA(), the more distortHd your rtmlity becomes (see table below). If your reality is boring or troubled, chances are you will exploit tho eflects of alcohol. But. just how much do you know about alcohol? 
Did you know that alcohol's effect us a depressant is achieved from poisoning your centml nervous system? When ingested, alcohol passes from the stomach into the small intestine, where it is rapidly absorbed into the blood and distr-ibuted throughout the body. Because it is distributed so quickly and thoroughly, the alcohol can affect the c•mtral nervous system even in small concentrations. In low concentrations, alcohol reduces inhibitions. As blood alcohol concentration increases, a person's response to stimuli decreases markedly, speech becomes slurred, and he or she becomes unsteady and has trouble walking. Very high con­centrations, often achieved by bingeing, can easily .cause coma and death. The American Medical Association has defined the blood alcohol concentration level ol' impairment for all people to be 0.04 grams/100 liters of blood. The following is a generally accepted guide to the effects of alcohol. 
Normal 

(0.01 • 0.05 BAC) -Everything is normal. -You talk about the weather. -You can taste your drink. 
Buzzing 
(0.03 -0.12 BAC) 

-You show-off your new .J.Crew bathing suit and talk ol' doing things prohibited by Du Lae. 
-You're losing your attention, judgment and control, and it makes you sad. 
-You're losing your attention, judgment and control, and it makes you laugh. 
-You're better at dancing around than walking. 
Tipsy 
(0.09 -0.25 HACJ 

-You are either laughing or crying too much. 
-Your general Joss of critical judgment, perception, memory and comprehension makes you the joke of all l)f your m()re tolerant friends. (You're laughing too because you have no idea what is going on.) 
-You discover that the wall is of great assistance when walking. 
-You want to take a little nap. 
Sloppy 
( 0.18-0.30 BAC) 

-You could be in Key West, Cancun or the Line Backer-you're not sure. 
-The room suddenly moves without you. 
-You think you're having the absolute best time ol' your life. 
-Things begin to change: red becomes yellow, small becomes big, ugly becomes cute. 
-You find it easier to hold your glass with two hands. 
-Your slurred speech is almost as slow as the thought that follows it. 
-People look at your lethargic body and chuckle. 
Pathetic 
(0.25 -0.40 BAC) 

-You've lost most motor functions. 
-You don't care. 

-You try, but your body won't stand. 
-You contemplate about life and vomiting. 
-You're with friends, yet alone in your stupor. 
-Sleep is golden. 
Out-Cold 

(0.35 • 0.50 BAC) -You are completely unconscious. -Your body is cold. -Your circulation and respiration is dangerously slow. -You're in someone else's bed. -Death is knocking at your stall. 
Dead 

(0.45 + BAC) -You die from respiratory arrest. 
If you're going to indulge in alcohol, keep in mind that alcohol is most rapidly absorbed when the concentration of the drink is between 10% and 30% (mixed drink). Below 10% (beer) is not as easily absorbed due to the low concentration gradient of the gastrointestinal tract and not readily eliminated. On the other hand, concentmtions higher than 30% (hard alcohol) tend to irritate the mucous membranes of the gastrointP.stinal traet, causing increased secretion of mucous and delayed elimination. lienee, beer is no safer than any other alcohol; if anything. it is perhaps a riskier and more costly method of intoxication. 
If you would like to control your susceptibility to extr·emP. intoxication, food is the answer. 
Food taken along with alcohol results in a lower, delayed blood alcohol concentration . 
Bee<wse alcohol is absorbed most efficiently in the small intestine, the ingestion of food 
can slow down the absorption of alcohol into one's system. The pylorie valve at the bottom of 
the stomach will close in order to hold food in the stomaeh for digestion and thus keep the 
akohol from reaching the small intestine. WhiiP. alcohol will be absorbed from tlw stomach, 
it is a slower and less efficient transition. 
The type of food ingested has not been shown to have a measurable influence on this 
aiTect but the larger the meal and closer in time between eating and drinking, the greater 
the diminution of drunkenness. 
Wherever you go next week, remember that even though you are a wild college student, a 
little moderation will allow you to control your craziness. 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 5, 1996 



Canisius earns first NCAA berth since 1957 
By JOHN KEKIS 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y. 
Tournament MVP Micheal Meeks scored 18 points and grabbed 11 re­bounds Monday night as undermanned Canisius beat Fairfield 52-46 for the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference championship and it first NCAA tourna­ment berth since 1957. 
For the fifth-seeded Golden Griffins (19-10), it was a remarkable end to the tournament, which saw their best play­er, Darrell Barley, forced to watch from the sidelines with a broken bone in his right thumb..Fairfield (20-9) made just 18 of 60 shots from the floor in losing to Canisius for the seventh straight time. 
Canisius, which beat top-seeded Iona 63-62 in the semifinals, won the game with a 12-2 run in the second half. Shannon Bowman gave the Stags a brief lead when he stole the ball under his basket and drove the length of the floor for a layup. But then Bowman's driving layup at 13:24 was Fairfield's only bas­ket in a 9:38 span. 
Meanwhile, Meeks and Mickey Frazier scored eight points in a two-minute span, Meeks converting a three-point play and a slam, and Frazier hitting a 3­pointer to give the Griffs the lead for good at 11:50. 
Shane Miller contributed 11 points for Fairfield, all in the second half, to keep the Stags in the game. Miller's 3-pointer with 4:14 left pulled Fairfield to 44-42. But Meeks fed Mickey Frazier with a neat pass underneath to put Canisius up by four with 2:37 left, and the Griffs, despite some shakiness at the foul line -they missed four in the final 1:15 ­hung on for the emotional victory. 
Miller missed a handful of 3-point attempts in the closing seconds in a futile, last-ditch effort to salvage the game. 
Bowman, successfully boxed out for the second straight game, still managed 12 points and Greg Francis had 10. Ryan Collins, a force inside all game until he fouled out with 5:05 left, scored 11 points for Canisius, which shot just 
34.5 percent for the game. 
Both teams gave a preview of the low­scoring second half with a near duplica­tion in the first, which ended with Canisius ahead 24-20. 
Fairfield, which raced to a 23-3 lead in the opening minutes of its semifinal victory over Niagara, had it tougher against the Griffs. The Stags made just 8 of 30 shots from the floor and fell behind at the outset this time. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
I need a ride for Spring Break to the New York City I Southern New York area. Will help drive and pay for gas. Please call Dan at 4-0654. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST -at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's Formal: long navy blue wool woman's coat and men's navy blaz­er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on Friday night. Please call x-1407 
Please Help! 
I lost my long black coat" at Senior 
Bar on 2/23. Please call if you 
know where it is. Thanks. 
Laura 
x1553 
LOST-FOSSIL WATCH I lost a brown fossil watch with a brown woven band and a blue face. It has great sentimenatal value! If found please call Amy at x2326. 
Lost-gold clauddaugh ring 
(heart with surrounding hands) 
at JPW -the gala dance 
-great sentimental value. 
Angela x4704 
FOUND I accidently picked up the wrong jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at x4010. 
LOST I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer pullover at Bridget's. If you found it please call Eddie at x401 0 
LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING ­dark blue stone. Great Sentimental Value!!! If found please call Amy at 4-4836 
FOUND: Calculator in lockers at 
NSH, problably for the Mon. 
12:20 ChemLab. Call X2061 to identify. 


WANTED 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 ext.C55843 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext C1114 
Catholic Church vocation informa­tion available at: http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html /voc1.html God has important work for you to do! 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55844 
ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR 
TRADE 
NO FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA­
(TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.) 
2773097 BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED 

TOP$$$ PAID 
(800)269-5849 
Call (219)282-3518. Free information. Earn money from your dormitory room! 
Responsible babysitter needed for 2 and 6-year-old. Any major block of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­tion 10 miles south of ND. Call 299-0051. 

FOR RENT 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO NO. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
Faculty or student 4 Bdrm -2 baths turn. appliances-washer-dryer attached 2 car garage off street parking. Available in Aug. fQ[ lease. 234-1336 lv Msg 
CLAY Twnshp-NEW OFFERING: 
1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms Available: $350.00 -$500.00/mo Utilities 
INCLUDED. 272-1968. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 
232-2595 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED· ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys, 
refrig, stove, partially furnished. 
Heat incl. Completely remodeled. 
606 N. St. Peter. 
289-5999 or 255-9471 
Mark Kramer. 

FOR SALE 
H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card x3692 
For sale: Mac LC computer with 
color monitor, stylewriter printer, 
Hayes modem. Like new. $500.00 
OBO. Call Dave at 233-2588 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. 
5 minutes to ND. 
REDUCED TO $149,500 
Call Karen 272-3653. 
Waterfront Condos 
1 Bedrooms from $52,000 
2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor 
EVERYTHING included 
Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! 
NORTH SHORE CLUB 
232-2002 
Rossignal Skis(190) w/Tyrolia 420 
bindings & poles (gd cond) $150. 
It's a steal 273-9176 (Trent). 

TICKETS 
OASIS ticket for sale for tonight in Indianapolis. Call Megan at x4807 
WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536-3431 

PERSONAL 
05/17 03/19 

0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
FAX IT FAST!! I 
Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# {219) 631-FAXI 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Driving down at least as far as Austin-San Antonio? Desperately seeking ride to SA for Spring Break! Willing to $, drive. Call me, Paulina, 4-2985. 
RIDE DESIRED: FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ back to Campus on March 17th. Will pay share and keep driver entertained for hours! Brian x1173 
Lisa the archie who lives on Bulla 
Road is a babe! Grrrrr! 
I desperately need a ride anywhere near Allegheny College in Meadville PA for Spring Break. If you have room, please call Christie @ 2343. 
HELP!!! Need Ride back to ND 
from NY, NJ, Conn area on 3/17. 
Will pay gas, help driving, even 
clean your car: 
Kyle @3282. 

Sherman-The Boston Marathon is coming up soon. 
I need ride to O'Hare airport Mon 
3/11 & back Mon 3/18. Either way 
is helpful. Will pay gas & tolls 
Angela x4704 · 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 81 8/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
Do you have a ride home for 
SPRING BREAK yet? 
Place a classified ad in The 
Observer!! I 

It's inexpensive and effective! 
Attention 

••Class of 1998•• 
Help us be your voice ... 
Applications for the 1996-97 
Junior Class Council are 
available lor pick-up in the 
Student Government Office 
(2nd floor LaFortune). 
Applications due: 3-20-96 
GRIFFIN • FREEDY NOLAN • STRONSKY "The Voice of 98" 
CARRIE ELIZABETH RATKE TURNS 21 ON WEDNESDAY!! LOOKOUT! 
DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE? Join the Saint Mary's Observer staff. We want you. Call Caroline Blum 631-4540 or 284-4349. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NEED MONEY FOR SPRING BREAK? 
Morrissey Student Loan Fund Dooley Rm{Across from info desk) M-F 11 :30am -12:30pm 
one day waiting period 
30 day loan @ 1% interest LAST DAY FOR SENIORS IS FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1996 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
They don't make 'em any finer than Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish 
They don't make 'em any finer than Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish 
Gamblers­4 days til London!! love, JAW 
••ATTENTION MUSICIANS .. 
ZAHM HALL ACOUSTICAL JAM 
April 3, LaFortune Ballroom Benefitting Logan Center 
PERFORMERS NEEDED!! 
If you are interested in playing a set at the Jam, contact: 
Bryan x1919 or Anthony x3544 

Prediction: 1996 World Champs: Chicago Cubs 
Lucky Charms, anyone? Just talk to P.W.'s poor cleaning lady. Sorry about any toes we stepped on or floors we went on -these things just happen, but it wasn't my fault! 
The bin could only withstand so much. 
Dante who? 

Let's go to BW3s and order 30 hot wings that we have no intentions of eat­ing. 
Joey is the greatest guy I've ever shared voice mail with. 
some heat-hot-spicy-nuts to chew on as well. 
"Damn-those nuts are great to chew on-1 can't get enough." -Frank C. 
To all: I can only lament the fact that although I try my hardest, spring break will never come up to a level with fall break'95, except perhaps for the dysfunctional Disney crew. -Lance 
Planning a trip? Call Chris Day 

Want to tan before spring break? Call Chris Day 
Looking to adopt? Call Chris Day 

Interested in learning about HIV? Call Chris Day 
PC-it's just no fun to make fun of you in the classifieds anymore. you read them before they are in the paper. 
yeah, and I edit all the stuff you write about me. four words-back rub with lotion. 
Rita, remember what I said. open. 
shakespeare partner , i heard you're taking up photography. 
I love it when you wear those bowl­ing shoes. 
29 days to be exact. 
Christy Yakamavich, Keep throwin those darts baby! -Rex 
Wild one, I really want to go in one of those tunnels. 
Lily, It seems just like yesterday th8t I just wrote to you in this very sec­tion. Now our our chats will not be as frequent now that I'm moving on. But I still want you to know that you will always be my special friend. I can recall all the times I just loved to tell you what was wrong. Your flowery nature made everything so right. Take care. Remember, I see good things for you and I. 
Margaret, I think we should try for at least eight or nine next time. 
Pater, Hope you're feeling better. 
Nothing like celebrating a little gall bladder surgery. 
Hurry up and buy your Holy Cross Windbreaker. On sale tonight from 5-7. HURRY, THEY'RE ONLY ON SALE UNTIL THURSDAY!!! 
That's what happens when you challenge us to a drink-off. You end up with a lot of pixie sticks. 
Don't be surprised if we find spot­ty's head in the trash can. 
Treacy, Why don't you stop partying in Milan and do some work. 
Shep, Thaks for the postcard. I love all that beer. 
Where's your heart? You said we'd talk about it later. It's later now. Where's your heart? 
only 4 days 'till spring break, Iizzy pooh. And give me a call, but remember: I have caller ID at home, too. 
duct tape, n'uf said. 
PC: Don't even try to pull that crap when I have caller I D .... 
What is that girl babbling about any­way? 
I don;'t think there can be an origi­nal one anymore, with all you damn fanatics around ... 
Dom' s a thief. 
Honey, I want the heart, I want the soul I want control right now Talk about a dream Try to make it real You wake up in the night With a fear so real Spend your life waiting For a moment that just don't come Well don't waste your time waiting 
Brian, Nice messages this weekend. Too bad I passed out before I could talk to you! 
G 
P.S. I liked the tie. 
"I want him. I hate him. I want him." -Uda 
Calling all COUCH POTATOES! -Lazy? -No Athletic Ability? -Beer gut so big you can't see your shoes? 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXV WANTS YOU!!! 
Sure, you won't make it to the Final 
64. Heck, you probably won't win a game, but why not be a part of one of ND's greatest traditions. 
LAST DAYS OF REGULAR SIGN-UPS, ONLY $10 After Spring Break, $13 'SIGN-UP NOW!!! 
Tue. March 5: 11-2 p.m. LaFortune, 6-9 p.m. LaFortune and Library Wed. March 6: 11-2 p.m. LaFortune 6-9 p.m. LaFortune, 10 p.m.-?? at Senior Bar 
Don't forget SMC sign-ups: Tue./Wed., 5-6 p.m. at the dining hall 
Megan-You know I can't make it without you. Come back for another year. 
-Tara 
Happy 21st Rachel, Hope you didn't have to beg for mercy. Love, RJRJ and weasel 
Hey Zulu and Charlie, You're bust­ed. Want to go for a swim. Love, Bravo 
Hey Murray, Did you figure outhow to get to the roof of P.W? Love, Dom, Lance, and Till 
It's OK about the green clover and blue diamonds. Love tons, Murray 
Jillian Marie-Come with me to il Paradiso. -Dante 
Buckler, Hope London's nice. You missed the Macarena in a place you would never expect to find it. Take care. 
Dooher, Too bad you had to fail another Bio test. 
Rule, You're a little, little man. 
To Jim Steel, What could I possibly say that would surpass your broth­er's epileptic joke? only that i hope you change your major to gender studies. you have such potential. 
And with my last dying breath, i lay sobbing, yearning for the days of old as i cry, "go news, forever." 

Tuesday, March 5, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• SOFTBALL 
Hurlers propel squad to fourth place finish 
Ry MIKE DAY 
Spons Writer 
Give them a little sunshine and some time to grow, and tlwy will respond. At least, that se1~ms to be the case with the Notre Dame sol'tball team. 
Corning ofT a tournament in whieh they lost three of four gamns and struggled to adjust to playing in the outdoors, the Irish more than redeemed tlwmselves at the NSCA Leadoff Classic over the weekend. Playing against 24 of the na­tion's top teams, Notre Dame walked away with a fourth pla1:e finish and reason to hold their heads just a little bit high­er. 
"Considering who we played and everything else, I am happy with our overall performance this weekend," said Irish head coach Liz Miller. "We try to schedule the toughest possible schedule early in the season, so we can be fully prepared once the conference season starts." 
After falling to Washington 7­1 on Saturday afternoon, the Irish were forced to take on Texas A&M in the consolation bracket. To combat the Aggies' explosive offense, Miller sent starter Terri Kobata to the mound for the third time in 
THE~:S~~· 




< -~ 


·cLun· 
is hiring 
three days, and the senior did­n't disappoint. 
In leading the Irish to a 3-1 victory, Kobata did not allow an earned run and limited Texas A&M to just six hits in seven innings. For the weekend, Notre Dame's No. 1 starter al­lowed just two earned runs in 21 innings and was credited with the win in all three tour­nament triumphs. 
"I was real pleased that she was able to go out and perform at that level for three days in a row," said Miller. "She had never really done that before, so it was good to see her throw well and give us everything she 

BARTENDERS 
for the 96-97 Season. 
Pick up Applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Must LJe 2 1+ LJy September, 1996 


Free Food Night starting at 7:00 
had in her three starts." 
Center fielder Jennifer Giampaolo and first baseman Elizabeth Perkins drove in one run apiece, and the Irish were able to capitalize on two Aggie errors to earn their third vic­tory of the weekend. The win propelled Notre Dame into the championship game of the con­solation bracket. 
After falling 6-2 to Hawaii back on Friday evening, the Irish were determined to avenge their loss to the Rainbows in a rematch on Sunday evening. 
Although they certainly gave Hawaii a run for its money, Notre Dame was unable to overcome one of the top scoring teams in the nation. 
"We showed a lot of im­provement this weekend, even in the span of just three days," said second baseman Meghan Murray. "The offense did real well, and we seem to have made the adjustment to the warmer weather. It's good to see that we can play with some of the toughest competition in the country." 
Murray homered and drove in a pair of runs to help the Irish rattle Hainbow starter Kelly Gentle. 
Third baseman Kara McMahon went 1 for 4 with one run batted in, and left fielder Katie Marten collected a pair of hits as the Irish jumped out to a 2-1 lead only to relinquish it just an inning later. 
Notre Dame starter Joy Battersby had her problems with the Hawaii offense, allow­ing five earned runs in four and one-third innings. Despite her troubles, Miller is pleased with the way that her No. 2 starter has developed in just her sec­ond tournament of the young season. 
"I am not discouraged at all by the way Joy threw over the weekend," said Miller. "She faced some tough competition, and that won't always be the case in the regular season. As a whole, I think the pitching staff is coming along real well." 
Pitching is one of many rca­sons why optimism runs wild in the early stages of the Irish sea­son. 
.be a mandatory ~"""'"!-·!-Jii!t'.i~f· .. ' Tuesday, March ·.. pm for anyone in running for a utive Board 
....·representative ticket must attend 
<·Hi . 
to be held in 
Elections 
Student Activity Employee Applications Available Now! 
Applications are being accepted from now until March 22 for all positions in LaFortune Student Activities Office (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activites Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now for a great opportunity and learning experience! 
page 12 
Tennis 
continued from page 16 
crucial victories to clinch the "w" for the Irish. 
Simme, who has played all season with a nagging foot in­jury, defeated Chris DeVore in the no. 3 singles position, 6-3, 7-6. O'Brien easily defeated Gavin Sontag in the fifth slot, 6-3, 6-1. 
At No. 4 singles Patterson dropped the first set 3-6 to Brady Blain. But the freshman showed a lot of character as, with the match on the line, he came back to overcome Blain in the second and third stan­zas. Blain and Patterson bat­tled in those last two sets, but Patterson out fought Blain win­ning in dramatic fashion 7-5, 7-6. 
Sprouse and Pietrowski were beaten by Illinois best, Jeremy Sutter and Jerry Turek respec­tively. The loss was just Sprouse's third of the season through twelve matches. 
Sutter jumped on top in his match with Irish captain Sprouse as he won the first 6­
3. Sprouse bounced back in the second as he battled to win the second set tie breaker. But, Sutter outlasted Sprouse as he clinched the point with a 7-5 win in the third and deci­sive set. 
Turek defeated Pietrowski in straight sets, something un­characteristic of his outstand­ing play so far this season. 
Senior Jason Pun was de­feated in a grueling three set match by Jakup Teply. 
In Sunday's match against Miami of Ohio the Irish got points from some different sources, which has been their style all year. 
"In the last three matches we hav~ had different guys step up big," Sprouse explained. "I think that is a great way for it to happen. Everyone feels like they are contributing and it is great for team moral." 
The Irish won the doubles point with wins at the nos. 1 and 3 slots. The Sprouse and Pun team and the Simme and Patterson duo picked up victo­ries and got the Irish going against the Bobcats. 
Sprouse picked up his ninth win on Sunday. Classmates O'Brien and Pun also picked up victories as O'Brien was the only singles player to win both matches over the weekend. 
Pietrowski dropped his sec­ond match of the weekend at the no. 2 position. Simme and Patterson lost their nos. 3 and 4 singles matches on Sunday after both won Saturday. 
The Irish have depended on their depth all season long, and it came through for them this weekend in Illinois. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students interested in collegiate bowling competi­tion, please call Jason at 4­1065. Interhall Sports: All off­campus women interested in playing interhall soccer please call Bridget at 273­2284. Volleyball: Come see the Irish Men's Volleyball Team take on Teikyo-Marycrest of Iowa on Tuesday, March 5th in the pit (auxiliary gym) inside the JACC. Games announced by Mike Mathis, the voice of volleyball. 

Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame recruit Raki Nelson recently received the Watkins Memorial Trophy. 
Green Bay Packers' Reggie White's National Alliance of African American Athletes named Nelson, of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania's Bishop McDevitt High School, the premier African American Male High School Scholar Athlete in the nation. 
Nelson is an All-American Wide Receiver for McDevitt High School, who are the Pennsylvania AA State Champions. He received national attention when he unveiled the first Community Action Poster ever done by a high school athlete. Nelson and his quarterback, Jordan Scott, handed out and auto­graphed posters to grade schools and to midget football programs in the midstate area. Nationally, the posters were distributed by the National Alliance of African American Tuesday, March 5, 1996 

• foonuu.L 
Recruit wins Watkins Memorial Trophy 
Athletes. 
The award is given in honor of Franklin D. Watkins one of the founding fathers of the National Alliance of African American Athletes. The National Alliance is the largest community service organiza­tion of African American Athletes in the United States. This award is given annually to a Black male scholar athlete who has taken a leadership role in articulating the cause of the African American commu­nity. 
The award is sponsored by DANKA, a business equipment giant, and the award will be presented by Dick Engle, President of Central Business Systems. 
The Fifth Annual Award Presentation will take place in the Heisman Room at the leg­endary Downtown Athletic Club in New York City. 
Nelson completed his high school career with 185 catches for 3,132 yards and producing 34 touchdowns. 

P R I N C I P L E S 11/ S 0 U N D R E T I R E N\ E N T I N V E S T I N G 

F
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax-deferred annuities designed to help build additional assets-money that can help make the difference between living and living well after your working years are over. 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary on a pretax basis. That lowers your current taxable income, so you start saving on federal and, in most cases, state and local income taxes right away. What's more, any earnings on your SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big difference in how painful your tax bill is every year. 
As the nation's largest retirement system, based on assets under management, we offer a wide range of allocation choices -from the TIAA Traditional Annuity, which guarantees principal and interest (backed by the company's claims-paying ability), to TIAA-CREF's diversified variable annuity accounts. And our expenses are very low, 0 which means more ofyour money goes toward improving your future financial health. 
To find out more, call I 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide calculator that shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. 
Call toda;-it couldn't hurt. 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.su 
•StanikuYJ d Poor~ ltuurana Ro.tingA_M/.yJil, ~995; LipJM:r Analytica.J Services, lnc.,lipptr-Dinclori'A114/yltco.ll.JD.ID., 1995 (Quarter!~): CRI':F certifit:ales are distributed by T.IAA-CRI':F Individual arnJ lnstitulrona.J Services, Inc. For more complete mfonnataon, mcludmg charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509, for a current CRI'..f prospet.-tus. Read the prospectus carefully before you anvest or send money. 

Tuesday, March 5, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Fencing 
continued from page 16 
weekend. 
Among the others qualifying were Jeremy Siek, foil, and Brice Dille, epee. Siek finished second to Thorston Becker, who once again squeaked out a 5-4 victory over Siek. Foilist Paul Capobianco and epee Phillip Lee each finished sixth and may be added to the team based on a strong regular season and tournament. 
"It was a big disappointment that Paul (Capobianco) didn't make it," lamented Auriol. "lie had a good season but a bad tournament. It was a nice surprise to have Anne Hoos qualify. It looks good for us to qualify the maximum of ten mem­bers for the championships." 
This is Siek and Lester's third and de Bruin's fourth consecutive appearance at the NCAA champi­onships. Lester and de Bruin fin­ished ·second last year. 
, 
"We have a good chance to make the top three like last year," said Auriol about his prospects for the 
upcoming NCAA championships. "Every year, the goal is to win the national championship. When I 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 

look at the season and regionals
Foilist Jeremy Siek (background) qualified for his third NCAA tour­last week, the results were good."
nament over the weekend. 
< 

Summer Help Needed .in Latin America . 
Have a summer full of adventure and invest in your future career while working as a community health volunteer! 
Skills Developed Projects Administered Countries Served Communication Community Sanitation Mexico Leadership Human Immunizations Honduras Interpersonal Rabies Vaccinations Costa Rica Foreign Language Environmental Education Dominican Republic Cross-Cultural Sensitivity Dental Hygiene Ecuador Management HIV Prevention Education Paraguay Organizationa! 
Brazil 

JlPPUCATION 
Scholarships available. 
SP.il(~ll STIU AVAIIAUUI FOR TillS smnmn. 5618 Star Lane APPI.Y 1'01)./l\'! 
Houston, TX 77057 800-231-7796 


We're Now Accepting Applications for 
Wvft> Assistant Station Manager 
The Assistant Station Manager works closely with the Station Manager in overseeing the daily operation of the station Responsibilities Include: 
• 
Performing WVFI administrative duties 

• 
Evaluating and enhancing each department 

• 
Conducting all station functions in absence of Station Manager. 


We're looking for a person with organizational experience and good personal communications skills 
Assistant Station Manager is a Paid Position at WVFI 
Applications available at LaFortune or Haggar College Ctr Info desks 
Applications due March 8th by 3.00 pm in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune 
WVFI does not discriminate against applicants w1th no previous WVFI general broadcasting or music experience 
page 13 


Semifinals 1----....1 •7~S~e~to~n~Ha~ll=-"1£~~~..., March 4 
(3) 
Notre Dame 11 

(7) Seton Hall 

(10) 
Georgetown (7) Seton Hall (2)Providence 


Tl'le ObserverfTom Roland 
and Jennifer Rizzotti, provide the challenge that, if met,

Big East 
would put the Notre Dame women's basketball programcontinued from page 16 
on the map. hind them and prepare them­As Beth Morgan so confi­selves for easily the biggest, dently stated last Friday, "We most pressure-packed game of 
are going up there to win it. their young careers. The Lady We expect it to be us and Huskies, with All-American 
UConn Tuesday night." players like 6-7 Kara Wolters 
"We'll win." 

ND Track placed eighth at IC4A Championships over the weekend. Look for details in tomorrow's Observer. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experience? The Observer offers: 
• 
Flexible Hours around elms schedules. 

• 
Excellent Income Opportunity. 

• 
Valuable Work Experience in a Fu7l Atmosphere. 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. 
Follow the Fighting Irish to 
Ireland 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 

(two weekends and a week). still enjoy the heatHy of Ireland 
featuring Irish entenainment. \~22· A and Notre Dame football­
sightseeing, great jazz and ::.:.(1~..... ~ and of course plenty of 
Notre Dame football. 0:;~ ;1 .. 8 Irish entertainment. 
Only ~ :~~ {!!. Only 
\1 $}450 from
$2150 Chicago* from "' ~ Chirago* 
.,.Other ,kparlltre citie' "'"' availahtc. MATTERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure. phone I-800-6J8-9150 or (~10) 22~·2BII. 

-
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 5, 1996 
Pitching falters in final two losses to New Orleans 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 
Something strange happened to the Notre Dame baseball team this past weekend. 
The Irish won convincingly against then 6-1 New Orleans' ace and National Player of the Week Steve Stanson on Friday night, behind a strong perfor­mance from their own starting pitcher, only to drop the next two games, surrendering 23 runs in the process and limping out of the Big Easy with a 4-5 mark on the season. 
Funny game, baseball. 
The Irish were hitting on all cylinders on Friday night, using a 12 hit offensive performance and a six and two-third, three run bid from sophomore Christian Parker to knock off Stanson and the Privateers by an 8-3 score. 
The newly renovated Irish lineup proved instrumental in the win, as new leadoff hitter Rowan Richards went 2-4 with two runs and an RBI, and Scott Sollmann turned in a 2-3, two run performance from the number two spot in the order. Stanson, who was coming off a 12 strikeout performance against Southern Mississippi , surrendered nine hits and five earned runs to the surging Irish bats in five and two-thirds innings, and Irish freshman Alex Shilliday continued to im­press on the mound with two innings of no-hit, three strike­out ball to close out the game. 
"Christian Parker pitched as well as he has since he's been here," said Irish head coach Paul Mainieri following the win. "Alex (Shilliday) pitched with all the poise you would expect out of a veteran. It was a great overall win for us." 
So what happened to the Irish over the next two days? The answer to this question can be summed up in two simple words: bad pitching. 
"The next two days we were faced with the fact that our starting pitchers did not pitch as well as Christian Parker did in the first game," said Mainieri. 
But the problems for the Irish weren't merely confined to the starting pitchers. The entire never recovered, leaving the game after giving up a triple to center fielder Jim Cueto to open the bottom of the fourth. 

The Irish, who at one point trailed 7-2, would rally to tie the score at 7-7, however, using a five-hit, five-run sev­enth inning to pull the game back within reach. But the Irish bullpen let the offense down, surrendering two runs in both the seventh and eighth inning, and the game ended a 11-7 New Orleans victory. 
The story line for Sunday's game bore a striking resem­blance to the previous game, as the Irish jumped out to a 1-0 lead before a five-run second inning by the Privateers left them staring up at a 6-1 deficit. This time it was Craig Allen, who at 0-3 on the year has struggled thus far, who took the early lumps, surrendering six earned runs in just one and a third innings while struggling with his control all the while. 
Notre Dame continued to bat­tle back, at one point nar­rowing the gap to 8-6, but the Irish pitchers faltered, and the Privateers tied on four runs in the final three innings to pre­serve a 12-7 victory and improve to 8-2 on the season. 
The Irish did improve a great deal offensively, scoring 22 runs and amassing 35 hits in the three-game series. Richards was 6-14 overall with a homerun, two doubles and six runs scored from his new spot in the lineup, and Sollmann 
HaPPY 21 5 
thrived in the number two spot, going a combined 5-12 with a triple, five runs and a team high five RBI. Second baseman Randall Brooks also fared well after being moved to the bot­tom spot of the order, going 6­12 with two runs scored. 
"I felt like, offensively, we really started to come closer to our potential," commented Mainieri. "I think that the moves we decided to make last week really helped us as far as our overall offensive produc­tion. We showed more life than we had in the first two week­ends." 
Around the Horn: Irish center­fielder Scott Sollmann's two­run triple in the seventh inning of the 11-7loss to New Orleans was the 19th of his career, moving him even further ahead of Shaun Fitzmaurice, who is second on the Notre Dame all­time list with 14 three-baggers. 
Rowan Richard's 6-14 per­formance from the leadoff spot moved his average to .371, tops amongst Irish regulars. 
Senior catcher Bob Lisanti, known more for his glove than his bat, continues to thrive at the plate this season. Lisanti went a combined 3-8 over the weekend, bringing the career .260 hitter's average to .353. 
Righthander Christian Parker leads the Irish in victories (2), innings pitched (14 2/3}, and strikeouts (11). His 3.07 ERA is first among Irish starting pitch­ers. 


293-0lll 
1333 S. Nappanee St. Elkhart, IN 46516 
-<J ! ; J:.:::J~:·~;,.-;:_:;;;!:.• . 
~ ENRO 




Irish staff, not-so-proud owners of a bloated 6.39 ERA, simply could not get the job done in the final two games of the series, surrendering 25 hits and issuing 12 walks to go along with the aforementioned 23 runs. 
"It's really tough to win when you're giving up eleven or twelve runs a game," com­mented Mainieri. "We have got to get better on the pitcher's mound -there's no question about it. I know we have the talent to do it." 

On Saturday it was Darin Schmalz, coming off a shutout gem against Navy last weekend, who bore the early brunt, as the Privateers exploded for four runs in the third to turn a 0-2 deficit into a 4-2 lead. Schmalz got into trouble early in the inning, when tlie Privateers used a walk and two singles to 

load the bases before first base­

.. 
man Miguel Rivera knocked in 
two runs to knot the score at 2­

2. New Orleans would get three more hits and two more runs in the inning, and Schmalz 

Tuesday, March 5, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

59 Congers eo Family 61 Hair preparation 62 "Norma 
63WNW's opposite 

nLoov PRESSURE & BODY 
''Ife;(!rcise were a drug, it
COMPOSITION TESTING 
wouU6e tlie most prescri6ed pi{{in tlie wor(di' r.Rp6ert CButfer, Pirst (])irector oftfie 
:Nationa[Institute on}lging ALL ARE WELCOME & IT'S FREE! 
Sponsored by RecSports & Health Services 631-6100 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE
FAR B£ \,-FRom ME 
T fr'\E.I'IN 1:I: ~R.D­
13v-r s,-ILL I Des .. 0 ° 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Needy friends will take up much of
To U:trnc. rz E. .. , • 
l"\ ""t:lo U.u 1'1 o P-'1 
fihp.E.\.F... 
l 

MISTER BOFFO 

LOOt<. AT THE AGREEMENT MY COMPA.N'< 15 FORCING US TO SIGN. THE'l' CLAIM TI-lE RIGHTS TO AN'< 1.DEA A.N E.M.PLO'(EE E\/ER HAS. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Mind-reading 36 Government

1 Reindeer herder agt.
5 Wilson's 38 Frost-coveredpredecessor 39 Kit and 9 Public spat 
caboodle 14 Brainstorm 
43 Goddesses of 15 Take on the seasons t& Midwest Indians 44 Chinese dollar 
45 Where swine dine 17 Tilt 

18 Dash 46 Asmara is its 19 Wine sediment 
capital 20 Without warning 
49 Computer unit 23 Opposite of 
5t ---majeste

black-tie 
52 Bikini top 24 Hobby room 
54 Lathered 25 Talon 
58 The Ouee1_1 of 29 Green hazard Country 31 Daily dread 61 Diving bird 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BBB 21 Like pie slices 
L.:.-L.;;;...L.;-'-' 30 Buddy 
\ 

your time. Do not despair if you cannot help them every time. Sever­al of your pals need to become more self-reliant! Your job is secure so long as you go by the book. A void cutting corners. Travel and good luck go hand-in-hand. Widen your social circle. A deep friendship could lead to true love. Romance 
takes you in new directions. Honor parental requests. A windfall early in 1997 will give you more options. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Marsha Warfield, reggae singer Eddy Grant, actress Samantha Eggar, magician Penn Jillette. 
JOE MARTIN 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Diplomacy serves you well in busi­ness and personal matters. Do not expect too much from others and you will be pleasantly surprised. Research provides infonnation that will save you money. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can expect to make significant progress with a business project now. Useful agreements are final­ized. Everything should go accord­ing to plan. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone influential takes notice when you put forth greater effort. Higher-ups want to turn on the green light for a new project. Keep your credit good. Repay debts and favors as soon as possible. 
CANGER (June 21-July 22): Your creative vision is powerful 
today. A positive attitude will
r-------------------~ur;========~----------,
NO PROBLEM. J'UST RETYPE ~

"'0 
u IT WITH A FEW STRATEGIC ~ Ol"\l55ION5 AND SIGN IT. THE'< CAN'T PROOFREAD E.\JER'Y ONE. 
64 Craftiness &5 Unexpected 
trouble &6 Titian's tripod &7 Military sch. 68 "--deal!" 69 City on the Aire 70 Howard and 
Maynard 71 Refusals 
DOWN 
1 Perfume scent 2 --Rogers St. 
Johns 3 Rings 4 Succeed in the 
end 5 Texas shrine 6 Feels bad 7 Consumer 
affairs topic 8 Somewhat sore 9Team 
tO Farm storage site 11 Meadow mom 12 Henpeck 13 Double curve 21 More distant 22Gene 10 26 Fernando or Lorenzo 27 Without--to one's name 
32 1776 battle site 
33 Singer Merman 
34 Prop (up) 
35 Persian sprites 
37 Napoleonic 
general 40 It can rock you 
to sleep 41 Hero 42 Rubes 47 Recede 48 Caribbean native 

R~~~~~­
encourage someone close to your
WOULDN'T 
M.AYBE '<OU 

heart. Look for a transfonnation in a
THAT BE 
COULD J"UST 

close personal relationship. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look
DISHONEST! 
5HOWTHEM 

beyond immediate problems. The 
~OM£. OF '<OUR 

financial outlook is bright. A long­distance call announces a new
IDEAS AND 

opportunity. A special relationship 
intensifies.

/ THE'<'D GR~NT 
A. WAIVE.~. 

• OF INTEREST Tonight in the Cinema at the Snite, the movies 
"Oklahoma" and "Godfather, Part II" will be playing at 6:30 and 9:15p.m. The cost is $2. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame 
NORTH SOUTH Grilled Turkey Sandwich Shrimp Spaghetti Cheeseburger Pie Chicken Fajita Salad Baked Sole Jardiniere Vegetable Calzone 
Saint Mary's 
Garlic Chicken Beef Kabobs Rice Casserole 
Wanted: Reporters, 
-... 

photographers
50 Dines at home 53 Liturgical scarf 55 Colorful horse 
and editors. 
56 Rub clean 57 "The Ballet Class" painter 
Join The 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Observer staff. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Communications are in the spot­light. Something you see on TV gives you an employment idea. Attending seminars or night school could increase your earning poten­tial. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The emphasis today is on money, pay­ments and collections. If your social life seems dull, reach out 10 new people. Joining a charitable group puts you in touch with like-minded individuals. Extend an invitation. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A career choice you make now could lead to a big change in lifestyle. Family members look to you for leadership. Do not let them down. Household projects proceed smooth­ly. The love temperature soars! 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make a special effort to accom­modate people who work behind the scenes. Cultivate the good will of someone who could play a big role in your career. So-called "bargains" may be anything but. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on work assignment~ that provide an outlet for your creativity. Artistic endeavors enjoy particularly beneficial influences. Friends prove sympathetic and helpful. Repay favors as fast as you can. Romance deepens when you make conces­sions. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Teamwork pays huge dividends now. Gather tax materials for your accountant. Keep receipts in a safe place. Your intuition regarding a person or problem is right on target. Romantic partner appreciates your direct approach. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Mareh 20): An opportunity to make long-range fmancial plans will 'arise. A mutual investment could pay poor divi­dends. Look elsewhere. Health and fitness should be a priority. Provide teens with a shoulder to lean on. 



r 
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, March 5, 1996 


Semi-final win sets up final UConn showdown 


The Observer/Rob Finch Mollie Peirick contributed 12 points and four assists as Notre Dame advanced to the Big East final with a 69-58 win over Seton Hall. 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish depth secures winning weekend 
By JOE CAVATO Sunday the top and bottom of Sports· Writer the Irish lineup lead the way to yet another 4-3 win. Just past midway through 
The squad got off to a goodthe season the Notre Dame 
start in winning two of the men's tennis team has 
three doubles matches to win already had its share of ups 
the point. As usual, the Irish and downs. They got off to a 
played well when they struck spectacular start as they 
first giving them confidence began the season 6-1. 
going into singles play. Included in those six wins 
Against the lllini the nv. 2 were victories over nationally and 3 doubles teams clinched ranked teams Minnesota 
the point. Brian Patterson Boise State and Kentucky. and Jakup Pietrowski contin­Then, the Irish hit a tough 
ue to prove that they will be a weekend at the National 
force for the Irish. The fresh­Indoor Championships where man and sophomore duo has they lost three to top twenty come up big for the Irish in squads. Now the Irish seem 
big matches. They won a to be rolling again as they tough match over Gavin have overcome three tough 
Sontag and Chris DeVore 8-6 . regional foes in the past 
In the no. 3 doubles slot week. 
dual match veterans John J. Mter eoming off those three 
O'Brien and Ryan Simme con­losses, we could have lost any tinued their solid play. They
of one of those regional beat the lllini team of John matehes," captain Mike 
Manpearl and their no. 1 sin­Sprouse noted. "It was more 
gles player Jeremy Sutter by a important for us to win those 
score of 8-6. close matches.'' 
Seniors Sprouse and Jason This past weekend the Irish 
Pun dropped their doubles traveled to Champaign, IL 
match as Jerry Turek and where they took on the 
Brady Blain were victorious in Fighting lllini Saturday and 
an 8-4 match. Miami of Ohio Sunday. There 
On the singles side the Irish they came up with two more 
were lead to a victory, not byvictories pushing their reeord 
the usual sources Sprouse to 9-4. and Pietrowski, but by the 3, In Saturday's victory over 
4, and 5 players. Junior RyanIllinois the Irish got a lift from 
Simme, Patterson, and senior their doubles play and from 
John J. O'Brien came up with the middle of their singles to nip the Illini 4-3. Then on 
see TENNIS/ page 12 

• Baseball goes 1-2 in New Orleans 
see page 14 
By TIM MCCONN 
Spons Writer 

Beth Morgan and the rest of the Irish squad said that they wanted this. They even pre­dicted it would happen. One better be careful what one wishes for, because it may very easily become reality, as it has in this case. 
Before a sellout crowd of 8,241 fans Monday night at the University of Connecticut's Harry A. Gampel Pavilion, the Notre Dame Women's Basketball team defeated a pesky Seton Hall team 69-58 in the semi-finals of the Big East Tournament. As a result of this victory, the third-seeded Irish advance to the championship game, where they will face their newly discovered nemesis: top-seeded UConn, who served up two defeats to the Irish in the regular season. 
For the first twenty minutes, it appeared that this would be anybody's game. The Irish sim­ply could not assert themselves on offense, and they had trou­ble stopping the opposition on defense. In fact, for the initial eight minutes, Notre Dame fell behind the lowly Pirates by as much as six points. It looked as if the goal of winning the Big East championship might be halted before it ever had a chance to be realized. 

At the 11:40 mark in the first half, Katryna Gaither took a Jeannine Augustin feed and fin­ished off a fast break with a layup, making the score 11-10 and giving the Irish a lead they would not relinquish, except for one brief moment at the 9:09 point. 
Despite their best efforts, the Irish just could not seem to shake the Pirates, whose stub­bornness kept them in the con­test. At the half, the score was 37-31. 
The Irish displayed their bril­liant selves in the second half. 
They shot out of the gates quickly, making a 9-2 run that was capped off with a Morgan baseline jumper, making the score 48-35. 

For the next six minutes, the lead hovered around 10 points. The Irish then broke it open, giving themselves a 19 point lead with 7:12 remaining. From that point on, Notre Dame played prevent defense and protected their lead, ensur­ing that they would move on. 
Teamwork indeed played a part in this victory. Morgan led the team in scoring with 16 points. Gaither completed the double-double by pouring in 12 points and grabbing 12 boards. Also, Carey Poor and Mollie Peirick each contributed 12 points. Jeannine Augustin dished out six assists, while Peirick contributed four. 
Despite this hard-fought vic­tory, the Irish must put it be-

see BIG EAST/ page 13 
... 
... 
• FENCiNG 

The m_..._.c touch 
Notre Dame qualifies eight for NCAAs 
By WILLY BAUER Spons Writer 

Almost every Notre Dame fencer shook off the rust that plagued them in the previous week's Midwestern Championships, and showed off the luster that was there only weeks before for the NCAA qualifiers. 
Eight Irish fencers sliced and diced their way to the NCAA championships that are set for the last weekend in March. Freshmen Luke LaValle and Sara Walsh both won their sections and all the women fencers were on top of their re­spective games. 
"The tournament went bet­ter than expected because of the epeP guys," recalled coach Yves Auriol. "Brice Dille placed fourth and Phil Lee came in sixth. The epee team had been a question mark going into the season, so it was good to see them do well." 
Walsh was back to her domi­nating self for the qualifiers. She gave up one toueh for the whole tournament. Myriah Brown also qualified for the NCAAs from the foil team. If not for the rule stating only two members from each team can go for each weapon, two other Irish foilists could have qualified. Mindi Kalogera and Nicole Mustilli were among the final six foilists vying for the five NCAA slots. 
"I fenced better than I had all season," said Walsh. "I concentrated really hard on the final match and the con­centration carried over to my other matches. It was great to see all four of our (team) mem­bers make it to the finals. Everyone fenced really well." 
Women epee's Maria Thieneman and Ashley Shannon almost made the fi­
Men's Basketball 
vs. Syracuse at Big East Tournament, Wednesday, March 6 
nals, making it all the way to the final cut. Teammates Claudette de Bruin and Anne Boos placed second and third in the tournament. 
LaValle avenged his two losses at the Midwestern team championships on the way to his first, possibly of many, sec­tional title. Teammate Bill Lester finished third for the 
see FENCING I page 13 
Baseball 


vs. Lewis-Clark State in Seattle, March 8 vs. Long Beach State in Seattle, March 9 
Women's Basketball • Irish recruit honored 

vs. Connecticut, Today, 5 p.m. 

Women's Tennis 
Big East Final 

vs. Kansas State Sat., March 9, I 0 a.m. 
see page 12 vs. Drake Sat., March 9, 4 p.m.
Softball • Softball places fourth in tourney 

at South Florida Tourney, March 8-10 
see page II 





