

Friday, November 1, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 44 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING N TRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

One thing missing in Dublin: students 
By PATTI CARSON Managing Editor 
DUBLIN, Ireland 
It's just not the same. Tomorrow is a Notre Dame football Saturday, and it just won't be the same. Something is missing. 
There are still plenty of pre-game festivities -that part of a football weekend is no differ­ent. Thanks to the Notre Dame Alumni Association, activities are scheduled to last throughout the weekend. 
Friday commences with a game of flag foot­ball at the Royal Dublin Society Arena at 11 a.m., followed by the Notre Dame Marching Band parade at 1 p.m. At 3 p.m., the football team will practice at Croke Park, the site of Saturday's game. The practice is free and open to the public. 
In the evening, an All Saints' Day Mass will precede a pep rally at 7 p.m. in the Simmonscourt Hall of the Royal Dublin Society. 
All the activities are the same as usual, but the atmosphere is somehow different. 
The atmosphere in Dublin is especially vibrant as the city is expecting up to 65,000 extra visitors this weekend because of the game and a European Bank Holiday, accord­ing to Marie Villa, an employee of the Dublin Tourism Bureau. On bank holiday weekends, many Europeans spend their free time in the city of Dublin because it is rather close, she said. 
"The Shamrock Classic is supposed to bring anywhere from 25,000 to 50,000 fans from the states," Villa said. And according to the Irish Independent, the game is supposed to generate nearly 15 million pounds-$25 mil­lion-for the Irish economy. 
But something is still missing. 
Perhaps it's the lack of advertising. The only advertisements for the game which are clearly noticeable are concentrated in only a few parts of town -at the airport, at the tourism building, and the like. The advertis­ing is all the same. It's a poster of Derrick 
see IRELAND I page 4 

SMC begins ad push for new president 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Editor 
The search is on. 
A major advertising campaign is well underway for the search for the next president of Saint Mary's College, according to a Board of Trustees memo distrib­uted to the College community. 
College President William Hickey, who is currently in his lOth year as president of the College, announced his resignation in April. He will remain in the presidential role until a successor is found. 
The responsibility for naming the lOth president of the College lies with the College Board of Trustees. The Board has appointed a Presidential Search Committee, led by former Board of Trustees Chair Sister Rachel Callahan, to oversee the search process. 
To date, major advertising strategies have included placing advertisements in The Chronicle for Higher Education. In addition, over 500 letters soliciting nomi­nations have been sent to all Catholic colleges, all women's colleges, and other selected institutions. 
Calling for a candidate who "will inherit an institution which is strong intellectually and financially and pre­pared for a new era of growth," an advertisement for 
see PRESIDENT I page 4 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Amid the rush of busy Dublin, native Irish welcome American visitors this week for the Notre Dame-Navy game. 


have invaded... 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's News Editor 
They began to notice it early last week, first around the airport, then in downtown Dublin, Cork, Galway, and Blarney. Everywhere they looked, they would see them. 
"I can't believe all of the Americans around here lately," Galway pub owner Frank O'Sullivan said. "It's like an invasion." 
Twenty-five thousand to 50,000 Americans are estimated to take part in the "invasion," by visit­ing Ireland not as an off-season vacation, but as a chance to see Notre Dame play football at the "Shamrock Classic." 
"They say it is the biggest tourist event in Dublin's history," Dublin resident Ellen Duggan said. ''I'm going to the game, and I graduated 
see AMERICAN I page 4 

Feeding on the night 
Students from 13 dorms spent the Halloween evening with children from the South Bend Boys and Girls Club, escort­ing them while they went trick-or-treating around campus.Above, a youngster gets a treat, while (left) anoth­er gives a fiendish glare as he accepts cancly from one of the more than 250 volunteer students who hf~lped out. The events of the evening were part of Keenan Hall's Great Pumpkin Contest '96. 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November I, 1996 

• INSIDE COLUMN 




Free Speech Misunderstood 
What is "free speech?" Ever since the University administration denied permission for a recognized student group to hold a rally on campus. those two words, "free speech," David Freddoso have been uttered sever-Copy Ediror al times by genuinely well-meaning people at Notre Dame. But unfortunately, most of these have simply taken "free speech" to mean what the unin­formed common opinion has defined it to mean, rather than digging deeper into the issue. 
For example, Matthew McCoyd (Viewpoint, Oct. 30) writes that the University's action "tramples on the rights of students," and vio­lates our right to "free speech." "Though we may not all agree with what [certain) organi­zations...have to say," he writes, "we must fight for their right to say it." McCoyd thus defines our right to free speech by referring to a famous quotation from Voltaire, and many people across the country would probably do the same. 
But is "free speech" in the United States really based on Voltaire's notion? Should we really fight to defend anyone's right to say whatever they want to in our country? For example, am I to defend someone's "right" to tell lies? Should I defend their "right" to slan­der my mother? Or should I defend their "right" to teach the youth of our nation that the holocaust never happened? 
Nowhere in the Constitution am I obligated to fight for any such "right." The Constitution guarantees that none of us can be arrested for expressing our political views in print or in assembly. It does not by any means guarantee us the right to say whatever we want, and then, in addition to that, the right to expect that no one will hinder us from saying it pub­licly, whatever it is. 
And just as the right to free speech does not guarantee that we may say whatever we want, it is even less the case that it allows us to say it wherever we want to. At the Democratic National Convention, protesters were kept far away from the festivities. And this is fine. No one in this country necessarily has the right to use a particular location to exercise his or her right to "free speech." 
In conclusion, the "right to free speech" is irrelevant in the discussion of the administra­tion's recent action. The administration is not obligated under the Constitution to endorse anyone's rally, whether it be proposed by the Neo-Nazis or the Boy Scouts. The University can legally refuse to allow any group to demonstrate on its eampus, if it feels that that group's principles are incompatible with those of a Catholic university. 
Nor does our right to free speech give us license to speak out wherever we want to. The University's refusal to allow a particular demonstration does not violate the Constitutional right to free speech, since cam­pus protests involve the use of University property, and the University has no obligation to allow anyone to rally on its property. 
In the end, regardless of how one feels about the issues at hand, it is only fair for everyone to recognize that no one's Constitutional right to free speech has been violated by the administration's recent action. If one goes deeper than the common opinion of what "free speech" really means, one will see that no such high and lofty ideal as "free speech" is at stake here. and so "free speech" need not even be discussed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  'ToDAY'S :; ;Af-f  
News  Sports  
Michelle Krupa  Tim McConn  
Scan Smith  Production  
Dave Fn:ddoso  Michelle Krupa  
Brad Prendergast  Ann Goodwin  
Viewpoint  Tara Grieshop  
Ethan Hayward  Accent  
Lab Tech  Joey Crawford  
Dave Murphy  Graphics  
Brett Hogan  Brian Blank  

The Oh><rv<r (USPS S99 2-4000) is puhli>hed Monday rhrough l'riday rxccp1 during exam and vacarion prriods. The Observer is a membt·r of the A.!.\ociau~:d Prt"SS. All rcproJu(:tion right~ arc rc~crved. 
• WORlD AT A GtANCE 

Few Americans participate in most celebrated democracy 
WASHINGTON 
The election is almost upon the coun­try and about all that remains is to browbeat the American people for the next six days to shame them into voting. 
Won't work. The experts say less than 55 percent of eligible Americans will participate, and they have some theories on what that says about the world's most celebrated -and maybe its most casual -democracy. 
A century ago, 80 percent of eligible Americans routinely voted. But in the last 30 years. turnout has gone down. From 64 percent in 1960, when John F. Kennedy was elected, it slid to just bare­ly above 50 percent in 1988 before squiggling up to 55.2 percent four years ago. 
But the 1992 race had an incumbent president on the ropes, an attractive 

Quayle planning for 2000 

HIGHLAND, Ark. 
Dan Quayle got the Arkansas brief­ing minutes after his chartered execu­tive jet touched down: Don't get harsh with Bill Clinton at this campaign stop because it won't help the Republican House candidate in a district Democrats always have held. ''I'm not here to talk about Bob Dole or Bill Clinton," the former vice president 


complied. ''I'm here to talk about Warren Dupwe," the GOP congressional aspirant. This is Clinton's state, and even Republicans expect him to reap two-thirds of the vote in the 1st Congressional District. So Quayle's mes­sage at this stop is to split the ticket. to keep Republicans in control of Congress. Elsewhere, he challenges Clinton's honesty and character. And everywhere, he says that while he hasn't given up on Dole's chances next Tuesday, people who think there is going to be a second Clinton term should make sure there is a GOP Congress to keep him in check. Quayle is campaigning for Republican congressional votes nationally -90 stops, 70 candidates, 30 states -but the tone is local. No more the motorcade sirens, speechwriters, advance people and Secret Service of his travels as vice president in 1992. Now it is a staff of two, arrangements by cell phone, a hasty call to reinstate the hotel reservations mistakenly canceled in Rockford, Ill. 

West Point cadet charged with rape 
WEST POINT, N.Y. 
A West Point cadet has been charged with raping a female cadet, the first such accusation since the Military Academy began enrolling women 20 years ago. James 
P. Engelbrecht, of Conroe. Texas. was charged Wednesday with raping the woman at a house in Stockholm, N.J., on Memorial Day weekend. He also was charged with committing an indecent act in the presence of another person, said Capt. John Cornelio. Few other details were released Wednesday. Lawyers for Engelbrecht told The New York Times in today's edition that the house is owned by another cadet and that some­one was sleeping in the room when the alleged attack occurred. leading to the indecent act charge. The Army officer charged with investigating the incident concluded that there was insufficient probable cause to support the rape charge and recommended dropping it. the Times said. The officer also recommended that the Army han­dle the second charge administratively, but Army offi­cials overruled him and referred charges against Engelbrecht, the Times said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

r-···"''r···-·"""-""-''  H  L  
l  
Friday  ~  39  26  
Saturday  ~  39  27  
Sunday  .~  45  33  
Monday  ~  52  40  
Tuesday  ~  51  28  


4,Q,~8Mr8i)~u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Voter turnout E I e~~lion 
Eligible voters 
casting ballots: ~ 
1992 1988 1984 1980 1976 ~ • "' 54.4 1972 ~WIIHHI1! U. 55.4 1968 .-uw; ~60.7 

1964 --~ !! ;-61.8 1960 lliW!mWI-Eii J lliMflff 63. 1 1956 NBRIID!T.fiia 59.3 1952 1m JM 61.6 
1948 illii iF FRIII!ii 51.1 1944 56.0 1940 '7 Wil liB 58.9 
• NATIONAl. WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 1. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
-r-r ...&...&.. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Anchorage 32 22  Elk Lick  40  30  Naperville 36  26  
Baltimore  44  34  Honolulu  88 71  New York  48  41  
Boston  48  36  Houston  70 57  Norfolk  55  50  
Chicago  38  27  Kennebunk 42  30  Phoenix  80  51  
Denver  55 25  Miami  85 73  St. Louis  44  20  

Jenny Jones on stand at murder trial 
PONTIAC, Mich. 
A man accused of killing a gay admirer who revealed his crush on the "Jenny Jones Show" some­times behaved erratically and had episodes of confusion, his father testified today. Allyn Schmitz said his son, Jonathan, mixed up names and addresses of his father's furniture business. He also said he whipped his son at age 10 in front of the boy's teacher and classmates for skipping school. Jones was expected to testify later today. Jonathan Schmitz. 26, was charged with first­degree murder for the March 9, 1995, shotgun slaying of Scott Amedure. Three days earlier, they were in Chicago to tape a "Jenny Jones Show" segment on secret admir­ers. During the taping, which was never broadcast but has been played in court, Amedure told the audience about his crush on Schmitz. Schmitz's lawyers have not denied that he shot Amedure, 32. But they believe Jones' testimony will bolster their claim that Schmitz was first misled and then humiliated on the show. That. coupled with his existing physical and psychological problems, left Schmitz unable to form the intent to kill Amedure, they say. "We know from her own producers that she wrote the whole script in her own hand. That makes her previous testimony that she is handed a script and goes on with the show pretty embarrassing," defense lawyer James Burdick told The Oakland Press. "It's clear she has a lot of involvement on the show. 

Inmates help catch car theft suspect 
NEWPORT NEWS, Va. 
Two criminals gave police a lesson on how to catch a thief, chasing down a car theft suspect near an elemen­tary school where they had been cutting grass. "It hap­pened so fast, you really don't know what to think," said Chris Aufang, who has about a year to serve on a five­year drug sentence. "I was concerned about the ele­mentary school kids," Brian Hockaday, who has two months to serve for probation violation, said of Tuesday's chase near Greenwood Elementary School and a connecting high school. Aufang, 29, Hockaday, 27, and their supervisor. Olin Taylor, 22, cornered the 16-year-old suspect in the woods near the high school. where police were waiting to arrest three students sus­pected of stealing three cars. Taylor first noticed two police officers running toward three youths. guns drawn, then saw the third run away. Aufang and Hockaday chased the suspect through the woods, grabbing at the teen until Taylor tackled him. Aufang expects a little ribbing from the inmates at Newport News City Farm, but said he doesn't care. 
challenger and a feisty third-party insurgent. 
This time around, none of those ele­ments apply and that has a lot of people worried that the participants will barely outnumber nonvoters. 
If people in only nine states got to elect the president next Tuesday, those in the other 41 would be outraged. 
But that's what will happen, in effect. The number who will vote is roughly equal to all the voters in the nine largest states, California, New York, Texas, Florida, Pennsylvania, Illinois, Ohio, Michigan and New Jersey. 
"There seems little question that turnout will be down. perhaps sharply," says Curtis Gans, who has been thinking about voter turnout for 20 years. He directs the nonpartisan Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. 

Friday, November 1, 1996 



Car stereos among recent thefts at ND 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
A multitude of thefts have recently been reported by Notre Dame students whose locked vehicles have been bro­ken into and robbed of car stereos, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. In the past six weeks, several cars parked in the D2 south lot and the C1 lot, south of the Joyce Center, have been vandalized and stripped of CD players and other audio equipment. 
"The culprits have avoided, all cars with visible security sys­tems," stated Hurley. "They break the windows of locked automobiles and take whatever they can find." 
Hurley advises students to keep a close watch on the lots, taking note of any remotely suspicious persons or activities. lie also urges any concerned parties to call security immedi­ately from the call-boxes locat­ed throughout the lots . 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., OCT. 28 

12:55 p.m. Two Alumni Hall residents reported the theft of numerous items from their room during fall break. The room was locked at the time of the 
theft. 
1:04 p.m. Two Flanner Hall residents reported the theft of numerous items from their room during fall break. The room was locked at the time of the theft. 
2:38 p.m. Two off-campus residents' vehicles were broken into while parked in the C1 lot. 
9:30 p.m. Security arrested a South Bend resident in the Hesburgh Library 
for criminal trespass. TUES., OCT. 29 
10:15 a.m. A university employee reported the theft of his decal from his vehicle while parked at the Joyce Center. The vehicle was unlocked at the time of the theft. 
9:17 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident reported damage to his vehicle while parked by Flanner Hall. The damage was done when a dumpster rolled into the vehicle. 
9:50 p.m. A Morrissey hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for a sports injury. 

Observer Staff Report 
The first national tour of "Having Our Say," a play chronicling the lives and times of two African-American sisters, will make a stop at the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College tonight at 8 p.m. 
Nominated for a 1995 Tony Award for Best Play, "Having Our Say" tells the story of Bessie and Sadie Delany, who both lived well past the age of 100. The drama presents a family history containing the sisters' memories of significant events and personalities of the past century. The play also covers events from the often-overlooked perspective of the black middle class. 
Presented in the Delany's own words, this pro­duction covers much history. 
The two sis­ters were born before the Jim 
· Crow laws were enacted in the American South and were active participants in the civil rights movements of the 1960s. After moving to New York City during World War I, their social circle came to include such prominent figures such as W. E. B. Dubois and Paul Robeson. Later, the two "maiden ladies," as they referred to themselves, counted among their friends Eleanor Roosevelt and Martin Luther King, Jr. 
According to critics, all the events and acquain­tances are recalled in vivid detail and with straightforward insight. Clive Barnes of the New York Post calls the production "a window on a world full of love, pain and a wonderful deal of hope." 
Vincent Camby of The New York Times calls it "200 years of black American life, which is also white American life." 
Adapted from the best-selling book, "Having Our Say: The Delaney Sisters' First 100 Years," the production spent eight months on Broadway, where it garnered unanimous pr~~:ise before clos­ing its last run in December. 
Micki Grant and Lizan Mitchell star in the two­character drama, which is written and directed by Emily Mann. 
Tickets for "Having Our Say" are $18 for adults, $16 for senior citizens, $10 for members of the Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community, and $5 for students. 
The play is part of the John M. Duggan series. 

Election Party In The Huddle. November 5th Starts at Spm 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 1, 1996 
band. But the greater num­of Dublin within the last year. 
ber of the fans are obviously Present at the meeting was 
not students. Tom O'Kane -owner of
Ireland SMC promotes local schools 
Ireland's luxurious Adare By SHANNON RYAN the session entitled, "Women in
continued from page 1 Perhaps that is what's 
------------missing. Manor, promoter of the News Writer Mathematics: A New Helease." 

Mayes, now a member of the Green Bay Packers, in a lleisman Trophy-like pose. 
Or perhaps what's different is the expected attitude toward the game on the part of Dubliners. "We Irish are crazy about football," said David Owens, a cab driver in Dublin. "But the 'football' we're crazy about is not American football. It's soccer. Our 'football' is your soccer." 
"Not many Irish follow American football," he added. 
But there is still definite interest in the game. All around Dublin, blue and gold can be seen. But it is almost exclusively worn by people who are not students. They are parents and graduates and lifelong fans, but very few are students. 
Yes, there are fans here to support the team -man­agers, cheerleaders, and the 
That's a theory held by Notre Dame Club of Ireland Vice-President Raymond Toply. According to Toply, the Notre Dame Club of Ireland wanted to provide affordable student travel packages so that the student population could attend the game, but the plan was "side­lined" by big business. 
The University "basically sold out," according to Katie McBride, a 1992 graduate of Notre Dame and a member of the Notre Dame Club of Ireland. The University relin­quished all rights for about $1 million, McBride explained. 
And from that point on, it was "hands-off." 
The Notre Dame Club of Ireland hoped to put a travel package together at extreme­ly reduced rates, but permis­sion to do so was refused at a meeting held at Jury's Hotel Shamrock Classic, and con­troller of all rights to the game and Michael Wadsworth, Notre Dame's athletic director. Even Irish coach Lou Holtz was present, according to McBride. 
But all that came from the meeting was an absolute "no" for the Notre Dame Club. 
And so, as of Thursday evening, there were still plen­ty of tickets available for the game, selling at either eight, 40, or 50 pounds, according to Villa of the Dublin Tourism Bureau. Croke Park, which seats 70,000, will not sell out. 
There will be seats which could have been filled by Notre Dame students, who will instead watch the tape­delayed game in South Bend at 11 a.m. tomorrow. 
They may be missing the game in Ireland, but at least they will not be missing the game altogether. 
In an effort to reaeh out to edu­cators in the surrounding area, Saint Mary's College has recently initiated programs specifically designed to enhance the education in local schools. Saint Mary's vary-· ing departments have attempted to promote the value of education this semester through a technology initiative workshop and a session concerning women in mathematics and sciences. 
In support of President Clinton's Educational Technology Initiative, Saint Mary's welcomed local school teachers to a workshop as part of the "National 21st Century Teaehers Project." This workshop was designed to promote teehnolo­gy and the knowledge of it among current educators, many of whom have not had the opportunity to develop their skills with modern computers. 
Saint Mary's is also encouraging women to enter into the field of mathematics and sciences through 
The inspiration behind this session was set in motion six years ago, when Sister Miriam Cooney of the Saint Mary's department of mathe­matics welcomed 20 teachers from the South Bend region to a seminar entitled, "Mathematics, Science, and Gender." These twenty teachers would meet once a week to study lit­erature and to research the role of women in math and seienee. Each teacher then wrote the biography of at least one female who eontributed to these fields which young women are often diseouraged from enter­ing. 
These stories have now been republished and compiled into a volume entitled "Celebrating Women in Mathematics and Science," edited by Sister Cooney. Sister Cooney and the twenty authors will discuss their writ­ingstoday at the Century Center and Marriott in South Bend. Afterwards, guests of the session are welcome to come to a book signing reception. 
A01erican 
continued from page 1 
from Northwestern." 

Duggan currently works at a Dublin restaurant to earn money so she can travel Europe. My boss warned us that we will be busy," she said. 
Several Americans will be attending the game who are not even alumni. One of these is Tim Healy, a Chicago native who made the trip across the Atlantic to see the game, despite the fact that he has no formal ties to thQ University. 
"My brother and I have loved Notre Dame as long as I can remember," he explained. "We've always wanted to see a football game, and we've always wanted to see where our parents grew up. We thought that this trip would be the perfect opportunity to investigate our heritage and see the Fighting Irish play." 
But many Irish citizens do not understand what exactly the billboards, radio advertise­ments, television commercials, and signs at the airport mean when they say, "Come see the Fightin' Irish play football." 
"You mean soccer?" a Cork resident responded when asked if he would be attending the football game. "We aren't big fans of the sport. American foot­ball is a weak version of rugby­that's what we play here." 
Other confusion among Irish people arises from the mere phrase, "Fighting Irish." 
"What do you mean, 'Fighting Irish?" a Galway student asked Notre Dame Law student Tom Stienke. "Do you think we like to fight?" 
Stienke, who is using this trip as an excuse to travel to Ireland, explained the history of the phrase to the Irish student. 
An influx of Notre Dame fans began arriving at Blarney Castle earlier this week, as crowds of Americans sporting various forms of Fighting Irish apparel sought their chance to kiss the Blarney Stone. 
"I've never seen so many Americans over a week's time," the castle store's attendant remarked. Wednesday after-' noon, the American invasion escalated when a flight arrived at Dublin Airport, carrying members of the Notre Dame band. 
Everyone seems excited to see us," senior trumpet player Frank O'Linn said. "We feel honored to perform in our native land on Saturday." 
The band will kick off the game events Friday, with a parade followed by the tradi­tional pep rally. 
CROFUT & BRUBECK 
SPONSORED BY 
The Elkhart Concert Club Bringing the STARS to Elkhart for 
45 GREAT YEARS 
Bill Crofut and Chris Brubeck team up for a live concert on November 6, 1996 at 7:30pm at the 
ELCO Performing Arts Center 
Downtown Elkhart, (219) 293-4469 
President 
continued from page 1 

the position, featured in the Sept. 6 and 13 issues of The Chronicle of Higher Education, read, "The successful candidate will have an outstanding record of achievement in academic and spiritual leadership; man­agement and community build­ing; resource generation and allocation; development of diversity; external relations; governance; and personal effec­tiveness." 
Today, Callahan, along with Shelly Storbeck, the consultant hired by the College to aid in the search process, will be on hand to share information regarding the status of the search process. 
Presentations will take place today at 7:30 a.m. and 12:30 
p.m. in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. 

Remember to 
share the warmth 
in the true 
Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PROJECT WARMTH 
I L 


--~---~----------------~----­
-------------~· ---~------------------------------~----------------------~ Friday, November I, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• BRAZIL 
Plane crashes in Sao Paulo; 98 reported dead 


By STAN LEHMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
SAO PAULO, Brazil 
A Brazilian jetliner crashed into a residential neighborhood in Sao Paulo shortly after take­off today, igniting flames that engulfed apartments, homes and cars. A civil defense official said all 95 people on board were killed. 
Three other bodies were pulled from the rubble, and the death toll was expected to rise as firefighters searched homes and apartments struck and set on fire by the crash. 
At least three Americans were on the plane, the U.S. con­sulate in Sao Paulo said. 
Citibank identified one as David Francis Tobolla, a finan­cial director at the company. His hometown was not released. 
A second was identified as David Andrews, 49, of San Jose, Calif., a vice president of Behring Diagnostics Inc.­Americas, a subsidiary of the Hoescht pharmaceutical group. 
There was no word on the nationalities of others on the plane.One resident of the mid­dle-class neighborhood where the plane crashed said he saw "a river of fuel on fire flowing down the street." 
Dozens of bodies lay covered with black plastic on the side­walk, while firemen sprayed water on smoking rubble. Pieces of the plane were strewn over the neighborhood, and parked cars were burning. 
Thirteen people were treated for shock, burns and minor lllJuries at the nearby Jabaquara Municipal Hospital. 
Seven were hospitalized, one in serious condition with burns. 
Police and firemen used ply­wood planks as makeshift stretchers to carry bodies to black morgue trucks. 
Roberto Pacheco de Toledo, head of the police's Special Operations Group, said 98 bod­ies were in the morgue. 
"They all were mutilated ar1d carbonized," he said, aski r1g families to bring dental records to help identify the victims. 
"There's no sense in just coming (to the morgue). because they won't recognize anyone." 
The vice president of the regional airline that owned the plane, TAM, said the plane's two flight data recorders were recovered from the rubble. They were sent to Air Force for investigation, Luiz Eduardo Falco said. 
"When we arrived, we saw cars burning, houses demol­ished, and parts of bodies amid the wreckage," said Col. Leopolda Correia of the Sao Paulo fire department. "It was like a scene from Dante's Inferno." 

Wingspan: 92' 1-1/2' Length: 116' 6-3/4" Height: 27' 10-1/2" Maximum speed: 525 mph 
Source: Jane's All the World's Aircraft 
400 miles 
~ 
400km AP/Wm. J. Castello 


Sunday, nouem6er 3 l#-:00 p.m. tisher 1/all Chapel 
lmJ 
C?Jv1PUS 
~NISTRY Jheme: RellecliCJn CJn lhe file ol Sl. marlin de'Porres 
STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be a ND/SMC student. Only flat works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, painting) with a maximum size of 3'x3'. 
The exhibit will be shown in the Sorin Room at the LaFortune Student Center November 4-8. 

• ZAIRE !!! \)' 
Aid workers to evacuate Goma 
By KARIN DAVIES 
Associated Press Writer 

GOMA, Zaire 
Warfare and looting choked off relief supplies for 700,000 refugees Thursday, sending tens of thousands streaming south in a desperate search lor food and safety. 
Ethnic Tutsi rebels closed in on the Zairian-held city of Goma, and aid agencies said looting by Zairian troops had forced them to halt food distrib­ution in the area, which now includes the world's largest refugee camp. 
The agencies also said thfly would evacuate foreign work­ers. 
Cars packed with people and their salvaged household goods sped south. Streams of others trudged on foot. carrying rend mats and sacks on their heads and babies on their backs. 
The fighting threatens to escalate the refugee crisis into a disaster as bad as the one 

of an important clinical research study. 
Do you have Asthma? 
You may be t~ligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINANCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.oo) 
To be eligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 70 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 
Goma experienced ill 1994; when 1.1 million Rwandan Hutus·ned into Zaire. Tens of thousands died then for lack of food, water and medicine. 
Artillery biittles raged all morning around Goma's airport -the only route for food sup­plies to the 700,000 Rwandan Hutu refugees living in sprawl" ing camps near the shores of Lake Kivu. 
Even that lifeline was cut Thursday; the airport remained in Zairian hands but was closed by fighting. Roads from Rwanda, Burundi and Uganda into Zaire were already shut. 
The Tutsis are fighting to repel Zairian army attacks and to push the Rwandan Huttt refugees further into Zaire. After c(lpturing the provincial capital of Bukavu on Wednesday, they closed in on Goma, 60 miles to the north. 
After a late meeting, Zaire's parliament urged Huttts from Rwanda to join Zaire's army in fighting the Tutsi rebels. It also urged Zaire's government to identify and expel all Rwandan Tutsis. 
Shells fired from the hills across the border in Rwanda bludgeoned areas north of Goma on Thursday. From dawn into night, thudding booms and crackling gunfire sent thou­sands scurrying for safety. 
Reports of a two-pronged Tutsi attack on Zairian posi­tions north of Goma sent more than 110,000 Rwandan refugees from the Kahindo refugee camp and 20,000 local residents fleeing along dirt paths towards Goma's Mugunga camp. 
Mugunga -swollen and mis­erable with some 400,000 inhabitants -is already the largest refugee camp in the 
world. •'""'"'
''This concentration is1 a recipe for rapid deterioration," said Ruth Marshall, spokes­woman fot the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva. 


page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 1, 1996 
• AFGHANISTAN • VATICAN C!TY 
Three children killed in air raids Pontiff celebrates 

By ANDREW SELSKY 
Associated Press Writer 

KABUL, Afghanistan 
The day began with an air raid that killed three children and ended with artillery duels just north of the capital, caught in an escalating battle to oust the strict Islamic leadership. 
At 7 a.m. Thursday, a plane new in low and dropped two bombs on the northwestern edge of Kabul. destroying two mud-brick homes. 
A 16-year-old girl and her 6­year-old brother died in one house, a 10-year-old boy in the other. 
Relatives of the dead siblings collapsed into the arms of the children's grandmother at a neighboring home where the two bodies were laid out on mats. 
"God! Why did this happen? What did we do wrong?" women cried. 
Fear briefly interrupted the wailing when a plane flew low overhead. 
The siblings' parents were among seven people wounded in the air attack. More bombs landed in a field and near Kabul Airport, the likely target 
•LIBERIA 
of all the explosives. 

A coalition force trying to retake the capital from the Taliban Islamic militia has been bombing Kabul on and off since Saturday, but Thursday's raids were the first to kill any­one. Taliban shells and bombs have killed civilians on the other side of the front line. 
The Taliban controls roughly two-thirds of the country, but its campaign has stalled since the group took Kabul last month. Ousted government mil­itary chief Ahmed Shah Massood, powerful northern warlord Rashid Dostum and the leaders of two smaller factions have banded together to fight the Taliban. 
The three children who died Thursday were buried almost immediately in accordance with Islamic custom. Some 200 men gathered in a field about a block away to dig three graves in dry, hard-packed earth and to pray. 
As the mullah, or cleric, recit­ed from the Koran, artillery explosions could be heard from the front line, 10 miles north. 
The allied forces have been skirmishing with Taliban sol­diers along the front line for 
IIIII Government troops [)] Dostum"s forces [J Hezb-e-wahabat (Shiite Muslims) D 7a/iban rebels (Sunni Muslims) 

\AFGHANISTAN. PAKISTAN t...; i.....N, • -~·-j 200 miles 
IRA Kandahar;·--·· ­
/~. 

200km 
20 miles 
··--v ­/''''"• ~~••~~;¥~....i 
/ PAKISTAN 'c-,_j 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 
the past week, with neither side gaining much ground. 
Late Thursday, Taliban sol­diers fired howitzers along the road heading north from Kabul, sending up geysers of smoke and dirt some four miles away. 
Liberian warlord evades death 
By JONATHAN PAYE-LAYLEH 
Associated Press Writer 

MONROVIA, Liberia 
Liberia's chief warlord escaped an assassination attempt Thursday but gunmen killed his bodyguard and at least two others in an attack that raised fears of renewed warfare in the capital. 
Charles Taylor, the target of the assault, warned of "the probability of things getting out of hand" as a result of the inci­dent. 
Taylor, speaking on his pri­vate radio station KISS-FM, said he had ordered his forces to "remain calm," and there were no immediate reports of fighting in the city. 
Officials announced a 7 p.m.­6 a.m. curfew, replacing a 10 p.m.-6 a.m. one that had been in force more than a year. 
Taylor is one of six warlords jockeying for control of this West Africa nation, which was founded by freed American slaves in 1847. 
A civil war that started in 1989 has killed more than 150,000 people. 
Gunmen opened fire on Taylor's entourage as it arrived at the downtown Executive Mansion for a meeting of Liberia's interim government, said Nigerian Gen. Victor Malu. 
He is head of the 8,500­strong multinational African peacekeeping army deployed in Liberia. 
The assailants had been in a taxi that followed the motor­cade past guards and into the compound, Malu said. 

CornEd delivers the power. A power that engages the 
unique, diverse talents of t6,000+professionals. A power that satisfi~-s the daily energy requirements of 8 million people. 
We will be interviewing on campus in a few weeks. If interested, please contact the placement office for more details or 
visit our website at http:lwww.ucm.com 
Equal Opportunh) F.mplo)er. 
golden anniversary 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY 
A choir and orchestra joined in Handel's "Messiah" for Pope John Paul II on Thursday to mark the 


50th anniver-John Paul II sary of his ordination to the priesthood. 
The pope applauded then shook hands with some of the 7,000 spectators as he walked out of a Vatican auditorium. The 76-year-old pontiff smiled and appeared in good health during his most strenuous public event since surgery Oct. 8 to remove an inflamed appendix. 
"I extend my gratitude to the many people I have met along my road and that, in different ways, have helped me on the way in these years," the pope said after the concert by the Salzburg Chamber Orchestra led by conductor Franz Welser Most. 
S:;tt#
li£•t 
\ { \. 

Dl N 
l'j···~··· 
---5 t 
...........,~ .. 

playing this saturday in the ballroom only $3 for students, $5 for non-students 10:30-1 pm 
OwN A PIECE OF 
NoTRE DAME STADIUM 
$19.95 

''THE DOMER'' 
Now, you can own your very own piece of Notre Dame Stadium. This exclusively manufactured piece for students features an authentic piece of brick from the Stadium and a plate citing its origin mounted on a solid walnut base. A certificate of authenticity is affixed to the bottom. 
Pick up your "Domer" at: LaFortune Center Information Desk 9 a.m. -8 p.m. Mon. -Fri. 12 noon-8 p.m. Sat. & Sun. Please be sure to bring your I.D. card! (Limit one piece/person) 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

E. coli bacteria infect fruit juice 
ByAUDRAANG 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE 

A popular brand of fruit juices was pulled off store shelves in seven Western states and Canada after health offi­cials linked the product to an outbreak of E. coli bacterial poisoning. 
As of Wednesday, health offi­cials in Washington state had confirmed 13 cases of E. coli infection and at least 10 of them involved Odwalla fruit juices. 
At least eight possible cases were also being investigated. Most of the victims have been children. One boy remained hospitalized; the other victims were not seriously ill. 
Health officials used dietary histories taken on the victims, coupled with genetic "finger­printing" of the bacteria, to trace the outbreak to a batch of unpasteurized apple juice that Odwalla uses as an ingre­dient in many of its fresh mixed-fruit beverages. 
"The public is admonished not to drink Odwalla fruit juice containing apple juice," Dr. Alonzo Plough, director of the Seattle-King County Depart­ment of Public Health, told a news conference. 

Odwalla Inc., based in Half Moon Bay, Calif., on Wednesday issued a nation­wide recall of all its products containing apple juice. 
Thirteen types of juice were being taken off the shelves, Odwalla said. 
While they all contain some apple juice, most of them, like Blackberry Fruitshake and Mango Tango, do not have "apple" in their names. 
"Our first concern is for the health and safety of those affected," Stephen Williamson, Odwalla chief executive officer, said in a statement. 
Company spokeswoman Sydney Fisher could not say what volume of juice was involved in the recall or how much it will cost the company. 
The stock of Odwalla plunged 29 percent this morning on word of the recall, falling $5.37 1/2 to $13 a share on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
Odwalla sells its products in select markets in Washington, California, Oregon, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada, Texas and British Columbia. The company markets its drinks as natural. 
Ten of the 13 confirmed vic­tims drank Odwalla beverages containing unpasteurized apple juice, Plough said. Nine of the 10 were children ages 10 and younger. 
All drank the juice between Oct. 11 and 21. 
Plough and officials from the state Department of Health said they did not immediately know if the other three victims also drank Odwalla juice. 
Officials were alerted to the 
E. coli outbreak when five infected children were admit­ted to the hospital. 
E. coli killed three children and sickened hundreds in western Washington in early 1993. That outbreak was traced to contaminatedham­burgers served at Jack-in-the­Box restaurants. 
The potentially tainted Odwalla flavors are: Apple Juice, Blackberry Fruitshake, Mango Tango, Super Protein, Strawberry Banana Smoothie, Raspberry Smoothie, C­Monster, Mo'Beta, Femme Vitale, Strawberry C-Monster, Superfood, Serious Ginseng and Deep in Peach. 
Odwalla sells 12 other prod­ucts, from strawberry lemon­ade to a vegetable cocktail, that do not contain apple juice and are not affected by the recall. 

because o( ... at t»"o k.ey ,. the Canadian Auto Worktlts plants, company and union strike earlier in October. negotiators m~taround the . The company said single clocJ< Th\lrsdayln hopes of shifts rl'}turne~ to assembly reaching asettlement. ········.·.·.·· plants at Kansas City, Kan., and 
A U~ited Auto .Workers Buick City in Flint. Mich. Only source{speaking on conditi{)n. the Lordstown:, Ohio, assembly of anonymity~ said negotiators .plant was. still,,Jdle because of 
were. doser than. ever t~ a de~tl. i0L~P:~ CAW !>trike•. ): r'R :. But <GM spokesman .;Chuck A GM source srud three more llcari was more cautious~ light-truck assembly plants that 
tthtn.l{ it's. in an.y.~ .)Ydepend r on <parts from h.n.;ht'.<• h'".'rmterests to cbarac-.. [ndianapolis were tentatively now.".Licari schedul.ed .to.. close Friday: otlatorS• talke.9 Moraine;.Ohio;>Linden, N;~.; night and those · and Shreveport/ La. Together, continuing." " they employ ab~ut 9,000 OAW ,809 ···· workers, though some may be kept onfor maintenance and 
·:n·~~~nf~~··stfikes ~p~;h. nrtinct 
''''GM where it is most costly; its proiltabl~ production ,of P'."n.u1,., @d sport utility vehi­
=· ::St:~tFr==· 

Patients cl1oose new technique 
EXTRA!! ~~e ~imes EXTRA!! 
~"'t"i The Notre Dame Prelaw Society presents ~-T~ 
... ... ADAM LIPTAK 
SENIOR CouNSEL oF THE NEw YoRK TIMES Co. 
Monday, November 4 -4:15p.m. Moot Court Room, Law School 
Liptak will talk about his position as Senior Counsel of The New York Times Co. and discuss First Amendment rights. 


would remove his prostate, and he'd probably end up impotent and with little or no control of his bladder. 
Instead, he chose to have the cancer treated by injecting it with radioactive pellets, a pro­cedure that has slowly gained favor since the first such opera­tion in the 1970s. 
Skeptics say there's not enough evidence to prove that the procedure, called seed implantation, is as effective as surgery for prostate cancer. 
"I was so excited that there might be another route, anoth­er way," said Black, of Powder Springs, Ga. "When some guy tells you he's going to make you impotent, and you'll lose your life ... you look at every avenue there is." 
Cancer of the prostate, the walnut-sized gland at the bottom of the bladder, is the second leading cancer killer among men, after lung cancer. An esti­mated 317,000 men in the United States will be diagnosed with it this year; an estimated 41,000 will die of it in 1996 . 
Surgery, the most common treatment, removes the gland. In seed implantation, 60 to 100 rice-sized pellets packed with radiation are injected into the prostate. Both options are pos­sible only if the cancer is caught early and has not spread. 
The seeds later become dor­mant. The injections take about an hour and most patients can return home a few hours later. 
Frustrated that his own doc­tor wouldn't tell him about it, Ed Lerner researched seed implantation himself. 
"My doctor wanted to hurry me into the hospital to get the cancer out," the semiretired computer consultant said. "I wasn't sure I wanted to be in so much of a hurry. The whole idea was devastating." 
He and Black both turned to Atlanta urologist Dr. Steven Morganstern, who has per­formed 500 seed implantations over the past six years. He has also patented a needle that strategically places the seeds to best attack the cancer. 
-------~----~---~ ­
page 8 

Gore: GOP 'following siren song of right wing,' straying from roots 
By JEANNINE AVERSA Associated Press Writer 
GALVESTON, Texas 
Hepublicans have strayed far from their roots as the party of Abraham Lincoln, Vice President AI Gore asserted Thursday in pressing Texas voters to help re-elect President Clinton and return Democrats to control of Congress. 
Gore strongly criticized former Senate GOP leader Bob Dole, the presidential chal­lenger, and House Speaker Newt Gingrich in his remarks. 
He has been emphasizing the importance the Democrats place on retaking the House and Senate, which they tost to the Hepublicans in 1994. Gore 
lie said of Dole and Gingrich: "They are following the siren song of the right wing that has now captured control of the modern Hepublican Party in 1996. 
"This is not the party on the other side that Abraham Lincoln founded. They have strayed far, far from their roots." 

By RON FOURNIER Associated Press Writer 
PHOENIX 
Looking for a lopsided vic­tory, President Clinton cam­paigned Thursday in a state that has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Harry Truman. He u r g e d America to reject "the racial, the 
'""""'-'Lc-li_....nt~o-n ethnic, the tribal and the religious divisions." 
Fighting back Republican attacks as the campaign nears an end, White House image­makers wrapped Clinton in the pageantry of the presiden­cy: Swelling crowds and countless marching bands met Clinton at every stop on his six-day. 15-state trek to Election Day. 
He hopes to avoid the smudge of homestretch ugli­ness, particularly allegations that foreign campaign donors bought access to the Oval Office. Dole suggested that Clinton may have broken the law. 
The White House refused to allow the president to be questioned by reporters. And aides deflected inquiries about the growing controversy. say­ing Clinton will address cam­paign finance reform Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
The president and his team were sticking to their play-it­safe script that put Clinton in front of Democratic voters with recycled speeches about American values and Republican excess. 
"I want an America that is rejecting the racial, the eth­nic, the tribal and religious divisions that are tearing apart so much of the rest of the world," Clinton told thou­sands of supporters at Arizona State University. He was speaking in Los Vegas, Nev. and Oakland, Calif., before ending a 13-hour day. 
Privately, the president has expressed mounting irritation with Dole, aides said. That may explain why his criticism of the former senator has slowly become more pointed. 
Mentioning Dole by name, something he has rarely done so far, Clinton suggested that the former senator opposes student loans and called his tax-cut plan "a risky tax scheme." In a typical touch of hyperbole. Clinton said Dole and fellow Republicans "shut the government down to try to force us to keep police off the streets." 
It was a reference to Clinton's budget plan to fund his project that may eventual­ly hire 100,000 police. "I couldn't believe it," he said. 



Friday, November I, 1996
The Observer • ELECTION '96 
Clinton invades GOP turf 
Career Day 1996 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
9:00 am -4:00 pm Atrium of the College of Business Administration Complex-1st and 2nd Floors 

Choose what is rightfor you! 
Over 40 companies will be represented in a speaking session or by hosting a table. We welcome all majors as well as undeclared sophomores and freshmen. Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Complex for a listing of companies, session times, and resume critiques. 
---~------------' 


Friday, November 1, 1996 The Observer • ELECTION '96 page 9 
Thurmond's childhood Dole: 'I wa.nt to shake up this race' 
ByTOMRAUM Dole will both fly and take will once again fight 'round the 
Associated Press Writer long bus trips as part of the clock for America's future." 
sitter to vote at 104 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p s e n t s Guest Artist David Dahl in an organ recital playing works by Vincent Lubeck, Dame Ethel Smyth, Hans Olav Lien, Fanny Mendelssohn, Michel Corrette, Marcel Dupre and Cesar Franck Sunday, November 3 8 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart The concert is free and open to the public.  

Notre Dame employees 
You have a choice in health plans. To designate Saintjoseph sMedical Center asyour prefen-ed hospital, select either Family Health Plan of Indiana or CIGNA. 
The ability to s.tt a health plan ofyour. choice is one ofthe benefits ofbeing a Notre Dame employee. This is an important decision. And to make this decision you need as much information as possible. 
That's whySaint Joseph's Medical Center, through the Select Health Network, wants you to know the only way you can make. sure we are your hospital ofchoice is by selecting either Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
Why is this important? Because Saint Joseph's Medical Center has served people like you throughout Michiana for over 100 years. Our tradition ofcare is second to none. And Saint Joseph's provides a full continuum ofquality health care services to serve virtually any health care need. For example, our cardiology department has one ofthe most successful records in the country. The obstetrics unit at Saint Joseph's features the most modern,. fully-equipped birthing suites (LDRPs) in the area as well as a state-of-the-art neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Our cancer program is likewise nationally renowned. And the Medical Center's CARE-accredited pain and rehabilitation programs have helped hundreds ofMichiana residents successfully get back on their feet, back to their jobs and back to a normal life. 
Ofcourse, there are many other reasons why the people ofMichiana prefer Saint Joseph's Medical Center. So make sure that you have access to the broad range ofSaint Joseph's Medical Center services. When it comes time to choose your health plan, select Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
A Saint Joseph's't)' Medical Center 80 I E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend, IN 46617 A Member of Saint Joseph's Care Group and the Holy Cross Health System 
©Saint joseph's Medical Center-1996 



I 

AtAT&T, we're t~ best at bring:ng people togef;er.,,our'c~tomers :nd the • •" talented innovatois who defin(who w~'are to the V{Orld. This is «a·uniq\le local '. opportunity to bripg your skill~ to "the Jearn t9 bear in !he ct,yna!Ilic ~d de!Iland.ing ·, data communications industry. As our;global;'alliances41Jld<OpportumtJes grow, • ~e 're searching for confident innovators who can &ommm\icate at a\I;Jeve\s ~nd ~re e~ger to use their,skills in col11j1lercial\narkets. : • • • • • • : : 
~ · \ II': 1\:EcourifEx~cu;t:v~§'lll::::::. ·.....: / 
Your challenge will be to identify opporii)nities to expai\d.smr cusiOII)eJ' base i~· 
yo~r territory by usii)g a consultaiiye sales approach. Direct busirie~:to-business 
sales experience and a background selling within an asslgneq terril<)ry or ' • group of accounts is ;equired for this•exciting \~cal position.· YO'u; ability to • • • 
meet ~.ales goals, generate new leads, ;ng make effective pres;'!!a!i(m,s will • 
be critical to your succesS. A BS or BA degree is desired along. with a 
backgr~und in te\ecommu~ications service sales pr data communications. • • 
Basic co;,puter and Internet knpw\edge helpful. • • • • • , , • ••••• • • • 
:·· » 
Our major c~nwetitive value rests'with our people, so we are aggressive in our goal to attract the best with generous salari~s. commission, benefits and growth potential. ~ ~ ~ '* ~ * » ~ *" v ~ 
'* * » ~
.« <'! 

If you have the experience, drive and ambition t~ succe;ct'in ihe"fasi-g;owing telecommunications industry, we would like to hear from you. Send your resume and salary requirements to: AT&T Resume Scanning Center, Promenade 1, Room 7075, 1200 Peachtree Street NE, Atlanta, GA 30309. Code: CS61101SB. AT&T encourages cti{iersity in the workplace and is an • •• • affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. . • • • " • " • "' • • • •· ' ' • 
By JESSE}. HOLLAND 
Associated Press Writer 
SALUDA, S.C. 

When Lois Crouch Addy first voted for president, Bill Clinton and Bob Dole hadn't even been born. 
The 104-year-old woman can remember shaking Woodrow Wilson's hand at his presiden­tial inauguration, voting in the first election after women's suf­frage and baby-sitting Strom Thurmond. 
Now he's the nation's oldest senator ever at age 93. and she plans to vote Tuesday to give him another six-year term. Campaign ads for Thurmond's 43-year-old Democratic oppo­nent, Elliott Close, question whether the. senator is still up to the job. 
"It's not your physical condi­tion that counts, it's the condi­tion of your brain," said Mrs. 
Addy, who will go to the polls with her 19-year-old great­grandson next week. 
The retired schoolteacher and principal, who says she's gone to the polls for every national election since women were allowed to vote in 1920, was awarded South Carolina's "Golden Voter" award Thursday in honor of her voting record. 
She gets around on her walk­er and volunteers at the local nursing home taking care of "old people," she said with a laugh. 
Mrs. Addy definitely has developed her own perspective on the history of politics. 
-Franklin Roosevelt? "I hated him," she says. 
-Prohibition? "The greatest thing that ever happened to America," said the lifelong member of the Woinen's Christian Temperance Union. 
MIAMI 
Bob Dole, looking for a dra­matic climax for his uphill pres­idential campaign, announced a 96-hour, virtually nonstop final push through 15 states begin­ning Friday. 
"I want to shake up this race," he declared. 
Trailing badly in the polls with five days to go, Dole also appealed Thursday to Ross Perot's supporters in his mm;t direct terms yet. 
In what could be viewed as a concession that he could not win a three-way race against Clinton, Dole said, "I can beat one candidate. I can't beat two. So don't vote for Ross Perot." 
Aides said that after an overnight stop in Columbus, Ohio, on Thursday night, the only hotel pauses before Election Day would be 90­minute stops every 24 hours so Dole and his entourage could freshen up. 
Absentees may hold key to House 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
The growing use of absentee ballots, particularly in Western states, is likely to complicate the reporting of election returns Tuesday night and could delay for days the deter·· ruination of who controls the House of Representatives. 
"You can have this overhang of hundreds of thousands of votes that haven't been count· ed," said Mark DiCamillo, vice president of California's Field Poll. "I would expect that in coast-to-coast plan, aides said. 
"Where's the map?" Dole asked aboard 
r---~..,.,.,,.--, his campaign plane, indi­cating he was ready to go. 
"Gonna wear you out," he told reporters. 
The dra-Dole matic travel gesture -which would dwarf the 30-hour, 10-city blitz that Clinton himself did in 1992 ­came as Dole and his strategists struggled to find a way to invig­orate his campaign. 
The race has been frozen for months, with Clinton holding a double-digit lead in the polls. 
Dole compared the final effort to his wartime fighting in Europe. 
"The last time I fought 'round the clock for my country was in 1945 in Italy," Dole said. "Beginning at noon tomorrow, I 
any race where it's close, those votes will have a big impact." 
Republicans currently hold narrow leads in both the House and Senate. Political analysts say there is a 50-50 chance that Democrats will pick up the 18 seats they would need to wrest away control of the House; the chances for a Senate takeover are rated somewhat lower. 
If the outcome hinges on a half-dozen or fewer seats -a distinct possibility -close races on the West Coast, where polls close latest, could be the determining factors. 
The trip is to take him to 15 states in roughly this order: Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska, South Dakota, Colorado, Nevada, California, New Mexico and Kansas, with side trips to New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Tennessee and Indiana. 
"I will not rest until we have made my case to every worker, every family, and every voter," Dole declared. 
"I am determined to make every hour of this decisive elec­tion count." 
The Republican challenger said he would take his cam­paign "from the factories of Ohio and Michigan, through the bluegrass of Kentucky, in the towns and neighborhoods of the Midwest, across the Rocky Mountains, through the cities and streets of California." 
Earlier, Dole shared a stage with former President Bush at a rally in a refurbished theater in Tampa. 
In Oregon, as many as a third of the state's 1.9 million voters are expected to vote absentee in Tuesday's general election. In Washington, the number of absentee voters may hit 1 mil­lion. 
In Oregon, ballots must be received by election officials by 8 p.m. on Election Day, Nov. 5, to be counted. 
In Washington, ballots only need be postmarked by that day, meaning hundreds of thousands of valid ballots may not be in the hands of election officials until a day or two later. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, November I, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News J'.ditor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sporu Editor .................... .Timothy Sherman Production Manager...................... .Tara Grieshop Accent Editor......................•.... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independ~nt newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra~ rion of either institution. The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcprescnr the opinion of the majori.ry of the Editor-in-Chic:{ Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoinr Ediror, Acccm Ediror, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saine Mary's Edi[Or. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns presem die views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-C.hief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spon5 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary·s 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• OFTEN WRONG, BUT NEVER IN DOUBT 
Lar~Ratsl 
Many people cite the Constitution as guaranteeing us a government lof the people, by the people and for the people. They've never read it, of course, that phrase comes from the Declaration of Independence. I have grown weary of their shallow misperceptions and I've decided to put up, but not shut up. Today I present a modest proposal to 
Christopher 
Regan 


begin reforming America where America bcga-on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. 
It has been argued in these very pages that !everyone has a right to his own opinion. This seductive phrase must be more carefully analyzed, the better to see its real meaning. "Everyone" is an inherently individualistic word, denying, in its very utterance that we are all members of religious, ethnic, racial and economic groups. It seeks to oppress disadvantaged groups by encouraging them to rely on themselves instead of the government, which must repay them for wrong inflicted across the wide stretches of history. 
The notion of "rights" has long been exposed as a patriarchal term employed by dead white males to engage in cultur­al in1perialism, enforcing their beliefs on slaves from Central America clear across to China. It evokes the same maniacal individuality that is responsi­ble for, among other things, the Federal Budget Deficit. If we arc to unite as the Global Village we now know we are and raise our children in that Village, "rights" as a concept must be frankly and explicitly abandoned. 
The assumption that everyone is a· "him" is part of the insidious sexism for the English language. There being no neuter possessive pronoun, speakers are forced to presume that the subject of any statement is male -denying women the affirmation they deserve as legitimate members of or society. The implications of this linguistic sexism are increases in discrimination, date rape and the general enslavement of the fair­er sex. 
"Own" is a particularly offensive word, given that men own 95 percent of the property in the world. The United states continues to lag behind nations like Brunei in standard of living because of our outmoded notions of individual responsibility and its ties to concepts like "ownership" and "property." 
"Opinion" is of course the worst word of all, implying as it does that there are no correct opinions to be held on mat­ters of racial, religious and gender equality. It denie,s the central focus of my proposal which is this: Some people do not have a right to their own opinion because they have no idea what theyfre talking about. 
We must ensure that the harmful views of others are not spread on this campus. We must guarantee that people who are wrong find no stage for their views on our campus. We must promise incoming freshman that at Notre Dame they will find refuge from error in all its forms. 
There can be no denying it. This University is an institution of learning. If the things you learn are wrong, then youfre not really learning, are you? The Colloquy for the Year 2000 may not have addressed this, but an Ad-Hoc Committee for the Eradication of Error should be convened immediately by the President. 
No inaccuracy, be it political, theologi­cal, philosophical, metaphysical moral or otherwise should be propounded in the sight of the Lady on the Dome. No meetings shall be held and no classes offered which threaten to push impres­sionable students in the direction of solecism. This Ad-lloc Committee, in its daily meetings, will review the tran­scripts of classes and student activity meetings, rigorously holding them up to our high ideal of accuracy as defined by Du Lac and the Catechism. 
The benefits of this Committeefs exis­tence are myriad. To quote Du Lac's "Discriminatory Harassment Policy," Harassment is " ... any hostile intention­al, and persistent badgering, addressed directly at another, or small group of others, that is intended to intimidate its victims from any University activity ... " We will just have to accept it: things are going to be a little more quiet at football games from now on and we may have to eliminate Bookstore altogether, but it is small price to pay for our newly cultivat­ed sensitivity. 
Furthermore we will see the elimina­tion/prevention of any !confusing! clubs on campus. There will be no College Buddhists or Hindus holding meetings that distract from the purpose of this University or copies of the Tao Te Ching in the bookstore to confuse unsuspecting freshmen. We will teach the straight stuff the way it was meant to be taught. 
The state of gender relations will of course be improved. Stanford Hall min­utes will cease to exist and when sexist speech and conduct is expurgated, we will begin to teach young men how to express themselves more truthfully. Dating might even be allowed after a necessary transition period. 
There are some untoward conse­quences as well, but fear not, gentle reader, they can be borne and indeed must be borne if an enterprise so great as this one is to be undertaken. On Liberty, a mainstay in the philosophy and government department, will have to go. The marketplace of ideas is being replaced with an efficient American util­ity monopoly. Knowledge is power, after all. The PLS science courses arc history, so to speak, but they won't be necessary when the core curriculum expands to 80 credits of required classes anyway. We will bid a fond farewell to The Observer. Not every error can be remedied. 
All in all, it will be a kinder, gentler campus we enjoy and our security in ourselves will be redoubled; if you can imagine that, you are well on your way to joining in my proposal. 
Christopher Regan is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Friday. 
• DOONESBURY 

7HA7'5 AN EA~Y ONt, CAL/.E.R / 
P. CHA9E TAL807TIII 19 ONe 
Of 7HE NATION'S FO!<CMOST 
CONSERVATIV/3 5CHOIAR5... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
FORMtR.131?17VRIAL UJR.IT131<. fOR.. 7Ht IAJALL STREflJaJRNAL, OfASE ISNWA VISITING FU­to/J/AT 7H& HUMS INSTIW-,c; 
FOR ANT&lJiliJVIAN SllJPIES! 
I 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If a man hasn't discov­
ered something that he 

will not die for, he is not fit 
to live." 
-Martin Luther King, Jr. 


VIEWPOIJ\fT
Friday, November 1, 1996 page 11 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Remembering a lost friend 
Dear Editor: 
This Saturday, Lyons Hall is sponsoring the Fourth Annual Mara Fox Scholarship Run. For the underclassmen, Mara Fox was a freshman, set to graduate in the class of 1997. who was hit and killed in an alcohol-influenced auto accident. Who, why, and how are the questions of great controversy-but the thing that is certain is that her death occurred and it was unnec­
essary.I write this letter urging everyone to remember Mara and to think a little harder the next 
time they get behind the wheel of the car while drunk. This message is nothing remotely anti­drinking: it's just anti-drinking and getting behind the w.heel of a ~ar. If I sound l~k~ I'f!I standing on top of a soap box, I am sorry. But the loss of JUSt one fnend to drunk dnvmg IS 
more than enough to make me a firm opponent. 
A friend sent me this poem that they found on an Internet chat group. and I think it brings up some timely questions. I can't track down the author's name, but he/she asked to have it circulated and this is the best way I could think of to do so. 
CHRISTINE DUFFY President, SADD 
I went to a party, Mom, I remembered what you said You told me not to drink, Mom, so I drank soda instead I really felt proud inside, Mom, the way you said I would I didn't drink and drive, Mom, even though the others said I should­I know I did the right thing, Mom, I know you are always right Now the party is finally ending, Mom, as everyone is driving out of sight 
As I got into my car, Mom, I knew I'd get home in one piece Because of the way you raised me, so responsible and sweet I started to drive away, Mom, but as I pulled out into the road The other car didn't see me. Mom, and hit me like a load As I lay there on the pavement, Mom. I hear the policeman say The other guy is drunk, Mom, and not the one who'll pay I'm lying here, dying, Mom, I wish you would get here soon 
How could this happen to me, Mom? My life just burst like a balloon There is blood all around me, Mom, and most of it is mine I hear the medic say, Mom, I'll die in a short time I just wanted to tell you, Mom, I swear I didn't drink It was the others. Mom. the others didn't think He was probably at the same party as I The only difference is, he drank and I will die 
Why do people drink. Mom? It can ruin your whole life I'm feeling sharp pains now, pains just like a knife The guy who hit me is walking, Mom, and I don't think it's fair I'm lying here dying and all he can do is stare 
Tell my brother not to cry. Mom. Tell Daddy to be brave And when I go to heaven, Mom, put Daddy's girl on my grave Someone should have told him, Mom, not to drink and drive If only they had told him, Mom, I would still be alive 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
lrrlni~diate gratification 
.:"-, ,, « 
n(>t t;he goal of an MBA 
Dear jEditor: · . Michael LeWis (The Observer, Oct. 11) has obviously never applied to an MBA program. There are more than 500 MBA programs in this coun­}~~· y~~~ no Qne. iricluding Business Week •. can tell you whkh one is right 
Many factors gointo deciding where, when and whether to get an MBA. Costis~certainly one of these factors. But even Business Week pointEd out ill their article, "The Most Bang for Your MBA Buck," that selectiitg a school in order to get a quick payback has problems, There are significant intangible factors that should be part of the MBA deci­sion. Major illtangibles at Notre Dame are the alumni network and the schoo:t:s overll,ll n.ame recqgnition. . . . . 
LoolQ.ng at::'payback time also· gives a disproportionate reward to a · one-y1'ar program, which ignores another key intangible: time. Many 
peopl1~; got @;·an MBA because they want to make. a career change, so 
they dedicate two full years to exploring management areas to help 
them focus on their future goals. 
For.careerft:hi'Utgers, a two-year program, although it costs more th~ 
a onihyear program, is a vital time investment, espeCially because a 
two-yuar, prc;~gram. allowstime for a summer internship, which can lead 
to a jobofier:'at gra'duati<m. Sacrificing time for an internship represents 
a trade~off that everyone in accelerated programs, including Notre 
Dame's three-semester MBA candidate,s, calculates into the "cost" of an 
MBA iirograrrL Unfortumitely. a payback ealcrilation can't include that. ··. 
My niain cpncern with. Lewis' article, though, goes beyond my belief 
that ~~jlsi~e!!': We,ek's payback calculation was misleading,. Lewis 
ignore.!i the: spirit of the Notre Dame program, which is that we are 
about more than money. We are not me-focused, short-sighted, compa­
ny~hot)pillg, s~llers-()ut-to~the-biggest·at·graduation people. · 
OthEtr MBA programs are finding that their images have suffered 
becauBe they)urne(l out too many gradu~tes who were only interested 
in a Ql~ickpayback~:At Notre Dame, we·learn that.what's good for your 
community and the world is also what's good for your business and you 
in the. long run. N~lre Dame's MBA graduates score we~ consistently 
with corporate. recruiters who share this view, and the ·graduates take 
the jobs that are right for them because ofit. 
That's all tlj~ payqack lneed. 
-··· '· . . . 
:.;~'-. 
JULIE HA.JiruSON Firstyear MBNs~dent .• 
. . . :·~, . 

Even cartoon characters can have their say 
Six presidential elections ago, I regis­tered in Indiana to vote for the first time. I had registered at an address off campus so I had to walk three miles to LaSalle High School in the rain to vote against Richard Nixon. I thought at the time that the feat might someday rival "Honest" Abraham Lincoln's legendary walk of a few miles to return a couple of 
Gary Caruso 

pennies in change he mistakenly kept. Only the history of Watergate vindicated my efforts since Nixon won Indiana along with 49 other states. 
While watching last Sunday's Halloween episode of The Simpsons, which featured the abduction of Bill Clinton and Bob Dole by outer space aliens. I wondered how the average middle class worker views this year's election. I chose Groundskeeper Willie to ponder about how he might vote next Tuesday. After all, the balding red­bearded man wearing overalls is the character I think best represents the average American. He is the school's maintenance worker who immigrated from Scotland ... the epitome of all who came to the U.S. seeking a better life. He also embodies the lifestyle of the typical American worker. 
Surely Groundskeeper Willie would be concerned with the Hepublican Party's anti-immigration rhetoric, a hot divisive issue that evolved as the keystone of Pete Wilson's last campaign for gover­nor of California. Willie would most cer­tainly oppose California's Proposition 209, this year's ballot initiative that requires an end to affirmative action programs in the state. He probably would be upset with the Republican agenda during the last Congressional session that attempted to cut education and environmental programs. 
Willie is the type of man who does not fall for nonsensical campaign rhetoric or divisive straw man issues like "special rights" for homosexuals, "quotas" rather than equal opportunities in affirmative action programs, "moral decency" by returning prayer to schools or "protect­ing" the American flag from "radicals" who would burn it. To some extent, Willie seems like the type who can cut through the "anti" climate typical of recent Republican campaigns because he is a man full of common sense. He knows that negative advertising can be an effective tool in a campaign and that voters must bypass the candidates' spin to gather the facts. To do less would be extremely gullible. 
It must tickle Willie to watch this week's new Republican television com­mercials that try to preserve their con­trol of Congress by "scaring" the voter into checking the power of Bill Clinton. I am certain that Willie knows Bob Dole lost the election several months ago. And assuredly Willie faces a small de­cision regarding his Congressional vote. 
Should Willie believe the sometimes desperate-sounding cries from Dole and Republican surrogates about the President's character and the "liberal" tendencies of Democrats? Does Willie really believe that Clinton would become more liberal with a Democratic House of Representatives? More importantly, would Willie rather have more so-called "liberals" in Congress than crusading Republican zealots who twice closed the government and threatened draconian cuts in a wide range of programs? 
Willie knows that both parties and both candidates have warts, that nobody is perfect. He can find plenty of his own demons in his bagpipe and bottle of scotch. But Willie needs to choose from among the candidates presented. He can consider supporting the Republicans who opposed raising the minimum wage, cut health and safety programs, tried to slow the rate of increase of Medicare by $nO million more than Democrats, reduced education and scholarship programs and let the lobby­ists of polluting companies write new environmental legislation in their Capitol Hill offices. 
Willie remembers that Bob Dole helped thwart campaign finance reform while he was the senate majority leader. He can recall the Republican Congress siding with corporate interests by over­riding a Clinton veto of the Securities and Exchange legislation that made it harder for investors to hold company officials responsible for fraud. Willie is aware that business interests have con­tributed more than labor interests by a ratio of 7-1, and he does not buy the "less government and less regulation" cry of Republicans, especially since Reagan and Bush had 12 years to gut regulations and reduce bureaucracy in various executive branch agencies. 
While listening to Clinton and Dole campaign, Willie has noticed that Clinton addre~.ses the issues and explains his plans for addressing the problems of the future while Dole keeps harping on what is wrong with Clinton. Our groundskeeper friend is impressed with Clinton's 1recent program that increases work study programs by one­third, up 200,000 students. He is partic­ularly happy that 100,000 of those stu­dents are designated to teach children to read so that our country can set stan­dards that allow us to compete through­out the world. Education is a matter Willie knows first hand. 
Willie thinks that returning Democrats back to control at least the House of Representatives might be a good thing. These were the :~uys who enacted the family leave laws, fought discrimination on all levels, believe in checking corpo­rate greed by providing a living wage for families and accept the principal that in a democracy, everyone can have a dif­fering opinion, including the right to worship nothing or decide how to treat one's body, without having someone else's standards imposed upon all. 
Groundskeeper Willie probably should vote for the Green Party candidate, given his first name. But he's been through tough times because he is dif­ferent, because he has an accent and is an immigrant, because he works in a position many would frown upon. He knows a bunch of bull when he hears it, and he remembers the God-awful cru­sade by the Republicans during the last Congress. 
Willie may have to think twice about his vote, but it will be for only a moment. He is better off now than four years ago, despite Republican claims that the economy is growing slower than it should. He kno_ws that Barney is off the welfare rolls, that unemployment has gone down in Springfield, and that moderation, not hard-line dogma, will be the political bent of the future. Willie wants a vibrant four years as we ap­proach the next millennium, not one run by someone whose generation cannot operate a computer. 
Next Tuesday, Willie will grab his scotch bottle to celebrate after he returns from voting for the winning team. He'll sit in front of the television and watch the first returns from Indiana and Kentucky which will give an early indication of who will control Congress. Then, by 9:30 PM, Bill Clinton will be declared the winner. Willie will cele­brate the obvious decision the American public made to insure progress for the next four years. And while he is cel­ebrating, I'll tip my glass in celebration two blocks from the White House for all the Groundskeeper Willies out there who are smart as hell, and voted that way. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for 18 years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol.com. 
J~ish FoctAs
page 12 Friday, November 1, 1996 
orthern Ireland. This place generally conjures images of big­
otry and violence-a place where Catholics and Protestants 
hate each other, a place where people gun each other down in 

~ the streets. While in certain isolated regions this holds true, 
overall, Northern Ireland is "a brave wee place where all the 
lads (no matter what their religion may be) can go down to the 
pub and take a Cuinness," claims Michael Dunnigan, a local 
bartender in Ballamena. 
For the most part, the people of Northern Ireland carry on with their daily lives without the threat of violence. Kids walk to school alone and the elderly can shop along the street without worry. "Oh sure every weekend some of the boys are going to march here or there, but we just drive by it," explains Cathrein Finnley, a mother of six from Belfast, "We've gotten used to it by now-we just live out lives. " And live they do. 
"In America, people arrange their social lives around their work lives. Here it's backwards. We arrange our work lives around party time," main­tains Nial O'llagean, a civil servant from Derry (according to Catholics) or Londonderry (according to Protestants). And spending nights at various watering holes around Northern Ireland attests to that statement. 
For the most part, Northern Ireland is as warm and welcoming a place in the country as any. 
-Rob Finch 




Rob FinchfThe Observer Rob FinchfThe Observer A Northern Ireland man cleans his windows on the streets of Belfast. Dermott and Bernie Connelly light a 
lamp during a power outage. 

Rob FinchfThe Observer 
A "Lollipop Man," who helps children cross streets, waits for the Belfast chil­dren to get out of schoo.l 
FinchfThe 

Protestants Davey O'Conner helps his brother Michael tie his tie early before school early before school 
J 

J rish Acct:~JI\t
Friday, November l, 1996 page 13 
-
ICI
fiS• 



By TIM SHERMAN 
Spores Ediror 
CORK CITY, Ireland 
"Some of us just want to be different," said a rather angry skinhead type who would only identify himself as "Mutt." 
"This place (Ireland) is boring. 
I 
Someone has to be different," he added. a diverse night life. At one end of the But at the other end of the spectrum, street is the Bohemian coffee by day some find the need to be the same. that relishes in its role of mellow And when being the same amounts to lounge by night. Up the street a bit going out to a favorite local public house 
n the truest sense of the phrase, it is 
is what one could consider to be your (pub) on a consistent basis, there is 
classic sports bar-half the crowd is riv­plenty of it. eted by the football game on the big "We come to the same place, Nestor's, screen TV, the other is making casual a lot on Mondays," said King. "We know conversation with the sounds of the the crowd and it's a great place to start 
Cranberries and Hootie and the the week with some (fun)." Blowfish in the background. And of While Americans like to end their course, in seemingly every corner is weeks at the local watering hole, resi­your traditional Irish pub. dents of Cork have no such 
Sure, the above descrip-marked night to go out. tion may aptly "If I'm looking for describe any a pint, I don't 
American city care what 
Cork, Ireland's second largest city, is a bring in like men," barmaid Katie Smith day it
but it is 
actu­shining example of such. In particular said. "Maybe in the strictest pubs you'll is," the Washington Street area presents a see mostly or just men, but not in new
ally a wide range of options to the Irish, places." saidt r u e 
especially the booming youth popu­Yet ever older establishments now
p e r ­
spective lation. welcome all sorts of crowds. Dublin of Irish 
While some are bound to follow The Network in Cork is an exam­taxi-dri­in their father's footsteps and ple. ver David
cities like 
Dublin, Cork, head straight to the pub fa r a The bar may be your typical Owens. and Galway. pint of Guinness and some dark wood bar with carved "Irish like rebel songs, substantial Celtic designs but the arms our pubs."
While much of 
Ireland, particu­amounts turn to more rested on it are far from Dublin offers alternative establish­typical.
larly small villages even more may still be cen­ments. There is a trend Sit below the classic opportunity than wood rafters and you
tered around smaller to be trendy. Cork. At the aforemen­will see a ra~.nbow sea
drink and traditional Now Europe's music oriented pubs, tioned coffee bar, of heads. third most popular 
the larger scale watering the remodeled Iso Bar, Green, redis and blues weekend destination holes boast scenes far there is no fiddle filling the jump out like a setting in a according to a recent beyond the stereotype of air. Nor is there a lot of stout punk rock bar. European Community filling the gullets of patrons. They are a different kind of rebel study, Dublin offers great
I 
-·~:.;:-~~·H'f.ttlli'·lffi'""'r~~"!ir:-.ililiriiP' Instead, there is lounge music and calls than the one!> who sang songs 100 years music and great clubs -and 
to the barmaid for imports like ago about getting the English our of great drinks, the best of all. year-old John King of Cork. "Not Carlberg, Budweiser and fruit drinks Ireland, but the black-clad, multiple­"Don't be fooled, most every­everybody goes to a traditional pub. In called Corky's for many of the women. ear-ringed patrons are rebellious in that body comes out to do one thing," siad 
fact, there really is no set definition of And there are lots of men and women. they are purposefully unique and proud King. "That one thing is to drink." 'traditional."' "Women are allowed, or course. They of it. 
The ·rumultuous Bus TriPs of Ireland 
By CAROLINE BLUM figure out what the driver was referring to. looking straight down 700 feet into the Atlantic Saint Mary's Ediror But then they saw it. Not typical Ireland green Ocean-was a different story. grass, but just rocks, as far as the eyes could see. Rocks extended in layers down to the ocean, where 
I 
GALWAY, Ireland The guide described the formation of the land, what loud waves crashed up against them and blew bub­.. reland. A land famous for its livestock, fields, pubs, scientists claim occurred during the last J[ce Age. The bles to the tourists. The tourists strictly followed the and let's not forget-adventurous bus tours. It is limestone rocks were then brought to the surface by safety wall until they reached the clifTs highest point, often said around Ireland that a bus tour is not earthquakes. the marvelous O'brien Tower. It was then that they complete without an accident. What a reputation to Ten minutes into the ride through the Burren, the felt winds from Hurricane Lilly. live up to. guide told the passengers about the Dolmen, an At first, hats flew off and tourists crouched down to 
In Galway, a city near the western coast of Ireland, ancient burial sight. The Dolmen was built during the avoid winds. Some of the more daring tourists several bus tours offer such sights as Connemara, the third millennium B.C., over a grave of 200 people. hopped the barbed wire fence marking the end of the Aran Islands, and the Cliffs of Moher. Atop the grave stands two parallel upright blocks of trail and climbed even further. 
It was a rainy Monday, typical of Ireland weather, limestone, with a larger placed above to connect the But soon the winds grew stronger. Children were when a group of 40 tourists boarded a bus bound for two. Again, the tourists looked for the si:~ht but could unable to stand upright, and others held on to the the cliffs of Moher. not find it. Finally, the bus stopped and the tourists railings or poles for support. 
The bus departed at 10 a.m. sharp, with the non­climbed over a tall row of rocks to walk toward the Taking one last look at the cliffs and the shadows of English speaking people coincidentally cropped to the Dulmen. the Aran Islands, they could see through the fog, and front,li and the first ruins were visible in the distance The walk was not easy, especially in the midst of the the tourists surrendered. They journeyed back to the just a few short minutes later. The guide told the tale torrential downpour, The tourists soon realized this stairs and back to the bus. of the hated Englishman, Oliver Cromwell, who had while trying to jump from rock to rock to arrive at the The new tourists began walking up the stairs stripped the roofs off the churches as a sign of English Dolmen. They took turns posing in front of the struc­watched the veterans being thrown down the stairs by dictatorship a century before. ture, and watched cows in the distance jump from the wind, and quickly changed their minds. 
During this time, a Catholic widow married a rock to rock. After purchasing postcards and other memorabilia Cromwell soldier in order to save her castle from the After examining the land for 45 minutes, the group at the gift shop, the group reoccupied their seats and 
-
British. When she still lost all of her money, she crowed back onto the bus. They looked mystically at warmed up to the breath-taking Atlantic Coastline on became angry and threw he husband out of the castle the land of limestone, until they were interrupted by their way back to Galway. window. the voice of their guide. He explained that the Cliffs of But just as the crowd was situated, they flew to the 
Thrilled by the mention of the word "castle," the Moher were probably closed that day, due to the rain front of their seats. The bus had come to an emer­tourists stared out of the window for a glimpse of the and fog. gency stop-at the expense of a car on the opposite structure. The whole bus moaned, even the non-English side of the road. 
The tour guide inquired if the sight needed a stop speaking whined, understanding the tone of the other The tour was complete, the bus had collided into for pictures, but the front, oblivious to English of the hapless passengers. Sulking, they accused the bus another vehicle. bus failed to answer. The driver must not have heard driver of embezzling their money and fibbing in the Absolutely stunned by the incident, the crowd the affirmative shouting from the rear, and continued hopes of getting to the pub earlier. He drove on, pushed to the front of the bus to get a glimpse of the the journey. chuckling to himself as he let the crew out at the damage. Those that could not speak English, tried to 
An hour later, the guide explained that the bus had parking lot near the Cliffs of Moher. The gullable explain the accident to the inquiring back of the bus, then begun its treck down the 26 mile Burren Way. ones apologized as they elimbed off the bus. but could make only hand gestures. The Burren meaning, "great rock," begins around the The tourists climbed steps for about 10 minutes The tourists needed only to look out the window at town of Lisdooniarna, leading motorists and tourists before seeing the first cliff. But they expected this, as the "fighting Irishmen" to figure out what had hap­to the Cliffs of Moher. a 700 foot cliff is not usually noticeable at eye level. pened. A crazy driver had tried to pass the bus, only 
When the guide first pointed out signs of the The cliff marveled them. Short grass and vegetation to be sideswiped off the road. Burren, tourists looked around in wonder trying to grew where they were standing, but looking down­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November I, 1996 
•NFL • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Owners give Super Bowl to Miami Let the post-series 
By MARY FOSTER Associated Press Writer 

NEW OHLEANS Miami was awarded the 1999 Super Bowl today. 
NFL owners were to an­nounce the site of the 2000 game later in the day, with Tampa the leading contender. Phoenix and Atlanta were the other candidates. 
"We have so much going for us-great weather, great golf, and fishing," said Alex Penelas, mayor of Dade County where the Super Bowl will be played. "The owners can park their yachts right there." 
The 1999 game originally was supposed to go to San Francisco, but uncertainty with the stadium's future forced the NFL to look elsewhere. 
Commissioner Paul Tagliabue has essentially promised a Super Bowl to Tampa, which is building a new stadium. He said he would remind the own­ers of that before the vote. 
"Traditionally, I have not made recommendations," Tagliabue said Wednesday. 
"Obviously, in a situation where I've made a best-efforts commitment to Tampa, and in any other similar situation where we would have that type of thing, then I'll reiterate that to the membership," he said. "So to some extent that repre­sents a recommendation." 
Tampa's new stadium is be­ing funded by a half-cent sales tax increase that voters ap­proved in a Sept. 3 referendum. Former Tampa mayor William Poe filed suit before the refer­endum, contending public money should not be used to fund private enterprise. 
The Tampa stadium is ex­pected to be completed in September 1998, 16 months the Super Bowl in January 2000. The NFL says a stadium must be operating 18 months before the game. 
According to a recent study, the economic impact of last January's Super Bowl on Phoenix was $300 million. 
On Wednesday, the owners reviewed a number of issues, including the current season, the preseason games, financial growth of the league in the last decade, and the crossover own­ership question. 
NFL owners have long been prohibited from buying teams in other sports, but some kind of change is needed to ac­commodate Wayne Huizenga and Paul Allen. 
Huizenga owns the Miami 
Dolphins, the Florida Marlins and the Florida Panthers, and Allen, who owns the Portland Trail Blazers, has an exclusive option to purchase the Seattle Seahawks. 
The issue will not be settled until at least the spring meet­ings, Tagliabue said. 
Discussion of the exhibition games centered around how many games should be played. Attendance was down this year, Tagliabue said. He attributed that to an earlier start, the Labor Day holiday and the Olympics running into the pre­season. 
Owners are divided over whether four preseason games are needed, Tagliabue said. 
"Obviously, it depends to some extent on the type of team you have," he said. "If you're rebuilding, you might need the four games. If you think you've got a good, strong veteran team, and you've been able to hold it together, you may feel you don't need four preseason games." 
Television revenue also drew long discussion in light of the contract negotiations that will be held next year. Television ratings are good and Monday night television ratings are es­pecially high, Tagliabue said. 
evaluations begin 
By PAUL NEWBERRY Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 
The Atlanta Braves grabbed a piece of baseball history with their fifth straight trip to the postseason. Now comes a very important offseason, one that likely will determine if the Braves can become the first team to make it six in a row. 
In addition to the usual personnel decisions, the Braves have to rebuild their psyche after a monumental World Series collapse against the New York Yankees, who took four straight games from Atlanta after losing the first two at home. 
"Sure, it's very frustrating and very saddening, because we know in our hearts that we have a team that was good enough to be world champi­ons," general manager John Schuerholz said. "But that's the nature of this business." 
The top priority is re-signing 24-game winner John Smoltz, who may command near $7 million a year. 
But the Braves also face tough decisions in the outfield, which has five potential starters for next year, and must restructure a bench and middle relief corps that proved major weaknesses during the World Series. 
The Braves have most of the tools needed to become the first team to make six straight post­season appearances, not count­ing 1994, when a strike can­celed the playoffs. 
They are young, they have a reliable closer in Mark Wohlers -despite the homer he gave up to Jim Leyritz in the World Series -and their starting pitching will remain strong even if Smoltz doesn't return. 
But re-signing Smoltz is para­mount. 
The Braves' success during the 1990s -five division titles, four National League pennants, one World Series champi­onships -can be directly traced to the best four-man rotation in the game. 
"I love Atlanta and I always envisioned playing for one team," Smoltz said. 
"There's no doubt this orga­nization will get my utmost and honest attention.... But the process will work itself out." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Notre Dame students  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  Have 3 B.C. Tics  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
NOTICES  PART-TIME WORK $1 0.25/starting  Private Homes for Football, JPW, Graduation, etc.  219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m.  Best offer? Kristin-243-1321  Cruisel 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
Flexible hours around classes.  219-291-7153  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
VFW624  Scholarships/Internships available ..  STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR  PARENTS HATE YOU?  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­ 
Friday night dinners· 4:30-8  Eve. and wknd. hours available.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY ..  SALE-ALL GAMESIII  Sell me their Rutgers TIX  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  
Dancing -9-1  Transportation necesary.  private homes for football, JPW,  call James X1658  Make FAT cash  
All members & guests welcome.  For details call 282-2357  graduation, etc. 219-291-7153  Call Jerry at 4-1798  
214 U.S. 33 N.-Next to Knight's  FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITI  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  
Inn.  VOLUNTEER GIRLS  FURNISHED!!, 1 BEDROOM APT,  AND RUTGERS GAs FOR  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
VOLLEYBALL COACH  VERY CLEAN, ALL UTILITIES  SALE 272-7233...........  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  South Bend $4191 Increase Soon ­ 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  Starting immediately  INCLUDED, FREE CABLE, 3  ALL GAMES HOME  Save $501 Save $150 On Food,  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  5th-6th grade/Our Lady of Hungary  MILES FROM CAMPUS, PRIVATE  TIX for every home game.  AND AWAY  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  School, South Bend  ENTRANCE, CALL AFTER 5PM.  Call (301) 445-3955  232-0058  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  Call Sue Mason 289-3272  232-0355  24 HAS.  1-800-678-6386  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  (daytime), 234-3750 (evenings).  BUY -SELL -TRADE  
Sun (800)763-5606.  ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER  NEED BC TIX!  ..... STRUTING THE  
Need a ride to BC for big game.  RIVERFRONT HOME, $350 STU­ As many as possible  TICKET-MART, INC.  PANTS ALL THE WAY-TO PA ..  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Will split driving/gas $$. Katie  DENT OR PROFESSIONAL; 683­ CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  
Breakfast Inn has space available  x1396  3720 DAYS  or (617) 828-089  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  TIM CORBITI IS THE COOLEST,  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  
private baths, $70 -$90,  HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  232-0061.  LAFAYETIE  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  ND-SMC EVENTS.  ••••• NAVY GAME TIXS •••••  
Toll Road. Exit #107,  (813)360-2243.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Selling 4 GA tixs.  $$$$$$  CONGRATULATIONS, JONATHAN  
1-800-418-9487  ENDS.  Call x 1453 ask for Patrick  I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  EDWARDS-1996  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  ALL HOME GAMES.  RECSPORTS UNDERGRAD  
FREET-SHIRT  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  243-0658.  $$$$  272-6551  TENNIS CHAMPION!!!  
+ $1000  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  NEED4 PITIGA  
Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­ Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  FOR SALE  288-9102 $$$$  n. d. tickets for sale  FAT RADER AND THE BAD GUYS HALLOWEEN TOUR 1996  
pus organization can raise up to  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  271 1635  Thursday, Oct. 31 CLUB 23  
$1000 by earning a whopping  www.springbreaktravel.com  COMPUTER, IBM PS/1, 486SX2  FOR SALE: 2 RUTGERS GA'S  Friday, November 1 CORBY'S  
$5.00NISA application.  1-800-678-6386  50 MHZ, 8 MB RAM, 253 MB  CALL 634-25.14  NEED BC & WASH TIX  
Call 1-800-932-0528 ext.65  HARD DISK, 3.5" DISK DRIVE, 14"  312-951-5008  Happy (early) Birthday to Miranda  
Qualifies callers receive  YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING  COLOR MONITOR, WINDOWS  I@#$%"&"())("&"%$#@!  Cassidy from Manama India. In  
FREE T-SHIRT  KIDS, MY HOME,  FOR WORK GROUPS, PANASON­ I NEED PITI TICKETS!!!  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX  honor of the day, let's click some  
M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$.  IC KX-P 1124  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  Call Pat X3015  pictures of those minty lips, and  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  277-9079  24 PIN DOT MATRIX PRINTER.  GA. ..  dance for Siegfried.  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  $500. 273-0959  CALL 4-4217 ...  Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Participants needed for studies in  !@#$0/o"&"())("&"%$#@!  exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­ 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  memory, language, & perception.  COMPUTER, GATEWAY 486DX2  339-7497  CLASS OF 1998  
....  Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473  66MHZ, 16MB RAM, 1.2GB TOTAL HARD DRIVE CAPACITY,  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!! Please call X3886.  NEED 2 GAs for Rutgers  Miss your friends that are study­ing abroad? Send them a note in  
3.5" DISK DRIVE, 5.25" DISK  Alyssa 271-9847  the Class Council Care Packages.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  INTERESTED IN MAKING  DRIVE, 4X CD ROM DRIVE, 28.8  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  Drop them off at the Class office  
Specials I 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  EXTRA MONEY?  MODEM, 15" COLOR MONITOR,  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  I need 4 GAs for Pitt. Will pay big  (213 LaFortune). Include name and  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY  FULL TOWER CASE, 2MB SVGA  bucks!  address on the envelope and we'll  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  PRACTICE LOOKING FOR PEO­ CARD, WINDOWS 95. $1,000  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's  Call Katie x3572  make sure they get there!  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  PLE TO MAKE FOLLOW-UP  273-0959  Call Rob X3014  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  PHONE CALLS TO SEE HOW  NEED 3 PITI STUDENT GAs  
1-800-678-6386  OUR PATIENTS ARE DOING. FIL­ 90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF  Wanted: 2-3 G.A.s for N.D. vs. Pitt.  Call John @ 243-1935  
ING ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE  5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569  Call X4684, no student tix please!  StomperBob  
- Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel. Location, Price! 7 Nights  HAS. CALL GERARD/DOUG 233-5754  TICKETS  NEED 5 GA'S FOR PITI CHRIS X3046  Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­Check our price 67 4-7645.  at Bridget's Saturday Night ..........................................  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  Looking for a tun & experienced  PITI&RTGRS  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ babysitter for a 3 & 2 year old.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  PLEASE­ 2 MARRIED STU BOOKS  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Various hours. some afternoons.  ALL GAMES HOME  NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  BEST OFFER  Any off-campus person  
ILOST & FOUND I  Only those who love kids & are will­ing to play should call $5/hr. Call 271-8643 & ask for Eve Petrucelli.  AND AWAY 23~-0058 24 HAS.  SISTER NANCY MILLER 257-0996.  232-2586 BC TIX WANTED  interested in playing off-campus lnterhall HOCKEY should call: Chuck@ 243-9315 or  
BUY -SELL -TRADE  NEEDED: 1 STUDENT TIX OR GA  alum seeks tix for BC game  Kevin and Rix @ 273-5928  
LOST: Green Eddie Bauer Jacket. Size XL Tall If found, please call  FOR RENT  TICKET-MART, INC.  FOR PITI-CALL DENIS AT 243­9053  call Paul @ 634-3973  -HOCKEY PLAYERS LOOK­ 
X2079. Thanks.  WALK TO CAMPUS  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  4 SALE: Two Pitt student or GA  PERSONAL  Student Activities is hiring delivery people for the NO Cake Service.  
WANTED  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  tixs. Call X2577 or X3950  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Mon-Sat afternoons or early evenings. Hours flexible. Must  
I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUSI  have own transportation. If  
VOLUNTEER CHESS COACH  HOUSING AVAILABLE NOW &  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  interested contact  
NEEDED! S~ANTHONYS  FOR '97-98 SCHOOL YR.  GAMES 235-3394  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  The highest quality full-color  Mary Edgington, 631-4077.  
GRADE SCHOOL 1 HOUR PER  2-10 STUDENTS. CLOSE TO  MEGHAN @232-7839  copies are now available at  
WEEK AFTER 3:00PM.  CAMPUS.  ALUM NEEDS GA's  THE COPY SHOP  Hey Grip,  
CONTACT: CHERYL KOVAS  DOMUS PROPERTIES -KRAMER  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  •• NEED 1 RUTGERS GA ••  LaFortune Student Center  I'm expecting a tie with some  
233-9155  674-2571.  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  Aaron @ x-0603  Phone #631-COPY  CRAZY colors. Don't let me down.  

--· --~~~~~~­
-----------------..., 
Friday, November 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAlL 
Lions next up for Cardiac kids 'Cocktail party' a 
Cats look to avenge last Big Ten loss 
ByDAVEIVEY 
Associated Press Writer 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. 

Northwestern has won 13 straight Big Ten games since losing 45-17 in its last visit to Penn State in 1994. 
"In the league today, as tough as it is, that's an amazing feat," said Nittany Lions coach Joe Paterno. "It's extraordinary. They are playing with as much confidence as a football team can have." 
Wildcats coach Gary Barnett is not intimidated about return­ing to Beaver Stadium, where Paterno's teams are 50-8 in November in his 31 seasons. 
"We enjoy road trips. There are fewer distractions," he said. "You've got 60 or 64 guys who are really focused. This is where you want to be. It's what you do in November -that's when champions are made." 
No. 11 Northwestern (7-1, 5­0), which has won four straight games in the closing minutes, travels to No. 15 Penn State (7­2, 3-2) Saturday. The 'Cats won last season's meeting, 21-10 in Evanston. Ill. 
The main objective for both teams will be halting the run. Darnell Autry of Northwestern and Penn State's Curtis Enis are both nursing sore shoulders but are expected to play Saturday. Autry has 10 rushing TDs and is averaging 132.4 yards per game. Enis has also scored 10 touchdowns on the ground while averaging 95.5 yards per game this season. 
"I think Autry is as good a tailback as there is in the coun­try," said Paterno, whose t~m has allowed 152.8 yards per game rushing. Indiana's Alex Smith had 130 yards on 30 car­ries a week ago. 
In its 27-24 win over Illinois last Saturday, the Wildcats were scorched for 166 yards by Robert Holcombe. 
"We have to stop the run and force 'em to throw the foot­ball," Barnett said. "No ques­tion about it." 
The quarterbacking edge clearly belongs to Northwestern and Steve Schnur. 
"He's smart. A great, great competitor," Paterno said. "He just loves to be in the situations he has been in. You can almost sense it. He is a kid who just loves competition -thrives on it." 
Schnur's favorite targets are D'Wayne Bates and Brian Musso. Bates leads the Big Ten in receptions per game {6.38) and yards per game {107.8) and 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
THE BEST REVIEWED MOVIE OF THE YEAR uTHE SUMMER'S BIGGEST BLAST!" 
Dave Keh<, ffliW YOI'III DAILY II£WS 

UA GREAT RLMI UNFORGErrABLE!" 
Joel SI<•Cel, GOOD MORNING AMERiCA 
urwo THUMBS UP!" 
$1SKEL & eBI!ItT 

UHIP.•• CLEVER... AND 
·WILLFULLY OUTRAGEOUS!" 
J-t Maolln, THE NEW YORK TIMES 

FRIDAY, NOV 1 AND SATURDAY, NOV 2 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
has caught nine touchdown passes. 
"Schnur may not be the fan­ciest guy, but performance­wise, he's as good as any quar­terback in the country," Paterno said. 
The passing game has been a big problem all season for Penn State, which ranks dead last in the conference at 161.7 yards per game. Against many fans' wishes, Wally Richardson remains the starting QB over Mike McQueary. 
McQueary guided the Lions to 38 second-half points in a comeback victory over the Hoosiers last week -the first time all season Penn State has shown any life in the second half. The 38 points was more than the Lions scored in the second half in their previous four Big Ten games combined. 
Northwestern, meanwhile, has thrived in the late going. 
"They've been counted· dead about three or four times this year and they have been able to make the big play in the clutch," Paterno said. "We have got to be ready to play the full 60 minutes against them." 
Penn State tight end Keith Olsommer and linebacker Aaron Collins agreed. 
"We haven't played a 60­minute game this year," Olsommer said. "If we don't do it this week, we could be in some serious trouble. Northwestern has the talent to really lay a beating on us if we don't." 
Collins said: "You have to put them away, they won't go away. They're a tough bunch. They never, ever quit." 
Florida tradition 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
1\.ssociated Press Writer 
JACKSONVILLE 
Florida banners are strung from one motor home to the next. Len Williams is sipping on a beer while his dachshund, wearing a "Gators" collar, sits in his lap. He is counting the days. 
Across the lot, the Georgia Bulldogs' flag waves from top of Nat and Karin Smith's motor home. She can't decide whom she despises more -the Florida Gators or Steve Spurrier. 
"I don't think it makes any difference," says Brenda McCollough, who drove down with the Smiths from Milledgeville, Ga. "Just beat the hell out of both of them." 
The annual Florida-Georgia game is back in Jacksonville for the first time since 1993. Kickoff is still three days away, but the "World's Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party" has already begun. 
"I think people may have for­gotten a little bit of just how unique it really is," said Jake Godbold, mayor of Jacksonville in the 1970s when the series was at its best. "But it won't take long to remember once they step in that stadium." 
The stadium is what brought this storied game to a halt the past two years. For the first time since 1933, the Florida­Georgia series was moved on campus while the aging Gator Bowl was rebuilt to house the 
IHappy 21st, 
Patrick! 
Love, 

.Aa/ep, g>~P ~~~ 
NFL's Jacksonville Jaguars. 
The seats are painted teal now, but they will be filled with the black and red of Georgia on one side, the orange and blue of Florida on the other. The Gators' recent dominance may take away the edge of the game, but not the passion of the pageantry. 
"There is a certain atmos­phere there that creates a mys­tique," said Georgia athletic director Vince Dooley, who had a 17-7-1 record against the Gators as the head coach. 
It's not hard to find it. Just look up and down the Atlantic Coast, where fans dock their boats from St. Augustine up to St. Simons Island in southern Georgia. 
The motor home lot across from Jacksonville Municipal Stadium is full by Thursday. Most folks won't even leave until the morning of the game, when thousands of fans mingle outside the stadium hours before kickoff. 
Spurrier remembers one of his freshmen telling him he didn't realize how raucous the game was until the team bus rolled into the parking lot in 1992. 
"Fans were lined up and down the sidewalks," Spurrier said. "A lot of Georgia fans ... of course, we weren't No. 1 then, but they were giving us that No. 1 sign -just the wrong finger. It's a special game in Jacksonville." 
The last game played in Jacksonville was another fren­zied affair, despite a ferocious rain that turned the field to slop. 
Trailing 33-26, Georgia's Eric Zeier threw an apparent touch­down pass with five seconds left, but officials ruled corner­back Anthone Lott had called timeout before the ball was snapped. 
Zeier's pass into the end zone on the final play fell incom­plete. 
"That was the best environ­ment I've ever been in down in Jacksonville," said Georgia quarterback Mike Bobo, a freshman in 1993. "It was just amazing. It was pouring down rain, and riding in on the bus with our fans rocking the bus." 
The most i1mportant job of your life just 11night be your first. 
As a member of Teach For America, you will be part of the national teacher corps of outstanding recent college graduates from diverse cultural backgrounds who commit 1.wo years to teach in America's under-resourced urban and rural public schools. 
You don't have to be an education major. Teach For America is seek.ng talented, dedicated individuals from every academic major who want to ensure that all children in this nation have the opportunitrto att.ain an excellent education. There is a particular need for people of color, bilingual speakers, and math, science. and foreign language majors. 
To get information and an application before the deadline, call us, reach us online, or contact your career placement adviser on campus. 
This is your chance to become part of the nation wide movement of dynamic individuals who have joined Teach For America and assumed leadership roles in the classrooms and schools across the country. Your decision will affect not only the rest of your life but the lives of many others. · 
Information Session: Nov. S, 1996 • 7:00 p.m. • 1 26 Debartolo Hall 

'1-800-832_;1230 
http :1/www. teach for america-o rg 
----~----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 1, 1996 
•NBA • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
New Blazer runs into Rodriguez named baseball's best 
IDore legal trouble 
By BOB BAUM 
Associated Press Writer 

POHTLAND 
Isaiah "J.H." Rider, who has said he looked forward to a fresh start in Portland, has been cited for possession of marijuana less than two days before he is to play in his first Trail Blazers game. 
Hider, 25. was cited at 11:30 
p.m. Wednesday when sherifTs deputies found him sitting in the back seat of a car parked alongside a highway in Lake Oswego, an affluent suburb south of Portland. 
"They observed Mr. Hider holding a pop can and a lighter near his mouth," Clackamas County sheriff's spokesman Damon Coates said. "Deputies seiz(~d the items and found the can to be converted into a smoking device, which con­tained a small amount of mari­juana." 
Hider. already suspended for Friday night's season opener because he missed the team's final exhibition game last Sunday, said after Thursday's practice that he was only sit­ting in someone else's car. 
"The bottom line is I hap­pened to be a back seat pas­senger in someone's car," Hider said, "but I'm a big name. The cops didn't find a damn thing on me. But I'm a big name. I happened to be in someone else's car, so it's kind of mnssed up." 
Coach P.J. Carlesimo said Hidnr still would play Saturday night at Seattle and no decision would be made on any action against the star guard until the team investigates. 
"It would be terribly unfair to jump to a conclusion without knowing anything," Carlesimo said. "It's unfair to anybody. It wouldn't matter whether it was 
J.R. or any of our players. You people are implying that because there's a past here, we should-jump to a conclusion. That's not fair." 
Rider had a history of off­court problems in his three seasons with the Minnesota Timberwolves and was ar­rested this summer in his hometown of Oakland, Calif., on charges of marijuana pos­session, illegal gambling and possession of illegal cellular phones. 
Blazers management came under considerable criticism when it went ahead with a trade that brought Rider to Portland. 
In Oregon, possession of less than an ounce of marijuana is a non-criminal offense subject to a minimum $500 fine. Rider was cited to appear in court on the charge Nov. 18. 
The sheriffs department said two deputies had parked their car nearby and were on foot investigating an unrelated mat­ter when they noticed two cars pull off the highway and turn off their lights. Deputies thought it was probably some teen-agers drinking, Coates said, but as they approached they saw someone, later iden­tified as Rider, lift a soft drink can and a lighter to his mouth. 
Rider was the only person cited. Neither the cars nor the others inside them were searched, Coates said. 
Rider said he planned to dis­cuss the situation with Carlesimo and Blazers presi­dent Bob Whitsitt. 
"ft looks bad now, but it will work out," Rider said. Whitsitt was traveling and unavailable for comment. 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Alex Rodriguez, who began the season batting ninth for Seattle and became the top hit­ter in the majors at age 21, was voted The Associated Press major league player of the year Thursday. 
Rodriguez hit .358 with 36 home runs and 123 HBis in his first full year in the big leagues. He set modern-day marks for shortstops in hits (215), extra­base hits (91) and runs scored (141). 
"It was a very humbling year," he said. "All they asked me to do was hit .240, hit 10 home runs and drive in 40. But I still need to improve." 
Rodriguez received 103 votes from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcast­ers. San Diego third baseman Ken Caminiti was second with 12 votes, and Atlanta pitcher John Smoltz third with nine in balloting completed before the playoffs. 
The overall No. 1 pick in the 1993 draft, Rodriguez made his major league debut the next year at 18. During the 1995 season, he was sent down to the minors four times by the Mariners. hit .232 in 48 games and backed up Luis Sojo in the playoff's. 
"I came to spring training this year and had to win a job," Rodriguez said. 
He earned it, and Seattle manager Lou Piniella said Rodriguez would stay in the lineup as long as he made the routine plays at shortstop. 
On March 31, in the earliest major league opener, Rodriguez was 0-for-5 before hitting a game-winning single in the bot­tom of the 12th inning against Chicago at the Kingdome. 
Soon, he blossomed into a leading candidate for the AL 
MVP award, which will be an­nounced Nov. 14. 
Slowed by a hamstring injury that put him on the disabled list for 13 games in April. Rodriguez was moved up from ninth to second in the batting order on May 8. He quickly became a key part of a potent lineup that included Ken Griffey Jr.. Edgar Martinez and Jay Buhner. 
At age 20, he was the youngest shortstop to appear in the All-Star game, playing bel1'!nd his boyhood role model, Cal Ripken. Rodriguez has pat­terned his fielding style after Ripken, along with his cool demeanor. 
On Monday, Rodriguez and Ripken worked out together in Los Angeles in preparation for a tour of major league stars to Japan. 
"What I've learned from Cal is to respect the game, respect the fans," he said. "Nothing fancy out there. Just do your job." 
By mid-July, Hodriguez proved he could field as well as hit. Along with making the rou­tine plays, he showed great range and a strong arm. 
Rodriguez turned 21 on July 27 on his way to becoming the third youngest AL batting champion, behind AI Kaline and Ty Cobb, and the third youngest player in history, behind Mel Ott and Frank Robinson, to hit at least 35 homers. 
Rodriguez hit for the highest average by an AL right-handed batting champion since Joe DiMaggio in 1939, and became the first AL shortstop to win the batting title since Lou Boudreau in 1944. 
He finished with 54 doubles, most in the majors, and three grand slams, tied for the most in the big leagues. lie also tied a team record of five hits in a game and finished with a .631 slugging percentage, the high­est ever by a shortstop. 
Hodriguez also stole 15 bases, and made a relatively low 15 errors. But he says there's room for improvement in all areas. 
"I need to make more con­tact. I struck out more than 1 00 times," he said. "I can cut down on my errors. and I'd like to steal 30-40 bags. I made a lot of dumb baserunning mistakes this year." 
Piniella liked what he saw, however. 
"We expected him to do the job defensively for us, which he has," Piniella said. "We ex­pected him to hit for some power. But not like this." 
The main disappointment for Hodriguez was not making the playoffs. The Mariners slumped in September, finishing 2 1/2 games behind Baltimore in the wild-card race. 
Caminiti hit .326 with 40 home runs and 130 HBis for the NL West champion Padres. 

Notre Dame Night 
Mondays, 9 pm -Midnight 
$5 per person 
includes 3 games, shoes, $a medium Coke 
Invites You to a Presentation on 
"Preparing For Th~ ~~ Exam" 
And cuefi'Wents\\ 
·· -1viontgomery Theatr.e 

Pizza and Pop will be served Special College Discount Available to Students Open to ALL Students Interested -IBJRTING A JFIDIEND ~ 
For further information, Call 277-4366 
--------------~-~---~----­
Friday, November 1, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS 

'Air' McNair ready to launch 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE 

Still holding true to their belief that later is better than sooner, the Houston Oilers would rather have Steve McNair watching on Sunday. 
Instead, McNair will be on the field, because coach Jeff Fisher has no other choice. 
With Chris Chandler sidelined with a strained groin, McNair will make the third start of his two-year NFL career when Houston (5-3) goes against the Seattle Seahawks (3-5). 
McNair, 23, made his first two starts at the end of last season, when the Oilers were out of the playoff chase. This time it's the start of the second half of the season and they're in the race. 
The Oilers have a lot of confi­dence in McNair, the first quar­terback and third player chosen in last year's draft. 
"I think he's made a lot of progress," Fisher said. "I think at this point he's ahead of schedule." 
"We feel very comfortable with McNair coming in and doing the things that he can do," linebacker Micheal Barrow added. 
The former Alcorn State play­er presents a dilemma for opposing teams. He's a big, out­standing athlete with a strong and accurate arm who can run. It's his scrambling potential that sets him apart, sort of a young John Elway. 
McNair will go back to the bench when Chandler gets healthy. lie says he agrees with Fisher's premise that it's better to sit and watch at the start of his career. Sort of. 
"A lot of quarterbacks who have come in and started in their first year have not been successful," McNair said. "But it's been very hard sitting on the sidelines, because I'm a competitor." 
The only player in NCAA his­tory to gain more than 16,000 yards in total offense played in his third game of the season in a 10-9 loss to San Francisco last Sunday. He replaced Chandler during the opening drive of the second half and was 5-for-9 for 45 yards with one interception. He also had a 10-yard run. 
Nothing special to scare an opposing team, right? 
The Seahawks disagree. 

"We're not looking forward to chasing him all over the Kingdome," Seattle defensive end Michael Sinclair said. 
McNair's first two starts came at the end of last season and he helped the Oilers beat the New York Jets and Buffalo. 
McNair liked that experience. He's looking forward to this start more, because it matters if the Oilers win or lose Sunday. It didn't matter last season. 
"This year we're in the battle to go to the playoffs and this is something I'm thinking about," he said. 

After a 1-4 start, the Seahawks will be trying to go 3­1 since John Friesz replaced Rick Mirer as their starting quarterback. 
In McNair, they will be facing their third backup quarterback in four games. They won at Miami when the Dolphins were without Dan Marino and they beat the Chargers 32-13 in the Kingdome last Sunday when San Diego was without Stan Humphries. 
"Hopefully, we can disguise some things and confuse him into throwing an interception," Seattle coach Dennis Erickson said. 
The Seahawks secondary had its best day of the season against San Diego's Sean Salisbury, intercepting four passes and also recovering a fumble. Darryl Williams had two of the interceptions and ran back one 79 yards for the first touchdown by the Seattle defense this year. 
The defensive backs ­Williams, Robert Blackmon, Carlton Gray and Corey Harris -benefitted from a strong pass rush from tackles Cortez Kennedy and Sam Adams. And Erickson said it was the best the defense has played in his two seasons here. 
Sinclair, who leads the league with nine sacks, said Seattle's secondary must play aggres­sively for the team to be successful. 
"Those San Diego receivers had alligator arms when they came across the middle," he said. "We got the message to them early." 
Seattle's defense is allowing 134 1/2 yards rushing a game and it'll be facing rookie sensa­tion Eddie George. George rushed for 717 yards and three touchdowns. He's challenging Earl Campbell's Oilers' rookie rushing record of 1 ,450 yards in 1978. 
Did you know ... ? 
!hat you could own acondominium or townhome just mmutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings 


North Shore Club 
Models Open Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 PM. Mon.-Fri. 10 A.M.-6 PM. 
:\~~ROQ 
~r§)%.
~  ~­ 
¢  ~  
~  'V  

"QsHol.'i>v 
(219) 232-2002 (800) 404-4275 

• Monthly payrnenrs ofP. and f. based on apurchase price: of$55.990 with 2Qo/o down and a30-year 7.375 A.R.M. 
Come out and 'Natch th
' 

me with your cla,ssmates! 
Free Food 

~ 
.•{

B·,g··' s<' 
-'· 
. _,. 

page 17 

Young Jets search for respectability 
By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press Writer 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. They stared history in the face and didn't flinch. 
Now, can the New York Jets do the same with their formi­dable schedule over the next seven weeks? 
After losing their first eight games in all variety of man­ners, the Jets certainly looked capable of perfection. 
Wouldn't 0-16 have been his­toric? 
And hysterical? 

A 31-21 victory at Arizona last Sunday took care of that. But it also came against the only weak team remaining on the Jets' schedule. 
No matter, they claim. Neither is the fact that their next seven opponents have a combined 30-18 mark. 
"There have been a lot of road bumps in our way," says Wayne Chrebet, one of the few standouts during the Jets' 1-8 start. 
"But it's something to build on. It feels like a long time.... It's a good thing it happened, because it was starting to get crazy in here." 
So crazy that talk of 0-16 came up constantly. 
"We were aware of it," says running back Adrian Murrell, another bright spot in the first two months. 
"We kept getting asked about it. But we knew it wouldn't happen, that there was the tal­ent here to win games." 
Much of whatever talent the Jets have will be back from in­jury following this week's bye. Quarterback Neil O'Donnell, who came from Pittsburgh as a $25 million free agent, should have recovered from a separat­ed shoulder. 
Defensive end Hugh Douglas (broken ankle) and middle line­backer Marvin Jones (knee) already are practicing. Wide receiver Webster Slaughter (hamstring) could have pushed it last weekend but took advan­tage of the bye to heal com­pletely. 
Getting those players into the lineup is critical, coach Rich 
FreEl!~ rinks 
! ...

r·~.<e·., 'e/'tn)} . l'/ ~
< 
;, ' 

L,·v-·-e··~.. B··~a·'gM·p-1·p
~.. C< ·.·. :._= · es 
Blarney B:ilsh Ill 
Kotite says. 
He's stressed it time and again, obviously forgetting that the Jets didn't win when they were available, either. 
"We cannot sit back and say, 'Whew! Thank God!' " Kotite said of the win over the Cardinals that ended a team­record 12-game losing streak. "I think this team will take the time to work hard and pull this thing together. We know we've hurt ourselves with self-inflict­ed wounds. But we're getting some people back that we haven't had in a while." 
They've also lost linebacker Mo Lewis -consistently their best defensive player for sever­al years but a disappointment this season -for the duration. 
This season was not sup­posed to be this bad. 

Jets owner Leon Hess, whose "Win Now" mandate upon hir­ing Kotite seems like a cruel joke these days, approved longterm contracts worth more than $80 million. 
Signed were O'Donnell, wide receiver Jeff Graham, tackles Jumbo Elliott and David Williams and top draft choice Keyshawn Johnson, all for big bucks. 
Murrell was re-signed. The offense, impotent a year ago, became promising. 
The defense improved in 1995, even though the 3-13 record was the Jets' worst ever. 
Based on the enhanced talent level, the Jets felt their prospects were bright. They quietly mentioned contending for the playoffs. 
Instead, the only thing they're in contention for is the first overall pick in the draft. Again. 
Yet they seem committed to the program under Kotite, whose job almost certainly is safe for the remainder of 1996. 
"I think. that any dispassion­ate observer looking on would feel that in the last few games, our team has improved in every one of them," Jets presi­dent Steve Gutman says. 
"I felt we devised a plan. The results would have to come. I still feel the same way." 
Gutman and Kotite continual­ly praise the players for work­ing hard and playing hard throughout the losing streak. And they probably will be praised by the same people for the same things as the season winds down. 
But if there aren't mare victories, if the Jets aren't any better than last year's dismal record, then what? 
"We're aware there's a deep problem that has to be re­solved," Gutman says. 
"They know this is only the beginning," adds Kotite. "If we can cut out some of things we 
-...

_
do to ourselves, we can be a different football team." Different, sure. How about better? 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

. ' 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
------------------------------------~~~~~~~~ 
• NFL 

Broncos bound for Super Bowl? 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Pre"' Writer 

DENVEH 
Finally. in his 14th NFL sea­son. John Elway has it all, and he is taking his Denver Broncos along for the ride. 
The Broncos have the best record in the AFC (7-1 ), as the well as the NFL's top-rated of­fense and running attack and third-best defense. Like it or not, league observers are beginning to tout the four-time Super Bowl losers as favorites to make another run at pro football's coveted trophy. 
Elway, at 36, is playing better than ever. On a pace to set a number of career records. he threw for 300 yards in three straight games before settling for 286 yards and three touch­down passes in three quarters as the Broncos dismantled their AFC West rivals, the Kansas City Chiefs, 34-7 last week. 
At the halfway point, Elway has completed 169 of 273 pass­es (62 percent) for 1,998 yards, 
17  touchdowns  and  10  
interceptions.  
Despite  his  Hall  of Fame  

numbers. he has thrown for 4,000 yards only once in his career and has never thrown more than 26 TD passes in a season. He could surpass both figures this year. 
"John is playing better right now than I have ever seen him play." said Chiefs coach Marty Schottenheimer. 
Mike Shanahan. whose imagi­native offensive schemes helped Elway thrive in the 1980s, is baek with Denver in his second year as head coach. He deserves much of the credit for Elway's productivity. 
''I've seen John play so well through so many years and do things that most human beings can't do," Shanahan said. "It doesn't surprise me that John is playing at the level he's play-
If you see sports happening') call The Observer at l-4543. 
ing. After the fourth game of the season -when our running game was going so well and people were asking, 'What's wrong with John?' -I said I wouldn't be surprised if John has his best year and is the highest-rated quarterback. Everybody looked at me like I was half-crazy. 
"But John is feeling more comfortable with the system, and we've got some players around him who complement his talents. If he would have had this system and these teammates a number of years ago, I don't think there's a record he wouldn't own right now in the NFL." 
Never in Elway's three previ­ous Super Bowl campaigns ­after the 1986, 1987 and 1989 seasons -did he have the supporting cast he has now. 
Second-year back Terrell Davis is the NFL's leading rush­er with 894 yards and six TDs. 
Tight end Shannon Sharpe also is on a record-setting pace. having caught 54 passes for 7 29 yards and seven scores. The NFL record for catches by a tight end is 96 by the Patriots' Ben Coates in 1994, and the yardage record is 1,290 by the Chargers' Kellen Winslow in 1980. 
Ed McCaffrey, Anthony Miller and Davis all have caught at least 20 passes. 
More anonymously, but just as effectively, the offensive line has been equally adept at run­and pass-blocking. The ever­active Elway has been sacked only 15 times, and the relative lack of contact has made him appear more nimble in escap­ing the rush. 
Against the Chiefs. he scram­bled for a career-high 62 yards to join Fran Tarkenton as the only quarterbacks with both 40,000 yards passing and 3,000 yards rushing. 

But no longer must Elway de­pend on freelancing and mak­ing a big play on the run; he now makes plays within the system. 
When Elway signed a five­year, $29.5 million contract last spring, no one seriously ex­pected him to fulfill the term of the pact. Now. said Shanahan, ''I'm going to be pushing for it." 
Then there's a revamped de­fense, which held the Chiefs of­fense scoreless last week. Kansas City's lone score came on a kickoff return. 
A unit that ranked dead last in the NFL in 1994 has been stubbornly stingy. Free-agent acquisitions Bill Romanowski and Alfred Williams have blended with holdovers Steve Atwater, Michael Dean Perry and a healthier Dan Williams to give Denver the second-best run defense in the league, always a critical statistic. 
Shanahan. fired in his second season as head coach of the Raiders in 1989, has matured upon his return to Denver. Still a brilliant Xs and Os tactician, he has learned to make solid personnel decisions. He also has learned the value of being a players' coach. 
During the preseason. he helped create a close-knit team by taking his players on a fish­ing trip, playing golf together and inviting players, coaches and their wives to his home for a cookout. 
"I think this is my best team ever," Broncos owner Pat Bowlen said this week. "And I think the chemistry is as good as it ever was. Some people may think we're a flash in the pan. But it's becoming tougher and tougher to disguise the fact that we're a good football team." 

Michael, Happy 21st Birthday! 
Love, 

~. 7~. if!tdaltd, ~euut7~ 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Badgers deal yet another blow to Irish 
Berticelli tdisappointed' with defeat 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 

The men's soccer team had yet another opportunity to prove that they belong among the top teams in the nation. That opportunity came in the form of a home date with the defending national champion Wisconsin Badgers last night at Alumni Field. 
Despite outshooting the visi­tors 9-8, the Irish were unable to beat Badger goalkeeper Todd Wilson and were shutout l-0. 
The Irish controlled the first half of play. recording five shots on goal in the period. Wilson was forced to make three key saves, two on shots by forward Ryan Turner from inside the penalty box, to pre­serve the scoreless tie. 
"I'm real disappointed with the result," said Irish head coach Mike Berticelli. "I thought it was obvious that we dominated the game." 
Despite the solid play by Notre Dame, Wisconsin finally broke through the Irish defense. Defender Ted Storm headed the ball past sopho­more goalkeeper Greg Velho on an assist from midfielder Doug Watson with less than 20 minutes remaining in reg­ulation time. 
"After the goal, I thought we broke down," Berticelli acknowledged. "We were sending more people forward so we were less organized." 
Notre Dame made a strong push down the stretch to tie the score, but their efforts went unrewarded. Todd Wilson continued to baffie the Irish attackers and time ran out on a potential comeback. 
Berticelli  explained  his  
disappointment  after  the  
game.  

"It's a frustrating game to lose because I thought we were the better team." 
The Irish have one game re­maining on the regular season schedule and hope to make it a springboard to success in the Big East post-season tour­nament. The game is Sunday at conference rival Boston College. 

*Fremantle, Australia*Innsbruck, Austria*Monterrey, Mexico*London* * ~ >* 
]_International Study Days'96 ~ 
~ ~ 
E Presented by: 
0 ~ ~ ~ 
* ~ 
] ~ 
~ * 
~ ~ ~ g
0 p 0~ Where: 201 O'Shaug nessy Hall -~ ~ ~ When: Monday, Nov. 4 and Tuesday, Nov. 5, 1996 5. ~ 
* * 
...!:! Information on all programs will be cJ6 available all day on both days (8:00am -9:00 pm) [
• 0 
~ On-campus representatives of these programs will be available to ~ 
~ . '"0
·;g answer your questiOns as follows: e:. ~ MONDAY TUESDAY ~* *c:: lnnsbruck-2:00 -3:00 Mexico City -1:00-2:00 ~ 
g. ~ Monterrey -2:00-3:00 Angers -2:00-3:00 g ~ .._, London '98-'99 -2:00-3:00 Cairo-2:00-3:00 Y' s ~ Jerusalem -3:30-4:30 Athens -2:00-3:00 a @ ~ Santiago -4:00-5:00 Fremantle -3:00-4:00 g
z ~ 
**Mexico City*Semester Around The World*Cairo, Egypt* Jerusalem* 
ti-" 
. l.:j.·' 


., '._§,·
.. r 
f~··· 
y,_, 

,... 
ti~kets still on sale at the 

..... LaFun Info Gesk ' 
.. for~· 
$8.00 fornon-students 

~--~--~~ ---~--­

Friday, November I, 1996 
By NICOLE JOHNSON 
Spons Writer 
The night may have been bitterly cold but there was plenty of heat on the gridiron last night as the women's interhall football reg­ular season comes rapidly to a close. 
In the first contest the 2-1-2 Pangborn Phoxes set out to tame the 0-4 Badin 


Attitudes. The first half yielded no touchdowns but a Phox fum­ble in the endzone gave the Attitudes 2-0 lead at the 
half. 

The safety was all 
t~at wa_s needed to 
g:tve Badm the edge to 
win as a touchdown 
just minutes into the 
second half by 
Stephanie So showed 
the Attitudes were playing with just that. 
The Observer· SPORTS 

Badin went on to win their first game 8-0, with their final contest versus Howard on Sunday. 
The Howard Ducks hoped to follow Badin in what looked to be a night of upsets as they faced undefeated Lyons. 
An interception by Lyons' Paige Capacci was run back for a touchdown. 
The Ducks came right, back however, with a touchdown by Nicole Torrado, to lead the game 7-6., earning her the dis­tinction of the first player this season to score on Lyons. 
The lead did not last long as a touchdown from Kathy Tschanz to Kerry Callahan and an extra point to Kerry Yanez brought the halftime score to 13-7. 
The frostbite seemed to set in as both offenses remained scoreless despite frequent turnovers. With nine seconds left in the game, it was Kathy Yanez again to score both a touchdown and the extra point to put the game out of Howard's reach 20-7. 
The undefeated women of Lyon's will play their final regu­lar season game this Sunday in their march towards the title. 
page 19 

• SOMETHING HERE 
'Potential' abounds for Belles' swimming 
Youngsters up for challenges 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
It is not unusual for a sports team to pick a phrase to de­scribe themselves. The phrase "small but mighty" has been chosen by this years' St. Mary's Swimming and Diving team. 
This is fitting for the eight membered swim team and four membered diving team who open their season Saturday at Grande Valley State. 
Although the Belles pre-sea­son swimming practices were delayed because of the lack of a coach, they are now under the guidance of first year coach Angela Addington. Addington and the team are not letting their size and late start affect their performance. 
"The team realizes that such a small squad is a problem, but they don't let it bother them. They all have a high level of dedication, and I have seen improvement in the last two weeks of practice," said Addington. 
High goals have been set, and the team is confident these goals can be reached. 
"We hope to improve last year's record and build a good solid foundation so the team can be bigger next year. Also, there are a few swimmers who can qualify for nationals, and we think they can do it," said Addington. 
The team has named senior Shannon Kelleher and sopho­more Tara Thomas as captains. 
Addington is pleased with the leadership the two bring to the team. 
"Both Shannon and Tara have an exceptional work ethic. At every practice they give two hundred percent," said Addington. 
Thomas, who broke the SMC swimming record in the 100 and 200 backstroke last year, is looking forward to the start of the season and the opportu­nity for team bonding. 
"I see a lot of potential for team unity because there are only four returning swimmers from last year," said Thomas. 
Addington is most proud of the way the team has worked together so far. 
"Each member of the team watches out and motivates the other. They are all aware of the day each other has had. This is a good strong team," said Addington. 
The St. Mary's Diving Team can best be described in one word-young. Three out of the four divers have never dove competitively before. 
However, coach Dan Slattery believes the team is up for the challenge. 
"All the divers are serious about the sport and they are progressing quickly. They have a whole sport to learn from scratch so every practice is a new challenge," said Slattery. 
Slattery looks toward sopho­more Sara Levandusky, the only returning diver, to show guidance to the new divers. 
"Sara shows leadership that you would see from a junior or senior," said Slattery. 
Levandusky has set many goals for the team and herself this year: 
"The team goals are to keep a positive attitude, support each other, and become confi­dent in our diving. For me per­sonally, I want to learn new dives and polish up on the ones I already know," said Levandusky. 
Both Addington and Slattery are looking forward to seeing their teams hard work be put into action in their season opener on Saturday. 

·Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
DJ Dancing and Halloween 
Party $100 cash prizes for best costumes 
with a mixofall the newest &hottest 
rock, R &B, alternative, cla<lsic rock & disco 
MONDAY: free hotdogs during Mon. night football 
231 Dixieway North 
Cleveland and Douglas on US31 
tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TVs, times for all! 

-~ -----~­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 1, 1996 
ble upset for OSU, when she said Petrucelli. 
put in the winning goal. "It will be a great deal of "There is no big reven~e for emotion because it is senior
Repeat 

continued from page 24 
begins. "We have been working on supportin~ each other on the field, said Sobrero, "We are getting everything down." 
"The team has been work­ing on one touch passing," said Brown. "Also we have been working on improving the quickness of our game." 
Last year the Irish had quite a scare thanks to the Buckeyes. Last year in a regular season game at OSU, the Buckeyes managed to match the Irish's effort. The game finished regula­tion all tied up, and was forced into overtime. Senior Cindy Daws ended the possi­us against Ohio State, said Sobrero. 
"We have not even talked about last year," said head coach Chris Petrucelli about whether or not the team is seeking revenge. 
This year the Irish are not going to let the Buckeyes get that close. Although OSU might prove to be a chal­lenge for the team, as the Buckeyes return ten to their starting lineup. "It is a game where we will have to play very fast." 
Sunday will also be a big day for the Irish. Not only does the team take on the Villanova Wildcats, but it is senior day. "A big factor will be Sunday for our kids," day." 
A couple of the Irish will step on the field Sunday, for their last regular season game. Irish starters seniors Jen Renola, Kate Fisher, Amy VanLaecke, and Daws will try to crush the Wildcats in their final regu­lar season appearance at Alumni Field. Seniors Stacia Masters and Megan Middendorf will also be par­ticipating in their final regu­lar season match. 
The Villanova game will be a chance for the team to prepare for their first game in the Big East tournament. The Irish are scheduled to play the Wildcats in the first round of the tournament. 
The Observer/David McCaffery 
Junior defensive stud Kate Sobrero will lead the defense in preparation for the upcoming Big East tourney. 

The Observer/Jed Donahue Senior Jen Renola, along with the rest of her fellow seniors, will feel deep emotions in their last career reguar season game. 
"The Best T c:m Under the Sun" 

• Beds, Booths & Euros 
• 
Open 1 Days AWeek 

• 
Convenient Boors 

• 
Student Discounts 


Gllilranlttd Stlru(ai:tion! 
256-9656 
GWl &MciiNL£y
Nw K-M.4rr 
:. ·~( ·r.. , . 
".· ...t •• 
3 On 3 
.. :·.··f. 
Basketball 
: . 
ournament 

Great Prizes!!!!! Including Tickets to the Men's NO v. Villanova Basketball Game 
Reigister in Advance at RecSports or
LA E::--I I INLA I--tO0 hE::--t7 10 E::--A0 Y. 
the Lafortune Gorch Game Room
LAE::--i.IINLA YOUPJ L--Jp=-e:--VA?h 10 1--tE::--L--L--, $6.00 Entry Fee -Deadline is November 4 Varsity Basketball Players are IneligibleMen's & Women's Divisions Space is Limited Co-Sponsored by RecSports & Gorch Game Room
Sponsored by the Oll1ce of Alco~:;l a;;cf Drug Educd:1::~n 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
Eisler 
continued from page 24 
seemed to be moving slower. A couple of times I was just in the right place at the right time, but you seem to get the breaks when you're playing well." 
Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin emphasized Eisler's im­portance in that game. 
"That's the first time since I've been here that a goalie has won a game for us. Going into the year, he's one of the best goalies in the country. I don't think there's any question about it." 
The next night, against Miami of Ohio, Eisler took a shutout into the third period, but the Rcdskins spoiled it in the third period with a pair of goals. Combined with the final 19:35 of the Oct. 18 tie against Western Michigan (3-3), Eisler did not allow a goal for 120 minutes and 34 seconds before Miami's Joe Bodnar found the net. Eisler had made 75 con­secutive saves without allowing a goal prior to Bodnar's score. 
Eisler's totals for the OSU and UM games were 68 saves and 2 goals (97.1% save percentage) allowed. For the season, he has allowed just six goals in four games, for a 1.48 goals-against average that ranks first in the CCHA among goalies who have played more than 200 minutes. His 95.4% save percentage also ranks first among CCHA goalies with 200-plus minutes and trails Miami's Trevor Adair (95.7% in 150 minutes) among all conference goaltenders. 
The attention Eisler's play has attracted is no news to ardent followers of Notre Dame 
·•1!1 


Pianist/Entertainer Albert Hidalgo 

LIVE ~ 
Sunday Night ~ ~ 
From 6:30 to 9:30 
~ 
~ 
In The 
~ 

Dining Room i 
~ 

Italian Cuisine with an Irish View 1412 South &ndAvenue South &nd, Indiana 4(i)17 (219) 232 -4244 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 

otre 
ame 
ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dl•logue with oth.rs, to dHpen your underatending of yourself, your Ylluea, your relationship with Christ, your exp«ience of Chrlatl•n 
eommunhy 1nd a...vic•. 
DECEMBER 6 -8, 1996 
November 4-8 
Before 4:00 p.m.-November 8 
Campus Ministry Office 
103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
$25.00 

hockey. As a freshman he was the team MVP and rookie of the year. As a sophomore he made 26 starts, finished fifth in CCHA action with 564 saves, and posted his fifth career shutout against Ohio State. And now it appears that Eisler is continu­ing his success. Where is this success leading? 
"My dream is to play profes­sional hockey," declared Eisler. ''I'm going to give [the pros] my best shot. I don't know what if it will be the IHL or the NHL, but I'd definitely like to play for at least a couple of years." 
Notre Dame (2-1-1, 1-1-1 CCHA) has an important week­end ahead of them. Tonight they take on Michigan, ranked number one in the country, at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. and tomorrow they travel to Bowling Green for another CCHA game. 
"This is a huge weekend for us," explained Eisler. "We're very excited to have the oppor­tunity to play these teams. We have the chance to show the league and the country that we're for real." 
For the meantime, the coun­try knows that at least Eisler is for real. 
Recycle The Observer 

LARGER THAN LIFE(PG)*1:00, 3:15,5:30,7:45,10: HIGH SCHOOl HIGH(PG-13)*1:10,3:10,5:10,7:50,9:5 MICHAEL COLLINS (R)* 1:05, 4:05, 7:15, 10:15 ROMEO+ JULIET (PG-13)*1:20,4:00, 7:05,9:45 SLEEPERS (R) 12:40, 3:50, 7:00, 10:10  
SLEEPERS (R) 1:30, 5:00, 8:10  
MICHAEL COLLINS (R)* 2:30,5:45, 9:oo  
HIGH SCHOOl HIGH(PG-13)* 2:00,4:15,7:30,9:30 FLY AWAY HOME (PG) 12:55,3:40,7:10,9:40 MIGHTY DUCKS 3(PG) 12:35, 2:55, 5:25, 7:45, 9:55 Times valid through next Thursday *No passes  

• CRass CmJNTRY 
Challenges abound in Big East tourney 
By WILLY BAUER Sports Wrirer 
After a successful regular season, the Notre Dame cross­countr"y team is prepared to compete in the Big East Championships, Friday November 1 in Boston, Massachusetts. 
The Irish will be facing tough competition from its Big East rivals Georgetown, Providence and Villanova, which are ranked in the top 25 nationally. The Irish finished third in last year's Big East tournament, running behind the Friars and the Hoyas. 
The top team of the Big East, which is regarded by many as the toughest cross-country con­ference in the nation, is Providence. The Friars are ranked ninth in the nation and are being touted as a team that could challenge for the NCAA championship later in the month. 
Georgetown again returns as a formidable team in the meet, and along with the Irish is ex­pected to challenge the Friars for the Big East" championship. The Hoyas also boast a national ranking and finished second in last season's meet. 
This will be the first look for 
The Associate PG13 
2:15 4:45 7:15 9:50 
High School High PG13 
1:00 3:00 5:15 7:45 9:40 
2:00 4:45 7:15 9:50 
Ghost & The Darkness R 
2:30 5:00 7:30 10:00 

the Irish at Big East competi­tion, as they have not faced any of its Big East competitors any meets so far this season. 
"There are four teams ranked in the top 25 (in the meet)," said coach Joe Piane. "Providence is an underrated team and they're number nine (in the nation). They could be in the top three at the NCAA's. Georgetown and Villanova will also challenge." 
Last year, the Irish used the Big East meet as a springboard for a successful post season. Notre Dame placed third in the Big East, then finished second to Wisconsin at the District IV meet. It culminated the season with an eighth place finish, tied with Providence, at the NCAA championships. 
To repeat or better last year's finish, the Irish will once again rely on its foursome of Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling, Jason Rexing and Joe Dunlop. If any­thing, this group of runners have exhibited consistency. They have continu!LIIY been the first four runners to cross the finish line, often in the top-10. Althoff and Seiling had their string of top-10 finishes snapped at three straight. The runners' high finishes have enabled the Irish to win two of its four meets. 
The Irish is coming off its toughest outing of the season at Arizona. Nine teams in the top 20 were at the site of the 1996 NCAA championships. Notre Dame's seventh place finish was its lowest placing of the season. The Irish seem to have saved its toughest competition for the end of the season. In its first two meets, only the University of Michigan had national acclaim. With Arizona and the Big East championship, the Irish face 13 of the 25 nationally-ranked teams, including six of the top 10, in the span of three weeks. 
"It was good preparation," said Piane. "We beat some teams that we needed to jump in Wake Forest and Texas, and we did that handily. There was some fantastic competition. We hope to be back there for the NCAA championships." 
The first step to Piane's goal 
begins November 1 in Boston. 

RIP OFF THIS COUPON INSTEAD OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S FOOD. 
There's an easier way to get free food. Just rip off this part ofthe paper and come to Fazoli's. When you purchase any adult entree (excluding Double Slice Pizza) we'll give you afree garden salad. It's a steal. 
,-----------------------, 
I  FREE GARDEN SAlAD  I  
I  99ft value  I  
I I  with purchase of one adult entree (excluding Double Slice Pizza)a.  1 I  
I I  •  .  ,  I I  
I  52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend  I  

~n~er per~n, per~e~t participating Farzoli"s only.~t vali~it~ny ot~offer. Expires~31/9~ 
-
.. 

-
• 


page 22 

Big East 
continued from page 24 
was the only squad to push the Irish to a fourth game, and tlwy did so twiee. In the regular­season match junior .laimie I.He lead the squad to a 15-13, 15­9, 14-16. 15-H triumph with 19 kills. In tlw Big East champi­onship ganw it was l.m~·s class­mate's turn. Angie llarris notdwd 18 kills in a 5-15, 15-7, 15-1, 15-4 win. Last ynar the Orang!' could only manage 7 points against tiHl Irish. 
"They ll'ittl are the strongest tf~am in tlw Big East (othr.r than the Irish) and it is defi­nitPiy an important match for us." eomnwnted Brown. "Wp, have the l'llst of the Big East and the tournament so we would definittlly like to be going into thr. tournament being snr.ded first and rP.nHlining
-undefp,atPd in the eonfewnce." Thtl Panther tandem of setter Stephanie Dufresne and hitter Jennie Driscoll will hope to lead their squad past the Irish whose emphasis on blocking has given them one of' the best blocking averages in the coun­try (2.97/garne). 6-4 freshman Mary Lnffers has made her presence felt with an average of 1.51/garntL Senior .len House also gets her share of blocks with her imposing 6-5 frame. Coach Brown voiced some of lwr Panther concerns. "They are going to compete real hard. 01w of the things tiHlY have done is adjust their block and make us hit angle, so wt~ havP bHen working on that in practice. Their settr.r. I>ufresnr.. and senior hitter .Iennie Driscoll are both really good and have been playing to­gether for a couple of' years so they have good timing." Some of Brown's players ex­plained that they ll!Hld to stay f'ocusr.d on th11ir side of' the net as the Irish have been upset several times this season. "Pitt has been the bnst team in the Big East that we have played, and at this point we can't take anyone for granted," Len stated. "J don't think we should con­centrate on them as much as we should concentrate on our 
tj.~~:;}~~~..mamaaaa·m·m··D..a,a.. mmmm~
-
TREK·CANNONDALE·ROLLERBLADE 
STOREWIDE SALE 
Mon-Fri 1 0:00 -7:00 Saturday 10:00 -5:00 
tj.~J:i}~~~'·..mg............., ...==--~ 
side of the court," senim~ hitter 
.len Briggs expressed. "If we 
play our game than no one in 
the Big East will be any kind of 
competition. It is a pivotal 
mateh for us because it is be­
coming that time in the season 
when we need to start playing, 
start picking it up." 

Barris' knees make her 'a lit­
tle bit questionable' for this 
weekend's action. In addition, 
setter Carey May is still not 
fully recovered from her shoul­
der injury as she continues to 
get more comfortable and is 
devnloping her timing with the 
hitters. 

May's injury has certainly 
been a setback for the team. 
However, the starting lineup 
has been in tact for the last 
seven matches in which the 
Domers have gone 3-4, with 
two of those losses at #1 
Hawaii. but a sense of urgency 
might be felt as time is running 
short on the squad. 

"We are searching for an an­
swer and if we knew it we .would have fixed it by now," 
Briggs noted. We know that 
time is running out, but we're 
just going in there everyday 
and are pushing away at it." 
For a team that put up an im­
pressive 27-7 mark a year ago, 
one wonders how this team 
tries to remain confident when 
they have already lost eight this 
season. 

"It's tough at this point to 
stay upbeat and confident in 
light of everything that has 
happened this year," said Lee. 
"But. I think everyone is really 
trying to block out the nega­
tives and focus on what we 
have left and realize that this is 
thn beginning of the second 
half of the season." 

"It's been hard, losing that 
much and still being confident," 
Briggs said. "But, I think the 
last game in the Hawaii match 
was important, how we ended 
it. We didn't just roll over and 
die, we saw a spark so I think 
that has helped a lot." 

So the team's attitude 
remains positive as they don't 
look back and refuse to give up. 
The team can still see the light 
at the end of the tunnel, as 
Jaimie Lee mentioned. 

"I guess everyone is hanging 
on to hope in the rest of the 
season because that is all we 
have." 

November 2, 1996 
10:00 A.M. 
To Benefit the 
M(OJ 1f(QJ F([))Jr M rem rDJ rft(QJ E §cc!h([}) E(QJr§ 1hitp FM1f!Jdi 


???'s or Donations, call Steph @ 634-2780 Jen @ 634-2871 
SPORTS WKND 
HARD HUTING HocKEY: FIGHTING IRISH 
vs 

#1 MICHIG~~JfRI 7:00l_~---·-­
Women s Soccer: · 
/ SUNDAY vs. Villanova (1 pm) 

~&@~~~~ . [JJfiJ&5rxf&llriJfiJ[J,[J, 
7:00 pm -Joyce Center 
Featuring: Bookstore All-Star Teams, NOMen's and Women's Scrimmages 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Drop-In Volleyball will be held by RecSports on Thurs., Nov. 7 and Tues., Nov. 12, Dec. 3, and Dec. 10, from 7­10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. For more information call 1­6100. Late Night Olympic Steering Committee -Anyone inter­ested in serving on the com­mittee, please call Kara at 1­8237. Off-Campus A-team Basketball -If interested in playing contact Jeff Milligan at 271-9433. Off-Campus Volleyball • Anyone interested in playing off-campus interhall volley­ball call Greg at 273-9553. Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come. first serve basis. They will also be sold at Moonlight Madness Saturday night. Friday's hockey game is sold out to the general pub­
lic. The llrst 300 students will get in free, and the doors will then be shut. 
We're At 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ...Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24·hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 


Call or stop by today and \W'II show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 
+UCKORlJ 

DlLLAC3Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 


Friday, November 1, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
-

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 





MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
1 AM ONLY A. LOWLY INTERN, BUT I 5EE 
A.N OBVIOUS SOLUTION TO YOUR PROBLEM. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Like a highway 
1"How 28 Settlings 
revolting!" 29 Tear apart 
4 Roman road 30 1990 Best Actor 10 Pugilists' org. 31 Lapse 13 Purchasing 32 Standout 
agent's job 
33 Elects 16 Gee's opposite 
34 Margays, e.g. 17 Flowerlike 
37 "... bring forth marine 
--":Matt. 
creatures 
1:23 18 Where the 39 Woeful word C.S.A. was 40 Year in organized Septimius19 Cherry 
Severus's reign 20 With greater 
43 Mufflerrainfall 44 Soft rock 

22Has-­
45 King of clubs? 
(knows 
somebody) 46 Up (to) 
23 Angel's dread 47 Flirtatious one 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 0 
.. (.) 0 .J 
® "'2
.. 
..0 
... 

JU~T CLICK HERE ... 
CLEAR YOUR BUFFERS AND INITIAliZE T~E LIN\<. ... NOW U5E. THI5 CODE PATCH FOR THE MEI"\ORY LEAK. 

41 Operator of the 50 Stagnates Palomar 52 Brave Observatory 55 Hip-hop music 
Wanted: Reporters, 
42 Stays, e.g. 56 T-shirt size: 43 "Miracle Mets" Abbr. pitcher 57 Common 45 Turn--ear to middle name 
photographers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
and editors. 
are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Join The Observer staff. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
getting out of a rut. nol making dras­tic changes. New art work or throw pillows will give your living quar­ters a lift. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your future is in your hands. Guard against making impulsive decisions or driving too fast. Attending a play or concert with your one-and-only leads to a surprising discovery. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Wel­come a chance to visit a friend; get­ting out of town will boost your spirits. A woman plays a major role in the decisions you make now. Carefully consider her advice but avoid making promises. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Although your work load increases, your energy level remains high. Reconsider a decision about a sepa­ration; you could lose something important. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Close friends could be involved in your business or financial affairs. A temporary work assignment puts you in touch with exciting new peo­ple. Singles begin to find marriage more appealing than in the past. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your energy is on the rise. Be prepared to stand up for yourself, but avoid forcing issues. A new­comer encourages you to do some­thing special. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A settlement is better than continu­ing a lawsuit. A third party influ­ences the outcome of a romance. Step back and consider the possibili­ties of a reconciliation. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): In­
novative methods will help boost 
sagging financial returns. Cultivate 
social contacts who share your val­
ues. Although a friend wants to play 
Cupid, you may prefer to go it 
alone . 
-
48 Singers Shannon and Reeves 
49 Pen 51 Theorize 53 French 
biography 54 Champion 58 Afore 59 Bit of 
theatricality 60 Cherry 61 Prompt 62 Some A.L. 
batters 
DOWN 
1 Gentrified 2 Like some grass, in a 
phrase 3 Less fresh 4 Phoenix five 
5 Amphibian with sticky feet 6 "Losing My Religion" band 7 Latin trio 
member a Retreat 9 De novo 
10 Etagere 11 Whalebones 12 Grants 14 Doris Shannon 
novei"-­Daughters" 15 Old Possum, really 

MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU CONSIDER THAT 
YOUR. SALARY I5 
TWICE A.5 MUCH 

A5 1"\INE. ------.. 

21 They're saved for a rainy day 24 Striped 25 Transparent sheet 
26 Sheet fabric 34 It's read on Saturday 
35 Some drafts 36 Attributed 37 Pick up 38 Browned, in a way 40Spiked 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Reorganizing a financial venture will save you money. Devise a mas­ler plan for what you hope to accomplish. An unexpected employ­ment opp011unity could be the start of something big. Friends prove lucky for you where both business and romance are concerned. A part­nership thai is formed in the first half of 1997 will mean greater financial and emotional security. Count your blessings' You are on the right path and making rapid strides forward. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Lyle Lovett, baseball player Fernando Valen­zuela, golfer Gary Player, actress Marcia Wallace. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You are ready for action and adven­ture. If anything exciting is going on. you will find it' Sports activities capture your interest. Put on your jogging shoes. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romance may have you in a quandary. Go ahead and ask for help with a clever money-making idea. Just be sure that you approach the right people. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A romantic proposal may not suit your timetable. II might be best to end this relationship before it deterio­rates into recriminations. Moving to a new neighborhood could be good for your social life. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be honest if your actions have con­tributed to ·a romantic standoff. It is possible to change your ways' Power rests in the hands of an older person. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Reorga­
nizing your private life will bring 
many benefits. The emphasis is on 
-
SPORTS Weekend 
November I, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

'One of the best' 
BY CHARLEY GATES teams and is the most compete­the netminder, "and the award Sports Writer tive hockey league in the coun­is normally reserved for players try, boasting perennial power­whose teams went undefeated. 
Notre Dame junior goaltender houses like Michigan and Lake But it was definitely a pleasant Matt Eisler (West Milford, New Superior as members. From all surprise." Jersey) was named the Central of these teams, the CCI-lA picks Just what did Eisler accom­Collegiate Hockey Association one defensive player per week plish this last weekend? defensive player of the week to honor. Usually this honor is On Friday night he posted a after posting a 120-minute reserved for a player whose shut-out against Ohio State, shutout streak in action this team went undefeated for the making 47 saves and literally past weekend. week, but Eisler's accomplish­carrying his team to victory. 
-
This is an incredible honor ments during the week were so "I was just especially focused for Eisler. outstanding that they out­that night," recalled Eisler. "I To put the significance of this weighed Notre Dame's loss to was seeing the puck well, I was acheivement into perspective, Miami of Ohio. playing confidently, and things 
consider the following facts. "I was a bit surprised The CCI-lA includes eleven because we went 1-1," stated see EISLER/ page 21 
The Observer/Jed Donahue 
Irish hockey coach Dave Poulin is glad that he has junior Matt Eisler (pictured) tending goal for his squad . 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Irish seek consistency 
Dame volleyball team this the second half of the season. 
stretch has lasted the entire Since joining the Big East, year. Notre Dame boosts an 18-0 The Irish began the season record with 15 of those wins ranked sixth in the nation but coming by way of sweep. 
Pitt, ~cuse 
next tests 
with their record now standing This weekend they will do at 13-8, coach Debbie Brown battle with Pittsburgh andBy JOE CAVATO finds her team has fallen to the Syracuse.
Sports Writer 

twenty-fourth slot in the USA The Panthers' 5-0 Big East Today/American Volleyball record puts them in a first
During the course of a sport's 
Coaches Association poll. place tie with the Irish setters 
season a team usually has to 
After a 1-3 road trip that took which also places more impor­
persevere through times when 
the Irish out west, they will tance on Saturday's match-up.
things aren't going that team's 
head back to the Big East In last year's campaign, Pitt 
The Observer/Rob Finch way or they can't seem to hit 
where they have thrived in
Outside hitters Jenny Birkner (left) and Angie Harris hope their team their stride. 
hopes of finding their stride for
can break out of a season-long funk this weekend. Unfortunately for the Notre see BIG EAST/ page 22 
.l. 
vs. Navy, 
November 2, 8 a.m.
/(I 

~. vs. Ohio State Today, 7:30p.m.
~.'­

• 
(.., 

at Boston College, November 3, 1 p.m. 
-

at Pittsburgh@ November 2, 2 p.m. 



Big East Championships 

•Cross-country team weekend preview 
'= 
~ November 2 see page 21
vs. Michigan November 1, 7 p.m. 
•McNair to start for Oilers 
S¢ 
at Grand Valley State 
see page 17swimming, November 2 

---~---~-------------, 

r--~~-----------------~--­
-~----~---------, 
The Irish Extra • THE STATS Friday, November I, 1996 
FIGHTIN 
KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Denson  4  19.5  0  35  
NO  Opp  Rossum  4  39.0  1  9  
144  91  PASSING  CampAU  Pet  Yds  TO  tnt  Lg  Farmer  3  16.7  0  24  
2577  1644  Powlus  88  154  57.1  1197  6  3  48  Mosley  2  19.5  0  21  
429.5  274.0  Jackson  4  6  66.7  65  1  0  28  
454  370  Smith  0  1  0  0  0  0  0  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
5.7  4.4  Cobbins  1  
1315  801  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  lg  Edison  1  
219.2  133.5  Johnson  18  290  16.1  1  48  Tatum  1  
293  226  Chryplewicz  18  215  11.9  2  31  Rossum  1  
4.5  3.5  Mosley  14  176  12.6  0  34  Cooper  1  
1262  843  Edwards  13  153  11.8  2  39  
210.3  140.5  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
92  68  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pts  Cobbins  31  21  52  0  0  2  1  
161  144  Edwards  6  1-1  0-0  0-0  0  38  Tatum  31  16  47  1  0  1  1  
3  5  Sanson  0  0-0  17-19  6-8  0  35  Dansby  16  22  38  0  1  1  2  
19/12  6/4  Denson  5  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  30  Rossum  21  14  35  0  0  2  0  
43/86  25/82  Farmer  2  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  12  Maiden  13  20  33  0  0  0  0  
50  30  Covington  25  8  33  0  2  4  0  
317  2/2  FIELD GOALS  Tot  ~~·  Guilbeaux  22  11  33  0  0  0  1  
43  100  Sanson  6-8  Wynn  22  10  32  0  0  0  4.5  

 Cengia  0-1  

 MEN  
No  lg  
35  39.1  2  71  
1  27.0  0  27  
TEAM SlATS  Navy  Opp  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  lg  
First Downs  128  109  Hunter  10  25.0  0  39  
Total yards  2419  2003  PASSING  CampAU  Pet  Yds  TO  tnt  Lg  Bryant  7  14.1  0  32  
Total yards per game  403.2  333.8  McCoy  24  54  44  334  3  2  40  Scott  1  26.0  0  26  
Total offensive plays  438  393  Fay  19  42  45  203  1  0  45  Smith  1  17.0  0  17  
Avg. yards per play  55  5.1  Bryant  1  1  100  41  0  0  41  
Rushing yards  1841  658  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Rushing yards per game  306.8  109.7  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TO  lg  Smith  2  
Rushing plays  341  215  Heaven  9  131  14.6  1  45  Green  2  
Avg. yards per rush  5.4  3.1  Butts  9  114  12.7  1  24  Scanlan  1  
Passing yards  578  1345  Schemm  8  85  106 1  26  Lewis  1  
Passing yards per game  96.3  224.2  McGraw  6  84  14.0  0  27  
Passes completed  44  93  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Passes attempted  97  178  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pts  Bruce  38  19  57  1  1  4  2  
Passes intercepted  2  8  McCoy  9  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  54  Aloia  30  17  47  0  0  6  0  
Fumbles/Fumbles lost  12/6  15/11  Nelson  6  0-0  0-0  0-0  0  36  Cooley  20  21  41  0  2  0  1  
down conversions  34/90  35/86  Vanderhorst  0  0-0  17-19 5-6  0  32  Smith  23  11  34  2  2  0  1  
Percentage  38  41  Schemm  2  1-1  0-0  0-0  0  14  Snider  20  12  32  0  0  1  4  
Fourth down conversions  3/5  2(1  FIELD GOAlS Vanderhorst Shubzda  Tot 5-6 1-3  Poulter Green Crecion  25 20 13  6 . 5 6  31 25 19  0 0 1  0 0 1  0 4 1  1 0 0  The Observer/Mike Ruma Navy linebacker Clint Bruce {51) leads the Midshipmen with 57 tackles.  

EH[ LusI uELy RT RyREs 
WIN AN AUTOGRAPHED MICHAEL JORDAN BASKETBALL 
Register to win in the Men's Fragrance Department now through November 9th. 
One winner will be chosen from a random drawing of all stores' entries. Basketball to be awarded in January 1997. Some restrictions may apply. 

eOIOCIIO 

Experience this exciting new cologne... distinctive, invigorating, fun and "light as air." Cologne Spray 3.4-oz., $35. 1.7-oz., $23. 
TM

Designed and created by bljan. XEL Inc. ©1996. 


ORDER ANY TIME TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 
Friday, November 1, 1996 

NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Nov. 30 at USC 
11th season at Notre Dame
lou Holtz 
Career record: 212-94-7 At Notre Dame: 96-29-2 Against Navy: 11-0 
'····· 


No. Name Pos. HI. WI. YR 
1 Deke Cooper WR 6-4 205 FR 2 Kinnon Ta1um ILB 6-0 224 SR 3 Ron Powlus OB 6-2 212 SR 4 Kory Minor OLB 6-2 235 so 5 Emmett Mosley FL 5-8 184 SR 6 Lyron Cobbins ILB 6-0 246 SR 7. Jarious Jackson as 6-1 218 so 8 Eric Chappell as 6-5 220 FR 9 Raki Nelson WR 6-1 178 FR 10 Mike Perona 08 6-2 197 SR 11 Jay Johnson WR 6-2 170 FR 12 Mario Strayhorn FS 6-1 210 so 12 Scott Cengia K 5-10 180 JR 13 Bert Berry OLB 6-3 245 SR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-10 168 JR 14 Tony McGunigal as 6-3 190 SR 15 Allen Rossum CB 5-8 178 JR 15 Paul Rogers as 6-2 220 SR 16 Todd Dvorak K 5-10 175 so 16 John Shingler OB 6-1 231 so 17 Hunter Sm1th P!WR 6-2 210 so 17 Mark McKenna OB 5-8 194 SR 18 Cikai Champion SE 5-10 183 SR 19 Jim Sanson K 5-11 185 FR 19 Wayne Gunn ss 6-2 210 so 20 Kevin Kopka K 5-7 196 so 20 B~ron Joyner FS 6-2 180 so 21 S annan Stephens CB 5-10 179 so 21 Kevin McDonnell K 5-11 180 so 22 Jay Vickers RB 6-1 205 FR 23 Autry Denson WR{T85-1 0 189 so 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 189 JR 25 Randy Kinder TB 6-1 204 SR 26 Lee Lalyette CB 5-10 188 FR 26 Malt Mammolenti TB 5-8 165 SR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 228 so 28 Ken Barry FB 6-0 224 JR 29 A'Jani Sanders · ss 5-11 182 so 30 Jarvis Edison FS 6-4 219 JR 31 Robert Farmer TB 5-11 227 SR 33 Ja1me S~encer FB 6-0 247 so 34 Ronn1e icks DB 6-1 215 FR 35 Scott Palumbo p 5-11 189 SR 35 Robert Phelps CB 6-0 185 SR 36 Tim LWch DB 5-9 170 JR 36 Chris achtel p 6-0 211 SR 38 Paul Grimm DB 5-9 169 JR 39 Benny Guilbeaux ss 6-2 202 so 40 Kevin Carretta TE 6-1 239 SR 41 Joe Sabey ILB 6-2 222 SR 42 Alton Ma1den NG 6-4 271 SR 43 Bill Wa~asy OLB 6-3 225 SR ·14 Marc Ewards FB 6-0 237 SR 45 Joey Goodspeed FB/LB 6-0 230 FR 45 Chns McCarthy K 5-11 213 JR 45 Phil Sicuso DB 5-11 175 so 46 Bill Gibbs FS 5-10 171 SR 47 Bill Miloulas ILB 6-1 229 JR 48 Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 275 SR 49 Joe Thomas ILB 6-2 226 so 50 David Payne OL 6-1 284 so 51 Melvin Dansby DE 6-4 288 SR 52 Alex Mueller OG 6-6 275 so 53 Lamon!Bryant DE 6-4 253 so 54 Ed Casieri LB 6-1 230 so 55 Shellon Jordan DE 6-3 241 so 56 Kur!Belisle DE 6-3 251 JR 57 Rick Kaczenski c 6-4 264 SR 58 Mike Bur~dorf TE 6-1 222 SR 59 Matthew unz ss 6-1 216 JR 60 Antwoine Wellington LB 6-2 230 FR 60 Sean Rogers OT 6-0 292 SR 63 John Farrell c 5-10 253 SR 64 John Merandi c 6-3 273 FR 64 Mike Denvir TE 6-4 246 SR 65 Matt Griesbach OG 6-1 258 JR 66 Jeff Kilburg c 6-4 283 SR 67 John Wagner OT 6-7 320 so 68 Matt Brennan OL 6-5 270 FR 69 David Quist NG 6-5 290 SR 70 Tim Ridder OT 6-7 297 so 71 Jerry Wisne OG 6-7 285 so 72 Leon Hires OL 6-6 280 FR 73 Mike Doufhty OT 6-8 313 SR 74 Rob Mow OL 6-5 290 FR 75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 290 SR 76 JeremW Akers OG 6-6 300 SR 77 Brad illiams DL 6-6 250 FR 78 Jon S~ickelmier c 6-3 267 JR 79 Mike osenthal OG 6-7 310 so 80 Malcolm Johnson SE 6-5 203 JR 81 Lewis Dawson WR 6-0 180 FR 82 Mike Gandy TEJDE 6-4 235 FR 83 Deveron Harper CB 5-10 175 FR 84 Albert Jones WR 5-11 183 SR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 258 so 86 Dan Olea~ TE 6-5 230 FR 87 Jimmy Fri ay DE 6-2 240 so 88 Bobby Brown SE 6-3 185 so 89 John Cerasani DE 6-4 258 so 90 Lance Legree LB 6-2 248 FR 91 Darnell Smith DE 6-5 276 SR 92 Joe Ferrer LB 6-3 230 FR 93 B.J. Scott DL 6-4 250 FR 94 Justin Orr WR 6-2 235 SR 95 Core1Bennett DE 6-1 251 JR 96 Jim ones DL 6-4 260 FR 98 Pete Chryplewicz TE 6-5 265 SR 99 Jason Ching DL 6-4 270 FR 
The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 
Navy sails into Dublin this weekend with the nation's third-best rushing attack. Currently averaging 306.8 rushing yards a game, the Midshipmen have submarined opponents all year with their feared triple-option wingbone attack. 
Junior quarterback Chris McCoy has been the catalyst of Navy's attack, compiling 731 yards and 9 touchdowns on the ground in leading the 
flANKER 5-M0$1ey 18-Cnampion 

Navy Ground Game vs. Irish Front Seven 
Midshipmen to a 5-1 mark. Fullback Omar Nelson has also shone, averaging 7.6 yards a carry and scoring 5 touchdowns. 
Dominant against the run early on in the sea­son, the Irish front seven have had problems stuffing opponents' ground games lately. Air Force quarterback Beau Morgan, similar in style to McCoy, ripped the Notre Dame defense for 183 yards in the Falcons' 20-17 win. 
page 3 
NAVY SCHEDULE 
at Rutgers W 1 0-6 
at Gerogia Tech 
ARMY 
2nd season _at Navy 
Charlie Weatherbie 
Career record: 25-26 At Navy: 10-7 Against Notre Dame: 0-1 

1  WiiiSmith  SB  5-4  175 SR  
1  Fresh Prince  RAP  &-4  180 SR  
2  Gerald Wilson  DB  5-11  196 JR  
3  Enrico Hunter  DB  5-11  191 SO  
4  Malt Scanlan  DB  5-8  180 SR  
5  Omar Nelson  FB  5-9  228 SR  
6  Gervy Aloia  DB  5-10  190 JR  
7  Chris McCoy  as  5-to  191 JR  
8  Ben Fay  08  &-1  202 SR  
9  David Lark  WR  6-2  205 SR  
10 Rashad Smith  DB  6-0  205 JR  
11 Astor Heaven  WR  6-3  205 SR  
13 Jason Covarrubias  KS  5-10  181 JR  
14 Denis Kane  DE  6-5  225 JR  
15 Howard Bryant  SB  5-11  202 SR  
16 Charles Dudik  DB  &-0  200 SR  
17 Mark Mill  WR  6-0  181 SO  
18 Adam Grecian  DB  &-0  200 SO  
19 Jon Limbert  QB  5-10  195 so  
20 Cory Schemm  SB  6-1  205 SR  
21 Robert Green  DB  5-9  186 SR  
22 Desmond Morgan 23 Brian Kennedy  DB 08  5-10 5-11  202 SO 180 so  
24 Daniel Kelly  DB  &-0  184 SR  
25 Manny Metcalf  SB  6-0  186 SO  
26 Tim Cannada  FB  5-10  195 JR  
26 0 Canada  SONG 5-0  100 OLD  
28 Matt Shubzda  DB  6-1  202 JR  
29 Sean Andrews  DB  5-10  185 JR  
31 Christian Gaskill  DB  6-0  194 SO  
32 Brad Chatlos  DB  6-0  202 SO  
33 Jason Wolf  SB  6-0  196 SO  
34 Pat McGrew  SB  6-0  222 JR  
35 lrv Dingle  FB  5-11  213 SO  
36 Drew Higgins  DB  6-0  191 JR  
37 Ouaye Ouartey  DB  6-0  190 SR  
38 Heather Cocks  DORK 5-5  120 SO  
38 Matt Harden  FB  5-11  220 SO  
39 Maurice White  FB  5-10  200 JR  
40 LeRoy Dennis  DB  6-1  200 SR  
41 Josh Massie  LB  6-0  216 SO  
42 Tom Ryno  LB  5-11  225 SR  
43 Kevin Lewis  DB  6-0  206 JR  
45 David Joseforsky  LB  &-1  220 SR  
46 Aaron Rigby  LB  &-1  222 JR  
47 Greg Kirwan  FB  6-0  218 SR  
48 Charles Fisher  DB  6-1  200 JR  
49 Bobby Brown  LB  6-0  230 SR  
49 Johnny Gill  SING 6-1  280 JG  
50 Travis Cooley  LB  5-11  232 JR  
51 Clint Bruce  LB  6-0  238 SR  
52 Allen Szczepek  DE  6-4  225 SO  
53 Keith Mier  LB  6-0  230 SO  
54 Will Farnham  OT  6-3  260 SO  
55 Brian Drechsler  C  5-11  250 JR  
57 Chris Person  DE  6-3  238 JR  
58 Jason Coffey  LB  5-11  227 JR  
59 Greg Summa  OT  6-3  270 JR  
60 Russ Tate  LB  5-11  222 JR  
61 Newt McKissick  c  6-3  no so  
62 Drew LaBaw  OG  6-4  272 JR  
63 Kyle Turner  c  6-2  240 so  
64 Brian Nowitzki  DT  6-4  270 JR  
65 Hunter Jones  OG  &-4  285 SR  
66 Michael Wahle  OT  &-5  261 SO  
67 Kurt Herspring  OT  6-6  275 SO  
68 Lester Fortney  C  6-3  245 SR  
69 J.D. Gainey 70· Scott Zimmerman  OG OT  6-1 &-3  281 JR 246 SR  
71 Jeff Smith  OG  6-2  279 SR  
72 Chris Kelly  OG  6-3  275 SO  
73 David Loya  OG  6-1  282 JR  
74 Cecil Collins  C  5-7  230 JR  
7 4 Cecil Fielder  DH  6-2  369 NYY  
75 Derek Peterson  OG  6-6  300 SO  
76 Alex Domino  OT  &-4  275 SR  
76 Fats Domino  BIG  6-0  400 SR  
77 Blaine Kindler  OT  6-0  255 SO  
78 Tom Vanderhorst  KS  6-0  185 SO  
79 Jared Jacobs  OT  6-5  274 JR  
80 Ross Scott  SB  5-11  190 SR  
81 James lson  WR  6-1  185 JR  
82 Shane Kenney  WR  5-10  187 SO  
84 LeBron Butts  WR  6-2  201 JR  
85 Ryan Bucchianeri  KS  5-8  161 SR  
86 Jesse Rehus  WR  5-11  191 SO  
87 Neal Plaskonos  WR  6-2  220 SR  
88 Ted Kribs  WR  5-11  190 SO  
90 Jerome Dixon  DT  6-0  225 SR  
91 David Viger  DT  6-5  275 JR  
92 Michael Ogden  DE  6-1  235 JR  
93 Nate Johnston  DT  6-3  235 SR  
94 Sean Smith  DT  6-3  251 SR  
95 Chad Holzafel  DT  6-6  255 SR  
96 Cal Quinn  DE  6-5  240 SR  
97 Jason Snider  DT  6-3  258 SO  
98 Chris Barnes  DT  6-2  250 JR  
99 Tom Poulter  DE  6-3  251 SR  




cannot be singled out as the only prob­lem, Kaczenski feels they can.
'\· otre Dame center Rick Kaczenski 
doesn't think about it. Doesn't "We (ofTensive line) deserve the blame," 
himselfin the middle ofthings 
. think about his size. Doesn't 
think about the guys 50 pounds heavier 
lining up against him in the trenches. 
After 17 consecutive starts on the ofTen­
sive line, those bigger guys tend to run 
together in a hazy blur. 
No matter that the Irish senior is 6-4, 
255 pounds. The only thing that matters 
to Kaczenski is getting in someone's 
way. 
No matter what it takes. 

"lie 's (Kaczenski) got to do anything he ean and that's how he plays," ofTensive coordinator Dave Hoberts said. "He's got to grab you by the top of the shoes and bite you on the ankle. Right now, he's not the biggest guy in the world, but he's got so much guts." 
Enough guts that these size differences make no diiTerence to him. 
"I try not to even think about it," Kaczenski said. "I just go out there and play. Once you're on the field, it doesn't matter. Weight, height, speed. It all doesn't matter. You've just got to go full blown." 
That type of attitude quickly earned the respoct or his teammates when he entered the starting lineup last year. With Kaezenski starting the final 11 games of 1995, the Irish finished 6th nationally in rushing, averaging 233.5 yards per game. His quickness and tenaeity made him a favorite of the coaches. 
"Rick's not the biggest guy, but he is the toughest," Hoberts added. "There's no question about his athleticism or his heart. 
"lie's a warrior. lie looks up and sees all these bigger guys and you wonder how he does it. But sometimes the big­ger g'liys don't. have the heart. that Rick Kaezenski does." · · 
Like so many underclassmen, Kaczenski toiled in practice for the first two years, wondering if he would ever receive the minutes he desired. With future NFL players like Tim Huddy and Dusty Zeigler in front of him, question marks filled Kaczenski's head. 
"You always wonder if you're ever going to play," he remembered. "I never thought I would be big enough or good enough to play." 
Onee the starting job opened up, how­ever, Kaezenski's confidence soared. 
"I think with the respeet of his team­mates and his work ethic, all of a sudden he found out he's a football player," Hoberts said. "lie started playing and quickly became a leader, and I think people look up to him or look down to him. You know some of the linemen look to 
Nevertheless, Kaczenski realizes that he cannot merely show up and start every week. It is this attitude which has endeared him to coaches and players alike. 
"You can't be happy with just starting," Kaczenski said. "If you don't perform well and improve every week, starting is meaningless." 
Under the tutelage of offensive line coach Joe Moore, Kaczenski has refined his skills and learned how to neutralize the advantage larger linemen possess. By constantly staying low in blocking, Kaczenski rose higher on the depth chart. 
"I listen to what coach Moore teaches," he said. "You can weigh 200 pounds and if you do what coach Moore teaehes, you're going to block people." 
Kaczenski has displayed the guts coach­es respeet not only on the field but ofT it. Following an uninspired performance against Air Force where the Irish rushed for only 67 yards, the lowest in the Lou Holtz era, the middle man in the line also puts himself in the middle of the blame. 
"We embarrassed ourselves against Air Force," Kaczenski said. "Personally, you've got to look at yourself. I look at myself and I'm not very happy with my performance." 
The offensive line, once thought to be roek solid, has now become a question mark. The loss of sophomore guard Mike Rosenthal to a broken ankle only makes matters worse. In two out of the past three games, the Irish have been dominated on the line of scrimmage. Dismal rushing performances against Ohio State and Air Force have stalled the 
he added. "If we don't play, the team is 
not going to win." 
There is often a tendency to not eredit 
the ofTensive line during the good times, 
but criticize that same unit when prob­
lems arise. Kaczenski does not concern 
himself with this seeming contradiction. 
"Football is a team game," he said. "If 
we do well, we're not worried about us. 
We're worried about the team. We don't 
care if our names are in the papers." 
The reason Kaezenski's name might appear in print can largely be attributed to his honesty. Rather than skirt an issue, the Erie, Pennsylvania native addresses it. Outside the locker room following the Ohio State game, Kaczenski flat out said the Irish did not play Notre Dame football. When asked about the surprising Buckeye blitzing, Kaczenski responded that this is a Division I pro­gram and it should be able to handle anything thrown its way. 
Ilis ideas regarding the loss to Air Foree were no difTerent. 
"We're just trying to wipe the embar­rassment ofT right now," Kaczenski said. "We're an embarrassed offensive line. I'm embarrassed personally. We're try­ing to practiee so that doesn't happen again. We've got to come out intense and go live every play. We can't aiTord to take a play ofT." 
The conviction in his answers displays the leadership Kaczenski has assumed since he was named a starter just a sea­son ago. Initially, it appeared Kaczenski would spend the year in a backup role, but an injury to Jeremy Akers forced Duty Zeigler to the guard spot and thrusted Kaezenski into the spotlight. 
His first start was the culmination of his toiling at the center position for two years. Originally, Kaczenski was recruit­ed out of high school as a tight end, but it wasn't too long before he had to adjust to being in the middle of things. 
"The center position is so important," Roberts said. "It's so eomplicated with every blocking call. You've got to be intelligent and be able to reeognize things. It takes a very speeial person to be able to do what we have to do." 
Despite a rocky start, Kaezenski soon proved to be an invaluable eommodity on the line. 
"Rick went in there and kind of gelled the whole ofTensive line as far as efTort and attitude," Roberts said. "That's what he's going to have to do the next five weeks of the season. lie's one of the leaders, if not the leader. We ean't afTord to have a good game and then a bad one. We've got to start getting some consistency." 
"For the rest of the season, I'm just going to try and get eonsistent," Kaezenski said. 
As with everything else, Kaezenski puts himself in the middle of that ehallengc too. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Senior Rick Kaczenski {57) leads the Irish offensive line out of the huddle. It is a line that Kaczenski, shown here celebrating with fullback Marc Edwards after the 35-0 victory has been plagued by injury and inconsistency this year. over Purdue in the second game, has since seen Irish fortunes change for the worse. 
Friday, November 1, 1996 
The Irish Extra • THE MATCH-UPS page 5 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE... 
W
hen a team rushes for only 67 yards against an unranked team, it can expect to undergo some changes. That's the situation facing Lou Holtz and the Irish 
. offense. Notre Dame's rushing total versus Air Force was the lowest in the Holtz era and the smallest since 1985. "(Over the past nine or ten days} we just tried to get it where we could gain some degree of consistency," Holtz said. "I wished I could stand here and say we achieved that, but we haven't." Because of Notre Dame's inconsistencies, Holtz has decided to shuffle the deck at some key positions. Let's start at tailback. "Right now Randy Kinder will start at tailback in all probabili­ty," Holtz said. "We may also see Marc Edwards." "This is not a demotion of Autry Denson. This is due to the fact that Randy Kinder has worked very, very hard. He has done a nice job out there and deserves to have the opportuni­ty to start." The Irish will sorely miss the absence of starting right guard Mike Hosenthal. who will miss at least four weeks because of a broken ankle. "Mike Rosenthal was one of our leaders on the offensive line, even though he's a sopho­more," Holtz said. "We miss him drastically." Tim Ridder and Alex Mueller are expected to be Rosenthal's replacements. At fullback, Jamie Spencer is expected to get more playing time, especially if Edwards plays tailback. At tight end, 

The Observer/Mike Ruma After a lackluster showing against Air Force, the Irish hope to add a spark to their rushing attack with Autry Denson (above) heading to the bench and Randy Kinder moving into the starting lineup. 
Kevin Carretta should start because of Pete Chryplewicz's sprained ankle. Chryplewicz has missed most of the team's 
practices  for  the  past few  
weeks.  
Holtz  is  concerned  about  

improving the Irish running game against Navy's defense. 
"Navy did an excellent job on us last year as far as stopping our run. We had difficulty run­ning the ball in the first half," Holtz said. "They haven't changed much defensively, except they're probably a little bit stronger. The main thing is they're playing with great con­fidence." 
Navy may have a great deal of confidence right now, but that is one ingredient the Irish are lacking. Holtz hopes his offense can regain some of that confi­dence in Dublin. 
-Todd Fitzpatrick 


The Notre Dame defense hopes to rebound on Saturday after struggling against Air Force two weeks ago. 
avy quarterback Chris 
McCoy presents a stiff 
challenge for the Irish defense this weekend. 
At first glance, it looks as if linebackers Lyron Cobbins and Co. must step up their play if they hope to avoid experiencing deja vu from two weeks ago when they overran the ball and continuously missed Beau Morgan. 
McCoy is a virtual clone of Morgan, and heads up a triple­option, wishbone offense that ranks third nationally in rush­ing offense at 306.8 yards a game. 
Such offenses give Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz fits. 
week. 
But while Navy looks a lot like Air Force to the casual observ­er, there are differences, the most obvious being that Navy utilizes its backs more than Air Force. Fullback Omar Nelson, at 5'9 and 228 pounds, is a boss who has run for 498 yards this season and is currently averag­ing 7.6 yards a carry. 
"Their fullback, Nelson, is a very strong threat," said Holtz. "They run him much more than Air Force does (their fullback}. Their offensive line is bigger and stronger than Air Force, which may be one of the rea­sons they have more of a full­back-oriented offense." 
'95, Air Force '96}. 
The trouble runs deeper, though, on review of Navy's peppering passing game and bigger offensive line. 
"They do a couple of things differently," noted strong safety Benny Guilbeaux. "They throw the ball more. Our key is to take care of each guy, and focus on the individual assignment. That's the bottom line." 
Perhaps the most crucial bat­tle lies in the mental game. Against Air Force this year, Notre Dame's linebackers left any sense of discipline in the locker room. And against Navy last season, the Irish defense yielded 303 total yards in the 
···.······.···.··.··.•·
. · ..:. ·~ 
-~j 

Powlps is :passing extremely well-this season, but recent fumbles have hurt. Navts Chris McCoy is doing his best Beau Morgan impersonation. 
?f#J!i :: :;c8if>~· •' ' 
.:....
".,~-: ·. .. . :' 
· · .· ·· · · Rnrullng Backs 
Irish backs have been disappointing this season, .but they get the edge based on sheer numbers. ··_Navy•s·omar Nelson has caused fits for opponents. 
Receivers 
Easily the most improved unit for ~he Irish, butstill far from dangerous. Navy's receiving corps spend mo~t of the day ~locl<irrg for McCoy and c9mpany. 
(lffensive ·una •.····•··
r. ..··:··.'.~.­

A major sore spot for the Irish lately. unit is even .more suspect following loss of RosenthaL Navy's ·lin:e has helped. churn out big yardage all year._ 
.. Irish's fab.four were al$o quiet against the Falcons, · butit's hard to keep a good thing down. Navy co· captain.Clfut Bruce.is as gritty as they come. 
SeOOndary 
While their complexion is constantly changing, the Irish, unit is hol~ing their own. Navy's solid bunch is led by Second Team All-American Sean Andrews . 
.;.",.. ·····~ 1\\iuml. 
A m~ch-intpr~v~d :unit.. against the liat~Ji'ls .. th~ ... Irishhave~a·dangero~s return man in Rossuui ... >> NavY has e~<;:eU~cton PUI1t r~tlU'ns st)far this year .. 
··: . :···>·"' . . .·.·:.. ·: ··.. '. . 
: .... , ..:... 
t~' 
,. 

: .·:· ::· ·.'··· . ··.· ' .. 
Navy's Weatherbie has righted a once sinking ship, .·..·..·•··•·. propelling ·tlleni to a S;~t star{ Holtz's erratic· play· calling hasn't helped the Irish cause this year. · 
"I would much rather face a On paper then, Notre Dame first half alone. team that throws the ball 70 seems to be swimming in trou­Cobbins and Co. need to bear times than I would an option ble. After all, Irish defenses down on the very first series, or football team like Navy and like have allowed over 800 total it could be a somber seven-hour the Air Force academy that exe­rushing yards in three of their plane ride home. cutes it as well as they do," last four games against service summed up Holtz earlier this academy teams (Army '95, Navy -T. Ryan Kennedy 
..... 
page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT Friday, November 1, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Holtz must inject life into fading Irish 
I
made a prediction at the beginning of this football season. I declared that no opponent would invade Notre Dame Stadium and leave with a victory. 
Well, we what happened against Ohio State. So, I guess I was wrong. But OSU was expected to be a tough game, and the Irish made it competitive. There were simply some 

inconsistencies, and it Dave Treacy cost ND the game. Associate Sports
But after the loss, I . 
figured that the losing Edttor well at home had run dry. The rest of our opponents would surely not give us fits, I assumed. 
So when the Irish trounced Washington in the Stadium, all was well under the Dome. Baek to normal. 
Now maybe I'm the only one on earn­pus who thought this, but there was no doubt in my mind that the Irish would handle Air Force in Hoek's !louse. The Falcons would throw the wishbone at us, but surely that wouldn't be too big a problem. After all, the team had to know that every game counts. An Alliance Bowl bid was in our future if we kept winning, and unranked oppo­nents traveling here should be on the endangered species list. 
Well, we all know what happened against Air Force. To summarize, the Irish played remarkably poor football. Numerous adjectives were used to ana­lyze Notre Dame's performance: flat, uninspired, unfocused, inconsistent. 
Inconsistent. Again. 

As a mattf~r of fact, the only consisten­cy Notre Dame has shown is that they are inconsistent every week. They have not performed well on offense, defense, and special teams in a single game thus far. That's not a desired kind of consis­tency for the Irish. 
The other kind of consistency Notre Dame has shown is an inability to win at home against weaker competition. In fact, a lower ranked opponent has won here in each of the last seven seasons. In the last four alone, the Irish have lost to Air Force, Northwestern (a game they should've won no matter how good the Wildcats turned out to be), BYU, Michigan, and Boston College. And 1996 isn't over yet. 
A successful team must win at home. Florida loses at home about as often as Halley's comet passes overhead. Nebraska, Washington, Miami, Florida State-all successful programs notorious for home field prominence. But that can't be said for Notre Dame anymore. 
Pointing fingers can be an art form. How many people, including myself, complained about fair-weather fans? 
But now, maybe it's time that some­body point the finger. 
A little while back, an individual sent in a column to The Observer, complain­ing about the coaching style of Lou Holtz. The response to the letter was phenomenally negative. 
Well, send those letters this way. In my opinion, the individual who repre­sents Notre Dame football, in success or in failure, is Holtz. If we win the nation­al championship, who gets his picture taken with the trophy but Holtz? Who has his own Burger King commercial? Lou Holtz. Who has his own tribute after the third quarter? Lou Holtz. 
Who should be accountable for recent Irish disappointments? Lou Holtz. 
Now, I am not claiming to be a coach on any level, and Holtz has proven him­self often enough. I'm going to steer clear of his play-calling. And Lou hasn't worn pads and fumbled the ball. But even an amateur like myself can tell when something's wrong. So now I'm going to criticize him on his own turf. 
Holtz is a renowned motivational speaker. Maybe he should practice on his team. 
The team that lost to Air Force was by-and-large the same one that slaugh­tered Washington. 
So the difference from one week to the next must lie somewhere else. I say it is motivation. Notre Dame did not look intense against the Falcons, and they have rarely displayed life at home this year, especially on offense. 
One telling statistic is that in Notre Dame Stadium this season, in only four games, they have had 11 fumbles, losing eight. Where's the intensity, the killer instinct? 
It is the duty of the coaching staff, Holtz especially, to keep the players intense, game in and game out. And I see no reason why Noire Dame should not play motivated football. 
We're talking gold helmets here. We're talking the House that Rockne built. We're talking about every game played here being broadcast across the country on Notre Dame's own television station. How on earth can the team be complacent? 
Well, they have been, and now they have little better than an outside shot at actually earning a bowl bid. 
Notre Dame plays in an entirely differ­ent home this week. The 'Fighting Irish are visiting another country, rep­resenting more than Notre Dame with the aforementioned nickname. If NO loses in Ireland, the U.S. may have to send a diplomat over there to beg for­giveness. And if they don't play motivat­

ed football, they're going to lose. Again. The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Lou Holtz must pull together a struggling Irish
Lou Holtz had better start talking. 
team if they are to salvage the season.
And the team had better listen. 
• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editors: Dave Treacy and Joe Villinski Assistant Editors: Dylan 
Barmmer and Mike Day Graphic Design: · Chris Mullins Statistician: Jim Belden Production: Heather Cocks 

''Papa fohn's and ND Football-the tradition continues ... '' papa Predicts.. . ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1 995-1 996 Observer 
~oted #Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana 
NOTRE DAME: 42 ~oted ''BestDffl,lveredPizza"l994BestofMichiana
Na : .21 ~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1 995 Best of Michiana 
~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana 
Your Paoa Is ·now 
•Delivery-orivers • Order Takers 


Hours: 

*New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m. -3 a.m. Sunday: 12 p.m.-1 a.m. 
•Pizza Makers 
Notre Dame: 271­
formerly Cactus Jack's 
1177 
271-Saint Mary's: 
North Village Mall 
PAPA 
Friday, November 1, 1996 The Irish Extra • THE NATION page 7 
TEAM RECORD POINTS Prev 
1. Florida (59) 7-0 
2. Ohio State (4) 7-0 
3. Florida St (3) 6-0 

18. West Virginia 7-1 

13. Brigham Young 8-1 

4. Arizona St (1) 8-0 5. Nebraska 6-1 
6. Tennessee 5-1 
7. Colorado 6~1 
8. North Carolina 6-1 
9. Michigan 6-1 10. Alabama 7-1 11. Northwestern 7-1 12. Louisiana 6-1 
14. 
Kansas State 7-1 

15. 
Penn State 7-2 16. Virginia 5-2 17. Wyoming 8-0 


19. Notre Dame 4-2 20. Utah 7-1 21. Washington 5-2 22. Miami 5-2 
23. Southern Miss. 7-1 
~j 24. Auburn 5-2 25. Iowa 5-2 
1666 1 1579 2 1563 3 1481 4 1404 5 1347 6 1210 8 1195 9 1080 10 1065 7 1037 11 
868 13 
790 15 
759 16 
644 17 
580 14 
576 18 
459 12 
439 19 
412 21 
271 23 
265 25 
257 24 
231 22 190 20 

OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Virgm1a Tech 106, Syracuse 72, Army 66, East Carolina 63, A1r Force 42, Michigan St. 20, Navy 13, Geonga Tech 6, Cailforma 3, Texas Tech 3, Southern Cal 3 
CJM 


ABC* Nebraska at Oklahoma Michigan State at Michigan Northwestern at Penn State Baylor at Texas Washington at USC N.C. State at North Carolina  noon noon 3:30p.m.  
CBS*  

Notre Dame vs. Navy (tape delay) Florida at Georgia Syracuse at West Virginia 
* regional coverage, check your local listings 
'Cats face crucial Big Ten test, Trojans look to spear Washington 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
#11 Northwestern 
at #15 Penn State 

After last year's dream sea­son at Northwestern, many peo­ple thought the overachieving Wildcats would stumble in 1996. The critics were wrong. Northwestern has fought and scratched its way to a 7-1 record thanks to several come­from-behind victories. 
Adrian Autry, no relation to Darnell, filled in admirably in the latter's absence last week­end against Illinois. Defensively, linebacker Pat Fitzgerald is one of the Big Ten's best. 
Penn State was one of Northwestern's many upset vic­tims last season, but the Nittany Lions hope this year's game at Happy Valley will yield different results. Tailback Curtis Enis has the potential to run wild if Northwestern loses their battle in the trenches. 
#5 Nebraska at Oklahoma 

This Big 12 rivalry produced some memorable matchups in the 1980s, but the Sooners have derailed in recent years. The Cornhuskers, on the other hand, are the two-time defend­ing national champions. 

The Cornhuskers are anchored by a massive offen­sive line that includes Eric Anderson, Aaron Taylor and Chris Dishman. The man who earned the unlucky task of replacing Tommy Frazier at quarterback has been Scott Frost. With the exception of a shutout loss at Arizona State, he has been solid. 
Oklahoma's first-year coach, John Blake, led the Sooners to an upset victory over Texas 
'three weeks ago. But this is the 
upset he would really like to 
have. 
#21 Washington at USC 

When the season began, many experts predicted that these two teams would fight for the conference title. But unde­feated Arizona State has left the Huskies and Trojans to fight for second place. 
Washington's strength on defense is its linebacking corps. In particular, Ink Aleaga has already drawn comparisons to NFL Pro-Bowler Junior Seau. On offense, freshman quarter­back Brock Huard must main­tain his composure against the Trojans' defense. Tailback Corey Dillon ranks among the nation's leading rushers and scorers. 
Brad Otton was supposed to be the next great Trojan quar­terback. At 6-6, he'll have to settle for being the tallest. ... Defensively, cornerback Dayton McCutcheon will give Washington's receivers big problems. 
#3 Florida State 
at Georgia Tech 

Each team knows the impor­tance of winning this game. The Seminoles hope to keep their national championship hopes alive, and the Yellow Jackets just want to crack the Top 25. 
The Seminoles want to con­tinue their ACC dominance with another win on the road. They'll rely on a big game from Heisman hopeful Warrick Dunn, the only two-time, 1000­yard rusher in Florida State history. 
The Yellow Jackets must dis­play some threat of a passing game to complement their strong running game. If they don't, Florida State could domi­nate. 

-
The Observer/Kevin Klau 

With Darnell Autry nursing an injury, Northwestern QB Steve Schnur will face a big test versus Penn State. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 

Navy Notre Dame Penn State N'western Nebraska Nebraska Washington usc

Tim Sherman Dave Treacy 
Sports Editor Associate Sports 
Ga. Tech Florida St. 
Record: 20-10 Editor Record: 21-9 

Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
N'western 
Nebraska 
usc
Joe Villinski 

Associate Sports 
Ga. Tech
Editor 
Record: 19-11 

N'western Nebraska Dylan Barmmer Washington 
Assistant Sports 
Florida St. 
Editor 

Record: 21-9 

Mike Day 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Record: 18-12 
Todd Fitzpatrick 
Sports Writer 
Record· 14-16 
Notre Dame Penn State Nebraska Washington Florida St. 
Notre Dame N'western Nebraska 

usc ­
Florida St. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Washington tailback Corey Dillon (4) will lead the Huskies into USC this weekend in a battle for second place in the Pac-1 0. 
page 8 · The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 1, 1996 

.. 



