
Monday, January 22, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 72 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Faulty sprinkler drenches Hesburgh Library 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Writer 
Studtmts attempting to study on the second lloor of lleshurgh Library Saturday morning wern greeted by water-logged books and a flooded floor. Now, only yt~llow tape prevents access to air blowers dry­ing books on tables near the library computer dus­ter. 
"Thnrn was water everywhere on the second floor. People were going around with Shop-Vacs sucking up the water and drying out the books," observed Brian Tomeik, a freshman from Keenan II all. 
The flood bngan early Saturday morning when a sprinkler head in a maintenance room on the third floor froze, tlwn burst. Water built up in the room and leaked down through the floor in the common ama on the second floor. 
"Lots of ptwple from different departments pitdwd in to dean it up," said Bob Miller, director of University Libraries. "It took members of Library Stan·. Building Snrvices, and other areas from about 
I) a.m. to about 5 p.m. to clean it up." 
Thn faulty sprinkler head, which has been rnplaeed, was a part of a new system recently installed in the library. The exact cause of the pipe bursting is unknown, but it is thought to have been caused by the recent dip in temperatures. 
"Tiwre was no major damage done," according to Miller. "Some of the books are beyond repair, and the drying process ought to take until Monday. But there was no structural damage or damage to the furniture." 
While the proeess of saving the damaged books may take eonsiderahly longer, the aetual problem caused by the water that flowed down the walls. and through the ceiling has been solved. 

The Observer/David Murphy 
A faulty sprinkler head caused extensive water damage to the second floor of Hesburgh Library. While no structural damage 
was suffered, many books remain water-logged. 
'Acid' captures literary prize 
Special to The Observer 
A collection of short stories by Edward Falco entitled "Add" was selected as the first winner of the University of Notre l>anw's Sullivan Prize for short fiction. 
The prize, which will be awarded biennially by the Uni­versity's Creative Writing Pro­gram to authors of short sto­ries, honors a distinguished member of Notre Dame's En­glish faculty, the late novelist and short story wril!~r Hichard Sullivan. The Sullivan Prize in-eludes a $500 cash award and publication of the winning work by the University of Notre Dame Press. "Acid" will be published next February by the press. 
Valerie Sayers, professor of English and director of the Cre­ative Writing Program and William A. O'Hourke, professor of English, both novelists, served as judges for the award. "The Sullivan contest con­firmed my belief that the short story is not only alive and well, but alive and kicking," said Sayers. "Ed Falco's collection caught my eye immediately, with its edgy, compelling prose and its insistence on facing the realities of American life in the 90's." 
Falco, whose shprt stories have appeared in the Atlantic Monthly, TriQuarterly, The Southern Review and the Vir­ginia Quarterly Review, is the author of an earlier collection, "Plato at Scratch Daniels," and a novel, "Winter in Florida." He also has a collection of hy­pertext poetry on the Internet. 
see AWARD I page 4 


Minor fire in Badin Hall pending investigation 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
The smell of smoke by a dorm monitor led to the discov­ery of a small fire in Badin Hall early Saturday morning, ac­cording to Chuck Hurley, assis­tant director of Notre Dame Se­curity. 
At 1:20 a.m., the dorm moni­tor smelled smoke on the sec­ond floor in the laundry room. She discovered a small fire in the garbage can that had burnt itself out without causing any damage. She alerted the Notre Dame Fire Department, and the matter is still under investigation. 
The dorm fire alarm did not go off because it is heat sensing and not smoke sensing, Hurley said. 
Hurley said that the fire could have been caused by a dis­carded cigarette, although smoking is not allowed in Badin Hall. 

"We do not know if the fire was purposeful or accidental," he said. "We are investigating the incident along with the fire department." 
Militant group threatens to avenge Sheik's sentence 
Associated Press 
CAIHO, Egypt 
A militant Muslim group has threatened to attack American targets to avenge the life sen­tence imposed on Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman for plotting to blow up New York landmarks, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
"All American interests will be legitimate targets for our struggle until the release of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman and his brothers," the Al-Hayat newspaper quoted the Islamic Group as saying. 
"As the American government has opted for open con­frontation with the Islamic movement and the Islamic sym­bols of struggle, al-Gamaa al­lslamiya (the Islamic Group) swears by God to its irreversible vow to take an eye for an eye," the statement said. 
The Islamic Group has been blamed for much of the violence in a nearly four-year campaign aimed at overthrowing Egypt's seeular government and replac­ing it with strictlslamic rule. 
The group considers the Egyptian-born Abdel-Hahman as its spiritual leader. 
Abdel-Hahrnan was sentenced to life in prison on Wednesday by a U.S. District Court after being convicted in a plot to bomb the United Nations, a fed­eral building, two New York tunnels and a bridge. Nine oth­ers were convicted in the con­spiracy. 
The U.S. Embassy has warned Americans to exercise caution because of possible violent reac­tion in Ehrypt to the court ruling. The embassy was dosed Sunday. and spokesmen could not immediately be reached for comment on the Islamic Group statement. 
There was no way to inde­pendently verify the statement. Similar claims from the group have gone in the past to Al­llayat. 


,_...--------­
-

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 22, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Finally, getting a real education 
1 attended a small, mid-western high school for Catholic women and need­ed a change of pace. So for college, I went to another small, midwestern school for Catholic women. I filled up the minivan with ~,.· YafTa Blocks and headed to Saint Mary's. Friends Mary Beth Ellis had various reactions. Saint Mary's Accent 
Some were amused. Editor "Tell the Von Trapp children I said hi. Maria!" 
Others were horrified. "What did you do­lose a bet with your parents?" But all were fascinated. "Do they only admit girls with 'Mary' in their names?" 
It's been a semester now, and I have resolved myself to the idea of sharing a living space with a person who finds it necessary to blast "Goin' Through the Big DAn' Don't Mean Dallas" at six AM. I have learned also how to sacrifice quarters for the luxury of clean socks, as well as carrying the terrible picture of myself iimmortalized in plastic for the next four years. 
What I couldn't get used to was feeling stu­pid. Bleached blonde stupid. Constantly. 
My first week of school was the Idiot Olympics. I was perpetually lost: "Have you seen my dorm?" 
I couldn't acclimate myself to the local lingo. "Who's this JAAC guy?" And classes were just scary. "You want how many pages on what by when?" 
Fortunately, the people of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are kind to the froshly ignorant. There's always been a benevolent up­perclassman to take pity on me ("'t's pro­nounced 'La-FOR-chun', you idiot, not 'La­FOR-TUNE'." Oh.) I've found that folks are simply nice in general around here: it's always "Please" and "Thank you" and "Sorry about that" if you get thrown up on at a dorm party. 
I think I have become conditioned to ask dumb questions. People back home, when 'they found out just what Saint Mary's is across the street from, were asking me con­tinually what I now recognize to be a terrifi­cally stupid question: "Can you get me foot­ball tickets?" Even I know the answer to that one: Riiiiight. Around here you have to be one of two people to get football tickets: 
1. 
Lou Holtz. 

2. 
God. 


Yet, I'm clawing my way out of my little pit of ignorance. Look what I have learned already: 
• 
The official pick-up line of a Domer for a SMC chick is: "There's a great view of the Dome from my dorm room." Yeah. Sure, pal. 

• 
Profs get a little upset if you show up forty minutes late for class and ask in a hurt voice, "What, you didn't wait for me?" 

• 
It appears-and I'm going out on a limb here-that home football games are some­what significant events. 

• 
Avoid dining hall pudding consisting of more than one color. 

• Avoid dining hall pudding, period. 

• 
There are three types of people in this world: Optimists, who see the glass half full; pessimists, who see the glass half empty; and college students, who don't really care if the glass is half full or half empty so long as it contains some sort of alcohol. 


Now all I need to know is the name of that big building with the mural behind the foot­ball stadium .... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Ed Dawson Maureen Hurley Meaghan Smith 
Sports Production Tim McCan Tara Grieshop Dave Bradley Karen Beck 
Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Dave Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepl during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wuntn AT A Guwc~:: 
' 

Flooding devastates Ohio River area, death toll at 36 
PENNSYLVANIA Flooding on the Ohio River forced hundreds of people from 
Blizzard of '96 flooding
their homes Sunday, while residents of flooded towns 
upstream in Pennsylvania and upstate New York scraped Melting snow from the Blizzard of '96 combined with heavy rains, unleashed a torrent of mud slides and in the U.S.
mud from soaked homes and historical monuments. 
The past week's burst of flooding, snow, ice and cold had been blamed for at least 36 deaths from the Plains into New England. In upstate New York, five members of one family died when a washed-out road sent their car into a reservoir. 
"It's just a big puddle of soup," said Tami Taylor of Har­risburg, Pa., whose 13-story apartment building was closed by floodwaters. "It looks like there's 10 feet of water in there, at least." 
Officials in many areas had not yet fully measured the damage. MARYLAND: Rescuers in boats and helicopters evacuated 

"It's like the first precinct to vote in New Hampshire for residents coping with flash floods. the presidential election. Those first returns don't tell you a MINNESOTA: At least six deaths blamed on the storm. heck of a lot," said Don Maurer of the New York state Office NEW YORK: High winds caused the 110-story twin towers of the of Emergency Management. World Trade Center to sway. Gusts of 61 mph closed the 
President Clinton on Sunday declared Pennsylvania a dis­Verrazano Narrows Bridge at midday and ripped a 9-by-12 foot aster area because of the flooding. section of the dome above the U.N. General Assembly. The Ohio River crested Sunday at several spots along West PENNSYLVANIA: More than 100,000 residents of Wyoming Virginia's Northern Panhandle. Valley, including all of Wilkes-Barre, were ordered to evacuate as 
Wheeling Island, a low-lying, urban enclave of some 3,500 the Susquehanna River rose to alarming levels. residents connected by bridge to Wheeling, W.Va., was 95 VERMONT: Ateenager drowned. percent under water as the Ohio rose 10 feet out of its banks WEST VIRGINIA: Several towns were warned to evacuate as 
before beginning to recede. About 700 people fled the island. rivers swelled from acombination of 3 feet of melting snow and "Every home on the island is damaged," said Gene Barker, 2.5 inches of rain. Ohio County deputy director of emergency services. AP 
Connery honored at Golden Globes 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. 
It took three big Hollywood names, Nicolas Cage, John Travolta and Michael Crichton to present the Cecil B. DeMille Award for career achievement to Sean Connery at Sunday night's Golden Globes. That showed how Holly­wood regards the sturdy Scottish origi­nator of the movies' James Bond. The standing ovation also attested to the 65­

year-old actor's prestige, and he needed to hold up a hand to end the applause. ''I've made a lot of films, some of which I've forgotten and some I would like to forget," he reminisced. ''I've traveled to scores of exotic places, met many interesting people, kissed dozens of beautiful women and actually been very well paid for it. I'm very grateful," he said. "The point is, I think, if actors and actresses are good at what they do, and if you the audi­ence are affected, moved by the stories we help to tell, then that's the real reward," he said. 

GOP request turned down 
WASHINGTON 
CBS became the second network to turn down an un­usual request from Republican leaders, who want their response to President Clinton's State of the Union speech to air a day later in prime time. The network considers it in the public's interest to air both the president's speech and the GOP response on Tuesday night, Andrew Hey­ward, president of CBS News, said Sunday. "We feel strongly that these two events have been linked through long tradition for a very good reason," Heyward wrote in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and House Speaker Newt Gingrich. "Presenting the two speeches back-to-hack will ensure the widest possible audience for both points of view," Heyward wrote. ABC turned down the Republicans' request last week; NBC has yet to re­spond. Dole said he hoped for the 24-hour-delay after Clinton's speech "to sort of let him have his day and let us have our day." Dole and Gingrich asked Friday by let­ter if they could deliver their response on Wednesday at 9 
p.m. EST. The letter went to news executives at ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, PBS and the Fox Broadcasting Co. 

Inmate earns college degree 
PLAINFIELD, Vt. 
Death-row inmate Mumia Abu-Jamal was awarded a bachelor of arts degree in psychology Sunday from a small college, earning about half of his credits from prison. "He put all his energy and a heart into getting the degree. He didn't take his education as seriously as he should when he was young, so it means a lot to him," said his son, Jamal. Abu-Jamal, a former reporter and Black Panther, was convicted of the December 1981 shooting death of Philadelphia police officer Daniel Faulkner and was scheduled to die by injection last August. A judge granted him an indefinite stay of execu­tion and he is seeking a second trial. Abu-Jamal went to Goddard College near Montpelier between 1978 and 1980. He reapplied last year and was accepted into the off-campus program. He did all his work through the mail. His adviser, Margot Macleod, said Abu-Jamal wrote his final 75-page study titled, "The Emergence of a Black Psychology" in longhand because he was not per­mitted to use a typewriter in prison. 

Mother enraged by abortion law 
PHOENIX, Ariz. 
A proposal to require parental consent for minors seek­ing abortions in Arizona could endanger the lives of some girls, says an Indiana woman whose teen-age daughter died after having an illegal abortion. Becky Bell, 17, of Indianapolis kept her pregnancy secret for three months until she died in 1988 after having an "illegal, botched abortion" in which dirty instruments were used, her mother, Karen, said at a news conference here on Friday. Bell said she blamed an Indiana law requiring parental consent for minors seeking abortions. Arizona lawmakers are considering a similar law, which would require any girl younger than 18 to obtain the written consent of one parent or legal guardian before an abortion. "I have to say it's a killer law," Bell said. "My daughter is dead and I blame the law." According to Bell, her daughter went for a back-alley abortion after hearing about the consent law because she didn't want to disappoint her parents. Abortion opponents disputed that Becky died from an illegal abortion and insisted that parental consent laws work. 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

------------~--~------------------­

Monday, January 22, 1996 


Abortion opponents mark anniversary of Roe vs. Wade 
By DARLENE SUPEB.VILLE Assodatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON 

As Congress moves closer to banning some rare late-term abortions, abortion opponents gathen"!d in the nation's capital for their annual march to the Supreme Court to protest its landmark Hoe v. Wade deeision 23 ynars ago. 
Tlw abortion debate appears to have taken a baek seat to budget and tax matters in this presidential eleetion year. Nonethelnss, it remains one of the most emotional and divisive publie and politieal issues fac­ing Anwrieans. 
Thousands of abortion oppo­rwnts from aeross the eountry were to rally ntlar the White House at lunchtime Monday before marching lo the Supreme Court, as they have donil 1wery year since 1974. 
The event eomcs as Congress is moving doser toward dealing a major blow to the 1973 eourt dneision by prohibiting a spe­eilie abortion procedure used in late-tflrm pregnancies. 
The Stmatn and llouse have 

J UNIORS 
u 
N I 
0 
R 
s 
Enhance your Summer 


Interview Opportunities . • • 
Pick up the Summer Bulletin every Monday at Career & Placement Services Hesburgh Library/Lower Level 
20 YBARS IN RBVUB! 
THE 1996 20TH ANNIVERSARY KEENAN REVUE IS COMING (FEB. 1, 2, 3) II 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
Notre Dame Friday, lan. 26 Distribution 1-3 PM No Lines Before Noon !ACC Gate 10 

1 ID per Person 2 Tickets per ID 


Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
each voted to ban the rarely used procedure, marking the first time since Roe v. Wade that Congress has acted to pro­hibit a specific abortion method. Differences in the House and Senate versions of the bill must be reconciled before it can be sent to the president. 
President Clinton has threat­ened to veto any such legisla­tion. 
Among those in Washington for the anniversary is Norma McCorvey, the "Jane Roe" in the 1973 decision. McCorvey, who attended a memorial ser­vice Sunday at Georgetown University, shocked abortion advoeates last year by announcing that she now opposes the procedure. 
Meanwhile, abortion rights supporters were marking the anniversary as a day to cele­brate. 
"Hoe vs. Wade is arguably the most important decision affecting the lives and health of women in this country," said Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion and Re­productive Hights Action League. 
St. Mary's Wednesday, Jan. 24 Distribution 6-8 PM No Lines Before 5 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 





Serbian atrocities unearthed 
Evidence of 7, 000 Muslims in mass graves 
By TERRENCE PETTY Associated Press 

BOSNIA 
New evidence that Serb mili­tias massacred up to 7,000 Bosnian Muslims will be hand­ed over to the Yugoslav war erimes tribunal, a top U.S. offi­cial said Sunday. 
John Shattuck, the assistant secretary of state for human rights, was in eastern Bosnia collecting evidence, interview­ing survivors and checking con­ditions that war crimes in­vestigators will face in the com­ing weeks. 
"We believe there are up to 7,000 missing, and I'm afraid their fate could very well be very clear from the mass graves and mass executions we've heard about in the area," he told reporters. 
Shattuck said survivors have named the abandoned, bombed-out village of Glogova, nestled among snowy hills, as the grave of those killed in one of the worst of the alleged war crimes. 
"Up to 2,000 people were herded into a warehouse and then fired upon by grenades and other weapons, and anyone who was left was shot when they left" the town of Kravice, just up the road, Shattuck said. 
Kravice was part of the east­ern Muslim enclave of Sre­breniea that was overrun by the Bosnian Serb forces on July 11, 1995. Shattuck did not explain how or why the bodies were moved from Kravice to Glogova. 
Shattuck said he could see blood spatters and massive holes in the warehouse from the heavy weapons and grenades. 
"Two thousand missing peo-
D Bosnian L._J Rebel Serb 
government­Groat New federation partition line 
YUGO. (Serbia) 
CROATIA 

Source: The Christian Science Monitor AP/Wm. Castello 
pie very nearby could mean that up to 2,000 people could be buried in this mass grave," Shattuck said, standing in a desolate, snow-covered field in front of a gutted house. 
He predicted diggers would begin work at Glogova with the spring thaw. 
The war crimes tribunal in The Hague and other human rights investigators have been worried that evidence of graves and possible war crimes could be tampered with the longer the sites are left outside inter­national control. 
NATO officials promised Sun­day to do their best to protect investigators at alleged mass graves around Bosnia and watch for any attempts to tam­per with the sites. 
Until now, Bosnian Serbs had blocked outsiders from visiting sites where they are accused of burying thousands of bodies. 
But on Sunday, Shattuck com­mended his Bosnian Serb hosts as being a "model of co-
IRIII CIUNTIY BEl I BIEAifAIT RECIITIY 
Tile l'nifaml Registry 

Reservad luxiR'IDUB rooms or private homas lor 1111/SMC special BVBIIt WBBkllndB: JPW/Grad./Football To rBBBrVB call (219)277-7003 
Fax 12191277-2456 
operation." 

"We have had ser.urity pro­vided by Bosnian Serb and Ser­bian authorities," he said. "I have had no restrictions on the places I've gone." 
Shattuck also toured Nova Kasaba, another reputed mass grave, and Konjevic Polje, where witnesses say 200 people were shot as they tried to flee along along the road. 
In the town of Karakaj, Shat­tuck said his team looked at a school house and gymnasium where Muslims wem reportedly held before being taken out in groups of 30 and shot before open pits. 
"This is the evidence many eyewitnesses have provided," he said. 
Other reputed sites are at nearby Bratunac and an aban­doned mine near Prijedor in the northwest. 
The war crimes tribunal, a U.N.-appointed court based in The Hague, the Netherlands, was losing hope that NATO forces would help secure mass grave sites and arrest indicted war criminals. 
"We will provide whatever support we can," said a written statement by U.S. Adm. Leighton Smith, commander of the NATO troops enforcing the Bosnian peace plan. 
Smith did not say how much military muscle would be need­ed, but noted NATO soldiers would "provide an environment in which (investigators) can accomplish their missions." 
In another probe, the chief Muslim investigator in eentral Bosnia, Safet Hadrovic, is trying to determine whether Croat militiamen are linked to the fate of over 500 Muslims missing from the towns of Vitez and Zepce. Croats and Muslims, now allies, fought each other there in 1993. 
Croats suggest that his probe could undermine the Muslim­Croat federation that has been given 51 percent of Bosnia un­der the U.S.-brokered peace plan. 
Hadrovic said he would push ahead regardless. "In order for there to be a state, there has to be justice," he told The Associ­ated Press. 
Shattuck said he believed NATO forces would be securing the alleged war crimes sites in the "very, very near future," after the primary task of sepa­rating forces was accom­plished. 



page 4 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 22, 1996 

TOP TEN REASONS TO APPLY 

FOR THE SAINT MARY's CoLLEGE 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING: 
#10 Graduates holding baccalaureate degrees from 
institutions other than Saint Mary's are eligible. #9 Students receive individualized attention. #8 The faculty is dedicated and professional. #7 If you are a woman with a baccalaureate 
degree as ofMay, 1996, in any major other than nursing, you are eligible for the program. #6 The classes are small, with an 8:1 student to 
professor ratio. #5 The focus of ALL classes is nursing. #4 There are on-site clinical instructors. #3 Through this program, you will earn a B.S. 
degree in Nursing from the #l ranked 
Saint Mary's College. #2 This is the only program of its type in the region. #1 You will receive your B.S. degree in Nursing 
in only 13 months. (Program begins May 28, 1996, and ends in July of 1997.) 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 14, 1996 FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT HEATHER MORICONI IN THE ADMISSION OFFICE AT 219/284-4587 

-1%1­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 





debt ceiling 

Armey said he would sup­port linking the debt limit increase to language terminat­ing the Commerce 
Contradicting other }leppbll::t'White House Chief of Staff Department. a top priority of can leaders, House Majority Leon Panetta said later on the Republican Congress, and I..eader Dick Armey ·. said :,f4t'Meet the Press." warning preventing the Treasury secre­Congress will refuse to t'aise z that Clinton would not. accept tary from "ever again raiding the federal debt ceiling ne"'t a debt limit extension with the trust funds of federal month unless President strings attached. workers' retirement pro­Cllntl>n agrees to GQP budget;»· Last week on the same news grams." cutting measures, . . ''!"; program, House Budget Com-After Clinton last November 

Anney's statements.•.•r.pri'Omittee Chairman John Kasich, vetoed a debt ceiling measure C's "Meet the Press::··;put. , R-Ohio, gave assurances that with similar restrictions. Trea· blicf),JIS on a llisio ····· epublicans would extend the \.sury Secretary Robert Rubin 
'··""'''"'"' with thl;l. .· . H~ ·.. . ov~tll.lllent's borrowing au" Wtwi;ce tapped government trust that C()Uld bring the fiscallq.· >.t ority before Feb. 15. when funds to avoid exceeding the tegrity of the country into. 'interest due to bondholders borrowing limit. question. . would push the debt beyond Rubin said last week that he 
House Republicans in the current $4.9 trillion limit. would be forced to take fur-particular have been reluctant "John Kasich's willingness ther actions so the government to pass stopgap funding mea-to vote for it to the contrary," can avoid default after Feb. 15 sures for the 1996 budget and said Armey, It-Texas. "it's not and suggested that this time raise the debt ceiling until the coming through the House un-finding appropriate accounting White House moves closer to less it carries with it some-maneuvers might be more dif­the Republicans' seven~year thing that is a substantial ficult. He said a legal review balanced budget plan. share of our agenda of de• was continuing because pro-
Talks on the balanced bud· creasing the size and the posals being considered did down lastweek,, of government. not as yet "fully pass muster." will· a House that is Armey said Congress would coinmJtt€id to getting this job probably agree to another 
·....., ·· .....,.... ·and we're going· to use temporary spending b.ill when Un:fo.nc+r@Icv•~ry instrument· we can to the current measure expires Congrf:lSi$ ''''move the ball forward," he on Jan. 26, avoiding a third said. government shutdown. 
Spring Breal< Setninars March 10-16, 1996 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology Information meeting: Thursday, Jan. 25, 7:00-7:30 PM Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier One credit Theology Information: Stop by the Logan Center toble at the Social Concerns Festival on 1/23 ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR Examine environmental issues nnd sites directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns One credit, Chicago-based seminar WASHINGTON SEMINAR Welfare: Public or Private Responsibility? Direct contact with polilic<ll, <'gency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government Information meeting: Thursday, Jan. 25, 6:30PM  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 31,1996  


Award 
continued from page 1 
His short story, "The Artist," has been selected by Pulitzer prize-winning novelist Jane Smiley for inclusion in "Best American Short Stories 1995." 
Richard T. Sullivan was grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1930 and worked as a free­lance writer before joining the University's faculty as a writing instructor in 1936. In addition to writing numerous book reviews for the New York Times and the Chicago 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The chairman of the Senate Whitewater Committee said there is no conflict between his dual roles as leader of the panel examining· t h e Whitewater controversy and as pro­moter of Bob Dole's presi­dential bid. 
Responding to a question, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., said he doesn't intend to stop cam­paigning for Senate Majority Leader Dole, R-Kan., while con­tinuing to hold hearings on the president and Hillary Rodham Clinton's involvement in the Whitewater real estate venture. 
"One has nothing to do with the other," D'Amato said on NBC-TV's "Meet the Press." "I don't go around campaigning and making charges or whatnot as it relates to Whitewater. I campaign for Senator Dole be­cause I think he will be a great leader." 
The Clintons' supporters have accused congressional Republi­cans of trying to keep the Whitewater investigation alive long enough to make it an issue in the president's re-election campaign. 
Dole 

Tribune, he wrote several short stories and novels, including "The World of Idella May," "The Three Kings," "Summer After Summer," "The Dark Continent," and "First Citizen." His personal history of the University, "Notre Dame: The Story of a Great University," was published in 1951 and reprinted in 1961 with an epi­logue and a new title, "Notre Dame: Reminiscences of an Era." A popular undergradu­ate teacher, he is remembered for his description of writing as "hard work requiring patience and idiotic perseverance." He died in 1981. 
D'Amato made it clear Sunday that he intends to ask Congress to extend the life of his commit­tee for several months beyond its Feb. 29 expiration date. 
"When is enough going to be enough here?" White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta asked on NBC. "In the end, the public and everyone has to ask the question: Is this a legitimate inquiry into wrongdoing, or is this political harassment?" 
D'Amato, who campaigned door-to-door for Dole in New Hampshire on Saturday, in­sisted, "The activity of the com­mittee will not. in any way, be prejudicial towards the first family or anyone else because of what their politics is or isn't." 
Republicans say they want to know whether Mrs. Clinton, while working as a lawyer in Arkansas, had more extensive ties than she has claimed to Madison Guaranty, the failed savings and loan at the heart of the Whitewater real estate deal. 
Last week, the first lady said she would be willing to testify before Congress if her testimony would end the matter. D'Amato said she would be welcome, but would not be forced to appear before his committee. 
"Imagine what we would be accused of if we were to sum­mon the first lady." he said. 
D'Amato said he would seek additional funding to extend the Whitewater committee past its Feb. 29 deadline. 
D'Amato denies conflict in dual leadership roles 
Monday, January 22, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Hawaii considers gay marriages 
By BRUCE DUNFORD 
A..sociatcd Press 
IIONOLULU 

A thorny issue facing Hawaii's reluctant Legislature has the potential to all'ect laws in all 50 states: whether to allow men to marry men, women to marry women, and then~by grant them the social, legal and finuneial benefits afforded married heterosexu­als. 
Prodded by a special corn­mission's 5-2 vote last month urging legalization of gay mar­riage, Hawaii's lawmakers­who just over a year ago voted to han same-sex unions -face fresh debate on the question in this high-profile eleetion year. 
There is good reason one vote in distant Hawaii is carefully watchfld by 49 other state legis­latures -and anticipated hopefully by hundreds of thou­sands of gay Americans. Heeding a clause in the Constitution, states generally agree to recognize each other's statutes -from driver permits and vehiele registrations to court decisions and marriage licenses. 
Thus, in theory, two women or two men legally married in llawaii would be considered legally married in any other state. Several states are already mulling ways to sidestep such recognition. ' 
Hawaii legislators convened their 60-day session last Wednesday and promptly pre­dicted the issue might take an­other year to resolve. 
Complex issues like this take time, said Senate President Norman Mizuguchi. He also said the Legislature was more likely to consider the commis­sion's seeondary recommenda­tion -to devise a eomprehen­sive domestie partnership law. 
This also seems to be the path favored by Gov. Ben Cayetano, who appointed the seven members of the Commission on Sexual Orientation and the Law last August. 
Cayetano last week suggested the state should establish legal rights and obligations for do­mestic partners of the same or opposite sexes. Weddings would be religious matters, he said, and the government should quit the business of issu­ing marriage licenses alto­gether. 
"The institution of marriage should be left to the church," 

1\S SI~I~N ON f~IIS Nl~l\rS "tlU IIOIJUS" 
KEY WEST 

1'1!1 I!J :) :t;VJ 3;13;) 3 3 rl 
I :115 i I] ~ I : I1!1 ·I b3 !!1 ~ 1·1 
* PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES I LENGTH OF STAY. 
t·~-$:O·O~S·IJ·N··C·11.4S'E: 
TOLL FI?E·E I~FOI?WATIO~ & I?ESEI?VATIO~S OR SURF OVER TO OUR WEB SITE AT: 
http:I fwww.sunchase.com 
Cayetano said. "The govern­ment needs to explore its role in marriages ... (and) should not be in the role of sanctifying marriages. That's when they run into problems." 
Hawaii was pitched into the push-and-pull of one of the na­tion's most contentious social dilemmas May 27, 1993, when its Supreme Court agreed with three gay couples that they had been unconstitutionally denied marriage licenses in 1990. 
The justices said the state had to show a compelling inter­est to ban such marriages and sent the case back for trial in a lower court. 
Trying to bolster the state's court case by establishing leg­islative intent, lawmakers in 1994 clarified the somewhat vague Marriage Law to spell out that marriage was solely the union of a man and a woman. 
They hedged their bet by also establishing the special com­mission to recommend a solu­tion to the 1996 Legislature, and the lower court postponed action pending the commis­sion's report. The court has now scheduled arguments in the same-sex marriage case for July 15. 
The commission gave law­makers four reasons to estab­lish the right of homosexual couples to marry: 
-To deny it conflicts with equal protection rights in state and federal constitutions. 
-Hawaii has no compelling state interest to deny it. 
-The argument that same­sex marriages won't produce children is invalid because het­erosexual marriages aren't held to the same standard. 

Internet deemed safe for cyber-credit card sales 
By ELIZABETH WEISE 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

You're bopping around the World Wide Web checking out cool sites and you stop in at one of the shiny new on-line malls sprouting up everywhere. There's that CD you've been meaning to get. You pull out your credit card, and you ­
Stop. 
Technology hasn't stopped you; the technical part of mak­ing a purchase by computer was worked out long ago. The gods of commerce haven't stopped you; they're eager to sell through cyberspace. 
What has stopped you is your own mistrust -the fear that by inputting your credit card number into a computer, you are opening yourself up to fraud. Perhaps, you think, some hacker will take my num­ber and buy himself a new skateboard. 
In fact, public fear of security risks on the Internet is stalling the boom many companies an­ticipated. But experts say send­ing your credit card number over the Internet to buy some­thing is as safe as calling up 
L.L. Bean and ordering a sweater. 
It's not that the computer se­curity flaws being discovered every other week by bored graduate students -and trum­peted by the media -aren't problems. They're just not problems for the average user. 
"If a person's standards are that they're not willing to send their credit eard over the Inter-
junior Parents Weekend Liturgy 
will take place on Tuesday, Jan. 23 and Wednesday, Jan24, 1996 at4:00 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
All Juniors are invited to participate in these auditions. 







The Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
1996-97 Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants sho~ld hav~ a strong interest in journalism and possess solid management, public relattons, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background m writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to john Lucas by 4:00p.m., Friday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the posi­tion or application process, contact john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
net, they probably shouldn't order anything by phone or from a store where they don't know the proprietor," said Rod Kuckro of Information and In­teractive Services Report. 
Says Douglas Barnes, who helps build secure computer systems for Electric Communi­ties in Los Altos, Calif.: "Credit card information is given out to hundreds of thousands of low­paid clerks all over the country every day -it would be hard to imagine a less secure ap­proach." 
Stories about wily hackers stealing thousands of credit card numbers have created the public perception that the In­ternet is a dangerous place to do business. When the FBI's "most wanted hacker" Kevin Mitnkk was arrested last year, one of the things he was cred­ited with doing was for stealing a file from an Internet service in California that contained in­formation on 30,000 credit card accounts. 
What wasn't as widely re­ported was the fact that Mitnick apparently never used any of the accounts, and proba­bly only wanted the file as a trophy. 
Security problems have been overhyped, even according to Simson Garfinkel, author of a book on one of the strongest publicly available encryption programs, Pretty Good Privacy. Encryption uses complex math­ematical algorithms to turn computer Iiles into a soup cif letters and numbers unread­able by anyone except the per­son for whom they are in­tended. 
Scares about security loop­holes on the Internet only real­ly affect large corporations who use computers to transfer sen­sitive information. Individuals buying a few CO's on-line aren't at risk, Garfinkel said. 
"The whole thing about en­cryption over the Internet is that it's not to protect the cus­tomer -it's to protect the credit card companies. By law, if there is no signature, the customer is liable for nothing. If there's a signature. they're liable for $50. The reason the credit card companies want (cryptography) is to limit their own liability. It has nothing to do with protecting the con­sumer," he said. 

~---------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 22, 1996 
•ROM£ 


more than security reasons. Analysts say the junta believes 
Interested? Submit a one-page resume per­
that would legitimize its rule, 
sonal statement to Dave Tyler, News Editor,
support the argument that only 
The Observer 
it can unify the insurgency­
in Rm 314 LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 22. 
wracked nation and improve 
Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323.
The Viewpoint Department is hiring
an image tarnished by brutal handling of democracy ac­
for this semester: 
tivists. 
The prospect of peace with 

Associate Viewpoint Editor 
~~. {~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ l~,·
the various rebel movements raises some fears. Democracy 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
advocates contend the govern­ment would use peace as an 
t Pay for your College Education+ 1\.


Viewpoint Copy Editor 
opportunity to tighten its grip on power and dismantle their 
\ through · 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The
movement. Some analysts also are con­
Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. 

1 Part Time Employment!! ~ 
cerned that a strong Burmese 
For information call631-4541. 
< t
army controlling the frontiers 
Work just a few hours for two or three weekends~ until Spring. Break. Then work "part time" during this summer only an.d you could pay for your ~ 
Are you interested in a position on the Notre 
' College Education and More!!! 
Dame campus this summer (June 24 to August 3) as a Youth Coordinator for the 
/ For complete details come to an ·~·· 
NCAA National Youth Sports Program? 
important meeting: 
The position provides room and board 
~ C Bring a calculator and Pen. (.
on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition credit of $1200. Each 
{ ::.> Where DeBartolo 201 \ 
coordinator will be in charge of a group of 
\ ¢ When January 24 or 29 (
twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in 
+ c:::> Time 6:00 p.m. \ 
our local community. These positions are 
Tak:e an hour ot $0 now and make this svmm~W your best over! 
part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Applications are due to Sue Cunningham in the Center for Social Concerns by February 1, 



:,~<Fn~Hy~SWff~<~. 9<•)
so time is critical. See you at the information session for further details and information. 


Pope calls for Christian unity before year 2000 
Associated Press "How we need to take to 
heart these reflections of the 

VATICAN CITY apostle to knock down, at the 
Pope John Paul II called on end of the 20th century, the Christians on Sunday to walls of division and find the smash the "walls of division" road of full unity," the pope by the end of the century. said. 
The pope f The pope has spoken often used the on this subject in recent
I

occasion of years, as Orthodox-Catholic his first visit divisions flared during the to a Rome iwar in Bosnia and surfaced in parish this post-Communist societies of
1 

year to Eastern Europe and the for­preach for mer Soviet Union. Christian The pope devoted an 
unity, and John Paul II 

encyclical to Christian unity 
returned to last year, and has made con­the issue later during his reg­ciliatory statements toward ular Sunday message from his Protestants. window overlooking St. Peter's Square. In St. Peter's Square, the 
Preaching to parishioners at pope said Christian unity does the St. Anthony of Padua not have to lead to "flat uni­church near Rome's ancient formity" of religion. Appian Way, the pope cited John Paul has made it his the words of the apostle Paul practice to visit Rome parish­that Christians should speak es on Sunday mornings in his with one voice. capacity of bishop of Rome. 
• 'ft~A!LAMO 


Peace between rebels, military questionable 
By ROBERT HORN would create problems for Associated Press Writer neighboring countries. The army, which killed thou­BANGKOK sands of unarmed pro-democ­
Khun Sa, Burma's notorious racy demonstrators in 1988, opium warlord, stood at a table has shown no willingness to in his jungle headquarters this compromise over its role in rul­past week with Burmese gen­ing Burma. Arrests of followers erals he has been fighting for of democracy leader Aung San nearly two decades, raised a Suu Kyi are continuing. glass of whiskey and toasted to "The military is using the the end of war. border situation to try and gain 
Peace in Burma, however, support from the international may still be far off. community," said Josef Silver­
· Khun Sa's surrender of his stein, a leading Burma expert territory in eastern Burma does at New Jersey's Rutgers Uni­bring the Burmese army a step versity. "If they get it, that will closer to gaining control of the be a crushing blow to the chaotic hinterland and borders democracy movement." for the first time since indepen­But the junta may not be able dence from Britain in 1948. to focus just on political dis­
Burma's military rulers are sent. eager to achieve that goal for 




Russian assault razes village 
By CHRIS BIRD The death toll among the 120­Associated Press odd hostages and the villagers is still not clear, although Presi­DAGESTAN dent Boris Yeltsin has claimed 
This quiet farming village in that most hostages were saved. southern Russia has been pul­The village was finally re­verized. opened to outsiders last week­
Patches of gray ash are all end. An AP reporter who drove that remain of the village's win­into town on Sunday was one of ter hay. Most of the houses, the first foreign correspondents made of mud and reeds, have to survey the destruction. been obliterated. Blood darkens Everything in Pervomayskaya the snow around the bodies of changed between Monday and dead Chechen rebels. Thursday, when Russia 
One cow stands quietly, still declared the four-day assault alive, with her stomach hang­over. Not much had changed, ing out from a gash in her side. apparently, between Thursday 
Dazed villagers huddle in and Sunday. small groups, asking one an­Cows and sheep lay dead and other if they should rebuild or bloated in the frozen streets. move on after a massive Rus­Timbers that once had been sian assault last week that roofs loomed like ghastly skele­came out of the blue. tons in the icy fog. Not one 
"Nothing's left -no animals, house escaped the hail of metal nothing," sobs 65-year-old Pa­that ripped through the town. timat Gadzhieva, lifting her Trucks drove out of town arms in despair. "What am I laden with furniture, rugs and going to do? I'm old." any other belongings the inhab­
"Two buckets -that's all I itants could save. have left," cries Sukaymat Shrapnel lay strewn next to Yakhayeva, 39, holding them Pervomayskaya's new mosque. aloft next to the charred walls It stood roofless, the iron struc­of her house. · ture of the minaret blown flat 
onto the ground. 

Magomed Makhmudov just Four male corpses lay un­stares dumbfounded at the re­claimed in the streets, one mains of his home. "It's win­wrapped in the parachute from ter," the 65-year-old says sim­a flare. They were almost cer­ply. "Where will! go?" tainly dead Chechen guerrillas. 
What's left of Pervomayskaya One wore a bloodied green stands on the snow-blown headband, the symbol of the steppes of Russia·s mainly rebels' willingness to die in the Muslim republic of Dagestan, "Gazavat," or holy war -their near the border of breakaway 13-month-old struggle for in­Chechnya. Before last week, its dependence from Moscow. main assets were farm animals. A young man from the village 
Then it became a battle­pulled back the blanket cover­ground when the Chechen ing one dead guerrilla, spat rebels, trying to escape back to 
their separatist homeland after raiding nearby Kizlyar for hostages, were stopped at Per­
WANTED:
vomayskaya by Russian troops. 
The town and surrounding villages were sealed off to re­
by The Observer News Dept.
porters after the troops as­saulted Pervomayskaya last 
Talented Dedicated Individuals for the 
week with heavy artillery, heli­copter gunships and rockets 
Following Paid Positions: 
following a five-day siege. Nearly all the rebels were wiped out or taken prisoner. 

News Copy Editor 
away in anger and swore. "Why did he have to come and fight here?'' he said. 
"Mercenaries," cursed an­other man. 
An explosion rent the still air -Russian sappers detonating a mine. 
"I nearly walked into a trip­wired mine yesterday," said Sasha, a major from Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry, who led a team clearing away bodies. He did not give his full name. 
His men, dressed in red over­alls, worked near a pile of rub­ble crowned by an iron chim­ney stack. It was all that was left of the village school, where some hostages allegedly had been held. 
Russian authorities had de­nied that the school had been targeted. 
They said Saturday that 26 Russian soldiers and 153 Chechen guerrillas were killed, and 30 guerrillas were cap­tured. The guerrillas' leader apparently got away with some fighters and some hostages. 
Authorities said 82 hostages were freed and the rest were unaccounted for. At least 40 more people had died when the rebel raid began in Kizlyar. 
"The disinformation here has been awful," said Sasha, the emergencies worker, shaking his head. 
The key to the guerrillas' four-day resistance lay in the trenches and dugouts built un­der walls and even in the living rooms of some houses. Only a direct hit would have harmed such a shelter. 

Monday, January 22, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• BELGIUM 
EU promotes Euro-currency, plays down recession fears 
By PAUL AMES 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 

More than 400 of Europe's brightest economic minds gath­er here Monday to explore how skeptical Europeans can learn to love the "euro." 
The three-day seminar kicks off a multimillion-dollar mar­keting campaign to convince eitizens that the euro -the Eu­ropean Union's planned single curreney -will bring peace, prosperity and comfort to the continent. 
EU finance ministers will also consider measures to allay fears that Europe will soon be hit by a reeession that would drown hopes of meeting the 1999 deadline for adopting the eommun currency. 
A drop in German growth last year coupled with high unem­ployment and social unrest in France has sapped business confidence and cast doubt on the ability of the 15-nation EU to stick to the schedule. 
Many Europeans blame eco­nomic stagnation and unem­ployment on the tight fiscal policies nations must pursue to join the monetary union. 
Hoping to counter that per­ception, the EU's exeeutive commission has invited leading politicians, economists, busi­ness leaders and consumers' representatives to discuss how to market the euro. 
"We have to help public opin­ion discover the euro and teach them to love it," EU Finance Commissioner Yves-Thibault de Silguy .told the French National Assembly last week. 
First, he must address con­cerns that the current signs of a slump may be a portent of dark economic times ahead. 
When he briefs EU finance ministers at their monthly meeting here Monday, de Silguy is expected to repeat his mes­sage to the deputies in Paris: "We're going through a crisis of confidence, not a recession." 
He is also expected to ask ministers to boost confidence by increasing private investment, introducing more flexibility into labor markets and sticking to monetary union targets of low inflation, narrow budget deficits and falling public debt. 
The problem is, most EU members have tamed inflation but have failed to control un­employment. To reduce the EU's 17.5 million unemployed, economists suggest some na­tions should cut taxes or boost public spending to create new jobs, even if it means a short­term deficit rise. 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY OFFERS 
• 
Unmatched academic programs 

• 
Internships with world-class firms 

• 
Business courses in three countries 

• 
Generous grants and scholarships 

• 
Placement in foreign universities 

• 
Instruction in English or host-country language 


ITALY • ENGLAND • FRANCE HONG KONG • SPAIN • ZIMBABWE 
Syracuse University Study Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
BEIJING 
The Red Cross says it needs 
more moneyto feed North Ko· 
reans or else 120,000 of them 
could die before the next bar· 
vest. 
The Red Cross received only 70 percent of the $4.5 million it requested to help victims nf .last summer's devastating floods in North Korea, said Simon Missiri, deputy dire(ltor of the Red Cross' Asia-Pacific 
department. 
A new appeal will be launch!ld, Missirl said Sunday,but he declined to estimate its goal until after he holds talks with the North Korean Red Cross. Mh1siri said he, Will 
• AUSTRIA 


Leaders learn of hidden weapons 
By ROLAND PRINZ 
Associated Press 
VIENNA 
Fearful of a Soviet invasion after World War II, the United States hid at least 79 weapons caches in Austria for anti-com­munist partisans. Now the American ambassador has apologized for not telling the current government about them. 
An unspeeified number of weapons, pistols and explo­sives were hidden by U.S. occupation troops in the 1950s in case of a Soviet takeover of Austria, the Kurier newspaper reported Sunday. 
U.S. Ambassador Swanee Hunt told Austrian Chancellor Franz Vranitkzy and President Thomas Klestil about the sites in a meeting Saturday. 
"I would like to apologize 
MCAT • MCAT • MCAT Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
[]\ riJ  small classes of 15 or fewer free Caduceus software  
~ ~ ~ ~  free extra help with your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams independently verified score improvements guaranteed satisfaction  
THE PRINCETON REVIEW  

Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the AAMC. 
Fre~ r1"~ 

that Austria was informed so late about the matter," Hunt told Austria Press Agency late Saturday. "This is a relic from the Cold War." 
Vranitkzy said he was aston­ished Austria had been left in the dark for so long. 
The belated disclosure "does not correspond with the excel­lent level of our countries' relations," the APA quoted the chancellor as saying. He said it was imperative "to find the places of these caches together with the U.S. authorities as soon as possible." 
Hunt promised within days to provide details on the sites, which are said to be concen­trated in the western province of Salzburg. She said they did not pose any danger to the population. 
However, Fritz Molden, a 
leave for North Korea on Monday for a five-day tour of areas hit by the flooding. 
The Red Cross and other in­ternational aid groups have warned that millions could starve in the secretive, totalitarian country without concerted intervention. 
Donors have not been forth­coming, in part becj:luse of rival South Korea's objections ll,nd suspicions the North is exaggerating the damage. South Korea has also accused North Korea of leaving vast s.tores of grain for the military untouched. 
MJssiri dismissed accusa­tions that North Korea is hoartiinggrain or overestimat­ing the scaJe ofits needs. 

page 7 
"These issues are not our concern," Missiri said. "People will not survive unless the Red Cross provides humanitarian assistance." 
Food remains the most ur­gent need and will continue to be until the next harvest. in September, he said. 
Missiri said the Red Cross had to divert funds earmarked for construction equipment to rebuild homes damaged by tht~ floods to buy food for 120,000 people instead. 
Under -normal circum­stances, the Red .Cross would have turned its operation over to North Korea by February, but Pyongyang's inability to provide enough food for its people makes that impossible, be said. 
former Austrian journalist, said Sunday that the secret weapons depots were estab­lished at the initiative of the Austrian government led by Chaneellor Leopold Figl, and planning for them began in 1948. 
He claimed that some depots were also placed in the Soviet occupation zone in eastern Austria. 
Molden told the APA he had acted as a liaison between the Americans and the postwar Austrian government. How­ever, it was not clear why the information was not handed down to subsequent govern­ments. 
According to Kurier, a U.S. congressional committee moni­toring CIA activities found doc­uments on the weapons caches that had not been known to the Clinton administration. 
A report Saturday in the Boston Globe prompted Hunt to inform the Austrian govern­ment, Kurier said. 
The Boston Globe report said CIA agents stashed the weapons while the U.S. mili­tary conducted loud military maneuvers. 
For 10 years from the end of World War II, Austria was oc­cupied by the four wartime Al­lies, with both the country and the capital of Vienna subdivid­ed into American, Russian, British and French occupation zones. 
Austria's independence was restored in May 1955. 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Pagt Color Catalog To/1-Frte (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnltmtl Catalog at hnp: /lwww.saptek.coml>nptck 










VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, January 22, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ...................................... Eric Lorge 

The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managin·g Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spores 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63 I-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 63 I-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 63I-747l Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Notre Dame rejects proposed Catholic ordinances 
'pr. Burtchaell's suggested cure is strong medicine.' 
O
ur last column, of November 20th, discussed the 196 7 transfer of Notre Dame from ownership by the Congregation of Holy Cross to control by lay trustees. That transfer was in the spirit of the Land O'Lakes declaration, adopted later in 1967, in which Notre Dame and other Catholic universities resolved that "the Catholic university must have a true 
autonomy and aca-
"Catholic theolo­demic freedom in 
gians, aware that the face of authority 
they fulfill a man­of whatever kind, 
date received from lay or clerical, 
Charles 
the church, are to external to the aca­
be faithful to the demic community 
· magisterium of the
Rice 
T
church as the hat severance of 
itself." 
authentic inter­
the University's 

preter of sacred juridical link with Scripture and 
the Church, the November column suggested, was the decisive cause of Notre Dame's overem­phasis on research and of its drift toward secularization. The column rec­ommended, but lacked space to discuss, the article by Fr. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., in the April and May, 1991, issues of "First Things". Taking Vanderbilt as an example, Fr. Burtchaell described the secularization of various Protestant universities once they had severed their juridical and authoritative link with their founding church. According to Fr. Burtchaell, that sever­ance made total secularization ihevitable. The article, without naming any institutions, also details the journey of Catholic universities along the same path. Let me try to explain why the 
I
Burtchaell article is relevant in 1996. n 1994, the American Catholic univer­sities, including Notre Dame, rejected ordinances proposed by the American bishops to enforce Ex Corde Ecclesiae~ the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities. 
Ex Corde says some things that make it unpopular with some on this campus and elsewhere. "Every Catholic 
University" it says, "has a relationship to the church that is essential to its institu­tional identity .... assuming consequently a special bond with the Holy See ... [T]he institutional fidelity of the university to the Christian message includes a recog­nition of and adherence to the teaching . authority of the chourch in matters of faith and morals." No. 27 Ex Corde also provides that 
T
sacred tradition." he bishops are considering this year new ordinances to enforce Ex Corde. If they adopt them, Notre Dame's rela­tion to the Church will be a hot topic again. So let's look at it in the context of the Burtchaell article. F
The Burtchaell analysis can be dis­comforting. For example, Ex Corde man­dates that "the number of non-Catholic teachers should not be allowed to con­stitute a majority within the institution." For the past several years, fewer than half of the new faculty at Notre Dame have been Catholic, including as "Catholic" all who checked that box on the form. The issue, however, is not merely statistical. r. Burtchaell does not name any institution, but we should consider whether his analysis could be applied to Notre Dame: "The Catholic colleges ... have begun, one century after the Protestants did the same, to welcome an increasingly diversified faculty in which the communicants of the sponsoring church are fewer, and often a minority. But statistics tell only part of the story. The opening to noncommunicants appears to reflect a spirit not so much ecumenical as indifferent. Non-Catholics are welcomed not as allies in a religious undertaking; instead, they are recruited, evaluated, appointed, and welcomed without any frank word about religious commitment, the college's or their own, unless by way of apology. While the remaining believers of the sponsoring church may imagine that the newcom­ers are being incorporated into the traditional undertaking of the college, in fact the opposite seems to be hap­pening. 
F
Instead of their even being asked to defer to the col­lege's religious commitment, the college stands ready to defer to their many individual commitments or anti-commitments, out of what it calls hospitality but what may frankly be called a failure of nerve. The ancient tokens of hallmark faith are withdrawn, evacuated, or desecrated so as not to make anyone feel estranged." r. Burtchaell suggests that "secular­ization is rapidly bleaching the Catholic character out of that church's universities... with all the elements... typified in the Vanderbilt story.... As with the Protestant alienation a century earlier.... the Catholic institutions enjoyed an immediate honeymoon peri­od wherein autonomy actually enhanced the institution as both a faith community and a house of liberal learning. But then the slow and inexorable gravity pull of the secularism dominant in the force­field of the academy begins to retard and then counteract the inertial mo­mentum that has hitherto set the course of the Catholic college or university, until, after a period when the forms and symbols of Christian identity are gradu­ally evacuated of their conviction, the institution finally emerges as a wraith of the Christian community it once was." 
Fr. Burtchaell's suggested cure is 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
strong medicine: 

1. 
"The only plausible way for a col­lege or university to be significantly Christian is for it to function as a con­gregation in active communion with a church . ....In Christianity, communities that float free are not viable. 

2. 
"[[T]he academy must have a pre­dominance of committed and articulate communicants ofits mother church. This must be regarded, not as an alien con­


sideration, but as a professional quali­fication .... 
3. "A Christian college or universi­ty must advise noncommunicant members... that the institution is constitutionally 
committed to its church in a way that must transcend and transfigure the commitments of individual members. 
I
Similarly, any institution will decline to let its foundational norms of scholarship yield to the private and personal stan­dards of each individual scholar. Though the appropriate freedom of inquiry and advocacy will be protected procedurally for all, it cannot be done with prejudice to the school's filial bond to the church." (Emphasis in original) n Colloquy 2000, Notre Dame pro­claims its Catholic identity in a mission statement that does not even mention the Catholic Church. Having cut any au­thoritative tie with the Church, Notre Dame defines its "Catholic" identity, as a Protestant would, according to its own lights. Before this issue comes up again, the Notre Dame community could well reconsider the Burtchaell article and reflect on whether Notre Dame is fated to verify by its own degeneration the accuracy of his analysis. 
Prof Rice is on the law school faculty. His column appears every other week. 

"Theworld is equally 
shocked at hearing Christianity criticized and see­ing it practicea." 
-Dr. Elton Trueblood 

--------~-----------------·~----­


VIEWPOINT
Monday, January 22, 1996 page 9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Remembering a Son of Notre Dame with love 
Editor's Note: Dave Treacy is a Sports and captivated us, the way his religion Champions and he will write for the Copy Editor for The Observer. His father captivated him. He showed us videos, he football team next fall. This spring, Dave passed away o11er winter break. read to us, and he brought God nearer will study abroad in London. How proud 
to us, if only for an hour a week. Mr. Mr. Mark Treacy was of his only son. Dear Editor: Mark Treacy was a God lover and fear­Mr. Mark Tracy was a Notre Dame 
Dave Treacy left his mother's side to er. lover. deliver the hardest speech of his life. He Unlike his father, Mr. Treacy did not I never really bought into the whole was supposed to tell friends, family and get into Notre Dame as an undergrad, Notre Dame mystique and rah-rah Rudy strangers how he will remember his despite two years of applying. stories until I sat in the chapel the day of father. It was hard for him since his Nevertheless, he took the LSAT, Dave's speech. I felt honored to be part father had picked him up from school received a great score, and was accept­of the same Notre Dame that created just days earlier. They jammed to Elvis ed to his beloved university as a law stu­such an inseparable bond between all the way back on Houte 80. Mr. Mark dent, where he graduated four years father and son. This is a beautiful family Trnaey was a music lover. later. He has enjoyed a successful prac­bound by God. I ask you,-in the midst of 
Dave spokll about how his parents had tice since then. Mr. Mark Treacy was a the whirlwind of the first weeks of this met, how his father oftnn engaged in the lover of justice. semester, to pray for the Treacy family, ritual of the screaming monkey. Mr. Dave dreamed of following in his especially for his beautiful wife, a Saint Treacy had a million impressions. father's footsteps and going to Notre Mary's graduate, his daughter, Theresa, Though I remember little about my Dame for as long as he could remember. and Dave, as he embarks on a truly childhood, I volunteered with him at a Dave spoke about the bond he shared enriching experience on the other side nursing home. lie impersonated Ed with his father when he was young, how of the world. Dave will not be far in McMahon. I heard that those old people they fervently watched games, visited thought, though, from the memory of smiled like they hadn't in a long time. the campus, and told stories. lt gave Mr. Mark Treacy, a lover of life, family Mr. Mark Trnaey was a lover of volun­them a special bond. That bond was and people. tm~r work. strengthened immeasurably when Dave 
Dave was not in my -seventh grade was accepted to Notre Dame. Since BRIAN ZELIZO 
CCI> dass; he missed seeing his father in thtm, he has played in the most famous Junior action. Every Wednnsday, Mr. Treacy college band in the world, he has writ­St. Edward's Hall OJWned his home to fifteen teenagers ten for the 1995 Women's Soccer 
The March: African-Americans come home reaffirmed, ready to affect change 
Editor's Note: The following for Minister Farrakhan, that I other leader, I agree and dis­is the fourth in a five-part found myself regretting enter­agree with him. I strongly series on the Martin Luther· ing the conversation. agree with his message of self­King, Jr. holiday. For me the March, more than reliance. I think African­
anything else, was a very mov­Americans should make an Dear Editor: ing spiritual experience. Clearly effort to empower themselves 
Shortly after I returned from God was doing his work. I con­economically and politically. the Million Man March I was sider myself very educated and Many messages I heard on Oct. invited to write about my expe­secure about my culture and 16 emphasized these points. rience for publication in The race. Yet, before the March, I The March refueled a sense of Observer sometime in January. often felt burdened by the neg­resolve and determination to I agreed and was glad to ative stereotypes and oppres­begin to increase the economic receive so much notice. Yet, sion of African-American men. and political empowerment of like many of us I found myself I knew the content of my char­African-Americans using a waiting until the last minute to acter, like millions of African­model of self-reliance. write this. Before I share my American men, was not what I Certainly, other racial groups feelings about my experience I frequently saw and read in the will help with this effort, how­think it is necessary to write ever, the major thrust and about a few of my observations effort will come from African­and experiences before the Amerieans. March. Besides being aflirmed in the 
The. March began to get greatness of African-Americans
'For me, the March,

mainstream media coverage I am convinced African­
more than anything
about three months before the Americans will be moving from Oct. 16 date. However, many else, was a very moving affirmation to action. Since the African -American -owned March, I have worked with a
spiritual experience. 

media and publications (such group of African-Americans as Emerge and BET) began giv­Clearly God was doing (most of whom are men) to .. "" .... -... ing it in-depth coverage almost begin to make a positive impact 
............. his work. I consider
immediately. Six to ten months in South Bend. The most enjoy­before the March it was not myself very educated able activity I have participated uncommon for me to ask an and secure about my in is going into the South Bend African-American what they schools and talking to young thought about the March and culture and race. Yet, African-American males. Many be told "what March?". I fre­before the March, I often of these students live in single­quently found myself educating parent households headed by
felt overburdened by

people about the March before females, and often do not have NBC, CBS and ABC began to the negative stereotypes the opportunity to interact with discuss it. This shows how African-American men. Our
and oppression of

mainstream media shapes the talks center on moral and ethi­
opinions of the citizens of our African-American men.' cal values, and having a strong country. In part, the March was spiritual foundation. The ell'm:t necessary because of the often of having ten to twelve African­distorted coverage of African­American men talk to them American men in mainstream media. This burden in part about what constitutes man­media. Yes, some African­causes the high incidents of hood is incredible. American men do commit acts high blood pressure and I recognize that the Million of violence, abuse their wives ·strokes among African­Man March still remains con­and are not very productive cit­American men. For me the troversial and much debate has izens. Yet, the vast majority of March also affirmed the great­taken place as to how effective them are law-abiding citizens ness of African-Americans. One it will be in the long run. My whose spirituality, ethics and million African-Americans participation reaffirmed my morals are above reproach. came to Washington, D.C. and culture and race. It also 
Most of the media has depict­not one incident of violence renewed my determination to ed Minister Louis Farrakhan in occurred. make a positive change in the a very negative light. In spite of what most African-American community, Therefore, as I talktJd to people Americans think about Minister and demonstrated to me the about the March, generally Louis Farrakhan, they now power of God. Since the March, there were two reactions. They realize he is currently the most I have frequently described the thought the March was a good influential African-American experience as almost moving as idea but could not support leader in our country. No other seeing the birth of my children. Minister Farrakhan or they African-American leader could were very supportive. Very few have garnered the support nec­people I encountered before the essary to have one million men WARREN OUTLAW March thought the purpose of and women come to Director 
the March was inappropriate. Washington. Minister University of Notre Dame Educational Some had such a strong disdain Farrakhan for me is like any Talent Search 



~--------­

• AT THE MOVIES WITH FATMAN AND DADDY•••THE FATMAN'S BACK! 

Tarantino's latest offers vampires, gore, and lots more 
"From Dusk 'Til Dawn" Directed by Robert Rodriguez Written by Quentin Tarantino 
***...
(out of four) 
Synopsis: • 

Two criminal brothers, Seth and 
Richie Ghecko, have just taken down 
a bank in New Mexico and are on 
their way to the Rio Grande. They 
abduct an ex-minister and his family 
and use their R. V. to cross the border 
into Mexico. 

The brothers decide to pass the 
night at a bar called the "Titty 
Twister" as they wait for their 
Mexican connection. Unfortunately, 
the bar is run by vampires. 

Daddy: Although Daddy is not one to get overtly philosophical or disgustingly sentimental, I can easily admit that there are certain events that we all wait for in life. These occurrences, when the correct mix of environmental circum­stances permit, often become what, in a colloquial sense, are referred to as "spe­cial moments." 
Daddy is just confident enough in his masculinity to admit that the return of the Patman, when coupled with the blood-soaked mayhem of a devilishly delightful vampire movie, has moved him to the point of sentimental ebul­lience. Now, as I wipe away the final tears of ecstasy, it is time to review "From Dusk 'Til Dawn." 
As a creature of complete honesty, I am compelled to first reveal my back­ground as a fledgling undead enthusiast; a personal characteristic that often becomes an irritating foible while wit­nessing the seemingly incessant flow of vampire drivel that trickles out of Hollywood. 
Despite the omnipresent degree of trepidation that accompanies me like an unrelenting incubus to every vampire movie I attend, it is completely free of compunction that Daddy gives "From Dusk 'Til Dawn" an eager thumbs up. 

Although this movie contains several logistical (in the fantastic sense) prob­lems that are guaranteed to raise the hackles of many a Nosferatu aficionado, the pulse-pounding action of the narra­tive and acerbic wit of the dialogue are enough to sweep these particular de­fects under the proverbial n,1g. 
Granted, "From Dusk 'Til Dawn" con­tains all of the traditional parlor tricks associated with the salty dogs of the Silver Screen's pack of past horror mon­grels (like Fright Night, or perhaps even Salem's Lot). 
The sheer magnitude of bodily fluids and miles of intestinal tract provided for your viewing pleasure more than com­pensate for the flaws that will send the D &D nerds into an impotent rage. 
What Daddy is trying to say is that the final, cumulative impact of the movie outweighs the fact that these victims become vampires in under five minutes and behave like underage Notre Dame students at Bridget's on free beer night. 
On a completely different tangent, kudos to director Robert Rodriguez who, in realizing the previously dismissed theatrical prowess of Cheech Marin, gives the hero of East L.A., not one, but two roles! 
In conclusion, "From Dusk 'Til Dawn" is a deftly entertaining movie that leaves its audience wishing that they too, could pick up a broken pool stick and skewer some spawn of the night (or shoot some­body in the face). 
Fatman: After a semester of jetting around the Old World doing time as a workingman's sex symbol, the Fat Man once again eased his girth into the cush­ioned comfort of the local South Bend theater scene. 
From "Dusk 'Til Dawn" did not spoil my return to this virgin land. A macabre play of gruel, blood, and severed flesh, Robert Rodriguez's film had more gratu­itous violence than the RSC's staging of "Coriolanus." 
Robbers, Texas ·marshals, vampires and strippers are placed into a sharply written script which celebrates their campy absurdity. Guided by the extremely well executed limb tearing fight scenes, "From Dusk 'Til Dawn" never slackens its fast pace. 
The major weakness of the film is Quentin Tarantino's acting. Although his penchant for directing brilliant films is undeniable, I fear that his acting ability can compare only with the screen prowess of Gary Busey. His whiny voice and constant squinting make him look ridiculous. 
To compensate for this embarrass­ment, George Clooney and his haircut bust a lot of heads. His role, the central role in the film, carries the entire story. He plays the part well enough to make the plot and dialogue come across sharply in the production. 
Harvey Keitel once again does a fine job playing the only role in the film that is more nefarious than a vampire -a servant of Jesus. 
His understated tone in the film seems a little forced, but he is classic Keitel in the brilliantly choreographed action sequences. Juliette Lewis also deserves recognition for once again playing the innocent adolescent to perfection. 
The real value of "From Dusk Till Dawn" lies in its stylish violence. Watching a vampire's heart explode and Harvey Keitel ironically wielding a shot­gun crucifix provided me with much utility. 
I also like seeing nasty little creatures dying; I didn't mind watching the an­noying child in the movie being devoured by frenzied vampires. 
Good action movies come along only so often. Ones that take place at a Mexican bar called the "Titty Twister" come along maybe once in a genera­tion. We heartily recommend that those of you of the cultural proletariat attend this film in support of fine violence over bougouis pretensions. 





12 Monkeys: Unsettling vision of the future 
By MARK TORMA 
Accent Movie Critic 

B
ack in the mid-seventies, an American animator made his directorial debut in a movie with his buddies in a British comedy troupe. On a bare-bones budget, they made a Medieval period piece that put audi­ences in stitches and generated a huge cult following. Perhaps you've heard of it -"Monty Python and the Holy Grail" is still pretty popular. With its success, Terry Gilliam got the momentum he needed to work on his own projects. Twenty years later, after several box­office failures, his project "12 Monkeys" is his biggest hit since his Python days. Yet where John Cleese and Co. used to fill the screen, now stands Brad Pitt of all people, alone in the only even remotely comedic role of the film. And before I start suggesting any other possible parallels, let me just say this: there are none whatsoev­er. Gilliam has diversified. 
This is no revelation to fans of his earlier movies ("Brazil," "Time Bandits"), but while those films mixed an apocalyptic vision of society with Pythonesque humor, "12 Monkeys" is a suspense-filled thriller which will remind you of the "Terminator" films in some ways -and it should. All of those films were inspired by the same French short film, in which the main character is sent by those in the future back to the present. In "12 Monkeys," Bruce Willis is a prisoner who "volun­teers" to travel in time and find the origin of a virus so potent that it deci­mated the human race in 1997 and made the earth's surface unfit for human habitation, as it continued to be in Willis' "present day," the year 2031. His motivation is rather un­heroic, and actually pretty pathetic: he's convinced that no time-traveler can keep the worldwide infection from occurring, so he's working to make the surface inhabitable again. This could be just a pipe dream, because it is doubtful that the wacky prison autoc­racy that holds sway in the future world (it's the only authority we see, anyway) is going to give up its power in the event of a massive disinfection, but Willis' character can dream, can't he? 
Those very prison authorities are also in charge of the time-traveling process, but they are bombastic bun­glers (hearkening back to Gilliam's "Brazil") and send Willis to the wrong year at first (1990). where he's stunned to find that no one believes his claim of impending doom: He's placed in an insane asylum where, still stunned, he meets Pitt, a lunatic who nevertheless may be the most rational person in that Cuckoo's Nest writ large. Pitt prods Willis to get out (somehow he knows our hero is sane), but before he does, the two discuss Willis' mission and the possibility of a viral holocaust. This conveniently sets up the plot later on, but that's okay, it's Hollywood (it could be the only clue the audience ever gets). 
In the same asylum, Willis meets Madeleine Stowe, who plays his psy­choanalyst. She's sure that he's crazy, but is also sure that he's harmless-no sparks fly yet, however. Even though he's stuck in a building with the girl of his 'dreams (literally), Willis is returned to his "present," where they get it right the second time and send him to 1996, just before the virus is unleashed. He kidnaps Stowe, and believes he can convince her of the serious threat to humanity lurking in some lab somewhere. She's a hard sell, but when she finally falls for the story, she also falls for Willis, and the two, in their desperation to save the world, actually make a cute couple. 
The mind games the movie plays with both the characters and the view­ers would take up this whole article. The beginning is hard to follow (we simply don't get any information), but the visual setting of this prison/time machine is breathtaking, even if Gilliam merely recycled the set pieces from "Brazil." Fortunately, the movie· soon evens out and becomes a com­plex race against time for Willis and Stowe. The movie also fulfills its promise of action and becomes rather tough, reminding us that no one punches like Bruce Willis. 
This isn't an action movie, though; it's a puzzle more than anything, but manages to be more exciting than con­fusing. Willis is sometimes so ruthless that you don't really know if you like his melancholy character -maybe he really does deserve to be in prison. You know the relationship between the two protagonists is inevitable, but Stowe doesn't merely swoon over his die-hard character. Her change of heart is gradual and convincing, and her beauty takes a back seat to her struggle with so many desperate situa­tions. The viewer knows where Willis and Stowe fit in, but they're not so sure about Pitt's lunatic (neither are the characters), but this is for sure: his lunacy is fun to watch, even if it makes the plot seem even more convoluted than it already is. He has no hard edge, but he has acquired several great facial tics and a madcap demeanor that challenges Jim Carrey's Riddler. 
Even when the moviegoer is at wits end puzzling over the plot, the perfor­mances made it more than just an intriguing movie. Supported by Frank Gorshin and Christopher Plummer (who looks like he just stepped out of "The Sound of Music"), Stowe, Willis, and Pitt help Gilliam make this movie a real pleasure to watch. But don't expect "Terminator" meets "Outbreak" -be prepared to think. Right on the heels of "Seven·: and "The Usual Suspects," Gilliam has made another intelligent thriller with a deft hand, and while his ending may frustrate you, give him a break -at least no one's turned into a newt. 
..---~----~ 
;ACCENT
MonJay, January 22, 1996 page 11 



WHAT THOUGH THE ODDS: 
Father Robert Griffin 
A priest's thirty-year relationship with the university continues, despite obstacles 
By CATHERINE DEELY 
As;i,tant Accent Editor 
A
Notn~ Dame alumnus. A prinst, chaplain, rector. A gifted writer whose often controversial yet widely-praised column appeared in The Ohsnrver for twenty-live years. A man wtdl-known and nvnn morn well-lovfld by the entire campus community, who has countnd among his friends a variety of Notre Dame personalitins... ranging from Fatlwr Thnodore llesburgh to a succession of cocker spaniels named Darby O'Gill. 
Such a colorful array of descriptions belong to Father Bob Griffin. None who have been touched by his inspiration would dtmy the inlluence he has had upon llwir lives. And yet, when asked what impact he fllels he has had upon Notre Dame, Father Griffin remarks with simple sincllrity, "I do not feel that I havtl shaped Notre Dame. It has shaped 
llH~." 
Tlw r«lmarkahle story of Father c;rillin's jourrwy into the !wart of Notre l>anw hogan in 11Jh5, whnn the native of l'orlland. Mai1w camn wnst to the alma mater whPre lw had studind as a philos­ophy major years bllforn. Struggling with both illnnss and family tragedy, the young prinst nntllrPd the solace of lloly Cross llousn...and Pndml up never truly ltmving llw lady on thn Dome again. 
Fatlwr c;riflin soon becanw an active 
'It's bncn said that evening 
is the best time of life­but when does one reach ovnning'? This could be my nvening, or it could be my late afternoon.' 
Father Robert Griffin 
figure in the dorm life of the then all­male campus, acting first as Keenan llall's chaplain, then as its rector after Father James McGrath left the position. Father McGrath, now Associate Professor of Biology at the university, rmnembnrs the days of Griffin's rector­ship fondly. "lie was excellenl. ..such a gwat 'people person.' The only part of 
• DAYS OF OUR UVES UPDATE 
the job he probably didn't like was the disciplining.. .it wasn't quite his chosen bag," he laughs. 
The experience of presiding over a male residence hall during the upheaval of the 1960's was one which required more than just authority, Griffin recalls. "It was a very troubled time," he reflect­ed, "In one sense, it was an oflbeat, silly time.. .I enjoyed the students, and they seemed to enjoy me. Yet at the same time, it was a tremendously scary time; drugs were around, and tragic things happened. I would get calls at 1 a.m. on a Saturday morning about a kid on a bad drug trip, and all I could do was talk to him, It was like acting as Mission Control to keep them in reality." 
The sobering fact of the Vietnam War, too. colored the lifestyle of the campus. "It was fun, of course, yet there was deep emotion under the feeling of joy. The effort was to turn the war hawk into a peace dove," Father Griflin says. And yet, throughout his own inner turmoil, his concern remained with the students. "The idea seemed to be, then as now. to be there for them." 
On a lighter note, Father Griffin's image cannot be invoked without a pic­ture also of a dog named Darby O'Gill. During the 1970's, Notre Dame was not what could be described as a canine­friendly community, as Father Grifl'in soon found out. A call from Student Affairs briskly informed him that Darby would have to go. "Why?" Father Griffin protested. "This is a time when young people are alienated from the church, and the dog is a bridge. No dog is an island." 
Darby stayed, becoming a beloved fix­ture in his many travels across the quads. lie even served as the inspiration for "Darby's Place," the establishment Grif'lin set up in the LaFortune basement to offer snacks, coffee, and a mixing opportunity for students. Darby was a frequent and popular guest. Upon his death, his ashes were buried in the Grotto; he was then succeeded by Darby II and Ill. 
Father Griffin's unwavering imagina­tion and enthusiasm for Notre Dame students led him to excel in a variety of pursuits, After noting with concern how easily children grew restless at Sacred lleart masses, he created a special chil­dren's mass, aided by ND and Saint Mary's students, designed to explain and even act out the teachings of adult ser­mons. For twelve years, community chil­dren and students alike enjoyed the experience. "The children made it beau­tiful, but it was the students who brought their own creativity." Grifl'in remembers. 
Father Griflin's creativity also brought him into contact with the worlds of music and literature. Over twenty-seven 
By CHRISTINA FnCSAR and ERIN KELSEY Days ofOur Lives Corrcsponden!Ji 
--~------------------------­
H
appy Now YetU' Day's Fans! It's been a long month for the show. The most interesting news is about Stefano. Lightening struck; caus.. 
lng him to reg1~in his memory. However, only the 
judge presiding over John's trial knows since Stefano thron.tened to kill hlm If he doesn't lind John guilty. . Peter is still trying to years, he developed a deep devotion to the Glee Club, of which he acted as chaplain. Years spent touring with the group across the globe formed a bond which remains strong today. 

The power of the pen inspired Griflin's long-running Observer column, "Letters from a Lonely God," which ignited opin­ions on both sides of every issue-but never diminished his readers' respect. "I 
·don't always agree with him, but that's the beautiful thing about our friend­ship," longtime confidant Father Hesburgh observes. Griffin's talent led to the compilation of his Observer columns into two volumes carried by the Hammes Bookstore, as well as publica­tion in the Catholic newspaper "The Sunday Visitor." 
Perhaps Father Griffin's most impres­sive accomplishment, however, has been his courage in the face of adversity. "He's had his share of health problems, but he's always bounced back. He's always been so wonderful in continuing his relationship with the students," 
... Speaking of Sean D., his parents are really getting t on~ }-'{~wever, they warn Sean D.• and us, not to 
~:td toQ muchJnto this one. But do not fret. this relationship will take off, especially after Hope's en· counter with the dangerous avalanche. 
~!i {/ , S~ ~trikes • a$ain! This time she drugged Carrie g."kt() ~t h~;r into bed with a passed out Lucas. Dumb-as-a.-rock Austin didn't see the similarity between up Jennifer a.ntl Jack's this situation and the one with him and Sami. 
he is eurrontly in jail. Although John still gets conju· destroying the latest eVllr.tOI11ee, he bas severed his gal visits from Kristen (in ugly underwear), he can· ties from .Jude forever Jack still holds not wnit to get out to be with Kristen "forever." the matchboQkwith bank 4ccqtmt Unl'ortunatoly, Kristen h; not as wonderful as her Peter setup to pa)!. . . testosterone bndy appears. flow. about the new 
ShH has somo serious doubts about .John's irmo· suddenly after cence and even offered to marry Jolm to get (}Ut of .. tostll'ying against him. (Do not worry, John, Marlena would be happy to take Kristen's place, If Stefano Father 1-lesburgh statns. After his years as Keenan rector, Father Griflin went on to spend six years at Pasquerilla West before making his home at Stanford, where he resided bnfore health dillicul­ties led to a stay in Holy Cross House. II!~ now lives in Corby Hall, and hopns to eventually return to dorm life-with Darby O'Gill Ill by his side. 
"It's been said that evening is the best time of life-but when does one reach evening?" Griffin questions, his kind eyes shining intently. 'This could be my evening, or it could be my late after­noon." 
"I have needed a lot of healing in my life," he continues, "and Notre Dame is the place I came to save my soul. My 
.. 
involvement with the students has been part of finding my way home." 
With this incredible and yet incredibly humble member of the Notre Dame fam­ily guiding their travels through ND and through life itself'. many who have l'elt Father Griffin's presence in their lives might say they found home long ago. 
a 
wary o(Sami's m(>tivos. She alsc> pointed out that he, out' of everyone. should understand waking up in someone's bed and not remembering how you got th(:lte or what happened. Toucht! Austin! 
WAJVTED: Hey General Hospital fans, The Obserr1er 
is looking GH correspondents If you're tired of .a(l the attention, help us put Port · map! Submit a sample review to 314 
ASAP. ' , 
,..C 

Y1>.s, .John's been chn.rgod with Tony's murder, and :investigation o£ J\tpe. · ·· finally (lpn'vin~eq;~atby \J._uckUy,Jamie finally spoke out and told Austin to be 

---------, 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, January 22, 1996 


Second half surge propels Irish past Lady Hoyas, 92-61 
guards Kimberly Smith and Kim Gallon harrassed Irish ballhandlers. such as Molly Peirick and Jeannine Augustin, by means of a frantic full-court press. This resulted in 14 first half turnovers by the Irish. 
"What hurt was their quick­ness," said Peirick. "At least I know it hurt me." 
Because of these miscues, combined with the Irish slug­gishness in getting back on defense, the Hoyas were only down by 2 at the half, 39-37. Notre Dame kept the game from getting out of hand by rid­ing on the shoulders of the out­side shooting of Beth Morgan (13 points, 3 of 6 from 3 point range) and the inside toughness of Katryna Gaither (11 points, 6 rebounds). 
Fortunately for the Irish faithful, the second half turned out to be a completely different story. After Smith tied the game at 39 in the opening sec­onds, the Big East co-leaders went on an 18-4 run that included 8 points by Gaither. 
A timeout at the 12:37 mark by the Hoyas proved to be no help in their cause to get back in the game. The Irish defense was stifling. Peirick, Augustin, and Sheila McMillen contested every permiter shot by the Hoyas. forcing them to shoot a lowly 26% from the field in the second half. The intensity on defense led to 14 second-half turnovers by the Hoyas. To fin­ish each series off, Gaither and Carey Poor pulled down rebound after rebound, pre-
TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 

The approximately 1500 peo­ple that came to the Joyce Center Sunday afternoon thought that Georgetown's Allen Iverson had come and gone earlier in the week. What they saw in the first half of this 92-61 Irish victory, however, made it look as if he had returned in female form. 
The Irish size advantage seemed to be playing against them for the first twenty min­utes of the game. The under­sized. mighty might Lady Hoyas came out of the gate pressuring the Irish guards all over the court. Just as Iverson does against his opponents, smallish 

Freshman center Diana Braendly anchors a tenacious Irish defense. Classmates Danielle Green (13) and Sheila McMillan (20) were also integral to Notre Dame's victory. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Katryna Gaither powers above the Lady Hoya defense. She finished with 11 points and six boards, including eight points in a dominating 18-4 second half run. 
venting Georgetown from get­half, we were much more ting second chances. poised handling the ball." 
Meanwhile, the Irish offensive As a result, the Irish surge continued. It seemed the outscored the Hoyas 53-24 in only way to stop Gaither and the second half. They were led Morgan was to foul them. Also, in the scoring department by the trend of turnovers was re­Morgan and ·Gaither, who versed, as Notre Dame gave the poured in 25 and 22 points, ball away only 4 times. respectively. Poor also added 
Said Peirick, "In the second 16 points. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  GREEK/LATIN HELP WANTED.  Faculty couple seeks loving, 1 bedroom in 3 bedroom home  Happy 22nd Birthday, Land!  
NOTICES  Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  Graduate Patristics student knowl­edge in the Fathers needed urgent­ responsible person to care for our Female preferred 2yr and 6yr old daughters in our Use of all utilities  SS- 
From $429! Save $100 On  ly for translation and library  -home. 25-30 hrs-will split between 300.00/mo. -Close to campus  We need rnore people like the hair­ 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ research. Call anytime 219-848­ two people if needed. All semester, Safe neighborhood  dresser. I want a picture of you  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  breaktravel.com  5187.  start immed. Breaks and finals off. Call Paul 232-2794  smelling your arm.  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386 Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  1-800-678-6386 Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  COUNSELORS, COACHES: Outstanding Maine girls camp has summer opportunities for mature Counselors and Coaches: Tennis,  Good pay. If you love kids, call 277-7071. I FORSALE FOR RENT I FOR SALE! ....____________. •Hewlett Packard Desk Wnter  St. Edward's Hall Players proudly present: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Friday, Saturday, Sunday 8 p.m. @ Washington Hall  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  Soccer, Softball, Volleyball.  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­Printer for Apple Macintosh  Tickets $3 available at the door or  
..  Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  Daytona $1391 http://www.spring­breaktravel.com.  Baksetball, PE Majors, Gymnastics, Lifeguards, WSI, Waterskiing,  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR •Apple Macintosh StyleWriter ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES Portable Printer. Call 631-7494  at Lafortune Info Desk  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  1-800-678-6386  Sailing, Canoeing, Pioneering,  CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386  ILOST & FOUND I  Ropes, Piano Accompaniast, AN's and Video. Accent is on fun and quality instruction. High salary plus  2773097 TICKETS Great Apt. for Sublet!! I!  Interested in helping out the Environment? Call Recyclin' Irish at  
SPRING BREAK!  travel allowance. Send resume to  furnished apt. minutes from ND Need 3 or 4 GA's for W. V.  x1283 :)  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  I lost a very special gold heart  Camp Pinecliffe, 277 South  2 BdRm w/ central air, wash & Call Ted x338 1 $$$  
BLOW IT!  bracelet either at the JACC or  Cassingham Road, Columbus, OH  dryer-located at 617 Portage Ave.  Don't be too proud of this techno­ 
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  Senior Bar on Jan. 15. If you found it please call Erin at 232-7991.  43209.  $375/mo. plus utilities PERSONALCall Colleen at #233-1495  logical terror you've constructed. The ability to destroy a planet is  
$359 Florida $109  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD- insignificant next to the power of the  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  Found: pocket knife near  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  0D0D0D000D0D000D0D0D0  Force.  
1-800-426-771 0  Stonehenge on 1/17. Call1678.  basic conversational English  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!!l  Don't try to frighten us with your  
abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  219-291-7153 THE COPY SHOP  sorcerer's ways, Lord Vader. Your  
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTIEST  Korea. Many employers provide  LaFortune Student Center  sad devotion to that ancient religion  
TRIPS"  Lost: Gold rope bracelet.  room & board + other benefits. No  HOMES FOR RENT Phone 631-COPY  has not helped you conjure up the  
CANCUN -SOUTH PADRE  Lost on 1/17 somewhere between  teaching background or Asian lan­ 232-2595 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  stolen data tapes, or given you  
ISLAND -BELIZE  Knott and O'Shag. Great sentimen­ guages required. For more informa­ clairvoyance enough to find the  
1-800-328-7513  tal value! Please call Susan @  tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH­ Rebel's hidden fort ...  
http://www.studentadvtrav.com  4980  J55842  BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­DUST OFF YOUR DANCING  I find your lack of faith disturbing.  
FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE  9005 SHOES AND "SPRING" INTO  Enough of this! Vader, release hirn.  
FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS  LOST!!!!!  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ACTION ALL YOU  As you wish.  
1.0. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  Positions are now available at  TRUE BEAUTY BALLROOM DANCERS! CLASS­ This bickering is pointless. Lord  
Reward for return. Please call, sen­ National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  3 MILES TO CAMPUS ES WILL RESUME TUESDAY,  Vader will provide us with the loca­ 
Openings available in the University  timental value.  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  237-9718 JAN. 23,  tion of the Rebel fortress by the  
of Notre Dame Chorale for all voic­ Call Chris, @ 1662  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  6:30-9:00 PM, WITH SWING/JIVE  time this station is operational. We  
es. Spring concert with orchestra  N55844  MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT. IN 301 ROCKNE MEMORIAL. ALL  will then crush the Rebellion with  
17 April 1996 in Basilica of the Sacred Heart to feature Mozart's  WANTED  NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2 ARE WELCOME! DON'T FORGET BATH. $900.00/MO.+ YOUR 1.0.!  one swift stroke.  
Solemn Vespers of the Confessor,  ALASKA EMPLO'(MENT­ 257-0457  Remember:  
K. 339, and Coronation Mass, K.  WANTED  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Call Doctor KT with all your intesti­ 
317.  Students who want to make extra  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Mentalist  nal problems!!  
For audition, contact Alexander  cash delivering The Chicago  month. Room and Board!  TWO ROOMS FOR RENT AT  
Blachly at 631-5105. Rehearsals  Tribune. Must live on-campus.  Transportation! Male or Female. No  LAFAYETIE SQUARE TOWN  Morgs,  
Tuesdays and Thursdays, 6:45­ Notre Dame/St.Mary's  experience necessary. Call  HOMES. FULLY FURNISHED Come let Craig Karges of Leno and  First new rule: You MUST stay on  
8:30 p.m., beginning Tuesday,  Call684-4302.  (206)971-3510 ext A55843  AVAILABLE !MEDIATELY Letterman farne read your mind and  the first floor.  
January 30.  CALL JESSE OR BEN AT mystify you with his powers.  
My dad (N.D.'93) needs ND/SMC  Area company seeking accounting  634-1838 FOR DETAILS Appearing Friday, Jan. 26 at 8 p.m.  To many more productive Sundays.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  students to care for me when he  professional. Salary $30's.  at the Library Auditorium.  
Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15  and my mom work. Hrs vary 8A­ Permanent position. Fee paid.  2 VERY NICE rooms $$$$$$$$$$$FREE$$$$$$$$$$$  Hey, where's the quint Super Bowl  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  2P, M-F. Call273-4642.  Accounting software knowledge  for Sum/Fall '96. Brought to you by your friends at  party going to be held this year?  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft.  and experience in MS-DOS/LAN  5-min. drive! $250 incl SUB!  
Lauderdale! http://www.spring­ Wanted, ride to IU Blooomington  required. NOVELL a plus. Call  utilities & extras!  Alex, welcome back. We really  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  Friday, Jan 26. Call Adam 4-1767  219-825-3909.  1-4809/232-7175 ADOPTION  missed you.  

. -~~ ~ . ~. ' ' . 
\4~:~~~',,;(jj•7, 


Tuesday, January 23 
Information Meeting for ACE Applicants ACE Update Last-minute application questions 
7:00p.m. Center for International Studies Auditorium 
• AUSTRAliAN OPEN 
Agassi poised to usurp Sampras' No. I ranking 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associared Press 
MELBOURNE,Australia 
Andre Agassi pulled one more great escape in the Australian Open on Sunday and grabbed a shot at grabbing the No. 1 ranking Pete Sampras abdicat­ed in a stunning loss to a giant Aussie teen. 
Pushed to five sets for the second time in defense of his championship, Agassi overcame Jonas Bjorkman 4-6, 6-2, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2 and reached the quarterfinals against another beleaguered former champion, Jim Courier. 
"If I don't win this tour­nament, I don't want to be ranked No. 1," said Agassi, who is now competing with Thomas Muster for the top spot. "I would fear playing Pete 
99.9 percent of the time more than Thomas . " 
Muster, who came into the Australian ranked No. 3, lost to Mikael Tillstrom 7-5, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 in the fourth round but still could take over the top spot if Agassi doesn't reach the semifi­nals. 
Courier, playing consecutive five-setters, edged Marcos Ondruska of South Africa 7-5, 2-6, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
"He's definitely a rock 'em, sock 'em kind of tennis player," Agassi said of Courier. 
The prospect of three former champions, all Americans. los­ing within 24 hours seemed real enough as Agassi and Courier struggled the day after Sampras' abrupt departure. 
As fast as 29 aces flew past Sampras, that wasn't the only reason for a whipping that cost him the No. 1 ranking. 
It was the way Mark Philippoussis, a taller, stronger, younger Aussie-Greek clone of Sampras, never relented in any manner, never gave Sampras a chance to take charge. 
In a zone of his own through­
out a 6-4, 7-6 (11-9), 7-6 (7-3) 
third-round victory, the 6-foot­
4 kid called "Scud" produced 
the most stunning win by an 
Australian since Pat Cash cap­
tured Wimbledon in 1987. 

The top-seeded woman, Monica Seles, had no trouble rolling into the quarters Sunday morning, 6-1. 6-3 against No. 15 Naoko Sawamatsu. Seles hasn't lost a set so far. yielding only 14 games in four matches. ·No. 3 Arantxa Sanchez 
Vicario reached the quarters 
without dropping a set, beating 
No. 9 Mary Joe Fernandez 6-3, 
6-3. Sanchez Vicario next plays 
No. 13 Chanda Rubin, who 
knocked off No. 6 Gabriela 
Sabatini 6-2. 6-4. 

No. 5 Michael Chang breezed 
into the quarters. beating Jean­
Philippe Fleurian 6-2. 6-3, 6-4. 
But one of the most dangerous 
seeds who could have stood in 
the way of Philippoussis, No. 10 
Goran lvanisevic, fell to Italy's 
Renzo Furlan 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-2. 
At 19, Philippoussis put on a 
show of power tennis remi­
niscent of Sampras when he be­
came the youngest U.S. Open 
men's champion at the same 
age in 1990. 

"I didn't have a sniff at get­ting a serve back," said 
Sampras, who barely beat Philippoussis in four sets in the 
U.S. Open last September. "When he's serving that big, there's nothing you can do." 
Fans gasped and giggled at the speed of Philippoussis' serves, up to 129 mph. and the distinctive thud of his forehand when he'd take a full windup, let out a loud "AAARGH," and slug it into the corners. No one in tennis hits the ball harder, and on this night, no one could have been more precise. 
"I felt like I could just toss it up and ace how I wanted to," Philippoussis said. "It was an unbelievable feeling.... I did feel like I was in the zone." 
Philippoussis' biggest struggle was trying to contain his soar­ing emotions, especially on the final point. 
"My hand was shaking when I was just about to serve," he said. "I was just happy to get the serve in." 
Sampras netted a backhand on that serve, setting off a throaty roar by the crowd that lasted several minutes as Philippoussis paraded around the court with his arms raised. 
They played with the retractable roof closed, though the day's rain had long stopped, and Sampras felt that gave Philippoussis an advantage. 
"The fact that it was indoors made his serve that much bet­ter," said Sampras, who often stared at the imprint the aces made on the court as if he couldn't believe how they clipped the corners. "It's an outdoor tournament. It would have been nice to have that roof open if it wasn't raining." 
But Sampras, who served only five aces, didn't use that as an excuse. 
"He was just on today, plain and simple," said Sampras, whose No. 1 ranking will go to either No. 2 Agassi or No. 3 Muster when the tournament ends. 
"It's obvious he's very talent­
ed," Sampras said of 
Philippoussis. "Time will tell if 
he can be that consistent. When 
I played him at the U.S. Open, 
he had his ups and downs that I 
was able to take advantage of. 
Today he didn't give me those 
opportunities:'' 

Sampras, who was seeking 
his third straight Grand Slam title after winning Wimbledon and the U.S. Open, couldn't capitalize on the solitary break points he had in each of the .first two se,ts. He won only five points overall on Philippoussis' 
serve in the third set. 

Philippoussis played superbly 
at the net and from the base­
line, mixing up speeds, showing 
touch as well as strength, beat­
ing Sampras at his own serve­
and-volley game. 

"We both are Greek, that's 
similar, and we both serve well 
and go for our shots," Sampras 
said. "I think he takes a Jot 
more chances than I did at 19. I 
was still green at that point. 
and so is he. But he's got the 
game and the strength to over­
whelm you. You just hope that 
throughout a three-of-five set 
match you have a sniff or a 
crack in his game where he 
misses some shots. He never 
did tonight." 

Two weeks ago, Philippoussis 
lost in the first round of a tune­
up in Sydney to Britain's Tim 
Henman, who called him "one­
dimensional.'' Philippoussis 
studied a tape of that match, 
agreed he "looked stupid" by 
overpowering everything, and 
made adjustments when he 
arrived in Melbourne. 

'He made me feel like a king 
tonight," his coach, Nick 
Bollettieri, said. "Pete must 
have said, 'What am I playing 
against?'" 

Bollettieri had made plans to 
leave Sunday, figuring 
Philippoussis would lose. Now, 
he'll be sticking around at least 
until the next match against 
Mark Woodforde, an equally 
popular Australian. 

Asked about that match, 
Philippoussis said: "Am I play­
ing Mark? I've got no idea. I 
didn't look past Pete." 

Bollettieri sent Philippoussis a 
letter last month, telling him 
not to worry about his rankings 
or the expectations of everyone 
around him. 

"I told him to just forget 
about everything and build for 
the year," Bollettieri said. "You 
have to put it into proper per­
spective. It'll take a couple of 
years for him to develop. You 
can't call him a star player 
right now. Maybe in a couple of 
years you can." 
Associated Press 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Penn State is no longer unbeaten. But the No. 14 Nittany Lions don't exactly look ready to fold, either. 
te{!.l11·;· first-year coach Jerry Dunn No. 20 Michigan 
beat his team 67-66 on 
-Sunday. "We'll have to learn from this one painfully and move on to the ne~game." 
Dunn has had'to spend much of his first Season 
· fending his tea.mts record ..,..,,, ... .,u skep~~cs who ~a.Y Penn · 4·1 (f ;: 3~1 Big 
·.. Pla. -~ weak 
Sunday marked th~ Nittany Lions' first game against a ranked team. But they fell only when Miclligan's big players made a couple of big plays in the final seconds. 
The win by Michigan (14-4, 3-ll created a three-way tie with Purdue an9,/Penn· State atop the Big Tell}''' 
"It's a good tough league and you have to be ready to play every game," said Michigan coach Steve Fisher. 
·."We saw proof of that today ln our own building," 
Monday, January 22, 1996 
Penn State took a 66-65 lead on a short jumper by Donovan Williams with 24 seconds remaining. 
After two timeouts with 16 seconds left, Michigan's Dugan Fife set a screen on Penn State's Calvin Booth and Travis Conlan made the pass to Taylor. 
"Dugan set a phenomenal screen to leave Maurice wide open," Conlan said after the biggest of his game-high eight assists. 
Penn State came back upcourt without calling time· out before Baston blocked Earl's last~gasp shot. 
"I just foUowed the ball," Baston said~ )'l knew time was running down, so he had to put it up." 
It marked the third time this season Baston made a deci· sive block in a Michigan home victory. He also did it in December against Duke and Washington. 
Baston scored 13 points and had a team-high seven rebounds with four blocked shots, all of the latter in the second· half, to lead the Wolverines. Louis Bullock also had 13 points while Taylor and Robert Traylor added 10 each for Michigan. 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9--6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SoUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

GMATReview 

Five Mondays, Feb. 12-March 11, 6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: March 16. 
GRE Review Five Thursdays, March 7-April4, 6-10 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: April13. 
LSAT Review 

Four Thursdays, May 9-30, 6-10 p.m. at IUSB. $249. Exam date: June 10. 
PLEASE NOTE The April13 GRE will be the final paper-and-pencil version of this exam. All future GREs will be provided via computer only. 
Both the GRE and LSAT require analytical and logical reasoning. Since most undergraduates have little experience with these processes, a review course is almost essential to exam success. 
-~--------------~----------------------------------------------­
Monday, January 22, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA • COLLEGE BASKETBAll 





Shaq, Magic outlast Rockets Allen, UConn shine 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK A.\Socia!c<l Press Wri1cr 
HOUSTON Shaquille O'Neal's layup with 
4.7 seeonds left after snaring a rebound lifted Orlando to a 97­CJ(J victory over llouston Sunday in a remateh of the teams that made last season's NBA Finals. 
O'Neal, who finished with 29 points and 16 rebounds, then bloeknd Sam Cassell's layup attmnpt at the buzzf)r to seal llw vietory. 
Anfernee Hardaway had 13 of his 2H points in the final quar­l!w as the Magie turned away a Houston rally. The Hockets, los­ing for the fourth time in seven games, had gone ahead 86-78 with six minutes to go before O'Neal and especially llardaway took over. 
Hardaway, whose jumper at tlw buzzer gave Orlando a Christmas Day victory over Houston in the first meeting between the teams this season, hit a 3-pointcr with 2:39 left to tie the game at 90. His flying dunk with 1:37 left put the Magic ahead 93-92. 
Aftor llakeem Olajuwon, who finished with 30 points on his 33rd birthday, hit a 17 -footer to give Houston a 94-93 advan­tage, Hardaway rammed through another dunk with 
42.6 seeonds left to regain the lead for the Magic. 
But the Hockets weren't fin­ished. Mark Bryant fought through traffic under the bas­ket to put Ilouston ahead with 
28.1 seeonds to go. 
The Magic ran down the cloek, and when Dennis Scott's long jumper missed, O'Neal grabbed the rebound and laid in the winning basket. 
Summer Internships for Undergraduates The Environmental Research Institute 
ajoint activity of the University of Notre Dame and Argonne National Laboratory in collaboration with the Center tor Bioengineering and Pollution Control is pleased to announce acompetition leading to the award of three summer internships at the Argonne National Laboratory for the Summer of 1996 with afollow-on research appointment for the Fall. 
The applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, be enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, must have completed their Junior Year by the Summer of 1996, and must be registered to return in the Fall of 1996. 
For more details please contact the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
Deadline for application: March 1, 1996 

(ZMPUSMINISTRY 
For additional infomwtion: Ca/1631·5242 
Cassell took the inbounds pass after a Houston timeout and appeared to be fouled by 
in Big East matchup
Hardaway, but there was no call, and O'Neal diverted Cassell's desperation shot at the buzzer. 
The !lockets shot a miserable 3-for-22 from 3-point range, missing their first 10 shots from behind the arc. 
Orlando finished a live-game, nine-day road trip, the longest of the season for the Magic, with a 2-3 mark. 
BULLS Ill, PISTONS 96 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
The Chicago Bulls extended two streaks Sunday, winning their 11th straight game and beating the Detroit Piston for the 13th time in a row. 
Michael Jordan scored 36 points and Scottie Pippen added 22 as the Bulls rolled to a 111­96 victory over the Pistons, who had won five in a row at home. 
The Pistons, led by Grant Hill's 24 points, were no match for the Bulls, who began their streak against Detroit on March 14, 1993. 
The Pistons, who led briefly in the first quarter, narrowed the Bulls lead to 36-35 on Otis Thorpe's basket with 5:02 left in the half. Then the Bulls went on an 18-4 run for a 54-39 halftime lead, holding the Pistons without a basket over that stretch. 
Jordan, has scored over 30 points in 22 games. 
Allen scored 10 points ­including a four-point play on a pass from Moore -in the Huskies' 16-4 run that gave them a 62-46 lead with 9:08 to play. 
"I had a shot there, but Hay was wide open," Moore said of the four-point play. 
Syracuse came right back with an 11-2 run that made it 64-57 with 6:31 to play, and the Huskies called a timeout. 
Allen nailed a 3-pointer on the play off the timeout to restore the margin to I 0, and he made it 10 again with another 3-pointer with 2:15 left. 
Consecutive 3-pointers by John Wallace and Marius Janulis brought the Orangemen (13-4, 4-3) within 72-68 with 
1:32 left. But Connecticut made seven of nine free throws, and Syracuse missed its last three shots from the field -all 3­pointers. 
''They made some pretty tough shots," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said of Connecticut. "We made it hard for Hay Allen in the first half, and we didn't do that in the second half. He had a lot more open looks, something you expect him to get. In the first half, we were aware where Allen and Sheffer were. In the second half, we just lost where Allen was." 
Allen finished 1 0-of-20 from the field, 6-of-10 from 3-point range. 
Travis Knight also had 13 points for the Huskies, while ShelTer had nine points and 10 assists. 
Wallace led Syraeuse with 28 points, while Otis Hill had 14 and Janulis 13. 
Wallace was 12-of-25 from the field, including 4-of-7 from 3-point range. 
"John's been shooting the ball well from the outside all year," Boeheim said. "Down low everybody's doubling him, and outside they can't do that. We have to get help for him. Allen has five points at the half, and they're still up three. If John does that, we're down about 12." 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Asocia1ed Press 

HAHTFOHD, Conn. 
It's almost impossible to talk about Connecticut and not have the conversation dominated by Hay Allen's name. 
The junior swingman had some serious competition in the praise department Sunday after the fifth-ranked Huskies won their 15th straight game, 79-70 over No. 12 Syracuse. 
Freshman Hicky Moore, who entered the game with as many career points (67) as Allen manages in about three games, was the player who drew most of the attention after the win that kept the Huskies (16-1, 8­
0) perfect in the Big East. 

"When Hay and I were walk­ing ofT the court the first thing he said was that Ricky was great," Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun said. "When a player says that about another player it really means something." 
Allen finished with 27 points, 22 in the second half, but it was Moore's 13 points and four assists in 17 minutes that had Calhoun swooning. 
"That was Hicky Moore's finest performance for us," Calhoun said. "He changed the game with his explosiveness." 
The Huskies led 33-31 at halftime after having problems with the 2-3 zone of Syracuse (13-4, 4-3), which has lost four of its last six games. Allen was 2-of-9 from the field at halftime and his backcourtmate, Doron 
Sheffer, was scoreless, having 
missed three shots. That changed when the 6­foot-1 Moore started penetrat­
CAMPUS BIBLE S'"fUDY 
Register for the Spring Semester 
ing the gaps in the zone. 

"He accelerated the pace of the game," Calhoun said. "He pushed the ball. We have to find a way to keep him on the
Do you have some questions about Bible Studies? 
floor." Come to the Open House to get answers. Allen agreed. 
"He beat his man every time and he penetrated a lot," Allen Do You Wonder . .. said of Moore. "They tried to pick us up at halfcourt and he
Why Study the Bible? 
beat his man every time, and How to study the Bible? that allowed a lot of shooters to get open and that blew the
What is Faith Sharing? 
game open for us." 

How to apply Bible Teachings to 

present day situations? 
Come to ask questions and grow in the wisdom of the Lord. Find out what CBS is all about. 


Tuesday, January 23, 1996 7:00p.m. The Conference Room Campus Ministry Office Badin I-Iall 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, CSC-Director 
IJring your DlJJn IJihle or one lJJill 6e provided. 
Photo courtesy of Connecticut Sports Information 
Ray Allen scored 27 points as the Huskies increased their winning
/here lJJill 6e a social period afl'er the Dpen House. 
streak to 15 games with a 79-70 victory over Syracuse. 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, January 22, 1996 

Grades 
continued from page 20 
from any contact," he noted. 
The problem for Notre Dame's small forwards is just that -they're small. Derek Manner is a natural at the posi­tion, but reserves Pete Miller and Antoni Wyche should be shooting guards, and don't pose any threat inside. 
Manner is consistent candi­date for the all-hustle squad, but finesse hasn't caught up with his fervor. His forays into the lane are worthy of the sui­cide squad, and meet with suc­cess about as often. However, if there is a loose ball, Manner will track it down, and he does the little things it takes to win. Grade: 8­
Centers 

Notre Dame employs its own version of the three-headed monster at this position, with mixed results. Usual starter Matt Gotsch has hinted at a deft scoring touch, but can't seem to stay in games long enough to showcase it. Reserve Marcus Young has the same problem, having fouled out of two of the six games he's seen action in. 
What's worse, a good portion of the fouls are picked up 15­feet from the basket, while the much chronicled Ross brother problem with setting legal screens seems to have become an unwanted tradition. 
Notre Dame's post defense, though, has been solid, and has prevented opposing centers such as Villanova's Jason Lawson and UConn's Travis Knight from having big nights. Grade:C 
Bench 

In Saturday's victory over Rutgers, the Irish got a spark off the bench from Miller, who came in to bury two key three­pointers. Young provided a solid 22 minutes in the post. 
That hasn't been the story all season, however. In Irish victo­ries, heroes have come off the pine to make contributions, most noticeably Phil Hickey's two foul shots with five seconds left in the victory at Xavier. 
Consistency, though, has been lacking. When Hoover was struggling early in the year, no one came in to pick up the scor­ing slack. Although healthy so far, senior Keith Kurowski has not been able to provide the quick points that were hoped for. Wyche started fast, but has looked more unsure of himself on the court of late. Grade: C+ 
Coaching 

It was pretty clear entering the season that the Irish would need some time to adapt to con­ference play, and 1-6 is a large hole to climb out of. 
Notre Dame has been com­petitive, though, and has played hard in every contest. Their have also been no debacles like the UCLA or Kentucky games of last. season. 
Head coach John MacLeod has had to adapt on the fly for much of the season, maneuver­ing around injuries to Manner, Young, and currently freshman Gary Bell. Recently the Irish have been as healthy as they have been all season, and con­sequently are playing their best basketball. 
Strategic wrinkles have also worked relatively well, espe­cially the zone defense institut­ed against Georgetown. 
Substitutions have not had the The one thing missing is an consistency one would like, as upset win over a ranked team. some players are still struggling If the Irish are to achieve that, to define their niche, but though, they will now have to injuries have impacted on this do it on the road. Grade: B as well. 

Freshman point guard Doug Gottlieb has been maturing on the job,and the Irish look to reap the benefits in the second half of the season. 
UIC tied the game at three,

Hockey 
but the Irish answered back when defenseman Ben Nelsen 
continued from page 20 
slapped the puck past Flame goaltender Adam Lord for histhe third period, the Irish took first goal of the year and a 4-3
advantage of a power play 
lead. However, moments lateropportunity to grab 3-2 lead. 
the relentless Illinois-ChicagoNoble, playing his best game of squad sent the game into over­
the season, found freshman 
time on center Jeff Edwards'Brian Urick wide open for his second goal of the evening. 
eighth goal of the year. 
In overtime, Notre Dame"Steve Noble's game has 
turned to their leading scorer
stepped up considerably for to win it for them, and the
us," said Poulin. "He finally 
senior center delivered. In
looks like he's at full strength scoring his tenth goal of the
since his back surgery two 
season, Jaimie Ling took ad­years ago. It was good to see vantage .of a Flame miscue tohim step up out there tonight." 
5-4 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Freshman Brian Urick scored his eighth goal of the year as the Irish posted a 4-3 overtime victory over UIC. 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
Call 234•0363 
(24 hours) 

SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 


for the Irish. 

"He has taken his game to a whole new level for us," said 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE
Poulin. "Coming in, I heard he was a good offensive player, 
Your source for the best in theological
but he has more than exceeded the expectations I had of him." 
and philosophical books! 
If Notre Dame believed the 
Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, De Lubac,
momentum would carry them 
Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Mother Teresa,
into Saturday's matchup with Michigan, they were dearly 
C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoetfer, von Hildebrand. 
mistaken. The 19-4 Wolverines 
Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II documents, encyclicals,
barely broke a sweat in hand­
Bibles and biblical studies, prayer, lives of the saints.
ing the 6-14-3 Irish their most embarrassing loss (11-1) of the 
We can special order any book you need! 
season. "We ran into a team on a streak and at the top of their 







: ------------------­
1OD/o off all books :
game," said Urick. "We played 
a strong game on Friday, but 
1 for N.D.IS.M.C faculty and students with J.D. 1 
we came out flat against Michigan, and they made us 
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I 
pay for it." 

I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I
Indeed, the tale of two teams 
I 287-0349 Open 10-5 Monday -Friday I
did not have a happy ending. 
~-------------------~ 

Miss -A -Meal Sign-Ups January 22 & 23 
Sign-Up in the Dining Halls on January 22 or 23. By Signing­Up You Agree not to Eat Dinner on Wednesday, January 31. For Each Meal Missed, Notre Dame Food Services Will Make a Do­nation to Special Olympics. 
onus-You canAlso Earn Points 
or Your LNO Team by Signing­Friday, February 2 
7:00PM -4:00AM 
p for This Miss-A-Meal!!! Joyce Center 
631-6100 

All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
-----------------------------------~----~~ Monday, January 22, 19.:._96~______________T!..!!:he~O~b~se:!..rv~e:!_r...::._•~S~P__::O~R::::.:T~S~----------------:--=:--:--:-:---:----:----:-----:-~p-a=-ge---:-;-17 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
During the contest Rutgers was content to play from beyond the arc. With a weak inside game, Rutgers' guards were forced to carry the scor­ing load as senior Damon Santiago had 26 and freshman Geoff Billet finished with 19. The only other relief was pro­vided by small forward Albert Karner who had 12. 
Despite shooting 40 percent from three-point area, the Irish defense held Rutgers to just 35 percent from the floor. The additional pressure on the Rutgers backcourt combined with an aggressive Irish defen­sive effort, similar to the Georgetown game, forced the Scarlet Knights into 22 turnovers. Notre Dame record­ed 12 steals as Hoover and freshman Doug Gottlieb had three apiece. 
"We really didn't play well enough ball-handling to win the game," Wenzel said. "Notre Dame played strong defense and they forced some turnovers. Part of that is that we were careless with the ball. 22 turnovers is very uncharac­teristic for our team. We cer­tainly didn't play well enough to win the game." 
With poor shooting and a high number of turnovers, Rutgers embodied the perfect foil to the Irish who shot 55 percent in the second half to put the game away. Notre Dame also committed only nine turnovers. 
"We handled their changing defenses and pressure reason­ably well," MacLeod noted. 
The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Pat Garrity dunks for two of his 23 points against Rutgers. 
t%1 
Alumnae 
.b\ssocliftl(Jn 
Saint Mary's College Notre Oamc, Indiana 
t'The Caring Connection" 
1996 Summer Service projects 


Information Night 
Thesday, January 2 3 
s:JOPM 
Stapleton wunge 




DOWNHILL SKI TRIP 
FRIDAY, JANUARY 26 SWISS VALLEY 

Bus Leaves Library Circle at 5:00 PM Cost: $27.00 Includes Lift Ticket, Rental & Transport $18.00 Lift Tickets and Transport Only 
Return Bus Leaves Swiss Valley at 10:00 PM Beginner Lessons Available Free of Charge Open to all ND Students, Faculty & Staff 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: January 24 
The Irish dominated the mid­die of the second half as they went on a 13-0 run to take a 55-43 advantage. Appropriately enough, a steal and layup by Pete Miller sparked the run whir.h was also capped ofT by a similar chain of events with Hoover doing the honors this time. 
Rutgers would pull within three with just over four min­utes left, but after two sparkling assists from Gottlieb, Rutgers would never threaten again. The latter assist found Hoover coming around a screen to hit a three-pointer from the top of the key. With his second straight 26-point performance, Hoover is begin­ning to locate a groove. 
"(He's) settling down," MacLeod said of the Irish cap­tain. "For the most part today and against Georgetown, he waited. lie didn't shoot any quick shots. He's not forcing it or rushing it." 
One problem that was high­lighted for the Irish on Saturday involved their inabili­ty to finish the first half solidly. Notre Dame squandered an eight-point lead and trailed by three at the break as Santiago hit a three-pointer with time expiring. 
"I don't know what the prob­lem is," MacLeod commented. "We can't seem to go into the locker room on a roll. We're having some difficulty finishing the first half. That's an area we need to get straightened out here." 
Along with Hoover and Garrity, MacLeod was also pleased with the play of Miller and Derek Manner who both had eight points. This bal­anced scoring is a factor MacLeod would like to see on a consistent basis. 
Something else the crowd might enjoy seeing on a regular basis happened at the start of the second half when Gottlieb lofted a perfect lob up to Garrity who threw it down for a dunk, electrifying the fans. 
It would be one of the plays remembered in this historic win. 
"The first win is always spe­cial, "MacLeod added. "I think our players recognize the fact that we are improving and making progress. I think our mental health is quite good right now." 
"It's quite ironic I guess that 
we beat Notre Dame in our first 
Big East victory and they beat 
us in their first Big East victo­
ry," Wenzel said. "I don't know 
what that says, but it's certain­
ly fact." 


$219 
$229 $229 
Madrid $249 AmSI8nlam $249 Rome $309 Prague $319 
F••••NdlwaytomOi~oba&edon roo.nd _., pt.rdlw. Rll.aor.!WY, IIIXII notincUlld llld far" subject to change and!or availobilily. Cllll ,..., "" tlllw ...,.,. ..,.,.,., 


Travel~ 
CIJ!I!, CoUIIdl oa Lotaulllaool Edu.lll...., ~ 
1-BDD-2-ciiUNC/l 
tHIOD-2211-116241 
caurodav lor aFREE Student Traveismag:uine! 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 22, 1996 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Belles defeat Franklin, room for improvement 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP­RecSports will be sponsoring 
Mixed results for 
a Down Hill Ski Trip to Swiss 
Valley on Friday, January 

26. Transportation provid­ed. Register in advance by
Irish swimmers 
January 24, at RecSports. For information about fees 
By BRIDGET CASEY 2:06.83 a mere eight one-hun­
calll-6100. Sports Writer dredths of a second off first 
CAMPUS BOWLING place. Junior Erin Brooks was 
LEAGUE· RecSports will be 
The return to competition for 
a double winner taking both 
sponsoring a Bowling
the Irish swimmers found the 
League that will compete on teams in good form to dive into 
backstrokes in 58.90 in the 100 
Thursday nights between the second half of the competi­
and 2:05.07 in the 200 respec­
February 1 & March 7. tive season. 
tively. 

Register your 3 person team The Purdue Quadrangular 
in advance at RecSports by 
For the men, the Irish lost to dual meet in Indianapolis fea­
January 31. For more infor­
host Purdue, Southern Illinois 
mation calll-6100.

tured stiff Midwest competitors 
and Minnesota but had several 
MARTIAL ARTS-TheMinnesota, Indiana, Southern 
strong individual performances. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts
Indiana and host Purdue in the 
Freshman Scott Zumbach fin­
Institute is starting beginnermen's field with Toledo replac­
ished fourth in the 400 
classes for the spring semes­ing Minnesota on the women's 
Individual Medley in 4:07.59. 
ter. Practices are Thursdaysside, provided the swimmers from 6:30-8:00 in Room 301 
with the opportunity to put 
Fellow freshman Wes 
Rock and Sunday 6:00-8:00 their heavy training sessions 
Room 219 Rock. For more over the semester break to the 
Richardson paced the Irish dis­
information call Kyle 4­test. 
tance swimmers, with a sixth 
3282.

place finish in the 500 Free 
"We were really happy to ( 4:46.13), followed by captain race so well coming off of train­Tim Sznewajs in tenth ing trip. We were really bro­(4:52.80). 
Recycle
ken down so it was nice to rest 
Coming off a week of tough a little bit and come through 
competition, the Irish look for­
The

with fast swims", commented 
ward to hosting annual rival St. senior captain Joy Michnowicz. 
Bonaventure at the end of the week. 
Observer 
"The competition was def­
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
At least it is a step in the right direction. After blowing their 12-point lead at the half, the Saint Mary's basketball team hung on in the last min­utes of a heart-pounding sec­ond period Saturday to beat Franklin College 70-66. 
"This was our first win in a tight last few minutes of the game," Coach Marvin Wood said. "In the past we had a ter­rible tendency to loose our alertness and let the other team take the game. Saturday we tightened up our defense and stayed calm." 
Unlike their opponents and most other teams in the league, the Belles did not play any games over their long winter break. For senior forward Jennie Taubenheim, Saturday's game was the first she had been able to play since the beginning of December. 
The crowd never would have known, however, as Taubenheim led her team with 20 points and scored several excruciating free-throw goals in the last minutes of the game. Although pleased with the Belles' ability to keep their op­ponents from stealing the win, she admits that in the future she would like to see the team avoid the situation all together. 
"We still need more team­work," Taubenheim said. "We need to keep our minds attune to the game and play our best throughout the whole game. Then we will stop blowing our leads." 
Coach Wood designates his team's ability to stay calm and read their opponent's defensive strategies to the win. 
"Freshman forward Charlotte Albrecht really came off the bench and contributed against Franklin," he said. "On the board and on the field she helped sharpen up the passing and the defense." 
Other remarkable perfor­mances were executed by freshman forward Sheila Sandine who scored 19 points, and by sophomore forward Julie McGill and freshman guard Nicole Giffin who stunned the crowd with an ar­ray of 3-pointers. 
Wood's biggest aim this week is to try and get his team back to the level they were at when they left for break. Tonight at 7 p.m. in Angela Athletic Facility the team will play a 10­6 Bethel, who defeated Saint Mary's by only eight points in the Saint Mary's Roundball Classic earlier this season. 
initely a challenge but it will prepare us for some upcoming 
I
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY
dual meets that should be real­ly close", added men's captain George Lathrop. 
· . OBC ENGLISHL__.._......._! 
Overall results found the Irish women victorious over 
::N: CONVERSATION SCHOOL
Southern Illinois by 49 points and Toledo by 104 points with 
is seeking university graduates for a one
the only hands coming at the hands of a strong Purdue team. 
year teaching position in Japan. Attractive 
salary, benefits and travel opportunities.
Individual highlights include 
a first place finish by sopho­
Japanese Language Skills Not Necessary.
more Courtney South in the 100 Free (53.14) followed in third 
place by junior Amy Bostick RECRUITING DATES: February 5, 6, and 7 at Career (55.16). Sophomore standout 
and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 
Lauren Relay finished second in 
Sign-ups Open This Week
a· close race in the 200 Fly in 
SOCIAL CO~CERNS FESTIVAL TUESDAY, JANUARY 23 7-9:30 P.M. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Monday January 23,1995 
Presentation by Deloitte & Touche LLP: Beta Alpha Psi will hosta presentation by Deloitte &.Touche LLP on Thursday, January 23, 1996 at 6:ooPM in the Jordan Auditorium. Pizza and refreshments will follow! 
Attention Club Presidents: Please check your mailbox­es outside of the CCC office. 
Ice Skating: Flip Side is sponsering ice ska.ting at he JACC, Friday, January 26, from 10:oo PM until u:oo PM. 
Admission is $1 for members, and $2 for Non-members. 
Club Council Needs You/ The CCC advi"es, organizes, and allocates money for campus clubs. Applications are now available for the 96-97 school year. 

40 SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION OPPORTUNITIES WILL BE REPRESENTED, INCLUDING: TUTORING; WORKING WITH THE HOMELESS, THE ELDERLY, YOUNG CHILDREN, DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED; BUILDING HOUSES; CLEANING UP NEIGHBORHOODS AND MUCH MORE! 
OPPORTUNITY TO GET INFORMATION ABOUT SERVICE OPTIONS FOR THE ENTIRE SEMESTER INCLUDING BREAK SEMINARS 
THE BEST OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN THIS SEMESTER WELL, WITH A SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION ACTIVITY THAT SUITS YOUR SCHEDULE AND YOUR INTEREST 
Tlri.~ sen·ice i.'i rn·ol"ided for you by tire Club Coordination Council. 
6.11-4078 20(i LuFortune 

Monday, January 22, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
~Now, Foil. {)'\'\ (l'\or<E'1 1 E.!1i'''S ju<,;.,-(\ ('1\ITE "BIT iY\u~l\ C\\~~t~~E f\f!.OUN'I> 
f-Ief/.£ DF LA-re. ... 
MISTER BOFFO 
EVE="N IF rr'5 Jlbl F()f< .SHAk'INb WWN TCXJJ21~TS H?1:2 '3#.A1.-L-Ci-JANet 117 STII...I-LII(E, 
~~1/AY IO 
Be: K't--..t>WN AS... 
.. THE !-EG£N D'' 

DILBERT 
" 

THE COJY\?ANY ANNOUNCED ~ 0 
_, 

A NEW COMPEN5AiiON 0.. 
® 
" Ill .. 

PLAN TODA.Y. BONU5E5 
0

WILL ()E. PA1.0 ONL'< TO ..
,_ THE. TOP TE.N PERCENT ,_ 
0 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Damage 59 Fast driver, 32 Mob scene informally
1 Applaud 33 Dug up, as an 60"King--"
5 "Just a --1" 
artifact (1958 Presley
("Hold on!") 36 Leisure suit 
film)8 Bodega owner 
material 61 Tax collector:
14 Latvia's capital 38 Composer Abbr. 
15 Undertake 
Rorem 62 Caramel-topped
16 Made over 
39 Ones at hand dessert 17 Strict rulership 
40 Midweek 63 Villains' 
19 Experts 
42 Facilitate opposites 20 Checkout line 
43 Important point 64 Barnum andassistants 44 "Pull more!" 109, e.g.
21 H.M.O. 
46 Get-out-of-jail 65 Lab fluidsemployees 
money22 Building 48 Close up againdesigner I. M. 

DOWN
50 Possess

23 Dampened 51 TV's Magnum
25 Filmdom's 1 First bed and the like
Bruce or Laura 2 Money in Milano 52 Cafe pastry
26 Builders of 3 Eyes-a-poppin' Stonehenge, 57 Like yard-sale 
4 Feeling of some say items 
hunger 5 Lady Godiva got them
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Dancer Charisse 8 White-bearded 
251na-­fellow 
(flustered) 9 Ruby and 
26 Ship's front crimson 21 Million or billion10 Exalting verse 

suffix 11 Dangerous 
28 007film

snake 29 Like much
12 Joan Rivers's Schoenberg
"--Talking" 
music 

13 Plant exudation 31 Paintings
18 Carved 33 Reverses 
34 In -(actually) 
IN RELA,iE.D NEWS, 8'l"fo Of THE. EI"\PLO'<EE.!> 
~ESIGNEO IN ~ITTER DISGUST THE lOP TEN PERCE.NT ALSO LEFT, 

DAVE KELLETI YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
'Sutte. M""~" 1•v Wooot>ER HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE IF TilE. UNIVE.IlS•,.1 FourlO 
NEXT YEAR OF YOlJR LIFE: Others could have as much control
(l.. U'S5. Fall. 1\1..'-li\ase 

over your professional destiny as \11t>EOU'S 1\lot<""'S I \)or<:,. you do. You may have to be rnorc lr?... diplomatic in order to advance your career or business goals. A fullillingI romance helps you relax and regroup. Extravagance is the only thing that stands in the way of your accumulating great wealth. Do not indulge in reckless spending in an elTon to impress loved ones. Those who really maller love you for your­self' CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Piper Laurie. poet Lord Byron. rapper Jaay Jeff. actre" Linda Blair. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Spending 'orne time alone will help you bring your thoughts into clearer focus. Let romantic partner know your plans in advance. Your skills asB a teacher or mediator are greatly needed. TAVRlJS (April 20-May 20):
JiHJ .·B 

Lady Luck is smiling on you. Refuse to be drawn into a contlict that does not involve vou. A lack of cooperation may hamper your efforts to resolve a dilemma. Adopt a wait-and-see approach. 
GE:\IINI (May 21-Junc 20l: A great day for free-lancer~ especially writers. Sign contracts only after
~~~d ,~@~d?~ your agent has gone over the fine print. Money comes and goes with 
no set pa11ern. Channel nervous energy into constructive pursuits.
SCOTI ADAMS 
CANCER (June 21-Julv 22): u 
The joy of a major triumph can be )'OUI's today 1 Staying on the up-and­
::. >-..; TH15 COULD 
up in business will safeguard your
.: 
sterling reputauon. A romantic rela­tionship teaches you a valuable les­
HAVE AN 

~ Ir-'IPACT ON 
son. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your
! THOSE OF WE GEl Tl-IE
Ill 
home may need minor repairs. Get 
~ 
several estimates. Breaking free of certain outdated restrictions will 
• OF INTEREST a The newlywrecognized Lithuanian Awareness Club will hold its first meeting today at 7 p.m. at Regina Hall lobby on the Saint Mary's campus to pre­pare for a folk dancing presentation at the upcoming ISO Festival and to plan future activities. 
a The Wrestling Club practices Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of this week from 7 p.m. to 
8:30 p.m. at the JACC Wrestllng Room in preparation for the Edinborough Open on Feb. 20. 
a Lector Auditions for the Junior Parents Weekend Liturgy will take place on Jan. 23 and 24 at 4 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. All juniors are invited to audition. 
a Pre-registration for all undergraduate students must be completed by Wed. Jan. 24. If you have not returned your pre-registration deposit form and the $100 deposit (if necessary). stop at the student Accounts Ofllce. Failure to pre-register will prevent you from being able to DART for the Fall Semester 1996, and will make you ineligible for room picks. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North BBQ Spareribs Sole Rotini Pasta Primavera  
Saint Mary's  
37 Japanese computer giant 41 Big steps  51 Soccer legend 53 Wastes, in mob slang  Chicken Breast Diablo Spinach Quiche Broccoli Cuts  

44Bug 
54 Old King -­45 "Put--on it!" 
55 Frost 46 Mess up 
Have something
56 Sicilian mount
47 Cognizant (of) 58 Gunk
49 Film reviewer 
to say?
Roger 59 Sass 

Use Observer
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
classifieds. 
South Turkey Broccoli Bake Potato Pancakes 
Italian Green Beans 

. make you feel much happier. A romantic panner could throw you a curve now. VIR(JO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 221: You have a lot of irons in the fire now. Stay on the lookout for innovative concepts. Weigh each nplinn hcfore making up your mind. Input from more experienced colleagues helps you choose wisely. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Adopting a more skeptical approach will improve your powers of analy­sis. The risks could e4ual the rewards where new romance is con­cerned. Go ahead and take a chance. The ball is in your coun. SCORI'IO !Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A research project or business trip pro" duce~ valuable information. Exer­cise your diplomatic skills by reach­ing out to reluctant en-workers or fri~nds. The results will be phenom­enal! SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Using inaccurate information will impede progress. Recheck financial figures before indicating all ,il!nals are "uo." YIPs take notice whell you instinctively make the right move. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Listen carefully 10 a child's complaints. A group tour. trip or seminar proves intellectually stimu­lating. News from afar could answer a key 4uestion. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. IH): TI1e creative input and high energy you bring 10 a team project makes everyone look great. ThinI-big! You could win a swecl deal or new con­tract. I'JSCES 1Feb. 19-March 20): Draw on your past expenences for guidance and inspiralion. New alliances -professional and per­sonal -are part of the picture. Prove what you originally set out to show the world. 
.. 
... 



SPORTS 

page 20 Monday, January 22, 1996 
Mid-Season Report CifPa 
Gua~s B+ 
Hoover starting to find 
consistency 

Forwards B-
Garrity excels, but needs 
help on boards 

Centers C 
Foul problems limit opportunities 
Bench C+ 
Key to victories, invisible 
in losses 

Coaching B 
Team plays hard every night 
Patient Progress 
Big East has been a big test thus far 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 
.. 
for Notre Dame basketball 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Spores Editor 

The Irish roll into midsea­son not with a bang, but not with a whimper either. Notre Dame's victory over Rutgers proved that the Georgetown game may not have been a fluke, but the big picture still puts the Irish at 6-8, and more importantly, just 1-6 in the conference. 
Still, the Irish are a young team, and every freshman takes some time to adjust to the rigors of college life. No deficiencies here, but some substantial Need for Improvements. Before the season, a 3.0 would have been seen as a long shot, but if the improvement shown in recent games carries over, Dean's List may not be out of the question. 
Guards 

When you commit to a freshman point guard, you have to be prepared to deal with the growing pains. Doug Gottlieb has been a quick study, but the rest of the team is still trying to adjust to his court leadership. 
Gottlieb's passing has been highlight film material from day one, but his shooting' is a concern. A point guard who hits 40% from the line does not inspire confidence at the end of a close game, and every three-point shot is an adventure. Still, he's stared down Allen Iverson and has Jived to tell about it, and he's becoming more vocal on the floor. It never hurts to have a point guard that hates to lose. 
Shooting has not been a 
concern of late for the other starting guard, senior marks­man Ryan Hoover. Back-to­hack 26 point games show that Hoover has regained the touch he lost earlier in the season, but he's yet to prove that stifling man-to-man won't slow him down, as it did against Connecticut and Villanova. 
To an extent, Hoover's been the beneficiary of Gottlieb's penetrating abilities, but he does not appear comfortable with his backcourt mate yet. That relationship needs to develop further. What doesn't is the shooting stroke, because when he's in rhythm, Hoover's one of the most dan­gerous shooters in the coun­try. Grade: B+ 
Forwards 

Sophomore Pat Garrity has been the most consistent per­former for the Irish so far, which,explains his team lead­ing 16.6 points per game average. Garrity's outside touch hasn't excelled this sea­son, but he's the only legiti­mate scoring threat in the paint. 
Garrity is also the key rea­son why Notre Dame is con­sidered one of the more physi­cal teams in a physical confer­ence. A concern before the season, the Irish have proven that if you come into their paint, you'll pay the price. Garrity sets the example in this department, as the omnipresent cut on his chin attests. "We might not be as athletic inside as some teams, but we're not backing down 
see GRADES I page 16 
One for the win column 
Hoover and Garrity key second halfcomeback over Rutgers 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 

No one ever said Notre Dame's entrance into the Big East conference would be easy. 
In fact, most people made sure men's basketball coach John MacLeod knew just how difficult this adjustment was during the first half of the sea­son. 
On Saturday at the JACC, that adjustment was made slightly easier as the Irish notched their first ever conference win with a 79-67 victory over Rutgers, ending their six-game Big East losing streak and avenging an earlier loss to the Scarlet Knights. 
"We've talked about the Big East and everyone has talked about how difficult it is and they're right," MacLeod said. "It is a difficult, competitive, challenging conference. There's a special significance attached to any conference game and our players were happy to get the monkey off their back." 
Guard Ryan Hoover and for­ward Pat Garrity helped to get the primate off the collective backs of the Irish as they scored 26 and 23 points, 
Irish douse Flames, lose at UM 
By MIKE DAY 
Spores Writer 

It was the best of times. It was the worst of times. Notre Dame hockey fans just hap­pened to experience it all in a span of less than 24 hours. 
This weekend was a tale of two teams, and as the case has been all season, one would have a dickens of a time trying to figure out which team is the real Notre Dame squad and which one is the imposter. 
In displaying their split personality, the Irish defeated Illinois-Chicago 5-4 in overtime on Friday before being humilat­ed 11-1 at the hands of first place Michigan on Saturday. 
"The whole team really pulled together and played well on Friday," saidGarry Gruber. "It was just unfortunate that we had to run into a team like Michigan the next night. They were easily the best team we've played all season." 
One couldn't have written a better script Friday evening against the 8-13-3 Flames. The Irish bolted to a 2-0 lead mid­way through the second period and never looked back. Five different players found the net for the Irish, and senior goal­tender Wade Salzman came up with 18 saves to record his first victory of the season. 

"He (Salzman) has been play­ing extremely well for us," said head coach Dave Poulin. "It was good to see him get a win tonight after coming so close over the past few weeks. 
Poulin gave junior right wing Ryan Thornton the starting nod and it paid immediate divi­dends. The third year forward recorded his first career goal with 14:02 remaining in the first period to break a scoreless tie. Sophomore left wing Steve Noble also got into the act, adding a score with 11:30 left in the second to give the Irish a 2-0 advantage. 
After the Flames bounced back to tie the game early in 
see HOCKEY I page 16 
respectively. 

"It feels good getting our first win in the conference," Hoover added. "We felt like we should have won a few more of these. Hopefully, now we'll go out and win a lot more." 
The hot shooting of Hoover along with Garrity's strong inside play against Rutgers' 
zone defense complemented each other, allowing Notre Dame to tally 50 points in the second half. 
"He (Hoover) extends the de­fense and that helps their inside players," Rutgers head coach Bob Wenzel said. 
see IRISH I page 17 



Goalie Wade Salzman made 18 saves against UIC to record his first win of the season. 

• Irish trample Lady Hoyas 
s 
Hockey 
see page 12
Men's Basketball 

vs. Army, Janueary 26-27, 7:00p.m. 
at Miami, January 23, 

• Belles hang on to beat Franklin 
SMC Sports 
Women's Basketball 
at a 

Basketball vs. Bethel, Janueary 22, 
see page 18 
ve. Saint John's, Janueary 24, 7:00p.m. 
7:00p.m. 
• Michigan defeats unbeaten Penn St. 
see page 14
GLANCE 
L..__ 






