----------------------------------------------------~---­

Tuesday, January 23, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 73 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT M ' 
Campus construction speeds along 

By PATRICK BELTON 
News Writer 
Neither rain nor snow will slow down the construction that is going on around the Notre Dame campus, according to John DeLee, Notre Dame's Director of Utilities. 
Since both Keough and O'Neill Halls are totally enclosed, masons can lay bricks on the inside even when the WfHtther has prevented them from working outside. "We're at least up to schedule in all areas, and in some areas we're ahead of sdwdule," said DeLne. "The dorms will he done by June," 
Of tlw two new dorms, Keough is tlw one closer to Notre Dame Avenue. O'Neill is on the side of Carroll Hall and Houte 31. Surrounding KIH>ugh and O'Neill will be two as-yet unnamed women's dorms, as well as four basketball eourts, two athlntic fields, a volley­hall court, and a parking lot. 
On the air-conditioned inside, the dorms will look essentially like Siegfried and Knott. although the d1~sigrwrs have added more social space to each floor. Each dorm is to hold 275 students starting next year, when (;race is scheduled to become an administrative ollice building. 
Construction workers are busy in other parts of the campus as well. Today, Casteel Construction will lay 
. . The Observer/Brian Hardy Crews w1.11 start erectmg large concrete columns around Notre Dame stadium this week, while construction on Notre Dame's tow newest dorms has moved inside, leaving earthmovers silent. 
can work on the inside. In 1999, the 
-·-------. 
Herro trial reset for later date 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
The trial against Notre Dame Professor Mark Herro, accused of molesting a 14-year-old boy, has been rescheduled for March 20. 
Reasons for 
resetting the trial date were not available, and St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes was not able to 


return phone Herro calls yesterday. 
Herro, an associate professor in the electrical engineering depart­ment, was arrested in late October by St. .Joseph County police and charged with three counts of child molestation and two counts of sexual conduct with a minor. 
He remains on the faculty of the University pending the outcome of the trial, according to Denny Moore, director of Notre Dame Public Relations. . 
From January 1994 to June 1995, Herro allegedly molested the boy numerous times at several locations. Herro was a friend of the boy's family, authorities said. 
The boy's father informed the county police of the alleged con­duct in October after finally per­suading his son to talk about it, according to police reports. 
Herro remains free after posting $2,000 bond. He has pleaded innocent. 
The South Bend Tribune's Marti Heline contributed to this report. 


SMC forum explains allotment of budget 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
It's that time of year again. 
It's time for the annual stu­dtmt governnwnt forum. But this year the format of the fo­rum is different. 
Although the gathering is open to any issues that stu­dents will bring to discuss, a portion of time will be devoted at the beginning during which to nxplain thn way student government works, aceording to Board of Governance (BOG) presidmtt Sarah Sullivan. 
Why explain tlw way things work? Aecording to Sullivan, some students are not aware of things about student govern­ment that would be benelieial for them to know. 
N!Htr the start of tiHl forum, for instance, the treasurer of BOG will explain how the bud­get works. She'll explain how allotments are done for the nnarly nighty dubs and organi­zations on campus. 
"Last fall the women of FUEHZA carne to us for funds for drnsses and we did volll to eo-sponsor the group," she added. Some students and or­ganizations are not aware of government practices like this, aceording to Sullivan. 
The representatives of all di­visions of Saint Mary's student government will be present to diseuss important issues, con­cerns, and questions raised by any members of the commu­nity. 
In addition to BOG, members of the Student Activities Board (SAB), the Hesidence Hall As­soeiation (HHA), and the Stu­dent Aeadcmic Council (SAC) will be present. Class govern­ment issues arc also welcome at the forum. 
Incidentally this will be one of the first appearances that the new RIIA board will make on campus. 
"It's an opportunity to find out about events like SMCTostal, women's week, and issues like dance policies and senior housing,u said Sullivan. 
"Saint Mary's has a strong student government and this year unfortunately there has been a lot of confusion among students due to the resignation of the RHA members and the 
see FORUM I page 4 
Council debates merits of mixed dorm proposals 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 
The Campus Life Council rrioved into the latter stages of their discussion on the values and concerns over coresiden­tiality yesterday afternoon. 
CLC Chair and Student Body President Jonathan Patrick be­gan the discussion by delivering a message from the Board of Trustees to the council. The Board suggested that the CLC make an official statement in the matter to show they had reviewed the matter to its fullest. The statement, accord­ing to Patrick, is to include the composite insights of the CLC, which is not to include a explic­it majority opinion on the mat­ter. 
Working toward the forma­tion of this statement, the CLC broke into groups of four to make separate lists of the val­ues and concerns regarding 
as ideas for different models upon which to base a Notre Dame coresidential dorm. The entire CLC then reconvened to discuss their conclusions. Various values were put forth 
by  CLC  members.  
"Coresidentiality  would  
improve  gender  relations  

socially and academically as men and women interact seven days a week instead of switch­ing into and out of different attitudes when the school week ends and the weekend begins," said Father Joseph Carey. 
Others also stressed greater communication and interaction amongst the sexes as an impor­tant value in achieving a greater respect for both sexes. The ideal of shared space in­stead of separate housing was also seen as a value toward this end. 
Further, coresidentiality would best prepare students for the real world where men and women live side by side, council members stated. Programs such as hall government, hall service projects, and even hall sports would benefit from hav­ing both men and women work together. Conversely, men and women would benefit from learning different opinions and perspectives than their sex's views. 
Finally, CLC members saw coresidentiality as creating an alternative to the party and bar scene. 
The most important concern was whether or not eoresiden­tiality would allow for the maintenance of tradition which dorms pride themselves on. 
If the option was given only to seniors, some council members worry that such students would rather stay in the dorm they have lived in for three years or move off-campus with their friends instead of moving into a completely new environment with which they have no expe­rience or identity. 
Others expressed concern over a loss of autonomy for women in hall programs. A hall equally divided between men and women could be dom­inated by men. Further, cores­identiality would negate many opportunities for men to per­form in activities in their dorm which thny might ehoose not to do, or no longer be able to do, if they were living with women. 
see CLC I page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, January 23, 1996 

•INSIDE COUJMN 


Bring 
back the 
chairs 
Before most high-rank­ing officials make major changes that will undoubt­edly affect the lives of their constituents, they usually schedule a press confer­ence or send out press releases. Their gofers will hit the pavement and gauge the reactions of the common people. They'll take polls, check the numbers, lobby congress. 
Not that I'm suggesting that the Hesburgh 
Library should hire a PR firm or lobbyists. 
I am simply suggesting that they could have 
warned us before they took away our chairs. 
Granted, some of those "chairs" had seen 
better days. Many students had literally been 
caught by the seat of their pants on a stray 
spring, poking its way through the thinning 
vinyl. And some of those chairs were a lot 
more fun to read than sit on. 
But other chairs had a character and a com­
fort all their own. I remember fondly one par­
ticular second floor chair located in the audio 
section of the library. It was taller than most 
of its neighbors and a relaxing shade of yel­
low. Its back was slightly reclined and its dips 
and curves molded and comforted the weary 
spine better than most LA-Z Boy™ recliners. I 
often wondered why that tall yellow chair was 
the only one of its kind among the stacks. 
There were other good chairs too, of course. 
Chairs you could fall asleep in for hours, legs 
thrown over one side, head propped up 
against the other. Chairs which would mold 
themselves to the body, especially during 
finals week. Chairs that offered privacy, built 
as they were with large protective armrests. 
In their shades of puke green, puke orange 
and puke yellow, they might not have been 
the best looking chairs in the world, but they 
were for the most part comfortable. 
Remember those really odd misfit chairs over 
by the computer lab? Every last one of them is 
gone. They were the best, especially around 
11:45 p.m. when you were ninth in line for a Mac and the system was down. 
The new chairs are nice. They look sturdy 
and they look expensive. If the library is look­
ing to impress alumni with the alternating 
raspberry, fuschia and teal chairs, they prob­
ably will. But these new chairs lack something 
money can't buy. They lack distinction. 
It's not like the new chairs are going to stop 
any of us from going to the library. When you 
gotta study, you gotta study. And it's not like 
the quality of our studying will decrease 
because we're not as cozy as we used to be. 
As we all know. the University never passes 
up the opportunity to make a buck. Thus, due 
to the fact that the chairs were never offered 
to the students (for a small fee, of course), I 
was left to believe that all the seats had been 
donated to a worthy organization. 
Because I really wanted to know where the 
old chairs went, I called the library (investiga­
tive journalism at its finest), hoping they 
hadn't been junked. 
Sadly enough, I was correct. Every last chair had been donated to "various charities." Not a single one was left. Even if there was one to be found, it wasn't for sale. That's too bad because I really would have liked having that yellow, audio room chair for my future apart­ment as a reminder ()f earlier, "stress-free" days. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Melanie Laflin  Megan Smith  
Deborah Schuh  Production  
Sports  ]ana Bruder  
Megan McGrath  Tara Grieshop  
Kathleen Lopez  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Katie Kroener  
Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Clinton to testify for Grand Jury 
WASHINGTON 
In an unprecedented legal step for a first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton will testify Friday under subpoena before a grand jury investigating the mysterious discovery of her law firm billing records in the White House residence. Trying to determine whether anyone hid the long-sought documents from investigators, Whitewater prosecutor 

Kenneth Starr also subpoenaed three White House aides and two of the Clintons' personal attorneys, the White House announced Monday. Mrs. Clinton's appearance will be her first before a Whitewater grand jury, although she has answered questions under oath for prosecutors three other times. Legal scholars say it is the first time in the country's history that a sitting first lady has been compelled to testify before a grand jury. "I would be aware of it if it had happened; it's unprecedented," said Paul Rothstein, professor of law at Georgetown University Law Center. "As the first lady has always said, she is as eager as anyone to resolve questions regarding the billing records, and she will continue to provide whatever help she can to resolve these issues," the White House said in a statement. 

Saudi Princess assaults stewardess 
BOSTON 
A Saudi princess accused of accosting a stewardess on a flight from Paris pleaded innocent today to charges of assault and interfering with an airplane crew. Salwa Qa­hanti, 43, was arrested when her TWA flight landed at Logan International Airport on Saturday, said Phil Orlan­della, a spokesman for the Massachusetts Port Authority. She was released without having to post bail. "She denies that she engaged in any wrongful activity on that aircraft," her attorney, Oliver Mitchell, said after enter­ing an innocent plea at the arraignment this morning. Qahanti's own appearance in court was waived. The air­plane's pilot had radioed ahead to authorities reporting the incident. It was unclear how the fight began and TWA officials refused today to comment on the incident. A state trooper stationed at the airport played down earlier reports that Qahanti tried to choke the flight attendant. 

A woman was abducted at gunpoint today from a vet­erinary clinic and a second woman taken from a nearby home, apparently by a prison escapee who forced the two into a truck and drove away, authorities said. Clifton Brumley, 35, a trusty from the Telford prison unit at New Boston, disappeared Saturday afternoon while working on a livestock project. "He is considered armed and ex­tremely dangerous," Larry Fitzgerald, a spokesman for the Texas Department of Criminal Justice in Huntsville, said. Authorities believe Brumley, serving 35 years for theft and burglary, is the man who abducted Peggy Roswell, 29, a worker at Westridge Animal Hospital, this morning as the clinic opened. Three other workers, in­cluding the veterinarian, watched in horror as Ms. Roswell was taken at gunpoint, said Pat Mangum, office manager of Boulevard Small Animal Clinic, a partner of the animal hospital. Ms. Roswell did not cry out and calmly went with the kidnapper. He then took her to a house nearby and abducted a second woman, Shirley Cherry, 55, forcing both of them into Ms. Cherry's vehicle and driving off, Fitzgerald said. Authorities in Texas, Arkansas and Oklahoma were hunting for the two-tone gray Ford Explorer. Brumley's absence was noticed dur­ing an inmate count about 5 p.m. Saturday. 

Scientists paint new image of Jupiter 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

Data returned by the Galileo probe revealed unexpect­ed findings about the atmosphere of Jupiter that may force scientists to rethink how the planet was formed, NASA scientists said today. Instruments aboard the probe found higher winds, drier-than-anticipated condi­tions, about half the expected amount of hPlium and a different cloud structure from what most researchers had expected to see. In early December, a probe released by the unmanned Galileo spacecraft parachuted beneath the banded giant planet's thick clouds. During that historic entry into Jupiter's atmosphere, it relayed a 57 -minute "weather report" before it melted and vaporized. Find­ings from the probe's data, described as very prelimi­nary, were released in a NASA statement prior to a news conference today at the space agency's Ames Research Center. 
Thesday, Jan. 23 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan. 23. 

Ji"'"""i_ ED &'S1 1TIJ 0 1Z3 § ¢' ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Assoclsled Press 
Atlanta  57  50  Dallas  56  32  New Orleans 60 58  
Baltimore  55  38  Denver  35  14  New York  53 41  
Boston  54  38  Los Angeles 61  45  Philadelphia  57 40  
Chicago  28  19  Miami  83 69  Phoenix  60  36  
Columbus  40  33  Minneapolis  20  08  St. Louis  31  25  


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
20s 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 



Music grant supports talents
First official meeting 
Special to The Observer junior, is a violinist from music department. Berkeley, Ca. The Liberace Foundation The University of Notre "We are grateful to the grant to Notre Dame Is one of.

finalizes dance dates 
Dame has received a $5,000 Liberace Foundation for its 49 awards totaling $250,000 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
The new semester brings ehange for Saint Mary's Resi­dence llall Association (HilA). but nothing has ehanged with tlw organization's dedication to the Saint Mary's community. 
Lust night's meeting was the first official meeting this smnestnr for HilA, and the first presided over by the new ex­llcutive board. The council wasted no time discussing up­coming school events and ser­viell projects. 
Thll title for this year's Little Sibs Weekend will be "Sib Fest '96," and events are scheduled for March 1-3. 
HilA finalized plans for the All-School Dance, which will be held on Feb. 16. The council will completely sponsor the dance, and guests will not have to pay an admission fell. 
Belles huts are in, and each hall will have a contact person who will be selling the navy and white hats. All proceeds help support HilA and its aetiv­ities. 
HilA is also dedicated to ser­viee, and they have chosen to sponsor the Catholic Worker House this semester. At the Feb.12 meeting, a representa­tive from the llousn, Claire Mc­Grath, will be giving a pn1sentation about the charity to HilA. All residents arn invit­nd to hear her speak. 
Many members of RIIA feel that this semester will bring nven more activities and ser­vice projects than the last. "I'm very excited about all of tlw servie11 projects the differ­ent halls are planning," said HilA Viee-President Nikki Milos, "I hope that w11 can pro­mote awarenBss and pride in HHA." 
Freshman Jenny Weijman agreed. "We've got a lot of dedicated people here," said the Hegina Hall representative, "so it should be a great semes­ter." 
Please note that RHA has moved the meeting time to 9:00 
p.m. on Monday evenings, on the third floor of Haggar. All students are encouraged to at­tend and get involved. 
In Jlall Council News: 
• 
Annunciata Hall -The hall will be dedicated on February 4 at 1 p.m., and the hall will host an Open House until 3 p.m. All students will receive an invitation soon. The hall dance is scheduled for March 23 in Haggar parlor. 

• 
Holy Cross Hall -The hall dance is tentatively scheduled for March 22. The Environ­mental Club, who are respon­sible for the recycling efforts already underway in the hall, are planning Earth Day activi­ties for April 22. The hall also recently installed a VCR and a new chandelier for the first floor lounge. 

• 
LeMans Hall -The hall dance is scheduled for Febru­ary 9 in the Dining Hall. Hall council members are currently working on activities for Spirit Week. 

• 
McCandless Hall -The hall dance is scheduled for February 10 in the Senior Bar. The council is making plans for a shopping trip to Michigan City and a First Aid class for residents. 

• 
Regina Hall -The hall dance is set for March 22. This past Saturday, the hall council lwld a work session, and over 30 residents were up bright and early to help with this semester's plans. 


grant from the Liberace support of Notre Dame student Foundation for the Performing musicians over the years." said and Creative Art'> for scholar­University President Father ships supporting outstanding Edward Malloy. "It has students in the music depart· enabled promising artists to ment. take advantage of the intense 
Miriam Eckelhoefer and Jea­individual attention and superb nine Wynton will share the preparation for graduate pro-award. Eckelhoefer, a senior, grams which are among our is a cellist from Fallbrook, Ca. music· department's most She has returned to campus notable strengths." for the spring semester after Since 1990, the Liberace studies at the d'lssy les Foundation has given almost Molinaux at the American $45,000 in scholarship grantsUniversity of Paris. Wynton, a to students in Notre Dame's which the foundation has given to schools and creative arts or­ganizations during the current academic year. 
The late pianist and show­man Liberace established the foundation in 1976 to provide scholarships for the arts. Since then, 66 schools and arts pro­grams have receiwd scholar· ship grants for their oul<;tand­ing students and artists. Funds for the scholarships are gen­erated by donations to the Lib­erace Muse\Ull. 
Mud, debris plague ho01eowners 
By ROGER PETTERSON 
Associated Press 
Homeowners pulled up soggy rugs Monday and shoveled up the muck left by some of the worst flooding in the mid-At­lantic states in decades, while sump pumps chugged away, draining cold, muddy water from basements. 
"First you shovel out the mud. We're still shoveling out," said Linda Payne of Marlinton, W.Va. "Everything you open you've got to dump water out, dump mud out and then start cleaning it." 
Discarded sodden rugs were strewn along the main street of Margaretville, N.Y., in the Catskills. High water there from the East Branch of the Delaware River also destroyed businesses. 
"In the spring of '87 this area flooded, but nothing like this," said Brian Millen, owner of Catskill Offerings, a department store. "This is your hundred­year flood. It's just devastat­ing." 
Flooding from the melting snow and last week's heavy 

AN INVALUABLE VISUAL INTRODUCTION TO 

CATHOLICISM 

Venture inside the world's largest denomination with this stunning visual introduction to the traditions of Catholicism. Text and photography by Richard P. McBrien reveal the 
ceremonial  practices,  imagery,  and  symbols  that  lie  beneath  the  venerable  tradition.  
Visit nur Weh Sire! http:llu•ww. harprrcollins. com  =: CollinsPublishersSanFrancisco A Dromon of Harpt'rC ollin~flu/J/Hhm Aim aw,J.,hJt• from ll.1q~cr< "ullin~( ·•""'"'"d.tJ.  Paperback • $20.00  

rain had forced thousands from their homes in parts of Ohio, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, New Jersey, Maryland and New York. 
An estimated 100,000 in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., alone were ordered out for much of Satur­day; Pennsylvania officials es­timated damage from the floods and the Jan. 7 blizzard at $700 million. 
In the hardest-hit areas of Pennsylvania, it was the worst flooding since Hurricane Agnes blew through in 1972. In that disaster, 220,000 Pennsylvani­ans were left homeless and 48 were killed. 
At least 32 deaths were blamed on the flooding in the region, in addition to more than a dozen other deaths elsewhere over the past week that were blamed on cold weather and slippery roads. 
Many of those who were evacuated had begun returning home Sunday. 
"My first reaction -I was almost physically sick," said Sue Kelly, surveying her mud­filled basement on Water Street in Washington Boro, Po.. "Then I just sat back and chuckled. I mean, what can you do? You've got to make the best of it." 
Steven Witkowski, an 84­year-old man cleaning his muddy home along the Mohawk River in Schenectady, N.Y., said the lesson is: "You don't buy expensive rugs, because you'll just have to throw them away." 
In eastern Ohio, water pump­ing stations were submerged, and some 10,000 residents of Martins Ferry soon will be without fresh drinking water when storage tanks run dry. Some parts of the town already had no water. 
Clayton Caprita, 19, said he had not taken a shower for "two days now and I'm going to work. So I hope I won't be working too hard." 
There was still enough snow and ice left in Harrisburg, Pa., to block fire trucks when a fire broke out in an evacuated his­toric neighborhood. 
Firefighters had to wade through hip-deep water to reach the blaze, which destroyed four houses. 
In West Virginia, hit harder than it was in 1985 when floods killed 47 and caused $570 mil­lion in damage, the Ohio River covered most of Wheeling Is­land, home to some 3,500 peo­ple, with water up to 9 feet deep. 
Over the weekend, some is­land residents who didn't nee rowed boats through the streets, scaring flocks of ducks. On Monday, the cleanup began. 
"I could have cried," Maryann Musilli said of the of­fice where she is a switchboard operator. "Inside there was dead fish on the floor, windows broken out, all the ceiling tiles came out. It's terrible." 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: • Assistant Systems Manager 
Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. If you have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to run your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 

JuNIORS 
u 
N 
I 
0 
R 
s 
Enhance your Summer Interview Opportunities ... 


Pick up the Summer Bulletin 
every Monday at 


Career & Placement Services 
Hesburgh Library/Lower Level 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 23, 1996 



Doctors wait for clues to success of baboon cell transplant 
By RICHARD COLE 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Inside Jeff Getty's body, a biological battle is being waged that could revolutionize AIDS treatment and alter the future of organ transplants. 
Bone marrow cells from a baboon are struggling to plant themselves in the 38-year-old Getty's body, where, doctors hope, they will begin to produce a parallel immune system to fight the AIDS virus that is killing him. 
Getty received the cells by in­
Foru01 
continued from page 1 
subsequent disorder," Leslie Field, BOG student relations representative said. 
"This is a really valuable night. I wish the women of the Saint Mary's community were required to attend because they have a voice, but it's often un­used," Field added. 
The forum will run for as long as students have questions and concerns, according to Sullivan. Sullivan believes that the issues raised at this forum can be further discussed at the jection Dec. 14, and now waits 
at his Oakland home to fmd out ifhe will live or die. 
Although it will be six months or more before all results are in, the first indication of the battle's outcome is expected by the end of the month. 
"If something goes wrong, if I come down with a baboon virus, if it proves not to work, at least I got off my ass and did something," Getty said. "I did­n'tjust lie down and die." 
Last week, Getty underwent a painful bone marrow biopsy on his upper thigh -"It feels like someone running a corkscrew 
upcoming Play of the Mind Conference. 
"This night gives students the opportunity not only to learn new things about their school, but also to give important feed­back to student leaders," Field said. 
Though Sullivan will briefly touch on upcoming student government elections, more information will surface about procedures near Jan. 31 from elections commissioner Emily Ruffner. 
SAB will sponsor a "Happy Hour" before the forum with mocktails and a performer in Haggar Parlor from 4:30 to 6:30p.m. 
through your head," he said. 
Doctors are examining that sample and blood tests to de­termine whether the baboon cells "engrafted," or settled into his body and began func­tioning. 
For reasons scientists don't understand, baboons are not infected by the AIDS virus. Re­searchers hope that immunity can be transferred to people. 
The baboon-marrow proce­dure -used for the first time on Getty -employs immature stem cells that grow up into dis­ease fighters, along with "facili­tator" cells that somehow allow 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Many expressed concern that there are insufficient meeting places in dorms right now to foster community development between men and women if dorms were to go coresidential. The community might also be hindered by male RA's super­vising the needs of female stu­dents, and conversely. 
Yet, all members agreed that coresidentiality, if imple­mented, should only be one of many steps to improving gen­der relations at Notre Dame. 
stem cells to thrive in a foreign environment. 
The technique, if it works, could eventually allow many other dying patients to receive organ transplants without wait­ing for precise tissue matches. 
In Getty, the ultimate goal is to develop CD4 cells that n 
aturally resist the AIDS virus. CD4 cells are the body's top-of­the-line disease fighters; nor­mally, they are killed off by the virus. 
If the baboon marrow cells don't engraft, the experiment is essentially over for Getty. 
But Dr. Steven Deeks, who 
The switch to coresidentiality in even one dorm, would have a profound effect which would probably cause a watershed of dorm changes to coresidential­ity at Notre Dame. 
Models for coresidentiality included a small group of 100 people living together under the Catholic ideas of Christian com­munities. Other models in­cluded the Notre Dame pro­grams in London and Australia and the spirit of unity through service found in the Communi­ties NO program. 
Patrick stressed that all these ideas for and against the issue would not culminate in the CLC taking a stand on the leads the University of San Francisco team treating Getty, said Getty already has proved something by surviving, show­ing the experimental procedure is safe enough to be tried again. 
There are no signs that the transplanted immune cells at­tacked their host. And Getty's immune system, which was suppressed with radiation and drugs before the transplant, apparently has not rejected the baboon cells. 
Getty's own CD4 cells are climbing back to their pre­treatment levels, and he looks good, Deeks said. 
issue, but rather a list of in­sights to be submitted to the Board of Trustees. A seven member subcommittee, includ­ing Patrick, Carey, and HPC Co­Chairs Matt Schlatter and Kristin Beary, was then formed by Patrick to begin to formulate the CLC's statement. 
In other CLC news, Tom Matzzie, Judicial Council Presi­dent, submitted a resolution on du lac to the CLC. The resolu­tion would urge, "the Vice­President for Student Affairs to amend du lac to mandate an organized public comment pe­riod on proposed du lac revi­sions during the spring semes­ter of every academic year." 

..---------------------------~--------------------------­
Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 


Doctors ponder screening for colon cancer 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
A.•suciated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Sometime this spring, Leonard (;oldstein and his wife will drive two hours to New York City for an nxamination that could save his life. 
By the time they get Into their little white Honda, Goldstein will be through what he calls tlw worst part: two days of liquid diet and giving himself an enema. 
Once he's at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, he will lie on his left side and drift off into a drug-induced haze. Then, a doctor feeds a tube about as wide as a finger into his rectum and, gradually, through the length of his colon. 
If Goldstein stays alert enough, he might watch on a video monitor as the eamera at the tip of the tube threads its way through the labyrinth. The exploration will take 20 min­utes or more. Then, after some time to recover from the drugs and a debriefing by his doctor, he'll go home. 
"It's really nothing, the pro­cedure is nothing," says Gold­stein, 70, a veteran of such ex­ams. "There is really no pain. no nothing." 
Many more Americans may be finding that out for them· selves in years to come, if an idea being explored by a small group of doctors takes root. 
The specialists are pondering a radical change in the way people are screened for colon and rectum cancer, called col· orectal cancer, which is ex• pected to strike 133, 500 Americans this year and kill 54,900. 
Currently. for most people, health authorities suggest peri· odic screenings -testing stool for hidden blood every year af· ter age 50, and undergoing a scaled-down version of Gold· stein's exam, called sigmoi· doscopy, every three to five years after age 50. 
Here's the new idea: a once­in-a-lifetime colon exam like Goldstein's, perhaps around age 55. 
If your colon is in good health, that exam, called a colonoscopy, would be the end of your colorectal cancer screening. By one estimate, that would be the case for three of every four people. 
Doctors hope that one~shot colonoscopy can go beyond finding cancers early and sharply reduce a person's chance of getting the disease at all. 
"We could see the eradica­tion of colon cancer in Western countries as a major disease," says Dr. Sidney Winawer of Sloan-Kettering, who chairs a recently formed committee of doctors that is exploring the idea. 
That's because the colonoscopy can not only detect early cancers, but also spot pre-cancerous polyps and remove them before they cause disease, said Dr. David Lieberman, chief of gastroen· 
te.rology  at  the  Portland  
Veterans  Affairs  Medical  
Center in Oregon.  

Winawer and Lieberman ac· 
knowledge that the idea of us­ing colonoscopy as a screening tool is premature now, and that it faces several hurdles. But Winawer's committee, sponsored by five national groups of medical specialists, is designing a massive study of the idea and trying to find some rmancing for it. 
Colonoscopy is a standard procedure used now when doc­tors have some reason to sus· pect colon cancer, like blood in the stool or a strong family his· tory of the disease. Goldstein gets a colonoscopy every two years because his father died of colon cancer and his brother and sister have had potentially dangerous polyps removed from their colons. 
Colonoscopy has been shown to reduce cancer rates. In 1993, Winawer and colleagues reported that when people got repeated colonoscopies and had polyps removed during the procedure, their colorectal cancer rate dropped by at least 76 percent during six years of observation. 
Study begins on prevention of hysterectomies 
By RICHARD COLE 
AS>nciateJ Press 
SAN FHANCISCO 
Sonw of the nation's lop hos­pitals are beginning testing of a simple procedure that backers say could eliminate 100,000 hysten1etomies a year in the United Stales. 
The procedure uses a eatheter and balloon to heat the inside of the uterus and destroy its lining to stop exeessive men­strual bleeding, the cause of 20 percl'nl to 30 ptlrctmt of the na­tion's (,00.000 hysterectomies annually. 
"This would be the absolute simplest way of relieving excess blood flow." said Dr. Brian Walsh, chief of surgical gyne­cology at Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston. "You don't need to take out the en tire uterus." 
A hysterectomy is the surgical removal of the uterus -in many cases, because of cancer, birth complications or en­dometriosis, a painful inflam­mation of the uterine lining. 
The new technique is in· tended only for excessive men­strual bleeding, which can eause a dangerous loss of blood. Such bleeding can also be accompanied by infections and eause women discomfort and disrupt their lives. 
As with hysterectomies and any procedure in which the uterine lining is removed or destroyed, uterine balloon ther· apy results in sterility and is only for women who have fin­ished raising families. 
The technique, which is al­ready approved in some Euro­pean countries, is being tested in 13 U.S. hospitals on 250 women. The results are to be submitted to the Food and Drug Administration within 18 months. Gynecare of Menlo Park developed the procedure. 
The other alternative to hys­terectomy, called endometrial ablation, requires a special scope inserted into the uterus. Operated through a TV moni­tor, it involves electrical cauter­ization of the uterus. 
But few gynecologists have the expertise to perform en­dometrial ablation, said Dr. 
SOCIAL CO~CERNS FESTIVAL TUESDAY, JANUARY 23 7-9:30 P.M. CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
{;...... 
ror 
0 ~ 
bhJ 
~' /.":~ 




(\.#('~) 
I c. \ 

\ i i 1 \ 



40 SERVICE AND SOCIAL ACTION OPPORTUNITIES WILL BE REPRESENTED, INCLUDING: TUTORING; WORKING WITH THE HOMELESS, THE ELDERLY, YOUNG CHILDREN, DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED; BUILDING HOUSES; CLEANING UP NEIGHBORHOODS AND MUCH MORE! 
OPPORTUNITY TO GET INFORMATION ABOUT SERVICE OPTIONS FOR THE ENTIRE SEMESTER INCLUDING BREAK SEMINARS 
THE BEST OPPORTUNITY TO BEGIN THIS SEMESTER WELL, WITH A SERVICE/SOCIAL ACTION ACTIVITY THAT SUITS YOUR SCHEDULE AND YOUR INTEREST 
David Grainger, director of the Center for Heproductive Medicine at University of Kansas in Wichita, will be con­ducting one of the U.S. trials. 
The balloon technique is far simpler. 
"This levels the playing field technically," Grainger said. "It can be done in the office, with local anesthetic, and takes 8 1/2 minutes." The patient can leave the office within an hour and be back to work the following day. 
Hysterectomies, by contrast, usually require general anes­thesia, several days of hospital­ization and four to six weeks' recuperation. They are also ac· companied by the risk of com­plications, including infections and damage to the bladder and bowel. 
The balloon technique costs an average of $7,000 to $10,000, or less than half the cost of a hysterectomy and the follow-up care, said Dr. Hobert London of Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest health maintenance organization. 
Uterine balloon therapy in­volves insertion of a catheter with an attached balloon into the uterus. The balloon is filled with a sterilized solution until it takes the shape of the uterus. 
page 5 
Governor 

criticizes flood aid 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's top spokesman accused Pennsyl­vania Gov. Tom JUdge today of engaging in a "public relations contest" after tho state leader criticized federal response to weekend flooding. 
"lie ran his mouth instead of getting the work done that would have led to getting the assistance," press secretary Mike McCurry said. 
Knowing Pennsylvania is a key political state for Clinton, administration officials jumped to the president's defense after Hidge said the Federal Emer­gency Management Agency had not done enough to help his waterlogged state. 
"We've got people dead and missing. We've got families walking around in shelters with only the clothes on their backs. We have roads under water and ice," JUdge said Sunday. "We have lost bridges 
... but according to them, we've got flooding in base· ments and that's about it." 
Clinton issued a disaster dec­laration Sunday for six Penn­sylvania counties, and 19 more were added today as FEMA di· rector James Lee Witt, Trans­portation Secretary Federieo Pena and other officials flew over and toured the flood areas. 
After Sunday's declaration. Hidge said that was not enough; MeCurry said Hidge had not done enough to assess damage and qualify for federal aid. 
"It's the wrong way to do business, to go out and attack the president and the adminis· tration publicly," McCurry told reporters. "The right way is to put your attention into the doc· umentation necessary so the federal officials can act accord­ing to the law .... 
"We don't just go and dump bales full of taxpayers' money on a state that has a disaster," he said. Clinton talked to Ridge on Sunday evening, McCurry added. 
Tim Reeves, Hidge's spokesman, stood by the gov­ernor's remarks. 

lntervarsity Christian Fellowship Bible Study 
Meets every Tuesday • 7:30P.M. UPSTAIRS PRAYER HOOM OF C.S.C. 
All Wel~ome 
Questions, call Chuck Seipel at x3439 
I
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
.!iloBC ENGLISH~ 

CONVERSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates for a one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. Japanese Language Skills Not Necessary. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 5, 6, and 7 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. Sign-ups Open This Week 
Tuesday, January 23, 1996

page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
•CUBA 



'Dollarization' creates haves and have nots 
By IBON VILLELABEITIA 
Associated Press 
HAVANA, Cuba 
Every night after leaving the state hospital where she works as chief neurologist, Martha gets in her old Soviet-built Lada and begins an odyssey in search of dollars. 
"Life has become very tough during these last years for Cubans who don't have dol­lars," says the highly skilled physician. who earns only 450 Cuban pesos-about $18-a month. She, like others inter­viewed, didn't want her full name used. 
To make a living, Martha also works illegally as a taxi driver, ferrying high-spending tourists to and from restaurants, cabarets and their sea-front hotels. 
Since the economy collapsed after the disintegration of the Soviet bloc, thousands of Cuban professionals -doctors, lawyers, dentists, engineers ­have turned to the black mar­ket to supplement peso salaries National Assembly, President Fidel Castro told lawmakers Cuba has "to reckon with a new social class, and the more power and influence it has, the bigger will be the challenge for the revolution." 


Castro urged deputies to "grab the bull by the horns" to deal with the newly well-off whose flamboyant lifestyle is undermining popular confi­dence in the revolution. 
It is a problem of the presi­dent's making. In order to keep Cuba's economy afloat, he re­versed socialist policy and in­troduced limited free-market reforms, including the free cir­culation of dollars. 
Some 40 percent to 50 per­cent of Cubans now have access to dollars, which has created a two-tiered economy in a land that has promoted social and economic equity since Castro led the Cuban rev­olution in 1959. 
Juan Triana, an analyst at 
Havana University's Center for 
the Study of the Cuban Econ­
omy, said the "dollarization" of 
• CHECHNYA 


Rebels insist on return of bodies 
By MAXIM KORZHOV 
ASsociated Press 
GROZNY, Russia 
Chechen rebels who took dozens of hostages with them when they fled a Russian army assault reportedly are refusing to free the unless Russia re­turns the bodies of rebels killed in the attack. 
The rebels and their hostages were able to slip out of the Dagestani village of Pervo­mayskaya before Russian forces leveled it last Thursday. The IT AR-Tass news agency said there were 46 captives. 
On Monday, the rebels in­sisted that they still plan to re­lease the hostages Tuesday at the Chechen village of Novogroznensky, about 30 miles east of the capital of Grozny. 
But officials in Dagestan, which borders Chechnya, said the rebels told them they will free their hostages only if Rus­sian authorities surrender the bodies of slain rebels, ITAR­Tass and the Interfax news agency said Monday. 
At a meeting in a Chechen vil-lage. Dagestani officials agreed to the request "without any haggling," the republic's na­tionalities minister, Magomed­salikh Gusayev, told Interfax. 


Gusayev said Russian authorities were still identifying the bodies, and said the hostages-for-corpses exchange would have to be discussed with them. 
Chechen rebels stormed into the Dagestani city of Kizlyar on Jan. 9, seizing a hospital and thousands of hostages. Most were freed and the rebels headed with the remainder for the Chechnya. They were sur­rounded by Russian troops near the border and holed up in Pervomayskaya. After days of tension, Russia began its as­sault on the village on Jan. 15. 
In the four-day assault, Rus­sian officials, 26 Russian troops and 153 Chechen militants were killed. An undetermined number of hostages also died. 
The Chechens reportedly have offered to exchange a sep­arate group of hostages -29 power plant workers abducted Jan. 16 in Grozny while the fighting was raging at Pervo­mayskaya -for about 30 rebel fighters seized by Russian troops at Pervomayskaya. 
Rebels never claimed to be holding the workers. But Inter­fax reported that officials have made contact with the abduc­tors, who were loyal to rebel leader Dzhokhar Dudayev. 
The rebels are holding the 

power plant workers in groups 
of two and three in mountain 
villages, said Ruslan Martagov, 
a spokesman for Chechnya's 
Kremlin-installed government. 
All non-Dagestani captives, 

including Interior Ministry 
troops, will be kept as prisoners 
of war and could be exchanged 
for the captured rebel fighters. 
with dollar earnings or taken jobs in the expanding tourist industry, the island's main source of income. 
Some, like Jose, a theater di­rector, open private restau­rants that were recently approved by the government. 
Others like philologist Daniel sell handicrafts and second­hand books in the dozens of street markets that have sprung up since the govern­ment permitted limited forms of self-employment to absorb the soaring numbers of laid-off state workers. 
The emergence of a dollar­
rich class has some Communist 
Party officials worried. They 
fear losing political and 
ideological control of a society 
that has seen the end of full 
employment, widening social 
differences and the imposition 
of taxes for the first time since 
1959. 
In a Dec. 26 speech to the the economy is having a dra­matic effect on the Cuban men­tality. 
"It relieved sectors of society that had previously illegal ac­cess to dollars, like the young or those with tourism-related jobs. 
But it has also created new tensions and anxieties for those who live on pesos, especially older people and profession­als," he said. 
In a country suffering from severe shortages of food, medi­cine and gasoline, the dollar is the only currency with which to buy the basics from milk and eggs to toilet paper and cook­ing oil at state-run dollar-only stores. 
According to a United Nations report last October, dozens of architects and engineers are being drawn into the search for dollars as unemployment hits nearly 40 percent of the work force. 


Spring Breal< Setninars 
March 10-16, 1996 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service Le~rning ~tone of ten sites in the App~lachian region One credit Theology Information meeting: Thursday, Jan. 25, 7:00-7:30 PM 

Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier One credit Theology Inform(! lion: Stop by lhe Logan Center te1ble at the 
Social Concerns Festival on 1/23 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR 
Examine environmental issues and sites directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns One credit, Chicago-based seminar 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Welfare: Public or Private Responsibility? 
Direct contact with political, e1gency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 
Information meeting: Thursday, Jan. 25, 6:30PM 
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due Jan. 31, 1996 



Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• CHINA • COLOMBIA 


Street cri01e increases in China Jailed head of state 
By ELAINE KURTENBACH rapid economic growth, social lice topped the 1 million mark Associated Press dislocation, a relatively young in August, a 6 percent increase 
accepted drug money 
population and a weak, chaotic from a year earlier. About half 
BEIJING 

The guests at Taoyuan Hotel on Beijing's northwestern out­skirts were settling in for the night when their nightmare began -a mass mugging by armed robbers who surrounded the hotel and ransacked it for valuables and cash. 
It was a dramatic example of a surge in urban crime and ru­ral banditry that is worrying the Chinese. Many people say lawlessness has reached levels at least as bad as under the Na­tionalists, who were defeated by the Communists in 1949. 
In the more egalitarian days of Mao Tse-tung, foreign tourists marveled at railroad and hotel employees who chased them down to return discarded razor blades and for­gotten cameras. 
Those days are gone. 

"People used to leave their doors unlocked. No one would think of stealing anything," said a Beijing taxi driver, who didn't want to be identified. "Now, I have to worry about people get­ting in my car and then mur­dering me so that they can sell it." 
Many city dwellers put the blame on the growing disparity between haves and have-nots that has accompanied China's free-market reforms and on an innux of poor country people looking for jobs. Once stringent travel and residence restric­tions have eased in recent years, making it much easier for criminals to evade police. 
"The combination of poverty, regional disparities in wealth, legal system can be expected to lead to rising crime rates," said Harold Miles Tanner, an aca­demic who studies the issue. 
China is not soft .on crime. Of­ficial news media frequently report roundups of hundreds, sometimes thousands, of crim­inals as well as mass executions for crimes ranging in severity from murder to selling false re­ceipts. 
Arrests of serial murderers in several Chinese cities in 1995 shocked urbanites, who viewed the cases as more evidence that crime is getting out of control. 
A survey by the official news­paper Legal Daily found that more than 70 percent of the people polled felt unsafe in Bei­jing. 
Theft, mugging, violence, traffic accidents and fraud were the five problems most com­monly cited. 
Now, foreigners and Chinese think twice before venturing onto quiet, dark streets late at night. They complain about pickpocket gangs on crowded buses. Many are fortifying front doors with stronger locks, iron grates and burglar alarms. 
The situation in the country­side is more difficult to gauge. However, state-run media fre­quently report on shootouts between local gangs and police and on hijackings and murders on the long-distance buses that are the only mass transport to reach many towns in China's interior. 
According to the most recent available figures, the number of criminal cases handled by po­
were considered serious crimes. 
"In some places the problem of public security remains very pronounced, with serious vi­cious crime, increases in drug­related crimes and prostitu­tion," Ren Jianxin, president of the Supreme People's Court, told a national crime confer­ence last fall. 
He earlier reported that courts handled 482,927 crimi­nal cases in 1994, or 20 percent more than the previous year. Half the people sentenced in those cases, he said, were con­victed of crimes that "posed a grave threat to national securi­ty or public safety" -murder, armed robbery, rape, drug traf­ficking, kidnapping women and children, disrupting production. 
As crime has risen, increasing corruption has eroded the pub­lic's trust in police and other government officials to deal with the problem. 
The common criminal prac­tice of impersonating police and other authorities to conduct searches and extract "fines" hasn't helped either. Police in central Jiangsu Province re­ported recently that they had confiscated 126,690 police uni­forms intended for such pur­poses. 
In the Taoyuan Hotel case, the robbers first claimed to be police and demanded the man­ager open all guest rooms for inspection. When he asked for identification, they pulled out a gun. 
Eventually one guest escaped and ran for the real police. 
By CHRIS TORCHIA wanted to clear his conscience Associated Press and help the country move for­ward. BOGOTA, Colombia In December, a congressional 
In an explosive new turn in commission dropped an inves­Colombia's political crisis, the tigation of Samper and his jailed chief of President campaign, citing a Jack of evi­Ernesto Samper's 1994 election dence. But U.S. officials and bid said Monday the president other government critics had knew the cam-------------predicted a 
paign took cover-up. Most money from the 'He knew. It's the commission Cali drug cartel. truth. He knew... members be-
The com-longed to ments by This country is in an Samper's ruling 
F e r n a n d o extremely grave crisis.' Liberal Party
Botero, a for-and some were mer defense under in-minister, are a Fernando Botero vestigation for severe blow to drug cor-Samper, who has been plagued ruption. by suspicions his campaign Botero, a close friend of Sam­took millions of dollars from per, was jailed in a military the world's largest supplier of barracks in August on suspi­cocaine. cion he accepted campaign 
"He knew. It's the truth. He contributions from Cali drug knew," Botero told the televi­traffickers. For months he kept sion news program CMI. "It's a silent, but reports emerged he central fact. He is very serious­was angry with Samper for ly compromised." making him the scapegoat of 
Samper has said if any drug the scandal and was leaning money filtered into his cam­toward confession. paign, it happened behind his Samper was seriously back. wounded by drug cartel hitmen 
Botero said he noticed "sus­in 1989. He defeated Conserva­picious" people, conversations tive rival Andres Pastrana in and meetings taking place dur­1994, in one of Colombia's ing the final stretches of the tightest presidential races. campaign. He said he himself The first suspicions about was not responsible for accept­Samper's campaign emerged ing or distributing cartel days later with the release of money. audiotapes of telephone 
"The country is in an ex­conversations between drug tremely grave crisis" because kingpins discussing donations. of the scandal, Botero said. He Botero was among several said he decided to tell the truth top campaign aides arrested on about the campaign because he drug charges. 
Tuesday, January 23 Information Meeting for ACE Applicants 
e  ACE Update  
e  Last-minute application questions  
7:00p.m.  

Center for International Studies Auditorium 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
Coast Guard pumps oil Debt ceiling looms in debate 

from grounded barge 
By TIM WHITMIRE 
Associated Press 
SOUTH KINGSTOWN, R.I. 
Salvagers began draining a grounded barge of 2 million gallons of heating oil today as crews continued skimming a spill that imperils coastal wildlife. Choppy seas made the work go slow. 
The extent of environmental damage from the weekend's 828,000-gallon spill will not be known for months or years, authorities said. But signs of the disaster were evident an estimated 11,000 oil-coated lobsters and dozens of slimy birds flopped on shore. ­
Some residents and envi­ronmentalists criticized the emergency response as overly cautious. Coast Guard Capt. Barney Turlo responded today that safety concerns caused delays in the cleanup. 
During the pumping process Sunday, several mooring lines snapped, he said, and "that can take somebody's head off if they're not positioned right." 
Two smaller barges, one after the other, were to be maneuvered alongside the crip­pled North Cape barge today to unload its remaining oil. But choppy seas led officials to use a coastal freighter that could take only about 600,000 gal­lons through smaller-capacity hoses, lessening hopes that the transfer would be completed today. 
Two Coast Guard ships equipped with state-of-the-art skimming equipment were working off the coast, scooping up heating oil. The rainbow sheen had spread 12 miles, with thin remnants reaching Block Island. 
Turlo said that when he flew 
over the barge this morning, 
the sheen appeared very light 
and no further oil was leaking. 
"I was very pleased with what I saw," he said. 
The barge had been carrying 
4 million gallons of heating oil, 
and about 1.2 million gallons 
had been pumped into another 
barge Sunday. 
"We want to get this oil off the barge and make sure there is no further leakage," said Gov. Lincoln Almond, who declared an emergency and requested federal disaster relief funds to help clean the worst spill in state history. 
In a phone call, President Clinton assured him funds would be made available for the cleanup and fishing indus­tries. 
Fishing was banned in a 105 square-mile area and shell fishing areas also were closed. 
"We need to know, is this stuff settling down into the sed­iment, is this going to affect the habitat over a period of time?" said Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Carol Browner. 
State environmental officials were surveying damage to try to answer those questions. Meanwhile, oil-catching booms were placed along environmen­tally sensitive areas to protect them from any more damage. 
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said the oil-coated lob­sters and birds, many of them dead, have started washing up on Rhode Island's southern coast. 
An estimated 75,000 water­fowl live in the Trustom Pond National Wildlife Refuge area, including rare harlequin ducks. At least 50 birds were known to have died; volunteers were attempting to save others by cleaning their feathers. 
"This is a large area.... You start walking the whole shore­line and there's a lot of stuff," said Curt Spaulding, executive director of the environmental group Save the Bay. "For every one that's dead there's proba­bly hundreds that ... aren't as good as they were." 
Eklof Marine, the New York 
City concern that owns the 
barge and tugboat, said it has 
taken responsibility for the spill 
and hired workers and 10 ves­
sels to help with the cleanup. 
About 600,000 gallons of the 
heating oil probably evaporated 
or dissipated in the water, said 
Dr. Bill Lehr. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 251h. Call 631-4540 with questions. 
RoME PRoGRAM 
MEETING 
Wednesday, January 24 
7:00PM 
Carroll Auditorium Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College 
Study in Rome for one semester or for the year. Italian is not a prerequisite for participation. Application deadline April 1. 
House Majority Leader Armey counterattacks Democrat views 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
With Congress returning to work this week, the White House urged top Republican leaders today to repudiate a threat to block raising the debt limit unless President Clinton compromises on the budget. 
Presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said the threat -by House Majority Leader Dick Armey, R-Texas-was dan­gerous, irresponsible and jeop­ardized the economic security of the United States. 
In a televised interview Sun­day, Armey said efforts by Re­publicans to downsize govern­ment "will have to be attached to the debt-ceiling increase or it won't go through." 
In response, McCurry said, "I would, on behalf of the White House, call upon Speaker (Newt) Gingrich and Majority Leader (Bob) Dole to immedi­ately repudiate Mr. Armey's remarks. His remarks are dan­gerous." 
Armey's comments on NBC's "Meet the Press" drew an im­mediate response from White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, who said Republicans were courting disaster by push­ing the federal government toward its first default ever. 
That could happen on Feb. 15 when interest payments push spending past the debt ceiling and Panetta urged GOP leaders to "not play games with the full faith and credit of this coun­try." 
The firestorm over the debt 
came a week after another 
prominent Republican, House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich of Ohio, predicted his party wouldn't stand in the way of an extension of govern­ment borrowing and a day be­fore lawmakers begin returning after a two-week break to a deeply divided capital. 

On Tuesday night Clinton takes his case to the nation in the annual State of the Union address to Congress. 
McCurry said Friday that the president will challenge the Re­publican Congress to come to terms with him on an agree­ment to balance the budget by 2002, but will concentrate more on broader issues facing the nation rather than the minutiae of the budget dispute. 
"Don't expect the president to don a green eyeshade and stand up there and attempt to negotiate the budget with the Congress in front of him," he said. 
Talks broke down last week with the White House saying the Republican tax cuts and proposed savings from Medi­care and Medicaid were too large, and Republicans insisting that Clinton's plan did nothing to address fundamental prob­lems in entitlement programs. 
Prospects for an agreement were "quite doubtful," Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott, R­Miss., said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." "I thought that the president was serious about getting a budget agreement. Apparently it was all election year politics." 
House Minority Leader Dick Gephardt, D-Mo., appe-aring with Lott, said Democrats were eager for a balanced budget deal "if the Republicans would just give up" on their large tax cut. 
The first crisis to emerge from the budget talks impasse comes on Friday when the lat­est temporary measure to keep some federal programs funded runs out. Armey confirmed that Republicans probably would extend that deadline but "under rigorous and demand­ing circumstances" that would give Clinton "greater incentive to get more serious about the budget." 

The current stopgap measure that ended a second partial government shutdown funds programs at about 75 percent of 1995 levels. Panetta said the president would likely sign such a bill, but not a bill that attach­es conditions on the debt ceil­ing. 
"Raising these kinds of black­mail approaches to try to get their agenda adopted just has not worked. It's been a dis­aster," he said on NBC. 
Clinton last November vetoed a bill that lin.ked progress on the budget talks to raising the debt limit. 
Armey said he would like to see any new debt limit bill have language terminating the Commerce Department, a top priority of the Republicans, and barring the Treasury secretary from applying accounting ma­neuvers to avoid going over the debt ceiling. 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., called that no­tion outrageous. He said it is tantamount to Republicans say­ing "we're going to shut that. (department) down as our price for extending the debt that this country has already accumu­lated legally, that we're going to threaten the entire economy because we can't shut down the Commerce Department." 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin has angered Republi­cans, and drawn suggestions he could face impeachment, by twice dipping into federal trust funds set aside for civil service retirees to avoid exceeding the $4.9 trillion ceiling. 
"Clearly we don't want to continue to have the secretary taking these actions," Panetta said. "It's far better to have the Congress do the job they were elected to do." 

~--------------~~---------------------­





VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Poner Viewpoint Editor ......•........... Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager ..................Jacqudine Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre I)ameo du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. 1r does not necessarily rdlecr the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The nt."Ws is reponed as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. ( :nmmcmarics, letters anJ Inside Columns prescm the views of the auchors, and nm necessarily those nf The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 63 I -4542 Business Office 631-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -4541 Advertising 63 I-6900/8840 Spon.s 63 I -4543 Sysrems/Markering Dept. 63I-8839 Ncws/Phoro 63 I -5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Ac<enr/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Ediror/l'roducrion 63 I -5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu (;cncrallnfOrmation 6.11-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• MAY THE FORCE BE WITH You 
Seek guidance via the psychic hotline 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Accept the challenge for change 
You know Christmas break has lasted too long when you're dialing The Psychic Solution. OK, I didn't really do this. I dialed, but chick­ened out. Which is not to say I was intimated by llll initial recording assuring me that the psy­chic about to answer the phone was in fact, "very real." An optimist by nature, I was confi­dent a psychic would predict great things for me in 1996. I wasn't so confident that wealth would be included -at $3.99 a psychic pre­dieting minute. 
Kara Pavlik 

Now, I don't want to sound as if I hung-up the phone because I don't believe in psyehie pow­ers. I'm just cheap. Certainly famous psychies like I.aToya "tell-all" .Jaekson provide a serviee to enlighten mankind. Then again, LaToya comes from a clan who are ardent supporters of family values. 
It's those other -less authoritative -psy­chics who promote the 900 number phone lines, I qutlstion. Those "mystics" who host pub­lie-access psychic shows. They're the ones who give telepathic ability a bad rap. And that's unfortunate. The notion that someone can short-circuit time and predict how things will turn out triggers reactions of wonder. Not to mention gullibility. 
llem is where I am guilty. Infectious propa­ganda prompted me to attempt to reach a psy­chic. I admit, over break I was bored, searching for something meaningful to do with my time, searching for something meaningful to do with my life. forgive me if I am clueless, confused and at a loss about what to do after college. Is being in need of a little psychic guidance wrong? At least LaToya wouldn't think so. 
Besides, my education has encouraged me to question the ordered and rational world in which we live. As useless as 99.9 percent of psychics may be, believing in the unknown leaves me looking for the 0.1 pereent who are not, keeping me on a quest for a psychic who can transcend natural laws governing space and time. While many debate whether or not these laws are ever violated, Saint Mary's senior, Beth Nessner, knows that a telepathic mind is capable of such feats. Nessner has been consulting a Chicago psychic for years, and swears by each experience. 
"My psychic, Virginia, is always confident and personable. But she makes sure only to consult six people at a time. More people seem to drain her psyehic power." 
Certainly such talent must be preserved. Because for Nessner, Virginia has made some uneannily accurate predictions about her life. "Virginia predicted the dolls would reappear. Although they came back in pretty bad shape ... they did come back." 
Without a doubt, I'm impressed with Nessner's account of the psychic reading she received. And her prediction provides a spark of credibility for the entire profession. But hanging on to the word of a psychic can be powerfully seductive. In an increasingly psy­chic-crazed society, Nessner attempts to down­play Virginia's foresight. 
"Thinking about it constantly would drive me crazy. So after a period of time, I reflect on my life and then start to think if the things Virginia said actually happened. Most of the time they have." 
I must admit, it's overwhelming and, in fact, a little depressing if you haven't experienced a psychic's predictions first hand, like myself. Listening to Nessner from the sidelines, I won­dered if Virginia could advise me on the frayed ends in my life. But in a profession filled with fakers, like the 900 number line phonies, a tele­pathic reading that I could place confidence in seems hard to come by. 
But hey, leading my life like a blind mole, nosing my way through the tunnel of time isn't so bad. I would hate to ask Virginia to focus on my future and have her tell me a bad thing that I might be heading for. By not knowing what the future has in store, I can lead life with no temptation to alter an inevitable future. No longing for an alternative life. 
My existence remains one made for surpris­es. So much for the psychic hotline. 
Kara Pavlik, a senior at Saint Mary's, will predict your future with her magic eight ball free ofcharge. 

• 000NESBURY 
"157HCRE 130Y,Hc'5GOT 
50M&KINI? THATRJ6HT, CF7RA!N­{)()EGN'TH£, IN6THAT5 PARTNER? 
IEERJL.~ 
" ---=~=-'~ 
YOURS, Z.K., 
N&IAJ YORK. " 

f·Z!J 
Editor's Note: The following is the fifth in a five-part series on the Martin Luther King, Jr. holi­day. 
Dear Editor: 

ECONOMIC JUSTICE FOR ALL is a vital part of the American dream. Ten years ago the National Catholic Conference of Bishops issued a challenge for change in the way we treat all people in this country. 
Little has been done to respond to this challenge. There is still too much poverty, violence, separation of cultures and eco­nomic opportunity for all is non­existent for the vast majority of people in this United States of America -the only way we are united is often united in our fight against each other. 
Recently the Bishops in 1995 reported that: "The power and productivity of the U.S. economy sometimes seem to be leading to three nations living side by side." 
The reality is that one level of society is prospering and produc­ing in a new information age; a second level is squeezed by declining real incomes and glob­al economic competition; a third community is growing more dis­couraged and despairing. 
The economic pastoral of the Catholic Bishops reminds us that "the pursuit of economic justice is a work of faith and an im­perative of the Gospel.. 
n 

The message can be summa­rized in this way: the economy exists to serve the human per­son; economic life should be established by moral principles and values; economic choices should be measured by the way they enhance human life, dignity and the rights of all people and not a few. 
The Bishops challenge all and post questions for the future: 
• How can our nation work 
together to overcome the scandal of so much poverty in our midst, especially among our children? 
• 
How can our church take a leadership role in calling those in power to promote economic growth, job security, decent wages and greater opportuni­ties? 

• 
How can the dignity and rights of workers be protected and enhanced? 

• 
How ean we address the enormous economic pressures which undermine families and the family factors (e.g. high rate of divorce, teenage mothers, absent fathers) which leave so many children poor'? How can we support families in their essential moral, social and eco­nomie roles? 

• 
llow can we assess our own work ethic, productivity, con­sumption and lifestyles in light of the needs of a hungry world? 

• 
I low can the nation address the diverse social and economic forces which leave both inner­city and rural communities as places of disproportionate pover­ty and discouragement? 

• 
How can we address the raeial discord that exists in our nation today? How can we over­come the growing racial and eth­nic distance between different communities and the continuing impact of discrimination in eco­nomic life? 


The Bishops' conclude that, "Differences over how to move forward will give rise to legiti­mate debate, but indifference to the need to build a more just and open economy is not an option for Catholics" ... for us, as mem­bers of the human community. 
The Martin 
Luther King, Jr. 
Holiday Celebration 
Planning Committee. 
Univenity of Notre Dame 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOUN6Slc:R., THe BeST TRAIN­
1/113 Y(}() ClXJWIV351B/...YHA V£ 1'3!iCHOO/,! 7Ht:R/3 15N7AtlJY!IC TALCNTA/...IVC: WHO PIPN'T§TAI<r 
OUTA5 77i£ C/...A55 aotAJNl 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are some words that close a conversa­tion like an iron door." 
-Alexandre Dumas 


,--------------~-~-------~----~---------------,--.---­
;ACCENT

page 10 Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
• MEDICAl MINUTE SPECIAl EDITION 





About this time every year, we promise ourselves we'll eat less and exercise more. Unfo1 our old habits, ordering Papa John's every night at midnight and looking more and mon your body? Accent Medical Minute Correspondents John Galvin anc 
D 

By JOHN GALVIN 
Medical Minute Correspondenr 
S
o you're fat Whether you are button-busting fat or just a few pounds past your standard, you are probably hoping to shed some flab this year. However, before you order that impres­sive, fully-pneumatic fat-burner from the infomercial you might want to ask yourself: 
What is the most effective way to handle my "fatness?" 
A) To jog to your classes 
B) To start a "miracle" low-fat/calorie diet and run 2 miles a day. 
C) To petition for a FAT ND/SMC support group. 
D) To increase your caloric intake of fat and protein while cutting sugar and carbohydrates. 
E) To feel thinner by hanging around fatter people. 
Answer: D 
To the majority of us, especially women, answer B may seem the most logical (dieting and exercising). Unfortunately, most people have been brainwashed with the idea that if you reduce your calo­ries and increase your exercise, you can decrease your weight. The underlying problem in most cases is that people have been dieting all their adult lives. The average women eats 800-1200 calories a day. This is extremely unhealthy. At this metabolic level there is practically nothing left to cut from your diet The average active female should eat approximately 2200 calories a day. 
DON'T DIET 
So, you go on a diet/exercise regimen and lose approximately 10 pounds (if you are lucky). This is directly attributable to the increased activity level and decreased calories. Sounds great, right? Wrong. The problem quickly becomes apparent when the body adapts to the stimulus that has been causing the weight loss. 
So, now what? Your already starving, you lost 10 pounds (proba­bly muscle), and your working yourself to death. Worse yet, you get frustrated, give up and start eating again. Guess what? Not only will you gain back the 10 pounds you lost, you will probably gain an additional 5 pounds! (even if you are eating low-fat meals). The reason for this is because at 800-1000 calories per day you are lit­erally starving the body. 
YOU HAVE A GREAT BODY 
Your body is a wonderful machine that is capable of adapting to nearly any situation. At 800-1000 calories per day you are telling your body that you are going to starve it It will, in turn, go into a survival mode. The body will store all the fat that you consume. Very little to none will be used for energy assimilation. So what does the body use for energy? Muscle! This will mean that you will lose lean muscle tissue while you are on your "miracle diet" Not only that, but you will gain fat from the increased fat stores from your so-called "diet" 
MORE CALORIES! 
For most concerned about their weight the vicious cycle contin­
ues: losing 10 then gaining 15 pounds until you realize that the key 
to dieting is not calorie reduction. The key is to raise the metabo­
lism while giving the body what it needs to function properly and 
use its fat stores correctly. It is easy to achieve the "burning" or 
utilization of body fats. All one has to do is reduce sugars and 
carbohydrate intake and increase fat and protein intake. 
The best way to utilize body fat is by limiting your intake of 
refined sugars and carbohydrates, which includes all sweets, non­
1 00% whole grain breads, cereals and pasta, and keeping all your 
carbohydrate intake to about 40% of the diet Even certain natural foods, such as dried fruit, potatoes, honey and fruit juices are very high in carbohydrates. Keeping carbohydrates to 40% will help keep your blood sugar more stable and give you more ener­gy and less cravings. More importantly, you will lose body fat. 

ARE YOU EATING YOUR FATS AND PROTEINS? 
Eating enough dietary fats is also an important considera­tion for anyone wanting to spare sugar and burn fat. The only real bad fats in the diet are the artificial ones, like margarine and other hydrogenated fats, as well as fried or over-heated fats. 
All natural fats are good for your body as long as you consume them in moderation and you have healthy metabo­lism. 
For most people this means about 30% of the diet can be fats, but they should be a balance of omega-6, omega-3 and, if your eat them, animal fats. 
Omega-6 fats are found in vegetables and most vegetable oils such as extra virgin olive and safflower. 

Omega-3 fats can be found in fish, beans, and linseed (flaxseed) 
oil. If you don't eat animal foods, some omega-3 or -6 fats will con­vert to arachidonic acid, the fat found in animal products. Good di­etary sources of animal fats include butter, egg yolks, cheese and all meats including beef. A balance of these three fat groups will provide you with enough fats for a healthy, lean body. 
Furthermore, protein should comprise 10-15% of a healthy diet Protein is absorbed into the blood, filtered by the kidneys, and, if not used to build and repair muscle tissue, is converted to energy. Protein plays a key role in the toning and strengthening of muscles, as well as in general body maintenance. 
If you feel confused by the commercial beliefs of fitness, remem­ber that those "fat-free" and "lo-cal" products are not on the shelves for your good health, but rather your good money. So, don't buy into the ignorance of our health-trendy world ... eat well and exercise regularly and your body will take care of itself. 
10 GOOD REASONS NOT TO DIET 

1. 
Diets don't work. 

2. 
Dieting is hazardous to your health. 

3. 
Dieting reduces self-esteem. 

4. 
Diets reinforce body hatred. 

5. 
Diets cause food/weight obsession. 

6. 
Diets are a leading cause of eating disorders. 

7. 
Dieting perpetuates fatphobia. 


8. 
Dieting supports an oppressive multi-billion dollar industry. 

9. 
Dieting is social control of women. 

10. 
Dieting kills. 



Nutritional information was obtained from "Health Capsules," a publication by the International College ofApplied Kinesiology. 
John Galvin has lost an amazing 159 pounds on this revolution­ary, anti-diet regimen. He can be reached for questions and advice at: John.P. Galvin.3@nd. edu 


Working It Off 


Activity 
Running, 8 mph Rowing, vigorous Bicycling, 13 mph Jogging, 5 mph Swimming, 50 yd/min Low Impact Aerobics Walking, 4 mph Golf Shopping 
Source: Medicine and Science in Sports and Exe exercising for 1hour. "'''" 




·. 
815 545 ;' 
,..545\
. . 
~· 
340 
270 375 
155 
:ise. Estimates are for a150 lb person 
The Observer/Christopher Mullins 


ACCENT

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 page II 

unately, by' the time Groundhog's Day rolls around, most of us have fallen back into like couch potatoes as winter rolls on. Will this finally be the year you take care of 
Liza Nykiel help you get back on track for a healthy, safe 1996. 
D D 


BEFORE YOU CLIMB INTO THOSE SWEATS... 
Advice from Jennie Phillips, Rec Sport's Fitness Coordinator, for Domers and SMC's preparing to wage war in Angela or the Rock against that last helping of dining hall brownies: 
•Make 
a firm commitment to your program. Open your stu­dent planner and chisel out blocks of time from the maw of meetings and classes penciled in there. If exercising is a scheduled part of your day, you'll be more likely to keep your date with the gym. 

•Start 
slow. Don't try to be Rudy if you've decided to exercise for the first time since PE in high school. Take it easy the first few sessions and build to workouts of 

•Learn 
to use equipment cor­rectly. Don't risk injury by using machines improperly. Ask for help! 

•Take 
pain seriously. It's a gym, not a torture chamber. When you're hurting, stop. 

•Give 
it time. Chances are, you're not a native of the parallel universe that the people who appear on weight loss commer­cials hail from. You are a normal, ordinary Belle or a normal, ordi­nary Domer who needs more than a week to drop twenty pounds. Be patient. The results will show if you're faithful to your routine and eat a well-balanced diet. 


increasing intensity.  
•When you're sick... body time to heal itself. Really!  give your It's okay!  

By LIZA NYKIEL 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
I
t seems to happen every year, or at least every new year. There you are, at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Eve, promising yourself that this will be the year that you'll take ofT those few extra pounds. You envision yourself on the beach of some tropical island for spring break, all svelte with your new and improved in-shape body, frolicking in the ocean with some sexy lifeguard. Then, you return to NO, and your roommates suggest that you order Papa John's and you know you're ruined. It takes so much energy to walk 
across campus in these sub-zero temperatures that by the time you get back to your room after classes, all you can think about doing is cuddling up on your couch and watching the talk shows. You realize this is not going to 
be as easy as it seemed on New Year's Eve. Have I painted an accurate picture? 
The fact of the matter is, getting in shape and losing weight is a very hard thing to do, especially in the cold and drea­ry months of winter that we find ourselves in. There are common mistakes that many of us make when we make up our minds to get in 

shape. First of all, we try to do it too fast. It's so easy to get frustrated with what little progress we see ourselves ~ making and it takes a lot of perseverance to maintain the exercise program
4 
when all of a sudden school work starts to get heavy. The important thing to 
remember is that it took an awful long time to put on those few extra pounds, and that it's going to take twice as long to take the weight off. It's important to keep in mind that when you decide to get on a fitness kick, your exercising 
habits have to be flexible, graduated and tailored to what you can do and what your can't. In designing a fitness program for yourself, it is important to address the "DIF." That is, the duration, intensity and frequency of your exercising. The recommended duration of exercise programs is 30 minutes a day, with the frequency being three days per week. Anything above and beyond these guidelines will create the "desired look" faster, but can put you at risk for joint or muscle damage. The intensity of the exercise should be started at 70% of your maximum heart rate, with an increase to 85% as you progress in your program. Your maximum heart rate is the maximum the heart can attain. 
Your heart rate is easily monitored by periodically taking your pulse at the carotid artery on the side of your neck or on your wrist for ten seconds, then multiplying that number by six. 
If you discover, after you take your pulse in the middle of your workout that you are per­forming below your target heart rate zone, you should increase your activity, and vice versa if you find your heart rate to high. For a person who is 20, the target heart zone is 140-170 beats per minutes, with a maximum heart rate of 200 beats per minute. As we get older, and as our heart gets older, that target heart rate zone and maximum heart rate decreases. 
Cardiovascular conditioning comes when the heart is worked at its target rate for at least 20 minutes, 3 days a week. It's important to keep in mind, however, that just like any other muscle, the heart gets more efficient at what it does when it's exercised. 
Therefore, just when you think you're finally getting in shape, when you're not huffing and puffing on that Stairmaster at the Rock or on the track at Loftus, it's time to increase the intensity of your workout. So, if you've decided to take up bicycling for your exercise, you'd have to either pedal harder, longer than usual or start pedaling up hills to once again chal­lenge your heart. 
There are a number of activities that you can take up in order to get yourself back in shapn. It all depends on what your preferences are. First, you've got the Rock, Loftus, the JACC, Holfe, and even some dorms to choose from as the site of your metamorphosis. Interhall sports are always a good way of getting back in shape. 
Even if you haven't exercised in years, the little, daily things can make a difference. Take the stairs instead of the elevator, take the long way home from DeBartolo instead of that shortcut, take five minutes before you go to bed and do some sit-ups. 
All you have to do is make up your mind to do it, and with a little blood, sweat and tears, you're going to feel better about yourself and heck, that sexy lifeguard just might come run­ning... 
Liza Nykiel is a senior biology major planning on attending medical school next fall. She has volunteered in various hospitals and last summer worked in a health clinic in Lake County, Illinois. 
-
-
-

page 12 Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
•NBA 

Mourning contains Robinson, Heat wins 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Trailing by 12 points in the 
fourth quarter, the Miami Heat 
went to their strength ­
defense. 
Miami held San Antonio without a basket for the last 
7:42 and scored the final 10 points to win 96-89 Monday night. 
Alonzo Mourning scored 25 points, including the basket that put Miami ahead to stay, and limited David Robinson to one shot in the second half. 
"The effort was there, and it made a difference in the game," Mourning said. "It was tenacious defense. Tenacity grows and grows and grows, and it becomes contagious." 
The Heat, who had lost seven of their past eight games, beat a team with a winning record for the first time since Nov. 18. Their next four games are against teams with winning records. 
"We just needed a win, peri­od," Mourning said. "We didn't care who it was against, we had to stop the bleeding. We were bleeding profusely." 
San Antonio, which leads the Midwest Division, has lost three of its past four games, all on the road in a five-night stretch.
.. 
"It's been a disappointing trip," Robinson said. "We've been out of sync. We need to get back to playing Spurs bas-

Classifieds 
ketball." 
Robinson had 25 points but only four in the second half, when he was slowed by foul trouble. The All-Star center, who had averaged 33 points in his five previous games against Mourning, fouled out for the first time this season with 21 seconds left. 
Sean Elliott also scored 25 for San Antonio but turned cold at the end. 
Trailing 86-7 4 with 7:42 left, Miami outscored the Spurs 22­3 the rest of the way. 
"We just couldn't score at the end," San Antonio coach Bob Hill said. "David had a tough time, and Sean couldn't get to the foul line or get it in the bucket. That is what you have to do in the clutch, and we didn't get it done." 
The Heat held an opponent below 100 points for the 28th time, second only to Cleveland. 
Miami's Rex Chapman scored a season-high 25, including a basket that trimmed the Spurs' lead to 87-86 and a 3-pointer to put the Heat ahead 93-90 with 37 seconds to go. 
"Rex's shots were big, big, big," Heat coach Pat Riley said. 
Billy Owens, returning after a three-game layoff with an upper respiratory infection, grabbed 14 rebounds for Miami. San Antonio shot just 44 percent but still managed only six offensive rebounds. 
Miami broke a four-game losing streak against San Antonio. 



Boxing champ joins CBA team 
has really a 
're doing;· coach L~nny Wilkens liked Q\tr defense.•• 
~.~me up with 14 
forced the Rockets a season-high 27 turnovers that Atlanta con­
verted into 20 points. 
It's a wonder we even had a 
t to win;'' Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. "We have to really think about being a tight-executing team \-Vhe.re each possession of the bil:~f is meap.ingful. We just can't go out there and take 
Associated Press Continental Basketball 
Association, the NBA's devel­
WEST PALM BEACH opmental league. 

Boxing champion Roy Jones The IBF super middleweightJr. is trying to fulfill his dream champion from Pensacola will of becoming a two-sport athlete not be activated as a player un­
by signing with the Florida less a spot opens up on the lO­Beachdogs as a player-condi­man roster of the league-lead­tioning coach. ing Beachdogs. 
Jones, however, may be do­"Like if somebody is called up ing more coaching than playing to the NBA," the would-be when he reported yesterday to point guard said. "They're in the team, which plays in the first place. I didn't want them 
Rockets 
Houston's Sam Cassell said. -~Tnrr•nvArg were the key. We 
~"'':7••#·•lSu, school mistakes. We 
. .. thls way. we•ve got 
respect the possession, pro· teet the hall." Neither team led by more than five points until the 
tool( a73-67 lead at the end of the third quarter on Blaylock's driving layup with five seconds left. 
Ehlo had 18 of his points in a stretch that started with two free that cut Houston's to 65­64 and ended with 8:20 to play in the game on a 3-pointer that stretched the Hawks' lead to 87-78. 
Atlanta's biggest lead of the night came on Ehlo's fasthreak layup for a 97-85 advantage with 4:30 remaining. 
The Rockets twice cut the deficit to five points, first on Cassell's two free throws with 
2:53 left and the last on Cassell's driving layup that made it 101-96 with 1:58 re­maining. Houston went score­less the rest of the way. 
to cut a player or change their chemistry." 
Jones, 27, an avid amateur basketball player who lacks college experience, had a 45­minute tryout last Wednesday. He earlier had talked about try­ing out with a team in England, the London Towers. 
Jones, 31-0 with 27 knock­outs, said playing basketball will not affect his boxing ca­
reer. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents pet character per day, including all spaces. 
Openings available in the University  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD- We're two single senior men who  
NOTICES  of Notre Dame Chorale for all voic· es. Spring concert with orchestra  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English  MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT. NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.·2  DUST OFF YOUR DANCING SHOES AND "SPRING" INTO  like to play games Call us up, there's no need for  
17 April1996 in Basilica of the  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  BATR. $900.00/MO.+  ACTION ALL YOU  names  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Sacred Heart to feature Mozart's  Korea. Many employers provide  257·0457  BALLROOM DANCERS! CLASS·  I'm the one they call thelndian  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Solemn Vespers of the Confessor,  room & board + other benefits. No  ES WILL RESUME TUESDAY,  clown  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  K. 339, and Coronation Mass, K.  teaching background or Asian ian·  ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH·  JAN. 23,  One night with me and you'll never  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  317.  guages required. For more informa·  BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255·  6:30-9:00 PM, WITH SWING/JIVE  frown  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  For audition, contact Alexancer  lion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  9005  IN 301 ROCKNE MEMORIAL ALL  He's a tall dark wanna-be Italian  
Spring Break Trave\1-800·678­ Blachly at 631·5105. Rehearsals  J55842  ARE WELCOME! DON'T FORGET  Come on over and meet his stallion  
6386  Tuesdays and Thursdays, 6:45­ TWO ROOMS FOR RENT AT  YOUR 1.0.!  Don't be intimidated, don't be  
8:30 p.m., beginning Tuesday,  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ LAFAYETTE SQUARE TOWN  scared  
SPRING BREAKI  January 30.  Positions are now available at  HOMES. FULLY FURNISHED  We won't do anything unless we're  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  AVAILABLE \MEDIATELY  Mentalist  dared.  
BLOW IT!  Anne Leap  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  CALL JESSE OR BEN AT  So give us a call for a night of fun  
Organize group· TRAVEL FREE  Word Processing Specialist  bonuses! Call: 1-206·971-3620 ext.  634·1838 FOR DETAILS  PS Hey guys, beat this one!  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  Editing-General Correspondence­ N55844  Come let Craig Karges of Leno and  282·1436 232·2955  
$359 Florida $109  Proofreading-Business Documents­ 1 bedroom in 3 bedroom home  Letterman fame read your mind and  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  Academic Papers-Free Pick-up and  Female preferred  mystify you with his powers.  
1-800-426· 771 0  Delivery  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT- Use of all utilities  Appearing Friday, Jan. 26 at 8 p.m.  Gorm, Ed, & Am:  
"Professional Results at Affordable  Students Needed!.Fishing Industry.  300.00/mo. -Close to campus  at the Library Auditorium.  Thanks for putting up with drunken  
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTTEST  Prices"  Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per  Safe neighborhood  $$$$$$$$$$$FREE$$$$$$$$$$$  hysterics. Next time, keep the big  
TRIPS" CANCUN · SOUTH PADRE ISLAND • BELIZE 1·800-328·7513  (219)257-1766ILOST & FOUND I  month. Room and Boardl Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971·3510 ext A55843  Call Paul 232-2794 TRUE BEAUTY 3 MILES TO CAMPUS  Brought to you by your friends at SUB! HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY  gorilla away. If anyone asks, I'm at Gorch. Go Speedracer .... Sincerely, Mad Cutter  
http://www.studentadvtrav.com  237·9718  to my 21yr. old Basketball Hornie  
FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE  Found: pocket knife near  Area company seeking accounting  Tape Trader shaver, a.k.a. The  St. Edward's Hall Players  
- FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS  Stonehenge on 1/17. Call1678.  professional. Salary $30's. Permanent position. Fee paid.  FOR SALE  Greatest Fence Finder Ever. Ducks Are My (your) Equals. Just  proudly present: One Flew Over  
•••14 SPRING BREAK•••  LOST! I!!!  Accounting software knowledge  wait... your wildest dreams can't hurt  The Cuckoo's Nest  
SHOPPING DAYS LEFT!  1.0. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  and experience in MS·DOS/LAN  For Sale: 93 Honda Accord LX  you and they will come. I miss you •  Thurs.. Fri, Sat. 8 p.m.  
It's not the SIZE of the ad that mal·  Reward for return. Please call, sen·  required. NOVELL a plus. Call  22K. 4-door, auto, air, cruise, cas­ Georgia O'Keefe  @ Washington Hall  
ters...it's the VALUE of the pack·  timental value.  219-825-3909.  sette.  Tickets available at LaFortune Info  
age! Call Leisure Tours for the best  Call Chris, @ 1662  Excellent condition; faculty owned.  Anybody need the $69 intermediate  desk or at the door.  
travel packages to South Padre Island and Cancun. 1-800-838­ Switched: If you have the wrong  FOR RENT  631·7555.  micro econ book? Call4015 for a better deal  
8203.  turquoise double-breasted jacket  FOR SALE!  @@@@@@@@@  
from the Lewis/Keenan formal, give  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ •Hewlett Packard Desk Writer  Thank you Blessed Virgin for  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  me a call. I have yours.  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Printer for Apple Macintosh  Prayers answered.  The NO Chapter of the  
Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15  Andy X1765  ALSO 3·4 BEDROOM HOMES  • Apple Macintosh Style Writer  Society of Professional Journalists  
Meals & 6 Free Partiesl Great  CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  Portable Printer. Call631-7494  ...Bai·Ju's Noodle House• ..  will hold its first meeting of the year  
Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www .spring· breaktravel.com 1-800·678-6386  WANTED  2773097 2 VERY NICE rooms  TICKETS  We Deliver! 271·0125 Delivery Hrs: Mon-Sun 4:30-Mid  Wed., Jan 24 @ 7 p.m. in the Foster Room (3rd Floor LaFortune.)  
My dad (N.D.'93) needs ND/SMC  for Sum/Fall '96.  $8.00 Minimum Order  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  students to care for me when he  5-min. drive! $250 incl  Need 3 or 4 GA's for W. V.  This week's special:  @@@@@@@@@@  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  and my mom work. Hrs vary 8A­ utilities & extras!  Call Ted x3381 $$$  •szechuan Fried Rice  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  2P, M-F. Call273-4642.  1·4809/232-7175  ·chicken Lo Mein  I can't believe you took Yoda  
From $4291 Save $100 On  Need 2 GAs for W.Virginia game.  to a peep show. I just want him  
Food/Drinksl http://www.spring·  FREET-SHIRT  Great Apt. for Sublet!! !I  Call Karen x2371.  ADOPTION  back  
breaktravel.com  + $1000  furnished apt. mi(lutes from NO  A wonderful home awaits your  unharmed. No questions asked.  
1-800·678-6386  Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ties, sororities,  2 BdRm w/ central air, wash & dryer-located at 617 Portage Ave.  PERSONAL  baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love.  You know how to reach me.  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  & groups. Any campus organiza·  $375/mo. plus utilities  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  For the ones who had a notion a  
Room With Kitchen $1191 Walk to  lion can raise  Call Colleen at #233·1495  Peter at 800·529·8386.  notion deep inside  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West  up to $1000 by earning  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0a0  that it ain't no sin to be glad you're  
- $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  a whopping $5.00/ VISA application.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!ll THE COPY SHOP  JILL G., YOUR BIG BROTHER IS VERY  alive I wanna find one face that ain't  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring·  Call1·800·932-0528 ext. 65.  LaFortune Student Center  PROUD OF YOU.  lookin' through me  
breaktravel.com.  Qualified callers receive  HOMES FOR RENT  Phone 631-COPY  LOVE YOU,  I wanna find one place, I wanna sit  
1-800-678·6386  FREET-SHIRT.  232·2595  0a0o0o0c0o0o0o0o0o0c0  MAX  in the face of these Badlands  

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 


•NBA •NHL 
Anderson unable to join Hornets Rangers keep 
By JOE MACENKA They could dress like Hornets like one. Assod•red Press in the team's standard practice "I think our style of play here 


home streak alive
attire. is just fine. It fits me," he said. 
FOHT MILL, S.C. 
Would-be Charlotte Hornet Kenny Anderson spent day No. 3 in trade limbo· Monday, trying to get as close as he can to a ttmm that's still not allowed to officially embrace him. 
"It's a Catch-22 situation, but I've got good vibes about this," Anderson said after he was re­duced to the role of a bystander during the Hornets' practice. 
Charlotte acquired Anderson from the New Jersey Nets in a four-player trade Friday. The llornets, eager to fill a void at point guard, had planned to start Anderson in Saturday night's homll gamll against Golden State. 
But 45 minutes before the contest, word came down from New Jersey that the Nets want­ed to run more tests on Khalid Heeves, one of the players they got in the deal. Heeves sprained his left ankle on Dec. 11, and New Jersey wants to make sure there's no significant damage in the joint. 
The Nets have been given until Tuesday afternoon to com­plete their tests. Until then, all four players are barred from playing or praeticing with their new teams. 
The llornets had Sunday ofT, hut when they went through a 'JO-minute workout Monday, Anderson and reserve guard (;nrald Glass, the other player the Nets sent to Charlotte, had to stay on tlw sidelines. 
They could speak with their would-be Hornet teammates. 
They could use the Hornets' exercise equipment. 
They just couldn't go out on either of the teal and purple courts and take part in the drills at the team's practice complex. 
''I'm just waiting, just waiting it out and working out," Anderson said. ''I'm doing the treadmill, doing the bike. Hopefully, it will all work out for the best." 
While he passes the time, Anderson fights thoughts that the deal might not go through, a scenario that is not without precedent in the NBA. 
Anderson remembers the February 1994 attempted trade of Detroit's Sean Elliott to Houston for Robert llorry and Matt Bullard, a deal that was rescinded after Elliott failed his physical. 
"I don't want to talk about negative things, but you also have to look at what happened with Hobert Horry and Sean Elliott," Anderson said. "It's there. It's in the back of my mind. 
"But I don't have any control over that. I did what I had to do. I passed the physical and everything. I'm fine. But I don't have any control over the other players." 
And just because Anderson can't officially be a Hornet yet, that doesn't mean he can't talk 
273-3890 



Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs 'Till2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 
SUPERBOWL SPECIAL 
2-14 INCH PIZZAS-$10.501NCLUDESTAX 
I

THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATI I 
' 

: : I 
273-3890 
jj 
sT I L L T H E B E sT II 
"And just watching the prac­tice, it looks like a loose atmo­sphere here. And all the guys welcomed me with open arms." 
Coach Allan Bristow, who desperately wants the Hornets to develop an uptempo offense and views Anderson as the cat­alyst to that switch, said he also was taking that approach that the trade would go through. 
"I think this can be a very positive situation for Kenny," Bristow said. "And what's good for Kenny should be good for us." 
Anderson's absence Saturday left the Hornets with just one healthy point guard, Michael Adams, and he pulled up lame with a groin strain. Adams missed Monday's practice and was listed as questionable for Wednesday's game against Washington. 
With the status of Anderson and Adams uncertain, the Hornets signed point guard Anthony Goldwire to a 10-day contract Monday. Goldwire, who played collegiately-at Houston, has spent his first two professional seasons with the Yakima Sun Kings of the Continental Basketball Association. 
Should the trade go through, Anderson already is looking ahead to the Hornets' game Friday in New Jersey, where he's aware some people think he failed to live up to his poten­tial. 
"They'll probably boo me," he said. "I don't know. But it'll be funny. It won't be the first time I got booed at the Meadowlands. They boo every­body over there." 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associate Press 
NEW YORK 
Mark Messier and the New York Rangers picked up where they left off at the All-Star break, beating the Los Angeles Kings 3-1 Monday night to extend their home-ice unbeat­en streak to 21. 
Messier, who had eight points in three previous games before the break, scored the clinching goal against the Kings as the Rangers improved their impressive streak at Madison Square Garden to 17-0-4 since a loss to Ottawa on Oct. 22. 
The streak is the longest in the NHL this season and the second-longest in club history for the Rangers, who lead both the Atlantic Division and Eastern Conference with a 29­11-8 record for 66 points. The Rangers are 18-2-4 at home this season. 
Messier, who won the sharp­shooting event at the NHL skills competition this past weekend, made it 3-1 at 7:13 of the third period with his 32nd goal of the season. Pat Verbeek, another All-Star, and Luc Robitaille also scored for the Rangers, who extended their overall unbeaten streak to six (4-0-2). 
Yanic Perreault scored for the Kings, 0-3-3 in their last six games. 
Wayne Gretzky, the No. 4 scorer in the NHL who has been the subject of trade rumors recently, was held scoreless. Gretzky reiterated in an interview between periods he would stand by his publicly stated wish to be traded unless the Kings could build them­selves into a Stanley Cup con-
The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call631-4541. 
MCAT • MCAT • MCAT 
Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
ciJ r:iJ  small classes of 15 or fewer free Caduceus software  
~ ~  free extra help with your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams  
~  independently verified score improvements  
~  guaranteed satisfaction  
,  THE PRINCETON REVIEW  

Classes begin Feb 3rd. for the April 20, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the AAMC. 
I
I' 
'I 

tender quickly. 
He also said he was surprised at the attention his situation 
had created. "It became  a  
much  bigger  story  than  I  
expected."  

Perreault gave the Kings a 1­0 lead when he tapped in his own rebound at 14:54 of the first period. Perreault's shot first hit the left post, and he skated around behind the net and put the puck past Glenn Healy. 
The Rangers tied it at 7:32 of the second when Verbeek redi­rected a pass from Ray Ferraro past Byron Dafoe for his 33rd goal. 
Robitaille made it 2-1 Rangers, beating a screened Dafoe from the slot at 15:16. It was the first goal in 17 games for the slump-ridden Robitaille, and his 14th of the season. 
The Rangers went ahead 3-1 on Messier's goal, a high shot from the slot. 
Flyers 1, Panthers 1 
Rod Brind'Amour scored late in the third period to give the Philadelphia Flyers their sixth tie in their last 11 games, 1-1, with the Florida Panthers on Monday night. 
Brind'Amour got the Flyers' only goal with 2:39 left in the third period, his 13th of the season. 
Jody Hull's 15th goal of the season snapped a scoreless tie 
6:58 into the third period and put Florida ahead. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP~ RecSports will be sponsoring a Down Hill Ski Trip to Swiss Valley on Friday, January 26. Transportation provided. Register in advance by January 24, at RecSports. For information about fees call 1-6100. 
CAMPUS BOWLING LEAGUE-RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League that will compete on Thursday nights between February 1 & March 7. Register your 3 person team in advance at RecSports by January 31. For more infor­mation call1-6100. 
MARTIAL ARTS-The Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute is st.,arting beginner classes for the spring semester. Practices are Thursdays from 6:30-8:00 in Hoom 301 Rock and Sunday 6:00-8:00 Room 219 Rock. For more infor­mation call Kyle 4-3282. 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL· The Interhall football equip­ment return will be held on January 24 from 3:00-5:00 at Jake Klein Field. 
RACQUETBALL & VOLLEY­BALL-The RecSports Office is offering Campus Raquetball Doubles, lnterhall Team Racquetball, Co·Rec Volleyball and Grad!Fa<"./Staff Volleyball. The deadline is January 24. Please call 631~ 61 00 for date and times of captain's meetings. 
EQUESTHIAN CLUB-There will be a meeting January 24 at 7:00 in room 222 of the library. Be prepared to pay for your lessons. 



Camby practicing for UMass 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Marcus Camby, eight days af­ter his frightening collapse, practiced with No. 1 Massachusetts on Monday and will decide at the last minute whether he is ready to play Tuesday night. 
"He can play," coach John Calipari said. "It's just a matter of whether he wants to play and feels comfortable playing." 
The star center went through a light workout as the Minutemen, at 16-0 the only unbeaten team in Division I, prepare for their game against Pittsburgh. 
Camby missed three games after inexplicably fainting be­fore a Jan. 14 game against St. Bonaventure. Doctors do not know what caused the episode, although many possibilities have been ruled out. 
IU's Wilkerson arrested, dismissed 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Dismissed Indiana basketball player Sherron Wilkerson's scholarship will be revoked at the conclusion of this school year. 
Coach Bob Knight kicked Wilkerson off the team Friday when Wilkerson, a redshirt sophomore, was jailed for 12 hours after Bloomington police went to an apartment where a 20-year-old woman said she had been struck in the face by the player. 
Police said the woman's lower lip was swollen and bleeding, and she had a bruise under her chin and human bite marks on the back of her neck. 
Wilkerson pleaded not guilty Friday evening to a charge of domestic battery and is next scheduled to appear in court March 4. 
Police said Wilkerson told them he did not strike the woman in the mouth but rather pushed her. 
It isn't the first time Wilkerson has been involved in a controversy. 
Last February, Wilkerson, former IU basketball player Steve Hart and another man 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation of The Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and posses~ solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, is not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to John Lucas by 4:00 p.m., Friday, january 26, 1996. For additional information about the position or application process, contact john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 
"He's been on his back for five days," Calipari said. "I just don't think he's in the kind of shape to be playing a lot of minutes. I'd rather he didn't play, but I'm not going to hold him back." 
The 6-foot-11, 220-pound ju­nior was cleared last Thursday by doctors and rejoined the team in Pittsburgh on Saturday. Monday evening's practice at Pitt's Fitzgerald Field House was Camby's first action since he collapsed. 
He did not participate in full­court, five-on-five drills, instead doing light running and shoot­ing on his own. He declined to be interviewed, but Calipari said it was obvious Camby is eager to get back. 
Calipari said he ias not leery about allowing Camby to return to the lineup. 
"You have to understand I was there for every step and 
were included in an IU Police Department report. 
The police were called after the three men followed a vehi­cle containing three women to a house and allegedly shouted obscenities at them. 
The women stated they thought the driver of the car following them swerved around a corner in an attempt to hit them. 
No charges were filed in con­nection with the incident. Wilkerson was named Indiana's high school Mr. 
Happy 
ated20th 
Dennlsr 
Hope itwas a hair-raising 
experience! 
every test," the coach said. "I probably learned more medical terminology in the last week than I'd heard in my life. I feel very comfortable. I know what it's not and that's just as impor­tant as what it is." 
The Minutemen won three games without Camby. They struggled to beat Duquesne by four points on Saturday, though, and Calipari admits there's a huge difference with­out him. 
·"You're talking about the best player in the country," Calipari said. "You never get used to playing without him. You just hold down the fort for a while. He's proven it against the best teams in the country and against the best players." 
Camby averages 20.9 points, 
7.5 rebounds and 3.2 blocks per game. 
"Mentally he's in good shape," Calipari said. 
Basketball in 1993 after help­ing Jeffersonville to the state tourney championship, but the title was stripped from him af~ ter he quit the state's All-Stare team in a dispute over playing time. 
He sat out last season because of a broken leg suf­fered during the 1994 NCAA tournament. 
Wilkerson, a 6-foot-4 guard, regained a starting role with Indiana this year and was av­eraging 7.5 points per game. 

Orange profit from Wallace's decision 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 

The lure of a lucrative life in the NBA nearly hooked John Wallace. 
After an impressive junior season at Syracuse, he made himself available for the 1995 draft. But two days before the selections were made, Wallace had second thoughts and pulled his name from consideration. 
In an era when it is be­coming fashionable to leave school early for a big pay­check, Wallace opted to turn down the trappings guaran­teed a pro for one more year of preparation. 
Now, he is profiting from his decision to play out his college career. And his return is pay­ing dividends for the Orangemen as well. 
Wallace, who averaged 14.3 points and 8.3 rebounds his first three seasons, was ex­pected to go no higher than the middle of the first round in last year's draft. 
At the moment, there is lit­tle doubt among the college basketball community that he will be a lottery pick. And, de­pending on how many other players join the throngs of NBA prospects, he could be an early lottery pick. 
Through 17 games this sea­son, Wallace has sharply in­creased his stock by raising his average to about 24 points and extending his game out to the 3-point arc. He is giving 
A''must see" spectaculaP thl'il/el' with musical undel'scol'ing. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM • SOUTH BB\10 February 2-3-4, 1996 -Friday 8 p.m. • Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m. 0 -~\. Sunday 2 p.m. EST -~1\00Ut\ lickets 811.50 to 843.50 1 Ca II 219-235-9190 
Box office open Monday -Friday, 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Charge to VISA, MasterCard, American Express • Group, Student & Senior CitiZen 01sco111nts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
opponents a handful from the perimeter while remaining a menace inside. 
"My outside game is better by leaps and bounds from last year," the 6-foot-8 power for­ward said. "That's the part of my game I wanted to improve. I think I have." 
And by becoming a more well-rounded player, Wallace has helped keep Syracuse in the national rankings and among the top tier in the Big East. The Orangemen, ranked No. 17, are 13-4 overall and in second place behind Georgetown in the Big East 7 with a 4-3 record. 
"He's having a tremendous year. There have been a lot of games where he has put us on his back," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "He has just been a monster for us." 
Wallace has to play that way if he wants to grab a piece of the limelight in a con­ference that boasts three more of most talented players in the country. 
Wallace has by no means faded in the Big East shadows cast by Connecticut's Ray Allen, Villanova's Kerry Kittles and Georgetown's Allen Iverson. 
But what is frustrating at times,. Boeheim says, is that Syracuse doesn't have enough balance to fully capitalize on Wallace's heroics. 
"He's not had enough help," Boeheim said. "You take John Wallace away from us and we don't play." 

~·r=uc~·s:Ja~y~,J_a_nu_a~ry~23_,_1_9_96 T~h~e~O~bs~e~rv~er~·-.~S~P~~O~R~T~S~~====================================~p~ag~e:l:5-----­
•NFL 
Woodson to play for Steelers 
By AlAN ROBINSON 
A.sociatcd Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. 
Tlw Pittsburgh Steelers had hem1 in town barely an hour, and already coaeh Bill Cowher had answered the team's one lingering question: Will Hod Woodson play in the Super Bowl'! 
"Bod is going to play," Cowlwr said Monday night, nv1m lwfore thn Steelers had unpacked their bags from the four-hour plane ride from Pittsburgh. "llow much he practices will btl Llw determin­ing factor how much he plays." 
If Woodson dons play Sunday against the Dallas Cowboys, his four-month l~mm~bark would be orw of thn most remarkable in NFl. history. lie torn cartilage and his right anterior cruciate ligament -an injury so serious it has 1mded careers -in the Stnelnrs' Snpt. 3 opmter. 
But. unwilling to write oil' the entirn season. the six-time Pro Bowl eornerbaek convinced Cowher to keep him on the ac­tiVIl rostnr. lie then began an extensive, sometimes exhaus­tive rehabilitation program, with the sole intent of playing in the Super Bowl should the Steelers be there. 
They are, and, apparently, he will be, too, wearing his famil­iar No. 26. 
"It would have crushed me if the Steelers made the Super Bowl and I couldn't play," Woodson said. "The Super Bowl is what kept me going. If they had put me on injured re­serve, there wouldn't have been a reason to work out so hard." 
Woodson still hasn't regained his one-time world class hur­dler's speed, and he was run­ning with a perceptible limp only two weeks ago. 
"But I've seen no setbacks," Cowher said. "lie's made progress ... now we have to find out to what extent. We'll proba­bly deeide (how much he will play) on game day." 
Should Woodson play, both he and the Steelnrs would be taking huge gambles. Woodson risks reinjuring the still-healing right knee. And the Steelers risk being overmatched against perhaps the NFL's most physi­cal receiver in the Cowboys' Michael Irvin. 
Irvin shrugged off questions about Woodson last week, sug­gesting the Steelers wouldn't dare take such a risky move in so big a game. 
But.Cowher's gamble seemed to sum up the Steelers' mood as they were greeted by a towel­waving crowd of 200 fans upon arrival early Monday night. 
"We're here to play a football game," receiver Yancey Thigpen said. "We're not going to have guys here drinking and partying and forgetting why we're here. We realize the op­portunity we have." 
Quarterback Neil O'Donnell suggested the Steelers, cast as 13-point underdogs, might ac­tually be looser and more re­laxed because they are per­ceived as having virtually no chance of winning. 
'The Colts had that attitude for three weeks, and they were within one play of being here," O'Donnell said. "They went out loose, and had some fun." 

Walsh rumored back to 49ers 
Asso<iatrd Press join the team in a yet to be de­fined role. 
SANTA (:JAHA, Calif. 
Bill Walsh could be on the vergn of returning to the San Frandsen 49ers. 
The 49ers callr.d a news eon­ferenee for Tuesday, and team spoknsman Dave Hahn said Walsh, dub prnsident Carmen Policy and eoaeh George Seifert all would be them. 
Hahn said Monday night he eould not confirm rnports that Walsh, who led the 49ers to thren Super Bowl titles in 10 ynars us their coaeh, would re-
Telephone calls to Walsh and Policy were not returned. 
Walsh's addition won't affect the position of Seifert, who guided San Francisco to two Super Bowl triumphs in the seven years since succeeding Walsh in 1989. 
San Francisco was denied a chance to defend its fifth cham­pionship when the Green Bay Packers upset the 49ers 27-17 in a divisional playoff this month. 
Walsh, whose offensive sys­tem is still run by the 49ers, has operated quarterback camps and worked for the NFL in an advisory role the last year. 
He spent the previous three years in a second tour as Stanford coach before resigning in 1994. 
Walsh quit as 49ers coach fol­lowing the 1988 season, which ended with the team's third Super Bowl crown. He stayed with the organization briefly as an administrator before leaving to take a job as an analyst for NBC. 

20 YBIRS IN RBVUB! 
THE 1996 20TH ANNIVERSARY KEENAN REVUE IS COMING (FEB. 1, 2, 3) !! 
TICKET DISTRIBUTION 
Notre Dame Friday, Jan. 26 Distribution 1-3 PM No Lines Before Noon ]ACC Gate 10 St. Mary's Wednesday, Jan. 24 Distribution 6-8 PM No Lines Before 5 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 
1 ID per Person 2 Tickets per ID 
Tickets are, as always, FREE! 
c 

owboys loose for 
eighth Super Bowl 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
While the Pittsburgh Steelers traveled, the Dallas Cowboys practiced, studied tapes and planned for a no· curfew evening on the town with a dozen limousines ready for standby duty at the play­ers' beck and call. 
The Cowboys were using the same Super Bowl preparation game plans they first devised under Jimmy Johnson in win· ning efforts in 1992 and 1993 against the Buffalo Bills. 
Barry Switzer inherited Johnson's staff and didn't want to change a successful formula. 
It's play and have fun early in the week, then get down to business starting Wednesday and Thursday. Emmitt Smith. Michael Irvin and other play· ers had the limos ferried from Dallas. 
The Cowboys also had no curfew on Tuesday night, but midnight curfews will kick in on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. 
On Saturday night, there will he a 10 p.m. curfew with a bed check and fines for any· one not in hls room. 
"Why change the formula?" Switzer said. "It's something everyone is used to." 
The Cowboys also are old hands at handling the hype. They've had weekly distrac­tions during the regular sea­son but still had a 12·4 record and defeated Philadelphia and Green Bay in the NFC playoffs. 
"I think a team should have fun at the Super Bowl," quar· terback Troy Aikman said. "It's all part of the experience. It would be silly to put curfews on players early in the week. But once the partying is over it's time to get down to bus!· ness and remember the real reason you're here.:· 
Aikman is 2-0 in Super Bowls and 9-1 in playoff games he bas started, so his advise is being listtmed to by the 27 players on the Dallas team who haven't been to a Super Bowl. · 

Dallas will be trying to win a record-tying fifth Super Bowl, putting it next to the San Francisco 49ers. 
It's the eighth Super Bowl for the Cowboys, and they'll be playing in a place they consid· er a second home -Sun Devil Stadium where they are 6-2 in games they've played there against Arizona. 
The Cowboys are just a 10­minute drive away from Sun Devil Stadium from their beautiful mountainside hotel. The Buttes. One feature of the hotel at night is Christmas tree lights in tho surrounding cacti which creates a festive atmos· phere. 
Security is tight on the road and entrances to the hotel. Guests have to go through two checkpoints just to get to their rooms. 
"Neat place, Isn't it?" said Dallas owner Jerry Jones. 
The Cowboys had a late evening press conference planned for Switzer and a few players after a light workout. 
The main media day will be Tuesday at Sun Devil Stadium, where the Cowboys will follow the Steelers onto the field around 11 a.m. The players get the rest of the day off. 
Then Jones and defensive back-wide receiver Deion Sanders have a business trip planned Tuesday to a new golf course called ''Las Sendas" in neary Mesa. Jones was mum when asked if it could be the possible site for a new com­mercial between him and Sanders. 
''We won't be golfing, we'll just be visiting out there," Jones said of the course where San Francisco qua:rterback Steve Young is planning to live. 
Of course, Jones and Sanders have done pizza and Pepsi commercials. If another is planned, it's top secret. 
Happy 21st 
Birtliday ""· 
Am.Y t/1

Rub1e! 
... 

Nowyoucan l 
,,
break it down 

; ''>/¥
with the :>\, 
~(
BIG GIRLS! 


INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Spring begins in February! 
Our spring semester features new classes in building work teams, conflict management, Norwegian, negotiating, grant writing and the healing arts. Plus our regular selection of personal and professional development programs. Also, take note of our series of youth programs. 
Catalog now available 
Call 237-4261 for your free copy 
-~ 
I 

i 
l 


------~-----------------------~-~ 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
• TENNIS 
Seles and Chang advance in Aussie 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, 
Australia 
One more nagging injury struck Monica Seles, though it didn't slow her down a step Tuesday on the way into the Australian Open semifinals. 
Seles, beset by a groin pull after recovering from knee and ankle injuries and a mysterious virus, strained a tendon above her right ankle midway through a 6-1, 6-2 romp over Iva Majoli. 
After streaking through nine straight games in pursuit of a fourth Australian Open title, Seles led 3-0 in the second set when she felt a twinge between her ankle and calf. 
A left-hander, she had trou­ble pushing off on her right foot serving because of the injury, and she dropped that game with a double-fault on break point. But she shrugged off the pain to win in 58 minutes. 
"I was able to finish the match pretty strong," Seles said. "I said to myself, 'That's OK."' 
In five matches, Seles has lost only 17 games -and that without being completely healthy or in the best shape. She's slightly overweight, she acknowledged, she's not as fast as she'd like to be and her groin pull is annoying. 
"On a scale of 10, it's about a 4," Seles said of the groin in­jury she's been taping and treating with anti-inflammatory pills. 
"It's not getting better. It's not getting worse, which is great. It's not going to get bet­ter until I rest." 
Seles won't have any rest for a while. Her next match is Thursday against Arantxa Sanchez Vicario or Chanda 
Coach 
continued from page 20 
were part of an 11-player team recognized by the publication. 
Both earned the honor after being named to Soccer America's all-freshman team a year ago. 
Manthei is currently compet­ing with the U.S. Women's National team in Brazil in preparation for the upcoming 1996 Olympic games. 
Rubin, who played Tuesday night. 
"It's pretty tough, maybe im­possible, to beat her," Majoli said of Seles. "I think the only one who can beat her is Steffi." 
Trouble is, Steffi Graf isn't at the Australian. She's back home recovering from foot surgery, leaving the No. 1 Seles appearing unbeatable. 
"She's going to win the tour­nament pretty easy," said Majoli, who didn't notice Seles being bothered by any injury. "She hit some unbelievable shots when she was stretched." 
Like Seles, men's No. 5 Michael Chang also hasn't dropped a set on the way to the semifinals. His latest victim, Mikael Tillstrom, fell 6-0, 6-2, 6-4 Tuesday. 
Chang, a semifinalist in Australia a year ago, will play the winner of Tuesday night's match between No. 2 Andre Agassi and No. 8 Jim Courier. 
Seles, upset at dropping serve to begin the match when Majoli drilled back winners, plunked down in her chair and flung a towel, then vented her frustra­tion by taking the next nine games. 
"The first game I was a little bit lost," she said. "I was ex­pecting a slower pace, and all of a sudden here were these bazookas coming back." 
The only problems she had the rest of the way were the pulled tendon a:nd a little lapse in the final game, when she fended off three break points before drilling a two-fisted forehand winner crosscourt to close her 26th consecutive Australian Open victory. 
"I started losing my serve in the second set, and that started worrying me," Seles said. 
"And also I had two match points in a row, and started serving a little too many dou­ble-faults there. I said, 'Just finish the match, Monica."' 

Summer Internships for Undergraduates The Environmental Research Institute 
ajoint activity of the 
University of Notre Dame and Argonne National laboratory 
in collaboration with the 
Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control 
is pleased to announce acompetition leading to the award of three summer internships at the Argonne National Laboratory for the Summer of 1996 with afollow-on research appointment for the Fall. 
The applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, be enrolled at the University of Notre Dame, must have completed their Junior Year by the Summer of 1996, and must be registered to return in the Fall of 1996. 
For more details please contact the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631-8376 
Deadline for application: March 1, 1996 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
the defensive front. 
With Wynn now returning to join Corey Bennett and Kory Minor, the Irish show much promise on both lines of scrim­mages. 
"Right now, we look great on paper," Chryplewicz offered. "We lose just three starters on offense and maybe only four on defense so we have a lot of people coming back." 
. key Pat Val · ··. a ......;. 
for riding Sunday 
ce -is barred from 
GUllfstJre.ru.rn. Parkuntil he takes. 
?•.~·~~.'4..'"'• drug te~fa,nd expla,il;ts 
it was he submitted ih 
place of a urine sample. ·Yt 
But when that will be is was 
tp);kpown. Monday, b$ca,qs~ 
· (lfficials say they've hl)ett 
for three days to co~:Utct 
zuela. the winner·of the· Kertfucky Derby, Preakness a~dsix Breeder's Cup rae.es. H~ .. hasQ.'t beep·. (lfficially ~qs~ p~U,qed ··.·..· ·· · · · · · · . '"11" Y · · Offici~ls are puzzled at what Valenzuela, 33, submitted Friday in place of a sample of his urine, said track steward Ch~les Ca,mac. ·. The jockey was· escorted to the lavatory by a security guard ior the udne sample. Tests of the sample proved inconclusive, but· track officials couldn't determine that it.was human urine. 


"We might make different ail'angements next time," Camac $aid, without elaborat­ing. 
Valenzuela came to Florida after a string of suspensions and substance-abuse problems in California. He has tested positiVe for cocaine in the past. 
He also has had personal problems this year, iJ;tcluding a separation from his wife and ~he illness Qf his mother, who has cancer. · Gulfstream officials made Valenzuela take a drug test, which he passed Jan. 3, before granting him a license, said state steward Walter Blum. He was also told he will be tested again. He has ridden on 12 of the 18 days of the Gulfstream meeting. 
"He's got a bit of an attitude about it," Blum said. ''I told him he's caused himself a Jot of problems up until now." 
Valenzuela took himself off his mounts three times last week, claiming illness. He was scheduled to ride in three races Saturday and one Sunday. 
"When Halked to him last week, I said, 'Being named on horses and not riding, it does not look good. You're trying to come back and trying to hurt yourself,"' Blum explained. 
Valenzuela was told h~ needs a physician's note and a negative drug test before returning to the track. He has complied with the first order, getting a note from a Key Biscayne doctor. 
Information Session in the Classroom of the Center for Social Concerns 

Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus this summer (June 24 to August 3) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition credit of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Applications are due to Sue Cunningham in the Center for Social Concerns by February 1, so time is critical. See you at the information session for further details and information. 

Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
Hoops 
continued from page 20 
Hyan I louver and forward Pal Carrity to earry the offensive load. llowever, recent perfor­rnarH:es by forward Derrick Manrwr and msnrve Pete Miller have bnen encouraging. 
"Wil'rn gt~Uing a little bit bet­lor in tlw balanee area," said Mael.eod. "WP might be getting to the point whnre we have thrnn or four people in double ligures." 
Thn Irish will also have to avoid letdowns late in the half similar those that have plagued thmn of late. Against both the lloyas and the Scarlet Knights, the Irish have let early leads waste away, and have been forend to go in trailing at the half. 
"We just can't seem to go into thn loeker room on a roll," noted MacLeod. 
page 17 
• fENCING 

Fencers dominate weekend competition 
By WILLIAM BAUER Sports Writer 
N o t r e Dame's fenc­ing teams dominated their compe­tition in the Northwestern 0 p e n January 19­21 to open the season undefeated. The women's team extended its 61-match winning streak by going 8-0 in the round-robin style tourna­ment. Notre Dame over­whelmed all of their opponents, including Long Beach State and Cleveland State, which both fell to the Irish 29-3. 
All questions about youth on the women's team were quickly answered as freshman foilists Myriah Brown, Nicole Mustilli and Sara Walsh cruised in their matches by a combined record of 61-2. Walsh was dominating and ended the weekend with a perfect 20-0 record. Brown and Mustilli notched 19-1 and 22-1 records over the weekend. 
Mustilli said after her first collegiate meet, "I was kind of nervous at the beginning. We weren't really afraid of losing. We're a strong team and confi­dent that we will do better." 
The women's epee team gained similar results to its foil counterparts as it also over­whelmed the competition. Senior captain Claudette de Bruin picked up where she left off at the conclusion of last sea­son by going 18-0 for the meet. Senior Ashley Shannon, 22-6, and freshman Anna Hayes, 21­5, complemented their captain with fme performances. 
Notre Dame's men's teams fenced as well as the women on the weekend as they finished 6­
0. They were challenged by Wayne State on their way to a 16-11 victory, and they had lit­tle trouble dispatching of the University of Chicago, 25-2. 
The men's epee team sorely missed team captain and All­American sophomore Carl Jackson, who is still recovering from an illness. Sophomore Brian Stone stepped into his shoes and ended the weekend meet with an 11-4 record. Teammates Phil Lee and Brice Dille each chipped in with ten victories and came through in the clutch. 


The men's strongest squad, the sabre unit, did not lose a match the whole weekend, go­ing 6-0. Junior captain Bill Lester and freshman Luke LaValle each tallied 13-1 records over the weekend. LaValle was just one freshman that performed well in his first meet. 
Rounding out the competi­tion, junior Jeremy Siek and sophomore John Tejada led the foil team to a 5-1 record. The All-American Siek posted a 12­1 record and Tejada finished 11-4 in his first collegiate meet. Senior Paul Capobianco added eight wins for the Irish. 
"We fenced well enough to win but we will get better. I think some people were ner­vous about their first meet. We should be better for this week­end's meet. It was encouraging that we had an off day but were still able to beat up on other teams," said Tejada. 
Coach Yves Auriol had glow­ing remarks about the teams first meet. 
"It was a typical meet but there was room for improve­ment," he said. "I saw nice things. Our top fencers, the captains, did what I expected them to do. The team will be better in a month. The younger members of the team did well. The men's epee team is young and struggling a bit but they did fine. The spirit of the team was good, very en­thusiastic." 
Notre Dame's next meet is January 27 in the Joyce Center. Among the teams visiting are Chicago, which both teams beat soundly, Ohio State, Purdue and Northwestern. 
The Irish locker room will be a little more empty tonight, as freshman reserve center Phil Hickey did not make the trip as he struggles with a fear of fly­ing . 
"Phil is having difficulty right now dealing with air travel," explained Macleod. "He's working hard to deal with the situation, and our role is to support him in that effort." 

• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Hard work pays off for Belles 
By TRIXIE KELLEHER 
Spons Writer 
After two weeks of intense training, the Saint Mary's Swim and Dive team defeated llillsdale College this past 
Saturday. 
The Belles had been swimming five hours a day over the Christmas break and were ex­

tremely tired Whatley and broken down this weekend, according to the swimmers. They swam events which they don't always swim and were off in their times, but held strong enough to win. 
"I was glad we were able to pull it out and win, given the condition the swimmers were in, said coach Michael Whatley. "They were pretty beaten up and off in their times, but I'm proud that they still managed to keep ahead during the meet." 
The Belles had several good races during the meet. Allison Smith swam the 200 freestyle and the 200 IM back-to-hack and placed first and second re­spectively. 
Tara Tomas won the 100 free, and Sara Gillen placed second. Shannon Kelleher placed second in the 1000 and 500 freestyles despite the fact that she was suffering from flu-like symptoms. 
The divers made a great con­tribution to the win, placing first, second, and third respec­tively. 
"While we didn't swim our best, we had a great time and the win helped bring us closer as a team," said Jen DiJack. "It was a real team bonding expe­rience and should help us men­tally in future meets." 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  
~MACintosh vUNIX WINdows ~t)rainingVM ::s ~ CLASSES BEGIN 17 january 8AND GO THROUGH ~ z22 february 0 0u (f) 1­z w 0 :J 1­ree/non-credit (f)evening classes w ~ for more information and to register use the web: <( www.nd.edu/-stpdemo/register.html 0 w Spring---%prog!m  

Itwas just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your Iife. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summerjob because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportunity employer. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
Where we gofrom here: 

Andersen Consulting will be conducting screening interviews for full-time and internship opportunities on Wednesday, February 7th and Thursday, February 8th. Please see your Placement Office for details. 
~­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S i3ASKHBAU. 


Resolute Belles top Crabtree leads Irish over Vandy 

rival Bethel 76-63 

four, in dismissing their oppo­nents. Hall went one to win her match, 7-5,6-0. Velasco had her match go to three sets, and shil was victorious, 6-4, 2-6, 6­1. 
"The two freshmen are terrif­ic players," stated Crabtree, "They ·both handled their matches well. Both of them are and will be great assets to the team now, and in the future." 
Sophomore Molly Gavin ral­lied back from being down a set and came up victorious, win­ning her umber four singles match, 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the championship. The top dou­bles team of Crabtree and Lord dismissed their opponent, 8-6. The number two doubles team of Gowen and Hall also were victorious in defeating the Commodores, 8-3. 
Only the number six singles and the number three doubles suffered losses at the hands of Vanderbilt. 
The Irish are focusing on their next match against Illinois on Sunday, and hoping that they have the recipe for success this year. 

By STEPHANIE BUEK Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's College bas­ketball team reported to Angela Athletic Facility Jan. 9 for the first practices of the new year with a resolution: The Belles aim was to win 11 of the 13 post-break games. 
Now with a record of 2-1 in 1996 and 6-6 for the season, the team made progress to that end yesterday, as it handled the Bethel College Pilots, 76-63 in a heated cross-town rivalry. 
According to freshman for­ward Sheila Sandine, revenge was the motivation for the teams' win. 
In their two previous meet­ings this season, the squads traded wins, as Saint Mary's beat Bethel in pre-season play. but then suffered a defeat at the hands of the Pilots in their own SMC Roundball Classic. 
"When we scrimmaged them earlier in the season, we killed them," said Sandine, "At the Classic, we were not playing as a team; (Bethel was) more pre­pared for us the second time. Tonight, we are the better team." 
"It is so nice beating the team down the street, " said senior center Barb Howells. "In our last few games, we have really stepped up to our competition. We are finally playing our game." 
The Belles experienced their share of difficulty as they played most of the second half 
DAYTONA BEACH 
ltfj'ihfl!il 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON OESnNATION I BREAK OATES I UNGTH OF STAY. 
1..;,·f3QQ..;..SIJ·NCII-i\.S·E 
TOLL FI1E1f IN~·TION 8. 11ES511\'.TIONS OR SURF OYER TO 0111 WEI SITE At 
with at least three starters sidelined due to fouls. 
Though they led 34-32 at halftime, the Belles were a mere two of two from the free­throw line, compared to the Pilots' 16 of 21. Indeed, with 
13:54 left to play in the game. Sandine left the game with her fourth foul, finally fouling out with just under two minutes to play. Forward Jennie Taubenheim and Howells joined Sandine on the bench with foul trouble. 
However, Head Coach Marv Wood said that such aggression made the Belles the better team. 
"We usually get more fouls than our opponents, but I would rather be aggressive and get more, than be timid," said Wood. 
"It has helped us; we scored a number of times on aggres­sive second touches and getting our hands on the ball." 
Such aggression was evident on both ends of the floor. Led by Taubenheim on offense with 19 points, Saint Mary's had four players in double figures, including guard Nicole Giffin with 11 and forward Julie McGill with 13. 
Defensively, Howells and Sandine grabbed 13 and 7 boards, respectively. 
Looking forward to continu­ing their winning ways, the Belles host Hope College at Angela Athletic Facility Saturday at 2 p.m. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team appears to have discovered the recipe for suc­cess. Using a mix of seniors and freshmen to create a team with loads of talent and lots of potential, the Irish have risen to a number 15 ranking in the Intercollegiate Tennis Association poll. 
This ranking was put to the test this weekend while playing in the Federated Insurance Court Classic. After the team claimed a semifinal victory in the tournament over Baylor, thye edged no. 17 Vanderbilt in the finals, 5-4. 
The championship can be at­tributed to the combination of seniors Wendy Crabtree, Holyn Lord and freshmen Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco, who all came through with wins in tight matches throughout the tournament. 
The Irish defeated the Bears, 7-1 in the semifinals. Crabtree and Lord both were double winners in their semifinals matches. 
Crabtree was a vital part of this victorious recipe. She defi­nitely showed signs of recovery in one of her first matches this year. Crabtree, who plays no. 1 singles, won the match in three sets, 6-0,3-6,6-4. 
"It felt good to win this one," stated Crabtree, "It was the first match that I had played in awhile due to my injury in the fall." 
Crabtree combined with the 
two freshmen, Hall at number 
three singels and Velasco at 
GAME NIGHT-BRING A FEW FRIENDS, SIT BACK, RELAX, PLAY SOME OF YOUR FAVORITE GAMES! EUCHRE, SPADES, HEARTS, POKER, MONOPOLY, CHESS, ETC. JAZZMANS WILL PROVIDE CARDS AND BOARDS IF YOU COME WITHOUT! FREE ADMISSION. 
TUESDAYS 
OPEN D.J. NIGHT-BRING YOUR FAVORITE CDS OR TAPES. JAZZMANS PROVIDES THE CD PLAYER, TAPE PLAYER, AND MICROPHONE! FREE ADMISSION. 
WEDNESDAYS FREE COLLEGE BIRTHDAY NIGHT! BRING/INVITE 50 OR MORE FRIENDS, JAZZMANS PROVIDES THE FREE CAKE, BALLOONS, CANDLES, & MUSIC FOR YOUR PARTY. BIRTHDAY MUST BE WITHIN 5 DAYS OF PARTY. 233-8505 TO RESERVE YOUR DATE. RESTRICTED TO 21 AND OVER. 
For info on daily food and drink specials, 

COLLEGE NIGHT-LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PROVIDED BY SOME OF THE HOTTEST CAMPUS BANDS AND THE HOTTES DJ'S. RESTRICTED TO 21 AND OVER $3.00 ADMISSION WITH COLLEGE ID-$5.00 WITHOUT 
FRIDAYS&SATURDAYS OPEN PARTY NIGHT-BOTH DANCE FLOORS OPEN UNTIL 3:00A.M. RESTRICTED TO 21 AND OVER WITH PROPER I.D.S 
HOLD YOUR SPECIAL COLLEGE PARTY OR DANCE AT JAZZMAN'S FOR INFO ON RENTAL CALL lJJ-8505 
and entertainment schedule call: 233-8505 
Doors open: Mon-Sat 4pm. to 3am. • FREE MUNCHIES & STUDY BOOTH AVAILABLE 
NO'YRt: DAJVlt:
IT'S PARTY .g*'"IME. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Thursday, Jan. 25 • 3:30p.m. • 
h~R~h~t5 
NOTRE DAME 
vs. 

h~R~ho..:Z3 
MINNESOTA 
Sunday, Jan. 28 • noon • 
h~R~h~t5 
NOTRE DAME 
VS. 
B«j Cad lUod 
MIAMI 



'Tuesday, January 23, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
-


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE ing discoveries while working on NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A your own. YIPs may want to get in financial situation improves thanks on them. Protect your ideas. The to your hard work. Take the time to future looks brighter than ever. think things through. Do not get dis­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A couraged if professional jealousies good day to expand on a dream occasionally slow progress. Eventu­plan. Family members and friend' ally you will emerge on top, receiv­are supportive. An agreement grows ing applause from friends and com­more useful with each step you take petitors alike! Good luck favors ba~ed on shared infonnation. those engaged in real estate deals. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ana­Count on romance to heat up as lyze new trends carefully. Snap Thanksgiving approaches. Try to judgments tend to be offhasc. Post­accommodate the wishes of your pone travel and concentrate on pro­romantic partner"s family. jects already underway. You need to CELEBRITIES BORN ON keep personal spending to a mini­THIS DAY: actor Richard Dean mum. Anderson. dancer Chita Rivera. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): actress Jeanne Moreau. Dodgers Highhanded methods or a fierce atti­coach Joe Amalfitano. tude will make loved ones draw ARIES (March 21-April 19): away from you. '"Live and let live Holding the purse strings too tightly means leaving elbow room for the could be self-defeating in the long other person too. Be willing to com­run. Take a well-calculated risk. promise on minor points. Your personal relationships become SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. more harmonious when you find 21 ): Do a good day's work by mak­creative ways to communicate your ing the most of innovative methods feelings. or a clever financial set-up. Being TAURUS (April 20-May 20): well-organized saves you valuable Your patience and persistence begin time. Spending the evening with that to pay off. Show tlair when making special someone helps you unwind. home improvements or entertain­CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. ment plans. A new exercise regimen 19): Do not let a family dispute dis­hegins to click. You will soon feel integrate into an emotional scene. A and look much better. financial matter requires careful GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Let thought. If everyone cools down. it your leadership qualities surface. will be easier to find a solution. Others will be amazed by the "new" AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): you. You learn by doing. Previously Pent-up energies can now be closed doors open. An older person released to your credit and advan­becomes your mentor. tage. All you have to do is join the CANCER (June 21-July 22): right team. You will learn some­Your upbeat "can-do" attitude finds thing important from playing a 'ub­favor at work. Taking creative ordinate role for a change. chances pays off. Artistic self­PISCES tFeb. 19-March 20): Do expression is a must. An optimistic not shrug your shoulders in defeat. mood could tempt you to splurge. Instead. seize the initiative and LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be make up for lost time! Step on the patient when people disagree with gas in arts and crafts. Creative pur­you. You could make some fascinat­suits can be highly prolitablc. • OF INTEREST Raimo Vayrynen. Professor of Government and International Studies, Regan Director, will give a lec­ture in the Joan b. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, this afternoon at 4:15 p.m. In the University of Notre Dame Seminar Room C-103 enti­tled "Environmental Conflicts: Causes and Remedies". The Wrestling Club will hold practices tonight, tomorrow night, and Thursday from 7 p.m. until 8:30 at the JACC Wrestling Room in preparation fol' the Ed.inborough Open on February 20th.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Chicken & Dumplings Cheese Enchilada Garden Quiche Whipped Potatoes Hilda's Mexican Rice Spanish Vegetable Medley Saint Mary's Grilled Chicken Gyros Vegetarian Souvlaki Garlic Roasted Potatoes  
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad.  

DILBERT SCOTI ADAMS 
r-------------------------~ur-------------------------~ 1'1''\ INVENTlNG A NEW 8 ~ 50, 'l'OU'RE PITTING '1'0UR > ~ 
WHAT DID YOU KNOW 

TW-\NOLOGY TO Pf\EVE.NT ~ lNTE.LLIGE.NCE. AGAINST ~ 
IS '1'0UR 
T~AT IF YOU PUT 

KID!> FROM SEE.ING SMUT ~ THE COLLECTIVE. 5E.X DRIVE ~ 
POINil' 

A LITTLE 1-\1\T ON ON 11-\E INTERNET. ~ OF 1\Ll THE TEENAGERS l 
A SNOWBALL IT 

~---.~ 
~~~~--~~--~~L_~~~~~~~~ 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 34 Belief 64 Premed course: 37 More 
Abbr.

1 Type of novel inexperienced 
&5 Hillbilly's belt 38 Mighty bit 
5 Knucklehead 
9 Continuing 
66 "The Hobbit" thought 40 Cut off 
hero 14 Greek Mars 42 Mt. Etna flow 
67 Frank Herbert 
15 "--Rebel" 
43 Mt. Everest sci-fi novel 
(1962 song) 
locale 16 Vacillate 
68 Mayberry boy 
45 Stitched 17 Harangue &9 Ale vessel 
47 Matter at court 
18 MTV prizes 48 Abandon one's 10 Nostradamus,19 Old toy principles for e.g. 
company money 11 Shirt20 Wyoming's so Hawk measurement
motto 52 One, to Hans
23 Postal worker's path: Abbr. 53 String quartet 
DOWN

member24 Pick on 
25 "--. Brute?" 55 Drum site 1 Bell the cat 27 Bank (on) 57 Arizona's motto 2 Gulf war foe 30 Skyline sight 
62 Say abruptly, 3 Carte du jour 33 Language suffix with"out" 
4 Probate concern 5 Party picker-upper, 

.. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
maybe &Some jeans 1 Plains Indian 27--list 44 2,240 pounds 55 Declines 
a Recipe amount 28 First name in 46 Takeout shop 56 Touched down &Chubby cosmetics 58 Root beer brand 
49 Grp. that puts Checker, for one 

29 Arkansas's the show on the 59 Rhode Island's .,.._,:,.+:=+=::-+::=+=:+.7f'!'l~ 10 "It--to Be motto, with road motto
-:-: You" 
"The" 
51 Wrinkle-resistant 60 Not just an 30 Brunswick, e.g. fabric ordinary novel 

31 Carpenter's tool 53 Trial's locale 61 Dig for 12 Entree, often 
32 Clear a cassette 54 Ludicrous 63 Slugger's stat 13--Stanley 
35 Snuggery
Gardner 36 Morn's opposite 
Get answers to any three clues

-'=+-"+~;,.t 21 Pre-Easter time 39 French Sudan, 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

-:-t:+.=+::'-i 22 Hanoi holiday today 
5656 (75¢ each minute).

__.__.__._....... 26 Dabbling duck 41 Newsperson 
..............................~~~:::.::. 
:............. 
. 
• ::;~;~:~:;:;: :::-·: ··.·. •• Co-Ree Volleyball •
············•····•·•················c~·rta·pti·;·······FI··~·or HockeyGrad/Fac/Staff Volleyball 
• (;ampus.. lndoor~§occer •
• IH Team Racquetball •
•
• Campus Racquetball Doub ~~~~~~~l;~~~'"················· 
.........-,.,-······lto.I!Mq ac~~~lntt)n•· Doubles
•
•
•
•
• 
ENTRIES BEGIN: JRN~ 11
•
•
•
• 
DEADLINE: JAN. 24
• 
631-6100 

-
SPORTS 

page 20 Tuesday, January 23, 1996 
1996 team strengthened by bevy of fifth year seniors 

Chryplewicz, Wynn among those returning 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 
For quite awhile, the Notre Dame football program has been pointing to the 1996 sea­son as the year for a legitimate run at the national champi­onship if all the pieces fall into place. 
Three of the more important parts are now in place as tight end Pete Chryplewicz. defen­sive end Renaldo Wynn and guard Jeremy Akers are among those who will be returning to the Irish for a fifth year. 
In addition, reserve lineback­ers and special teamers Joe Babey and Bill Wagasy, along with tight end Kevin Carretta are also expected to return. 
·Chryplewicz and Wynn are of particular importance to Irish fortunes next season, as both the tight end and defensive line positions are very thin. Now, with both players in the fold, potential liabilities are now ar­eas of strength. 

Senior guard Dusty Zeigler had the option of joining the group of returnees but opted not to exercise his fifth year. Already married and a safe bet to go in the first few rounds of the draft, the 6-foot-5, 299 
1·gg··a IR·1·SH
J ::.r :."·'"'' ...•.r .•''.. J .. ·....···· .. 

Fo,,AT····B··ALL 
. '·'" i .... ,{ ..;·· ... ·. > : •...•. · 
pound Zeigler could not pass up what the NFL had to offer. 
Chryplewicz, on the other hand, felt it was in his best in­terest to stay for one more year. 
"I talked it over with the coaches and we tried to predict where I'd go in the draft," ex­plained Chryplewicz, who had 21 catches on the year. 
"From what I gathered, it probably wouldn't be in the first few rounds. So it makes sense to stay and move up. I'll have my degree (Marketing) so that wasn't a factor. I look at it as a chance to get started on my M.B.A. and maybe win a national championship." 
In addition, the Sterling Heights, MI native will have the opportunity to expand his game. 
"I hope I become a primary receiver," Chryplewicz said. "I proved this year that I'm a de­pendable receiver so maybe I can be the go-to-guy. 
"With the three and four wide-out sets Coach Holtz is looking to use more of, that should open things up. But I'll be just as happy blocking." 
As will Akers. 
Sidelined by a torn ACL early this past season, most assumed Akers would be returning. A starter in 1994, the Washington, D.C. native will likely assume one of the vacant guard spots, leaving just one starting spot on the offensive line up for grabs. 
The same situation exists on 
see SENIORS I page 16 


Irish look to start Big East win streak 
Miami unlikely to be a vacation for mens squad 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Midwinter in South Bend is an unfailingly bleak time of year. However, the Notre Dame men's basketball team
• will be unlikely to find Miami any more hospitable. The Irish look to add to their sole Big East victory when they visit the Hurricanes tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Miami Arena, a venue that has been less than friendly to visitors of late. 
.. Miami enters tonights con­test at 9-6 overall and only 3-4 in the Big East, but those three conference victories have all come at home, including recent upsets of Syracuse and Pittsburgh. 
This poses problems for the Irish, who have struggled mightily on the road this sea­son. Notre Dame is 0-4 in the conference away from the Joyce Center, including a diffi­cult stretch in early January that included losses at Villanova, Boston College, and Pittsburgh. 
Coming off their first confer­ence victory over Rutgers this weekend, tonight's game looms large as a means of keeping momentum, which is an important factor to confer­ence success. 
"It is a key for us to under­stand (that no matter who the opponent) you can't have a major dropoff," stated Irish coach John MacLeod. "After a tremendous effort, you have to come back four days later and do it over again." 
A good deal of the Irish effort will be spent attempting to contain the Hurricanes' leading scorer, senior forward Steven Edwards, who is com­ing off consecutive 20-point efforts. 
Edwards is by no means a one-man show, however, being complemented by the quartet of Clifton Clark, Alex Fraser, Tim James, and Steve Rich, all of whom average over seven points per contest. James, a freshman, has already had a remarkable impact, having garnered Big East Rookie of the Week hon­ors twice this season. 
Achieving such balance is a goal for MacLeod, who has had to rely primarily on guard 
see HOOPS I page 17 

Petrucelli nabs coaching award 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
While the women's soccer team will be seeking their sec­ond straight national champi­onship next season, head coach Chris Petrucelli has now al­ready won back-to-hack awards. 
For the second consecutive season, Petrucelli has been honored by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America as its 1995 NCAA Division I Women's Coach of the Year. 
During the 1995 campaign, Petrucelli directed the women's soccer team to a 21-2-2 mark and their first ever national ti­tle. 
Picking up his second straight trophy for the mantelpiece caught the sixth-year coach a little off guard due to the award's history. 
"I was a little bit surprised," he said. "No one's ever won it two years in a row." 
Petrucelli also recognized what this honor said about his championship squad. 
"I was certainly excited about winning it," he added. "When you win something like this, the award is a reflection on the team." 
In addition to the national recognition, Petrucelli has re­ceived praise from various cir­cles since the historic weekend in North Carolina. 
"The reception has been 

tremendous," he noted. "So many people have come up to me and said congratulations. A lot of people were on our side. It didn't seem that way when we were down there, but we really did have a lot if support." 
In 1994, Petrucelli initially won the award after the Irish finished the regular season ranked No. 1 and made it to their first ever NCAA final. The Women's Coach of the Year has now compiled a 107-16-8 dur­ing his era at Notre Dame, while leading the Irish to three consecutive post-season ap­pearances. 
*** 
Last week midfielder Holly Manthei and defender Kate Sobrero were honored as Women Collegiate MVPs by the editorial staff of Soccer America. The two sophomores 
see COACH I page 16 


Women's soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli was named Division I coach of the year by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America for the second straight year. 
• Women's tennis wins tournament 
Men's Basketball 
Hockey 
see page 18 at Miami, Tonight 
vs. Army, January 26-27, 7:00p.m.

SPORTS 
• Fencers continue winning ways 
Women's Basketball 
SMC Sports 

at a 
vs. St. John's, January 24, 7:00 p.m. 

Basketball vs. Hope January 27 
see page 17 2:00p.m. 
• Saint Mary's hoops top Bethel see page 18
GLANCE 






