


Wednesday, September 11, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 13 
THE INDEPENDENT' NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Off-campus housing cracks down on drinking 
Senate sponsors 

'Bike Day' 

By KATE JACQUES 
News Writer 
Each day, students and fac­ulty from Notre Dame and Saint Mary•s College are encouraged to take an active part in environmental preser­vation. 
Today, the Faculty Senate's Pedestrian & Bikeways Committee .emphasizes this concern through its semi­annually sponsored "Bike or Walk to Campus Day." 
The purpose of this event is to motivate both off-campus students and facuJty to use a different and often forgotten art of transportation. 
Many campus organizations are involved in assisting dur­ing the event. From 7 a.m. until 5:30 p.m., Notre Dame Security will supervise a fac­ulty "bike corral" in front of DeBartolo Hall. University Food Services will serve com­plimentary coffee, juice, and bagels to the participants, who are also eligible to win a free drawing for a bicycle hel­met. 
' · Committtfe Chairman Kern Trembath is expecting a large turnout for the event. The Pedestrian & Bikeways Committee would like to advo­cate such environmentally conscious means of trans­portation year round, Trembath said. However, weather in South Bend pre­vents this particular promo~ tion from occurring more than twice a year. 
The high number of both faculty and students who joined in the activity last year, as well as cooperative weath­er, give this year's committee high expectations for the event, Trembath added. 
"Bike or Walk to Campus Day" provides an opportunity for the University of Notre Dame to work closely with city officials, Trembath said. 
·Recently, South Bend mayor Joseph Kernan officially des­
see BIKE I page 4 

By HEATHER COCKS 
Associare News Ediror 
The Fall 1996 semester has barely commenced, and already a number of ofT-campus parties have drawn the attention of both security guards and the police, who have not hesitated to break up and report them. 
The events have left tenants pondering the all-important question: Can residents have parties? 
Of course they can. 

Included in the Party Guidelines for Turtle Creek Apartments, the answer to that question embodies one of the greatest temptations for stu­
dents  who  are  deciding  
whether or n ot to  move  off­ 
campus.  

On paper. it sounds ideal: No 



University plant meets EPA standards 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associare News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame has taken steps to cor­rect a violation of the Clean Air Act by modifying the flawed boilers in the Notre Dame Power Plant. 
In January 1996, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) formally informed the University of three boilers that failed a series of stack tests conduct­ed between February 1991 and July 1995. In addition, sulfur dioxide emissions were deemed excessive. 
"We tested the boilers about three weeks ago, and they passed successfully," said Dennis Brown, assistant director of public relations at Notre Dame. Director of Public Relations Dennis Moore concurred, "In terms of emissions, they are in compliance with the regula­tions." 
Both Moore and Brown allowed that this is only the first step in resolving the sit­uation. "We are in the process of writing to the EPA, telling them how we view the situation and informing them of the modi­fications we've made," 
Saint Mary's battles dining hall crowds 
By ANN KEARNS 
News Writer 
In the middle of the day, hungry students at Saint Mary's may need to wait up to twenty minutes just to enter the dining hall, let alone select food, sit down and eat. 
Lunch hour at Saint Mary's, particularly on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays between noon and 1 p.m., is no longer a time of relaxation, but a time filled with tension due to the volume of students wanting to eat at this time. 
"When you only have one half hour of spare time a day, you don't want to waste 29 minutes of it standing in line for the dining hall food," junior Lisa Towner commented. Other Saint Mary's students 
parietals, no rectors, and surely no restrictions. 
Off-campus apartment com­plexes do, however, have rules governing parties on the premises, and they are not just there for show; they are enforced. 
"We provide guidelines to all our tenants," said Beth Hoffman, manager of Turtle Creek Apartments. "The com­pany that owns the complex is just trying to protect its invest­ment." 
Though Hoffman maintains that she does not expect the tenants to refrain from party­ing, "we will be a bit tougher when it comes to the noise level." 
A clause in the list of guide­lines requests that the volume of the music be monitored; if explains Brown. 
Frequent correspondences are standard EPA procedure, Moore notes, despite the fact that emissions are currently at safe levels. "We've found an immediate solution. Whether this will be suffi­cient in the long term, the EPA will decide. They may recommend further adjust­ments to our boilers." 
EPA officials calculated that the stack emissions could have passed the dis­charge limit by 400 tons of particle matter per year; with the sulfur dioxide emis­sions exceeding the limit by 500 tons per year. 
Moore reaffirmed an earli­er statement that such a sce­nario would only have occurred if all boilers had been running at full capacity for the course of a year. "That is extremely unlikely," he said. 
Brown was optimistic about the condition of the plant. "These things do take time," he said, referring to the communicative process with the EPA. "However, any additional modifications that may be required don't change the fact that right now, all the boilers are oper­ating safely." 

agree that the dining hall dur­ing the noon hour is beyond busy; it's stressful. They run to get a table, run to get in line, and push their way through to the conveyer. Lis Sonneveld, a St. Mary's sophomore, said that she must "try to get in as soon as [she] can or else [she] waits and is looking for a table forever." 
The dining hall staff has also adjusted its typical routine to accommodate the large amount of students. Kevin Kirwan, director of Dining Services, and Thelma Walker, dining hall manager, started by tr.acking the amount of people entering the dining hall at cer­tain times. On Monday, Sept. 9, 200 students entered before noon, and between noon and 
12:20 p.m., 400 more students 
Drying 



~1fart~~~;
"/ 

you cannot hear the person who is speaking to you, turn it down. "That decibel level is fine in a bar, but not in a residential community," according to HotTman. 
A similar list given to Campus View residents requires that "no activities occurring in your apartment draw attention to your apartment or to the Campus View property." Manager Julie Rodriguez noted, "People are forgetting their regulations. They're aware of noise restrictions, but their memories are getting short." 
entered, according to Walker. The dining hall seats approxi­mately 580 people. 
Part of the blame for this mass of students can be placed on the class schedule changes that have taken place this semester. The College offers only a few courses between noon and 1 p.m. They are pri­marily taught by part-time fac­ulty who felt the lunch hour would be the most convenient time to hold their class, according to Lorraine Kitchner, Saint Mary's regis­trar. 
Additionally, Monday­Wednesday-Friday classes start on the hour as opposed to staggered times throughout the day as in past semesters. This creates a common break for all students. 
This could have been the cat­alyst for a memo that will reportedly be delivered today to all Campus View residents. The memo states that if a party has more than 10 attendees, it is considered sufficient provoca­tion for the police to put an end to the gathering. 
"That is ridiculous," com­mented senior Mike Buhrfiend, a Campus View resident. "We spent three years in the dorm with tons of rules, now we're finally off-campus and we're getting the same thing." 
No one from the management staff at Campus View was avail­able for comment. 
College Park Condominiums announced on Sept. 4 that any parties in the apartments are forbidden, with stern conse­quences and a possible eviction 
Discussions about changing the class schedule arose last year when the University of Notre Dame decided to alter their schedule. Although Saint Mary's did not adopt the same time schedule, the school did adjust the schedule making it easier on those students who are taking classes at both insti­tutions. 
In addition to tracking the amount of people entering the dining hall, Kirwan has increased his staff during lunch time. One area in partic­ular that needed an extra worker was the conveyor. Students waiting to dispose of their trays become so frustrat­ed that they often leave them on their tables. Kirwan saw this problem occurring, so he 
see DINING I page 4 

for anyone caught violating the new rule. 
An August 24, a party was broken up at College Park; fol­lowing that, the rules were tightened and, in the opinion of residents, made too restrictive. 
Ross Ramunno, a resident of that complex, contends that the party in late August was merely crowded, neither noisy nor pop­ulated by underage drinkers. 
"We received no party guide­lines, even though we've lived here since June," Ramunno stated. "We had louder parties than that one, and were never notified of any problems or objections...no warnings. Suddenly we're threatened with eviction." 
"We're afraid of [eviction], so 
see ALCOHOL I page 4 

Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Honoring 
a 


Memory 
On July 17, 1996, the Notre Dame community and Farley Hall in particu­lar suffered a blow that many would feel they are too young to experience: the death of a friend. 

Patty Kwiat, a would-be senior at Notre Dame and in Farley this year, lost her life in the explo­sion of TWA flight 800 en route to Paris on that day. 
Last night, friends and acquaintances gath­ered in the chapel of the dorm to honor her memory and share each other's sorrow. 
For those who knew her, and even those who didn't, it was a time to begin healing, both through laughter and through tears. 
For many, it may be their first experience with the death of someone they were close to. But even for those who have experienced a loss before, the tragedy is all the harder to swallow due to '>O many unanswered ques­tions. 
Memories of Patty were shared among the group, recognizing her sweetness, her lovable "no worries" attitude, her enthusiasm for almost everything, as well as her hearty sense of humor and humorous escapades. 
She was always in a good mood. She was always ready to go out. She was always there to pick up a friend who was feeling down. 
Right now, remembering Patty Kwiat is still gut wrenching -a memory will float into mind and then the realization that she is gone hits like a punch in the stomach. 
Remembering causes tears, although bro­ken by sobbing laughter at Patty's hilarious antics. 
Remembering causes anger -anger at God, anger at terrorism that seemingly took her life, anger at the world in general for taking a life that touched so many others, who shared so much of herself, who enjoyed life so unabashedly. 
Remembering Patty's death can evoke all of these feelings and emotions, but how can remembering her life possibly elicit the same responses? In Patty, there was no anger, no bitterness and no sadness (aside from her homesickness freshman year). 
Patty was the face beaming at you as you walked down the hallway, even if she did not know your name. And she did seem to know almost everyone's name. 
Her eyes were so intriguing. . . wide and beautiful. They looked almost gray until a smile caused them to explode with color and character. 
Her laugh carried down the hall and around the corner and could light up any room, even from so far away. 
Despite the circumstances surrounding her death, Patty's memory still brings life to us all. Although it hurts now, remembering Patty cannot be a bitter experience. 
The realization that someone so young and full of energy and dreams lost her life is hard to accept, but from her memory can only come life. 
We are all better ofT for having known her or even known of her. Her friends need only think of how their lives would be different had they never known her. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TOilAY'S STAFF 
News 
Matr Loughran 

Jillian Pagliocca Production 
Belle Bautista 
Sports John Hutchinson 
Kathleen Lopez 

Brian F remeau Lab Tech 
Brandon Candura 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Trial over same-sex unions begins ir1 Hawaii 
HONOLUL The case is being closely 
Three years after Hawaii' watched around the country. Supreme Court all but decl Because the U.S. Constitution the state's ban on gay mar requires to states to recognize riages unconstitutional, th each other's laws, gay mar-debate over whether to reco riages performed in Hawaii nize homosexual union might well be recognized in returned to the courtroo other states as well. today. In fact, the trial opened just 
"A child raised by his or her as the U.S. Senate gave final biological parents has a congressional approval to the opportunity for development,' Defense of Marriage Act, said Deputy Attorney General which would bar federal Rick Eichor in his openin recognition of same-sex mar-statement in the civil trial riages and allow states to do "This is not a case of gay-bash the same. President Clinton in g." has said he will sign the legis-
Dan Foley, attorney for the lation. three gay couples who sued the The trial comes three years state for denying them mar after the state Supreme Court riage licenses, countered that touched off a political, reli­there's no way to prove a child~~~~~~~!!!......-------------~gious and social furor when it 
raised by same-sex parents would be any worse ofT. 
"Today in Hawaii a law-abiding, taxpaying couple of the same sex cannot marry,'' Foley said. "A convicted murderer serving a.life term in prison can get n1arried." Two of the couples he represents were in court today. 
Music company silences "Dole Man" 
WASHINGTON 
The music company that owns "Soul Man" doesn't want the rhythm and blues hit turned into "Dole Man" and may seek damages to the tune of $100,000 per play from Bob Dole's campaign. Rondor Music International Inc. has written Dole, complaining the Republican's campaign theme song, "Dole Man," violated its copyright to 

the 1967 song written by David Porter and Isaac Hayes for the duo Sam and Dave. "Dole Man" mimics the "Soul Man" refrain: ''I'm a Dole man ... I'm a Dole man." The campaign has played "Dole Man" at rallies for months, including the Republican National Convention in San Diego. Parodies are protected from copyright lawsuits but Mary Lee Ryan, vice president of business affairs for Rondor, said, "I don't think he's making fun of himself and I don't think he's making fun of the song." In an Aug. 29 letter, which claimed unauthorized use of the tune "is tantamount to theft," Rondor set a Friday deadline for the Dole campaign to respond before the Los Angeles­based company takes action. 
Cadet eliminates "unclean" reminder 
DALLAS 
An Air Force Academy cadet reportedly told police he killed a 16-year-old girl because their one-time fling was an "unclean act" that enraged his fiancee and threat­ened the "purity" of their relationship. The cadet, David Graham, is charged along with his fiancee, Diane Zamora, an 18-year-old midshipman at the U.S. Naval Academy, in the slaying of Adrianne Jones. The 16-year­old was found beaten with weights and shot Dec. 4 in Grand Prairie. According to authorities, Graham's fiancee ordered him to kill Miss Jones after Graham admitted having sex with the younger woman in a car parked behind a school. Graham told police in a statement that he "convinced myself that Diane was even worth murder. After Diane gave me the ultimatum, I thought long and hard about how to carry out the crime. I was stupid, but I was in love," The Dallas Morning News reported Tuesday. "Well, Diane's beautiful eyes have always played the strings of my heart effortlessly," he said. Graham's lawyer said police coerced him into making the statement. 
said the state's ban on gay marriages is unconstitutional unless the government can show a compelling interest in keeping it. 
Whatever the outcome of the trial in Circuit Court, the fight will return to the Supreme Court on appeal. 
Vampire game leader convicted 
VIRGINIA BEACH 

A man was convicted of biting and sexually molesting eight teen-age girls as part of a vampire game. The girls testified that Jon C. Bush taught them a game in which he played the leader of a family of ancient vampires. The girls were told they could become vampires by having sex with him or by letting him "mark" them by biting them hard, usually just below the breasts. The girls, 13 to 16 when Bush met them, sometimes painted their faces white and their lips and fingernails black for excursions to malls or the oceanfront. Bush often wore snap-on fangs and would walk with his hands folded in an X across his chest. The 27 -year-old air-conditioner repair­man was found guilty by a judge of charges including crimes against nature, indecent liberties and contributing to the delinquency of a minor. He could get more than 100 years in prison at sentencing "Nov. 26. The girls said Bush told them he drained energy from people through sexual contact. "He said it was a form of feeding," said a girl who was 14 when she met Bush. Defense attorney Linda Mitchell said that the girls made up the story and that some didn't come forward until they saw news reports about the case. 
Movable feast: hoppers invade West 
CARSON, N.D. 

Dan Stewart planted corn and wheat. What he's ended up with is 700 acres of grasshoppers. On his farm south of Carson, an insect infestation of horror-movie propor­tions has left almost nothing growing. Fields are as bar­ren as in midwinter. The garden is destroyed. The grasshoppers have even nibbled holes in the trampoline. They're stripping the trees of foliage in a part of the country where trees are a precious commodity, and have already killed the pines. Neighbors say they've seen the insects eating dead rodents and snakes. In neighbor Russell Woodbury's "hopper field," grasshoppers have eaten every bit of the corn: kernels, silk, even stalks. "When they get hungry, they'll eat anything," said Tim Becker, the North Dakota State University extension agent for Grant County. The grasshoppers have multi­plied thanks to "great egg-laying weather" -hot and dry, said Keith Winks, North Dakota state plant health director for the U.S. Department of Agriculture. He said another hot, dry summer could spread the bugs to Idaho, Oregon and Washington. 
• INDIANA WEATHliR • NATiONAl WEATHER 
S Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather*forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 11. 
Lines separate high temperature mnes for the day. 
\ 
~!?.:i'~ 

ltl~i:'~l
,,... ' 

•.····· 
' ·:~ 

Wednesday~, 9 · 57fj Thursday ~-r73' s:t Friday 
69 50 
Saturd~y ~ ~68 49 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
~.::c ?;. ;. ~· .· 
C 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
PressuiB 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUCJY CLOUCJY

Sundl1~~P J~~ ~SJl 

Atlanta  87  66  Columbus  75  58  New Orleans 91  69  
Baltimore  81  63  Dallas  91  65  New Yort  75  67  
Boston  67  62  Denver  79  51  Philadelphia 80  64  
Caribou  64  47  Los Angeles 82  66  PhoeniK  99  78  
Chicago  69  53  Minneapolis 66  48  St. Louis  75  58  

Graphics Chris Mullins 


~~~c;O~~ (f ~ c:::1
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ..: ..; .·:·· .;: ---
Showsrs T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during cum and vacation periods. Th~ Observer is a m~mber of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs arc reserved. 

Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
Playing Tigger 


B · The Observer I Katie Kroener 
.ou~dmg towards the finish line at the Big Brothers/Big Sisters p1cmc y~sterday, at Potawatomi Zoo in South Bend, Notre Dame and Samt Marys students competed with their "s!blings" in a sack race. 



The Observer • NEWS page 3 New University finance office, director named 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has formed a new Office of Finance and University Budgeting, according to Scott C. Malpass, associate vice president for finance and t h e University's chief invest­ment officer. 
Malpassannounced Sejdinaj the appoint­ment of_ John A. Sejdinaj, for­merly dtrector of fixed income and cash management in the Upiversity's Investment Office as the first director of the finance and budgeting office. "The increasing complexity of the University's $400 million operating budget, combined with ambitious academic and student life initiatives, requires a professionally staffed budget office to coordinate the collec­tion and dissemination of fin an­cial information to academic and administrative depart­ments," Malpass said. "The Office o~ Fina~ce and University Budgetmg wtll play a critical role in the reengineering of bud­get processes and systems to better support the development of operating and capital budgets throughout the University. "John's work in the Investment Office has been superb, and I know that he will continue to develop innovative and creative financial solutions in assisting the trustees and offi­cers of the University in meeting 


institutional priorities." . Prior to joining the University m August 1994, Sejdinaj was a vice. president with First Chicago Capttal Markets, Inc .• the invest­me!'lt banking subsidiary of First Chtcago Corporation. In this capacity, he marketed and structured financing for educa­tional, cultural and health-care clients throughout the Midwest. 
A certified cash manager. he earned a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1981 and a mas­ter's of business administration (MBA) in finance from DePaul University in 1984. 
In conjunction with Sejdinaj's promotion, Malpass has made four other promotions and appointments in the Investment Office. 
D?na.ld H. Fehrs, formerly semor mvestment analyst. will replace Sejdinaj as an invest­ment director responsible for fixed income investments and investments for a variety of spe­cial situations such as energy and commodities. Before joining the Investment Office staff in May 1995, Fehrs was an assis­tant professor of finance and business economics in Notre Dame's College of Business Administration. 
M_ich~el R. Ridenour, formerly semor mvestment analyst, has been promoted to an investment director with responsibility for real estate investments an increasingly prominent pa~t of the University's endowment portfolio. Ridenour was a sales associate with Coldwell Banker Comm~rcial in Washington prior to corrung to Notre Dame in July 1991. 

& READ THIS (ALL MAJORS) 
Interested in the Following? 
• International Internship Opportunities 
Last summer we had over 45 interns in more than 15 countries. Intern with these firms: Citibank, Waterford 
;.Crystal, Honeywell, KPMG, Market Access, IBM, Heinz and more...  cities: Dublin, Prague, London, Santiago,  
Frankfurt and more...  
•  Conducting International Market Research & Consulting  
•  Teaching English and Business in Developing Countries  :.uch a:.: Estonia, Honduras, Lithuania, and Poland  
•  Meeting Leaders in Education, Business, and Government from across the Globe  
Find it all in the  
Council on International Business Development,  

the University's largest academic student organization. Find out what we're all about. Come to our Open Meeting, TONIGHT Sept. 11, DeBartolo 101 at 7:30pm. We welcome all majors and all classes. 
THE WORLD IS WAITING! 
~--~ 
page 4 Wednesday, September 11, 1996
The Observer • NEWS 



Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
we're not having any more par­ties. It might not make for a great year;" lamented one of Ramunno's roommates. 
Hoffman expressed concern about crowd size at Turtle Creek parties, stating, "When it's really big, you never know who is there and what they're doing. You're bound to get damage, as well as people gen­erally doing what they shouldn't." 
Both Turtle Creek and Campus View require that ten­ants be responsible for all guests, whether they know them personally or not. For this reason, Hoffman feels that "it is to their benefit that they 
,• restrict the crowds." Jim Belford, a student at Holy Cross College and a Turtle Creek resident, expressed little concern for noise and crowded parties on weekends. "During the week, if it's 10 people or less, it's fine, but if it's out in 
massive amounts of people, then it would become a prob­lem," he clarified. 
Both factors contributed to the break-up of a Campus View party this past weekend. "They're definitely coming down on parties right now," said Buhrfiend. "Last weekend, the guard called the police, who broke up the party and reported it." The tenants responsible were given a warn­ing, and it is unclear whether the University will become involved. 
Noteworthy in its omission•. the guidelines for Turtle Creek do not include a specific ban on underage drinking on the 
premises; Campus View regula­tions directly prohibit minors from consuming alcohol on the 
premises. 
Hoffman insists that residents of Turtle Creek adhere to the regulations, but she says they were designed while keeping in mind that the majority of ten­ants are college students. "I think they're [College Park] being a bit too strict," she said. 
_ "You have to work with your 

the breezeway and there are ( clientele. If you want students 

Bike 
continued from page 1 
ignated a half mile worth of bike lanes in the city in order to encourage residents to use their bicycles. 
"There is a growing accep­tance of bike commuting," Trembath said. This provides benefits other than the envi­ronmental ones. For example, the national average for the maintenance of each parking spot per year ranges from $1,000 to $1,200, according to Trembath. 
This, combined with the health and pollution compo­nents, gives everyone a valid reason to partake in the cause, he added. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special 
Observer ad. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

IIEXICO CI,.Y, MEXICO 
Information Meeting With Professor Angela Borelli 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 118 DeBartolo 5:00pm 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
University of Notre Dame 
International Study Program 
Spring 1997 

Information Meeting With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
4:30pm 
223 Hayes-Healy 
there, you must welcome them and work with them." 

Buhrfiend agreed: "These places consist mostly of college students -some places are even entirely for them. No one is hurting anybody by having a party. We're just trying to have fun. 
"That's why most people m·ove off-campus. It's freer; most people expect the parties and don't mind them going on," Buhrfiend added. 
Lafayette Square declined to comment on both the party issue and the College Park announcement. 



Dining 
continued from page 1 
added an extra person in the conveyer and set up tray racks around the dining hall. 
The lunch menu has also been altered, according to Kirwan. The new menu places emphasis on dishes which are easy to serve. Because of the several different entrees avail­able each day, however, adapt­ing the menu has been diffi­cult. 
Kirwan believes that this problem needs to be anticipat­ed every year and that stu­dents need to find the best time to eat. "There's going to be those busy times at any dining service. The best advice I can give is to learn when to avoid it." 
The final results from track­ing the amount of students in and out of the dining hall is expected to be posted by the end of this week. This will give everyone the necessary infor­mation to know when it is best to enjoy their afternoon break. 
SMN Turner  
DR. WHO Choose from Pirate Planet, Snokedance, AnnagedJon Factor and Survival Fox NEW!  

THE YOUNG ONES Choose from Bambi Nasty·Time; Oil, Baring·Fiood; Cash lnleresling·SummerHoliday; and Demolition, Bomb-Sick 
Fox 


SONY 

~111., •./

~~" .t T P~YS~ATION \. ;~~-~;~;·~~~
SYSTEM '-/w:.: ,,.,,,~,:¥ 
.,.__@} \%:. 
32 BITS OF GAME PLAY POWER! 
Includes Playstotion system, one custom controller, AC power cable, and stereo AV cable. 
MOVIES • BOOKS




PLAY. 
MORE CHOICE. LESS PRICE. EVERY DAY; Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 
STORE HOURS MON·SAT: 1OAM·1 OPM, SUN: 11 AM·7PM 
·--

Retuming Students will be on hand to answer questions Wednesday, September II, I996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
B BOSNIA 
Clinton counterattacks
Serbs refuse Muslim return 
By MORT ROSENBLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
VISEGRAD 

From her no-name little grill, Dragica Popovic keeps watch on a fabled 16th-century stone bridge over the Drina. 



=~~~f?~~if;;~~~~:~;~~
them off,'' Popovic said, her 

=~~E~~~~~~~~~~~~:~;~ 
imize new Bosnian boundaries drawn in blood over 3 1/2 years, she is not likely to see 
Muslims any time soon. 
Visegrad, a vital Muslim cro'Ssroads since the Middle Ages, was am0 n g the first 
cities Serbs emptied by gunfire and flame, before ''ethnic cleansing" became a house­hold term. When it fell, in the spring of 1992, refugees say hundreds of 
BOSNIA ELECTION 
Bosnia-Herzegovina, one of the six republics in the former Yugoslavia, is made up of two part!. under the Dayton peace agreement. A look at Saturday's election in Bosnia: 
· 
~~~,i~
\BOSNJA~HERZEGOVINA\"· 
Dole on family leave law 
The national government will have a three-member presidency consisting of a Croat, a Muslim and a Serb, with the one who got the most votes as chairman. There will be atwo-chamber legislature: an appointed 15-member upper house divided equally among Muslims, Croats and Serbs and alower house with 28 members from the federation and 14 from the Serb region. 
ON THE BALLOT 

In the Muslim-Croat Federation: 
By RON FOURNIER Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY 
Trying to outflank Bob Dole in the family values debate, President Clinton criticized his GOP rival Tuesday for voting against the family leave law and aired a heart-tug­ging TV ad 
key states, the president also 

Muslims were taken to the L...---------------------------1 urged American businesses to 
portraying Dole's oppo­sition as cold­



~~~~f)~~; ~~~;~~!~~;: 
hearted. 


Serb Repubhc >'"' i c' ··· • 140-seat federation House of 
• • T h 0 s e Clinton
~t--~\ .-:·~-­
f

Bosniangovemment:~~} Representatives. 
who have Croat Federation ·. • Members oflower-level provincial 
opposed us have been proved
assemblies. 
wrong," Clinton declared. 

THEGOVERNMENT 
In Tennessee, Dole retorted
In the Serh region: 
that Clinton's idea of caring

The Dayton agreement calls for a • One Serb member ofthe national about families was to "have thenational government, with limited presidency to be chosen from eJ"ght
' 
long arm of the government

powers, for all ofBosnia-Herzegovina. candidates. 
Under it will be separate governments 
reach out." 

fortheMuslim-Croatfederationand • 14membersofthenationa1House 
Opening a three-day, cross­

the Sem republic. of Representatives. 
country campaign swing
• Serb republic president. 
designed to solidify his lead in 

• 14Q..seat Serb republic assembly. 
Turkish-built span that Nobel 30,000. Instead of 30 percent laureate Ivo Andric immortal-Serb, it is closer to 100 per­ized in his historical novel cent. "The Bridge on the Drina," Three old mosques were and cut down by machine-gun obliterated so thoroughly that fire. after another year of vegeta-
In town, survivors said, Serbs tion, only archaeologists will burned 100 women and chil-be able to find traces. dren in one building. Counting The story is similar to the the dead and those missing south in Foca and up north in nearly four years later, the wealthy city of Bijeljina, Visegrad Muslims say they lost across much of the Drina River 2,000 of their number. heartland that separates 
Serb officials deny commit-Serbia from Bosnia. ting the slaughter. But until Because of Dayton, the road the Dayton peace accord is clear from Visegrad to opened the borders, they Gorazde, an enclave just down restricted access to Visegrad the Drina that the Muslims and surrounding areas. By fought fiercely to defend. But now, facts are hard to verify. their worlds are so disparate 
Over time, Serb refugees that, with different suppliers, with their own horror stories the cafes play different ver­moved into empty homes. sions of the Macarena. Visegrad returned to its pre-Farther north, Dayton has war population of nearly hardly penetrated. Entrenched 
Russian soldiers of the interna­
tiona] peace force search all 
cars between Muslim-held 
Tuzla and Bijeljina, and care­
fully check the papers of any­
one who wants to pass. 

Among Serbs, the mood is clear from Popovic's grill. Refugees identify their status by landmark cities where so many deals were negotiated. 
She is a "Dayton," meaning she fled Ilidza, near Sarajevo, this year after it passed to Muslim-Croat control. Her bearded friend, Bohan, is a "London." He left Gorazde in 1992 after talks ended the first 
siege. 

There are also locals: Dusan Korac, 34, helped seize the area in 1992. In September of that year, he took a sniper bul­let in the hip and fell on two mines, losing his left leg. 

"Twelve million have used 
'leave,' but Dole's still against 
it," the ad says. 
Aides said the ad, running in .

Power Lunches .... 
battleground states, was being

the pause that refreshes (tMPUS
MINISTRY 

Study abroad in Ireland 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 10 Sept. 11
• Would you welcome a short break from the hectic pace of classes, work, and study? 
7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. Haggar College DeBartolo Classroom 
Center, SMC Building, NO you reflect on the Scriptures in a casual, relaxed, .,atmosphere over 
• Would you enjoy the opportunity to make new friendships while 
Room 303 Room 140 lunch? 
Student panel talks about study abroad at 
• Would you welcome the chance to discuss contemporary issues St. Patrick's College relating to our faith and the church? .... the opportunity. to learn Maynooth, Ireland and grow in faith without worrying about grades, papers, and Everyone welcome! 
exams? 



• Power Lunches meet on 
sted in Winter or
•

Thursdays from 12:45-1:30P.M. In 
the old faculty dining room 
above the South Dining Hall. 
an informational meeting
• Bring your lunch tray from the 
s on Wednesday
dining hall or a "Grab 'n' Go. 
mber I I at 4:00 pm 
aired only in the daytime -a 
tactic aimed at female voters. 
Dole is running far behind 
Clinton in polls of women, a 
trend he must change if he is to 
win. 
"Look at the evidence," 
Clinton told reporters Tuesday. 
"Twelve million people have 
taken a little time off while the 
baby was born or the parent 
was sick and ... the American 
economy has been growing like 
crazy since we passed the fami­
ly medical leave law." 
Clinton wants to expand the 
federal law, allowing people to 
take time off to attend school 
functions or doctors' appoint­
ments for their children. Dole 
opposes that, saying the matter 
should be left to the employees 
-or perhaps local or state 
government. 
Campaigning Tuesday in 
Murfreesboro, Tenn., Dole said, 
"We care about kids. We care 
about families. We don't think 
government ought to be 
involved." 
He said of Clinton: 
..Today he's off somewhere saying we're not sensitive about families and we don't care about families. His idea of car­ing for the families is have the long arm of the government reach out to touch everybody that has less than 50 employ­ees." 
"We want families to grow, prosper, have opportunities.... If you can't do it, the govern­ment is going to dominate every aspect of your life. You've got to turn the people loose. Give the people their freedom. Give the power back to the people and back to the states." 
On welfare, Clinton urged employers again and again to hire people off the public assis­tance rolls. 

"I believe that every employ­er who has ever said a dis­paraging word about the wel­fare system ... should be chal­lenged to assume the responsi­bilities to help be a part of the solution," Clinton told the Southern Governors Association. 
hire workers off welfare rolls. 
The 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act allows people to take unpaid leave from work to care for an ill child or other relative. The law, one of the flrst acts of the Clinton presidency, is con­sidered wildly popular by White House pollsters -particularly among women and young mid­dle-class families. 
Clinton's political team react­ed quickly after Dole said last weekend that the act raised questions about government intrusion. A hastily produced Clinton ad, which began airing Tuesday, features a real-life mother and father from Texas who were able to spend extra time with their terminally ill daughter. 
Dole, the ad says, "led a six­year fight" against the law that allowed the couple to be with their daughter until the end. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------~.-----~------... 
page 6 The Observer • IRAQI UPDATE Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
Saddam offers antnesty to keep Kurds at home 

By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press Writer 
SUI.AYMANIYAH 

Saddam Hussein wasted no time Tuesday in reasserting control of the north of his coun­try after the collapse of a U.S.­declared "safe haven," lifting trade and travel barriers that had stood since the Gulf War. 
Saddam's Kurdish allies flaunted their new authority over this northeastern city, parading through the streets and looting the headquarters of their vanquished rivals for tro­phies -even toilet seats and light bulbs. 
Tens of thousands of Kurds fled Sulaymaniyah for the rugged hills of nearby Iran after the Baghdad-backed Kurdistan Democratic Party rolled into the city on Monday night. 
U.N. officials estimated up to 300,000 Kurds might have left, but many refugees started returning home Tuesday, by truck and taxi and on foot, reassured by news that Saddam's troops had not entered the city. 
Saddam sought to discourage an exodus, declaring a general 


Happy 

BirthcfiJy 

Prerious Sarah! 
Have a Wonderful 19'lHyear. 
We Love You. Mom,DACI, & MkluJel 

; 
amnesty for all Kurds and lift­ing travel and trade restrictions between Iraq and the northern semi-autonomous Kurdish areas imposed at the end of the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
The full ramifications of the announcement were not imme­diately clear. But Saddam and his Kurdish allies clearly had effectively eliminated the Kurdish "safe haven" estab­lished by U.S.-led forces five years ago. 
A State Department spokesman ridiculed Saddam's amnesty offer, saying past treachery made the gesture "laughable, almost comical." 
"He gave a pardon to his son­in-law and then had him exe­cuted," Nicholas Burns said in Washington. "He tried to make up with the Iraqi Kurds five years ago and then tried to destroy them." 
The latest fighting in north­ern Iraq began Aug. 31, when the Iraqi army and the Kurdistan Democratic Party teamed up to capture lrbil, the de facto Kurdish capital in the north. 
U.S. missile strikes against southern Iraq last week seemed to deter the Iraqi army 
WOULD GET YOU, 
f 
OR YOUR PEERS TO COME TO THE 




GOODWILL 
ON N. EDDY ST.? 

HOW? 
Design an ad for Goodwill that will mn in Tbe Observer marketing the store on N. Eddy St. towards Notre Dame & Sl Mary's students. 
Add to your portfolio, receive some recognition, and make some money. Yep! MAKE SOME MONEY! Winners will receive $25 cash, or a$25 gift certificate for the Goodwill store on N. Eddy St. Co1dest is open to any current Notre Dame or Sl Mary's Student 
Ad size Is 2 columns (3.975 in.) x 6 in. 
Send your design to: Attn: Rich Luke & Landis Advertising Agency, INC. 1014 N. Greene Road Goshen, IN 46526 
Include name, address, &phone number. For more information, call (219) 534-0388. 
Multiple entries will be accepted and a prize will be awarded for each ad chosen, so enter as many times as you like. 
Deadline for entries is September 20, 1996. 
All entries submitted become the property of Goodwill Industries and Luke &Landis 1111' 10' 110­
• 

from taking part in further fighting, although Burns said Iraqi intelligence, military and security advisers apparently continued to aid the KDP. With Iraqi forces marching behind the KDP, the faction has easily defeated its Kurdish rival, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. 
In addition to launching mis­siles against Iraqi military installations, the U.S. and allied nations expanded the so-called "no-fly zone" in southern Iraq. 
Saddam retorted not only by announcing he would no longer honor the no-fly zones but also by ordering his forces to shoot at U.S. and allied aircraft. 
Iraq claimed Tuesday it fired three surface-to-air missiles at allied aircraft over the no-fly zone, but no hits were report­ed..Jt was the fourth time in five days Iraq has reported shooting at warplanes ovet: the zone. 
In Sulaymaniyah, Iraqi troops were nowhere in sight Tuesday as the KDP celebrated its sweeping victory with an impromptu parade. Fighters carrying AK-4 7 rifles rode through the streets in pickup trucks decorated with yellow flags and streamers. 

On Monday night, the Kurdistan Democratic Party rolled into Sulaymaniyah, the last stronghold of its Kurdish rivals, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. As a result, Saddam now has effective control over northern Iraq for the first time since the 1991 Gulf War. 
200,000 Kurdish refugees are massed at Iran's border. 75,000 more are heading for, or are already at the Iraqi border town of Panjwin. Iran does not intend to let them in unless their lives are in danger. 
Ifyou're into computer sciences, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law ... 

get in touch with State Farm. 
Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. If you're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State­of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Plenty of room to grow. And you'11 enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write Mary Holman, Assistant Director Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
State Farm Insurance Companies · Home: Offices: Bloomington, Illinois ·An Equal Opportunity Employer 


Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

+$13 Billion Shareholder Value 
·····································-·-······.········

..··· ······.... 
....····· ··-·······........ 
..·· .· ·: ::.::....·....·..·...·.· ..·.· ..•.• ......·.• .................;··· ·. ·. •.•. ·.. ·.. ·•.··.•. ::::::.. •..• 

generat~-'''Oief. $l~t!lillioti~''lfl11new shtifeh\>Ide~ ~'b3.Ith. With a sal~,,ljqcfeaseol~IQlJ)St $2 Billion dkfg~~i{ eq}ii~h;,Jent to the.ttriiai sales,·4I;Pth~'''la rge coiDpat{~lfJi;;~g:,~-.(~d ·-.;~d ers w\lhi~trong anfiYtical skills to';fdrn Jfir~~~~g;;q~ta ~,~\Id­#id~ gtTti;~th in!o shareholder valu,~. Joid1'ffb:;)~~~b!, t~9t 1r. /Ieat11'JT.Otal1lhareholder Retur~llf!IJ$R)I!~t 1\~G: \ 1 !1~ 
·... .-::: 
W~. 
W!ll be irlteryiewing Econo~i~#i1f.,na'h9e,&"t,gPqiliflng 
Ma]'~t$\~ MBAJ*'n t~~t··N otre/)Jf~JlfQ~'vP'us Octo~;IJ. 8th 

and 9t~-~}t~sumes duers·ept~~nl~~~,;l~t~.1:~~ti:·~!J.tfi·/G-~eer & 
'~\\:,_-···· ... ·---. , Place ments~C-enfeit.;rJ r 1tfe fhils ~-, " ..../ dl" 
http://www.pg.com/careers 
... . . ... -.------------. -------------..... ---~. -~. ­
~ 

-.. --... ~ = ----• --... -... 
--~-­
------~~­


I 
'I l 
I 
\ 
page 8 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Busines& Manager 
Patricia Carson Matt Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prenderg:ut Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager. ...................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. 1£ does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• WHERE rM CAlliNG FROM 







OINT 

Wednesday, September 11, 1996 

Oh, the glory ofER, Sega and Papa John's 
You must be bored. Surely there is a football article or a horoscope some­where you can immerse yourself in. Do you actually want to think? I didn't think so. Turn the page now. Flip back to that comfy world of Dilbert or rmd out what they'll be whipping up over at ye old Dining Hall tonight. Sink back in your chairs. Plop down in your couch. Relax-you're just a college kid. 
Thomas Coyne 
So you're still with me. You must want to know something then. Perchance you're looking for a popular point of view or an original idea worth repeating. My advice is look somewhere else. But if you really have nothing else to do, perhaps I can find something to ramble on about for another 967 words. 
You may be curious which cause de jour I'll embrace on this allotted page of preaching. After all, this is The Observer. If there isn't a column on the pertinent campaigns being fought by your resume boosting colleagues in stu­dent government or an article exploring the perilous adventure of living off-cam­pus, this paper's journalistic foundation might crumble to dust. You, the astute reader, have come to expect certain atti­tudes, certain outlooks, certain causes. And I'll be damned if I'm going to give them to you. 
I could care less about your causes and your controversies-! don't have the time nor the energy to spend on your concerns. I am a Notre Dame student. I must study, must sleep, must study, must eat, musty study, must drink, must drink, must sleep, must study, must eat, must drink ... where the hell was I? Oh yea-causes and the such. Well no time for that-have to study, sleep ... 
You're safe in this column-no think­ing here. Our closed minds and unyield­ing attitudes will go unmolested as long as I'm at the keyboard. Read on, relax, save your brain for those text books. Concentrate on what all those wise men in those pages have to tell you. Don't waste your time worrying about what you might actually think. Why would I want to rock the boat? If you've got a problem with our little Notre Dame utopia, get your own column. I'm not going to be another Cassandra colum­nist, another whining voice of reason. This column is going to reach out to the real Notre Dame student because this column could care less. 
I don't have the conviction or concern for a fiery discourse on "intolerant" or "closed-minded" students. We've heard it all before. Remember that article last week about a gay student who felt that people at this school were, uh, some­thing about intolerant and, urn, un­Christian or something. Yea, I didn't finish either. No time for that. We've heard it all before. Haven't we? 
And I am just sick of all this we drink too much/we have the right to drink rhetoric. My head hurts too much to give any temperance debate a second of my time. I'll just sit here on my couch with a tall glass of water-God my head hurts. I can't believe I drank that much last night ... 
And I'm not going to berate you for your lame school spirit. You won't hear me whining that "there are more sports at Notre Dame than football." I say once those sports start winning National Championships, then I'll start cheering. Oh, women's soccer won one of those you say? I seem to vaguely recall a headline about that last year, next to the article about that football recruit with the 4.378 speed and a 43.29 vert (see-1 pay attention to what's going on at Notre Dame). Those other sports just aren't the same-they're just not foot­ball. Can you get hammered for 48 hours straight because of a soccer game? I once drank 100 beers over the course of a Notre Dame football week­end-and they say we've got no school spirit. 

And if I hear another thing about "gender relations at Notre Dame" my head might explode. Same sex housing, co-ed housing, disrespect, lack of sensi­tivity, random sexual encounters, bla, bla, and bla. Another issue du jour. So what that parietals turn the opposite sex into forbidden fruit? So what that we don't have any means of interacting with women except getting completely inebriated and slobbering all over them? So what that the dining hall looks like a fourth grade lunch room, boys here, girls over there? So what that "Our Lady's" University, by keeping us sexu­ally segregated, tries to legislate morali­ty instead of fostering understanding and respect? None of this is going to get me off my couch. I'm quite comfortable right here. ER is on and afterwards we're all going over to Bridget's to try and get some. 
And that Pandora's box known as "race relations" surely won't be opened in this column. White devils, Christopher Columbus, multiculturalism, interracial this and that and the other­if that stuff doesn't make you turn the page I don't know what will. We all get along fine here-what's the big worry? 

So what that our student body is about as diverse as the Republican conven­tion? So what that our college experi­ence, a time that is supposed to open our eyes to different cultures and creeds, has been a time where most of us have been blinded by traditional, con­servative white values? So what that my roommate was harassed incessantly for his black girlfriend? So what that most white Notre Dame students can count their non-white friends on one hand? What are we supposed to do about it? Don't look at me-l just go to school here. 
Go ahead and call me apathetic. I'll tell you I don't care. I am Mr. Notre Dame student. I am Mr. grades, activi­ties, and internships-Mr. too busy for anything I can't fit on my resume. Learn, don't think. Answer, don't ques­tion. Save yourself the headache and just sit yourself right down next to me on the couch here. Need a cold one? Let's sit here and marvel at the glory of Sega and Papa John's. Do something not prescribed in the syllabus of Notre Dame Student Life 101? I don't think so. We've got no class tomorrow-must sleep, must eat, must study ... 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major . 
•  000NESBURY eVAJ6? KJN6~! YOU FaJNO 7HifT£?aJV taTUR&R. Y&T? /A/8 (3(JT3COKJ~II/AIT­ING INCOMMI~ HAU/  IMIAT'R£ y()(JR/?£.· Q(J!R6­MeN7'5? /  At!VIN6 tUAGt,ANI? 70 86 71?£AT~ WL-IK&A HUMAN8e!N"i/ \  GARRY TRUDEAU ~SIR­IUKB&P t/X)K/N6.  
9-11  -- 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
''The death of democracy 
is not likely to be an assasination from ambush. It will be a slow extinction from apathy, indifference, and undernourishment." 
-Robert Maynard Hutchins 
'· 


Take a glimpse at life, Self and Jesus 
VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 page9 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
• GooN. liFE 

Church silences faith 
An important issue has arisen this year, with sanctions being imposed on Catholics of the Lincoln and Omaha, Nebraska dio­ceses by their respective bishops. Bishop Bruskewitz of Lincoln has caused many Catholics and others in the United States and abroad to question the authority claimed by the hierarchy to silence their flocks. At the heart of all this upheaval is 
whether the laity has the ==============f
right to speak. As it now stands, the answer seems to be no. 
While many would prefer 

Jull·e Ferraro
the Church to be a democracy or, at least, to allow for informed dia­logue, many of those in power have no intention of listening to these voices. The Judeo-Christian history of the Church proves that God called .. unrecognized" lay people to announce many of divine decrees, in spite of the fact that Jewish elders were the only ones who were "authorized" to preach on matters of faith. It was the ordinary person's duty to listen and learn. 
The Apostles faced similar rejection by the Jewish hierarchy. These were fishermen, tax collectors-unschooled, unsavory, and disobedient to the Law. Other "misguided" souls might find their teachings acceptable, but the officials had them arrested, stoned, or chased from Jerusalem. 
Throughout the Church's history, simple folk have tried to speak on matters of faith, most often criticized by the ordained. The same holds true today. Nonetheless, the laity 
Dear Editor: 
We are ND-This is ND. 
Three weeks into the new academic year, most of us are settling into habits of study and time management that are harder to come by as the sum­mer comes to an end, even for the most disciplined among us. 
First year students still strug­gle with homesickness even as they rejoice in the new friend­ships that they have already formed. They begin to believe that they can get over a real sense of loss and even grief because their parents, their lit­tle brother or sister, or even their dog, are no longer a part of their formerly comfortable daily life and routine. But everyone has told them that classmates they meet during their first weeks on the campus will be the people who will serve in their bridal parties, attend their ordination to the priesthood, and serve as god­parents for their children. And in front of the same great, white domes with the hope of securing great seats to stand in during all but the half times of the six home football games ­and thousands of students dedded on the ways they would serve our community through volunteer services. Many dozens of exciting volunteer possibilities have been reduced to a dozen or so. And a new generation of Domers has implicitly understood and accepted a commitment to ser­vice during undergraduate 
'This weekend ­
our first home football weekend -we will chant that "We are ND" in "the House that Rockne built" as the new stadium proclaims with such simple, 

you sang rather lustily with the mediocre voice God gave you? Service and worship go hand in hand at Notre Dame. 
All of this is important to the "ND" we proclaim when we declare that "We are ND." 
These days provide us with an important and passing moment to reflect on the choic­es and possibilities that lie before us in the area of faith and spirituality during the aca­demic year that has just recent­ly begun. Faith, and the sup­port and development of a com­munity of believers who pray and serve others, are central mission values for Notre Dame. 
Tie into Notre Dame as a community of believers where your faith can continue to be developed and strengthened. With the help of a lot of people, many of whom are your peers, learn how to live your life as a believer, so that as you go about your daily life, what you do reflects, no matter how 


it seems entirely likely that this dimly or faintly, the values of • must be allowed to speak, now more than ever, otherwise the wiU indeed be the case. understated class.' the Gospel of Jesus. 
Church will stagnate and fall completely silent in the future. 
Students from big American Your one, two, three or four It cannot be a question of faith, the way these bishops make cities have discovered that they years here can truly mark your it sound. The laity affected by these sanctions are doing what can look into the eyes of the years as many have before passage to adult Christianity. 
they do guided by their own personal faith. No one can denypeople they pass on the side­them. They followed through Take full advantage of the that many members of the laity have a faith that entitles them 
walks on the quads and greet and "signed up" for Logan opportunities you will have 
to speak, whether or not the parish priest, local ordinary or them, without glancing back Center, urban plunges, min­here at Notre Dame to develop the Pope approves of what they say. 
quickly and nervously to see istries in the Basilica, martial that living faith which has been Just because a person has not studied in a seminary, waded whether or not they have made arts, Student Government, passed on to you -make it through the documents of Vatican II, Canon Law or other a BIG mistake, as their street­Freshman Retreats, the Center your own. Because to glimpse heavy volumes, it does not mean that he or she has no faith wise instincts scream out. for the Homeless, N.D.E. and even a little of the truth of who from which to draw inspired words or pose legitimate ques­This weekend -our first the Alianza, among many other Jesus is, is to get the first faint tions. Besides, it is often easier to listen and benefit from a home football weekend -we possibilities. glimpse of who you are and 
person who speaks or writes in simple terms, than to labor will chant that "We are ND" in Service and worship go hand who you can become as a 
over theological tomes that have little bearing on life today. 
"the House that Rockne built" in hand at Notre Dame. believer. 
The Church must recognize, with the dwindling numbers the stadium of the Did you happen to notice the May the coming years or your and questionable activities of "official" spiritual leaders, that "University of Notre Dame" as "standing room only" crowds at remaining years or months at 
the laity is capable of leading, in word and action. Of course. the beautiful new stadium the Masses in the Basilica and Notre Dame,·bring you into the 
this fact has been acknowledged by the Church in its writings,expansion shell proclaims with in the residence halls during ever closer and more personal 
but fulfillment of the ideal is slow in coming. such simple, understated class. the past two Sundays? Did you contact with Jesus, the word of 
Neither priests, religious nor the laity can forget: the I hope we will also reflect on feel comfortable worshipping life, the rich source of wisdom Church was given to all, for the sanctification of all, and we all the full meaning of a great God at the Eucharist with and blessings, the Son of the 
must work together to preserve it and help it grow. No one cheer that has deep roots and scores of other young men and Living God. 
can question another's faith if, indeed, that person is called to implications. women from your dorm and What a University! What a 
serve the Church using God-given talents. The laity -the Thousands of students quad as you rarely have community! 
faithful -must be allowed to speak! recently attended Activities before? Did you appreciate for 
. 

Night at the Joyce Center -the first time that you really FR. RICHARD WARNER 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science 
hours before they camped out wanted to "go to Mass," that Director of.Campus Ministry 
Center . 

• THE WINTER Of MY DISCONTENT 

Looking for life in all the right places 
When I was nine years old I drew a There is no doubt in my mind that profoundly as the Copernican and from those minuscule orange blobs that crayon picture of a Time Magazine this "discovery"-if ultimately validat-Darwinian revolutions ...It could truly be may or may not be the remains of long cover featuring a googly-eyed tentacled ed-ranks among the most significant described as the greatest scientific dis-extinct Martian microorganisms, but creature amidst a hilly purple landscape events in human history, though unlike covery of all time." there is more to this extraterrestrial life under the headline "Life on Uranus." I a war, revolution or technological On a personal level, I felt that there phenomena than just the famous mete­don't know why I picked Uranus-1 sup-breakthrough we won't feel its true was something profoundly spiritual or. Within the last year we've dis­pose I assumed it to be the most obscure impact for decades. The cosmology of a about the release of the first serious evi-covered a minimum of six planets in and "alien" of the solar system's plan-dence that there is-or at least was-life other solar systems-the first evidence ets-but I can still clearly recall the somewhere other than Earth. On some of the existence of planets other than sense of wonder that the possibility of intuitive level proof of alien life seems to those around our sun. discovering extraterrestrial life pro-disqualify, or at least make less plausi-Planets are, of course, a prerequisite duced in me even at that young age. So ble, two of the more disturbing versions for life as we understand it. Within our you can imagine the tremendous ex-ChriStOpher of the human condition. Were the uni-own solar system, speculation is grow­citement that I felt when I opened my K t •1 verse truly sterile with Earth as life's ing that Jupiter's moon Europe may mail box last month to discover a gen-ra OVI only outpost then atheistic notions of life have liquid water. perhaps lots of it, uine, non-crayon Time cover proclaim-as an anomaly, an accident, the purely thus providing the fundamental building ing ..Life on Mars." unintentional result of certain primeval blocks of life on a nearby world. Here 
Of course the discovery of tiny orange chemical reactions, have an increased on Earth, we keep discovering life in blotches of carbonous materials in an credibility. Simultaneously, a cosmos unexpected places-inside volcanoes a:1cient Martian meteorite wasn't nearly race which has no scientific reason not vacant aside from Earth lends a sort of and on the sunless ocean floor-so if life as dramatic as I, and for that matter pop to believe that the surrounding cosmos superficial credence to the geocentric can exist in those harsh environments, culture, had always assumed that the silent and sterile is profoundly different pretensions of religion-at-its-worst: a why not on a Jovian moon or distant ultimate revelation of non-terrestrial life from the cosmology of a 'people who universe in which only we exist would planet? would be. The NASA news conference know that life-albeit only the most seem to be a universe in which God is It is an exciting time to be alive. on August 7 was about as far from The primitive forms of life-evolved on limited by the human imagination. While it seems unlikely that any of us X-Files or Independence Day as it is another world. But a cosmos teeming with life is one will be around to see mankind possible to get: the announcement of In his 1995 book Are We Alone?: which hints at some underlying design encounter another sentient species, the alien life "not with a bang but with a Philosophical Implications of the and at some common creator: a galaxy confirmation of the existence of non-ter­whimper." Indeed, there still remains Discovery of Extraterrestrial Life Dr. wide "accident of life" seems a lot less restriallife is a slowly emerging reality. considerable scientific controversy as to Paul Davies, an Australian physicist and plausible than a mere planetary one. A Our terrible collective burden of being what the fossilized contents of meteor philosopher, expressed this sentiment universe wherein life is common, if not the mily oasis of life in the vastness of ALH84001 indicate. But I am an much more succinctly and eloquently the rule, reflects how much greater, space will at last be relieved and the absolute layman in these matters, and than I am capable of: "There is little more glorious and more complex God is brilliance of the underlying architect of for me the speculation that naturally doubt that even the discovery of a single than the human mind can possibly com-the cosmos again demonstrated. stems from the assumed validity of the extraterrestrial microrobe, if it could be prehend: Does not an infinite creator discovery is far more interesting than shown to have evolved independently of require an infinite creation to properly Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts the agonizingly slow process of con-life on Earth, would drastically alter our reflect His glory? and Letters major. firming it. world view and change our society as I realize that this is a lot to derive 
! . 


CC6NT
~ 
\ page 10 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
:I
t. 
\ 

. I 
o! 
.• 
' 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 
What is your favorite CD and why? 

. 
"Dance Hall Crashers because their music is fun:' 
Vivian Su Freshman, Howard 

"Marvin Gaye's Greatest Hits because you can't go wrong with Let's get it on." 
Andrea Dominello 
Junior, Off-campus 



"Carol King's Tapestry because it 
makes me feel like a 
natural woman." 
Sarah Wieber 
Freshman, Lyons 

"G. Love and Special Sauce because he must be the coolest guy on earth." 
Mike Hannam Sophomore, Dillon 





"Bare Naked Ladies because they are so groovy and I wish I had a million dollars too." 
Sarah Reynolds 
Junior, Holy Cross "Julio Iglesias because it is a time­less classic" 
Cyrus Peters Sophomore, Dillon 
The Observer/Rachel Sedertlurg 

When you want bl where do you 
By ALYSSON COOK Assistant Accem Editor 
It happens all the tim~. You're just going to look, right? The temptation, however, is too great. One must sort through the plethora of choices to achieve monumental happiness at finding the exact "one"(or two or three, etc.). Compact Disc shopping has become a dangerous mission and the goal is...don't blow all of your life savings. 
The entire process of CD buying is such an addiction. You hear a song and you must have it. Yet, you put it ofT, hoping your roommate will get it and your roommate doesn't. So, your cravings to possess the CD for that one, incredible song gnaw at you until you break down, go to Meijer's at 2:00 a.m. and leave with two CO's other than the one you went to get. (I'm not the only CD junkie out there, am I)? You thought you were getting a pretty good deal, considering that you were going to buy it anyway and you just couldn't wait any longer. 
Why settle, however, for just a "pretty good" deal, when the "best" deals are relatively easy to find? I mean, you went ahead and bought the "pretty good" deal, when you could have saved three or four dollars on the best deal, which could've gotten you that much closer to your next CD. Right? 
Okay, so, where does one even begin in at­tempting to discover the "best" buys? Well, recently, I set out on a CD Safari expedition, hot on the trail of some of the best deals, the coolest atmosphere, and the most helpful employees. Here is what I found ..... 

BLOCKBUSTER MUSIC 
My first stop was at the ever popular, Blockbuster Music. This chain is beginning to pop up more and more all across the country so, you'll probably have no problem finding one. Our Blockbuster Music is conveniently located at 4110 Grape Road (isn't everything on Grape Road?). Upon entering I thought, as I have so many times before, "This place is so cool". 
You walk in and know instantly that whatever CD you desire will be there. Everything is cen­tered upon the main listening station, which, if you didn't already know, is where you can listen to any CD in the store (the whole thing if you like) before you buy it. This is a definite plus in my book because, on rare occasions, you'll only want a CD for that one song out of fifteen, arid it's bet­ter to listen to it, know if it sucks, and save your cash flow (remember Dead Eye Dick and "New Age Girl?") 
The employees were extremely attentive and ready to help (they were all males when I went which was another bonus). If you're looking for some really great deals, Blockbuster Music defi­nitely has some of the better buys. Perhaps the best investments are the appropriately named Blockbuster Bargains for $11.99. The older stuff is always on sale for around $7.99. 
Moreover, aside from the popular prices, Blockbuster offers a number of other unique ser­vices for its customers. For example, Mark Orlando, the assistant manager, told me about the sneak previews which are exclusive to the chain. In fact, it was just yesterday that the new and long-awaited R.E.M. album came out, so Monday night some lucky patrons got a "sneak peak" at this soon-to-be top seller. A lot of new albums for preview will be coming in at random times, so watch the advertisements if you are expecting a favorite band to be coming out with a 

$3 or less 
$5.99 to $8.99 
$10.99 to $15.99 
more than $16 
new album soon. You could be one of the first to hear it. 
Blockbuster Music is also the home to the Ticketmaster outlet. It has an assortment of posters and magazines. Everything is organized in sections according to all the different types of music, so you won't get lost. This was also a fun, laid-back atmosphere, so there is no rush. Overall, this was a hot spot for best buys and blockbuster bonuses. 
MEDIA PLAY 
My next stop was Media Play. It is conveniently located at 5514 Grape Road. I was extremely excited because not only does media play have music, but it also houses a wide variety of books, movies, software, magazines, T -shirts, and even food. The Cafe definitely gets two thumbs up. It has a relaxing atmosphere, tasty snacks, and rea­sonable prices. The Cafe hosts open poetry night on Mondays, chess night on Wednesdays, and a music night is in the works. People are welcome to sit and read, listen to music, or even strum a guitar tune or two if they have the inclination. 
The average CD cost $10.99 to $12.99 and you can always find something on sale. If a CD you want is on the new release list, or in the top 25, 

CC6 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 

page 11 

.ockbuster music, get the best buy? 

Media Play has a station set up where you can sample it. Media Play also boasts many 10-CD 
ice ri~h-t~ 
"'.rrn-:..MI.a..~:i.o:..: 
If you've never heard of the band before, go ahead and buy it! You might discover some­thing really cool. On the other hand, it's prob­ably on sale for a reason. 
Either a used CD or something from the 80's or before. Make the investment and take a trip down memory lane. As for the used CD, most are fine since stores are fairly conscien­tious about checking them for defects. 
The majority of new-releases can be found in this. price range, so if you want to be the first to learn the words, snatch it. 
Unless it's a classic, there better be a really 
good reason to buy a CD at this price, because EVERYTHING goes on sale eventually !
---------------------J extremely easy to fincl It's on S.R. 23 (not 
listening stations in various locations throughout the store. 
In addition, the book, movie and software selec­tions are amazing. There are new releases all over the store. Steve Determan, the general manager, was ready to help me ·and answer all of my questions and the staff was all smiles. which made for a pleasant shopping experience. Media Play had it all!! 


BEST BUY 
I was having so much fun at this point that I couldn't wait to get to Best Buy, which, lucky for me, was the next destination on the journey. 
When you walk in, it appears to be little more than a large warehouse, but looks can be de­ceiving. It has an incredible variety of appliances and electronics. It also has tons of movies, and, of course, a great selection of CO's. Unfortunately, it was extremely busy, and no one came to my aid as I stood looking lost in front of the Rock and Pop section. This was not a good start, but when I asked the man at the door for help, he pointed me to the manager in hopes that he could answer my questions. However, he [the manager] replied that he couldn't speak to "the press". Therefore I was left to investigate on my own. 
The prices for CO's fall into the same range as Blockbuster Music and Media Play; $12.99 for regular items, $11.99 for markdowns. One redeeming employee, Les, dropped everything to help me find a couple of CO's (I couldn't find my favorite Yanni CD to save my life) All in all, the warehouse environment was impersonal and I felt like they wanted me in and out as quickly as possible. 
At this _point, I hadn't splurged and bought any CO's, because I knew my final desti­nation had used CO's at great prices. By now my checkbook was burning a hole in my pocket, and I knew I couldn't hold out much longer after being surrounded for hours by racks of great tunes. 


TRACKS 
O.K. This was it. The final stop. Like Blockbuster, Best Buy and Media Play, Tracks is 
Grape!!), past Burger King on the right. I highly recommend this place because it has a complete­ly original atmosphere, and both new and used CO's. 
The new CO's are about $13.99 regular price and on sale they are $10.99 to $11.99. The used CO's start at $5.99, but go up depending on their condition. For all you Phish fans, you should check out the stock. I was really impressed because they carried a lot of Phish albums that you won't be able to find anywhere else. Tracks is, by all definitions of the word, a "cool" place with posters plastered across every inch of the walls, tie-dye, Grateful Dead paraphernalia, and plenty of loud music. Plus, the employees are unique and personable, which make it all the more enjoyable. 
Well that's it.. It's up to. you now to decide for yourselves, because the prices run about the same at all four stores. I had a fantastic adven­ture and ended up with two ancient Prince al­bums that I'd been dying for, Purple Rain and Diamonds and Pearls (both used and at rock bot­tom prices). I also made such a super impression at Media Play that I was actually offered a job. So, if you haven't checked one or more of these places out yet, but think they sound "nifty", go see for yourself what's up. 
."'f," 

·· for the roc~.Kle~S. i •.,......."" the Chant album · not ride a trend wave for trust me, and take my word . t it was a . ... my . . . .. . .· Really! My friends will vouch for this one. · · ·· . ·.• ·. ·. ··. ··.... 
However, not all individuals make such a clean transition .·· 
· from cassette players to full..fledged stereos as ( have. I am sure that ·. everyone reading this. (all three of you). know an individual who buys music with such reckless abandon that it numbs your mind. Let me call to example my freshmen year roommate. Megan. ·• . ·. ··.. · We both received CD Players. at the same time. and started . our collections the summer before we entered college. However. while I have been cautious and frugal, Megan's CD rack houses enough cases to stretch from Florida to Cuba. Really. In fact. to cal­culate the amount of money she has spent in the last three years, it is estimated that she could have easily clothed and fed a small village from the ''Save the Children" program. (As Sally Struthers eloquently states, "'It only takes pennies a day ... ) Instead, Megan chose to collect such gems as Roxette~ Tourism. · · · We all have skeletons ln our musical closet. My only differ­ence from everyone else is that I shun the past while others relish it. 1 relinquish any past affiliations I might have had with the ghost!J of "the· dark ages". I hid my Taylor Dane albums......mi ripped up my· Warrant posters ..... .! burned my New Kids on the Block commemora" tive pillows. This is my soul-cleansing confession. From now on. rd like to be known as Kaiser. the fun-loving Saint Mary's·Editor With. a great selection of CO's and oodles ofmusical integrity. · · Why don't you come over sometime and peruse my CO's? I'm sure you'll tlnd something you like. 
· · 
· 

The Obseliler/Kim Michalik 
--~-­

------------~~--------------------­
' 

Wednesday, September 11, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 12 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 
cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES I Earn extra money in only five min­utes a day! Carriers needed to deliver the Chicago Tribune within  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP APPL. $650. 317-942-2108  Will Trade Air Force ticket for Washington  WATERS is a bad influence! I NEED MANY PURDUE GA'S  NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  
the dorms.  after 6-317-942-2408.  call John x0607  PLEASE CALL MIKE-243-9403  
SKYDIVE!!  Call 684-4302 for more information.  Needed: PURDUE student ticket or  
Experience the ULTIMATE  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's OR 2  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  G.A. Tim X-1643.  
of all sports  EARN SOME EXTRA$  ND-SMC EVENTS.  RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE  ALL GAMES HOME  
Training students for over  caring for 3 adorable children.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ 2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097  AND AWAY  NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL  
30 years  1 or 2 days, near campus.  ENDS.  232-0058  TIX.  
1 hour North of South Bend  287-9669.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  24 HAS.  PLEASE CALL 277-4221.  
Call for class times  243-0658.  STUDENT TIX. BOOK FOR SALE  BUY-SELL-TRADE  
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS  SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT  call 272-5702  NEED2 PUR GA  
1-800-351-6617  COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL  FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  TICKET-MART, INC.  WILL PAY WELL  
1-616-628-4892  AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR  WANTED: Black Crowes tix...  call X4856  
COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­ ROOM W/PRIVATE BATH IN  need at least 2 or up to 5. call  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  FUL. CALL TOM AT 289-SWIM OR  QUIET AREA.  wendy at 243 -9430.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Need Ohio State tickets.  
232-0589.  25 MINS. FROM ND.  232-0061.  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  
Now is the time for us to come  219-674-8186.  Desperately Need AIR FORCE  
together!  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  tickets (Stu or GAs)!  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  NEED OSU TIX!  
If you have a passion for JAZZ, or have ever wondered what JAZZ is  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243.  FOR SALE  Call Steph 634-4135  GAMES.272-6551  WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE! CALL 4-1440  
all about, call Curtis at 634-1605  MARRIED STUD BOOK 4 SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  
for more information.  I HAVE A GREAT-HOPEFULLY  1986 MAZDA 323  277-3864  BOUGHT & SOLD  SALE  
PROFITABLE -IDEA FOR A COM­ 4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, AJC,  232-2378 -A.M.  PURDUE STU TIX  
ATIENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­ AMIFM CASSETIE, 106 K,  NEED 2 STD TIX BOOKLETS  288-2726-P.M.  REG&MARRIED  
ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  CALL GIOVANA @ 1-4872  2719387  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  TOM 288-5655.  $2500. CALL 272-4562  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  
3509 Grape Rd {@Classic Stereo)  !!!!!PLEASE HELP!!!!!  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2  
255-1172  NEED PT SITIER M & W AFTER­ 87 Mazda auto 90k Great Condition  I NEED PURDUE STUD. AND GA  DAVE (614)764-7355  OSU GAs -273-8379.  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  NOONS & EVENINGS. PLEASE  2300 John 631-6414  TIX IN A BAD WAY. CALL SOON,  
You break it, we'll fix it!!!  CALL 273-9512.  x-2235 (Seth or Ben)  Need Texas tickets for family who  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  
PowerMac 7200/90, 8 MB  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  $1,800  2550.  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  Lima.1 @ or 273-0824  $ NEED 3 PURDUE TIX $  (219)422-6088  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  STUDENT OR GA'S  Need Two Washington G.A.'s for  
private baths, $70 -$90,  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730  $ CALL TONY @ X3662 $  family, my tuition depends on it.  I AM DESPERATE FOR A GA OR  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1 19!  miles new muffler new battery runs  Will pay HUGE bucks!  STUDENT  
Toll Road. Exit #107,  www.springbreaktravel.com  great. $ 700. Call 2730558  ONE PURDUE STUDENT TICKET  Call Matt @ 234-8474 Thanks.  TICKET FOR PURDUE!!  
1-800-41 B-9487  1-800-678-6386  NEEDED.  CALL BUFFY AT 243-9038  
Couch for sale. Will deliver to  CALL MEGHAN AT 312-928-8043  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  
FOR A GREAT RATE ON  ***FREE TRIPS & CASH***  campus. 1-5766.  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  ND Tickets FOR SALE  
RENTERS & AUTO INS.  Find out how hundreds of student  Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ Call273-6124 after 7pm  
CALL RANDY 257-9572  representatives are already earning  Mac Pwrbk $400,best offer  big $$. x3226 ·  ly pay TOO MUCH $for 2 GA tixs.  
AMERICAN FAMILY INS.  FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  X3097  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  Garcia Needs 3 Purdue  
with America's #1 Spring Break  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  but not picky. Please call our busi­ Tix. 233-4008  
INTERESTED IN DEBATE?  company! Sell only 15 trips and  Who Needs A Bed?  Call Kieran@634-4487  ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  
Informational meeting this THURS>  travel free! Cancun, Bahamas,  2 new single beds for sale!  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  Need 2 tix for Purdue & Ohio St.  
7pm 302 La Fortune  Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  Mattress, Boxspring, and  Needed: One Student Ticket for  Call243-9357.  
ILOST & FOUND I  CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ Headboard included. Asking $275 each. Call Jarrod at 234-7601.  Purdue game. x2085 NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!!  NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS.  NEED 2 TIX FOR AIRFORCE.call matt x3573  
EL  TOP$$ CALL (219)277-1646  PLEASE HELP ME!!! CALL  
REWARDII If anyone has or knows  (800)95-BREAK!  92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  SUSAN X4268.  DESPERATELY NEED WASH.  
someone who has my black  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S  GA'S. CALL #2456  
Jansport backpack with a camara  SOCCER REFEREES Students  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  
and datebook inside, I will  needed to referee soccer games for  2r GOLDSTAR TV $350  RON  VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ HELP!! I Need 1 st. tix and 2 GAs lO  
gladly give a reward for its return!!  southside elementary school  277-3670.  LECT AFTER 9:00PM  Purdue. Call Gail243-1439. leave a  
Please , I would really, really ,really  (Grades 5-8), located near  NO parents need 2 Purdue tickets.  TOP$ PAID  message if before 5pm. PLEASE!  
appreciate itl! NO QUESTIONS  Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. All  1992 Nissan 240SX SE. Auto.  Call (630)810-0710.  
ASKED!!  games scheduled between 4:00PM  Loaded. Only 35K miles. $11,800.  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  I NEED 2 STUDENT BOOKLETS  
Call634-1403.  and 5:30PM, Monday-Friday, Sept  Call233-5409.  GA TICKETS WANTED GA  913-541-3240  AND/OR  
9-Oct.29. $15.00-$20.00 per  ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  2 PURDUE TICKETS!I!  
WANTED  game. Must have referee uniform. Call 291-4200 or 291-8731 .  '78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY CORVETIE, 30,000 MILES.  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE 2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR  n. d. tickets for sale 271 1635  PLEASE CONTACT COLLEEN X3714  
$9,500 FIRM.  INDIVIDUAL GAMES  
HELP WANTED-$10.25  SOCCER/X-COUNTRY/BASKET­ CALL 243-0658.  :;:::::::::::::::::::;:;277-1659  $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  BALL COACH Responsible stu­ Booklet!! Will pay big $$$  MARRIED AND REG ST  
weekend hours. No exp. required. All majors welcome. Scholarships  dent/grad student needed to coach girls soccer or basketball teams,  TICKETS  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS GA. RUTGERS  Call Mike 243-9224!!  BOOKLETS OR TIX 4 SALE 232-1004  
available. Info-call 282-2357  coed x-country for southside ele­ "CHEAP".............RUTGERS 272­ I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix  
mentary schoool (Grades 5-8),  7233 RUTGERS.. ..  Call Mike 243-9224  NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­ 
WANTED: Black Crowes tix!!  located near Scottsdale Mall on  NEED EXTRA CASH?  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  
need at least 2 or up to 5. call  Miami Street. Practice 1 :30-2:30 or  I NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS  Two stud tix for sale -all games  + $$  
wendy at 243 -9430.  2:15-3:15PM, Mon-Thurs. All soc­ PEOPLE FROM COLUMBUS, OH  and TICKETS FOR ANY OTHER  x2279  634-1382.  
cer/BB scheduled between  ARE WILLING TO PAY LARGE  HOME GAME! X0776  
International "lifestyles" magazines  4:00Pm and 5:30PM, Monday­ SUMS OF $$$$$ FOR OHIO  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  married stud tix books for sale  
needed,'96'.  Friday. Coach Soccer Sept 9­ STATE TICKETS.  WILL TRADE 2 Purdue, Pittsburgh  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  232 4827  
Esp. Asian. I will pay $.  0ci./Basketball Jan-March. Paid  or Rutgers GAs for 2 Air Force  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
Carmen 243-9360  position -Please call 291-4200 or  CALL 271-8614 FOR INFO  GAs. 233-1958.  
287-6899 for application.  PLEASE HELP!!!!  Need 2 Pitt GA's  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE Grape  BIG BUCKS Paid for Stud. or GA  I need three GA'S for Purdue.  call Sean  
Road has a few positions still avail­ ENGLISH GRAD OR MAJOR:  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  tickets. Purdue a must, other home  call Brian @ 2182  x-3311  
able for confident individuals inter­ To read & edit school manuals.  ALL GAMES HOME  games too. ALEX@ 232-7324  
ested in the following positions: wait, host, bus and kitchen. ND  Good $-your own time. IHRD 273-1952 8-5 M-F  AND AWAY 232-0058  $$$$ NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S!II  Need 1 tic for Purdue Call Dave @ x4798  Do you need CASH?! I need 2 OSU tix-GA or student.  
Football season is under way and sales are booming. Do not miss out!  COMPUTER HELP  24 HAS. BUY-SELL-TRADE  Will pay big $$$ Call Marty 271-9069  NEED STU BKL TS  Call Angela 271-1 867  
Apply after 3PM any afternoon.  Create layouts, forms, brochures,  REG & MARRIED  needed for my family  
etc. for small office. Good pay ­ TICKET-MART, INC.  Need 1 OSU ticket  2719387  2-5 GA's for  
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3) NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY,  your own time. IHRD 273-1952 8-5M-F  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Call Greg at 2318  I need 2 Purdue tix-want to trade for  Ohio State, Washington or Air Force  
ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Selling 3 great Purdue tickets  2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554  Call4-3468  
PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR .TO COME TO HOME{5 MIN FROM NO), BUT OTHER ARRANGE­ Looking for an outgoing public rela­tions rep. to represent a chiropractic center at local health screenings. Paid training. Part time. Average $8  232-0061. ............•.................. I need student Ticket books!  together. Accepting highest offer. Call Kelly: 4-0847 Will trade NO home game tix  NO ALUM NEEDS OSUMIASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  NEED 2 PURDUE GA's WILL PAY$ 50 A PIECE  
MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235  -$9/hour. For more information call  Leave a message  for Texas vs. ND tickets. 288-8418  CALL JON @ 634-1389  
(219)282-2828.  for Bryan at:  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  *******************  
AEROBIC INSTRUCTOR-Volunteer  273-2812  TICKETS NEEDED  Sept.21 Caii1-800-840-354B  
aerobic instructor needed to work at  Need F student to-care for child PT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  All home games  WANTED!!I 2 WASHINGTON GAs  
Center For The Homeless. If inter­ested please call Megan at 271­ in home while I work. Near Notre Dame. Call April289-9914  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  GA's Preferred •••* ****** •••••••******************  NEED 2 OR 4 TIX FOR PURDUE, OSU, OR WASH CALL BILL 614­ please. -call x2164  
9342.  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  CALL NICK AT X-2101  885-4616  I sure could use some Ohio State  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ FOR RENT  CALL 243-1287 Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ *********** ****** ••••**••••••••••*** PURDUE TICKET PACKAGES!!  ND Alum has PITI GA's to TRADE for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566­ tickets. 2-GAs or Studnt. I'm work­ing with deep pockets. x2164  
Positions are now availalbe at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits +  NICE HOME NORTH OF ND 2773097  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­7839  TICKETS AND ROOM FOR 2 NIGHTS!! CALL BILL FOR INFO  5856). Leave message. NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL t33­ :-)Family coming this weekend. NEED 2 PURDUE GA's for parents and 1 stud tix for sister. Call KEITH  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 extN55848  WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes 1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058  800-41 0-5573 LV. MSG. W/ NAME I# ••••********* ***** * •• *.** * * •••••* * * ••  5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES  x0873 (-: Alum needs 2-4 Wash Tix for  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Students Needed! Fishing  BEAST isn't very good!  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$ $$  REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL  Family 612-742-7638 Collect  
I  Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary.  OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT  PLEASE CALL 232-0058 NEED:2GAs~rPURDUE~rmy parents. Please call, Katie x2855  Band member needs THREE WASHINGTON TICKETS for aunt's visit. Stud!GA. Alyssa x1554  243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP. need married/student booklets x1528 jaret  Need tix (not student) for Purdue game. Call collect 630-961-0632  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL  TRADE?  NEED STUD. TIX & GA'S BAAAD­ 
AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4,  NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA  need 1 Purdue tick. will trade for  WANTED FB TIX to any home  L Y CALL 271-8279  
KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL,  TIX ... WILL PAY$$$  any other home game, a Dave Matt  game for visiting brother. Student  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200  Call Gina 243-0771  tick, plus $-or any combo of the  or GA. Will pay$$. x2119  
T each basic conversational English  WK-END NITES, $700MIK. 219­ above.  Need Purdue tickets. 284-5450  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  291-5849  Need 2 GA's for Purdue  PLEASE CALL. 4-1489.  Leaving early for Oct. Break? Sell  
teach1ng certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive  ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­ Pleae! IIIII!! call Matt x1995  In need of TWO PITI Tickets! (GA).  me your AIR FORCE tickets! $$$$! 271-2349 Sarah  WANTED-2 GOOD TICKETS TO AIR FORCE  
Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55842  VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  NEED 4 GAs for WASH call CHRISSY @ 273-2580  Will pay $$$, arm & leg, left kidney or any other viable body part! Contact Jason & X 1468.  Looking for PITI student tix .... $$$ 271-2349 Sarah  $50.00 PER TICKET (515)266-6038  
. '-"·  ..·..­ see ClASS/ page 15  


page 13 

Wednesday, September 11, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 


Packers improve turnover production 
Stifling defense key to scoring 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Reggie White, ashamed by Green Bay's inability to create turnovers last season, vowed it wouldn't take 10 weeks to get 10 takeaways this year. 
He was right. It took the Packers' revamped defense all of six quarters. 
"That's all we've been talking about this year. getting turnovers," said White. whose unit produced three intercep­tions and a fumble recovery in the Packers' 3 9-13 thrashing of Philadelphia on Monday night. 
The All-Pro defensive end was as perplexed as anybody last season when the powerful Packers produced ju~ 16 take­aways -the lowest number ever recorded by any team since the NFL adopted a 16­game regular season in 1978. 
This year. they've already got 
three fumble recoveries, as 
many as they had all of last season, when MVP quarterback Brett Favre made amends by throwing an NFC-record 38 touchdowns. 
The defense was haunted all offseason by the thought of just how good the Packers could've been with just a little more pro­duction. 
"We were one game away from the Super Bowl last sea­son and we let the offense down," safety LeRoy Butler said. "We didn't hold up our part of the deal." 
"Last year these guys were putting points on the board without us putting them in a position to score," White said. "We knew coming into this year, if we could put them in a position to score, they could put a lot of points on the board. The last two games, that's exactly what happened." 
The Packers offense has 
turned six of the 10 turnovers 
into 30 points, including three 
for 13 points against 
Philadelphia. 
Coach Mike Holgmren and 
defensive coordinator Fritz 
Shurmur, who took much of the 
blame over the unit's implausi­
ble lack of production last year, can joke about it now. 

"I told Fritz I'm glad he's finally coaching turnovers this year. He didn't do that too well last year," Holmgren said. "But actually, we're not doing any­thing different, except maybe just talking more about turnovers." 
And they've left the rest of the league muttering over their newfound thievery, which included six takeaways in a 34­3 shellacking of Tampa Bay. 
The addition of free agent tackle Santana Dotson and the emergence of fourth-year tack­le Gilbert Brown, teamed with White and Sean Jones, makes the Packers' front four the best in the business. 
Shurmur said the Packers are 
much quicker with the acquisi­
tions of Dotson and safety 
Eugene Robinson, along with 
the new linebacker corps of 
George Koonce, Wayne 
Simmons and second-year sen­
sation Brian Williams. 
"I was on that defense back 
in 1989 at Florida State that 
was so fast, it was unbeliev­
able," Butler said. "This de­
fense is by far the fastest 
defense I've ever been on. I 
have to go back that far to .find 
athletes that are running to the ball like that. This is unbeliev­able." 
Part of the reason the Packers have been so dominant defen­sively is that Butler is lining up closer to the line of scrimmage, like he did in his Pro Bowl sea­son of 1993. 
"Plus, LeRoy can see better," White interjected. "He ain't blind no more." 
Butler went to eye doctor after dropping an interception in an exhibition game last month and was fitted with con­tact lenses, as was second-year cornerback Craig Newsome. 
Both say it's made a dramatic difference, and both. proved that in the opener, when Butler picked off two passes and Newsome caused two intercep­tions with jarring hits on Alvin Harper. 
Against the Eagles, corner­
back Doug Evans stripped Chris 
T. Jones for an interception on the Eagles' first play from scrimmage, and the rout was on. 
"I can't conceive of a better way to start the game than with a takeaway," Shurmur said. 
And what better way to start a season than with 10 of them? 



Cowboys 
efens......&;,,,l 
IRVING. 

While s not exactly . dominant . "DoomsdayDefenseu of.the l970s. · Dallas Cowboys appear have a better defensive than last year's Scfta.mpipp$; .;;,:} x;( f:t,::JW&J~;'<4>H!Ji.!if,~\f:l ,. <*'I've been ~ .....,u.u••n """'""..,""''" 
· · · · · have a better ftet·eru;e year!' 

Confronting An American Disgrace: The S sterna tic Causes of Homelessness 

Conference held on Sept. 19-21, 1996 at the Century Center in South Bend, Indiana 
Thursday 6:30-8:00 pm Newman Public Policy Lecture, Nan Roman, Vice President, National Alliance to End Homelessness Friday 9:00am-5:45pm Panels and Presentations Saturday 8:30-11:30 am Panels 
STUDENT REGISTRATION: $10.00 (no meals included) To register, please fill out form below and return it to: Professor Leda Mcintyre Hall Institute for Applied Community Research 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue Post Office Box 7111 South Bend, IN 46634-7111 
Name: 
Address: 
University: 
Department: 
Phone: 
ATTENTION JUNIORS! 


Class Rings 
now available for pickup 
. 

in the Class Ring Office at the Bookstore starting Tuesday, September 9 
HOURS: MON -FRI 9 a.m. to S p.m. 
Casilla~--· h~~ <gi;eri ............... Cowboys depth iJl,the so... -.. _._.-•• first·team defensive line fea"' turing Tony Tolbert and Charles Haley at the ends and Chad Hennings· and Leon·. 
Lett at tackle. . ·' 
•• Safeties Darren Woodson 
and Brock Marion have })~en
playing welL .·.· , 
Strickland, who came from Green Bay to sign with the 
Cowboys, has been a big im­provement over Jones in the middle. • 
"'l love this defense.'' St.rickfand said. ~·The front four makes my job easy. They don't allow the ball carrier to get to the linebackers or sec­ondary with a head of steaJll ... 
Dallas has only allowed an 
average of 111 rustling yards 
two games agairiSt Chica~to 
and the New York Giants:<+~,:~ 
"The addition of Fred agd 
Broderick has made'"'our de• 
fens~ muth better:•• Marioij. 
said. '*I think we are playing 
better than last year.•• 
So does such an authority 
as quarterback Troy Aikman. 
who goes up against the 
Cowboys defense in practice. 

I I I I I I I 
1 
. I 
I 
... 

, • I 
-
.. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Cubs sluggers lead the way to blowout of Expos 
Associated Press Montreal set an NL record Bottenfield pitched two per­Daal (3-3) had an even short­his two-run single. and matched the major league fect innings for the Cubs, who er night than Castillo. He struck The Expos got four singles in CHICAGO mark by using nine pitchers. remained 5 1/2 games behind out the first two batters before the second but scored just
Ozzie Timmons hit a two-run Starter Omar Daal lasted only St. Louis in the NL Central. He giving up a single to Mark once, on Mark Grudzielanek's homer and Luis Gonzalez sin­two-thirds of an inning, and earned the win because Grace. He then walked the next hit. gled in two runs as the Chicago eight relievers followed. The St. Castillo, who is 7-15, lasted three hitters, including Scott Chicago went up 5-1 in the Cubs survived a poor outing by Louis Browns used nine pitch­only four-plus innings and Servais with the bases loaded, second on Timmons' homer to 
starter Frank Castillo to defeat ers in a game in 1949. allowed 10 hits. 
the Montreal Expos 10-3 
Tuesday night. The Expos stranded eight The Expos were one game runners in the first five innings behind Los Angeles and San before getting shut down by 
Diego in the NL wild-card race Chicago reliever Kent when the night began. Bottenfield (3-5). 
White Sox slip in AL wildcard race 
Associated Press 43,320 fans who cheered every 
long fly ball and gave Wells 
BALTIMORE (11-13) a rousing standing ova­
David Wells pitched 7 1-3 tion as he left the mound in the solid innings and Rafael eighth.Palmeiro hit his 35th homer The left-bander tipped his Tuesday night as the Baltimore cap to the appreciative crowd Orioles beat Chicago 5-1 to after an effort in which he move ahead of the White Sox in allowed one run, seven hits and the wild-card race. two walks. He struck out three. 
The Orioles' fourth straight Alan Mills got the final two victory gave them a half-game outs in the eighth and Randylead in the wild-card derby, Myers worked the ninth. knocking Chicago out of the top B.J. Surhoff hit an RBI single spot for the first time since in the Orioles eighth. Aug. 29. Baltimore, 28-15 since With the score 1-all in the July 28, moved a season-high fifth, Roberto Alomar hit a two­
12 games over .500 (78-66). out double off Kevin TapaniThe Orioles began the day 2 and scored on a bloop single to 1/2 games behind New York in left by Todd Zeile. Palmeiro hit the AL East. Tapani's next pitch into the 
right-field seats for a 4-1 lead. 
Chicago (78-67} lost for only It was the 233rd home run of the third time in 11 games and the season for the Orioles. fell to 7-3 against Baltimore seven short of the record set by this season. the 1961 Yankees. Baltimore 
The game was held in play­has homered in 12 straightoff-type atmosphere before games. 
Group 01 -Quarterbacks 
0 1 Peyton Manning, TENN 0 2 Danny Wuerflel, FL 0 3Jake Plummer, ASU 0 4 Ron Powtus. ND 0 5Koy Detmer. COL 
Group 05-Running Bac 
0 1 Troy Davis, IOWA ST 0 2 Darnell Autry. NWU 0 3Warrick Dunn, FSU 0 4Ahman Green, NE 0 5Jay Graham, TENN 
Group 09 ·Wide Receive 
0 1Andre Cooper, FSU 0 2 Ike Hilliard, FL 0 3Rae Carruth, COL 0 4Yatil Green, MIA 0 5Keith Poole, ASU 

Grand pr1ze awarded to the entrant who chooses the highest scoring player from each of the thirteen boxes on the1r oug1na1 entry to Must be 18 years or older to play. Void where prohibited. To receive an official entry form, no purchace necessary, send a self addressed stamped envel to All Star Fantasy Sports. Prize fund based on 500 entries. In the event that there are less than five hundred entries. prize fund will be 50% of entry procee 
0 1Chad Lewis, BYU 0 2Pat Fitzgerald. TX 0 3Sieve Bush, ASU 0 4 Pete Chryplewicz. NO 0 5Man Lepsis. COL 
Group 08 ·CornerBacks 
0  1Ronde Barber, VA  
0  2Dayton McCutcheon, USC  
0  3Anthone Lott. FL  
0  4 Michael Booker, NE  
0  5Brian Miller, PSU  

Group 12 -Safeties 
0 1Chris Carter. TX 0 2Clarence Thompson, MICH 0 3Lawrence Wright, FL 0 4Mike Menter. NE 0 5Jason Parker. TENN 
Mail entry & enclose a
539.95 check made to: 

0 1 Rafael Garcia, VA 0 2 Remy Hamilton, MICH 0 3 Phil Dawson, TX 0 4 Bret1 Conway, PSU 0 5 Jett Hall, TENN 
P A I Z E S 
Grand Prize  $7,500  
First Prize  $1,000  
Second Prize  5750  
Third Prize  5500  
Fourth Prize  525C  
Fifth Prize  S10C  
Sixth to Tenth  S50  

S C Q A 1 N G 

SHOP WEDNESDAY 10 AM·9:30 PM 
ONLY AT L.S. AYRES 

ESTEE LAUDER FREE 8-PC. GIFT A$50VALUE 
New lips you'll love, plus the latest news on nalla. Yours free with any Estee Lauder purcha-of 17.50 or more. 
YOUR FREE 8-PC. GIFT INCLUDES: 
1 Full-Size All Day Upstick In Milano Tile 
2 Full-size Double Color Everlasting Upstick In Avant Garnet 3 White Unen Breeze Eau de Parfum VIal 4 More Than Mascara• Moisture-Binding Formula 
ij 
5 Up Defining Pencil
II , I 
6 Sheer Cream Perfect Finish Nail Lacquer 7 Heather Ice Perfect Finish Nail Lacquer
I 8 Cotton Swab Caddy* 
II 
I 
Plus receive the "Best of Fall ''96" trend report filled with the sea­son's key fashion news and makeup tips. 
·' . Offer good while tiUppllu IMI; tllld$ September 28. One to a cullomer please. ~-•Cotton---not Included. 
I 
i

I fI 
I 
I 
II 


~ . . . _ . ORDER ANY TIME TOLL FREE 1~800-528~2345 

Wednesday, September II, I996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
All Student Organizations 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all student organization officers on: Academic: Ethnic: 
Social Service: Wednesday, September 4, Monday, September 9, 
Wednesday, September 11, Montgomery Theatlr -4 pm Foster Room-7 pm 
Foster Room -7 pm or or 
or Thursday, September 5, Tuesday, September 10, 
Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -7 pm Foster Room-8 pm 
Montgomery Theater-8 pm 
Athletic: Honor & Music: Special Interest: Wednesday, September 4, Monday, September 9, 
Wednesday, September 11, Montgomery Theater -5 pm Foster Room -8 pm 
Foster Room -7 pm or or 
or Thursday, September 5, Tuesday, September l 0, 
Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -8 pm Foster Room -7 pm 
Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
At least one officer from every student organization must attend one of the sessions. If you have any questions, please call the Student Activities Office at 1-7308. 
Help Lou 
and the Irish 
strike fear 
into the 
hearts of 
the 
Boilermakers 
by wearing 
"The Shirt 
'96". Stand 
up, show 
our unity, 
show our 
pride. Wear 
"The Shirt 
'96" Notre 
Dame will 
win over all! 
ON SALE NOW at the Bookstore, LaFortune Information Desk, and Varsity Shop. 
STUDENTS! Get $4 off "The Shirt '95" with coupon included with your student football tickets. 
Remember to 


share the warmth 
in the true 

Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PROJECT WARMTH 
University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 

Toledo, Spain 
Information Meeting With Professor Olivia R. Constable 
Thursday, September 12, 1996 4=30 p.m. 223 Hayes Healy 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
Class 
continued from page I2 
Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $ for home games. 412/352-2219 
1 PITI student tix for 1 HOME GAME 243-9285 
PERSONAL ] 
Happy Anniversary, Nancy! Love, Sean 
Is there such a thing as playing WWWAAYYYY too much Euchre? 
I Love Insp .... 
hay, where is that rank 
it should be here any second?? 
Beatrice, 
Unto me the sage advised, "When you confront her radiance, whose eyes can see, everything in their fair clarity, be assured, then you shall learn, what your life's journey will be." 
Left in question, I ask, "How much do thine eyes see?" Dante 
Ever swim in the Pacific Ocean in the Southern Hemisphere? STUDY IN CHILE!! mtg: 9116 at 4:30 in 117 DeBartolo 
Cooper-Those are nice 

lounge of COBA! Meet your new officers and sign up to get involved. ?s-1-9330 
Ill !I !AUDITIONS!!!!!! for SMC's production of THE LADY FROM DUBUQUE B GREAT ROLES 4 women, 4 men (One man MUST be African American) Sept. 11 & 12, 7p.m. Regina Room 16 (Acting Studio) No Preparation Needed! I I I EVERYONE WELCOME I II 
THE NEXT GUY THAT KISSES YOU ON THE CHEEK IS GETIING THEIR A$$ KICKED. I MEAN IT! 
Cooper-REAL NICE 
YES THArS RIGHT! SHE IS MY ST. LOUIS HO. AND DON'T YOU FORGET IT! 
MARKETING CLUB MTG! Tonight! @ 7pm in the lower 
lounge of COBA! Meet your new officers and sign up to get involved. ?s-1-9330 
TONIGHT!!! Marketing club. meets @ 7pm in COBA. ?'s -1-9330 
clip and save 
I George and the Freaks 
I  Fri. Sept 13 Jazzman's  
I  Sat. Sept 14  Corby's  
I  Thurs. Sept 19 Club 23  

I And catch Doug McKenna I I every Wednesday at C.J.'s I I George and the Freeks I 
She's just not photogenic, !swear. My friends all think she is cute. 
-Jonas 
He came back to score with SOMEONE ANYONE EVERYONE 
HEY BUCOLO, you know what you are... you are a freakin' idiot. 
A 40 IN THE HAND IS BEITER THAN A BEER IN THE FRIDGE. 
STOP LOOKING AT ME SWAN! 

The saga continues and John is kept in sus­pense. 
JOHN-
You are the ultimate production person. My life would be an absolute mess. You are a total stud, and I am glad that you did not quit. You are the very best. 
-Kathleen 

It was too long ago. Some clues cannot be revealed here even though this is too fun to pass up, so maybe we should just chat one­on-one. What do you think? 
To J and R­
1am glad to hear that your dreams came true. See in the long run the wait may have been worth it. 
To Joe­
l owe you a big one. You are saving my life totally. Did I ever tell you that you are all that. Thanks so much! 
I tell you that when it rains it pours. 
Peppel is the Desparado Nelson will tell me who "my girl" is 
Well girls, 1think that this could be one of the best times ever. Everyone is going with someone that they remotely like. Not to mention the fact that we are going to have some cool freshmen chillin' with us. Here is to good times and good friends. This could be a night to remember!!! II 
I don't know who wrote about the St. Louis ho, but it was not me. 
Tim is the EVIL Leprechaun Spicoli + SMC =LOVE 
Pooce I agree completely, but only the ones with four letters. 
Pooce, can you agree that John is the only cool one. 
Gimme a jingle, and we'll rap a little 
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MIISS LIPPY!! 
Go Bryan Go Bryan Go Bryan Go Bryan (Goin' for the frosh) 
Russ, You didn't have to worry all night. Your Chiappetta frame would have been intimi­dating enough to frighten that Disciplinary Committee into giving you the minimal Dulac sentence. Your permanent record on the other hand ... 
Stop by anytime! 
His name is the Animal, it is up to you to find out why 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. Wondering why mighty Penn State will be playing unknown 
(Ii and overmatched Northern 
Illinois on Saturday? 
The obvious answer is an economic one. By adding a sixth home game to the sched­ule every year, the school is able to generate almost $1 mil­lion more in revenue to benefit the athletic program-includ­ing women's sports, according to head coach Joe Paterno. 
But the nation's winningest active coach insists there's another reason. 
"Northern Illinois has a good history. They're having some problems this year, but tradi­tionally they've been a good, solid football team within their league," Paterno said Tuesday. "Sometimes you schedule people who look like they have the potential to be good." 
Thus far this season, the Huskies (0-2) haven't reached that potential. 
"I am not going to tell you they are a great football team, but our kids aren't stupid enough not to know anything can happen," Paterno said. 
Paterno, of course, would say exactly the same thing if his No. 6 Nittany Lions (2-0) were playing Northern Illinois High School, but nevertheless, his playe.rs say they are not looking past the Huskies to Big Ten foes Ohio State, Michigan and Wisconsin. 
li 
Cornerback Mark Tate said he expects to have a grueling week of practice. 
"I think the coaches want to guard against us taking these guys lightly, so they'll probably be tough on us," Tate said. "Every single game is a big game for us this year, so we're just going to approach it as any other game -regardless of who we're playing." 
The main focus of practice 
I; 
r 
J 
! , 
I; 
'j 
I ~ 
I: 
': 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
...··:::-:;f::::;:;·:-;:::····· 
VolleybailTourn~~ent • RecSports will be sponsoring a one night tournament on September 19 at Stepan Courts. For more information, contact RecSports by Wednesday. September 18. , 
Field Hockey -Anyone inter­
ested in field hockey, meet at 
the field across from Stepan 
Center. Thursday, September 
12 at 6 p.m. Call Chrissy 
Shannon at 273-2580 or 
Megan Kennedy at 243-9476 
with questions. 
Challenge U Fitness -Some 
classes are still open. Please 
call RecSports for details. If 
you are not able to attend for 
any reason, please contact the 
RecSports office so that we ·may give the spot to someone else. . Yoga & Tai Chi -Sign·ups begin Wednesday, September 11 at 7:45 a.m. in the RecSports office. 
Blood Pressure & Body 
Composition -Testing will be 
done on Thursday, September 
12, from 11:30 ... 1 p.m., in the 
Foster Room, LaFortune. If 
you cannot get there. contact 
Jennie Phillips at 4-5965 to set 
up. 
OfticiaJs Needed • RecSports needs official for flag football, .. soccer, and baseball. These 
are paid positions. Stop by 
ResSports and r.n out an appli· 
cation. If you have any ques­
tions call RecSports 1~ 6100. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Paterno, Lions primed for battle with NIU 
will be on improving the pass­ing game, Paterno said. In Penn State's 24-7 defeat of Louisville on Saturday, Wally Richardson completed just 11 of 33 passes for 118 yards and two interceptions. 
But Paterno said the blame should go to the pass pro­tection and receivers running poor routes -not just to Richardson. 
"I think we can rectify the problems, but we are not going to be a great passing team overnight," he said. "That one interception was on a deflected pass, and the other was a pass that should have been caught." 
Don't expect Paterno to do what Florida did against the Huskies last year when it played its backup QB the entire game. 


Freshman steps up for Buck's 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Freshmen aren't supposed to do what Michael Wiley did Saturday in eighth-ranked Ohio State's 70-7 blast-off against Rice. 
For that matter, no one is supposed to do what Wiley did -score a touchdown each of tlie three times he touched the football in his first collegiate game. 
"Some. people are saying it might be a college record. They're not sure," Wiley said. "That's really unbelievable, and I'm really surprised and shocked I could do what I did." 
What he did was take a reverse 49 yards for a touch­down in the second quarter, the first time he ever touched the ball at Ohio State. He fol­lowed that in the third quarter by catching touchdown passes covering 51 and 60 yards from Joe Germaine. 
While the 6-foot, 180­pounder from Spring Valley, Calif.• was shocked, many oth­ers were not. 
Ohio State starting quarter­back Stanley Jackson said, "We really weren't surprised, We had watched Mike for a few weeks now. We saw his high school film, and the coaches really talked high about him after the freshman camp. So we knew he had a lot of ability. He just had to go out there and prove it." 
In the state quarterfinal playoffs last year, Wiley had a Rice-like performance. He rushed for a school-record 271 yards and two touchdowns, ran a punt back for a touch­down, intercepted a pass, had a sack, forced a fumble and recovered a fumble. 

USED FURNITURE Household I terns -Clothing 
The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 

10% Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty
#288-2539
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 

Discount With I.D. 
The visionaries atErnst & Young UP implement solutions, add value andproduce results for our dientpartners around the globe. 
·•('·~•:::::~it;•'~lii::;.·:__.',','·,·.. :·.. ·'.::<·:.. ....••·~.-.~~.:.~· '·'·'''· :;;:,,,;•'•:::};:]!':
.. ·.;:.·~ •..• ••·.·•··•
-=:··'.·'·.:.'·.·.'..
,··
.. ..,,_,·''·.:.•
. 
......__._;~~:-


ENvisiON TOMORROW. 
• Imagine what your future will look like. 
• Will you be working at the forefront oftechnology? 
• Will you be partnering with blue chip clients who av forward-thinking as you? • 
• 
Will you have the opportunity to be involved in the full life cycle of your projects? 

• 
Will you be forging ahead with a global firm that's ahead of its time, and has been that way for years? 


You wtll, ifyou join the vtstonarles at Ernst & Young. 
To learn more about our vision of tomorrow and how you can help create it, please stop in your Career Placement Office or visit us at the following campus events: 
9/12 Management Consulting Presentation LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 6:00-8:00 
9/18 Engineering Career Fair 10/4 Career Fair 10/4 Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
Infonnation Technology Interviews 
For additional information, please contact Ivy Posada via e-mail at: IVY.POSADA.ey.com. 
E!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
-
Ernst & Young llP is an equal opportunity tmployer committed to workforce dlvenlty. 
I, I; 
~ : 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
Mike Berticelli, "but you can't make excuses." 
The Irish eventually got things going, though, and took a 1-0 lead before halftime. 
On a rush up the left side­line, junior Bill Savarino fired a shot off the leg of the defend­ing back, which deflected toward the goal at an awk­ward angle and fooled Valparaiso goalkeeper Aaron Rhame. 
Assists were awarded to for­wards Ryan Turner and Andrew Aris. Aris, a fresh­man, received the first start of his Notre Dame career and the assist was his second of the season. 
In the second half. the Crusaders continued to play with the same intenstity, but due to the strong hustling defense that has become a trademark of the Blue and Gold, they were not able to control the ball as they had in the first half. 
Their frustratio'A was evi­dent and it was unfortunately displayed on a few occasions in the form of flagrant fouls and outbursts directed toward the referee. 
When asked how he wants his players to deal with such situations, Berticelli explained, "You try to keep your compo­sure. You can't give in to the frustration of not scoring or getting kicked. You have to be mature." 
Notre Dame's effort to keep their own visible frustration to a minimum was satisfactory, considering the situation that were put in. 
Using their swarming de­fense, the Irish were able to shut Valparaiso down and cre­ate more opportunities for themselves. In fact, if it hadn't been for the stellar perfor­mance turned in by the Crusaders' Rhame in goal, the Irish would have pulled away long before Capasso cashed in on a penalty kick with 1:26 re­maining in the game. 
"Our goal," stated Berticelli, · "was to win it (the game) and not give up a goal, and we accomplished that." 
Not only did the Irish ac­complish that, but the Irish have now played 360 minutes of regulation play without giv­ing up a goal and are 3-0-1 on the season. 
Notre Dame will put its sti­fling defense to work again on Friday evening, as they host West Virginia in another Big East matchup. 

The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Senior midfielder Tony Capasso wrestles a frustrated Crusader to the turf in last night's victory. 

"Of Flies and Men" Genes and Embryonic Development of the Fruit Fly From a Notre Dame Student to the Nobel Prize: A Long journey Eric Wieschaus, Ph.D., '69 1995 Nobel Laureate in Medicine Squibb Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University Dr. Wieschause, the Squibb professor of molecular biology at Princeton University shared the 1995 Nobel prize in medicine for his research which uncovered the clues to how genes control development in embryos. This research helps explain congenital malformations in humans. Dr. Wieschaus will offer a popular account to his scientific trek from his days as an undergraduate at Notre Dame to the Nobel prize. His talk will be directed to physicians, scientists and lay people who have an interest in the genetic control of the body and in the process of \Vinning the Nobel prize. 10:00 am ­11:30 a.m. September 14, 1996 (Before the Purdue-ND game.) DeBartolo Hall, West of the Stadium 1995  
Attention Students: Are you interested in returning to your high school during Fall or Christmas Break to represent Notre Dame? .loin the Undergraduate Schools Con1mittee at one of the follovving n~eetings: ~ednesday, September 11 & Thursday, September 1?) Each meeting begins at 8:30 and will be held in Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) Remember you need only attend one session Questions? Contact: Bryan Furze Or Jennifer Carrier Student Coordinator Office of Admissions 4-2160 1-7505  

Special 
continued from page 20 
with a chance to return one kickoff the entire day," Holtz recalled. ..That one was pretty well blocked with the exception of one individual (who) did not perform his task up to the cal­iber we needed." 
Additionally, the Irish could not fully capitalize on eight Vanderbilt punts, as only three were returned. Autry Denson took one for 18 yards, but the other two opportunities result­ed in a measley two total yards. With an offense that can move the ball on the ground or in the air, better field position can only improve scoring opportu­nities. 
The Irish are expected to work on special teams heavily this week. Keeping the Purdue offense pinned in their own red zone would make an intimidat­ing defense even harder to han­dle. Giving Ron Powlus and his charges some decent chances could help put up some more impressive numbers on the scoreboard. The coaching staff can only hope that what they emphasize in practice follows them out onto the field against the Boilermakers. 
Y-Balr 

continued from page 20 
leader of the team. ~She's loud," says captain Jen Birkner with a laugh, ..and she's not afraid to say thing~ that the others won•t say... 
..1 think the whole team and myself needs to pick up the in­tensity at practice," asserts LetTers. ..And we need to do that in order to win the matches. I need to be able to draw the hitters to me a bit more." 
Also, LetTers has lacked time in the back row. 'Tm very, very pleased with what Mary's been doing in the front row." lauded Coach Brown. 
..She reads the setter so well in the front row, but she needs more confidence in the defensive positions, par­ticularly in terms of picking up balls." 
·­
..., 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
• WORlD CUP OF HOCKEY 
Canada snatches opener of Hockey World Cup 
' 
li 
I 
\ 
' 
I 
I 
l 
I 
1
I 
I 

j I), )l1 
J 
i ) 
.,;· 
I 
i 
j 
f 
\ 
J 
l 
J I 
l 
1 I 

THE MULTI-LEVEL NITE CLUB OFFERING THE BEST IN OFF-CAMPUS FUN AND ENTERTAINMENT WHERE IF YOU DONT LIKE WHATS ON ONE LEVEL, YOU CAN GO PARTY ON THE NEXT LEVEL! 
presents A SPECIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY THE 13TH NIGHT 
PLUS PI'S PETE "'M", TONY­TONE AND SLICE PLAYING YOUR FAVORITE HIP-HOP BETWEEN BAND BREAKS ON THE LOWER LEVEL, AND CONTINUOUSLY ON THE UPSTAIRS LEVEL . 
. 
Doors open at 8pm both floors open 'till close! 
Business Majors: 
• 
Accounting 

• 
Finance 

• 
Economics 



When:  Wednesday, September 11, 1996  
6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m.  
Where:  Morris Inn  
Alumni Room  
Why:  To let you know ...  
•Who we are  
• What we do  
• Who we are looking for  
• What we can offer you  
Refreshments will be served  

PETERSON CoNsuLTING LLc 
Peterson Consulting will be conducting campus interviews on October 7 & 8 
The puck hit either Lemieux on LeClair's shot, but the Sakic's weak clearing attempt or the U.S.'s Scott Young in front Canadians were unable to clear was blocked at the point by and dropped into the net. a loose puck from in front. Hatcher, who floated a pass to 
Both of Hatcher's goals came Hatcher collected the loose puck Tony Amonte in the faceofT cir­when he moved in from his and shoveled it over the fallen cle. Amonte faked a shot, then defenseman's post. On the first, Joseph. passed across to Hatcher com­at 2:03, Joseph made a nice stop On the second, at 13:51, Joe ing in from the point. 
Catechist For-mation Program 
* 
Do you enjoy working with children or young adolescents? 

* 
Would you be willing to give a couple ofhours ofyour time each week? 

* 
Would you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith better and to learn how to be an effective teacher? 

* 
Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish religious education program? 

* 
Would you be interested in becoming a certified Catechist through Campus Ministry? 


If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, then maybe you would be interested in learning more about how to become a Catechist. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 
Kairo's -­"The Lord's Time" 
(Formerly known as Fourth Da>;) 
Take a study break to spend so01e titne with friends. All are welcotne as the Kairos board kicks off the year with the celebration of Mass. Come out and see
. 

what Kairos is all about, make new friends, and have a great titne! 
WHEN: Tonight at 7:30 WHERE: Chapel of the Holy Cross (between Stanford and Keenan) WHO: Anyone and everyone (don't be shy) 
.. 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA Steve Yzerman scored with 
9:23 left in overtime as Canada beat the United States 4-3 Tuesday night in the opener of their best-of-3 World Cup of Hockey championship series. Yzerman's shot from 10 feet out in the left circle glanced ofT goal­tender Mike Richter's glove and dropped over the goal line. 
Canada, which outshot the 
U.S. 7-1 in overtime and 35-26 overall, was only 6.3 seconds 'away from victory in regulation when John LeClair sent the game into overtime with a goal that was actually pushed into the net by defenseman Eric Desjardins. 
With just under 10 seconds to play in the third period and the 
U.S. having lifted its goaltender for the extra attacker, Joel Otto won a draw in the Canada zone to Brian Leetch. 
Leetch's shot from 20 feet was stopped by Curtis Joseph, but the rebound bounced clear. Desjardins was trying to shovel the loose puck under his goalie but it went too far, dribbling into the net. Theo Fleury's goal halfway through the final period gave Canada a 3-2 lead. 
Fleury, who scored in the sec­ond overtime against Sweden on Saturday to move Canada into the championship round, col­lected a loose puck outside the 
U.S. blue line and skated in on Richter. He faked a move to the front of the net, causing Richter to drop to the ice, then beat the goalie with a short shot from a tough angle along the goal line at 9:58. 
Game 2 of the series will be Thursday in Montreal. If need­ed, Game 3 will take place Saturday in Montreal. Eric Lindros and Claude Lemieux scored the other goals for Canada. Derian Hatcher scored both U.S. goals. 
The United States trailed 1-0 after one period before Hatcher scored twice in the second. Lemieux's goal with 39 seconds left in the second period made it 2-2 going into the third. 
Lemieux was credited with the tying goal on a play set up by Mark Messier. Messier side­stepped a check at the blue line by Mathieu Schneider and skat­ed along the right wing before flipping a pass to the net. 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
~~~----------------------------------------------------------~~---­
_,

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
D TEA.t-\BUILDING E.~ 

THIS NEXT E.~ERCI5E. 
WILL CHALLENGE. YOUR 
ABILIT'( TO SOLVE. 
PRO BLEM5 AS A 
TEAl"'\. 
hunlull:onlronlatl<lll (il\,. 111\Cd 
one~ the tx·ndi1 nt lhc dtlUhl \\hen 
lhmj!~ go awry. 
VIRGO {Aug. 2.'·Sl'pl 221: A fresh chapler unfold~ "' love and good luck slnkc hom,·. A new undcrslanding wilh a tanuly mcm· bcr warm~ your hear!. Good com· municat1on is lhe key 10 ~olvmg any career problem~. 
LIBRA (Sepl. 2~-0cl. 22): Con· ventional melhod., will work he~l now. Beware of hack.,lage dealing.,. This is no lime 10 ~h1rk your respon· sibilities or pul your fund> in incx· perienced hands. 
SCORPIO (Oct B-Nov. 21 ): Too much solilude could gel you down. Take a shon journey. Touch· ing base with family and friends will boos! your spirih. Younger worker'> may need more guidance than expected. 
SAGITTARIL'S (No1 22-Dec. 21 j: Someone goes out of his way to assist your career. A surprise from a co-worker is well-recei1·ed. Follow the dictates of your conscience where a money maHer i., concerned. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Yow to do what it takes to ere· ate a bright future for yourself. Help comes throu!!h loans or !!Ood friends. Do n~l neglecl yolll·~lo,·e life. Someone '' ho feels taken for grante\) could look else11·here. 
AQUARIUS !Jan. .20-Feb. 18): A financial deal is the subject of many conversalions wday. Your ESP is lruly uncanny. Although ser· vice-oriemed busines~es can be highly successful. a prime loca1ion is vital. 
PISCES <Feb. 19-~1arch .20): Look for ways 10 put your money 10 work for you. As long as you avoid pie-in-the-sky in\'estment schemes. you will do just fine. A friend offer~ practical advice based on personal expenence. 
MIKE PETERS 


SCOTf ADAMS 

r---------------------------~ur----------------------------­
~ FOUR HOURS LATER ...
~ r----========:---1
SUNDIAL USING 

ONE. f'\ORE. BI"TE
!..
ONL'r' A. PENCIL 
.," 

15N'T GOING TO
1:
,..
ANO A. DONUT. 
Ul 

f'A..AK£ t\NY 
~ 

D1Ff=ER£NCE.
=II 


s8Jai-­6t Spoken 62 Take-(plop 
down) 63 Bath powder 64 Incense 65 Bridge, in 
Bologna 66 Rams' mates 67 Predicament 68 Show of derision 
DOWN 
1 Ghost 2 "Gigi" star 3 Song from "Call 
Me Mister," 1946 4lnk smudge 5 Religious school 6 Jungle swingers 7 Somewhat, in 
music 8 Freshly t It's spotted in a 

garden 10 Turns inside out, so to speak 30 The Beatles' 45 Legal subject 56 Angelic "Baby-a 46"Bali--" headgear
11 Mattei item Rich Man" 47 See 29-Down 57 "The race--!"

12 "Fables in Slang" author 31 Spinner in space 48 Marvy 58 Broke bread 52 Roll right along 59 Fortas's forte 
13--Affair 32 Harper's Weekly 


21 "Krazy" one cartoonist 22 1983 hit ..__ 33 Cannes cop House" 
34 Fix the lawn 26 Play staging 
38 Train unit 
27 Maturation 39 Hovels
catalysts 40 Western Indian 
29 Ingredient in a Western 42 Race track 47-Down supporters 

IIAI'PY BIRTIIDA \'! I~ TilE 
NEXT \'EAR OF \'OliR LIFE: 
l·1nding new oullt:t~ for your ere­
alive lalenl~ ~hould he your lllp pri· 
orily. Romance will llouri.~h 
lhroughoul lhe fall. Family lJC~ lake 
on deeper significance during lhe 
winler holidays. Do nol shirk your 
duty. Your career will re~.:eivc a wei· 
come hoost as 1997 gets underway. 
A move lo anolhcr city is possible. 
Establishing good relalions with 
various groups make your job easi­
cr. Join profe~~ional organizalions. 
Learn new skill~ even if it means 
rclurning to school. 

CELEBRITIES BO.RN ON THIS DAY: singer Harry Connick Jr., film director Bnan DePalma, singer Lola Falana, actress Krisly McNichol. 
A.RIES <March 21·Aprll 19): Slop dwelling on past disappoint­menls and make an all·olll ef'for1 to achieve a cherished goal. Group camaraderie lifts your spirits. Avoid taking risks. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): More work and less play will pul you ahead of the compelil1on. Prof­ils are high. A loving relationship could be tested by a tough situation. A key agreement gels. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Creative and arlistic projects are favored. Your imuition tells you to take a chance on love. Behind-the­see nes maneuvers prove lucky. Honor your loved ones' wishes tonight. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Acting too quickly on a financial tip provided hy friend~ could be costly. You need to gel more facts and fig­ures. An imaginative romanlic move works out beaulifully. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Certain sacrifices will be necessary in order to make a business venture work. A family conference could head off a 
OF INTEREST 

53 China--60 Half pints, 55 Misstep maybe 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 

HEY!! Do You Drink Because You Think There Is Nothing Else To Do?? Come On, Stretch Your Imagination And Be Creative. 
Stop By The Office of Alcohol & Drug Education For A Free Copy of You Too Can Have Fun In South Bend. This Book Contains Information On Over 380 Fun Places And Things To Do In Our Community. 

·····.···Jerusalem Study AbroaciP.·rft,.,....lft "Lli' informational meeting today"~t Hayes· Healy. Returning stulctents answer questions, .. .... The Marketing Club will meet tonight at7 p.m.j.n the lower lounge of COBA. Pizza and pop will be 
•

served. Dues are $10. Call631·933Q,;v/ith anytions. t •:.ii•·:i?':· 
An Altar Servers' Workshop willbe held tonight at 1O:OOp.m. at the Basilica ofthe . .·. .... . Contact Mq.rio DeAnda at(i3lft6436 with au,yq:.ue~;tions::};, .......\ 
Toledo, Spain Study Abroad Program an . 
informational meeting on ThursdayrSept. 12, at 4:30 
p.m. in 223 HayesftHealy. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. lii Summer job opportunity listings ... Summer Weekly Bulletin in ·a·nunaLceJ[JleJr;u. Services, lower level, Hesburgh ·u··ibt;tm('$ippltoDrtor·e$·;·:. and juniors 
North 

Amish Vegetable Soup Clam Chowder Chicken and Dumplings Grilled Pork Chops ..:. Eggbeaters Garden Quiche Grilled Swordfish Neopolitan Style Spaghetti Cheese lliivioli 
·. ,·:~:~;.·/-:/Wir=f;r:~ 


Saint Ma.ry,s 
>Roq~se~ie. cfti~ken .·.··.··· ...
····Sweet iindSojlr Pork··.··· Noodles llt~....,.'".n 
Please Recycle The Observer 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Union flouters 6 It's mined in South Australia 1 o Legendary Memphis recording company 14 City near Leipzig 15 Gossiper Barrett 16 Wyoming town named for a frontiersman 17"--Witha View" 18 Scored 1 00 on 19 Bailiff's cry 20 Pickup line 23 Famous twin 24 Slacker at the track 25 Name on old Asian maps 
28 Pickup line 33--Tuck 35 Association: 
Abbr. 36 Vast amount 37 "--people 
go" 38 Babe in the 
woods 39 Sorry ones 41 Somewhat:· 
Suffix 42 Impediment 43 This may have 
fallout 44 Pickup line 49Coup-­50 Welcome item 51 Govt. pension 
agcy. 54 Blanket pickup line rejection 
ANSWER·TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


-.-----.-r~ ­

---~--~-~ T~----~~----------~----­
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
• MEN's SOCCER 
. ·! 
"! 
Despite sluggish start, Irish shutout the Crusaders

II \ 
Mens soccer
l 
ranked No. 24 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
l 
Despite a slow first half in last night's men's s'Occer game, the Irish, who are now ranked No. 24 in the country,
i 
managed to defeat visiting
' 
Valparaiso 2-0. 
The Crusaders began the game with a great deal of enthusiasm and energy and
I forced Notre Dame into a slop­II py first half. Twenty minutes into the
l 
game, neither team had regis­tered a quality chance, with the possible exception of a strong shot taken by senior Tony Capasso from 20 yards out. The fears of a let down appeared at first to be well­founded. 

After all, Notre Dame was '. coming off of a stirring over­
i. 
' time draw with heavily favored St. John's and were missing key starters in fresh­man marking back Alan Woods and junior forward Scott Wells. 
Wells suffered a head injury on a fall he took in the St. John's -game and is expected to be out for up to a month. 
"After a game like St. John's, it's tough to come back focused," said Irish coach 
Sophomore Matt Johnson ties up a Valpo forward in last night's action. Johnson was part of an impenetrable defense that led the way to a 2-0 see SOCCER I page 17 shutout. 


• FooTBAll • VOLLEYBALl 
Coverage needs improvement Freshman Leffers 
By DAVE TREACY a major disadvantage. For the the kickers themselves. Associate Spons Editor Irish, their disadvantage came Sophomore Hunter Smith punt­on special teams. ed the ball well in the opener, 
makes voice heard 
Vanderbilt had a definite The Commodores' average averaging 42.8 yards on four advantage over Notre Dame in starting position on the playing at·tempts, planting two at or By T. RYAN KENNEDY team with nearly 60 kills and last Thursday's game. This field came at their own 41 yard behind the VU 20. Sports Writer ranks second in blocks behind leverage was not a result of line. On the other hand, Notre "I was pretty happy with the senior Jennifer Rouse. better talent, bigger players, or Dame found themselves with way I kicked and I think it can Mary LetTers arrived at Notre Two factors have allowed coaching. It had to do with the ball only 21 yards away continue, but we do need to Dame with modest goals set for Leffers to step up. Despite the execution. If a team does not from their end zone. cover a bit better and I'll try to herself. "Before I came here, I return of all six starters this execute, they put themselves at The problems weren't with give them more of a chance," thought I was the person who season, injuries have peppered 
Smith evaluated. would see the bench, take the the Irish women, transferring "I am a little disappointed in stats, and 
more responsibility onto the 
our kicking game." Holtz just be a freshmen. On August 16, Carey offered. "I thought Hunter voice on the May sep~ated her shoulder in Smith punted the ball well. I team," says practice, while Kristina Ervin 
didn't think we did a particu­LetTers. has just returned from an 
larly good job covering After a early-season ankle sprain. (punts)." week and a Secondly, Coach Debbie
I 
Brown has adjusted the team's
The combination of Scott half of in­Cengia and Jim Sanson put two tense pre­approach to blocking because of four kickoffs into the end season and Mary Leffers the height is finally there with
:J 
zone, both from the foot of endless com-the 6-4 LetTers assisting the 6-5 Sanson. But despite the play of petition against one another, Rouse. "We've definitely been
I 
f the kickers, the coverage units things changed for the 6-4 stressing it more," says Brown.
I 
allowed Vandy to open their freshman. "I was thrown into "It's a skill we never spent drives with lots of breathing the mix and became a much time with in the past, but room. The Irish had little contributor. I was on such a now we're devoted to it." 

opportunity to take advantage high." "Our assistant coach, Jim of Vanderbilt kickoffs as the Only seven matches into the [McLaughlin] has improved all 
I 
Commodores only sent two into season, Leffers is quickly of our blocking, just in terms of 
th"e air. The first went out of becoming the voice of Notre the fundamental skill," agrees bounds, and Emmett Mosley Dame's volleyball team (5-2). LetTers. brought the second 21 yards to and rightly so. The middle The Tampa, Florida,native 
the Irish 25. blocker has put on a show: she not only brings an intimidating "We didn't get a chance, real­has been named to the All­look to the Irish, but she has ly, to evaluate our return game, Tournament teams of the already stepped up as a vocal Shamrock Classic and the Big see SPECIAL I page 17 Four Classic; she leads the see V-BALLI page 17 


vs. Purdue 
at Ohio Stare Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Friday 

• Cubs knock offExpos vs. Michigan St. 
at Ohio State Friday 
see page 14Thursday, 7:30 p.m. 
vs. West Virginia Volleyball at ONU 
• Dallas' defense improves 
Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
Friday, 3:15 p.m. see page 13 
at PennStare Friday, 8:30 p.m. 
. ' 
' ' 
I 
I 









