-

Monday, October 14, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 36 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Gays, lesbians proceed with Coming Out Day 
Organizers hold picnic but do not demonstrate after University decision 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
Without approval from the University, various student organizations went ahead Friday with their event celebrating National Coming Out Week-albnit in a modified format. 
Gay, lesbian and bisexual Notre Dame students congregated at Fieldhouse Mall late Friday morn­ing for a pic:nic, but the demonstration portion of tlw event -including speeches promoting the inclusion of homosexual students in the campus community -was canceled after the Office of HesidPnce Life denied requests on two occasions earlier last wonk to register the event. 
Sean Gallavan, eo-chair of Gays and Lesbians of Notre name and Saint Mary's College, said the organizers of the event had considered going ahoad with the demonstration despite the University's derision, but eventually decided to pass. 
"Our goal is to help gays and lesbians become a more inclusive part of this community," Gallavan said. "We didn't want to risk losing that goal by haying tho police come in." 
Gallavan said the decision not to hold the 
see ND/ page 4 
SUPPORT NA:l'lONAL COMING OUT 
DAY! 
The Observer/Dave McCaffrey 
F
r i d a y 
marked 
National Coming Out Day. Students at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame convened to Rromote aiversity and tolerance in the ND/SMCcommunity. 


Survey reveals perceived gender gap 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
Some say that the American Dream is dead, but if a survey by the George II. Gallup IntPrnational Institute on behalf of the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC) is any indication, it seems that college students would say othrrwise. 
Of the nearly I ,000 students who responded to tht! survey, nearly two-thirds (65 percent of men and 5CJ percent of women) report that they nxpcct their standard of living to be higher in 20 yPars than their parents' had been at the same agH. 
The survey also posed questions regarding future educational and employment plans. or the students who expected to pursue some form of post-graduate education, 30 percent plan to begin within the next year and 84 percent expect to do so in the next five years. 
Those who did not sec post-graduate education 
in their future cited three main reasons for not contin­uing their education. Some students did not think it was necessary or beneficial to their particular career field. 
Others said they would not be able to gain admis­sions to a graduate school because of their undergrad­uate academic record (40 percent) or admission tests (39 percent). 
Expense was a third and lesser deterrent; many 
College Senior Survey 
Career Interest: Men vs. Women 1996 GMAC/Gallup College Senior Survey 
60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 


-Men WomenCJ Due to multiple answers. percentages do not add up to 100%. 

seniors indicated that they had not incurred large debts from their undergraduate education. A total of 60 percent owe Jess than $10,000, with 39 percent owing Jess than $1,000, while only 12 percent report­ed owing $20,000 or more. 
As to the question of which career fields interest the seniors the most, 49 percent of men chose entrepre­neurial fields while the majority of women (54 per­cent) chose educational professions. Careers in science 
see SURVEY I page 6 

Gathering promotes more SMC diversity 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's students gathered fo promote the idea of diversity in a different way to celebrate National Coming Out Day on campus. 
In recognition of the lesbian, questioning and bisexual students on campus, a small gathering took place at noon Friday in the lobby of LeMans Hall. It was an effort to show that there are stu­dents available to talk to regarding gay and les­bian issues. 
"It started out really small. The lesbian students on campus wanted a table in recognition of National Coming Out Day to promote the idea of community that we thought should exist on cam­pus," said senior Carol Jones. "We gathered a group of lesbian, bisexual and straight students to celebrate people coming together for a common cause." 
To gain administrative approval, the group approached LeMans Residence Hall Director Jill Aitchison, who went to Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm. Timm then took the propos­al to the senior officers of the Coltege for final approval. 
Response to the event is positive. "I think this is a huge unifying experience for Saint Mary's, and 


New company offers positions exclusively to ND students, alums 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
In an increasingly competitive job market, college students arc encoutaged to seek intt!rnships through which they can gain oxperienco that gives them an edge. 
A group of alumni have recently formed a compa­ny designed to help Notre name students with tech­nical knowledge perfect their skills and pad their resumes. 
Charles Stafford, a 1996 Notre Dame graduate and former wide receiver on the Notre Dame foot­ball team, is an employee and co-founder of the South Bend-based CBD Incorporated. 
The company is designing and producing infor­mational kiosks, to be distributed throughout the South Bend community in an effort to keep resi­dents, especially students, informed as to what the area has to offer them. 
"People can use these kiosks to look into what is available in the area, from stores to volunteer orga­nizations to job opportunities," explained Stafford. 

He noted that during his undergraduate years, he. 
see CBD I page 4 


------------..
F 
Monday, October 14, 1996 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Just Flush 
I am not a writer. Most people think that, because I have earned the title 'managing edi­tor,' I have superior writing abilities or that I enjoy writing. 
In fact, quite the con--~~~~~~~ trary is true. I rose through the ranks never writing a story unless by gun point or a breakdown of my mental defenses. The question "Do you want to write an inside column?" usually elicits a response like, "They had 
Tom Roland chicken-fried steak at Managing Editor 
the dining hall this week-________ 
end; I really hate it when that happens." (For the slow minded that means I try to avoid the situation all together. Don't feel bad if you missed that last one; it is midterms week.) 
I thought I would try to tackle a very perti­nent problem plaguing our campus. One that goes deeper than race or sexual orientation ­yes, the dreaded flushing problem that seems all too prevalent on this glorious campus. I must admit I can honestly say it has been a long time since I have gone through an entire day without seeing, or being forced to flush the remnants of someone else's actions. For those of you who make a conscious effort to flush your product, I applaud you -keep up the good work! 
For those of you (and I'm sure it is more than one by the sheer volume of non-flushed activity) who don't find it to be one of your social obligations to flush, why not? 
My roommate actually made fun of me for making a call to action. I find it hard, for some unknown reason, to make fun of my stance. Are there such advocates in this world that are so vehemently against flushing that they would activity seek out flushers and look to convert them to their evil and socially unacceptable ways? Do these people lurk in community bathrooms uttering phrases like, "Just leave that," or "someone will get that later," or even, "Don't even think about pulling that handle buddy. Just walk away and nothing further has to come of this." 
I'm just envisioning clinics, like those for alcoholics, for non-flushers. Such well knowns as Monk Malloy and even Lou Holtz would come forward and finally admit they have a problem. 
Could you imagine people saying, "I never really considered it as a real problem; I just figured someone else would take care of it. Hopefully, with the help of PFS (Peoples for a Flushing Society) I can finally overcome my fears, begin flushing again, and go on hopeful­ly living life to its fullest once again." 
If asking you to take that extra couple sec­onds to pull the little lever, or push the little button to make the messy go away is too much to ask, then please call me and let me know how and why what I am asking is some­how an infringement on your rights as an American or your moral choice as individual. I'm really trying to understand the side of a non-flusher. Maybe someone in the university hierarchy could set you up with a: flush buddy and try to neutralize your "choice." 
My call to action: Next time you're in the bathroom and are done with nature's calling, please make sure to send nature what right­fully belongs to it, instead of leaving it for oth­ers to marvel. I've seen a lot of urine in my day and can say that I never have been so truly impressed to actually be elated that the person before me was so kind to share his gift with me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Allison Koenig  Production  
Russ Williams  Heather Cocks  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Briam Fremeau  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Accent  
Ethan Hayward  Rachel Torres  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Shannon Dunne  Sue O'Kain  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Officials investigate possibility of arson in hotel fires 
WASHINGTON weekend display of the AIDS quilt 
Federal and District of Columbia on the Mall between the Capitol investigators searched Sunday for and the Washington Monument. the cause of a series of suspicious The largest fire was reported in predawn fires Sunday in a luxury a sub-basement vault where the Washington hotel that injured five hotel stores surplus linens, mat­
people. Arson was suspected. tresses and upholstered furniture. The 772-room Omni-Shoreham The last fire extinguished, it Hotel was evacuated about 3:15 offered no direct access for fire 
a.m. after staff members discov­hoses and no ventilation. ered six fires, including one in a Carter said two fires apparently ballroom where drapes were blaz­were set in sub-basements and 

ing and another in a storage room for linens and other flammable goods. 

Capt. Alvin Carter, spokesman for the district fire department, said the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms entered the case because arson was suspected and it was a suspicious fire in a public building. 
He said arson could not be officially confirmed as the fires' cause until investigations were completed. Hotel officials said the hotel was almost full because of a large number of visitors to the nation's capital for the 
Dole alienates religious conservatives 
WASHINGTON 
A number of religious conservatives are planning to stay home Election Day rather than vote for Bob Dole, according to Martin Mawyer, president of the Christian Action Network. Dole is not addressing the concerns of "pro-family conservatives" who con-
...,...,._.,.._.,. sider themselves born-again Christians, Mawyer wrote in an opinion piece published in Sunday's editions of The Washington Post. That is one rea­son Dole's lagging behind President Clinton in opinion polls, he said. Dole's only chance for recovering the disen­chanted Christian right vote is to change his message -from concentrating on his 15 per­cent tax cut plan to emphasizing issues of morality and values, Mawyer said. "When a candidate ignores our issues, we ignore him."' 

Passenger dies in cable car plunge 

QUEBEC A cable car broke loose this weekend, hurling passen­gers into a wall at the bottom of the steep run in a Quebec City historical area. A British tourist was killed and 15 people were injured. The accident occurred Saturday when a cable that pulls the car along a track between Quebec City's historic lower town and a cliff snapped just as the car neared the end of its downward run. An emergency brake failed to stop the car, which sped out of control and smashed into the wall of a booth where passengers enter and exit the car. "It was a dreadful mess,'' said Marcel Auclair, a city resident. "People were piled on top of each other. I saw right away that the cables, which are normally in the center, weren't there any more." Police refused to identify the 47-year-old woman from London who was killed pending notification of next of kin. The 12 women and four men aboard the cable car on Saturday were from Britain, the United States and the French islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon. Most sustained fractures, bruises and were in shock and one was more seriously hurt, authorities said. Andre Morin, manager of the Otis Canada branch that handles maintenance, declined to speculate on the cause of the accident. The cable car, he said, can carry up to 20 people. Hundreds of thousands of tourists ride it every year between the historic lower town and Quebec's walled quarter atop a cliff. The system was built in 1879, and completely renovated in 1978. A one-way trip nor­mally takes a minute or so. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Oct 14. 
FRONTS: 
""T"""T"" ...a....a... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Preuure 


H L m~8{)~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
AP one was discovered in each of the hotel's east and west wings. 
"Whoever may have set the fires was very familiar with the layout of the building," Carter said. "They were unconnected and ignited in hard-to-reach areas of the building. Also, the suspect had to know how to get access to these areas without drawing attention to him­self." 
Five people were hospitalized, including two firefight­ers, but none of the injuries were said to be life-threat­ening. There was no estimate of damage. 


Duct tape covers janitor's corpse 
OTTAWA HILLS, Ohio 
The death of a man whose body was found wrapped tightly in duct tape was accidental, a coroner said. Charles Karabell, 64, a maintenance man at the Toledo Tennis Club who lived on the premises, had been dead a day or two when his body was found in the club's kitchen at 4:30 p.m. Friday, said Lucas County Deputy Coroner Diane Barnett. The body was found, 85 percent wrapped, near a wall-mounted dis­penser of the gray tape, leading police in this Toledo suburb at first to believ-e it was a homicide. Police apparently found women's clothing under the tape, and a subsequent report characterized the death as autoerotic asphyxiation. Barnett said Saturday that circumstances at the scene and on the body suggested that Karabell suffocated by accident, but that a final ruling would be made following toxicology tests and police interviews. 

Giant pumpkins eat up time and cash 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Those huge, really huge, pumpkins that emerge every Halloween season don't just happen, and don't happen cheaply. Joe Miley, a pumpkin grower since childhood, grew an 589-pound orange giant this year that captured first prize in a state pumpkin contest, and third prize in regional competition in Tennessee. Miley's winner grew from a seed known as Dill's Atlantic Giant. But good seed is just the start. His secret to success, he says, is "a lot of water, a lot of fertilizer and a lot of love. I probably spent more time out there with that pumpkin than I did with my wife." No argument there from his wife, Tammie. ''I'm used to being a deer season widow, and this year I was a pumpkin widow," said she said. "He wouldn't trust anyone around it, almost." Miley sold his winner to Greenwood Park Mall for $400. Mall marketing director Rose mary Hawn also paid $300 each for two pumpkins, both smaller than Miley's, grown by Bob Hurley of Daleville. "It's an interesting sport. Or hobby. It's expen­sive," Hurley said. "You could have $500 wrapped up in one plant." And computer owners with an orange thumb can learn even more. "You can actually pull stuff off the Internet about this," Miley said. "We just typed in, 'how to grow a great pumpkin,' and we started pulling up all sorts of stuff." Ken Hoff, a Rochester pumpkin grower who's sons won the children's category two years ago with a 575-pounder, says it's just fun. "We don't do any­thing special. Just give them lots of liquid fertilizer, fungicide, insecticide. You can almost see them grow." 
Atlanta 73 47 Baltimore 73 40 Bangkok 90 79 Boston 65 45 Chicago 77 54 Columbus 74 52 Los Angeles 77 58 Dallas 82 61 Miami 79 73 Denver 80 51 New York 66 52 Honolulu 90 78 Phoenix 96 72 Indianapolis 75 52 St. Louis 83 59 






_..,._________________________ 
Monday, October 14, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Live with Regis ... 
Mother-daughter tandem complete College degrees 
host 

By MARY BETH ELLIS News Wrirer 
When Saint Mary's senior Stacy Curtis accepts her diplo­ma in May, her mother Linda Tafelski won't be taking pic­tures from the audience. 
She'll be waiting to accept a degree of her own. 
Tafelski's college education began twenty years ago, when she found herself "going crazy" with two small children and an education that ended on the night of her high school gradua­tion. At a time when secretarial and teaching jobs were the pri­mary jobs available to women, Tafelski traded in a full college scholarship to any university in Illinois for a wedding ring. 
"Back then, that was what was expected-that you would get married. If you waited until you were twenty-two, you were considered on the shelf," said Tafelski. 
Tafelski began taking classes in business and management. "I realized you can be a better person, a better mother, with an education," she said. "I also wanted my children to get an education-and how better to 
T
alk-show Regis Philbin, a 
1953 Notre Dameshow than through example?" 
graduate, promoted the
Tafelski is currently a staff 
member in the Student Affairs 

book "Just Peachey: 
office. When she was working 

Cooking Up A Cure." 
for Saint Mary's in the commu­

The cookbook contains 
nication, dance, and theater 

recipes contributed by 
department, she began taking 

several people. All pro­
classes with the intention of 

ceeds will go towards 
majoring in English writing. 

Breast Cancer 
"For my own self-improve­
research in Indiana. 
ment, I wanted to learn how to write," she said. "And I 

The Observer/Dave McCaffrey 
thought, 'I'm here, they can teach me.'" 
Her daughters followed her to Saint Mary's. Tafelski's oldest, 

SACC targets academic life
Sheila, graduated last year. 
Tafelski said that she often tells 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN
stories of the entire family sit­
NewsWrirer
ting down to do homework together, and of her daughters Friday marked the debut of

helping her as much as she 

the Student Advisory Councilhelped them. 
Committee (SACC), which is"It's helped us grow closer," composed of students andsaid Curtis. This semester the 
administrators striving to
two are actually taking a class improve academic life at Notretogether. Curtis, a member of Dame. The committee, chaired

the Marching Band, will be 

by Provost Nathan Hatch andgraduating with a Bachelor of Vice President and AssociateArts in English literature. 
Provost Father Tim Scully, dis­''I'm very proud of my moth­cussed the improvement of stu­er; she's taught me how to see dent/faculty relations, study
things through. She's a role 

abroad programs, student advi­model for me," said Curtis sories, and mentor programs, asAnd for the rest of us as well. 
well as the success of trial acad­
emic programs instituted for gatherings between students country, and gain summer this year's freshmen class. and faculty, much like the Joint internships and leadership Formation of the SACC opened Engineering Council in the opportunities. a new chapter of student rela­College of Engineering. ''I'm Hatch, who is in his first year

@Freshman@ 
tions with the Notre Dame interested in getting faculty as Provost, expressed his eager­administration. Hatch said that involved in dorm activity in ness at involving the students in the committee was created to terms of lectures and discus­administrative affairs: "We "improve undergraduate acade­sions," Hatch said. have a wonderful institution a. mics, enliven the intellectual Senior Brendan Kelly, a repre­Notre Dame of a superior facul­environment, and improve fac­sentative for the College of Arts ty and administration, but there ulty/student interaction." and Letters, highlighted the will always be ways to improve In response to the interest need to "get faculty more academic life and interaction expressed by Hatch and Scully, involved in the students' lives between departments. I am 
Study Break 

Tuesday October 15th 
the six student committee rep-from the very beginning," and always open to fresh ideas." 
6:00 pm --8:00 pm 
Gorch Games Room (LaFortune) 

Take a break from studying for your 

..: t • ' .,...{ ~ .. • •• ~~ ·-­

midterms and play some free pool, 

•" ' eat some free food, and receive ' 
~ft~~ 
; 

a free Class of 2000 t-shirt \ ~' 
~;~·' r ' • '~,~, ' • '· ,.,-? 
,, 

,.. .~ 
. . • • •'n , 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16 
2:00 and 7:00P.M. 

Vincent Price stars in 

It isn't always clear which ,one of the big six firms is focused on your future. However... 

resent their respective colleges with advice and constructive criticism. 
Susan Walvoord, representa­tive of the College of Science, suggested the creation of a study abroad program for sci­ence majors. "Every other col­lege has a study abroad pro­gram besides us," Walvoord said, "I think that was my biggest regret: · not taking advantage of the study abroad programs in other colleges. It was something I always wanted to do." 
One suggestion aimed at implementing departmental 

Hatch suggested the formation of a "nexus between first year of studies and the various col­leges" and a system of mentor­ship in the summer before freshman year. 
The committee also discussed topics of vocational advice and career options, addressing the concerns of students entering the business world. Hatch sug­gested the formation of an "alumni network, much like the career and placement program in use at Vanderbilt [University)." Hatch said this would enable students to net­work with alumni across the page4 
ND 
continued from page 1 
demonstration did not draw away from the atmosphere of the event. "Altogether it was a very positive experience," he said. 
During the event, partici­pants at the picnic passed out purple ribbons honoring the significance of the day to peo­ple inside LaFortune Student Center and those passing by Fieldhouse Mall. 
The University's presence at the event was minimal. A lone Notre Dame Security/Police officer, who was not in uni­form, was stationed at the event. 
"Notre Dame Security itself was very supportive," Gallavan said, noting that no major incidents developed between the picnic-goers and anybody passing by. "They (Security) did their job." 
Gallavan, who submitted the original request to the Office of Residence Life for approval of the demonstration, said he "fully expected" the Office of Student Affairs to take action against him. 
However, Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk, who was the University official who denied the requests for approval, said yesterday evening that he had not heard anything about the picnic taking place. Consequently, he said he could not speculate on any action that might be taken against any students. 

PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 

~~ ~-~-­



--------------------..., 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 14, 1996 
SMC 

continued from page 1 
apart from just helping les­bians and bisexual students, I think it was an educating and consciousness-raising experi­ence for all students," said junior Poogie Sherer. "We really had a good turnout." 
Along with raising aware­ness, students laud the fact that the event provided an outlet for questioning students to find support. "I think it's good for people questioning to see a big group, and see that they would be welcome," said junior Maureen Kobza. "It was a beautiful day, with beautiful people celebrating something beautiful." 
Holding a sign that read "Straight but not Narrow," Michelle Abraham said, "It's about time we saw something like this on the Saint Mary's campus. Being in support of diversity should not just be about color." 
CBD 

continued from page 1 
was on his own in familiarizing himself with the area; through the kiosks, Stafford and CBD hope to facilitate this process for any and all South Bend resi­dents. 
"It's like looking through a phone book, really," Stafford noted, "but since this is the computer age, we've captured that technology and utilized it to create a new resource." 
He credits co-founder Tracy Graham with the original idea; Stafford's support and the inclusion of six other alumni helped make CBD a reality. 
"Basically, the idea was spawned from wanting to find a way to give back to Notre Dame, in addition to helping ourselves after graduation," said Stafford. 
As a member of the Notre Dame community, Staffon;l and his coworkers are hoping to 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
employ current students as well as graduates. "We want this to be a Notre Dame com­pany," he asserted. 
CBD is currently employing three interns -one alumnus and two undergraduates. 
Chris Peppel, a junior MIS major, heard about CBD through an intern and subse­quently got involved with the company. 
''I'm essentially a network consultant," he said. "I look into the software and supplies we need, as well as mainte­nance." 
CBD's next project is, as Peppel explains it, "a web server that will offer a service similar to that of the kiosks." Along with another intern, he has worked on the design and construction of the web pages. 
"The Ivy League schools are so well-reputed for their com­puter skills," Stafford com­mented. "We know that Notre Dame students are every bit as proficient and it's time to show that to the world." 
Previous technical knowl­edge is required for the intern­ships, but as Peppel noted, "the job experience has defi­nitely been worth it." 
Stafford encourages any interested students to call him at 273-4348 for information about joining CBD as an intern. 
"We are a family, and our students have so much talent," Stafford stated. "We want to make this an operation run entirely by Notre Dame gradu­ates. 
"Because we are ND:" 

INTERNATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM 
Jfnn~brurk 
INFORMATION MEEfiNG 
APPLICATION FORMS WILL BE AVAILABLE (DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: DEC. I) 
~ 
--::-<· 

PRoF. GE~NoT GuRTLER, --llf UNIVERSITAT INNSBRUCK PROF. URSULA WILLIAMS, UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER I 5, 5:00PM ETS THEATER (BASEMENT CCE> VIDEO FEATURE: THE IMPERIAL TREASURY 
FORMER PARTICIPANTS AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
D lk;t " , L.·~· ' ft ,. R,c .I ' 
... ·a /loway s JS ",oo~•ng JOr ; er1ormers. <i;? '[/'Ifyou or someone you know are



l/)\oaiioway's Coffee House, stop by on a \~ ~~-;:::\ '\il)\tonday or Wednesday night or give us ( ( t1 Jd call. All forms of entertainment are 
I 
I r 
Clarissa Dalloway's Coffee House is located in the white clubhouse next to Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. We serve various coffees and teas, pop (or soda, whichever you pre­fer!), and snacks. We're open Monday
Dalloway's new co-managers are: 
nights, 7:00-10:00 p.m., and day nights, 8:00-12:00 p.m. 
fen & Lisa & Carolyn 

Come check us out!!
243-9264 243-9343 

Monday, October 14, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 
Rate of violent crime drops 
By LARRY MARGASAK Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Violent crime in large U.S. cities dropped 8 percent in 1995, leading the way for a smaller but less dramatic decline across the nation, the FBI reports. 
The bureau's annual crime survey also shows the lowest murder rate in a decade-and the lowest overall violent crime mte sincn 19R9. 
The survey, released Saturday, was compiled from crimes reported to more than 16,000 law-enforcement agen­cies covering 95 pnreent of the nation's population. 
With crime an issue in the presidential campaign, President Clinton quickly claimnd credit for the decrease. 
"Our anti-crime strategy ­to put more police on the street while working to get drugs, gangs and guns out of our neighborhoods -is working," he said in a written statement. 
The president cautioned, howev1~r, that the nation still "must hear down even harder on vioient juvenile crime. Last 
PAINTLESS #i.qlt. 


May, I submitted to ······-·-·---····--·---·----·---·------·­Congress the Anti-Gang and 
Crime distribution 
Youth Violence Control Act of 1996. Enacting that bill's 

Violent crime dropped in 1995,
tough new measures is my 

most noticably in cities with more
top anti-crime priority." 

than 1 million people. The current
Christina Martin, cam­

distribution of violent crime: 
paign spokesman for Hepublican presidential 

Larceny-
candidate Bob Dole, said, "Clinton's words of self-con­

Theft 
gratulation are a shallow attempt to divert attention from the massive increase in teen drug use under his watch. 
"Bob Dole knows the 
. 
with President Clinton, Dole said: "Crime has gone down but it's because of mayors like Hudy Giuliani, where one-third of the drop happened in one city: New York City." Giuliani, New York's mayor, is a Hepublican. 
Alfred Blumstein, a professor at Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said, "The crime decline is much more by local policing, local culture and fac-
Burglary 

Motor vehicle 
118,7 j Jft 
I 10.6 

\\-.,7.9-Aggravated 
57.7% \\ assault
numbers are cause for alarm and will do every­
'\_:-4.2-Robbery 

/ 0.7-Forcib/e rape 0.2--Murder
thing in his power as presi­

dent to eliminate the scourge of violent crime." In last Sunday's debate Source: FBI AP 
tors in the community rather than national policy." 
He said big cities have been successful because they acted vigorously "in getting guns out of the hands of kids, using a variety of tactics." 
Blumstein added, however, that "you have to give credit to additional resources in polic­ing, the emphasis in communi­ty policing. To that extent, the president can make a claim for having contributed to it." 
Clinton has often touted his anti-crime law designed to place 100,000 additional police officers on the streets. 
Attorney General Janet Reno attributed the improvement to "many different causes, includ­ing our bipartisan efforts to give local law enforcement the tools they need to combat crime." 
Heno warned, however: "This is no time to rest on our laurels. Crime is still too high." 
page 5 


• on State Road 23 at Ironwood across from Kinko1S 

Fix Your Car Cheap SATISFACTION GUARANTEED Cash Back (up to $1000) 
Marketing Club Committee Meetings: Wednesday: 
7:00PM Social Committee 7:15PM Fundraiser Committee 
7:30PM Speaker Series 7:45PM Resume Book 

Come to anY. meeting & get involved! ???s call 1-9330 
Alpha Epsilon Delta: Members-there is an important, but 
short meeting tonight in 118 Nieuwland at 7PM. Please try to 
come! 
Junior Achievement Club of Notre Dame: 
JAND will be meeting TONIGHT in the Montgomery Room 
(LaFortune). Training and pictures are scheduled. 
College Democrats of Notre Dame: This week's Tuesday 
meetin~ will be replaced by the College Democrats vs. College 
Republicans Debate, Tuesday at 7:00PM in the Hesburgh Library 
Auditorium. All members strongly encouraqed to attend and 
show support for the College Democrats. ??7s call Catherine at 
232-0431. 
Club Coordination Council: Kohl's Department Store is hav­
ing a grand opening in late October, and needs help. Club 
members cantARN MONEY FOR THEIR ORGANIZATIONS this 
way. If you are interested, call1-4078 immediately! 
Students for Responsible Business: The last sign-up date for 
the SRB Global Conference at Northwestern's Kellogg _School of 
Business is Wed., October 16 at the Stock Exchange K10sk 
(Business School) from 12:45PM to 1:25PM and 7:00PM to 8:00PM. 
For more information, call 257-1074. 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune omce to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
Surgeons removed Pope John Paul II's troublesome appendix Tuesday and said they saw no 'signs a benign colon tumor· bHWia, d returned. 
Doctors sidestepped· 
I:{~,~ .•~ tiona about the pontiff's other health problems, John Paul II including a mt\fked.hand tremor. 

The 76-year-old pope's vital signs he_ld up well during surgery at Gemelli ·Polyclinic, and doctors said he came Wi~mgh itsuccessfully. · John Paul quickly regained consciousness after general anesthesia, greeting and thanking everyone. 
·"He should be sitting in an a.il:ttichair tomorrow," said Dr. Corrado Manni, chief anesthe· siologist for the 50-minute surgery. 
"The appendix that was the capse of the pope's ills doesn't exist any more/' said Manni. 
· The appendectomy aimed to cure what the Vatican said .were recurring bouts of inflammation and fever that l!a!.fSed John Pa:ul' to cancel some public engagements. Frequently, the pope's energy flags and he walks with difli· 

...with more information it should become clearer ... 
culty. 
That image of the leader of the world's 950 million Roman Catholics generated concern that a bowel tumor, removed in 1992 and described as benign. had returned. 
"This is the moment to demythologize these fan· ta.sles," said the surgeon, Dr. Francesco Crucitti. "I exclude it categorically. There is no secret. 
"The doctors are happy. Very fond ofthis pope." 
But even as doctors called the appendectomy successful, they wouldn't discuss other aspects of the pope's health. 
Journalists shouted out. questions on whether the hand tremors were a sign of Parkinson's disease -a nou· rological disorder marked by tremors and a shuffiing gait. 
Crucitti would only say that the pontiff ls under the <:are of "other specialists." for other ailments. 
Crucitti opt)rated on the pope in 1981 after a Turkish gunman shot the pontiff in the abdomen during an assassina­tion attempt and again in 1992 for the tumor. 
On Tuesday, surgeons tirst had to remove adhesions, or scar tissue, from the previous operations before tackling the appendix. 
Crucitti said tho accumulat­ed scar tissue helped keep the inflammation from spreading throughout the abdomen. 
page6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 14, 1996 
Survey 
continued from page 1 
and corporate management were sec­ond and third for the men receiving 39 percent and 38 percent of the votes respectively. while health professions (33 percent) and entrepreneurial posi­tions (31percent) rounded out the top three for the women. 
The notable difference between the answers from the male and female respondents was not limited to career fields, rather it was evident in every part of the survey. In general, females who responded to the survey were sig­nificantly less optimistic and less interested in business careers and degrees than male respondents. 
This may correspond to the disparity in the answers to the question of the existence of a glass ceiling in the vari­
ous fields. Women were approximately twice as likely to believe that there were "glass ceilings" than were men. The seniors believed that the potential for r~male career advancement is the most limit­ed in the business field, with 47 percent (37 percent of men and 57 percent of women) acknowledging the existence of gender bias in that field. 
The same disparity between male and female responses to the "glass ceiling" question continued through the fields of science, law, and medicine with 30 percent overall believ­ing the glass ceiling existed, and in education where 18 per­cent perceived its presence. 
This corresponds with the responses to which students wanted to attend business school. 
The study indicated that 27 percent of men planned on 

business school while only 16 percent of women could say the same. 
Overall, business school attracted more than one in every five seniors planning to attend graduate school. Interestingly , education, the field that the fewest seniors believed to have any restrictions because of gender dif­ferences, was the most popular choice for women with 21percent. 
Since the survey was conducted in part to give graduate business schools insight into the concerns of prospec­tive graduate business students, this gender gap is of particular concern to the GMAC and business schools throughout the country. 
"Graduate business schools play a key role in removing the glass ceiling," said GMAC president David Wilson, "Opportunities for women in MBA pro­grams and management careers are excellent and growing." 
The data from the national survey corresponds somewhat with that of a University of Notre Dame survey con­ducted in March of 1996 by the Office of Institutional Research. In the Notre Dame survey, business and education 
• See Tuesday's Observer for student reaction to the survey. 
were still among the top choices for men and women, but were surpassed by engineering (25 percent) for men and social sciences (15 percent) for women. 
Engineering was the most popular choice overall, with 17 percent of seniors reporting their intentions to pursue post-graduate education in that field. 
Education and business came in sec­ond third overall with 13 percent and 12 percent respectively. 
r.-----------.....---""""'"""""____""""'..........--;! 
lic University's Fathers of the Church series. Come stock your library and enter a drawing for the Bible of 
•.ctv i#•

your choice! As always, all books are 10% off for ND­SMC faculty and students. LASALLE BOOKSTORE, 237 
Q

N. Michigan, So. Bend. Open 10-5, Mon-Fri. 234-0003 . 
....~~ 

The GMAC survey was conducted from responses of 962 students at 88 colleges and universities of various sizes, both public and private. More than 1,700 surveys were mailed. The GMAC and the Notre Dame surveys were conducted in the spring of 1996. 
Mark Gunty, assistant director of the Office of Institutional Research at Notre Dame, pointed out that the answers given in the early spring are not set in stone because many stu­dents' plans in March are much differ­ent than what they actually wind up doing. 
A somewhat more reliable follow-up survey was conducted by the University in May of 1996 in which seniors were asked about their post­graduate plans. At that point, 27 per­cent of men and 28 percent of women said that they were going to attend graduate school. 
IF YOU SEE NEWS HAPPENING, CAll THE 
PEACE CORPS 
wniETOUGHEST~OBYO~LEVER~VEw
OBSERVER AT 1-5323 
October 15 &16 
Information Session
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
October 15 Center for Social Concerns
Anniversary Sale • Oct. 14-25 
7:00-8:30 p.m. 
To celebrate our first anniversary, we're cutting 20% 
Interviews October 16

oH the price of the works of writers such as Augustine, 
Career Planning and Placement 
G.K. Chesterton a_nd J.H. Newman, as well as au­
8:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
thors in Paulist Press' Ancient Christian Writers and 
Register at the Career Planning office. Can interview on 10/17 at St. Mary's. 
Classics of Western Spirituality series, and Catho­
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 1-800-424-8580 

TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
-
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 
-
Saturday 10:00-5:00 
-

•. •Ell ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Junior Accounting Majors! Summer Internship Interviews November 12th and November 13th 
Maximize your future with an Ernst & Young summer internship! Submit your resume now to Career & Placement for an interview with us on November 12th or November 13th 
i ', 

\. 
" 


VIEWPOINT 
page 7 Monday, October 14, 1996 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"The law is a sort of hocus-pocus science." 
-Charles Macklin 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Eli1.abeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................Jed Peters Sporu Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Gricshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor. ................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ..........................Michad Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reAect the policies of the adminima­lion ofeither insticution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, letters ;tnd Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions duough leners is encouraged, 
Observer Phone Lines 

F.Jitor-in-Chicf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Gcncrallnforma[ion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.c:du 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stadium too commercialized 
Dear Editor: 
In 1991. when Notre Dame was contemplat­ing the need for a more capacious stadium, several students wrote letters to The Observer expressing outrage at the thought of desecrat­ing the old stadium, every brick of which they considered as sacred as those in the church by enlarging it, or worse, by tearing it down. To mollify such pious outrage, Notre Dame eventually put forth a compromise plan that promised preservation of the old stadium by enshrining it in an external structure replicat­ing the old. 
That that promise will not be kept is evident to anyone who looks upon the hulking mass overwhelming the southeast corner of the campus; in no way, except in seating capacity, does it conform with the published picture of thn proposed addition, nor does it even approximate the look of the old 'stadium with­in. In fact. like most of the newer buildings on this otherwise lovely campus, the new stadi­um is utilitarian at best, at worst, ugly. Its gigantic protuberances (housing stairwells, I guess) make it so disproportionate and irregu­lar (the old stadium was a symmetrical oval), so ugly and unaesthetic that the wisdom of my "Modest Proposal" (Oct. 30, 1991 issue of The Observer) seems fully vindicated. 
To save the sanctity of the old stadium along with some $60 million needed to renovate it, or $1 00 million to build a new one, I proposed a simple, nearly cost-free solution, namely that Notre Dame field two football teams (each with its own coaching staff, players, band, eheerleading squad, etc.) to play on alternate weekends home and away games. With this simple expedient of 11 home games, we could double the old stadium's seasonal seating capacity, hence doubling the revenue without touching a single sacred brick. The rovenue would of course more than double when one accounts for the eleven additional games and the added TV income, especially from bowl games when NO #1 would play NO #2 for the national championship. But alas, no one took my proposal seriously, even though I have been assured that no NCAA rule pre­dudes it. 
Since it is a universally acknowledged truth that an unfortunate decision must be in want of another, as a consequence of the unfortu­nate renovation comes another Notre Dame venture into crass commercialism, namely the recently issued brochure entitled "Own a Piece of Notre Dame Football History." Herein, in near self-parody, the faithful are offered a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to buy a part of Notre Dame lore: (1) almost-intact stadium bricks in three colors and sizes mounted on cherry or walnut plaques with authenticating descriptions ($125-$265); (2) a chipped brick combined with washed-out plank seat ($500); etc. My favorite is "Hats Off," featuring a "limited edition" of an "authentic cap worn by ushers" during foot­ball games, together with an intact stadium brick, both encased in a walnut frame ($750). 
On the other side of the handsome brochure, there is a notice of a forthcoming auction of practically everything removable from the old stadium that will surely appeal to the increasingly avid interest in sports memo­rabilia: stadium flags, goal posts, signs, the elevator and glass from the old press box (the latter perfect, we are told, for enclosing swim­ming pools), locker room stools, sideline benches, etc. Who would not pay dearly to own the bench on which Kathy Lee's husband and 0. J. once sat? 
The only items missing from these desir­ables are the trough-like urinals from the men's room, the perfect receptacle, it seems to me, for that planter any serious indoor gar­dener should be proud to own. 
Who dreams these things up? Who cannot see the prima facie tackiness of such a sale? I can remember the first renovation of Sacred Heart Basilica some 25-odd years ago, when valuable antique pews, hand-made by the Holy Cross Brothers, were given away free for the hauling, and when the old fieldhouse was dismantled without a crass sale of its bricks. 
In the past, Notre Dame manifested a great sensitivity and pride in licensing its logo and name. Now, with too many MBA's making too many decisions at Notre Dame, what future tacky venture might we expect? Perhaps a sale of the excess rocks in the Grotto? 
ROBERT LORDI Emeritus Professor, English 
Ot<AY,el>B, THIS TIME. 
LCOK l=R\Sl<Y.. 

Nations could avoid war b)? adoring Blessed Virgin 
DearEditon 
T}l~ sava~e war b:1 Checbnya would have been prevented if Russia had been consecrated to the ltmnaculate Heart of Mary. On June 13. 1929, the Blessed Virgin Mary. appeared to the Fatima, Portugal Visionary S.ister Lucia des Santos and declared: "The moment has come when.God asks the Holy Father in union with all the bishops of :th~;~or~t;l t? makethe consecration of Russia. to my heart promising to save it by this means." 
If Russia had been consecrated to the Immaculate Heart of Mary dur· ing:the 19~0s by Pope Pius XI and the bishops, World War II would not have resulted. The Korean and Vietnam Wars, feeble military attempt<> by amoral American politicians to stop Russian sponsored communism, vver~ also :the bitter fruits of the failure of Church prelates to conse· crate Russia. 
Th~Biess~d Mother has stated to Sister Lucia that until Russia is con· secrate4; I(ussia Will not he converted and Satanic communism defeat· ed. Communism is not dead. Communists govern China, Tibet, North Kor;~~; (;@'a; and Pope John Paul's Poland. Russia almost elected a 
• com:tnunist•. president. 
R~~ardi~gtheChechen War, Russian defense minister General Ale'¥~nde:r tehed observed· that the Kremlin political operators were thwarting his efforts to end the barbaric conflict. Recall that on Aug. l4~.;~~:cneP,and children were slaughtered leaving Grozny. The 
Kremlin bureaucrats, siril.Uar to Boris Yeltsin, are "former" atheistic communists. 
ApJtop}letic sec)"et has been entrusted to Sr. Lucia by the Blessed Mother; The secret was to be revealed in 1960 but was suppressed by Pop~ Joh-g ~III. Finally, in 1990 the secret was publicly released to Father Stefano Gohbi, founder of the Marian Movement of Priests by the Virgiq Mother of Christ. The secret has two components: apostasy and c]J~~Stisement. Apostasy refers to the rejection of Catholic doctrines and moral teachings. 
Chastisement is punishment for this rebellion. Let us pray the Rosary daily for the consecration -conversion of Russia and for the conver· sionofourselves. PAX ET BONUM! 


JOSE:PR ltt)WARD VALLELY, M • .A.. Washington Gceen, Conn. 


VIEWPOINT
Monday, October 14, 1996 page 8 
Rice GLND/SMC column sparks reader reaction 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is in response to Charles Rice's article titled, "University position on GLND/SMC a 'non-starter,"' that appeared in the Oct. 4 edition of The Observer. Since his article quickly brushed over many issues, I will only comment on four simplistic and ill-founded allegations he made. 
First. it is said that homosexual acts are wrong because the Bible forbids them. This suggests a very literal, fundamentalist reading and understanding of the Jewish and Christian scriptures. For Christians, the Bible as a religious object is a collection of their faith-filled ancestors' interpreted religious experiences. Religious experience, in this context, refers to the ongoing, conscious, human experience of, reception of. and response to (faith) the mediated manifestation of God's presence (Revelation). Hence, it is very important to remember that Revelation is always mediated through something or someone in a particular time, place, and culture, and it is always received through human experience. A scholarly interpretation of biblical passages would take the time and situation that the text is written into consideration. It would employ biblical criti­cisms to arrive at a more sophisticated interpretation of the texts. It may be shocking to many people, but not everything in the Bible is Revelatory of God, but rather only revelatory of a particular time. place, people, and culture. 
Second, he states that "homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered." This is philo­sophical language that stems from the natural law theory. I assume by natural law that Rice implies that human reason can determine universal, natural norms for human morality. However, people can only think in higher functions (e.g., consciously reason) with language. The way people think and what they think about then, is socially conditioned. Forms oflife and language also change and develop; they are not static. Hence, humans do not have any a priori knowledge contained in their "minds," giving them access to universal, objective norms. Furthermore, natural laws that are determined by human reason subsequent to a posteriori data can only describe typical characteristics of nature perceived by human investigators in a particular time and place. Descriptions may provide predictability, but they do not necessarily provide truth or value (as opposed to interpreted data or facts). Nor can natural law ever be complete or infallible, because the endeavor is carried out by human subjects. If descriptions of regularity in nature are considered facts, it is a fallacy to believe that these facts lead to values or moral oughts. Just because something is, does not mean that it is or should be a moral norm. Morality is more complicated than what Rice or others would like it to be. Certainly not "anything goes," but much more must be con­sidered. Often legalistic, rigorist, simple-minded people only see things as black or white. It does not take much effort to do this; it is quick and easy. 
Third, homosexuality, alcoholism, bulimia, and compulsive shoplifting are treated in the article as similar situations. It is stated that all these conditions and acts are disor­dered. It is ambiguous as to whether Rice still means that these conditions and acts are disordered from a natural law philosophical point of view, or from a particular physiological and psychological point of view. 
Fourth, Rice states that "the homosexual culture undermines the family and is harmful to the common good." How does the homosexual culture do this (if indeed one exists)? The defmition of "family" and "common good" are subjective descriptions of what Rice and like-minded people want them to be. Thus, it appears that portions of Rice's article are over-simplified. I do not claim to have more knowledge about such issues, but I believe that his position regarding these issues is inadequate (at best). 
SCOTT OPPERMAN Graduate Student, Theology 

Dear Editors: 
I have long resisted responding to my colleague Charlie Rice, but his treatment of Church doctrine on homosexual actions and orientation demands some retort. Is that what Church teaching, incorporating its natural law rationale, implies that a homosexual inclination is like kleptomania? Taken abstractly, expressions like "objective disorder" might invite such grouping, but taken with its proper reference, one would have to spell out in what the "objective disorder" of homosexuality con­sists. So he reminds us that the Catholic Catechism says that this consists in the fact that the genital actions to which the inclination is ordered "close the sexual act to the gift of life [nor do they] proceed from a genuine affection and sexual comple­mentarity." The 'and' in the second objection is crucial, for they obviously could proceed from genuine affection; the point is that they also lack "sexual complemen­tarity." Rice's objection to his colleague's statement was that it omitted stating these crucial bases for "official Church teaching." And in doing so, Professor O'Hara, and by implication the University, failed in their duty to teaeh the full, rich doctrine of the Church on this vital matter. 
The Catholic Catechism does indeed say that, and the tradition whieh it embodies is a rich one. Since O'Hara's reference to "official church teaching" included it by reference, however, this omission hardly seems to make her public statement (and the University's position) a non-starter. There could be many rhetorical reasons other than "political correctness" for not expanding her reference to the natural law reasons which have been adduced for it. Indeed, discussions of this sort are among those which our continuing committee is charged to stimulate, so we should all be grateful for Rice's spelling them out. But no one can thank him for failing even to notice that there can be immensely delicate issues involved in sexual identity, and in the context. for failing to report that recent Church documents do acknowledge defining differences among "disorders." 
The items he mentions are indeed realities for gay and lesbian Catholics, but when one deals with polemical writing, it is wise to note how the sources are select­ed. If we look at the same entry in the Catechism of the Catholic Church from which Professor Rice took his quotes concerning natural law, we find this initial descrip­tion of the situation: "Homosexuality refers to relations between men or between women who experience an exclusive or predominant sexual attraction towards per­sons of the same sex. It has taken a great variety of forms through the centuries and in different cultures. Its psychological genesis remains largely unexplained." And the section immediately following continues ..."The number of men and women.who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negligible. They do not choose their homosexual condition; for most of them it is a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God's will in their lives ... " There is more, including the daunting statement that "homosexual persons are called to chastity," yet the meaning of chastity in the lives of Christians, married and unmarried, continues to be a pastoral challenge in a society quite given over to sex­ual gratification. But again, none of us can escape this challenge! 
These words should convince us that the Church is not as dismissive or as deni­grating of gay and lesbian persons as Professor Rice's tone and collateral examples would imply. And that is why our vice president of student affairs makes it a point to welcome gay and lesbian students. She eould do no other. I'm sure Rice, in other than a polemical tone, would resonate with these same sentiments were one of his children to inform him that he or she was gay or lesbian. 
DAVID BURRELL, CSC Hesburgh Professor ofPhilosophy and Theology 
• THE WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 

Clinton wouldn't stand up to employee evaluation 
The foremost duty of any candidate challenging an incumbent office-holder is to present the reasons that that indi­vidual should be removed from office. After all, when you are challenging a sit­ting incumbent, you are not just asking the voters to elect you, you are simulta­neously asking them to fire their current mayor, school board member, senator, 

Christopher Kratovil 
or whatever. So coming out and saying that you are "a better man for the job" is simply not enough: instead, you need to demonstrate that in some way the incumbent has not been up to his or her task and is not deserving of the trust that the people invested in him or her in the last election. ln other words, while incumbents generally run on their records, challengers must run against those records and thereby make the case as to why the incumbent should be "fired." 
It seems clear to me that one of the primary reasons Bob Dole is down by double digits in the polls and seems des­tined to lose the forthcoming election is that he has failed to make the case as to why Bill Clinton should be fired. Dole has failed to give the public sufficient reasons to turn Clinton out of the White House at all, much less to turn him out in favor of Dole. So while I'm far from an enthusiastic Dole supporter, I'd like to take this opportunity to help argue as to why Clinton no longer deserves the presidency. 
On the surface, making a case against the Clinton Administration is difficult. The president has in fact fulfilled the two most important charges of his office: he has kept the nation out of war and out of recession. He presides over an economy that is growing, albeit painfully slowly, and over a nation that remains the undisputed leader of the world. 

While it is true that if a president delivers "peace and prosperity" he should probably returned to office, a car~ful examination of the Clinton record shows that he has done little more than maintain a shaky peace, which he inherited from the Bush Administration, while failing to stimu­late an economic recovery that was already underway when he took office. In other words, the primary accomplish­ment of the Clinton Administration has been to· serve as a barely adequate cus­todian of a semi-stable world situation and an anemic economic growth rate. If mediocrity is what the American people seek in a presidency, then the Clinton Administration has delivered. 
What's more, on a series of specific issues and cases the Clinton Administration has taken actibns which are not in the long-term best interest of the U.S. Foremost among these short­sighted and often politically motivated schemes was the Cliriton health care plan, which was barely defeated by Congressional Republicans. This mon­strous monument to social engineering would have amounted to Federal takeover of literally one-seventh of the 
U.S. economy and would have brought with it the creation of dozens of new Federal bureaucracies, complete with "alphabet soup" acronyms, red tape and surly clerks. 
A centerpiece of Clinton's successful 1992 campaign was his promise of sub­stantial middle class tax relief. Needless to say, aside from a few small targeted tax cuts, which were more social than economic policy, this promise was never fulfilled. Instead, Clinton forced the largest tax increase in history upon an already overtaxed American public, wherein the average family currently pays more in combined federal, state and local taxes than it does for food, housing and clothing put together. Clinton remains the foremost champion of the unacceptable, indefensible status quo in which a seven-and-a-half million word federal tax code gobbles up nearly 25 percent of family income. 
In 1992 Clinton portrayed himself as a budget-cutting "deficit hawk." Despite this, he had his cronies in the Senate block the passage of the Balanced Budget Amendment (they succeeded by one vote). Subsequently in 1995 Clinton became the first U.S. president since LBJ to have a balanced budget passed by both houses of Congress come to his desk; he promptly vetoed it out of politi­cal fear that Democratic constituencies dependent on entitlements would be angered by the fiscally sound measure. 
Clinton, at the political mercy of these constituencies reliant on transfer pay­ments and benefits, has his hands tied and cannot respond to the runaway growth of entitlement spending. On one level, Clinton surely realizes that entitle­ments -programs which automatically grow without action from the president or Congress, and now account for over 50 percent of the federal budget -must be capped. But on another, more prag­matic and political level -the level where most of Clinton's political deci­sion seem to be made -he realizes that for him to act on this front is politically dangerous. This issue represents anoth­er critical policy area where this admin­istration has failed to provide leader­ship. 
The well-publicized drug crisis repre­sents an issue where Clinton has refused to provide either policy or moral leader­ship. Marijuana, cocaine and heroin use are all substantially up over the course of his presidency, especially among teenagers, even as the president goes on MTV and jokes about his own past drug experimentation. What's more, Clinton cut funding for the Office of National Drug Control Policy by some 80 percent and Federal drug prosecutions are down 25 percent. I've never liked the implica­tions of fighting a true "war on drugs," but if that's to be out national policy, then we ought to do it properly. 
In the 1992 campaign Clinton promised repeatedly that his would be the "most ethical administration in the history of the Republic." That is one campaign promise that has not been reiterated this election. The Clinton presidency has been tainted by the hint of scandal and impropriety from its ear­liest days. The undeniable abuse of executive power that took place in the White House Travel Office firings ("Travelgate") and in the FBI files affair ("Filegate") are demonstrative of the arrogance and lack of ethical concerns that have characterized this administra­tion. The Whitewater investigation promises to follow Clinton to his second term, with Special Prosecutor Kenneth Starr rumored-to be nearing an indict­ment of Hillary Clinton. 
Taken as a whole, the Clinton Administration has enjoyed few major triumphs, but a steady flow of small set­backs. Clinton promised major change and policy innovation in 1992 and has failed to deliver. In light of his first term, coupled with the above litany of policy failures, the president should be "fired" in November. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every Monday. 

Monday, October 14, 1996 page 9 
• Now PLAYING 
Save SusPensef 'Ghostf Offers Little 

Courtesy of Paramount Pictures 

Michael Douglas and Val Kilmer star in "The Ghost and the Darkness," released in theatres Friday. By JOSHUA BECK 
Acc~nt Movi~ Critic 
II' you'vn ever seen the movie "Jaws," you must remember being scared stilT to your seat and tlu~n jumping out of it and screaming like a banshee when~ver that hell-spawned shark would strike. OK, maybe it wasn't that bad, but the suspense d1d manage to keep many peo­pln riv1~tnd to the screen. For "The .Gho~t an? the Dar~ness," a movie base~ on the real-life mass1uTn of U5 people by man-eatmg !tons m 1896, d1rector Stephen Hopk1~s had the r.are task of making a supornatural animal movie out of real-life ev.ents. Desp1te t?e hornble srript thallw mceived from sereen~riter W!llia~ Goldman, he s~1ll managed to d1r~ct.a very susiH'nst>l'ul movie. However, the fault7 s.enp~ ~!ns ov:;r.all, teanng .apart th~ mov1e hke the lions ripping through human flesh. Lets (ace 1t: Ghost IS not what 1t could have .been. 
Tlw script in this movie was so lacking that it left me 1) feeling sor~y for the d1rector, ~nd 21 wishing I could havn muted tho dialogue and simply watc!wd the !tons. destroy eve~~thmg in sight. Tlw dialoguP is supPrficial and goes nowhere. Its not confusmg;. rather.. It s.~oo straightforward, and that's what ruins the script and subsequently the ent1re m~vte. I ~e df'hlogw~ and charactPr dewlopment are directed ~ow.ard sixth ~rader.s on a ~eld .tnp to the1r first big movit>. The script doesn't impress you w1th m-depth d1scuss10ns or mtngumg char­al'll'r' dPvl'lopnwnt; it just assumes that all you've had is an elementary school equivalency for an Pduration. It's like having Mr. Hogers explain the movie to you. 
ThP first half-hour of this film is best described as sitting in front of your television and wishing you had rabin because you're tired of watching Clinton and Dole sl.ap each other's hands. BncaUS(' of tlw S!Tipt. this lilm starts out.badly, bu~ then ~e se~ the hons ror the first linw. Colo1wl Patterson (Val Kilmer) has been h1rcd to build a bndge m Tsavo w1th the help of naliw African and various Indian workers. Work goes on as planned until the night that a ma11 is dragged from his tent and mangled beyond recognition by a lion. This ~oes on for a tinw. and Patterson and the others discover that there are two man-eaters huntmg together. Tlw work!!rs name the two demons the Ghost and the Darkness. The scared workers then begin to leave the site. Patterson's superiors call in Remingt~n (Michael Douglas.~ a s.avvy and ruthless hunter who believes that these lions are simply ammals and can be easily k1lled. As tlw beasts continue to methodically maul everyone in sight, the goal of killing them becomes a sort of personal redemption for both Patterson and Remington for various rea­
sons. d 
If not for the horrible screenplay, this movie could have been the next blockbuster un er tlw Iabnl: "Larger-Than-Life Man-Eating Animals Gone ~razy." Since the first. part .o~ the nwvie is like watr.hing your clothes dry, you have somethmg to look forward to m antiCipat­ing the lions. And they do not disappoint. Any doubts that you might have had about th.e actual depiction of crazed, man-eating felines on the screen could be related to the skepti­cism you displayed before actually seeing dinosaurs in. "Jurassic Park." . The efTects ran~e from glimpsing the lions in the brush to actually watchmg theii_J ta~e thetr fill o~ what.ever s around. The ell'ects of course add greatly to the suspense, winch 1s the only thmg th1s film has going for it besides the gore,. if you believe that'.s a good t?ing. "The Gh?st and the Darkness" does olTer some prornismg scenes ~nd. the hon~ attack1~g every t~n m.mutes a?ds to the suspense of the film. However, the scr1pt IS the ultimate thmg ~hat sttfl~s 1ts prom1~e. In other movies, the characters are developed through events and d1alogue; m th1s mov1e, they're just part of the 'Darkness.' This is why Stephen Hopkins-who directed part fiv.e of th11 "Nightmare on Elm Street" series and "Predator 2"-is extremely lucky that the hons massacred 135 people instead of only two or three. The more we see of the !tons, the less we hav!l to go through the agonizing ritu~t;I of dial1~gue. . . , 
Dllspite the suspense which makes 1t a cred1ble freak-of-nature ammal mov1~, The Ghost and the Darkness" is riddled with lion attacks, and they're not for the squeam1sh (thus, the 'H' rating.) You ean almost sec Beavis and Butthead in the front row .kee~ing tr~ck of the death toll. If gore isn't your speed or if you're one of those people. that s. sttll afra1d to. walk outside because of "Twister," then I definitely don't recommend th1s mov1e. However, 1f you did enjoy Hopkin's narlier works and don't mind seeing a hundre~ or so dead bodies, then. b.e my guest. This movie had promise, but it took a permane~t v~catw.n as soon as someone Ini­tiated conversation. For both Kilmer and Douglas, the actmg IS behevable, but these are two good aetors who have seen better times and .better li~es. Hopkins ~hurns o~t a good thril.ler, but the lion attacks are many and they begm to we1gh down the him. Th1s, of course, ts a rnsult of the laekluster script. Yet, this movie deserves credit. f?r w?at it is: a s~p~rnatu~al ·mimal movie in which the humans are the victims. If you see 1t m th1s way, then 1t 1s a satls­i'ying lilm. However, if you want to see the originallilm for which every mad a'_limal movie was based on, rent "Jaws.'' At least you won't have to fast-forward through the dtalogue. 
.Joshua Beck is a sophomorP English and communications major living in Zahm hall. 
Days Of Our Lives 
By JENIFER KOCH 
and JULIE BARBOUR Accent Days of our Lives Correspondents 
With the return of Days' big-time villain Stefano Dimera, everyone in Salem should start watching their backs again, because he's not going to stop "until he gets what he wants." We wouldn't have expected any­thing less. 
The mysterious Parisian safe deposit box left for Lexy turns out to contain hundreds of jewels. which Celeste swears have evil powers. A 
videotaped message from Stefano assured Lexy of his love and b(~~ged her not to throw the jewels away until she had resolved her feehngs about him. 
Stefano's reach extended to Vivian and Ivan as they made their escape from the French prison, joined by Andre, Ivan's random cell­mate who joined the cast just long enough to get himself murdered. Vivian's desperate climb up the EiiTel Tower ended with a pitiful excuse for a rescue by John. On the verge of their returning to prison, dassic Days timing saved the comic duo: fo_und i!l. Lexy's safe d~p~si~ box at the last minute was a letter exoneratmg Vtvtan and Ivan trom mvolve· ment in Stefano's escape. 
True to his word of protecting his children, Stefano helped Peter and Kristen in their hopeless attempts to keep the objeets of their twisted love. Peter, while attempting to murder Daniel Scott, stopped and rl:'a1­ized that the pathetic freeloader would come in handy in his plan to get Jen back. This disgusting pair made their way back to Salem, where .len was struggling with Jack's impending departure for Hong Kong. 
After revealing the truth about her nonexistent pregnancy to the French doctor, Kristen tried to frighten him into silence by throwing out the Dimera name. The doctor resisted the empty threat until an emer­gency called him out of the room. Kristen tried to turn doy.'n Stefano's otTer of help, but caved in when he assured. her he could nd her of her Marlena dilemmas. The problem now is that Doc is moving in with John and Kristen for the duration of Kristen's "pregnaney." Plan to stay a while, Marlena ... Kristen's got at least another nine months to go. 
Blow the whistle and throw the yellow flag at Hope's HUGE party foul this week.. Does it seem reasonable to anyone that she would ask Billie to be a bridesmaid?! With that otl'er and all of their double dates, Hope seems to· be trying a little TOO hard to make sure that Billie sees her and Bo in all of their PDA glory. 
Everyone's Visas must be expiring at last, because we're finally get­ting the cast back to Salem where they belong. Though most of them returned quietly, Carrie and Austin came back to a surprise rooftop party meant to celebrate the wedding that never happened. Apparently no one bothered to call home with news about getting Will out of the French government's custody. 
E·mail YOUR insightful oiews on Days lcH'e to Jenifer.L.Koch. 6@nd. edu or barb2883@sain tmarys. edu. 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL Accent General Hospital Correspondent 
General Hospital is closed ... l repeat: THE HOSPITAL lS CLOSED! 
Kevin's patients are suing, the hospital can't afford the insuranc~, the 
loan was pulled, and the doors are locked. The general populace 1s not 
happy, Luke and Laura are even more depressed. and it's a goo.d thing 
Alan is popping all that pain medication. because. the GH stall sHems 
ready to lynch him .. Evidently, Alan is the only person in town Luke 
hasn't told abqut the evil Cassadines and their web of doom. 
The GH staff gathers at the Outback; among thos{~ present is Simone. 
who puts to rest thH rumors that Tom really was the stalker. The staiT 
rallies around Tom, who uses Steve's words of wisdom to lighten their 
splrits.Everyone prefers to blame the hospital's troubles on Alan 
ratberthat Steve Hardy. Edward offers ELQ funds as a loan, but Ned 
refuses. Look out, Edward ... you've created a monster. 
Tony leaves Bobbie a message claiming that he's sleeping at the hos­
pital, while in reality, he and Carly christen their love shack. When Tony fmally goes home, he says he was out all night driving. Bobbie wants to talk, but he blows her off again (Here's a quarter, Bobbie; go . buy a clue.) Carly calls Virginia; when Luke overhears this, he imper­sonates Mac in order to have the call traced to The Outback. Luke 
jaunts ofltoFlorida, where he sees Caroline's picture. 
Tracy interrupts Jax's phone sex with Brenda, demanding repayment 
for funds spent in·the takeover attempt. He refuses. Next, she calls 
Sonny, another strikeout; she then resorts to calling Sydney Chase. 
informing her that she is moving to town. Sonny visits Jax after Tracy 
insists that the Aussie had an ulterior motive in marrying Brenda. Yeah, 
he did .. .it~s called hormones. The meeting becomes a rumble, with 
Sonny getting in a good left hook before Brenda steps between them. 
Good thing she came home unexpectedly, or someone would have had 
to explain a mangled corpse in her living room. Jax tells Sonny to keep 
away. Jax goes off on a tangent about the "martyr image" presented by 
his wife's ex. From sinner to saint to martyr... Sonny is definitely moving 
on up. Brenda warns her hubby not to go looking for trouble. 
Lucy tells Luke that she plans to sell her share in order to pay for 
Doc's defense. Luke tags along to a meeting, and proceeds to cross­
examine Alexis in a manner worthy of Perry Mason. When Alexis 
admits she found out about the case thanks to Stefan Cassadine, Lucy 
fires her. Stefan isn't upset; everything is going according to plan. 
Stefan. asks Laura to meet him for n goodbye. Once she gets there. the 
feelings are undeniable. They remember their secret rendezvous at a 
cove on the island. There, they promised to keep each other's secrets, 
and Stefan promised his loyalty and protection for her child. Stefan 
caps the trip down memory lane by telling Laura that he loves her. 
The suitcases are packed ... but Stefan says they aren't going anywhere 
until they see their plan through. Luke goes to see if he can help the 
Cassa.dines with their packing, and notices that Laura's painting is 
gone. He asks whose atonement Tiamoria is to be. Nikolas responds by 
"escorting" him off the island. What could be next ... ? 
page 10 
Shut-outs 
continued from page 16 
in just two games over the weekend. 
Sophomore midfielder Matt Johnson, who was responsible for two assists in Sunday's 3-0 victory over Pittsburgh, gave credit to the Irish forwards. 
"The front-runners have been working well together," explained Johnson. "We (mid­fielders) have been trying to play the ball to the front-run­ners' feet." 
The scoring explosion began on Friday night when Western Illinois invaded Alumni Field. Going into the game, not much was known about the Leathernecks. The Irish came out strong however, and took control of the game early on. 

.-When the dust had cleared. the Blue and Gold had registered their most lopsided victory of the year. a 6-0 blowout. "We knew if we played well, we could score some goals," said head coach Mike Berticelli. In retrospect, that even seems like a understatement because the Irish offense did not skip a beat in the follow-up contest against Pittsburgh. 

Five minutes into the game, forward Ryan Turner played a beautiful ball to a streaking Tony Capasso, who finished the play by putting the ball in the lower-right corner of the net. 
But Turner was not finished. 
After a lead pass from Johnson, Turner took a few steps and lifted a shot that beat Pittsburgh goalie Adam Spitzer to the far right side with about 15 minutes remaining in the first half. Johnson would later record his second assist of the game, feeding Joe Gallo for his first goal of the seasun. 
The two weekend victories represented the seventh and eighth shutouts this year and lifted Notre Dame to a record of 9-2-2. The Pittsburgh win marked the fifth Big East shutout in just seven games. The Irish now stand at 5-0-2 in the conference and are all but assured of a spot in the post­season tournament. · 
"The further along the season goes. the better we're getting," said Johnson. "We wanted to peak at this point in the sea­son." 
And peaking they are. The Irish are not only winning. They are appearing a great deal more comfortable on the field than they were even earli-
The Observer • SPORTS 
er this year. 

In light of the many injuries the Irish have suffered this year, Coach Berticelli praised those players who have filled in and raised their level of play, particularly in Big East con­tests. 
"The players deserve a lot of credit for stepping up," acknowledged the coach. "They feel like they have a bit of a mission in every Big East game." 
Now that a berth in the Big East Tournament appears to be a given, one might expect the Irish to reserve strength for the post-season. But Notre Dame is now the only team in the Big East without a conference loss and the prospects of a Big East title are seeming more and more realistic every day, not to mention the fact that the four teams with the best conference records will host their first­round tournament games. 
"It's (still) critical that we play well," said Berticelli. "We're trying to take Big East games one at a time." 
Four of the last five Irish games will be in the conference and on the road. The Irish will begin that stretch on Friday night when they face highly­ranked Rutgers in New Jersey. 
Monday, October 14, 1996 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Sophomore midfielder Matt Johnson was part of a revitalized Irish offense. Johnson recorded two assists in the win over Pittsburgh. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day. including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
1!1!1!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!1!111!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1111111!1!!!!! !!II! Anyone interested in playing disc golf. call x0509 1!!1111!!!1!1!111111111!11111111!!1!1!11111!111111111!1!! Ill! 
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­cal piano training has openings for intro. piano lessons, children 8 & up. call Meaghen@ 271-7933 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST:Rockhurst class ring '93, Black neck band with silver eagle and balck Acqua watch at Stepan volleball courts, on Sun, 9/29@2pm Tom x0573 
REWARD REWARD REWARD 
I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH BIRTHDAY. 
CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE GAME. 
CAMERA DESCRIPTION: 
RICOH MODEL Z-1002. 
PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­
GAST AT 
860-651-1911. 
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette labelled "Letter Perfect 1" on Wed Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found, please call Jeanne @287-5467. 
WANTED 
ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER 
RIVERFRONT HOME, $300 .STU­
DENT OR PROFESSIONAL. 683­
3720 DAYS. 
BARTENDER. part time evenings and weekends. Cocktail, breakfast and banquet SERVERS, part time for evening lounge and breakfasVIunch restaurant. Good pay and steady hours for experi­enced dependable people. Located three miles from campus. Please apply in person. Varsity Clubs of America, Main and Edison in Mishawaka. 
Ride needed during Fail Break anywhere in New England area, NY, or NJ. Will help w/ driving and gas. Please call 111358 

Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages availablell INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com 
I'm looking for Washington or Pitt tickets. Call Gregg at 273-1007 

Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191 www.springbreaktravei.com 1-800-678-6386 
SPRING BREAK 97. CANCUN, PANAMA CITY. BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES. STUDENT REPS NEEDED. FREE TRIP + COMMISSION. $ (800)484-3498 EXT. 6531 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 
232-2595 
Need a place to stay on football 
weekends? 

Furnished apartment for short term 
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­
4876. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Private Homes for Football, JPW, Graduation, etc. 
219-291-7153 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY .. private homes for football, JPW, graduation, etc. 219-291-7153 
4-bdrm. home N. of campus in Roseland. Walk to ND/SMC. 
Ideal for faculty, staff or student. Available now. 287-9342. 
B&B still has rooms for Air Force 
game only. 
Walking distance to Campus 
219-272-9620 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. 
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst 

home. Rms avail for football week­
ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from 
campus. 219.287.6797 
Moving to Chlcag·o? 

SWF Alum looking for a roommate 
to share 2 bdrm apt in goldcoast 
area. Very reasonable. Call 312­
787-7850. Leave message. 
FOR SALE 

NO vs. Navy four hard to find mini tour packages JFK to Dublin to JFK Depart 10/31/96 Return 11/4/96 Includes Airfare, Dublin Hotel, and Game Ticket At Our Cost, $1199 per person call (518)-329-1341 
Gray 87 Cutlas Cierra loaded auto excellent condition. New parts 101 
K. Best Offer. 219-296-7546(night) 1-9397(day). 
1993 Honda Accord EX. One owner. 39,000 miles. Very clean, rear spoiler, CD . loaded. Asking $14,500. 256-7152. 

90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 
REDUCED!!! -92 GEO Tracker $7,800 o/b/o -only 54K, A/C 
red w/convertible top. Pascal 687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h) 
Sony PLAYSTATION and games $300 obo John -3543 
TICKETS 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 

WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 
312.404.4903 
Need 3 Rutgers GA's 
Call Erik @3807 
FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME 
GAMES 235-3394 

ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm 
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL STEVE AT ·o867 
Stud TIX BOOK 
4 Sale -X1413 
Wash. GA for sale. 
B/0 X1308 

N.D. Football tickets bought &sold. 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m. 
Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tixl Please call Patti at (610)775-5144 WANTED: 3 GA or upgrade(;! stu­dent tix to the Air Force game . Call Jamie4-1501. 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE· ALL GAMES!!! call James X1658 
Academy Grad NEEDS 2 GAs for AIR FORCE call Emily x1480 
NEED TIX FOR PITT & BC Victoria x0781 
#################### DESPERATELY NEED AIR FORCE GAs 
Karin @ X4635 . #################### 
...NEED 3 AIR FORCE GAs• .. CALL PETE @ 4-0975 
I Have 2 GA's for Air Force and Pitt. Call me with best offer. Kristin @ 243-1321 
NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !! Call Elena x2900 
WANTED, 2 AIR FORCE GAs CALL BIG PAT@ 273-5875. 
NEED AIRFORCE GAs CALL SHANNON @ 4-4624 
WE NEED AIR FORCE TIX-STU­DENT OR GA-CALL MEGHAN @232-7839. 
NEED 1 AF GA $$$ CALL ERIC 4-1661 
NEED TICKETS 4 AIR FORCE G.A.'S CALL SEAN X0644 
Need 3 A-Force GAs call Matt 4-3573 
NEED 2 AF GA's Brigette@ 232-1971 
FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT AND RUTGERS GAs FOR SALE 272-7233........... 
NEED 1 maybe 2 AF ticket GA for sisters call Bill 4-3906 
'95 grad needs 2-6 Air Force GA's for parents. Call Joe@ 1-800-736­3399 x6169 and leave message. I'll return call asap. 
NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GA's Call Brian @ 4·1737 
NEEDED: 2 non-stud GAs for Air Force. FRANK 4·3323. 
n. d. tickets for sale 2711635 
$NEED WASH, & AF TIX 708-848-9432 5-7 PM EDT M-F 708-847-7614 7-9 PM EDT M-F NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 

AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. 

BUY-SELL-TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
$$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell 67 4-7645 -No student or student conv. 
Need 2 Air F. GA's Amy 616-473-5825 
NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS • HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273 
NEED BC & WASH TIX 312-951-5008 
WANT 2 or 3 Non convert AF GA's, John 634-4219 
For Sale 2 AF GA, call237-0072 
NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX Call Pat X3015 
AFSTUTIC John-3543 

Will trade Air Force Student Ticket and $ for Rutgers GA Call 273-6039 
Need 2 Air Force GAs for parents call Brian at 634-0559 (4-0559) 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAs !Ill! Calf X4121 
I NEED 2 RUTGERS GAs!lll Please call X3886. 
!@#$%/\&*()(*&/\%$#@!!@#$% 
Need TWO AIR FORCE GA's 
Call X1468 & Leave Name, Number, PRICE 
l@#$o/o"&•()(*&/\%$#@!@#$ 
AF Stu-tix 4 sale x-2737 

PERSONAL 
Don't Forget to tum in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION 
FAX IT FASTIII 
Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Happy Birthday, you big lug! 

DALLOWAY'S GRAND OPENING Monday, Oct. 14 from 7-10 p.m. Open Mike Night! Everyone welcome. any1hing goes!@ Questions? Call Jen or Lisa at 243­9264, or Carolyn at 243-9343. 
DOES EVERY ONE KNOW THAT JANIS AT THE HAIR SALON TURNED 40 LAST WEEK STOP IN AND WISH HER A HAPPY BELATED B-DAY 
FTB 
Who rocks the house? Casi Jones rocks the house! 
Casi Jones-Thx for a great wkend! You are always here w/ usl love the Gamblers 
On a train bound for nowhere ... 

...Ya gotta know when to hold' em, 
Know when to throw' em, 
Know when to walk away, 
and know when to run ... THE GAMBLERS 

only seven minutes on campus, and he's the first person I run into 
Stepan Center Court Time 
scheduling meeting for any 
organizations wanting to reserve 
weekly court time at Stepan: 
Wednesday, Oct. 16 
4pm -Montgomery Theatre 
1st Floor LaFortune. 
RUSTED ROOT IS NOT SOLD OUT but it will be! so go to LaFun info desk to snag a ticket. only $13.50 with 10. 
Happy 19th Birthday, Sarah and 
Eileen-Don't party too hard if you 
know what I mean! Love, Stacey 
and Leslie 

Crazy Janey and her mission man were back in the alley trading hands along came Wild Billy and his friend G-man all duded up for Saturday night 
I suppose the switch to safety 
would only have made sense if he 
had a 6'3" Chiappetta frame 
Hey Crip (can I still call you that?), 
Please watch the spins. 

CUIDADOI Carlito's Club members. Come for much Juello. Adios muchachos! 
Everyone wants prothestic fore­
heads on their real heads. 


Monday, Octoberl4, 1996 
PREJUDICE REDUCTION ORKSHOP 
Ifyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students , staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this .. diversity sensitivity workshop. 
Limited Enrollment -Call Immediately 
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 10 I 0:00 A.M. -4:30 P.M. 
LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: Mickey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 
. .. 
-~--~-----~--------~~ ·-.....---._.-~~­
------. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 14, 1996 
V-ball 
continued from page 16 
line. She led a rally of eight points in a row including three aces to put her team on top for the night. 
The defense which held the Friars to a dismal .085 per­centage was led by Birkner and classmate Kristina Ervin. Birkner and Ervin combined for 26 digs while freshman sensa­tion Mary LeiTers used her 6-4 frame to block six. 
In set three of the Irish tri­umph over the Eagles, Birkner reached a milestone that only three other Notre Dame players have reached. In her career she has accumulated over 1,000 digs, and on a kill that gave the Irish side out at 13-9, 1,000 kills. This blend of offen­sive firepower and defensive prowess certainly makes the two year captain a unique and special player. 

Ervin explains how the al­ways modest and quiet Birkner responded. 
"Birk isn't going t_o say much. This is what she is going to say, 'It's no big deal, I don't care about stats.' Coach said Birk only needed four kills for 1,000 so we were going to set her and she said, 'No, I'm hitting out, I'm hitting out, this is stupid.' And we teased her that she could put it on her resume and maybe she'll get hired by one of 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Junior setter Carey May (second from left) has returned to action, near­ly fully recovered from the shoulder injury that sidelined her this year. 
the Big Six firms. But, she's a great player and Notre Dame is going to miss her next year, that is for sure.'' 
But Birkner's record was inevitable as the Eagles were certainly not going to stop her. In the match the Eagles scored 17 more points than they did a year ago against the home team as the Irish won by the final of (15-7, 15-5, 15-10). 
Again the squad enjoyed a wonderful hitting percentage as they hit at a clip of .330. Birkner led the squad with 12 kills on a .400 percentage. In just two games Leffers totaled nine kills on an incredible .692 percentage with no errors. 
Another freshman, Mandi Powell saw her most extensive playing time of the year as she started and finished game three. Usually known for her defense and passing Powell showed off her offensive skills. 
"I have tremendous confi­dence in her in the back row, she is a really good passer and goes really hard on defense," Brown expressed of the Monroeville, IN native. "I actu­ally have confidence in her in the front row too. I think she just needs to have more confi­dence in herself. I think she is progressing very well and she has been a very good role play­er for us this year, and I think we'll be able to develop her into a very significant player for us in the years to come." 
The outside hitter had her best offensive outing, hitting at a very impressive mark of .636 


Monday /Wednesday: 
2:30-3:30 Darden Swanson 
Contact: Allen McWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 

Tuesday /Thursday: 
4:30-5:30 Northwest 
Contact: Cindy Cicon x287 4 
• 

on nine kills in 11 total attacks. 
Besides two more victories under their belt, Providence and BC provided the Domers simply with much needed game time. May had been sidelined with a dislocated shoulder and got her first significant action in last 'Tuesday's loss to the Illinois State Redbirds. In her first two starts this weekend she totaled 90 sets in the six games played, but she is still getting into game form. 
Head coach Debbie Brown discusses the play of her setter and the team around her. 
"I definitely think there is a new comfort level. She's still kind of feeling her way in and she is not in as good as shape as she needs to be but I just think everyone is more comfort­able and relaxed back in their natural positions." 
"It feels really good to start, but I'm definitely a little rusty," commented May. "I've noticed that I'm really out of shape but I love being back on the court and it is just going to take some time to start connecting, es­pecially with the middles.'' 
With May and Lee back at their natural positions head coach Debbie Brown has in­stalled a new offense. The offense is designed to open up Jenny Birkner. "The only differ­ence is that Jaimie Lee plays opposite me instead of Jenny Birkner," explained May. "Basically it opens up Jenny on the back side and in general it gives us more options." 
With all of the transitions that surround the squad, playing the Big East comes at an ideal time. 
"It is a key time because of all the changes, so playing lesser opponents is great practice and a great chance to do what we have to do to win," Ervin observed. "Today we didn't perform and execute like we need to against a team like this. The points they did score were off our errors. But we can't play like that because we are preparing for Hawaii." 
Brown echoed Ervin's state­ments on the timely scheduling. 
"It is good for us because it doesn't put a ton of pressure on us if we aren't playing real welL We have a little bit of. a cushion against these teams. We have only had these match­es and one practice with this offense. So, this week's prac­tices are going to be critical for our development." 

Ch enge U Fitness Classes are half price fol­lowing October Break. Spots are still open in sotne class~ es. t::allthe RecSpotts office for m()re info: /I¥ 
The men's varsity basket~ ball team will be ·conducting try-outs for all walk-ons on October 16th and 11th. Players tire expecte(l to at· tend both the 7:30-9:30 p.m. session in the Joyce Center on the 16th and the 6:30 
p.m. session in the auxilliary gym (The Pit) on the 17th. 
Think of 
us as your school bus. 

service, all day from campus gets you on schedule. And when it's time to hit the -.1uuu''"' again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to . No hassels, no problems. For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call: 
800-833-5555 
http://www.busville.com/irish.htm 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  (via Tri State Coach­ Terminals 1,2 & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International termi­ 
nal15 minutes later)  
3:00AM  6:10AM  5:55AM  
5:00AM  8:10AM  8:10AM  
7:00AM  10:10 AM  9:55AM  
8:00AM  11:10 AM  10:55 AM  
9:00AM  12:10 PM  11:55 AM  
11:00 AM  2:10PM  1:55PM  
12:00 PM  3:10PM  2:55PM  
1:00PM  4:10PM  3:55PM  
3:00PM  6:10PM  5:55PM  
5:00PM  8:10PM  7:55PM  

UNITEDLI~~OIB 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day. • . Every Day 

The Observer/Jed Donahue Freshman winger Joe Dusbabek scored the tying goal in the third peri­od of Notre Dame's opener victory Friday night. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• HOCKEY 
• 

Irish beat Mustangs in opener 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 

In Friday night's hockey game against Western Ontario, the Fighting Irish scored two goals in one minute during the third period to defeat the Mustangs. 
Comparisons between this game and last year's opening game are undeniable. One year ago, in Coach Dave Poulin's first game behind the Irish bench, a similar situation occurred. The Irish headed into the third period trailing Guelph, 1-0. They tied the game and forced overtime, but eventually succumbed, 2-1. The Irish went on to lose sever­al other close games that year. This year, however, they found a way to win, and it bodes well for the future. "We found a way to win tonight," Coach Dave Poulin speculated. "That's what is different from last year. Winning is a mentality -soon you come to expect a win in close games." 
For much of the first period, the teams traded opportunities and shots, with neither side gaining an edge. With 6:15 left in the period, however, Irish freshman defender Nathan Borega was whistled for cross­checking. Twenty-nine seconds later, a slap shot from Mustang defenseman Brian Grieve de­llected ofT Irish goaltender Matt Eisler's pads and into the net. "It was a weak goal; I shouldn't have Jet it get by me," said Eisler of the goal. "But I knew it was important not to quit. I just had to put it behind me, because I knew we could beat this team." 
The scoreless second period was notable only for a scuflle that sent six players to the penalty box for roughing calls. The third period proved to be the .difference in the game. Four and a half minutes into the period, freshman winger Joe Dusbabek streaked down the left side with the puck on a two-on-one break. When the Mustang defender played him loosely, he cut in front of the net and wristed a shot behind Mustang goaltender C.J. Denomme to tie the game. Dusbabek described his first 

Goldman, Sachs, & Co. invites University of Notre Dame undergraduates to an information session to explore opportunities in the Investment Banking Division Monday, October 14, 1996 The Morris Inn The Notre Dame Room Gold1nanSaclis8:00p.m. ' casual attire  
NDERSEN presents A Panel Discussion o.f Serv:ic.es Lin1es Tuesday, October 15, 1996 Who: Open to all Juniors and Seniors Where: Monogram Room ofJACC When: 7:00 Pizza and refreshments 7:30 Career Panel with Q & A to follow Casual Attire Rltfjle Prizes wiU be given from  

-~-----·~·­

---, 
.. 
\' 

goal for Notre Dame as "excit­ing, very exciting." 
Forty-seven seconds later, senior Irish defenseman Ben Nelson slid a shot past Denomme to give the Irish a 2­1 lead. The shot looked awk­ward, as Nelson did not get all of the puck on the shot. But it was enough to beat Denomme. 
The Irish relied on solid de­fense to close out the victory. They killed off four penalties in the third period, and right in the thick of the battle stood Eisler. IIis stopped a flurry of shots in front of the net during one penalty, and his inspired play helped secure the victory. For the night, he stopped 21 of 22 shots. 
Despite the victory, the Irish need to improve in several areas before beginning CCIIA league play this Friday. First, they were careless with the puck and had too many turnovers. Their power-play was ineffective, going scoreless in six attempts. "We just didn't execute on the power play," Coach Poulin rellected. "This is the first game in six months for most of these guys, and they simply did not do what we worked on in practice. But we'll keep going over it and we'II get it." 
This game will go a long way in helping the team compete in the league games, which begin on Friday against Western Michigan. "This was definitely a confidence builder, especially for the freshmen," said Dusbabek. "We definitely got the nervousness out of the way. Some of the freshmen were lit­erally sky-high before the game, and it took them half the game to calm down," added Coach Poulin. 
If their first game is any indi­cator, this Irish hockey team will take large strides this sea­son towards prominence in the CCHA. 
PLEASE 
RECYCLE THE 

OBSERVER 
•I
I 
I 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 14, 1996 
-~ • SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Belles drop two more 
By KELLY COUGHLIN Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team had a rough week, falling to both. Calvin College and Washington University. The growing pains continue for the Belles as the lack of an offen­sive threat proves to be their recent weakness. Strong de­fensive opponents have proved to be a major obstacle in the 
The Observer/Rachael Sederberg 
After dropping games to Calvin College and Washington University last week, the Belles hope to turn things around against Bethel on Wednesday. · 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
LONDON 
$275 
Paris $233 Quito $288 Santiago $438 Tokyo $364 Hong Kong $434 
fAAES Aa£ EACH WAY FIIOM lNOIANAPOUS lASED ON A ROUNOT1U9 M<HASE. fNtES DO NOT INCLUDE FEDEAAI. TAXES ~ PFC:S TOl'AUNG IETWEEN $3-$45, DEPENDING ON OESnNAOON OR DEf'~E CHAAGE5 PAJD DIRECTLY TO FOMtGN GOYEANMf.tm. 
[i.lihtijllrravel ~ 
National Reservation Center

-1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624) 
http:ltwww.ciee.org!trUmn 
EUROPASS FROM $210 


Classof1999 
1he BtarneiJ Bash is c1ming... 
~C>VEIV1.BER 2 
Belles route to victory. 
They remain focused on improvement, as the majority of the team are underclassmen. Literally struggling for num­bers, endurance has proved to be their foundation to build on. 
With only five games re­maining in their season, the Belles hope to dominate their opponents providing a founda­tion for next year'r team. The Belles now are 3-10-1. 
~Co~~ 
99 
Football 1996 
Personnel 

Notre Dame Washington Changes 
54-20 
"We're gonnaneed a hys.:·:
BerryTho Irish amassed 650 terectomy to remove the

Three sacks and constant pressure kept both UWyards offensively against 
ba..ll from our center if
the Husky defense, the 

(Sanson) doesn't get It up."
quarterbacks running 
highest total since 1991. 
scared. 

Irish learn lesson, dominate both sides ofthe ball 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate Spons Editor 
In the moments after Saturday's game, a familiar refrain echoed over the loudspeakers in the makeshift press tent outside Notre Dame Stadium. 
Similar words filled that tent two weeks ago when Ohio State invaded South Bend and robbed tho Irish of their national champi­onship glow. 
Same place. Same podium. DifTerent coach. 
Washington head Coach Jim Lambright stood in front of the cameras this time, following Notre Dame's 54-20 rout of his Huskies. Lambright's conclusions regarding the demoli­tion mirrored what Irish coach Lou Holtz had said after the Buckeye loss. 
"Games arc won and lost on the line of scrimmage," Lambright said. "Notre Dame did a great job of controlling the line of scrim­mage all day long. 
"I foci this is a game you learn from. As always, you have to have a conviction as to whore you are going and how you're going to. takn advantage of this sort of a lesson because it hurts so bad." 
The pain innietcd by Ohio State is slowly beginning to subside now af'ter Notre Dame displayed what they learned from their own heartbreaking defeat. It was, similarly, an mlueation in how games arc won and lost in tlw tnmches. 
The Irish offensive line rebounded from a dismal performance against the Buckeyes, dominating Washington as they paved the way for 397 yards on the ground and gave Bon l'owlus and .Jarious .Jackson time to throw for 253 yards. 
Let's sec here. 397+25:{. Carry the one. That adds up to 650, a number not seen around these parts for a while. 
"You've just got to thank the offensive line for what they did," tailback Hobert Farmer 
see TRAMPLED I page 2 

·Holt'4 missed PA1' 
... 
Irish coach Lou 
.. 
Holtz (left) imple­mented a game plan which distrib­uted the ball to new Notre Dame faces. 
see page 3 
The Observer/Rob Finch 


Washington quarterback Brock Huard was looking up at the Notre Dame defense most of the day. Here, linebacker Kinnon Tatum, who had two tackles for losses, puts the freshman quarterback on his back again . 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Same as it ever was for Irish 

By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Have the critics been silenced? Probably not. Has the devastating loss to Ohio State been for­gotten? Definitely not. 
So do Coach Lou Holtz and his players have good reason to look forward to the rest of the season? Try about, say, 650 reasons. 
Following the crushing blow applied by the Buckeyes two weeks ago, Holtz doubted his own coaching abilities, taking complete responsibility for the loss. 
What was Lou to do redeem himself? 
His answer: "Getting back to basics." 
In Saturday's 54-20 trouncing of the 16-ranked Washington Huskies, by piling up 650 yards of total offense, Holtz's Irish resembled the rough and tough offensive juggernaut they were pre­dicted to be at the outset of the season. 
Admitting that he may have "tried to do too many things" on offense, Holtz decided it was time to return to what has brought him success throughout his fine coaching career. The Ohio State game confirmed that the Irish offense had indeed become complacent. An offense with a tendency toward finesse is not a lloltz-coached offense. 
Plain and simple. 
"We need to get back to smash-mouth foot­ball," said Holtz in the days leading up to the Washington game. "We need to let our people be aggressive." 
And that he did. lie composed a game plan that took advantage of his team's strengths: a mammoth offensive line, a talent-laden stock of running backs, and an intelligent quarterback who can effectively direct the whole scheme. 
The basics allowed Holtz's offense to regain that lost aggressiveness, and the Huskies felt the brutal effects of the revamped Irish offense. 
"Their line pounded us," said Husky linebacker 
see INSIGHT I page 3 


page 2 

"---------"-------­
Berry, defense "Raise it up" muzzle Huskies, excite crowd 
Monday, October 14, 1996 

By TIM SHERMAN plenty present in Saturday's Sports Editor 54-20 thrashing of the Washington Huskies. In fact, 
Among the many things lack­they "raised it to another ing in Notre Dame's 29-16 loss level". to Ohio State were a dominat­The Irish defensive front ing defensive front seven and a which had been manhandled at consistently loud and enthusi­times by Orlando Pace and astic crowd. Company two weeks ago did a 
Rush linebacker Bert Berry little manhandling of their own and the rest of the Irish Saturday. And they did it early defense made sure both were and often. 

Berry led the Irish onslaught with three sacks, but it wasn't just his play that set the tone for the day. On numerous occasions after a key stop , the senior sack specialist would with, palms facing the up as if he was lifting something to the sky, gesture to the crowd to raise it up. 
"It just a Texas thing," Berry explained regarding the motion. "It's just to get the crowd going and excited." 
It couldn't have worked more perfectly, as a majority of the student section began to join Berry's symbolic display as the game wore on. 
"I didn't realize the crowd would pick it up like they did," Berry said. "They helped." 
While the actual derivation of the gesture may be related to African-American organiza­tions who view it as raising or lifting off the yoke of discrimi­nation, it's symbolic application to the 1996 Notre Dame foot­ball team is simply to raise the pressure of the defense to a new and higher leveL 
"Defensively, we played an outstanding game," Holtz said. "I was surprised our defense did as good of a job as they did." 
But the front seven regaining 
their form of dominance should 
really come as no surpise. 
"We wanted to make a state­
ment," said Berry. "This is the 
team we're used to seeing." 
The statement Bob Davie's 
boys made rang loud and clear, 
especially in the head of Husky 
signalcaller Brock Huard. 
The Observer/Mike Ruma Berry's third quarter sack of Shane Fortney was one of his three on the day. Renaldo Wynn added two more for the sack-happy Irish. 
Huard was knocked out of the game in the third quarter. 
"Brock Huard was knocked a little silly and did not know where he was," Lambright revealed. 
Not only did the Irish knock Huard out of the game, they knocked plays out of Lambright's gameplan with their pressure. 
"They took things away from us," Lambright admitted. "We couldn't establish anything at the line of scrimmage." 
That translated into five of the first six Husky possession's lasting just three plays. 
And just as the efforts and enthusiasm displayed took Washington out of the game, it very much gave the crowd exactly what they were looking for -something to rally around. 
And just like that, a student body begging for something other than "the same old samo" cheer had something new. 
''I'm glad we were able to get the crowd into it," Berry said. "It just gets us more excited and eager to play." 
Trampled 
continued from page 1 
said. "Everything we ran just seemed to work." 
Farmer and a rejuvenated running 
attack expressed their gratitude by 
navigating through monstrous open­
ings on the line. Autry Denson 
amassed 141 yards, while Farmer and 
Randy Kinder ran for 68 and 60, 
respectively. 
A Washington defense sporting three 
Butkus award nominees was unable to 
handle an Irish game plan of run, run, 
and run some more. An obvious plan, 
yet one no less difficult to stop. 
"The more simpler we get with the offense, the better we play it seems," offensive tackle Mike Doughty added. ."It might sound dumb, but that's the 
way it is." 
After the way Doughty and the rest 
of the line manhandled the Huskie 
front seven, nobody is going to label 
them morons. 
Each knew what it was going to take 
to win. 
"Personally, I think that whole 
Blarney offense, or whatever they 
wanted to call it, was a little frustrat­
ing," Doughty said. "Our offensive line 
came here to run the footbalL That's 
what we like to do. We want to keep 
pounding on them until those guys quit 
in front of you." 
Powlus only attempted 12 passes as 
the people behind him totaled 58 car­
ries. That's just the kind of work the 
offensive line is seeking. 
"Before the game, coach Holtz told 
us he was behind us and was going to 
be calling those plays ," guard Jeremy 
Akers said. "We got to have some fun 
and come off the balL" 
Meanwhile, on the other line, the 
defense maintained constant pressure, 
creating five sacks and two intercep­
tions. Linebacker Bert Berry led the 
way with three sacks. 

"Brock Huard (Washington quarter­back) was knocked a little silly and did not know where he was," Lambright said, in reference to the mild concus­sion Huard received. 
It could be said Huard looked a little silly, overthrowing countless receivers. The freshman was incredibly ineffec­tive, completing only eight of 26 passes in starting for the injured Shane Fortney. The coverage by the Irish secondary kept Huard off balance, while the front seven consistently forced him to make bad decisions. 
"I was surprised that our defense did as good a job against their offense as they did," Holtz said. "I thought our defense played exceptionally welL I thought our secondary play awfully welL" 
The secondary helped the Irish jump out early as Deke Cooper, starting in place of Jarvis Edison, picked off Huard's second pass of the game. Two plays later, Denson scored on a 33­yard jaunt, just 1:30 into the contest. 
Touchdowns by Jamie Spencer, Farmer and Kinder put Notre Dame ahead 26-0. 
However, after Washington got on the board, Allen Rossum fumbled the ensuing kickoff, resulting in a Rashann Shehee touchdown which made the score 26-14. 
Another fumble on a missed center exchange gave the Huskies a chance to make the game even closer, but they came away empty from a first-and­goal situation on the three. The first defensive goal-line stand of the year provided momentum that carried into the second half, as the Irish marched 80 yards, cappping the drive with the first of tight end Pete Chryplewicz's two touchdown receptions on the day. 
"We felt it was important to come back, take the opening kickoff and drive with it, which is what we did," Holtz said. 
It was only one of the things the Irish did on a day in which did it all. 
·' . :. . 

ecu!.IUI<(t.I· · B+ . .. .tb.e gate early. While 1>.1'fH11>.~·<HJ't> .,.,,., solid all day long. A )l:lSi();recS'pjDt is beginning.to gel. 
--~ -~-~------------.
~-----------------------~· 
r--------·~ ·-­
Monday, October 14, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Unlikely cast of characters ignite Irish offense 
Spencer, Stephens enjoy day in the sun 
By MIKE DAY Assis1an1 Spom Ediwr 
A statement was made Saturday afternoon at Notre Damn Stadium. Indeed. the Irish w1~rc able to set out and accomplish what they wanted to do in the wake of the disap­pointing 29-16 loss to Ohio State two weeks ago. 
The only suprise was who endnd up delivering the state­ment. Sure, the normal names were there: quarterback Bon l'owlus, tailback Autry Denson. and fullback Marc Edwards. They did their part to help the Irish win. 
But over the course of the day, a pair of unlikely hereos emerged as messengers and successfully delivered the 
-statement loud and clear in Notre Dame's 54-20 victory over No. 16 ranked Washington. 
Prior to the game, fullback Jamie Spencer and receiver Shannon Stephens were not exactly considered household names in the eyes of Irish fans. For one, Spencer plays behind preseason All-American candi­date Marc Edwards and had carried the ball just 11 times entering the game. 
Although most predicted a bright future for the six foot, 247 pound Spencer, they were looking more at the 1997 sea­son. But on Saturday, the sophomore fullback made sure 


The Obseover/Mike Ruma Shannon Stephens provided a boost with three catches for 93 yards. 
/J.·f~jc)) Ti2D5P /~ rc~)
I . I l_.., : ,.......Jj L.­
/ r-,. . ­
TEAM RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1. Florida (54)  6-0  
2. Ohio St. (7)  5-0  
3. Florida St. (5)  5-0  
4. Arizona St. ( 1)  6-0  
5. Nebraska  4-1  
6. Tennessee  4-1  
7. Alabama  6-0  
8. Notre Dame  4-1  
9. Colorado  4-1  
10. Penn St.  6-1  
11. North Carolina  5-1  
12. Miami  4-1  
13. Michigan  4-1  
14. Northwestern  5-1  
15. West Virginia  6-0  
16. Auburn  5-1  
17. LSU  4-1  
18. Brigham Young  6-1  
19. California  5-0  
20. Virginia  4-1  
21 . Kansas St.  5-1  
22. Georgia Tech  4-1  
23. Wyoming  7-0  
24. Utah  5-1  
25. Washington  3-2  

1659 1578 1575 1472 1406 1319 1146 1126 1118 1093 1018 927 899 798 731 590 514 487 451 409 379 317 264 111 104 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 11 9 10 13 6 14 
..
15 17 18 12 19 21 20 22 23 24 
16 

Others receiving votes: Southern Mississippi 93, Virginia Tech 70, Syracuse 23, Wisconsin 21, Iowa 18, Southern California 17, Army 13, Washington St. 9, Kansas 7, Texas Tech 7, Navy 3, San Diego St. 3. 
The Observer/ Sue O'Kaln 

the future arrived sooner than anyone expected. 
In need of an offensive spark on the third offensive series of the game for the Irish, Spencer received a Powlus handoff and exploded up the middle for a 16-yard touchdown. 
"The offensive line did a great job, and I just tried to make the most of it," said Spencer. "Coach (Lou) Holtz has a lot of confidence in me, and I was just happy I was able to contribute. 
"The play was a big boost for me. I can look at this game as a big confidence builder." 
Whereas Spencer helped get the Irish off and running with his first career touchdown late in the first quarter, Stephens turned out to be the hero of the second half. 
The 5-foot-10, 179 pound sophomore, who was switched from cornerback to receiver earlier in the season, grabbed three passes for a team high 93 yards. Just as teammate Malcolm Johnson did earlier in the game, Stephens recorded the first touchdown of his Notre Dame career. 
"We don't have a Derrick Mayes out there, but we do have guys who can compete and get the job done," said Powlus. "Shannon Stephens really stepped up big for us today." 
It was Stephens' final catch of the afternoon that left Irish fans, players. and coaches hoping that they have found an answer at receiver. 
With less than four minutes remaining in the contest, 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  
uw  
First Downs  16  
Rushed-yards  42-111  
Passing yards  146  
Sacked-yards lost  5-30  
Return yards  16  
Passes  12-35-2  
Punts  10-32.5  
Fumbles-lost  1-1  
Penalties-yards  5-51  
Time of possession  28:46  
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS  

RUSHING: Washington-Dillon 18-87, Reed 4-14, Shehee 8-7, Fortney 4-2, Huard 7-1, Keiaho 1-0. Notre Dame-Denson 14-137, Farmer7­68, Kinder 11-60, Edwards 8-37, Goodspeed 4-26, Barry 3-25, Spencer 1-16, Mosley 1-13, Stephens 1-10, Powlus 5-8, Jackson 3­minus3. 
PASSING: Washington-Huard 8-26-1-99, Fortney 4-9-1·47. Notre Dame-Powlus 8-12-0-194, Jackson 3-4-0-59. 
RECEIVING: Washington-Janoski 3-48, Cleeland 3-45, Pathon 3-38, Coleman 2-11, Dillon 1-4. Notre Dame-Stephens 3-93, Chryplewicz 3­41, Edwards 2-46, M Johnson 1-45, Nelson 1-20, Spencer 1-8. 
SCORING SUMMARY 
1  2  3  4  F  
Washington (16)  0  14  0  6  20  
Notre Dame (11 )  14  12  21  7  54  
FIRST QUARTER:  

Notre Dame-Denson 33 yard run (Sanson kick) at 13:30 (2 plays, 38 yards) Notre Dame-Spencer 16 yard run (Sanson kick) at 4:18 (12 plays, 86 yards) 
SECOND QUARTER: • Notre Dame-Kinder 2 yard run (Sanson kick blocked) at 10:47 (12 plays, 67 yards). Notre Dame-Farmer 21 yard run (Powlus rush failed) at 8:37 (3 plays, 85 yards) Washington-Dillon 11 yard run (Wales kick) at 4:51 (7 plays, 53 yards) Washington-Shehee 1 yard run (Wales kick) at 2:54 (5 plays, 22 yards) 
THIRD QUARTER: Notre Dame-Chryplewicz 6 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 11 :45 (7 plays, 80 yards) Notre Dame-Chryplewicz 29 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 2:18 (5 plays, 88 yards) Notre Dame-Johnson 45 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 00:16 (1 play, 45 yards) 
FOURTH QUARTER: Washington-Dillon 15 yard run (Fortney pass failed) at 10:23 (9 plays, 80 yards) Notre Dame-Stephens 23 yard pass from Jackson (Sanson kick) at 3:45 (6 plays, 74 yards) 

~, 

The Obseover/Rob Finch Junior wide receiver Malcolm Johnson emerged as a deep-threat with his sparkling 45-yard touchdown reception in the third quarter. 
Stephens flew past Husky cor-nothing special. but it works nerback Alex Hollowell io most of the time. Today, we snatch a Jarious Jackson pass were just able to do it when it for an easy 23-yard touchdown counted." reception. It was the exclama-For Stephens and Spencer, it tion mark on a 54-20 victory. was their first time to shine. 
"Jarious and I have been For the Notre Dame football able to hook up on that play in team, it was a statement to the practice," said Stephens. "It's rest of the nation. 
NO 31 58-397 253 
1-7 
10 11-16-0 4-45.0 
3-3 
6-61 
31:14 
Insight 

continued from page 1 
ranked Washington Huskies, by piling up 650 yards of total offense, Holtz's Irish resembled the rough and tough offensive juggernaut they were predicted to be at the outset of the season. 
Admitting that he may have "tried to do too many things" on offense, Holtz decided it was time to return to just what has brought him tremendous success throughout his fine coaching career. 
The Ohio State game confirmed that the Irish offense had indeed become complacent. An offense with a tendency toward finesse is not a Holtz-coached offense. 
Plain and simple. 

"We need to get back to smash-mouth football," said Holtz in the days leading up to the Washington game. "We need to let our people be aggressive." 
And that he did. He composed a game plan that took advantage of liis team's strengths: a mam­moth offensive line, a talent-laden stock of run­ning backs, and an intelligent quarterback who can effectively direct the whole scheme. 
The basics allowed Holtz's offense to regain that lost aggressiveness, and the Huskies felt the bru­tal effects of the revamped Irish offense. 
"Their line pounded us," said Washington line· backer Jason Chorak. "They dominated the line of scrimmage and their running backs picked the wholes." 
Fellow linebacker Jerry Jensen agreed. "Their linemen proved themselves well. They ran up the middle and ran over us." Husky coach Jim Lambright summed up the shock resulting from the Irish steamroller. 
"They did a great job of controlling the line of scrimmage all day long," noted Lambright. "They made great plays and were dragging our defense up and down the field." 
The more pass-oriented Blarney offense was a nice idea, but it just is not the Holtz way. It doesn't fit. 
Too complex, and complexity does not equal wins. 
The winning formula has been rediscovered. Pounding the ball down your opponents' throats plus a stingy defense (which has not been a prob­lem around these parts this season) equals victo­ry. 
Funny what a return to basics can do for a team. 
---~----------~ --­

'"1 
f 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Defensi~e end Renaldo Wynn, w~o re<;:orded two sacks on the afternoon, was just one of many lnsh defenders who made life m1serable for Washington quarterback Brock Huard. 


i ~eremx Akers (76), leading the way for tailback Robert Farmer, played an enormous role 1n an lnsh runmng attack that racked up 397 yards. Akers, who has been in and out of the lineup, had an outstanding performance. 
Notre Dame 54 Washington 20 
Notre Dame Stadium October 12, 1996 
• GAME NOTES 
BACK TO THE BASICS 

Lou Holtz went back to the basics in more ways than one on Saturday. To avoid confusion between himself and the coaching staff watching from the booth, Holtz opted not to wear the headset on Saturday. 
"Too many times I get too many peo­ple talking, and I don't think well enough," said Holtz. 
Instead, assistant Bob Chmiel served as Holtz's ears, following the head coach up and down the sidelines while relaying information from a headset of his own. 
"It's the most comfortable I've felt on the sidelines in a while," said Holtz. "I got tremendous help from the people upstairs, so it's no like I'm down there on my own." • 
The results speak for themselves. 
STRENGTH IN NUMBERS 

Seven different players found their way into the endzone for the Irish, including three for the first time in their collegiate careers. Fullback Jamie Spencer and receivers Shannon Stephens and Malcolm Johnson notclied the first touchdowns at Notre Dame. 
"It was good to get the first one under my belt," said Spencer. "Hopefully, there will be more to fol­low." 
In addition, tight end Pete Chryplewicz's 29-yard score late in the third quarter was the longest of his career. 
PILING UP THE NUMBERS 

Determined to make up for a lacklus­ter peformance two weeks ago against Ohio State, the Notre Dame offense more than accomplished that against what was thought to be a solid Husky defense. · 
When time finally expired, the unit 
'' '•,:· ,f I '-~ ~' ~ 

had rolled up 650 total yards, with 397 rushing and 253 passing. It was the most yards the Irish have had in a game since 1991 against Michigan State. 
Another telling statistic was the 8.8 yards per play that Notre Dame aver­aged on 7 4 offensive plays. 
SWITCH PAYS OFF 

To start the season, Deke Cooper was listed as a receiver and Shannon Stephens worked out at defensive back. Following the 14-7 _victory over Vanderbilt in the opening week of the season, Holtz and the coaching staff decided to switch the two players. 
The switch has paid immediate divi­dends. Cooper, playing at both free and strong safety, recorded his first career interception early in the game. Stephens caught three passes for 93 yards and a touchdown. 
"For a couple of-weeks, I wasn't sure if it was a good move or not, but today I felt it was," said Holtz. 
RECEIVING HELP 
Tight end Pete Chryplewicz enjoyed perhaps the biggest day of his Notre Dame career, catching two touchdown passes from quarterback Ron Powlus to help the Irish put the game away in the third quarter. 
Leading 26-14 at the half, Powlus and Chryplewicz took matters into their own hands, connecting twice in the quarter. 
The fifth-year tight end also helped spark the running game with his block­ing. All this came despite being hob­bled by a sprained ankle. 
"I feel a little pain but that's to be expected," said Chryplewicz following the game. 
"The extra time off really helped. would say I was just about as close to 100 percent as I could have been." 
.. 1' 


DILBERT 
,. 
0

1\UCE., 1'1''\ PUTTING 
(.) 
...

YOU lN CHI\1\GE. OF 
oC
., 0 

DEVELOPING OUR 
"' 
" 

BOOT\4 1="01\ THE BIG 
" 
.....c 
...

TR.AD£. SHOW. 
0 
(.) 
"'
\.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Jeans line 1 Arnves 32 Beavers' project 
& "Dancing 33 An NCO Queen" pop 
37 Pseudonymous group 
surname 1o He loved Lucy 
38 Famous 14 Stick out like oversleeper --thumb 
40 Beer barrel 15 Late newscaster 
42 "What---the

Sevareid 
odds?" 16 "Drd you--?" 
43 Old gas name 11 Pen, but not tor 
45 Marked wrong

credit 47 Farm horse
19 Krnd of cabrnet 49 Drctation taker
20 American, in W.W.II 51 Advertising 21 Extra-ample 
lights 

shoe wrdth 52 "Bonanza" boss 22 Contribute 57 Love affarr 23 Bar mitzvah, 
58 Ireland's -­e.g 
Lrngus 27 Pans's river 
59 Two-syllable 29 Spooky foot 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

10 Does bomb line

31 Kitchen 52 Like some appliance breath 60 Fr. misssquad work 
11 Mrs. Peron 34 Incapacitates, 53 Ham it up 61 Cop's route
12 Baseball bigwig illegally

13 "Goodnight, 64 Sweet-as­---" (1950 hit) 36 Scores for 55 Drug-kicking apple-cider girl 18 ltsy-bitsy Comaneci program 65 Motorists' org. 
39 Shut (up) 

24 Salty drop ' 41 Alarm sounder Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 22 Tire abbr. 
25 Mountain 44 Pertaining to 

are available by touch-tone phone: 26 Partner of 
kissing 

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). dangerous 46 King's widow, 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
e.g.

27 One of six on a best of Sunday crosswords from the last cube 48 Rumps 50 years: (800) 762-1665 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I PICKED YOU BECAUSE W14fo.T 15 
l HI\D TI-\.1\T 
THE Mfo.LE5 IN 'THE STMTE.GIC. 
WI\TITEN 
DE.Pft.RTMENT I-lAVE. INCOMPE.­
OOWN SOME­
DISQUI\LlFIED THE.M­TE.NCE? 
PLI\C.£.,C>UT 
SELV£.5 THP.OUC,\-1 A ) 
1 LOST IT. 
PROCESS Or STRtt.I£.GlC. INCOf'I\PE.­TENCE.. 
62 Hammer or sickle 63 Square feature 66 Sicilian mount 67 Brainstorm 68 -----Rogers St. Johns 69 Moose, tor one 70 End of a fishhook 71 Desirable trart 
DOWN 
1 Shrewd 2Worker protection grp. 3 Night sights on the eastern 
horizon 4 Writer Caldwell 5"Game,--, 
match" & Stamp on mail 
from Mexico ?Informed 8 Took the bait 9 King topper 

28 Son of Seth 50 Cigarette stat 56 N.Y.C. subway 
page 15 YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
ltAI'I'Y IIIRTHDA\'! IN THE 
NEXT \'EAR OF YOlJR LIFE: 
Brl'omc more inl'olved in commu­
nity aUi1irs. Public suppo11 is rhc key 
to gctllng what you want Overdue 
recognition or rcwurds will come 
your way ncxl month. A job change 
1s lavorcd early in 1997. Investigate 
openings in sales. public relation\ or 
the health field. Romantic invof,·e­
mcnt with a neighbor is possible 
next spnng. By June, you will be 
pondering a change in your living 
anangcments. A loan or legacy you 
get 1n the summer of '97 will make 
a dream come true~ 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS OAY: actor Roger Moore, 
fashion designer Ralph Lauren, 
singer Marcia Barrett, poet e.e. cum­
mings. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A 
~hange takes place where your 
mvesrments are concerned. Higher 
returns arc likely. Setting aside time 
to enjoy life is as important as work­
in~ hard. 
-TAliRlJS (April 20-May 20): 
Consult a headhunter when search­
ing fur a high-profik joh. Tend to 
bilh and long overdue correspon­
dence. You will soon be on a roll 
financially' 
GEMINI 1May 21-June 20): Long-distance trips could be a waste of time. Make a special effort ro resol\'e a conflict with relatives. A financial bonus \hould be invested wisely. A hunch will pan out. Wind up legal details. 
CANCER (June 21-Jull' 221: You benefit from discus~ing your finance\ with your partner. Die out the truth ;1bout someone or s~me­thing. Analyzing your romantic longings is futile. 
LEO (July 2~-Aug. 22): You may not he able to build up a lot of momenrum today. Save vour ener­gy. A financial or emoti<inal dilem­

ma l.:an hl' l'l'IHO\ l!d if you makl· 
carcl'ul plans An intuiti\e flash 
brings cnlighrcnmem. Acr S\\ 1111\•. 
VI Rc;o 1Aug. B-Scpr. 22J 

Av<lld gomg oil on a tangcm. Tak­
ing unnecessary risk; "rll nor 
endear you to influential people. 
Safeguard your possessions and 
resource.s from people who may try 
to take advantage. 
LIURA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 

Someone may exit your life now. 
Realize that this departure is part of 
a grand plan. Implementing sweep­
Ing changes on your own would be a 
mistake. Let others share in the 
glory or blame. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2~-No\'. 21): 

Review your financial records. Cur­
rent accounting procedures may 
need revision. Consul! a CPA or 
banker. A social event could lack 
luster. Use your sense of humor to 
help lighten a difficult moment at 
work. 
SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your excellent communication skills propel you into a ne\1 posi­tion. Much will he expected from you nnw. Other\ want to share in your success. 
CAPRICO){N IDee. 22-Jan. 

191: A major housecleanin~ is in order. Clear off your de~k and go through your closets. Keeping confi­dential matters to yourself is a must' Resist the urge to reveal all. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Spending time alone at home helps recharge your batteries. A timely phone call could avert a personal crisis. Give thanks to thou~htful friends and relatives. ' 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): Ger in touch with old friend,: They may have important informarion to share. A new business contact fiz­zles out. Keep abreast of de\'elop· ments in your field through reading . 
South 
Baked Parnesan Chicken Breast BeefTurnover in Brown Sauce Steamed Vegetable Plate 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
Student Government is currently seeking a 
~CD(SL![l[J ©CDW(S~J1lWf0 ©CDLIDLIDL!f0f0L!CDW~J1l 
to coordinate social service projects and generate awareness on campus through the esc and other service organizations. Interested? Please contact Brendan Kelly at 631-4096 or stop by our office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune.

.... 
• 

• 
.. 
• 


Football 

SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, October 14, 1996 
• WOMENS'S SOCCER 

-

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Santa Clara's final goal was scored on an outnumbered Irish defense, after freshman Jen Grubb (right) was red-carded and ejected. 
High paw......',....'""""'··· discover 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sporn Writer 

.. 
.... 
Irish infallibility short-lived 
SantaClara Nike Classic 
Noire Dame 
All-Tournament Team Members Kate Fisher Jen Renola Jenny Streiffer 
Champlon:Santa Clara Runner-up:Notre Dame 

"fh80b58rverJS·~~··o·K8:;~ 
Clara over Notre Dame, 3-1. 

The Irish were outshot by the Broncos, 15 to 18. Renola had six saves for the day, but it just was not enough. The team's top-ranking is in jeopardy due to the upset. They are off until Sunday, when they will face Big 
East rival, Rutgers at home . 

• VOLLEYBAll 
Birkner achieves milestone 
By)OECAVATO Sports Writer 
After struggling through a tough stretch in which they went 2-2, with two losses to unranked foes and a nailbiter win that almost got away, the Notre Dame volleyball team was looking to get back on track. The Joyce hosted two Big East squads, Providence and Boston College, who provided the Irish with a golden opportunity to do just that. 
The squad (12-5, 4-0 Big East) swept through the Friars and the Eagles, but that was expect­ed. What one might not have expected was a revamped Irish offense led by the return of set­ter Carey May, a milestone reached, and a younger player having her best match wearing the blue and gold. 
Friday evening junior setter Carey May made her return to the starting lineup for head coach Debbie Brown. In a (15-7, 15-5, 15-3) victory the Irish enjoyed their best hitting percentage of the season at a tremendous rate of .355. In addition the 15 total points scored by the Friars were the fewest the Irish have allowed this year. 
May found great success going to her replacement at setter, Jaimie Lee, who is now back at her natural outside hitter slot. Lee amassed 13 kills and hit .444. Lee's roommate also enjoyed a hitting percentage over .400 as Angie Harris contributed with 9 kills and .412 percentage while senior captain Jenny Birkner recorded a .429 percentage with 11 kills. 
The Irish got off to a slow start as they fell behind early in the first set before Harris and her overpowering jump serve stepped to the 
see V-BALL I page 12 By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 


It is always harder to be at the top. The top-ranked women's soccer team found that out yesterday, as they faced the seventh-ranked Santa Clara Broncos. Heading into this competition, the Broncos were 0-10 in their previous matches against top-ranked teams, and looking to upset the Irish. They defeated Notre Dame at the Santa Clara Nike Classic, 3-1. 
The game was all tied up heading into the second half. The Bronco's Mikka Hansen gave Santa Clara the initial lead. Notre Dame bounced back, though as senior de­fender Kate Fisher tied it up before intermission, with an assist from senior midfielder Cindy Daws. 
Freshman Jacqui Little was the story for Santa Clara as she chalked up a goal and two assists. Little broke open the game for the Broncos, when she broke the tie. Just over thirteen minutes into the sec­ond half, Santa Clara's Jennifer Lalor found an open Little in front of the goal to give them the lead, 2-1. · 
The insurance goal came with about seven minutes to play in the game. Notre Dame was forced to play a man down, when freshman sweeper Jen Grubb received a red card, and was ejected. Little lured senior Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola out, and crossed to Samantha Obara, who was waiting at the right post. This boosted Santa 
at Central Collegiate 

aJ •Hockey team wins opener
Conference, 

vs. Rutgers, October 18 
~ 'C 
see page 13• October 20, 1 p.m. 

.
.....

,... 
at West Virginia, Soccer vs. Bethel College, 
S¢ r/J • SMC soccer struggles 
October 19, 2 p.m. 
October 16, 4 p.m. 
see page 14at Arizona Invitational, 

S¢ 
Volleyball at U ofChicago October 19 October 15, 7 p.m. 
~ 






