
Friday, September 2 7, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 25 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Friday Feature 
Cha-Ching! 
Restaurants, gas stations, hotels all benefit when the Irish play 


By PATTI CARSON Managing Editor 
"Thnre's no room at the inn." 
That's exaetly what Kari Zimmerman will tell those who call the Michiana Inn in tho hopns of obtaining one of 
Whether off-or on-campus, stores hire more stall in anticipation of more busi­ness. At Michael Hensel's Blimpie store (above) tailgaters increase his sales. 


its ninety rooms for any foot­ball Saturday at Notre Dame. That's what they'll tell those who call any inn, hotel. motel, or bed and breakfast in the area. And there are no exceptions on any football weekend in South Bend, or within a fifty mile radius of 
South Bend, for that mat­ter. 
Actually, it might start to feel like there's no room anywhere on a football weekend. No elbow room in the sports bars, the bookstore, the stadium, or the line for the rest rooms in the sta­dium. The list goes on and on. 
And what must that say for the economy of South Bend? Hotel rates go up, as do gas prices, cab fares and the like, or so it 
seems from voices of many business owners in the South Bend communi­ty. 
Ask Zimmerman how busy her place of employ­ment is with the extra business football week­ends bring. 


SMC's Moreau Center celebrates 40th 
"You wouldn't believe the volume of phone calls I receive, even up to the last minute before a game," Zimmerman said. 
Zimmerman relates the story of one unfortunate soul. 
"A man called three nights before this OSU game, des­perate for lodging. He was having absolutely no luck and asked what I thought he should do. At this point, I'm referring them to camping grounds." 
Other inns and hotels share 
see CASH/ page 6 

Restaurants, such as Outback Steakhouse (at left), benefit from peo­ple who visit while they're in town for home football games. Gas stations (above) also do well. 
The Buck Stops Here 

: • Total dollar impact 'from tourism for 1South Bend is :approx. $239 . million per year. 
• St. Joseph county recieves approx. $1 million annually from a 
. 6% hotel/motel tax. 
Friday, Sept~l,ltitr ~7 ........................ J 3-7 p.m. Football Weekend Social GatheringThe Morris Inn Patio 3:3Q-5 p.m. Center lor the Homeless Alumni Tours (C.H.A.T) 
Loftus Sports Center 
Meet at the Main Circle  
4:30p.m. 6:45p.m. 7:00p.m.  Marching Band Rehearsal Step off-Peace Mem. Fountain Band Ste~s off lor Pep RallyBand Building PEP RALLY! JACC Arena, enter Gate 10  
_Satu~_g~tember 28 ..  ·~=~·~=]  
8:30am.  Marching Band Rehearsal  

8:30·12 p.m. The Alumni Hospitality Center welcomes all alumni and trlends Joyce Center. North Dome 10·10:30a.m. PomPon Squad (10:00) and Cheerleader (10:15) Performances Notre Dame Bookstore 10:40·11 a.m. PomPon Squad (10:40) and Cheerleader (10:50) Performances JACC North Dome 11:30-12 p.m. Glee Club -Notre Dame In Review 
Joyce Center, North Dome 12-12:45 p.m. Shenanigans Performance Joyce Center, North Dome 
12-12:45 p.m. Marching Band Concert Main Building (Step all at 12:55) 1:10p.m. Marching Band Pre-game Show at the Stadium 1:30p.m. BEAT OHIO STATE! NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Sll_ltd~y. ~~embeL~._______J 
6.7,8,9:30 Mass 
&11:00 a.m. The Crypt, Sacred Heart Parish 
8:00, 10:00, Mass 
& 11:45 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame football isn't the only attraction in South Bend. 
The Moreau Center at Saint Mary's College, housing the O'Laughlin Auditorium, Little Theater, Hammes and Little Theater Galleries, along with academic departments, cele­brates its 40th anniversary this fall. 
"Sister Madeleva [Saint Mary's College President from 1934 to 19611 envisioned a facility that would attract the most prestigious perform­ing artists," said Dennis Andres, director of special events for the College. "She hoped to establish South Bend as the cultural center of the Midwest." 
Four decades ago, that aspiration transformed into a $2.5 million facili­ty, which celebrated its opening night with the NBC Opera Company. 


Known as a favorite performing spot of events staged in the 1300-seat the community." for Helen Hayes, the first lady of O'Laughlin Auditorium and the Little In light of the Mission of the American theater, O'Laughlin was Theater. "It's not just theater. We College, Andres said, "We're not try­also part of a touring route for off­stage dance, music, films, lectures, ing to please the masses, we're trying Broadway productions. along with the art galleries," said to educate, by providing a smorgas­
The Center still distinguishes itself Andres. "We have it all. As long as bord of events for the students and as the source for the performing arts the funding is available, we will con­in the community, due to the diversity tinue to be the major source of arts in 
see MOREAU I page 4 


l 
I 
' 
' 


Housing the O'Laughlin Auditorium, among other departments, the Moreau Center at Saint Mary's celebrates its 40th anniversary this fall. 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, September 27, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


The 'toughest' job you'll ever 
love? 
Imagine yourself several years from now, out of school and on your own. With a graduate degree tucked securely under your belt and a bright future at a top firm ahead of you, you've packed well for the road of life. 


Sounds pretty good, Brad Prendergast right? Well, if you're Bob News Editor Waldstein and Bill Fowles, such security and stability were too, well ... , sti­fling. 
Waldstein and Fowles instead abandoned their jobs and hit the road to traveling across country this fall to watch college football games. 
Please pause now to rain your pity upon them. 
And the games they're going to are good football games at that. Once their 16-week cross-country jaunt is completed, the duo will see have seen the Penn State-Southern Cal Kickoff Classic game, Tennessee-Florida, Texas-Oklahoma, Ohio State-Michigan, Nebraska-Colorado, the SEC championship, and the Sugar Bowl. 
Add another classic to the list, because they're here this weekend to watch the No. 5 Fighting Irish and the No. 4 Buckeyes battle in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Bob and Bill do have a purpose for their mis­sion. They are compiling anecdotes from each of the 15 campuses they are visiting into a book that will have no other match on the mar­ket today ... except for a previous book written by Waldstein and friends several years ago. 
Dubbed "Saturday Afternoon Madness," Waldstein's first book, which chronicled cam­puses mostly different from this year's stops, told of the travels that he and two other friends experienced while traveling the highways of America in 1993 in the search of the wildest traditions in college football. 
The idea for the journey was born more out of a psychological need to refuse to grow up. Only several years removed from the halls and quads of college, Bob and two friends were joking one day about visiting football's colle­giate meccas. The idea grew on them. 
It's not as if the three were really heartbro­ken about leaving their jobs. In the introduc­tion of the book, for example, they write about the incredible magnitude of Phil's penchant to avoid work; at one point, his boss called him "the single greatest obstacle to productivity since organized labor." 
Such remarks dot the pages of this book. Waldstein said his book is geared to the "intel­lectual who doesn't mind having a few laughs while taking a dump." 
The lavatorial highlights of this book include a chapter devoted to Notre Dame. Written dur­ing the week leading up to the Southern Cal game in 1993, the chapter tells how Waldstein and the gang persuaded the helmet-painting team to spraypaint a gold NO logo on the front of the black funeral limo that they used to trav­el the country. 
They also suggested that Touchdown Jesus be renamed "I caught a fish this big Jesus." 
Waldstein and Fowles will be on campus throughout this weekend before they head south. If you want to talk to them about NO football, they'd love to talk to you. They're the_ ones walking around campus with a beer in 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S StAFF 
News Accent Brad Prendergast 
Dan Cichalsk.i Michelle Krupa 
Candi Wilson Dave Freddoso 
GraphicsSean Smith 
Brian Blank 

Sports 
Production Brian Reinthaler 
Heather Cocks Joe Cavato 
Michelle Krupa Joe Villinsk.i 
Lab Tech Viewpoint 
Joe Stark 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Tractor-trailer plows into Amish family 
PORT TREVORTON, Pa. 

In a deadly clash between modern technology and a simpler way of life, a tractor-trailer plowed into a horse-drawn wagon carrying seven children from an Amish family, killing three of them. 
The truck driver tried to stop when he spotted the black wagon Wednesday night, but his rig jack­knifed when he hit the brakes, said state Trooper Fred Dyroff. 
"It was devastating," the trooper L__________::::::...!.:..:.:..:.:~== you approach them," he said. 
said. "I've been to a lot of accidents and this one really bothered me. He hit the buggy and people went flying." Mary Martin, 14, and her sisters Erma, 12, Vera, 7, were killed. 
Their sisters, Julie, 16, and Norma, 5, were in serious condition, and 19-year-old Edith, who drove the wagon, was in satisfactory condition. 
Their brother, Leon, 9, was discharged from the hospi­tal Thursday. 
Truck driver Terry Chism, 32, of New Albany, Miss., suffered only minor injuries. No charges were brought against him. 
The crash happened when the Martins' wagon pulled off a dirt road onto a stretch of U.S. 11 and 15, apparent­ly returning home from a popular fishing spot in this rural region of central Pennsylvania. 
Nearby, the highway changes from a winding; two-lane 
Dole asks Clinton to 'tell the truth' 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 
Battered by Democratic ads claiming he would cut Medicare, Bob Dole issued a blunt challenge to President Clinton on Thursday: "Why don't you tell the truth Mr. President?" "I know it's hard to get the president off his soap box, he's out there every day announcing some new gimmick," Dole said at a morning rally aimed at wooing older 

Americans. "But I would say to the president, 'Mr. President, why don't you be honest with Florida seniors and other seniors across America?"' Dole continued, "Once he does that, we're going to wipe him out in Florida and all across America." The GOP presidential nominee went on to defend his record on programs for the elderly: "Listen, I helped rescue Social Security, all my mother had was Social Security income and Medicare." 
Mean teacher caught on tape 
SAPULPA, Okla. 
When 7-year-old Drew Carrier told his mother his teacher was mean, she wasn't sure whether to believe him until the second-grader hid his toy tape player in his backpack and recorded a lesson. "I can't wait till next year when some of you get to third grade. I can't wait," the teacher can be heard telling the class loudly. ''I'm going to be checking on your grades ... about half of you will be making F's." The teacher also scolds one pupil on the 90-minute tape for bothering a classmate, saying, "That's probably why you can't read very well." The very next day after the lesson, Delynn Carrier moved her son to another classroom. And she and another mother want the teacher at Liberty Elementary School fired. "I wish I had every day he went to school on tape," Mrs. Carrier said Thursday. "She's lowering their self-esteem. She's shredding them apart." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeatherCIDforecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 27. 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Unes separate high temperature zones lor the day. 

FRONTS: 
~...a....a....~ 
··..­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

HL a &"5J [I!] 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS VIa Aaociar.d Prea 
Ethan Hayward 
Shannon Dunne 

~.,4~ .....(f-.af&
,,,,,~,~-·.·.·· ·:·.::=·.::=· -=--=--=­
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
VIII Assot;;allld Pross Gtap/llcsNBI
rhe Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
road to a four-lane highway, and drivers unfamiliar with the area tend to speed up. 
Dyroff said he was unable to determine if the wagon pulled into the truck's path or its horse, also killed, was spooked. 
The state requires lights on all horse-drawn buggies and wagons after dark. Dyroff did not know whether the wagon complied with the law, but said it often makes little difference. 
"From a distance you can't see them as 

Local drivers watch out for the buggies and wagons, but the horse-drawn vehicles catch truckers and out-of­state drivers unaware. 
The Amish, a plain-living religious sect, scorn many modern conveniences as "worldly" distractions. Their brethren in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin have won court challenges of state laws requiring their vehi­cles to carry the triangular orange "slow-moving" sign. 
Mary Yoder, manager of the Dutch Kitchen Restaurant near the accident site, said Amish migrating from nearby Lancaster County drive their buggies in the middle of the road. 
"Some have the attitude that the horse and buggy was here first, so it's their right of way," said Yoder, who was raised Amish. 
"They shouldn't be allowed on the highway like regular traffic, and it won't stop with these three who died." 
Man kills self under voluntary law 
SYDNEY, Australia 

Terminally ill Bob Dent looked at the screen of a laptop computer placed by his bedside. It asked whether he was ready to die -yes or no? He smiled, touched the key­board to give the go-ahead and received a lethal drug dose, making him the first person to kill himself legally under the world's only voluntary euthanasia law. Dent's death on Sunday ended a pain-filled, five-year battle against prostate cancer. But it's also reignited a debate here over whether doctor-assisted suicide should remain legal. The doctor who helped Dent to die at his home in the northern city of Darwin said he's ready to do the same for five other terminally ill patients. Requests by others were received within hours of Thursday's announcement of Dent's death, he said. The Northern Territory's legislature became the first in the world to pass a voluntary euthanasia law last year. It took effect July 1 but its future is uncertain. 
Romanian Ceausescu dead at 45 
VIENNA, Austria 

Nicu Ceausescu, youngest son of the late Romanian dic­tator Nicolae Ceausescu, died today at 45 in a hospital where he had been treated for internal bleeding, doctors said. Ceausescu, who had cirrhosis of the liver, had been transferred to Vienna's general hospital last week. His doctor had said Ceausescu needed a liver transplant. Ceausescu's brother, Valentin, told The Associated Press in Romania's capital, Bucharest, that he had been informed of his brother's death but had no details. Nicu Ceausescu was the youngest of three children of Nicolae and Elena Ceausescu, the Communists who ruled Romania for a quarter-century. His parents were execut­ed by a firing squad after a hurried trial on Christmas Day 1989. Nicu was charged with genocide for his role in trying to put down the 1989 anti-communist revolt in Sibiu, the Transylvanian city he ruled. 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
m IZ3 § {) ~ u 
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUC11' CLOUC11' 

Anchorage45  30  Houston  84  66  Portland, Maine 64 49  
Allentown 58  55  Miami Beach 88  n  Salem, Ore.  78 45  
Boston  63  54  Montgomery 86  67  San Francisco  78  66  
Chicago  69  52  New York  72  61  Tulsa  75 54  
Honolulu 90  72  Philadelphia 72  58  Topeka  65 39  

Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Students help mentally disabled at Logan Center 

By ALLISON KOENING 
News Writer 
All students know that the building is there. Yet few of us know about the wonderful things that go on inside. It's tlw b u i Id i n g Iocall~ d at the inters<~etion of Junipor/Eddy and Angela/Edison: the Logan CtHtter. 
Tlw Logan Ct~n ter providns activities. support. and rnhabil­itation for tlw mentally disabled in llw South Bend community. It was rounded in 1950 by tho ramify or a mentally handi­cappPd child. They also found­Pel Logan Industries, a company whidt employs thn mnntally handicapped. 
Thn Logan CnntP.r is fundml by an Pndownwnt and a grant from the University of Notre Damn. But it is mostly madn possible bncausn of thn largo number of student volunteers from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Indiana Univnrsity-South Bnnd. 
There are between I00-150 students from the schools who volunteer their time to the cen­tnr. Kristen Mielwl, a Notre Dame graduatn, is the Volunteer Coordinator for the 
nmt1~r. 
The Logan Center offers a large variety of activities for its patrons. Art classes, swim time, and gymnasium recre­ation are schr,duled every day during weekdays. On Saturdays. the volunteers head up a trip to the bowling alley. Sunday afternoons arc spent on a pizza party and a movie. 
The center also offers classes for parents and siblings of the mentally retarded, as well as other programs for family members. 
One particularly successful program depends entirely on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who are assigned to a sibling of one of the patrons. The students offer support to these ehildren, who can be sus­ceptible to frustrations and dif­ficulties due to the challenges of having a mentally handi­eapped sibling. 
In addition to forming a spe­cial friendship to a sibling, many student volunteers have a commitment to a single guest as well. The students are encouraged to call their special friends outside of the center at least once a week, and go out with them once or twice every month. 
Amy ()'Loughlin, a Saint 
Mary's senior, cannot say enough about the time she has spent volunteering at the Logan Center. "What I give to them is given back to me in so many more ways." 
She is particularly fond of the one-on-one friendships that form. "I've made so many friends in my time there. That's why I'm there, to be friends." 
()'Loughlin averages about six hours per week at the Logan Center, although it varies with the scheduled activ­ities and with her own personal schedule. 
"You can spend as little or as much time as you want; it's all up to you. 
Everyone has at least two hours in their week. I can't stress enough the rewards of those two hours," said O'Loughlin. 
There are two Notre Dame students who fulfill their work­study hours at the Logan Center, through the grant from the University. Notre Dame also recognizes the Logan vol­unteers as an official group. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance, at their meeting Tuesday, voted to give the Logan Center volunteers official 


DARDEN SWANSON EGGLESTON 
3:45. 4:45 
NORTHEAST 
4:30. 5:00 
lASALLE 
Allen MCWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 Kathleen Flynn x4355 
Nicole Varneri x4039 or Jennifer Jablonski x3552 
Pete DiLella 287-5277 
um~~~~m~~~w 
1:00. 2:00 
KENNEDY  Katherine Murray 284-4435  
3:00. 4:00  
ST.JUDE  Sarah Magness 284-5217  

24th Annual Sutntner Progratns 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting October 7th Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00p.m. 
London Rotne May 21-June 20 June 15-July 14 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany, and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Business & Economics, Education, English, History, Italian, Justice, Music 

PIZZA! 

Past Students and Faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at 284-4460 or 272-3726 



The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The Logan Center has been in South Bend since 1950, and each week, many Notre Dame and SMC students work there with the men­tally disabled. 
organization status. The financial support through 
According to Lara Becker, the Saint Mary's will aid in the par­BOG Campus Club Commis­tial renovation of the Logan sioner, gaining this status has Center next summer. many benefits. "The Logan According to ()'Loughlin, the Center group will now be allot­pool and gymnasium are going ted funds through BOG," said to be repaired and improved. Becker. The center hopes to upgrade its 
"We are hoping that they will facilities and offer it to outside collaborate with SUHV (Spes groups for rental purposes. Unica Resource Volunteer "The activities are severely Center) on volunteer efforts." reduced in the summer 
In addition, an official club because of the lack of Saint can reserve rooms on campus, Mary's and Notre Dame volun­be on the college activities cal­teers," ()'Loughlin said, high­endar, and initiate fund raising lighting the importance of the activities. student volunteers' generosity. 
Security will not step up for Ohio State game 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associare News Ediror 
Despite the anticifated swarm of people arriving for this week­end's home footbal game, Notre Dame Security has no plans to increase the number of staff patrolling campus. 
The Notre Dame/Ohio State match-up is being touted as the biggest game since Florida State came to South Bend in 1993. Chuck Hurley, Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security, said that they are not anticipating any problems this weekend. 
"We stepped up security a little for the Purdue game, since it was the first game in a stadium that is undeq;{oing renovations," he said. "We will maintain that level for the OhiO State game." 
"As usual, we will have the assistance of the South Bend Police Department, the county police, and state police," added Director of Security Rex Rakow. 
Sgt. John Williams of the South Bend Police Department con­firmed that there will be six cars patrolling the streets Friday night, and five Saturday night from 6 p.m. to 3 a.m. 
Hurley explained that the security staff always predicts that a large number of people will visit campus without tickets to the game, and thus there are ample officers on hand to monitor those crowds. 
In addition, tailgating fields will be patrolled in order to avoid incidents involving alcohol. 
"We will be watching for the presence of alcohol on campus," confirmed Hurley, adding that anyone caught carrying open con­tainers of alcohol will be required, without exception, to pour it 
out. "We want people to enjoy themselves at the game. We just want them to do it safely, without risk of injury," Rakow stated. 
"Students and guests alike must be mindful that when they cele­brate, they have to do so in a way that won't pose a threat to their safety or that of others," stressed Hakow. 
Above all, he and Hurley expressed their confidence in the Notre Dame student body and fans. "It's a big game, but our fans are so compliant," Hurley said. "We don't expect problems just because were playing Ohw State." 
Added Rakow, "We aren't anticipating problems with the opposing fans either, because our fans always behave really well." 
"Win or lose, we do it with class." 
• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Mexican Bookbags 

• 
Urban Outfitters (retro 60's style) 



• Silver Rings • Hemp Jewelry 
,---,H::-:=::o--=-=ua=-=-s:~

We Buy 
M-F: 10-7
Used 


10 %0 OFF 
Sat: 10-6 

with etudent ID closed Sun.
Levi's 

Just 2.5 ml North of IN state line
THE 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza

STILE 
687-9123

CO., INC. 
•-llile ~ 

-~---~-------~-----------------­
~-~----------------~---------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 27, 1996 


Notre Dame, OSU join in harmony Moreau 
continued from page I 
By JlLLIAN M. PAGLIOCCA of Franklin County, Ohio. Joyce Scholars Celebration was held News Writer In addition to this joint concert, the at Ohio State and included members greater community." two clubs have scheduled various of the Notre Dame Glee Club at its The integration of the performing arts complex 
When one considers the relation­other appearances throughout the honorary brunch. After being invited and art galleries with classroom buildings draws ship between the University of Notre weekend. back to Ohio State in the spring to do praise from students. "Most of my classes are in Dame and Ohio State University, the The Ohio State Glee Club is slated a joint concert, the Notre Dame Glee Moreau, and the diverse atmosphere adds a distinct word "harmony" probably does not to join Notre Dame's open rehearsal Club felt that "a good relationship quality to everyday class," said junior Lisa Gutilla. come to mind. at 4:45 p.m. this afternoon in 115 had been established with [Ohio The Communications, Dance, Theater, Art and 
This will be the result, however, Crowley Hall. State], and that the favor should be Music departments are located in the Moreau 
when men from each institution At 8 a.m. on Saturday morning, the returned," according to Notre Dame Center. combine their voices in a variety of combined group will appear on the Glee Club President Michael In addition to the performing arts and classroom sweet-sounding events this weekend. Channel 16 pre-game show hosted Lazzara. facilities, Moreau boasts a1600-square foot gallery 
In keeping with a new tradition by Tricia Sloma. Lazzara expressed his enthusiasm space, that includes the Hamme,s and Little Theater begun by organizers of the Joyce Although the program has not at being able to welcome Ohio Galleries. Scholars Celebration, Ohio State's been selected yet, the traditional State's Glee Club this year. "We try to make the art accessible to all, and it is Glee Club will join Notre Dame's to rah-rah songs of the respective uni­Likewise, Ohio State Glee Club very important that the content of the selected honor this year's recipients at a versities will be included when the President Charles Giles is looking exhibits relates to life experiences," said K. Johnson brunch on Saturday morning. approximately 50 Ohio State visiting forward to singing on Notre Dame's Bowles, director of the galleries. 
Those students named Joyce members and the 52 Notre Dame campus. Selected from a pool of 200 to 300 applicants year­Scholars are awarded a full scholar­"clubbers" perform. "This is something that people who ly, six to eight exhibits grace the galleries per year. ship to either Notre Dame or Ohio The exchange between the two aren't from Notre Dame don't get to The selection committee, comprised of art depart­State. Candidates must be residents clubs began last year, when the do very often," he said. ment faculty and students along with representa­tives from the College and South Bend communities, reviews national artist proposals and sets the gallery 
FIPSE leadership grant given to SMC 
schedule. "Our niche is showing contemporary art by emerg­By ELIZABETH HAMIL TON 
They want to offer both academic ing artists, focusing on issues pertaining to women,"
and non-academic programs that
News Writer said Bowles. "We strongly consider the Mission of 
will investigate cross-cultural expe­the College when making our decisions." 
The Fund for the Improvement of riences. In addition, in the Spring, the galleries showcase Post Secondary Education (FIPSE) The "Integration of Wellness Senior Comprehensives from students in the art awarded Saint Mary's College a Concepts and Behaviors" Team department. 'This is very unique to Saint Mary's," three-year grant to support the plans to emphasize women's health said Bowles. "This gives students professional exhi­development of student and faculty issues. bition experience-something most individuals do leaders. The "Model for Spiritual not get to experience in the undergraduate level." 
The first event under the FIPSE Development" Team hopes to main­Students from all disciplines find the Center acces­
grant project, "Collaborative tain its spiritual identity and devel­sible with diverse resources. 
Challenge: Forging a Community op spiritual leadership skills. 
"The facilities are excellent, and the Center offers Commitment to Leadership Finally, the "Teaching, Learning, so much," said junior Anne Werring. "I like having 
Development," was discussed in and Technology at Saint Mary's" 
the gallery in the same building as many of my detail at a luncheon Wednesday in Team would like to develop a lead­classes." the Wedge Room. ership framework to deal with con­While the College is postponing a major celebra­
The Community Leadership Teams cerns identified by a technology 
tion until the 50th anniversary, the special events (COLTS) are striving for success in study group. office scheduled "more prominent events" for this 
four areas. Overall, this project's goals are to year; with last weekend's performance of the Trinity The "Establishment of a Program teach leaders to better respond to Irish Dancers and the off-Broadway production
The ObseJVer/Kim Michalik

of Inter cultural Studies" Team the needs of the community, bestow "Having Our Say" taking center stage this semester, 
Profressor Kelly Hamilton speaks yester­
wants to offer students, faculty, and opportunities for leadership upon according to the special events department. 
day to the SMC Community Leadership
administrators the chance to freely Teams about the FIPSE grant. others, work with current leader­"Having Our Say," which opened at the Booth discuss diversity, multiculturalism, ship structures, and multiply ideas Theater on Broadway last April, will come to the and identity. for positive change. O'Laughlin Auditorium Fri., Nov. 1 at 8 p.m. 
If~ you 
• 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh•eomputers,:~fi can start doing whatever it is 
you want to do. And to make it even easler for you to purchase a Macintosh, apply 
for the Apple• Computer Loan. So you can take home a Mac; and you won't have 
make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave . X£ your mark. 


'Offer expires October 11, 1996. No payment ofinterest or principal will be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period will be added to the principal and will bear interest, which will be induded in the repayment schedule. For example, the month ofMay 1996 bad an interest rate of/2.15% wilh an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of13.93%. Amonth~· payment of$32.86for the Power Mac·5260 system is an estimate based on a total loan amount of$1,913.83, which includes a sample purchase price of$1,799 and a 6% loan origi111Jtwn fee. Interest is tltlriable based on the Prime Rate as reported on the 5th business day ofthe month in TheWall Street journal. plus aspread of3.9%. Monthly payment andAPR shoum assumes deferment ofprincipal and does not include slate or local sales tax. The APPle Computer Loan has an 8-year loan term wilh no prepaymentpenalty and is subjecJ to credit approval. Monthly payments may !Klry depending on actual computer system prices, to/a/loan amounts. slate and local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable inleresl rate. ©1996 APPle Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. APPle, the APPle logo, Mac and Macintosh are registered trademarks ofAPPle Computer, Inc. Power Mac is a tradmUJrk ofAPPle Computer, Inc. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. 1b learn more (US. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or 7TY 800-755-060/. 
L_____________________________________ 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Donahue recalls thirty years in electronic media 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
found myself in news, and it was a wonderful, wonderful nirvana for me." 
But it was in that cosmopoli­tan news Mecca of the Midwest, Dayton, Ohio, where Donahue made his mark in the cutting edge journalism of two-way talk that he is famous for. 
"It was something that no one had ever seen before. We were exploring something called democracy," explained Donahue. But the success and versatility of the talk format was more of a result of taking advantage of the volatility of the late 1960s than it was of any far reaching plan for suc­cess. "We weren't smart enough to see what we had. We were just able to exploit the passion of the time." 
The Phil Donahue Show was an opportunity for open discus­sion and exploration of the con­troversial issues that affected the rapidly evolving American society of the 60s. Racism, sex­ism, gender issues, and the controversy over the Vietnam War were among the topics brought to the forefront of media attention by the show for the first time. 
"All these things were hap­pening and we were standing there with a television pro­gram. The television show was electrically charged when deal­ing with issues like this," said Donahue. 

By tapping into many issues that may have been taboo in the past, he was able to ignite and inform audiences in ways never previously possible. The show's "Socratic dialogues" were being shown from coast to coast. 
"It was a great place to be," Donahue remembered. "And then the sand shifted." 
That shift in the sand, the introduction of competition into the genre that had previously been solely Donahue's, herald­ed a new era for media, and a shift in its focus. 
According to Donahue, "People became more interest­ed in Madonna than Managua. The new shows are a reflection won't find issues of importance, because it just doesn't pay." 
Neither will you find issues of importance in the mainstream media. A few companies are gaining more and more posses­sion of the various news ser­vices, and issues that may reflect poorly on the company, or be something that the audi­ence does not want to hear are played down in favor of safe news that keeps the viewer coming back. 
Donahue explains that there are "stories you can't write. People are not getting the hard hitting stuff. Corporations are 
...,~----­
more interested in the bottom The Observer/Kevin Dalum ions of their audience or the
line than sending their 
reporters out to find out what's sway of corporate control, say­happening." ing that "news people are not 
News magazines ignore supposed to be beloved." important issues in deference Donahue left his audience to the demands of advertisers with a means to counter the within their mother companies. decay of mainstream media. 'The president sends your sons "Support the alternative press, 
The modern media is gradu­ally giving way to the limiting concnrns of powerful financial intnrnsts in its search for truth on important news issues. 
That was the theme of the lecture given by Phil Donahue last night in the Hesburgh Auditorium. In his talk, entitl!)d Media: Today and Tomorrow, Donahue recounted the changes he has witnessed in ovnr thirty years in electronic media. 
Beginning with his "big br!)ak" rnading farm reports at WNI>U, Donahue, a Notre Dame graduate, rncounted his path to journalistic stardom, and lamnnted the deficiencies he sees in today's news media. 
After college, Donahue moved to Adrian. Michigan, where he alone served as the entire news department of a small radio station. It was a watershed experience in his life. 
"I couldn't believe the power I had," recalled Donahue of his d!Htlings with such important locals figures as the mayor and the chief of police. "Some couldn't wait to talk to me. I of our culture. Ours is a cul­ture of decay," and the new breed of daytime talk, devoid of substance, he said, is a reflec­tion of this degeneration. A financial bottom line now takes precedence over informative dialogue. "(The typical new talk show) is the dating game. It works; it draws a crowd. You 

AUDITIONS 


Opera Workshop 
Tues, October 1 2:00-3:15 pm 
Crowley Hall, Rm. 115 Accompanist provided. Bring something to sing. Looking for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester Opera Workshop Production of an opera yet to be selected. Call 631-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
come hear the sounds of 
Power Macintosh' 7200 



Gillard to represent District 4 
Observer Staff Report 
Mary Gillard, a Knott Hall sophomore, will be the new District 4 representative to Student Senate after winning a special election yesterday to fill that vacancy. 
Gillard, with just under 60 percent of the vote, defeated Flanner Hall junior John Hutchinson. 
and daughters to war to prove and watch the made up faces of he's not a wimp, and Time and the media in Washington, and Newsweek cover movies, movie listen to what they're saying."
In this manner an environment 

stars and O.J. Simpson," can be created in which "excit­
Donahue pointed out . 
Following the presentation, ing and irreverent ideas" may
be fostered. 

he urged the students in the Donahue, a former Zahm Hall 
audience to enter journalism,
but warned them not to con-resident, graduated from Notre cern themselves with the opin-Dame with a degree in Business 
in 1957. 

The election was necessary after Joe Lang, the previous District 4 senator, resigned due to a regulation in the Student Government Constitution. 
Lang, a senior who previously lived in Flanner Hall, planned to continue living there this year when he ran for election last spring, but unexpectedly decided to move off campus over the summer. 
Lang's unanticipated move off the campus prevented him from remaining eligible to represent the residence halls in District 4. The district is composed of Knott, Siegfried, l'asquerilla East, l'asquerilla West, Flanner, Farley, and Breen­Phillips halls. 
Lang submitted his resigna­tion at the Student Senate meeting on Sept. 18. 


Please Recycle The Observer 
September 28, 1996 
College Football Hall ofFame Tailgate Party 


Notre Dame vs. Ohio State 
* 
Free admission to the Press Box-Watch the game on a giant 9x 12 foot screen

* 
Cash bar will be provided during the game 

* 
Press Box opens at 1 p.m. 

* 
Post game tailgate party on the Gridiron Plaza 

* 
Sign up to win an Ohio State jersey autographed by the only 2-time Heisman Trophy winner. 

Archie Griffin 


* 
Music, $5.00 buffet dinner, jersey drawings 


Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 COMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable 
Pr!u~PL 603fl/20 MH1116MB RAM 66MHz/BMB IIAM/500MB
f'vu~Pc-6011120 MH1116MB RAM 
Free one-year Apple warranty.
1.6GBI&Y CD-ROMIWdi1Jiay backlit, dual-scan, color display/.2GB/4X CD-ROM/15'dirplay 
Offer I!.T(lires Oclober 11, 1996. ~1996 Apple ComfJuler, Inc. All rights resen.M. Apple, the Apple logo, AppleCare. LtJseriT'riter: Mac, Macintosh, Performa, PowerBook, Power Macintosh and StyleWriter are registered trademarks ofApple ComfJuler, Inc. PowerPC Is a trademark ofInternational Business Machines Corpomllon, used under literut! therefrom. 

Friday, September 27, 1996
page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 

Cash 
continued from page 1 
in the hustle. The Morris Inn orders all supplies that will be necessary for football week­ends in May and June, accord­ing to Doug Leyes, the In_n's assistant manager. The mn increases it staff to about 175 employees on home football weekends, he adds. 
The University Area Holiday Inn now processes reservations by applications, which will begin for the 1997 season on Dec 1. Guests will be served on a first come, first serve basis, according to Marcy Yeats of the Holiday Inn. 
Around the city, 20 percent of the hotels in the community are utilized via ND business, as opposed to corporate business, according to South Bend 
Conventions  and  Visitors  
Bureau studies.  
"It's  not  that  business  

couldn't run without Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. There would still be business, but being located in a college tow~ is definitely a plus, Zimmerman said. "It adds a whole new dimension to busi­ness in the community. It's exciting to be a part of it." 
The direct hoteVmotel tax of St. Joseph County, which cur­rently remains at six percent, will generate $1 million for !he community annually, accordmg to the Conventions and Visitors Bureau. 
Lodging, however, is just one way the community generates money. 
Restaurants are another. 
According to Outback Steakhouse owner Keith Haydon of South Bend, bw;i­ness picks up anywhere from 15 to 18 percent on home foot­ball weekends. And he employs 18 to 20 more people than usual. 
Incidentally, Haydon had seven cities to choose from when deciding on where to open his business. 
"You hear 'South Bend' and you automatically conjure up images of Notre Dame (football) and there's a sort of mystique and tradition that comes to be associated with the place. South Bend, Mishawaka, and the Notre Dame community make up a total package that's great for running a business." 
Walk into the Outback Steakhouse in South Bend and the first thing you'll see above the door upon arrival is a large "Play Like a Champion Today" sign. 
"Some people don't see it and walk right by it, but the 30 per­cent of the people that do see it jump up and give it a slap on their way in." 
And football is not football when there's no tailgating. Michael Hensel's weekend hours at his South Bend Blimpies Sub Store stand as testament to that. 
"We open five hours early on football Saturdays so that we can bake at least 100 feet of fresh bread," Hensel said. "We have a line by the time we open, which is at 8 a.m." 
Hensel says there is a 25 per­cent increase in business on home game weekends. 
But this weekend football affects more businesses than ever. 
Roger Woods, owner of Roseland Cab Co. , thinks of the three upcoming home games. "My drivers will be running constantly for the next three weeks. We have to make spe­cial preparations for the extra business that home football game weekends bring. " 
According to Woods, that includes maintenance on cars, and hiring extra drivers for football weekends. 
Certainly the gas stations, convenience marts, and toll roads will be busier than usual, but one sales clerk at the Speedway store on Ironwood Drive said that more than any­thing, "attendants must be pre­pared to give directions to the tourists." 
The business community seemingly feels the economic rewards of Notre Dame foot­ball, but closer to home, the campus also generates revenue from home game weekends. 
Alumni Senior Club Manager 
Larry Briggs is anticipating two 
of the best nights of the year 
this weekend. 

"This is, by far, one of the 
biggest home games of the sea­
son." 

Is this campus bar ready for 
such crowds? Certainly. More 
supplies have been ordered. 
More students will be working. 
And the place opens a half hour 
after the game, according to 
Briggs. 

Just as the Alumni-Senior 
Club increases staff size, so too 
does the Hammes Bookstore, 
by approximately 40 p~ople. . 
According to Mikk1 Dobsk1 
Shidler, Director of Community 
Affairs for South Bend, the total 
tourism dollar impact on South 
Bend is $239 million annually. 
Citing a 1993 study on tourism, 
Shidler said businesses both 
on-and off-campus combine 
for that figure. 

From an economic develop­
ment point of view, there are a 
number of things which con­
tribute to the community. 
"The media attention is great. 
When there's a byline or date­
line on a newspaper.article that 
says 'South Bend' or when 
there's coverage on TV from 
South Bend, that is good PR for 
the city," Dobski Shidler said. 
She added that South Bend 
also benefits from being the 
home to the College Football 
Hall of Fame, a national attrac­
tion. 

Aware that South Bend may 
be considered a "college town," 
Margaret Filchak, Executive 
Director of the Convention and 
Visitors Bureau, adds: 

"It's a real win-win situa­
tion." 



If you see news happening, please call The Observer at 1-5323. 
The first stage of your career can make a big difference in how quickly you grow and develop. 
Make the most ofit with NationsBank where respect comes first, challenge comes immediately and support comes from everywhere. 
We're one of the nation's most dynam­ic financial services companies; grow­ing fast, moving fast, creating opportu-­nities that will put you in fast compa­ny. With more than 20 distinct train­ing programs, we can closely match your career interests. 
We have built our success as a team. 
Find out where you fit in. 
Get more information through your Placement Office or visit our website at www.nationsbank.com 
NationsBank® 
TeamAssets Careers with NationsBank 
Presentation Date Sunday, September 29th 
Time 6:00pm -8:00pm 
Place LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Room 
Interviews Monday, September 30th 
NationsBank is an Equal Opportunity Employer M!FfDN. 

Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
DeCola names financial plans SMC's admissions office 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Vietor DeCola, who was mcently appointed director of the Oflice of Student Accounts, has introduced a plan to help students deal with financial aid problems. 
llis plan involves mailing let­ters to students about financial problems at the end of May instead of at the end of August. "This gives the parents and stu­dents a couple of months to deal with problems," said DeCola. 
lin also announc11d a plan to improve the attitudes of his stafl' towards students. "We are lwre to help students, not punish them," DeCola said, "I have had many one-on-one training sessions and I think things arn ehanging." 
DeCola addressed the Council as part of an elTort by organiz­ers to faeilitate interaction between student dubs and tho administration. 
Tlw purpose ol' tlw Coalition Council is not only to providn this interaetion, but also to give the dil'l'ernnt dubs and organi­zations a chan('.e to exchange ideas and event selwdules, aceording to Jose Gonzalez, 
nA taste that is out ofthis world.,, 
r---Tailgate Special Box Lunch 
I I 
:SAND.WICH ON BlJNf Chips, Fresh Cookie, & Coke 2307 Edison Corner of Edison and Ironwood {1/2 mile East of Stadium) Phonc:288-4267 Fax:288-4240 
Mon-Fri 10 a.m.-5:00p.m. Sat 10 a.m.-2:00 
elCplres U/30/96 

assistant director of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. Some of the calendar events mentioned at the meeting were: The Hawaii Club has "Aloha Friday" dinners every Friday at 
5:30 p.m. in the west dining room of the South Dining IIall. 
Coro Primevera de Nuestra Senora will celebrate a Mariachi Mass at 1:30 p.m. Sunday in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
The Filipino American Student Organization's "game night" will take place on Tuesday in the Center for Social Concerns from 8 to 9 p.m. In addition, the group plans week­ly events beginning with a dance workshop. The time and place of this event can be obtained by contacting FASO. 
La Alianza celebrates National Hispanic Heritage Month from Sept. 13 to Oct. 13, and they will sponsor a screen­ing of the film "The Last Angry Brown llat" on Oct.3. 
Student Government announced a survey of resident assistant diversity training. 
The African Student's As!lociation is running its con­cession stand Saturday at the Fieldhouse Mall. They have also planned a tutoring pro-

Listening to 
Did you know researchers have proven that study­ing to classical music actually helps you retain i nfonnat ion and therefore can help increase your intelligence'? Tune in to WSND 88.9 FM for the best in classical music and news during the day. And when I0:00 p.m. rolls around, put away your hooks & havt~ some FUN, because WSND has the firwsl in specially shows, featuring: 
For more information, call WSND at 
*JAZZ 
*~~ 
*Folk 


*WORLD BEAT 
*COLLEGE ALTERNATIVE 
631-7342 
gram for elementary and junior high school students. Details can be obtained by contacting the ASA. 
The Multicultural Executive Council's Fall Festival begins on Monday. Events include speak­ers in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center and "campfire talks" on the Fieldhouse Mall. A full Jist of events, times, and places will be printed on Monday. 
The NAACP co-sponsored a voter registration drive last night with Student Government. Forms are still available in the NAACP office. They have planned a Big Brother/Big Sister skating party for Oct. 4. The group will be sponsoring a talk about racial issues on Saturday, Oct. 5 in Farley Hall. The next general meeting will be Oct. 13 at 3 p.m. Times and specific details can be obtained through the NAACP office. 
Native American Students At Notre Dame announced Native American Heritage Week from Nov. 18 to 22. Events are still being planned. 
The Asian American Association is planning a fash­ion show with the Filipino American Student Association on Nov. 9. 
• SEClJRIT~.BEAl 
Mon.~ Sept. 23 

1f :24 tun .Security apprahended a sus~. piclous person at Eok Tennis Pavilion. The man was identified, Issued a trespass Jet~·· ter, and e$Corted oft campus. 
2:23 p.m :A Carroll Hall resident report, ed the theft of his bike .!rom outside the Loftus Aquatic C~>nw. The bike was locked .at th$ lime of th& t~eft. .. • .... 

2:54 p.m. A $orin Hallresldentr~orted the. theft of his bike from out~;ide of Sorin Han. Jh$ bike was riotlock~d at tha time of the theft, 

6:15p.m. A Flanner resident report" ed lha th(lfl of his wall(lt from tits unlocked room. 
Wed., Sept. 25 
10:.39a,m. Security <'J.pJ)rehended a sus, 

plctous person Mar DeBartolo HalL 
man was identified,. issued a trespass let~ 
ter, and escorted off camp\.!10. 
5:51) p.m. An olf;campus student raport­ed the !hell of his student ticket book trom his vehicle while parked in the C1·1ot.. vahict& was unlool<:ed at the lime of th(! theft. 
5:49 p.m: An Alumni. Hall resident WS,!l transported by Security to St; Jos&ph Medical Centijr for treatm$nt ot .a sportt) Injury. 
10:40 p.m. A Flanner Hallp.lsident reported the theft of his bike from out&ldij the Hesburgh Library. The bike was locked at the time of the theft. 
'·. 

promotes counselor 
Special to The Observer 
Moria Murphy has been promoted from an admissions counselor to the Assistant Director of Admissions for Saint Mary's College. 
Murphy, a 1992 Saint Mary's graduate, had been an admissions counselor since 1993 at the College, and had previously spent one year as an admissions counselor for Regis College in Weston, Mass. 
Murphy's new duties will include assuming responsibility for Fall Day on the Saint Mary's campus, the coordination of the Presidential Merit Scholarship Program, the Alumni VISA pro­gram, and alumni newsletters. 
She will cover the regions of Illinois, Wisconsin, Connecticut and Massachusetts. While a student at Saint Mary's, Murphy double-majored in Humanistic Studies and Religious Studies. 
She received a Student Independent Study and Hescarch (SIS­TAR) grant in the program's first year for her work with Saint Mary's professor Gail Mandell, involving research on Sister Madeleva Wolff, C.S.C., former president of Saint Mary's College. 
Murphy also served as a Resident Advisor and was a work-study student in the Admissions Office. She spent her sophomore year studying in Ireland on the Saint Mary's Foreign Study Program. 
'Day of Women' set for Sunday at Snite 
By MARILYN ALIOTO of this year's ev1mt. "We News Writer encourage anyone who is inter­ested in the various ways 
The Day of Women, in its women express themselves and seventh year, will be held this communicate in today's society Sun., Sept. 29 at the Suite to attend." Museum of Art. According to Dixon, "Day of 
This year's program will Women is a ehance to appreei­focus on the undergraduate ate the success of today's women of Notre Dame, Saint women and to participate in Mary's College, Indiana the increasing hope for success University at South Bend, and of women in the future." Ivy Technical State College. The Day of Women will be 
Women have the opportunity begin at noon. Admission is to display their artistic achieve­free and a reception will take ments, literary expressions, place after. The schedule of and excellence in performance events is as follows: to each other and to the South •12:00 to 1:30 -Focus on Bend community. Written Expression 
The forum is run by students •1 :45 to 4:00 -Focus on and establishes an outlet for Visual Expression the exhibition and communica­•4:15 to 5::H> -Focus on tion of student expression. Performance -Dance, Drama, 
"It is an opportunity for not and Sports only women, but also men," •5:45 to 6:45 -Focus on said Emily Dixon, coordinator Performance -Music and 

If YOU see SPOrts haPPenins. call The Observer at 1-4543. 
IINITFn I__IM0 1~U 
........ ..•• _...,. •• w • ~ (lJ!Jl 
New Pickup Point Effective September 30, 1996 
Starting September 30, United Limo will pick up by the main gate across from the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
For schedules and other information, consult your travel agent or call us at 254-5000. 

Your Airport Connection...A/1 Day...Every Day 
Check our Notre Dame schedule on the web at h ://www.busville.com/irish.htm 
page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 27, 1996 

Dear Alumni and Friends, 
The staff ofCampus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
Ohio State Football Weekend September 28 and 29, 1996 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
I 

Basilica 30 minutes after game 


. 


Stepan Center 45 tninutes after gatne 
Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00, & 11:45 a.n1. 
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 Parish Crypt 9:30 & 11:00 a.m. 


OS
Center 
Stadium 
-~---------~ 
page 9 
/ 
'r \ 

Professor Elizabeth Newman's lecture detailed the gory nature of Flannery O'Connor's writings, part of the author's expression of how she saw herself. 
Prof: O'Connor displays radical vision of holiness 
By IVONNE GRANTHAM 
News Writer 
Professor Elizabeth Newman on Wednesday presented the third lecture of the Saint Mary's 1996 Fall Lecture Series on young holy women. The lec­ture was about the spiritual life of Flannery O'Connor, one of the premier women writers of the twentieth century. 
O'Connor was well known for her gory stories, some of which told of escaped convicts mur­dering entire families, a bible salesman stealing a disabled young girl's false limb, and the struggle of an elderly woman to climb the social ladder. 
Throughout her childhood, O'Connor took a dim view of piety. She had little patience for the regular stories of which most Catholics wrote. All of her characters were self-cen­tered or grotesque in some way. She felt that she was called to express herself in more unconventional ways. 
O'Connor wrote such disturb­ing stories because she could relate to the characters that she described. She felt like she was a "misfit," like the escaped convict in her story "A Good Man is Hard to Find." She was very much out of place in her small southern town; a town without even a library. 
Although she did come from a small town that put limits on her intellectual expansion, she was a strong supporter of the South. She believed that "a writer is forced to make her opinion known by shock," said Newman, as she described O'Connor's unique writing style. 
O'Connor has a radical vision of holiness. She said, "I write the way I do because I am a Catholic." She expressed her characters in her stories in a unique way that presented the "everyday" people as self-cen­tered and malicious, where the awkward characters were revealed as the ones who actu­ally saw forms of holiness. These characters explained O'Connor's feeling that holiness is mysterious and unpre­dictable. 
Although Flannery O'Connor's stories seemed grotesque in many ways, her Catholic beliefs portrayed her as an image of holiness. In 1962, she was awarded an hon­orary degree from Saint Mary's College. Her writings show how very conventional ideals can be expressed in very unconventional ways. 
Next week, the Center for Spirituality will sponsor anoth­er lecture on holy young women. On Wednesday, Dr. Keith Egan will speak on "Theresa Martin: A Bold Holiness." 
The 45-minute lecture will begin at 12:05 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall. Admission is free and all are welcome. 

----------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------,. 
page 10 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 27, 1996 
Alums ready Walshe: Poor economy straps Africa 

consists of bureaucrats, leaders of politi-job market. 
service plans 
cal parties, and professionals. The The final struggle Walshe mentioned is inequality in Africa places huge burdens the acute shortage of foreign exchange in on a majority of its population, with the trade and in financial subsistence. The elite earning 40 percent more per year lack of a rising demand for African
for fall break 
than the average citizen. exports, coupled with Africa's limited Second, he observed that as agricultur-ability to import necessary goods for its By KATE JACQUES a! patterns have changed, Africa has people, creates a dire situation. 
News Writer 
moved away from cash-cropping, and the Walshe called for a higher quality in resulting neglect of food production has African leadership, an increased eco­In an effort to connect Domers of the at times caused widespread famine. nomic resource base, and a rejection of 
past and present, the Notre Dame 
A third key result of Africa's indepen-• the highly centralized constitution. 
Alumni Association sponsors the Alumni dence is an inadequate educational sys-Walshe is a fellow of the Kroc Institute Community Service Program. 
tern for most of the country's children. for International Peace Studies. Born in Coordinator Dick Dornbos introduces Because of an unusually high unemploy-South Africa, he attended the College of numerous service projects to both alum­ment rate, an education does not help Rhodesia and later received a Ph.D. in ni and current students in conjunction many Africans to find work away from African politics from Oxford University. 
with the Center for Social Concerns. 
labor posi-
This summer, Dornbos was intensive­
tions. 

ly involved in various local programs. 
Fourth,
The first was in affiliation with Habitat 
Africa cannot 
for Humanity in Chicago, where 36 peo­
The Observer/Kevin Datum generate its ple buiit 12 condominiums. Dornbos 
own surplus
Peter Walshe, in a lecture yesterday, ana­
worked at a home renovation on Bissel 
resources to
lyzed the problems facing Africa.
Avenue with a staff of 28 Notre Dame 
invest into 
alumni and their families ranging from By TARA CHURIK 
business. This 
ages 11 to 82. News Writer 
has resulted in 
Dornbos has three community pro­
stagnant eco­
grams scheduled to occur during Fall Yesterday afternoon, amidst the collec­
nomic gains,
Break. The first, the Christian tion of African sculpture at the Snite 
along with 
Appalachia Project (CAP), aids with ren­Museum of Art, Professor Peter Walshe 
inflation of up
ovations in McKee, Kentucky. This addressed the sociological and economic 
to 300 percent. 
enterprise has integrated the work of issues that currently plague Africa. 
The poverty of 
alumni and students in collectively Walshe firmly asserted that "the media 
the middle 
reaching for a common goal. . have images of chaos and disorder that 
class, along 

The second project takes place in shape one's perspective of Africa; how­
with the fail­
Gary, W.Va., in conjunction with a ever, that is not the full African story." 
ure of the elite 
Methodist camp. "When you're on your The extensive Muslim and European u.s. 31/33 North at Darden
to implement
knees in these projects, we're all the influence in Africa, he said, brought a 
taxes, promis­
same to God," said Dornbos of the spiri­great deal of progress to the continent. It One mile north of campus
es little chance 
tual implications of the project. helped to open trade routes to Asia and 
for economic 
Monday through Saturday 9:00 to 9:00
In the third program, students and allowed for exploratory conquests from 
investment in 
alumni work for Habitat for Humanity outside. But it also led to the establish­Africa in the Sunday 12:00 to 5:00 in renovating a second home. Dornbos ment of the slave trade, and colonialism. 
near future. 

said the goal is to eventually construct This establishment of colonialism in 
Fifth,
nine such homes. Africa gave rise to a new elite class, Africa's popu­Rediscover North Village Mall According to Dornbos and Alum11i whose corruption unfortunately eroded 
lation explo­
Executive Director Charles Lennon, confidence in the movement for Pan­For none Stop Shopping,,
sion may also 
there is a growing trend among stu­Africanism. 
create prob­
dents to participate in service projects. Remarking on this change, Walshe 
lems. At the 
This is supported by the fact that 11 observed that "Africa has been forced 
current rate, '*
IIIA.mREK'S +-'-­

percent of last year's graduating class through patterns of change in decades ~READERS
its population 
~WDRLD

went on to do some type of community what Europe had experienced in cen­
is projected to 
work. "The worth that one gets out of turies." 
double every Hallmark Cards [these projects] carries over into adult In the aftermath of such dramatic twenty years, Gifts/Collectables life" Lennon said. change, Walshe cited six key aspects of Books • Newspapers
and this could 
"It is in giving that we receive," said modern African society that symbolize its Magazines
place stress on 
Dornbos, "Love God and your neighbor struggles. First, he noted that Africa is 
the environ­
and serve. That's what it's all about." burdened by its own elite class, which 
ment and the 
Haircuts only $7.00 Tanning Salon No Appointment Necessary

wvfi SPORTS! 
271·9980 

Serving 6" & foot long sub sandwiches on whole wheat or Italian bread. Each sandwich can be served as a salad. 

Saturday Homegame: 
OSU at ND 
277·1024 

II :00 
Professional Men's &

Irish Tailgate Pre-Game Show 
Ladies' Alterations Experienced Fitting 
271·7124

I: 15 
Play-by-Play with 

KRIS'S

Curtis Norvett, Brendan Boyle, 
KOUNTRY KITCHEN

Sean Bruen and Brian Maverick 
Cinnamon Rolls Cookies Breads • Party Trays Special Orders 

6:00 
271·7888

SportsTallf with 
,0K111 ...

Curtis Norvett, Jerry Barca 
VILLAGE LAI'IDII'IO

and Brendan Boyle 

Michiana's Favorite Banquet Facility 
Seating for SO • 600

7:00 
Catering Available 

Custom jewelry designs since 1975. Repairs done on premises. 
277·1515 


EVE'S 
VIDEO 
7 Movies 7 Days $7.00 

Players Available 
272·9187 

COUNTRY COLLECTABLES 
Sportscards Non-Sportscards Die Cast Cars College Sweatshirts 
277-3020 

ODixieCream 
Donuts 

"Melt in your mouth goodness" 
277·1722


811.
~n.!k/!!!fb.l 
Serving 

North Village Mall North Store Dine-in seating 
271·1"Af'A (7272) 
'J{ai[Care 
Beautiful Natural Looking Nelle 

•Sculptured • Manicure 
•Gel Nail • Pedicure
,.,.,_.., 

• Nail Art. Design 
Co66festone J(o&rist ~ 
'1/iffage Crafters · 
Full Service Florist & Handcrafted Gifts for All Occasions 
271·1740 
Really 
Poppin 
Soup & Sandwich Shop ""Poppin Fresh"" 
• 
popcorn 

• 
cheesecom 

• 
carmelcom 


271-1777 
Gameworld 
Test your skills on the latest and most popular VIDEO GAMES 
(Neo-Geos & Pinballs) 

IJJe're sac.\1. 
Clyde's 
Broasted Chicken Only The Bestl 
"Crispy on the outside, juicy on the inside.· 
277·1722 
SIGNAL TRAVEL & TOURS, INC. 
American Express Travel Service Representative 
271·5638 
Natures Nutrients
•
Vitamins 
Minerals Historically Used 
Herbs

Overtime with 
273-8535
272-8180 
271·3663 

Jake Schaller and Tom Parnell Locally-Owned business serving Michiana for over 20 Years
wvfi am640 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
Newspapers help homeless ValuJet gets OK to 

By HILLARY CHURA vendors buy papers for 25 cents the street. AssoLj.uc:J Prp.) Wrju.·r each, sell them for $1 at UAL Corp., the parent compa­
fly again Monday
assigned locations and cannot ny of United Airlines, is consid­
CIIICAGO 
For Susan Fisher, selling the homnless newspaper Streetwise doesn't just mean an extra $:~00 wnekly supplement to her welfare eheek. 
"It built on my self-esteem to gnt me baek out here and to strive for something," she said as she hustled to catch the 5 
p.m. commuters at Union Station. "It got me baek into the working life." 
Like the thousands of under­mnployml people who sell street newspapers dedicated to the homeless, the 31-year-old mother of three is learning skills and earning an ineome. 
The country has 40 street newspapers -nearly double the number from the early 1990s -and they are distrib­uted primarily by the homeless or those at risk of being on the 
strnets,  aeeording  to  the  
National  Coalition  for  the  
Jlomeless.  

"It gives homeless people who ean't play a guitar a way to raise money," said Michael Stoops, the group's field orga­niznr. 
Tlw publications vary in con­tent, but many -like the 4­year-old Streetwise -have vendor profiles, advertisements, play or music reviews as well as eontact information for employ­nwnt services, food kitchens and support groups. 
FishEll" and other Streetwise get refunds on papers they don't sell. Sales fund 85 percent of Streetwise, and grants and private and corporate donations fill the void, publisher Anthony Oliver said. 
The newspapers will not end homelessness for everyone but can help some people without skills hold a full-time job, said Lea .Jaroszewski, editor of Boston's Spare Change. 
"Many are unemployable," · she said. "They are not able to start at the bottom leg of a job at their skill level. ... But we offer them immediate employ­ment with very few skills and very good pay." 
Douglas Coaston, who has been ·selling Streetwise for 3 1/2 years, disagrees with skeptics who say street newspapers legitimize begging. 
"I don't want to be labeled a panhandler. I want to be labeled really as a salesman: A lot of people don't understand we really are salespeople," he said. 
And passers-by tend to be more inclined to help someone selling a street newspaper than someone shaking a cup because "it looks like they're trying to work their way out," said Dan Cress, a sociology professor and homeless expert at the University of Colorado in Boulder. 
The newspapers also can lead to permanent employment off ering hiring some Streetwise vendors for clerical or reserva­tion jobs. 
"At $6 an hour, it's difficult attracting people to a job," said spokeswoman Willa Holden. "But when someone is willing to stand on a street, maybe only selling six papers a day, $6 is great." 
Streetwise publishes every two weeks and has the largest circulation-120,000-of any homeless newspaper in the country, Oliver said. 
Mike, a 60-year-old accoun­tant who spoke on condition that his full name not be used, is one of at least 300 Streetwise vendors who Oliver estimates are no longer homeless. 
Unable to work and pay rent because of a brain tumor, Mike said he got by selling Streetwise for 1 112 years in 1993 and 1994. lie lived on the subway for several weeks until Streetwise profits allowed him to move into a transient hotel. 
Mike, who said he no longer has the tumor, was able to get another job as an accountant and is now earning about $35,000 a year, about 25 per­cent of what he earned at his old job but more than in his Streetwise days 
"I owe them so much," he said. "I would not panhandle, and I would not accept charity or public assistance as a matter of pride." 
By MARC RICE 
Associated Press Writer 
ATLANTA 

Valu.Jet Airlines, cleared to fly again four months after a dead­ly crash in the Florida Everglades, is offering rock-bot­tom fares to lure back cus­tomers. 
· Fares starting as low as $19 one-way went on sale late Thursday, and flights were to resume Monday from Atlanta to .Washington and three Florida cities -Fort Lauderdale, Orlando and Tampa. 
Other cities will be added over the next month, with the dis­count carrier eventually serving 17 destinations, only about a third of its size before the May 11 crash of Flight 592 that killed all110 people aboard. 
The Atlanta-based airline was grounded by the federal govern­ment in .June. On Thursday, the Department of Transportation gave ValuJet final authorization to resume flights. 
"This is the day we've been waiting on," Valu.Jet President Lewis .Jordan told about 50 cheering workers at a news conference. 
The $19 fares will be in effect 
through Oct. 3. Other fares, as 
low as $29, will be offered 
through October, after which 
the airline's regular prices will 
begin. 
"From the feedback we've 
received from ValuJet cus­tomers . . . I believe we're going to see a very strong comeback," .Jordan said. 
Analysts said the low prices should ensure that passengers will return to Valu.Jet, which missed the entire summer trav­el season. 
"You've got a lot of people who will vote with their pocket­book," said airline industry con­sultant Mike Boyd of Golden, Colo., a critic of Valu.Jet's man­agement. 
The lengthy reviews by the Transportation Department and the Federal Aviation Administration should allay passenger concerns about ValuJet's safety, said M•1rten Beyer, a consultant in McLean, Va. But to succeed now, he said, ValuJet must perform impecca­bly. 
"They've got to keep out of trouble," he said. "The feds are. going to follow them like a pack of basset hounds." 
The Transportation Department said Thursday that it had reviewed ValuJet's man­agement and financial condi­tion, and concluded it has "demonstrated a positive dispo­sition to comply with all applica­ble laws and regulations." 
Last month, the FAA returned Valu.Jet's flight certificate and declared the airline fit to fly, pending completion of tho DOT review. 

Have something to say? Used 
Alaskan. oil check hits
Observer classifieds.: Ads are 
record high: $1,130.68 
taken from 9 a.m. to 3 P.m. 
By JIM CLARKE Associated Press Writer 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska 

A surging stock market and some wise investing mean Alaska's annual rite of October -a paycheck for nearly every man, woman and child in the state -will be the biggest ever: $1,130.68. 
Residents who have lived in the state for the entire previous calendar year -564,000 peo­
. pie -will each get the highest · payout ever issued by the $20 billion Alaska Permanent Fund. 
The fund began investing in stocks, bonds and real estate with excess oil company rev­enue in 1976. 
Monday through FridaY. 

riOay, SeptemDer llth I:J~ pm 
And every year since 1982, the state began paying divi­dends as a means of sharing Alaska's oil wealth. The divi­dends have averaged $796 and
I Marquette 
unOay, SeptemDer l~th l:W pm I Geor~etown 
Ticket Information 
Adults: $4 Children: $2 (under 16) 
last year's was $990. 
Businesses are eager to cash in, once the checks and direct deposits begin showing up Oct. 
9. Over the years, there have been grocery, furniture and automobile promotions aimed at getting a piece of the divi­dend money. · 
Airline promotions are among the most popular deals offered. Three airlines offered three round-trip tickets to U.S. desti­nations for last year's dividend check. 
Car dealer Carl Constantine of Juneau doesn't expect a big run on automobiles. 
"I think people spend that money mentally months before the checks arrive," said Constantine, who will use his windfall for a trip to Las Vegas. "For a thousand bucks you don't get much of a new car anymore." 
All-American Mid-Fielder, Cindy
Notre Dame Students: Free *Free mini...soccer balls
Tickets will be available at the gate 
and T ...shirts after every Irish goal! 

Sneak prevtew ol ""That Thtng You oo·· Saturday Ntght at 7:30 with Independence Day 
page 12 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 27, 1996 
Gunman opens fire in Alabama courthouse 
Associated Press The man began shooting without 
a word when an alarm signaled a 
MOBILE, Ala. gun as he stepped through a metal 
A man who set off a metal detec­detector. tor in a courthouse lobby pulled a Charles Greenwald, 35, who was gun and opened fire Thursday, operating an X-ray scanningkilling a security guard and machine, was shot in the head and wounding another before dying in killed as he ducked for cover. a burst of gunfire from officers Another guard, Kinard Henson, nearby. 24, was wounded. He was listed in 
The gunman, identified as Robert stable condition. Lavon House, 29, of Irvington, The gunman was shot in the began firing at 8 a.m. as court­chest by a security guard and a house employees arrived for work Mobile police officer who was at Mobile Government Plaza. His about to lock up her gun for a motive remained unclear late court appearance upstairs, Police Thursday. Chief Sam Cochran said. 
Last night's eclipse shows 'cosmic wonder' 
Associated Press harvest moon, the full moon closest 
to the first day of autumn. It's not 
BOSTON necessarily different from other full 
Skywatchers across the Americas moons, but crisp, dry fall weather got a celestial light show Thursday can make it seem brighter and night -the last full lunar eclipse sharper. of the millenium. To make it even more interest­
"It is fascinating to see with your ing, Saturn was positioned close ini 
eyes things you studied as a child," the sky to the moon. As the moon­said Judy Fische, among 300 peo­light dimmed during the eclipse, ple who flocked to Boston Saturn was shined more brightly. University's rooftop observatory to "To be able to see Saturn with its 
watch as the moon seemed to dis­rings is a thrill," Fische said as she appear behind a reddish glow. and others cast their eyes and their 
A total lunar eclipse occurs cameras toward the skies to catch whenever the Earth moves the two-hour sky show. between the sun and the full moon, Kelly Beattie, senior editor of casting its curved shadow across Cambridge-based Sky & Telescope the moon. magazine, said lunar eclipses are 
"There's something primal about an "equal opportunity event" that 
it," George Hedrick, 48, said as he enable non-experts to see nature at watched the eclipsing moon its best without special gear. reflected on the Atlantic Ocean "A lunar eclipse is one of the cos­near Florida's Fort Lauderdale mic wonders that occurs and peo­Beach. ple should appreciate the fact that 
This eclipse coincided with the astronomy is beautiful," he said. 
Astronaut thrilled to be home 
By MARCIA DUNN of red, white and blue M&M's were completed. Associated Press Writer from President Clinton and an Lucid was replaced aboard offer for 188 cases of potato Mir by NASA astronaut John CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. chips -one for every day she 
Blaha, 54, a retired Air Force 
Astronaut Shannon Lucid, spent in orbit. She had craved 
colonel who will spend the 
NASA's space superwoman, both while living aboard Mir. 
next four months living on the
returned to · Earth on Clinton called from the Oval 
orbiting outpost with two
Thursday after six debilitat­Office to congratulate her. "I 
Russian cosmonauts. 

ing months of weightlessness couldn't believe you walked 
Lucid got her first taste of
and to everyone's amaze­off the shuttle," he said. Earth's gravity in six months
ment, walked off the shuttle Lucid, who traveled 75 mil­
Atlantis. lion miles and circled the when Atlantis glided through Doctors had met her inside Earth 3,008 times, faces wispy clouds and touched the space shuttle with a weeks of rehabilitation to down at Cape Canaveral in 
stretcher, figuring the 53-recover from the effects of the morning. year-old biochemist would be . prolonged weightlessness, she a
Beaming, gave 

too weak and wobbly to which include weak muscles, 
thumbs-up and shook hands 
stand, let alone walk. fatigue, vertigo, anemia and 
with astronaut Carl Walz
But she surprised them, deteriorating bones. She 
seated beside her. 

insisting, "I can stand up." could be dragging for months 
"She was like a space
Two workers assisted her to come. 
superwoman," Walz said. 

during the short walk onto an Unaccustomed to the pull of 
Lucid will make the final leg 
airport-style moving sidewalk gravity, she said she felt 
of her journey, back home to
and into a reclining chair. heavy, but noted that was After a record-shattering normal. Houston, on Friday. Clinton 188 days in space-most of She also was wobbly, promised to meet her there. that time aboard the Russian almost falling over when she "You've given us all a great space station Mir -she was got up from a chair at NASA's deal to be proud of and a lot thrilled to be home. crew quarters. She grabbed of thrills, and we're glad "We could hear her laugh­onto a table to steady herself. 
you're home safe and sound," ing all the way up to the flight "It will take just a little bit 
the president said. 

deck, I'll tell you, she was just to get fully adapted back to 
Lucid rocketed away March 
so tickled," said Atlantis' living in one-G (gravity) 
22 to the Mir station, expect­
commander, William Readdy. again," Lucid said. 
ing a 4 1/2-month mission
She was still laughing when Lucid was taken to the crew 
and an early August home­
she met her family a few quarters building for a bat­hours later. tery of medical tests. coming. 
"It was just a great mission She was reunited there with But booster rocket prob­and I just had a great time," her husband, Michael, and lems and two hurricanes said Lucid, who rocketed their three children, all in delayed the shuttle's trip to away in March and spent a their 20s. get her, leaving her in orbit longer stretch in space than Lucid was able to enjoy 
an extra seven weeks. 

any other American and any fruit juice and a soft drink. 
NASA Administrator Daniel 
other woman. But a shower -her first in 
Goldin said Lucid "never,
Lucid was welcomed back six months -had to wait 
never flinched once" despite
to Earth with a tO-pound box until the most pressing tests 
all the setbacks. 

Exclusive Alumni Clothing Collection 

•
Knit Caps/Ear Bands 

•
Rain Slickers •Hats •Vests 

•Teddy 
Bears 



•Scarfs Great Choices# Bargain Tables • Excellent Prices 


Hours: Friday, September 27th--10:00 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday, September 28th --9:00 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Visa, MasterCard, Cash, or Checks Accepted 
"Merchandise Sold Exclusively Through the 
Alumni Association" 
September 24, 1996 0:\DEPTS\ALUMNI\ACE\SPECIAL.P.11\0BSERVER.AD 
Friday, September 27, 1996 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Smoking stunts lung growth in teenagers 
AsstJciated Press 
BOSTON 
S111 oking llVll n a fnw eiga­rnttns a day appnars to stunt tlw growth of tlHl n-agn rs' lungs, a llarvard University study has found. 
l'rrwious rns<Hirch has shown that youngstr,rs who smokn arn morn liknly to havn coughs, asthma and bronehilis. 
Now, nxpnrts havn found that teen-agn smoking actually snems to makn boys' and girls' lungs grow more slowly than usual, so they hold less air. 
"It was surprising that we could determine an effect of smoking on lung growth so narly in the process," said Dr. Diane H. Gold. "Some would say that .i.t ta~es many years to sen an ellcct. 
Ciold and colleagues from llarvard's School of Public llealth based their lindings on 5,158 boys and 4,902 girls between ages I 0 and 18 -a third of whom had ever smoked -who wnre examined annually between 1974 and 1989. The results were pub­lished in today's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
The study found that smoking just five cigarettes a day appeared to reduce lung vol­ume slightly, especially for girls. 
The study found that girls who smoked five or more ciga­rettes a day had a 1 percent slower than usual growth each year of their forced expiratory volume. This is the amount of air that can be blown out of the lungs in one second, and it is an important measure of lung health. 
Among boys, smoking slowed lung growth by two-tenths of 1 percent annually. 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press Writer 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 

A surgical implant soon may offer some people with partial paralysis the chance to restore their ability to grasp a fork or a pen, even to paint. 
Scientific advisers recom­mended Wednesday that the Food and Drug Administration approve Freehand, putting it in position to become the nation's first neural prosthetic to restore function to a paralyzed limb. 
Experts emphasized it's not a cure for paralysis. Only certain partially paralyzed patients could use it, not the severely injured like actor Christopher Reeve. While it would help eli­gible patients to move their fin­gers and thumb, it won't let them speed type or play the piano. 
"We mustn't give false hope," said Dr. Michael Keith, a Case Western Reserve University orthopedic surgeon who helped 
Real income increases for first time in six years in '96 
By JIM SALTER 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS A ynar ago. Fay CotTman hit bottom. 
"I was on welfare, food stamps. lived in tlHl projects, no ear, no way to make ends meet," she said. 
Government aid amounting to less than $700 a month barely bought food and paid rent for CotTman. her three young chil­dren, and her mother, who moved in with the family after suffflring· a stroke three years ago. 
"It was hard, and it was very, very depressing," said Coffman, 26. 
But Coll'man's luck improved, and judging by statistics released Thursday by the Census Bureau, so did the luck of thousands of others, espe­cially in the Midwest. 
The Bureau's annual eco­nomic report said Americans' real income increased in 1995 for the first time in six years. 
The report also found a decline in the number of poor, including the first time that the elderly had significantly less poverty than working-age Americans. 
Coffman's success was more determination than luck. 
She began doing volunteer work last year at a self-help agency in her hometown, Hannibal, Mo., about 100 miles north of St. Louis. She did so well she was eventually hired full time, with benefits. 
T(}day, Coffman owns her own house, a car, and no 
EARN 

longer worries about where her kids will get their next meal. 
"We are doing well -we're making progress," said Coffman, who didn't give specifics on her income. 
"Even in little towns like Hannibal, if you look hard enough and want it bad enough, you're going to make it.Median household income for Americans was $34,076 in 1995, up 2.7 percent from the year before, the Bureau said. 
The number of poor Americans dropped 1.6 million to 36.4 million from 1994 to 1995, the agency reported, cit­ing findings in the Current Population Survey, a monthly study of about 50,000 U.S. households. 
That resulted in a decline in the share of Americans living in 
WHILE YOU LEARN 
Without losing valuable study and social time! 
Varsity Clubs of America, South Bend Chapter, offers Notre Dame students a quick and easy way to earn extra cash. 
If you think your parents or a family friend may be interested in exploring the benefits of vacation ownership at Michiana's deluxe all-suite hotel, you may be eligible to 
earn $250! 
The next time you have visitors, stop by VCA at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka to see what we have to offer. 
For more information, contact Dennis Morrissey, Notre Dame Class of '93, at Varsity Clubs of America, 277-0500. 
Implant brings hope to paralyzed 
colleague P. Hunter Peckham create the device. 
But now, "for most of' these patients, there's darn little," Keith said. "We're going to give them more motor control so they can ... do more things, without assistance, hesitation and delays." 
Today, such patients get some help from external devices that let them type on computers by blowing into a mouthpiece, or feed themselves with a fork strapped to a hand. 
The Freehand, to be sold by NeuroControl Corp. of Cleveland, is designed to give more independence and better motor control to an estimated 54,000 Americans with spinal cord injuries that caused a cer­tain type of partial paralysis. 
These quadriplegics retain some movement of their shoul­ders and arms, essential to use Freehand. 
Freehand essentially is an electronic substitute for the brain's nerve impulses that, in a healthy person, would tell their hand muscles to movn. It is implanted into the chest and connected to the hand muscles by electrodes threaded under the skin. 
Only one hand can be implanted, because the dcviee is controlled by a small joystie.k worn under the clothing at the opposite shoulder. 
When the patient gives that shoulder a slight jerk, the implant gets an electronic sig­nal that tells the thumb musele to move toward the lingers in a "pinching" motion. 
Jerk the shoulder harder or faster and the hand pinches together faster to grasp a fork or pen. 
Tap a button on the chest with the arm, and the device forces the muscles into a more intricate movement to grasp a larger object like a cup. 
One, identified only as Kathy, previously needed someone to pour her coffee, stick a fork into her hand and wedge a tele­phone between her shoulder and her ear. 

poverty from 14.5 percent to 
13.8 percent. The poverty threshold for a family of four in 1995 was $15,569. 
"Today it is clear that more and more of our people are sharing in that prosperity. We are growing -and growing together." President Clinton said. 
But Nelson Warfield, a spokesman for Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, said "economic anxiety is real in America today" and the statistics "do nothing to com­fort a homemaker trying to buy groceries or a wage earner worried about the next pay­check." 
Isaac Shapiro, a senior staff member at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, an advocacy group for the poor, noted that problems remain: Millions of Americans still lack health insurance, the economy did not improve for Hispanics and poverty remains higher than it has been at times in years past. 
The biggest gains were in the Midwest, where the median household income rose 7.2 per­cent to $35,839. In fact, the Bureau considered that the only region to have a statistical­ly significant improvement. The change in the rest of the coun­try fell within the statistical margin of error. 
Changes in other regions were: West, up 1.6 percent to $35,979; Northeast, up 0.5 per­cent to $36,111 and South, up 
0.2 percent to $30,942. 
The Midwest had the only statistically significant change in the poverty rate with a 2 percentage point decline to 11 percent of the population. 
Poverty in 1995 was 15.7 per­cent in the South, down from 
16.1 percent; 14.9 percent in the West, down from 15.3 per­cent; and 12.5 percent in the Northeast, down from 12.9 per­cent. 
For the first time, poverty among the elderly fell below that of working-age Americans, 
10.5 
percent compared with 

11.4 
percent. 


The improvement comes from more Social Security coverage and better private pension plans, said Daniel II. Weinberg, chief of the Bureau's Housing and Household Economics Statistics Division. 

Trident Naval Society 
will be hosting a 
24,Hour Run 
Proceeds to benefit the Special Olympics. 
Come see us by the Fieldhouse Mall September 2 7 ... 28 


------~-------· ~---------­
The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, September 27, 1996 

APIT. Durand 
Petty haggling surrounds debate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The great debate debate continues. 
Negotiators for President Clinton and Bob Dole quibbled Thursday over details for the presiden­tial debates, a week after the agreement to face off at 9 p.m. EDT on Oct. 6 and Oct. 16. 
The latest issue involves the Dole campaign's assertion that Major League Baseball may be willing to delay an 8 p.m. EDT game on Oct. 16 -if there is one -by 45 minutes to reduce a television conflict with the second debate. 
No so fast, says the league. 
"That is not true," said Richard Levin, execu­tive director of public relations for Major League Baseball. "We're not going to start the game 45 minutes later." 
In a letter Thursday to the Clinton campaign, Dole campaign chief Scott Reed said "we have indications" that baseball would delay the game if the campaigns agreed to move up the debate time by 45 minutes. The same letter accused Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor of "'arro­gance and deceitfulness." 
Clinton spokesman Joe Lockhart said both sides agreed Saturday to allow the bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates to design a structure that could allow the candidates to set down their water or scribble notes. Either cam­paign could veto the design, he said. 
Reed's letter accused Clinton of scheming for "the least number of debates before the smallest possible audience." 




------~--~--------------·--~-­
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 15 
NATO sets Bosnia agenda Soldiers flee Afghani 

By JEFFREY ULBRICH Assocjarcd Press Wrircr 
BERGEN, Norway 
NATO's top general said Thursday he's ready to puttogether a new military opera­tion in Bosnia but first he needs to know the mission's objective. 
Gen. George Joulwan sayspoliticians have yet to give him clear and unambiguous direc­tions on what they expect troops to accomplish in Bosnia after the current mandate ends Dec. 20. 
NATO defense ministers, accepting a growing consensus that an alliance-led military force will be needed in Bosnia beyond the deadline, have told the American four-star general to devise plans for four options. 
They are: 
-Total withdrawal of the 52,000 troops from 30 nations, now workmg under a U.N. mandate that expires Dec. 20. 
-A deterrence force only, capable of preventing another outbreak of lighting in Bosnia. 
-A "deterrence-plus" force, which would go further to sta­bilize the overall environment in Bosnia. 
-A continuation of the pre­sent mission. 
"I heard all of that, and I said frame that in a way that tasks me, but you have to make it clearer about what it is you 
Our name may be hard to under­
stand, but not our food. Because 
we serve only the freshest ingredi­
ents. From sandwiches and pizzas 
made with our famous Baked Fresh 
Dail{' bread. To crisp garden sal­
ads and hearty soups. Take our 
food seriously. Not our name. 
(Schlotzs~ Deli) 
Funny Name. Serious Sandwich TM 
LOCATIONS 
402 Dixieway N. Roseland Ph: 272-7480 Fax: 272-7490 

(Schlotzs~ Deli) (Schlotzs~ Deli)
I 

50¢ OFF Any Small sandwich or 75¢ OFF Any Regular Sandwich 
(Not valid with any other wupon, discount or daily special. 
Hurry! Offer expires 10-IZ-96) 
Opening Sept. 19 54570 Ironwood Rd. (Ironwood & SR 23) Ph: 243-9272 Fax: 243-9274 
Planning NATO's next step in Bosnia .. 
NATO"""""""'"'".....,..""
supreme allied commander 1n Europe to 
press ahead with a new plan for NATO on the basis of four options: Q Total withdrawal of the 48,000 troops from 
34 nations, now working under a U.N. mandate 
that expires Dec. 20. Q Adeterrence force only, one capable of preventing another outbreak of fighting in 
Bosnia. ­Q A"deterrence-plus" force, which would go 
further to stabilize the overall environmenl in Bosnia. · Q Acontinuation of the present mission. 
~~-­
~ D Bosnian government· ( Croallederation :1 CJ Serb republic 
~:.­

CROATIA· F 
Silva Riwlr 

f: ,i· 
Flags d6nole nation teedlng NATO lofC8 in the 1'6g/on. 
Soorte: NATO Headquarters-Sarajevo, AP research 
I 

$1.00 OFF Any 8" or 12" Pizza or Any Sourdough Sandwich, Bag of Chips, and Beverage Combination (Not valid with any other coupon, discount or daily special. Hurry! Offer expires 10-IZ-96) 
L------------------------------------­
Current force in Bosnia ' 
As ofSept. 26, 1996 
48,000 NATO-led troops In Bosnia with 5,000 in Croatia as support. 
NATO participation 
.....==··-~·· 
==••:&::BlEB~ 
Belgium 350 Netherlands 1,800 
Canada 850 Norway 600 Denmark 700 Portugal 850 France 6,700 Spain 1,700 
Germany 34 Turkey 1,500 Greece 226 United Kingdom 8,000 Italy 2,200 United States 14,000 Luxembourg 23 
Non-NATO participation 
-=............-....
=a::=-tlel·· 
-··-·==~ 
Australia 2 Malaysia 1,550 Austria 158 Morocco 800 Czech Rep. 820 New Zealand 12 Egypt 660 Poland 540 Estonia 35 Romania 200 Finland 350 Russia 1,500 Hungary 350 South Africa 2 Jordan 50 Sweden 700 Latvia 34 Ukraine 500 Uthuanla 32 
We do Catering Trays or Sack Lunches Great for any occasion including Tailgaters (24 hour notice please) 
capital after air raid 
By KATHY GANNON Associared Press Writer 

KABUL, Afghanistan 

Government soldiers and commanders abandoned the capital under the cover of darkness Thursday, forced out by rocket volleys from fast-advancing rebels seeking to impose strict Islamic rule in Afghanistan. 
Earlier in the day, fierce fighting on the city's eastern fringe killed hundreds of combatants on both sides, a Red Cross official said. 
With cannons booming in the background, thousands of civilians grabbed what they could carry and jammed 
buses in a hurried flight from the war zone. In desperation, they spilled out of vehicle doors and even climbed onto bus roofs to escape what they feared would be a massacre. 
The fighting pits troops loyal to President Baharunuddin Rabbani against the Taliban, a movement led by ex-seminary students who want to run Afghanistan according to strict Islamic law_ 
International aid agencies, which have tended to Kabul's battered populace since the Russian-backed Communists were forced out in 1992, evacu­ated their staff. 
The Red Cross suspended relief flights after flying out most of the remaining diplo­mats and aid workers. 
"The city is cornered in all four sides and we don't know 
@ATTENTION © 
[ Quality Hair Care ] Just Call & Say You
* Special Haircut Rates For 
Are A Student

College Students 
256-9585 For

* Haircuts For Only $7.00 
Appointment

(With Student JD) 
Mon.-Fri. 9:00-8:00 

* Shampoo, Cut, & Blow Dry 
Sat. 9:00-5:00
Only $11.00 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
", y 1:"'141: ~liii 
A comedy about ..., love, t.mlly and other acclclents walling to ha..-. •·"•:•,>z.:.•:•·n•tJ 
"UPROARIOUS! SIDESPLITTING! A WONDERFULLY MAD ODYSSEY! 
Awild enseml>lc comedy. Ben Stiller make• a •uperb stratght man... Alan Aida deliver\ wicked self-parody ... Mary 'IYt•r Moon and G«orgt Segal pl.!y their parts deliciously I" 
·»n.-t ,_...,.n 
''h"'''·:..r.sa ..A WICKED, ANYTHING-GoEs SEx FARcE! 
'Fiirtlns With Diw•tt( carotns like an overtoadcd 18-.-Mclcr ... hang on and prepare to loughl" 
·~ Wf.t»U.JVI\6 
Bfi:UI.IJ:U·•• 
..Two THUMBS UP! 
EXCITING AND WILDLY ORIGINAL!.. 
''·W·t·•!sag!,.fj 
Finally the conttmporary '90i comcdV 
!hot everyone's b«n hoping Iori" -lob JttotU~· 
"****' 

FRIDAY, SEPT 27 AND SATURDAY, SEPT 28 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. 
http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 
whether there will be a peace­ful takeover like the other places or not," said Esther Robertson of the British group, CARE. "We feel that it is better to go now while we have a chance." 
Although rebel troops had taken up positions in Kabul on Thursday, government jets and helicopter gunships bombed their positions in an effort to keep the Taliban from overrun­ning the city. 
The two biggest pockets of fighting were near a military college six miles from the city center and around the Old Customs house in the suburb of Pul-e-Charkhi. 
Retreating government sol­diers said the Taliban captured the military college, gaining access to a highway to Baghram air base. 


McKinley Hwy. 
Jefferson Blvd. 
This display was made possible by the combined efforts of the Observer Marketing, Ad Design, and Advertising departments. Contact Amanda Pontarelli for more information. Graphic design by Amanda Pontarelli, Bryan Meyer, and Brant Gauthier. 
I I I 

...plus our Daily lunch specials, 4 big TV 
!il£><rP•r>n..!il. 
and ltiple dart 

Large 1-topping I Pizza 
$599 
·-·~ J ··~ 
-----...~.___1___.. -·· ·" -~~­
~aCit's Itallal\, ~I}' -· 
J~ P E C I A L I Z I G I N Pastries • Cakes • Cookie • Breads Gourmet Foods • Italian pecialties 
us
co.fl'l.P . nutes frofl'l.2 I 4 N. Niles Aven 5rrtt South Bend, IN 46 ; (219) 282-1010 
; i I 
............___ -...
I 
-r~--· 
L
-r ' ·r 
After the game.. . After work.. . After all•• It's 
Two Post-Game Celebrotion Loccrlion•: Granger. 6615 N. Main Street 273--D003 Elkhart: 324J Interchange Drive 2(16.J J29 
Homemade Soups & Breads Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches· and PASTA Come see us after the game! Downtown Location -2 14 N. Niles Avenue 280-4824 
; ' • 1 • !~' 
. ' ' 'i. 
Go Irish ... ... destroy OSU! 


' ·---------------------~-~~--------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 18 Friday, September 27, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Eilen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................ Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ........... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the smdents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 ~'jews/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 ACcent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alum to students: 'You guys cheer-lead, we'll cheer-follow' 
SEE?I TOLD YOU 
TH~Y'RE CHICI<J;.N .. 

Dear Editor: This is an open letter to all students, but especially the cheerleaders. 
I was against expansion of the House that Rockne Built until I went down to the 'Shoe in Columbus last year. While Mr. Powlus was criticized for mishandling himself in some key situations, I can attest as someone with field seats (I actually recovered the fumbled punt) that that place was really loud-louder than our stadium was against Penn State in '86 and '92, against Miami in '88 and '90, and against Florida State in 1993. Don't get me wrong, I was proud of our crowd in each of those situations, but the sheer vol­ume generated by the Buckeyes' crowd was impressive and, most importantly, disruptive. 
As another example, witness the nearly fatal false starts by our tight end and offensive tackle in the Texas game-which resulted in the fourth-and-six situation late in the game. It was no coincidence that the two gentlemen who jumped were the farthest from Powlus, and obviously could not hear him. Credit the Longhorned Ones. 
The point is that our crowd can and should play a major role in disrupting Ohio State's play. I have no doubt the stu­dents will be a loud bunch, but each one of you must be loud each play that OSU's offense is within forty yards ofTouchdowtl Jesus; even if they seem to. have the momentum. Don't let them take you out of the game, And know that your ~nthusiasm is infectious. both to the team and· to the' rest of us who foolishly graduated and left 
thing about OSU for those who did not go 
down there last year: they do not seat the 
visiting fans together. Each j.siting fan is 
marooned in a sea of scarlet, and gives 
the illusion to the visiting team that all 
3,195,000 (or whatever) fans are pulling 
for OSU, and that the visiting fans never 
even made it through the gate. 
I am looking into whether OSU's prac­
tice violates the Geneva Convention. In the 
meantime, let's make this place as hostile 
as we can. I have a suggestion for the 
cheerleaders. Get some Sorin guys, put 
skirts on them, and give them signs that 
say "Noise" on one side and "More Noise" 
on the other. Post them all around the sta­
dium whenever OSU has the ball. Do this 
for more than goal-line stands. Do this 
every play. Believe me, those of us who 
don't have to stand through the game any­
more will respond, and quite impressively, 
especially if the students set the tone. And 
if Sorin is half the placeit was when I had 
the pleasure of residing there, you'll have 
no shortage of volunteers (although I 
would remind them that long skirts are in 
this year and plead with them not to adopt 
the most storied of traditions belonging to 
the Irish Guard.) 
More realistically, post some of the 
cheerleaders on each side of the line of 
scrimmage with the same signs. We'll get 
the message. And you'll still be. able to do 
the traditional cheers when ND has the 
ball. ("Whoop-whoop-whoop" being a per· 
sonal fav~rite:) You guys cheer-lead, and we'l1_<1heer--:follow. You'':'e done. a, greatjob , ·to thiS point, but I hope that when Ohio 
State comes a-kn()ckill', you'll have ,the . 
God Country. Obviously our team Is play-' 'joirtt a-rocldn."' · ··--· · ·• · • • 
ing_,very 'Xell as.8: .tea_Q1 this Y?l,l.r, .and ~e.. ,., .... WbP-e ~~-.m<:lY)taye tQ. w~t fo~ the extra must remmd them that we belu~ve m them-.•_·20,000 fans until 1997, lets make a con-just a5_ fervently. as ~hey ~elieye inJhe~7 :·:.;~~rt~!!;ef'fort ;~. p~qyide ?~tt?ta~ a warm selves and each other. And· we mustf.. welcome to tou sAdd1tion to the House re~ind. th~m. of our f~th even: wh~~ "~~--~ .~at IJ.,9~~~-B~t:" ;I ... 
breaks [seem to bel beating the boys. ""·.: . ~ _-}1:rt;?;J>~ . ;-· · ·While I believe that the' students will· . Bill;wEBB:. • . . ..· . perforrtl a'dniir8.bly, fet me'-tell..you some-· .· :S~~i~-·eou~~ ·ss;No Law School'9i · 
. '.: -·. . ,' ; .. .. .,.. . :· 
• 000NESBURY 
Santiago Program enriches educational experience, life 
Dear Editor: 
After spending a semester in Santiago, Chile, we would like to take the opportunity to share our experiences with those of you who are interested in enriching your educational experience at Notre Dame. For many freshmen and sophomores interested in studying abroad, many questions, doubts, and fears race through your minds as you attend informational meet­
ings and fill out a p pI i cations. .p-==+---__,..._.....,.______--IJI!IIIIIIf Doubts and fears aside, studying abroad, especially in Chile (we are very par­tial), will be one of the greatest experiences of your life. Santiago, one of South America's most beautiful and cosmopolitan cities, offers those interested in living in a Spanish speaking country a truly unique experience. You will have the opportunity to attend an excellent university and take classes alongside other Chilean students while living with a Chilean family. The experience of living with a family during your stay abroad is one of the most rewarding aspects of the program. People are the greatest testament to a place and, the Santiago Program offers you the chance to really know and understand Chileans and their society. From the moment you arrive, you are immersed into the culture. Let's be honest, most of us go abroad to travel. Due to Chile's extraordinary geographical variety, you can hang with the penguins at the Straits of Magna, climb volcanoes (don't worry, guides are available) and raft in the Lakes District, and watch the sunset over lunar landscapes in the Atacama dessert. For all you ski bums, the slopes are only an hour and a half from Santiago. And if you prefer the beach, Vina del Mar is just as close. The Chile Program offers one additional and defining opportunity-the ILADES program. Coordinated by Father Don McNeil of the Center for Social Concerns, the course focuses on approaches to poverty and development in Chile. Of the two class days per week, one is spent at the ILADES institute dis­cussing these issues, and the other en terreno at separate sites around Santiago. We spent every Thursday with a group of women in Melipilla, a poor­er community outside of Santiago. Through discussions with our professors, Daniela Sanchez and Isabel Donoso, and the relationships formed with the women of Melipilla, ILADES opened our minds to a new reality and challenged us to question our lifestyles and beliefs. ILADES enriched our experience in Chile and will continue to influence our lives in the future. If you are interested in studying in Santiago, applications are due by Oct. 14 in the Office of International Studies. Buen suerte y que te vaye bien. 
PAULA SHANNON KATIE KIRK Seniors Off-Campus 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 


"Jn life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is: Hit the line hard." 
-Theodore Roosevelt 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, September 27, 1996 page 19 
College Dems, GOP face off on third parties 
• COLLEGE DEMOCRATS • COLLEGE REPUBLICANS 
Choose or let someone else choose for you. This year, people may tell you that it In the next few weeks, many people will be asked the following question: won't matter whether or not you vote. But the candidate elected this year will "Clinton or Dole?" Some will say "Clinton," others will say "Dole," but for the have the opportunity to make or break the social fiber leading us into the next many more people who will apathetically ask the question "who cares?" I have century. this to say: 
Think about the issue most important to you: Is it the air you breathe? The effects of the 1996 presidential election will be felt not only for the next four Education? The safety of your streets? Now think about the best kind of solution years, but for an entire generation. Here's why: for your concern. Is it best advanced by investing in our children or by cutting the In the last four years, we have seen a significant drop in the amount of attention educational opportunities for their future? Is crime better attacked by killing paid to national security. What have been the repercussions of this? First, terror-criminals or by preventing the crime before it occurs? =--.., ism is on the rise. The United States' border control and airport 
At face value, it seems that the parties are converging. Both security are at a deplorably low level. Second, we are asking the claim the goal of balancing the budget, but at what cost? United Nations to take our place in nuclear arms-reduction Clinton has been the first president since John Tyler to reduce treaties. The United Nations holds no power over a rogue third-the deficit all four years of his term. He has shown that he will world state in the business of building nuclear weapons Uust look balance the budget in a humane and socially conscious way. at Saddam Hussein in Iraq). Third, and contrary to popular opin-
Dole claims that he will be able to do so without cutting Social ion, this nation is still defenseless to missile attack on its main-Security or Medicare, but relies on the assumption that the land. In the 1988 election, the issue of building a strategic missile economy will continue to grow. The GOP is silent about the ~:;:;::::::::;:==;;~::::::;~~~::::::;~=~ defense system was brought to the forefront. However, Ted effects a Republican-balanced budget will have on education Editor's Note: This is the first Kennedy's nickname of "Star Wars," and its negative connotation, and the environment. installment ofa weekly forum for stuck and no legislation was ever passed to pursue this endeavor. 
Both parties claim that they will work to reduce crime, but debate between the Notre Dame The election of Bob Dole as president would bring the issue of only Clinton promises to veto any attempts to repeal the Brady chapters ofthe College Repub-national security and defense to the forefront, where it should Bill and the assault weapons ban. Like Dole, he proposes to licans and the College Democrats. have been for the last four years. increase police forces on the streets, but Clinton also favors This week's issue is the signifi-We have witnessed something truly amazing in the White House educational programs designed to prevent crime and drug use. cance ofthe 1996 election and over the last four years, a call for more government. Take for By starting with education, we can keep people from becoming that ofthird party viability. example the president's health-care plan (which was voted down criminals, instead of merely punishing those who have already with good reason). In a society and with a media which generally committed crimes. distrust government, I find it amazing that our president feels the best way to 
This election is also important in that, once again, a third party is challenging insure 40 million Americans for health-care costs is through the government. If the status quo of the electoral system. Although Perot's Reform Party may Bob Dole is elected president, government will be forced to downsize and become become a blip on the electoral screen, it has the potential to be the beginning of a more efficient. How is he going to do this? new party structure. Well, a 15-percent tax cut across the board is a start. And you can take this to 
The Reform Party is significant in that it challenges party leaders to reassess the bank: Dole's tax-cutting plan will be a far cry from Bill Clinton's notion of a the issues on the agenda. It also serves as an answer to the disillusioned non-middle-class tax cut (I meant to say, the largest tax increase in United States his-voter, who rejects the platforms of both traditional parties. A third party in the tory) from his 1992 campaign. election also claims voters previously identified with either of the other two par-Finally, we must realize that a vote for Bill Clinton is not a vote for the left. Our tiflS. What determines the strength of the third party is the failure of the others to president, although accepting Democratic money for his campaign this year, has sufficiently address public concerns. The success of the next presidential term been a good Republican over the last two years or so. He has signed Bob Dole's will foreshadow the strength of a third party in the 2000 elections. The concept of welfare bill, agreed to balance the budget, and has even spoke of cutting taxes a legitimate third party also gives Americans new hope in the flexibility of the (here we go again!). It's this lack of separation of ideologies between the two par-electoral system. ties which allows for a viable third party to emerge. We can already see this 
A president will be elected Nov. 5 regardless of whether or not you vote. movement in the making, although Ross Perot is the wrong candidate to head Significant decisions will be made in the next four years. It's up to you as to who such a movement. Bob Dole, on the other hand, is a defmite vote for the right (in the decision-maker will be. more ways than one!), and is just what the doctor ordered to steer our govern­
ment in the right direction for tomorrow. ANNE ANDERSON KATIE MEIER TEDBASSANI No1rc Dame College Dcmocra1s Notre Dame College Republicans 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 
Dole and Texas football team both have horns 

The race between President Clinton and Bob Dole reminds me of last week's Notre Dame-Texas game. Both are heavyweights in their own right. Both have strengths and weaknesses which will surge and ebb throughout the cam­paign. Yet, Clinton is in sync with the American electorate's mood, while Dole simply cannot start any momentum. 
The mason for the outcome of the NO­Texas clash is not a mystery. The game hinged on one fatal Texas turnover and poorly executed "arm tackling" attempts by both teams. Fortunately for ND, Texas arm tackled poorly late in the 
Gary Caruso 

game, allowing the Irish to strike last and win the contest. 
The Clinton-Dole dash mirrors that football contest in several ways. l'rnsident Clinton is more like Notre Dame since both are winners. Besides, I often thought that Bob Dole-despite his warm personal character-supported policies that deserved placing "Long llorns" upon his head. 
Clinton's appeal is like the Irish run­ning game. It is strong and consistent. llow many college teams on third or fourth down and goal to go at the eight yard line would run the ball like ND did, and score the touchdown? How many pro-choice Democrats, including our beloved Mario Cuomo, would enjoy strong support from Catholics in such states as Illinois, Michigan and Ohio like Clinton? Mid-September polls place Clinton with 54 percent of the Catholic vote in both Illinois and Michigan, and 
Dole's bump in the polls after the Republican Convention parallels the Texas jump on the scoreboard early in the game. But Dole's inept "arm tackling" while trying to con­nect with popular issues has left him wallowing far behind in the campaign. His attempt to exploit Clinton's character has gone nowhere. Dole's 15 percent tax cut is met with skepti­cism. His attacks on Clinton for allowing the rise in teenage drug usage has had the effect of a trick play in a football game-some gain. no win. 

A recent CBS poll asked Americans to rate the Clinton Administration's job on dealing with drugs. They rated Clinton at 39 percent for doing a good job while 47 percent said he had not done a good job. Yet 42 percent thought he could better fight drug trafficking while only 38 percent thought that Dole could do better. Moreover, when asked about reducing crime, voters chose Clinton over Dole 45 to 34 percent. 
Independent voters are no different in their preference of Clinton. In all states, independents prefer Clinton by a margin of 17 percent, 41 percent to 24 percent. Clinton leads in Illinois 48 to 22 percent, in Michigan 43 to 23 percent, and in Ohio 35 to 26 percent. Since such states as Ohio and Illinois are crucial for a Republican win, the prospect of inde­pendents breaking so heavily for Clinton has Dole at fourth and thirty-eight. 

Clinton with a one-point advantage (45 to 44 percent) over Dole among men voters. Nationwide, women favor the Clinton-Gore ticket by 57 to 31 percent. Even the gender gap, placing men squarely in the Republican camp since the Nixon years, has eluded Dole. 
Without independents, Catholics, men or a massive ballot box stuffing effort, Dole has no chance of winning. Who would have thought that Bill Clinton would enjoy such a commanding lead in his reelection campaign? It may have more to do with Dole than Clinton. When the Wall Street JournaVNBC poll asked voters how confident they were that Dole has the right set of personal characteristics to be president, 35 per­cent said "only somewhat" versus 27 percent saying "quite" confident. "Extremely" and "q~ite" confident what" and "not at all" totaled 54 per­cent. 
It seems as though the American vot­ers have joined me in placing those long horns on Dole. Regardless of how he tries to spark his campaign, Dole is bogged down in several fourth and long situations. Unfortunately for Dole, the outcome of this year's election will not be as close as the 3-point Irish win last week. Rather, it will be more like last year's contest with Texas when ND scored 55 points. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington, D. C. His column appears every ~ther Friday. He can be reached 


-------~­
ACCENT
page 20 Friday, September 27, 1996 
The Great Escape 
A couple of nature-louers flee the city to find peace and quiet alonq tl 1c St. Joe l~iuer 
• STUFF TO Do 
TAILGATE PARTY: SPORTS CELEBRITY FEST 1996 
This evening from 6:30 to 11:30 p.m., the historic LaSalle Hotel in downtown South Bend hosts a tailgate dinner for the Notre Dame/Ohio State game. Entertainment will be provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club and Notre Dame Shenanigans. Celebrities include Tony Rice, quarterback of the 1988 National Championship team, LaPhonso Ellis of the Denver Nuggets, and Jerry Groom. Cost is $25 per person for the fun, food, and entertainment. Call 233-3486 for infonnation. 
DAY OF WOMEN 
Sunday's "Day of Women" focuses on undergraduate women attending all the educational institutions in the South Bend area. The events will be at the Snite Museum o Art, concluding with a reception in the auditorium. Admission is free and the events begin at noon, ending at 8:30p.m. 631-7960 is the number to call for more info. 


By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accent Editor 
and BRYAN FURZE 
Accent Writer 
' Rivers must have been the guides which conducted the footsteps of the first travelers . . . . They are the constant lure, when they flow by our doors, to distant enterprise and adventure. . . . They are the natural highways of all nations, not only leveling 
the ground, and removing obstacles from the path of the traveler, ... but conducting him through the most inter­esting scenery, the most populous por­tions of the globe ...." 
Henry David Thoreau penned this view of rivers in his 1849 travel account, "A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers." These and other rivers of northeastern Massachusetts are a long way from South Bend, and the days of rivers being the "natural highways of all nations" are long gone. Northern Indiana, however, is not with­out its share of nature (though Friday's and Meijer's have tried their best). 
The Observer/Dan Cichalski After roughly two hours and eight miles, boaters reach the end of the line in Niles, Michigan. 
While it is not possible-because of time constraints and that sort of thing­to take a week to build a canoe and another to navigate it through dense New England or Midwestern forests, the St. Joseph River and County Park System provide a simpler excursion. Nature-loving, adventurous types can spend the afternoon on the river for $17 ($15 for the canoe rental and $2 to park at St. Patrick's Park-yes, the infamous sight of PigTostal). The journey sends the adventurers paddling past back­yards, under bridges, and through undeveloped areas that allow boaters to believe, for a few moments at least, that Route 33 is far behind and there might not be another soul for miles. 
The eight-mile trip begins at the Brown Barn at St. Patrick's Park and ends in Niles, Michigan. Unfortunately, there is no "YES! Michigan!" sign along the banks of the St. Joe River to inform travelers of where Indiana turns into Michigan. It's up to the individual boaters to make that up for themselves. 
Navigating this stretch of the St. Joe River is no huge challenge. The water­way cuts through trees and yards and is probably 200 feet wide at its narrowest point. There is a weak current heading back into the bowels of South Bend. If the wind picks up, it can slow you down, nearly stopping you. If you're lucky, however, the wind will always be at your back. 
The sights are pleasant, with no facto­ries, strip malls, or dumps visible from the river. A few islands and inlets appear from time to time. The areas 
surrounding these landmarks can become shallow very quickly. Any .---.,__, investigations conduct­ed in these areas could 
prove to be a slow, 
almost sedimentary 
experience. 
The shores are usual­
ly dotted with avid fish­
ermen and adventure-
seeking kids casting 
their lines into the 
water in hopes of land­
ing whatever kind of 
fish swim in the St. Joe. 
Occasionally a boater 
putters past dragging 
his lines behind him or 
simply riding over the 
surface of the river and 
enjoying the scenery. 
There are also plenty 
of spots along the river 
to stop and pull the 
canoe to shore to 
explore or try your own 
luck with the rod and 
reel, provided you have 
one to bring. 
The houses lining the 
river differ greatly in 
appearance. There are 
several beautiful 
homes with shingled 
roofs and sprawling, 
uniquely landscaped 
lawns blending togeth­
er with the neighbors'. 
These fenceless yards 
provide the perfect set­
ting for annual neigh­
borhood barbecues. 
Other houses face the 
river and stare at the water with huge, 
picture windows that dominate the 
entire back of the house. Several homes 
resemble sprawling mansions, sporting 
peaked roofs and thr~e-car garages 
with chimneys, indicating that the past 
residents probably had live-in servants 
before the need for three-car garages 
arose. 

Finally, there were tiny, quaint, one­
room shacks standing just feet from the 
edge of the river. Within these huts, 
fishermen pass the long, cold days of 
winter, sitting and staring at nature 

With autumn now upon us, the trees along the St. Joseph River will soon be exploding 
into a brilliant display of red, orange, and yellow. 
from the window, much like Thoreau area provide little of nature's beauty. must have done 130 years ago at We are indeed a microcosm within an Walden Pond. urban area. 
Regardless of the homes' shape, each But there is little to fear. A five-to­has a certain charm and magnificent ten-minute drive (depending on the beauty. It is quite simple to determine kindness of the Traffic Light Gods) why many Notre Dame professors quickly places those in search of a little choose to live in Michigan rather than nature and adventure in a beautiful, the urban area of South Bend. serene world far removed from the 
The number one highlight of this trip sounds of I -90 and Highway 31. was spotted along the shore. Roughly Reseryations are not required, but call 
· halfway up the river, in :an area where 27t7-48~8 wit.P qu~ti?n.s. Simply find a no houses or roads were' visiblel"!l deer rid aftd flea'\! notH'I oR Highway 31. stood at the waterline quenching her Turn left onto Auten Road where it thirst in the shade. It was a particularly intersects the highway. There is a wide section of the river, but she could Phillip's 66 gas station on the left and a be admired from the middle of too Marathon gas station on the right. water. A 210 millimeter zoom lens Follow ;'\uten Road and make a right helped capture her on film before she into -St~~'Patrick's Park: There is a sign bounded off into the woods, no doubt to for the park just after the church. warn Bambi that there were visitors. The park is on the left approximately Nature is in abundance within the one mile down the road. Bring seven­boundaries of Notre Dame's own cam­teen dollars and hurry. These Sunday­pus. Ducks and geese swim about the only excursions which provide a great, lakes, rabbits scamper about at night, relaxing, fun afternoon (and an upper­and squirrels rule the sidewalks. Other body workout as well) will only be than that, the outlying areas of campus around for another three weeks. Let's extending into South Bend's downtown hope the weather holds out too. 

~------..~--~--------------------------------~--------------------~~~~----------------------------~-­
ACCENT
Friday, September 27, 1996 page 21 
Ohio State Weekend 
To~ len 
Reasons 01' Notre ~arne 
Will Win 
Over All 
America. ... 
9. The Bookstore {On the CampU5) is open on Sunday. 8, It'• the biggest game in South Bend 1ince Florida State came to town in •93, 
7. Starting quarterback Stanley Jacbon and tailback Pepe Pelll'fon faced toughercompetition in OSU'sscout team defense than they did in actual games. 
6. The Seven Deadly Sins: Minor, Tatum, Cobbins, Wynn, Dansby, Maiden, and Berry. 
5. Bobby Knight went there. 
4. Their mascot is a nut. Literally. 
3. You won't find copt using pepper gat at Corby'&, the 'Backer, Coach't, 
Bridget's, C.J.'s, etc. 2, Buckeyes will choke on ethanol~laden air. 
1. Divine Intervention, not that we1J need il 
l~~ ~niv~r~it~ 
~FoUNDED IN 1870. WE WFRE roUNDED lN 1842. 
t4'fNRoUMFNT IS APffiOXIMAlELY 49,542· 0LJRs IS l.Iffi gJ WE GEflO KNOW EACH OIHERMUGI BEl IER. 
~THECDLORSARE~ AND GRAY. Ho-IRJM. -ttTHE MNrrJTIS &nusBuCKEYE. lErnin-wJN RYANGEECDUID BUSfHJS HFAD 
OPEN IJKEA a-DNINUT. 
trUNIVEmriY l?REsiDENriS rAtE GoRooNGa:, A Iif"B GRADUA1EOF UrAH. FATiiERFhvARD MAlloY WENflONOIRE DAME. 

l~e ~ivalr~ 
It's not really a rivalry, but here's a history of the three meetings between Notre Dame and Ohio State. 
1935 

Coming out of the locker room down 13-0 at halftime, Notre Dame came back to beat the Buckeyes with three scores in the fourth quar­ter, two of which came in the fmal two minutes. It was the onJy loss o the season for Ohio State. who gained only three yards in the sec­ond half. Sports writers voted the game as the most thrilling of the ftrst half of the century. 81,018 saw the game in Ohio Stadium. 
1936 

In front of 55,000 at Notre Dame Stadium, the Irish again prevailed, 7-2. OSU's two points came on a punt blocked out of the end zone. In the closing minutes, the Buckeyes could not convert a touchdown after driving to the Irish 12-yard line. 
1995 

Notre Dame played a close first half, taking a 17-14 lead into the locker room at the break. A field goal in the third quarter extended the Irish lead to 20-14, but then the Buckeyes capitalized on numerous Irish mistakes to take a 45-26 victo­ry in Columbus. 
l~ B AI u m n1 • 
Leonard Downie, Jr. Executive Editor, \Xlashington Post 
Mark R. Goldston Presi~.lent: an~.l CEO, L.A. Gear 
Stephanie Hightower 
U.S. Olympian, track 
Bob Knight Basketball Coach, lndiana University 
Jerome Lawrence Playwright 
Richard Lewis Actor, \vrirer, co1nedian 
Roy Lichtenstein Artist 
Jack Nicklaus Proft~ssional golfer 
)esse Owens Four;t.irne Olyrnpic Gold t'v1edalist 
Edward H. Rensi President and CEO, McDonald's Corporation 
Frank Stanton President Emeritus, CBS 
James Thurber Author 
l~~root~a rro~ram 
~This is the 107th year of football at OSU. Irs our 11 Oth. 
~The Buckeyes' all-time record is 677-272-53 for a .701 
winning percentage. Ours is 738-219-42 for a .760 
mark, the best in the nation. Ever. 
ilOhio State has played in 27 bowl games with a record of 12-15. Most of those appearances occurred when the team won the Big Ten Championship. We've played in 21 bowl games, all by invitation, and our record is 13-8. 
~ OSU has won six national championships. We've won eight. We also won three (in 1924, 1929, and 1930) before the AP rankings were invented. And, overall, we've been voted the national champion by at least one recognized selector 19 times. 
tfOhio State has had 139 All-Americans. We've had 
171. 30 of them have been unanimous, more than any other school. 77 of them have been consensus, also more than any other college. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 27, 1996 

THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ 1984 4-door Honda Accord  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Need 4 Air Force Tix  
NOTICES  ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a 1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest  Runs PERFECTLY and I'm Selling Cheap.  Up to 2 OSU tickets for sale  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  Call Frank Walters 18002439683  
rooms. Bountiful lull breakfasts.  Call Sebastian @ 273-3179  to the highest  Leave name and #-will pay top $.  
VFW624  "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice  bidder.  $$$$$$  
Friday night dinners -4:30-8  as one of  computer  Senior student  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  I NEED 1 Wash. student ticket.  
Dancing -9-1  "Michiana's Best ol1996".  233-6903 evenings  tickets.  ALL HOME GAMES.  PLEASE call Amber at x4292.  
All members & guests welcome.  http://www.laketolake.com/inns/prim  Call Bryan  272-6551  
214 U.S. 33 N.-Next to Knight's  rosepath/directorypage  LAWRENCE A COLLECTABLES  273-2812  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE  
Inn.  616-695-6321 Hundereds of  Store and Museum  $$$$$$$$$$$$$  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  or PITT. CALL SEAN x-3311  
Students Are Earning Free Spring  Decorate your room, den, office  BOUGHT & SOLD  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips &  Notre Dame items -jerseys, pro­ Need OSU stud tix or will trade GAs  232-2378-A.M.  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  Go Freel Bahamas Cruise $279,  grams, pins, etc.  for stud tix Mark 243-0787  288-2726-P.M.  call Nick 232-9944  
255-1172  Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama  Sports and movie celebrities' auto­ 
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 1 0-2  City/Daytona $119! www.spring­ graphs. Photos matted & framed.  $$$$$  n. rl. tickets for sale  Need Wash Stud. or GA. Call Molly  
You break it, we'll fix it!!!  breaktravel.com  Early 1900's equipment-bats,  Need 2 GA OSU tix. Rich Alum  271 1635  atX0836  
1-800-678-6386  gloves, hockey sticks, game-used  847-473-6511  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  shoes. etc.  lv. message  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  OSU GA for sale -Best offer  
Breakfast Inn has space available  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  Downtown Mishawaka  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  Call 273-8384  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  109 LWE  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
private baths, $70 -$90,  PERSON FOR PART-TIME  257-0039  (206)621-3485  WILL TRADE PITT, RUTGERS,  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  BUY AND SELL  ND ALUM NEEDS  AND/OR$$$ FOR 2 WASH TIX  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  HOURS ARE  NEED 2 or 3 GAs for WASHING­ OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  GA OR STUD KEVIN 634-3286  
1-800-418-9487  5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  ••• 2 STUD TIX FOR SALE W/  TON  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  
PHONE EXP A MUST.  I D ......... CALL 243-9226****  Call Ed 243-9058  NEED 2 Ohio State GA's  
FREET-SHIRT  $7/HOUR 243-9555  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  and Ohio State Student Tix  
.,..  + $1000 Credit Card fundraisers for fraterni­ties, sororities & groups. Any cam­ Are you interested in an internship in public relations and fundraising?  TICKETS  ••••••••NEED OSU STD TIX CALL FRED 3744•••••••••  ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  and Washington Student Tix PLEASE CALL US!!! x4856  
pus organization can raise up to  Send cover letter and resume to  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  2 WASH GA's 4 SALE -b/o  Need Ohio State tickets.  4sale: OSU stu tix @ 1207  
$1000 by earning a whopping  Michelle Fean Regional Director of  ALL GAMES HOME  CALL x2005  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  
$5.00NISA application.  the American Diabetes Assoc. at  AND AWAY  4sale: osu gas @1225  
Call1-800-932-0528 ext.65  115 Lafayette Blvd. Suite 501 South  232-0058  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  
Qualifies callers receive  Bend, IN 46601. This position is 15­ 24 HAS.  Ohio State Tix  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  OSU GA's/stu for sale, x0500  
FREET-SHIRT  20hrs a week & intern has the  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Student ticket for sale. Please call  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  cheapest on the market!  
choice of being paid or earning  TICKET-MART, INC.  243-9381 and leave  (219)422-6088  
Textbooks boughVsold/traded  credit. Please send resumes by  your name, number. and price  OSU tiks 4 sale. Call288-2917.  
5 blks south on ND Ave.  Oct. 15, 1996.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  quote.  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  
233-2342. Pandora's Books.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  Family  Need OSU tix for alum! Top$  
Looking for ride to BALTIMORE for  232-0061.  612-742-7638 Collect  Call Kevin@ 4-3170  
ND Alumni Club has up to 7 pre­ FALL BREAK. will help pay  Need 3 Rutgers GA's  
paid hotel rooms available for pur­ for gas. call erin at x2721.  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  Call Erik @3807  **For Sale·· 4 OSU Stud. Tix.  
chase at cost for the Saturday night  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ Same section. Call x1480. Leave  
of Washington game October 12th.  Catholic Charities West Regional  CALL 243-1287  Needed: Ohio St. GA's Call Meg at  ED -PLEASE HELP!!!  b/o  
The rooms are minutes from cam­ Service Center ­ 232-7839  Family wants to come to a game for  
pus at the Fairfield Inn which has  Daycare has Full and Part Time  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  my senior year. Please help  1 OSU GA 4 SALE  
an indoor pool and spa. For further  openings. Send resume to:  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  WANT TO GO TO OHIO STATE  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  CALL MIKE@ 234-8129 W/  
information, please contact Peter at  120 South Taylor Street  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  GAME? I have 1 STUDENT TICK­ game. Please call Brian a\287­ B/0, LEAVE OFFER ON MACH.  
(315) 735-6482.  South Bend 46601  ET for sale. Call Dylan at  4876. Thank you.  
WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  x2173 in interested. AM TAKING  I NEED OHIO ST, WASH. & AF  
ILOST & FOUND I  Now hiring bartenders and door people. Apply @ Bridget's after  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 RON  BEST OFFERS.  I need 6 OSU tickets  GA's.272-6306  
8pm.  1 OSU Student ticket 4 sale  Will pay high prices or  I have OSU & Wash. student tix. If  
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  Call Dave at 288-9102  will trade BULLS tickets!  you want them call  
stone. Great sentimental value. Please call 4-3425 if found.  FOR RENT  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP"........... . RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS.. ..  NEED two Washington tix, GA or  Call Jason @ x1225  243-9442, ask for Roberto.  
student. Anne 289-4922  BAND PARENTS!!  2 MARRIED STUD BKL TS  
Lost  WALK TO CAMPUS  **Need Air Force TICKETS!!**  need 4 GA Air Force  FOR SALE. CALL 287-3181  
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Please Call Kelly @ 4x2685  I NEED 2 WASH. GAs FOR PAR­ call collect  
Sacred Heart  232-2595  ENTS. I HAVE 2 RUTGERS GAs.  (414) 208-1632  stud OSU TIX 4 sale. 1-4009  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES  WILL PAY OR TRADE.  5pm-9pm.  
REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  Need a place to stay on football  312-951-5008  CALL DAVE@ x1913  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  
weekends?  67 4-7645 -No student or student  SELLING 3 OSU STU-TIX  
Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes  Furnished apartment for short term  TICKETS WANTED -Will pay pre­ ! @ #$%"%"&&*)*"%"$%@ $@ #!*"  conv.  Call Sebastian 273-3179  
if found call Maria-243-9282  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  mium price for 4 tickets for the  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  
..... Losr··· ..  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­4876.  NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th. No student tickets please.  BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR ND EXPERIENCE  1 OSU GA for sale Call Mike@243-9224  OSU STUDTIX FOR SALE  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  "Dynamite" seats only. Call  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  Call Joe w/ bo@ 1175  
opener (with three keys) on it over  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Bill/Anna at 800-457-0486.  john_d._potter@ notes.pw.com  G.A.'s FOR SALE  
the Purdue weekend. If you found  ND-SMC EVENTS.  ! @##$%"&((*A*%"$#@$#$% *I\%.  NO vs. OSU  Wash. ticket for sale  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Grad Non-Degree Student needs  call 634-1708  B/0 Heather @ x2695  
REWARD.  ENDS.  GA tickets to any games.  TIX FOR SALE: 1 OSU GA and 1  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call Val at 243-0798.  Stud Tix., Leave Message with b/o.  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIX!  LAST CHANCE!  
WANTED  243-0658.  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  @ x4095.  CALL ANYTIME-284-5456  Sale b/o -1 OSU GA Bid Away at 634-1859  
AFFORDABLE THREE ROOM  312.404.4903  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  OSU GA for sale to highest bid.  
95' GRADS NEED 5 WASHING­ OFFICE IN CONVENIENT LOCA­ HAVE WASH. GAs 271-8279  284-4163  2 OSU GAs for sale  
TON TIX! CALL KRISTIN 273­ TION ACROSS FROM SOUTH  Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy  **DON'T.. CALL UNLESS  not conv stud tix  
6136.  BEND, DOWNTOWN U.S. POST  or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  YOU HAVE$$$ TO SEE  NO Parents need tickets for OSU  Greg @ 634-1770  
OFFICE. JOIN A CPA AND  THIS 4-0 NC TEAM  game! Please call (630)810-0710  
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING­ ATTORNEY, PRESENT TENANTS,  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  III I \III\1II II I I II II II II \1\1\1\1\1\1II II IIII  
Anyone interested in coaching the  IN THIS HISTORICAL HOUSE.  Matt -271-3683  Need Many OSU GA's  Have Washington, Air Force, and  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL  
synchronized swimming team,  GREAT FOR BEGINNING PRO­ Call x1195  Pitt GA tix. Will trade for Ohio State  ••• GAME PACKAGES •••  
please contact Beth at x2725. Must  FESSIONAL. FOR MORE INFOR­ I need 2 Pitt tickets.  and/or B.C. tix. Call Stephen  Travel with team to IRELAND  
have experience, enthusiasm and  MATION, CALL 219-233-7928.  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  Two GA's ND vs. OSU b/o by  (607)336-7218, 335-3129.  HAWAII & MORE!  
be willing to volunteer time and  Friday 5:00 634-3735  ••• ANTHONY TRAVEL •••  
effort.  1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  WANTED  4 OSU GAs 4 SALE. x0849  800-7DOMERS  
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  2 GAs for Air Force  ##########################  I II I I I I I I I IIIII/ I II I I I II I I I I I I I I II /II/IIIII/ I  
For Macintosh: modem  272-6306  Carrie x2344  It's Friday and you still don't have  KISS TICKETS  
(1200/2400), keyboard, mouse 1­ OSU tix?!!  Market Square INDY Oct 15th  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ 
5610  FOR SALE  Seeking tickets for OHIO St., WASHINGTON, PITT.  I have 3 OSU student tickets left!!! call Jenny @ 687-8435  Row 23 FLOOR 291-4816  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Call Greg 219-273-1007  ##########################  Need$$$  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ 
Positions are now availalbe at  Compuparts Lab., Inc.  Will pay cash 4  4273 .....  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Grand Opening! Very Low Price!  Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  One OSU student ticket for sale.  ND-OSU tix  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Big Sales on Computer System  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  call Kris at 4-2002  Call Chad@  TWO TICKETS-ND VS. OSU:  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 extN55848  and Parts! 8 MB RAM EDO $43  NEED 2 GAs for Washington game!  •••••••• Buy us!! 2 stud. tix for sale  1-800-Trade-it ext. 117  GREAT SEATS (SEC10, ROW 11). CALL 860-297-5580 X1620 WITH  
8 X CD-ROM $99  Call Megan at 243-9047  (w/ i.d.) call 243-9226 •••••••••••••••  For ND fan since 1943, seeing a  BEST OFFER BY NOON ON  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  2.0 GB Hard Drive $248  game in South Bend is as close to  THURS.  
-Students Needed! Fishing'  1 MB PCI SVGA CARD $35  NEED GA for Washington game.  OSU GA 4-sale David 234-1840  heaven as I'm gonna come! Need 2  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ and lots more!  Call Suzy X4034  to 5 tix for any home game to fulfill  TAKING THE GRE?  
$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary.  320 N. Dixie Way (US 31, 1 block south of Cleveland Ad) Tel: 243-0421  I need 2 Air Force GA's. Will pay well. Call Becky at X3792.  GA's for sale: All home games Call x1596 with b/o. Ask for Mike.  my dream. Call Ron COLLECT at (612)559-4287.. and bless you!  I need a student tickeVbooklet (or GA) for the WA game on 10/12. Friend from last yr coming inI  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  Please call Jen or Sarah-243­ 
FOR SALE  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s -Call  Need 2 Air F. GA's  9019  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ 1 OSU GA  x2646  Shawn 215-676-6685  Amy 616-473-5825  
Teach basic conversational English  call X1276 b/o  5 OSU GA's for sale!  
tn Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  Need 2 OSU GA's  I need 4 Wash. Tix.. Stud. or GA  Need 2 Ohio State tickets. Will  Call Kye at 4-2133  
teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive  300 videogame system: w/2 con­trollers, 11 games including  Ted X3439  Call Clare 243-9282  trade 2 Wash. tickets and/or $. Leave message 800-582-3212  with your best offer  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  Wolfenstein 3D & Panzer General.  Need 3 Washington tix bad  Need OSU GA tix. 259-2207  X2465  ***RV PARKING**  
info. call:  $150. 234-8129  please call Nate at 271-1846  RV PARKING AVAIL. FOR THIS  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  $175  OHIO STATE ticket for sale.  WEEKEND/SLEEP AND WALK TO  
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  Beds 4 Sale: 3 Combos in 1! Like NEW. $150. 634-0926  •• 2 Ohio St. GA's ·• Call: Marc x1930 or Joey x1942  WILL PAY $175 FOR OSU GA Call Brian x1961  call erin at x2721.  GAME!!!! 3 SPOTS/3.5 BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS-CALL 283-0392  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  $175  POTATO HOUSE NEEDS OSU  LEAVE MESS.  
(813)360-2243.  CAR FOR SALE -92 GEO Tracker  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  TIX...PLEASE!!! Paul 243-9403  
Red with convertible top -54K NC  GAMES 235-3394  Need 1 Wash. Student Ticket.  NEED 1 WASH TIX  
TICKLER'S COMEDY CLUB  Great shape! $8,800. Call Pascal  Call Rich or Mike @ 1306  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ AND2 AF TIX  
Now Hiring:  687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h)  FOR SALE  ENTS!  CALL X2765  
• Waitress/Waiters  20SU GA'S  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  CALL X1932  
·Marketing  LAPTOP 4 SALE  Call Jeff @ 232-0550  ALL GAMES HOME  2 OSU TIX  
· Ticket sales  Cornpac 486 Subnotebook  AND AWAY  NEED: 4 GA'S for Air Force lor my  4 SALE  
Flexible work schedules.  $1000 b/o call Ken 4-2089  FOR SALE  232-0058  FAMILY. Chris x0788  TO TOP BIDDER  
Call 232-n77 or apply in person  40 yd line OSU GA  24 HRS.  CALL 634-2991  
123 W. Washington -above  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  X12761eave offer  BUY -SELL -TRADE  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  
BW-3's  Call Rob x1902  TICKET-MART, INC.  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  
 

see CLASSIFIEDS I page 26 
....----.........-------~--------------~--------~--~ --­
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 

George's days with Falcons are numbered 
Associated Preu 
ATLANTA 
June .Jones thought .Jeff George was going to be the ideal quarterback to direct his run-and-shoot offense. 
Chances are George will never lead the Atlanta Falcons offense again in the aftermath of his sideline spat with the coach during Sunday night's loss to Philadelphia. 
Jones suspended George on Monday and was asked after a Wednesday praetice if he was disappointed after three years with George. 
"It's disappointing that I wasn't able to take him to the next level that I wanted to take him.'' .Jones said. "I thought we were going to have the op­portunity to do that this year and, like I said, circumstances changed that in a hurry." 
Jones also said he could not give an answer on the odds of George returning to the team. 
"I would say it would be very slim though," he said. 
.Jones said he and general manager Ken Herock will get together after Sunday's game against the 49ers in San Francisco to decide something if nothing has transpired since then. 
George is convinced he's through in Atlanta. although he insisted at a news confer· ence Wednesday that he's still a Falcon. 
"It's fairly clear he's played his last game as a Falcon," said agent Leigh Steinberg. 
George painted himself as a model team player who would someday take a team -not necessarily the Falcons -to the Super Bowl. 
A source close to George, speaking on condition he not be identified, said the Seattle Seahawks, Oakland Raiders, Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Baltimore Ravens have ex· pressed interest. 
"Absolutely, if it's not here, I'll find a team. There's a team out here ·that's in need of a quarterback, a quarterback away from the Super Bowl. There's no doubt -I'm confi­dent in my mind that I can lead them to where they want to go," George said. 
George said he has not apologized to Jones, and will not. He said any competitive quarterback would complain about being removed. 
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri llam-2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun Spm-9prri 
Fri-Sat Spm-9:30pm 
211 
D L 

--+----,A THAI RESTAURANT C N. MAIN s 0 ST. A 
L

"The first Thai restaurant in town. We F L 
A L

invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate· art X ~c;\. E 
'{\\Gf'..

that descends from primogenitor. Thai W..\c 
cuisine is designed to excite your five 
senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and 1232-4445 1 
natural." 211 N. Main St. 
South Bend, IN

Now Hiring 46601 


Are you graduating in December? 
Excited? Nervous? 
Then join others like yourself in a Senior Rap-Up discussion, or retreat or gathering of your choice. 
Sign up by calling the CSC: 
Maureen@ xl-5779 or Sarah @ x4-4655 by Monday, Sept. 30 
Phillips settles assault case 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

St. Louis Rams running back Lawrence Phillips has settled a federal lawsuit filed against him by a woman who claimed he battered and sexually assaulted her. 
The settlement between Phillips and Katherine McEwen of Topeka, Kan., a student at the University of Nebraska, was reached this week only after a federal judge agreed to allow the lawyers to black out more sensational aspects of the law­suit, The Kansas City Star re­ported in Thursday editions. 
In making the decision, Chief 

U.S. District Judge D. Brook Bartlett severely criticized the University of Nebraska's han­dling of the matter, saying it warranted a "substantial inves­tigation." 
McEwen, Phillips' former girl­friend, filed the lawsuit last month in Jackson County Circuit Court. Phillips was served with the lawsuit while he was in Kansas City when the Rams played the Chiefs in an Aug. 17 exhibition game. 
The lawsuit was moved to fed­eral court Sept. 13, and Phillips' lawyers asked Bartlett to keep the case sealed. 
McEwen asked for unspecified damages for sexual assault, bat­tery, kidnapping. assault, false imprisonment, emotional dis­tress and violation of her rights. 
She said Phillips started curs­ing her, controlling her move­ments and threatening her shortly after they began dating. At the time, they were students at Nebraska, where Phillips was 
a star running back. Terms of the settlement were not disclosed. 
"It has been settled in a way that is acceptable to Kate," said her lawyer, Victor Bergman. "A lot of that depends on Lawrence Phillips getting his life under control and continuing on with his career." 
Phillips pleaded guilty to mis­demeanor trespass and assault for a Sept. 10, 1995, attack on McEwen. The lawsuit contended Phillips beat her while she was at a friend's house, then grabbed her hair, "caveman style," pulled her down three flights of steps and slammed her head into a wall. 
He was suspended by Nebraska for six games, and a judge placed Phillips on proba­tion for a year. The lawsuit said McEwen never told Nebraska football coach Tom Osborne about the alleged sexual as­saults. 
In July, Phillips signed a three-year contract with the Rams worth $5.625 million. 
The lawsuit included new alle­gations not previously made public, including the claim of sexual assault. On Sept. 3, the suit was unsealed briefly. and the petition was obtained by The Star. 
Lawyers for both sides argued the lawsuit should be sealed be­cause it would make a settle­ment easier to reach and pro­tect McEwen. 
Bartlett held private hearings for three days last week to de­cide whether to seal the lawsuit, according to a transcript re­leased Wednesday. McEwen met with the judge during the 

$25.00 Special* 
2 California 36 Tanning Bed Sessions 
+ 
2 Dual Reflector Non­Facial Bed Sessions 
+ 
2 VHO Euro Capsule Sessions 
*one ofli?r per person please 
Fun Tan Inc. 
University Commons (219) 272 . 7653 
'93 • '94 • '95 • '96 Voted Area's Best Tanning Center 
196 for $96 

Unlimited Tanning until December 31, 1996 for $96.00 
Unlimited tanning bed packages may be upgraded tor 12.00 per ses­sion. You may prepay 10 upgrades tor 115, however, these upgrades expire at the time your unlimited paclcage expires. 
Fun Tan L.L.C. 526 W. McKinley Ave. (219) 256. 9656 
hearings, and said the Nebraska basketball office had received hate mail and phone calls relat­ed to her. 
McEwen was a member of the Nebraska women's basketball team but is not playing this sea­son. 
"My way of dealing with it in the past," McEwen told the judge, "has been to kind of hide out. I sleep a lot, stay in my room." 
Under questioning from her lawyer, McEwen noted that her basketball coach revoked her scholarship after last season, citing her play. After a public outcry. the scholarship was re­newed, but McEwen elected not to play her senior year. 
"I guess I was concerned that, basically. there was no way I could win," McEwen told Bartlett. "If I played and did good, there would be attention. If I played and did bad, that would cause attention. If I didn't play, that would cause at­tention." 
Bartlett asked, "So you thought not playing would cause less attention than playing?" 
"Yes," McEwen said. 
While weighing whether to make the lawsuit public, Bartlett condemned the univer­sity's actions in the case. 
"No human being should treat another one the way he (Phillips) allegedly treated her," Bartlett said, "and no re­spectable university should be condoning this kind of behavior. I mean, this matter should result in a substantial investiga­tion into the University of Nebraska as to how they ­what are they in the business of doing up there?" 
"And I mean, are they in the business of making money off the football team, or are they in the business of providing an atmosphere where students can get, on a fair and equitable basis, an education and are pro­tected in their physical well­being from other students? 
"And if outrageous behavior occurs, assuming -I'm not concluding it did-that the uni­versity has an obligation to the victim not to make it worse. not to make the victim suffer, but to make the wrongdoer suffer." 

The Star was unable to reach Nebraska representatives for comment. -· 
ERASMUS BOOKS •Used books bought and sold • 25 categories of Books • 25,000 Hardback and Paperback books In stock •Out-of.Prlnt Search Service: $2.00 •Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444  
Entertainment Electronics Co. ·~ou break It, we'll fix it!!" Car & Home Stereos VCRs • TVs • Camcorders CD Players • PCs call 255-1172 3509 N. Grape Road (at Classic Stereo) hours: Mon • Frl: II-5 Sat: 10-2  


page 24 IRISH FOCUS 

on Saturday afternoons to play football at Between the games, exists the countless 
Notre Dame Stadium. but the Irish coaches, hours spent on the practice field. There, 
players, and staff prepare throughout the the players beat each other up, coaches 
week for an upcoming game. learn new strategies, and everyone else in 
That preparation occurs through only one the middle tries to assure a smooth running vehicle. operation. 
No one ever hears about the team managers responsible for everything from making sure that all of the neces­sary equipment is on the field each day, to carrying Coach Holtz's cord up and down the sidelines on Saturday. These people handle most seemingly insignifi­cant details, so that the rest of the team, coaches and players, can concen­trate on preparing and executing strate­gy for each particular game. 
No one ever hears about the trainers, who bandage the bumps and bruises from the games on Saturday in order 
·-for the Irish players to participate in practice. No one ever hears about the equip­ment people who make sure there is a ball every time one is needed at prac­tice. If it was not for these components helping out at practice, no one would ever be hearing about the Notre Dame football team . 
Shown in Loftus earlier this week, 
defensive coordinator Bob Davie and 
his corps put together the finishing 
touches on a defensive scheme that 
will be facing a Buckeye team that 
has scored at will in the last two 
games. At right, freshman placekicker 
Jim Sanson prepares himself mental­
ly while stretching. In a game 
between two highly-ranked squads, 
Sanson knows the kicking game 
could be crucial. 


~-~-------_.~-~-..... 
Friday, September 27, 1996 

Perhaps the most hallowed grounds in college football, Notre Dame Stadium has played host to some of the greatest games ever. The Irish are planning for another one tomorrow, when they and the Buckeyes stage their battle on this sacred field. Below, offensive line coach Joe Moore watches over Jon Spickelmier (78) and Mike Burgdorf. 

Story 
by 
Joe Villinski 

Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

The Hammes 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 
''on the campus,, 
Call for our illustrated catalog 1-219-631-6316 Open Monday-Saturday, 9am-5pm 
Special Hours Football Weekends! Friday 9am-7pm,· Saturday 8am-6pm 
page 26 
Classifieds 
continued from page 22 
PERSONAL 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone #631-COPY 
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING-Anyone interested please come September 30th for a meeting at the Rock at 8 p.m. 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center Mon. 7:30am · Midnight Tues. 7:30am · Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnight Thur. 7:30am · Midnight Fri. 7:30am • 7:00pm Sat. Noon • 6:00pm Sun. Noon • Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
The STUDENTS' choice for Best Campus Band according to the Observer, playing TONIGHT! at 
Jazzman's. 1 0:30pm. 18 and Over!! 
Do you like to Salsa and Merengue ? 
Do you like dancing all night to the hottest rhythms on campus ? then come listen and dance to 
SABOR LATINO Saturday 9/28 at the CSC $2 cover; music starts at 10 pm 
Come to the SMC Clubhouse, 
(DALLOWAY'S), 
and hear OHIO STATE's 
hottest band, 
STANLEY, 
kick off the big game. 
This FRIDAY· Bpm 
$2 at the door. Lots of GOOD GRUB! 
All benefits support 
SMC/ND Circle K. 
Thank you St. Jude for prayers answered. 
Hey Dillon Guys! Only 162 Days Until Cancun! 
Lets get sloppy at the SAW TAILGATER­We can all say a mantra and slowly sip Kingfisher fourtys. W e can blast Rangeela from the back of the Bill Clinton rickshaw. Anyone interested? 
Chestnut House B&B, St. Joseph, MI. 

Elegantly decorated home overlooking Lake Michigan and only 40 mins. from ND. Luxuriate in double whirlpools, private baths, full breakfasts & hors d'oeuvres served fireside. (616) 983-7413. 
EARN MONEY!!!!! Please help me with my senior comprehen­sive. I need to interview 1 0 people who grew up in single parent homes between the ages of 5 and 15. A reward for this con· fidential interview will be granted. Please call Caroline at 243-9264 
TOP 11 QUOTES FROM LONG AGO 
1) Godivas ... aren't those dead bodies? 
2) Whip it out? 
3) Have you seen City Slickers II? 
4) No, Tara, Amelia Earhart? 

5) You are my least affectionate friend. 
6) Oh.... that's water?! 
7) Wait, there's natural light. 

8) It pulls the glow away from my body. 
9) Just what I want to do now • pull down my pants. 
10) I guide it with my tongue. 

11) See where those lights turn green ... Enjoy the weekend! 
Now hiring Bartenders and Door Peoplelll Apply at Bridget's after 8 pm!! 
Hey Gorgeous, 
Ohio State .... . 
40-yard line .. .. 

and I didn't want to talk to you every day 
this week either .... Love, me 
Hi Mary! Love, HAC 
We send them cheesy movies the worst we can find LA LA LA 

no tv and no duff's make homer go ... something something ... Crazy? Don't mind if I do! 
Gee Ricky, sorry your mom blew up. 
He snorts nasal spray? Know where I can score some? 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 27, 1996 
;··NFL 
'/)~ c ' 

Elvis lives in San Francisco 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS Associated Press Writer 
. SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
·· ·. Despite Steve Young's protests that he's healthy enough to play, the San Francisco 49ers are starting Elvis Grbac in his place Sunday in hopes time off will allow Young's troublesome groin strain to heal. · "It's an irritant, and the thing I've got to do is try to .help it get better so that he's closer to 100 percent," coach George Seifert said Wednesday. Seifert said the presence of Grbac, 3-2 as a starter last sea­son when Young was sidelined by a bruised passing shoulder, made the decision easier. "There's no que~t~on that Elvis gives us more flexibility than some clubs have," Seifert said. "If you have someone who's unproven and young, or somebody that wasn't as good, would I be a little more hesi­tant? I might be, sure, I would. "This does make it easier in that you have a ·guy who' has 
started for us and won games for us." 
Grbac's last start came Nov. 20 at Miami, a 44-20 victoryin which he finished with more than 300 yards passing for a third straight game. He also led the 49ers to wins at Dallas and St. Louis. 
"All the games I played last year gave me a lot of confi­dence, and hopefully 1 can just continue," Grbac said. "I think I put more expectations on my­self than anybody else, and the way I played against Miami and St. Louis and Dallas, if I can just keep playing that way, good things are going to hap­pen." 
Grbac, who has seen relief duty in all three games for the 49ers (2~ U this season, will op­pose another backup on Sunday. The Atlanta Falcons (0-3) start Bobby Hebert in place of the suspended Jeff George. 
Young aggravated his groin strain, originally suffered Sept. 8, last Sunday when he was pulled t9 .the turf by Kevin 
Did you know ... r 
Greene on the first play of a 23­7 loss at Carolina. 
The injury limited Young's mobility although he played until being relieved by Grbac for the final offensive series. 
"I don't think he damaged it any further in the last ball game," Seifert said. "At the same time, I don't think it helped it get better, either." 
Seifert said Young will go into Sunday's game as the No. 2 quarterback, but clearly the coach hopes to get through the game without using Young. 
"I thought he passed the foot­ball well (against Carolina), but at the same time there are sit­uations where he's going to have to sprint full speed," Seifert said. "That would con­tinue to aggravate it, and what's going to ]'tappen is it's going to keep aggravating until I don't have him at all." 
Seifert did not give a timetable for Young's return. Young said he intends to be ready to play this week, if needed, and certainly two weeks from now. 

That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings .,.c:,HO~ 


f.." c 
~11)~

North Shore Club 
~ ~­
~ $
~Ttsao-.<tG

Models Open Daily Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
(800) 404-4275 

• Momhly payments of P and 1. b~d on ;1. purchaK" price of S55,990 with 20% down md a 30-yw7.375 A.R.M. 

D:\GG(9lUG~0lil art~~[h {J00Glli[)aa {/[)m~U 
This Friday's ND vs. OSU pep rally at the Joyce Center is scheduled to start at 7 P.M. However, the Joyce Center is expected to reach capacity very early. In order to assure admittance to all stu­dents, the Athletic Department and Student Government have devised a plan for this pep rally only: 
From 5:30 -5:45P.M., only stu­dents with a valid student J.D. will be admitted through Gate 11. After that, general admission will begin at Gate 10. 
~. Get there early to cheer on the team! ~ GO IRISH! BEAT BUCKEYES! 
UNIVU~IH OF N0111 011WI 6Htl.ll"rr.nv••w•u"t 


SUBS & SALADS 
Is Now Open 
***in*** 
Wilshire Plaza 
(Between Sam's Club & Waccamaw) 
Now you can shop along Grape Road and eat at BLIMPIE. Once you have tasted one of our delicious subs, there's no turning back! Our subs are made with choice meats, real dairy cheese, and crisp vegetables. We make hot subs, cold subs and fresh garden salads, so come by and savor the BLIMPIE difference. Your world will never be the same! 
r-----a~;~-----,
I ........,... I I 1t4-a.~~· I 
I Bring this Ad to Our Wilshire Plaza Location and Receive a I 
1 FREE 
1 6" Re~ular Sub Sandwich*
I *When you purc~se and 6" BLIMPIE Sub & a Medium Soft Drink I 
FREE 6" REGULAR SUBS MUST BE OF EQUAL OR LESSER VALUE THAN I...SANDWICH PURCHASED CUSTOMER _______________ MUST PAy ANY SALES TAX DUE ...I 
1 Coupon valid only at BLIMPIE-WIIshire Plaza. Coupon Expires 10-30-96 1 
--------~-----------,~ -~-----~-~-------­
page 27 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 27, 1996 


VARSITY SHOP 



Located at theJoyce center with 2 locations. 
On the concourse (enter gate 1 or 2) and the fieldhouse (enter gate 3). 
·. 
. ' 

----~------~--------------------------------------------------------, 
page 28 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Pittsburgh says farewell to legend 
ByALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PITTSBURGH 
There's an old adage in baseball that some players don't learn how to say hello until it:s time to say goodbye. Jim Leyland found out Pittsburgh knows how to say goodbye. 
They cheered his every move in his final home game as the Pirates' manager, even when he pulled a couple of pitchers. Even after a four-hour game that nobody cared about, the ovation was so loud and lasted so long that two curtain calls were needed. 
All for a manager who is 13 games under .500 for his career and has never managed in a World Series. 
"I don't know if any of us will ever see anything like this again," St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said of the unrehearsed outpouring of emotion Wednesday for Leyland. "It was like the Cal Ripken game. You had to be here to really believe it." 
The 20,022 fans -three times what the Pirates usually would attract for a midweek home game in September ­simply wouldn't let go at the end of the Cardinals' 8-7, 11­inning victory. It was almost as if they were pleading for him not to go. 
"That says it all," said Leyland, who cried during his post-game news conference. "It was unbelievable." 
Leyland will leave Pittsburgh to manage a contending club, probably the Florida Marlins. 
"I know exactly how the fans feel," Pirates shortstop Jay Bell said. "It just shows you now much the people here love and respect Jim. He's given his whole heart and soul to this community. I think we all fi­nally realize how much Jim means to the city of Pittsburgh." 
Leyland was glad he turned down the Pirates' request for a staged event, because the fans' tribute was so genuine an_d heartfelt 
"As great as people think he is, he's more than that," said La Russa, who gave Leyland his first major league job as .a coach in 1982. "I know Whitey (Herzog)' was popular in St. Louis, but I don't think any manager has ever been loved like that." 
On a night rarely duplicated in baseball, there were a few special touches and some tears for the man with the longest tenure of any .current major league manager or pro­fessional coach, but no formal ceremony. 
Leyland turned down the Pirates' request for a pregame tribute. 
"I didn't want anything spe­cial, and I don't think we need­ed a stage to show the emo­tions that I saw tonight," Leyland said. 
There was a salute from President Clinton during a fifth-inning scoreboard tribute that drew a loud standing ova­tion, and even the visiting Cardinals exited their dugout to tip their hats in tribute to one of baseball's most popular managers. 
"I don't want this to be a sad night," said Leyland, whose 847-859 record does not accu­rately reflect his impact upon the Pirates or the city. ''I've had a great time here, and I don't know if any manager has a better relationship with the fans than I do." 
Even if he tried to hide it, it was an emotional time for Leyland. As he drove to the baUpark, his eyes welled with tears as he spotted a huge bust of himself that a neighbor erected on his front lawn. 
"It is a sad day," Pirates left fielder AI Martin said. "Jim Leyland means so much to the Pirates, to Pittsburgh and to the fans. Nobody represents Pittsburgh and the Pirates bet­ter than Jim Leyland does." 
Leyland denied he already has a deal with the Marlins, despite his friendship with general manager Dave Dombrowski and owner H. Wayne Huizenga. 
"Everybody has me going to Florida, but I don't know," Leyland said. "People would' think I'm crazy. I'd be the only guy in the world who spends summer in Florida and winter in Pittsburgh." 

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 27, 1996 
Padres prepare for key series 
By BERNIE WILSON 
AssociJted Press Writer 

SAN DIEGO Reliever Doug Bochtler care­fully packed his lucky green ·Padres cap Thursday for the 
trip to Los Angeles. 

"Gotta do it," said Bochtler, 
who's brought out the St. 
Patrick's Day spring training 
special a few other times this 
year, including the last time 
the Padres went to Dodger 
Stadium. 

This time is quite a bit differ­
ent, and the Padres need more 
than lucky icons in a three­
game series starting Friday 
that will decide the NL West. 
"It's something you wait 
your whole life for, to be in a 
pennant race," said right-han­
der Andy Ashby, who will start 
Saturday night's game. "It's 
just weird how it comes down 
the last three games." 

Three games the Padres 
must win to clinch the NL West 
title, which is the way they'd 
prefer to enter the playoffs. 
The Dodgers and Padres 
split a four-game series in San 
Diego last weekend. While the 
Dodgers beat San Francisco on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, the 
Padres fell 2 1/2 games back 
by losing two to the Colorado 
Rockies, who are 28-53 on the 
road and came up with three 
big home runs. 

"We have no excuses," Tony 
Gwynn said Thursday after a 
voluntary workout under 
gloomy skies. "They beat us. 
Now we face the worst-case 
scenario to win the division. 
It's not going to be easy, but 
it's the ultimate challenge." 
Regardless of the outcome of 
Thursday night's Giants­
Dodgers game, the Padres 
need a sweep to win the divi­
sion. 

American League  w  
Baltimore  86  
Seattle  84  
iChieago  84  
Boston  82  
:National League  w  
!san Diego  88  
!Montreal  86  

In the wild-card race, San Diego needed a combination of three wins or Montreal losses to clinch. If the Padres and Expos finished tied, San Diego would be host for a playoff game Monday. 
Of course, the Padres could end up being eliminated alto­gether. 
"After 159 games, you'd think you'd feel pretty good about your chance to be in the postseason," said Gwynn, who's closing in on his seventh NL batting title. "I haven't been able to sleep well, I've been paranoid and I've been watching the CNN sports tick­er. 
"If we can get in, everybody will be happy," he said. "If not, it will be the longest win­ter in thB history of the Padres' organization. To grind it out and not go to the postseason would be awful." 
Gwynn, Steve Finley, Ken Caminiti and few other Padres came out to hit Thursday at soggy Jack Murphy Stadium. The Padres have lost five of their last six games following days off. and want to be ready for the Dodgers. 
The. Padres also lost their comeback touch both Tuesday and Wednesday, failing to drive in runners in crucial 
Wild Card Glance 
L Pet. GB 
72 .544 73 .535 1 1/2 75 .528 

~112_ _;11
76 .519 

''1'· 
L  Pet.  .  GB /  ~.4  ·;  
71 72  .553 .554  AP  --1-'1 1/2 lJj' ,  /  

late-inning situations. 

Gwynn couldn't explain why the Padres were flat against the Rockies. 
"Guys know what's at stake," he said. "Maybe it's better that we go on the road. People are pressing a little bit. That's no excuse, but at home you want to try to keep pace. The boos will be easier to take on Friday." 
Ashby, who beat the Dodgers 3-2 on Sunday, was loose Thursday. He brought a new titanium driver down onto the field and hit a golf ball out of the stadium. 
"J think everyone's fine," Ashby said. "Everyone knows what they have to do. If we go up there and play the way we can, I think we'll be all right." 
The Padres open the series with two of their three hard­est-throwing pitchers, Scott Sanders (9-5) on Friday against Ismael Valdes (15-7) and Ashby (9-6) against Hideo Nomo {16-11). 
If postseason chances hinge on Sunday's game, the Padres will consider bringing back Joey Hamilton {15-9), who lost Wednesday night, on three days' rest. 
Otherwise, former Dodgers star Fernando Valenzuela (13­
8) would pitch on Sunday. 


Join DAMON'S and Woody from WAOR for a Tailgate Party September 28th 12:30 p.m. 
Stop by for game day party packs or Stay to enjoy the food and fun! 
DAMON'S Clubhouse 52885 U.S. 31/33 North (Just North of the Toll Road) 272-5478 
~ -~--~ 

~----------~.-----------~------------------------------------~-------------~ ~ ---~­
page 29 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
State drops charges against Miami's Perry 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Miami offensive tackle lUcky Perry may begin prac­ticing with the team again on Monday after prosecutors dropped three of four crimi­nal charges against him. 
But Perry will be barred from games because of the remaining charge against him, eoach Buteh Davis said Thursday. 
If he is cleared of that charge, Perry would be al­lowed to play in games but eould not start. 
Perry, 23, passed a poly­graph exam last week that apparently supported his claim of innocence in the two most serious charges against him. Police said he held a gun under the chin of an Opa-locka man last November whom he accused of stealing money from his car. 
Prosecutors on Wednesday dropped charges of aggra­vated assault and aggra­vated battery. 
The state will drop the remaining charge against him, a third-degree felony for carrying a concealed firearm, if he successfully completes the terms of a firearm intervention pro­gram, which were agreed to by prosecutor Kathleen Iloague and Perry's lawyer, Mark Hildebrandt. 


Bidwell's team returns to face Rams, angry fans 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press Writer 
ST. LOUIS 
For this once-jilted city, Sunday isn't just one of 16 game dates. 
The St. Louis Hams are being counted on to whip Bill Bidwill, who took the Cardinals to Arizona eight years ago. It's the first time in the era of fran­chise free agency a city that lost its NFL team got a chance to take a shot at a perceived carpetbagger who left them with empty Sundays. 
"The fans are looking for blood," defensive tackle D'Marco Farr said. "Everybody from St. Louis, whenever you meet them, they always end the sentence or a conversation with 'You've got to kill those Cardinals!' " 
Bidwill is a villain in these parts for taking the Cardinals west after squabbling with political leaders for years over his desire for a new stadium. Left in his wake were confusion and desperation. 
St. Louis unsuccessfully chased an expansion franchise, losing out to Charlotte and Jacksonville as prospective ownership groups fizzled. Then the city lured the Rams last year with a new $280 million domed stadium and millions of dollars in other incentives. 
Bidwill has said many times he'd have stayed in St. Louis The Observer· SPORTS Friday, September 27, 1996 

NFL Cards back in St. Louis < 
for a lot less than it took the 
city to get the Rams. 
But he was gone eight years 
before the Rams came to St. 
Louis, and to add further 
insult, Cardinals games were 
carried on TV in St. Louis for 
several years after the move to 
remind people what they were 
missing. 
It hasn't been good football, considering Arizona's 45-87 record since leaving town, in­cluding 1-3 this year. but still it was football. 
So, Farr said the only better scenario this weekend would be a home game. 
"When they come up here, whenever they do, then it will be a serious grudge match," Farr said. "But this is a battle for St. Louis. We own the Arch now and we have to prove it." 
Farr, however, was the exception to the rule on both teams when it came to Bidwill history. Most of the Rams and Cardinals are only vaguely familiar with the situation. 
"That's when I was younger and anyway, I don't think I was even in the league," offensive guard Dwayne White said. "It's business for us. We don't get into all the hoopla, just like when you're in college, with homecoming, you're not in­volved in that." 
Cardinals coach Vince Tobin said he'd let the front office worry about the ramifications of his team facing the city it abandoned. 
''I'm sure ownership is very aware that it's the new St. Louis against the old St. Louis, but all the coaches and players don't have that past experience to go on." 
The impact might be less­ened in that so much time has passed. No players and no staff, aside from vice president Larry Wilson and two public relations assistants, remain from the 7-8 team -one game was cancelled by the strike ­coached by Gene Stallings. Long gone are Neil Lomax, Stump Mitchell, Roy Green and 
E.J. Junior. 
Wilson, who had a Hall of Fame career with the Cardinals in St. Louis, isn't fired up at all. 
"I don't think it creates the same situation as when we play Dallas," Wilson said. "To me, the. Cardinals and Cowboys have always had an intense ri­valry. This one won't be the same thing." 

<
Ed Watkins, a fan who found­ed "Keep the Birds in Their Nest" to try to keep Bidwill from moving in the 1980s, has moved on. Now he has five Hams personal seat licenses and, though plenty of his friends can't wait to get back at Bidwill, he has no hard feel­ings. 
"A lot of people are going to feel like there's a lot at stake," Watkins said. "But fans are fans. A couple weeks ago any of the Hams could have been elected to Congress and then they lost to the 49ers and Hedskins. 
"I think when we got a team and got a stadium built, the victory over Bidwill had already happened." 
Of course, someday an L.A. team will get a crack at Georgia Frontiere for taking St. Louis' millions. 

Tim O'Neill 
Just back from Ireland • • • 

You won't believe his newest album. 
See and hear Tim O'Neill play the piano in front ofthe ND Bookstore this weekend. 
Tim O'Neill is a '94 ND grad who lived in Ireland for three months. His latest album, The Meeting ofthe Waters, has a full hour ofrelaxing solo piano Irish melodies that you will love listening to again and again. For info call (612) 888-3487 
-~~-----------~-----------~-------------------------­
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 30 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
AL playoff picture becomes clearer 
By ROB GLOSTER eighth began a three-run The Mariners had taken a 2-Bobby Bonds in 1973. Mariners, who lost 7-5 at Associated Press Writer Seattle rally. "It's tough any 0 lead on Mark Whiten's solo Baltimore made it 4-0 in the Oakland on Thursday. time, but especially now homer in the second and Dave fourth. Rafael Palmeiro hit a John Burkett (5-2) allowed OAKLAND, Calif. because it's the last four Hollins' RBI single in the double, Bobby Bonilla walked seven hits and five runs in 7 2­
Norm Charlton sat sullenly in games." fourth. and Ripken followed with a 3 innings. Mike Stanton got a corner of the clubhouse, Bill Taylor (6-3) got the final Seattle starter Jamie Moyer drive that landed just inside two outs in the ninth and Mike nursing a beer and staring into six outs for the A's. allowed three runs in five-plus the left-field foul pole. Henneman finished for his 31st space. He spoke softly as The Mariners had rallied in innings. Don Wengert gave up Ripken's 26th home run of save, getting Gary DiSarcina somber Seattle teammates the eighth on a long homer by two runs in six innings for the the season gave him 102 RBis, on a liner to left with runners whispered a few feet away. Griffey and a couple of weak A's. making him the fourth Oriole at first and second. 
The Mariners' playoff hopes grounders. this season to drive in at least Jim Abbott (2-18) scattered dimmed Thursday as the Griffey led off with a homer 100 runs. No Baltimore team eight hits in eight innings, but
ORIOLES 4,

Oakland Athletics scored four deep into the left-center has ever had more than three was hurt by three Angels er­
BLUE JAYS 1

runs in the eighth inning, three stands. With the bases loaded players with 100 RBis. rors. off Charlton, to win 7-5 and later in the inning, Hollins Coppinger, meanwhile, faced Trailing 3-0, the Rangers
TORONTO
deepen Seattle's late-season chopped a ball off the plate the minimum through the first scored four runs in the third 
Brady Anderson hit his 48th
stumble. that went for an RBI single and six innings. Alex Gonzalez dou­inning helped by two Angels
home run and Cal Ripken
"We had the game won right Dan Wilson followed with a bled to right in the third but miscues. 
added a three-run shot as the
there. I came in and screwed it run-scoring groundout. was thrown out trying to Ivan Rodriguez's RBI double 
Baltimore Orioles reduced
up," Charlton said. "I didn't do Terry Steinbach's first career stretch it into a triple, and Joe scored one run, and center 
their magic number in the
my job and we lost the game." inside-the-park homer had Carter reached on a strikeout fielder Darin Erstad dropped
wild-card race to two by beat­
The Mariners, who have lost given the A's a 3-2 lead in the in the fifth but was caught Rusty Greer's sacrifice fly ball 
ing the Toronto Blue Jays 4-1
four of five after going on a 10-sixth. stealing. as another run scored. Juan 
Thursday night.

game winning streak to pull Steinbach's 34th homer In the seventh, Shawn Green Gonzalez reached when third 
The victory, combined with
back into playoff contention, bounced off the fence, just singled and took third on a baseman Randy Velarde let a 
Seattle's 7-5 loss to Oakland
began the day 2 1/2 games beyond the reach of leaping two-out double by Carter, but grounder roll between his legs,
earlier in the day, means any
behind Texas in the AL West right fielder Jay Buhner. Coppinger struck out Ed allowing another run to score. 
combination of Baltimore wins
and 1 1/2 behind Baltimore in Buhner slammed into the wall .Sprague. Notes: The loss ended Will Clark's sacrifice fly made 
and Seattle losses totaling two
the race for the AL wild card. and tumbled to the ground, Toronto's three-game winning it 4-3. 
would put the Orioles in the AL
The Rangers hosted spraining his ankle, as the ball streak. The Blue Jays are 3-7 Another error by the Angels
playoffs for the first time since
California Thursday night rolled back into mid-right field. against Baltimore this season. in the fourth -California's 
1983.

while the Orioles played in Second baseman Joey Cora The Orioles now have 253 third-gave Texas a S-3 lead. 
Baltimore's win eliminated
Toronto. finally retrieved the ball as home runs this season, includ­Mark McLemore was safe 
Boston from the wild-card race
After scoring three runs in Steinbach chugged around ing 93 since July 30. when Velarde booted his 
and left the Chicago White Sox
the top of the eighth to take a third, but his throw was too grounder, and stole second. He 
clinging to a mere thread of
S-3 lead, the Mariners gave the late as Steinbach scored stand­moved to third on Kevin lead right back. Mike Jackson ing up. hope. If Baltimore wins one of RANGERS 6, Elster's infield single and 
its final three games or
opened the inning by walking "As I'm getting to third, I see scored on Hamilton's ground­
ANGELS 5 

Chicago loses one, the idle
Mark McGwire and striking out (coach) Duffy (Dyer) still going out. White Sox are gone.
Terry Steinbach. Charlton (4-7) and I'm thinking 'no way.' I Texas made it 6-3 in the
ARLINGTON, Texas
Rookie right-hander Rocky
walked left-handed pinch-hit­was out of breath," Steinbach sixth when McLemore singled
The Texas Rangers took ad­
Coppinger (10-6) took a three­
ter Matt Stairs and Scott said. "When the second base­and Elster hit a triple.
vantage of shoddy California
hit shutout into the ninth
Spiezio loaded the bases with man has to run to right field, Rex Hudler's 16th homer in
fielding to clinch at least a tie
before giving up a run with
an infield single off the glove of that does a lot of explaining the seventh inning brought the
for a playoff spot with a 6-5
one out. He allowed five hits,
third baseman Dave Hollins. right there." Angels within 6-4, and they
win Thursday night over the
struck out seven and walked
Charlton then struck out The homer gave the A's 241 added a run in the eighth on
Angels.

none in improving to 4-0
Ernie Young, but forced in a homers, making them the third Tim Salmon's run-scoring sin­
Texas can win its first divi­
against the Blue Jays this sea­
run by walking Mike Bordick. team this year to surpass the gle.
sion title by winning any of its 
Tony Batista followed with a old mark of 240 homers set by son. California built its 3-0 lead
final three games or if second­
Jesse Orosco and Armando
two-run single to right on an the 1961 New York Yankees. on Garret Anderson's two-run
place Seattle loses any of its
Benitez finished up with
0-an-2 count to knock out The Mariners and Orioles ear­homer in the second, his 12th,
four remaining games. The
Benitez getting his fourth save.
Charlton and give Oakland the lier broke the record. and Salmon's RBI single in the
Rangers have a 3 1/2-game
Last Saturday in Baltimore,
lead. It also was Steinbach's 33rd third.
lead in the AL West over the
Toronto starter Woody
Only 10 of the 22 pitches homer this season as a catch­
Williams (4-5) pitched no-hit
Charlton threw were for er, tying the AL record set by 
ball through five innings. This
strikes. Carlton Fisk for the Chicago 
time, the Orioles needed only 
USED FURNITURE
"I walk a lefty and I walk a White Sox in 1985. 
three pitches to get on the
guy like Bordick, that's "They didn't even have a 
Household I terns -Clothing
scoreboard against the 30­
absolutely ridiculous. And play on him. He didn't even 
year-old right-hander.

when I go 0-and-2 on some­have to slide," said A's manag­
® The Salvation Army Thrift Store
Anderson opened the first in­
body, they should be a strike­er Art Howe. "Guys were try­
ning by hitting a 2-1 pitch off 
•out, not just an out," CharltQn ing to get him oxygen." 
506 South Main Street
the foul pole in right field. It
said. "It wasn't the hit that The A's scored their first two 
was the 11th time this season 
South Bend, IN 46601
killed me, it was the walks runs on Brian Lesher's RBI 
Store Hours

that Anderson led off a game 
10%

before." groundout in the fourth and 
with a home run, tying the 
Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty

Rafael Carmona came in and Geronimo Berroa's bases­
#288-2539

major-league record set by 
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. Discount With l.D. of Scott Brosius for a wild pitch and the seventh Oakland run. "It's real tough any time you have a see-saw loss," said Ken 
Griffey Jr., whose 49th homer leading off the top of the 
threw a pitch behind the head loaded sacrifice fly in the fifth. 

September 30-0ctober 4., 1996 
all 
estival 
MEXICO 
Sponsored by:
CITY 
$195 
Multicultural Executive Council 
For every difference that makes us
Guatemala $249 
Costa Rica $249 
unique, there is a con1n1on thread Tokyo $434 
which connects us all. We share
Hong Kong $434 
Bangkok $478 
the need for home and communi­
FAAES ARE EACH WAY FROM IND!ANAPOUS BASED ON A 
PURCHASE. FARES DO NOT INCLUD£ FEDERAL TAXES OR PFCS 
ty, for love and respect. May these 
TOTALING BETWEEN $3-$45, DEPENDING ON DESTINATION OR 
DEPARTURE CHARGES PAID DIRECTLY TO FORHGN GOVERNMENTS. 
common threads form a beautiful
IH!liiitpll Travel ~ 
world in which all people and all
National Reservation Center 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
( 1-800-226-8624) 
cultures are honored. 
http://www.ciee.orgltravel.htm 
EUROPASS FROM $21 
EURAIL PASSES 
A Week-long Celebration! 
AVAILABLE BY PHONE! 

---------~-------~----------------·--­
page 31 The Observer • SPORTS 
.NBA 
Whining Mourning rips Stern 
Associtcd Press 
MIAMI 
Miami Heat center Alonzo Mourning blames NBA com­missioner David Stern for the failure of the deal that would have brought Juwan Howard to the Ileal. 
"David Stern stuck his foot in thn door and is the onn who blew this up," Mourning told The Palm Beach Post for today's editions. "This was a vendetta against Pat Hilny. No question. 
"People in New York did not want to see Pat do well (in Miami) so soon. Within a ynar's time he would havn had a great ball club. They didn't \"ant to see that. They didn't want to see him leave New York in 'the cold and have a great team in 11 months." 
The collapse of the deal kept Mourning, who is entering his second season with the Heat, from playing alongside a close friend and a 6-foot-9 All-Star forward. Mourning was linked to the investigation when the league claimed his deal was sealed before Howard's, thus reducing Miami's money under the cap. Howard then re­signed with the Washington Bullets. 
"I hadn't agreed to any deal," Mourning said. "There are several ways you can structure a deal of that caliber, and I hadn't agreed to any way. 
"There were preconceived notions on my deal a long time 

Teach for Kaplan 
If you've already aced your standardized tests (at least 95th percentile) and are a dynamic, entertaining presenter, you may have what It takes to audition to become a Kaplan instructor. If you're 011e of the chosen few, you'll enter our rigorous training program-and come out a Kaplan starl 
• 
Good pay 

• 
Flexible, part-time houra • 150 loc8tlons nationwide 

• 
Lots of fun In a supportive, high energy learning environment 


For more information 
Call Stacy Cody (219) 272-4135 
AUDITlONS WILL TAKE PLACE 
APRIL 29 @ 7 PM! 

take the inside track to grad school admissions 
Come to a free Kaplan seminar 
... and learn how to overcome these hurdles: 
• 
school selection 

• 
entrance exams 

• 
personal statements 

• 
recommendations 


Thursday, October loth, 7:00pm-9:00pm Debartolo Hall, room 131, Notre Dame University Graduate 7-Spm Business 8-9pm 
Space is limited! Call today to reserve your seat 
KAPLAN. 
1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
ago. Use common sense: If I turn down $11, $12 million from Charlotte, expecting more going to another team, then I'm going to get $12 million and up. I didn't have to say anything." 
Mourning and Howard both live in the Washington, D.C., area. When Howard was given $105 million by the Bullets, he joined Mourning and the Lakers' Shaquille O'Neal as the only three players in the histo­ry of team sports whose con­tracts exceeded $100 million. 
Mourning, 26, is looking for­ward to the opening of training camp next week. He's consid­ered one of the best players in the game and, as he says, "My children's children's children are set." · 
Still, he knows he has some­thing to prove. He was criti­cized for his performance in Chicago's three-game sweep of Miami. After two games, he had more turnovers (13) than rebounds (10) and was averag­ing 13 points, far below his season's average of 23.2. Mourning finished with a 30­point, eight-rebound perfor­mance in Game 3, but the series left many wondering if he is a player around whom a championship team can be built. 
'"Zo is a very smart person," Riley said. "He was crushed by the loss, and he really did get a lot of unfair criticism for not being able to carry this team on his back against one of the greatest teams in the history of the game." 
And Mourning is learning a new game -fatherhood ­from Alonzo III. 
The center is a private per­son -he prefers the name of his fiancee not be printed ­but he perks up when talking about the baby. 
"That overall experience, watching the birth, just waiting up to that point, was the best thing that ever happened to me in my life," Mourning said. 
"I think it's easier to go up against Hakeem Olajuwon than to be a new father. Fatherhood has changed my sleeping habits, but I've had many plea­surable and entertaining times around my son. And I would trade everything else to have that." 
Friday, September 27, 1996 


Colts' crowds increase as team controls AFC 
Associated Preu 
INDIANAPOLIS 
With the Indianapolis Colts ofT to a perfect start, fans are galloping to the ticket office. 
The Colts took over undis­puted possession of first place in the AFC Eastern Division by defeating Miami 10-6. giving the team its first 4-0 start since 1977, when the fran­chise was located in Baltimore. 
Despite reaching the AFC title game last season and coming within one play of the Super Bowl. season-ticket sales did not increase signifi­cantly and the team's home opener against Arizona drew only 48,133 fans. Monday night's game was a sellout. The attendance of 60,891 was the largest home crowd since the franchise moved in 1984. 
Larry Hall, the team's ticket manager, reported Wednesday · that since Monday's victory "there's been a big increase in the demand for tickets and thoro is also an increase in en­thusiasm among people call­ing in for tickets." 
The team has a bye this week and its next home game is Oct. 13 when the Baltimore Ravens come to the RCA Dome. Hall reported that more than 1,100 tickets were sold for the game between Tuesday morning and Wednesday afternoon. About 3,600 more tickets had been sold for the team's other re­maining five home games in the same time period, Hall said. 
The average price for a Colts ticket in the 60,272-seat RCA dome is $30.40, which means the team grossed about $140,000 in ticket sales since Monday night. 
The Dec. 1 game with Buffalo had the fewest remaining tickets as of Wednesday, 11,851. The biggest supply was for the team's final home game, a Thursday night visit by Philadelphia on Dec. 5. There were 18,908 tickets availabJe for that game. ' 
Meanwhile, Hall said that the team learned of an arrest of someone selling counterfeit tickets for Monday's game. 
"Indianapolis police made an arrest of someone selling counterfeit tickets Monday night. It was the first incident of that type for us in 13 sea­sons at Indianapolis," Hall said. 
"That's a reason we caution people about buying on the street. When a person attempts to enter with a coun­terfeit ticket, that person is denied admission and it's like­ly the person who they gave their money to will be gone," he added. 
Police said Wednesday that Eric Almeida, 30, of Lithonia,' Ga., had been arrested on a charge of forgery and fraud and was being held in. the Marion County Jail in lieu of a $5,000 bond. He was sched­uled for an initial court appearance today. 
Almeida had 34 tickets to the game that were allegedly counterfeit and $1,190 in cash when he was arrested, police said. 
The arrest was made after an Indianapolis man com­plained that he bought four counterfeit tickets for $400 and identified Almeida as the person who had sold them to him, police said. 

HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS. 
A Panel Discussion Featuring the following Graduate Students: 
Takatoshi lchino  .. Japan  
Xinyu Li  .. China  
Faustina Pereira  .. Bangladesh  
Jose Rodriguez  .. Venezuela  

Facilitated by Dr. Dominic Vachon 
This Sunday, Sept. 29 4:00 .. 5:00pm Fischer Graduate Residences Community Center 
0

ALL WELCOME! 
Sponsored by: Fischer Q,hara Grace, University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 32 
Super Sunday to commence at Stepan 
Zahm, Alumni, 
"// rght
Carr0II Wl tl 
to stay unbeaten 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON Sports Writer 
There is no doubt on campus that this is the biggest football weekend of the year. This Sunday, IH football will cap off a hectic football weekend with key early season games. 
Zahm (1-0) vs. Carroll (1-0) 
This could be the game of the day, as these teams are coming off of impressive victo­ries. 
On Zahm's side of the ball, look for a straight-ahead rush­ing attack and a impressive defensive line. 
The offense in last week's game against Fisher gained few yards, but the running game was key in bringing Zahm within range to score the winning field goal. Coach Jerry Fitzpatrick will depend heavily on the ground game after a lackluster aerial attack. 
Defensively, Zahm looked al­most infallible. The run de­fense was key in keeping Fisher from scoring after a Zahm turnover. The sec­ondary also contributed to the Fisher shutout by keeping the Green Waves' passing game in check. 
Carroll is coming off a rather convincing 20-0 victory over St. Edward's last week. The Vermin's passing game served as the workhorse in their first game and will likely compose most of Carroll's offense. The running game, though limited in the first game, will also contribute to the Carroll offense. 
On defense, Carroll will seek to preserve their one game shutout streak. The defensive line allowed only a minimal of rushing yards against St. Edward's. The secondary was also impressive in keeping the opposing offense from gaining yardage in long pass plays. 
s!~~!~:~~s(~~o~} 

This game could go a long way in determining the direc­
~~~~ :~=~~;~ams will be taking 
St. Edward's is coming off of a rather disappointing 20-0 loss to Carroll last week. Offensive production was at a minimum. This could improve this week if the running game can continue to show the improvement they did at the end of last week's game. 
Defense will be essential in 
St. Ed's chances for victory 
this Sunday. After a disas­
trous start last week, the 
defense regained composure 
and shut out Carroll for the 
rest of the game. The defen­
sive line is strong and will 
serve as a vital part in 
containing the Alumni running 
game. 

The Alumni Bulldogs come in this week after a rather nervous win against O'Neill. The running game, which gained the most yardage last week, will again do the most ofthe work on the offensive side of the ball. The passing game never did get much of a chance to prove itself last week, so that aspect of Alumni's game still remains untested. 
Defensively, Alumni looked alny>sJ perfect against O'Neill. The~efensive line shut O'Neill down for the first three quar­\ers of play. However, O'Neill's chance at late game heroics proved that Alumni's 
dfiensive line will need to 
w rk all four quarters to shut d wn St. Edward's. The A umni secondary worked well t roughout the game and c me up huge in preserving the/Alumni victory. 
Sorin <q-O) vs. O'Neill (0-1} 
For Sorin, who had a bye 
during ~eek one, this will be 
opening day. For O'Neill this 
will be a chance to continue 
the improvement shown by the 
Angry Mob towards the end of 
last week',s 6-0 loss to Alumni. 
The O'Neill offense will stay 
on the ground in week two, 
considering that the rushing 
CHESAPFAKE 
BAGFI1 BAKFRY.
l 


•
Fresh Baked Bagels 

•
Homemade Soups & Salads 

•
Hot & Cold Deli Sandwiches 

• 
Gourmet Coffees 

• 
Cappuccino & Espresso 



Road 
I 
N.MaiaSc. 

5920 Grape Road, Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Phone: 219-272-9415 • Fax: 219-272-7775 
' --='='··YM,fu:?~L·., ·~.:~~-:-··:
r--------------"'!'___W)II,..,_.--., r------~·-.:-...--------~~',7-t,,
! Free,, !!ca 
::,::,·::;"·.
I .· .. ···. <w;., II /#i:

l B~~;t ~e~/:~:;~~ ,,( Ii··w 
1 
lesser value l l 
1 
I I

I 1 FREE. :I 1 Must be presented at time of 1 l I purchase. Not valid with other I I l offers of promotions. qll~ pel: 1 1 : customer. Valid only at Gtape ' 1 1 Road. EXPIRES 12/J1/96 ·. I 1 
t..--------------------""!"1'-.....J L.---..:~--------·------~.-.~ 
r~:;o~~t~ot:~OA;~~%ib~;:,~~ 
last week's game. After earlymiscues, the Angry Mob run-
f~~; ;:e~et~~~ks solid coming 
The passing game came up short at the end of last week's defeat, but improvement was evident. This could be impor­tant in the third and long situ­ations that were keys in last week's game. 
Defensively, O'Neill had one glaring mistake in last week's game, one touchdown given up to Alumni. For the rest of the game, O'Neill would not allow Alumni any substantial drive. The key for O'Neill's chance for victory this week will be whether or not the Angry Mob allows any more early game mistakes. 
Sorin has a definite advan­tage with an extra week of preparation. Offensively, Sorin will seek to use the rush to move the ball against the O'Neill line. 
Experience is the key fac­tor for the Sorin team, as they will try to draw O'Neill into defeating themselves with penalties and defensive mishaps. 
Defensively, Sorin will attempt to use a strong defen­sive line to stop the O'Neill running attack. The sec­ondary will also have the task of covering O'Neill's danger­ous receiving corps. 
Stanford hopes to rebound 
By CHARLEY GATES 
SportsWriter 

In the opening interhall games last weekend, Stanford and Planner combined for three points while surrender­ing forty. They also committed a total of eight turnovers and were penalized nine times for 65 yards. When these teams square off on Sunday, however, they will attempt to shrug off those sluggish initial perfor­mances and to play fundamen­tally sound football. 
For Studs to remain competi­tive, quarterback Mar Rule must settle down and make better decisions than he did last week when he tossed four interceptions. For the Gamecocks, they need to find a way to sustain a drive long enough to put the ball in the endzone. Against Off-campus their drives stalled because of penalties and offensive mis­cues. 
Dillon vs. Off-campus 
In last week's games, the Off-campus Crime shut out its opponent, but the Dillon Big Red gave up three touchdowns. The Crime also lit up the scoreboard for nineteen points while Dillon couldn't manage any. At this cursory glance, it appears the Crime will garner their second victory on Sunday 
atJ~fr:~p~~s=r~~~h;a~i~ ~e:~tt 
Lupo and tailback John Mele ravaged the Planner defense with the option last week. For Dillon to have a legitimate chance of winning this football game, their defense must de­vise a strategy to stop this po­tent attack. 
The Big Red also must achieve consistency on offense and score to keep the Crime from gaining an overwhelming amount of defensive momen­tum. 
Morrissey vs. Keough 
While Keough did not play last week, the Morrissey Manor roared to a 21-0 victory over the Dillon Big Red. The Manor's ground attack is very impressive. With solid running performances last week from fullback Brian Tilley and tail­back Mark Tate, the Manor marched up and down the field and wore down the Dillon de­fense. For the untested Keough squad, the big question will be if they can slow down Tilley and Tate. 
An ignored statistic in Morrissey's rout last week is the fact that they turned the ball over three times, all on in­terceptions from quarterback John Polk. 


3n ~emorM <Df Henri J. M. Nouwen 
January 24, 1932-September 21, 1996 
Eucharist Thursday, October 3 at 5:00 PM Holy Cross Chapel Keenan -Stanford Hall 
Reception to follow in Keenan Commons 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
....--~----~-~ 
~---·-·-­
page 33 The Observer· INTERHALL FOOTBALL Friday, September 27, 1996 
Howard defense will set BP prepares to face Cavanaugh 
tone for rest of season By PATTY ANN HANLAN not defensive play, does not think the new rules 
and MEGHAN O'BRIEN will help prevent injuries on the field. Obs~rver Sraff Report The Siegfried llalf IH football Sports Writers The new rulings have not hurt BP, who defP.at­team is shaping up for a promis­ed Farley in a scrimmage WcdnP.sday. The 
This ynar, lloward's dt>fnnse is ing season. With a team com­With nine returning players and thirteen Banshees next challfmge is will be Cavanaughono to bo roekonml with. LPd by posed mainly of freshmen and fresh new faces, the Breen-Phillips inter-hall Hall.
safdy Knrry Van Vorris. tho seniors, their aggressive play football team prepares to improve on last year'sSfH:ondary should shut down makes them a good candidate 
0-6 record. PASQUERILLA EASTopposing passing gamns. for the championship. 
l.irwhacknr Anne O'Brien and The squad, which practices five days a
Last year the Slammers con­the mst. of thn front linn look to centrated on rebuilding, result­week, opened its season on The Pasqurilla East Pyros hope shut down the run. The defense ing in a record that did not re­September 7 with fifty-five ~ ~ tO COntinue the SUCCeSS tlHl 
is nxpnrinncnd at all positions flect their young talent. This Banshees. Now down to 22 ~~ , .~...;.. team enjoyed last season. and capabl1~ of making big year, though, they have many players, the team is develop-" ~With a win Tuesday night over plays. returning seniors and two 
ing its ball-handling skills, Off-Campus in their season
Thorn snems to be no short­"great" eoaehes, Mike Gavigan 
agility, and anticipation with opener, it is obvious that the 
ago of spend and quickness in and Brendan Hughes. 
help from senior coaches Mark Pyros are ready to make to to the
tlw of'fnnsive attack for this In addition, senior Maria Y'~ar's team. This season, the Freiberger promises to be a Teaken and Tim Irwin, sopho­L finals again this season. Ducks' strnngth scorns to be in "terror on defense", says more Brian Shannon, and fresh­Despite Off-Campus' strong llw backfield. H11turning from Slammer quarterback Jen men Kevin Shannon. The coaches have con­defense, sophomore A1me Searle ran in on an last ynar's tt~am are running Laurie. Another standout on centrated on developing offensive plays. option play in the first half and scored, giving a backs Megan Mizenko and the field is Tricia Schafnitz, a The small size of the team supports unity and 6-0 victory for the Pyros. Nicolo Torrado. To complement senior runnlngbaek. allows the core players to really develop their The PE football team comprised of 30 mem­
this superior rushing attack, the The Slammers have high skills, according to senior co-captain Katie bers is led under the leadership of co-captainsDucks possess a solid receiving hopes for this year's season, McNally, who is optimistic about the season. Kristen Tate and Christy Oleniczak. 
corps that might be too tough their last in Siegfried Hall before McNally along with senior co-captain Kate When asked to comment on the team and the
for opposing defensive back­their 1997 move to West Quad. 
Wildasin disagree with the new non-contact win over Off-Campus, Tate responded, "Both
liclds to eontain. Erin Drehobl voices one of these 
t\11 signs point to success for goals. rules being enforced. "The game under the new Off-Campus and PE are talented teams. The lloward this season. Both "Siegfried would like to make rules doesn't represent the athletic _style that offense had to work really hard to move the ball offense and the defense arc in the transition to their new dorm we're used to," says McNally, who adds that around due to the field conditions. Overall, PE place for success. In the opinion by playing in the new stadium". most of the team members have athletic back­is a very unified team and has the ability to read of captain Jen Cobb, the Ducks For now, Siegfried will be play­grounds and are used to contact sports. other teams well. I'm sure we'll do great this 
should be "one of the front run­ing its games at Stepan Field; 
McNally, who attributes injuries to accidents, season." 
ners in the hunt for the title." their opener is this week. 


Fa BOOKMARKET I 
Wilshire Plaza • Mishawaka 'ft 219/243-9062 (Former "House of Fabrics" between "Sam's" & "Waccamaw Pottery") STORE HOURS Mon-Sotl OAM-9PM /Sun 12PM-6PM 

PRE GAME OFF CAMPUS PARTY 
A.K.A. PHAT FRIDAY's OFF CAMPUS PARTY NIGHT 
Featuring: 
George and the Freeks 
21 and over with proper ID, Uniform Security provided both inside and outside 
Coming Friday October 4TH 
THE SI<ALCOHOLII<S BAND 7 PCS BAND WITH HORNS 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • INTERHALL FOOTBALL page 34 
..... 
Hey, are you ready for some Interhall? 
'Chickens' show skill, eagerly await challenges 
By NICOLE JOHNSON 
SportS Writer 
With the 3-0 start of the Varsity football team, it seems only natural those fans not content with merely the spectator position choose to play for their dorms. These enthusiastic contests launch every dorm into the throws of football fever and there is no dorm who could call them­selves more enthusiastic than the Lewis Chickens. 
Don't let the name fool you, this team's ready for any competitor. After last year's season in which Lewis went quite far in the playoffs, the Chickens are looking to go all the way in this year's tour­nanment. 
Sophomore Jill Palmer, re­turning split end and Athletic Commissioner for has high hopes for the year's team. "We want to play hard as a team...and hopefully win." 
Captain Angie Auth agrees, placing her faith in the rela­tively young team. With only one other senior on the ros­ter, Auth will rely on her vet­eran defense and her ability to assemble a new offense led by returning quarterback Liz Talarico and offensive line­man Charlotte Kuchera. Key defensive players to look for are sophomores Dina Brick and Maureen Neville. 
Will the Chickens break new ground and earn a spot in the championship? Time will tell if Lewis can go all the way with hard work, dedica­tion, and a little good luck. 
PASQUERILA WEST 
The Purple Weasels from Pasquerilla West look to repeat their undefeated sea­son of last year. With no sig­nificant loss of players, junior co-captains Amy Crawford and Kelly McMahon are very confident this year's team could go all the way. 
"We have a very well rounded team," McMahon explains, "this year we've had a very strong showing from the freshmen." 
Key players for the Weasels this year will be juniors Mary Hepburn (DL), Allison Kreigel(RB), and Sophomores Amanda Cahill (DB) and Quarterback Liz McKillop. 
The Purple Weasels will faace off against rivals Pasquerilla East this Sunday in both team's season opener. Last year, PW edged by their opponents 7-6, a prelude to the fireworks sure to come. 
LYONS 

On the other side of the spectrum, the Lyons Hall team, losing ten of their starters from last season, begins the 1996-97 season with a new lineup and a new attitude. 
"This team's extremely different from last year", Captain Molly O'Shaughnessy says. Last year the 1994 champions did not fair so well in the regular seson, winning only three games. "This year is a new team... and now we're just playing football." 
Although the team is mostly newcomers, senior corner­back Maureen Hill and junior Quarterback Kathy Tschanz will try to bring the team's past glory back to life. Fresh off their win in pre-season play, Lyons will square off against Howard tonight. 
FARLEY 

Farley's Finest will try to be just that this year despite their initial probleJllS with the new tournament rules. 
"We have a lot of freshmen, 
and a lot of seniors, almost 
nobody in the middle", says· 
Captain Julie Shepard, "We 
hope to improve from last 
year ... we will depend on 
some strong leadership." 
The leadership for the Finest might come from run­ning back Camille Clinton and defensemen Kelly Shannon and Tiffiny Buki. 
Shepard hopes to make it 
all the way to the playoffs 
this year. 


Home of the Original Stuffed Pizza 
"Offering a wide variety of fine Italian foods and pizza" Able to accommodate large groups 
Lunch Hours: 
Tues.-Fri. 11:00 AM-2:00 PM 
Dinner Hours: 
Tues.-Sat. 4:00 PM-10:00 PM 
Located in Gold Plaza 2010 S. 11th, Niles (U.S. 31) (next to Carter Lumber) 
In Michigan, 2 miles north ofstate line 
Carry out available 
687-8595 
'Potent' Pangborn will threaten 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

The key word for Pangborn for this year is 'experience.' Almost half their team returns from last year. 
In the opinion of captain Stacy Baker, another word speaks volumes about their defense this season: "potent." 
The strength of this unit is the defensive line. The four girls that are bound tq wreck havoc on opposing offenses are Natasha Young, Michelle Kippes, Sara Phaler, and Jeannine Cuneo. This 'fearsome foursome' will be the anchor of a unit that could possibly shut out many an opponent this season. They are that good. 
The offense has what it takes to get the job done, and then some. Captain Baker plays cen­ter, and will be the blocker leading the way for dangerous running back Jessica Mayer. When they need a lot of yardage, Pangborn should look for speedy Amy Bosanic downfield. 
CAVANAUGH 
The naughty girls from Cavanaugh are back, and are hungry for success. Coming off a disap­pointing 1995 in which they finished at l-5, this year they think they have the pieces in places to make a run at the women's interhall title. 
The skill positions should be the strength of the offense for the 'Naugh. It all starts with quarter­back Katie King, quite possibly the most intense player in interhall this season. Once she has the ball, King has a wide variety of options. Either she can hand it off to speedy tailback Carrie Gulick, or she can drop back and look for one of her stud receivers. These include receiver Megan McNally and tight end Mary Stephens. 
On defense, the one to watch out for is Kate Caughlin, who is regarded as one of the team leaders. 
The 'Naugh is poised to make a run, and the players have the confidence that they accomplish a lot this season. 
"I think we can go all the way to the top," declared Gulick. 
BADIN 

The Badin Banshees are back, and they are on a mission. 
"Our goal is to end up in the stadium (site of the championship game), and we'll do everything we can to get there," proclaimed captain Fran Maloney. 
Maloney acknowledges that the going has been rough so far, partly because of the rules changes involving blocking. However, she stated, "It's al­ways a little rough, but everything comes togeth­er for the first game." 
In coach Todd Hanson's opinion, the pieces are in place to make this run. On offense, quarter­back Amber Simonik directs the attack. The most potent weapons at her disposal are running backs Katie Kirk and Stephanie So. 
On the other side of the ball, the defense should hold up its end of the bargain. This attacking scheme is led by captain Maloney and by Melissa Kolski. 
Knott rallies to shake losing image 
By HEATHER CAMPBELL 
Sports Writer 

Knott flag football has a repu­tation of being a bit deficient in the scoring department, as two years ago the Knott Angels scored their first goal, and last year the first dorm football game was won. 
This season, Knott commemo­rates her final year in existence as an women's dorm. Next year the ladies will be shifting over to West Quad to make new his­tory. This year, the ladies of Knott are looking only at suc­cess. 
With experienced upperclass­men and dynamic freshman entering the game this season, Knott has a strong defense to complement a tricky offense. 
The defensive linemen are as ruthless as the linebackers are quick. senior Angel Jen Green plays a smart linebacker who knows the game inside and out, and knows how to distract her opponents. Concentration is the key tool when playing against Green. Another returning play­er is junior Kristan Langan, positioned as running back. Juniors Siobhan O'Brien and MaryClare Kenny are the team's co-captains, both playing in the linebacker position. 
Intense Katy Vosswinkel, freshman, plays at the defensive back position; her speed and in­tensity will make a winning blur on the field. Courtney Blake has a powerful arm that she can show off in the QB position. 


TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 Saturday 10:00-5:00 
SUNDAY TALK RADIO 
. 

Student Government Speaks 
4:00-4:30 Student Body Presidents Seth and Megan 4:30-5:00 Class Chat 
Call and Participate! l-6400 
wvfi am640 
_ ........................... & ........ ~ 
•.e•t _, ••• ,., .. 
------------. 
,l 
,

,
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT , 

.-~ 
, ~ ' l 


The Place to go for ALL your Notre Dame sportswear & accessories! 
llow on Sale: C0111111e1110ra~iYe liD YS. OSU ~-shir~s! 
Lafortune Student Center (219) 631-8128 
Friday 12 pm -9 pm
IRISH 
EXPRESS 

Saturday 8 am -9 pm HOURS 
Sunday 9 am-3 pm 
Visit our SECOND location south of the stadiuml I ~ 
~ l 
I 
1 
I
We accept VISA, MasterCard and Discover i 1 
. 1 I 
I
I 

-lI I 

Friday, September 27, 1996

page 36 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Defending champs not focusing on future 
-" 
f 
..... 

between the Irish, 0-2-1. "Georgetown is a conference
Irish must Marquette has greatly game," commented Jarc. "We improved from last year. The beat them 10-0 last year. Golden Eagles are returning That is what happens when
first survive 
ten starters from last year. we come out and play hard." "Marquette is having a great They are returning all of
Eagles, Hoyas 
season this far," said assistant their starters," remarked coach Margaret Jarc. "They Petrucelli. "So they will have
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
are 5-l, and they have only more experience. They are a 
Spores Writer 
given up two goals thus far better team than they were into the season." last year."
Some might call this the 
The Irish believe that if they This week the team hascalm before the storm. 
play their game, they should been focusing on defense, try­The second-ranked women's 
excel. ing to get everything justsoccer team faces two 
"We definitely need to show right.
unranked opponents this 
up this weekend to play," said "We worked on defense
weekend at Alumni Field. 
Jarc. "Marquette has two throughout the field,"
Following this weekend is 
girls up front that do all the explained Boxx. "Also we arewhen the storm will hit. 
work for them. Also they going to try to use our outsideThe Irish are braced to take have a new coach who has halfbacks more." 
on three ranked teams in the revitalized the team." "We worked on more de­next two weeks. They head "Marquette has had a great fense," stated freshman Karasouth to play the No. 15 Duke 
season, their best start ever," Brown. "If we defend well as
Blue Devils and the top­
said head coach Chris a team it helps our attack."
ranked North Carolina Tar 
Petrucelli. "This weekend is a normalHeels next weekend. 
"Their goalkeeper is famil­building process of a team,"Following their Carolina 
iar to us, which should be Petrucelli said. "The defensetrip, the Irish are destined for helpful. She went to St. Joe's has to be solid. We are solid
California where they will 
and attended some of our in our defense, so we are
play the No. 16 Stanford. 
camps. They don't score a lot working on refining our at­
The team is focusing on 
of goals, so this could be a tack."
clinching victories in this 
tough game for us," he said. The team feels that the key
weekend's matchups first, 
Following their game for the weekend is playing up
then they will shift their 
against the Golden Eagles, the to their level. That level has
attention to the Blue Devils 
Irish will take on the been high recently after shut­and the Tar Heels. 
Georgetown Hoyas on Sunday. ting down a powerful"We are thinking a little bit 
This game is the Big East Connecticut offense last
about those next games," said 
home-opener for the Irish. Sunday.
sophomore Shannon Boxx, 
Last year, the Hoyas were an­"If we play the way we are
"But we are not forgetting 
nihilated by the Irish, 10-0. capable of playing, and we
about this weekend." 
Georgetown has improved play hard we should be vic­
Tonight at 7:30 p.m., they 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

from last year, as it returns torious," predicted sophomore
face Marquette. The Golden Senior marking back Kate Fisher is part of a stellar Irish defensive unit
all of its eleven starters. Monica Gerardo. 
Eagles lead the series that will face Marquette and Georgetown this weekend at Alumni Field. 
RS 
.. CHIANA'S #1 SPORTING GOODS STORE of the 6,000 Gallon Lunkquarium AND GLER'S INN RESTAURANT Invite you to visit one 
our I ,000 Gallon Coral Reef Tank while you dine at Angl 
You must SEE thiS sprawling store Inn atures a variety of food from rgers (A Notre Dame Favorite), BELIEVE it! Just 15,:tninutes from cam-rgers, Prime Rib, Lake Perch, pus, straight North on State ~<;>ad 23 _.. jll,if·<··r<na:~;.l~~~~,u.r, BQ Baby Back Ribs, Reubens, Frog 10 minutes past UniversityPafkMall Legs, Homemade Breaded Pork Tenderloin, Our Famous Fish Baskets, and Much More! 
Lunker's • Just minutes from Notre Dame • Open 364 days a year • (616) 663-3745 
W ... -............ _ ....... ------•."'--.. --. M • • 

Friday, September 27, 1996 
Streiffer 
continued from page 40 
McCarthy's records may not be in jeopardy yet, but the eomparisons are inevitable. 
"ller ability on the ball re­minds you of' Miehelle," Petrucelli said. "Sh1~ plays a lot lih Michelle and was able to come in and plug that spot. The players were already use to playing with someone like that." 
While Petrucelli brought StreifTer here with the idea of replacing McCarthy, there was one problem. McCarthy had ocGU pied the forward position while Stmif'fer was accustomed to playing center midfielder throughout high school. 
(;aining a forward mentality is an ongoing adjustment for Streif'f'er. 
"I like it becausn you get the ball more and I'm a ball hog," Streif'f'er laughed. "I still have a lot to learn about my new position. !\ lot of times I feel like I gel in people's way because I don't really know where to run all the time. I get a little flustNed sometimes, but I like that position because your whole job is to score." 
When scoring is your primary job <Inscription, Streiffer real­izns what has to happen. If she 
doesn't  shoot,  she  doesn't  
score.  
"Everybody tells me  I should  

shoot more," StreifTer said. "I don't have a real forward men­tality. I'm not good at shoot­ing. My shot is terrible." 
With five goals already this season, terrible may be an overstatement, but Streiffer's honest summation of her shot rellect how intent she is upon improving that area. Other positives of Streif'fcr's game outwnigh an issue that will nat­urally be solved with more time at tho forward position. 
Four years ago, Petrucelli 
understood Streiffer's potential upon his initial glance. 
"You were amazed at the tal­ent of such a young kid," he added. "She was a great drib­bler. You wondered how she developed this talent coming out of Baton Rouge which is not a hotbed of soceer." 
The only hotbed Streiffer needed was her backyard where she spent eountless hours challenging her brother in one-on-one situations. It quiekly became apparent what Streiffer did best. 
"I always did a lot of one v. one things," she said. "I guess you always like to do what you're good at so I always practiced that more than any­thing else." 
Strciffer can now bl.ow past her brother in the backyard, but he's in good eompany. The collegiate level is finally getting a taste of how difficult the freshman is to defend. 
"I like to run at players with the ball," she added. "I also like passing off the ball in two 
v. one situations." 
"She· fits into the way we play," Petrucelli said. "She has the ability to beat anyone." 
The attacking Irish style served as a major reason Streiffer was drawn to the Notre Dame program. The Olympic team member had her choke to attend any school, but was heavily inf'luenced by Petrucelli. 
"I like coach Petrucelli," she said. "lie's a good coach. He works the team hard and I like that. I also liked the team a lot and of course, they won last year so that helped." 
Streiffer was also part of a winning team this summer as the Women's Olympic team captured the gold medal. While not participating in any game, Streiffer received valu­able experience, practicing with the team for six months. 
"I never considered myself a 

Vans leave from the Main Circle on Football Fridays at 3:30pm and Return at 5:00 pm 
~,~so~. 
~-~~. 
-< ~ 0:J NOTRE DAME 
Sponsored by the Alumni Community Service Program 
The Observer· SPORTS 
bad athlete till I met all them," Streiffer added. "I learned a lot about what I need to work on. One thing that sticks about that team is just how hard they work. They're quick to pres­sure you so when you get the ball you have to look up sooner and pass it off sooner." 
"It's made her more mature mentally," Petrucelli said. "She's got to play the ball quicker on that level. That's maybe why we see her with so many assists because she's de­veloped other parts of her game." 
Her game will be receiving plenty of work now that the Irish have begun to concen­trate on attacking in practice. With a man-to-man defense now in place, the defending champs are working in the offensive area. 
"Now the defense is doing great so we're starting to con­centrate more on attacking," Strciffer said. "We need a lot of work on that. Especially the forwards, just because it takes a lot to get usc to each other." 
Besides the obvious talent, Streiffer also notices an impor­tant quality on the team that has already helped to win one national championship and will go a long way in capturing an­other. 
"Everybody is so close," she said. "I think its neat how when everybody is nervous and stressed out, we're nervous and stressed out together. We all know what each other is going thfough. I always know going into the locker room before a home game, I'll always just get to laugh because everyone is so funny." 
As for a personal goal, Strciffer points to one. A sim­ple one, yet not any less impor­tant. 
"I just want to get better at soccer," she said. Sireiffer is indeed, always moving forward. 


page 37 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Freshman sensation Jenny Streiffer takes aim at one of her five goals on the year. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
ReeSports 
Hotli,ne 
631-BHEC 
filltliiJ bro. ·l'~nlin~ [uti~ I Gm nf!~~§ 
Remember to 
share the warmth 
in the true 
Notre Dame spirit. 
Contact the Hammes Bookstore or the Center for Social Concerns for details. 
PR9JECT WARMTH 
Join the Notre Dame Cheerleaders 

The Center for the Homeless-Alumni Tours 
-
..­
·­
-· 

OIL AND FILTER SPECIAL 
page 38 

The Observer/Rob Finch Senior hitter Jenny Birkner goes up for one of the many kills she has registered in her successful Irish career. 
Birkner 
continued from page 40 
such a long time, so I have been trained well. I just do things the same every time so I end up being consistent." 
Junior setter/outside hitter Jaimie Lee describes the importance of a captain and player like Birkner. 
"She is very consistent and she is a really smart player, and others feed off that," Lee added. "She has played a lot so experience is a big thing that she brings to the team. It is really important to have her consistency. She doesn't dominate, but she is always among the top for the team which proves that she is not selfish. Statistics do not show how important she is to us." 
These assets shine their brightest when the game is on the line and all eyes look to the captain. 
"Mentally and physically she is the person we go to when we need something done," Ervin commented. "She doesn't say a lot but you know when she does say something it is much more powerful because she usually doesn't say much. But, when there is something that needs to be said she is the 
r--------------------,
JORDAN TOYOTA SERVICE 
one who says it." 

That responsibility is some­thing that Birkner welcomes and thrives on. 
"I don't think I have much more responsibility than any­one else does, but I think being a captain means that when the team needs a leader, when someone needs to step up and do something that person has to be me. When nothing else is hap­pening I have to change something." 
So far this season Birk has done her job as the Irish are 8-3 on the season which has seen coach Brown forced to shuffle her lineup. 
Lee has made the switch to setter due to Carey May's dislocated shoulder. Lee credits Birkner for adjusting to the move. 
"She has been really good and patient with me as a new setter which is very diffi­cult." 
Birkner has lead the Irish through those sometimes dif­ficult stages early in the sea­son. With May continuing to recover, the squad looks to continue their quest for one of Birkner's goals for the team, to win the national championship. 
If they hope to take the title, they will need a great, consistent leader. It's a good thing they have one. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 40 

your eyes and run your finger down the lineup. We don't really know." 
The coach eventually includ­ed players such as Ben Bocklage, Matt McNew, Ryan Turner, and Phil Murphy among those who the coaching staff were considering for the job. Berticelli specified that Turner and McNew were the most likely candidates. 
The coaches are not the only ones who are feeling the pres­sure of Engesser's absence. Fellow tri-captain Tony Capasso knows how much Engesser meant to the team. 
"More than anything," said Capasso, "his consistency (will be missed)." 
Hopefully, if Capasso is able to draw on his experiences as the sole captain in 1995, the Irish won't miss a beat as they try to improve their overall record to 6-1-2 at Indiana. 
Last year, the Hoosiers were faced with one of the best Irish efforts of the season. The Blue and Gold played an excellent game, but unfortu­nately found themselves at the short end of a 4-2 overtime decision. 
"They are a dangerous team with great tradition," said Capasso of tonight's opponent, "so we're going to try to take the game to them. We respect them, but we plan on beating them." 
Coach Berticelli stressed the fact that the team must concentrate on maintaining consistency. 
"We just have to go out there," said Berticelli, "and play the way we know how to." 
Tonight's game represents 
the first of three consecutive 
road games for the Irish. 
Following Indiana, Notre 
Dame will face Western 
Michigan on October 1 and 
Big East rival Syracuse on 
October 5. 

Celebrate a friend·s birthday with a sPecial Observer ad. 


r--------------------,
JORDAN FORD SERVICE 
·­

!1!7.~· 
l};l·~-­
I love what you do fot~e Owner Appreciliiion Days 
'OIIa'aqinle tbtember28, 1996J-Iotvaklwill fn/ ohr•.Ore CXJI.4lOO per vehde.
'Ok~NcM!mber 28. 1998. ttilvaldwllq a cttOreCXJI.4lOO pervehi:le. We use genune ~T¥&parts. 
This coopcn uuse cn TC¥>tas aJ¥. Must p!8S&1I CXJI.4lOO upct1 anlla. .J Must p!8S&1I CXJI.4lOO ·upa, arrPr.t For use cn selec8:l Fad vll1ides ~ .J
L L 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 39 

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

MIKE PETERS 

SCOTT ADAMS 
OT\-\E.\\5 MIGHT TRY 
TO Dl5TRI\CT YOU WHILE. AN 1\C.COMPLlCE. 
PLI\YED 1\ CRUEL 
J'OKE.. 

53 Eucalyptus eater 54 The Beatles' "Free As--" 56 Christ, for example sa --harm (let be) 59 1986 World Cup winner 60 Sharp St Accelerates 
DOWN 

t Pushes to the limit 2 Ancient Rome's port 3 Stones for rings 4 Republican politician Alan s Unfertile 6 Managed 1 Bechtel employee 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
501'4.£. DOLPHINS lN ~'t' 
5ITUHlON WOULD 
HELP YOU GET TO 5HOP.E. 5AFE.LY. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Smoothed, as feathers
t Relaxed 28 Tyke 
to Not included: Abbr. 29 Under assault 
14 "Salutonl Kiel vi 33 Centric start fartas?," e.g. 
35 Kind of set t5 A.P.'s 196l 
36 More easily
Athlete of the understood 
Year 
38 "Life--Fast 
t71gnoring Lane" 
bedtime 39 Early book
t8 Use a lever 
illustrations t9 Like many 
40Denials
bathrooms 4t Sends back to
20 Crazy about 
the slammer 22 Novelist--S. 
44 Appropriate
Connell Jr. 46 Look (into)
23Dis 47 The enemy
24Showed a desire to be in 5t Like some signals
25 First name in country 52 Crowning point 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ILIAIM  A R  S T  E T  HE  R E  
E L 0  p E  PO  L 0  A X  I S  
S L 0  p s  ED  EN  R I  G S  
-N 0 0 N L 0 V E I N T H E ADMI-~ESTSP R I N T S DE EjD Sllllll PEAT FUR Njl SHESLAM·G-EATE M IIG RIA T E S C A G E -LAINIE S C R AD L E SCRAP MOORHEN THE S H 0 W MEET ME­A L E S R 0 AD T I E G S co DE A R I A EN LA I K E y s N E L l R E S T S  

8 Hindered, as growth 27 Landowners 45 Musician­49 Best seller set in own them composer 1940's Greece
9 Grist for a list 29 Misbehavior 
David 
so Corday victim, 30 Noted 47 Fictional 1793 to Sound booster 
tt Adventurer 
blockhead? Potawatomi 
53 Male dolls 3t Tables12 Many a IndianMcDonald's 55 "Family" head
32 "--bin ein 48--hand
t3 "The Cosby Berliner" (abjectly) 57 Enthusiasm
Show" actress 34 "Tic--Dough"
t& Pre-Twins baseball club 36 Come together -------------­
37 Ore galore Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 21 A little poetry 
are available by touch-tone phone: 24 Ship that sailed 39 Arkansas-t-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). from !oleos based chain Annual subscriptions are available for the 260neofthe 42 Author LeShan best of Sunday crosswords from the last Greats 43 Visitors' centers 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
Make checks payable to: 
The Observer 
and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Travel and career advancement will put you in an optimistic frame of mind. New financial security early in 1997 wiII mean less reliance on family and friends. A skiing vaca­tion could lead to happy romance. Look forward to receiving greater public recognition and suppon next spring. A change of lifestyle is like­ly as summer of '97 approaches. The purchase a new home could become a top priority. Take a youngster's educational needs into consideration. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: patriot Samuel Adams, actress Jayne Meadows, golfer Kathy Whitworth, singer Shaun Cassidy. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Friends share good news. Attending a social event introduces you to someone very attractive. You dis­cover acommon bond. Express your interest openly. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A relative or friend is becoming increasingly dependent on you. You had better call a halt to this trend before ir becomes unbearable. An out-of-town visitor will add sparkle to your weekend. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Business meetings enjoy beneficial influences today. New allies and ideas could make a big difference to your professional future. Get ready to enjoy greater success! 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Give a work-related problem careful thought. The solution may be obvi­ous. Your interest in volunteer activ­ities begins to pay off. Be supponive of family members. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A busi­ness transaction hinges on your abil­ity to compromise. Clear commun!­cation is essential to finalizing deals. A group discussion leads to new ap-
JEANE DIXON 
proaches and ideas; everyone bene­fits' 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pressing obligations could necessi­tate the postponement of a business trip. This delay will work to your advantage. A long-standing relation­ship is rock solid. 
LIBRA (Sepr. 23-0ct. :2-2): Financial planning is vital. You sense which projects could make you wealthy. Others want to be a parr of your successful team. Include them if they are talented. Romance looks lively this weekend! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Give some thought to relocating. Higher-ups could offer a very attrac­tive deal. Consult family members before making up your mind. Keep in touch with a relative who is going through a difficult time. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A last-minute invitation connect­ed with your work could prevent you from getting home when expected. Give your mate a call. A neighbor offers to babysit in a pinch. Show your appreciation in a tangible way. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A hobby could become a source of income. Consult a marketing expert. A friend in trouble needs guidance. Offer advice only if you are qualified. Otherwise, suggest counseling. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Refuse to be intimidated by technol­ogy. Learn computer skills at home or in weekend classes. If necessary, consult experts by phone. Your credit rating is an important asset. Pay bills promptly to protect it. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The emphasis now is on setting lim­its. Speak up if someone oversteps their bounds. Cenain group activi­ties may no longer interest you. Pur­sue new friendships and hobbies. A wardrobe makeover will boost your confidence. 


Alco olics Anonymous will hold a closed ;,, . eeting _sponsored by the Alum!li Association in ;:;th~;mp.Jfi·purpos~ room (room 124) of the Center 
for' Somal Concerns at 9:30 a.m. on Saturday
·morning. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South Tortilla Soup Cheesy Cauliflower Soup Buffalo Chicken Wings Meatball Grinder Meat Ravioli Seafood Newburg Veggie Crepes Marinara Lasagna 
Saint Mary's 
Grilled Steak Fried Shrimp Vegetable Kabobs Tempura Mushrooms 

Wanted: Reporters, 
... 
photographers and editors. Join The Observer 
-
staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ 
-
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______State ____ Zip_______ 
., 
-------~ 

SPORTS Weekend 

ber27, 1996 
• VoLLEYBALL 

A quiet model of consistency 
Captain Jenny Birkner leads by example 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 

Practically every coach in any sport will tell you that they want their team and their play­ers to be consistent. They will likely agree that consistency is a key ingredient to a successful season. 
In order for a team to be con­sistent, their leader must set the example. Notre Dame vol­leyball coach Debbie Brown has a model of consistency in her senior captain Jenny Birkner. 
The outside hitter will not lead by yelling and screaming, but her style is still effective. Classmate Kristina Ervin explains Birkner's leadership. 
"She leads by example. She doesn't lead by what she says. It is really odd. Everyone thinks that the leader is outspoken and keeps the team together. I think she has passive leader­ship and she really leads by ex­ample, which works really well for this team." 
And what an example she sets. 
In her career, in which she has not missed a match, she has written herself into the Notre Dame record books. With her seventh ace this sea­son, Birkner joined Maureen Shea (1985-88) as one of the two players in Irish history to crack into the career top ten lists for hitting percentage, kills, digs, assists, blocks and aces . 

Coach Brown speaks about Leadership has been nothing her two-year captain. new to Birkner as she lead her 
"The word that best describes Geneva High School team to her is consistency," Brown said. four conference titles which in­"She is a very tough competi­cluded two undefeated seasons. tor. The players look to her as Birkner credits her incredible their leader. She is the player consistency to her many years with the most experience. The of playing. fact that she started as a fresh­''I've played volleyball for man and was a captain last year says a lot about her." see BIRKNER I page 38 
• 

Battling a sweeping injury 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
Tonight the No. 19 ranked 
.... Notre Dame men's soccer team will travel to Bloomington to take on the No. 21 Hoosiers of Indiana. They will do so, how­ever, without tri-captain and team leader Brain Engesser. The senior sweeper was the victim of a hard tackling play during a 1-0 defeat of Seton Hall on Sunday. Engesser suf­fered a broken leg which not 
-
only ended the captain's sea­son, but brought his impressive career to an end. 
Head coach Mike Berticelli explained why losing Engesser is such a tough situation. 
"We have no one with any ex­perience at sweeper," said Berticelli. "Right now we are in
-
the process of trying to sort this out." When asked who would be called on to fill the void in the lineup, Berticelli kidded, "Close 
see SOCCER I page 38 

vs. Ohio State, vs. Ball State, September 28, 1 :30 p.m. 
October 1, 7 p.m. 
• Interhall football season begins 

Notre Dame Invitational see pages 32-34 Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Marquette, October 4 
• AL playoff picture nears completion at Indiana, 
Notre Dame Invitational see page 30 Tonight, 7:30p.m. 
October 4 

------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~ 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 27, 1996 


1 2 3 
17 31 10 
7 7 3 
NO Opp 

First Downs 80 39 
Total yards 1312 641 Total yards per game 437.3 213.7 Total offensive plays 245 162 Avg. yards per play SA 4.0 
Rushing yards 725 180 Rushing yards per game 2417 60.0 Rushing plays 154 84 Avg. yards per rush 4.7 2.1 
Passing yards 587 461 Passing yards per game 195.7 153.7 Passes completed 52 38 Passes attempted 91 78 Passes intercepted 1 2 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost 11/6 3/2 Third down conversions 23/44 9/35 Percentage 52 26 Fourth down conversions 2/4 0/0 
Yds/GmNo Yds Avg Pearson 111.0 41 222 5.4 Montgomery 88.5 33 177 5.4. Jackson 42.0 13 84 6.5 
TEAM SlATS osu Opp Goings 56.0 12 84 4.7 
First Downs 57 16 
Total yards 1234 338 PASSING Comp All Pel Yds TO Total yards per game 617.0 169.0 Jermaine 13 18 72.2 303 5 Total offensive plays 162 106 Jackson 13 18 72.2 245 3 Avg. yards per play 7.6 3.2 
Rushing yards 686 217 RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TD Rushing yards per game 343.0 108.5 Boston 4 93 23.3 3 Rushing plays 126 74 Wiley 3 130 43.3 2 Avg yards per rush 5.4 2.9 Jones 3 72 24.0 0 
Passing yards 548 121 Stanley 3 42 14.0 2 Passing yards per game 274.0 60.5 Passes completed 26 11 SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Passes attempted 36 32 Pearson 6 0 0-0 0 Passes intercepted 0 2 Boston 4 0 0-0 0 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost 3/0 413 Jackson 0 0 16-17 1-1 Third down conversions 18/28 5/25 Wiley 3 0 0-0 0 Percentage 64 20 Fourth down conversions 4/7 0/2 
! .. 
~~~~~~~di~N 4 
Papa... , ~~...,. , = 

'-.. .'Dffte-In and Delivery now at
EV both Locations! 
v..... 
... i 
·~I :Is now
. . . 
4 Tot 
18 76 
14 31 Farmer Kinder 

PASSING Comp All Pel Yds TO Pow!us 51 88 58 581 2 Jackson 1 2 50 6 0 
RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TO Johnson 11 168 15.3 0 Chryplewicz 11 104 9.5 0 Mosley 10 102 10.2 0 Edwards 7 72 10.3 1 
SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Denson 4 0 0-0 0 Sanson 0 0 8-8 4-5 Edwards 3 1 0-0 0 Farmer 1 0 0-0 0 
FIElD GOAlS Tot 
Sanson 4-5 
Cengia 0-1 
Es 
FIElD GOAlS Tot Jackson 1-1 
PUNTING No Avg Bk Bartholomew 2 48.5 0 
lnl lg KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO 
0 60 Wiley 1 12.0 0 
0 58 Stanley 1 41.0 0 
lg INTERCEPTIONS No 
58 Berry 1 
60 Howard 1 
27 

19 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR 
Katzen moyer 9 3 12 0 0 Sal Pis Howard 6 2 8 0 0 0 36 Finkes 3 4 7 0 0 0 24 Bellisari 6 1 7 0 0 0 19 Kelly 3 4 7 1 0 0 18 Colson 5 1 6 0 0 Fickel I 6 0 6 0 0 Moore 4 2 6 0 0 
hi: I ·
! •
'ring~
. I . , .• 
rivers • Order Takers 
•Pizza Makers 
lnl lg 
1 48 0 6 
lg 48 17 16 23 
Sal Pis 
0 24 0 20 0 20 0 6 
lg 
49 
lg 
12 41 

PBU Sac 
0  3  
0  0  
0  0  
0  1  
0  0  
0  0  
0  1  
0  0  

KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO lg Barry 1 4.0 0 4 Mosley 1 21.0 0 21 Rossum 1 99.0 1 99 
INTERCEPTIONS No Cobbins 1 Edison 1 
DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac Tatum 16 9 25 1 0 1 1 Covington 13 5 18 0 1 1 0 Rossum 8 9 17 0 0 2 0 Cobbins 9 8 17 0 0 2 1 Berry 9 7 16 0 0 1 3 Dansby 7 8 15 0 1 0 1.5 Wynn 10 5 15 0 0 0 2.5 Minor 6 6 12 0 0 3 1.5 
The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Linebacker Greg Bellisari is a defensive force for the Buckeyes with seven tackles. 

"The Most Popular Number on Campus" 
Hours: *New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m.-3 a.m. Sunday: 12 p.m. -1 a.m.  Notre Dame: formerly Cactus Jack's  271­1177  
271­PAPA  Saint Mary's: North Village Mall  


________________,..-------, 
Friday, September 27, I996 The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS page 3 
-------------------------------~~~~~~-==-~~~~------------------------------------~~­
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5 at Vanderbilt W14-7 Sept. 14 PURDUE W35-0 Sept. 21 at Texas W27-24 SepJ:2a OHIO STATE Oct. 12 WASHINGTON Oct. 19 AIR FORCE Nov. 2 Navy (Dublin) NoV. 9 at Boston College Nov 16 PITTSBURGH Nov. 23 RUTGERS Nov. 30 at USC 
11th season at Notre Dame 
Career record: 211-92-7 At Notre Dame: 95-27-2 Against Ohio State: 0-3 

;.... 
Lou Holtz 

,~NOTRE DAMEI 
No Namo  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
I Oeke Cooper  WA  6-4  205  FA  
2 Kmnon Tatum  ILB  6-0  224  SA  
3 Ron Powlus  as  6·2  212  SA  
4 Kort Minor  OLB  6·2  235  so  
5 Emmell Mosley  Fl  5·8  184  SR  
6 l yron Cobbms  llB  6-0  246  SA  
1 Janous Jackson  as  6-1  218  sa  
8 Enc Chappell  08  6·5  220  FA  
9 Aakr Nelson  WR  6-1  178  FR  
10 Mrke Perona  as  6·2  197  SR  
11 Jay Johnson  WR  6-2  170  FR  
12 Marro Slrayhorn  FS  6·1  210  so  
12 Scoll Cengra  K  5-10  180  JR  
13 Boll Berry  OlB  6-3  245  SR  
14 Ivory Covrnglon 14 Tony McGunrgal  CB 08  5-10 6-3  168 190  JR SR  
15 Allen AMsum  CB  5·8  178  JR  
15 Paul Rogers  QB  6·2  220  SR  
16 Todd Dvorak  K  5-10  175  so  
16 John Shingler  as  6·1  231  so  
11 Hunler Smilh 17 Mark McKenna  P/WR QB  6·2 5·8  210 194  so SR  
18 Clkai Champron  SE  5-10  183  SR  
19 Jrm Sanson  K  5-11  18S  FR  
1q WavneGunn  ss  6·2  210  so  
20 Kevrn Kopl<a  K  5-7  196  so  
20 Byron Joyner  FS  6·2  180  so  
21 Shannon Slephens  CB  5-10  179  so  
21 Kevin McDonnell  K  5·11  180  so  
22 Jay Vrckers  RB  6·1  205  FR  
23 Aulry Denson  WRITS  5-10  189  so  
24 Ty GOO<Je  CB  5-11  189  JR  
25 Randy Krnder  TB  6·1  204  SA  
26 lee lalyelle  CB  5-10  188  FR  
26 Mall Manvnolenli  TB  5·8  165  SR  
27 Bobbre Howard  ILB  5-10  228  so  
28 Ken Barry  FB  6·0  224  JR  
29 A'Janr Sanders  ss  5·11  182  so  
30 Jarvrs Edrson  FS  6-4  219  JR  
31 Rober! Farmer  TB  5·11  227  SA  
33 Jarme Spencer  FB  6·0  247  so  
34 Ronnre Nicks  DB  6-1  215  FR  
35 Scoll Palumbo  p  5-11  189  SR  
35 Rober! Phelps  CB  6·0  185  SR  
36 Trm lynch  DB  5·9  170  JR  
36 Chns Wachlel  p  6-0  211  SR  
38 Paul Gnmm  DB  5-9  169  JR  
39 Benny Guilbeau•  ss  6-2  202  so  
40 Kevrn Carrella  IE  6·1  239  SR  
41 Joe Sabey  ILB  6-2  222  SA  
42 Alion Marden  NG  6-4  271  SA  
43 Brll Wagasy  OLB  6-3  225  SA  
44 Marc Edwards  FB  6·0  237  SR  
4~ Joey Goodspeed  FB/lB  &-0  230  FR  
45 Chrrs McCarlhy  K  5·11  213  JR  
45 Phil Srcuso  DB  5·11  175  so  
46 Bill Grbbs  FS  5-10  171  SA  
4 7 Brll Mrloulas  ILB  6·1  229  JR  
48 Renaldo Wynn  DE  6-3  275  SR  
49 Joo Thomas  ILB  6-2  226  so  
50 Davrd Payne  Ol  6-1  284  so  
51 Melvrn Dansbv  DE  6·4  288  SR  
52 Ale• Mueller  OG  6-6  275  so  
53 lamoni Bryan!  DE  6-4  253  so  
54 Ed Casrerr  lB  6-1  230  so  
55 Shellon Jordan  DE  6·3  241  so  
56 Kurl Belisle  DE  6·3  251  JR  
57 Rick Kacrenskr  c  6-4  264  SA  
58 Mrke Burgdorl  TE  6·1  222  SR  
59 Mallhew Kunz  ss  6·1  216  JA  
60 Anlworne Wellinglon  LB  6·2  230  FA  
60 Sean Rogers 63 John farrell  OT c  6·0 5-10  292 253  SR SR  
64 John Merandr  c  6·3  273  FR  
64 Mrke Oenvrr  TE  6·4  246  SR  
65 Mall Griesbach  OG  6·1  258  JR  
66 Jell Krlburg  c  6·4  263  SR  
67 John Wagner  OT  6-7  320  so  
68 Mall Brennan  Dl  6-5  270  FA  
69 David Ours!  NG  6·5  290  SA  
70 1rm Rrdder  OT  6-7  297  so  
11 JerrvWrsne  OG  6·7  28S  so  
72 Leon Hrres  OL  6·6  280  FR  
73 Mrke Doughly  DT  6·8  313  SR  
74 Rob Mowl  Ol  6-5  290  FR  
75 Chris Clevenger  OT  6·8  290  SA  
76 Jeremy Akers  OG  6·6  300  SR  
77 Brad Wrlllams  Dl  6-6  250  FA  
78 Jon Spickelmier  c  6-3  267  JR  
79 Mrke Rosemhal  OG  6-7  310  so  
80 Malcolm Johnson  SE  6-5  203  JR  
81 l ewrs Dawson  WR  6-0  180  FR  
82 Mrke Gandy  TE/DE  6-4  235  FA  
83 Ooveron H.Jrper  CB  5·10  175  FR  
H4 AIIMJII Jones  WR  5-11  183  SR  
8S Anlwou Junes  NG  6·3  258  so  
116 Oan O'leary  TE  6-5  230  FR  
87 Jimmy rllday 88 Bobby Brawn  DE Sf  6-2 6-3  240 ISS  so so  
89 Julln Cerasani  DE  6-4  258  so  
90 lauce Legree  LB  6·2  248  FR  
91 Darnell Smilh  DE  6-5  276  SR  
92 Jue Fe11er  LB  6-3  230  FR  
93 BJ Scoll  Dl  6·4  250  FR  
94 Juslin Orr  WR  6·2  235  SR  
95 Corey Bennell  OE  6-1  251  JR  
'l6 Jim Jones  OL  6-4  260  FR  
98 Pele Chryplewrcz  TE  6-5  265  SA  
99 Jason Ching  Dl  6-4  270  FR  

OT Orlando Pace vs. DTMelvin Dansby 
man," Dansby allowed. "Now that I have the chance to play against him, it makes it even more special. 
There won't be lime for Dansby to enjoy this match-up. If the Irish want to pressure QB Jackson and the Buckeye running game, noth­ing, including a man as big as the city he's named after, can get in the way. Count on Dansby to ride this train, as Wynn did last year. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Melvin Dansby will try to move the massive Pace. 

CORNERBACK 24-Sprlngs11-Winfield 
/
33-Spencer 
~ 

FLANKER 5-Mosley 18·Champion  STRONG SAFETY 13·Moore 18-Bryant  
CORNERBACK 2-Howard 20-McCiellion  


SPLIT END 12·TIIIman . 15-MIIIer 

: 29-Pearson LEFT TACKLE 75-Pace
25-Jacks~on. 67-Burrls
:''· 
'·~. 
·,.·­
FULLBACK 37-Sualua 
"~·~ 

RIGHT TACKLE 50-Gohlslln 79-Waldon  
TIGHT END 88-Houser 89-Jones FLANKER 3-Stanley6·Redmond  •,'.  WILL 2·Tatum 27-Howard . '·'f' CORNERBACK 15-Rossum 10-Harper  STRONG SAFETY 39-Gullbeaux 24-Goode  

• ~· • I .,. • 

Melvin Dansby faces no small task in matching up against 330 pound Heisman candidate Orlando Pace. Known to pancake smaller, much smaller, defensive lineman, Pace will have his own hands full wilh "The Beast." Dansby has the skills and size to finally give Pace a chal­lenge. 
"This'll bn a special game for me because I've boen chneking out Orlando sinee he was a fresh-
The Observer/Kevin Klau 
Orlando Pace (75) doesn't just block, he flattens. 

OHIO STATE SCHEDULE 
Sept. 7 RICE W70-7 Sept. 21 PITTSBURGH W72-0 Sept. 28 at Notre Dame 
Oct. 5 r!i\)ATJ;
Oct 1 ISCO Sl·t ~~~ .· w~l~,l!rvJa
Oc~~~, •ii 
No ·.~i~ MI~NESOTA · ·· Nov{§: at Illinois · Nov. 16 at Indiana Nov. 23 MICHIGAN 
9th season at Ohio State 
John Cooper 
Career record: 149-68-6 At Ohio State: 67-28-4 Against Notre Dame: 1-0 
,;,p
~~ OHIO STATE I 
No. Name  Pas.  HI.  WI.  YR  
Gary Berry  s  6-0  205  FA  
Gary Coleman  ARN  5·2  200  FR  
Ty Howard  CB  5·9  181  SR  
Oimit11ous Slanley  Fl  5·10  181  SA  
4 Josh Jackson  PK  5·11  175  SA  
4 Sieve Besancon  JAK  5·10  250  JR  
5 Dan Colson  FS  6·0  190  SR  
5 Michael Wiley  WR  6-0  180  FR  
6 Jimmy Redmond  Fl  6-D  175  so  
7 Joe Jermaine  as  6-2  196  JR  
B Sian ley Jackson  as  6-1  203  SR  
9 David Boslon  WR  6-3  205  FA  
10 Tom Hoying  as  6·4  221  SA  
11 Anloine Winfield  CB  5-9  178  so  
11 Mall Sherwood  NRD  5-11  103  JR  
12 Busier Tillman  SE  6·2  192  SR  
13 Sieve Gehlerl  as  6·2  209  FA  
13 Damon Moore  ss  5·11  200  JR  
14 Healh Knisely  Fl  6·3  180  SR  
14 Roland Sleele  CB  5-lf  160  FR  
15 Dee Miller  SE  6-1  190  so  
16 Mark Garcia  as  6-4  215  JR  
17 Percy King  OB  6-4  200  so  
18 Che Brtanl  ss  6·1  195  JR  
18 Tate Johnson  as  6·5  214  FR  
19 Ahmed Plummer  CB  6-1  190  so  
20 Chad Cacchio  WR  5-10  166  FA  
20 Cha-Chce  HD  5-10  166  ITA  
20 Joanie  HD  5--5  120  JR  
21 Charlie Sanders  fB  5·9  215  so  
23 Mall Keller  FB  6·0  220  so  
24 Shawn Springs  CB  6-D  190  SA  
25 Jerman Jackson  TB  5-11  200  JR  
26 Anlhony Gwinn  FS  6-0  200  SR  
27 Jerrt Weslbrool<s  TB  6-2  210  FR  
28 Mrke Pulslorl  K  5-11  170  so  
29 Mike Burden  DB  6-3  205  FA  
29 Pepe Pearson  TB  5-10  205  JR  
30 Greg Bellisari  LB  6·1  230  SR  
32 Na'll Oiggs  LB  6-4  225  FA  
33 Joo Monrgornept  TB  5·11  225  JR  
34 Rob Kelly  FS  6->2  200  SR  
35 Jerry Rudzinski  BLB  6·1  220  JA  
36 Nick Goings  RB  6-0  205  FR  
38 MaiiMallall  K  6-3  205  SA  
39 Mall Calhoun  FB  6·0  237  SR  
41 Brenl Barlholomew  p  6-2  198  so  
41 Keilh Walker  DB  5·11  180  SA  
42 Kevrn Grrllin  SE  5-10  183  JR  
43 Ryan Miller  WLB  6-2  220  SA  
44 Chris Kirk  OLB  6-3  235  so  
45 Andy Kallenmoyer  LB  6-4  250  FR  
46 Marc Willis  LB  6-4  233  SR  
47 Dan SluiiZ  K  6·0  18S  FA  
48 MalllaVrar  OLB  6·3  220  so  
50 Eric Gohlslin  OT  6-3  295  JR  
52 Kevin Johnson  BLB  6·2  220  SR  
53 Sean Colosimo  LB  5·11  225  FR  
56 Jimmy Bulling!on  LB  6-1  230  so  
56 Rob Murphy  OG  6-5  285  so  
57 LeShun Daniels  OG  6-2  28S  SR  
59 William Pawlikowski  Ol  6-3  251  FR  
60 Ben! Johnson  DE  6·4  250  FR  
61 Kevin loadman  LS  6-1  245  so  
62 Shane Clark  NG  6·2  270  SA  
62 Jason Kozar  OG  6·0  270  JR  
83 Kurt Murphy  l  6-4  275  FA  
64 Benji Gilberl  OL  6-5  295  FR  
65 Juan Parler  c  6-'1  295  SA  
67 Burris Brooks  OT  6-6  295  JR  
68 Wlnlield Garnell  DT  6-6  305  JR  
68 Nick Spiess  OT  6·5  265  so  
68 Doug "Spiece" Gottlieb  Klepl.  6·1  180  cc  
71 John Bales  Ol  6-4  279  FA  
12 Marcus Perez  DE  6-3  260  FA  
73 Joo Brown  l  6-7  250  FR  
75 Orlando Pace  OT  6·6  330  JR  
76 Jelferson Kelly  l  6-6  305  FR  
77 Tyson Waller  l  6-5  292  FR  
78 Orew Ellord  OG  6-4  277  so  
79 Larry Waldon  OT  6-6  320  SR  
80 MrkeGurr  TEJOE  6-7  250  FR  
81 DarikWarnke  WR  6·1  185  FA  
82 Mike Furrey  SE  6·0  170  so  
83 Vanness Provill  WR  6·3  190  FR  
84 Sieve Wisniewski  TE  6-5  230  so  
85 John Lumpkin  TE  6-8  270  JR  
86 Deshannon Buller  WR  5-11  179  FA  
87 Kevin Houser  TE  6-4  250  FR  
88 Bob Houser  TE  6-4  240  SR  
89 D.J Jones  IE  6-4  260  SR  
90 Clin!on Wayne  DE  6-4  240  FR  
91 Jell Wilson  DE  6-3  250  JR  
92 Mall Finkes  DE  6·2  258  SR  
93 Randy Homa  NG  6·2  250  so  
93 Chlel Knock-a-Homa  HOW  6·2  250  SR  
94 Mike Vrabel  DE  6·4  260  SR  
95 Jim Bell  OT  6·5  255  SR  
95 Scali Simlndinger  FL  6·3  185  JR  
96 Tony Eisenhard  DE  6-7  220  so  
97 John Day  DT  6-3  245  SR  
98 Kevin Johnson  DE  6-7  240  FR  
99 luke Fickel!  NG  6·4  270  SR  



-~-----~-------------~---­
page 4 The Irish Extra• COVER STORY Friday, September 27, 1996 

National scheduling takes ND to the
o's 
fans... and the future 

By BRAD PRENDERGAST Irish. schedule perpetually, Kelly said-and Michigan. News Ediror Thankfully, Notre Dame won't play all those teams in the same year. 
W:
th each game, the talent of tailback Autry "We are always interested in maintaining Denson has made more and more people a competitive schedule," Kelly said, take notice. And with newly established noting that the chance always trends in the scheduling for Notre Dame, more peo­remains that a school which is ple nationwide will be able to see the Irish's top competitive when the con­rusher play. tract is signed will not be 
Why else would the likes of Arizona State and competitive when the Louisiana State -not the typical names on a Notre game is actually Dame schedule -be listed as opponents on future played.
,...._--at'!_iJ!!I!! .,!'!'._rl'l",------~._-"0.....:-.----:-"""""':'~1.-..... "But by and
__!'>!_ 
and Michigan State return to the schedule after a two-year ~~1111!1'~~~

Classic 

No.. t--re Dame vs Navy 
hiatus there's a reason for beginning in playing those teams. 1997. 
According to Kelly, who develops the schedules for mics. Kelly also stated that the the football team, a three-pronged plan is used when "Football is the bell-cow that funds the gender­University of Miami has finding teams for the Irish to play. equity sports," Kelly said. "The day that athletic approached Notre Dame about 
First and foremost, 
he said, Notre Dame renewing a rivalry looks to maintain a highly competitive sched­that became heated in ule. And that includes trying to play teams­the mid-to late-such as Stanford, Northwestern and 1980s. Vanderbilt -that share a similar ethos "They have about education while also providing a high approached us, but 
level of competition on the whether or not we can work them in, I don't know," he said. 
tries to select 

Kelly stressed that Notre Dame has rec­opponents that provide 
ognized the strides Miami has made in around the 
.....-,..,........_ cleaning _up its country with an oppor­
program in recent

--September 14 PURDUE
tunity to watch the Irish 
years. "We cer­action. But, said 
tainly respect . it's hard work. 
their new leadl.)r­"Being an independent, 
ship and their we have to work with a little more zest," 
September 28 OIDOSTATE 
efforts. It takes Kelly said. "We try our darndest to satisfy all 
time to make the pockets of alumni around the country." 
Octoberl2 WASHINGTON 
October 19 AIR FORCE 
in judgment. of the country don't exactly hurt the Irish's And, of course, the visits to various parts 
"We want to play people that will bring recruiting chances, either. 
people that are respectful," Kelly contin­Notre Dame benefits a 
ued. "We have to be careful of that, and I great deal from the 
think we are. You can have a great rival­ability to guarantee 
ry without profanity." 
November 16 PITTSBURGH
that all home 
Schedules have been completed for games will be 
every year up through 2002, said Kelly, televised nation­
November23 RUTGERS 
but won't be released until all contracts ally and that the 
with the other schools are finalized. away games are 
Other dates have already been planned
..

usually aired, too, 
through 2007, but Kelly noted that, in the said Kelly. But making a 
complicated world of football scheduling, visit to a recruit's home state can sometimes (funding) takes away from the academics 

those dates could possibly change. 
make the difference in winning him over. at this University is a day that I don't "To get a 
"It's important for a recruit to know that want to see." team on the we'll be coming in to his backyard," Kelly said. The exposure in new regions of the schedule, you "That certainly will have some influence." country created by the Navy series have to work 
As a result, the Irish will be playing schools will be complemented by changes around in top recruiting states such as Texas and in what teams the Irish will play. their open­Florida more often in the future. Baylor. based Beginning near the turn of the ings and
MICHIGAN
in Waco, Tex., makes an appearance on the century, teams like Florida State, yours,'' schedule beginning in 1998, and the Irish are Maryland, Duke, North Carolina Kelly said. set to play a game against Navy in Orlando, and Virginia may begin to appear on "You have to Fla., in 2000. the Irish schedule. have some 
The series against Navy has developed some "The ACC (Atlantic Coast Conference) cooperation." added benefits for Notre Dame. is very anxious to include us in their schedule," Being an Besides continuing a long­Kelly said. independent also makes scheduling a little more standing tradition between the Georgia Tech will initiate Notre Dame's connection interesting for Notre Dame. And the changing face of Irish and the Midshipmen, a with the ACC when the Yellow Jackets come to South conferences nation-wide adds another twist to the recent trend established by the Bend next fall. puzzle. Naval Academy allows In the athletic department, pros­
For example, the merging of the Big Eight and four the Irish to play a ....---r-11"'"2:,_ perity in the finances and competi­teams from the now-defunct Southwest Conference game in another tiveness on the field go hand in means those schools have fewer dates with which region of the country . hand, which is why future sched­each year. ules continue the tradition "With the Big 12, it removes those teams 
That trend begins including top-notch programs. (from being possible Irish opponents) for this November, when the two Besides Florida State, nine weeks out of the year," Kelly said. teams move their annual contest to schedules after 1999 also But in the end, the Irish still hold one Dublin, Ireland. Future schedules call for the Irish include Nebraska, Tennessee, impressive drawing card. and Midshipmen to play in Washington D.C. in 1998 Texas A&M and the traditional­"Because of our TV situation (with NBC), we and Orlando in 2000. ly scheduled powers of are in a position where we are fortunate enough
P U R D U E
Each of those games do not count among the tradi-Southern Cal -which could to bargain," Kelly said. very easily remain on the B 0 I LERMA K E R S 
dockets? The Sun 
Devils and Tigers stand out as sore among 

Dublin, Ireland 

the more familiar names on the Irish schedules in recent years. but Assistant Director George Kelly says 
large. with the peo­
ple we have on this schedule, there is a good chance they'll 
remain competi­tive... he added. The Wolverines 



friday, September 27, 1996 
Irish Extra • THE MATCH-UPS page 5 
IRISH ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
With all of the attention that -----.------­has been paid to the prolific Ohio Statn ofl'ensn. it has been all too easy to forget something nlsn: 
Thn Bucknyn defense is a tough nut to crack. 
"Thny'rn a great football team, and we're going to have to play just about a flawlnss game to com(wt•~ with them," said Notre l>arTH~ quartnrback Hon Powlus. "Tiwy'v•~ scornd a bunch of points and havnn't given up any points." 
Makn that seven points. In two ganws. And you thought (>..J .'s defense was tough. 
Tlw criti1:s will point out that tlw llu1:knyes' opponnnts have bn•~n loss than spectacular, ma.,lm nv1m downright awful. In thrashing lowly Rice and Pittsburgh in their first two ganws, Ohio State only had to ddnnd :{2 passes, and tlwir run d•~fnnse has lwen suspect, allow­ing an avmage of I08.5 yards per ganw. But the faet remains, tlwsn guys can play. 
"People are saying, 'Well, they haven't playnd anyone yet'," said 
, 

Irish lwad coach Lou Holtz. 
-

"Tiwy play against thn best ofl'nnsn and the best def1mse that '-----------------------Th-e-Ob-s-erv-e-r/R-ob-F-in-:!!cll 
I've snPn 1wnry day -when they practin~ against each othnr." 
Tlw starting defensivn unit for the llur.knyes is comprised of sevnn seniors. and consists of a first lParn All-American in defen­sive erHI Mikn Vrabnl, a Butkus Award candidate in linebacker (;rPg IIPIIisari, and a .Jim Thorpe Award candidate in cornerback Shawn Springs. J)ef'pnsiv•~ nnd Matt Finkns is also a big-time playPr, having amassed 19 sacks and 158 tacklns in his earner. 
In short. tlw Buckeye defense 
,J 
·(i. , ...· 
. 
.,_ 
The Irish ground attack should be strengthened this weekend with the addition of a healthy Randy Kinder, who carried the ball just 8 times against Texas. 
has as many players eligible for no turnovers," said Powlus. postseason awards as Miami has Look for the Irish to attempt to eligible for parole. do what has seemingly always 
If the Irish oiTense is to be suc­brought them success under Holtz. cessful against this defense, they "I think we just want to come will, as l'owlus noted, have to play out and do what we do best," said a second straight near-flawless Denson. "Establish the line of game, which means no turnovers scrimmage, run the ball, and just and precise execution. basically play ball-control foot­
"The two things that we need ball." to really focus on are executing the oll'ense and keeping the ball --Dylan Barmmer 
•••BUCKEYES ON THE OFFENSIVE 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Notre Dame's awesome front seven will have their work cut out for them against Ohio State's explosive offense. 
Let's face the facts, shall we? 
First and foremost, Ohio State is averaging a mon­strous 71 points per game through two games this season. As easy as it is to laugh away OSU's previ­ous two whipping posts, the truth is that you must have talent to put up 52 points in one half of play. 
Second, the Buckeyes have gained 1,234 yards in two games as the team paces the country in total oiTense. To put this in perspective, the Irish have amassed 1,312 through three contests. 
Third, OSU's starting quarterback, Stanley Jackson, has been on the field for 11 offensive series, leading them to touchdowns on ten of those drives while settling for a field goal on the eleventh. 
The Ohio State receiving corps caught five touch­downs last week. Their starting tailback is second in the nation in scoring with an average of 18 points per game. The Buckeyes have scored on 13 of 15 when inside the red zone, including 12 TO's. Their top offensive lineman is a candidate for the lleisman Trophy. They're that good. 
"Their confidence level, I'm sure, is very high, and justifiably so," Lou Holtz oiTered. "They're an excel­lent football team. I thought they would be a very good football team; I did not anticipate them being 11s awesome in every phase of the game." 
But hey, let's face the facts. 
We're Notre Dame, and they're not. 
They truly haven't faced a defense like the one Notre Dame will throw at them this week, i.e., one with more than a pulse. While Notre Dame's oiTense is not big-play oriented, the defense is. Or rather, just big-time when it matters most. 
"On defense, we've got playmakers," tackle Melvin Dansby assessed. "Lyron Cobbins, (Reynaldo) Wynn, (Bert) Berry. Everybody's up for this game." 
The defense has had to step up already this sea­son, with an especially tough fourth quarter effort against Vanderbilt and an all-around impressive game to shut down Texas. Unlike the OSU offense, the Irish defense knows what it takes to stand up and be counted in close games. 
As everyone is acknowledging these days, the Irish linebackers are frightening. The defensive line is terrorizing opposing quarterbacks, slashing through offensive lines like really large Freddy Kruegers. And the backfield that everyone ques­tioned coming into the season has used the skeptics' doubts to their advantage, employing a bend-but­don't break attitude that has held the big play in check. Although the loss of strong safety A'Jani Sanders hurts, Benny Guilbeaux provided solid play to close out the Texas game and has had a week to re-orient himself in his position. 
Oh, yes. This will be interesting. 
-Dave Treacy 
·F·TD~
•vr.J
. .. . 

:~rftl~t~ll:k~Z9 :::;:position look at 
who hofli.: the advantage 
~~ Quarterbacks 
D 

Powlus has the definite edge in experience, and has shown this season he has what it takes as a leader. Jackson has on~ had to stay awake in two routs. 
Running Backs 
DDenson's recent performance has been spectacu­lar, Edwards is coming around, and Kinder is back. Buckeyes' Pearson is good, but no Eddie George. 
Receivers 
Off~.Dslve Un 
A close call. Both lines are mammoth, averaging 
over 6'4" and 295 pounds. Both line.s.., are vital to 
their respective team's success. Pace is All~World. 
Another stalemate. 


Uneb~H·.kc;·~ .
DAlthough Buckeyes have hard-nosed Belllsari, it's tough to match up with the Fab Four. Look for a huge game from the Irish unit. It will 
be ....,,,......,..u 
D Secondary 

----~-~ -~-~-------~~---~~--------------~-------------~--------­
page 6 The Irish Extra • THE INSIGHT Friday, September 27, 1996 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Hey, BUckeye fans ... 
Welcome to South Bend 
W
e've been waiting one year for this 
game. 
And, finally, it's here. 
But we remember how it was last year. We remember the road trip to Columbus. We remember the hitting, the taunting, the spitting and the cursing. And that was just off the field. Oh, how I love those gracious Buckeye fans. 
And, of course, we remember their kind words as we strolled Todd the streets and side-Fitzpatrick walks that surround­ed Ohio Stadium. SportsWriter 

"Hey, man. Where's that little leprechaun guy?" they yelled. 
It was hard to take them seriously for ridiculing our mascot. After all, their school is nicknamed after a chestnut. 
And the strangest thing happened. Everyone thought my name was "Rudy." All day long, they would chant it as we walked past them. 
But I could handle the taunting and name-calling. The real heartbreaker was the game itself. And that's what we'll remember most vividly. 
So now it's time for revenge. 
Sure, it may have hurt a little bit when the Buckeye fans screamed "Northwestern!" as we passed them in the streets. 
But I chuckled when Michigan beat Ohio State last season ... sending Northwestern to the Rose Bowl. 
And I certainly didn't shed a tear when Tennessee toppled the men in scarlet and gray at the Citrus Bowl. 
What goes around, comes around. 
Now it's our turn. 

The Irish are a much better team this season. They're more experienced, and several key players who didn't play key roles last season have stepped up this year. 
Heck, we have the Blarney now. 
So things have certainly changed since last year. And most of the changes have been for the better. 
Maybe, just maybe, this is what those hospitable Buckeye fans will be yelling this year: 
... "Wait a minute, who's this Melvin Dansby guy? I don't remember him. And why is our quarterback running back­wards?" 
... "Who is this freshman kicker walk­ing onto the field? Oh my goodness, is that Craig Hentrich back for another year of eligibility? He nearly booted his kickoff past the endzone." 
. . . "Why are there so many receivers on the field for the Irish? And Powlus is throwing to all of them. He even threw it to the tight end. Oh boy. We're in trou­ble." 
... "Hey, this isn't fair. Why couldn't we have played Rice again?" 
For all of the freshman, sophomores and juniors on campus, this is how it feels when we're on the eve of the biggest game in the country. This is how it feels when we're chasing a Na.tional Championship. And this is how it felt in 1993 when we played Florida State ... well, almost. 
So enjoy every minute of this week­end. Enjoy the pep rallies. Both of them. And enjoy the fact that we're playing at home this year. 
This weekend's contest with Ohio State isn't another Game of the Century. But it's our Game of the Year, and revenge will come tomorrow. 

• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
Barmmer and Mike Day Editor: Tim Sherman Graphic Design: Associate Editors: Dave Chris Mullins, Bryan Myers 
Treacy and Joe Villinski Statistician: Jim Belden Assistant Editors: Dylan Production: Heather Cocks 
• 


r-------..--------~ ~--~ ~----'~.'~·...... ~, 
: 50o/o OFF BRAKE SHOES AND PADS*~: 
I  Disc or drum. Foreign or domestic cars or light  I  
:  trucks. Lifetime guaranteed shoes or pads.  :  
:  See Manager for details.  :  
I  I  

I *Labor and additional parts not included. Coupon must be presented all I time of purchase. Not valid with any other coup,ons, specials or offers. I I Offer expires 10/31/96 ~il I 
L-------------------~----~---~ 
r .....1111111! ~--~,}~'''~· ~--~--~ ~ ~-~ ···~-~---•.• ~ ,,~.•~· ~--~·-,~ ~-~-.~· ~-~-~ 
: 15o/o OFF ANY EXHApST SERVICE : ~ Coup~n must h~,.presented at time of purchase. ,: I ~w·'Not valid"'With any othet coupons, '1 
~~.· See·~:::~o~::an.. ! 
~~;{r -~~ :, .: 
I ·Offer expires 10/31/96 ·I 

-~---~------~----------~ 
Friday, September 27, 1996 The Irish Extra •THE NATI 0 N page 7 

ABC* UClA at Miehigan Pnnn Statn at Wisconsin Colorado at Tnxas A&M 
N.C. at Florida St. 
CBS* Virginia Toeh at Syracuse Kt~ntueky at Florida 
ESPN Toxas at Virginia 
* regional coverage, 
TBA TBA TBA TBA 
POINTS PREVIOUS 
1659 4 1612 3 1505 5 1411 7 1373 9 1229 17 1207 8 1198 1 1125 2 1100 10 991 11 891 12 855 6 
764 14 
711 15 
677 16 
662 21 
577 18 
543 20 
440 22 
376 24 
299 13 
155 
100 
79 
The Observer/ Tom Roland 
lniiiDI 

cheek your local listings 

3:30p.m. 
IDIIDI 
3:30p.m. 7:30p.m. 


SeiDinoles, Tarheels face off in battle for ACC lead 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
#11 North Carolina at 
#2 Florida St. 
As usual, ,the Seminoles are stacked. Running back Warrick Dunn is their Heisman candi­date this season, and he has yet to disappoint. Quite possibly he could be the most difficult man to tackle in college football this season. Als'o as usual, Bobby Bowden has a passing game that could be second to none. Receiver Andre Cooper has the ability to beat any defensive back. 
The Tar Heels, on the other hand, may not have the house­hold names or the overwhelm­ing offense, but they cannot be overlooked. They have beaten quality teams like Syracuse with solid play, and look to do the same against FSU. 
#3 Penn St. at Wisconsin 
After demolishing Temple last week, the Nittany Lions face another mild challenge as they prepare for their momentous matchup next week with #4 Ohio State. 
QB Wally Richardson and tail­back Curtis Enis lead a high-


1. 2. 3. 4. 
5. 
6. 7. 8. 9. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 22. 23. 24. 25. 
TEAM RECORD 
Florida (52) 3-0 Florida St. (13) 2-0 Penn St. (1) 4-0 Ohio St. 2-0 Notre Dame 3-0 Arizona St. (1) 3-0 Michigan 3-0 Nebraska 1-1 Tennessee 2-1 Miami 3-0 North Carolina 3-0 Colorado 2-1 Texas 2-1 Alabama 4-0 Southern Cal. 3-1 Kansas St. 4-0 LSU 2-0 Virginia Tech 3-0 Virginia 3-0 Kansas 2-0 Washington 2-1 Auburn 3-1 West Virginia 4-0 Brigham Young 3-1 Northwestern 2-1 
powered offense that evokes memories of two years ago, when stars Kerry Collins, Ki­Jana Carter, and Bobby Engram were lighting up the scoreboard en route to an undefeated 12-0 season. 
Despite their high-octane per­formances thus far, including an opening-day victory over #16 USC, Penn State cannot get caught looking ahead. Wisconsin coach Barry Alvarez is at home, and, like his former mentor Lou Holtz, always has a trick up his sleave for the big game. 
#12 Colorado at Texas A&M 
The Aggies look to continue their trip down the road to recovery this week against the Buffaloes. After losing two early-season games to #14 BYU and unranked USL, the Aggies destroyed North Texas St. last week 55-0. 
Coach R.C. Slocum continues to try to make up for the loss of star tailback Leland McElroy and the mainstay at quarter­back, Corey Pullig. D'Andre Hardeman and Sirr Parker seem to be adequate replacements for the departed McElroy, while Tennessee transfer Brandon Stewart has the potential to be the star Pullig never was. 
The Buffaloes have recovered from their loss to #7 Michigan a few weeks ago. QB Koy Detmer directs coach Hick Neuheisel's attack, and has the talent and statistics to considered in the running for the lleisman. 
#13 Texas at #19 Virginia 
This game provides an intrigu­ing matchup. and not just because of the high rankings. Last year, the 'Horns defeated the Cavaliers on a last-second, 53-yard field goal by Phil Dawson into the wind. 
After a heartbreaking loss to Notre Dame last week, Texas needs to win this game if they want to stay in the hunt for the national championship. Their abilities at the skill positions should allow them a chance to get back on the road to success. 

UVa might have something to say about that. Essentially this is the same team that last y.ear upset title contender Florida State. Tailback Tiki Barber pos­sesses the combinations of skills .,that coaches drool over, and could be the best back in the ACC, if not the entire country, even better than Dunn. 



The Observer/Rob Finch 

After falling 27-24 to Notre Dame last weekend, tailback Shon Mitchell and the Texas Longhorns will try to rebound when they travel to Virginia to take on the No. 19 ranked Cavaliers. 
The Peerless Prognosticators 

Notre Dame Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
N.C. Florida St. Florida St. 
Penn St. Penn St. Penn St. Texas Virginia Texas 
Tim Sherman Mike Day Sports Editor Colorado Colorado Assistant SportS Texas A&M Editor 

Notre Dame 
Florida St. 
Penn St. 
• 
Texas Colorado 



Notre Dame Florida St. Wisconsin Texas Colorado 

Notre Dame Florida St. Penn St. Virginia Colorado 



In their mailbox... 
\ 

To subscribe, call1·800·457·3533 
ClCJG]il] 
On our On their phone... award-winning interactive website... 

Irish Sports Report ::J 
¢:Jol oc;>l ~I al ~I ~I t!SI ool ol 
~~~~Images ~~~~ 
http://www. irishsports.com/ 
LOOKING FOR SOMETHING ENTERTAINING? 
The South Bend Tribune is your guide to area entertainment and events. With our newly designed INTERMISSION and SUNDAY PUNCH sections, along with Thursday's WKD!, the Tribune is your one-stop source for local happenings. 

Subscribe now to the South Bend Tribune and get 7-Day Delivery (excluding campus breaks and holidays) for the special price of only $60 for the entire school year! With your paid subscription, we'll send you a poster of the last football game ever played in the original "House that Rockne Built.' 
South BendUribune 
To subscribe, call 235-6464. Long Distance, caii1-800-220-SERV. 







