
Monday, November 11, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 50 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Profs: Lebed's ouster may haunt Yeltsin 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Saint Mary's community who are familiar David Stephancic, a professor of history tal corruption to the press. He has also News Writer with Russian politics, however, believe at Saint Mary's College, also finds spoken out about the theft of over eight that the West has several reasons to Yeltsin's story about the coup too hard to trillion rubles sent by the government to When Russian General Aleksandr question Yeltsin's explanation for Lebed's believe. "If there was any truth to what Chechnya in a rebuilding effort. Lebed surprised the world by finishing dismissal. Everything came to a head late this third in the first round of this summer's According to Professor Igor Grazin summer when he publicly accused presidential elections, President Boris of Notre Dame's College of Business Interior Minister Anatolii Kulikov of
'you 

can trust him (Lebed). You can rely
Yeltsin offered him a cabinet position in Administration, who is also a member war-profiteering in Chechnya. 
upon him ...He is a man who is master of
exchange for his support in the ensuing of the Estonian parliament, Lebed "He is not a very comfortable politi­
his word.' 

runoff. Lebed, a general in the Russian was ousted because he is too sincere cian," said Grazin. "He's not diplo­paratrooper corps, accepted and became and posed a threat to the illegal activ­Igor Grazin, matically polished. But you can trust Security Council Secretary when Yeltsin ities of everyone else in Yeltsin's cor­Notre Dame professor and him. You can rely upon him...He is a won. rupt administration. man who is master of his word." 
member ofEstonia's parliament. 
And now, only four months later, the "Lebed is a decent and honest For this reason, Grazin said, Hussian president has ousted Lebed from man," Grazin said. "He is not a crook, Lebed's expulsion was inevitable. But his position. Yeltsin accused Lebed, who whereas practically all in the inner circle they were saying about him in regard to it became immediately necessary only analysts throughout Eastern Europe now of the Kremlin, and I believe now even plotting a coup," he asked, "why haven't when President Yeltsin was about to praise as havrng brought peace to seem­Yeltsin himself, are basically pretty cor­they brought in a case? Why haven't they undergo heart surgery. According to ingly hopeless conflicts in both Chechnya rupt. Lebed comes in with the populist, arrested him?" Grazin, Kremlin insiders apparently and Moldova, of planning a military coup. and very popular, topic of 'cleaning the Ever since he was appointed, Lebed has believed that if Yeltsin had not survived 
Two professors in the Notre Dame and house.'" been dropping small hints of governmen-
Weekend events 
W
hile the weather 
kept many students 

indoors this week­end, some students (below) played in the snow on Stepan Fields. Other weekend cam­pus events proceeded despite outdoor conditions.(Clockwise from top) Students listened to and read poetry in LaFortune Student Center, various Asian student associations hosted the"Asian Allure" fashion show in Washington Hall, and students, such as freshman Jeff Perconte, took advantage of free laundry services in LaFortune. 
see LEBED I page 6 


Army guides face rape, harassment 

charge~ 
By ALEX DOMINGUEZ 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMOHE 
Army instructors -charged with raping and harassing female recruits at a training center are also accused of threatening them -sometimes with death -to keep quiet. 
''I'm going to knock your teeth out and get away with it," one drill sergeant told a trainee, according to newly released Army documents. 
Four drill instructors and a captain at the Army Ordnance Center have been charged, three with criminal charges and two on administrative counts. They and 15 others have been suspended in the widening investigation. 
The five men facing charges, which range from rape to sending improper love letters to the trainees, were accused of harassing at least a dozen women in their first weeks of training. The average age of the women was 21. 
According to documents detailing the charges released late Saturday, one of the defendants, Staff Sgt. Delmar Simpson, threatened to kill women if they told anyone he was having sex with them. 
He is accused of grabbing one woman's hair and jerking her head back after threaten­ing to knock out her teeth. 
The official charges provided the most detailed information yet of the allegations at the training center, at the Army's Aberdeen Proving Ground 30 miles northeast of Baltimore. 
Maj. Susan Gibson, deputy staff judge advocate at the post, refused to comment on whether any of the defendants tried to carry out the alleged threats. 
Another defendant, Capt. Derrick Robertson, is accused 
see ARMY I page 6 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 11, 1996 
l 
' 
f 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



If not for the road ... 

We arc all the same.  Allison Koenig  
We arc the same sex. We come from the  News Copy Ediror  
same Catholic back­ 

ground. We arc from the same social and 
nco nomic classes. We are of the same intel" 
lectual level. We like to do the same things 
on weekends. We even dress in the same 
way. 

We bring (~ur many similarities, as well as some individual differences, to Notre Dame, Indiana. We are Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. Unfortunately, there are two things that divide us: one road and many misleading stereotypes. 
The road is most likely permanent. The stereotypes and the shared coldness between-the women of the two schools is something that can be helped. 
As a first year student at Saint Mary's, I was made immediately aware of both the stereotypieal role I would play, as well as the one my Notre Dame counterpart would fulfill. 
Mine would be something like this: book smart, although a ding bat in eonversation; a party girl who would be lax on her sexual morals; a Catholic student pretending to major in liberal arts something or other, whose hidden agenda was to lind someone to marry. 
The stereotype of a Notre Dame woman might indude the following: very intelli­g(mt, and entirely too exeited to prove it; reasonably pretty appearance if one ignores the freshman tifteen, an unques­tioning Catholic whose major is real and has no agnnda for marrying a fellow Notre Dame student. 
I realize that some truth exists behind 1wery st(~reotype. However, in this case, l believe that the stereotypes outlandishly distort the truth. 
As a Saint Mary's freshman, I was taught to think that I would never be close to Notre Dame women. Notre Dame freshman of both sexes were taught the same. 
And it only makes sense. A first year stu­dent's same-sex friends are made in the residence halls. Opposite sex friends are made, espeeially for Saint Mary's women, on the social scene. 
Harnly does a person of a particular gen­der walk up to a stranger of the same gen­der at a party or a bar and try to make a new friend. 
There is no logical reason for Saint Mary's and Notre Dame women to get to know each other in the social context. 
Therefore, as a junior, I have some com­pletnly illogieal f'ri1mdships here at Notre Dame. I was able to become friends with a number of Notre Dame women through a mutual male friend. 
After my roommates, they are the best women I have come to know in my college experience. We laugh together at the implied differences that arc supposed to separate us. 
We are the same. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Matthew Loughran  Tara Grieshop  
Allison Koenig  Heather Cocks  
Sports  Maureen Hurley  
Brian Fremeau  Accent  
Viewpoint  Rachel Torres  
Ethan Hayward  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Sue O'Kain  
WedneJday~ 38 23 


• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Cemetery bomb kills 13 at memorial service 

MOSCOW 
An explosion ripped through a grave­side memorial service for the slain head of a veterans group on Sunday, killing at least 13 people in what authorities called a gangland turf war. 
At least 14 people were injured by the blast, which hurled bodies and body parts as far as 70 yards and into the branches of the cemetery's tall birch trees. 
The dead included the man's widow ahd his successor at the veterans group. 

The gruesome attack took place on a national holiday honoring the police. Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin canceled a holiday concert that was scheduled for broadcast on Russia's two biggest TV networks. 
Russia's top cop, Interior Minister Anatoly Kulikov, took the explosion as a direct challenge from the "dregs" of society. "They threw down the gauntlet," he said. "We accept." 
More than 100 people were gathered for the service for Mikhail Likhodey, who was killed on Nov. 10, 1994, by a bomb planted at the entrance to his Moscow apart­ment building. 
Largent: Gingrich should step aside 
WASHINGTON 
H.ep. Steve Largent, a member of Newt Gingrich's loyal supporters from the 1994 class of House freshmen, rec­ommended Sunday that Gingrich give up his speaker's seat until ethics charges against him arc resolved. "I think it is a good idea," Largent, H­Okla., responded when asked on "Fox News Sunday" about a proposal that 


Gingrich turn his job over to Judiciary Committee Chairman H.ep. Henry Hyde, R-Ill., while the ethics charges are pending. The idea reportedly is suggested in the next issue of the conservative journal "National Heview." "I think it would reduce the amount of rhetoric that we would hear on the floor for the 1 05th Congress and allow us to work more constructively and move for­ward," Largent said. Asked if others in Congress shared his view, Largent said, "I think behind closed doors there would be, but publicly people are maybe fearful to say that on national TV." Appearing later on the same program, Ralph Reed of the Christian Coalition said a scenario where Gingrich, R-Ga., stepped aside was unlikely. "The House members that I have talked to have indicated that unless and until the ethics committee comes forth with formal charges, that Newt Gingrich is innocent until proven guilty," Reed said. Democrats have hit Gingrich with dozens of ethics complaints since 1994. 

Woman receives transplant from relatives 
PITTSBUHGH 
For Ed Townsend, the key to his ailing daughter's sur­vival is a simple breath away. Lorie Townsend, 25, has had to suck oxygen through plastic tubes since cystic fibrosis clogged her lungs with thick mucous. On Thursday she will undergo a rare double-lung transplant at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Harer still, she'll receive lung tissue from living donors -her own father and a cousin. "The only thing I can do is give my lung," her father said. "I couldn't just sit here and watch her die." He and cousin Steve Townsend, 29, will donate about one-fifth of one lung, leaving them' plenty to survive on, said Dr. Bartley Griffith, the center's chief of cardiothoraeic surgery. Together the two donated por­tions of lung will make up about 80 percent of the clogged tissue Ms. Townsend has now. 
Likhodey was the chairman of the 
Afghan Veterans Foundation and had 
been locked in a power struggle with a 
rival veterans' leader, Valery 
Radchikov. Hadchikov was badly 
wounded in an attack a year later. 
Police said a remote-controlled bomb 
was hidden under a table laden with 
vodka for the toasts sometimes offered 
to the memory of the departed. 
Mourner Alexander Boiko said the 
explosion knocked him ofT his feet. 
"I saw blood-spattered bodies all 
around me," a battered, bandagp,d 
Boiko said later at the hospital. "Compared to them, I'm in good shape." 
Stanislav Zhorin, a Federal Security Service officer, told reporters at the cemetery on the capital's southern edge that the attack was "an old turf battle, a settling of accounts that started with Likhodcy's death." 
However, one of Likhodey's associates, Franz Klintsevich, blamed the bombing on outsiders trying to take over the veterans organization. 
The cemetery slaughter was a dramatic manifestation of the thuggishness that pervades post-Soviet Hussia. Charitable organizations arc no exception to the perva­sive violence, desperation and greed. 

Explosions damage Muslim homes 
TUZLA, Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Explosions leveled or badly damaged nine Muslim houses in a Sorb-controlled area of a demilit!\rized zone near where U.S. troops were patrolling, policn and aid officials said Sunday. The attack, onn of the worst since NATO-led troops arrived 11 months ago to separate Bosnia's warring sides and enforce peace, highlighted simmering tensions in areas where refugees want to return to their homes in areas controlled by rival fac­tions. The explosions oecurred just after 11 p.m. Saturday in the villages of Brod and Omcrbegovaca ncar the town of Brcko, said Andrea Angeli, spokesman for the international police force in northeastern Bosnia. Ten U.S. soldiers patrolling Brod or. foot aecompani1~d by a Bradley fighting vehicle were were within 15 yards of one of the houses when it exploded, said Handolph Hyan, an official with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, who observed the incident. The gunner on tlw vehicle was nieked by a piece of l1ying brick, Hyan said. "We were in the wrong place at the right time," lw said. Hyan said four houses in Brod and two in Omerbegovaca were leveled. Three other houses in Omerbegovaca were badly damaged. It was not known whether the explo­sions were set oil' with timers or detonatnd from afar. No one was living in the houses at the time and no one was hurt. On Sunday, NATO troops discovered a house in Brod that was wired with nine sticks of dynamite. The troops defused the explosives, NATO officials said. 

Drag racing car leaves track, kills one 
WAHHENTON, Va. 

A hot rod careened out of control during a drag raee and flew into the grandstand Sunday, killing a woman and critically injuring her 5-ycar-old son. Six other peo­ple were hurt as they tried to flee the car. The aecidcnt during a National Hot Hod Association event happened when the axle on Daniel Hay George's car broke, causing it veer out of its lane and flip over a 6-foot-high fence, said Fauquier County Sheriff Joe Higgs. George wasn't injured, but the 37-year-old woman was pinned beneath his car. Higgs said she died trying to protect her young son, who was knocked out of the grandstand by the colli­sion. Neither was immediately identified. Six other peo­ple in the grandstand were injured l1eeing the car, but they weren't hit, Higgs said. Some spe.ctators helped lift the car off the woman, he said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 11.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

H L 
I 


Monday ~ 34 18 Tuesdar 36 20 
.-<~



~ 26 
~·· 31 



David McCaffrey 
_.r-·•'
Shannon Dunne 

4,~,~9.~8 (f ~ u

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T-storms Rain Fluffiss Snow /cs Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel

rhc Associarcd Press. All rcproduccion rights arc reserved. 
Atlanta 52 32 Daytona 65 46 New Orleans 64 47 Boston 39 32 Denver 65 32 New York 43 33 Chicago 34 18 Indianapolis 38 18 Pittsburgh 30 25 Cincinatti 37 19 Istanbul 59 48 St. Louis 38 24 Columbus 35 22 Los Angeles 79 59 Seattle 55 46 



---~ --------.,... 
I 
I 
I Monday, November 11, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 I 

Banas-Abing: Museums are 'guardians of history' 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
Eleven years ago, Laura Banas-Abing addressed the Saint Mary's Class of 1985 as their valedictorian. On Thursday night, she returned on campus, to address the Saint Mary's history depart­ment about her doctoral research. 
Banas-Abing delivered a guest lecture, entitled "The Outdoor History Museum: the tour you had." 
She received her master's degree from Marquette University in 1988, worked for the national archives in Washington and for a major historical research firm, and is currently finishing her doctor­ate at Marquette. 
Citing a boom in _interest in historical sites and museums since the 1960's, Banas-Abing 
_,,-~~-----'~ \ ;' ---,~/ 
~~-~ £rfC();f/ 0/f/~ 
~~ "YOUR FAMILY t-VN UNitt< ~ ~LiliiiNl\Jli'o \\t:~l 'lJllltl tltNIJ.IN 4l>h:ll• t~"Ji :14--W•
\\'.'\Y • 

rriaa{~ ~tuaent Di~count 
Open Bowling $J .50 per game with I0 
Dance and Theatre presents 
Edward The 



Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 at 8p.m.; Nov. 17 at7:30 p.m. Little Theatre 

said, "They have become a tourist mecca that was regard­ed as both a vacation spot and an educational tool," 
Along with being "guardians of history," that "recreate the national spirit," the outdoor museum has a dual role in his­tory, according to Banas-Abing. 
"They are a cultural artifact, that also teach us about the society that created it," she said. 
The museum's cultural status is evidenced through the ways that the historical sites are reconstructed or re-enacted to show society's interpretation of the past. And, according to Banas-Abing, that interpreta­tion reveals America's need for and attraction to history. 
"At the most basic level, his­tory is a human need and cre­ation. History exists as a means to educate, direct and inspire," she said. 
Snite features Barnard photos 
Special to The Observer 
The Snite Museum of Art will exhibit some 50 photographs of the American Civil War taken by George Barnard from Nov. 14 to Dec. 15, and from Jan. 12 to Feb. 9. 
"George N. Barnard: Civil War Photographs" will open with a reception Thursday from 5-6:30 p.m. in the Snite's O'Shaughnessy West Gallery. 
The photographs in the exhi­bition, once the personal prop­erty of Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman, were donated to Notre Dame 40 years ago by his family. 

influence with President
Sherman's wife, Eleanor, was Lincoln to exempt Sorin's Holy

a devout Catholic and good 

Cross brothers from the Unionfriend of Notre Dame's founder, Army draft. 
Father Edward Sorin. Two of According to Snite photogra­Sherman's sons attended Notre phy curator Steve Moriarity,Dame and one of his daughters few of these photographs have was enrolled at Saint Mary's been exhibited before. All ofCollege during the war. While them are vulnerable to cumula­her children lived and studied tive exposure to light, which isin the area, Mrs. Sherman lived why the exhibition will close for in South Bend with the Colfax one month during the holidayfamily. She used her political 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
-ISM (N.) 

c a mp u ::s:a..-------------,,~~"r~4:':1,~,.~,,~,.,;.,,1.,.nr=~1i1if~1r:ar:;11J:fl,,. Diversit..I----­



Summit 
WITH MAJOR SUPPORT FROM PROJECT CHANGE: AN ANTI­RACISM INITIATIVE. OF THE LEVI STRAUSS FOUNDATION 
the way the waythings things are••• an be 
MODERATED BY:
Institute for Public Media Arts 

Farai Chideya, CNN political analyst, former MTV news editor 
VIDEOCONFERENCE INFORMATION 
1.01. DeBartolo 7:00PM November 1.3th 
for more info contact Rodney Cohen 631-5293 
HTIP:/ /PUBLICMEDIA.ORG/ISM 
LIVE SATELLITE VIDEOCONFERENCE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1996 7:00PM -9:45PM EST 4:00PM -6:45PM PST 
JOIN DR. RONALD TAKAKI, PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC STUDIES AT UC BERKELEY AND DISTINGUISHED AUTHOR AND 10, 000 COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY FOR AN INTERACTIVE DIS­CUSSION ABOUT DIVERSITY ON COLLEGE CAMPUS­ES. COME TO ASK QUESTIONS, OFFER YOUR PER­SPECTIVE, LEARN, AND BE A CATALYST FOR ACTION! 
season. 
"Unlike modern war pho­tographs, which often show a moment of intense action, Barnard's images are calm and reflective," Moriarity said, adding that the restrictions of mid -19th century photographic technology precluded depicting frozen action. 
In 1864, Barnard became an official army photographer for Sherman's Military Division of the Mississippi. He pho­tographed Atlanta after its cap­ture in September 1864, as well as the recaptured ruins of Fort Sumter. He also accompanied the Union Army on its infamous "March to the Sea" in November and December of that year. 
In 1866 he published "Photographic Views of Sherman's Campaign," 61 large photographic prints that are now considered a masterpiece of American photographic pub­lishing. The Art Institute of Chicago has loaned a copy of this work. which was once owned by Sherman himself, to the Snite Museum for this exhibit. 
1 
"George N. Barnard: Civil War Photographs" was made possible by the cooperation of the Notre Dame Archives and the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
1 
1 
1 
; 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Monday, November 11, 1996

page 4 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• VATICAN CITY 






Pope toasts to 50th year in priesthood 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO Associated Press Writer 
VATICAN CITY 
Pope John Paul II -the guest of honor Sunday at a party cel­ebrating his 50 years in the priesthood -encouraged 
struggling priests to stay true to the church and prayed for those who had left. 
Just a month af'ler 

an app1mdec-John Paul II tomy, John Paul. 7h, held up well during a nearly three-hour Mass in St. Peter's Basilica and while lis­tening to a musical perfor­mance from a balcony over­looking St. Peter's Square. 
.John Paul had invited fellow golden-anniversary celebrants from around tho world to join him in several days of cere­monies, and some 1,500 priests took up the invitation. 
"I embrace all you dear priests scattered throughout the world," the pope said. lie drew rounds of wild applause from everyone packed into St. Pder's Square, from usually­reserved cardinals to groups of pilgrims, including parishioners from the United States and many fellow Poles. 
llo hoartily wished the crowd a "Buon Pranzo!" (nice lunch). Awaiting the pope, cardinals, bishops and priests was a meal of pasta with basil and tomato sauce, veal in lemon sauce and dessert. 
John Paul urged newly ordained priests to stay enthu­siastic about their vocation. 
The pope then turned his thoughts to "priests in spiritual or material dilliculty, and also to all those who have quit the commitment they assumed" and invoked God's help and support for all. 
Sex scandals, including priests and bishops who 

fathered children and allega­tions of clergy abusing young children, have embarrassed the church. 
And many priests, disagree­ing with the pope's repeated insistence that they not be allowed to marry. have aban­doned the cloth. 
Earlier, Cardinal Bernardin Cantin of Benin asked the pope to pardon priests worldwide for "all the sufferings we have caused in these years" and pledged they would remain faithful to the church and its teachings. 
Brother Mario Aviles, a Texan studying in Home to become a priest, said that the pope "was a great example and help for me as I become a priest in these days which are dillicult for the church and for the world." 
Faced with increased atten­tion on the aging pope's physi­cal ailments, the Vatican is emphasizing the pontiffs deter­mination to keep tending to his spiritual flock worldwide. 
In an interview in Sunday's Corriere della Sera, a Milan daily, Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls con­firmed four previously announced papal trips in 1997: Prague in April, Poland in May, Paris in August and Brazil in October. 
HAl state TV quoted Sarajevo's archbishop, Vinko Puljic, one of the cardinals in Home for the anniversary, as saying the pope also was expected to visit that city after Easter, which comes on March 
30. 
Security concerns canceled a papal trip to Sarajevo in 1993. 
Navarro-Valls made no men­tion of the pope's constant tremor of the left hand, which 

shook throughout much of
Sunday's ceremonies. In the. r past he has said the pope may suffer from a kind of syndrome that could include Parkinson's, whose sufferers have similar 
tremors. 
• CHINA 

China unveils trade sanctions 
ByJOHN LEICESTER Associated Pre~ Wtiter 
BEIJING 
Turning up the pressure before a visit by the U.S. sec­retary of state, China said Sunday it will ban imports of American fruit, beverages and other goods in retaliation for a fine for alleged trade viola· tions. 
The United States levied a $19 million penalty on China on Sept. 6 for attempting to ship garments to the United States through other coun­tries, thereby skirting quotas and violating a 1994 trade pact. 


China's retaliation, the latest in a series of trade disputes that have soured China-U.S. relations, co.mes less than two 
·weeks before a planned visit 
by Secretary of State Warren 
Christopher. 

Christopher and Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qiehen are expected to talk about trade. among other topics. 
"It's probably no coinci­dence" that the ban comes at a time when the two countries are preparing to renegotiate their textile trade agreement, said Jay Ziegler, a spokesman for the U.S. Trade China's Foreign Trade Ministry appeared to offer the United States a way out, ask­ing the United States to with­draw the textile penalty "in the spirit of developing Sino­
Representative's  office  in  
Washington.  
In  announcing  the  ban.  

U.S. bilateral trade." 
"Failure to do so will leave the Chinese side no other choice but to take correspond­ing action," said the statement issued through the state-run Xinhua News Agency. 
Tho United States defended its decision to impose the penalty. 


a 48 hour immersion during January Break 1997 to inner-city sites around the country 
CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

JAN{JARY SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINAR IN 



PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
JANUARY 2-7, 1997 
Deadline for Application • 
TODAY· November 1 1 th 
4 

Encounter Holy Cross Ministries In Latino 
parishes and>~lth homeless through · Andre House 
.·;_-,_.~):\;:!~1\lr.. ':-~;J~t.; 
mor, in~rrnation, @ esc (Applicil'ilori anti l~a'rning agreement} 

SUN! 


CENTER FOR 


SERVICE/LEARNING! SOCIAL CONCERNS 

----~-------~------------~­
Monday, November II, I996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 




New generation to inherit Dole's Republican reign 
Heavy snow dumped on North
H&JP>JP>Y ]_8th 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

As Bob Dole leaves the national scene, 
he closes the door for 
a generation of public 
figures who have had 
an exceptionally long 
run in public service. John F. Kennedy, who was born six years earlier than Dole, said when he 
Dole assumed the presiden­cy: "The torch is passed." Now, with 

Cold air hits

lBirtJb.J&y 
eastern third 

Princess 
of nation 
The Associated Press 


MiJmi JP&~ 
Cold air blowing across the eastern third of the nation

~fUle, 
Sunday spread more than a foot of snow around the Great

Z'i9S~. ~. 
Lakes, with snow showers along the Appalachian states as

..ttttte s~ 11. ~ 
far south as Georgia. 
Cold northerly picked up


(ri'J::A 7~Ue 71Utd} 

Dole denied the presidency and none in his generation ever again likely to seek national office, the torch has passed again. The Kennedy-to-Dole generation will not reclaim it. 
Politfcians of that generation did not share a common ideology -it includes a Barry Goldwater and a George McGovern-but they shared two defin­ing events, the Great Depression and World War II. Both were catastrophes; even those not directly hurt were affect­ed. 
Each of the seven presidents from Kennedy through George Bush was born within a 17-year span, between 
1908 and 1925. Dole, born in 1923, fit right in. He called his run a "last mis­sion." 
When Bush and Gerald Ford rallied with Dole at the close of the Dole presi­dential campaign, the event brought together men who had been on every Republican national ticket over a 20­year span, from 1976 to 1996. 
Bill Clinton and today's politicians do not have those shared experiences on which to find common ground with the voters. 
The 1960s era, Clinton's reference point, means different things to differ­ent people. For today's college students, 
moisture from the Great Lakes "We're hoping for 30 inches," to spread heavy bands of snow Dorren Spiers, 45, said at a across parts of Wisconsin, lodge in Presque Isle, also near Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, the Upper Michigan border. Pennsylvania and upstate New "We probably won't see the York. ground until next April but 
In Cleveland, up to 180,000 shoot, that's why we're up customers were. without elec­here. I love it." tricity Sunday after the weight A cold front marking the of 14 inches of wet snow leading edge of the cold air downed power lines. Utilities stretched from northern Texas predicted some customers may across Louisiana, Mississippi be without power until Tuesday and Alabama into Georgia and or Wednesday. South Carolina. 
Dozens of cars skidded off The cold air combined with snow-slicked roads. And one the effects of a low pressure traffic-related death in Ohio area centered over Georgia to was blamed on the weather. spread light to moderate snow 
More than a foot of blowing showers along the snow piled up Sunday on parts Appalachians from West of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Virginia into northern Georgia. 
"We're getting nailed," said Snow showers also were scat­Scott LaComb, road foreman for tered over parts of the Ohio and the Alger County Road Tennessee valleys. Commission at Munising, which Across the north-central part had gotten nearly 18 inches in of the nation, a band of light 24 hours beginning Saturday snow stretched from northeast­afternoon. ern Montana into southwestern 
Parts of northern Wisconsin Iowa, with flakes also falling in got 12 inches of snow late parts of western and central Saturday. Missouri. 


cary ary 

Wake up and Get offthe 
...It's Your Birthday! 

Your favorite H-Bags 

The Notre Dame African Students Association 


and [Rfl 
CENTER  FOR  
SOCIAL  
The Center for Social Concerns  coNCERNS  
Present  
a Lecture  
by  

Professor Sylvanus Udoidem Center for Philosophy of Religion 
entitled "Toxic Waste in Third World Countries: An Ethical Issue" 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 at 4:15 ·p.m. Hesburgh Faculty lounge 
For further information contact Guillaume Zounlome NDASA 272-7449 or Rodney Cohen Center for Social Concerns 631-5293 
the '60s are a controversial part of their parents' shared experience, says Patrick Maney, who teaches history at Tulane University. 
"Clinton is not able to evoke a heroic past; that's one of his problems," Maney said. "Dole's problem was that it was just too long ago for him. World War II didn't do it for Dole, though Ronald Reagan made it work for him." 
What strikes Columbia University his­torian Alan Brinkley about Dole's gen­eration of public figures is how many of them there were, how far they got and how long they dominated public life. 
Gorbachev." At the time, Yeltsin was protesting against the




Lebed 
excess and corruption of an extremely ineffective 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, November 11, 1996 
Hatch names Borkowski Social Concerns Fellow
continued from page 1 

the operation, the possibility of Lebed vying for the presidential power might have arisen. 
But both Grazin and Stephancic believe that Yeltsin's top aides had no reason to distrust Lebed. Grazin himself sees the whole affair as a sign of the Kremlin's own corruption and moral decay. 
"A<> a paratrooper. as a high ranking traditional military officer, it would have been well below ILebcd'sl personal dignity to take advantage of a situation of incapacitation of the Russian presi­dent," he said. "But all these bureaucratic crooks who are surrounding Yeltsin today would take any advantage. since they have no sense of ... honor. They thought that Lebed might act the same way. It explains to some extent how crooked Yeltsin's administration itself is. that they measure people by their own crooked standards." 
Grazin is of the opinion that the ouster will ulti­mately work to the Russian president's own disad­vantage. So far. it has only helped Lebed to emerge as Yell<>in's political rival. and to such a degree that both Grazin and Stephancic are will­ing at this point to speculate that Lebed may be the next president of Russia. 
"That is very strong possibility," said Stephancic. "Once he masters the political game. I don't think there will be much that can get away from him, unless somewhere along the line he makes some sort of fantastic mistake." 
The irony here is that Lebed may come to power in much the same way as Yeltsin did just a few years ago. According to Grazin, "lie is Yeltsin's own type of politician, who is able to beat Yeltsin with his own weapon. lie is able to appeal to very wide popular support. just like Yeltsin did against ruler. and he was able to displace him through popular support. But today, Grazin believes, Lebed will likely displace Yeltsin. who himself has proven to be the ineffective ruler. "Yeltsin is a standard Soviet communist," Grazin said. "He is not very efficient, and he is very damaging to the Russian economy." 
And although Yeltsin is admired in the West, polls at one point this year showed that his public approval in Russia hovered around a meager six percent. This is strikingly similar to the situation only five years ago. when Gorbachev's public approval soared in the West at the same time as he was one of Russia's least popular men. 
Still, according to the professors, there are some reasons to believe that he may be harmful to the interests of the United States. Stephancic explained that under Lebed, Russian policies "will be truly Russian. They will not be what the United States wants. The Russians are going to go back to their traditional approach, to their concerns in Iran and Iraq and the Middle East, and to their concerns in southeastern Europe, in particular." 
Nor is Lebed by any means a fan of democracy, according to analysts. He would essentially like to see a popular dictatorship in Russia. And while a dictatorship may not sound appealing to the American people. both Grazin and Stephancic believe that the Russian people are more inclined to rally around one powerful man than to put any faith in an "American-style" decentralized govern­ment. "The Russians are prone to single man recognition," said Stephancic. "They put their faith in a single, solitary leader." 
Whether Lebed is better or worse for the West is still uncertain. But it will be the Russians, and not the West, who decide what is best for Russia in the next presidential election. 

Special to The Observer 
Nathan Hatch, University provost. has appointed John Borkowski as Notre Dame's first faculty Social Concerns Fellow for the 1996-97 academic year. 
"I am delighted that John Borkowski has agreed to serve the University in this innovative way," Hatch said. "His commit­ment to relating social justice and vigorous learning makes him ideal as the inaugural Social Concerns Fellow." 
The main responsibility of the Social Concerns Fellow is ·~to explore with other faculty new ways for interdisciplinary cur­ricular and research initiatives to build on student service, social action, and experiential learning involvements. especial­ly as those relate to poverty and injustice," according to Kathleen Maas Weigert. associ­·ate director for academic affairs and research at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Borkowski joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1967. 
AriDy 

HAPP~ 1liT BIBTHDA~l 
continued from page 1 
of trying to discharge a female soldier after sexually assaulting her. the documents said. He is charged with telling the woman to lie about their sexual rela­tionship, forcing her to engage in sodomy and engaging in an improper sexual relationship with the soldier. 
Sgt. Nathaniel Beach is charged with defying orders to stay away from trainees while his conduct was being investi­gated. the documents said. 


Earn Credit During Christmas Break 
Deadline for Applications is November 13th, at 5:00 p.m. 
Th.e Church and Social Action Course colloquially known as 
• . -~ ''l bl 1
_-a1·e avat a e tit 111e Centerfor Social Concems· :-:.S..tfol'additional information cnl/634-5293 ' 

Paris  $202  
Frankfurt  $202  
Madrid  $265  
Vienna  $299  
Athens  $335  

fAllS Nf. EACH *Y R10M ltfJWWous 1ASB1 OH A klUtCJlW PUt­OWl. fAllS DO NOl KJ..UDE FB0A1. TAXES 01 PKs JOtAI.Jrki 10WEDC $3-$-45, ..,._a<DES11W1001 0119..._. CHAnS ,.., DIKT· U' TO FaiEIGH GOVEJNMEHn. F.ws Nf. 5I.&((] JJ owc.E. WHX/1' t«JttL 
[!I.UiitijllTravel~ 
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624) 

http:!!www.ciee.org!trUdm 
EUROPASS FROM $210 
Chinese -American Restaurant , and Cocktail Lounge ~uthentic Szechuan, Mandarin and H 
. ; 
Lunches starting at ....$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
R£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend to Randall's In 
FR~~ FR~~ F~~~ B~ILIL }7~ AINJCDINJG W/@~IJ(§HI@fF> 
Wednesday November 13 7pm-9pm Lafortune Ballroom 

VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 11, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does nm necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either instinttion. The neWs is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Phoco Ediror, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns presenr the views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 63I-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 63I-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• THE WINTER Of MY DISCONTENT 
Pointing out political apathy at Notre Dame 
Early last week a friend of mine inquired what my next column was going to be about. When I responded that it would probably be some sort of post-election analysis piece, she expressed disappointment and advised me that every time I write a political col­umn I lose a substantial portion of my normal readership. I have no doubt that this is true; the student body at Notre 

Christopher Kratovil 
Dame seems about as interested in national politics as your average Aleutian Islander is in new advances in air conditioning technology. I must con­fess that Notre Dame is indeed a lonely place to be a clinically diagnosed politi­cal junkie. 
I've never really understood why this is. After all, government is among the most common majors here. What's more, NO attracts intelligent, motivated students who tend to be concerned with the world around them and the state of society; the very sort of people who gen­erally become politically active during their college years. Questions of social justice are obviously important to many ND students, as evidenced by the inordi­nate amount of volunteerism and com­munity service found here. Yet some­how the impulse of improving society and bringing out justice does not carry over into the realm of political activism. 
The lack of political passion at ND becomes apparent even through casual observation. There was next to no evi­dence last week on this campus that the climax of our political cycle -the choosing of the leader of the free world -was at hand. Aside from a few per­functory article in The Observer, one would be hard pressed to realize that major a major day in the life of our Republic occurred last Tuesday. Now admittedly this wasn't the most thrilling presidential race in history, but I would argue that there is something inherently exciting about watching American democracy in action, to say nothing of participating in it. 
But the political apathy on this cam­pus cuts deeper than the lack of enthusi­asm for the Dole/Clinton match up. Demonstrations here are about as com­mon as a sunny South Bend day in January. Discussions of politics in a social context, at the dining hall table or· a dorm room, are sporadic at best; I really don't know the politics-if any­of some of my closest friends here sim­ply because the subject so rarely comes up. And even if students have some residual knowledge of their home state's political scene, their adopted home here in South Bend remains a mystery; I doubt that most could name the gover­nor of Indiana or the local congressman. 
Oh yes, of course we have the obliga­tory College Democrat and College Republican clubs, but even the rivalry between those two organizations is hardly passionate. It seems the party affiliation of most ND students is deter­mined more by their parents' income tax brackets than by any real interest in the policy disputes or the ideological dif­ferences that divide the Democrats and the Republicans. The sort of status quo conservatism that characterizes so many aspects of student life here apparently also manages to dampen partisanship. 
I don't want this effort to point out the political apathy that undeniably marks this campus to be misinterpreted as an attack on the intelligence or civic mind­edness of my fellow students. Needless to say, an individual's decision whether or not to inform themselves of and par­ticipate in politics is an entirely personal choice. No, I'm not condemning the lack of partisanship or political passion at Notre Dame. I'm simply expressing baf­flement at it. Within the classical cul­tural cliche, college is supposed to be a time when people develop and feel strongly about their political beliefs. Idealism allegedly runs high among both liberals and conservatism; P.J. O'Rourke once quipped that "there are today more dedicated socialists in Cambridge Massachusetts than in Moscow, and more dedicated supply siders in Hyde Park [i.e. University of Chicago] than there were in the Reagan administra­tion." 
What's more, Gollege students are not as adversely affected by the "costs" of political participation as are people with full time jobs. For example most of us have a fair amount of time to dedicate to extracurricular activities and hobbies, whereas someone with a full time job might be hard pressed to even find a chance to vote. College students are surrounded by a ready made peer group, a prerequisite for political activism, and exist in an environment where free expression of ideas is encouraged. Lastl)l, very few 18-22 year olds have developed a level of cynicism sufficient to cause them to be completely disenfranchised from the process; col­lege students want to think that their votes and ideas count for something. 
So why is Notre Dame so different than other elite colleges in the level of political activism, partisanship and interest demonstrated by its students? I honestly don't know, and even if I did suspect that I'd be hard pressed to answer the question in a 1000 word newspaper column. But hey, if you're desperately looking for a topic for your next sociology or social psychology paper feel free to run with this-I'd be curious to see your results. 
Part of the root cause of the political apathy here might be the school's Catholicism. Socially, the Roman Catholic Church's teachings would have to be classified as falling on the right end of the American spectrum (i.e. abor­tion, gay rights etc.) while economically the Church often retains a redistribu­tionist welfare liberal stance. Very few American politicians reflect this peculiar ideological dichotomy. With so many practicing Catholics at ND, perhaps the fact that neither party offers a Catholic socioeconomic view might contribute to the lack of partisan enthusiasm. 
Rather obviously, the geographic location of the school also adds to this phenomena. South Bend is hardly a hotbed of national political activity or a mecca for attracting candidate visits. This contrasts markedly with some of the East Coast colleges known for their fiery student politics; I remember fresh­man year bragging about having season tickets to ND football to a friend of mine at Georgetown, his response was "Enjoy your football Kratovil, I've got fifty yard line tickets to the power game." 
Doubtless there are numerous other factors that combine to make Notre Dame students. the rather apolitical creatures that they are. in fact, I'd love to try to identify a few more of them, but right now the Sunday morning talk shows are coming on and I've got a date with David Brinkley. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His coulmn appears every Monday. 
• DOOI\IESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"In a dark time, the eye begins to see." 
-Theodore Roethke 


Movie Monday 
Monday, November 11, 1996
page 8 
• Now PLAYING 

Gibson Gets It Done•••Again 
Kiss Thi~ O~e (ioodbye 
By JOE KRAUS and mannerisms were finally put to good use. He was Acccnr Movie Critic OK in his past good guy-roles in "The Stand" and "Forest Gump," but it is about time that he was cast as 
W
(JU]d-be viewers of Bon Howard's a villain. "Hansom" had better strap themselves in for a Howard made best use of Sinise's assets in this film. two hour emotional roller eoaster. ,....-'T""l,.........--..,--------------.,.-,., 
ride. This movie's twists and turns take the movie goers up, down, and all around. 
"Hansom" is the story of the kidnapping of the son of Tom Mullen (Mel Gibson), an airline mogul in modern day New York City. Apprehending the kidnappers is eomplicated by the fact that Mullen is hated for shady business dealings that landed a union leader in jail. Mullen and his wife, Kate (Bene Busso) are told that the only way for them to see their son alive again is if they pay a two million dol­lar ransom. 
This is the external conflict within the film. However, the meat of the movie is comprised of the emotional conflict within Mel Gibson. Gibson is faced with the deci­sion of whether to follow protocol and pay the ransom, or to trust his gut and take matters into his own hands. When Gibson chooses the latter and offers the would-be ransom money as a bounty on the head of 
the ~idnapp~r, he alien~tes his Wi,fe, Lon111e Hawkms (Delroy Lmdo), the I· Bl agent assigned to the ease, along with enraging Jimmy Shaker (Gary Sinise), the 
<:rooked cop turned kidnapper. All of this climaxes in a chilling finale. 
All in all, Hansom is an exciting, fast-paced action thriller. Its strengths lie in the casting and directing. Gibson's stern and earnest looks lend well to the figure of a man hell-bent on accomplishing one goal. Busso does a commendable job of playing the loyal, yet com­pletely drained and frustrated wife. Gary Sinise's looks 
• Now PLAYING 
By RACHEL TORRES 
A.lsociare Accenr Editor 

I
don't know how else to say It: This movie is bad. Very few movies leave me speechless, but this one has. "The Long Kiss Goodnight" is so poor, that I want to tell you just how poor it is, but there are so many reasons that I don't know where to begin. 
Maybe I'll start with the plot. The producer should have known early on that this would be a bad film when he he(trd the plot. It goes something like this: Samantha, (Geena Davis) has amnesia from an accident she had seven years ago. She also has a daugh· ter that she was pregnant with before the accident. so she doesn't know who the father is. This is a moot point. Samantha has gone on with her lifo in a rural town with her daughter and new beau, taking on a new identity. Meanwhile, another accident causes her to havo flashbacks to her old self, Charly. This person is not so nice. Enter Samuel L. Jackson. He's a pri­vate detective Davis hired to help her discover her trw~ identity. They unveil some clues, and it turns out Davis used to be an CIA agent. But wait, there's more! 
The people who used to be the bad guys an) now on the government's side, so when Charly "resurfaces" and com­pletely adopts her old personality, everybody wants her killed. So, she and .Jackson get to run around and shoot people until the very end. Don't worry; It sounds silly because it is. 
Now, maybe it's just me, but I have a hard time taking Davis seriously in her role as Charly. I keep thinking of her as the fln.key one from "Earth Girls Are Easy," "Beetlejuice," and ''Thelma and Louise." She just doesn't portray the "bad girl" image very well. 
Jackson, on the other hand Is supreme. Remember him as Jules from 
~.;.__-=----="-"""' CourtesyofBradAickerby/SIPAPress 
price.
Mel Gibson stars as Tom Mullen a man desperately trying to get his son back in 
"Ransom." 
"Pulp Fiction?" He was the same trash-talking brother with a gun in 'Goodnight.' Of course, almost every:­thing be said -was. hilarious, a e saved many sc(Hl~s .that would wise have been unbearable to wa 
Nobody else on the cast really sands out. Well, the daughter's role is per~ haps the most poorly written, and I hate to blame that on the actress her­self. After all, she can't help ittbat nobody directed bel' to react any to the bombs and explosions go around her, or show even a bit o an:xi­

.. ·Courll!$y ol Rolling Slone 
ent in "The ~ong Kiss Goqd htt 
ety when she was being chased. 
The dialogue is weak at best. Honestly, you don't need to be beyond the comprehension level of a third grader to figure anything out. This movie has the pot~;~ntial to be susp¢nse­ful, but the weakdia:logue prevel).t~this from hapening. · · · 
' 
' 

Delroy Lindo also strayed from his past roles as the hapless thug ("Get Shorty") and stepped in admirably as the FBI agent that has to decide if Mel Gibson poses a threat to his own son's safe return. 
Ron Howard took full advantage of the tools he had to work with. His camera work meshed the strengths of all his characters well to portray the raw emotion that dominated this film. The viewer can easily inter-


The bad guys are yo~~typical bad guys; they're inean and frightening, and yet kind of dumb. In a scene where · · s)s n1aking a. transition b two .p~t #~s. the bad 
r ho6 ... . p to a cold water a ter wheel rture device. As they lower her into the cold water. she is supposed to "talk." It was sup­posed to be a serious and .suspenseful scene, but it was so badly done it was 
·... funny~ 3l',ijey took this .. · right from the ~lq ~~~~mah" TV$h0 . 'waslike a voice ov~r should have been telling me 
>li~!~)R:~::,:;..::.. . . : : . : .:······ . : . . . 
to tune >into the same baHime and channel to see what will happen. 
Well, of course she escapes and so begins the sbootingrampage. But. this will not be the only time. the bad guys arefoil > 'fheir master pl1;1n is to fake 
a: te.r , l!ltattack.Jn ijJ~gra, Falls, Canada ... o ·get government funding for 
nalize the horror and struggle that the Mullen family endures. This is especially evident when Kate and Tom realize that Sean has been kidnapped, and when they believe that Sean is dead as a result of Torn's stubborn actions. When Sean is first abducted, the urgent, seat­ter-brained camera movements when Tom and Kate scan the area for Scan do 
• a wonderful job of conveying the desper­ate nature of the character's emotions. The shot of Tom and Kate externalizing all of their pent-up anguish in a !wart­rending embraee when they believe Sean to be dead, causes the viewer to want to reach out and eomfort the griev­ing couple. Once again, Hon Howard's genius shines through. 
Hansom is loaded with strengths and lacks any major weaknesses. The only thing detracting from this film is the slightly hackneyed Hollywood ending that makes the movie somewhat pre­dictable. The movie's pluses, namely tlw raw emotion that it exudes, t:ar outweigh any of the minuses. This movie was an all-around succes. Mel Gibson gets to chalk up another one in the win eolumn as does Howard. Busso and Sinise con­tinue to gain prominence and erodibility. Hansom is well worth the admission 
I highly recommend it to everyone. I 
also highly recommend that no one make Mel Gibson angry. Gary Sinise's character and anyone else who sees this movie know all too well just what that entails! 
Three stars. 

Joe Kraus is a junior from St. Louis, Missouri major­ing in English and communications. 
something (we're not told exactly what, but at this point it doesn't really mat­ter... ) So, they hook a bomb to a big truck, and start the countdown to the explosion. 
Meanwhile, Davis and .Jackson have found out about it, and must save the day. Davis' daughter is kidnapped, and they are captured trying to rescue her. The bad guys lock her and her daugh­ter into a freezer, (when will they learn?) and in a MacGuyver-esque way, Davis makes use of ordinary ingredi­ents, as well as some amazing fore­sight, to fashion an escape plan. I am giving nothing away when I say that an explosion follows, and they actually do escape. Amazingly, the bad guys sur­vive the massive, fiery escape scene, and continue to pursue the mother and daughter and Jackson. 
Davis tells her daughter to run and hide, so she hides on the truck with the bomb. Smart kid. The truck becomes mobile, and a weak chase scene fol· lows. 
Another big problem with this movie is people don't die. I know this sounds horrible, but I'm just rooting for some­body -ANYBODY -to finally be killed. These people escape bombs, fires. gunshots, long falls, sub-zero temperatures, rapid water. severe blows to.the head, and they just won't die! Even the car they drive goes through fire and twists and turns, and it still runs. This means the ending is dragged on and on and I didn't care what happened to the people, I just wanted to go home. 
So, unless you're a real Samuel L. Jackson fan, please save yourself time and money and don't go see this movie. If you decide to go, go at your own risk, because I did warn you-it's really, really bad. 
Rachel Torres is a junior from Merrillville, Indiana majoring in English and communications. 

Football 
Irish lose Edwards 
Senior fullback Marc Edwards will be sidelined for the remainder of the regular season after injuring his knee in the second quarter. 

What tho' the mistakes . •• 


Notre Dame overcomes both its own mis­takes and past ghosts to beat the Golden Eagles on their own turf 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant SportS Editor 
With the Boston College football program engulfed in an embar­rassing gambling scandal, the common feeling seemed to be that seventeenth-ranked Notre Dame would have little trouble dis­patching of the distracted and frustrated Eagles at Alumni Stadium. 
That feeling was wrong. It was also a feeling which Irish head coach Lou Holtz apparent­ly never shared. 
"I thought it would be this type of game," said Holtz following Notre Dame's 48-21 win. "The Boston College players can really be proud of their effort and resolve. They played an excellent game for about 50 minutes." 
In many ways, the victory on Saturday was symbolic of the sea­son as a whole. 
The ebb and flow of momentum which has tossed the Irish from one extreme to the other so often this season was highly visible, as they saw a 21-10 halftime lead evaporate into a 21-21 tie just over four minutes into the second half. before exploding for 27 unanswered points to close out the game and exorcise the demons from 1994's nightmarish trip to Alumni Stadium. 
This game had so many interesting subplots, you almost forgot about the main story, the crippling scandal which has hung over the Eagles like a dark cloud for the last few weeks, and which Jed to the suspensions of 13 Boston College players prior to the game. 
Early in the second half. however, it appeared as if it was the Irish who may have been attempting to throw the game. 
"W~ helped their cause with some turnovers and penalties," commented I loltz, who has seen his team fumble the ball 24 times already this season. 
Som;~? · 
Try 11 penalties for 116 yards and four turnovers on the day, numbers which threatened to haunt the Irish until the Eagles decided to get in on the act as well later in the game. AJl told, thf're were nine turnovers by both teams. 
Having already turned the ball over three times in the first half, including a crucial goal line fumble by fullback Marc Edwards 
see MISTAKES/ page 2 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Tailback Robert Farmer gained 98 yards on just three carries, including two touchdown bursts in the third quarter, as the Irish amassed 426 yards and seven rushing touchdowns on the afternoon. 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Farmer's fate symb<?lic of Notre Dame revenge 
W
ith 10:47 remaining in the third quarter, Boston College quar­terback Matt I-lasselback hit receiver Anthony DiCosmo in the back corner of the end zone for a two-point conversion '-=~-=­to tie the game at 21. 
Alumni Stadium erupted with an explosion of enthusi­asm. 
The Boston College bench responded by flooding the wet turf with congratulations and a sense of hope. The extremely loud and boister­ous crowd (at least those wearing Maroon and Gold) strained their already­stretched vocal chords even more. The stadium's alu­minum bleachers reverberat­ed with the force of these foot-stomping Eagle fans. 
The date was November 9, 1996 but it very well could have been October 8, 1994. 
Notre Dame had been there before. They had seen it. They had heard it. They had hated it. 
Importantly, the Irish made sure the similarities to 1994 came to an abrupt end. 
Before it was too late. 
On that fateful day back in 1994, then-sophomore Robert Farmer took a hand-off from Ron Powlus and fumbled deep in his own territory. Angry and dejected, Farmer walked back to the bench with a sense of embarrass­ment, knowing that he was destined to see little action the remainder of the season. The play actually turned out to be a turning point in the game. 
On Saturday, Farmer, now a senior, took another Powlus hand-off deep in his own ter­
see INSIGHT/ page 3 

~ 

page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
With Ed-wards lost to injury, Spencer's time to shine is now 

touchdown. He also caught two passes for 28 yards. 
His all-around spectacular play demonstrated the danger­ous offensive potential that could provide the Irish attack with yet another fullback in the long line of great Irish bruisers. 
"I thought Jamie stepped in and did a nice job filling in," said Holtz. "He's not Marc Edwards, but we don't want him be Marc Edwards. Go back to Anthony Johnson, Rodney Culver, Jerome Bettis, Ray Zellars, and Marc Edwards, and now it's Jamie Spencer. 
Monday, November 11, 1996 
It's just his time a little earlier than he thought." 
Or than Holtz thought. 
Despite suddenly being thrown into the national spot­light, Spencer is not about to start worrying. In fact, he rel­ishes the opportunity to live up to his king-size ability. 
''I'm just happy I was pre­pared," commented Spencer. "Now I have to refocus myself and forget about today because today's over with, and I have to look to tomorrow and the next day, and just keep working hard." 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Saturday's 48-21 stomping of Boston College may have been a gamn of grnat gains for the Irish. Amidst all thosn causes for celebration, however, was onn devastating loss. 
Senior fullback Mare Edwards suffered a torn medial !'.ollateral ligament in his left knniL In all likelihood, Edwards, one of the Irish tri­eaptains, is done for the n!maindnr of tho season. A small possibility nxists that he could return for a bowl game if tho Irish reach that stage. 

"You can't afl'ord to lose peo­ple like Marc Edwards, a spe­cial player and a great competi­tor," said a disheartened Lou Holtz. 
Edwards' injury means the Irish lose not only a vital cog in their offense, but the leadership and on-field experience that the senior contributed. Quarterback Hon Powlus described the loss of Edwards as "very difficult" for the team. 
"He's an outstanding, outstanding football player," noted Powlus. "lie's a great leader on the team. I think he really epitomizes a Notre Dame football player." 

Senior tailback Robert Farmer agreed with Powlus. 
"We're really going to miss him in the backfield. He's a leader." 
The unfortunate injury came on a day when Edwards appeared to be on his way to having yet another career game against the Golden Eagles. In last year's 20-10 defeat of Boston College, he amassed a career-high 167 yards on the ground. On Saturday, Edwards had already gained 68 yards on seven carries (9. 7 yards per carry), and scored a TD. 
However, in his diving attempt to score another touch­down early in the second quar­ter, Edwards was hit by Eagle freshman George White. Edwards coughed up the ball and the Eagles recovered. He would not play again after that. 
Coach Holtz was disappointed with the particular play. 
"lie was not to go over the pile," said Holtz, who also noted that he should not have called the play because it was one the team had not practiced much. 
Into his place steps sopho­more Jamie Spencer, the highly talented back who reminds many of former Irish great Jerome Bettis. 
Spencer did not disappoint on Saturday, giving Irish fans a clue of what not only could be the future of the Notre Dame backfield, but of what now also becomes the present. 
He bulldozed Boston College defenders for 45 yards on 8 carries (5.6 ypc) and scored a 
Mistakes 
continued from page 1 

early in the second quarter, Notre Dame opened the door for an Eagle comeback by literally fumbling and fouling away a convincing lead. A personal foul on defensive end Henaldo Wynn helped set up a 41 yard John Matich field goal which narrowed the gap to 21-13, and an Autry Denson fumble on the ensuing Irish drive keyed a Boston College drive which culminated in a 15 yard Omari Walker touchdown run. With momen­tum entirely on their side, the Eagles converted a two-point play, and the Irish found themselves in the midst of a 21-21 stalemate. 
In just over four minutes, the Irish had squandered an 11 point lead, and Alumni Stadium was engulfed in a chaotic sea of maroon and gold. Irish fans everywhere had to be wondering if much more could go wrong for the team this season, had to be trying to figure out the answer to the Irish's problems this year. 
Enter Robert Farmer. 

Farmer was The Answer on Saturday, doing nothing less than silencing an entire stadium on one electric play. 
The senior tailback, who entered the game quietly leading Irish running backs with 8.1 yards per carry, simply decided to put an end to the Eagles' upset hopes in the third quarter, using a huge block by lineman Tim Ridder to dash down the right sideline for an 81 yard touchdown run, the longest run by a Notre Dame back since Eric Penick's 85 yard touchdown against USC in 1973. 
"My eyes lit up when I came to the corner," said Farmer of his reaction once he cut up the middle of the field. "! was so surprised there was no one around." 
"We put him in for that specific play," said Holtz of Farmer, who carried the ball three times for 98 yards on the day. "He jumped in and made a nice run. A big run." 
Farmer's inflammatory run ignited the slumping Irish and their contingent of fans, while simultaneously scorching the Eagles' collective wings. 
Notre Dame would go on to dominate beleaguered head coach Dan Henning wearing down the Boston College the remainder of the game, using a fum­following the game. defense with a series of back-breaking ble return for a touchdown by nose But in the end, the Eagles' best was runs. While Farmer's 81 yard jaunt was tackle Alton Maiden sandwiched by not enough, and they crumbled just as the most devastating, Autry Denson rat­touchdown runs by Farmer and Randy everyone had anticipated they would, tled off a few key runs of his own on his Kinder to coast to a convincing win. although their disintegration was more way to 155 yards on 23 carries. Handy 
The final score obscured a valiant the result of a punishing Irish ground Kinder carried the ball 11 times for 68 effort by the Eagles, who have been torn game than their own internal problems. yards, and Edwards, who sustained a asunder by the gambling scandal as of "Before the game started, we wanted torn medial collateral ligament on his late. The outmanned and understaffed to come out and run it right down BC," fumble in the end zone, finished with 68 Boston College team received a strong said Farmer following the game. "Our yards on just seven carries before suf­performance by running back Walker strength is our power running game. fering the potentially season-ending and the entire offensive line for most of We didn't do that the last time that we injury. the game, enabling Walker to run for a were here (in 1994). We wanted to "It was a costly victory because we lost career-high 158 yards and two touch­make a statement." Marc Edwards with the knee injury," downs. The statement was received loud and said Holtz. 
"I think the players that lined up out clear by the punch-drunk Eagles, as Costly, perhaps, but the victory was there tonight put together the best they Notre Dame backs carried the ball 58 also something else. could put together," said the Eagles' times for a season-high 426 yards, Necessary. 
• GRADED POSITION ANALYSIS 

Quarterback B .. . .· Unebackers A~ 
Powlus was solid, completing 9 of 17 for.l18 yards, and Minor had another pick, and Tatum's tip led to Deke avoiding the pass rush well. Interceptit)JI, cpuld hay~ been. oper's i9terception. Berry's devastating second sack of very costly, though, and yet anoth(lr fttmljl~ doesn'th¢1}') the · setbacknearly turned him into Brokenbaok. 
grade. ·· · · · •....,....w... .•.. ·· 

Secondary B-Running B~~~..ll.f-.... .. ·... · oy~;rl.l.ge. was there at times, but weak tackling in the sec­
Four dtfferent backs went over 5(} yards q~ the day, <)Jld a ary continues to plague the Irish. Covington continues to showed great skills on big runs. Two more lost fumbles hurt et picked on; but backup Deveron Harper didn't look much the grade here, though, especially Edwards' drop on the goal better. Irish opponents are beginning to discover that line. Hobert Farmer continues to be ular very . is the quickest direct route to the endzone. limited work, • • ~1111m\ . .••·•;i#H'·•·..•· 
Special Teams A· Receivers. C+ ruly special. Kick coverage was much improved, and both 
Holtz complained a.bout their p ·J~~n Rossumnearly sprung huge returns. Hunter the and rightly sq. Afte.r growing i ... . . .................. ter ues to shbm. Ohio State loss. they took a bit () step . .. folloWfAg thi .· weekend. Blocking was solid, but lack of speed at this posi-Coaching A­
tion is painfully obvious7 ·. · oltz and staff did a great job of maintaining focus follow­
rettu:~ft()Jn Ireland and Cengia's illness, not to mention
Offensive a~:ArJt.~~;{i .. 

·.... chtd>$ imrroufiding the BCscandal.. Holtz has to feel 
A brilliant performance by the men in the trenches helped relieved after a big win at rowdy Alumni Stadium. 
spring Irish backs for a season-high 426 yards rushing while 

preventing a ~ogle sack of Powlqs; Once ~;~.Qre spQ~fpr the Overall Grade 3.4 
Irish, the 0-Une has come up huge i!l con$eQU~ive week:$~ ( Irish ue on the road to redemption following humili­
ating home loss to Air Force. With Big East patsies Pitt and 
Defensive Une B+ ~utgers cpming to town, the team will receive the equivalent 
Although Dansby an(.{Wynn cqntb;ined o sacks, Eagle an o book test, providing them with a chance to boost 
QB Hasselback often had all daytQ thro . ball. A! couple ~if G: ... ... new heights. But will it he enough to graduate 
of unwise penalties on Wynn also hurt the grade. Maiden's. to an 'ance Bowl? 
fumble return for a touchdown came one week after Wynn · 
rambled in for a score. 


guys out on short,;yai'dJlge ·Dylan Barmmer 
---~~~ ~----------~-~~-~~-­
Monday, November II, I996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Turnovers swing momentum in gritty Irish victory 
Defense forces miscues to help Irish overcome sloppy day at offensive end 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Finding a loose ball on Saturday seemed to be easier t.han finding a Boston street corner with an Irish pub. 
Turnovers were aplenty, as Notre Dame and Boston College combined for nine giveaways in the Irish's 48-21 trashing of the Eagles. Miscues killed the Irish throughout the second quarter and into the early part of the third quarter. 
"I think we helped them with some of the turnovers," said Coach Lou Holtz. "Unbelievable." 
Offensive coordinator Dave Hoberts was none too pleased with the high turnover count himself. 
"The turnovers really killed 
us." 
Eventually, however, it was the plethora of Eagle turnovers that proved to be the key to the Irish victory. 
Despite the fumbles by Marc Edwards (on the goalline) and Hon Powlus, and Powlus' inter­ception, the Irish offense was still able to put 14 second-quar­ter points on the board. However, because of the numerous turnovers, Notre At the outset of the second momentum that the Irish had Dame was not completely able half, the Irish played as if failed to grasp tightly had now to grab the momentum going Holtz's warning had gone in swung the other way. The into halftime. one side of their helmets and Eagles marched down the field 

Their 21-10 lead was a tenu­out the other. Following the and scored a touchdown, and ous one at best. Eagles' field goal on the open­with the ensuing two-point con­
"At halftime, [Coach Holtz] ing drive of the half, tailback version, tied the game at 21. just said we can't turn the ball Autry Denson fumbled on the But with the game slipping over," said tailback Robert initial offensive play for the away, Holtz's team would not Farmer. "{He warned that) Irish. fold. there's 30 minutes of football The floodgates had opened, "The crowd was really into it, left, and a lifetime to remem­and the Eagles were about to but we hung in there," noted a 
ber." 


POINTS PREVIOUS 
1650 1 1597 2 1560 3 1486 4 1411 5 1282 7 1282 8 1231 10 1060 13 1042 12 979 14 852 6 813 18 795 17 669 19 638 9 570 11 500 18 492 24 415 22 409 25 
281 

227 16 
162 15 
117 20 
TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida (46) 9-0 2. Ohio St. (17) 9-0 3. Florida St. (2) 8-0 4. Arizona St. (2) 10-0 5. Nebraska 8-1 6. Colorado 8-1 
7. North Carolina 8-1 8. Alabama 8-1 
9. 
Kansas St. 8-1 

10. 
Brigham Young 10-1 

11. 
Penn St.. 8-2 12. Tennessee 6-2 13. Northwestern 8-2 


14. Notre Dame 6-2 15. Washington 7-2 16. Michigan 7-2 17. LSU 6-2 18. Miami 6-2 19. Syracuse 6-2 20. Auburn 7-2 
21. Virginia Tech 7-1 22. Army 9-0 23. Wyoming 9-1 24. Virginia 6-3 
25. Southern Miss. 8-2 
Others receiving votes: West Virginia 96, Clemson 68, San Diego St. 67, Iowa 22, Utah 16, Michigan St. 7, East Carolina 6, Texas 2, Colorado St. 1, Georgia Tech 1. 
The Observer/ Sue O"Kain 
run right through them. The relieved Holtz. "You don't ever 
• STATISTICAllY SPEAKING 
Notre Dame (17) Boston College  1 7 3  2 14 7  3 14 11  
First Downs Rushed-yards Passing yards Sacked-yards lost Return yards Passes Punts Fumbles-lost Penalties Time of possession  Notre Dame 24 58-426 118 0-0 89 9-17-1 5-45.6 3-3 11-116 34:04  (17)  
Individual Statistics  
RUSHING  


4 F Insight 
13 48 continued from page I 
0 21 

ritory. But this time, he maintained possession of Boston College the ball, bounced outside to his right, and raced 21 81 yards for a touchdown. Excited and proud, 34-142 Farmer ran back to the bench with a sense of 193 accomplishment and was destined to score anoth­
4-28 er touchdown just a few minutes later. Both plays 44 
turned out to be the turning points of the game. 
Farmer's two games in Alumni Stadium epito­
19-47-2 

mize the sort of experience the Irish class of 1997 
6-41.3 

has had against Boston College. 
4-3 

Sure, Notre Dame exact-ed a bit of revenge in
4-24 

last year's 20-10 victory in Notre Dame Stadium. But when a team crushes your national champi­onship hopes like BC did in 1993 and, a year later, upsets you in embarrassing fashion, you want a little more. 
25:55 

let negative thoughts enter your mind at that time. That's why we say 'don't flinch'. Don't let the players think we're in trou­ble." 
Just as quickly as they lost the "Big Mo", however, the Irish regained it. Sparked by Farmer's 81-yard touchdown run, the entire team came alive. 
After forcing numerous punts by Boston College in the third quarter, Bob Davie's unit came out on the attack in the fourth period. 
First, Bert Berry caused Eagle quarterback Matt Hasselback to fumble. Alton Maiden then scooped up the gift ball and rambled 20 yards into the end zone. 
"By the time I got up. Alton was on his way to the end­zone," said Berry. "I was just happy he got the touchdown. That was big for our team. It pretty much swung the momen­tum in our favor." 
And the momentum contin­ued to swing in their favor. 
And swing. And swing .... · 
On the first play of Boston College's next series, linebacker Kinnon Tatum tipped Hasselback's pass, and fresh­man safety Deke Cooper inter­cepted the deflection. j 
On the ensuing drive, Irish j 
j
tailback Randy Kinder scored 
I
the final Irish touchdown, putting an exclamation point on 
~ 
the victory. 
j
Safety Benny Guilbeaux ended the game with an inter­lception. 
~ 
Both teams proved that caus­
I 
ing turnovers changes the tide I of the game. Thankfully, it was 
t ~ 
the Irish defense that learned it I 
j
last. 
I 
l 
j 
1 
The Irish got it Saturday. 
Notre Dame-Denson 23-155, Farmer 3-98, Edwards 7-68, Kinder 11-65, 

Those memories of '93 and '94 can never be
Spencer 8-45, Goodspeed 2-10, Powlus 2-3, Jackson 1-minus 8, Mosley 1­
erased, but they can at least now be eased a bit.
minus 10. 

Those players who participated in the 41-39
Boston College-a Walker 21-158, Chamberlin 2-14, Washington 1-11, 

heartbreaker in '93 will never again face BC.
Cloud 1-8, Mutryn 1-minus 7, Hasselbeck 8-minus 42. 

What they experienced hurt, but what the Irish
PASSING 

did to the Eagles had to hurt as well. It just had
Notre Dame-Powlus 9-17-1-118. 
to.
Boston College-Hasselbeck 14-31-1-123, Mutryn 5-15-1-70, Washington 

With the gambling scandal hovering over
0-1-0-0. 

Chestnut Hill, Boston College's football program
RECEIVING 

was coming off a week of pure hell. Yet some­
Notre Dame-M Johnson 3-35, Mosley 2-56, Spencer 2-28, Edwards 1-6, 

how, they managed to gather all their energy and 
Denson 1-minus 7. 

channel it right at Notre Dame. And it wasn't
Boston College-Harding 6-53, Dicosmo 3-68, Hemmert 3-18, a Walker 3­
enough.
13, Crittendon 2-19, Guauo 1-19, Chamberlin 1-3. 

Farmer and teammates made sure of that. In fact, BC had nothing left in the fourth quarter
Attendence: 44,500. 

except fond memories of '93 and '94. Theirs was a gallant effort but they have must now move on . 
• SCORING SUMMARY 

And that is what the Irish must do -move on. As a matter of fact, the upsets of this weekend
First Quarter 

(Tennessee, Michigan) make it quite possible that
Notre Dame-Edwards 8 run (Sanson kick) 

they will move on all the way to the Orange or
Boston College-FG Matich 48 
Fiesta Bowl. 
Second Quarter 

Whereas the '94 loss did little to damage NO's
Boston College-a Walker 7 run (Matich kick) 

bowl aspiration, a loss Saturday would have been 
Notre Dame-Spencer 1 run (Sanson kick) 

nearly impossible to overcome. The Irish seemed 
Notre Dame-Denson 4 run (Sanson kick) 
to know that. 
Third Quarter 

The 1996 team now faces three more obstacles
Boston College-FG Matich 41 

(Pittsburgh, Rutgers, and USC) in their quest for
Boston College-a Walker 16 run (Dicosmo reception for 2 point conver­
Miami or Tempe.
sion) 

But just as important as keeping the 1996 sea­
Notre Dame-Farmer 81 run (Sanson kick) 

son on course, the Irish may have done something 
Notre Dame-Farmer 11 run (Sanson kick) 

more lasting with the win. 
Fourth Quarter 

They stared right in the face of the haunting
Notre Dame-Maiden 20 fumble return (Sanson kick) 

ghost that is Boston College and didn't flinch. 
Notre Dame-Kinder 1 run (kick failed) 

That ghost is now dead. 

• 
' , -'"' 
··-~­
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Notre Dame tailback Autry Denson celebrates after his four yard touchdown jaunt in the second quarter. Denson led the Irish with 155 yards on the ground. 
·­


The Observer/Dave Murphy Irish defensive end Renaldo Wynn bears down on Boston College quarterback Matt Hasselbeck. The Eagle quarterbacks were sacked four times by the Irish defense. 
Notre Dame 48 Boston College 
21 
• GAME NOTES 
EDWARDS OUT 
Senior fullback Marc Edwards injured his left knee on his lunging attempt to get into the end zone in the second quarter. On the play, the cap­tain took a hand-ofT from quarterback Ron Powlus at the one yard-line and tried going airborne, losing the ball in the process. 
Making matters worse, Edwards tore his medial collateral ligament. 
According to the Notre Dame medical staff. Edwards is most likely done for the regular season. 
Should the Irish make it to a bowl, however, the fullback may be recov­ered in time to rejoin the team. 
Before the injury, Edwards had gained 68 yards on just seven carries, including a touchdown and a 41-yard run. 
POLL AND BOWL PONDERING 
Despite the fact that five teams ranked ahead of the Irish lost over the weekend (Tennessee, Michigan, LSU, Wyoming and Virginia), the Irish jumped just three spots in the AP poll, up to 14th. 
Both Tennessee and Northwestern (two losses apiece) stayed ahead of the 6-2 Irish. 
Still, the bowl prospects for Notre Dame look a lot brighter, especially with Michigan's loss. 
As it stands right now, the Irish's main competitors for one of the open Bowl Alliance spots are Tennessee, North Carolina, Alabama, Penn State. Other possibilities are 10-1 BYU, Northwestern, and even Kansas State. 
LUMBERING LINEMEN 
For the second consecutive week, a Notre Dame defensive lineman scored on a fumble recovery. This week, it was Alton Maiden continuing the trend that Renaldo Wynn started against Navy. 
Maiden picked up a loose ball after a bit of a serum and rambled 20 yards for six. It was his second career touch­down, as he returned an interception against Navy 44 yards in 1994 for a score. 
EAGLE ACTION 
It was a tough week for Boston College but surprisingly, the Eagle crowd was there to provide substantial support. Various signs eould be seen, one being "lnnoc:cnt never proven guilty", referring to Kieran Spieght, the BC player first indicating in the gam­bling scandal but not suspended. 
In fact, many BC students took the situation as a challenge to their school's quality reputation and wanted to show they could rally in support. 
"It's too bad that a few people made some mistakes because the whole school feels the aiTect," said Jim Beltis, a Boston College senior. "1 think our crowd, though, was pretty loud." 
Holtz agreed. 
"It was tough to hear our calls because of all the noise," the Irish coach said. 
GIVING IT AWAY 
Notre Dame's season-long practice of coughing up the ball continued right on track against the Eagles. With three more fumbles tacked onto the total, the Irish have put the ball on the ground 24 times this season, an average of three per game, and have lost 15 of them. After holding their first two opponents to seven total points, the Irish have allowed 20 or more points in the last six games. This statistic is not indicative of any poor defensive show­ings, but rather of what happens when turnovers allow an opponent to take over with good field position. 
Movie Monda¥ 

Monday, November II, I996 
•CLASSIC CORNER 
'No Way Out' J(eeps You on the Edge ofYour Seat 
By MARK TORMA 
Accent Movie Critic 
I
know what was missing from this rnccnt. humdrum presidential election: not enough international intrigue gum­ming up the works. Not that that would havn been a GOOD thing -it just would have mad(~ the campaign period a lot more interesting. After all. remember those crazy 1980's, when claims of evil empires and dictators close to home made us all forget that we had supply-side witch doctors in our highest office? As deluded as this country was, we sure did have a rip-roarin' good time with all that Cold War rhetoric. Sigh ... 
Sorry. just remembering the good ol' times. It's all the fault of the movie I saw recently, "No Way Out." Made in 1987, it now appeals to anybody nostalgic for that bygone era -it uses our voracious defense build-up at the time as a back­drop for the drama that engulfs Defense worker and Marine Lieutenant Tom store for you near the end of this film ­ample reason to get this movie and watch it with a thinking companion (that's THinking, not DRinking). However, I don't want to suggest that it doesn't have any­thing that would appeal to the baser instincts on these campuses (or is it campi? -I never know). The most memo­rable scene in "No Way Out" is the first encounter between the two lovebirds: it's in the back of a limousine, Costner is removing Sean Young's clothing, and we get to see it all. Its voyeurism shocked me at first, but then I realized: I was watching a quintessentially '80's movie. Honestly, you could have substituted Tom Cruise, or even Richard Gere, in the part of Tom Farrell, and it wouldn't have made a darn bit of difference (sorry, Kevin). 
Sean Young, on the other hand, was one-of-a-kind. What kind that was, I couldn't tell you-shelooked kind of like her android role in "Bladerunner," and kind of like a ripe plum. I also thought she looked like a man half of the time, but that could just be her part in the first "Ace 

Farrell. Ventura" com­Played by ing back to K e v i n haunt me. Costner, When she he's work­wasn't re­ing for proving her Secretary womanhood by of Defense baring flesh, David Brice she was pro­( G e n e fessing her !Iackman). undying love to w h 0 • s Lt. Farrell ­scrambling which seemed to cover up a bit far­his involve­fetched, con­ment in the sidering how death of his politically cyni­mistress (in cal she obvi­layman's ously was. The terms, he other outra­killed her,) geous charac­and the ter was Will department Patton's staff. Pritchard, a including classic heavy Costner's in the "am al Farrell and politico" mode Will Patton (see Henry as Brice's Czerny in right hand "Clear and man, is P r e s e n t hard on the Danger"). trail of the Pritchard's a man that Beltway Brice's Rasputin with mistress enough snake was known oil to supply to be see­the dining ing on the halls for a few s i d e . years, and he 
Farrnll's doesn't hesi­problem? tate to break 
> • d 1· Courtesy of HBO Video h hncc an liS Kevin Costner and Gene Hackman star in "No Way Out." out t e gu~s
staff aim to­"eradicate" that man and his knowledge about Brice's presence at her apartment that night. What's more, that mystery m,an, publicly said to be a Russian spy, is actually part of the Pentagon staff. In fact, it's Farrell him­self. 
Now, that problem originally involves having an affair with the oft-naked Sean Young (which doesn't seem to be much of a problem to me), but as soon as he learns of her death. Farrell has to conceal any knowledge of her, including his tremen­dous grief (the two were in LOVE, for the love of God). From then on, the movie revolves around two pieces of evidence, one that will implicate Farrell, and one that will ruin Secretary Brice's career. Farrell has to race to bring the "right" piece of evidence to the attention of the powers-that-be. But will he? 
I'll keep you in suspense on that one, but I will say this: even if you can foresee that tricky plot development (and I bet you can!), there are still plenty of surprises in to protect his 
employer. I enjoyed hating him -a lot. Yes, that was a pretty good time. 
"No Way Out" is guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your seat; it is heartily rec­ommended by yours truly. The real reason I chose this movie as the video review for this week, though, was that it is the single most impressive answer ever given on "Jeopardy!," by some guy in 1988 (he did really well, by the way.) This reviewer has also had his opportunity to be on that ven­erable game show, but he never got the chance to give such a cool answer. So par­don me if I have an acute case of buzzer envy. I'll get over it -as soon as some­body else out there (preferably named Alex) walks up to me and gives me a Daily Double. 
Mark Torma is a senior from Alliance, Ohio majoring in anthropology. 
. Ptincess-6ride" a fewtoomany . ; • is what brings us together ... · now and Days is leading the 
this week despite Franco's . romantic ev():ning planned by world where they revealed their Rog~rs. After Billie "accidental­offto the Horton cabin on Smith 
ViCLMltane·il. after watching them twenty ti'mes has been set up for J3o to ownwed,dintt. 
Monday, November II, I996

page I 0 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BOXING 

•NFL 
Holyfield hammers Tyson in round 11 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Associatod Press Writer 

LAS VEGAS 
Blood from a fresh cut was flowing into his left eye and a delirious crowd was chanting "Holyfield, Holyfield." Then a right and a left came crashing on Mike Tyson's head, and the heavy­weight champion was down and in des­perate trouble. 
It was only the sixth round of a fight that would go 37 seconds into the 11th. But as Tyson struggled to get to his feet he left with him on the canvas the seeming invincibility that had made him the most feared fighter of his time. 
Evander Holyfield sensed it immedi­ately. By the next round he was talking to Tyson, pushing him into the corner and blasting away with punches to the head. The befuddled Tyson could do little but wing desperation left hooks in hopes of catching Holyfield with one big punch. 
The unthinkable was happening to the ferocious lighting machine who had brutalized his four previous comeback opponents. Tyson was reduced now to fighting on instincts, against a former two-time champion and former 22-1 underdog who was now in command. 
"I don't even remember the fight from the third round on," Tyson said later, his face a mess of welts and puffy from the beating he took. "He hit me in the third or fourth round and I just got whacked out. I don't remember being knocked down." 
Even before the first punch was thrown, it didn't seem like it would be Tyson's night. Accustomed to being the crowd favorite, he entered the ring to a mixture of cheers and boos from a pro-Holyfield sellout crowd at the MGM Grand Garden arena. 
A scowling Tyson stalked across the ring during introductions while Holyfield smiled confidently in the cor­ner. When the bell rang to start the light, Tyson's first punch, a right hand, glanced off Holyfield with little of the damage inflicted on the likes of Bruce Seldon, Frank Bruno or Peter McNeeley. 
Unlike his four previous comeback fights, this time Tyson was getting hit back nearly every time he threw a punch. The puzzled look on his face as Holyfield won the early rounds turned to one of desperation after his left eye was cut in a clash of heads in the sixth round and Holyfield dropped him with a left a minute later. 
Between tounds, Tyson's three cor­nermen all seemed to want to talk at once, trying to find a new fight plan for the one that had gone woefully wrong. The worried looks on the faces of his huge entourage a few rows back grew even deeper. 
Tyson, though, couldn't adapt. The style that worked so well against oppo­nents too intimidated to punch back wasn't working against Holyfield. And neither Tyson nor his corner seemed able to change tactics to cope with this different threat. 
By the lOth round, Tyson was trail­ing on all three ringside scorecards. Even in his bloodied daze, he knew he had to do something big to pull the light out. 
Before the bell rang to start the round, Tyson was in the middle of the ring, prepared to take his last shot. He pawed at blood flowing into his left eye after a brief clash, then landed a hard right and left hook that did nothing to keep the advancing Holyfield off him. 

With 20 seconds left in the round, Holyfield unleashed a right hand that sent Tyson staggering across the ring into the ropes. A dozen punches later and it appeared referee Mitch Halpern was going to stop the bout but the bell sounded first. 
Bleeding and battered, Tyson wob­bled back to his cornermen. Again they shouted wild instructions. By this time, though, the end was both clear and near, and the crowd was in a frenzy. 
Still, Holyfield was wary, thinking back to the uppercut Tyson threw that knocked Douglas down and almost pulled that fight out. 
"I didn't want to get hit with that uppercut Buster got hit with," Holyfield said. "I was still conscious of that." 
He needn't have worried. Tyson was out on his feet, and as the two lighters met in the middle of the ring to start the 11th round, Holyfield jabbed twice, then unleashed a nine-punch flurry that ended with the referee wrapping an arm around Tyson's neck to protect him from even more punishment. 
"I didn't know where I was. I didn't know anything," Tyson said. For long minutes after, Tyson sat dazed on a ring stool, co-manager Rory Holloway's hand on his head in comfort and another hand holding a bandage to his eye. 
Later, Tyson was still unsteady, though freshly dressed in a suit as he attended the post-fight news confer­ence. He looked baffled but struggled hard to retain his pride. 
"I have tremendous respect for you," he told Holyfield. "Hopefully we'll do it again." 
Marino nets milestone 
By WILL LESTER Associated Press Wrirer 
MIAMI 

Dan Marino didn't expect to throw for 50,000 yards and break almost every NFL passing record when he broke into the league 14 years ago. 
But when he reached a dozen seasons with his health intact, the thought occurred to the NFL's all-time leading passer. 
The Miami Dolphins' quarterback passed the 50,000-yard milestone Sunday in a 37-13 win over lndianapolis. 
"Coming into the league in 1983, you never think that far down the line," Marino said. "I knew a couple of years ago that I could have this opportunity if I could stay healthy." 
Marino passed the milestone by hitting 

O.J. McDuffie for a 36-yard completion with 6 minutes left in the first half of a 37-13 win against the Indianapolis Colts. 
"Dan Marino amazes me every year in what he is capable of doing," Dolphins guard Keith Sims said. "Although he hasn't had the kind of talent around him that these others have. like Montana. he still produces huge numbers. Anybody who thinks he is over the hill is wrong, plain wrong." 
The 35-year-old Marino, under fire from some fans this season after the Dolphins dropped to 4-5. entered the game needing 83 yards to reach the milestone in his 14th NFL season. l-Ie hit 17 of 24 passes for 204 yards and three touchdowns. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classi!leds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  Please help! Need Stu/GAs for Pitt  n. d. tickets for sale  
NOTICES  HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP LOST: brown leather london Fog  ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m.  Brian@ 243-9405  271 1635 '  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  jacket @ library on Nov. 6 Call x2653 HUGE REWARD!!IIIIIII  ENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  TIX for every home game.  MUST SELL!! 10 GAs FOR RUTGERS!  PERSONAL  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  243-0658.  Call (301) 445-3955  FACE VALUE!  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  PLEASE CALL x1744  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
I I I I I I  Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. all-u·can drink daily. Don Surf & Sun (800)763-5606. Hey, do you need to get a room? I have a room @ the S.B. Days Inn for the Pitt weekend that I can't use. Do you have friends/family/signifi­ WANTED HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. Hundereds of Students Are Earning  REGGAE D. J. 234 0705 WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595 ATTENTION: 5 Bedroom, 1 1/4  I NEED RUTGERS GA'S CALL KATIE 243-9038 1@#$%"&.())(.&"%$#@1 I NEED PITT TICKETS!!! Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to GA ... CALL4-4217...  For Sale Pitt tix: 3 student, 1 GA Rutgers tix: 4 student Call Jenny@ 687-8435...................................... NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! The highest quality full-color copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 11631-COPY  
I  cant other who can? If so, call  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  bath, 2000 sq. ft., 2 car garge, 2  !@11$%"&•())("&"%$#@!  ALL GAMES HOME  Spring Break Bahamas Party  
I  Steven @ 4·4487! Call now I  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  story house for rent close to cam­ ANDAWAY - Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  
I  Demand is highl  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  pus. $1000.00 per month. 5 people  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  232-0058  Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  
I  $399. Panama City/Daytona $119!  ($200.00 per person). Rent  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  24 HAS.  Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  
I I I I 1­ THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury. 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit 11107,  www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English In  Negotiable. CALL 255-3251. FOR SALE House for Sale by Owner  PLEASE­NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL SISTER NANCY MILLER 257-0996.  BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Increase Soon · Save $50! spring· breaktravel.com 1-800-678·6386 TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETTE  
~  1-800-418·9487  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  
teaching certificate or European  Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ 232-0061.  All undergrad, grad and faculty  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  languages required. Inexpensive  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  interested in presenting their work  
Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All  Room & Board + other benefits. For  attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths,  MEGHAN @232-7839  $$$$$$  at the 1997 Sophomore Literary  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxesl Great  info. call: (206)971-3680  1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  Festival are invited to audition on  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  ext.K55843  ment. ale, disposal, all appliances,  Desperate for Rutgers tix!!  ALL HOME GAMES.  Tues. Nov. 19 at 8pm in the  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ Security System.Completely  $$Will Pay$$  272-6551  Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune.  
breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ refreshed to sell. asking 88,500.  Please call Amanda at  Please prepare a 5-10 min. reading  
Positions are now available at  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday.  (301 )314-8671  Buy/sell NO Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ and submit a written sample of your  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break •  National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  Call 219-295-8727  or send email to  Check our price 67 4-7645.  work. ?'s call Meg at x3025.  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  adew@wam.umd.edu.  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55849  TICKETS  I Need PITT Student or GA's. Call  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers No std -pref. side In  Hey Gorgeous. Three more days ...  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  Greg at 273-1007  Peter 1-800-7 46-3755  Tell Jeff we'll find him a bad girl. ..  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ I need 2 Rutgers GA's for my little  Love,  
1-800-678-6386  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  brother and sister.  4 USC TICKETS FOR SALE -CALL  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  me  
Earn up to $3.000-$6,000+ per  Call Tara at x4673  HODGE & LEAVE A MESSAGE  Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer,  
Spring Break Panama City!  month. Room and Board!  291-3672  name and number  GO WEASEL FOOTBALL! II!  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Transportation! Male or Female. No  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  experience necessary. Call  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  NEED STUD or GA PITT TIX  WEASELS ROCK THE PLAY·  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $139!  (20~)971-3510 extA55848  ALL GAMES HOME  Rutgers student ticket needed.  PLEASE CALL X 0902  OFFS!!!  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­ AND AWAY  Please call x3755.  BEAT OF-HOWARD!!!!  
breaktravel.com 1-800·678-6386  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  232·0058  I have a conv. GA for PITT.  PASQUERILLA, THE WEST IS  
ILOST & FOUND I  Mazatlan. Sell15 trips and travel free plus cash. Lowest Price Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE  4 SALE: 2 Pitt GA's Call w/ best offer: 277-9957  Please buy it! Katie 243·9172 2 PITT GAs 4sale-Call 243-9357  THE BESTI!II sorin roadtrip 1996-the best thing  
ages available. Call Sunbreaks.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Help! I need a Pitt ticket for one of  on wheels...food provided by  
MISSING: EUREKA TENT. FOLD­ 800-446-8355.  my buddies. Please call Myron­ 1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill @ 412­ gourmet artists cora and bocan.  
ED IN GREEN BAG. VERY  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  243-1267  661-0459 or 1-800-545-0482 ext.  
LOVED. REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN. AMY@634-3525.  FOR RENT  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  4-SALE:4 PITT GA  753  Hey George, just wanted to telf you that the Blarney Castle in the fall  
THANK YOU.  x4-3144 Dina  GA.s FOR SALE GA.s  was splendid. We'll show you pic­ 
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT X3677.  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 College Park Condo 2 bed, ifull bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted ceil, porch, furniture avail. BEAUTIFUL! 273-2580  HELP! Student needs Rutgers GA's for family. Call Mark at x1487 FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  NEED 1 RUTGERS STUD. or G.A. Call Tony @ x3662 NEED 3 RUTGERS TIX Call Mike 4-4131  """'""""""PITT, RUTGERs, USC,. GA.s CALL. ....272-7233. For Sale-1 Rutgers & 1 Pitt. stu­dent ticket. Face value. 277-4269  tures someday. Oh, by the way­you were wrong. We left on TUES­DAY. (All in the name of journal­ism, of course.) Gel it straight, pal. What did you do over your fall break?  
GAMES 235·3394  
LOST-Columbia ski parka near the Main Building. Brown, green and  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM·  ALUM NEEDS GA's  STUD TIX 4 Sale X1413  SALE 4 SOYD LN GAS  Where the hell is 1123.  
black. I really need this back. If found, please return. Dan-x3214  PUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306  for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  Stu-conv Pitt GA 4-sale x-2737  FOR PITT 312-862-2204  My hat. my hat. Like bacon, goat· ask.  

Monday, November II, I996 The Observer • SPORTS page II 1 t 
V-ball 
continued from page 16 
Angie Harris, an offensive force, had surgery on her left knee and was not in the build­ing. It has yet to be determined when or if either player can return this season. 
Friday night senior Kristina Ervin and freshman Mandi Powell led the way to a sweep of Rutgers 15-13, 15-11, 15-0. Powell started all three games and took advantage of•the opportunity as she totaled a career high 12 kills on incredi­ble .526 hitting. Starting for Harris, Ervin also picked up 12 kills on .219 hitting. Captain Jenny Birkner chipped in 11 kills while hitting at a clip of .476. 
Coach Brown elected to rest freshman blocker Mary Leffers and senior hitter Jen Briggs while Jaimie Lee was also used sparingly. The Irish struggled early falling behind in games one and two before sailing to a shut out in game three. 
Saturday's loss to George Mason left ND short of elation, but definitely not short of Joy. Senior Patriot Joy Kingsley­lbeh racked up 34 kills which included six of the team's nine in the decisive fifth game. The two and a half hour match saw George Mason, who have six foreign players on their Patriot squad, rally to a 11-15, 15-7, 9­15, 16-14, 15-9 triumph over the hosts. 
"All around we played in spurts," Brown observed. "We had really good spurts, medium spurts and not so good spurts. We did a lot of good thing but we didn't win the big points." 
A key point in the match came when the Irish were down 14-7 in game four. The Domers fought off four match points and eventually evened things at 14. 
The Patriots shot down Notre Dame's plans of clinching in four games as they won the next two points and jumped out on top in the rally-score fifth game 10-5 before putting it away. 
Lindsay Treadwell was forced to fill the shoes of 6'5" Jen Rouse on the front line while Jen Briggs and Mandi Powell filled Harris' slot. The Irish were no doubt hindered by these injuries but they refuse to make excuses. 
"It obviously hurt us, but we have a really deep team," junior setter Carey May noted. "So, I don't see it as being a factor as why we lost." 
Coach Brown agreed as she explained, "Overall the people (filling in) did a good job. We just beat ourselves. We had a lot of unforced errors, and the reason we lost the match was we didn't make them earn their points, and that killed us." 

The player under the most pressure was probably fresh­man Mandi Powell who was seeing her first extensive big match playing time .. 
"Mandi did pretty well, I know she can do a lot better," Brown assessed. I don't know if she was a little bit nervous, but I have a lot of confidence in her and she is going to be a key player for us." 
Powell spoke about Saturday's match and filling in for Harris and then Briggs, 'They are very big shoes to fill. I was very excited to get the chance to play. I think I did pretty well but I did some things wrong that my lack of experience hurt me." 
Junior hitter Jaimie Lee lead the squad with 23 kills and 16 digs while Birkner added 18 kills on .378 hitting. 
The loss to the Patriots marked the sixth time this sea­
have a very short post season. We have to put it behind us." t After honoring seniors Jenny 
Birkner, Jen Briggs, Jen Rouse, and Kristina Ervin on Sunday the squad cruised to yet anoth­er sweep of a Big East oppo­nent, this time it was the Pirates turn. Briggs led the Irish setters in kills for the fourth time in the past five weeks as they won by the final of 15-0, 15-3, 15-9. 
With 30 assists, May engi­neered an Irish assault that enjoyed a .361 percentage for the match, the second best of the year. The squad held a 13­2 lead in the final stanza, but the bench players stalled a bit as they gave up seven of the next eight points before Powell stuffed an overpass and sent the Pirates packing. 
Birkner and Ervin recorded six kills a piece in their final regular season h.ome game. The seniors have contributed to a 104-28 record in their four 

The mission of OMSA focuses on providing for students of color the necessary tools to achieve the wholistic college experience through cultural awareness, social interaction and career planning. Accordingly, we encourage and assist students in the utilization of all academic and leadership opportunities at the University. 
21 0 LaFortune Notre Dame, IN 46556 Office: 219-631-6841 Fax: 219-631-8139 E-Mail: ND.omsa.l@nd.edu 

Presented By: 
Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis 
Free of Charge • No Advance Registration Nec~~ssar Open to All Notre Dame Students 
Z?--~z:+=. 
page LL The Observer • ~l'UKl ~ Monday, November 11, 1';l';lb 
I , 
~ 
,.. 
l 
I r 
I 
I I I I I 
I 
I I 
l l 
ChaiDps 
continued from page 16 
that it is absolutely ridiculous." 
The Irish were overlooked when it came to the Big East Offensive and Defensive Players of the Year. Those awards went to UConn's Kerry Connors and Sara Whelan. Irish fresh­man Jenny Streiffer was named Big East Rookie of the Year. Daws was named MVP for the Big East tournament. Numerous players from Notre Dame were named All-Big East first team: Daws, freshman Jen Grubb, junior Holly Manthei. senior Jen Henola, junior Kate Sobrnro, and StreifTer. 
"Obviously the vote did not come out in our favor," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "But I think our kids proved today that they are pretty good players." 
Besides the respect faetor weighing heavily on the play­er's minds, the team had to deal with the weather. The snow wreaked havoc on the field conditions, espedally in yestPrday's game. The sod was chewed up, and many players Wllr!l constantly losing their footing. Field conditions steadi­ly worsened as play and the snow contimwd. 
Th11 Irish stepped out on to the field looking to earn some respnct. In the first half. the Irish jumped out to an early lead. Daws posted the first points on the board for the team off of a penalty kick. Sophomore Monica Gerardo was taken down in the penalty box by UConn's sophomore Chrisy McCann to stop an Irish breakaway. Daws lined up the penalty kick, and stared down the Huskies' goalie. She then drilled it by her, making the 

Applications/info. available at the esc 

C E N T E R F 0 R

The Deadline is 
SOCIAL CONCERNS

5:00 p.m. TODAY at the esc 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors are eligible for Marine Corps Officer Programs that have no on-campus requirements. 
• 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

• 
NO OBLIGATION 

• 
SUMMER TRAINING PAY $1,600-$2,700 


GROUND, PILOT, OR LAWYER GUARANTEED 
MINIMUM SALARY -FIRST THREE YEARS $24,789-$30,069 $26,889-$32,237 $33,051-$40,021 
FOR AN APPOINTMENT WITH A MARINE OFFICER SELECTION OFFICER CONTACT CAPTAIN DOUG BROWNE, CLASS OF 1992 AT 
1-800-945-3088 

~ 

We're looking for afew good men and women. 
·,~,oul: .d­
you 'v 
"1·;0 

Macintosh. )>i More affordable thaD ever. 
With tow student prices ,()n Macintosh' computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Mac: apply 
theAppleComputer Loan. Soyou can take home a Mac, and you won't have to 
make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
'Offer expires january 19, 1997. No payment ofinleresl or principal will be rt?ifUiredfor 90 days. /n/eresl accruing during this 90-day period will be addalto the principaJ and will be<Jr inleresl, which u;i/1 be induded in the repayment sdJetlule. For e:rampk, the month ofOclober 1996 had an in/erest ru/1! of12.15% wilb an Annual l'r!rr:enlage Rate (APR) of13.93%. Amonthly payment of $32.86for the PrJwer Mac" 5260 system is an estimate based on a total loan amount o/11,913.83, which indudes asample purchase price of$1,799 and a 6%kxm originalianfee. ln/eresl is variable based on the Prime Rate as reported on .'be 5th busin£ss day of/be month in TheWall Streetjournal, plus aspreadof3.9%. Monthly payment andAPR sboum assumes defermerll ofprmapalanddoes not include stale or local sales tax. 71Je Apple Computer lmn has an 8-year loan term wilb no prepayment penalty arlli is subjeclto crr.Wt approval. Monthly payments may vary depending on acJua1 computer system prices, total loan amounts, sla/e mlli local sales taxes and a change in the monthly variable intere>1 ru/1!. ©1996 Apple Computer, Inc: AIJ rigbls reserved Apple, /be Apple logo, Mac and Macinlosh are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Mac " a lrademarll ofApple Computer, Inc. AD Macinlosh computers are designed to be accessible to individuals u>ilb disability. 7b learn more {US. only}, caii800·600·7B08 or 
rrrs00-755-0601. 

score 1-0. 
"I always take my time," said Daws about her penalty kick technique. 
Streiffer was uncontainable yesterday. She drew two de­fenders, including UConn's Whelan, and blew by both. Then she blasted it by the keep­er, to boost the score to 2-0, and registered her 19th goal of the season. 
The third goal posted came from tournament MVP Daws. Manthei took a corner kick, and placed the ball sailing in front of the goal. Daws was looming in the back, and soared over the Husky defense to head it in to the back of the goal. This was Daws second goal of the game, giving the Irish a 3-0 lead. 
The Connecticut Huskies would answer back. Senior Tammy Barnes managed to capitalize on the congestion in the goal area, and punch the ball just over Irish goal­keeperHenola's head. Barnes inched the Huskies ever closer to the Irish lead as the team's went in to the half with a score of 3-1. 
The Huskies managed to catch the Irish a little flat-foot­ed in the initial stages of the second half. They scored in the first two minutes of the half as UConn's Connors blasted a shot from outside the goal box, mak­ing the score 3-2. 
Then just fifteen minutes later, Husky mid-fielder Barnes, eluded the Irish de­fense, and knocked it pass Renola for the score. Barnes was fed by Connors. 
"They came out with a little more intensity. and we were kind of sitting back on our lead so far," said Daws about the Husky comeback. "We got woken up by two quick goals, and came back to reality." 
The game was intense for the next couple of sequences with a couple of players getting cau­tioned. Then freshman Jenny Heft played her usual role, sparking the offense. Heft was filling for Gerardo who suffered a sprained ankle earlier in the game. Sobrero served a ball upfield for Heft, and she sur­prised the Huskies' keeper as she volleyed it right by her. This was the final goal, and it gave the Irish the Big East Championship, 4-3. 
"We just did not play smart in the first half," said UConn's head coach, Len Tsantiris about his team's play. "We came back and that showed that we can play with them." 

"Our defense played well, we made three mistakes and gave up three goals," responded Petrucelli to questions about the team's defensive effort. "With teams like this you can't make a mistake or they punish you for it." 
Prior to yesterday's duel. the team put on an encore perfor­mance from the week before. The team manhandled the Villanova Wildcats for the sec­ond straight week. The game was highlighted by two special guests out on the field. Renola and freshman LaKeysia Beene played in the field for the team, in addition to their roles in the goal. Both Henola and Beene got goals in the Irish victory, 7­0. 
Claiming the title of Big East champions means a lot. "It just gives us momentum going into the NCAA tournament," said Petrucelli. "It is so important that you finish on a good note." 
The team is anxiously await­ing the announcement of the brackets for the NCAA tcmrna­ment, which takes place this evening. 

ConGerns Seminar 
CIIY OF HOPE1 




Monday, November 11, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 
Bears' comeback falls short KC offense too much 
By JOHN MOSSMAN Dave Krieg's 21-yard pass to first 13 plays were all runs, Associated Press Writer Bobby Engram and 14-yarder including 10 by Harris for 51 
for injured Green Bay 
to Curtis Conway. A pass-inter­yards. Conway outbattled DENVER ference penalty on Denver's Hilliard for Krieg's 11-yard TD By DAVE GOLDBERG thrown out of the game when 
The Denver Broncos proved Randy Hilliard put the ball at pass, but Krieg's pass on the 2· Associated Press Writer he protested. · they could beat the Chicago the 1 with 40 seconds left. point conversion fell incom­The victory was redemptionBears at their game, too. But running back Raymont plete, leaving the score 14-9. KANSAS CITY, Mo. for Hill, Kansas City's No. 1 
Denver, boasting the NFL's Harris was stopped for a 1-yard The Bears then successfully When Marcus Allen couldn't pick in 1994 who was inactive top-ranked offense and ac­loss by Alfred Williams and for executed an onside kick. get his record, Greg Hill got his two weeks ago in Denver and customed to high-scoring a 2-yard loss by Bill Anthony Marshall recovered at chance. has been seething about his games, had just enough defense Romanowski. On third down, the Colorado 44, and the Bears Hill, Allen's frustrated back­lack of playing time behind to hold off the Bears 17-12 on tackle-eligible Jim Flanigan drove to the Denver 8, where up, had touchdown runs of 8 Allen. Sunday. dropped a potential touchdown Rashaan Salaam fumbled. and 24 yards and caught a 34-Last week, he returned and 
John Elway threw a 15-yard pass at the goal line with four Braxton scooped up the loose yard TD pass as Kansas City rushed for 100 yards on 15 touchdown pass to Shannon seconds left. ball and returned it 20 yards beat Green Bay 27-20 Sunday, carries in a win in Minnesota,Sharpe. Terrell Davis ran for a Finally, with the crowd in a with 2:31 left in the quarter. It ending the Packers' five-game and he had 94 yards on 14 car­1-yard score and safety Tyrone frenzy, Braxton batted away was the first time Denver had winning streak. Two of the ries on Sunday.Braxton knocked away an end­Krieg's pass intended for touched the ball in the quarter. scores came in a 2 1/2-minute In the first quarter, Allen had 
zone pass on the final play of Conway in the right corner of Elway's 51-yard pass to span of the second quarter. four carries inside the 10-yardthe game. the end zone. Sharpe helped set up a 34-yard It was an uncharacteristic line. He came out of the gameThe Bears rallied from a 14-3 Chicago dominated the third field goal attempt by Jason offensive show for the Chiefs with the same 110 rushing
halftime deficit. getting within" quarter, holding the ball for Elam, which was wide. But (7-3), who completed a 69-yard touchdowns he had going in,17-12 on Jeff Jaeger's 48-yard more than the first 12 minutes Walt Harris was whistled for pass on their first play from still tied with Walter Payton for field goal with 9:23 remaining. of the period. The Bears roughing the kicker, and four scrimmage and gained 383 the NFL's career record. With 2:56 left, the Bears mounted a 14-play, 74-yard plays later Elam hit a 24-yarder yards against the NFL's top­The game began with the 69­drove from their own 20 to the touchdown drive to open the to make it 17-9 with 13:11 re­rated defense. By halftime, yarder from Steve Bono to Sean Denver 1-yard line, thanks to quarter, consuming 8:51. The maining. 
Kansas City had 255 yards-6 LaChappelle that carried the 
The Bears countered less more than the 249 per game Chiefs to the Green Bay 10 and than four minutes later on Jeff the Packers (8-2) had been giv­set up Pete Stoyanovich's 26­Jaeger's 48-yard field goal. ing up. yard field goal. Harris kept the drive alive, The defense, led by Neil It was clear the Chiefs were turning a screen pass into a 15-Smith and Derrick Thomas, going for the TD record there yard gain on third-and-14. held the NFL's highest-scoring -Allen ran twice for 1 yard on 
The Bears scored first, fol­team to just two TDs. One was the first two plays.lowing Bobby Engram's 17-a 25-yard pass from Brett The Packers answered with a yard punt return to near mid­Favre to Don Beebe in the third 12-play, 50-yard drive that set field. Jaeger's 25-yard field quarter with the Chiefs up 27-up a 24-yard field goal by Chris goal was nullified by a holding 6. Jacke that tied the score at 3-3. 
penalty, but Jaeger then con­With 1:02 remaining, Favre Then the Chiefs and the of­verted from 35. hit Derrick Mayes with a 6-ficials turned against the Denver responded with an yarder. Packers. 11-play, 80-yard drive. Elway, The Chiefs also had help from Kansas City took a 6-3 lead playing despite a strained left the officials, who by early in on Stoyanovich's 22-yard field hamstring, completed 6 of 7 the second quarter had goal that was set up by 36 passes on the march, including assessed 62 yards in penalties yards of penalties on Evans. 
-
a 15-yarder to Sharpe for the against the Packers. That Again, the Chiefs gave the ball J ITD. included 27 yards on a contro­to Allen close to the goal line, 
l
A 25-yard run by Terrell versial pass interference call and again he couldn't get in. Davis put him over 1,000 yards against Doug Evans, who was They went 57 yards in five 
l 
for the season. assessed more yardage and plays to score on Hill's run. 
l 
I've got what it takes. I'm busting through the middle I'm gonna take this ball right into the end zone. And after I score I'm gonna do it all over again." 
You think you've got what it takes? 
The PlayStation GameBreaker Collegiate Challenge is coming! Show off what you've got and score big! Play for a chance to win atrip for two to the Sugar Bowl, DSS Satellite System, Sony PlayStation console, T-Shirts, hats, discounts and more! 

PlayStation_ 
~~ 
IAMEIREAKER
PlayStation 

COLLEGIATE CHALLENGE 
Compete in the GameBreaker Collegiate Challenge at the following local stadiums: 
November 12 November 13 November 14 November 15 Bpm • midnight Bpm • midnight Bpm • midnight Bpm • midnight Stude's BW-3 BW-3 Coach's 2206 Mishawaka Ave 123 W. Washington 123 W. Washington 2046 South Bend Av 289-4939 232-2293 232-2293 277-7678 
.., I 
November 16 Bpm • midnight BW-3 ~l 123 W. Washington 232-2293 
.. 
For game hints caii1·900-933-SONY(7669). The charge is $0.95 per minute. Callers under !he age ol18 must gel parental permission to call. Touch·lone phone is required .. Available 24 hours aday[7 days aweek. U.S, only. PlaySialionand the PlaySialion logos are trademarks ol Sony Computer Entertainment lrn:. U R NOTE and Football GameBreaker are trademarks ot Sony Interactive Enlertammenllnc. All Team 1cons. logos and ms19mas that appear mlh1s product are trademarks ot the NCAA and/or 1ts member mstilu\mns. are used under hscense and are protected under the trademark and copyright laws ot the United Slates ol America. The Ohio State University unitorm is atrade dress property ot The Ohio Slate Umvers1ly and used w1lh permiSSIOn. Developed by Sony ln\erachve Studios Arnenca. © 1996 Sony lnlerachve Entertainment Inc. www.sony.com 
~--------~--~--~------~----------~------------------------------------~·--------­
page 14 
Advance 
continued from page 16 
tempo of the precipitation increased at around the 35:00 mark and with it. the Irish attack came to life. 
Finally, with less than a minute remaining in the open­ing half, a pair of freshmen combined to assist the goal that the put the Irish on the board. Sweeper Matt McNew fed Andrew Aris from the top of the penalty box and Aris touched the ball to Chris Mathis to the right of the Georgetown net. 
Mathis knocked the ball past Hoya goalie Tyler Purtill to even the score. 
By the time the second half began, the field was completely covered and this appeared to be to Notre Dame's advantage. The Irish controlled the flow of the game and recorded nine shots in half, while holding Georgetown to just two. Despite the agility of the Irish players however. the slick field and blizzard-like conditions limited their ability to create high quality opportunities. 
Then. with time running low and the game beginning to appear destined for overtime, the Blue and Gold struck. 
Matt Johnson initiated the play by moving the ball out wide to Gallo, who was at­tacking from the right side at the top of the penalty box. 
"All week (in preparation for Georgetown) we've been trying to exploit the flanks," explained Gallo. 

Gallo saw Koloskov making a run toward the goal, also from the right side, and split a pair of Hoya defenders with a per­fect, crisp pass. 
"It was a great ball by him, " said Koloskov of the feed he received from Gallo. 
Koloskov beat Purtill with a hard driving shot into the upper left side of the goal. 
"It's good to see Koloskov get the goal as one of our seniors," commented head coach Mike Berticelli. "It was a great team effort overall and we have to give Georgetown a lot of cred­
it. .. When asked about the keys to the win Berticelli discussed the first half. "Getting that goal before the half was critical," noted Berticelli. "Coming back from down a goal in a conference tournament is a very difficult thing to do." The Gallo to Koloskov con­nection will certainly never be remembered along with the famous two-point conversion to beat Penn State in the final home football game of the year, but if the Irish soccer team goes on to take the Big East Championship, they will cer­tainly look back to their final home game of 1996 as a terrif­ic and significant moment in Notre Dame sports. The Irish will travel to Piscataway, NJ, the locale of the Rutgers campus, to com­pete in the semifinals, and pos­sibly the finals, of the tourna­ment next weekend. Their semifinal opponent will be Connecticut, who the Irish tied earlier this season. 
Recycle The Ohser.,er 

Marketing Club: Meeting Thursday, Nov 14, 5:00p.m. in the 
lower lounge of COBA. ?'s 1-9330 Black Cultural Arts Festival (BCAF): "It's Showtime" at the Library Auditorium November 16@ 7:30 p.m.featuring Black Images, Troop ND, Vybe, & Juggle Fever 
Amnesty International: DEATH PENALTY FORUM Wed., Nov 13 6:00p.m. at the library lounge -speakers, open mic, small group discussions. ALL VIEW WELCOME. Students for Responsible Business: speaker David E. Collins, former Chair of Johnson & Johnson, at 5:00p.m. on Wed. Nov 16 in 161 COBA. "Does it Matter? Does It Pay?: The Tylenol 
Poisoning Tragedy" 

NO Right to Life: General. meeting at 7:30p.m. on. Tues., Nov. 12 in Montgomery Theater m LaFortune. January tnp to Washington D.C. will be discussed. for more info call631-9006 League of Black Business Students: General meeting tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater focused on choosing your classes. Everyone welcome. African Students Association: SANKOFA: a feature film. Followed by a panel discussion on: "Lessons from the past: How they can foster our identity" Wed. Nov 6 in 102 DeBartolo Hall @7:00p.m. -FREE 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! .:.:
All Class 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November II, 1996 
• HOCKEY 

Irish slip early, lose to Eagles 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team lost to Boston College, 6-1, on Friday night before 6,738 fans at Kelley Rink. The Irish opened slowly for the third game in a row, as Eagle junior Jamie O'Leary scored two min­utes into the game to give the Eagles a 1-0 lead. "It's true that we've had some slow starts these past few games," said sophomore Aniket Dhadphale. "It's hard once you fall behind to come back." 
There was no looking back for the Eagles. They netted two second period goals, one each from freshmen Jeff Farkas and Chris Masters, to extend their lead to 3-0. Freshmen Kevin Caufield and Blake Bellefeuille and sophomore Marty Reasoner increased the Eagle's advan­tage to 6-0. 

Notre Dame senior forward Brian McCarthy foiled Eagle goaltender Greg Taylor's bid for a shutout when he scored with 2:19 to play. For the Irish, junior Matt Eisler (22 saves in 
48:21) and Forrest Karr (4 saves in 11:39) split the goal­tending duties. 
Following Notre Dame's thrilling, come-from-behind victory against Bowling Green last Sunday, this game was def­initely a disappointment. "We weren't mentally ready to play," said sophomore forward Brain Urick. "We were overconfident after the big win on Sunday. We took them [the . Eagles] for granted, and they took it to us." 
Dhadphale agreed. "We didn't play our game. We knew 
• SPORTS BRIEFS sjgn.:.ups necessary. For more information call 1-6100.
Drop-In Volleyball-·RecSports 

Late Night-Olympic Steering
will be offerlng Drop-In 

Volleyball on Tues., Nov. 12, Committee .~ Anyone interested Dec. 3. and Dec. 10; from 7-10 in. serving onth~ Late Night 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. No Olympic Ste~:r:jng Committee, please eallKara at 1-8237.
established·teams or advanced 
that they were skilled, and we wanted to play a physical game to counteract their skill, but we weren't able to do it in the beginning, and then it just snowballed." 
Although it may be little con­solation to the Irish, the game with Boston College was not a Central Collegiate Hockey Association game, so they do not lose any points in the pre­cious standings. "We didn't lose 2 points [in the CCIIA standings]." reflected Dhadphale, "so that's good." 
The loss may serve to focus the team. "I think that might be true," observed Dhadphale. "We had a team meeting after the game. And everyone who needed to say something had the opportunity to do so. We analyzed the slow starts and I think we've corrected it." 
Off-Campus Volleyball ­Anyone interested in playing off-campus interball volleyball please call Greg at 273-9553. Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come, first serve basis. 


GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your lJncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~EADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today jf  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 

I I 
Wednesday
Free Conrt~ Food, Refreshment~ andPrizes 
November 13, 1996 ... Rockne Memorial 
Sponsored by: Classes of 99,98,97,00 !f_:(l,O p.m. · 1 ~~00 a.:m·.
.

; ... :..: . ~ 
Monday, November 11, 1996 The Obs~rver • TODAY page 15 


DILBERT 
~=------------------,~r-~==============~· 
u

CATBERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR 8 
THERE ARE TWO WAYS TO GET AN E.HRA ENGINEER FOR YOUR 
PRO'JECT. 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Puccini opera 6 Very much 10 A E F conflict 13 Bay wtndow 14 Ratn cats and dogs 15 "And ---goes" 16 Bored wtth life 18 Mtseries 19 Pb, elementally speaking 20 Relative of the wasp 221ce cream pattern 24 Robtn Hood. for one 26 Sheep cries 27 Golf hazard 29" -the Sheriff" (1974 hit) 
32 Landed 33 Jtmmy Carter's middle name 34 Tough fabnc used tn uniforms 35 The "S" in 
RSVP 36 Slow-pitch pitch 37 Card up the 
sleeve 39 Oil treatment intts. 40 Patrick Ewing, 
for one 42 Game of chance 44 Resting on 45 -.. Wences 
(frequent Ed 
Sullivan guest) 46 Extremities 47 Asset 48 Poltergeists 50 Gradually 
decrease, with "off" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~OU CAN TR~N5FER .!: 
.... 
0 
<( 

SOI"\E UNQUALIFIED
@J 
-~ 
c

L05ER FROM. WITHIN ., 
~ 
"' 
<( 
0 
<( 

THE COI"'\PANY ... "' ~ 
I­I­
0 
" 
"' 

52 Lady of "Ivanhoe· 54Der -­(Adenauer) 55 Gen. Bradley 56 Irresolute 62 Yard digger 63 "Exodus" novelist 64 Propositioned 65 Office seeker 66 Mexican moolah 67 Equestrian's controls 
DOWN 

1 Auto club service 2 Conquistador's treasure 3 Ma'am's counterpart 4 Pablo Casals, e.g. 5 Tree of the birch family 6 Copied 
Puzzle by Fred Piscop
7 Mauna-­
8 Dickens's "---­
24 Galley propellerMutual Friend" 
25 High elevation 9 Rendezvous area10 Would-be 
26 Sunbathes
Romeo's call 11 "Where there's a 28 Bootlegging or 
extortion 12---bitsy 30 Traveling, as a 15 Any provincial band 
college 

31 Big name in 17 Army surgeon baseball cards Reed 
36 fire-producing21 Carroll cityadventuress 
38 Expensive22 Like seawater 23 Jerusalem 
41 Stick together prayer site 43 Nav. officer 
HAPPY BIHTIIDAY! IN THE NI~XT YEAH OF YOUH LIFE: Good luck will carry you closer to 
vnur goals. New husincs~ and career ~km,~nds keep you on the run as 199o draws to a close. Overdue pub­lic recognition i.s featured early in the new year. Invest in short-term 
projects. Next spring. rnmance gives 
you a totally different perspective on life. A wedding should wait until the fall. Efforts to~ promote or expand a business will meet with success. Trust your hunches when dealing with people you have just mel. 
CELEBRITIES IIOHN ON THIS DAY: actress Demi Moore, novelist Kurl Vonnegut Jr., golfer Fuuv Zoeller. actor Leonardo DiCaprio 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Financial pressures diminish thanks to your ingenuity. You have a knack for making ends meet' A secret admirer makes a generous gesiUre. At this point, friendship is better than romance. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An employment offer comes from an unexpected source. Others admire your high standards. An advertising (lr pullic relations campaign wiU help boost sales. 
GEI\IINI (May 21-June 20): Expect to reach. if not surpass. estahlished quotas .• Salt away any funds you do not ha\'c to spend on necessities. Reviewing your Thanks­
giving plans with friend;-, and family 
could lead to chan!!es. 
CANCER 11t~ne 21-July 221: You look forward to a special e\'ent with increasing eagerness. Romance 
SCOTT ADAMS 

and ma1Tiage.__are..._in the spotlight.
Profe~sionals make great progres:-. in
TO SA.VOR. TI-lE MOMENT 

their careers. A pmmotion or bonus is likeil ·
BEFORE l CRU5H YOUR 
LE(> (July 23-Aug. 22): An 
MISPLACED OPTH'\ISM. 

objecti,.,, may seem unobtainable. Wishful thinking \\ill not suffice: 



44 Negotiate aIa 54 Mr. Mota's reply Chamberlain 
57 Dander 49 Cut into logs 
58 Family girl 51 In armed conflict 59 Do slaloms 52 Win easjly, in the 60 Farm cackler sports pages 
61 Gridiron gains: 53 Melville novel Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone 1-900-420-5656 (75'" per mtnute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 

ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
redouble your ei'Jnrts 1 Although your friends want to play Cupid, you have other pl<~ns. A secret romance is brewing. 
\'IHGO <Aug. 23-Sept 22): Business developments take a dra­matic turn. Hang in there 1 Unex­pected changes v. ill work lo your advantage. The domestic scene looks calm. !:le more affectionate with your loved ones. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A busy morning will be followed by a quieter afternoon. Do not accept favors from someone who wants you to be obligated to them. There will be no strings allach(,'d to a good friend's help. 
SCORPIO (()ct. 23-Nov. 21 J: Certain matter' are beyond your control. Others must account for their misdeeds tH shortcomings. Remain on the sidelines: severing ties woul.d be a mistake. Romance is a guessing game. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Pass up so-called bargains; they will not be as good as advertised. Do not feel guilty about turning down a request for a loan. All forms of gambling and e.xtravagance should be avoided. 
CAPHICORr-; (f)ec. 22-Jan. 19): The more mvsterious and dis­creet you are. the ·more success you will liave m achie\'ing your desires. Be ale11 to subtle changes in a rela­tionshir. 
AQUAHIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An emergency find, you short on cash. Relative' '" friends come to your rescue. Repay them as soon as possible. Practice small economies at home. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-~larch 20): Resist a telemarketing pitch. Giving vour credit L'ard number over the rhone would be a mistake. A teen­ager needs you to li,ten. not offer UI1'-!0I1cited advice. 

Do you have a disciplinary hearing with Residence Life? 
StudeV\t C\ovei"'V\meV\t has tl"'aiV\ed aV\d expel"'iel'\ced staff membel"'s to assist yot-1 with yot-11"' heal"'il'\9 with the 
Office of Residel'\ce Life.  We al"'e hel"'e to help you befol"'e1  dt.1l"'il'\9 al'\d aftel"' yol-11"' disciplil'\al"'y pl"'oceedil'\9s.  
IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE CALL 631-4553 OR 631-7668  
Ryan Mcinerney  jennifer Dovidio  
judicial Council President  judicial Council Vice President  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRF. DAME ST\JO¥NT C'.OVI'RNloHWT  All information is strictly confidential  



Football 1996 

Irish running 
Notre Dame 
48 
attack grounds Boston College Eagles21 -see Irish Extra 

SPORTS 
page 16 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

Chalk up the championship 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ SportS Writer 
There is nothing like the sweet thrill of victory, except when you do not get the acco­lades that go along with it. The top-ranked women's soccer team is experiencing just that. Yesterday on the frozen tundra of Alumni Field, the team cap­tured their second consecutive Big East tournament title. The Irish defeated the fourth­ranked UConn Huskies, 4-3. 
Despite the fact that the Irish repeated their Big East title, 

t they still are not getting the 
I respect they so rightfully
l deserve. Thus far into the sea­son, the Irish have chalked up
f -. 
a record of 21-1-0.

I 
"It means so much," said 

~­
senior captain Cindy Daws about winning the Big East Championship. "Only for the pure reason that Notre Dame gets absolutely no respect in the Big East, and I feel very strongly about that. I think 

I 
I 
see CHAMPS I page 12

J 
I 
I 
I I 
' Snow, defense numb Hoyas 
I 

I By BRIAN REINTHALER 
I Sports Writer 
I 
~ Well it wasn't exactly RickI Mimr to Heggie Brooks, but the
I 
men's soccer team did offer 

~ ~ 
their best imitation of the 1992 

~ 
Snow Bowl. as they advanced to the semifinals of the Big East Championships by defeating rival Georgetown in dramatic fashion. 
Fittingly, Konstantin Koloskov, a native of Moscow, Hussia, provided the winning tally on a beautiful feed from junior Joe Gallo with just 5:04 remaining in regulation time. Koloskov explained that, for him, playing soccer in the white stuff is nothing new. 
"It's been a while since I have playod in the snow," said the senior midfielder. "(In the snow} you cannot play short

..... 
balls because the ball does not roll. You must play the ball long." 
That appeared to be Notre Dame's strategy from tho outset of the match, despito the fact 
Monday, November II. 1996 


• VOLLEYBAll 

Irish beat up Big East, fall to Patriots 
By JOE CAVATO Sports Writer 

It was the same old story for the Notre Dame women's volleyball team at the Joyce Center this weekend. The final regular season home matches action typified the entire season. They beat up on Big East foes and lost a heart breaker to a ranked opponent to push their record to 17-9 overall and 9-0 in the conference where thny need just one more win for the title. 
Head coach Debbie Brown's squad had a full sehedule planned as they hosted top twenty-live foe George Mason on Saturday, sandwiched between Big East cellar dwellers Hutgers and Seton IIall. 
The home team swept through the Big East toams, which is nothing new. The conference leading Irish im­proved to 9-0 in thn Big East this season and 22-0 over the past two years. But in thn middle they dropped a five­setter to the 18th ranked Patriots, which is also nothing new. The Irish aro now 0-6 against top twenty live oppo­nents. 
Coach Brown was without the services of two key play­ers, whieh is yet another thing that the Irish have got­ton used to, as they have been plagued with injurins all year. Senior blocker .len House was on the bench and in strePt cloths on Sonior day with a thumb injury. Junior hitter 
see V-BALL I page II 
TheObserver/RobFinch 


that the field had been cleared of all snow prior to the women's game, which preceded the men's game against Georgetown. The players were forced to deal with the slick, muddy field throughout most of the first half. 
The Irish outshot the Hoyas in the half but it was Georgetown who drew first blood. Forward Eric Kvello received the ball from midfielder Kevin Shaw just under twenty minutes into the contest and lifted a shot over a charging Greg Velho to give the Hoyas the 1-0 advan­tage. 
At that point, the snow had begun to fall, but did not yet appear to be sticking to the field. However, the force and 
see ADVANCE I page 13 

Senior Jen Briggs helped fill injured Angie Harris' position in Notre Dame's loss to George Mason. 

vs. Pittsburgh,
~­
aJ •Irish hockey slips to Eagles 
~. November 16, 1:30 p.m. 
vs. Ferris State, 
NCAA Tournament 

November 15, 7 p.m. ~ see page 14
;.~ 
"-•JIIIIIIIII
-. 
at Connecticut, 

.. 
@) ~ • Holyfield puts Tyson away in lith
Big East Semifinals, 

November 16,2 p.m.
;.., TBA 
vs. Connecticut, 
see page 10 

-. 
November 16 
~ 








