
Wednesday, Aprill7, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 125 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
SMCTostal to provide exciting week 
By LORI GADDIS 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's campus is preparing for what looks to be a huge success during this y1~ar's spirit week. Thursday marks the day that Saint Mary's will host "It's a Spring Thing" during SMCTostal, fea­turing many activities that members of both campuses will be able to enjoy. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board has been planning the event since the beginning of the sehool year in anticipation of the event. Members Angela McNulty and /\my Kramer look to see an irnprovemm1t in attendance this year. 
"We have really used the resources in South Bend and on campus to plan this event," stated McNulty. "The response to Twilight Tailgate earlier this year was greater than I ever expected. We look to get 1wen better attendance at SMCTostal". 
Saint Mary's has always been involved with Notre l>arne during their 1\nTostal celebration in the spring. But Saint Mary's hopes that this year, a separate day on their 
SMCTostal '96
home campus would encour­
age more students to partici­pate in events at SMC and reduce the overlapping of 
Times 

1\nTostal events that usually occurs. Events begin at 1 p.m. 
1-7 

Thursday afternoon, starting with FunFlicks in LeMans lobby, which gives students the opportunity to create their 

3-6:30 

own music video to their favorite tunes. This event proved to be a huge success 

3:30-5:30 

during Twilight Tailgate. Throughout the day, the Saint Mary's Library Green 

4:30

will play host to various activi­ties ineluding caricatures, tye dye, tattooing, and face paint­ing. Another activity, 

4:30-6:30 

Toyland. gives students an opportunity bring out their 
inner child. Saint Mary's will 8-1 0 
provide Sit 'N Spins, Hula 
Hoops and Twister, to name a .________...~-______-_L_I_r_a_ry::..,__r_e_e_n___---J few games, that allow stu­
Lake Marion on campus mile run/walk/rollerblade
dents to break free from that 
(across from Haggar which begins at Angela
daily grind of work and blow 
Bookstore) from 3:30 to 5:30.
off a little steam. 

Sign-ups will be at the lake.
Canoe races will be held at see SMCTOSTAll page 4
SMCTostal also features a 2­
Assault survivor pro01otes gender unity to stop rape 
By MAUREEN HURLEY ~.1in1 Mary's News Editor 

M1~n and wonwn need to form a eoalition against rape, aeeording to Melissa IJI)Ssert, who spoke at Saint Mary's Colh~ge last night as both a rape survivor and an advo­eatn for rapn elimination. 
lless1~rt led a diseussion entitled "Not Just Bad Sex: Hap1~ on rampus," as part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination's Sexual Assault 1\warmwss Week. 
I>I~SSI~rt. who currently works at Washington UniVI'rsity. was a victim of acquaintance rape during her lirst year of eolleg1~. 
"I nmlizml that tlwrn were not avenues to tap into for support," Dessert said about her post-rape coping peri­mi. She tlwn worked to establish Students Organized Against Hapn, and has worked in advocacy groups for rape elimination sinen. 
see BAD SEX/ page 4 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COl.INCIL 
Cannon urges halls to review finances 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
Dormitory presidents will need to pay closer attention to the finances of their respective halls in the future according to Kevin Cannon, director of Student Residences. 
Cannon addressed the Hall President's Council (HPC} Tuesday night and announced new policies regarding purchases made by dor­mitories. 
Cannon announced that his office will match two-thirds of what dorms purchase up to $1000. Cannon also announced that there will be significant ehanges in the way dormitories go about making purchases. lie said that request periods will be allotted according to the gender of the dorm resi­dents. 
The period for requesting fi­nancial assistance in female dorms 
Thursday, April 18 
1 p.m.-10 p.m. 
Make your own music video -LeMans Lobby 
Tye dye, tattoos, etc. -Library Green 
Canoe races -Lake Marion 
Two mile run/walk/rollerblade-Start at AngelaSMCNIC 
-library Green 
Global Village ~band)
• G 
Comic Relief 


Two Irish Accent members display their dramatic antics at LaFortune Ballroom last night. 
Career fair to assist A&L majors 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Writer 
Arts and Letters majors are often asked what they plan to do after they graduate. Career and Placement may help in providing an answer with the Spring Career Fair on Thursday. 
"This fair is smaller than the one we usually have in the fall," said Olivia Williams. assistant director of Career and Placement, "but we need­ed one to get back on schedule and to give the students who will be graduating in the next month a chance to meet with certain fields that were left off of the fall lineup." 
The fair will feature compa­nies from 16 different fields including, among others, con­sulting, media, music, publica­tions, and education. 
"We have tried to get a lot of areas that were under-repre­
see CAREER/ page 4 


will run from the beginning of the school year and will end in mid­October. For the male dormitories, purchase requests will have to be made from mid-October to Christmas break. 
This differs from past policy. when dormitory governments had 
see H PC/ page 8 

esc to hold luncheon for charitable I'Arche 
By DAVID FREDDOSO The general public is Invited to News Writer lunch at any time between 
11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m., and 
In 1964, a Canadian theolo­a small donation of $3 is re­gian named Jean Vanier was quested. This event takes visiting Paris when he met two place at the university where mentally retarded homeless Jean Vanier himself was given men. His love of God and the Notre Dame Award, an charity for his neighbor honor shared with President prompted him to take these Jimmy Carter and Mother men into his care. It was in Theresa. this way that l'Arche, an inter­L'/\rche maintains several national Christian organiza­houses throughout the world tion dedicated to the service of where the handicapped are the mentally retarded, was cared for with eharity and dig­founded. nity. Yet these houses are sur­
Tomorrow, the Emmaus prisingly different from many Community, a group of locals of those which currently serve who are "Friends of l'Arche" the mentally disabled. Accord-are sponsoring a luncheon at the Center for Social Concerns. 
see L'ARCHE/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 17, 1996 






Music 
for the masses 
You know, I have read -;::::::::::::::::~:­
many criticisms of the music scene here at Notre Dame. One mem­ber of the band Stomper Bob and the 4 x 4's railed against the inabil­ity of the Notre Dame audience to accept origi­

nal songs. He said this in the same breath with  Matthew Loughran  
an admission that cover  News Writer  
songs are his band's  
main draw.  

In another glaring criticism, the magazine that also works out of LaFortune Student Center mentioned in an article two weeks ago that interest seemed to be waning on the part of students. They also mentioned that Sfumato, Emily Lord, and Tacklebox were some of the FEW campus bands. Eliminating Sfumato from that list (It was the title of last year's campus CD, not a band), the two men­tioned are not even the most popular, let alone most indicative of all the different styles of play. 
But I am not here to rip anyone else's criti­cisms to shreds, I am here to give you my take on the matter. Sure, Sweep the Leg Johnny and its predecessor Victoria's Real Secret are gone. Half of the Roadapples have left and True North split up. But hey, there are still a lot of great bands out there with great tunes. 
Reverend Funk, one half of what was once True North, has taken the campus by storm this semester receiving recognition from Nazz and in the pages of this newspaper. They have played some absolutely electric concerts in recent weeks, exposing the school to the joy of funk. 
Tweak has gotten a lot of press from this newspaper for their fun-filled concerts. Sabor Latino adds a different, welcome fla­vor to the music scene and bands like Cod in Salsa are inventive and new. 
Many people have said that the main prob­lem is the venues. I have heard a rumor that one bar tries to avoid booking campus bands because they lose money when they do. In addition to this problem, bar concerts necessitate a twenty-one year old or older audience. 
The solution to this is simple. Play more open venues. Concerts at Stonehenge are al­ways well attended. Acoustic Cafe is a good time, even if everyone doesn't always pay at­tention. Certain bars open their doors on a limited basis to those under twenty-one. 
There is also a venue on the Saint Mary's Campus that is open to all and rather easy for a band to book. Dalloway's Coffee House has seen recent incredible concerts by Luster and Driftwood, as well as a return appear­ance a few weeks ago by Sweep the Leg Johnny (now based in Chicago). They even allowed a little known band named Logjam appear there last year with myself on bass guitar. 
So, I suppose what I am trying to say is that the music scene is out there, you simply have to quit whining, get out and see the bands. Original or cover, hard rock, punk, funk, and even salsa (or cod), there is some­thing for everyone in the Notre Dame music scene. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Bill Connolly Jillian Pagliocca Sports Mike Day Graphics Tom Roland  Production John Hutchinson Jackie Moser Lab Tech Michael Hungeling  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during ex;1m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
• WomJl AT A GLANCE 
Kaczynski defense seeks dismissal based on publicity 
HELENA, Mont. 
"In Mr. Theodore 
Kaczynski's case,
Search for evidence 
Kaczynski's lawyer 
the possibility that asked a judge to 
he could ever be
The FBI seized at least 585 things from Unabomber suspect Theodore 
block the prosecution 
afforded anything of the Unabomber 
Kaczynski's cabin in Montana. Items seized included: 
that might remotely suspect, saying 
II> Bomb components II> Bolt-action .22-caliber rifle II> Three typewriters 
resemble that (fairTuesday that govern-.. Improvised explosive device II> Remington model .30-06 II> Seven rolled-up maps 
trial) process has ment leaks have II> Pipe bomb 
II> .22 caliber black-handle II> Paperwith 
been forever lost." 

jeopardized his -.lmproviseddetonator revolver and nine rounds mathematics 
U.S. District
of ammunition equationschances for a fair 11>-Plastic jar containing 
Judge Charles Lovell 
triggering devices ._ Hand-made gun with II> Plastic shopping bagtrial. 11>-Box containing "misc. papers, spent cartridge containing Montana 
did not immediately Michael Donahoe newspaper clippings, bus II> Gun cleaning kit driver's license and 
rule on Donahoe's said the release of schedule, addresses of II> Hand tools, including file, $32 cash 
petition, which information from corporate officials and maps drill bits, saws, tweezers .. One bottle of 
sought a delay in unidentified federal of San Francisco" and hacksaw Trazadone, anti­
any grand jury pro­sources demon-II> 25-calibergun (Raven Arms), ~ 232 books depressant 
ceedings against strates a "lynch-mob magazines containing bullets ._ 16 notebooks or binders 
Kaczynski.mentality" on the Source: U.S. Forest Service AP/R. Toro A federal part of federal investigators. grand jury will hold its regularly scheduled meeting 
The result was a "lethal media blitz" that "poisoned Wednesday in Great Falls and is expected to hear evi­the entire population of grand jurors within the United dence against Kaczynski. The lone charge filed against States against Mr. Kaczyunski," he wrote in his motion. him thus far makes no mention of the Unabomber 
Donahoe, one of two court-appointed attorneys for attacks that killed three people and injured 23 over the Kaczynski, said the prosecution should be halted until past 18 year. the court can decide whether the leaks will prevent a fair Lovell scheduled a hearing for 3:30 p.m. Friday to con­trial. sider whether to pursue Donahoe's motion by calling wit­
"The government should not be allowed to proceed nesses, and told both sides to prepare written briefs. before various grand juries throughout the country that Kaczynski, 53, was arrested April 3 after federal have been permanently poisoned by the government's agents, tipped off by his suspicious brother. began outrageous conduct in disclosing to the media the highly searching his mountain cabin near Lincoln. incriminating nature of evidence taken from Kaczynski's Leaks about the case began appearing as soon as a cabin," Donahoe said. search of Kaczynski's home began April 3. 
Duke and Duchess of York to divorce 
LONDON 
Prince Andrew and the former Sarah Ferguson, whose rocky marriage led to a separation four years ago, announced today that they will divorce -the sec­ond British royal marriage to collapse in less than two months. The divorce of the Duke and Duchess of York was list­ed for hearing Wednesday in High Court Family Division in London. A 

statement from the couple's lawyers said it was anticipat­ed that the divorce would be completed by the end of May. Prince Andrew, second son of Queen Elizabeth II, married Sarah Ferguson -known as Fergie -in 1986 and separated in 1992. They have two young daughters, Princess Beatrice, 7, and Princess Eugenie, 6, who will continue to live with their mother. The 36-year-old prince will "participate fully in their upbringing," the lawyers said. 
Madonna-the singer-with child 
NEW YORK 
Imagine life as Madonna's wee one. Cone-shaped baby bottles? Baby togs by Jean-Paul Gaultier? X-rated first words? We'll see, since the Material Girl has gone Mater­nal. Madonna is expecting her first child in November. "She is pregnant," her publicist Liz Rosenberg said Tuesday in a telephone interview from Budapest, Hungary. where Madonna, 37, is filming the movie version of the musical "Evita." The father is Carlos Leon, Madonna's 29­year-old personal trainer-boyfriend. Though four months pregnant, Madonna doesn't look it, Rosenberg said. And she hasn't really suffered from typical first-trimester symptoms, like throwing up at the sight or smell of just about anything. She does, however, have that well-known maternal glow. "Her eyes look very sparkly. She's very happy, very happy," Rosenberg said. "It's something she's wanted for a very long time." The world was informed of Madonna's ticking biological clock when she joked last year that she desperately wanted to have a baby and might even take out an ad to find just the right daddy. 
Fender bender ends in death 
DETROIT 
A man irate over a fender-bender viciously beat the woman whose car he bumped and threatened to "knock (her) brains out," terrorizing her into a fatal jump into the Detroit River, a prosecutor said Tuesday. Martell Welch Jr., 20, is charged with murder in the Aug. 19 drowning of Deletha Word. Witnesses say he attacked the much !>maller woman after their cars collided on the Belle Isle park in the Detroit River. "As Martell Welch comes to­ward her with his arm upraised, she goes into the river," prosecutor Kevin Simowski said in opening statements. The death drew national attention when initial accounts said onlookers cheered the attack. Police later said most witnesses were too shocked to do anything as the 6-foot-1, 290-pound Welch attacked the 4-foot-11, 115-pound woman. Welch's lawyer admitted his client was wrong to attack the 33-year-old woman, but said he didn't cause her death. Wanda R. Cal said the drug PCP found in Word's body explained her jump into the river. 
Female Citadel-hopeful still struggling 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
A young woman who hoped to march at The Citadel this fall will instead go to military prep school while she continues her court challenge of the college's all-male admissions policy. Nancy Mellette, 18, will begin a one­year program at the U.S. Military Academy Preparatory School in Fort Monmouth, N.J., this fall, her father said in a statement. She had a Monday deadline to accept an offer of admission to the New Jersey school, Citadel grad­uate J. Bland Mellette said. "Since neither the Supreme Court nor the South Carolina District Court has made a decision pertinent to her situation, she went ahead and made the commitment," he said. Ms. Mellette, a senior at the Oak Ridge Military Academy in North Carolina, still "believes that qualified women should be allowed the opportunity of attending The Citadel," her father said. She still hopes to attend the school in a year, said her attorney, Val Vojdik. The U.S. Supreme Court heard arguments in January and is expected to rule this spring on a similar legal challenge. 

Wednesday, April 17 
Accu Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 17. 
40s .

60S lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 67" I 
ILL. 
• 


...,......,.. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L rn ISSJ ITil 0 . !Z] § (} ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY Via AsSOCiated Press 
Atlanta 78 51 Columbus 73 47 Minneapolis 68 42 Baltimore 75 41 Dallas 84 63 New Orleans 79 58
4,Q,~4.Q.Q i) ~ u 
Boston 55 35 Denver 64 40 New York 65 42 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·;; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Charlotte 77 49 Los Angeles 67 56 Philadelphia 63 41 
Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
Chicago 70 47 Miami 80 66 Sacramento 65 50 

Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Rodriguez to probe Hispanic spirituality Evidence implicates 
Sprcial to Thr Obsrrver free and open to the public. Psychosocial Religious Devel­Rodriguez received her bache­opment of Mexican American "Stories Wn Livn: Cuentos que lor of arts degree in religious Women." 
Kevorkian in trial 
JAZ~MANS NITE CLUB 5l5NHILLST 233-8505 presents A FUNKY 70'S THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT  
featuring THE REVEREND FUNK BAND lower level plus MOE & MARK upper level guest Djs between band breaks doors o en 9:00PM  
$100 CASH PRIZE to best disco dance team with a 70's outfit cash prizes to 2nd and lrd place winners winner determined by audience nse  
DANCE CONTEST STARTS AT 1l:30AM must sign up at OJ booth  
$3.00 cover with student 10, $5.00 without doors open 9:00pm 21 and over with proper ID save $2.00 with this ad before I I :OOPM free admission before I I :OOPM if wearing a 70's outfit  

Rodriguez, listed in "Who's Who Among 1-Iispanic Ameri­cans, " has authored several p4blications including the 1994 book "Our Lady of Guadalupe: Faith and Empowerment Among Mexican-American Women" as well as "llispanics and the Sacred" ("Chicago Studies," 1990), "Women's Experience in Feminist Thought" ("Journal of Hispanic/Latino Theology," 1993) and "God is Always Pregnant" ("The Divine Mosaic: Women's Images of the Sacred Other," 1994). 
Rodriguez currently is an as­sistant professor of systematic theology at Seattle University. In addition to her interest in re­ligion, culture and Christian an­thropology, Hodriguez obtained a license to practice marriage, family and child therapy. As a result, since 1986 she has worked primarily with Latina women on issues of family, iden­tity, and acculturation issues. 
Hodriguez is a member of the Catholic Theological Society of America, board member of Pyramid Institute for Hesearch Evaluation, an editorial board member of the Journal for His­panic/Latino Technology, and treasurer of The Academy of Hispanic Catholic Theologians in the U.S. 
The Center for Spirituality sponsors events which explore and celebrate the Christian spir­itual inheritance especially as that tradition speaks to issues facing contemporary lay women, their friends and fami­lies. For additional information on activities of the Center or on the Madeleva Lecture Series, contact the Center at 284-4636. 
By BRIAN AKRE 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC, Mich. 

Fingerprints on a mask and a 911 tape are among the evi­dence that will prove Dr. Jack Kevorkian intended to help two women commit suicide, a pros­ecutor told jurors today. 
Even before legal wrangling over jury instructions was re­solved, opening arguments got under way in the retired pathol­ogist's third trial. 
"When you put a carbon monoxide mask on somebody's face, ... the intent is to assist them in their suicide," Prosecu­tor Lawrence Bunting said. And he cited a call to authorities in which Kevorkian reported a "double assisted suicide ­physician-assisted," Bunting said. 
But defense attorney Geoffrey Pieger repeated his previously successful argument that Kevorkian doesn't want anybody he helps to die. 
"That was the unfortunate secondary result of relieving pain and suffering," he said. "Dr. Kevorkian's sole intent, ladies and gentlemen, is to re­lieve pain, discomfort and suf­fering." 
The statements were delayed earlier in the day when Bunting asked Oakland County Circuit Judge David Breck to take him­
• CORRECTION 
Ava Preacher was improp­erly identified in yesterday's edition of The Observer. She self oil' the case. 
Bunting cited a Detroit News interview published Monday in which Breck said the prosecu­tor's ollice in the past has tried to keep blacks off juries. That shows bias, Bunting said. 
Breck turned the request down. 
One of Kevorkian's attorneys, Mayer Morganroth, called it "the old trial tactic . . . of trying to get a judge to lean over back­ward in one direction by intimi­dation." 
In this case, the 67-year-old Kevorkian is charged in the Oct. 23, 1991, deaths of Sherry Miller, 43, and Marjorie Wantz, 
58. Both died in a rural cabin ­Miller after inhaling carbon monoxide, Wantz of an infec­tion. 
Miller had multiple sclerosis; Wantz had severe pelvic pain. Theirs were the second and third of the 27 deaths Kevorkian has acknowledged attending since 1990. 
It was still up in the air how jurors would be instructed in the case. Prosecutors have appealed Breck's instructions twice to the Michigan Court of Appeals. The latest appeal was filed Monday as the jury was selected. 
The issue of intent and how it is explained to jurors is signifi­cant because of Kevorkian's ar­gument that he intends only to relieve suffering. 
is the assistant dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters. 
The Observer regrets the Pr­ror. 
4:30-6:30 pm SMCNIC: good food and great friends, get your co-ex soon! (Library Green) 
8:00-10:00 pm Global Village!!!! Don't miss this spectacu lar concert! (Library Green) 
$$CASH$$ PRIZES!! 
11Spring Ahead" Athletic Event: 
2 mile run/wall/rollerblade, starting at Angela 
Vivimos (llispanie Women's Spirituality I" is the title of the twelfth annual Madeleva leeturn in Spirituality at Saint Mary's Coli ng1L Jnarwttn I! od rigunz, from the Institute of Theologieal Studies at Snattle University, will speak on Thursday, April 18, at 
7:30 p.m. in thn Mornau Cnnter l.ittln Theatre. The lecture, sponsored by Saint Mary's Col11~ge Cnnter for Spirituality, is studies from Queens College in 1976, her master's degree in religion from Fordham University in 1978, and a mas­ter's degree in counseling edu­cation from the University of Guam in 1981. She earned a doctorate in religion and per­sonality sciences at Berkeley, California in 1990. Her disserta­tion was titled "The Impact of Our Lady of Guadalupe on the 

Thursday, April 18TH, 1:00 PM • 10:00 PM 
1:00-7:00 pm  Fun Flicks:  
make your own  
music video  
(LeMans Lobby)  
3:00-6:30 pm  Fun Stuff.  

Caricatures, Tye Dye, Tattoos, Face Painting, Toyland (Library Green) 
3:30-5:30 pm Canoe Races (Lake Marion) 
FREE!! FREE!! FREE!! 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
Bad Sex 
continued from page 1 
"We all know that acquain­tance rape happens on cam­pus," Dessert said. "We need to find ways to actively stop this." 
Awareness is essential for prevention, according to Dessert. "I don't know how we can stop rape if half the seats in this auditorium are empty," she said. 
Statistics show that 80 per­cent of rape is acquaintance rape. Alcohol plays a large fac­tor, as 75 percent of males and 50 percent of females consume alcohol prior to an incident of assault. Furthermore, women in the 16-24 age range are most likely to be affected by rape. 
"The scary thing is, these sta­tistics are based only on the cases that are actually re­ported," Dessert said. 
Blaming the victim for the rape still ranks as a primary reason for a large number of assaults remaining unreported. "We automatically assume the victim must have done some­thing," Dessert said. "We need to realize we're not asking those same questions about the perpetrator." 
With regard to doubting the victim, Dessert emphasized that any non-consentual sex is rape. 
"When someone takes a woman's choice away, we're not talking about bad sex any­more," she said. "If fear, ma­nipulation or deception is pre­sent at all, consent is not there. That's rape." 
Dessert, who has counselled rape victims, explains that any woman who would put herself through a four-hour evidence search and would explain the experience in detail to in­vestigators, must be certain that she was a victim of rape. "If we eliminate victim-blaming, we'd see more people being con­victed of sexual assault." 
The responsibility to eliminate rape lies with both men and women, even though men are usually excluded from the rape movement, according to Dessert. 
"It's not just a women's issue. It's not just women's respon­sibility, and it's not an issue that just pertains to women," Dessert told the audience, con­sisting of only one male college student. 
As statistics estimate that one in four women will be a victim of sexual assualt in her lifetime, Dessert said, "All of you, at some point in your life, will come into contact with a vic­tim," she said. "This person is going to live that rape the rest of her life." 
Dessert stressed how every individual must hold themselves accountable for rape elimina­tion. 
By buying into sexual stereo­types. victim-blaming and adopting apathetic attitudes, we allow rape to happen in our so­ciety, according to Dessert. 
"The fact that we don't do anything is supporting some­thing that is happening in our own backyards and campuses," she said. 
Women suffer a loss of secu­rity due to the threat of rape. 'There's a constant questioning -'Will I ever know that I can be 100 percent safe when alone with a man?'" Dessert said. 
However, the threat of rape in our soci~>ty should be viewed as a call for action rather than a reason for fear, according to Dessert. "We shouldn't allow the threat of rape to make us a prisoner in our home or dorm," she said. "Instead, we should be angry, and become revolu­tionary." 
L'Arche 
continued from page 1 
ing to Dr. Vittoria Bosco, who has been actively involved in trying to establish a house of l'Arche in South Bend, the goal of l'Arche is not simply to provide the mentally handi­capped with material help, but also to give them spiritual and ascetical formation. 
Bosco, a member of Notre Dame's Department of Ro­mance Languages and Litera­tures, explains that a very im­portant aspect of the spirit of I'Arche is its sense of commu­nity and the mutual service between the handicapped and those assisting them. The mentally handicapped, with their simplicity, piety, and cheerfulness, offer a witness and example which leaves many I'Arche assistants feel­ing as though they get much more out of their service than those whom they are serving. As Bosco explains, "the handi­capped themselves have a great deal to offer us spiritu­ally." 
In order to better explore this spirit of reciprocal ser­vice, assistants live together with the handicapped in hous­es of l'Arche and share meals, prayers, excursions, and masses together. "[The handi­capped] are the center of the focus in the houses," Bosco ex­plains. 
The Friends of I'Arche, in their attempt to extend their efforts to the South Bend area, are hosting this luncheon in order to raise the money they need, and to make the com­munity aware of their work and their ideals. And, in accord with those same ideals, the meal will be prepared by a group of mentally disabled persons together with l'Arche assistants. 
Although the house is only in the planning stages and money is still very short, Bosco says with optimism that the Emmaus Community hopes to have the project done "some­time in the near future." 
L'Arche refers to the Ark of Noah. Like the Ark, the organization plans to be open to all types of people in South Bend. 
In doing so, it will provide help for the sick as well as community service opportuni­ties for everyone at Notre Dame. 

ourt 

SMCTostal 
continued from page 1 
Athletic Facility, featuring prizes for finishers as well as winners. The SMCnic from 4:30­
6:30 is open to Saint Mary's students and Notre Dame students. It will be a cookout with all the fixin's, including popcorn, pret­zels, nachos, and cotton candy. There are 1200 coexes available to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
The biggest event of the day, however comes at 8:00 when the band Global Village will per­form until 10:00. The band performed in 1994 at Saint mary's Twilight Tailgate and gave an outstanding performance to the packed crowd who attended. 
They come from Grand Rapids, Michigan and hope to draw some attention to the evening for SMCTostal. SAB coordinator Mary Udovich is looking forward to hearing Global Village perform again on campus as well as an overall increase in attendance from previ­ous years. 
"This even was well-publicized this year," said Udovich. "Everyone involved did a great job of getting the word out. We look forward to great weather on Thursday and hope we see a lot of students taking advantage of what should be a great day." 
Because SAB is an organization that cares, all activities provided are free to those who attend. 
Students are encouraged to see what the "Spring Thing" is all about by crashing the Saint Mary's campus and participating in what looks to be the best SMCTostal yet. 
Career 
continued from page 1 
sented in previous job fairs and we have all but two companies coming from the local area," said Williams. 
Among these companies are media companies WNDU and WSBT, Alliance for Catholic Education, Andersen Consulting and the College Football Hall of Fame. 
"Even though it is officially an Arts and Letters fair, all other majors are invited to attend," said Williams. 
"We also encourage all members and prospec­tive members of the Arts and Letters Business Society to attend." 
After this fair, Career and Placement will be back on schedule and back to only running their Fall Career Fair. But the spring fair will be noted by the added feature of speakers that will help the students decide what to do with their degrees. . 
"We have representatives on and that can talk about using an Arts and Letters degree and give a much needed insight into the job market," said Williams. 
Letters were sent out to all juniors and sopho­mores earlier in the year announcing the fair and inviting them to attend. 
Seniors are also invited to attend and see what sorts of opportunities may await them outside of college. 
The Arts and Letters Spring Career Fair will take place on the lower level of the Center for Continuing Education tomorrow from 12 p.m. until4 p.m. 
MINISTRY Fr. Mark Poorman, C.S. C. 
Brina a friend! Brina a da-te! Brina your roomacet 

KICK·OFF ANTOSTAL '96 
IN NEW YORK WITH DAVE!!! WIN 
TWO ROUND TRIP 
AIRLINE TICKETS 
TO NEW YORK CITY 
AND TICKETS TO BE 
STUDIO GUESTS ON 
THE LATE SHOW. 
Raffle tix on sale at dining halls (and Huddle during lunch)today and tomorrow. $1 each or $5 for 6. Drawing will be held Tomorrow night at 10:30 at the Huddle. 
Proceeds to benefit Rob Adams Scholarship Fund. 
RelationshipsseXual Ethics 
with 

Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer· FINANCIAL NEWS page 5 
Gas prices hit highest GM strike hinders U.S. output 
later, jumping 1.3 percent, stronger production gains -not
mark since start of 1991 Production grows largest since an identical gain in booming conditions, but at a 
October 1987. The last time out­moderately expanding, non­A.uociat~d Press despite an expected record despite giant's put grew faster was February inflationary pace." demand. 1987 when it shot up 1.4 per­The Fed also said the nation's WA.."IIINGTON Tight oil supplies following an recent problems cent. industries were operating at 
Gasoline prices have surged to unusually cold winter and a de­But growth stalled in March 82.5 percent of capacity in their highest level since the Gulf cline in U.S. production mean By JOHN McClAIN when 2, 700 autoworkers went March, down from 83.2 percent War, the American Automobile prices could rise further as sum­Associated Press on strike at two GM factories, a month earlier and 84.6 per­Association reported Tuesday. mer begins, the department causing a parts shortage that cent a year earlier. 
The AAA's monthly price sur­said. But it said abundant for­WASHINGTON eventually closed 26 of its 29 The rate suggests that pro­vey found the average cost of eign supplies would help cut The General Motors strike North American plants. U.S. duction bottlenecks are not de­self-service regular unleaded prices by August. caused a 0.5 percent drop in motor vehicle production veloping that could cause short­was $1.24 a gallon. The AAA report said mid­U.S. industrial output in March, plunged 14.9 percent. ages and higher prices. 
That's tlw most costly gas grade gas was selling for $1.47, but discounting the walkout's In addition, the walkout halted The report also showed output since the start of thn Gulf War in up 4.5 cents, and premium is up broad impact, production grew work at many of the au­expanded at a 2.7 percent annu­January 11J91, the AAA said. 4 cents to $1.57 on a national 0.3 percent. tomaker's independent suppli­al rate in the first quarter, up The price is up 6 cents from average. "Excluding GM, the manufac­ers. from 0.6 percent during the Mareh and 11 cents from The West was the most costly turing sector is holding its own As a result, overall output final three months of 1995. The February, the AAA said. area to drive, with self-service and will experience improving posted the steepest decline since improvement largely reflected 
The Energy Dnpartment fore­regular going for $1.32 a gallon, conditions by summer." con­a similar 0.5 percent drop last resumption of aircraft produc­cast last wenk that prices would up 7.2 cents. It is least costly in tended Mark M. Zandi, an econ­October. tion following the Boeing Co. ptmk early in the summer travel the Southeast at $1.18, up 6.5 omist with Regional Financial But many analysts say auto strike late last year. 
season and then begin to drop cents. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological andphilosophical books/ Featuring books from: Blackwell, Cambridge University, Catholic University of America, Chicago, Cistercian, Eerdmans, Fordham, Fortress, Harvard, Ignatius, Loyola, Notre Dame, Oxford, Paulist, Penguin, Princeton, T.N.T. Clark, Yale and more. Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II docs, encyclicals, Bibles. 
We can special order any bookyou need/ 
Associates in West Chester, Pa. production is rebounding in The Fed said factory output 
Jerry Jasinowski, president of April. Manufacturers have fell 0.8 percent in March after the National Association of boosted production and re­rising 1.5 percent a month ear­Manufacturers, agreed. "After ported increased sales. lier. flirting with negative growth In March, output of construc­Production of durable goods late last year, we are back on a tion supplies was the strongest -goods such as motor vehicles slow growth track," he said. segment of manufacturing, and machinery expected to last 
The seasonally adjusted de­Zandi said, and "given the cur­more than three years ­cline reported Tuesday by the rent high levels of home build­plunged 1.4 percent, nearly wip­Federal Reserve was the second ing and accelerating gains in ing out a 2 percent gain the pre­in three months attributed to commercial construction, that vious month. special factors. component should continue to Production of nondurable 
Output at the nation's facto­provide some growth through goods such as clothing and ries, mines and utilities slipped the first half of 96." chemicals edged up 0.1 percent 
0.3 percent in January because Production of computers and after climbing 0. 9 percent in of the blizzard that froze much other office equipment also re­February. of the Eastern part of the coun­mained robust. Mining production shot up 2 try. The drop was less than the "I think the story is that the percent on top of a 1.6 percent 
0.4 percent decline initially re­inventory correction which has advance a month earlier. Output ported. plagued manufacturers for the by the nation's utilities grew 0.7 
Production heated up as the past year, is over," Zandi added. percent after falling 1.1 percent
I I
10°/o OFF ALL BOOKS weather moderated a month "That lays the ground work for in February. 
I I 1 for N.D.IS.M.C faculty andstudents with /.D. 1 
Celebrate a friend's birthday
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I I 287-0349 Open 10-5 Monday-Friday I 
with a special Observer ad. 

~--------­
----~---~~--------­
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
1\l\!If ')\__ j{
I~ l'¥ 
Graduates, this is a special time in your life that you and your family will always re1nember. Memory Tassels represent tradition and class unity~ 'bssels provide nostalg-ic memories for years to come. Celebrate your achievements, order additional Tassels for parents, relatives and special friends. 
At this year's gTaduation ceremony ''iHotJe On In Style", with Collegiate Caps, Gowns and .\Jemory Tassels. When the Commencement Ceremony ends; throw that Tassel to the other side of your Graduation Cap but 
keep the memory forever. Order your souvenir Memory Tassels and Graduation Cap & Gown today. 
Graduation Cap and Gown Orders will be taken at the Notre Dame Bookstore: Tuesday, Aprill6 and Wednesday Aprill7 from 9am-5pm 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday-Saturday 9am-Spm 
-------~----------·--­
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Colo01bians release crash report Officials worldwide 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID AMo.:iared Press 
WASIIINGTON 
An American Airlines jet turned off course and crashed into a mountain in Colombia last year after the plane's crew lwcamn confused about their location and then had a misun­derstanding with the ground controller, docurmmts released Tuesday indieate. 
Tlw Boeing 757 from Miami slamnwd into a mountainside Dec. 20, JIJIJ5, killing 1flO peo­ple, wlwn it apparently turned hack toward a navigational bea­con it had almady passed. 
Colombian investigators have rtHtrlwd no conelusion on the caus1~ of the disaster, but a set of investigators' reports was re­leased Tuesday by the National Transportation Safety Board. 
While pilot Nicholas Tafuri, 57, had flown the route often, the plane was in the hands of first officer Don Williams, 39, an experienced pilot but making his first approach to Cali. 
Controller Nelson Hivera Hamirez told investigators he believed he had cleared the plane for landing at Cali, passing over a radio beacon at Tulua, 55 miles north. 
The crew failed to report pass­ing Tulua and cockpit discussion indicates confusion over whether they were to approach Cali directly or pass over Tulua first. When the plane crew re­ported they were 38 miles from 
l.SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIO~S ~ :
= z
0 ­
9 -Going to a new City? : 0 
~ m 
0 ! 
i 0 
~ Career and Placement can ~ 
. 
~ help you find other z ~ 2 ~ N.D. Grads going to the same 0r ~ city. : 
~ 5 
~ Make sure to stop by and sign up before r ~ Graduation! :
0 z i 0 ~ We'll send you an updated list before you ~ 
. ~ 
~ leave. m 
~ 5 
~ r 
i.SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS 
Cali and asked if they should head for the Tulua beacon, the query made no sense, ground controller Rivera told investiga­tors, because the distance indi­cated the plane had already passed the beacon. So Rivera repeated the clearance to land. 
Asked what he would have said to a Spanish-speaking pilot in the same location who asked whether he should head for Tu­lua, Rivera said "he would have told them that their request made no sense, that their re­quest was illogical and incon­gruent. but he did not know how to convey these thoughts ... in English." 
Rivera said that because of their distance from Cali, he thought the pilot had simply failed to report passing the bea­con and "had no doubt that the flight was proceeding toward runway 19 and ... never thought to verify the aircraft's position with respect to the center line" of the runway. 
remember Holocaust 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Holocaust was remem­bered in the Capitol Hotunda Tuesday in ceremonies that cel­ebrated the triumph of justice over vengeance in the Nuremberg war crimes trial 50 years ago. 
The 1946 trial of major war criminals "remind us that after barbarism came a call for rea­soned justice," said keynote speaker Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer. 
Members of Congress, Jewish leaders and five Supreme Court justices gathered for the 15th Rotunda ceremony to mark Yom Hashoah, the Day of Re­membrance, and pay honor to the 6 million Jews and the many thousands of others mur­dered by the Nazis in World 
Happy Birthday Jason. 
War II. 
Shortly after, the House passed, 420-0, a resolution de­ploring individuals who deny the historical reality of the Holocaust. 
In Israel, people stood in si­lence for two minutes as part of Holocaust Hemembrance Day events. 
Breyer recalled the words of another justice, the late Hobert Jackson, who was a prosecutor for the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. "That four great nations, flushed with victory and stung with injury, stay the hand of vengeance and voluntarily submit their captive enemies to the judgment of the law is one of the most signifi­cant tributes that Power ever has paid to Henson," Jackson wrote. 
Sen. Christopher Dodd, D­Conn., recalled the message of his father, the late Sen. Thomas Dodd, who was also a prosecu­tor at Nuremberg, that "our tri­umph in arms led to the tri­umph of ideals." 
The tribunal tried 22 leading Nazis for war crimes and -for the first time -crimes against humanity. Ten were hanged, three received life sentences, four prison terms and three were acquitted. 
The ceremony began with presentation of the flags repre­senting some 30 American in­fantry groups that helped liber­ate concentration camps in 1945. 
A candlelight ceremony included .Jackson's son Hobert and five concentration camp survivors. 
Power Mac· 7200190 
111500M/i, GIJ, 15" monitor Makes it easy to bring U1e vast new world of the Internet to your desk. And with the Apple' internet Connection Kit a~Jd amodem, you'll be surfing on the Net faster 
than you can say "infonnation superhighway." 
PowerBook· 5300cS/100 
II/500MB, l'otl'erPC technology 
Gives you flexibility that other note­books still try to Imitate. Flexibility that gives you multimedia like you've never experienced before, easy 
access to the Net and cross-platform compatibility. And flexibility to do all that, wherever you are. 
StyleWriter"1200 
With its compact size, it fits 
~ '.JJ."' almost anywhere.
~':'... L _·_:_'' " ' Making it easy to move ·\' · · · ·· . wherever you want to
b.· 
go. And with its outstand­
'1:::::::· • ing prtnting quality, it 
· :::::i:::::., mak~s your work look . amazmg. 
Look, If you think a talking stuffed moose Is pretty amazing, listen to this. I was hanging out with some of the boys the other evening. One of them just bought a new Macintosh: Evidently, Apple Is offering Incredibly low campus prices on Macintosh computers right now. So he pops In this CD-ROM. Man, you wouldn't believe what this thing could do. No wonder the Mac· Is one of the most advanced multimedia computers. We're talking sight, sound, full-motion video -the works. Gee, wish I could move like that. 
For more informaliolll'isilt/S 011 !he !It/erne/ a/ hllp:l!hed.info.apple.com/ 
Now's a great time to pack a Mac: 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
Cffm shown abot~ ex(lirt May 15, 1996. Seeyour Ci1111{1us storefor details about Ihe Apple Computer Loan. @1996Apple Computer, Inc. All rights resm!fd. Apple, /he Apple logo, LaserWriler, Madnlosb, Performa, Pou'erBoolz and SlyleWrilllr are regirtered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac and Power Mac are trademarks ofApple Computer; Inc. /'ou'erPC is a trademark of/nlernalional Business Machines Corpomlion, ustd under license therefrom. All Madnlosh computers are designtd to he acassible lo indh!iduals u;tb disahUily. 7b learn more (U.S. only), caU 800·600-7808 or TTY 80Q.755-060/. 
--------~-----------------­
.r 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
"I was surprised to see that some dorms did not take ad­
HPC Ebola strain found non-lethal
vantage of $500 in free money. 
continued from page 1 
to meet one deadline at the end of the school year. Cannon said, "We were overwhelmed last year because all the dormi­tories made their requests at the same time." 
Dormitories will also no longer be able to make a pur­chase and then submit a receipt for reimbursement. Cannon said that all requests must be handled through the university's Purchasing Department and its Assistant Director, Tom Rogers. 
"Do not purchase anything with dorm money without talk­ing to Tom Rogers," Cannon said. 
Cannon also said that female and male dormitories were given two different request pe­riods because of the character­istics of past purchases. 
"Male dorms usually request the same things, like weights, and the same goes for female dorms. We can purchase items in bulk and get a better deal for the dorms as a result," Cannon said. 
Deborah Hellmuth, co-chair of HPC, announced a budget proposal that will be submitted to the Student Senate at the Senate's next meetjng on April 17. 
Hellmuth said that the pro­posal will be modeled after last year's proposal. She also em­phasized the need for dormi­tory presidents to take advan­tage of $500 that was allocated to each of the dorms but never used. 
Only 17 dorms took advan­tage," Hellmuth said 
Many of the dormitory presi­dents point out that they were unaware of the fund's exis­tence and that improved communication is needed in the future between Student Activities and HPC. 
Gayle Spencer of Student Ac­tivities said that continued fail­ure by hall councils to use funds can result in a reduced budget in the future for HPC. 
"Any leftover money goes into a contingency fund for future use. But, we recom­mend that HPC use the money allocated to them," Spencer added. 
In other HPC news: 
•Siegfried 
Hall is sponsoring a "Mystery Madness" game which will be held during An­Tostal week on April 25. The proceeds of the game will benefit Mandy Abdo, a Siegfried resident who was seriously injured in an automo­bile accident. earlier this year. The proceeds will be used for transportation of Abdo and her family to graduation cere­monies in May. 

•Spencer 
also announced that individual hall storage will be held on April 27. Trailers will be provided to all dormito­ries on campus to assist their students in the storage process. 

•Lewis 
Hall was named "Hall of the Year," and received an award of $500. Zahm Hall and Pasquerilla East received hon­orable mentions, and were each awarded $250. 


BUTCH THOMPSON TRIO 
FRIDAY, APRIL 19 at 8 P.M. 
Tickets: S4 (Students), Sl 0(Adults) on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9-5, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 219/284-4626 
By PAULINE ARRILLAGA 
Associated Press 
ALICE, Texas 
The strain of Ebola virus re­sponsible for the deaths of two monkeys poses virtually no threat to humans, health offi­cials said today in an attempt to reassure the public. 
"This is not the Ebola Zaire strain," Texas Department of Health Commiss-ioner Dr. David Smith said, referring to the strain blamed for the deaths of hundreds in central Africa. 
"So everything you've seen on television and everything you've seen in the movies or read in the book 'The Hot Zone,' this is a sub-type, a dif­ferent type of virus," Smith said at a news conference. 
The best-selling "Hot Zone" a nonfiction work, detailed re­search on Ebola Zaire and the case of a similar strain that in­fected monkeys at a primate 

all 
facility in Reston, Va., in 1989. 
Ebola Reston, however, has not been linked to illness in humans. 
And the virus at a primate center outside Alice is 99 per­cent similar to Ebola Reston, said Dr. Pierre Rollin, chief of the special pathogens branch at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 
"Nobody's sick. There's not a big outbreak of something," Rollin said. 
The virus infected two mon­keys of a shipment of 100 that arrived at the Texas Primate Center on March 21 from the Philippines, said Dr. Diane Simpson, an epidemiologist at the Texas Department of Health. 
The privately owned primate breeding facility is about 15 miles southeast of Alice, a South Texas town 40 miles west of Corpus Christi. 
"The first one died; the sec­ond was euthanized," Simpson said, adding that the rest are under quarantine. "We're watching any people who may have come in contact with them." 
The sick monkeys came from the same Filipino exporter as the infected monkeys in Re­ston, officials said. 
Last year in Zaire, Ebola in­fected 316 people and killed 
245. Earlier this year, at least 13 people died from Ebola in Gabon in western Africa. 

THE BERT AND ETTA LISS LECTURE SERIES DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
presents 

NEWTON N. MINOW 
Fonner Chairman of Federal Communications Commission, 1961-63 Fonner Chairman of Public Broadcasting Service, 1978-1980 Trustee, University of Notre Dame Trustee, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace 
Wednesday, April 17 • 8:00 PM Center for Continuing Education Auditorium Public is invited 
Letters 
1996 
noon • 4:00 PM 
welcome 
Center for Continuing Education 
Sponsored By: Career & Placement Services· University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Bo01bers 01ay get death penalty Bush endorses Dole, 
Defense insists on lesser 
advises rest of GOP 
charge in Oklahoma Building security By SANDRA SOBIERAJ standing of the United States." Associated Press A spokesman for Bush, who
By STEVEN PAULSON 
The government has spent 
returned last week from a pri­
Associ.ucd Pr~ss 
$100 million beefing up 
WASIIINGTON vate mission to Beijing, said the
security at the country's federal buildings and may Former President Bush former president also carried a
DENVEH 
spend $174 million more. praised Bob Dole as the presi­message of concern. 
I>oftmso attorneys in the Oklahoma City bomb­dential candidate with "maturi­"lie thinks the way to achieveing ease say that to obtain the death penalty, Efforts Include: ty" Tuesday and offered an old more human rights, more in­prosecutors must prove Timothy MeVeigh and hand's advice on China: Resist dividual liberties is to engageTerry Niehols intended to kill l'ederal agents. 
the pull of fellow Republicans China economically," said Jim
In eourt paper·s filed Monday, the attorneys lnslalling security lighls to impose trade sanctions. McGrath. "lie is concernedsaid the jury should be allowed to consider less­Dole thanked Bush but made about calls for protectionismer eharges equivalent to second-degree murder 
no commitment. from the left as well as the
that earry a maximum penalty of life in prison. Building barriers, such as fences Installing magnetometers "We've got to lead. We can't come-home rhetoric that he's
The lesser charge would not require proseeu­
or gales where In enlryways 
pull back," Bush said, standing been hearing from the right."
tors to prove a specific intent to kill. the attor­necessary 
beside the all-but-certain He­Emerging from an hourlong
noys said, but would require they show that the 
Deleclion systems for 
publican presidential nominee private meeting at the Capitol,
defendants wen~ recklessly indifferent "to the lnslalling X·ray afler hours, such as machines in infrared sensors lo delect at a photo session .with re­Dole thanked Bush -a former
likely fatal consequences of using a weapon of 
mail rooms movement and electronic 
porters. U.S. envoy to China -for
mass destruction." ears to detect sound 
Bush also praised Dole for relaying his views on U.S.­
However, prosecutors said that to obtain the 
Installing a unified standing against "isolationistic Chinn trade policy.
dnath penalty, the government need not prove access system for ~ Increasing lhe number employees; requiring ~ ol security personnel pressures" during the Hepubli­But he made no commitment
tho ddondants intended to cause a death. 
an 10 at the door can primaries when GOP presi­on China's "most-favored-na­
"The fact that (the federal death penalty law) dential rival Pat Buchanan was tion" trade status, which ex­
applies to persons indirectly killed by the crime, Source: General Serv~ces Admmlslrallon AP/Bob B1anchini calling for stiff sanctions. pires this spring. Dole told re­sueh as firelighters responding to a bombing of 
And the former president, porters, "We haven't taken up
a vacant building, confirms that the defendant agents; those are the only cases that are pun­blending kind words for Dole the issue yet, we'll take it uprwed not have intnnded to cause the death of a ishable by death under federal law. 
with a slap at President Clinton, sometime in June. We'll be de­victim," they said. 
The trial probably will be held late this year said, ''I'm worried about U.S. veloping our position on it very McVeigh and Nichols are charged with mur­or early next year. 
leadership around the world. soon."
der and conspiracy in connection with only Oklahoma can still file charges in the 160 
We need (Dole's) viewpoint and Dole has a consistent recordnight of thn If>H people killed in the bombing of other deaths, which can bring the death penalty his leadership, his maturity, his of supporting the unconditionaltlw federal building a year ago. 
under state law. 
credibility that will help the extension of MFN to China.
All eight Wl!rn federal law enforcement 
f;-ue: Flf2.Sr FOUf2. FOOD Gf2.0UPS1
ir's ~cr2.cl! loF rUe APOCN..Vf'SE BOOK: J 
11A Wt.LL 
BALA~CeD 
t4t.AL" 
A Gr<.E.Ar IDeA FOr<.: -Svr<. GIFrSI -Gf2.ADUAnON GiFTS! -UPPer<. f<.£SPif2.ArOI2.V INFE.CnONSl -rQ.OUBLE.SOt-1£ COFFee r ABLE. SrAINS! 
•••ANDt-1012.£!! 

(AVAILA~E AT TilE UAt-41'4£$ ~OOK$TOI2E AND WllEEL-L.AFOilTUt.JE tJFO DESK) 
Hispanic media releases voter plan 
By DARLENE SUPERVILLE largest Spanish-language tele­about 6 million of them are Associated Press vision network. registered to vote. Officials cited growing com­In 1992, about 4.2 million WASHINGTON munity frustration over a num­Hispanics voted, according to 
Looking to boost their com­ber of issues, from anti-immi­NAHP.NAIIP and Univision are munity's political clout, the gration efforts in Congress to joining with other Hispanic llispanic media announced a the videotaped beatings of professional and advocacy voter registration campaign Mexicans this month by sherif­groups, some of which have Tuesday to sign up at least 1 f's deputies in southern launched their own voter dri­million new voters in time for California. ves. the November elections. "Hispanics have been signifi­Print ads and public service 
The bilingual campaign is cantly alarmed over anti-His­announcement will feature being spearheaded by the Na­panic efforts that have over­well-known Latino celebrities, tional Association of Hispanic taken this country," said An­including talk show host Ger­Publications, based in dres Tobar, executive director aldo Rivera, actor Edward Washington, and New York­of the association. James Olmos, entertainer based Univision, the country's The organization represents Cheech Marin, singer Willy 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $150 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
* HOLY
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College CROSS today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 
COLLEGE
1996 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
Office of Admissions 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 Session I-May 20 to june 2 7 (219)239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219)233-7427 Session II -july I to August 9 e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
150 Hispanic newspapers and magazines nationwide, with a readership of more than 5 mil­lion. 
"We feel that this is unfair. We feel that the only way that we can respond effectively is through registering to vote," Tobar said. 
Hispanics make up 11 per­cent of the U.S. population, at 27 million. 
More than 10 million Latino adults in the United States are citizens of the country, and Chirino and performer Rita Moreno -the only woman to have won the four most presti­gious awards in show busi­ness: the Oscar, Emmy, Tony and Grammy. 
Luis Hossi, the association's president and publisher of Chicago's La Haza newspaper, said voting is an important civic responsibility. 
"As publishers, it is our re­sponsibility to inform Hispanic Americans about registering and voting," he said. 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
c H R I s T s p 
A s s I 0 N 
MEDIEVAL MYSTERY PLAYS 
Edited and Directed by Mark Pilkinton 
Wednesday,April 17,8 pm Friday,April 19,8 pm Thursday, April 18, 8 pm Saturday, April 20, 8 pm Sunday,April 21,2:30 pm 
Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats $8 
Student and Senior Citizen Discounts are available for all perfonnances. Tickets are available at the door or In advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa orders, call 631-8128 

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
•JAPAN 
Duke links drugs to Gulf War 
Demonstrators protest ByLAURANNEERGAARD consistent_with_theanimald_ata.
• J
U. . S presence Ill apan 
By BRAYEN SMILLIE 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
About 4,500 demonstrators shouted slogans and waved ef­figies in a Tokyo park Tuesday to protest the U.S. military presence in Japan as President Clinton began a three-day visit. 
Protesters shook their fists and demanded an end to the "illegal occupation" of Oki­nawan land, referring to laws that require some landowners on the southern island to lease land to U.S. bases. 
A cardboard effigy of Clinton was printed with the words, "Give me more land, more people, more money!" Next to it was one of a subservient Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto saying, "Yes, yes. The U.S.-Japan Security Treaty is everything!" 
Police said there were no clashes or arrests. 
Opposition to the American bases has been running high since last September, when a 12-year-old Okinawan girl was raped by three U.S. service­men. 
Bolstering the U.S.-Japan security alliance is a top prior­ity of Clinton's visit. 
Clinton arrived in Tokyo on Tuesday afternoon, days after American and Japanese offi­cials announced the closing of Fetenma Marine Corps Air Station on Okinawa and other moves to quiet opposition to the bases. The Japanese government estimates the plan will cost $9.26 billion. 
Some critics, however. de­mand the complete withdraw­al of the American troops. 
In the Okinawan capital of Naha, about 250 people gath­ered in front of the prefectural (state) office to call for the clo­sure of the bases, said local labor union official Nobuo Miyara. 
He said about 150 of the protesters began a 36-hour hunger strike and sit-in. Oki­nawa hosts about two-thirds of the 47,000 U.S. troops sta­tioned in Japan. 
The plan to close Futenma and other moves would return about 20 percent of the land 
-----------·-1... -·····-JL....... ..····· :'''
·t1.....·....... . 
} . 
RUSSIA . ·.
I• U~-~-·
....m·_·!_li·t __ ; ·:··',·····:.·. ··.·'···...·-·····
..a._.'!_f':~ility
CHINA . .. •· ~·· ·. 
~... '1-."
Seaof /... ·. Japan JA..PAN < . 
~ 
. f=,;~Tokyo
tJ~ 
..' 
East 
PacifiC Ocean 
China 
Sea 

200 miles 
~ 
200km 

Okinawa Island 
East 
China 
Sea Paciftc Ocean 
10 
miles 
~ 
10km AP 
the U.S. military now uses on the island, but affect only a few hundred of the 28,000 troops currently on Okinawa, 1,000 miles southwest of Tokyo. 
The island's governor, Masahide Ota, planned to meet Hashimoto on Wednesday to ask for assurances that the moves will not just lead to in­tensified military activities at other bases in Okinawa, said Seiroku Kajiyama, the govern­ment's top spokesman. 
Ota was also expected to dis­cuss how Futenma's 1,190 acres might be developed to boost the local economy as it is closed over the next five to seven years. 
One town worried by the withdrawal from Futenma is Kadena, about eight miles to the north, which will host some of the Marine Corps units to be relocated. 
Associated Press Abou-Doma said. Texas scJen­
tists declined to release the re-
WASHINGTON suits until their research is pub-
Doses of three chemicals used lished later this year. to protect Gulf War soldiers Now Abou-Donia wants fund-from nerve gas and insects are ing to analyze the blood of 100 harmless alone but mixed veterans for signs that they together can cause neurological were susceptible to this chemi­problems in animals, Duke cal poisoning. The Duke-Texas University researchers reported research has exhausted Tuesday. $250,000 from Texas billionaire 
The nerve-gas pill reduces the Ross Perot, a longtime veterans body's normal ability to cleanse supporter. itself of the two insecticides so "The Army has essentially they have time to infiltrate the eliminated any other possibil­brain, said Dr. Mohamed Abou-ity," Abou-Donia said. "We're Donia, who presented his find-not saying this is Gulf War syn­ings to veterans and defense drome, but we're saying this officials Tuesday. deserves a look." 
The Pentagon says it has no The government should im­evidence of a new mystery dis-mediately investigate Abou-Do­e~se causing the headaches, nia's findings, said veterans' fatigue, memory loss and other spokesman Phil Budahn of the symptoms reported by tens of American Legion. thousands of Gulf War veterans. The Pentagon already has It attributes most symptoms to begun funding some similar known illnesses. chemical studies, Doubleday 
"We haven't ruled in or ruled said. out the possibility that combi-Abou-Donia first gave healthy nations of chemicals could in-chickens separate doses of the deed explain some of the ill-nerve-gas pill pyridostigmine nesses of Persian Gulf veter-and the insecticides DEET and ans." said Veterans Affairs permethrin. Alone. even doses spokesman Terry Jemison. three times greater than sol-
But he declined to comment diers got didn't hurt the chick-on Abou-Donia's findings, say-ens. ing Veterans officials wanted to 
But any two chemicals to­gether gave chickens diarrhea. shortness of breath, stumbling and other symptoms. The three taken together paralyzed or killed some of the birds. 
Autopsies showed the chick­ens had inflamed or perma­nently damaged nervous system cells. 
Abou-Donia's tests then showed the chickens most harmed had less of a natural cleansing enzyme called plasma butyrylcholinesterase, or BuCHE. This enzyme normally filters out chemicals like DEET or permethrin before they can get into the brain . 
The nerve-gas pill inhibits BuCHE. In fact, it's used as a medication for people with a rare disease affecting their en­zyme-producing cells, Abou-Donia explained. 
Proving BuCHE plummeted in soldiers during the Gulf War would be impossible because as soon as the inhibiting chemical is removed, the body begins producing it again. 
But about 4 percent of people have a genetic deficiency re­stricting the BuCHE they pro­duce naturally -meaning they dre more at risk of chemical damage. 
thoroughly review his research  
when it is published in next month's Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health.  The Observer  
"That's an interesting re­ 
port," Navy Capt.  Michael  Accent Department is accepting applications for:  
Doubleday said at a Pentagon  
briefing Tuesday, but he added that Defense experts also had  Music Reviewers  
not yet analyzed it. Abou-Donia acknowledges his  Movie Reviewers  
study in chickens, whose neu­ Medical Minute Writers  
rological pathways are similar  
to those in humans, does not  Soap Opera Correspondents  
prove the chemical cocktail  
hurts people.  and just writers in general. 
But his partners at the Uni­ 
versity of Texas Southwestern Medical Center did epidemiolog­ Please submit a sample of writing to Joey at  
ical studies on soldiers that are  314 LaFortune or call him at 631-4540 for information.  

Accounting & Finance Clubs 
present 

GECAPITAL 

THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1996 
CHARLES WILLIE 
HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
"LAW & CIVIL SOCIETY: LEARNINGS FROM PLESSY V. FERGUSON" 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Charles Willie is Professor of Education and Urban Studies at the Graduate School of Education, Harvard University. The author of more than 25 major works, he is also active as an applied sociologist. A consultant in school desegregation plans, a Fellow of the American Sociological Association, and a former member of the Social Science Research Council, Prof. Willie's research interests include education, school desegregation, race relations, urban problems, and the family. 
He holds a Ph.D. in Sociology from Syracuse University. 
For more information  The Henkels Visiting  Co-Sponsored by:  
please contact Dr.  Scholars Series is a  African-American  
Roland B. Smith, Jr.  Progrram of the College  Studies Program. Dept  
or Dr. David L Hay,  of Arts and Letters,  of Sociology, Center  
The Urban Institute,  and is made possible  for Social Concerns,  
Univ. of Notre Dame,  by a generous endow·  and Urban Institute for  
Tel (219) 631-6798 or  ment provided by Paul  Community and  
631·9015  M. & Barbara Henkels.  Educational Initiatives  

Get ahead of the game and be prepared to interview with GE next fall.  
Come gain exposure and insight to investment techniques in the corporate world.  
issues addressed: 0 0pportunities for corporate accountants and financial analysts 0 Learn how to make debt issuance decisions 0 0pportunities available beyond the Big Six 0 0pportunities in travel April 17~ 1996~ 6:30PM at Alutnni-Senior Club Free Papa John'S Pizza and soda!!  

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Pauit..ia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advenising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Vi~int Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Desijln Manager ...............................jed Peters Spotts Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Ac<ent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.........................................:ryler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The ( lbserver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNorrc llame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion oft'irhcr insrhurion. Tht> news js rrporred as accurately and objec£ivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent tht' opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chi({ Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commt"ntaries, lcrters and Inside Columns prescnr the views of the aurhors, and nm necessarily those ufThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and 10 all readers. The frcr expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 M~anaging Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Markrting Dept. 631 8839 N<wsil'hoto 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 AcLem/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint F.-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu c;cncrallnformation 631-7471 Ad F.-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
My skirt showed my knees 
My skirt showed my knees, but it was not an invi~ tation to rape me. 
Uninvited hands covered my mouth, fondled the breasts I will cut off. 
And I will cut off the ears that heard you breathing. And I will gouge out 
the eyes that saw you laugh, never noticing pain and tears on my face. 
And I will despise the body you saw fit to use for your pleasure. 
Your writhing stopped, but sickness lingered till morning. Daybreak brought no light: 
I wlll learn to love the darkness that hides me from those who say I want 
-ed you to do it because my skirt showed my knees and you knew my name. 
-Anonymous 
GLJVD/SAJC: ~hats ~ueer'here? 
Dear Editor: 
Please make yourself read the following letter sent to Prof. O'Hara BEFORE she released her "timely" response to her year long committee that stud­ied whether or not gays/les­bians should be seen or heard at Notre Dame. SHE NEVER RESPONDED to this letter. WHY won't she talk to these people? 
March 18, 1996 
Dear Prof. O'Hara, 
We write as the elected lead­ers of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
On February 29th, after near­ly a year of study and delibera­tion, the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs publicly issued its final report to you. In the week following, the members of GLND/SMC gathered twice to discuss our reactions to the report, both as individuals and as the commu­nity of lesbian and gay students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross College. 
We believe that the report is mostly a needed and welcome step forward. It acknowledges the difficulties faced by gay and lesbian students here. It calls for measures to reduce harass­ment and to create a more accepting environment. It rec­ommends that sexual orienta­tion be added to the University's nondiscrimination clause. We certainly agree that serious, concerted and ongoing efforts must be undertaken to foster acceptance, to eliminate harassment, and to assure fair and equal treatment of lesbian and gay students, faculty and staff. We further believe that the important recommendation calling for inclusion of sexual orientation in Notre Dame's nondiscrimination statement should be immediately adopted. At the same time, we are con­cerned that it not be forgotten that the community of lesbian and gay people extends beyond the campus of Notre Dame and includes students from the wider community of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College. 
We are especially heartened to see that the Committee, despite the restrictions of its mandate, recommends the for­mal constitution of a student group of lesbians and gay me. We are pleased that the Committee recognizes that "GLND/SMC has been the pri­mary source of support" for the many gay and lesbian students to whom it spoke. GLND/SMC's important and positive role at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is further underscored in the report: "We have been inspired by the ways in which gay and lesbian students have cared for and assisted each other and we have been impressed by the earnestness and faithfulness with which many seek to live out their lives as Christians." As you must now be aware, the mutual care and support demonstrated by gay and les­bian students has been the hall­mark of GLND/SMC's work for over the last decade. We are proud that the Committee has recorded the centrality of our presence and the beneficence of our role. 
The publication of the final report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Students Needs provides an opportunity to move forward at Notre Dame. We call on you to for­mally constitute GLND/SMC as the University group serving the needs of lesbian and gay stu­dents in our community. GLND/SMC's record of service and our historically central role in assisting gays and lesbians to find mutual support and explore issues of importance were last year validated by every representative body at Notre Dame. The publication of the Ad Iloc Committee's find­ings only confirms this evalua­tion. 
With this letter, GLND/SMC submits our application for for­mal constitution as the Univer­sity group of gay and lesbian students. You will find attached a current copy of our constitution. Additionally, sev­eral members of the faculty and staff have expressed a willing­ness and desire to serve in the role of faculty advisor to the group. 
We look forward to working with you to assure that equality of rights and responsibilities be secured for the lesbian and gay community here. We anticipate that the University will formally recognize us as we already exist-not as isolated individu­als-but as a group of students in the best tradition of Notre Dame. 
JOHN BLANDFORD SAMANTHA SHANNON Co-Chairs, Gl.ND/SMC 

The GLNDISMC Constitution is available on the web at http://wwwnd.edu/-jblandfo/co nstitution.html or you can pick up a hard copy in 101 O'Shaughnessy. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• Doo~Eseunv 
/(Jf!/..L., I MI.ET I KNEIAJ "~5/XXJ UPf'RlNT, 
/A/cU.., I fJifJN'T OH, 5UR/3,
$"AY, IM QUITE YOU ata.JW <lflj,(XJ(} GUAR.­
&VCN KNOW 5/NCE 7H&
lEMPTW8Y /Jt3., Kll?.' IW'Tl3&/? MINIMUM, 
YOU RCPR/3.-fi.ARL-Y ~.
7HI5 QCFf.31<:. 7HAT!3 aHYI Pllb A 6ROSS FfJ 
~&NTWMe. I '316N&I?'IOU
FROM 7HE ,wu:E >t:X!R 5mONQVTH8 TANNING a=AJ-l CONVENTION \ ATAfRJY. aJN,' GA'TC. "­511?... 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifyou can't change your mind ... how do you know if you still have one?" 
-Coleen Hoover 

ACCENT

page 12 Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
• AcCENT ASKS ••• 
How do you feel about PDA? 

"It's fine, as long as it's not too extreme." 
Lynne Niezgodski Sophomore, Holy Cross 
"I don't have any opin­ion on PDA." 
Amy Williams Junior, Walsh 


"I guess it's okay if I'm not in a bad mood." 
April Hughes Freshman, Knott 
"It depends who it's with." 
Ronan Byrne Senior, Flanner 


"Get a room." 
Julie Gangloff Junior, McCandless 
"It should be prohibited in DuLac." 
Jeremy Buddemeier Freshman, Stanford 

Wacky, Wild and Wi 
BW:3's: One saucy spot 
~~~~~ 
By LESLIE FIELD baked at BW3's, Saint Mary's Accent Editor with salt and Caraway seeds on "The way wings were meant to be." With an top. And it makes unbelievable selection of wings priced just right the burgers awfully and sauces that will melt your mouth and tanta­tasty. They also lize your taste buds, South Bend's BW3's is have Buffalo clearly the wing winner. Opening in February, Breath Chili, Steak this wings haven is really flying. Senior Justin Fajitas and Chicken DuFour, BW3's bouncer and cashier, enjoys his Fajitas. Like all of job despite the minimum wage. "The managers their food, BW3's are really cool and laid back," he claims. This offers choices in laid back attitude makes BW3's a pleasure to the seriousness of hang out in. Like DuFour, many students have their flavoring. For begun frequenting BW3's as both employees the more timid, and customers. With their Tuesday night special there is the regular of twenty cent wings and their Wednesday fifty bowl of chili for cent legs, it is no wonder why. On top of the two dollars and excellent food and drink selection, BW3's is nineteen cents, but much larger than the bars Notre Dame and for those who like Saint Mary's students have grown accustomed their chili a little to. Its best feature (besides the wings, of course) bit more kicky, 


,is the video trivia. Simply give a picture ID to there is the Chili the bartender and receive your video control for with wild or blazin' the night. Some students get really into the high sauce. Their Pocket pressured game, making it more than just Pizzas aren't bad another drinking game. Senior Mary Good either, with the praises BW3's saying that, "It's not too crowded, Pepperoni Pockets there's always food, and I love the trivia." and Jalapeno­
"So I don't like wings. Just give me my burg­Cheddar Pockets er, OK?" you might be saying. Well, here are being crowd thirteen reasons to put your burger down and pleasers. You can give wings a chance. They are Blazin, Wild, get six pockets with Hot, Hot BBQ, Spicy Garlic, Medium, Curry, cheese for only six Mild, Sweet BBQ, Honey mustard, and Teriyaki. dollars and forty­These sauce choices give the average wing nine cents. Deals, connoisseur a delicious selection to choose from. deals, deals. 
According to DuFour, the Spicy Garlic and Hot BW3's is South BBQ are the most popular. Saint Mary's junior Bend's leader in Carolyn Deppisch 
differs, however, claiming 
wings. No doubt. "_,=-"-.,' that, "The Honey Mustard is my favorite." So, next time you BW3's has five more sauce choices than Wings are up for a saucy Etc., making it the leader in sauce choices. 
If these sauces and meaty wings still don't for an order of Iii tempt you, then you can always revert back to your favorite the old stand bys. BW3's offers their more con­wings. You will ventional customers the Burger -on -Week, definately be flying 
L_________________,::_ 
advertised as, "possibly the best burger in back again soon. America." What is a "week?" It is a Kaiser roll. 
Macri's: Have a sandwich 
~~ 
By MELANIE WATERS The serving size isn't much Assistant Accent Editor of a bargain when other restaurants feature ten 
Everyone knows that Macri's cent wings specials. I deli is the place to go for the wouldn't mind paying a lit­best sandwiches in South tle more for a specialty like Bend, but what about their cheesy garlic bread, but rank among local wings wings just aren't an Italian establishments? Unlike their deli necessity. As far as shopping plaza neighbor, the fire alarm Wings Etc., Macri's offers only the basics in chicken mild is defi­chowing. For $3.25, you nitely an have a plethora of choic­understate­es that includes hot and ment unless mild. Big surprise. you forcefully For the truly de­drown your manding, Macri's will also serve a cue sauce. If your idea of half-and-half bas­good spicy food usually ket. The order entails having smoke seep consists of eight wings and the out of your sinuses, then conventional accompanying don't waste your tim~ with celery sticks, with the option of the "hot" wings. They're either barbecue sauce or bleu about as hot as South Bend cheese for dipping. As for the is in April, and about as wings themselves, they don't wet, too, if you consider exactly rule the coop when it the grease factor. So, comes to finger-lickin' satisfac­while Macri's still reigns tion. If you don't mind mixing supreme in the sandwich your bleu cheese with a gener­department, save your ous helping of grease, then $3.25 for that night's drink you'll probably enjoy them. special. 
page 13

Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
gy in South Bend 
Wings Etc: Good Alternative 

By KELLY entrees, you have to try these sauces. They're ter­McGANNON rific. Wing's Etc. has created the following sauces Accent Wrirer for your eating enjoyment; not only do they increase in severity but they also make your mouth 
Finally, the quest water in anticipation. One has their choice of mild, for a restaurant that medium, hot, bbq, honey mustard, or teriyaki. boasts of a true sports for those feeling a tad bit braver than the majority, bar atmosphere can how about trying the TNT and Special Suicide now be fulfilled. sauces. Your mouth will not be the same after­Enter Wing's Etc. wards. With amazing wood­In comparison to BW-3s, Wing's Etc. gives you work, a huge selec­not only the sides of celery and bleu cheese but tion of video games, also your selection of sauces, whereas at BW-3's three large T.V.s, and you'd have to pay a little extra for those givens. a one hole mini golf Aside from the excellent selection and an incredi­course, il should be ble atmosphere, Wing's Etc. has unbeatable spe­obvious that Wing's cials. On Mondays, wings are just 25 cents a piece, Etc. reeks of fun. Not so inside of settling for the dining halls' meatloaf only does this fairly surprise, why not swing on by and feast on some new eatery possess an great food. And for those of you that are watching unbeatable laid back what you eat, you'll be relieved to know that the atmosphere,but wings are fried only in 100% cholesterol-free veg­Wing's Etc: also has etable oil. this amazing talent Concerning Wing's Etc., junior Huss Williams had for tnasing and tanta­the following to say, "I used to go there for Monday lizing your taste buds Night Football and I liked it because it was a pretty with a very complete mixed crowd. It's better than BW3's because it's and diverse menu. smaller and has waiters. It's also not very packed 
And while we're on and it has a very relaxed atmosphere. Besides, the the subject of diversi­wings are good. " And if you're not a wing lover, 
one quick glance have no worries, Wing's Etc. has a huge variety of at the menu gives you appetizers, salads, and seafood. Not to mention the more choices than fact that they also boast of great menu selections you ever imagined from the deli and charbroiler, too. And if you're in possible. The wings the mood for dogs or ribs, Wing's Etc. has your are "Whatcha came bases covered with such choices as Baby Back Hibs here for!" and isn't and the ever popular Chili dog. These dinner that the truth. Talk entrees come with curley fries and either cole slaw about your good stuff. or the traditional pickle spear. And the selections The wings can come of beer are good, too, as Wing's Etc. has most of in either regular or the favorite domestic and imported beers on tap or garlic flavoring and bottled. are served with celery So, if you're among the majority who have been and bleu chnnse. searching for a true sports bar, look no further Although many of the than Wing's Etc. With a smaller, more relaxed area wing establish­atmosphere, entertaining games, and a huge menu mr.nts boast of sauces selection, this fairly new eatery is "Whatcha came to compliment their here for!" 
Chili's: A tasty pound 
EJ[2JEJ 
By LESLIE FIELD dressing and three or four fairly Saint Mary's Accent Editor scrawny pieces of celery. These one pounder wings are more Chili's. That famous expensive than Macri's, at four Southwestern dollars and nineteen cents com­grill and bar with pared to Macri's three dollar
Arriba!! 
the ever and twenty-five cent basket. popular, But there is a hearty help­dippable, ing and the bleu cheese is scoopable very thick and quite tasty. chili queso For the really hungry, or the sa use. appetizer-confused, try the Many peo­new Mombo Combo. ple know Advertised as, "a triple treat,"
$.25 'n Awesome 
about the veggie it is the per­tacos and Cajun fect combi­
wings chewy 
Fajitas. But it is nation of IHlSY to forget w i n g s . about the wings, cheese fries, especially with and stuffed
Stick 
hot wing's spots Jalapenos with
Try a 
like BW3's taking sauces. Chili's
to the Not
veggi 
ovPr the South Bend may not be the
drink happening· 
area. Although their leader in wings. but 
pita 
selection of wings it doesn't claim to and sauces may not be. Instead, it he as extensive as Wings boasts a variPd menu. bottom­Etc. or BW3's, they are less soda, and a fun at­
cials 
Tues. 
eertainly not lacking in mosphere. And if you happen to
Rock on!! 
quality. Wings over feel like a basket of wings, you
& Wed. mmm 
Love that 
Buffalo is a hearty appe­don't have to f'ly the coop
Can't mm... 
tizer. They come in a bas­because Chili's will set you up
triviaeat it! 
ket with bleu cheese with some. 
And 
• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
PDA: Stop the Insanity, Kids I 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Accent Copy Editor 
PDA a.k.a. public display of affection. This action can be more disgusting than the dining hall's leftover chicken for five days in a row. Or even more disgusting than your roommate's personal hygiene habits. PDA is a common sight on the Notre Dame cam­pus, but is it a necessary one? Of course it is not, but the partic­ipants in this obscenity feel it is necessary to show their private habits in public. They walk around on cloud nine not caring that other people do not want to preview the freak show on campus. Every possible action from tongue wrestling to mauling can be viewed in a public area on campus any time of the day. There are two hot spots for PDA: outside of dorms and in the huddle. 
Scenario one: Your walking home from a late night at the library and it is approximately 2:00 a.m. Your brain is tem­porarily out of order due to the past six hours spent studying. As you come near your dorm you think of the nice warm eozy bed that is awaiting you. When you approach the door of your dorm, what do you see, a couple kissing and fondling each other. Your first thought is "Get a room, you freaks!" Second thought is "Have they no shame?" As you havo these thoughts you stare aimlessly at the couple hoping they will feel some form of embarrassment and leave for a more private area. Of course they have no shame and they continue to kiss regardless of who is watching. What do you do? A. continue to lopk, B. hurdle an insult like "Get control of your hormones!" C. elap when they finally finish and compliment them on their style and technique. D. all of the above. The correct answer is D stare at them like they are freaks of nature, insult them, and lastly sar­castically judge their performance on a scale of 1 to 10. 
Scenario two: You walk into the huddle for that nightly snack and maybe some light studying or the inevitable chit-chat that is bound to happen when you sit in the huddle. When you bite down into your quarter dog and open your text, you hear tlw sound of smacking lips. Okay, first you ignore it, but after twen­ty minutes or so you turn to the next booth and look at the cou­ple sucking face. You ask yourself "Can they breathe, will they ever come up for air?" You sigh loudly as if you cannot concen­trate, but they are oblivious to anything except each other's mouths. 
What do you say? A. "Did you swallow each other's tonsils'? B. "Was that the new CPR method'? C. "Can you eontrol your­selves until you get home or must you disgust me with that nasty noise penetrating from your sloppy mouths'!" D. Ask all of the above, The correct answer is D. Ask them all of the above. Go for the purely wondering question, then the sarcastic one and lastly, the outright question you want to know. 
Hemember, there is no real solution to stop from seeing or hearing public affection. Insults and staring might not work, therefore shake your head and pride yourself on knowing that it is better to keep sexual activities indoors. 
Now most of you public fornicators are thinking, "What about our right to freedom of expression?" Well, nobody wishes to deny you that right, but others have the right not to want to see or hear it. One can avoid looking, but he or she can not always avoid hearing the swapping of spit between two mouths, the constant smacking of wet lips or the slight groans of pleasure escaping from the throats of horny people. Is it that hard to control mauling each other until you get somewhere IJrivate? If you public fornicators feel that the answer is yes, then continue to do these heinous acts in public, but do not be surprised if insults are thrown at you or if people stare. After all you pur­posely subjeet yourselves to this treatment when you publidy display affection or rather publicly attack each other like wild 

,------------=--._......., beasts in heat. 
Lastly, perpetrators of 

these acts do not mistake 
this abuse heaped upon 
you for jealousy. It. is not 
out of jealousy that you 
are verbally abused. 
Others are not tmvious 
that you make-out in 
public. People are just 
somewhat disgusted and 
tired of hearing and see­
ing couples perform sex­
ual activities in publie 
areas, outdoors or 
indoors. Anybody can act 
on their hormones in 
public, but some chose to 
do it privately, how it 
should be. If' people want 
to see a porno flick, they 
can rent one rather than 
watch one performed live 
--' by their classmates. 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
•Bmmm 
Tyson's accuser claiDls publicity not reason for charges 
By NANCY ARMOUR Associated Press 
GARY, Ind. 

The woman accusing boxer Mike Tyson of sexually assault­ing her in a Chicago nightclub is not out for publicity, one of her lawyers said Tuesday. · 
LaDonna August kept her head bowed as she entered Gary's Genesis Convention Center, flanked by four attor­neys. She remained seated and didn't speak at the 30-minute news conference, often turning her head away from photogra­phers and shielding her face with her shoulder-length hair. 
Her attorneys said August's appearance at the news con­ference was her way of going public with her accusations. 
"We feel very comfortable in our client and we believe in our client," said Charles Graddick, one of August's attorneys. "We are not going to engage in any type of activity that has no other purpose than to bring harm or embarrassment to someone." 
August had not met Tyson or had contact with him before April 7. when she went to get her coat from a private, up­stairs room at The Clique, a popular nightspot on Chicago's South Side, Graddick said. Someone introduced the 25­year-old Gary beautician to the WBC heavyweight champion, then left the room, he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
EASTERN EUROPE JbBs - Movmg off?  n:n:Mystery Madness•::::::::  ATTENTioN ALL socioLbGY  
NOTICES  Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest. or Krakow. No teaching  FOR RENT  Desk-$60 Small refrigerator -$40  A scavenger hunt sponsored by Siegfried Hall  MAJORSI (ESPECIALLY SENIORS)  
certificate or European languages  Call Jon at 287-0578  to raise money for  
required. Inexpensive Room &  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  MANDYABDO  The Senior Reception and AKD  
Board + other benefits. For info.  HOME.  COMPUTER  April 25th  Induction Ceremony scheduled for  
I AM  NOT A CROOK... BUT  call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841  VERY CLOSE TO ND.  PC 486, 500 hd, 4 ram, cd-rom,  Details to come!  Wed, April 17 have been postponed  
Richard Nixon might have been.  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  14.4 modem-$1100 O.B.O. call  until Tues. April 30 at 4 pm in the  
Find out the truth (according to  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ 272-6194.  Jason 3277  $$FURNITURE FOR SALE$$  Library Lounge.  
Oliver Stone) this weekend.  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Loft, Bed & Frame, Computer  Please note the changed date.  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD  2 Neon Beer Signs, good cond.  Desks, Coffee Tables, etc. For  
***  NIXON  **"'  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  AREA NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  $75 or BO. Call273-2414  more info call 273-9840.  
full-time employment available. No  SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  
Friday, Saturday 8:00pm, 10:30pm  experience necessary. For more  PC Computer. Acer 486/25, 4RAM  The Desk, Bri, always the Desk!II  ••Quig Tostallll is coming••  
Special Sunday showing! 2:00pm  information call1-206-971-3550  2 very nice Rms w/priviledges for  120HD, SVGA color monitor, key­ Watch BRIAN KLAUSNER on  ••Quig Tostal Ill is coming••  
Cushing Auditorium  $2.00  ext. C55844  Fall '96.  5 min-drivel $250 incl.  board, mouse, modem, sofeware, &  PRICE IS RIGHT this Friday at  ••Quig Tostallll is coming••  
uti!.  1-4809/232-7175.  manuals. 2.5 years old. $450. Call  10:00.  -See Quig or T for details ....  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 287-2093.  
Positions are now available at  Summer sublease at Turtle Creek.  Hello Clarke,  stu? No way, Sal rocks my world  
Tog 0' War Anyone?  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Furnished efficiency apt, with ale.  have a nice day and remember who  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  May 10-July 31st, rent negotiable.  Waterfront Condos  loves you.  Goosebumps kicks the tar out of  
More fun than Belly Button Lint!  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  Call 273-0580.  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  the X-Files  
N55847  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  ####################  
IRISH GARDENS  Female graduate student seeks  New Decor  REVEREND  FUNK  PC:  
APPLICATIONSIll  ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT·  housing close to campus May 20­ EVERYTHING included  ####################  Won't you be.. ..  
Applications are NOW available in  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Aug 17. 634-2972  Close to Notre Dame  JAZZMAN'S  won't you be...  
the basement of La Fortune.  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  BEAUTIFUL!  THURSDAY NIGHT  won't you be...  
month. Room and Board!  Need housing Winter sem 1997?  NORTH SHORE CLUB  my neighbor?  
Fill one out and return it by Wed.,  Transportation! Male or female. No  Seeking female grad/prof student to  232-2002  15 inches of funkinyourmouf  
April17. Don't pass up the chance  experience necessary. Call  share big apt. Cheap, furnished,  BSP:  
to work at the best job on campus! II  (206)971-3510 ext A55845  walking distance. 634-2972  bets, bets and more bets?  
04/19  .....................................  Europe $199 OW Caribbean/Mexico $189 AT  Hey... If you took me to Burger King and  I bet you could be a marathon stair climber .....  
NANNY  & Domestic Destinations Cheapll  then dropped me off at Main Circle  
ATTENTION ALL SOCIOLOGY  SMC Alumnus looking for live-in  COLLEGE PARK APT  IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE  on Friday night, my wallet is in the  Cathy,  
MAJORS!  summer girl to care for 6 children in  FOR SUMMER  PRICES START YOUR OWN  back of your car.  Please call Ross  When the chips are down, when the  
(ESPECIALLY SENIORS)  our Lake Forest, IL home. Must  BEST OFFER  DAMN AIRLINE!  at x1 079 as soon as possible.  pints are dry, when the Hooch is  
love to swim and play with kids. Call  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000  Thanks  gone and there are no cars on  
The Senior Reception and AKD  Dorothy Wehmer (847)234-8125.  info@aerotech.com  which to ride the bumper. When the  
Induction Ceremony scheduled for  http://campus.net/aerotech  Ride needed to Southern NY or  Limelight's closed and when  
Wed, April 17 have been postponed  Want to move off-campus?  Northern NJ on Sunday 5/19 or  Valenzuela is just a little too long,  
until Tues. April 30 at 4 pm in the  We need a 4th Fern. roommate for  Summer sublease at College Park  86 Honda Civic 4Dr., new brakes,  Monday 5/20. Also, anywhere near  know that you can always leave  
Library Lounge. Please note the  a T.C. Townhouse! Call X4907  II May 20-July 31. Call273-2414  clutch, battery. Very dependable.  Meadville PA on 5/19. Please help,  your coat in my office ....  
changed date.  $800 271-1289  I will pay for gas/tolls, drive. and  
5 BR; 605 St Peter  keep you entertained! Call Brian  Darnell-Is that your "Pettin' the ani­ 
1 or 2 roomates wanted to live  $925/mo 232-2595  MOVING!  x1173. Thank you.  mals at the Zoo" dance or are you  
off campus in a house  289-9274  just clearing the air?  
Doing a year of service after gradu­ ( in walking distance!)  dble&sngle bed, desk, dressers,  I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!!  
ation? Let Maureen Skurski at the  call #3602  NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER?  hideaway, TV cart, lamps. end  
esc know who you are  CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK  tables  PLEASE HELP ME AND MY  Hey Sally! Hubba hubba. Surely  
X1-5779, so you won't be left out of  CONDOS  THREE LOVING GRANDPAR­ you kid!  
the Volunteer Send-Off Service  Looking for 2-3 summer roommates  273-1738  EVERYTHING MUST GOI  ENTS WHO ARE COMING FROM  
commencement weekend.  in Campus View Apt. Compare to  Gas grill, bike.  CANADA  hey ad­ 
'LOST & FOUND I  ND: $320/7wks vs $405, $400/9wks vs $520. Paulina x2985  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  277-2131 85 Accord 2 dr hatch auto air  CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-6743  for your info. I can run a mean stair marathon.  
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  stereo tape new valves-carb  
LOST VELVET POUCH WALLET  Needed! $$$ + Free Travel  Grad. -Football games  ask 2700.00 -219-272-0825  Jebidiah Springfield says:  Get Your Bookstore XXV Hats !II!  
IN FRONT OF BOOKSTORE  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  219-277-7003  A noble spirit embiggens even the  Ask a commissioner or call John @  
on thursday April 11th at 1pm  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  D.J. Mixer  smallest man.  273-8384  
please contact bookstore or  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  3 bdrm brick ranch, 5 min drive to  4 Channels, Cross-Fader. 6 Band  Bookstore XXV Refs NEEDED ­ 
campus security REWARD  extC1114  campus, pool, full basement, $850  Equalizer, Mic. Talk-Over, 6 Sound  ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE  9:00 Tonight @ Foster Rm 9:00pm.  
month + deposit 289-3663,  Effects, Cue Switch, etc... by Lux  Happily married, well-educated cou­ 
LOST!LOSTILOSTILOSTILOST!  2731144.  Sound.  ple will give your baby a loving,  Nate DDoggg and Mike D say,  
GREAT SUMMER JOB  $240 Flat  stimulating, financially secure  "Go see Luster, they rock."  
Blue NBC sports fanny pack con­ We need 2-3 certified lifeguards for  Roommate Wanted for Summer to  Call Isaac  home. Confidential, legal, expenses  
taining keys and other important  Summer 1996. Several  Share Furnished 2 Br, 1 1/2 Bath  634-1668  paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­ hey ed,  
items. Last seen Thursday before  counter/cashier positions are also  Apartment For More Info, Call  2344  did you know that Indianapolis has  
Easter. If found call Mike @273­ open. Minimum of 30 hours per  4x4123  LASER PRINT FROM YOUR OWN  a great marathon? You should sign  
6183.  week beginning 6/3/96. Schedules  ROOM! MAC PRSNAL LASER  ADOPTION:  up with a friend.  
are flexible.  CHICAGO  WRTR LS, MAC CLASSIC &  I'm a very happy little girl named  
LOST!LOST!LOSTILOST!LOST!  Send correspondance to Princess  Sublet -1 bdrm Apt. on Lake in  MODEM-$450 OBO. 272-4649  Caitlin who is adopted. I would love  ash.  
Way Sports Center, PO Box 316,  Gold Coast tor 5/96-6/96. $610.  a baby sister or brother to play with.  a few days until academic freedom.  
Found necklace on sidewalk in between Farley and NOH.  Granger, IN 46532  (918) 459-8701 or 4-1289.  TICKETS  My parents are ND grads. Dad's a lawyer and mom plays with me full  consider this statement: On satur­day night, I will not be in a my right  
call x3604 to claim.  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR.  time. We have a wonderful life, with  mind.  
LOSi -in Main Building ladies  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PERSON FOR PART-TIME  FOR SALE  BUSH/GOO-GOO DOLLS TIX 04/21 Champagne, IL  plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn  cora­ 
restroom on 4/9, gold rope chain  RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  $25 or best oUer.  collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential  can joe come next weekend. too?  
bracelet.  REWARD!  Call Debbie at  PHONE EXP. A MUST.  Car for sale !I! 88 Chevy Corsica  x1878  &legal.  that was fun.  
1-5536.  EMPLOYMT. TO CONTINUE  Blue 101K Good Transportation  
WANTED  THROUGH END OF 1996. PHONE #243-9555 TO APPLY.  $1950 or B.O. Call Kim X-6414 1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., condo, two full  PERSONAL  ADOPTION -We understand the strength it takes to choose adop­tion. You can have peace of mind  Hey Joe, How many babes can you lift?  
WANTED: SUMMER NANNY TO  baths, walk to ND, finished lower  0000000D0D0D0D0D00000  that we will cherish your newborn  Hi Pater  
Going to Boston? Need roommate  HELP 4 BOYS FOR NO FAMILY.  level, all appliances, garage, one­ QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  and provide a loving and secure  
attending Boston College or  1ST HALF OF SUMMER IN  owner, $76,900, 277-8898  THE COPY SHOP  home. Expenses paid. Please call  Wish I could be in a Pump-a-Babe  
Harvard. Call Adela at 259-5342.  CHICAGO & 2ND HALF IN  LaFortune Student Center  Donnamarie and Roger at 1-800­ contest.. .....  
PHILADELPHIA. LIVE-IN JOB  85 Mitsubishi Mirage, 92K, A!C  Phone 631-COPY  232-6519.  
INCLDS ROOM & BOARD, TRAV­ Sun roof, 5-speed, runs great.  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Boggs and the sisters will continue  
I need a ride to IU for the Little  EL AND LOTS OF FUN! CALL  $650 OBO. 4-3616  Hey B, next time we are in India, I'll  it's roll to the title at 7:00 Thursday  
500, April 20th. I can help pay  PEGGY AT 847-433-1628 (LEAVE  FAX IT FAST!!!  take you to the ancient mariner for  night.  
gas and drive. Kelly x2984  MSG IF NO ANS).  88 Honda CRX  Sending & Receiving  being the only stud who still has her  
white, 5 spd, SA, cd.  at  nose pierced-l'm jealous  Hey all you kooky people out there!  
95 sick of the burbs Grad  $3,325 abo  THE COPY SHOP  
Looking for roommate for  YOUR FUTURE IN SALES  Call Eric X-1737.  LaFortune Student Center  Graduating Senior looking for room­ What's more raukus than a pre­ 
Downtown Chicago  ASAP  CopyRite is experiencing dramatic  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  mate for North Chicago suburbs  screaning of Gleaning the Cube?  
....  Call Andy@  growth and is seeking Sales Representative in the state of  Mac Pwrbk 150 for finals! like new, loaded, $800. Sega+CD+games,  FAX IT FAST!!!  beginning August -call Larry x3593  Saturday Nile at  
work 312-321-8032  Indiana. As a division of IKON  $200. 1-4151  Get Your Bookstore XXV Hats !!II  
Home 708-584-9458  Office Solutions and Alco Standard  ??????????????????????  Ask a commissioner or call John @  JAZZMAN'S  
Corporation (NYSE), CopyRite  Moving off-campus? Bed, Shelves,  Ask DR. RUTH whatever  273-8384  
Are you working in D.C. this sum­ offers enormous potential to appli­ etc...For Sale!! (Must Sell)  you would like!  Bookstore XXV Refs NEEDED ­ Come see Luster & Zen Lunatic~  
mer? I am looking for possible  cants possessing strong written/oral  Call273-5818  "Sexually Speaking with  9:00 Tonight @ Foster Rm 9:00pm.  tear up the house with some  
roommates. Please call Connie at  communication skills, effective ana­ nasty grooves Ill  
2667  lytical and listening skills and a  For sale: '93 Mazda MX-3. Low  DR. RUTH"  Where else can you party hardy for  
focus on exceeding customer  milage, and perfect conditions.  Want to DANCE  only$3?  
Responsible person to care for two  needs and expectations. Please fax  Call Eduardo@ 271-8262.  This Friday @ Stepan  with TROOP ND?  WAHOOOOOOIIII  
~ Children (ages 2 & 4) in my home  resume to: Mr. Jon King, Senior  7:30pm -Tix $3  Then come to TND classes!  
mid May -late August.  References  Vice President, Sales & Marketing,  85 Accord 2 dr hatch auto air  Available @ LaFun. Info. Desk  Tues & Thurs Apr. 16,1 8, 23, 25  Busta Rhymes says "Woo Hal  
required.  Cal Jeanne 273-5930  IKON Office Solutions at 317-329­ stereo tape new valves-carb  9-10Pm  219 Rock  Boggs and the Sisters are going all  
4401 for immediate consideration.  ask 2700.00 -219-272-0825  ???????????????????????????  the wayl Ya Ya Ya Ya Yal"  
·-----­ 

-----------------------------------------~---­
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
• NFL 

The Observer/Brent Tad sen Listed as the third best runnin!;J back in the upcoming NFL draft, former Ohio State star Eddie George ts ready to prove his critics wrong. 
Uy RUSTY MILLER 
As.ndatcd Pres> 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
1111 ism an Trophy winner Eddi11 George says that al­though many people don't have him listed as tlw top tail­bad in this weekllnd's NFL drafl, it doesn't botlwr him. 
"Beauty's in the eyes of the beholder," Georgn said during a conferencn call Tuesday. "I think I'm just as quick, just as fast, just as lll'ftlctivn as any of those other running baeks." 
Tlw rtlcord-hreaking Ohio Stattl runnflr is nwntioned be­hi n d N11 bras k a's I.a wren ce Phillips and TP.xas A&M's 
forecasts. own. 
see 
The 
Illinois. 
Faculty 
are cordially invited to attend the Joint Military Presidential Review. The ceremo­ny begins at 4:30pm on Wednesday, April 18th, and will be held at the Loftus 
By MEREDITH J. RAMSEY 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
John Elway, the aging master of the miracle comeback, signed a new five-year, $29.5 million contract Tuesday, guar­anteeing he will end his career with the Denver Broncos. 
It also will give Elway, who will turn 36 in June, another shot at a Super Bowl title. He has taken the Broncos to the Super Bowl three times, but they have yet to win. 
''I'm going to have the oppor-
The AKD/Senior Reception has been postponed. 
The new date is: 
Tuesday, April 30th 
4:00p.m. in the Library Lounge. 
tunity to get that Super Bowl that we haven't had up until this point," Elway said. "We got (coach) Mike (Shanahan) who knows how to do it and hope­fully I can help him get it done. 
"It's great for me to finish my career in Denver." 
Broncos owner Pat Bowlen said Elway has been "by far the greatest player to play here in Denver and probably will be for a long time." 
Before Tuesday's agreement was finalized, Elway had one year left on a four-year $18.6 million agreement. 
Elway is entering his 14th year in the NFL -all in Denver -but he has shown few signs of slowing down. Last season, he threw for 3,970 yards with 26 touchdowns and 14 inter­ceptions. 
In 1995, Elway engineered the most productive offense in franchise history when the Broncos generated 6,040 yards and finished No. 1 in the AFC, averaging 378 yards per game. 
But even that potent offense had problems. Denver never 
won more than two games in a 
row or lost more than two 
games in a row, and never was 
more than one game above or 
below .500. The Broncos fin­
ished with an 8-8 record. 

o·ver the years, Elway has built a reputation for breath­taking finishes. He solidified that in his fourth season by en­gineering The Drive -a 98­yard, touchdown march that produced a tie with 20 seconds left and led to Denver's 23-20 overtime win over the ·cleveland Browns in the 1986 
AFC championship game. 

Last season, critics began to declare Elway's magic history, but he proved them wrong Sept. 17 with a 43-yard touch­down pass to Rod Smith on the last play to defeat the Washington Hedskins 38-31. 
Please Recycle the Observer. 

Follow the Fighting Irish to 
Ireland 
Visit the Cork Jazz Festival 

October 25 -November 3 October 30 · November 3 Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend. you can (two weekends and a week), still enjoy the beauty of Ireland featurin~ Irish entenainment, \'t-.22.•~ and Notre Dame footbal! ­stghtseemg. great Jazz and ·~tl~~ and of course plenty ol Notre Dame football. O:?J :1 8 Irish entenainment. 0 • ' ;,.::::: Only v · · ~ Only
$2150 from $}450 from
• \1 • 
Chicago* • Chicago* 
•orher rkpa"""' rni<> at'" """'tahte. MATTERHORN TRAVEL-------------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 
~------------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
•NBA 
Bulls buck history, attain record 70 win mark 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
The Chicago Bulls stamped a big 70 on a season of superla­tives Tuesday night. It just wasn't the decisive win they wanted. 
The Bulls barely got past the lowly Milwaukee Bucks with a 86-80 victory and didn't exact­ly look like the most dominat­ing team in NBA history. 
Still, it made Chicago 70-9, breaking the 1971-72 Los Angeles Lakers' record of 69 wins. 
The Bulls shot just 39 per­cent, didn't get a spectacular game from any of their super­stars and needed a scoreless final four minutes from the Bucks in order to get it done. 
"We didn't really play our kind of basketball," said Michael Jordan, who had 22 points. "Somehow, our defense kind of got hot and we were able to hold them down." 
Some of the Bulls have al­ready called themselves the greatest team in NBA history, a boast that's sure to be debated. They'd get a good argument from anyone using Tuesday night's performance to judge. 
The Bulls were out of synch all night, looking tight in their biggest game of the season. 

Dennis Rodman's 19 rebounds helped the Chicago Bulls make history, becoming the first team in NBA history to win 70 games. 
Transfer Orientation 
•Last Chance to turn in applications• 
Accepting Applications 
for Transfer Orientation Executive Staff Committee 
Applications Available at Student Activities 
3rd floor ofLaFortune 
Application Deadline 
Wednesday April 17, 1996 
Return Applications to Student Activities by 5:00. 
Jordan shot just 9-of-27 from the field, missing all his shots in the final four minutes when Chicago struggled to pull away. His biggest play, however, was blocking a 3-point attempt by Johnny Newman with 16 sec­onds left that could have pulled the Bucks within one. 
Instead, Steve Kerr was fouled, made two foul shots and the outcome was sealed. 
The Bucks didn't even play defense in the final six sec­onds, allowing the Bulls to walk off their court hugging and high-fiving, their season­long quest finally fulfilled. 
Scottie Pippen and Luc Longley had 16 each for Chicago, and no one else reached double figures. 
Vin Baker led Milwaukee with 28 points, but the Bucks had five of their 10 turnovers in the final four minutes as the Bulls' pressure turned out to be too much. 
"One thing we committed to in the locker room before the game was if they did get 70, they wouldn't get it easy," Milwaukee's Terry Cummings said. "I didn't expect us to get blown out tonight." 
It's been a season almost be­yond comparison for the Bulls, a run of success unlike any that's been seen in the NBA's 49-year history. They won their first 37 home games, set­ting a mark for most consecu­tive victories at the start of a season and most spanning two seasons {44 straight). 
The possibility of breaking the Lakers' 24-year-old mark became a near certainty as the victories piled up through the winter. With three games re­maining, the Bulls can set an even higher standard of regu­lar-season excellence. 
Hundreds of Bulls fans made the 90-mile drive to Milwaukee and bought tickets from scalpers asking $200 per tick­et. 
The crowd appeared almost evenly split between Bulls and Bucks fans, but the Chicago portion was silenced for longer than expected. 
After trailing nearly the entire game, the Bulls took their first lead of the game with 7:22 left on a 3-pointer by Steve Kerr aftr an offensive rebound by Dennis Rodman, who finished with 19 rebounds. 
Milwaukee pulled within one twice more, but Kerr made a 21-foot jumper and Pippen had a three-point play to keep Chicago ahead. 
Pippen's bucket and free 
throw with 4:41 left turned out to be Chicago's final basket. Jordan went 0-for-3 from the field in the final four minutes and the Bulls were 0-for-6 as a team, but they held Milwaukee scoreless for the final 4:19. 
During that stretch, Cummings rushed a jumper and then dribbled the ball away, Glenn Robinson threw a pass too hard and it went through Johnny Newman's hands, Baker missed a shot and the Bucks committed a 24­second violation. 
The Bulls didn't make a field goal in the final 4:41, but their free throws and Jordan's block ensured their milestone win. 
IIL!HE CUSHWA CENTER 
E::::! F 
LI 
FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 
Manhood, Communism, and Americanism: 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation and American Jesuits, 1935-1960 
Steve Rosswurm 
Lake Forest College 
Thursday. April 18, 1996 
4:15PM 

Resburgh Library Lounge 
CLOSED COURSES AS OF 7:110 P.M.4/1~ACCT 03 4223 ACCT 371 03 1389 ACCT 383 01 4224 ACCT 383 02 4225 ACCT 472 03 4226 ACCT 472 04 4227 ACCT 475 01 3100 ACCT 475 02 1203 ACCT 475 03 1393 ACCT 476 02 2589 ACCT 476 03 3105 ACCT m 01 1029 AFAM 321 01 3716 AFAM 329 02 3717 AFAM 379E 01 3719 AFAM 411 01 3720 AFAM 432 01 3721 AFAM 453 01 3723 AFAM 457 01 3433 AFAM 486 01 3725 AMST 308G 01 3544 AMST 313G 01 3152 AMST 316E 01 3296 AMST 364E 01 3732 AMST 368H 01 3276 AMST 369H 01 3734 AMST 398E 01 3462 AMST 399E 01 3739 AMST 411 01 3669 AMST 413 01 3740 AMST 415 01 3383 AMST 456H 01 3362 AMST 457 01 3432  CAPP CAPP CHEG CHEG CHEM CHEM 8HEMHEM CHEM COCT COTH CSE CSE CSE CSE CSE DESN ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ECON ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL  380 395 445T 459 119L 119L 223L 420 461L 305 435A 33l!L 332L 332L 432 498A 2828 225T 315 410 416 453 484 486 301E 301F 301G 316G 3848 391 392B 393A 394C 413B 415F  01 01 01 01 02 04 07 01 02 01 01 01 03 04 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  2825 2823 4481 1588 3313 3229 1300 1628 1223 3328 38110 1399 1105 1071 4157 4159 0657 3620 0385 3639 3806 3807 3242 3808 3823 3824 3825 3297 4304 4305 3461 3831 4306 3835 3836  HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HIST HISTliPS liPSliPSliPSLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAWLAW MARK MARK MARK MARK MARK MATH MATH  361A 385A 417A 453 453A 456 456A 458 458A 466 474A 256 320 484 486 591A 591C 616 631A 631B 631C 6310 650B 676 679 695 695 695 350 370 384 476 476 102 226  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 03 06 02 02 01 01 02 01 01  3926 3933 3937 3940 3941 3361 3363 3275 3m 3381 3197 4132 2605 3244 4134 1298 1036 1924 1927 1928 1929 1930 4254 1933 3249 1935 1936 1177 1947 1949 1951 1952 1953 1081 1999  PLS PLS PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY PSY ROFR ROFR ROFR ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP ROSP soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc soc  481 481 211A 341 342 342 461 47DA 470E 4768 48DA 483A 483B 426 443 490 103 310 318 328 328 597 220 300 303 332 338 390 448 459 486  01 03 01 03 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 04 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  1361 1359 2291 2537 2293 2333 2314 4050 4376 11098 4051 4378 4379 4060 4061 3185 2439 2452 3191 2453 0809 0072 2470 1133 3261 3179 4087 2766 3429 4091 4092  
AMST  465  01  3741  ENGL  422  01  11638  MATH  325  04  1215  STV  383  01  4080  
AMST AMST AMST AMST ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ANTH ARCH ARHI ARHI BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BA BIOS  487E 497E 513 584 328 329 329 330 436 444 444A 454 457 565 403 496 333 362 363 363 363 363 363 392 490 304l  01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 04 ~ 07 04 06 01  3744 3745 3746 3748 3193 3257 3738 1026 3755 3756 3757 3216 3431 2975 4286 3291 1027 1504 1505 1691 1506 1507 0016 2748 1513 1519  ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL ENGL FIN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN RN FIN RN FIN GE GEOS GEOS GOVT GOVT GOVT  428C 432A 486 494C 495A 497B 360 360 360 360 360 361 361 361 361 370 380 380 462 470 440 403 457 308 325 347  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 03 04 ~ 116 01 02 03 ~ 01 ~ 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  2830 3843 4309 3856 3480 3857 1796 1798 1799 1800 0689 1801 1802 1804 3067 1805 4233 1807 4234 1808 3151 4144 4145 3543 3325 3552  ME ME ME ME ME ME ME ME Ml Ml Ml MUS MUS MUS NSCI PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  331l 331L 331L 339T 425 446 459 466 301 422 556 220 226 228 411 216 220 228 229 235 239 241 241 244 244 246  01 02 04 03 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 02 01  1008 1007 11105 3097 3115 3314 3305 1064 3579 3530 3992 2784 2079 4002 2123 0367 4016 4017 4018 4019 03116 4367 4368 4486 4487 2149  STV 454 01 3217 THEO 224 01 4103 THEO 237 01 4104 THEO 241 01 01109 THEO 253 01 4107 THEO 264 01 3282 THEO 265 01 1357 THEO 278 01 4109 THEO 2908 01 3118 THEO 290C 01 3116 THTR 276 54 9754 THTR 276 56 9756 THTR 276 58 9758 COURSES THAT WILL REOPEN AT 7:00P.M. 4117/96 BA 490 06 1513 CAPP 303 01 3260 CHEG 459 01 1588 GOVT 308 01 3543 HIST 466 01 3381  
BIOS  401L  01  1998  GOVT  373  01  4343  PHIL  247  01  3366  MUS  220  01  2784  
BIOS 420 BIOS 420L BIOS 420L CAPP 216 CAPP 303 CAPP 315 CAPP 331 361 368=  01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 01  3033 3030 3029 2827 3260 1567 1182 1568 1149  GOVT GOVT GSC HESB HESB HIST HIST HIST HIST  386 588 495A 413 491 308A 326A 333A 357A  01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01  3890 3561 4333 39110 3556 3916 3493 3495 3924  PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL  247 248 256 261 261 264 264 264 269  02 01 01 01 02 01 02 03 01  4020 3576 3578 1141 0415 0414 0413 0366 2781  PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL PHIL ROSP THEO THEO  220 228 235 239 264 597 265 290B  01 01 01 01 03 01 01 01  4016 4017 4019 03116 0366 0072 1357 3118  

Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Astros hitting too 01uch for Mets Seitzer leads Brew 
Crew to 6-3 victory
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
The llouston Astros used left fielder Butch Huskey's error and thren stolen bases to score five runs in the fifth inning Tunsday night for a 9-6 victory over the New York Mets. 
Orlando Millnr homered and had three hits for llouston, whieh took a 6-0 lead into the SIWimth. 
Todd Ilundley hit a three-run homer and Jeff Kent followed with a horner during a live-run seventh that closed the Mets to h-5. 
Millu honwred to start a thren-run eighth for Houston. Hieo Brogna homered in the bottom half of the inning. 
Sharw Heynolds (2-1) gave up seven hits in 6 1-:~ innings. Todd .Jones pitdwd a scoreless ninth for !1is second savn. 
.Jason lsringhausen ( 1-1 l last­ed 4 2-3 innings. lie allowed six runs, only two of tlwm earned, 1111 seven hits and live walks. 
The Astros took a 1-0 lead in the first on singles by Craig Biggio, .Jeff Bagwell and Biek Wilkins. 
Brian II untnr opened the Astros fifth with a single and stole second. Biggio and Bagwell thnn walked, loading thn bases. 
One out later. Wilkins hit a sacrifice fly. After Bagwell stole seeond, lluskey dropped Berry's fly ball, enabling two eruns to score. Derrick May and Miller followed with RBI sin­gles. 
Miller homered in the eighth ofl' Hobert Person, the fifth Mets pitcher. John Cangelosi walked, Ihmter singled and, after Jerry DiPoto relieved, Biggio walked and Bagwell hit a two-run sin­gle for a 9-5 lead. 
In the Mets' seventh, Huskey reached on an error by Berry at third base and Brogna singled. llundley followed with his fifth homer of the season on the first pitch and then Kent connected. 
Cubs 6, Reds 3 
CHICAGO 
Steve Trachsel won in his first appearance of the season and L11o Gomez hit a two-run double in a six-run sixth inning Tuesday, leading the Chicago Cubs over the Cincinnati Heds 6-3. 
Trachsel allowed two hits in six innings, walked five and struek out four. He had spent· two weeks with Double-A Orlando because the Cubs start­ed the season. 
Adams and Doug Jones fin­ished with four-hit relief, stop­ping Cincinnati's three-game winning streak. 
Sammy Sosa bunted for a sin­gle with one out in the sixth off Mark Portugal (0-2). Luis Gonzalez walked and Scott Servais was hit by a pitch, load­ing the bases. Gomez hit a drive over right fielder Eric Anthony and Hector Carrasco walked Rey Sanchez, again loading the bases. Scott Bullett, batting for Trachsel, singled home Servais. 
Brian McHae's sacrifice fly off Jeff Shaw and Hyne Sandberg's two-run double made it 6-0. 
Portugal allowed four runs and seven hits in 5 1-3 innings. 
Cincinnati didn't get a hit until the fifth, when Jeff Branson singled off the tip of the glove of a leaping Sandberg at second. 
Pinch-hitter Lenny Harris hit a two-run homer in the ninth off Jones and Eric Davis hit a solo homer, his second in three games. 
Royals 6, White Sox 5 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Tim Belcher won his first game for Kansas City and Tommy Goodwin went 4-for-5 with two stolen bases Tuesday night as the Hoyals built a six­run lead and hung on for a 6-5 victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
Belcher (1-1) took a four-hit shutout into the sixth but gave up home runs to Bon Karkovice and Frank Thomas. Belcher, who pitched for Seattle before becoming a free agent, gave up three runs and seven hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Kevin Seitzer, showing more surprising power, hit his fourth home run of the season Tuesday night, leading the Milwaukee Brewers past the New York Yankees 6-3. 
Seitzer connected for a three­run homer, capping a five-run fourth inning against ineffective Jimmy Key (1-2). 
Seitzer hit only five homers in 492 at-bats last season. lie started this year with a total of 59 home runs in 4,507 at-bats in the majors. 
Scott Karl (2-1) held the Yankees scoreless until the sev­enth, when he gave up two runs. Relievers Mark Kiefer and Graeme Lloyd finished up, with the Yankees scoring in the ninth on pinch-hitter Wade Boggs' single. 
Key, continuing his comeback from last year's rotator cuff surgery, was tagged for all six runs on 10 hits in 3 2-3 in­nings. He walked one and struck out three. 
The Brewers scored a run in the first on successive singles by JeiT Cirillo, Seitzer and Greg Vaughn. 
Matt Mieske doubled to open the fourth and scored on Jose 
. e cam 
Valentin's one-out triple. With two outs, Pat Listach hit an HBI single and Cirillo followed with a single. 
Seitzer then hit a 1-1 pitch over the left-field wall, finishing Key. 
New York scored twice in the seventh on Hobert Eenhorn's sacrifice fly and Derek .Jeter's HBl single. 
New York had runners on first and third with none out in the fifth, but Karl escaped with the help of an inning-ending double play. 
Tigers 13, Blue .Jays 8 

TOHONTO 
Forget about Ken GriiTey .Jr., Albert Belle and Matt Williams. Now it's Cecil Fielder who's making a run at home run records. 
Fielder hit three home runs in a game for the third time in his career, increasing his major league-leading total to nine as the Detroit Tigers beat the Toronto Blue Jays 13-8 Tuesday. 
Fielder, who had five HBis, is two shy of the major league record for home runs in April, a mark shared by Graig Nettles, Mike Schmidt and Willie Stargell. 
"I just heard about it," Fielder said. "But I can't worry about records. I feel good at the plate right now and If I keep swinging the bat the way I am, the hits will come." 
us c.d. 

AMasler of lnlernalional Business. 
In rod.11·\ ~loh.d!, LOI11f1L'litii'L' L'fll'ironliiL'I1t. nun1· companic' are looking t(n lll<ln.li~crs 11·irh lllllitiLllitur.d hu,inl''' .111d J.,nguagc skilk l\f1JlL'f'dilll,., innovative ~1astL'I of lntnnarional 1\u,inl'" I~ II B) I'> .1 llllilJliL' 20 IIIOJllh f1rogr.1n1 rlw 11rm·ides you with praLtic.d llWLlgcmcnt ,kjl!, .u1d .1 rhoitlllgh ttlldL·f'i,JIILiing ot' illlcf'JJ,llioJ1.Ji lOIIIJll'lirion. Whik language prof!Licnn· is LL·rt.Jinl\ 1c1 \tlltr .ILh.tnt.tgL·. it i, JHH .1 J·cquin.:lllL'Ill for .Jdmis,ion to the 1\l!B progr.un. IHH do l'oll nL'L'd .111 undngr.tdu.ttL' husincss dcgrL'L' or 11ork experience. The first \'Car cllmhines tl\tl'l'l\.lll\111.tl hu,ti\L''' L\\UIV> with imcnsivc Frcn(h m Cnm.m langu~1ge stud\' .11 our c.unpu:-in ~1.tlihu. ( :.ditill ni.t. l luri11g the \CCOIId VL'ar m·er,c;~s in france or CcrmJn\, )'llll willwmplere l'ollr \ludin ,t, Wl·ll .1~ .111 inrnnshifl. Broaden \'lllll L'.Jrt'cr horizons wirh thL· ,\!.t,ter of IIHL'IIlation.tl lltl'lilL''' dcgrcL'. \\'c'rc sriII .Icccpting ,lflplic.uiom till our Fall 11)% prngr~tm. 'll L.dl rnd,l)'· 
PEPPERDINE UNIVERSITY 
llw CL'orgl' 1.. ( ;rMi,Jd io '->L honiL1f llu~itw..;s ,111d M,ltl,lgL'lllL'lll :\I,Jitbu. L.1litorni,1 
1-H00-7 2h-Y2H) I· t11.1d: "l'·ll'''".itl'''i'l'''t\ltth·.v,\" 



--~-----~--~-~-------­
page 18 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 17, 1996 

Debates 
Series of Lectures 
presented by: 
Professor Pauli Hou 
(Professor of P Faculty o A Sciences, Republic 
...------------------·-------1 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 1 
I I I 
1 
I 
---------------------,, 
Professor HountondjiSvisit was made possible by a gener­ous grant ofthe Paris based UNESCO to the Pan-African Cultural Center and by the support ofthe Departments of Philosophy, Romance Languages, Government & International Studies; Kellogg Institute, African America~ Studies program; President Office, Provost Office, and African American Student Alliance. 
' 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
• BOOKSTORE 
Yankowski upset about ruling 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
And who said this was just a game? 
As Bookstore Basketball ac­tion continues to heat up, sub­plots and action off the court are beginning to take center stage. 
Early yesterday, Bookstore commissioners confirmed that Matt Vankoski, former walk-on for John MacLeod's varsity basketball team, will not be al­lowed to play in the tourna­ment. 
Vankoski, who decided to quit the team at the end of this past season, had been signed up to play for 22nd-seeded Desire. Once the committee got wind of Vankoski's wish to play, they began looking into the situation. After a prelimi­nary analysis, they tentatively decided to allow him to partici­pate. 
"At the captains' meeting, they pulled us aside and told 
because we had found a loop­hole," said Vankoski. 
However, once they investi­gated further, the commission­ers retracted their earlier deci­sion and agreed that Vankoski should not be able to play. 
"We did tell him that he was going to be able to play," stat­ed executive commissioner John Albrighton. "We then re­evaluated it and decided he couldn't play. The interpreta­tion of the rules is the discre­tion of the commissioners." 
Rule 2 of Bookstore XXV states that "any Division I bas­ketball player, scholarship or walk-on, may not participate in the tournament during the academic year which he/she has dressed for a Division I team, unless that player's NCAA eligibility has expired." 
This rule means that senior basketball players, like Ryan Hoover this year, may play be­cause their NCAA eligibility has obviously expired. 
According to Desire captain 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Former Irish basketball walk-on Matt Vankoski was ruled ineligible to play in this year's Bookstore games. Although he never contributed for the Irish, he will not be allowed to contribute for his Bookstore team. 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 

Bring your BSN to the Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nursing pro­cedure, or just by being a friend. 
With your preceptor's help, you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a leadership role of your own. 
If you're a BSN candidate ...or you are an RN with a BSN...you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
(217)634-4496 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
ing the same academic year was not written into the rules until after signups had begun. He and his teammates thought they had found a loophole until it" was closed up by the committee. 
"It's not like we tried to hide it from them," said Gorman. 
Vankoski learned of this new version of the rule and toyed with the idea of signing with an agent in order to forfeit his remaining eligibiliy. 
"I would've given up my NCAA eligibility," exclaimed Vankoski. "That's how much I wanted to play in Bookstore Basketball." 
The Bookstore committee felt however that this did not com­ply with the spirit or intent of the rule because it was not a passive expiration of his eligibility. 
"All it was was circumvent­ing the rules." noted Albrighton. "We looked at the integrity of the tournament. We did rewrite the rule (for this year), and they tried to circumvent the rules. That just proved it to us." 
Not surprisingly, each side is a bit miffed at the other. 
"It's a· lose-lose situation," said the conciliatory Albrighton. "Both sides are at fault." 
Vankoski and his mates, however, felt they had been slighted by the committee. 
"It got ugly because they waffle-d so many times," said the disappointed Vankoski. "Honestly, I would've had no problem if they had told us up front. Our team really got screwed." 
Added Gorman, "I guess I can kind of understand their side, but it was bad business for them to wait until after the tournament started to tell us officially." 
Mouse del., The Shifters, 21-7 
Team 339 del., Hells Bells 2, 21-9 · 
560, 600 del., Team 145, 21-4 
Team 391 del., Ruach, 21-15 , 
Dese Veirdos del., Fisher Kings, 21-t' 
Hoop-A-Holies del., Coordination, 21-5 
Desue d.el., Castun, 21-13 . 
4 Suits & a Donkey del., (500, 235), 21-17 ·· 
Flying Insect Killers del., S.l. Cover Jinx, 21-15 
It's All in the Wrist del., C.C. Roullett, 21-19 
Snatch the Rebound ... del., Spanish Only, 21-1 
Swoosh II del., Todd's Special Little Team, 21-12 ,._ 
Rednecks-Hazard County del., Hoochie Mamas, 21-6 
Famine del., Two Wild & Crazy Guys, 21-4 
G's Crew and the Playboys del., Team 573, 21-13 
Team 11 del., Team 119, 21-11 Pass the Beernuts VI del., 3 Guys & 2 other Guys, 21-2 Cool Hand Schecter del., Pumpkin Imposters... , 21-17 Common Human Diseases del., The Men who play the horn, 21-15 We might be small, but we ... del., The Professor, Mary Ann... , 21-11 
The Final Frontier del., Four guys who know how to ... , 21-6 
Serial Kllla del., Big Poppa, Crazy Hector, and 3 Other... , 21-6 We're just looking for somethlng... del., The Family Von ... , 21-11 We've got a Hunch that one of...del., I.B.S.M.C.-U RNot, 21-6 
Breach of contract del., 2 Girls who play & 3that don't, 21-6 
Shampoo is better, I go on first... del., Lou Holtz, Ron Powlus... , 21-9 
Absolut Kurlles: The razor...def., Dr. Sugardadee, 21-16 
Asunny day In South Bend del., Fumbducks, 21-7 
JumanJi del., We gave up socring for Lent, 24-22 
JWL Transport del., Team B6, 21-4 
4 Guys & AGirl del., 2 Chegs & 3 Magic Men, 21-16 
Team MonteII Jordan del., No Lata Puellas, 24-22 
Assault and battery del., 2 guys, a girl, & 2 more guys, 21-11 Not too good, yourself? del., Heattransler, 21-7 
5 guys & Sue del., Fruit Hoops, 21-B Noah's Animals del., The old & Injured, 21-4 (43, 471) del., Ron Jeremy Fan Club, 21-9 We bring our keys...def., Chuckers, 21-1 
Team Donkey del., Four Elves and an Ogre, 21-18 Goldy and the Pimps del., Oh, is that when Oprah is on?, 21-7 Marcy's Back Door del., Our Team can beat Tim Logan's... , 21-17 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
GAMES to watch ... 
4. Unusual Suspects vs. ,< .,_ l 
Four Guys who can't play B-Ball and 1 who sucks Lyons 11, 4:00p.m. 
St Joe's River Bandits vs. 20. Hood River Bandits Bookstore 10, 6:15p.m. 
12. Untouchables vs. Lint II Stepan 6, 4:00p.m. Dos Goldkamps Sans Pants vs. 
You Have Problems and Everybody Knows It Stepan 6, 4:00p.m. 
G'bois & the Whalers vs. Zeus, Apollo••• Ste an 5 6:15 .m. 


JUNIOR RETREAT I996 
Saturday, April 20 4:00 p.m. through Sunday, April 2.1 6:00 p.m. 
ALL JUNIORS WELCOME! 
Applications available at the Library Campus Ministry Office. Return them to the Library Campus Ministry Office by Friday, April 19, at 4:oopm. 
Cost: $15 Place: Parish Center 
Participants meet at the Badin Hall Chapel at 4:00p.m. on Saturday, April 20. 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry _Questions?? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. (I~JBoo or I~sos6) 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 

Bookstore Football 
continued from page 24 continued from page 24 
lloopaholies, the no. 24 jury, so Maiden will be eager team, easily knocked off to get bark in action. Coordination. 21-5. Last, but not least, is Jason 
Thn higgnst blow-out of the Ching. day eame in Snateh the Although Ching has not yet Hnbound, Muff the Pass's 21-1 graduated from high sehool, romp of Spanish Only. John the Irish coaching staff has 
Bonlnr, a nwmbnr of the all­high hopes for the incoming Ill a lr~ Snatch the He hound , freshman. eomnwntod on his team's vie­"By the time our season tory ovor the all-female, starts, a freshman might be in Spanish-speaking Spanish the mix," said Davie, referring Only. to Ching. 
"The languago harrier was a Ching was an All-American lilllo intimidating at first," defensive lineman where he Bnolnr said. "But wn got a few played football for Punahou lucky shots and then it all High School in Honolulu, sr~onwd to conw togethr~r." Hawaii. 
J!irst round play will continue Nose guard is obviously a around eampus courts tomor­highly coveted position for the row. '96 Irish. The competition may be just what Notre Dame needs to find the next great
CELEBRATE A 
one. Coach Davie agrees. "We obviously have a lot of
FRIENDS 
competition at that position. They all have their own
BIRTHDAY 
unique attributes. Competition breeds a higher
WITH A 
level of play." Irish Update: After missing
SPECIAL 
practices at the beginning of 
the spring with a pulled ham­
The Observer/Rob Finch string injury, co-captain Lyron
OBSERVER 
AD. 
The competition is beginning to heat up as the field in Bookstore Cobbins finally returned to Basketball's 25th anniversary season begins to shrink. 
practice. 
page 21 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
Another run in the bottom of the fourth inning allowed the Wildcats to narrow tlw gap to 6-5, but the Irish upped their lead to 8-5 in their half of the fifth on back to baek singles by Lisanti and third baseman J.J. Brock. 
Wildcat reliever John Seaman and catcher Neil Piacenti combined for three wild pitches and two passed balls in the top half of the ninth, and the Irish headed into the bottom of the final inning with a comfortable 11-6 lead. 
Apparently the Wildcats thought this lead was just a tad too comfortable, as they clouted two of their four homeruns on the day and went through two Irish pitch­ers before closer Rich Sauget was able to retire Wildcat Jim Heeder for the game's final out. 
Stavisky earned the win, moving his record to 5-1 on the year, and Sauget earned his sixth and perhaps most lit­eral "save" of the season, as the Irish moved to 27-10 on the year. New leadoff man Handall Brooks kept his aver­age above .400 by going 3-5, and three different Irish play­ers finished with two or more RBI. The Irish, who have surrendered 20 runs in the past two games, will host intrastate rival Purdue at 6:00 . 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL -HecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday, April 23 and 30, from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
BOOKSTORE RASKETUAI..t REFEREES WANTED ­Meeting, Wednesday, April 17 at 9 p.m. in the Foster LaFortune Room. $10 per game. 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 


If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Adn1inistration College Council please sulnnit your resume to: Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, roon1 101 College of Business Administration, 
no later than April 19~ 1996. 
If you need more information 
call63J-6602. 
• 
Sell yellow page advertising in the campus telephone directories 

• 
Eleven week program 

• 
Train for one week in Chapel Hill, NC 

• 
Work with a fun team of college students every day 

• 
Learn about public relations, communications and sales 

• 
Earn $3,740 (average 1995 earnings) 



Solemn Vespers of the Confessor1 K. 339 
& 
Coronation Mass1 K. 317 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call 234-0363 273-8986 (24hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look ahead to tourney 
were edged by Geoff Prentice and Arvid Swan, 8-6. 
Jake Raiton and William Farah clinched the point for the Irish as they overcame J .J. O'Brien and Ryan Simme, 8-1. 
Mike Sprouse suffered his sec­ond straight loss as No. 22 ranked Peter Puszati came back to pick up a long and close match, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Michigan's John Costanzo also won a three set match as Ryan Simme could not recover from losing the first, 6-2, 5-7, 6-2. After struggling through the first set 7-6, Arvid Swan took over to dominate Pietrowski in the sec­ond, 6-2. 
At the bottom of the lineup, the story was very similar as the Wolverines came out on top of two matches that went the dis­tance with the other being helped by a tiebreaker. 
Brian Patterson and O'Brien each showed a lot of heart as they both forced their opponents to three sets after losing the first. 
David Paradzik won the No. 4 singles match over Patterson 6­3, 1-6, 6-4. At No. 5, Prentice clinched a point over O'Brien, 7­6, 5-7, 6-2. 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOTJOB MARKETS.USA 
Free info. (800) 722-0845 
By]OECAVATO 
Sports Writer 
After winning four out of their last five dual matches, the Notre Dame men's tennis team fin­ished their regular season by taking a step backward. 
Yesterday, the Irish headed to Ann Arbor where the University of Michigan handed the squad their worst defeat of the year. The Irish could not manage to win a point for only the second time this year as the No. 27 team was not a gracious host in the 7-0 win. 
The score was not indicitive of the play of the match. Four out of six singles matches went the full three sets. In the other two matches, Michigan came out on top of tie breakers, which if they would have gone the other way, the Irish could have won. 
The Irish met a fired up Wolverine squad who had been giving 110 percent. Head coach Brian Eisner discussed the effort of his team. 
"We inay not be the best team in the United States, but there is nobody competing harder than us, and as a coach, that is what you want." 
In doubles play, the No. 1 team of Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun provided the Domers of their only win of the day with a 8-5 victory over Peter Puszati and John Costanzo. At the sec­ond slot, the duo of Jakup Pietrowski and Brian Patterson 
Attention: Student Summer Storage 
Your Favorite and most secure storage facility has constructed a new building just for you. No hidden fees and ask anyone on campus about us. 
•
Resident Manager 

• 
Security Entrance System 

• 
Call Now for Reservations 


~ "' 
c;; 
::J
Located on Douglas en between St. Rd. 23 • & Grape Rd. 
St. Mary's 
Senior Brian Harris, who has played well when he has seen action, dropped his match to William Farsh, 7-6, 6-4. 
The Wolverines knew this would be a key match as the winner would have the benefit of the No. 1 seed in the NCAA Regionals, and Notre Dame has been the dominate team in the region for the past three years. Eisner commented on the im­portance of this match. 
"This win is extremely re­warding. I cannot think of a win in the last 10 years I have enjoyed more than this one, because the toughest place to win is in your section of the country." 
The win gives the Wolverines the top seed in the NCAA Regionals to be held at Notre Dame, May 10-12. The loss places more emphasis on Big East Tournament play as they will be looking to regain mo­mentum before the Regionals. 
.In the Big East Tournament, which will be held in Miami Fla., the Irish will have the No. 1 seed and will be heavy favorites as the Irish dominated the No. 2 
Obs•uvAr/KatiA Kroener
seed Miami Hurricanes earlier this year, 7-0. 
Mike Sprouse (above) teamed with Jason Pun in the doubles competi­tion to give Notre Dame a lone bright spot in a disappointing day. 
BRUNO'S ORIGINAL PIZZA SOUTH 
261 0 Prairie Ave 
• 
Reservations Welcome 

• 
Large Groups Welcome • Phone: 288-3320 


Spring Delivery Special 2-14" Two Topping for $10.50 
173-3890 
Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
POUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 


OH 1"\Y! THIS IS SHOCKING! 
WHAT? 
110% OF ALL SICK DA'<S IAK.E.N 1?1'< YOUR STAFF 
A!l..E FRIDAYS AND 
MONDAYS I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Stretch, with "out" 
1 Long-tailed 
parrot 31 "Mona-" (art 
fakes)
6 Willy Wonka's 33 God, in Gorizia
creator 34 "Be-"("Help
10 School orgs. 
me out")
14 Fighting-­
3BWhateach 
15 Mine, in Menton 
number in this 16lsle of Mull puzzle refers to neighbor 
42 Kind of flute t7 Spokes 
43 Conk out 18 "On Liberty" 
44 Retract, as 
wnter 
words 19 Engaged in a 45 Coleridge work particular activ1ty 
46 Not be passive20 #23 
48 Like some 23 #14 
theater 26 Actor Lloyd --performances 
27 Directional suffix 49 Role in "Falstaff" 
28 MimiC 53#21 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
A PS L 

sHE AIAIWAV 
p E 
EARLE WARM AVON ARGOT ERIC TIMEISMONEY.IDA 
S NAT C H.L E S S­AH~~D LIASHES R I 

TBA.WERP
ILL.ALMONDS.LIE COLON SPAR.BLED SWINGS STEVE 
IIIIS iilii A S I E G 
ES 
SEW.TALKISCHEAP CLEW STILL INGA 0 S L 0 T 0 T I E V E E R WALK ASTER ETRE 
WHAT KIND OF IDIOT DO 
n\EY THINK I AM? .....N-0-T-AN_I_D_I_O-._T 
SAVANT. THE.'{ CAN 00 MATH. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE '<EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A reputation for being both coolhead­ed and farsighted will help you <>blain an influential position. Romance may be hectic at times. You and your mate could find new delight in working side-by-side! Your love for animals may lead to participation in an unusual business or research enterprise. Getting bet­ter-organized will boost profits. Spring of 1997 will be the best time to buy and sell property. Get several c'timates before authorizing home repairs. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 

I' HIS DAY: football player 
Boomer" Esiason, dancer Anna \!larie Holmes, promoter Don Kirsh­ner, feminist writer Cynthia Ozick. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): fhere is more than meets the eye to a business offer. Contacts you make today will help you meet a business or romantic goal. Dealing with peo­ple on a confidential basis will prove highly helpful. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your finances enjoy favorable influ­ences now. Experts can help you manage your surplus funds more rrofitably. Avoid putting all of your eggs in one basket. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Con­centrate on enjoying what the present offers you. Higher-ups are evaluating your work performance. The bottom line will improve when you find new markets for a superior product. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): l'he time is right to invest some money. You emerge a winner when you take a carefully calculated risk. A difficult job is made easier, thanks 10 an ex pen's help. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Some­one's success inspires you to reach for the stars. Use any spare time f?r 
creative pursuits. Let children know that their needs always come first with you. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your energy level is high and your social life stimulating! It is time to put a clever plan into operation. A change of lifestyle will bring greater comfon and financial security. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Dis­content could tempt you to go against the wishes of others. Your failure to cooperate will surprise those close to you. Do not give in to a whim. Base decisions on logic not resentment. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel out of sync with a friend now. Focus on work for the next few days. The two of you will patch things up. Seek relaxation tonight by going to the movies. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Dedication to your work can bring about a miracle. You have true insight into a mysterious situation. Assume a leadership role at work. Your self-confidence will impress others. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Distant contacts get in touch. You gain a better perspective on a travel issue. A work project is gath­ering momentum. Carefully husband your energies. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A busy work schedule is good for you, even if you find it annoying. Peace of mind comes when you fin­ish what must be done. Your cheer­ful personality wins you new friends and well-wishers. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An unusual experience makes you won­der if you are on the right track. If you begin a new job under these conditions, you may regret it. Slow down. Meditation helps you reach the right decision. 

• OF INTEREST The New York Teacher Volunteer Program will be at the Center for Social Concerns on April 16 and April 17, Sr. Deanna Sabetta, from the program, will 
be conducting interviews. You may sign up for inter­views at the esc now. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Meatball Grinder  Chicken in Pot  
Roast Turkey Breast  Kielbasa with Sauerkraut  
Garden Quiche  Manicotti  
Saint Mary's  

Beef and Noodle Casserole Savory Baked Chicken Mashed Potato~s 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

I used to drink a lot and I wouldn't remember what I did. But then I tested HIV positive and it all came back to me. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
.... 
-
, 
56#12 
58 Bakery worker 59 Paper quantity 60 Emulate Cato 
64 Ready to pick 65 Ratio words 66 Indemnify 67 Lunches 68 Tag warning 69Weird 
DOWN 1 Russian orbiter 2 Parrot genus 3EI­4 Flu variety 5 Rear-ender injury 6 Harm 7 Old-fashioned sort a Dairy cow 9 Leslie Caron role 10 Instrument for any 38-Across 11 Wreck 12 Bryant or Gillette 13 "Paradise Lost" figure 21 "Great Expectations" lad 22 --to grow on 23 Opera's Dame Nellie 24 Bay window 25 Start 

30 Ring wins 32From--Z 33 Just passing 
mark 34 Bay State cape 350ut 36 Space Invaders 
game maker 37 Cry to Macduff 39 Singular 40 Like basement 
flats 41 Beat in competition 
45 Poet's preposition 46 Los--, N.M. 47 Rank below capt. 49 Burning 50 Donizetti heroine 51 Bungling 
52 Demeter's Roman counterpart 
54 Stradivari's teacher 
55 Low dice roll 
57 Sills solo 
61 Spring mo. 
62 --chi ch'uan 
63lris locale 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, April 17, 1996 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Bookstore action heats up 
ball handling clinched the lop­frustrated Three Guys .... com­Seeded teams sided victo.ry for Pass the mented on the team's play. Beernuts VI. The Beernuts' "Wp, had a really tough labdominate during front line, consisting of over today, and we were a little five hundred pounds under the tired," Tracy said. opening round basket with 6-foot-7 freshman "I wasn't quite focussed. Mike Rosenthal and 6-foot-2 That would explain the nine
By BETSY BAKER 
senior Kevin Carretta, added to turnovers." 
Sports Writer 
the versatility and quickness of Another member of Three seniors Dan McConnell, Josh Guys... , Chris Wiwi added, "The 
Fun is being replaced by 
Burick, and junior T.R. Kane, hot weather was also a factor."
intensity as the competition is 
should make this team a defi­In other ranked action, sev­
heating up in Bookstore XXV. 
nite contender for the crown. enth-seeded Swoosh defeated
Comments like "We are just 
"It was the first time we have Todd's Special Little Team 21­
here to have a good time" are 
played together," Burick said. 12, while the no. 22 seed
being replaced by "We expect­
"So we were really pleased DESIRE defeated Castun, 21­
ed to be seeded higher, but 
with our performance." 13.
we'll prove it on the court." 
"We still need to improve, but The No. 23 team, Serial
The seeded teams were out in 
I think the more we play Killas, also showed that they
full force yesterday as 
together, the better we will get, belong in the rankings with a
Bookstore Basketball contin­
and hopefully we'll make a run 21-6 defeat of Big Poppa, Crazy 
ued. 
at the title." Hector, and 3 Other Guys ....
ln one of the more impressive 
Teammate Carretta has set Serial Killas captain, Rich
showings of the day, the 
his sights on more than just the Rolle, had this to say of his
eleventh-seeded Pass the 
Bookstore crown. team's performance. 
Beernuts VI -Last Call defeated 
"I really like playing "We played well," Rolle said.
Three Guys ... and Two Other 
Bookstore because it might get "We hustled and we had fun-
Guys 21-2. A combination of 
me a date," Carretta added. 
size, speed, and near flawless 
Sean Tracy, a member of the 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 21 

• BASEBALL 

Shortstop Paul Turco and the Irish offense proved to be too much in a 11-10 slugfest with the Northwestern Wildcats on Tuesday. 
Irish bats just enough to get by feisty 'Cats 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team continues to provide edge-of-your seat entertain­ment, as they nearly squan­dered a five run lead before finally taming the Northwestern Wildcats in an 11-10 slugfest at Evanston, Illinois yesterday afternoon. 
"It (the game) was a hard­fought, tough victory for us," said head coach Paul Mainieri following the game. "To hang
-
on for this win really showed a lot of mental toughness on our part." The Irish showed a load of toughness early on, spanking 
Nortwestern starter Chad Schroeder for five runs in the top of the first inning. The early attack was keyed by first baseman George Restovich, whose seventh triple of the season cleared the bases to put the Irish up 3-0, and it wasn't until number six hitter Bob Lisanti's RBI groundout that the Wildcats recorded the first out of the game. 
The Irish added a single run in the second inning but then promptly allowed the Wildcats back into the game, as Irish starter Dan Stavisky was tagged for two runs in both the second and third innings. 
see BASEBALL/ page 21 
• SPRING foonuu.t 
Nobody Nose 
Questions abound in battle for nose guard spot 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The nose guard for next sea­son's Fighting Irish football squad will have a tough act to follow. 
The past two Irish nose guards, Oliver Gibson and Paul Grasmanis, were forces that no opposing offense wanted to face. But this is a new team and a new season. Who will step up and earn the 
starting job for  the  1996  
Fighting Irish?  
Maybe  he  will  be  David  
Quist.  

"Quist brings a lot of brute strength to the table. He is very mature physically," com­mented defensive coordinator Bob Davie . 
. At 6-foot-6, 290 pounds, Quist has a size advantage over the other Irish nose guards by at least twenty pounds. After backing up Grasmanis during the '95 campaign, Quist has returned for a fifth year with the inten­tion to earn the starting posi­tion. 
Or maybe he will be Antwon Jones. 
"Jones brings a lot of great effort and impressive playmaking ability to the field. He had two sacks on Saturday. He's very produc­tive but not quite as big," said Davie. 
Jones, who will play as a sophomore next season, steps up to the line at nearly 260 pounds. Jones may not pos-sess the experience or size of Quist, but he has played very well thus far during spring practices. 

Alton Maiden is also competing for the nose guard position. 
"With Maiden, we're trying to bring him along gradually. Alton got a concussion in practice. We're handling it on a day-to-day basis. We just don't want to take any chances right now." Davie stated. 
The recent concussion may have set back his progress for a short time, but Maiden is ex­pected to return after a brief absence. He also missed last season because of a knee in-
see FOOTBALL/ page 21 
Baseball Men's and Women's Tennis • Yankowski can't compete in Bookstore 
vs. Purdue, Wednesday, April 17, 6:00 at Big East Championships Thursday­
see page 20
Sunday, April 18-21, 3:00 
Lacrosse Track & Field
vs. UMass, Saturday, April 20, Noon 
• Bulls reach 70 win plateau 
at Mount Sac Relays, April 19-20 
at Kansas Relays, April19-20 
see page 16
Softball 
vs. UConn, Saturday, April 20, Noon 
• Astros, Tigers emerge victorious see page 14 




