
Tuesday, March 26, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 111 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Spnialro rhe Observer 
Tlw Uniwrsity of NotrP Damn raisnd a rnc:ord $70.2 million in cash contributions in fiscal year 1 'J'Jfl, aec:ording lo thn annual report of tho University's De­partnwnt of l>ovPiopnwnt. 
Tlw total. whieh dons not take into account pledges of future gifts, tlXI;IHlded by more than $fl million the rec:ord established in I'JIJ4. 
"Notl'll Dame is fortunate­hlllSsnd. r·nally-to rnetlive such phnnomnnal support from vari­otrs eonstitunncies," said Daniel Hnagan. director of devolop­mont. "Tiwrn c:an be no ques­tion that the progress Notre Dame makes is duo in large llHHtsurn to the generosity of our hmwfadors. We are more than gratnful." 
Heeord-setting totals in the planrwd giving program, the Notre Danw Annual Fund, and corporate support played a larg11 role in establishing the overall record for eash contri­butions. 
Planned gifts-including be­

$170 million. 
In its 52nd year. the Notre Dame Annual Fund raised a record $14.3 million, a four percent increase over the pre­vious record established in 1994. The fund's matching gifts program raised a record-
see MONEY/ page 4 
Cash Contributions to Notre Dame 
Fiscal Year 1995 
Corporate Contributions $18.1 million 
Sorin Society $7 million 
Matching Gilts $2.7 million 
Annual Fund $14.3 million 
quests, trusts, insurance and other estate gifts-amounted to $11 million. equal to the record established last year. The Badin Guild, established for benefactors who include Notre Dame in their estates, numbers 491 members whose antici­pated gifts total more than 

row inmate 
tims, to find forgiveness. In addition to her work with death row inmates, Prejean offered assistance to the families of victims to help them find some sense of peace. 
"Through her work you gain an appreciation of what compassion, justice, mercy and patience means," said Brother Bonaventure Scully, rec­tor of Keenan IIall. 
has followed Prejean's efforts since she visitt\d Notre Dame in the spring of 1994 as part of a pnl­sentation sponsored by Keenan in 
with several other 
At that time the movie was a fledg­ling idea but it emerged into an hon­est representation of the issues in Prejean's book surrounding the 
"The movie does not tell you what to think about capital punishment but it does challenge you to face the question," Scully said. 
Hacial, socio-economic and politi­cal factors in addition to issues of Catholicism all emerge in the por­trayal of Prejean's life. 
The movie highlighted the fact that most people on death row are either a minority or unable to alTord better 
"It reflects everything about our system," Scully said. 
see PREJEAN/ page 4 
Annual award honors five student teachers 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
For the second year in a row, the Graduate Student Union {GSU) will honor graduate stu­dents with the GSU Awards for Outstanding Teaching by a Graduate Student. 
The awards are given for an outstanding teaching perfor­mance by a graduate student as a teaching assistant (TA) or an independent instructor. Teaching assistants help pro­fessors by grading and occa­sionally giving lectures. Inde­pendent instructors have com­plete responsibility for their classes. They are the main in­structors of the class. 
Winners receive one-hundred dollars and a place on a plaque in the GSU office. "The major reason that we started these awards last year was to publi­cize the quality of graduate student teaching," said Ed Wingenbach, the head of the awards committee. 
The independent instructors are judged by Teacher-Course Evaluations (TCEs), creativity and innovation in the creation of syllabi, and outside refer­ences, such as letters from de­partment heads. 

"The teaching assistants are harder to grade, bm~ause there are no syllabi or TCEs for most of them," Wingenbach said. Teaching assistants are judged by letters from the professors and, in some cases, letters from undergraduates that have taken the class. 
The committee that decides the awards is made up of four graduate students from each division of the University's Graduate School. Science, En-
see GSU I page 4 

--~---­

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
• INsmE Cm.11Mw 
Details 
worth 

remembering 
I was speaking to a very -;~~~~~~:­nice woman the other day and she happened to men­tion that I "generally pay no attention to details." I was outraged. Me, a sensitive, caring man, not pay atten­tion to details. 
Sure, I can't tell you what I wore yesterday (unless I woke up late in which case it's the same thing I have on today). And until a week ago I couldn't remember what the hell I did with my comb (which had been miss­ing since sometime first semester). But what I can tell you about is baseball. 
Barry Bonds is the best. Greg Maddux is God. Frank Thomas is Zeus. Fransisco Caberra can hit the ball right down the line 'Yhen it matters Uust ask anyone from Pittsburgh). Bo Jackson only needs one good leg and a bat to hit the ball 420 feet. Carlton Fisk could teach Deion a thing or two about professionalism. My pee­wee league could teach Bill Buckner a thing or two about keeping your eye on the ball. 
Some "people" out there may find this infor­mation to be "useless knowledge." To them I ask: Where the hell do you think knowledge of the molecular bonds of chemistry is going to get you? In the worst case scenario I'll meet another baseball junkie and share a few sto­ries. I just don't see that chemistry thing doing the same. "How 'bout them polymer bonds; isn't that hydrogen just zany,"just doesn't have the same ring as "How 'bout them Brewers, that B.J. Surhoffis really tearing it up." You baseball nazi's will never experience the joy of reminiscing Kirk Gibson's ninth inning blast ofT The Eek to the call of Marv Albert. Never will you share reenactments of the scene from Dave llenderson's ninth inning blast to send the Bosox to the '86 Series. Never will you smile as you think back to Saturday afternoon with Yin Scully and NBC's Game of the Week. The num­bers 2130, 714. 61, and legendary number 7 mean nothing to non-junkies. 
Sure I am oblivious to the minor details like 
when Easter is (do we get Thursday off?) and 
when I have the next test in Finance, but I do 
know that Ore! Hershiser once pitched 59 
straight scoreless innings (not that will be 
answer on the Finance test), but it will get a 
grin as fellow junkies think of the scene as 
Mike Soscia picks him up after he broke Sandy 
Kofaux consecutive scoreless innings mark. Or 
even the thought of Harry Caray making the 
home run call for Andre Dawson during his '88 
MVP season, "It might be. It could be (by this 
time the ball has already landed somewhere on 
Waveland and Dawson has already crossed the 
bat as they prepare for the next pitch). It is! A 
homerun. Holy Cow." Or my all-time favorite 
Caray quote (in reference to the Cubs road uni­
forms), "Looks like those things say Cuba aye 
Steve." This from a man with glasses so big his 
cheeks stay warm when the wind blows. 
I never claim to remember where I park my 
ear, or who the lead singer of Green Day is, or 
even how to pronounce all my roommates 
names (hey, there are five). What I can tell you 
are the important things, like the fact that 
Willie MeGee is the only batting champion to 
not finish the year in the league he won the 
title. 
If you need help learning about the things 
that are important, watch "Field of Dreams." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
Thomas Roland Managing Ediror 
• TODAY~S STAFF 
News Production Deborah Schultz Belle Bautista Manhew Loughran Heather "What's in a Sports Name?" Cocks Kathleen Lopez 
Lab Tech
Graphics 
Dave "Quarter Dogs" 
Brian Blank 
Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 

• WOBUl AT AGLANCE 
'Braveheart' wins five Oscars, including best picture 
LOS ANGELES 

"Braveheart," the epic about a 13th­century Scottish patriot, won five Oscars Monday night, including best picture and 1•b'lllli~.1ii1M'l best director for its star Mel Gibson. 
Like Gibson, Emma Thompson also won an Oscar in another area of her craft. adapting the Jane Austen novel "Sense and Sensibility" for the screen. 
Susan Sarandon, who played a nun trying to redeem a condemned killer in "Dead Man Walking," took best actress honors and Nicolas Cage was named "Braveheart" best actor for his role as a suicidal alco­holic in "Leaving Las Vegas." 
Gibson, a plaid vest flashing from between the lapels of his tuxedo, thanked writer Randall Wallace and pro-~l~~~1n~ r:~~egas"ducer Alan Ladd Jr. for bringing the script of the early Scottish epic to a "fis­cal imbecile." 
"Like most directors, what I really want to do is act," said Gibson. He Susan Sarandon granted his own wish, casting himself as "Dead Man Walking" 
the wild-haired warrior who drove the English from Scotland. 
"Braveheart" was Gibson's second Mel Gibson outing as a director, the first being "The "Braveheart" Man Without a Face" in 1993. lie fol­
lows a line of actors-turned director who L.._______________A.JP "Goodfeltas," among others. 
have won Oscars: Robert Hedford, Warren Beatty, Woody Allen, Kevin Costner. Thompson, who won the best actress award for "Howard's End" in 1992, collected her second Oscar. 

Thesday, March 26 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Vis Associated Press GrsphicsNet C 1996 AccuWeather.lnc 
Chicago 41 17 Miami 81 70 Tucson 78 43 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 26. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY . 
Cl 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L Ea ISS'! ITil 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T..STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pl CLOUDY CLOUDY VIS AssocJated Pmss 
Atlanta  57  44  Columbus  44  14  Minneapolis 39  18  
Baltimore  49  27  Dallas  51  40  New Orleans 65  55  
Boston  44  27  Denver  60  25  New Vorl<  44  33  
Calgary  10  -4  Los Angeles  71  53  Philadelphia 45  31  

Kirk Douglas got a standing ovation as he stepped up to accept an honorary Oscar-announced earlier-for "50 years as a creative and moral force in the making of motion picture community." 
The English actress told of visiting author Austen's grave at Winchester Cathedral "to pay my respects and tell her about the grosses." 
She concluded by dedicating her award to Ang Lee, who directed the film but was overlooked for an Oscar nomi­nation though the film was up for best picture. 
Supporting actor awards went to Kevin Spacey, the verbal con man in "The Usual Suspects," and Mira Sorvino, who played a hooker in "Mighty Aphrodite," won the Academy Awards for supporting actor and actress Monday night. 
Spacey thanked his mother for driving 
him to acting classes when he was 16: "I told you it would pay ofT, and here's the pudding." 
Sorvino thanked her father as the vet­eran actor openly sobbed in the audi­ence. 
"When you give me this award you honor my father, Paul Sorvino, who taught me everything I know about act­ing," she said. The elder Sorvino, a character actor, has appeared in TV's 
"Law & Order," and the movie 
Clinton urges support for health law 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton· urged states today to vigorously enforce laws barring tobacco sales to minors to combat the notion "that glamor and grit can be found in a package of cigarettes." Clinton met with 27 state attorneys general at the White House and asked them to implement an anti-smoking regulation named for the late Rep. 

Mike Synar, D-Okla. The rule, part of the Public Health Service Act of 1992. requires states to restrict the sale and distribution of tobacco products to minors in order to get federal block grants for substance abuse and treat­ment. Clinton acknowledged that even the best efforts of government may not be enough to keep some young peo­ple from smoking. He cited data that showed 3,000 young people per day begin smoking and 1,000 reduce their life expectancy because of the habit. 
Man sentenced for attacks on Amish 
SPARTA, Wis. 
A carpenter who sought revenge after an Amish buggy forced his car into a ditch was sentenced to 60 years in prison Monday for raping a 15-year-old Amish girl and firing a rifle at a horse and buggy. The attacks were classified as hate crimes because Michael Vieth admitted he targeted members of the religious sect. "Nobody deserves to go through what I put these people through," Vieth said at his sentencing. He apologized and said he would get alcohol counseling in prison. Vieth abducted the girl in rural Wilton as she walked home from substi­tute teaching and sexually assaulted her in his car. He cut ofT her underclothes after she told Vieth it would be a sin for her to remove them, according to the criminal complaint. Earlier that day, Vieth had shot at an Amish horse and buggy with a .22-ealiber rifle. The buggy held a man and three children; only the horse was injured. 
Russia drops plan for tariff increase 
NEWYOHK 
Russia has dropped a plan to raise import tariffs by 20 percent, clearing the way for a $10.2 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund, The New York Times reported. The loan had been thrown into doubt earlier this month after Hussia's finance minister, Vladimir Panskov, proposed the across-the-board tariff increase, contradicting previous assurances to the IMF. But the Times reported Tuesday that a senior Western economist said Hussia has now met almost all of the conditions and that the fund's staff had prepated a confidential analysis recommending that the loan go forward. The IMF's 24­member executive board is scheduled to take up the loan on Tuesday, and the Times said formal approval is now virtually assun~d. The loan is linked to a comprehensive plan to procet·d with market reforms and is expected to give Russian President Boris Yeltsin an important elec­tion-year boost. Last month, the head of the IMF ap­proved the loan to prop up Russia's free-market reforms. 
Canadian liberals sweep election 
TOHONTO 
Prime Minister Jean Chretien's Liberal Party swept to 
victory Monday in five of six by-elections for vacant par­
liamentary seats, including one district where Quebec 
separatists had fielded a strong challenger. Pierre Petti­
grew, appointed in January as Chretien's minister of in­
ternational cooperation. defeated Daniel Turp, a policy 
adviser to the separatist Bloc Quebecois, in a working­
class district in Montreal. The Liberals had held the seat 
since 1953, and Turp fared better than other separatists 
in recent elections in the district. A second new member 
of Chretien's Cabinet, Intergovernmental Affairs Minister 
Stephane Dion, also won his race in another Montreal 
district. That district had voted so strongly for federalist 
candidates in recent elections that the Bloc Quebecois 
made only a token effort this time. The Bloc Quebecois' 
only victory Monday came in the central Quebec district. 


Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Panel aids selection of major 
Hy SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
As a year of adapting to col­lnge life for freshmen draws to a close, Saint Mary's students lind themselves sorting through a list of possible majors with many unanswered questions. 
In an effort to assist students and answer their questions in the early stages of choosing a major, the Counseling and Ca­rner Development Center (C&CI>C) presented the panel diseussion last night. 
Karen Manier, assistant di­rnctor of tlw C&CI>C, along with a pand of Saint Mary's juniors and snniors rnpresenting a widn array of majors, guided an audinnl~n of Saint Mary's fn~shnwn through the process of choosing a major. 
Manier warned the freshmen audience of the many "stum­bling blocks" that students may face when declaring a major. 
"Some students simply don't always do enough information searches before declaring a major," said Manier. 
The panel suggested three guidelines to students choosing a major. First, students should read the information available about the major. 
Secondly, students should talk to other students in the major and faculty in the department. Thirdly, experiencing the major first­hand by taking a class was also recommended. The panel indi­cated that this will help stu­dents focus on those majors that incorporate their interests. 
In beginning the process, 
Manier suggests students visit the C&CDC career library. The library offers books on majors and occupations as well as a computer program linked to alumnae to assist in finding in­ternships or providing informa­tion on majors. 
"Not only do we offer valu­able information, but a student assistant is on duty to assist in searches," said Manier. 
"By making a visit to the C&CDC library, we can help with any questions and get stu­dents started on the road to de­ci-ding on a major," said Beth Lang, student assistant. 
"The library is a great re­source that all students are welcome and invited to use in making plans about majors in college and afterwards," said Manier. 




Morrissey accepts new post 
Special to The Observer 
David Morrissny, associatn di­rPrtor of devnlopment at Notre llanw and director of tlw Uni­vnrsity's Los Angeles regional dnvnlopnwnt ofl'irl~. has htHHI promot­nd to tlw 11nwly l~rl~at­nd position of dirnctor or inWrnational and public polil'y ad­vanrenwnt. 
In meent years Morrisst~y has din~rtnd Notre l>anw's early ef­forts in intt~mational fund rais­ing, with a personal focus on Asia. lie played an integral roln in thn University's record­setting StratP.gi<: Monwnt capi­tal campaign and in the dtwdopnwnt department's win-ning of Circle of Excellence Awards from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education. 


In his new role, Morrissey will expand the University's in­ternational development activi­ties and also establish special advancement programs for Notre Dame's law and graduate business schools and for the University's presence in Wash­ington, D.C. 
"Dave has been Notre Dame's link to the West Coast for more than 15 years," said William Sexton, vice president for Uni­versity Belations. "We are delifghted that now he will be joining us on campus to con­tinw~ our new focus on interna­tional development and to work closely with the law and busi­ness sdwols. We have only re­cently begun to establish closer ties to decision-makers in Washington, and I'm pleased that Dave also will be directing our efforts in that regard." 
A member of the Notre Dame development staff since 1980, Morrissey previously worked in alumni and development posi­tions at Loyola Marymount Uni­versity. lie also served for four years in the U.S. Air Force as a missile launch officer and in­structor. He holds a bachelor's degree from Loyola and a mas­ter's of business administration degree from the University of Southern California. 
Morrissey and his wife, Bon­nie, are the parents of four children, all Notre Dame grad­uates: Kevin '86, Kimberly '88, Colleen '92, and Dennis '93. Colleen is a second-year stu­dent in the Notre Dame Law School. 
Morrissey will assume his new position April 1. 


BE A F'ART OF PLANNING YOUR JF'W!!! APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1997 IPw EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE!!! OON'f MlSS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPliCATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM MARCH 29 
In step! 


Special to The Observer 
Steven Patterson, a recent doctoral recipient from Georgia State University, has received a two-year postdoctoral fellow­ship endowed by Bayer Corp., according to Charles Kulpa, Jr., professor of biology. 
Patterson, a postdoctoral fel­low in the laboratories of Assis­tant Professors of Chemistry and Biochemistry Hichard Tay­lor and Bradley Smith at Notre Dame, is conducting research on the "Library Approach to Carbohydrate Sensors." 

The fellowship will be admin­istered by Notre Dame's Center for Bioengineering and Pollu­tion Control. The center coor­dinates faculty research activi­ties in the Colleges of Engineering and of Science. 
WOMEN'S ISSUES IN IRELAND June 5 -July 9 or 
IRISH DRAMA: POLITICS AND WAR June 26-July 26 
APPLY NOW AND EXPERIENCE IRELAND IN AUNIQUE WAY! 
Division of International Programs Abroad • 119 Euclid Avenue 1-800-251-9674 • DIPASUM@suadmin.syr.edu 
ITVDENT UNION BOARD 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
ND celebrates E~rth Week 
Special to The Observer Brownfield Policy" will take sored by the Recyclin' Irish, 
place Wed., March 27 from will befrom 1·5 p.m. Sat., 
The Notre Dame 6:30-9:30 p.m. in Room 120 of March 30 at the Fieldhouse Environmental Coalition, an the Law SchooL An Mall. The outdoor conc1:1rt will informal alliance of campus Environmental Movie Festival fea~ure George and the Freeks groups, is celebrating Earth will be sponsored by the Terra and Stomper Bob and the 4x4s. Week with a week full of activi· 'Club Fri., March 29 from 8 There will be speakers, booth ties to promote environmental p.m. to 1:30 a:m. in presentations by environmen­awareness and involvement. Montgomery Theater in tal groups, tie-dying, free food, 
"Seeking Environmental Jus· LaFortune Student Center. a bead workshop and an envi· tice: A Panel Discussion on Sham_]OCK Greenfest, spon· -ronmental obstacle cour.se. 
.. 

Election 
continued from page 1 

have caused over ten individu­als to easily change their minds." 
The Elections Committee met Monday to decide the penalty for the violation, which they collectively agreed would be a deduction of 15% of the ticket's total votes. 
"We obviously have to penal­ize them because all the other tickets played fair," committee member Christine Riesenberger said. 
The committee based the penalty on the voter turnout in past elections and an estima­tion of what the voter turnout will be today when the juniors vote. 
"If it's a close or marginal election, the violation could have an effect," committee member Colin Shaughnessy said. "But if the election is a landslide, the violation won't make any difference." 
Committee members Jen Lidga and Emily Miller also supported the decision, explain­ing that some of the members on the ticket have held student government offices before, and have knowledge of the election policies. 
"The reason why Emily [Ruffner] holds mandatory meetings is to assure that situa­tions like this don't occur," Miller explained. "She is very specific in going over the rules and policies." 

The committee ruled that in case of a runoff at the election today, the 15% penalty would again apply. 
"We assume full responsibil­ity for distributing flyers that were 8 1/2 x 11 inches," presi­dential candidate Jolie Pokorny said. "This minor oversight that will result in a 15% vote reduction is a call to all 329 members of the class of 1997 to vote in order to ensure that our class is fully represented. We are the same ticket, with the same platform, and the same dedication to serve our class.'' 
Voting will take place during all meals in the dining hall to­day. 
we were extremely impressed with the quality of the teaching this year. There were plenty who were well above the uni­versity average," said Win­genbach. 
The committee has already submitted its finalists to Turpin, and the winners are expected to be announced by April 1st. 
sustained meditation on love, criminal violence and capital punishment. 
"In a larger sense, [the book) is about life and death itself," she continued. "Are we here to persecute our brothers or to bring compassion into a world which is cruel without reason?" 

Money 
continued from page 1 
tying $2.7 million. Among U.S. colleges and universities, Notre Dame is second only to Harvard University in both number of matching gifts and total matching gift dollars. 
A record $7 million was raised through the Sorin Soci­ety, flagship of the Annual Fund. 

The society includes con­tributors of a minimum of $1,000 annually in unrestrict­ed gifts, as well as Founders Circle members, who donate $3,000 or more annually. 
Corporate contributions to Notre Dame in 1995 amounted to $18.1 million and foundation contributions totaled $5.9 mil­lion for a combined record of $24 million. 
More than 50 percent of Notre Dame's undergraduate alumni made contributions to their alma mater, one of the highest participation rates among American colleges and universities. 
In total, almost 35,000 alumni contributed $31.3 mil­lion to the University. 


Herro 
continued from page 1 
that the trial date has been reset. 
Herro, an associate professor in the electrical engineering department, was arrested in late October by St. Joseph County police and charged with three counts of child molestation and two counts of sexual misconduct with a 
minor. 
He remains on the faculty of the University pending the out­come of the trial, according to Michael Garvey, assistant director of Notre Dame Public Relations. 
From January 1994 to June 1995, Herro allegedly molested the boy numerous times at sev­eral locations. Herro was a friend of the boy's family, au­thorities said. 
The boy's father informed the county police of the alleged conduct in October after finally persuading his son to talk about it, according to police reports. 
Herro remains free after posting $2,000 bond. He has pleaded innocent. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Follow the Fighting Irish to 



Ireland 

GSU 
continued from page 1 
gineering, Social Sciences and Humanities. The nominees are divided up by division. and each division representative suggests one or two finalists for each award. The committee then 
Prejean 
continued from page 1 
"Besides, there is no evidence that capital punishment deters anything. The people that com­mit these crimes arc far from rational." 
meets and decides on two or three overall finalists. 
The suggestions of the com­mittee are then passed on to Barbara Turpin, the associate dean of the Graduate School, who decides the honorees. "We finally settled on two for theTA award, and three for the inde­pendent instructor awards, but 
For Scully, the issue is a polit­ical game. 
"Politicians play with people's lives to get votes. Instead, it should be a moral issue and we should look at it as educated Catholics." 
'"Dead Man Walking,"' said Prejean of her book, "was a 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

Sunday, March 31, 1996 12:00 -3:30 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility ofmarriage Topics to Be presented: 
•Stages ofrelationship 
•Steps in making healthy decisions 
•Long-distance relationships 
There is no cost for the program, but... Pre-registration is required. . . By Friday, March 29 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Cal/631-5242 
Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend, you can 
(two weekends and a week), 
still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
featuring Irish entertainment. and Notre Dame football ­
sightseeing, great jazz and and of course piem y of 
Notre Dame footbalL Irish entertainment. 
o< Only . ~ Only 

,. $1450 from

$2150 from Chicago*
Chicago* 
''Other derarture citie' al"' available. MATTERHORN TRAVEL-------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 

American Cancer Society of Notre Dame 
Presents: 

Surviving Cancer: An ND Student's Perspective 
Featuring: 




Lori Miller 

Lecture & Question·Answer Session 
To be held Tuesday, March 26TH at 7:00PM in 12 3 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Call Nicole@ 634-1318 With Any Questions 
Tuesday, March 26, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• RussiA


New comet attracts skygazers 
By CAROLYN THOMPSON 
Associated Pross 
BOSTON 

Other comets have come clos­er to Earth. Others have shone brighter. But as comets go, llyakutake, the little greenish fuzzball in the sky, is a heaven­ly reward for skygazers. 
"Suddenly, all of your neigh­bors who thought you were a little odd hunting for dim, litlle, distant galaxies in a tnlescope in your backyard in the middle of the night suddnnly ean stop outside their door and there it is," said /\Ian MaeHob11rt, assn­date nditor at Sky & Telescope magazine in Cambridge. "For amal!Jur astronom11rs, these are wonderful times." 
llyakutakn, making its first appearanee in about 9,000 years, has bnen drawing count­lnss nyes to the night sky. 
Internet sites are crowded with enthusiastic obsnrvations. 
"Boy is this fun," began one message. "Dang, what a sight!" read anoth11r. "You simply can't miss this comet. It just jumps out at you." 
Not bad for a chunk of dirty ice that's been drifting above since the solar system formed. 
"Them's something about the appearance of a comet." said 
Yeltsin calls for closer 
What is it? 

ties with Belarussians
The core of a comet is 

Brian Marsden, associate direc-'-So_u_r_c-e:-C-al·i-fo_rn__ia-1-ns-til-ut-"-e""'ot=Technology, 
AP research APfTonia Cowan leaving for Norway. 

a "dirty snowball" made up of ice, dust and rock. 
By DEBORAH SEWARD 
When its orbit takes it 

Associated Press 
close to the sun, the 
ices steam outward, 
MOSCOW
creating the coma (also 

President Boris Yeltsin said
known as the head) and 

Monday that Russia and Be­
March 25 the tail. May 1 Closest point 
larus would have strong ties 
under their new union, but de­
Closest point to the earth. How big Is It? 
to the sun The comet's head is 
nied the two
Approximately ~.·::'..· 
40 times the . w about 40 times larger 

countries
distance to the than the earthl.21 million miles 

were forming
moon.

34million km How bright will it be? 
a single
Possibly as bright as a 

state.
en 
Q) quarter moon. 

President
'E ~ When will it be back? 

Alexander 
Between 1 0,000· 

Lukashenko
BIG 
20,000 years. 

of Belarus announced Yeltsin

Viewing tips 

Saturday that 
his country would sign an
Ill Try to leave the city. 
Light pollution makes 

agreement with Hussia next 
it difficult to see. 

week creating a new union 
Iii Let your eyes get 

between the two countries. 
adapted to the 

Some Belarussians feared the 
. dark first (at least 

union would strip them of their 
,, 20-30 minutes). 

independence. But Yeltsin saidPolaris 
1111 Take a simple star 

each country would remain in­
(North Star) 
chart with you. 

dependent. 
• Contact your local 

"It will not be a treaty on astronomical society or 
(creating) a single state. But it
I!'!W"i'IJ!i"liill~!!l~ 
planetarium to see if 

will be a treaty on very deep
Facing north 
they have a "star party" 

integration," Yeltsin told
planned. 

reporters in Moscow before 
tor for planetary sciences at the Smithsonian-llarvard Center for Astrophysics. "I suppose it's the faet that you can have this thing ... just for a little while and know it's come from a gmat distance." 
llyakutake, named for the amatnur .Japanese astronomer who discovemd it in January, is the brightest burning comet sinen Comet West in 1976. It is visible throughout the Northern llemisphere. 
Observers say there have been few more watchable comets this century, though the much larger llaiB-Bopp due to pass near Earth next year could top Hyakutake's show. 
At llyakutake's nearest point to Earth -about 9.5 million miles away Sunday and Monday -sky-watchers said it had the brightness of Sirius, the bright­est star in the northern sky. Its tail of glowing gases is an esti­mated 62,000 miles long. 
A comet came closer to Earth as recently as 1983, but it was nowhere near as bright. 
Experts say the comet will start to fade after Monday until the first week in April as it drifts farther from the Earth, but may brighten again as it gets closer to the sun. It should become visible to people in the Southern Hemisphere in mid­May, MacRobert said. 
Traveling 198,000 mph as it rounds the sun, llyakutake's orbit and the gravitational ef­fects of the planets should bring it back this way in about 17,000 years. Halley's Comet returns every 76 years. 
"Things like this spur people to look up beyond the surface of our little planet, where we live our little lives," MacRobert said, "and see something of the bigger, wider universe that is waiting for us to just look up." 

Speaking in Brussels on Monday, Belarussian Prime Minister Mikhail Chigir insisted that both countries would maintain their independence. 
News of the agreement drew strong reaction from Belarus­sian nationalists opposed to stronger ties with Russia. 
About 15,000 people, many waving red-and-white Belarus­sian flags, marched through downtown Minsk on Sunday to demand continued indepen­dence and protest government moves toward closer links with Moscow. 
The Belarussian National 
Front said 100 people were beaten, 12 detained and six hospitalized as a result of clashes with police during the demonstration. 
Front leaders also said they planned to send a letter to Yeltsin warning that they will light if the union goes ahead. 
"If the Kremlin continues its policy of oecupation, it will get another Chcchnya," National Front leader Zenon Poznyak said the letter would say. 
Most Belarussians, however, support closer ties with Moscow. The country of 10 mil­lion is floundering economically and many Belarussians long for the stability of the old Soviet system and look to Hussia to bail them out. 
Chigir acknowledged that his country is the poorest of all the former Soviet republics and said expanded trade with the West would, among other things, help Belarus pay the enormous bill it owes Hussia for oil and gas. 
In Moscow, the agreement drew mixed reviews from Communists, who generally support the restoration of the former Soviet Union. 
Viktor Anpilov, leader of the most pro-Soviet Communist party, was quoted Monday by the lnterfax news agency as saying that the agreement was doomed to failure. 
"There can be no talk of inte­gration between ex-Soviet re­publics without the restoration of Soviet power, people's own­ership and a single union of nations," Anpilov said. 
However, Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov, who is the front-runner in the presidential race, praised the new union Sunday and claimed credit. 

CLOSING OF LENT 1996 
"Are you not aware that we who were baptized into Christ 1 esus were baptized into his death?" 
Meet Your Major 
Rom~na 6:1] 



ECONOMICS 
Tuesday, March 26, 1996 7 PM 118 O'Shaughnessy Hall 


Residence Hall Stations of the Cross Wednesday, March 27 9:00p.m.
An in-depth discussion with Economics Professors and Current 
Regina Chapel 
Le Mans Chapel
Economics Students 
Holy Cross Chapel
regarding 
Come pray the stations with your friends and neighbors. 
Majoring in Economics 

Passion (Palm) Sunday, March 31
A flexible major which allows students to complete a 
No Residence Hall Masses
business-related major within the context of a liberal arts education 
College Mass-1:30 p.m., Church of Loretto 
Joined together in one single celebration, we begin this most holy of 
weeks.
A major leading to: 
• Jobs in banking and finance, in human relations, in consulting 
• Law school 

• MBA programs 
Community Reconciliation Service Tuesday, April 2
• Graduate school in economics 
9:00 p.m. -Regina Chapel 
• Graduate school in public policy 
Together we celebrate the forgiving, healing presence of our God 
among us--one last act ofpreparation for the Easter Trlduum of Holy 77umday, Good Friday and Holy Saturday. 
• many other opportunities and careers 
-t!f­
Camrua M\n\atry SAINT Saini t.bry'a Collep
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
~ 
--------------------~-~~----~--­page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
• GERMANY 

Authorities Peacekeepers opt for 'dynamic' role 
seek Syrian terrorists 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 

Authorities investigating two terror attacks in the 1980s are seeking two high-ranking Syri­ans, including one described as a relative of Syrian President Ilafez Assad, offi­cials said Monday. 
One arrest warrant was is­sued a year ago for Feisal Sammak, Syria's former am­bassador in East Berlin and a relative of Assad, according to Suzanne Pfefferkorn, a spokes­woman for the Berlin State Justice Ministry. 
Sammak is suspected of hav­ing helped terrorist Carlos the Jackal's alleged right-hand man, Johannes Weinrich, in the 1983 bombing of a French cultural center in West Berlin, which killed one man and in­jured 23 others. Weinrich is being tried for murder in the bombing. 
The other warrant is against Heitham Said, chief of the Syr­ian air force's spy agency. He is accused of ordering the 1986 bombing of the German­Arab Friendship Society in West Berlin, which injured seven people. 
Austrian officials arrested 

Sammak in Vienna in 1994 at 
the request of the German gov­
ernment, but he was soon re­
leased under diplomatic im­
munity. He is director general 
of the Syrian Tobacco Co. 
By EDITH LEDERER 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
NATO-led peacekeepers will take part in civilian projects to rebuild Bosnia "in a much more dynamic way," the force said Monday in announcing a significant deviation from its mandate. 
The U.N. peacekeeping mis­sion that preceded NATO was doomed in part because it spread itself thin, and alliance commanders insisted on stick­ing to the military role assigned in Bosnia's peace pact. 
But with the need to rebuild the war-1·avaged country so great, and cooperation among Bosnia's rival factions so poor, NATO has found it necessary to expand its role. 
"The military commanders have now accepted that they 
will change their emphasis," said Maj. Simon Haselock, a NATO spokesman. 
The announcement meant that NATO was expecting full compliance with the last mili­tary milestone in the peace agreement -the withdrawal of all forces to barracks to storage areas by April 18. 
Since the NATO-led force took over from the United Nations in late December, it has success­fully implemented military pro­visions of the peace agreement -maintaining the cease-fire and separating the combatants. 
·nut the civilian challenge of trying to get Muslims, Croats and Serbs to live together again has proven more difficult. 
"We're now saying that we will assist in civil projects in a much more dynamic way than we have done hitherto," Base­lock said. "This shift in the em-

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Purchasing Manager 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Matt Casey or Joe Hartzell@ 631-5313 or drop off your resume at The Observer Office, room 314 in LaFortune. 
•Resumes are due by 5:00PM on Friday, March 29TH. 
phasis of land forces operations is in response to the obvious need for civil assistance in re­pairing and replacing the in­frastructure damaged after four years of war." 
After April 18, he said, peace­keepers will help to clear mines and make locals aware of the dangers from mines, he said. It will also assist in trans­portation. communications and medical care. 
Haselock indirectly played down the dangers of "mission creep" -or spreading the NATO force too thin. 
Despite the new flexibility voiced Monday, there was no indication that NATO would as­sume a greater role in guarding suspected grave sites against tampering before planned exca­vations this spring. 


for: 

'rhe Assocllatllon of Collese Unllons-lnternatllonal Resllonal Conference occurrllns on the Notre Dame campus lin Mowember 1997 sponsored by the OHIIce of Student Actllwlltlles 
Rules and Regulations 
• 
Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 

• 
Other pertinent information: ACU-1 Region 9 Conference November 7-9 1997 University of Notre Dame 

• 
The design must be two-dimensional 

• 
Any medium may be use.d, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 

• 
The design should be in color. 

• 
The design must be contained within a 8 I /2 XII inch piece of paper. 

• 
The design must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 

• 
Deadline for all entries is 3:00 PM on April 4, 1996, at the Student Activities Office. 

• 
The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the University of Notre Dame. 


More information is available from the Office of Student Activities, 3 15 LaFortune Student Center. 
The University ofNotre Dame presents ~NN ~VIIWILIE~ Professor of Sociology at The University of California-Berkeley Co-Author of Habits ofthe Heart and The Good Society "The Moral Infrastructure ofAmerican Society" Tuesday, March 26, 1996 • 8:00PM Room 141 -DeBartolo Hall Open to the Public & Departmental Lecture "Cracking the Bell Curve Myth: The Real Sociology ofInequality'' Wednesday, March 27, 1996 • 3:45PM Room 131 0-DeBartolo Hall Sponsored by Provost's Distinguished Visiting Lecturer Program and The Department ofSociology  


Burger King announced

Iwgan last we•~k. when the gov­1989. force the other 49 states to Court is expected to rule on the 
Monday night that its restau­

Prnmtlnt disdosNI that scien­British Prime Ministnr John grant homosexuals in same-sex challenge this year. 
rants in Britain were joining

tists hdit)W I 0 easns of a lethal Major immediately appealed to unions the same financial. legal Perkins said his group will 
McDonald's, Wendy's and the

brain disnase "most liktdy" 1\U Commission President and social benefits afforded to consider bringing l'orwud a 
.l.uesJay, March 26, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS 

• 
Study: Risk of disease 'small' 
By ROBERT BARR spongiform Associated Press encephalopa­
thy. At least LONDON eight of the 
lloping its words would vietims have speak louder than its modest died. aetions, Britain said Monday Millions of that the risk of humans eateh­Britons ing mad eow disease is stopped eating "extrt)mely small" and ruled beef, and out !ll)stroying millions of ani­sehoul cafete­mals to eurb its sprnad. rias, restau­
But far from ealrning worries, rants and tho government's stattHnent more than a only fueled what is beeoming dozen nations an inereasingly partisan issue bannnd it. and sparked angry exehanges On Monday, in the llousn of Commons. the trouble 
"Last week I said publie eon­continued for ridence was hanging by a the British thread. Now publie eonlidence beef industry, has eollapst)d," Harriet liar­with the man of Britain's opposition La­European bor Party told the legislature Union banning after the announeement. its meat. 
The European Union banned Britain was British beef and veal on Mon­the only dis­day, and Burger King rnstau­smiting vote in rants in Britain and joined the the Ell vetnri­spreading boyeott that threat­nary commit­ens to devastate the nation's tee. All but $(,-hill ion beef industry. two EU coun­
Covernnwnt scientists said tries -Ire­· tlwy were investigating two land and possible new eases of the hu­Dnnmark ­
Source· Meal and llveslock Commission AP/Trac1e Tso 
man sit~knnss linked to mad had already t:ow disease. banned British beef, as the sion Tuesday. Tlw panie over British beef United States has done since 
sttnnnwd from tlw eattln dis­.Jacques Santer and won a nasn, formally known as hovinn pmmise to reconsidflr the deei-
CASTING & ANGLING 
COURSE Four Sessions 
Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES APRIL 2 APRIL 9 APRIL 16 APRIL 23 


Classes Held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Mad cow disease 
The mad OON scare threw Britian's $6 billion beef industry into crisis wflen the government acknowledged that the cattle disease is the most likely source of a similar brain disease that has struck I 0 young Britons. 
Trail of the brain d&s~ae 
1 S.heep entrails, · .
pq··

contaminated with \~ ·· a brain-wasting 'I · diSease, scrapie, is \ 4' led to cattle. The r> use of sheep entrails as feed . !·', 
~a1s9~~nned T\!F -~~~\, 
14,181 ,>' •' } ! 
·.:.....
•' '/' )j
i ·"". ( 

\_ '88 '90 '92 '94 '96 
...... 
•as of March
··";'
\ 

2 Contaminated cattle slaughtered, meat distributed. 



3 Humans are tnlected when meat is ingested. 
Symptoms or 
Sp(·rrh liSt w11l · • mmpt't'hensirm . impaired 1j
,_..~......r... 
1 

Vi.nwl /tiilurr 
J 

Rtil'id, drrasttlling · . 
dt'llll'nlill \ 
~ f. 

Spmlic limb ......................k
'1· 

pc1ru(rJis \ 
Ireland S. Alrica i Befg1um/ · Lux.

Almt~rrmrl mowr-nrrvt ' ' 
mntml; trtmors and rigidity 
France Netherlands Germany 
British Wimpy chain in switeh­

married heterosflxuals . ballot initiative banning same­ing to imported beef. 
Supporters accused Romer sex marriages in Colorado. 
•.AUSTRAlJA 

Accused murderer faces trial 
five women and two nwn be­southwnst of Sydney. 
Suspect pleads 

tween 1989 and 1992, dump­Milat's ex-wife also is ex­ing their bodies in the tangled pected to testify that he oftennot guilty in the woods of Belanglo State Forest. took her hiking or pi<:nic.king in Milat also allegedly attnmpted thfl forest and oftlm carried a
slaying of seven to murder a British man who gun on those outings. escaped. The man, identified Australia has had other mass
By PETER SPIELMANN 

only as "Witness A" is sched­mu~en.~enon~~Ul more
Associated Press 

uled to testify at the trial in the victims. New South Wales Supreme But the calculated stalking
SYDNEY 

Court. and capture of the victims.
On the opening day of his 

During a pretrial hearing, the combined with the sheer bru­trial, the man accused of stalk­
man said he was hitehhiking in tality of the slayings, horrified
ing and slaughtering seven 

January 1990 when Milat the nation like no other.
baekpackers in Australia's 

picked him up, pulled out a pis­Overseas, the killings tar­most notorious serial murder 
tol and produced a bag of nished Australia's rnputation ascase pleaded innocent Monday. 
ropes. a safe tourist destination for
Prosecutors are to present 

The man said he bolted from the budget-minded backpacker. 
opening arguments Tuesday in the car, and Milat shot at him Milat, a former truck driver,the trial of. Ivan Robert Marko 

as he fled near the turnoff to is charged with murdering
Milat, 51, charged with killing 

the state forest, about 60 miles sevnn people: 
• British traveling compan­ions Caroline .Jane Clarke, 21, of Staley, and .Joanne Lesley

I Waltflrs, 22, of Maesteg. 
• German couple Gabor Kurt Neugebauer. 21. of Munich, and Anja Susanne llabschied, 20, of Karlsfeld. 
• German traveler Simone 
Loretta Schmidt, 21, of Hegens­burg. 

tes 
• James II arold Gibson, 19 and Deborah Phyllis Everist, 19, both from Australia's state of Victoria. 
In a pretrial hearing, the prosecution said the killer used a rille with a silencer to avoid attracting attention as he shot Clarkfl l 0 timfls in the head, us­ing her skull for "target prac­tice." Walters' T -shirt had over 20 slash and stab holes in it. 
Parts of the gun used to shoot Clarke bear Milat's fingerprints and were found in his house. Ballistics tests linked it with bullets and eartridges found near Clarke's remains. 
Camping gear, backpacks and other property belonging to several of the backpackers were found at Milat's home or had been given to his relatives for storage, police say. 
page 7 

Governor vetoes bill banning gay marriages 
By JENNIFER MEARS 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 

Gov. Roy Romer vetoed a bill banning same-sex marriages Monday, saying such unions may deserve legal recognition. 
"It is one thing to believe, as I do, that marriage is the union of a man and a woman," Romer, a Democrat, said. "It is quite another to believe that committed samfl-sex relation­ships do not exist and should not be recognized by society. 
"We cannot prohibit or ban these relationships, and we shouldn't use our law to at­tempt to do so," he said. 
The bill won final approval in the Colorado Legislature earli­er this inonth. The bill passed 33-31 in the House and 20-14 in the Senate, so it is unlikely supporters could get the two­thirds majority needed to over­ride the governor's veto. 
The bill is similar to legisla­tion in other states introduced in response to a court case in Hawaii that could result in a ruling legalizing gay marriages as early as this year. 
Since states customarily rec­ognize each other's statutes, such a ruling in Hawaii could of bowing to political pressure. But Homer, a three-term gover­nor who is barrnd by law from serving another term, called the legislation mean-spirited and unnecessary. 
"Let's be honest. Some sup­port this bill beeause it is a way to single out and condmnn the lifestyle of gay and lesbian peo­ple," he said. 
Leslie Heed and Sharon Es­pinosa, a lesbian couple, said the governor's action was a step in the right direction. "We're in the long run going to be recognized as a family," Espinosa said. 
Will Perkins, chairman of Family Values, condemned the veto. "The governor is absolutely unaccountable to the electorate," he said. "He is in the pocket of pro-homosexual interests and is attempting to hold the state hostage." 
Colorado was boycotted and labeled the "hate state" after approving an anti-gay-rights measure in 1992 that banned local laws protecting gays from bias in employment, housing and public accommodations. 
The ballot measure, written by Perkins' group, was struck down by state courts and never took effect. The U.S. Supreme 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DMIE OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 63!-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Parricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ........................ : ...... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timorhy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Jocy Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galbvan Saint Mary's Edimr................. Caroline Blum Controllcr.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Ob;erver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of eirher institution. The neW!) is reported as acctirarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represenr rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Pharo Edimr, Sports Edimr, and Saint Mary's Edimr. Commenraries, letters and Inside Columns present the .views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 l'ax 631-6927 Day Ediror/Producrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.1 @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Israeli 'security 01easures' leave Palestinians in a bind 
children will witness the bombing of der any potential for peaceful negotia­two million Palestinians are being forced President Clinton, have created a devas­their home, and they will feel such tions impossible. to pay a heavy price for the crimes of a tating state of insecurity among the anger that they may go out and do what For two weeks, all Palestinians were few desperate, vengeful young men. Palestinians who condemn bombings Ibrahim did. " confined to their village or town by hun-The conditions here have become and violence. 
The Israeli military has another theory dreds of Israeli checkpoints. At least abysmal. In Gaza, where unemployment Causing great suffering among an about house demolitions. As one official three infants died at the rheck point has risen from 50 percent to now 70 entire population, to punish the crimes said, "blowing up a house has greater when they were prevented irom reach­percent, many people are near starva­of a few, is an outrage that would be tol­psychological deterrent effect. When ing hospitals. Cancer patients, people tion. erated by no civilized society. you feel the ground tremble under your needing kidney dialysis, and others were To make matters worse, yesterday This humiliation, if intended to pro­feet you think about it a long time" cut off from their treatment. Israel brought in over 200 Thai workers duce "Israeli security", will likely have (Jerusalem Post, 15 March). Now movement between towns and to replace Palestinian laborers (in jobs a different effect, as the initial enthusi­
This is evidently a form of deterrence villages is permitted for a 12-hour peri­that most Israelis refuse), and will con­asm for the "peace process" rapidly that works only on Palestinians. The od daily; however, the rhetoric of "cas­tinue to bring in new Thai workers at deteriorates. family homes of Jewish settler Baruch ing the closure" obscures the fact that the rate of 400 per day for the next ten Coming only a few months after the Goldstein, who massacred 29 Palestinians are still denied freedom of days. partial Israeli "withdrawals", the reality Palestinians at prayer, and of Yigal movement, access to jobs and schools, During its 28 year occupation, Israeli of continuing domination is setting in, Amir, the confessed assassin of Yitzak and the ability to transfer food and forced the Palestinians into economic and along with it, a sense of helpless­Rabin, remain standing. products freely. subservience, blocking independent ness and growing resentment. If any 
The house of Ibrahim's family may A top UN official in the territories has development that would compete with hope for peace is to be salvaged, the clo­also be seen as a metaphor for the predicted social and political unrest if Israel, and maintaining a large reserve sure must be lifted now. Palestinian territories, which are slowly this closure continues for two more of cheap Palestinian labor. being destroyed through an ongoing weeks. Now Israel pretends it has no respon­THERESE SALIBA "closure" imposed after the bombings. The overwhelming majority of sibility for the condition of hundreds of 
Collective punishment, considered a Palestinians, even the mothers of thousands of people .to a small area Editor's Note: Therese Saliba is a 
deterrent by Israeli officials, is in fact bombers, condemn the suicide bomb­around their homes. In middle-class senior Fulbright scholar at Bethlehem 
creating a climate of frustration and ings. Tens of thousands have participat­neighborhoods, some people are wan­University West Bank, 1995-96, and a 
desperation among Palestinians in the ed in demonstrations from Nablus to dering from house to house trying to sell Faculty member at The Evergreen State 
West Bank and Gaza Strip that may ren-Gaza protesting the violence. And yet, televisions and VCR's to pay their rent. College, Washington. 



"Aword has power in and 
of itself. It comes from nothing into sound and mean­ing; it gives origin to all things. By means of the word can a man deal with the world on equal terms." 
-N. Scott Momaday 
---~~--~­

VIEWPOINT
Ti.a:sday, March 26, 1996 
page 9 

• 7-ETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Enthusiastic, talented students have opportunity for role reversal 
Dear Editor: nity to an excellent education. They need more teach­law, medicine, public policy, and corporate America An Appeal to Graduating Seniors: ers who hold high expectations for them, who are cre­where they have a rare commitment to changing the I am writing to ask you to consider spending your ative in spite of a lack of resources, and who arc com­circumstances in urban and rural areas. 
1wxt two years teaching in an under-resourced urban mitted to doing whatever it takes to reach them. At I'm writing now to call upon you to become part of or rural public school. the the same time, our nation at large needs leaders this movement and to help build our country's future. Seven years ago, when I was a senior in college, I who are committed to effecting needed systemic Whether you are already on track to a secure job or 
started Teach For America because I was convinced changes. are still searching for the right opportunity, I hope you that a national teaeher eorps of America's most talent­Today as you read this, one thousand Teach For will apply to Teach For America. ed individuals could fundamentally change our coun­America corps members from all academic majors and You have until April 3 to fill our the written applica­
try, by ensuring that more of our nation's young people ethnic backgrounds are teaching in classrooms across tion. We extended our deadline by one month to helphave an equal opportunity to an excellent education, the country. Thy are bringing to their schools a compensate for budget reductions that forced us to and by innueneing the consciousness of a corps of indi­tremendous sense of possibility and a passionate com­limit our campus recruitment effort this year. For viduals who will ultimately be among our nation's mitment to their students. They are starting extra-cur­more information, please contact your career service lnadP-rs. Now, having seen first-hand the circum­ricular programs, running school improvement initia­office or call our national office at 1-800-832-1230 
stanens fadng children everywhere from south Central tives, and rewriting school curricula. They arc *225. l.os Angnles to the Mississippi Delta to the South expanding the horizons of their students by introduc­Thank you for considering this. The decision youBronx. I am only more passionate about our mission ing them to college, and by taking them on trips every­make in the next two weeks could change the rest of 
It is impossible to capture in a short letter what we where from France to Washington, D.C. At the same your life, and the lives of some our nation's most have learned about the severity of challenges facing time, our alumni are starting schools, assuming lead­promising children. some of our nation's young people. Sul'lice it to say ership roles on scX!ool faculties, and working for edu­WENDYKOPP that they do not have anything near an equal opportu-cation reform through other channels. Others are in founder, Teach for America 
Women's lib hits a standstill 
Dear Editor: of Jesus (it was the Advent season) all 
Wn would like to offer a few eomments women should enjoy the freedom to be in response to the letter written by pregnant by choice. Laura (;rimes, Maureen Kramlich, "Every child wanted child" was Colltwn Murphy and Elizabeth Jensen, Pettifer's theme. She went on to argue Of'liecrs of Fmninists for Life (Observer that right-wing Catholics and Fdl 28). It is not dear to us how thesn Protestants -those vociferous voices in wonwn ean lw counted feminists at all. the pro-life movement -are guilty of cal­
Fundanwntal to fmninism's meaning is lousness when they refuse to face the tlw claim to freedom. Women who need for effective birth control pro­accept chokes d(ltermined by patriar­grams. These would reduce the risk of chal authority arn fmninism's enemy not women being "at the mercy of their fer­its ally. tility." 
Tlw Feminists for Life's obedience to If these "Feminists for Life" had either tlw Vatican line in the area of women's experience of the Third World or had rnproductive lwalth issues certainly read the literature, they would know narns tlwm the label "pro-life" as de­that it is the women themselves in these tiJwd by the Church but, by the same countries who wish to reduce the size of token, it also lines them up with the their families and to space their children Vatiean's anti-woman agenda. more effectively. This benefits both 
"Feminism" in this context is no more. maternal health and that of the chil­than a flag of convenience. We have no dren. desirtl to impose our choices on the llad Grimes et a! stuck to their point "Feminists for Life." concomitantly we about "pharmaceutical" birth control natives to "hormonal" pills, they would World is outrageous in its naivete and do not want them imposing their choices being, at least arguably, deleterious to have shown some independence from its willful ideological arrogance. on us. It is precisely through sueh in­women's health they might have made a the patriarchal, Vatican line. Again, we Such loyalty to papal teaching disal­fringement that we are deprived of our useful contribution to the birth control see that their whole approach reeks of lows ceding the issue of contraception freedom, and a person that denies debate. Instead, the point was used as a deceit. by whatever means, to women them­another's frnmlom is no feminist! stalking-horse as they prepared to tout Allegiance to the papal condemnation selves. The subtext of their argument 
The column writtlm by Ann Petlifer in "natural" birth control over the artificial of the artificial contraception is the sine remains "Father knows best." the Dncembnr issue of "Common Sense," sort. qua non for them, as they make clear which Grimes et al am attacking, makes If, for example, they had come out in a towards the end of their letter. To call tlw simple and rather obvious "feminist" spirited defense of the "non-pharmaceu­for "natural" family planning for women NEVE GORDON point, namely, that like Mary the mother tical" condom or diaphragm as alter-anywhere, but particularly in the Third CATHERINE ROTTENBERG 

• MAY THE fORGE BE WITH You 
Feminist movement takes the floor, addresses current issues 
I am sitting here contemplating the "F" word. A forum to be held at Saint Mary's tonight. 
This is the second-most important panel discussion to be held on the col­lege's campus this year. The most signif­icant, of course, was the Belles: Who Are They? which questioned whether or not the "Belles" was the right nickname for the college. The "F" word discussion --the second event planned for the week of the women at Saint Mary's --will not hash out old mascot grievances. Even though the "Belles" will never embody the true characteristics of a Saint Mary's woman. The topic, this evening is femi­nism, hence the "F" word. 

Kara Pavlik 
The "F" word forum has the distinc­tion of being the first opportunity for students and faculty to talk about femi· nism in relation to Generation X. Which is important because our generation has trouble defining feminism. 
"The future of feminism rests in the hands of a generation that cannot...agree with (the feminist) agen­da," said Susan Alexander, coordinator of Women's Studies at Saint Mary's. "The younger generation has little voice in the direction of today's women's movement and is reluctant to embrace feminism." 
True. I'm surrounded daily with fellow women in their 20's, and it's safe to say most arc afraid of feminism. Afraid not of their gender, but in fear of societal reprisals of claiming to be a feminist. 
Alexander in her research on how women at the college view feminism dis­covered that only one out of 36 women surveyed was willing to outright identify herself a feminist. 
I'm not certain if Alexander's findings surprise you, but I hope her work will help females realize that the women's movement needs to be reclaimed. For the movement has become polarized -­between the liberal feminist and the separatist --and largely misunderstood. 
I applaud the women of Saint Mary's Women's Center who are sponsoring this forum. Instead of filling out another questionnaire on the subject with No.2 pencils, these women chose to look for a direction for the "third wave" of femi­nism. They're seeking answers as to why women resist it --and toy with the notion of killing the movement all together. 
How far are Saint Mary's women will­ing to go in the name of feminism? Well, bra-burning seems to be out of the ques­tion. Today they're just too expensive to let them go up in flames. So those par­ticipating in the discussion will just raise questions --complicated questions with contradictory answers --about how gen­der awareness is both positive and neg­ative for women. 
Let's face it: Feminism is not all that benevolent a classification in our soci­ety. There are powerful interests opposed to feminism, like getting a date. Many women, especially at Saint Mary's, believe that a feminist identity limits the options of who they can "go out with." And when you live in a confined all­female college community, anything that might scare away a potential date is unwelcome. That is assuming one is het­erosexual. 
Young women also do not like femi­nism because of its correlation with women who are survivors of men's vio­lence. But women and violence against them is a gender issue. And it should not be ignored on either Saint Mary's or Notre Dame's campus where sexual harassment add date rape occurs. Not recognizing this as a women's issue is denial for women that rape or incest could happen to them. 
I admit, there aren't many young women who want to be labeled as a "feminazi." And because women are afraid of this categorization, they choose to deal with the issue of equality as indi­viduals. Granted, this would be line if it were the case. But in reality, WOil!.~n on their own hide from feminist issues. That's apathetic --especially at an all­female institution. 
Hemember, no female can hide from feminist issues by choosing not be a feminist. Women's issues like abortion, proper contraception and child-care do concern females. Those women who fail to see this, care little about the full scope of their gender; and feed the pop­ular press' portrayal of women as mere­ly physical objects. 
Hopefully, this week planned to raise awareness on equal rights for women, will assist females connect personal experiences with feminist issues. As "E.R.A.'s babies" we owe at least that much to our mother's and mentors who fought for the equal rights amendment to the Constitution. 
The beauty of "F" word forum is that women at Saint Mary's are beginning to take their responsibility as women and as feminists. We young women have a responsibility to the forthcoming gener­ation, our daughters, to keep the move­ment alive. 
Tonight's forum, The "F" Word: Feminism on Saint Mary's Campus begins at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached by email: pavl7087@jade.saintmarys. edu. 
-·---~---.------~~ 


ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, March 26, 1996 



A»istam Accent Editor 

S
o, you think all it takes to succeed porn pons is a pretty face and mean hi~~ll kick? Think again, team members of the Notre Dame porn squad. As the group prepares to auditions for the upcoming year, tlwy working hard to continuously both their talent and their positive for women on both campuses. 
The porn squad consists of women both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. mally, the group takes 12 to 16 new m bers each year, depending on· the size the auditioning group. Porn hopefuls have the chance to show their skills auditions, which will be held from April through 14. 
According to new co-captain Shar Prendeville, the first day of auditions be a clinic in order to teach the au ees some of the dance combinations. next night, the women will perform small groups in front of a panel of jud will narrow the field down by ab After kickline instruction and a follow­ic, the second round of auditionees wil perform in small groups to select the of next year's squad. 
The porn squad is student-run, wi members electing two co-captains to during the following year. In addit co-captain Heather Griffith, the squad ops its own choreography and · attending a large camp prior to the 
Troop ND members perform at their Talent 
TrooP NO 
By GREG BARLIN 
Accent Writer 

D
ancing is an expression of emo1 release of tension, and an exhibi: personality. Because of its man' 
tive characteristics, dance is popular i 
most students, who partake in it through 
dances, parties, or specific dance-ori 
clubs. One such club is Troop NO. 
Troop NO was founded 
in 1991 
Elizaga as the first hip-hop dance 
Notre Dame campus. Elizaga 
group in an effort to promote 
through dance and to teach dance on 
From the original sixteen membe 
team, the group has grown to over 2 
tered members, while the 

has maintained their 16 person c-...-~····· 
The group "is totally student-run," 
retary Melanie Sulistio. 

Another spectacular Shenanigan finale. 
SHENANIGANS 
By RYAN HARDING Accent Writer 
ere can you find Broadway 
how-stoppers, vocal jazz, and 

raditional Irish folk songs all on the same stage? It may seem like an odd combination, but not for Shenanigans. The group is Notre Dame's only singing and dancing ensemble, and consists of students from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. An entirely student-run organization, Shenanigans combines vocals with musical theater and choreography. 
The group enjoys an excellent reputation both at the University and in the surround­ing community. Shenanigans was founded fifteen years ago by student Rick Ward as an offshoot of the Glee Club. Interest quickly grew, and Shenanigans became an independent organization shortly after its inception. Today, the group practices three times a week to prepare for the many campus and community concerts that make up its busy schedule. 
Voices of Faith 
By MIKE JACCARINO Accent Writer 
W
en you touch your skin it 
oesn't matter what you feel; 
when you get down on your knees, whispering into the dark silence of the night, it doesn't matter who's listening. It's late and you want to let go, so just sing. Sing the faith! Sing alleluia! Sing to the Spirit! But make sure you sing along with them, the Voices of Faith Choir, 'cause if you open your eyes, it's bound to touch you. 
Watch the tears flow down their cheeks-cheeks of different colors, all feel­ing for a different reason. Listen to the voices hum, bringing people together in the aisles. Feel a tear hit your skin; now you're up on stage singing with them. Feel youself giving, sharing so much more than a song. 
Some say that when the Notre Dame and St. Mary's Voices of Faith Gospel Choir sings, you can feel the Spirit. Like a great ethereal hand from above, it reached down on the night of their biannual concert at Was_hington Hall this year, leaving the audience on stage with them, softly singing, crying, speaking in tongues into the night. The curtain closer was a song entitled "Calling My Name": "my personal plea to God to keep his hand upon me as I miss the straight and narrow," remembers the one who sang its words-Freshman Dynesha Mason. "Its amazing what God's 
In the fall, Shenanigans brings their energy and spirit to the JACC before each home football game as they perform at the Alumni Hospitality Center. As soon as the last tailgate party empties out, the group begins preparing for their annual 

~Christmas concert at Washington ~HalL 
[;' Second semester, the ensemble ~turns its attention to thoughts of ~ sun and sand as they coordinate (;;their week-long Spring Break ~tour that is h.osted by regional ~-Alumni clubs. Past Shenanigan­~ adventures have included Disney World, Washington D.C., 
Charleston, California, and a mem­orable but unexpected detour through Elizabethtown, Kentucky. 
In addition to tour, the group also performs at Junior Parents Weekend and hosts a spring concert as well as a commencement concert. Throughout the year, they appear at business events, charity fundraisers, and pri­vate parties as entertainment. 
In the past, Shenanigans has performed for the Michiana Carnival of the Arts, Memorial Hospital of South Bend, the Y.W.C.A, the St. Joseph County Public Li­brary and even Hardees' Hometown Heroes awards ceremony. 
This spring, Shenanigans is moving in new directions. The group is presenting a Broadway revue April 28 in Washington Hall, and will tackle 18 new songs instead of performing songs from earlier in the year. While the revue will be a challenge for both the current and the incoming offi­cers, everyone is excited at the prospect of an all-Broadway performance. 
According to incoming Staging Director 
presence can do," said Courtney Smith, the choir's co-president. "It's very moving music; it's deeply felt. People got so moved by the Spirit that night that by the end everyone was on stage with us, pray­ing and singing together," Smith said. 
Bringing people together and lifting away the darkness when the light seems to hide is what this group is all about. It's about the Friday nights spent together rehearsal nights for the thirty-something members of this group who gather to share their lives, pray together, sing together, leaning on each other through music and faith. Rehearsals begin with each person reading a Bible verse as they hold hands and pray. "The weeks are tough but on Friday nights we get to sing and let go, sharing our faith. There are Baptist, Methodist, Roman-Catholic, and Islamic people but they are also people who have family members who are ill and need comfort so we all pray to a single God," says Smith, seeing those eternal lines between people fade away before her eyes with their song-filled voices. 
Something drifted away as they sang in North Dining Hall one lack-luster Friday evening. Before anyone could notice, peo­ple normally separated by the length of space between tables sat together listening to the Voices of Faith who sang before them. "Common thing is the love of God and the desire to praise, being thankful for what we have, bringing people together in song," says Smith. "It was faith bringing people together and the Spirit in the music," adds Mason. 
The Spirit evoked in the music wanders Mia Montagna. "The spring show will be very different from our other recent shows. We've got brand new songs and choreogra­phy. We're also performing several small group numbers, and we'll be using some costumes, too." 
The concert will feature selections from Gershwin's "Crazy for You," Andrew Lloyd Webber's "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat," and the Tony­award winning "How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying." Group members will perform solos and small­group numbers as well, embracing a blend of Broadway classics and recent theatrical hits. 
Shenanigans hopes to attract an even greater following both on campus and in the community by appealing to audiences of all ages and musical tastes. Newly elect­ed Music Director Buzz Burns notes, "We 
want to develop our talent 
and gain recognition as a 
quality musical group." 
Burns looks forward to 
expanding the group's 
size and enlarging the 
group's repertoire. " I 
want us to appeal not only 
to the Alumni but to the 
students," Burns says. "J 
think we really have 
something to offer them." 
Interest in Shenanigans continues to grow on campus and around Michiana. Each year, the group receives an increasing number of requests for per­formances in the community. This inter­est, and the dedication of Shenanigans members, excites the group's new officers about future prospects, which will hopeful­ly include a Shenanigan 15-year reunion concert during the upcoming football sea­son. From the music of Broadway to Ireland, Shenanigans is a talented and energetic group that definitely shines in the spotlight. 
much farther back into history than 1985, when the Voices of Faith Choir was formed to sing at the gatherings of Black History Month. The music can trace its roots to the rows of cash-crops lining Southern plantation fields, toiled upon in the Dixie heat by African slaves. The spirituals they sang meant hope and togetherness but for Courtney Smith, whose great-great grand­mother worked those fields, its a link to the life of a relative she never knew. "The music is a link to the past for me. Just sit and listen to the words and reflect on the hardships your ancestors went through; it's a symbol of strength, of survival, and it keeps me going." 
The music is certainly carrying the faith in its words, and it's sung by people shar­ing much more than a melody; they're sharing what those whispers in the dark mean to them. Standing on stage as a tear drops onto your arm with Dynesha's voice in your ears, it all seems to make sense. 
ACCENT
Tuesday, March 26, 1996 page 11 




sdwol ytHtr. Since the group is non-competi­
tivn, thny focus their efforts on charity, com­
munity and campus performances. 
<;riflith said that members put in anywhere from 15 to 25 hours per week in prnparation for thPir pep rally appearances and their gaiJin-day t~xhibitions at tlw JACC and the bnokstore. Tlwir football wnnknnd work donsn't stop with their high energy routines, though. To raise nHHwy, the pom squad also sells football programs during the fall. 
Saint Mary's. 
"We're sort of like public relations agents," Griffith says. "We're a positive representation of the two schools." 
Prendeville also noted that the members of the squad strive to act responsibility and maturely in both their choice of routines and their conduct as representatives of the two campuses. Griffith believes that their image is rel'lected in their mutual respect for each other, which is especially important in the suc­
cess of a student-run organization. 
"It's hard sometimes to have someone 
your own age tell you what to do," Griffith 
said. "It's amazing how well every one of us 
works together. You kind of just know 
what's expected of you, and it works well 
for us." 
Prendeville said that as part of a student­
run organization, "you gain so much experi­
ence as a person and grow so much as a 
squad. Everything you have earned, you 
have earned through your own work." She 
also added that success is so much more 
rewarding because "you feel like you have a 
voice in everything you do." 
Prendeville said that the group owes much 
of its recent success to the efforts of this 
year's co-captains, Jill Broemmel and Shloe 
in 
who Throughout tlw year, tlw poms nntertain half. rampus and civil' auditmces of all ages, from din­thP South Bt>ml Tribune's All-Star Basketball again (;anw auditmre to the Girl Seouts. This year, tlwrs tlw squad was not only invitnd to perform dur­ing halt'tinw at twnry bask1~tball gamo but also at prn-gamo and during time outs. The mnm­hnrs of tlw pom squad arn proud that their tal­t~nl and hard work have earned them respeet, but tlwy noW that one of their most important goals is to promote a positivn and respeeted image among all women at Notre Dame and 
of modr•rutor Emil llofman, the dub members rhon~ograph and teach the routines to the rest of tlw nwmbcrs. The performance team prac­tices thrne times pnr week for two hours each session. In addition to the six weekly hours of pnu:tice, the officers compose a newsletter which is mailed out multiple times each snnwster informing members of upcoming evnnts and perforrnanees. 
While the original performance team of I <J 1Jl ineluded eight men and eight women, this year's team is entindy female. "We don't want to portray the dub as all girls," said co­president Grace Montenegro. "We definitely !ike Ruma want guys in tlw club!" Tryouts for the perfor­manct~ team were held at the beginning of the
Show. 
school year, where the 16-member team was select!ld. "While it turned out that many of thost~ who mmh~ it had some prior experience in dance, no background is required to partici­patn," Sulistio said. 
The performance team has a routine of live to six dances that they practice at a time, int:orporating hip-hop, jazz, and street dances. 
tion. a llowever, at most performances they are limit­tion of 
ed to only one or two dances. Most often v posi­Troop Nl> pnrforms at variety shows such as tmnng Blaek Images, International Student 
, dorm 
Organization !ISO). and the St. Ed's Carnival. ented In addition, they host their own Talent Show, which took place this past weekend. 
Bon The Troop Nl> Talent Show is the highlight 111 tlw of tlw year for the club. As with the otlwr dub d tlw activities, all aspects of the show, from recruit­·alism nwnt to lighting, are handled by club mem­Ol]IIIS. bers. The show, a sell-out for the third year in lance a row. incorporated local and campus acts n~gis­with performances by N Har 4m, Sabor Latino, 
team and Emily Lord. as well as with dances by Troop Nl>. In addition to an opening and clos­:J SI~C­
ing dance by tlw full group, the team also split vision up into three and four person acts. 
ers during basketball season. Prendeville is excitnd that mlations between the two squads are positive and friendly, and believes that they are "an enhancement of one another" as spirit supporters and role models. 
What, then, does it take to "make it" as a pom squad member? Certainly, endless ener­gy, excellent dance abilities, and the all-impor­tant high kick are recommended. But Prendeville noted that the most important quality of all is enthusiasm, both as a per­former and as a positive representative of "the ambiance at Notre Dame." 
Judges for the competition included former Notre Dame football stars Jerome Bettis and Tony Hice along with members of the Notre Dame Women's Soccer Team and other local friends of the club. This year featured a new aspect, according to Montenegro. "For the first two years we had a celebrity host, but this year the show was hosted by Allan Rossum." Both Montenegro and Sulistio agreed that the starting cornerback did an outstanding job. 
The Talent Show served a purpose beyond showcasing the abilities of talented individu­als. "We donated what proceeds we made after expenses to the Boys' and Girls' Clubs of St. Joe County," said Montenegro. In addition, the club reserved twenty seats free of charge for members of the South Bend Center for the llomeless, an act of generosity that ended up paying big dividends. When the beginning of the show was delayed for a few minutes, all those in attendance were heartily entertained by a display of dancing by some children from the Center. "The kids were teaching us some moves!" said Montenegro. 
The last on-campus performance that is cur­rently scheduled by Troop NO for this year is the St. Ed's Carnival later this semester. This is an especially good opportunity to see Troop NO at their best. "While at most performances we can only do one or two performances," said Sulistio, "at St. Ed's we do all of our dances." 
Sulistio and Montenegro are optimistic about the future of the club. Next year they hope to do a series of charity and volunteer perfor­mances in the South Bend area, at locations sueh as nursing homes and elementary schools. Other ideas include clinics for younger children and a greater emphasis on the club as a whole rather than only the per­formance team. · Sulistio summarized, "We're just hoping that it keeps growing and we con­tinue to promote multiculturalism." 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
The Mechanics of In Vitro Fertilization 
By LIZA NYKIEL 
Accent Medical Correspondent 
On July 2·5, 1978, Louise Brown was born in thH Oldham General Hospital in England to the amazement of the entire world. For John and Lesley Brown, the proud parents, the birth of their daughter was a truly marvelous event for, you see, Louise Brown was the first child to be conceived in a test tuoe. Since that time, further research in the aetion and mechanisms of the various roproduetive hormones have led to a better understanding of the fertilization process and thus enhanced techniques of in vitro fertilization. Fortunate as this advancement may be for childless couplns around the world, it has opened a whole new jar of worms in the troubling world of medical ethics. 
Tho term ''in vitro" comes from the Latin phrase that means "in glass," which is in contrast to "in utero" or "in the uterus." Robert Edwards and Patrick Steptoe were the men responsible for literally taking tho delicatll process of fertilization outside of the woman's body and into a test tube. Although there have been a number of improvements in the process, in vitro fertilization follows four "basic" steps. First, the female is given a reproductive hormone to promote the maturation of ova or eggs. 
I
Ovulation is the name of the process where an ogg is released from one of the two ovaries (but usually not from both). A few hours before ovulation is expeeted to occur, the medical team makes a small incision in the abdonwn, just below the navel, and inserts an instrument which al­lows the doctor to visually examine the maturing eggs. Bo­fore the mature eggs ruptur·e the ovarian follicle, the wall is punctured by the doctor and the contents of the folliele is sucked out by an instrument resombling a small vacuum. Tho removed eggs are placed in a nutrinnt media that re­sembles the environment of the fallopian tubes (which is the "route" the egg takes to reaeh the uterus). Sperm "collect­ed" (use your imagination) from the male is added to the media supporting the eggs. Once an egg has been penetrat­ed by a single sperm, the ovum is considered to be fertilized and is transferred to anotlwr nutrient solution. Tho egg begins the process of cellular division, and once it has reached the eight-cell stage, the ovum is ready to be returned to the mother for in utero development. Because the fertilization has not occurred in the women's body, the body does not know to prepare the uterus, so hormones are injected to do so. The small ball of cells is plaeed in the uterus through the cervix, which is the opening that leads to the vagina. If all goes well, the ovum at the 32 or 64 cell stagt~ attaches itself to the wall of the uterus, and the preg­nancy runs its normal course. n the United States, as of 1989, more than 100 clinics are performing this technique. Success ratns for thn proce­dure range between 23-25%, roughly the same odds as those of a normal couple trying to conceive. As of 1992, this procedure costs about $5,000, and is usually not picked up by insurance companies except in extraordinary circum­stances. 
The benefits of such a developed technique should be 
obvious. Women with a myriad of reproductive problems 
can now participate in the joys of having their own child. 
Public opinion of this procedure is also positive. At the 
Norfolk clinic in Norfolk, Virginia, where the first U.S. baby 
was born via in vitro fertilization, waiting lists of over 8,000 
names have been reported, a backlog of almost sixteen 
years. 

Other benefits have evolved from this procedure, and iron­
ically, have helped in the development of morn efl'ectivt~ con­
traceptives. For example, if it is discovered how the sperm 
penetrates the egg, methods can be developed to prevent or 
enhance this penetration. The way in which environmental 
toxins affect the developing fetus can also be discovered 
through such research. 
However, these advancements do not r.ome without a 
price. There have been a number of questions raised that 
need to be considered in depth before any standards 
concerning this procedure can be established. First of all, 
when the ova are mixed with the sperm, no matter how 
many are fertilized, only three or four are implanted. What 
comes of the other ova that have bnen fertilized? Those who 
believe life begins at conception will have a difficult time 
with the destruction of these fertilized eggs. Others that do 
not share this view but feel that the potentiality to develop 
into a human being demands better treatment may be dis­
turbed by the destruction as well. 
What of eugenics? With those new advancements, do we 
run the risk of developing a society that will demand the 
sex, intelligence and build of their children? Ultimately, 
how far are we to meddle in the al1'airs of nature? Difficult 
as these questions may be to answer, they have to be 
addressed. 
Have any questions or comments'! Feel free to e-mail me: Liza.C.Nykiel.1 @nd.edu 
•. 
·­
'· 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAlL 

Season nearing as spring training heats up 
Associated Press 
INDIANS 4, ORIOLES 3 
Orel Hershiser turned in a strong pitching performance and Manny Ramirez homered as the Cleveland Indians won their seventh straight exhibition game, 4-3 over the Baltimore Orioles Monday. 
Hershiser (1-0) allowed three hits and a walk in 4 2-3 shutout innings. He left with two on and two out in the fifth, and Alan Embree struck out Brady Anderson on three pitches. 
The Orioles got all their runs in the ninth inning off Jose Mesa. Billy Ripken had a two­run double and Jeff Huson added an RBI single before Mesa retired Mike Devereaux and Tony Tarasco to end the uprising. 
Baltimore has lost four of five. 
David Wells (2-3), who pitched six innings in each of his previous two starts, yielded four runs and six hits before being yanked after three innings. 
Kenny Lofton opened the game with a double and scored on a groundout by Carlos Baerga. Ramirez led off the sec­ond inning with his fifth homer, and Omar Vizquel made it 3-0 later in the inning with a sacri­fice fly. 
Doubles by Julio Franco and Omar Vizquel made it 4-0 in the third. 
The Indians have outscored the opposition 55-21 during their seven-game winning streak. 

RED SOX 8, PHILLIES 7 
A three-run homer by pinch hitter Felix Jose off Ricky Bottalico broke a 5-5 tie in the top of the ninth inning, then the Boston Red Sox held on to beat the Philadelphia Phillies 8-7 Monday. 
Tim Naehring had a homer among three hits, and two RBis, and Reggie Jefferson added two hits for Boston. Mickey Morandini, who had two RBis, Mike Lieberthal and Gregg Jefferies had three hits each for the Phillies. 
Boston used seven pitchers, including starter Jamie Moyer, who allowed three runs and seven hits in five innings. Joe Hudson got the win. 
Phillies starter Russ Springer allowed three runs on five hits over two innings. He was re­lieved by Rich Hunter, who gave up two runs on five hits, including Naehring's homer, in five innings. 
WHITE SOX 6, BLUE JAVS 5 
Dave Martinez, who had a run-scoring triple during a three-run seventh-inning rally that tied the game, homered in the eighth to give the Chicago White Sox a 6-5 victory Monday over the Toronto Blue Jays. 
The Jays had built up a 5-2 lead after five innings, but the White Sox tied it in the seventh off Paul Spoljaric. 
In addition to the triple by Martinez, Chad Kreuter had a sacrifice fly and Robin Ventura had an RBI single. 
In the eighth, Tim Crabtree 
retired the first two batters be­fore Martinez homered. 
Ed Sprague had a two-run homer for the Jays, Frank Crespo had two hits and two RBis. 
-Frank Viola started for Toronto and went four innings. He gave up six hits and two runs, both in the fourth. 
TIGERS 9, MARLINS 7 

Alan Trammel and Danny Bautista had two hits and two RBis apiece, and wildness in the lOth inning by Florida's Matt Whisenant helped the Detroit Tigers to a 9-7 victory Monday over the Marlins. 
With the score 7-7 after Detroit got two runs in the top of the ninth, left-hander Whisenant came on to walk four of the first five Tigers he faced -including Kimera Bartee break the tie. Trammel's grounder accounted for the final run. 
The Tigers tied the game with a two runs in the sixth off Marlins reliever Mark Gardner, two more in the seventh off Terry Mathews, and two in the ninth off Jay Powell. 
CARDINALS 3, YANKEES 0 

Ray Lankford had two hits and scored two runs, and five St. Louis Cardinals pitchers combined on a three-hitter in a 3-0 win Monday over the New York Yankees. 
Starter Alan Benes, sidelined since March 10 with an in­flammation of his neck, retired the first 13 New York batters. 
The rookie right-hander al­lowed only a one-out single by Paul O'Neill while striking out seven and walking none over five innings. 
Meanwhile, Lankford gave the Cardinals all the offense they would need. 
He scored the decisive run in the fourth inning, leading off against loser Melido Perez with an opposite-field triple and scoring on an infield grounder by Ron Cant. 
Lankford also opened the sixth with a hit off Perez, and later scored on a single by John Mabry. Jose Oliva added a run in the eighth with a solo homer off reliever Steve Howe. 
Mabry and Gary Gaetti also had two hits for the Cardinals, who have posted three con­secutive wins on the heels of an eight-game losing streak. 
Three St. Louis relievers ­Cory Bailey, Tony Fossas and Rick Honeycutt -held New York hitless until the ninth, when the Yankees singled twice against Dennis Eckersley. Bailey has not allowed a run in eight spring appearances. 
ATHLETICS 13, GIANTS 6 
Phil Plantier had an RBI dou­ble in his first at-bat for the Athletics, and later had an RBI single as Oakland defeated the Giants 13-6 Monday to keep its record perfect against San Francisco this spring. 
The A's have won all five games against their Bay Area rival, outscoring the Giants 56­28. 
Plantier, obtained from the Detroit Tigers on Friday in a trade for minor leaguers Fausto Cruz and Ramon Fermin, hit a liner to right-center in the first inning that hit the wall after taking one hop. 
Plantier, who was wearing borrowed shoes, walked and scored in the third, grounded out in the fifth and drove in a run in the sixth on a bloop sin­gle to left. 
Barry Bonds, who skinned the knuckles on his left hand when he tumbled head-first over a fence while chasing a foul ball in the second, hit a two-run homer in the fifth for the Giants. It was his fourth homer of the spring. 
Glenallen Hill and Steve Decker added solo homers for the Giants and Robby Thompson had an RBI single. 
Torey Lovullo gave the A's a 2-0 lead in the first with his third homer of the spring. Mike Bordick had a two-run double in the third to give the A's a 5-0 lead. 
The Giants rallied for a 5-5 tie, but the A's scored three in the sixth. The Athletics broke the tie when Scott Service balked in a run. Geronimo Berroa followed with an RBI double and Plantier singled for another run. 
Oakland added four runs in the seventh, including a two­run single by Jason Giambi, and Dan Walters hit a sacrifice fly in the eighth. 
Brewington has a 7.32 ERA this spring. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
It's a story. It's about toys. It's called TOY STORY. Showing @ Cushing Fri&Sat@6&10:30 Sun@ 2 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55646 
The Michiana Paintball Club now has an Indoor Paintball field in South Bend -Free membership. 291-9462 
Sing With DE LA SOUL 
Attention students! The Morrissey Filmiest is this Thursday, March 26, at 7:30 P.M.in the Stepan Center. Cost of a ticket is $2, with proceeds benefitting the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center. See you there. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST LOST LOST LOST Green wool coat and wallet Sat, March 2 at Sarin. Would like to eat in the near future. Please call Kristin at X3603. 
LOST: Woman's gold sapphire ring with two small diamonds last semester. If found, please call X2446. Reward. 
Lost: 
Notre Dame Student 10. 
Last seen exiting Regina on 
Thursday before break. If found 
call Mike O'Hara @273-6163. 
WANTED 
Need graduation tix. Will take any 
amount. Call Allyson at X4309. 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students 
Needed! $$$+Free Travel 
(Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) 
Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. 
Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4396 
extC1114 EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3660 ext.K55641 

CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING • Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call1-206-971-3550 ext. C55644 
WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings. 
MOM'S HELPER Love Babies? Assistance needed for 2 infants: newborn and B months. Late April thru Fall 50-20 hours 6.50/hr-10 a.m. -1 p.m. prefered References required Tel. 272 3237 Leave message please, if machine answers. 
Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton Review is looking for qualified peo­ple to teach our test preparation programs. If you've earned high scores on the LSA T, GRE or SAT and would like to work 6-10hrs in the evenings and on weekends, contact Michelle at (600)665-7737. 
I need a ride to N. Chicago 
Suburbs. This weekend. 
Call Adam 4-1767 
FOR RENT 
MISHAWAKA (West End). 602 W. 6th. X-NICE large 2 bdrms, $425 mos. + dep. + gas. References. No pets. Available 4/1. Can show start­ing 3/29. 256· 7152 for appt. 
5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys, 
refrig, stove, partially furnished. 
Heat incl. Completely remodeled. 
606 N. St. Peter. 
269·5999 or 255-9471 
Mark Kramer. 
5 BR; 605 St Peter 
$925/mo 232-2595 .. * ROOMATE WANTED*** Prefer Female nonsmk grad std. Beautiful, safe downtown apt $200 heat incl. Priv. 1/2 bath w/ room. hardwd firs, firepl., dine rm, sun rm, garage, WD. On bus rt. Alisa @ 237-1640 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. VERY CLOSE TO NO. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
Faculty or Student Available in Aug.-For lease 4 bedroom, 2 full baths, furnished appliances-wash­er-dryer, attached 2 car garage, off street parking, deposit + utilities. 234-1336 
CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE, 
FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED; SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR 
NOTRE DAME. 272-1966. 
ALSO GRAD OR FACUL TV 
UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES; 
FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST 
MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1966. 
TICKETS 
(4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9 272-7233 
FOR SALE 
1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier. Good condition. Call Wendy at_ 273-561 B. $4000 .or best offer. 
JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-main­tained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. 5 minutes to NO. REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272-3653. 
SOFA-PRETIY SCOTCHGUARD 
FABRIC-EXCELLENT CONDI­
TION. KODAK-600 CAMERA 
LIKE NEW-CALL 663-9451 
Waterfront Condos 
1 Bedrooms from $52,000 
2 Bedrooms from $60,000 
New Decor 
EVERYTHING included 
Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! 
NORTH SHORE CLUB 
232-2002 

PERSONAL 
05/17 03/19 ocococococococooococo QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!ll 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY ococococooooocooococo 
******RESERVOIR CLOWNS****** 
Happy Bday Kelli!! Love 1B 

Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog'. Call 616/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE Happily married, well-educated cou­ple will give your baby a loving, stimulating, financially secure home. Confidential, legal, expenses paid. Call Joni & Shep 600-526­2344 
ATIN: FEMALE SOPHOMORE 
ACCOUNTING MAJORS ...... 
Looking for a campus job for next year? Responsibilities include working 1 hour/day (M-F) 
Great experience, great pay! I 
Apply at the MORRISSEY LOAN FUND in the Dooley Am. (across from Info Desk in LaFort) between 11 :30-12:30 M-F by AprilS. 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS 
FOR EASTER I WILL HELP WITH 
$. CALL JEN @ 4-2903 
I Miss you VJF and JJF!!! 
-Scooter 

Smelly DC Seminar Kids 
What are they feeding you? 
ARF and EKL. .. 

The grooviest chicks on campus 
Can we hand jive soon? 
LSF 5'2 and LES will lake bookstore We've got SMALLS now!! I ROCK ON and GOOD LUCK to our sorry competition. Your day will come­just not while we're on the court and in the house. ALL THE WAY BABY!I!II 

teak and chavez rule my world 
-so 

i bet you'll think twice before you bet anything again. 
Moylan Moylan Moylan joins 5'2" and Les Victory Victory Victory 
Cora and Ash can dance. Call them for lessons. 
ten straight days of shopping I'm in my glory. and I just got a new credit card. You should, too. 
LATIN EXPRESSIONS 
MARCH 29 ·FRIDAY 7 PM AT STEPAN 
$5 STUDENTS $6 NON-STUDENTS 
SEMI-FORMAL 

SPECIAL GUEST -KID FROST 
three Olympic Soccer lix X2031 
DALL & KESSWHACK you will never beat me II -YOSHI 
Say, does your grandpa like to shop? 
Hey Mikey, thafs a nice coat. How much did it cost? That's a nice film developer. How much did it cost? That's one good croissant. How much will it cost ? Thanks for the juice box. How much will it cost me? 
tu-pac and joe make a framable pic­ture. 
The Holy Cross Luau was the parti­
es! 
time Ever!!! 
CB, PC, and TR and MR deserve a raise for putting up with the tall, skinny guy in Mulford. 
Carson, hey, let's grab that Tom lelia and a few drunkards and drive to lhe coolest town in Indiana Thursday night. The only place in the world capable of being called ... Mulford. 
Love the dog. 
Ash, will you read my paper lonight? Thanks. 
blumdog, so there are benefits to being a smoker. walk on. 
let's make just one more bet... 
just let me be the godmother. 
not taking you up on that one .... 
the facial hair, oh the facial hair ..... 
I held up my end of the bargain .... 
some spring break memories now:· that it's snowing; -tell me we didn't just pass Big Bone Lick State Park -I tmd no idea they got so big, or that they started out so small -I'm a backseat kind of girl -think about what this song means -I would like to reach out my LIT­TLE hand ... come on now -I love Notre Dame in the spring­time, when all the flowers are in bloom 
I had my cheap and lawdry--too bad I don't remember it 
We rose from the ashes of Logjam, to form a better, tighter louder sound, now all we need is a song. 
Hey guys, pass the sodbusters. Oh wait -my fork is bent, let's just go to KFC. If we can see it 'cause it might not be lit. SWEET directions. 
If you have a firearm I need to waste that reek girl Kevina. 
Hi, Ted and plaid boy --love, Kiwi and Dolphin 
"we talk, we don't kiss -yeah, so he must be a friend.· 


j 
Tuesday, March 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 



from home, will go for tlwir I 5th victory in a row W1\d nesd ay night at the Alamodome against New York. Tho dub rncord of 15 straight victorins was set March 14-April 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
the season. Chuck Person was
000 
0-for-8, with all eight misses coming from behind the 3-point line. Nets center Yinka Dare,
000 

playing in his 56th career game, almost got his lirst NBA assist. 
• NIT 

Garden welcomes 'other' Final Four 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
AssociateJ Press 
NEW YORK 
Around midtown Manhattan, banners welcome the NCAA's Final Four to New York ­even though the championship of college basketball will be contested eight miles due West across the Hudson River in New Jersey. 
The "other" Final Four, the National Invitation Tournament, is here, too, be­ginning Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden. 
But that's the NIT's only edge -if there's a "Mecca" for basketball in this area, it's the Garden, not the newly named Continental Arena, which used to be named for Brendan Byrne, who was gov­ernor of New Jersey when it 
unless you there! 
Tuesday,.......~~· Sam: Donuts & Noon: Pizza Lunch 
3pm: Tug o' War (outside Fitzpatrick) 6pm: Freshman Intent Night (356 Fitzpatrick) 7pm: Rambo all night long (117 Cushing) 
Wednesday, March 27 Sam: Donuts & OJ Noon: Snacks & Drinks 6pm: Dating Game 7pm: Euchre (356 
Fitzpatrick) 

was built. 
In fact, this is the tour­nament to which Jack Powers, the chairman, welcomed the final four teams by noting that all four that made it here last season -Marquette, Virginia Tech, Canisius and Penn State, made it to the other tourna­ment this year. 
Name this year's NIT's final four? 
Easy. 
Two football teams: Nebraska and Alabama; St. Joseph's, which is remembered for a game it didn't play against Arizona, and Tulane of Conference USA. 
Tulane (21-9) and Nebraska (19-14) meet in the first game Tuesday night followed by Alabama (19-11) vs. St. Joseph's (18-12), with the win­ners to meet Thursday. 
·:> 
. Thun;day, March 28 ·"' S~m: Donuts & OJ · Noon: Deli Lunch 8pm: Thursday Night TV (101 DeBartolo) Friday, March 29 Sam: Donuts & OJ Noon: Senior Bar Lunch (Senior Bar) 3pm: Volleyball Tourney (Stepan Field) 
Brought to you by the Joint Engineering Council 
Are these guys bad? 
The operational line at Monday's coaches' news con­ference was from Tulane's Perry Clark. 
"A few points in a few games we'd all be in the NCAA," he said. 
So it was left for Alabama's David Hobbs to use line always cited at this time of the year: "There are eight teams left playing and we're four of them." 
There are some good things to say about the NIT teams ... 
And some bad. 
Good: Alabama beat Mississippi State 56-55 in Starkville on Jan. 13 and the Bulldogs are playing across tho river now. And its star, Hoy Rogers, is a "name" player ­the 'Barna publicity depart­ment was planning to pose him in front of a midtown fast food establishment of the same name. 
Bad: The Tide lost at home to the Bulldogs and were blown away by two other Final Four teams, Kentucky and Syracuse. 
Good: St. Joseph's twice took Massachusetts into overtime before losing. 
And the Hawks showed up for a game at which Arizona was supposed to show but can­celed out because it had been snowing. It was 40 degrees when St. Joseph's coach Phil Martelli staged the tipoff for the "game" on the day it was supposed to have been played. 
Bad: Nebraska lost 10 o[ its last 11 games before winning its three in the NIT. "But if we hadn't beaten Fresno State," said coach Danny Nee, "you'd have Jerry Tarkanian here instead of me." 
But the best news for the NIT may be what's across the river and the spillover effect it may create. 
Powers noted that requests for media credentials are up and, perhaps, so may be requests for tickets from Mississippians and Kentuckians for Alabama and Tulane games. 
Then there's the Philadelphia factor. 
St. Joseph's is a 90-minute train ride from the Garden and the trains come right to the game -the platform is seven stories under the court. 

1\y CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Asstki.ltl·d l,rL·\s 
I:AST HUTIII:HFOHD, N.J. 
Tlw San Antonio Spurs ovnr­ranw fatigue and a cold-shoot­ing fourth quartm to win tlwir 14th gamn in a row-one short of tlw franr.his1~ rm:ord-with a 1J5-HH virtory Monday night ovnr tlw Nnw .Jnrsny Nets. 
Tlw Spurs shot just 4-for-17 in t lw fourth quarter and 3 7 pPrl·nnt ovnrall. but stayed ahmul with a pair of 3-poinl!~rs by Sean Flliott and by outre­hounding tlw lop rebounding team in thl' NBA. 
l·:lliotl had 35 points. onn short of his season-high, and David Hohinson had 11 oiTen­sivn n~hounds and a total of 17 rPhounds to go with his 19 points. San Antonio outrl'lwund­Pd thn Nnts 52-43. including 22­12 on thn offnnsivn glass, in winning its 50th game of the 
Sl~aSOil. 
Tlw Spurs, who finishrd a four-ganH\ road trip and won llwir snvl'nth in a row away 9 last season. 
Nnw Jersny trailed by as many as 12 in the fourth quarter, but the Spurs wnnt cold from the field aftnr Elliott made a 3­pointer with 10:21 left for an H2-70 lead. 
An 11-2 run by the Nets, capped by a three-point play by Shawn Bradley, cut the deficit to H4-H I with 3:20 left. 
Vinny Dnl Negro missed a jumpnr at thn other end of the court. but Elliott got an offen­sive rebound and made a 3­pointnr -his fifth of the game -for an S7-S 1 lead with 2:29 ll'l't. 
San Antonio, whieh played Sunday at Indiana, scored its last night points from the free throw line in the limtl 1:53. 
Shawn Bradley had 21 points and Armon c;illiam 20 for the N1~ts, who were playing their fourth game in live days. 
Notes: Jayson Williams of the Nets heaved in a 3-pointer from tlwm opposite foul line at the third quarter buzzer. It was Williams' second 3-pointer of 
Spurs streak left intact with victory over Nets 
Lady Vols win defensive battle 
By HANK KURZ JR. 
Associared Press 
CIIAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Tennessee overcame a fero­cious defensive effort by Virginia with one of its own Monday night and advanced to its ninth Final Four with a 52-46 victory in the women's East Hegional. 
lleld to 19 percent shooting and 14 points in the first half, Tennessee limited the Cavaliers to 21 percent shoot­ing and 19 points in the sec­ond half. 
The defensive pressure allowed Tennessee to rally from a 17-point deficit and win the third straight NCAA thriller between the teams. 
Latina Davis scored all 12 of her points in a take-charge second half, when the Lady Vols (30-4) made 15 of 28 shots. 
Michelle Marciniak and Abby Conklin added 12 points each for Tennessee. 
Virginia (26-7), in losing for the sixth time in seven tour­nament ITI•Jetings with the Lady Vols, was held scoreless for almost six minutes down the stretch as the Lady Vols put together a decisive 16-2 run. 

Davis scored six straight points to get the spurt started, and the Lady Vols then got points from four players before Marciniak made six straight free throws to erase any chance for the desperate Cavaliers. 
Tora Suber led Virginia with 14 points, but she left the game for about six minutes midway through the second half after hitting the floor hard trying to split defenders. Suber returned with 6 1/2 minutes to play. 
Wendy Palmer also missed some time for Virginia after aggravating her injured knee, but she returned and finished with nine points and 11 rebounds in her final college game. DeMya Walker had 10 points and 12 rebounds. 
The 14 points by Tennessee in the first half tied the mark for fewest points by a team in one half at this stage of the tournament. UCLA scored 14 against Georgia in 19H5. 
In shooting f>-for-32 in the first half, the Lady Vols rushed their shots and looked nothing like the group that routed Kansas 92-71 in the regional semifinals. 
Chamique lloldsdaw and Conklin were both 2-for-9, and the backcourt of Mareiniak and Davis was a combined 1-for-11. 
It was the 1Oth meeting be­tween the schools. and the eighth in NCAA tournament play. 
The Lady Vols have elimi­nated the Cavaliers six times previously, including a 70-67 overtime victory in the 1991 championship. 
Virginia's only victory in the series was a 79-75 overtime triumph in the 1990 East Hegional championship at Norfolk, Va., a loss that cost the Lady Vols of a chance to play for the national champi­onship on their own floor. 

CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Mcnk, Conductor 

Obbligatos and Encores 
Music for Chorus and Solo Instruments plus an encore petformance of our American Choral Directors Association Convention program 
Sunday, March 31, 7:30 p.m. O'I..aughlin Auditorlwn • Tickets $10* 
Tbts concert Is made possible by a grantfrom NJPSCO Inc. 
•Discounts available. Box office: 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa, MasterCard 


219/284-4626. We"n-Pttltii!J/ Our Ent,-gy
Into Hefpi11g You. 


page 14 The Observer • NCAA FINAL FOUR Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
-
No. 1 Minutemen out for respect 
I I I I I I 
I 
By HOWARD ULMAN Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Top-ranked Massachusetts has the most wins in the nation of any major team. It crushed a strong Georgetown team to reach the Final Four and already has beaten Kentucky by 10 points. 
Yet, as a sizable underdog to the Wildcats in the NCAA semifinals, the Minutemen are still waiting to win respect even though they've lost just one game. 
"We're still UMass from little Amherst. Until we win a national title, this is going to happen and that's fine. I accept that," coach John Calipari said Monday. "We don't play us against the world. We know respect is earned and, obviously, we haven't earned it yet." 
Part of the problem is UMass never had been to the Final Four. Kentucky had been there 10 times and won five national championships. 
This year's Wildcats have a deep bench and have piled up huge margins of victory. Massachusetts depth isn't nearly as impressive and it has been in a lot of close games, including four overtime wins. 
But the Minutemen did open their season with a 92-82 win over Kentucky that knocked the Wildcats from the No. 1 

I 
ranking.

I 
UMass center Marcus Camby 

1­
was outstanding in that game

i 
with 32 points and nine re­

I 
bounds in 33 minutes. On 
Saturday night, the Wildcats will try to do a better job against him. 
"They're looking for revenge. We're looking for respect," Camby said. "So, for us to beat them again, maybe we'll get a little respect." 
UMass (35-1) went into its first game of the season ranked fifth. But it had lost an exhibition game to the Converse All-Stars, while Kentucky (32-2) already had won its first game and was ranked first. 


The Minutemen led 29-10 before Kentucky rallied to tie it 45-45 at halftime. But UMass began the second half with an 11-1 run and fought off the rest of the Wildcats' comeback 
t 
attempts. 
"I knew at the beginning of the year that this was a special team," said Dana Dingle, UMass' leading rebounder, "that everybody shares the same ultimate goal of winning the national championship and, as the season progressed, I knew it to be true and I knew we had a chance to get there." 
The Converse loss "woke us up," Calipari said. "What I found out after the Kentucky game is we have a team that wants this bad. As bad as I want it for them, they want it for themselves." 
That resolve stiffened as the season progressed. Last year, the Minutemen reached the quarterfinals but squandered a five-point halftime lead and lost to Oklahoma State 68-54 as Camby managed just six points and fouled out. 
In this year's quarterfinal, UMass led Georgetown by just four at halftime. 
Last year, "we went in at halftime and said, 'we're going to the Final Four,' " said Donta Bright, the Minutemen's second leading scorer. This year "Marcus came in the locker room and said, 'remem­ber Oklahoma State."' 
Camby scored the first three baskets of the second half against Georgetown, starting an 11-1 run that gave the Minutemen firm control. 
UMass shut down Allen Iverson in the second half but has to face another outstand­ing guard, Tony Delk, if it is to move to Monday's night's championship game against the winner of the Mississippi State-Syracuse semifinal. 
Carmelo Travieso likely will be the main defender on Delk, just as he guarded-and frus­trated -Iverson. 
When UMass has the ball, it will be facing a quick, trapping defense. 
"They are just ferocious defensively," Calipari said. "They are doing a much better job of rotating out of traps. They are doing a much better job of running people down. 
"Right now, Kentucky is a 
10-point favorite in this game 
and I think it comes down to 
their depth, size, their shoot­
ing ability, their coaching. We 
know it's going to be a hard 
game for us to win." 
SEC sends two to Final Four 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 

A conference having more than one team in the Final Four is nothing new in the 1990s. 
With Kentucky and Mississippi State of the Southeastern Conference both heading to the Meadowlands this weekend, five of the seven Final Fours of the decade have had a pair of schools from the same league. 
The conference that was expected to keep the :tradition of multi-berths alive this year was the Big East, which had three teams in the Top Ten all season. It did get one team to the national semifinals, but it wasn't one of the big boys, it was Syracuse, the fourth-best team in the league. 
The other team in the mix for the national championship will be top-ranked Massachusetts, like Mississippi State making its first appearance in the Final Four. 
So 60 NCAA tournament games have given us a matchup of No. 1 vs. No. 2, the first in the NCAA tournament since top-ranked Houston and Louisville met in the Final Four in 1983. 
This Final Four has already been compared to that one, with many calling the Kentucky-Massachusetts meet­ing of top seeds the title game and Monday night a mere for­mality for net-cutting purposes. 
That's what people thought 13 years ago when Houston prevailed in an epic tourna­ment game and then waited 48 hours to be ambushed by North Carolina State, coached by the late Jim Valvano, in the shock­ing championship game. 
Syracuse was the No. 4 seed in the West and Mississippi State was a rung lower in the Southeast. Both took different roads to reach the Meadowlands. 
Syracuse, making its third Final Four appearance and first since 198 7, went on a regional thrill ride, beating Georgia in overtime on a couple of last­second shots and then hanging on to knock off second-seeded Kansas. 
Mississippi State comes in off a two-week run that saw the Bulldogs beat Kentucky in the SEC tournament championship game before beating the top seeds in their region, Connecticut and Cincinnati. 
What makes the Kentucky­UMass matchup even more delicious is that it's a rematch of the November game that saw Massachusetts handle the Wildcats in an impressive 92­82 victory. The Minutemen lost only once this season and Kentucky just twice. 
Syracuse comes in with eight losses and Mississippi State has one less, further lessening the importance of the opener of Saturday's doubleheader. 

Bulldogs' fans celebrate 
Associated Press 

STARKVILLE, Miss. 
The usually quiet country roads of Starkville have been anything but during Mississippi State's unprecedented run in the NCAA tournament. 
Many of the university's 14,000 students have cele­brated each victory by joyrid­ing around campus, blowing horns and setting off firecrack­ers. 
·"Jt's been bedlam. I have never seen anything like it," athletic director Larry Templeton said Monday. ''I've dreamed of having this kind of experience. Having grown up here, to be here firsthand is almost unexplainable." 
A crowd of about 5,000 peo­ple packed the small Golden Triangle Regional Airport Sunday to greet the Bulldogs, who earlier in the day beat Cincinnati 73-63 in the Southeast Regional final to earn a spot in the Final Four. 
"Cars were backed up from the airport to the highway. It was an unbelievable crowd," said Jim Ellis, a 1969 Mississippi State graduate in his 18th season as color analyst on Bulldog radio broadcasts. 
"It's the biggest thing that 
has happened, certainly in bas­
ketball and probably in 
DeparhnePt of German and Russian Summer Language Institute ]u1w 18 -July 30, 1996 
Tht> ,.,,..• Jd111t uerman and Russian Summer Institute offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits in German and 5 language credits in Russian in small, lively classes taught with imagination. Recent ND graduates benefit from a 
50% reduction in tuition. 

Films I Videos I Interaclh•e Video I Computers I Video Discs I Experiences Professors I Daily Tutorial in state oftfw art language laboratory I Tuition Savings I PersonalAttention I Imaginative Instruction I Lively Classroom Atmosphere 
Courses Offered: GE 101 B• ing Germdn ' f>/18 -712 (3 credits) 
•lensive intrfu4 .. ,·tion to C otan for •tuo.Jents with no or minimal background r.r 102 Beginning German II: 7/3 -7• 
(3 credits) Continu.1tion of GE 101 GE 103 Beginning Gt•rman Ill: 7/18 -7/31 
(3 credits) Continuation of GE 102 
Fulfills ND Language requirement. 

Taught daily 10:20 am. to 12:30 p.m. Tutorial at 1:30 p.m. 
GE 240 Conversati"'· ol German: 1>111!-7/30 (3 credits) A courSt· ··•r students of all ages with some background in German (1 011102 =elementary or equivalent). ·Emphasis on conversation, 'peaking fluen<·y and comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Communicate effectively and appropriately-in a range of common situations and for a variety of purposes. 
Fulfills NO Language rf!quirf!ment. 

Taught TTH 6:00p.m. to 8:30p.m. RU 101 First Year· Russian: 6/18 -7/30 (5 credits) Intensive introduction to Russian with !!mphasis on practical conversation, basic grammar and vocabulary. No pre­requisites. Taught MWF 6:30p.m. to 8:30p.m. 
Application forms may be obtained by writing to : Summer School Director 312 Main Building University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Mississippi State sports." 
Ellis said his trip from the airport back to campus took 90 minutes, compared to the usual 
15. There he ran into another crowd-"100 or so students" already in line, and ready to stay overnight in rainy weath­er, waiting for the chance to buy Final Four tickets. 
By midday Monday, the 250 student tickets were gone. The rest of the school's allotment of 2,500 tickets were being offered on a priority basis to season ticket holders and Bulldog Club members. 
"It was pretty tough getting tickets," said Glenn Willis of Starkville, who waited in line more than 3 1/2 hours \1onday morning to get six tickets for his boss who was out of town on business. "There are a lot of people really talking about Mississippi State basketball right now." 
Two weeks ago, many felt Mississippi State had peaked with a win over then top­ranked Kentucky to win its first-ever Southeastern 
...and still our CHAMPION 
Happy 21sT, Chris! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, Joe, and 
Albin 
Conference tournament cham­pionship. 
Instead, the Bulldogs have topped that with a trip to the Final Four. In a matter of 48 hours, they beat the top two seeds in the Southeast Regional -never trailing against Connecticut or Cincinnati. 
State plays Syracuse in the first national semifinal game Saturday at The Meadowlands in New Jersey. In the other semifinal, No. 2 Kentucky plays the only other team it lost to this season No. 1 Massachusetts. The winners play Monday night. 
Ellis said most of the busi­ness signs in Starkville "have something about Mississippi State on them, from 'Final Four Baby' to 'Congratulations." 
The university is the center­piece of the rural northeast Mississippi town of about 19,000 where big draws in the past have been high school football (two straight state championships) and college baseball (seven NCAA regional tournaments since 1984 ). 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Saint Mary's Day Editor 
Call Caroline Blum at 284-4349 or 631-4540 for information. 
'li.!csday, March 26, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NCAA fiNiit FOUR Wildcats' tempo might be too upbeat for UMass 
By MIKE EMBRY 
As!lm.i.ut.·d Press 
I.EXIN<;H)N, Ky. 

lUrk l'itino doesn't want to ht~ar any talk that tlw Knnlurky-MassadJusells game in llw J."inal Four is llw lnw championship. 
"Who's to say that MassadJusells or Ktmlueky is bdt•~ r than Sy rae use or Mississippi Staln'?" thn Kentucky roach said Monday. "You don't know that." 
Tho Massachusetts-Kentucky showdown is thn headline allrartion at Saturday's semifi­nals in New .Jnrsey, with the Syrac ust~ ·Mississippi State ganw commanding less atten­tion. 
Mississippi State, a lifth seed, upset Connecticut and Cincinnati to win tlw Southeast Bt~gional while Synu~use upset lop-snndml Kansas to come out of the West. 
"(;oing into it you would say Connecticut and Cincinnati w o u I d ha v ~~ bee n l h e l'f~ , o r Kansas would have been there," Pi tino said during a news conference. "But you don't know. That's what makes the game so unbeliev­able. Because Mississippi State or Syracuse eould play the best ball, I hope not, from The Meadowlands." 
And that why Pitino is not in favor of seeding teams after they reach the Final Four. 
"I think what makes college basketball so great is that it's unpredietable," he said. "I know we have our hands full with any of those opponents." 
During the season, Kentucky lost 92-82 to Massachusetts and split against Miss·issippi State, winning 74-56 and los­ing S4-n. 
While Kentucky is favored to win the national title, Pitino isn't sure his Wildcats should be in that role. 
"I think they've been in Margaritaville too long," Pitino said of the oddsmakers. "Maybe thny should concen­trate on other areas because two of the three teams in this Final Four beat us. 
The Blad~ Law Students Association of Notre Dame Law Sdwol 
presents 

Reclaiming Society or Destroying Lives? 
A panel <liscussion on tbe effect of sentencing reforms, including "three stril~es and you're out" and mamlatory sentencing witl10ut parole laws, on inner-city, minority and youth offenders in lowering crime rates 
Please join us on: 
Date:  Saturday, March 30, 1996  
Time:  1 :30, PM  
Place:  Notre Dame Law  
School Courtroom  

Tltc 13lad~ Law Students Association of Notre Dame Law School 
presents 


"I don't care what you factor in, I'm from the old school when it comes to this. Forget the rhetoric, forget who's up and who's down, who's afraid and who's not afraid, the game is won or lost on the court. 
"I won't say Mississippi State is better than us because we beat them once. But they beat us late in the year when it counts more. And Massachusetts beat us. So, I can't speak for Syracuse, but you definitely have to make Mississippi State and Massachusetts big favorites," he said with a laugh. 
Kentucky has steamrolled into the Final Four, winning by an average margin of 28.3 

points. The closest game was the 83-63 victory over Wake Forest in the Midwest final. 
Pitino isn't making too much of the wide margins because of his team's up-tempo game. 
'They can play it because that's their style or they can play like Wake Forest, a differ­ent style," he said. "Then eventually if your style starts to win, now they're forced to play that style. And that's when you see lopsided victo­ries. 
"It's not because you're that much better than that team. It's just that your style takes over and then suddenly it goes the other way with the big numbers." 
Happy Birthday Matti 
Only one more year to use 

Love,
those fake 

your family
IDs 

uBridging the Racial Divide in America" 
featuring 
Derricl~ Bell 
Professor of Law, New York University Law Sclwol 
The Black Law Students Association is pleased to invite you to hear Professor Bell, a well-known and highly respected legal scholar and former Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and Dean of the University of Oregon Law School. Professor Bell left Harvard after serving on the faculty for eighteen years and the University of Oregon for the schools' refusals to hire and tenure women of color and other minority applicants to faculty posi­tions. Professor Bell is the author of four books on the law, his most recent being, Confronting Authority: Reflections of an Ardent Protester. 
All are welcome to attend and are encouraged to join us on: 
Date:  Saturday, March 30, 1996  
Time:  4:00, PM  
Place:  Hesburgh Auditorium,  
University of Notre Dame  

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ARCHERY CLINIC llecSports will be sponsoring an Archery Clinic on Tuesday and Wednesday March 26 & 27 from 7-9 p.m. All equip­ment will be providHd and the fee for the class is $8. Class size is limited and you must registnr in advance at HecSports. 
HOOPS SHOOT OUT -RecSports will be sponsoring a Hoop Shoot Out on Wednesday, March 27, at 7p.m. in the .Joyce Center Arena. The Shoot Out will consist of a One-on-One con­test, a Throe Point contest and a Free Throw contest. Advance registration in the HecSports ofl'icn is required and the deadline is Tuesday, March 26. There is no fee liJr this event. 
BOWLING LEAGUE RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League on Thursday nights from March 28-May 2. Hegister your three-person team in advance at RecSports. Cost is $6 per week per person and includ11s three games and shoe rental. Play is held at Chippewa Bowl and transportation is not provid­ed. Deadline to register is Wednesday, March 27. Captain's meeting is sched­uled for March 27, at 6:15 
p.m. in the HecSporis ofli!:e. 
WEEKEND RACQUET­BALL TOURNAMENT -This tournament will be on Saturday. March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There will be men's and women's divisions with t-shirts being awarded to all participants. Bring your own raequet, but racquetballs will be provid­ed. Also, refreshments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday, March 28 and there is a $6 fee. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT RUN -Mareh 30 is the date for· this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne MemoriaL There will be six divisions for each run .with trophies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All regis­trants will be awarded a t­shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. All proceeds will be donated to Christmas in April. Family members of all staff and faculty can par­ticipate. All family members over the age of HI need to complete the standard regis­tration and insurance waiver and all minors need to have their parent or guardian sign the waiver for them. All reg­istration/waiver forms can be obtained in the BeeSports office and both will also be available at the event. 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL • RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays March 26, April 2, 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8-11 
p.m. in the .Joyee Center. Come by yourself or bring some friends. No 1>.stab1ished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
CASTING AND ANGUNG COURSE -Course includes four sessions which meet on Tuesdays from (, to 7:30 p.m. The dates are April 2, 9, 16, and 23. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to stu· dents. staff. and faculty. 
-Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. 


I I I 
~ 
I I I I 
•. I 
l I 
I 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
time by almost half of a second with a time of 55.87 and fin­
Swimming 


ished thirteenth overall in the meet.
continued from page 20 

Once again, it seemed she 
Ceballos' dedication questioned 
had accomplished her goals,(Championships) was a great and once again Brooks refused coach Del Harris said. 
meet for us," said Brooks. "We By BETH HARRIS stand we need a commitment 
to rest on her laurels. Not only Associated Press Ceballos insisted his absence from him." 
showed the Big East that we 

did she break her personal
are not just another team com­had nothing to do with basket­Johnson fondly recalled a 
ing into the conference. We record in the 200, but she shat­INGLEWOOD, Calif. ball, and he dismissed rumors time when players didn't aban­proved that we would be up tered Big East Championship If Cedric Ceballos expected that he is unhappy about play­don their teammates and will­there every year." time by 1. 7 seconds and took his Los Angeles Lakers team­ing fewer minutes since Magic ingly sacrificed personal glory 
Next on the agenda for tenth place overall. mates to forgive his unexcused Johnson rejoined the team Jan. to win. Brooks was a trip to Afterwards, Brooks explained four-day Arizona vacation, for­29. "What happened to the good Indianapolis for the Olympic what her thoughts had been get it. ''I've always been happy with old '80s? I never would have 
going into the competition. "I
trials, which lasted form March Ceballos finally turned up my role," Ceballos said. "You seen a guy walk out," Johnson 6 to March 12. The pool in wanted to go my lifetime best Sunday, but the Lakers didn't bring a Hall of Fame player said. "If a guy had personal Indianapolis is a meter pool and gain some experience for toss out a welcome mat for back, everybody's going to problems with us years ago, we (Olympic swimming competi­next year." She clearly did that him. His sudden disappearance adjust. Those adjustments would've helped him through." tions use pools measured in and a whole lot more. last Wednesday has splintered were made and they're fine In a further sign that all is 
Brooks discussed the implica­a team fighting Houston for with me." not well in Lakers dressingmeters), which is slightly longer 
than the normal indoor yard tions of her qualification for the fourth place in the Western Angriest of all the Lakers is room, someone placed a deco­pool collegiate swimmers are 
national championship meet, as Conference and home-court Johnson, a self-described "ulti­rated milk carton in Ceballos' used to. Brooks swam in the well as the team's solid effort at advantage in the first round of mate team player" who put locker, with words clipped out 100-meter time trials, but did the conference championships. the playoffs. retirement on hold to return to of the newspaper to form the not compete in the actual quali­"It (Brooks' qualification for "He abandoned us, you the team this season. phrases, "Where in the world fiers. In the 200, Brooks the NCAA's) was a step a step know. At a time like this, at a "This is the worst time for all i'> Ceballos?" and "MIA." turned in a time 2:16.2 and wa in the right direction for the time we have to stick to­this to happen," he said. ''I'm Ceballos is respected, if not satisfied with her swim consid­program," said Brooks. "The gether," guard Nick Van Exel really sick and tired of it." well-liked by his teammates. ering that it was in a meter last person from Notre Dame to said. "It's going to be hard. Johnson said Ceballos going He is the Lakers' leading scorer pool. qualify for NCAA's was Jocelyn We've got a team captain who AWOL has taken away from his with a 22.4-point average, but 
Finally, less than two weeks Peterson in 1994. The fact that just walks out." comeback. He said he plans to his erratic behavior could jeop­
we made a strong showing in Ceballos, 26, claimed unspec­wait until the offseason before ardize his status as co-captain.
after the trials, Brooks went to 

represent the Irish at the NCAA the Big East and sent a swim­ified family problems needed deciding whether to return "A lot has to come off every­Championships in Ann Arbor. mer to the NCAA's should help his attention, but he didn't oth­next year. body's chests," Johnson said. The meet took place this past with recruiting." erwise explain his trip to Lake "Maybe I won't throw myself "He's going to have to sit down Strong recruits would cer­Havasu, Ariz., where he water­back into next season. I don't and listen. We have to set our
weekend from March 21-23. 

tainly be a big plus for next skiied while the Lakers won­know," Johnson said. "It's priorities straight or we're
When asked if the trials tired her out before the NCAA's, year's team and it appears that dered why they didn't hear hard for me to deal with all going to be an early exit (from 
Erip Brooks is more than ready from him for four days. this. I'm too old." the playoffs)." 
Brooks responded, "There was 

to lead those new Domers in "I had some personal and Just as Michael Jordan Ceballos met with Lakers
enough time between the two meets for me to be rested. I the season ahead. As far as family problems to deal with. I recently lit into Dennis Rodman executive vice president Jerry 
personal goals go, Brooks sim­apologize for myself and the for head-butting an official, West and general manager
was ready." She certainly 

wasn't kidding. ply said, "This year's experi­actions of not letting my Johnson expects to have a long Mitch Kupchak on Sunday. 
ence should help me next year. employers at the Lakers orga­talk with Ceballos. As of "He didn't look like the same
Brooks shot off the blocks to 

My goal is to work hard and try nization know this," he said. Sunday night, Ceballos had not lively, active guy that I know," 
a fast start, setting a personal best in the 100-yard back­to get into the top eight in my "It just got to a point where it explained his hiatus to his West said. "I could see some­
events next year." was just a little too much for teammates. thing there that I hadn't seenstroke. She beat her qualifying me. I just needed time." "What is he going to do? Is before." 
Ceballos was taken off the he going to commit himself or Ceballos wasn't the only 
suspended list Monday, and left not? That's the big question," starter who didn't play in the
Celebrate a friend's birthday 
with the team on a six-game Johnson said after scoring 28 Lakers' 103-94 loss to road trip beginning Tuesday points against Charlotte in his Charlotte. Center Vlade Divac night at Orlando. Instead of second start in place of stayed home due to tonsillitis,
with a special Observer ad. 
starting against the Magic, he Ceballos. "I want to welcome and wasn't on the flight for will play in a reserve role, him back, but let him under-Orlando on Monday. 


-~--~-
TucsJay, March 26, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE UASEBALL 
Thomas, Sox expect to 'hurt' the competition 
By RICK GANO and 111 HBis. 
A""'iatt•d l'rc" The combination of power and vision has allowed him to SAHASOTA, Fla. compile at least a .300 average 
Can you sign some baseballs, with at least 20 homers, 100 Frank'! Just a quick picture, HBis, 100 runs scored and 100 please. lley, Frank, you got live walks in each of his first five minutes? Frank ... Frank ... full seasons in the majors. Frank.... No other player has ever 
Frank Thomas, tall, muscular reached those plateaus for five and strong with an engaging straight years. Ted Williams smile, puts up with tlw atten­and Lou Gehrig had those type tion. It's part of being a big­of numbers for four straight. time star with a big-time pay­Six, anybody? cheek. "Don't believe the hype," 
"Tiwre is a point where you Thomas said, repeating a slo­
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

don't feel like doing things and gan he adopted several years Senior Jason Pun dropped four this weekend, as the Irish suffered defeats at the hands of the Tarheels and 
you tell people no," said ago. "Talk about it when it's 
Blue Devils. 

Thomas, whose first five sea­done, when I'm retiring. In my In the No. 1 and 2 singles handed a straight set loss tosons with the Chicago White mind, I'm still a young player. 
slots Rob Chess, ranked fourth Tony Thomas who clinched theSox have been live of the most I'm still learning the game and 
Tennis 

in the country, and Dmitry, win for the Tar Heels.
consistently powerful in the I'm still having fun. I've still got 
game's history. a lot to prove." continued from page 20 ranked forty-sixth, edged senior The No. 35 doubles North Mike Sprouse and Pietrowski Carolina team of Thomas and
''l'vtl learned to say no at the Thomas, 27, has not been 
are 0-2 with them playing respectively. Tripp Phillips easily beat the
appropriate times. A lot of afraid to voice his opinion on 
inconsistent." Chess won the first set tie Irish No. 2 doubles squadthings that I do are very small occasion. During the strike, he After coming off the Blue­breaker, 7-6 and held off Pietrowski and Patterson 8-1.
in my mind, so it's not that hard said replacement baseball Gray Classic in which the Irish Sprouse in the second 7-5. However, Pietrowski andfor nw to sign an autograph or would never be a hit with the went 1-2, they were looking to Muzyka came from behind after Patterson did earn points forsomething like that because it's fans. When the White Sox rebound against a very tough losing the first 3-6, to defeat the Irish on the singles side as
second nature." switched batting practice 
foe Saturday in the Blue Devils. Pietrowski in the second and they defeated Hob Tedesco andlie can be a normal guy, too. schedules last spring, he ex­Duke outlasted the Irish in a deciding sets 6-3, 6-4. Paul Harsanyi, respectively.
lie can soak his ankles in the pressed his displeasure, saying close match by the score of 5-2. Patterson and O'Brien were O'Brien went 0-2 in Carolinasnnw tub of iee where he's cool­it would throw off his routine. 
"We played very close to very also defeated in grueling three as he was overmatched bying a post-practice beer and And after the Sox's miserable good teams," head coach Bobby set matches. Duke's Peter Tripp Phillips 6-2, 6-2.
dwer loudly during the final season of a year ago, Thomas Bayliss remarked. "We lost Ayers struggled with Patterson Ryan Simme was on his way
sneonds of an NCAA playoff made it known that the team 
some very winnable matches." at No. 4 singles in the first two to victory over a ranked oppo­ganw, just like any fan. needed to make changes if it The No. 2 doubles combina­sets, 6-4, 2-6, before dominat­nent in Brint Morrow, but after
Forbes estimated last wanted to compete. 
tion of Jakup Pietrowski and ing the decisive third 6-1. the match was clinched hisDeemnbnr that Thomas was tlw "Sometimes I speak my mind, Brian Patterson got the Irish off Adam Gusky clinched the win match was called.
25th higlwst paid athlete in but I'm not a controversial guy on the right foot as they upset for the Blue Devils with a 2-6, Although the Irish have strug­11195, making $7.8 million in and I never have been. I've the No. 15 ranked Duke dou­6-3, 6-4, victory over O'Brien in gled through the heart of theirsalary and Pmlorsements. learned to say no and learned bles team of Dmitry Muzyka the No. 5 singles position. schedule they are still 6-0 inNo1w of this would be possible when to open my mouth," said 
and Sven Koehler. Senior Jason Pun had a tough their regional which is where
without his bat and his uncanny the American League's Most 
The Ryan Simme-John J. time at No. 6 singles as Jordan they will play bnfore the NCAA•~ye for tlw strike zone. lie's a Valuable Player of 1993 and O'Brien duo clinched the dou­Wile needed two sets to win championships. Now the Irishbig man, who played one sea­1994. 
bles point with a 8-3 win and the point. have a rest in which they have
son as a tight end at Auburn, lie's never had a spring train­
the Irish looked poised for an The lone bright spot on the just one mateh in twelve days.
who can hit the ball out of ing better than this. lie's bat­
upset. singles side for the Irish was According to Bayliss this will be
sight. But most power hitters ting nearly .500 with three 
However, the Blue Devils junior Hyan Simme who won a a big lift for the Irish.
don't know the strike zone like homers and averaging an RBI came up with some very strong well fought three set match "This break will give us a
Thomas. who finishnd 1995 per game, all pointing to anoth­singles play and overcame the over nationally ranked Sven chance to sleep in our own
halting .:ws. with 40 horne runs er huge season. 
Irish. Koehler, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. beds, recuperate and enjoy that 
On Sunday the Irish squared delicious dinning hall food be­off against the Tar Heels for the fore our last six dual matches second time in as many weeks. before the Big East tourna­The 'Heels upset the Irish in the ment." Blue-Gray Classic by the score The men's tennis squad
8-Ball 
of 4-1. UNC proved again that toughest remaining matches they have Notre Dame's num­will square them off against ber as they came out on top of a regional foes Michigan and 
4-2 outcome. Northwestern. 
Sprouse and Pun had a Key for the success in post­rough weekend as they lost season play will be building their second doubles mateh of confidence. the weekend to the nationally "We need a win," Sprouse ranked Carolina tandem of mentioned. "We need to get David Caldwell and Brint some confidence in each other Morrow, 8-2. in our last six matches. It has 
Sprouse, currently ranked at nothing to do with tennis, we 
Tourna01ent 
Presented by 
No. 44, suffered his worst sin­simply need to gnt confidence in gles defeat of the year at the each other before tournament
the Gorch 
hands of the No. 41 ranked play." player in Caldwell, 6-0, 6-1. The teams first chance at m­
Game 
Pun can sympathize with his gaining that confidence will be double partner in that he suf­this Sunday against the Indiana 
fered the same fate as he was Hoosiers in Bloomington.
l~ootn 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 
' 

Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, De Lubac, Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Marsden, Noll, Oden, 
C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoeffer, von Hildebrand. Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, Bibles and biblical studies, prayer, lives of the saints. 
We can special order any book you need! 
: 10°/o off all books : 
1 for N.D.IS.M.C faculty andstudents with /.D. 1 
I LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown I I South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). I I 287-0349 Open 10-5 Monday -Friday I 
L-------------------~ 
r I 
r 
l 
I ... 
t 
I I 
~ 
~ 
I I I I 
~ ~ 
l l I I I I I I 
~ 
I 
I 
! 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I 
~ . 
t 
I 
-
I . 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
off Darin in the first four innings." 
Boston College's Paul Bibbo wasn't quite as untouchable, getting hammered for seven earned runs on ten hits in six innings of work. Leading the offensive assault for the Irish were Randall Brooks, who con­tinued his torrid pace at the plate with a 3-3, three RBI per­formance. A spray hitter, Brooks even took one deep, cap­ping a six run third inning with just his third career home run. Third baseman J.J. Brock also got in on the act, going 2-4 with four RBI and two runs scored, and Scott Sollmann hit just the second homerun of his illustri­ous college career. 
"We started swinging the bats right away," said Mainieri. "Yarmouth-Dennis has a really short porch in center field. In fact, it's the sight of my only col­lege homerun. I was telling the guys this, and look what follows suit. Sollmann hits a homerun, Brooks hits two homeruns-all the little guys hit one out." 
In the second game, it was Dan Stavisky who held the Eagle bats in check, throwing six innings of six-hit, shutout ball to earn his second winjp as many starts on the year. Mike Balicki picked up the save for the Irish, surrendering just one run in three innings of relief work. The suddenly heavy-hit­ting Brooks homered again, and Bob Lisanti, in a rare DH role, put the Irish up S-0 with a home run of his own in the top of the third inning. 
The first game of Sunday's 
double header against powerful 
Providence saw the Irish's six 
game winning streak come to a 
Please Recycle The Observer 

~----­
---------------------------------, 
page 18 Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
23RD Annual SuJDJDer PrograJDs 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting April 1sr Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00PM 
London Rome 
May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 
Cookies & Punch 
The Notre Dame baseball team continued to impress at the plate in their 3-1 B!g East roadtrip this past weekend, scoring 27 runs on 44 hits, 10 of wh1ch left the park. Here are some of the stars at the dish over the Irish's first 20 games: (Team highs are in bold) 
Randall Brooks (2 B)  .415 BA, 38TB, .465 OB%  
Mike Amrhein (LF)  .367 BA, 5 HR, 17 RBI, 57TB, .722 SLG%  
Scott Sollmann (CF)  .342 BA, 21-R, 3 38, 17 SB  
George Restovich (1B)  .333 BA, 22 R, 4 3B, 42 TB, 20 RBI  
Jeff Wagner {C/DH)  .315 BA, 3 HR, 13 RBI, .456 OB%  
Rowan Richards (RF)  .305 BA, 22 R, 9 2B, 4 HR, 14 RBI  

brutal end at the hands of sophomore sensation Todd Incantalupo, who baffled the Irish for a full seven innings, surrendering just eight hits and two runs while mowing down nine. 
Providence's powerful offense also keyed their win, exploding for nine runs in the fourth in­ning of an 18-2 dismantling of the Irish. Third baseman Ryan Kinski, who knocked in eight of Providence's 25 runs on the day, keyed the attack with a 1­3, five RBI performance at the plate, including a two-out three­run homer in the fourth inning to put the Friars up 4-1. 
Freshman Alex Shilliday, along with every other Irish pitcher in the game, was lacking his best stuff on the mound, as the phenom fell to earth in sur­rendering five earned runs in just three innings. 
"You have to give them credit­they're a pretty good hitting team," commented Shilliday. "They hammered us pretty good. I could've hit my spots better, and I was up in the zone a bit too much. I know I'm go­ing to get several more oppor­tunities on the year, though." 
The Irish rebounded in the rubber game, jumping out to 5­2 and 10-2 leads in surviving a 10-7 win. Notre Dame's bats lashed out at last year's Big East Pitcher of the Year Mick Macone, tagging him for twelve of their 16 hits, which included a season-high five homeruns. 
The offensive explosion en­abled an erratic Christian Parker (6 1/3 IP, 5 H. 6 ER, 6 BB) to move to 4-0 on the sea­son, and the attack was keyed by Rowan Richards and Jeff Wagner, who each knocked in three runs on two homeruns. Wagner, who hit .538 with an eye-popping 1.417 slugging per­centage on the weekend, was a perfect 4-4 in the game, and Scott Sollmann also came up big, turning in a 3-6, four stolen base performance. 
The Irish will take a break from the Big East schedule this week, hoping to squeeze in a few non-conference games before heading to Philadelphia for a three-game series with host Villanova next weekend. 
Summer Jobs FOR THE Environment 
• Earn $2500 to $4000 and MAKE A DIFFERENCE • Campaign to save endangered species, protect national parks, and refonn government. 
Positions available nationwide. 
On-campus Interviews. Call Jamie: 1-800-75-EARTH 
Chinese , American ,..&. -~ GR£AT Resta~rant and 
J; ·~-~c#ALL Cocktail Lounge
./I .. AuthentiC Szechwan, Mandann & Hunan Cu1sme 

Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 \'utnl Bl"'-1
Dinners starting at ____ $5.95 Oril"nt,d Hl"'-l.tur,mt
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 
in ~dil·hi,tn;t h\ 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend ,'\lirluww Nmr (next to Randall's Inn) 
Past students ancUacultywiU be.presenL-.E.or..informatian call P.r.of. Black at284-4.460 or .27.2-3726.-. 1 .~r-········ 
....... :-:'·3:8:}>·' 

weaff~t: tor~e~7'the 
to' go eight d~Y£~<without 
JlCtivity. They were sched­uled to play Olivet College last Thursday but that game was postponed because of freezing temperatures. It seemed that the delay along with being con· rmed to practice indoors afiect­f)d thf\ Belles' play as they split their double header with Wheaton College on Saturday by scores of3-11 and 12-10. 
In the first game, Wheaton came out strong at the plate, tallying up 10 hits for their 12 runs for the game. The Belles' 3 runs came from 6 hits, a sign that a lack of aggressive move­ment on the bases could have been a factor. 
"We didn't really make Wheaton play defensively," ex­plained coach Maggie Killian. "We had trouble focusing due to our long time off after Florida and we didn't move people around the bases well." 
The Belles' defense experi· enced difficulty in the fourth inning when they were faced with bases loaded and two outs. It was then that one of the first year players got her chance to prove her stuff. 
Shana Cagney, a first year pitcher, came in to make her pitching debut in the Varsity arena and take the last out of the inning to stop Wheaton from scoring further. 

"We were in a hole and our momentum was dead," stated Cagney. "I was anxious to be able to show my talents. I got over the nerves and I think that I will have more confi· dence in the future and do some goop things for the team." 
The second game proved a better display of softball than the first. The Belles' success was attributed to being more aggressive on the bases as well as an alert defense. 
Senior pitcher Laura Richter shined for the Belles going 4 for 4 for the game. This in­cluded l single, 2 doubles and 1 home run that cleared the fence, Hichter's third for the season in only 9 games. Richter contributed a total of 7 RBis for the game. Senior shortstop Shannon Heise added two doubles for the Belles. 
"We really came together as a team in the second game," stated junior catcher Gretchen Moore. "It was a challenge for our defense because a lot of their batters went both ways. But we reorganized, woke up our bats, and became more aggressive on the bases." 
The Belles continue to prac­tice indoors and are becoming anxious to get on the field. They hope to take it outdoors today and take two from cross­town rival Bethel College today at 3 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 

Rise Before the Fall This Summer 
at "One of America's Best Colleges" 
Creighton University~Offer 
• 
Five Sessions 

• 
Day/Evening Classes 

• 
Wide Course Selection 

• 
Small Classes 

• 
Relaxed Atmosphere 

• 
Reduced Tuition 



Creighton is consistently ranked as "One ofAmerica's Best Colleges" by U.S. News & World Report and "Best College Buys" by Money Magazine. 
For more information plus a 1996 Summer Sessions Bulletin, call (402) 280-2424 or Toll Free 1-800-637-4279. 
E-mail: univcoll@creighton.edu 


2500 California Plaza-Omaha, NE 68178 
I • 
-~-----------­

Tuesday, March 26, I996 
The Observer • TODAY 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

DILBERT 
l HAVE iOO MANY Pt>..~~WORDS IN f'l\'( LIFE.. WHAT IF I 
FORGE.i THE.t-\? 
0 
" 
(.) 
..J 0
.. 
® 
Ill 
".. 
0.. 
...
... 
0 
(.) 
Ill 
·~ 
.;, 


5 Mafioso 6 Battle with the . police 7 Italian wine 
center a Whips 9 Principles 

1-=-lH=-i-==+=~ ~"-'-+-"-+'-'-fl• .=:..J.:-t:::-1-=-1 10 "Caught you!" 11 Erwin Rommel's nickname, with "the" 12 La Scala song 
1-=-H(..:..:..I~~=..JII!I..:...~~.flllll -'-4""-+-'+'-1 13 Castle defense 
22 Preserve again 26 Dawn goddess 
58 1960 chart topper 62 G.O.P. insider Matalin 64 Skepticism 65 "My Way" lyricist && Old socialite Maxwell 67 "Sesame Street" Muppet 68 Champagne name 69Appear 10 Intelligence 71 Mrs. Shakespeare 
DOWN 
150% 

2 "Where there's 
3 1964 Olympics city 4 Vehicles with bells 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "-off!" ("Congrats! ") 5 Payola, e.g. 10 Sandier formerly of "S.N.L." 14 Object of an Army hunt 15 Wedding route 16 Deli sandwich 17 Dig, so to speak 18 "-your life!" 19 Siberia's site 20 W.W. II fighter pilot 23 Nosh 24 Theater sections 25 Head out on the ranch? 27 Monopoly purchase 
30Nova-­33 Hertz rival 36 Aplenty, in the 
past 3B"But-me, giv~ me liberty 
39 Children's card game 40 Changeable in shape 42 Last number before "Liftoff!" 43 Run off to the 
preacher 45 Take a--at 46 Fires 47 Signify 49 Photographer 
Adams 51 Cobbler's stock 53 Pindar's Muse 56 Foofaraw 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul 
28 NASA chimp 
29 Led Zeppelin's "Whole­Love" 
31 Actress Skye 32 Trojan War god 33 Filled with 
wonder 34 Lowland 35 Locomotive 37 Withdraw, as 
from a dependency 40 One of the Benchleys 
41 Kind of ballot 55 Like some old 44 "The Purloined buckets Letter" writer 56 City north of Des 46 Joe Namath's Moines 
alma mater 57 Cowgirl Evans 48Dodges 59 Senator Sam 50 Unit of work 60 Nile bird 52 Dorm sound &1 Fixed fee 54 Mortise insertion 63 Sweet potato 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



k'~~ 

5K & lOK RUNS 
Plus 

2 MILE WALK 

T 

T-Shirts to all Registrants -Register in Advance at RecSports 
Christmas

$5.00 in Advance or $6.00 Day of Race -Student & Staff Divisions 
In 

~ ~ Sponsoredb~ecSporls & Noire Dame1oodServices ~ April
~ Saturday, March 30, 11 :00 AM -Rockne Memorial 
....... .. --.. ... . ..... ­
~ 
.. ---.. --........... ··--~------. t; ~ ~ ~ ~ • ~ ~ -----. ~--.-.;--------•••••• -& & • & • -• -··-~---········ ­
·---.. ------·---------------------­
page I9 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Renewing old acquaintances brings in new business. Move swiftly to get agreements in writing. Romance comes when least expected. Follow up on an introduction or brief meet­ing. Family finances will get the lion's share of your attention next fall. A new home is likely for those who arc currently living alone. The self-employed make exciting gains as 1996 draws to a close. By spring of '97, you will be ready to expand your base of operations or open a branch office. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: singer Diana Ross, playwright Tennessee Williams, actress Jennifer Grey, Kansas City Chief Marcus Allen. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make the most of your individuality. Prominent people are looking for original thinkers. When trying to negotiate a major agreement, a straightforward approach will be most effective. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Continue operating from behind the scenes and through friends. A more direct move could be challenged. Getting together with people who share your ideals energizes you. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take inventory of your strengths and weaknesses. A heartfelt desire to grow spiritually means the battle is half-won. Continue to encourage those who have allied themselves with your cause. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Halfway measures will not suffice today. Go whole hog! Your dedica­tion to your work will bring numer­ous rewards. Give yourself a treat now and then. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pursuing 
projects or people with too much 
• OF INTEREST 
intensity will backfire. Try to find a quiet place to work on complex ta~ks. A steady pace is more efficient than rushing around at the la~t minute. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Not a good time 10 make hasty decisions or oppose someone's authority. Those who write your paycheck get to call the tunc. Take advantage of a group's support. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Forget past romantic disappointments. Tonight finds you basking in some­one's admiration. A rnaniage propos­al could be just around the comer. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Compromise on domestic issues. You are lucky to have a real friend and supporter! Unexpected gifts, even a token of love, will be wam1ly received. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Get to work early, and look for ways to streamline your hectic schedule. Visualize what you want and how you plan to get it. Choose a fun companion if going out tonight. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A discussion with your roman­tic or business partner brings up exciting new options. Heed your instincts. You need to evaluate all available options. Welcome sugges­tions from children. They may be wise beyond their years. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Fame and fortune will not remain elusive. Protect yourself in romance. Good friends will tell you the truth about a potential mate even if you do not like what you hear. Count your blessings! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be responsible when dealing with.a dif­ficult parent or supervisor. You will understand a financial problem more clearly if you ask probing questions. Others may react defensively. Stand up for your right~ and beliefs. 

Cinema at the Snite tonight will be showing the movies "Two Laws" and "Mystery of Kaspar Hauser" playing at 7 and 9:30 respectively. The cost is $2. 
Job Search Orientation for Juniors presentation is designed to give juniors an overview of the types of activities involved in preparing for the job search in their senior year as well as how the Career and Placement services oflkc can assist in this process. The presentation will be held today from 4-5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Hoom at the LaFortune Student Center. Presented by Kitty Arnold, Director, Career and Placement Services. 
Max Oelschlaeger, a professor of philsophy & rel­gion Studios at the University of North Texas will give a lecture today at 4:15 p.m. entitled "lleligion as a Source of Earth Ethics." It is co-sponsored between the Government Department and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. It will be held in the Hesburgh Auditorium. 
Arts & Letters Departmental Follow-Up sessions will be held tonight: llomance languages at 4:30 p.m. in 118 O'Shaughnessy, economics at 7 p.m. in 118 O'Shaughnessy, and government at 7 p.m. in 203 O'Shaughnessy. 
Teresa Ghllarduccl of the economics department & Kellogg Institute will be giving a lecture today enti­tled "The Political Economy of Pensions in Chile and Argentina" in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies at 12:30 p.m. The chairperson of the event is Charles Wilber also of the economics department & Kellogg Institute. 
•MENU Notre Dame 
North Chicken Teriyaki Sandwich Beef Stew with Biscuits Baked Orange Roughy 
Saint Mary's Pepper Pork Chop Roast Beef Vegetarian Stuffed Peppers 
. 1 
South Roast Turkey Breast Fried Irish Sole 
..
Bread Stuffing 
All Proceeds to Benefit 



" SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, March 26, 1996 
Irish presence felt at Olympic trials Junior Erin Brooks posts an impressive time in backstroke 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
Like many other Notre Dame athletic teams this year, the Irish swimming team has gained renewed recognition with their .--------, membership in the Big East confer­e n c e . Success however, is what sets teams apart c o m e recruiting time, and the recent perfor­mances of junior backstroker Erin Brooks have probably done just that for the Notre Dame swimming program. 
Brooks swims the 100-yard and 200-yard backstroke for the Irish and these two events 
Brooks 

have kept her extremely busy · throughout the past month. In late February, Brooks traveled with her teammates to Pittsburgh to compete in their first Big East Championship meet. The backstroker took first in the 100 with a time of 
56.2 seconds, which qualified her for a spot in the NCAA Championships. 
Then, as if being the first Domer to qualify for the pres­tigious competition in the past two years wasn't enough, Brooks confidently moved on to her next event and qualified again. This time the junior raced to a time of 1:59.40 to capture the win in the 200 and boost the Irish to a third place finish in their conference championship debut. 
"The Big East 
see SWIMMING I page 16 

• BASEBALl. 

File Pholo Junior second baseman Randall Brooks (.415 BA in '96) continued his torri<;l hitting, going 7-14 with 2 HR in Notre Dame's 3-1 Big East roadtrip. · 
Home opener postponed 
Sluggers sweep Eagles but split Friars on successful Big East roadtrip 
.. By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Put the home opener on hold. 

The Notre Dame baseball team will have to wait at least another day until they usher in the first home game of the Big East era, their sched­uled matchup with Wisconsin-Milwaukee having been frozen by the less than spring-like South Bend climate. 
In the meantime, the 13-7 Irish can look back with satisfaction at their 3-1 road trip this past weekend, which included a two game sweep of Boston College and a 1-1 split with last year's Big East champs, Providence College. 
"I thought our players responded to the chal-
Lacrosse Women's Tennis 
at Hobart, Saturday, March 30 
at Georgia, Friday, March 29 
Softball 
Track 

vs. Michigan, Wednesday, March 27, 
at Purdue Invitational 
2 p.m. 
Saturday, March 30 

Men's Tennis 
SMC Spo~s 

lenge very well," commented Irish head coach Paul Mainieri. "It was great to win our first two ballgames. Providence is one of the toughest teams we're going to face all year." 
The Irish yielded but one run to the Eagles in Saturday's doubleheader at Cape Cod's Dennis­Yarmouth Stadium, cruising to 9-0 and 6-1 wins amidst biting cold and 30 mile per hour winds. 
Notre Dame's Darin Schmalz was spectacular on the mound in the opening game, pitching all seven innings of the shortened contest, surren­dering only four hits while striking out live. 
"There was a little bit of nervousness and anx­ious anticipation about beginning our first sea­son in the Big East," said Paul Mainieri. "But when you have a great starting pitcher, it certain­ly provides a calming influence over the team. When the other team doesn't score any runs, it's pretty hard to lose the game. I don't even think they (Boston College) hit a ball out of the infield 
see BASEBALL I page 18 

Netters fall to 9-6 after rough trip down South 
ByJOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 
Most people know that a trip to Tobacco Road to compete against Duke and the University of North Carolina would most likely be a difficult trip. What most people do not know is that the competition is still'cr on the tennis court as opposed to the basketball court. 
This past weekend the Notre Dame men's tennis team found out exactly how tough times can be in Carolina as they droppPd matches to the ninth ranked Blue Devils and the twenty sev­enth ranked Tar Heels. After 
Freshman Brian Patterson scored a victory over his Tarheel oppo­nent, but it was not enough as Notre Dame tell to UNC, 4-2. 
• 
NIT Final Four begins see page 13 

• 
'Big Hurt' hot in spring training see page 17 


getting off to a 6-1 start the Irish record now stands at 9-6. Besides the tough schedule, the main thorn in the squad's side has been consistency. 
"I think that we are better than our results," head coach Bobby Bayliss observed. "We have not been real consistent. For example, we'll have one guy not play well on one day and play great the next. While at the same time there will be someone who plays well the first day and not tlw seeond. So, instead of' being 1-1 with our guys playing well together, we 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 


at Indiana, Sunday, March 31 Tennis at Washington University, 
• Lakers punish Ceballos Friday, March 29 
see page 16 






