
Thursday, November 7, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 48 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Meinhold: It's time to tell 
By BILL IRVINE News Writer 
"Don't ask. Don't tell. Don't pursue." is an inadequate pol­icy for homosexuals in the United States military, accord­ing to Keith Meinhold. Meinhold was reinstated as the first openly gay officer to remain on active duty in the Navy. 
The service of homosexuals in the military is a key issue for both gay rights groups and the modern United States Military. Meinhold related his experiences as a homosexual in the Navy in a lecture last night entitled "Full Military Honors." The lecture was the keynote event of Gender Studies Week. 
"The best decision I've made in my whole life was to enter the Navy," said Meinhold. He received "unqualified wonder­ful support" from both the gay and straight community, 
though he perceives the mili­paign, had his flight crew des­tary's current policy of "Don't ignated "the most combat ask. Don't tell. Don't pursue" effective crew in the Pacific as a threat to gay military fleet." Meinhold said, "We personnel's rights. "It ruins worked together as a team; I 
the careers and lives of well­was just one small element." performing members," he Meinhold first hinted at his said. ''I'm pro-military, I just sexuality on a visit as a "child hate the policy." to a gay restaurant in Key
In 1992, the Navy dishonor­West, Fla. "That experienceably discharged Meinhold for was the most frightening and his sexuality, but three enlightening experience in mymonths later on Nov. 12, a whole life," he said. Through court ordered that Meinhold junior high and high school, be reinstated, finding that the Meinhold fared poorly, drop­military acted unconstitution­ping out of high school after ally and even "violated its own his sophomore year, and soon administrative procedures." entering the Navy. Gradually,In his next four years of ser­he advanced through the mili­
vice, Meinhold received the tary ranks to achieve the posi­Navy Achievement Medal and, tion of air flight commander. during the Persian Gulf cam-Meinhold believes that he 

MBA Program offers interactive degrees 

can best describe his coming out by his participation in the San Francisco Gay Pride Parade. In his first year, he reluctantly and nervously par­ticipated in the 500,000 per­son parade. By his fourth year of participation, he was working as the Grand Marshall of the parade. He said, "I came out of the closet and slammed the door off its hinges." 
Still keeping his true sexual­ity from the Navy, Meinhold first declared his homosexual­ity on a May 19, 1992, ABC News report to protest the "witch-hunt" of gays in the military and the subsequent 
see NAW I page 4 


Presldential search to remain confidential 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
Information the Saint Mary's College community will receive regarding the search for the next College president will be limited in an effort to maintain the "integrity and quality of the search," according to Sister Rachel Callahan, the Board of Trustees' Presidential Search Committee chair. 
Last week, Callahan, along with Shelly Storbeck, vice pres­ident and managing director of 
A.T. Kearney, the consulting firm hired to assist the commit­tee in the search process, pre­sented information to the College community regarding the status of the search process. 
The Presidential Search Process was launched following the April 1996 resignation of College president William Hickey. Hickey, when announcing his resignation as ninth president of the College, stated that he would remain at the College's helm until a suc­cessor was found. 
Following an extensive adver­tising campaign and nomina­tion process launched in the summer months, the number currently in the pool of "con­firmed candidates" to assume the position of 1Oth President of the College currently stands at 50 to 60, according to Storbeck. 
And, for now, that is all the College community can know about the candidates. According to Storbeck, the search committee is grappling with the extent of confidentiali­ty that will define the remain­der of the search process. 
Right now, the committee is "gravitating towards a middle ground, with granting candi­dates confidentiality, while including the Saint Mary's com­munity in a representative way," Storbeck said. 
However, while the process for the final stages of the search have not yet been deter­mined, full confidentiality of the candidates will be exercised in the early stages of the process, Storbeck said, in order not to jeopardize the current careers of candidates, as some are sit­ting presidents at other colleges and universities. 
By releasing names of prospective presidents, the number of and quality of candi­dates is limited, according to Storbeck. "No sitting president will get into a search without that guarantee [of confidentiali­ty]," she said. " We have an obligation to deliver to the College the best candidates we can. Your challenges are enrollment, development, and keeping alive the mission of a Catholic women's college." 
Callahan justified the confi­dentiality of the search in a memo released to the College community this week, stating, "The integrity and quality of this process requires the utmost confidentiality. We have come to the realization that, in fact, some of the best qualified persons may require the option of privacy until the final stages of the process." 
However, given the impor­tance of the decision with respect to the future of the College, some individuals dis-
see SEARCH I page 4 


By KATE JACQUES 
News Writer 
Does the University of Notre Dame make students of diverse backgrounds feel welcome on campus? This was just one of the questions posed in an attempt to break the barriers between cultures. 
On Monday, Nov. 4, the Center for Social Concerns sponsored the fourth in a series of forums. Rodney Cohen of the esc moderated the open dis­cussion on multiculturalism, diversity, and Notre Dame's upcoming participation in a national teleconference between 200 colleges on Nov.13. Priscilla Wong of the CSC and Chandra Johnson of Campus Ministry also led in the discussion. 

Notre Dame was recently ranked 13th among the "Institutions with the Worst Race Relations" according to a Princeton Review ranking. The data came from a survey of stu­dents and an examinationn of other statistical support. 
Cohen, Wong, and Johnson opened the floor to a discussion on the validity of the survey. Those in attendance questioned issues such as the actual pres­ence of racism on campus, affirmative action, and the University's position on race relations. Students disagreed as to the extent and frequency of racism on campus. 
Cohen added that although violent forms of racism may not be prevalent on campus, that it 
see DIVERSITY I page 4 

By MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's highly competi­tive Executive MBA Program and Ameritech, a communica­tions technology company, have joined forces to educate Chicago area business profes­sionals without requiring them to leave their jobs. Ameritech has helped to develop a video­conferencing system based on two-way audio and compressed digital video technology. 
"Our goal is to serve both the educational and convenience needs of our students and cor­porate partners," Arnold Ludwig, assistant dean for executive education in the College of Business Administration, said. The stu­dents can go to classes via elec­tronic, real-time interaction with the faculty and class­mates. 
The students spend two full days in class every two weeks. They attend class every other Friday and Saturday. This arrangement facilitates the combination of academic and professional work. 
"Offering the Executive MBA Program through distance learning allows the students and their employers access to a high quality education while also saving them the time and expense of travel," Ludwig said. "The result is an increase in employees' productivity." 
Notre Dame's College of Business Administration ranks among the best in the nation in facilities and technology, and this new venture is an expan­sion of that aspect of the school. There are two class­rooms on campus that have tracking cameras, video moni­tors, push-to-talk and wireless tracking microphones, docu­ment cameras, VCRs, and Internet-capable computers. 
The professors use the sys­tem for office hours and appointments as well as for the regular classes. The teachers for this program also work with regular MBA students who attend classes on campus. 
The curriculum is the same, 
see PROGRAM I page 4 

,----~---­
! page 2 
I •INSIDE COLUMN 
i Spring break: i only 120 days away 
It's five months away. Before it happens, people have Thanksgiving, Christmas, Veterans Day, Hanukkah. Boxing Day (for all you Canadians out there), New Years. Martin Luther King Day, Valentine's Day (always optional, of course), President's Day, Washington's Birthday, and two home football games. In the meantime, it would be satisfy­ing to find a job and decide on a place to live. All this, b1~fore Spring Break. Stop the insani­ty. 
I guess there just seems to be an unusual amount of emphasis being put on Spring Break this year. Countless numbers of stu­dents are surfing the net in hopes of finding a good spot to surf the sea. It's November. I just can't seem to think that far ahead. Key West. Aruba. The Bahamas. They all sound terrific. And they all sound like they involve a great deal of planning and money: both of which tend to give me headaches. So, I have come up with what I think is a brilliant solu­tion. My plan will be relaxing, inexpensive and very entertaining. Now, I may be doing it alone, but hey, that's alright. Four out of five psychologists agree that time spent alone can be very therapeutic. (The disagreeing psy­chologist is parasailing with the U.S. bikini team in the South of France.) 
I plan to spend seven days and seven nights in the quaint, unpredictable, fabulous South Bend, IN. Located just East of Elkhart, South Bend will otTer me everything I need to make my senior year Spring Break the best week of my life. I have it all planned out on my clip­board of fun. I am, after all, my own cruise director, bell hop, taxi driver, swim up bar tender, personal shopper, cabanna boy, and flight attendant. (The last one's a stretch.) 
Here's how the week's looking, in case any­one's taking notes. 
I will substitute Planet Tan for the beach. At five dollars a day, I really can't beat it. And the new and improved ten minute accel­erator beds will really give me that Southern glow. I will work out daily at my leisure, allowing myself to sleep in. Each morning, I will put on my Barry Manilow CD and dance around my living room in Hawaiian garb lis­tening to the Copa Cabana. When things die down, I will pop in the Cocktail CD and whip out my frozen, single serving, Bacardi mix. 
I will find entertainment outside of my living room by heading to the UP mall to check out the new Spring fashions. I will, of course, be doing all this in my Jimmy Buffett tank top and Ocean Pacific shorts, complete with flip flops and my Martin's grocery store promo­tional sunglasses. . 
I have already set aside Thursday evening for "Cancun Carrumba" night. I will eat salsa and listen to Julio Iglesias and Gerardo (Rico Suave) while watching The Three Amigos. I plan on decorating the apartment with pinatas and will have my mom send me my sombrero from home. Is this sounding good to you, too? Just think of the money you will save and the new outlook you will have on tropical South Bend. So, for all you who are prematurely worrying about Spring Break, take the road trip less taken... to absolutely nowhere, and stick around for sun, fun and a little ethanol to replace the annoying scent of the sea and surf. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech 
Kelly Brooks Kevin Dalum Bridget O'Connor Production Sports Belle Bautista 
Joe Cavaro Accent 
Joey Crawford Viewpoint Graphics Ethan Hayward Melissa Weber 
The Ohscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi.<hcd Monday through Friday except during c:x;~m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of chc Auociarcd Press. AJJ rt'producrion rights arc reserved. 

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, November 7, 1996 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Central African chaos leaves Zaire in limbo 

KINSHASA Kinshasa, stealing cars and destroying 
Zaire's president convalesces in his French Riviera chateau, while stu­dents rule the streets of his capital. The prime minister hasn't surfaced in days. 
So who is running central Africa's largest nation, a resource-rich land thrust into chaos by the ethnic hatred in Rwanda, its neighbor to th~ east? 
"Nobody," a newspaper publisher says. 
"The people are just running them­selves," an opposition politician lamented. 
"Who knows?" a university student snarled. "You tell ME!" 
Just months ago, Zairians hoped the country's first multiparty elections were in sight and that decades of die­tatorship under President Mobutu Sese Seko would be over. 
Today, Mobutu has cancer, for which he sought treatment in Europe three months ago. Prime Minister Leon Kengo wa Dondo's job appears 
to be on the line. And since Rwandan L----------------" Nairobi on Tuesday, saying Zaire 
Tutsi rebels drove Zairian soldiers out . of the main cities of eastern Zaire, the army has hinted at mutiny. 
Inflation has soared by 100 percent since June. Thousands of unemployed youths roam the streets of 
VP Gore looks to 2000 election 
WASHINGTON 
The next four years offer Al Gore a tremendous advantage in the battle to succeed President Clinton: chance after chance to look presidential. Gore, who has enjoyed remarkable influence for a vice president, is expected to have even more sway in his second term with an eye on the year 2000. For example, the White House's next politi­

cal director almost certainly will have to have Gore's blessing. And Gore may have a say in changes at the Democratic National Committee. "He's already become the most powerful vice president in history," said White House advisor George Stephanopoulos. "That can only multiply in the second term." Gore sidesteps most ques­tions about how his second term role will differ from the first, but he allowed this much about the way he plans to help Clinton: "No doubt in the second term as different challenges confront him there will be times when he will ask me to take on new challenges in helping him." 
Pipe bombers convicted 

MACON, Ga. 
Three members of the 112th Georgia Militia were con­victed of conspiracy Wednesday for stockpiling pipe bombs for use against the federal government. A federal jury also found militia leader Robert Starr III and mem­bers Troy Spain and Jimmy McCranie guilty of possess­ing an unregistered destructive device. They were found innocent of other charges. The three were accused of conspiring to use pipe bombs on roads, vehicles, bridges, power lines and federal law enforcement officials. Spain hatched a plan for financing their "war" against the government by robbing armories and drug dealers, pros­ecutors said. Kevin Barker, a government informant and prosecution witness, testified last week that the three hoped to use the bombs at the Summer Olympics in Atlanta. Barker testified that Spain said he hoped they'd make enough money to quit work and train full time for Olympic terrorism. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high tern ratures 

~-••_1kn •_••_•••·•3-' 2·,,:··
~ J'1=··' t::=: 

Friday ~ 43 25T Saturda;y ~ 41 24 
J 

Sunda~ ~ 41 25 
I

Mongay ~, 42 26" 
{.S·-"J'"""-J" ......,. 
4,~,~4.G.Q ~ ~ £::1 
Showers T-storms Rain FJ~,;'ies si10W Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via AssOCiated Press Graph1csNet 
0Thousandsofstudentsstormedthrough Kinshasa, demanding the resignation of Prime Minister Kengo Wa Dondo. 
f) The Tutsi rebels declared a unilateral cease-fire Monday after gaining control of Zaire's two easternmost provinces. The 
fighting has displaced more than 1 million
refugees. 

E) Ten Western clerics were abducted near Bukavu. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 7. 
FRONTS: 
~ ...a....a.._ .............,. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


wouldn't join any talks until the rebels left its territory. 
Opposition politician Iyombi Botumbe Akarele, one of three declared presidential candidates in elections promised next year, says that is nonsense. 
Governer recovering from car crash 
JACKSON, Miss. 

Gov. Kirk Fordice was in intensive care Wednesday, 
recovering from serious injuries after his Jeep ran off a 
highway as he drove alone several miles behind his offi­
cial escort. The state troopers assigned to accompany 
him were unaware of the wreck until they were notified 
by radio, officials acknowledged.m Fordice, 62, was in 
serious condition -upgraded from critical -at 
University of Mississippi Medical Center with bruises to 
his heart, lung and liver. He also had fractured ribs, a 
broken shoulder, a collapsed left lung, a severely lacer­
ated ear and cuts. The governor's 1996 Jeep Grand 
Cherokee ran off Interstate 55 some 15 miles north of 
Grenada, rolled several times and caught fire at about 
dusk Tuesday, trapping him in the wreckage. Grenada is 
105 miles north of Jackson. Fordice, a conservative 
Republican in the first year of his second term, remained 
on a ventilator to assist his breathing. His attending 
physician, Dr. Keith Thomae, estimated he would be 
hospitalized for at least two weeks "if everything went 
perfect." 

Christopher visit prompts release 
BEIJING 

China released a cancer-stricken dissident from prison Wednesday, in an apparent bid to appease the United States two weeks before a visit by Secretary of State Warren Christopher. The release of Chen Ziming, jailed as an organizer of massive protests around Tiananmen Square in 1989, follows the 11-year prison term handed out to another dissident, Wang Dan, last week. Chen's family had appealed for the 44-year-old dissident's release so he could seek treatment for cancer and other ailments. Although the government freed Chen on med­ical parole, the move appeared calculated to counter criticism of Wang's sentence and brighten the mood for Christopher's Nov. 20-21 visit. Christopher is expected to raise human rights issues, among other topics. "It's the old good-cop, bad-cop routine," said Robin Munro, a China researcher for New York-based Human Hights Watch/Asia. 
Tutsi homes and businesses. 
Tens of thousands of young men demonstrated Tuesday, speeding around the capital and aiming fake, bamboo rifles at people with the tall, angular features of Tutsis. Two uni­versity students were killed and dozens injured in the violence. 
"There's no point in understating the degree of government disarray in this country," said U.S. Ambassador Daniel Simpson. 
The students, frustrated by a univer­sity system so corrupt and bankrupt that many sit in empty classrooms day after day, demand Mobutu's return and Kengo's resignation. Because the prime minister's mother is a Rwandan Tutsi, the students say he is not a true Zairian and has been too soft on his mother's homeland. 
II " 

Kengo has yet to respond to ca s 10r his resignation. 
He refused to attend an emergency summit on the country's crisis held in 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 


Atlanta  74  61  Dallas  63  50  New Orleans 80  70  
Baltimore  70  53  Denver  52  20  New York  64  54  
Boston  58  47  Los Angeles 81  51  Portland, Ore.54  44  
Chicago  48  47  Miami  86  75  St. Louis  54  50  
Cincinnati  68  57  Milwaukee  47  43  Tucson  76  41  


Thursday, November 7, I996 
By SARAH CORKREAN News Writer 
With only five weeks left in the semester and numerous tests and papers to go, how much stress can col­lege students take? For juniors and seniors, homework may be one of the last things on their minds as they look to life after college and the search for a job. 
In an effort to alleviate anxiety, frus­trations, and questions students have about the process and steps of job hunting, Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development center, the senior class, and Annunciata Hall sponsored an informal presentation entitled, "Practical Tips to Survtve in the World" last night for the student body. 
Paul Cox, a motivational speaker and employment recruiter for the Concessions Industry (M&M's, Mars, Amoco,and Sears), presented motiva­tional, practical, and usable job hunting tips for students graduating, looking for internships, deciding on majors, or con­tinuing their education at the graduate level. 
In a question and answer platform, students voiced questions and related past experiences in interviewing and concerns they have for future inter­views. Cox said recruiters ask broad questions to see if the applicant will respond with a specific answer. 
The specificity of a person's answer is a good indicator of how well that per­son will do the job, he said. Cox contin­ued, "Before you send out resumes, ask yourself if you understand and have the skills to perform the job." 
"Employers don't hire because you have an impressive resume, they hire because you have the skills to do the job," Cox said. Emphasizing that job hunting is a process, not just sending resumes to companies, Cox encouraged 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music p r e s e n t s 
,4n ,4metlC41t etltttltltl4l efldtatlolt 
performed by Faculty Member 
Wtlltam e~!.~¥ 
/\~~-:-)i:.::_~ ~--~  with works by William Grant Still,  
~--<1/  1  Virgil Thomson, Roger Sessions,  
t  \  Howard Hanson and Peter Mennin  
I  
Sunday, November 10  2 pm  Annenberg Auditorium  

The Snite Museum of Art 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
JUNIORS IN ACCOUNTANCY 

Notre Dame employees 
You have a choice in health plans. To designate Saintjoseph sMedical Center as your prefe17ed hospital select either Family Health Plan of Indiana or CIGNA. 
I 
c~ 
I 
The ability to sektt a health plan ofyour choice is one ofthe benefits ofbeing a Notre Dame employee. This is an important decision. And to make this decision you need as much information as possible. That's why Saint Joseph's Medical Center, through the Select Health Network, wants you to know the only way you can make sure we are your hospital ofchoice is by selecting either Family Health Plan 
of Indiana or CIGNA. Why is this important? Because Saint Joseph's Medical Center has served people like you throughout Michiana for over 100 years. Our tradition ofcare is second to none. And Saint Joseph's provides a full continuum ofquality health care services to serve virtually any health care need. For example, our cardiology department has one ofthe most successful records in the country. The obstetrics unit at Saint Joseph's features the most modern, fully-equipped birthing suites (LDRPs) in the area as well as a state-of-the-art neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Our cancer program is likewise nationally renowned. And the Medical Center's CARE-accredited pain and rehabilitation programs have helped hundreds ofMichiana residents successfully get back on their feet, back to their jobs and back to a normal life. Ofcourse, there are many other reasons why the people ofMichiana prefer Saint Joseph's Medical Center. So make sure that you have access to the broad range ofSaint Joseph's Medical Center services. When it comes time to choose your health plan, select Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
A Saint Joseph's'tJ'Medical Center 80 I E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend, IN 466 I 7 A Member of Saint Joseph's Care Group and the Holy Cross Health System 
©Saint Joseph's Medical Center-1996 
Cox: Accuracy, honesty essential for-employment 
a goal-based approach to the process. 
"Keep it simple," he said. "Send out resumes to a few companies you're interested in and always remember to follow up with a phone call a week after the initial interview or phone con­tact." 
Answeriag concerns about resumes, Cox insisted that students be accurate and truthful, but most importantly that the resume be error free. Cox warned that first impressions must be error free when 500 other people are also applying for the position. 
An insightful tip Cox offered was to schedule an information interview with a company or field of work that is of interest. Information interviews allow students to ask question about the com­pany and show the company that you are interested. 
"Information interviewing is a helpful step in narrowing down possible com­panics and fields of interest," said senior Cindy Dietz, who is just begin­ning the job hunting process. 
Students were optimistic and encour­aged by Cox's suggestions of starting the process by researching the compa­ny through an information interview. 
"I plan on setting up information interviews to make sure I want to pur~ sue a particular company before I start the in depth process of job hunting with that company," said junior Katie Narbone. 
Cox's presentation was a prelude to the annual "Showcase of Careers" to be held today in LeMans lobby from 3 to 5 
p.m. Thirty-three businesses, graduate· schools, and volunteer programs will be present to offer information and answer questions about each company. The office of Counseling and Career Development suggest that students bring resumes to hand out to recruiters to start the job hunting process and to get a feel for interviewing process. 
Film explores plight of slaves 
By HANK HECKEL News Writer 

Slavery in America virtually destroyed the culture, religion and family struc­ture of its victims. This theme was explored in great depth last night by a distinguished panel in their discussion of the film "Sankofa" following its screening. The experience of slavery had the effect on black Americans of being "hit over the head and left with cultural and historical amnesia," according to panelist Rodney Cohen, the director of Urban Plunge and outreach development for the Center for Social Concerns. 
The film brutally depicts the painful struggles of a handful of slaves on a southern plantation for survival, identity and ultimately freedom. Professor Kimberly Flint-Hamilton, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, described the spiritual rebirth of the main character as emerging "out of the womb" of slavery with a renewed sense of heritage. 
Cohen explained that the institution of slavery had serious thought behind it and was designed to totally obliterate any sense of cultural pride and instill a feeling of inferiority within the slaves. However, the disparate group of slaves which all had different backgrounds responded by building a spirit of com­munity which led to empowerment. 
Panelist Professor Richard Pierce admitted to having some qualms about the historical accuracy of the film. Professor DeBryant of the psychology department at IUSB said in response to this criticism that "We take parts of our history and we compress them and interpret them, and process them." 

page 4 
Navy 
continued from page 1 
problems of finding jobs and homes for the discharged eadets. 
On the report, Meinhold said, "I am in fact gay." These five words gained him instant celebrity and a discharge from the military. A court reinstat­ed him to military duty later that year. 
Four years later, in March 1996, Meinhold retired as a decorated and respected Naval offieer. 
Meinhold finds the military's "Don't ask. Don't tell. Don't pursue." policy a bad proce­dure for treatment of gays in the military. He noted that "diseharges have inereased and actually gone up [in the 
Search 
continued from page 1 
agree with the idea of an entirely confidential process. "I think a search of a purely discreet kind would be lethal to this community," Sister Elena Malits, professor of reli­gious studies stated in the meeting. "This is do-ur-die for this institution. as they (the Search Committee) will shape the future of the College." 
Callahan responded to that concern, stating, "We under­stand that the Saint Mary's community wants the fullest 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Headed for BC? Looking for a pre-game party or a place to watch the Irish? Join us at 
THE ORIGINAL SPORTS SALOON 
THE OFFI~IAL NOTRE DAME GATHERING SPOT! 

Located at the corner of Exeter and Huntington across from official NO head-­quarters, the Copley Marriott. 
Don't miss the pep rally at the Marriott Friday at 6 
p.m. or the tailgater at 
Lions Hall on campus Saturday at 1 p.m. (admission fees required) 
Go Irish! e 
uou..uon "' Nnuo o ... l 
I•~•••• t:n•oo•.,••• 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 7, 1996 
past four years], becoming a weapon that you can use against someone you don't like." 
Meinhold also believes that the military does not adhere to the policy, bending the rules to persecute homosexual men and women. "You cannot tell family members, friends, .· .. parents, psychologists, ... clergy members, ... you can't even tell your cat." 
Meinhold concluded by reaf­firming his support of the American military, claiming that homosexual discrimina­tion must be dealt with. "I don't think homophobia is as rampant in the military as in the general population. If you're out and open and hon­est of who you are, people respect that [though] the poli­cy puts you in a weak posi­tion." 
possible involvement in the search process. We also know that you want the best possible candidates to remain in the pool. We will do our utmost to reeoncile these priorities." 
~I 
at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 
Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 

does not mean that discrimi­nation does not exist. 
The three pointed to inci­dents concerning racial epi­thets as indications of a prob­lem. 
Johnson said that athletes have shared with her their experiences concerning the differences in the way others treat them when they're on the playing field and when they are a student on campus. 
The long political debate over affirmative action still rages as well. Johnson sup­ported affirmative action by saying, "In a college environ­ment, a large majority of the learning takes place outside the classroom." 
Although African American relations are crucial to the sit­uation on campus, the term race relations does not exclude Hispanics, Asians, women, or any other minority group. Johnson said, "Discussions like these give our students a voice which is viable and valuable. It gives our students hope." • 
In addition to holding open forums such as these, the esc offers other ways to combat racial problems on campus. Wong pointed to the annual essay contest and the monthly African American Catholic Masses that are held. 
The University recognizes the racial problems on campus and is currently taking action to correct them. Wong said that fhe Office of Multicultural Student Affairs works in con­junction with the Administration to improve race relations. 
The Administration aims to hire more minorities to increase the ratiQ of those able to relate with minority stu­dents. 
Johnson concluded, "Something must begin at the top with the University making a conscious effort to change the increasing discriminatory 
action." • makes them feel like they are 
Progra01 
continued from page 1 
and the students got their degree after two years. The admissions requirements are the same for the Chicago area students as they are for those in South Bend. 
Notte Dame's two-year Executive MBA Program at Notre Dame prepares mid-to upper-level managers for sue-cession to senior management positions and allows them to earn a master's degree while maintaining full-time employ­ment. The Chicago area pro­gram extends that opportunity to business professionals, without requiring them to leave the city, except for a campus visit and conference each semester. 
Ludwig commented, "Two key factors to our success are the ease of use of the system and the feeling it imparts to our distance students. It 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
FRIDAY, NOV 8 AND SATURDAY, NOV 9 
7:30 and 9:45 o.m. http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

------~~--------------~ 
----~----------------------~----------­
Thursday, November 7, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Voter turnout falls below 50 percent nationally 
Roosevelt (D) Willke,(f1)
' ·' ·., Thomas (S) 
1944iiF 

fa c e i t . 
. 
Wl n t e r i s n ' t that l o n g . 

1n 

2 months for 
Ok, I hear you. "Mr. Advertisement, why should a • join a health club when I have a gym on campus?" Well College Student, it's simple really. Because we're not a gym. We're a health club. The best in Michiana for that matter. Besides having over 25,000 pounds of free weights, we have daily aerobics classes in the Boom Rooms, Cardia Center for complete cardia vascular fitness, and one-on-one personal training just to name a few. Drop in for a free tour of the place. Walk around. Kick the tires. Better hurry though, offer ends November 15th. We think you'll like it here. 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
More than half America's eli­
gible voters stayed home on 
Election Day, producing the 
lowest turnout since 1924 
when Calvin Coolidge's cam­
paign didn't excite the elec­
torate either. Chief among the 
reasons cited by experts was 
President Clinton's near-cer­
tain _victory. 
The final figures weren't in 
on Wednesday, the day after 
the election, but Curtis Gans, 
director of the Committee for 
Study of the American 
Electorate, said he expects 
Tuesday's turnout to be 48.8 
percent of eligible voters. That ·compares with 55 percent in 1992. In all. 95.8 million people will have voted, he said, out of 
196.5 million who were eligi­ble. 
The 1924 turnout that elect­ed the taciturn Coolidge was 
The Saint Mary's College Department of Music cordially invites you to the twentyfourth annual 
Madrigal Dinners 
-~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
Please join us in Regina Hall, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, December sixth, seventh and eighth at seven each evening, plus a matinee on Sunday at two. 
Advance reservations required, $24.75 per person. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9-5 Monday-Friday. Discover, Visa and MasterCtrrd accepted at 219/284--4626. 
50.1 percent. The previous low turnout was in 1824, with 48.9 percent. 
Some of the people who did vote indicated they held their noses while doing it. 
Gilbert Finger of Grosse Pointe Park, Mich., said he decided to vote "because I have no right to gripe if I don't." He chose Clinton, but said, "It's almost like I'm vot­ing for the lesser of two evils." 
Gans said the attack adver­tising one or two hours a day "gives people a choice between bad and awful, worse and worser, and creates a pall across the system." 
Robert Y. Shapiro, a political science professor at Columbia University, said Clinton's lead in the polls held down the turnout. 
"The presidential election was essentially a done deal," he said. 
Shapiro says voters in 1992 were upset about the state of the economy and wanted to vote against George Bush. And Ross Perot's presence in the race stirred voter interest. 
Paradoxically, Perot proba­bly had something to do with people staying away on Tuesday, Shapiro said. 
"This go-round, voters were turned off by him," he added. 
PINNACLE athletic club 205 West Edison I Mishawaka, IN I 46545 Voice.255.8080 I Fax.257.9247 
"He laid the groundwork for a third party, but I think that Perot was perceived as tired, worn and less effective." 
West Virginians voted in far larger percentages than the national average, but the turnout, at just under 64 per­cent, fell below expectations. 
It was "M&M politics," said West Virginia Secretary of State Ken Hechler, who had predicted 7 5 percent. "If you look at M&Ms, they're all dif­ferent colors on the outside.And when you bite into them, they're all similar on the inside." 

MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
Freshmen, sophomores, juniors and seniors are eligible for Marine Corps Officer Programs that have no on-campus requirements. 
• 
LEADERSHIP TRAINING 

• 
NO OBLIGATION 

• 
SUMMER TRAINING PAY $1,600-$2,700 


GROUND, PILOT OR LAWER GUARANTEED 
MINIMUM SALARY-FIRST THREE YEARS $24,789 -$30,069 $26,889-$32,237 $33,051-$40,021 
FOR AN APPOINTMENT WITH A MARINE OFFICER SELECTION OFFICER CONTACT CAPTAIN DOUG BROWNE, CLASS OF 1992 AT 
1-800-945-3088 

I? 
We're looking for afew good men and women. 


-~ ---~-, __ 
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 7, 1996 
~------~~~==---.:...=.=..=-=-=~---­
, 

• 
ou~re 
e 


-
•

aPPV 1r 


,[, 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, November 7, 1996 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
ELfCllON '%... ARNAL-C7UMMA.'KY...
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saim Mary's Ediror................. Carolinc Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofdther institution. The ne"YS is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accenr Ediror, Pharo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity ami to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 \tianaging Ediror/Viewpoinr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs · 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Sainr Marv's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Dav Editor/Prod~crion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Ge~erallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• WHEN PIGS fLY 
Let's go crazy: The Mexico City Driving Manual 
Forget everything you learned in Drivers Ed. To begin with, American dri­ving rules are obsolete and utterly use­less in Mexico City; you will need quick reflexes, sharp eyesight, bra,very and sado-masochistic tendencies. 
Choose your car wisely. If it is nice 
(i.e. in one nice, shiny piece) it will be stolen. Sometimes you will be in the car 

Bernadette Pampuch 
when this happens. Be prepared to run. If it isn't a nice car, it will still probably be stolen. The Club is your friend. 
Never assume that you will arrive at your df)Stination on time or in one piece. ThPre is a reason that some side-view mirrors in Mexico City arc detachable, and it has to do with the Mexican con­cept of time/space in regards to driving. It is acceptable to pass a car leaving a distance of 0.5 mm between you (approximately the width of the letter "i" in a tPn-point font) provided that you only scratch and don't actually hit the vehicle next to you. 
Speed is irrelevant. Don't bother try­ing to convert miles per hour to kilome­ters or vice versa, because 1) there does not seem to be a single speed limit sign anywhere within the city and 2) even if there was, only tourists would obey it. 
Remember that speed is regulated by the most insidious of all inventions, the tope. Houghly translated, tope, means "little speed bump of death." They appear in the most unlikely places and it is generally only after you have slammed on the brakes and the passen­gers in the back seat have hurtled over your shoulder that you realize you've driven over one. 
More deadly than topes are your fel­low drivers. Small green Volkswagen Beetles masquerading as taxis flood the streets by the millions. They are not really taxis, no matter what the signs or "Let's Go! Mexico" travel guide say; they are the Devil incarnate, weaving and dodging in and out of traffic like kamikaze bats out of hell. They drive backwards down one-way streets. They drive on sidewalks. They are evil. Combis are no better, just larger. They are Volkswagen minivans pretending to be busses, almost always driven by a large tattooed man who reminds you of a distant uncle recently released from jail. They do not obey the laws of gravi­ty or physics. They charge less than tow pesos to turn you into a highly religious person. 
You will find yourself driving closer to combis and taxis than you would like. The dotted lines in the middle of the road which we in America interpret as the division of lanes are merely a sug­gestion here in Mexico City. You will learn to weave. This will help you dodge topes, meandering popsicle vendors and the occasional unlucky dog or pedestri­an who strays into your path. 
Don't stop for pedestrians no matter how old or infirm they are. The slower they move, the more pressure you should put on the accelerator. Honking is optional, a nasty look and the sound of your motor racing should suffice. 
Fight all temptations to use turn sig­nals. If you want turn left and make the silly mistake of actually using"'your blinker, remember that it is a signal to the person behind you that you want them to pass you on the left. Pray that your insurance company is easily amused. 
Learn to be confused. There are over two dozen separate and distinct streets named Benito Juarez in a city of 20 mil­lion people. Stop often and ask direc­tions, at which point every person you ask will invariably answer, "Oh, it's just off of Insurgentes." Remember that Insurgentes is the longest street in the world. Also remember that even when the address of a house or business is vis­ible it does not necessarily follow a mathematical pattern, making it possi­ble for #315 Benito Juarez to be located between #400 and #600. 

Drive at night when it is less crowded and easier for the ambulances to reach you in a timely and efficient manner. If you don't feel the need to stop for a red light, don't. Honk your horn and speed through. Disregard stop signs if no one else is around. Disregard stop signs even if someone else is around. If you must stop, roll, and repeat this pattern for as long as you are driving. Be just like every other driver in the city. 
Final tips? Find something saf-er to do. Skydiving. Knife throwing. Running with scissors. Anything is easier than driving in Mexico City. 
Bernadette Pampuch is a Senior English writing major at Saint Mary's College. Her column appears every ...., other Thursday. 
•  DOONESBURV  
a/&l/..., IF Y(){JR. CWB 15 ct0513!?­MIU.I~, HOtV C?O YOU Aa)UIRE ?HE MARIJUANA YOU NEe!?<' I  ONC/3 A tfleeK, I CRU/5!3 AROUNC? AFTeR PARi< UN­Tit. I 5&& A Peff&CTl.Y PRIGHTFUI-YOUNG MAN NAM!W LJJCCA NHO SI3US MeANOiJNC&,. \  


GARRY TRUDEAU 
at, !?eAR,
IT'5 I?.AIVGCROUS YOUR 

t/~70
AN!?577<E55FU/..., WHAT, 

Me-I:.U
BUTtl/HATCAN M!Uif'? 

7VRNING
IIA?!WCCA 
~7.1
15MYMAIN I 
MANl 
\ 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
" Beauty is a mystery. You can neither eat it nor make flannel out of it." 
-Jake the Jumping Snake 
• 

page 8 
Thursday, November 7, 1996 
LEMONHEADS Car Button Cloth 

(out of five) 


T
he thirteen tracks on this latest treat from Boston's favorite band range, as usual, from the mediocre to the very good. The Lemonheads have never been purveyors of music that will change lives, but over the past few years have nevertheless caught and held our attention with a talent both genuine and consis­tent. Car Botton Cloth is a worthy successor to pre­vious efforts, and and is led by the excellent "If I Could Talk I'd Tell You," an optimistic-sounding ditty with such great lines as, "You are far away, my most imaginary friend." 
Requisite wierdness appears in the form of "6ix," a song about actress Gwyneth Paltrow in the movie "Seven," and we all know what happened to her! Sure enough the main, repeated lyric, "Here comes Gwyneth's head in a box," provokes one of those happily unsettling occassions in life when one is forced to ponder the frailty of the human mind, especially when it belongs to Evan Dando. "Losing Your Mind" offers further evidence that things may not be all quite right in there. 
This album is also distinguished due to its inclu­sion of a song, "The Outdoor Type," about fear of camping (is there a word for that?), perhaps the first in music history. Obviously this is not a subject of great concern to millions of anxious listeners, yet the piece works on account of an intimation of the sad­ness and deceit inherent in human relationships. Similar sentiments are found in "Break Me" and "Something's Missing," the former being especially notable for the frustration expressed therein. The last three tracks of the album should only be endured if one has unluckily forgotten to stop the CD beforehand; they are hardly a fitting end to an oth­erwise enjoyable and quirky collection. 
by Juilan Elliot 
PRESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
T

he Presidents of the United States of America want to be Jimmy Carter or Gerald Ford on their sophomore release II -the OF THE UNITED ST.A.TES OF.A.MERIC.A. spirit of the Seventies and a bit of a joke. 
Fuzzy riffs, thundering drums, hot licks, pick-scrapes and fist pumpin' pop crank fr-om start to finish. PUSA bury their trademarked twangy, slidy Kinder-jam of old under petal-pushed, scratchy MC5, Kiss and Foghat era rawk. Well... almost. There's still two songs .called "Bug City" and "Froggie." However, ll is music composed for the explicit pur­pose of being cranked out of V8 Ford Mustangs in mall parking lots. 
Give the Presidents some credit though. They are the most unpretentious rock-and-roll band in America. They're anti-pretentious. Would you ever hear Eddie Vedder or Stone Temple Pilots sing "Little puffy cloud with a tongue/ Floatin' over a cheese puff rug a lug?" 
The Presidents fully embrace their elected position of arena rockers, as they open the album asking the listener "Hello ladies and gentlemen ... let's rok [sic]!" Courtesy of Columbia Records At this very moment, the band is probably buying up wholesale hair-band stage props from the Eighties, 


II (out of five) 
such as Tommy Lee's floating drum set, David Lee Roth's "Peter Pan" harness, and Cheap Trick's four­neck guitars. The Presidents are a joke-an embod­iment of just how silly commercial rock-and-roll is­but they know it. That fact alone puts them miles ahead of Bush. 
But don 'tforget, the Presidents still rock. "Lunatic to Love," "L.I.P.," and "Volcano" put motor in the booty of even the most stone-faced music critic. Those who couldn't get past the kitty, spider, bum­ble-bee themes of the last album will be happy to know that lyrically the kids focus more on engines, speakers and amplifiers on 1/. 
Sprinkled with clever drum fills, funky slide-bass (even bass-maestro Mark Sandman of Morphine, friend of President Chris Ballew, jams on "Froggie"), and head-bobbin' stop-starts, ll offers more than typical alterna-rock fare. Listening to the Presidents is the guilty music equivalent of eating a box of Twinkies on the couch and watching the Hichard Bey Show. Sure, you should be exercising or studying, but the couch is much more entertaining. 
by Brent DiCrescenzo 

N 

estled deep within Happy Valley, just off Penn State's main campus, a 

group of three bands came to a small bar called tile Crowbar on October 
23. The bar has been fre­quented by Live, the Cranberries, N·ine Inch Nails and Iggy Pop to name just a few. It is of virtual legendary status among the students at 
Penn State, bringing in live acts every night. That Wednesday, the crew from the Crowbar in conjunction with a local radio station, brought in three bands from virtually opposite ends of the so-called "alternative" spectrum. The event attracted the Goths, donned completely in black, the punks, and yes, even those who haven't realized that the grunge movement is over. 
The first band, I Mother Earth, was greeted by indifference and ambiguity. They played a short set, cutting their performance short when they realized that no one was really getting into their music. In breif, they were terrible. Canada's I Mother Earth was just another band to come out of the mold, sounding like a hybrid of Pearl Jam, Hage Against the Machine and Santana, but definitely failed to capture any of the bands' strengths. The band lacked originality and the strong stage presence needed to entertain 2000 high energy kids. The lead singer (if you really want to call him that, lead screamer sounds more appropri­ate) became lost within the nauseating guitar riffs and quivering bass lines. He was unsure of himself on stage, joking with the crowd, "Well, I hope we got some more fans tonight." This statement was met with a few boos and a "probably not." The most excitement this band saw was when they left the stage. 
After I Mother Earth's poor performance, the crowd of the all-ages show was left hungry for a good performance, and this is exactly what they got with the final two performances. 
Three nineteen year olds from Northern Ireland that form the band Ash sparked a new found life in the impatient crowd. Soon, the first floor of the bar became a surging mass of flying bodies while the second floor (reserved for the over twenty one crowd) watched curiously from above as if they were watching an ancient Homan gladiator match. Quite simply, Ash is a great live band. Their albums do not capture their youthful energy nor their frustration with their gen­eration. They play their music fast and they play it loud. The band members, some donned in old Star Wars T -shirts, had a presence that even the legendary Sex Pistols would be proud of. They played their brand of punk music without 
I 

by joey crawford 
Stabbing Ash 
fear and without hesitation. Their song, "Girl from Mars," combines the catchiness of pop with pure punk rage and cre­ates a song that has become almost an anthem for many of the teenagers that were at the show. They shouted lines from the song of lost love in unison with lead singer Tim Wheeler, "She never told me her name, I still love you the girl from Mars!" Ash continued to ignite "electricity in the air" with songs off of their second album 1977 (named after the year the trio was born). High points included "Lose Control (which includes a Star Wars sample), " "Goldfinger," and the fast paced punk of "Kung Fu," which has the same energy as the Ram ones classic, "Teenage Lobotomy." For kids, or anyone for that matter, they are very sure of themselves and their music. Their music is deep-rooted and pure from the commercial inlluences that usually infect new artists. As it turns out there is some hope for the music of the future. 
The third act put on a completely different set than Ash, but perhaps equally high in energy, carrying the audience into the world of Nine Inch Nails and Ministry. Stabbing Westward's industrial music offered a strong contrast to the two pervious bands, but a likable contrast at that. Many industrial bands per­form poorly on stage due to their reliance on synthesizers, but Stabbing Westward's performance was remarkably strong, perhaps even sounding better live than on an album. They seemed to pump the amperage up on their instru­ments as well as place more power into the vocals. 
While Ash's performance reflected their youthful innocence, Stabbing Westward's show, led by the capable hands of lead singer Christopher Hall, addressed the darker aspects of life. They played their hits from their sopho­more album, Wither, Blister, Burn, and Peel, "What Do l Have to Do?" and "Shame." They performed these songs with a raw intensity that was pleasantly surprising. They did not just pour this strength into these two songs either; they continued this high energy trend with "I Don't Believe" and the stop and start motion of "So Wrong." Where those songs were fast and loud, "Why" was hyp­notic, delivering tired fans from the anarchy into a dreamlike state. 
Ash stole the show with their simplicity and youthful energy, even though the more-seasoned Stabbing Westward put on an impressive showing. Overall, the crowd of people ranging in age from twelve to thirty left the smoke-filled bar happy with the final two performances and with a few more bruises. 






April 1 , 1968 
~.--[*The ]­
~=·...... Qb_~~[V~~ -:=~ 
-~--r 
-···------­
~·---...~--..---.. 
~;'§'~.:::.:-::::::=:: ., ­
•
----~ 


By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
I
t's a Friday afternoon in the fall, and some of The Observer's editors are at their desks, cleaning off the debris from a week's worth of issues and recovering from the previ­ous night's strains of producing the larger Friday paper. 
The down time on a Friday afternoon is perfect for reorga­nizing both desks and minds, a window of opportunity between the end of classes for the week and the commencement of the weekend's festivities. With no issue to put together that night, the office is relatively quiet. 
Except for the intermittent 
phone calls. 
Every couple of minutes, callers from various buildings on campus ask when the paper is going to arrive. The lunch hour has come and gone, and because of the size of the Friday edition -36 pages, up from its usual size of 20 or 24 -The Observer is arriving a few hours late today. 
"Is there going to be a paper today?" a caller asks, a little miffed. 
Don't worry, there will be. Excluding days immediately fol­lowing class breaks, The Observer hasn't missed a week­day since 1970. 
Not-so-quiet origins 
Robert Sam Anson and Stephen Feldhaus were the dri­ving forces behind The Observer when the newspaper began in the fall of 1966, exactly 30 years ago this week. Feldhaus was the editor of the Voice, The Observer's weekly predecessor; Anson had guided Scholastic magazine's news department and had interned with Time Magazine over the previous summer. 
The idea to start a new news­paper belonged to Feldhaus, who had grown frustrated with the Voice's financial woes and with the University administra­tion's control over that paper. The two, along with Pat Collins, then the news editor of Scholastic, decided to reestablish the student newspaper as an independent entity. To do that, the trio agreed that the Voice had to be terminated. 
A week after the Voice died, The Observer was born. It pub­lished its first issue on Nov. 3, 1966, under the headline "A Promise, A Purpose, A Newspaper is Born." Anson arid Feldhaus were co-editors-in­chief, and borrowed the name of the newspaper, as well as its logo, from The National Observer. The paper came out once per week, and 12 times during that first year. 
Anson was the leading source of the newspaper's decidedly lib­eral stance. He wrote pieces on topics ranging from co-educa­tion to sexual liberation, in that way pushing the newspaper toward the heart of its self-pro­claimed focus. The newspapers, the editors said, should appeal to "the liberal" -a man "who is wary of ideologies and absolutes." 
Anson's editorials did little to endear him to the administra­tion. After publishing a particu­larly sexually graphic story which originally appeared in a Berkeley, Calif., newspaper ­the article encouraged people to "screw with Jove" and said that "watching someone else screw could be very enlightening" ­Anson faced calls for his expul­sion. 

Then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh said that he "wouldn't give (Anson) the satisfaction" of expelling him and instead told editors to write a letter of apology to the campus community. 
The controversy also led to a turning point in the establish­ment of the newspaper -the creation of a student-faculty advisory board to guide The Observer. The advisers made it clear that censorship was not their intention, and the resulting guidelines and procedures solid­ified the newspaper's presence on campus, possibly making sure that it would last. The advi­sory board was later abolished and a mediator role was created in the University president's office. 
Into the '70s 

During the second year, editor Pat Collins worked to put the paper on firm financial footing. His reasoning was that a news­paper could be free to say what it wanted only if it were finan­cially independent. He persuad­ed Student Senate to approve a subscription fee for the students -a fee that is still collected today -and expanded the paper to a biweekly circulation, 
see HISTORY I page 4 
~................................~.............~~..~~..........~....~............................~~~..........n...........~-~~~~--..·~----~~..ur.~ 
The Observer Turns 30 
page 2 Thursday, November 7, 1996 
THE OBSERVER EVOLUTION OF A NEWSPAPER ... ~OBSERVER 

How to tap akeg 
(and tie into the best reason in the world to drink beer) 
1 
2Jutt before the-J)llrty bqiru, tap your beer. Firtt, make lUre the beer faucet II ckJted (you wouldn't Pick up a half-barrel of Bud. want to wute a drop of Beechwood 
(lood lor about 245 12-ouncc cupt Aaed Bud!), Then, inaert the faucet­
. with roam) and the bppinc equip· and-pump unit into the up~ valve mcnt on the day of the p.rty. Juat or the kcc, &ivc it • quarter tum Kt the ben In a tub oC ke to keep clockwise, and lock it in place by it cold. 
3Nn:t, inwrt the laser tap in the lown valve or the kea and cive it • quarter turn. Now, .et the kt"& upri&ltt in a tub and pack ice around it. 
4You're now ready to !!raw beeT. Pump pUN\' ~ to the proper point For &ood draw, uaually about lS lbl. That'• aU th«e il to lr, buc thue-'r no rule apinlt umptin~ juat to make aun eve~rythinc Ia perhc:t. Ahhhhhl lt'1 no wonder yo~'ll 6nd more tavern• with the runou~ "Bud on Draucht" aicn thaD any othel-1 

Budweiser® 

The above advertisements appeared in previous edi­tions ofThe Observer. 
The wild ads of old 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Even the advertisements which ran in The Observer's early years ref1ected its editors' liberal views. 
The alcohol and pornography indus­tries frequently targeted Irish students through the paper. Indicative of that stand, the May 1, 1970, issue ran a pair of 2x7 advertisements heralding a local theaters' showing of "Like mother like daughter; a truly adult experience." The same issue suggested students "see the uncut uncensored European ver­sion of 'Promises! Promises!"' 
Advertisements for Playboy magazine would seem equally out of place in today's Observer, but early editors were admittedly short on funding and had fewer qualms about where they took revenues from. In retrospect, Hobert Sam Anson, The Observer's founding editor, called the paper "grossly sexist." 
Alcohol advertisements, although not banned until 1988, peaked in appear­ance in the paper's early years too. "When you're out of Schlitz, you're out of beer," "Pick up a half-barrel of Bud, good for about 245 12oz cups," and "Pabst; How to get a head," advertise­ments ran weekly. 
In fact, an advertisement even trig­gered a church condemnation of the paper. In one of the paper's most heat­ed controversies, the bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese labeled The Observer "scurrilous" and "blasphe­mous" for running a pro-abortion ad. Reading, "Abortion counseling, infor­mation, and referral services," the spot seemed _particularly liberal when con­sidering Roe v. Wade was stil 5 years in the future. 
Finance troubles in the mid-seventies eased The Observer away from national advertisers and signaled the focus on local and campus-based ads that cur­rently dominate the paper. 
The Observer: Born from liberal roots 
By DEREK BETCHER stage for the uproar that the Dec. 8 Assistant News Editor issue would generate. With dead­
Right Reason can't monopolize Notre Dame's patent for extremist journalism. 
Thirty years ago, The Observer captured that distinction by burst­ing onto campus in a storm of unrestrained bias and leftist opin­ion. For the next several years, the f1edgling paper would routinely antagonize the administration and offend the students with its liberal writing, editing, and advertising policies. 
"We were cheerfully biased about everything, be it the lowli­ness of Michigan State, the lunacy of the Vietnam War, or the lines approaching and copy space remaining, that edition's staff chose to reprint a story from the Berkley paper that openly champi­on{ld voyeurism, nudity, and promiscuity. The dissidence hov­ered until the staff reprinted a forced apology in February. 
Anson's graduation later that spring did not alter the paper's approach, he had left a solid liber­a! foundation in his wake. 
Early the following year, the new staff printed an editorial ehalleng­ing administrative efforts to curb hallucinatory drug use on campus. That week they also solidified their position on campus by moving to 
deplorable lack of------------biweekly publica­drugs, booze, and tion and soon sex on campus... 'Wewere cheerful-thereafter increas­founding editor ly biased about ing funding. 
Robert Sam Anson A Feb. 8, 1969, wrote in a 1986 ret-everything, be it the special edition rospective. lowliness of Michigan printed on 
As blatantly hedo-Saturday which nistic as those pub-State, the lunacy of the reported the bust­lished priorities Vietnam War, or the ing of a pornogra­were, The Observer d l bl l k 0 f phy conference in 
was created with ep ora e ac Nieuwland Hall sig.­the serious inten-drugs, booze, and sex naled the paper's tion of filling what on campus., continued commit-its editors saw as a ment to tackling deplorable lack of Robert Sam Anson the campus' most opinion on campus. founder o[The Observer sensitive issue with 
Anson and his 
cohorts had concluded that the 
crumbling weekly The Voice was 
both directionless and fundless, 
and they felt Scholastic was tied 
too closely to University adminis­
tration to be truly independent. . On Nov. 3, 1966. the camp.us' 
disgruntled liberal writers found 
their outlet. 
"Here was a newspaper that was fact-filled, slick looking, and, rarest of all for Notre Dame, posi­tively bristling with opinion," Anson said. 
"Silly or not, though, The Observer was passionate. It never just laid there.," he added. 
The first issue took a decidedly antagonistic view of the adminis­tration. Anson and his writers quickly chanipioned underdog issues like expanded female visita­tion hours, fewer restrictions on drugs and alcohol, and even a co­educational campus. As the year wore on, their views continued to stray from the mainstream. 
Negative reaction surrounded a Nov. 17 article, "Found Alive and Well in Argentina: God," which satired God in an unflattering light. 
That controversy only set the 
aplomb. The paper did not hesitate to highlight the macing of their cameraman or the police's physical handling of tho crowd. 
As the paper grew into the Age of Aquarius, its penchant for contro­versy could only briefly ke<lp pace. The fall 1970 condemnation of The Observer by the bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend marks the clos­ing of the paper's gratuitously eon­tentious era. They owed that denunciation to verbatim coverage of Ti Grace Atkinson's profane feminine lecture criticizing the Catholic Church. 
A tradition of flaunting stories like Atkinson's would eventually cross paths with a commitment to competent news reporting. In that light, current sentiments lamenting a loss of direction would be mis­placed. The shift should be attrib­uted in large part to wholesale changes in our political and social climate. 
Anson, for one, doesn't mourn the transition. 
"The 60s, and the hot-blooded journalism it produced, are a dim memory now, and, looking back, perhaps it's just as well," he said. 

Office manager Shirley Gra1 
By LIZ FORAN 
Editor-in-Chief 

When position changeovers occur at almost 100 percent a year in any company, the quality and consistency of its product are hard to maintain. 
Unless you have an excellent manager. 
The Observer's Shirley Grauel, in her 17th year as office manag­er, provides the inside and out knowledge, expertise and general troubleshooting ability that keeps the paper functioning every day. 
"It's the best job I've ever had," Grauel said, "but it's also the.most frustrating." 
Aside from keeping track of billing, payments, subscriptions, and classifieds, Grauel must also field a variety of questions from students, advertisers, and the curious from California to Connecticut. 
Often the majority of the ques­tions come from within the office itself. 
"Shirley, how do I use the redial button?" called a voice from the newsroom. 
"Do you know where this ad is?" asked another. 
On paper, Grauel works for the editor-in-chief of The Observer, but the reality is quite different. 
She seems to have all the 
answers. She knows where things are, or at least where to begin looking. She knows how to solve problems, or gives good advice. Whatever the problem, she always has a story of another edi­tor who dealt with something worse. 
"Sometimes when I come in, I'm really surprised that there is going to be a paper that day," she said. 
Grauel began working for The Observer in 1980, the first year of computers -and the problems they bring. 
"People would type in classifieds and they would never appear in the paper," she said. "There were 

The Observer Turns 30
Thursday, November 7, 1996 page 3 
()
This Jl§ the dawning of the Age of Technology 
From linotype to Power Mac, production has slowly evolved 
By HEATHER COCKS therefore had higher values 
;ociate News Editor than lowercase characters. The 
sum of letter values was equal 
It's already past 2 a.m. to the length of the headline. 
The last page shoots out of Editors had to type and re-type 
the printer, seemingly perfect until they hit on one that fit the 
mtil one glaring spelling mis­space perfectly. 
ake catches the editor's eye. Two production assistants 
'he error is easily fixed, the were given printed articles and 
age reprinted; suddenly, the headlines with the task of 
Hinter flashes that it has a putting the paper together. 
1aper jam. Everything was cut and pasted 
Taking into account the big onto the "flats," thin cardboard 
Jicture, however, such frustra­onto which the finished pages 
ions are more than compensat­are affixed. 
)d by the way in which technol­"Correcting typos was defi­
Jgy has enabled efficient and nitely a pain," said Alison 
recise daily publication. Cocks-Hamilton, editor-in -chief 
1990-91 and former Production 
Out With the Old... Manager. "Everything had to be 
Still, the old system was con­re-pasted." · 
N
ightly production staffers are ·idered top-of-the-line in its Concurrs Sexton, 'The print­
responsible for reproducing ay. "Not only are stories writ­ing process was so expensive 
page design on the computers.

en and edited on computer ter­that it wasn't feasible to re­
Heather Cocks (above) fixes a paper
ninals in today's Observer print articles a number of ewsroom, but they are also times. People got creative with 
jam; Jackie Moser Oeft, foreground) and typeset by computer," wrote using exacto knives to correct 
Belle Bautista paste printed pages onto John McGrath, editor-in-chief errors." 
the flats; below, Melissa Weber designs1981-82, in a 1981 commemo­Sexton and former Editor-in­
graphics on a Power Macintosh.
rative issue of The Observer. Chief Joe Murphy agreed that 
The ObseiVer/Mike Ruma 

The system was manufac­the Alpha Micro machines were 
tured by a company called fast becoming impractical. 
Alpha Micro; writers typed sto­"They were old, and virtually 
ries into the terminals, and edi­unsupported. The company was 
tors used formatting codes to never accessible when we 
alter the text. <B>, for example, needed help," Sexton stated. 
meant that text should be bold. 
Printers at that time were ...In With the New 
typesetters, to which completed After purchasing a Macintosh 
stories were sent by hitting the Plus and studying its capabili­
Enter key on the Alpha Micro ties, Sexton designed a desir­
terminals. able system based entirely on 
"We only owned two fonts," those machines. 
!'!)calls Chris Donnelly, editor­Initially, only two Macintosh ' in-chief 1989-90. "One for text, computers were used, their pri­and one for headlines." lie mary purpose being the facilita­i explained that the typesetter tion of the task of writing head­read the fonts from pieces of lines. "We played around with 
lilm that were inserted into the their capabilities," said 
machine, "so the machine knew Donnelly, "mostly focusing on 
how to print the text. By expos­the networking capabilities." 
ing light onto the film, the Donnelly was involved in the 
image was burned onto photo­1989 acquisition of Macintosh 
graphic paper, and printing SE computers, the final step in That spring, members of the The system has not changed to Power Macintosh 7200s. 
began." the movement away from the Accent staff were the first to drastically since the implemen­Colors and designs are more 
"The machine was huge," almost-obsolete Alpha Micros. design full pages on computers. tation of QuarkXpress. All arti­elaborate, as are original 
noted Shawn Sexton, systems The third Macintosh ever to Cocks-Hamilton trained them to cles are still written and saved graphics by Observer staffers. 
manager 1986-88 and current enter the market, the SE com­use Quark Xpress, the program onto the Mac SE's in the news­Photo scanners have made 
team leader of Network puters were the first Macs to currently used to lay out all room; copy editors and assis­obsolete the cropping system 
Engineering at Notre Dame. "It have hard drives in addition to pages. tant editors proofread, check used in all previous years. 
needed the film, the chemi­the built-in internal drive. They Upon the start of her tenure spelling, and calculate the No system is without its flaws. 
cals... it got expensive." had the capacity to inter-con­as EIC, she succesfully pushed approximante length of the The cardinal rule of production 
Headlines were composed on nect and form an office network for an expanded production story to facilitate page design. is "Save, and save often," as 
a separate machine. Editors through a process similar to staff, allowing each department "Dummy" sheets are small computers do crash and print­
entered the amount of space that which ResNet employs the use of Quark to paginate reproducitons of newspaper ers can jam. But in the opinion 
alloted for the text, and begain today. their respective sections. pages, on which the designs are of Brad Prendergast, current 
typing potential headlines. The Donnelly decided to commit "Manual layout was so impre­drawn. Production workers news editor, the advantages 
computer used a system called to Macs for every department, cise," commented Sexton. receive dummies from the edi­outweigh those minor prob­
'character counting' to calcu­as well as a newer laser type­"Things often fell off the pages, tors and reproduce the design lems. 
late whether the headline was setter. Investments in programs or were pasted in the wrong on their computers. "We've really started to 
too long or short. such as Microsoft Word permit­place." After Quark became a Each production computer explore everything we can do 
Each letter had a value based ted the complete abandonment mainstay, Sexton noticed a sub­has a 16-inch monitor, and with Quark," he said. "The 
on its width, and capital letters of Alpha Micro terminals. stantial increase in the accura­with the exception of one, all paper keeps looking better and 
cy of layout and pagination. have been gradually upgraded better." 
I relishes role as 'Observer Mom' 

I glitches in the system." department editors and editor-in­dropped my son ofT at IU. When it attend school. 
·e then, she has seen The chief, also keep in touch with was time for me to go home, I "She would sleep on the couch 
er move through technolo­Shirley through phone calls and started crying because he wasn't we used to have in here," she 
nd editors quite. a few times. letters. Some even stop up during going to b_e there," she said. said. "She still remembers it.'' 
pite all her worries and football weekends to see the Then Editor-in-Chief Kevin Jill is now a senior at Notre 
nsibilities at The Observer, woman who sometimes served as Becker came up to her and put Dame. 
,) said the hardest of the jobs surrogate mother to them during his arm around her. "I keep getting older and the 
duation. She grows attached their years at The Observer. "lie told me to call him," Grauel students stay the same age," she 
ear to the staff, which even­"A former sports editor called said. "He told me to go home and said. 
graduates and moves away. me from the recovery room after call him. I said, 'No, I can't call It used to be that if one of The 
mnd spring break when the she had her first child," Grauel him, he's only been there one Observer staff called her "mom" 
-in-chief leaves... that's said. day.' she really hit the roof. 
hard," she said. As much of herself as she gives "But he told me to call, that my "I was only 35 when I started," 
t I still keep in touch with to the office and the students, son would want me to. So I did, she said. "I told him, 'Don't you 
ts that were here," Grauel Grauel admits· that there were and he was so glad I called," she call me that."' 
"I feel like I could go any­times when even she needed the said. Now she takes it in stride. 
, (in the country) and know support-of the student editors. Grauel also brought her daugh­"But I never think of them as 
me in that area." "One of the sweetest things I ter Jill to The Observer with her kids. I always feel like I'm work­
) students, especially the remember was the day after I when she was sick and unable to ing with adults." 



..........~....~..............~....................------~~--..--~..~~--~~--~----~~--aP~~------------~--------~--.a----~----~ 
The Observer Turns 30
page 4 Thursday, November 7, 1996 
----~----~~~~~~---------------~==================~ 
securing Anson's release from by students, whose time commit­for over 20 years until 1994,
The administration responded
Cambodian captors. Anson had ments extend much further than wrote in The Observer's 20th.
with an ultimatum to the next A fmal word ... 
been working as a foreign corre­the walls of a newspaper office. anniversary issue about the
year's staff: Join the University­The critical feature in the his­
spondent for Time magazine in And often, not having enough paper's place on campus.
wide Budget Unit Control or Jose tory of The Observer is that each 
Cambodia, where he had been time prevents editors from "At night, out walking, I check 
all student fees. year's staff has built upon the
taken hostage and released accomplishing all that they want. three things: to see if the Dome
While student editors viewed progress of its predecessors,
three weeks later. While on The campus community is lighted; to see if Father
this as a means for the learning from the dilemmas that

campus, he had decided to visit expects a lot out of The Observer Hesburgh's lights are on; to see
University to take control of the past editors faced and refining
to The Observer. After the ses­-as Notre Dame and Saint if the lights are on in The 
newspaper, the reality of the sit­the process of taking story ideas, 
sion with Anson, the paper Mary's students, they should. Observer office, as a sign stu­
·uation mandated that they agree photographs and advertisements 
resumed publication that night. And The Observer will continue dents are laying out a paper,"
or lose more than their indepen­and turning them into a newspa­
The rest of the decade proceed­to expect even more from itself. Griffin said in 1986. "When any
dence. The staff risked both the per each night. And as the years 
ed a little more smoothly, though Father Robert Griffin, who of those three sets of lights are
loss of student fees and rent-free pass and quality technology
the newspaper did manage to authored a column, "Letters to a out. I feel lonelier and less pro­
office space. becomes more affordable, the
find controversy. The bishop of Lonely God," for the newspaper tected."
By the end of 1984, the news­process becomes a little easier,
the diocese of Port Wayne-South 
paper was operating under the allowing the newspaper to
Bend condemned The Observer PULLOUT STAFF 
University's budget system on expand its coverage and improve 
during the 1970-71 school year 
strong financial footing -and its design. 
after it quoted a prominent femi­
still editorially independent. That's not to say that The
nist's profanity during a lecture 
Observer is without its inherent
on campus and ran a pro-abor­
And today ... problems. The nature of a stu­
tion advertisement. 
The Observer continues to dent newspaper is that it's run
At the same time, bits and 
Kiss and Tell: Office romances 

pieces of Observer history were operate without an adviser, being made. The growing politi­reporting directly to the Office of
History 
cal apathy of the mid-to-late '70s the President. Matt Cullinan, -not seen in the '60s -influ­assistant to Malloy, presently
continued from page I 
enced the shift toward a more serves as the mediator between objective product. The Observer the president's office and Thewhich made advertising more continued to voice opinions on its Observer.
worthwhile. 
editorial pages, but gradually To this day, the administration 
In 1968-69, The Observer 
shied away from allowing the lib­does not interfere with the con­moved from tri-weekly to daily, eral philosophy to pervade the tent of each day's paper,
and has appeared every day news. although advertisements for
since then, barring internal trou­alcohol are banned and ads forble, external conflict, or natural The 1980s unrecognized student groups aredisaster. But the stress of pub­A request for additional fund­restricted.
lishing each day eventually took ing in the. early 1980s led to a The philosophy of the editorial its toll on editor Dave Bach in complete revampment of the staff has also shifted since theSeptember 1970. Citing the need 
way The Observer's finances beginning of the 1990s. A
for professional help in training were managed. stronger commitment to makingreporters and other personnel When the 1982-83 editorial The Observer a campus newspa­and the lack of funding, Bach board asked for a $1 hike in the per has Jed to increased campus stepped down. and publication student subscription fee from $5 coverage and a subsequentwas suspended for two days. 
per semester to $6, the request decline in the reliance onOn Sept. 30, as the editorial led to a review of The Observer's Associated Press stories. 
board debated the paper's 
books by the University's inter­When the newspaper faces dif­future, Anson made an unex­nal audit department. A look at ficult policy decisions, The
pected appearance in time to 
the records revealed a $7,000 Observer today still relies on thecounsel the editors and given deficit and sloppy bookkeeping. charter created by editor Sarahthem a much-needed pep talk. 
The review also disclosed Hamilton in 1985. Defining theAnson, unaware of the turmoil improper spending, including roles of the editorial and general The Observer was facing, had unauthorized bonuses and the boards, the charter has givenreturned to campus, ironically, issuance of an interest-free loan Hamilton's successors a solidto thank Hesburgh for his role in to a staff member. base to work from. 
A day in the life of the editing staff 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 

Every weekday morning, beginning at 11 a.m., students make their way to the dining halls for lunch. Greeting them at the front entrance are hun­dreds of freshly delivered copies of The Observer to tell them what happened in their world the previous day. But much more goes into the con­struction of the paper than just writing and printing stories. 
The work begins early in the evening (Note: Use of gender in the following is just for exam­ple. It does not necessarily reflect the gender of each edi­tor on any particular evening): 
• 6 p.m. The assistant news editor and copy editor show up 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

at the office to begin work for Observer reporters are (ideally)the day. The news story board in the office writing by 7:30 p.m. lists the campus stories coming 
have been laid out and printed. 

in that night. The news editor The news editor must now lookand the assistant news editor over each one to make sure go over the board to determine 
that there are no glaring

which stories will go on which errors in production or in style.
pages. 
• 1 0 p.m. Most of the stories• 6:30 p.m. The copy editor are now in. The two editorshas drawn up the layout sheets read over them and make the

and begins to assemble 
necessary changes to lit themAssociated Press stories to fill into space that is allotted. Atout the back pages. Most of this point in time, many of the the campus stories are not in preperations made earlier in

yet, so the assistant busies 
the evening must be redone.

himself with laying out the Most notably, the assistant
front page. 
must change his design of the • 7:30 p.m. Campus stories third page to fit the length of

have started to come in. 
the stories that carne in butWriters are sitting at every 

were too short. 

computer in the office ("state • 11 p.m. The editors, at the
of the art" Macintosh SEs) 
last minute, had to bring in awriting furiously about various related AP story to fill out thelectures, special events, and space left empty by the short­administrative meetings that ened articles on page three.

occurred that day. 
The idea, however, of squeez­• 8 p.m. The copy editor has ing the front page stories ontochosen the graphics and sto­the front page and the jumpries for the AP pages, and laid 

page (4) sends them into a

them out for the production frenzy of redesigning. 
worker to print out. She then • 12:30 a.m. The copy editorbegins work on page two. This has finished her job and isinvolves finding five brief, allowed to go home for thesometimes amusing, AP stories night. The news editor, pro­to run and editing the weather 
duction editor, and assistant

file to fit the next day's weath­
news editor have to stay and er. make sure that everything fits
• 8:30 p.m. Nearly half of where it is supposed to. 
the stories are in now, most • 2 a.m. The editor-in-chiefcoming in all at the same time. 
looks over every page in theThe assistant news editor goes 

paper. She double checks 

over the stories with the writ­everything that every depart­ers thoroughly. He notes prob­ment has done and sends thelems in style and asks ques­news department back to the
tions about the content in 
production computers a feworder to clarify his view of the times to fix all the errors.

event. 
• 3 a.m. With final changes• 9 p.m. The copy editor has complete, the paper gets putnow read the stories that are 

into a big black case, sent

in and have been edited by the down to The Papers in Milford,
asssistant. Late events and 
Indiana, put through a printingdinner breaks have delayed press, and the final copies arethe process a little longer, but delivered back to campus byeverything is still proceeding 11 a.m. that morning (give oron schedulil. 

take a couple of hours). 

• 9:30 p.m. The AP pages 
By HEATHER COCKS married, living in Germany. 
Associate News Editor Other couples include Theresa Kelly, sports editor It might arisr. from numerous 1989-90, and Pete Gegen, also gazes across a crowded office. of the sports department, and 
Perhaps it eomes from sever­Chris Donnelly, EIC 1989-90, al late nights huddled side by and Christine Walsh. side over the Production com­Many current staffers are not puter. either writing headlines surprised at such history in or hurling insults at the screen. organizations such as The 
Could it be "love in the eleva­Observer. "It's an extracurricu­tor." stemming from several lar activity where people spend trips down to the Convenience lots of time together," said Store for quarter dogs? Allison Koenig, a news copy 
Whatever the cause, The editor. "It's not surprising." Observer breeds a certain "It's natural that the people . chemistry between its employees. resulting in relationships both lasting and fleeting between staff members. 
Monica Yant. editor-in­chief 1992-93, reealls her first meeting with current boyfriend Dave Kinney, EIC 1993-94. "1 was a sophomore, and an assis­tant news editor, he was a freshman writer," she said, laughingly adding. "lie claims I ripped his first story to shreads... but I don't recall being that harsh... " 
Yant and Kinney have been dating for over two years; you work with, that you know he reports for the Associated best, are the people you'd Press. and she is relocating to date," concurs Managing Editor take a position with a Torn Holand. Philadelphia newspaper. "We'll Today's Observer connections be in the same eity now." she tend to begin in the office. but confirms. "We'd b,een dating as friendships develop, the fre­through USAir." quency of purely social meet­
Sara Marley met her husband ings increases accordingly. at the Observer 25th reunion For this reason. The Observer gathering. Previously, she was is most assuredly not immune involved with her news editor; to the grapevine. Indeed, on the however. the relationship fiz­office computers, there exists a zled and she and Ryan file entitled "The Basement," a VerBerkrnoes elicked at the long-standing tradition in reunion. The two are happily which Observerites -most often anonymotisly -enter gossip and generally poke fun at one another. 
"If you use it right, it can defi­nitely further your social ambi­tions," says eurrent News Editor Brad Prendergast. "But it's basieally just harmless fun." Typical entries list sightings of various co-workers spending time together on weekends; more than once, juiey items written therein have jump­started relationships. 
Though never offensive, the 
rumor mill seems intimidating to some employees. Derek Betcher, an assistant news editor, noted that "some people are natural­ly more sensitive to gos­sip. and they worry about 
it... Photo Editor Mike Huma agreed, in part. "Rumors are definitely rampant," he acknowledged. "They.'ve never hindered me personally, however." This year's staff boasts a few long standing rela­tionships; for the most part, however, contribu­tors to the Basement somehow fill pages on various "hook-ups" between staff members. If the Basement is to be believed, it seems the history will continue to be rich. No matter how successful the rela­tionship, an undeniable -pos­sibly irresistable -ehemistry permeates the air in 314 LaFortune. Perhaps unwittingly, Prendergast put it best when he aptly joked, "Look around the room. Take this stuff seriously. You might end up married to one of these people someday." 

Thursday, November 7, 1996 
CONCE 
Putnpkins Stnash Through Fort Wayne 
B
illy Corgan was the alleged monster of the rock and roll industry. Throwing curses at the crowd and leaving during mid-set caused Corgan to be dubbed as a pompous tyrant on stage. Off-stage, his behavior was deemed as equally questionable. So it seemed kind of fitting that this alleged monster and his band of Smashing Pumpkins played in front of a packed audience of (to borrow a line from 1979) "freaks and ghouls" in Fort Wayne on the eve of llalloween. 
The Pumpkins have had a rough year. First tragedy struck at a concert in Dublin on May 11, when a seventeen year-old Bernadette O'Brien was crushed to death in the mosh pit. Then on Friday, July 12, the band was thrown into emo­tional turmoil when touring keyboardist Jonathan Melvoin died of an overdose of heroin, and drummer Jimmy Chamberlin was arrested for possession of the drug. Their tour, in the brinks of their critically acclaimed double album Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness, was post­poned indefinitely. The press threw allegations at the other band members, questioning whether or not this tragedy could have been prevented. 
Just a few months later, the Smashing Pumpkins arc back on tour. perhaps with a difTerent perspective on things. The British/American group Garbage, led by Shirley Manson, continued the tour with Smashing Pumpkins despite the turmoil. In spite of the fact that the band has been together just a short time, Garbage handle themselves on stage like seasoned veterans alternating between high energy and slow songs, and ending on the high note of their two hit songs, "Stupid Girl" and "Only llappy When it Rains." And when it rains it pours, just ask Billy Corgan. 
After what seemed to be an eternal wait, in which the crowd pulsated with impatience, the Smashing Pumpkins took the stage minus Jimmy Chamberlin and Jonathan Melvoin. Matt "Gonzo" Walker. who toured with Filter. stepped into Chamberlin's very large shoes and the Pumpkins borrowed Dennis Flemion of the Frogs to play keyboard for the remainder of the tour dates. Despite being much smaller in size, Walker played the drums with the same !1air and power. Where the Pumpkins suffered most was tlw fact that Walker did not have the stage presence of Chamberlin lurking in the back­ground. 
The Smashing Pumpkins entered with the eerie "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness," a song completely devoted to the piano. From here, the Pumpkins tore through a three hour performance, playing virtually all of their songs ofT of their double disk. Disappointingly though, they did not play many songs off of their older albums. They played only "Cherub Rock," "Today," :'Disarm," and "Silverfuck" from their second album Siamese Dream. while not playing a single song from their debut album Gish. This may have had something to do with the audi­ence, which consisted largely of high school kids who may not have been aware of the Pumpkins earlier work. They seemingly played newer songs to appease their audience. Surprisingly 
1. Rusted Root-Remember 
2. 
Catherine-Hot Saki & Bedtime Stories 

3. 
Division St.-Standing on Ceremony 

4. 
Soul Coughing-irresistible bliss 


5. 
Vanessa Daou-Slow to Born 

6. 
Crash Test Dummies-A Worm's Life , 

7. 
Luscious Jackson-Fever In, Fever Out/ 


J
8. "Hackers" Soundtrack 
1' 
9. 
Brendan Benson-One Mississippi 1 -----~ 

10. 
Shawn Colvin-A few small pieces 1--1 t\X.9 )-t"l\'1 


music 
_..,.,., .,._,__.. 
by joey crawford 

though, the Pumpkins played the epic song, "Drown {a song that epitomizes the early Pumpkins sound)," which appeared on the Singles soundtrack. Prior to the s'ong Corgan explained with a hint of sarcasm, "Yes, we were there at the birth of grunge." 
The Pumpkins were very aware of the energy they generated, playing their more hard-core songs from Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness, like "Zero," "Bodies," "Thru the eyes of ruby," "Bullet with butterfly wings," and "Tales of a scorched earth." These songs left the crowd in complete ecstasy as the floor became covered with bodies while the crowd surged forward and backward in continuos wave. During "x.y.u.," the Pumpkins took such a pause that Billy Corgan had enough time to hold a conversation with guitarist James Iha. This break however, was extremely successful, dri­ving the crowd crazy 
with anticipation. 
As well as they played 
the heavier songs, their 
ballads seemed equally as 
powerful and moving. All 
of their songs reflect their 
feelings of uncertainty 
and suppressed anger 
that has been generated 
throu!!hout their lives, but 
~~-.....Jy directly parallel 
the tragedies that have strick­
en in the pas1: year. The slow­
er songs, like "Disarm" and 

"Porcelina of the vast oceans," 
and "To forgive" capture the 
dreamlike uncertainty of 
th'l future. This is in 
part, why the 
Pumpkins are so 

appealing to youth; their themes are universal to the X gener­ation. 
Following a tremendous first set, the Pumpkins left the stage only to be lured back by the plead­ing cheers of fans. They performed a "1979" and "Muzzle" brilliantly and seemingly taking their performance to aJother level. Despite. the rumors, the band really seems to be in sync. 
Finally Smashing Pumpkins finished with a twenty minute jam session, that allowed each member of the band to exhibit their individual talent. The set began with a three minute drum solo by the capable hands of Matt Walker. Iha and D'arcy joined in the act, echoing and wailing on their instruments, reminiscent of Pink Floyd. Corgan commented, gesturing towards Jha, "This is Dave Gilmore," alluding to the legendary guitar player of Pink Floyd. Corgan than let loose with a slightly warped version of "Silverfuck" in which he pleaded, "I feel no pain." Through this, the emotional turmoil of the Pumpkins was apparent. He seemed to be trying to convince himself that he felt no pain, rather than the audience. 
Billy Corgan is certainly not a monster. He just wants someone to listen to his music and understand the sadness and hopelessness that is included in much of the Pumpkins' music. Both Corgan and Iha expressed concern when the young moshers seemed to be getting too out.of control. Corgan, like many public figures, has just been misunderstood and the target of many unfair verbal assaults. He has persevered though, and in the process has established a band that will be remembered years from now. 
page 9 

• CLASSICAL CORNER 
Glee Club delivers spirit, energy 
ByJULIE BRUBAKER and MICHAEL ANDERSON · ACcent Musk Critics 
W
hile the recent election may have already been forgot­ten, the recent Glee Club concert surely has not. With an audience of nearly 400 people, Washington Hall was packed last Friday to see our famous Glee Club perform. 
The Glee Club delivered a stellar concert, with wonderfully crisp diction and good intonation. Often, they amused the audience with animated facial expressions and unprepared comical announcements. 
The frrst half was the typical "scholarly" multi-lingual open­ing that Glee Club audiences have come to expect. They began with a "gathering" tuneby King Henry VIII of England 
. and progressed through short .works from the Renaissance and Romantic genres. 
The two selections by Paul Hindemith were especially spooky chromatic works. In particular, the action-packed "Demon of the Gibbet" was performed with remarkable musical clarity and contrast. 
After a briefintermission, they continued with a more upbeat second half. The sea shanties and spirituil.ls were exe· cuted with spirited energy. The barbershop songs had an attractive flare as well, especially the tongue-in-cheek tune, "Who's Sorry Now?" The small ensembles that performed brought the audience unique versions of R.E.M., Eric Clapton, and the Righteous Brothers. 
The evening was a clear success for the Glee Club. Next f1riday, they will play host to over 200 alurnni.and deliver an "Alumni Reunion Concert" at 8 p.m. in Stepan Center. This event promises to be a unique showcase of the Glee Club tradi­tion. 
T
his coming week is a biggie for you concert-goers. Tonight is the Notre Dame· Symphony Orchestra's fall con­cert. Since this is a group comprised mainly of Notre Dame students, it is likely someone you know will be perform­ing. Under the direction of Daniel Stowe, the orchestra will be performing works by Mozart, Dvorak and Weber. 
The evening promises to be a demonstration of talent and beautiful music.. Tonight's free concert begins at 8 p.m. at WashingtonHall. Sunday at 2 p.m. Department of Music facul­ty member William Cerny will be performing a piano concert 
.. "An American Centenniil.l Celebration" at the Suite Museum of Art's Annenberg Auditorium. 
Professor Cerny is a world-renowned pianist who spent much time playing in New York City and was a professor at \th~Eastman Sshool of Music. , He also hosted a weekly radio 
program that was carried on over thirty radio stations. 
His upcoming concert will highlight some American com· posers born in the year 1896: · William Grant Still, Virgil Thompson, Howard Hanson, Peter Mennin and Roger Sessions. The scope of the concert seems at first limiting, but 
!lithe prograll1 will surely exhibitmusical substance: . ~ltho\l~h th~~e composers ,rna)': be unfarniHar to you, the ~~~ence oftJl(;) t\1\lentieth ce11tury American. style will be unequivocaL W{l really recommend you attend this concert to gather a muslcaLunderstandingof these American composers. 
}:,);)./=···:: 
i~ally; nex Wednesday, N~~~~ber l3. at9:30 p.m. the Schola Mqsicorum will present its plainchant concert, Abend-Musique, in the Basilica. 
The Schola Musicorum is always a treat for those chant­freaks wh<nwe:re>mesrneriz¢d with the monks of Santo ~ ;w~ming(l df~¥0'§ a few. )'ea.rs ago. The setting is.captivating: sP'men inblaclcturtlenecks walking and chanting in the ever­
. resonant Basilica. ·· This particular concert will feature two groups of faculty and graduate students from the Music Department and the Medieval Institute. The frrst group is comprised of the six men ~hoaremusical scholars atour University. The second group j~ p(),rn:pris~~ of ~~wom~.ll ~ !},.,irrst .for the.At>end-Musique 

program. .... ·· · · ..· 
be performing unaccompanied chant from The program is gener­ally short, but il.lways meditative and soothing -an unbeat· 
All three conc,erts this week are free. We'll see you there. 

page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 7, 1996 
.... 
• NFL JORc LEAGUE BASEBALL 
:pdgers continue to
'Frisco's woes just offensive 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press Writer 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Jerry Hice is peeved. Steve Young is dissatisfied. Offensive coordinator Mare Trestman is frustrated. 
Despite San Francisco's 7-2 record heading into Sunday's game against Dallas (5-4). the 49ers are eoneerned about an offense that seems to have lost its explosiveness. 
"When we're not cutting peo­ple up and we'rn not doing the things that we feel we ought to bt! doing, we have a sense of urgeney that we have to get it done and I'm on board right with the players on that," Trestman said Wednesdav. 
The 4<Jers, ranked at or near the top in offense and scoring throughout the '90s, have slipped to ninth overall, 14th in passing. 
"'We're not working on all cylinders; you can see that," Hice said. "Basically, we're not explosive. It's like we're wait­ing around to see what hap­pens. You can't do that. You 
have to dictate what's going on." 
More troubling to the 49ers are numbers indicating a loss in efficiency. 
San Francisco has converted third downs at a rate of 32.8 percent, second-lowest in the NFC to Chicago's 30.5 percent. 
Finishing drives also has been a problem. Last season, San Francisco scored touch­downs at a rate of 56.7 percent once inside the opposition's 20. This year. the touchdown ratio has plunged to 39.5. 
"We're a mediocre offense that has the potential to be the best offense in the NFL," full­back William Floyd said. "We've got to start looking at everything. We should be mak­ing plays and scoring a lot more points." 
Injuries have been part of the problem. Young has missed all or parts of six games due to a lingering groin strain and a concussion and wide receivers Nate Singleton and J.J. Stokes have been lost to season-end­ing injuries. 
Tackle Harris Barton has 
also been bothered by a groin strain and tackle Kirk Scrafford has yet to play this year because of a right foot injury. 
"There's frustration there," Trestman said. "The guys know what we've overcome but our expectations haven't· changed. Our standard hasn't changed. If we don't reach it, we don't feel good about it." 
The concerns are heightened by facing a Dallas team with the league's second-ranked de­fense. The Cowboys also enter with an element of desperation to try to stay in the playoff hunt. 
"Offensively, we're kind of in limbo for this game because we realize how good this (Dallas) defense is," Barton said. 
The 49ers are used to putting up points almost at will. Over the previous two seasons, they have scored or exceeded 37 points 16 times, including a victory over San Diego in the Super Bowl in January 1995. That's happened only once this season, a 39-17 victory over then winless Atlanta. 
corner rookie market 
~ ·· -t~ffJ~b'··:·: 
By TOM WITHERS Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK 
Todd Hollandsworth won the 
NL Rookie of the Year award 
Wednesday, a record fifth 
straight year in whieh a Los 
Angeles Dodgers player has 
captured the honor. 

The 23-yoar-old outfielder led all NL rookies in hits, dou­bles, home runs, HBls, stolen .·bases and fewest errors this season. After a slow start, he came on with a strong second half to finish with a .291 aver­age, 12 home runs and 59 
HBis. 

Hollandsworth received 15 
first-place votos and 105 
points in balloting by the 
Baseball Writers' Association 
of' America. Florida shortstop 
Edgar Renteria was second 
with 10 first-place votes and 
84 points. Pittsburgh catcher 
Jason Kendall got one first­
place vote and 30 points over­all. 
The other two first-place votes went to Montreal's F.P. Santangelo and New York's Rey Ordonez. 
Hollandsworth's selection continues the Dodgers' stranglehold on the award. now named after Jackie Robinson, the first recipient and a former Dodger. 
Hollandsworth is the Dodgers' 16th player to claim the award and he follows Hideo Nomo. Haul Mondesi, Mike Piazza and Erie Karras as Dodger winners this decade. 
The franchise's 16 winners are more than twice as many as any other NL club, with the Cincinnati Reds second with six. The New York Yankees have had eight players hon­ored, including this year's winner, shortstop Derek Jeter. 
The Dodgers' five-year run is the longest in the history of the award. 

The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from Ha.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for nexr-day classilieds is 3p.m. All classitieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NEED APT/HOUSE NEAR  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  PARENTS HATE YOU?  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  
NOTICES  CAMPUS OVER XMAS Parents visiting for 2 weeks  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ Sell me their Rutgers TIX Make FAT cash  No std -pref. side In Peter 1-800-746-3755  WOOLF? an evening of sex, alcohol, and Fun  
email jmuller@nd.edu  6306  Call Jerry at 4-1798  and Games  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  if you can help.  1 pair BC-Notre Dame football tix  Nov 8&9 ?PM Lab Theatre Wash.  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  ATIENTION: 5 Bedroom. 1 1/4  Desperate for Rutgers tix!!  Nov 9 Best offer 617-730-97 4 7  Hall  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  bath, 2000 sq. ft .• 2 car garge, 2  $$Will Pay$$  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  story house for rent close to cam- Please call Amanda at  TICKETS WANTED. NO Alum  Top Ten Things You Could Have  
all-u-can drink dally. Don Surf &  (813)360-2243.  pus. $1000.00 per month. 5 people  (301 )314-8671  needs 4 ND-BC. Not a scalper. Call  Heard on Brad Prendergast's 21st  
Sun (800)763-5606.  ($200.00 per person). Rent  or send email to  Anton, 617-327-8146 days, 617­ Birthday  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Negotiable. CALL 255-3251.  adew@wam.umd.edu.  327-8146 eves.  10. Julie, Tenille and I were talking  
HEY, DO YOU NEED TO GET A  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  and I've decided you are one of  
ROOM? I HAVE A ROOM AT THE SOUTH BEND DAYS INN FOR  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  FOR SALE  I Need PITI Student or GA's. Call Greg at 273-1007  Pitt. GA's 4-sale Call Ed x 1643. Leave best offer,  her prettiest friends. 9. Did you know that Tenille is the  
THE PITI GAME WEEKEND.  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  name and number  prettiest girl in the whole world?  
NOV. 15 & 16. IF YOU HAVE  www.springbreaktravel.com  89 JeepWrangler-2 sets tires &  Need 1 Pitt GA or Stud. ticket ·  8. Hey David, Tenille's so circular!  
. FRIENDS/FAMILY/SIGNIFICANT  1-800-678-6386  doors,4'"1ift kit, hard & bikini tops.  please call Sinead x1759.  7. Brad, you came too soon .....  
OTHER WHO CAN. CALL STEVE  1OOK $5000/best -289·6849.  NEED STUD or GA PITI TIX  6. Why is il so loud in here? Make  
@X-4487.  Participants needed for studies in  HELP!  PLEASE CALL X 0902  it be quiet!  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  memory, language, & perception. call Dr. Radvansky at 631-6473  TICKETS  Student needs Rutgers GA's for family.  PIT&RTGRS  5. Laura, the world is spinning 5 times it"s normal speed tonight!  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Call Mark at x'487  1 STU & 2 MARRIED  4. Yuck Brad! Stop licking my  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  STU BOOKS  hand!  
private baths, $70 · $90,  basic conversational English in  ALL GAMES HOME  2 PITI GA'S FOR SALE X 0781  BEST OFFER  3. If you want to appear in Playboy,  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  AND AWAY  232-2586  I can arange it!  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  teaching certificate or European  232·0058  $$ I need Pitt GA's $$  2. Brad, you got three touchdowns  
1-800-418-9487  languages required. Inexpensive  24 HRS.  Call Wendy@ x1360  I have a conv. GA for PITI.  and a field goai. ...... Go Brad go!  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Please buy it! Katie 243-9172  1. Honey, I want to explore  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  info. call: (206)971·3680  I NEED BC TICKETS  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  ext.K55843  TICKET-MART, INC.  PLEASE CALL CARLA 277-0047  2 PITI GAs 4sale -Call 243-9357  .....Need a ride to MADISON or  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  O'HARE or anywhere close this  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Need tix for Pitt  1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill@ 412­ weekend! Angela x4867 ....  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring- Positions are now available at  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call Hank @xt.1648  661-0459 or 1·800-545-0482 ext.  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  232-0061.  753  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  2 RUTGER'S GAS NEEDED!  in the LaFortune Student Center  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Spec1als! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971·3620 ext. N55849  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394  NON-CONVERTED. CALL DINO @634·2170  PERSONAL  Mon. 7:30am · Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  Wed. 7:30am · Midnight  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ·  ALUM NEEDS GA's  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  ######## FOR SALE #########  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Fri. 7:30am -7c00pm  
Guarantee! spnngbreaktravel.com  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  618-27 4-2990 M·F 8am-6pm  PITI Tix: 1 GA, 3 Student  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
1-800-678-6386  month. Room and Board!  call Jenny @ 687-8435  The highest quality full-color  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  with best offer  copies are now available at  (closed home football Saturdays)  
Spnng Break Panama City!  experience necessary. Call  219·232-2378 a.m.  ###########################  THE COPY SHOP  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  (206)971-351 0 extA55848  288-2726 p.m.  LaFortune Student Center  TIM CORBITI IS THE COOLEST,  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  4 USC TICKETS FOR SALE ·CALL  Phone #631-COPY  PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  TIX for every home game.  HODGE & LEAVE A MESSAGE  LAFAYETIE  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring- Mazatlan. Sell 15 trips and travel  Call (301) 445-3955  291-3672  
- breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  free plus cash. Lowest Price  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Chicago: City of Hope?  
ILOST & FOUND I Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ages available. Call Sunbreaks. 800·446-8355.  NEED BC TIX! As many as possible  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  Come and See! New Seminar opportunity in January  
CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  232·0058  Increase Soon -Save $50! spring- Info Session:TONIGHT  
MISSING: EUREKA TENT, FOLD­ED IN GREEN BAG. VERY  FOR RENT  or (617) 828-1089 ..............  24 HAS. BUY · SELL -TRADE  breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  5:30-6:oo PM @ the esc Sponsored by the Center for Social  
LOVED. REWARD OFFERED FOR  Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Concerns  
RETURN. AMY@634-3525.  WALK TO CAMPUS  I NEED RUTGERS GA'S  TICKET-MART, INC.  Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  
THANK YOU.  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  CALL KATIE 243-9038  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  South Bend $419! Increase Soon ­Save $50! Save $150 On Food,  ................................  
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY  !@#$%"&'())('&"%$#@!  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  SABOR  LATINO  
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  I NEED PITI TICKETS!!!  232-0061.  Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  Tonight  10:30 pm  
SPORT JACKET.  IF FOUND,  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  1-800-678-6386  Jazzman's  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT X3677.  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted ceil, porch, furniture avail.  GA... CALL 4-4217... !@#$%"&.())('&"%$#@!  $$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  ·············*······················*·  SABOR LATINO .. ..............................  
BEAUTIFUL!  ALL HOME GAMES.  CLASS OF 1998  
Lost Columbia Parka brn/blklgrn.  273-2580  Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!!  272-6551  Miss your friends that are study- Congratulations to the Keough Hall  
Please return x3214  Please call X3886.  ing abroad? Send them a note in  baseball team for recording the  
Four Bedroom Home  n. d. tickets for sale  the Class Council Care Packages.  dorm's first ever interhall champi- 
WANTED  Close to NO Safe with use of all utilities and  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  271 1635  Drop them off at the Class office (213 LaFortune}. Include name and  onship. Indeed, the tradition has begun.  
kitchen privileges.  Need three tickets to Air Force, stu­ address on the envelope and we'll  
Notre Dame students PART-TIME WORK  $275 per month Call Paul @ 232·2794  NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's Call Rob X3014  dents or GA's. Call Liz at 243-1180  make sure they get there! ······································  joe mama  
$10.25/starting  Nora and the other culprits who  
Flexible hours around classes.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  PLEASE·  Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets- Do you know  defiled my name yesterday..  
Scholarships/Internships available.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  Check our price 674-7645.  LARA WALTERS  I hope the bile contained within your  
Eve. and wknd. hours available.  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ SISTER NANCY MILLER  ADAM WEILER  souls erupts into an explosion of  
Transportation necesary.  ENDS.  257-0996.  NEED 3 PITI STUDENT GA's  KEVIN CARRIGAN  horror just as vile as your hideous  
For details call 282·2357  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call John @ 243-1935  GRETA ZANDSTRA?  visages.  
243-0658.  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU- Come see them in  Love, Brad.  
ATIN: Native Japanese speaker.  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ SOUNDGARDEN IN CHI. Sat 11/9.  WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA  
Tuitor needed. $6+hr.  REGGAE D. J.  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  At Aragon, have 2 extras. Best  WOOLF? Nov 8 and 9-7PM Lab  production goddess  
Call 243·9378 lv mssg.  234 0705  MEGHAN @232-7839  Offer. 271-7759.  Theatre Wash. Hall  

~ ~~ 
------------------------~-----~----~-­
r------­
Thursday, November 7, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
•

erattons... 

WHAT WERE WE BUILDING ANYWAY? rience, and the grace that comes with it, does not allow us to stop there. Our 
world is inevitably reoriented, our focus redirected and our hearts broken open. This article is about you ... even if you weren't on the trip that this article will Whatever our reasons for going, in the end, there is an inevitable movement ultimately speak of, it's about you. You'll only know how or why after wander­toward the recognition of ourselves as builders ofsomething far greater than ing your way through the ponderings of a wayward traveller. I leave you, there­houses. fore, with only the option to read on. 
On the way we met many whose lives of committed service humbled us in the During the Fall Break I was able to travel to Appalachia as part ofa joint effort face of our own feeble commitment. We met many who found contentment in to bring students and alumni together for a work project, sponsored jointly by a life with far fewer of the "necessities" of life. And we met each other. At the the Center of Social Concerns and the Office ofAlumni Community Service. outset, we were two groups, alumni and students, brought together by Notre There were a few things that we knew about the undertaking when we began, Dame, intending to do our part to save the world. In the end we were forced to but there was much that we didn't know. We knew that we would be working recognize the commonality of us all. Not only among our group of alumni and together, nearly twenty of us in all; we knew that we would be working with an students, but with the people of the region as well. They were poor, bu:r in so organization called the Christian Appalachian Project (CAP); and we knew that many ways, so were we; we were rich, but in so many ways, so were they. We we would be doing some type ofconstruction work (however unprepared we were forced to assess the measures we use to calibrate wealth, and to consider knew ourselves to be for such tasks). What we didn't know, and what we didn't what it is that will bring happiness. In the end, our hopes ofsaving the world know we didn't know, was how much this trip, this veritable adventure, would could only be fully realized by the recognition that out salvation was wrapped mean to us as a community and as Christians. . up with theirs. We, too, were being saved ... by the wisdom of a people, the 
beauty ofa landscape, and by the grace that brought us all together. I am There is something in all of us that wants to do something noble, something reminded of the words of an Aborigine woman who said: "If you have come to beyond the ordinary. Especially as Christians, we know ourselves to be called help me, you are wasting your time. But ifyou have come because you libera­beyond ourselves to lift up the poor, to shelter the homeless, to free the prisoner. tion is bound up with mine, then let us work together." Over time, we have been prodded, called, and sometimes even gui!ted (if I may create a verb) into service. No matter how, most of us have come to a place in So, what does all this have to do with you? That's something y' all'll have to our lives where we know that there is something in us that cannot be contented work out. I have to believe that all of us feel called to something more. It may with living only for ourselves. It is just such a longing that often compels one to not be to build houses in Appalachia, but it is to build the Kingdom. How each make the choice to spend a week of one's Fall break somewhere other than at of us goes about doing that isn't always clear. .. sometimes it seems downright home or some other place where we can be virtually assured of a good time. On impossible to figure out. The fact remains that we're not in this alone ... and if the surface there is a definite risk in choosing to spend a week with relative Campus Ministry can be ofany help at all, as you make your way through Notre strangers in an unfamiliar land helping people whom we have yet to meet. Dame, then let us do that for you. Come build with us. There is something courageous and noble about it, too. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. It is selfish, too. There is a degree to which such work provides an opportunity for us to satisfY that within ourselves which needs satisfaction, that space or place within us that needs to feel good about me. In the end, however, the expe-
Campus Ministry Events 
Thursday, November 7-Thursday, November 14 
Power Lunch: Sacramentals Thursday, November 7, 12:45pm-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room 
Freshman Retreat Friday-Saturday, November 8-9, St. Joseph's Hall 
Notre Dame Encounter Friday-Sunday, November 8-10, Fatima Retreat Center 
R.I.C.A. Retreat Saturday, November 9, Mary's Solitude 
KAIROS (4th day): Taize Prayer Wednesday, November 13, 7:30pm, Chapel of the Holy Cross (Stanford-Keenan Chapel) 
Power Lunch: Marriage as Sacrament Thursday, November 14, 12:45pm-1:45pm, Faculty Dining Room 
THIRTY-SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Saturday  WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA November 9 5:00pm Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C.  
Sunday  November 10  !O:OOam 11:45am  Rev. Charles Gordon, C.S.C. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C.** ** Decon James Lies, C.S.C. Homilist  

Scripture Readings For This Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  Wisdom 6: 12,16  
2nd Reading  1 Thessalonians 4:13,18  
Gospel  Matthew 25:1,13  

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 7, 1996 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
UCLA fires Harrick after alleged NCAA violations 
By BETH HARRIS Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES Jim Barrick, the second-win­
. ningest coach in UCLA basket­ball history behind the storied John Wooden, was fired Wednesday for an alleged recruiting violation and a false e x p e n s e report. 
llis dis­missal came 
~-L:!I~~ just two weeks before the start of the 1996-97 season, and just 19 months after llarrick coached the Bruins to their first NCAA basketball title in 20 years -the first since the Wooden era. 
It also comes a mere week before the start of the fall sign­ing pnriod. 
Steve Lavin, a 32-year-old as­sistant, will be the interim coach this year; the school will look for a successor during the season. 
Chancellor Charles Young said llarrick was offered the option of resigning but "he did not take that option. lie was terminated." 
lie said Jlarriek will not be paid because he was termi­natml for cause. 
"I felt I had no alternative," Young said during a campus news conference. "We think what we did was right. lL is a very serious infraction." 
Ilarrick.. in a separate news conference at his lawyer's Beverly llills office, said he was shocked he was fired. 
However. asked whether he lied on the expense report for a dinner for three recruits and five current UCLA players, Barrick said, "I did, but I cor­rected it. 
I "You have to get things right. 
, I 
I I I made a mistake. I needed to use better judgment. ... It (the 
I 
punishment) far outweighed the crime, by mountains and miles. They're making something out of it that it's not." 
Young said llarrick never dis­puted the facts as presented during the meeting Tuesday. 
"(The situation) would've been treated differently if he had been forthright from the beginning," athletic director Peter Dalis said. 
•
E:a 
z 
• 
:a 
z
• 
:at 
z
• 
:a 
z 
M
•
E 
E E 
Barrick decided not to accept the offer to resign because "If you resign, then I'm saying they have something and I agree with them." 
lie said he was fired without warning, being called into see Young and Dalis after practice Tuesday and dismissed "with no explanation whatsoever." 
"It's like getting hit in the head with a 2-by-4. I thought maybe they would reprimand me." 
Young said he expects some NCAA or Pac-10 sanctions. 
"What the conference and NCAA will decide, we can only conjecture," he said, adding that UCLA was not instructed to take action, but that the school did so of its own accord. 
The school, in response to an NCAA inquiry, had been looking into possible recruiting vio­lations. 
The 58-year-old Barrick was informed of the firing by Young and Dalis after practice Tuesday. 
"UCLA appreciates the hard work that Jim has invested in the men's basketball program during his eight years as head coach, and his program has been very successful," Young said. "However, his termination is linked to the seriousness of this situation." 
Barrick signed a five-year contract, reportedly for an annual salary of $400,000, in the summer of 1995, shortly after the Bruins won their NCAA title in Seattle. 
He was cleared on Oct. 21 by the school and Pac-10 of viola­tions in the sale of a car he owned to the older sister of standout point guard Baron Davis two days after Davis oral­ly committed to playing for the Bruins next season. 
Young said UCLA's investiga­tion has been reported to the Pac-1 0 and the NCAA, and the sale of the car was "completely unrelated" to the dismissal. A league inquiry turned up no ev­idence of wrongdoing in that matter. 
Lavin, who was hired by Barrick, said getting the coach­ing job, even on an interim ba­sis, placed him in a "difficult" situation. 
"I don't think anyone wants career advancement at the ex­pense of someone else's ca­reer," he said. "I've spoken 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
presents: 

THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring: 

SABOR LATINO 
(one of the hottest 11 piece campus bands with horns and congas) 
Doors open 9:00 PM -2 dance floors 
coming: 

~----------------~ ~----------------~ 
Friday, Nov. 15thThursday, Nov. 14th 

SI<ALCOHOLII<SSTOMPER Boa 
(7 piece band with horns) 

Door prize with this ad before 11 :00 PM Thursday 
z 
c 
~ 
• 
z 
c 
~ 
•
z 
c 
~ 
•
z 
c 
~ 
• 
z
G 

:a  
z  i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty i'm nutty  

i bet you can find him at CUSHING this thursday@ I 0:30pm friday or saturday @8/10:30pm c'mon who wants to join me? 
with coach Barrick; all I've tried to do is provide some sup­port and love." 
Current assistants Michael Holton and Jim Saia will work under Lavin when the Bruins open Nov. 20 against Tulsa in the Preseason NIT. 
In addition tq committing an NCAA violation during a recruiting dinner, UCLA said Barrick violated NCAA rules regarding ethical conduct, for "refusal to furnish information relevant to an investigation of a possible violation of an NCAA regulation when requested to do so by the NCAA or the indi­vidual's institution." 
The school said Barrick was charged with "knowingly fur­nishing ... false or misleading information concerning the in­dividual's involvement in or knowledge of matters relevant to a possible violation of an NCAA regulation." 
Harrick also violated univer­sity policy by filing a false expense report in connection with the dinner, the school said. 
According to the university, a recruiting dinner at a local restaurant on Oct. 11 was at­tended by five current players even though only three recruits were present. 
It's against NCAA rules for a school to provide a free meal or entertainment to a student who assists in the recruitment of a prospect during an official visit unless the student is designated as the one student host for that prospect. 
On Oct. 15, the school said, Ilarrick liled an expense report that misrepresented who at­tended dinner, a breach of NCAA and UCLA policy. The re­port did not include the names of the extra players, but did in­clude the names of the two guests. The investigation re­vealed-that neither guest ate dinner at the restaurant that night. 
Six days later Barrick was cleared in the sale of his car. 
When questioned about the dinner by UCLA officials con­ducting the investigation, the school said, llarrick misrepre­sented signifieant faets on more than one occasion. 
Later, when confronted by university officials who had compiled the facts of the din­ner, Harrick admitted he had misled the school. 

Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
CR£AT \VA-LL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
§; f!JiliMilMIIEJE. §IElR WJI CC JE JP JR ([)) ]JJECJI§ 
Information meeting: 
c 
=• 
November 7 (Thurs.) 
6:30 -7:00 PM at the Center for ·social Concerns 
find out how you can spend eight weeks in a social service agency and earn a $1700.00 tuition scholarship 
and 3 credits -cer;-~~IJ 
50 C I "'L CONCERNS 


-~--~-~----~-------~~-----------------------­
Thursday, November 7, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COlLEGE FOOTBAll 
Golden Eagles could be clipped for gambling 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
NEWTON, Mass. 
Two Boston College players bet against their team in a Oct. 26 loss to Syracuse, the local prosecutor said today. The school said those two players and 11 teammates were sus­pended for betting on sports. 
Middlesex County District Attorney Thomas Reilly said there was no evidence of point­shaving, but he noted that an in.vestigation was continuing. Syracuse beat BC 45-17. 
One of the players was a member of the special teams, but neither player was in a position to affect the outcome of the game, Reilly said. 
Reilly said a total of 13 BC players had bet on college and pro football and on major league baseball games, includ­ing this year's World Series. 
The bets ranged from $25-$50 to "several hundred dollars and others that were much higher," Reilly said. 
A list of players "suspended for failure to meet their re­sponsibilities as a student ath­lete at Boston College" was re­leased but there was no indica­tion which of the players might have bet against their own team. 
At an afternoon news confer­ence BC athletic director Chet Gladchuk said, "When it comes to the moral and ethical con­duct of our players and when it pertains to the integrity of our university, there will be no compromises at Boston College." 
The suspended players were identified as running back Jamal! Anderson, offensive lineman Marcus Bembry, de­fensive back Paul Cary, defen­sive linemen John Coleman and Dan Collins, wide receivers Chris Cosenze, Steve Everson and Brandon King, tight end Scott Dragos, center Kyle Geiselman, linebackers Brian Maye and Jermaine Monk, and tight end Rob Tarido. 
Syracuse was a 13-point fa­vorite against Boston College but trailed 14-7 before rallying for 17 straight points in the fi­nal 1:43 of the first half. The Orange got the ball for those three scores on two BC punts and an interception. 
The 8,800-student school was at the center of a point-shaving scandal in 1982 when Rick Kuhn was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison for his role in fixing six basketball games during the 1978-79 sea­son. Initial reports pointed to a similar problem this time. 
But coach Dan Henning, either knowing or hoping that no such evidence existed, stressed Tuesday that things 


could have been worse. 
"We're dealing with a situa­tion here where the NCAA has a rule, and there are going to be some individuals here that are going to live with some kind of problem if they have bet on a game," the embattled coach said. "That's not my major con­cern. 
"My major concern is if any­body on our football team has bet on our game and against us. That's an indefensible posi­tion." 
Henning has closed practices this week as the team prepares for its biggest game of the year, on Saturday against No. 17 Notre Dame. At a Tuesday news conference with an unusually large media contin­gent, he noted that friendly bets are placed by everyone from reporters to state governors. 
"Let's not be naive, gentle­man," Henning said, indicating that suspensions were immi­
ent 

Tennis Clinic 
Tuesday, November 12 5:00PM-6:15PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
& 

Presented By: Men•s & Women's Varsity Tennis 
Free of Charge • No Advance Registration Necessary Open to All Notre Dame Students 
k'.-:-~~ 
nent. "I would expect that ... we have some sort of a prob­lem." 
Rumors of point-shaving or game-fixing by BC players sur­faced in recent weeks and in­tensified after Thursday's 20­13 loss to Pittsburgh, a game in which the Eagles were favored by 11 1/2 points. 
Four Eagles sophomores -Kiernan Speight, Monk, Anderson and King, who has not played this season because of a broken foot -were con­fronted by Henning and the team's student captains on Saturday. 
Later that day, Gladchuk an­nounced that the school would investigate the rumors with the goal of clearing the program's name. 
John McBride, an attorney for the four BC sophomores at the center of the controversy, said only two of his clients admitted that they have gambled. 
'They told the authorities at Boston College that they never bet on BC games," McBride said. "But they also told the au­thorities that they did bet on other games." 
NCAA rules forbid athletes from betting on any intercolle­giate or professional sporting events. McBride also said Tuesday he was told the matter would be resolved by Wednesday. 
"We'll deal with that when the time comes," he said. "But right now, it is not something that it was originally thought." 
Henning said Speight and an­other player whom he did not identify had asked out of prac­tice Monday and would sit out again on Tuesday. Speight has denied any gambling. 
"He (Speight} doesn't feel like he could practice football as long as his name has been put up like that," Henning said. "That's unfortunate. But I cer­tainly understand his feelings." 
OwN A PIECE OF 
NoTRE DAME 
STADIUM 
$19.95 

''THE DOMER'' 
Now, you can own your very own piece of Notre Dame Stadium. This exclusively manufactured piece for students features an authentic piece of brick from the Stadium and a plate citing its origin mounted on a solid walnut base. A certificate of authenticity is affixed to the bottom. 
Pick up your "Domer" at: 
LaFortune Center Information Desk 9 a.m. -8 p.m. Mon. -Fri. 12 noon -8 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 
Please be sure to bring your I.D. card! (Limit one pieceI person) 
.. 

L___________________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 
-~­
Thursday, November 7, 1996

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
.. 
Bowl 
continued from page 16 
Corso believes Notre Dame' popularity and huge following will translate into good TV rat­ings which would make the Irish very appealing. The Irish, however, would like to make the decision easier for the Bowl Alliance by winning each of its last four games. 
What happens if the Irish fail to earn a spot in one of the Alliance bowl games? 
There is only one bowl game in the country that docs not have contractual obligations with conferences to fill both of its spots. That game is the Poulan/Weed Eater Independence Bowl. If the Irish travel to Shreveport, Louisiana, for the December 31 contest, they would face the Southeastern Conference's fifth­place team. But, a Battle .in the Bayou is not what the Irish want. 
Not only is the Independence Bowl less prestigious than the Piesta or Orange, but the payout to Notre Dame would be only $HOO,OOO. The Fiesta and Orange bowls pay nearly $8.5 million to each team. 
• CORRECTION 
An article in yesterday's Observer concerning the injury of Senior volleyball player Jen House was incor­rect. The article stated that she required surgery and would miss the remainder of the season. She injured her thumb in practice Wednesday but surgery was not neces­sary. Her season status remains uncertain. ,The Observer regrets the error. 
INTERHAll SOCCER CHAMPIONSHIP  
O'Neill 2 Zahm 1  
• SPORTS BRIEFS Drop-In Volleyball -Jeff MilligM at 271-9433. HecSports will be offering Off-Campus Volleyball -Drop-In Volleyball on tonight Anyone interested in playing Md Tues.• Nov. 12, Dec. 3, and off-campus interhall volleyball Dec. 10, from 7w10 p.m. in the please call Greg at 273-9553. Joyce Center. Basketball ticket sales will No established teams or ad­be extended until Monday on vanced sign-ups necessary. first come, first serve))asis. For more information call 1­They will also be ~{)]d at 6100. Moonlight Madness Saturday Late Night Olympic Steering night. Committee -Anyone inter­Basketball Clinic -The ested in serving on the Late Notre Dame women's basket­Night Olympic Steering ball team will be holding a free Committee, please call Kara at basketball clinic on Sat., Nov. 9 1-8237. at 10:30 a.m. in the Joyce Off-Campus A-team Center. For more information Basketball -If interested in and to register all participants off-campus basketball contact call 1-6095.  

"It's not a question of money," Irish athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. "It's a question of whether it would be the kind of game that gives the coaches and players a challenge." 
The only other option involves a "concession" on the part of another bowl that already has conference commitments. Wadsworth may have to work some kind of deal if the Irish are not chosen for an Alliance bowl game. 
"The only issue I raise is this: Is it a good thing for college football for a successful Notre Dame team to have no signiti-
ADVERTISEMENT 

~0 ~ 0 SPORTSIIIKEND o_·=~::r:~:::al 
IH 
continued from page 16 

The secondary may prove to be a liability for Fisher, since the only way Alumni was able to gain yardage last week was through the air. Flanner QB Daigler has already proven that he can throw into much better coverage, so this could be a sore spot for the Green Wave. 
Intangibles 

It could be stated as simply as this: both teams are playing with a sense of history in mind. Flanner is playing every game now as though it could be lit­erally the hall's last. They also have been waiting a whole year to repay the Green Wave for the triple-overtime embarassment in last year's final. 
Fisher is playing to repeat as interhall champions and prove that the regular season's disap­pointing record means nothing. They too remember last year's game and want nothing more than to dispose of Flanner in regulation time. Which team will become part of history, and which one will be history? Come find out this Sunday at 1:00 p.m. on Stepan Field North. 
cant bowl to go to?" Wadsworth 
asked. "(The Irish) shouldn't 
play in place of Northwestern if 
they run the table. But maybe 
they should replace the fourth­
place or fifth-place conference 
team." 

What a mess this bowl situa­
tion has become. The Sugar 
Bowl doesn't want the Irish. 
The Irish don't want the 
Independence Bowl. So the best 
bet for the Irish is the Fiesta or 
Orange. 

But everything could change if 
Notre Dame is upset once or 
even twice in the last four 
games. 
The Observer I Mike Ruma 

Fisher's class of '97 has been the most successful in Notre Dame his­tory, and they are not done yet as they have their sights on anot)ler 
National Championship. 
Fisher 

continued from page 16 
Middendorf about Fisher's sea­son. "She is very consistent and gets her job done in the backfield." 
On Saturday, Fisher will play in her 92nd consecutive game. The Irish are looking for her to elevate her play in this year's postseason play. 
"Your seniors have to step up big in the tournament play," said Petrucelli. "She is going to have to play an important role in order for the team to win. When it comes time for big games, she plays big." 
Her outlook remains bright for the squad in tournament play. 
"We have to remain focused not necessarily on the big pic­ture but on the little things, like mentality, working hard in practice, and work well on and off the field," said Fisher, 
Fisher and her teammates start their trek back to the championship this Saturday at 11 a.m. at Alumni Field. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
8  9  
VOLLEYBALL/¥  FOOTBALL/¥.  VOLLEYBALL/¥  
VS. RUTGERS  AT BOSTON COLLEGE  VS GEORGE MASON  
JACC, 7:00PM  (TV: CBS, 3:30 EST)  JACC, 7:00PM  
HOCKEY/V  WOMEN'S  WOMEN'S  
AT BOSTON COLLEGE  SOCCER/¥  BASKETBALL/¥  
BIG EAST TOURNAMENT  VS. LiTHUANIA  
MEN'S SOCCER/¥  JACC, 1:00 PM  
BIG EAST  
QUARTERFINALS  
ALUMNI FIELD  

10 WOMEN'S SOCCER/¥ 

BIG EAST TOURNAMENT ALUMNI FIELD 
MEN'S SOCCER/¥ 
BIG EAST QUARTERFINALS 
VOLLEYBALL/¥ 

VS. SETON HALL. JACC 2:00PM 
Ler your NIK£ srudem rep know rhe rime and lomrion ofyour evenrs for nexr mo/1/h, Reach her a/: collet'll,henslww@nike.com. 
• 
NEED A. HREA.K1! 
..... 
Saturday Sunday 
George Mason (7pm) Seton Hall {2pm) 
<J~ 1/otitu.:
1IE # 1 Women's Soccer:
IRITSaturday Sunday Villanova{11am) Championship (1pm) 
CDNFERI!!NCE: 
Men's Soccer: Sunday vs. Georgetown (4pm) All games at Alumni Field 
~-~--~ -----~-----~~,..--=---~---~--------------­
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
DID \fOU GUYS HAVE' ANYTHING \..IKE GRAC.EVISION ovER JN MoRRISSEY, NEv-!T ? 
\ 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-~c'f" 22): Harness your energies, thL n tac.:klc one project at a time. The '""icc of experts will help you hnild ,, "'lid financial base. 1-!arborinc• hodtlcn anger can be bad for your 11:·altli. 
LIBRA (Sept. ~3-0ct. 2::'1: Work on an important project early tn the day. Joint financial vcntnrc' look more promising than in ''"' P"'t. 
Circulate as much a~ litl'-."'lhlc. A friend may offer to play Cupid. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-~""· 21J: Recent retirees should in\·L·'.!ieatc 
offering their services to a11 cd~tca­tional campaign. Joint !itlancial mat­ters proceed smoothly. You find a prominent individual very :tltr.oclin:. Be discreet in word anu deed 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. ::'2-Dcc. 2\ ): Teamwork jump,tarr> J'rDtluc­tivity and profits. Build rapport with your co-workers by listentn~ appre­ciatively to their sugg~.-·:-tions. 
Romance deserves another chance. 
Avoid bringing up old gril'\·ancl!S. 
An altitude of forgive-and-l<'t ~et is 
essential. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. ::'>J:on. 1'}): Your partner may be dilli·:ultto pin down. Sweeten your spcL"ch: sar­
casm will backfire. Frustratu•~ \\'Nk 
conditions will improve soon lh:mks 
to tl!amwork and a willin!!.lll::-." to 
compromise. Do not undeJ~l!\lllllate 
the power of friendship. . 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-rch 1!>1: Changing the direction ,,,-:our career may be easier !ban yon !hink. Let otbers know what you ar,· look­ing for. A heart-to-heart talk o•:\eals that you and your mate arc l'll the same wavelen2th. 
l'ISCES (Feb. 19-i\larch 201: 
Finances and friendship could 
merge now. Someone is a" ed by 
your accomplishments. Encour:t)!e 
young people to develop lh,•ir cre­
ative talents more fully. Orrering 
financial support is just on~ opt ion. 
Write letters ofrecommend:lli<lll. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

dence. Romantic contentment is
SHE.. 
OOH! 51-\£.'5 

likely if you make the first move.
WA.NTS 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An over­ly aggreS>ive attitude could repel a 
INQUISITIVE. 
YOUR 
l LIKE TH~T. 

business or romantic partner. Show 
your sensitive side. Channel your
CREDIT 

energir:s into humanit~:u·ian pursuit~.
CI\RD 

LlZ. STARTE.O D~TING 
E 
0 
u ai
OTHEP., MEN. TWO CAN 
Plf>.Y A.T TI-IAT Gfl.ME. 
i 
E 
~ 
·;: 
! ::> 
CROSSWORD 
I WILL USE. THE POWER OF THE. INTERNET TO FINO A. HOT ()A.~ E.. 
1\H! HERE'S ONE. 
SORT OF ... We CALLED II ''RATVISioN':.. 
WE DIDN'T EVEN NEED 
A. TV f
• 
MIKE PETERS 
NU~BER. 
\ 


HAPPY BIIHIIDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Someone convinces you that it is time to form a partnership. Protect previously-acquirctl assets. An over­due reunion will make the Decem­ber holidays especially fun. As 1997 gets underway. concentrate on 
developing high-powered ~usiness connections. ln~tead of vacationing next spring. wait until m1d-summer. Choosing an exotic. out-of-the-way 
locale will promote romance. A child may feel torn between two loyalties. Avoid applying pressure. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: songwriter Joni Mitchell. blues guttarist Johnny Rivers. pitcher Joe Nickro. chemist Marie Curie. 
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Your supreme confitlence inspires others. Your way with words re­
ceives new recognition when you take on a freelanc~ writing project. Be more daring when it comes to ti­nancial investments. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It will be easier to halance your check­book if you stay within a butlget. Major buys result from careful shop­ping. Beautify your surroundings by 
making inexpensive changes in the decor. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ro­

mance could resemble a roller coast­
er now. Do not neglect business or 
important details could fall through 
the cracks. Exciting financial dewl­
opments are in store. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 

Profits will grow if you listen to a 
partner's suggestion. Work to pro­
mote domestic harmony . .friends 
give you good tips un a new resi­

ACROSS 31 lndtan exports 54 Words ot reproot 1 Goofs 3:2 Hardly modest 
before "you" swimwear 56 Gladden
s Carefully engtneer 34 One of eight 58 Tabled'-~~ popes 59 Purportedly
1o Unhttched 36 Satisfy weakening
14 sw"eette shield37 Happy SO's15 Site of 
63 Boot Hercules· ftrst 
couple 64 Hunganan
41 Lustrous airline 16 Like garage 
labor 42 Site for a 65 Health food
Christie mystery 66 Align floors 
43 Model/actress Eleniak17 Shelley poem 
67 Cassette half 19 "A Death tn the 
68 Rival of Ben &44 Ring Family" author Jerry's45 Mexico Ctly20 Roller coaster 
newspaper,
features with"EI" 
DOWN
21 W.W. II camps 
48 San Francisco's 
1 Zaire menace23 Noveltst Beattie 
~-Hill 
24 Caged pet 2 Draw new lines
49 Onetime 3 Synthetic fabrics
28 Skater alternative to a Babilonia Camaro 4 Cesspool 
291.awyer's abbr. 52 Ktt --s Channel since 19fl0 
.......--.-..-.....-...--..-~ ..----··-----s llp;1ar, mayba 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 "-·--wrong?" 

a Bountiful occasions 21 Mister in a I 954 #1 song
9 Esthetic preference 30 Oddity 10 One with a 33 Misters, abroad stable family 
35 Tell 11 Pasta choice 
36 Kind ot session 12 Class 
37 Easy 2-pointer, 13 It needs some maybe perspective 
38 Time to attack 18Hardwood 
39 Japanese22 Maestro 
industrial Toscan1ni 
combination 25 C·1rn-]red 
•'l F!r3t n :tnE~ in 
2s ltn;lvrtan\ D3.e1ish statistic literature 
53 Maryland players 55 Dole (out) 57 Superior

41 These days 
designation 50 Hotel capacity 60 On in years 
51 Sportscaster 
61 Born Allen 62 Stowe girl 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420-5'35•3 (l5c per minu!e). 
A;111t.J;11 .:;utJ::..::r;~J;u:ls ar:1 avai1abl·.? L.>r th:J be;;t o! S~ndd]' crosswords from tt•e last 50 ye3cs 1 888-7-ACROSS 


• 
ov.. 
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, November 7, 1996 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON  could prove to be up to the  
SpomWriter  task of stopping the Fisher  
rush. They have already  
It is one year later, and one  proven that they are serious  
round earlier, but make no  about-this task, holding the  
mistake about it, Planner Hall  Zahm offense in their own  
knows that is their chance for  territory for a major part of  
redemption.  last week's contest. The  
There would be no better  Planner line will also be as­ 
way for the 'Cocks to cap off  sisted by one of the best line­ 
their final season than to  backing corps in the league.  
erase the memories of last  That groug is Jed by Brett  
year's triple-overtime defeat  Galley, Robert Miakawya, and  
at the hands of the Fisher  Steve Walter.  
Green Wave.  
This rematch has additional  The Flanner offensive back­ 
importance, the winner goes  field vs. the Fisher defense  
to Notre Dame Stadium for  The 'Cock backfield single­ 
what would be Planner's sec­ handedly decimated tho Zahm  
ond chance at a championship  defense last week with a  
and Fisher's opportunity to  steady rushing attack and the  
repeat as iriterhall champi­ occasional key pass. RB Drew  
ons. Here are the key  Klosterman will again be  
matchups for this Sunday's  called upon to provide a key  
game at Stepan North:  number of rushing yards. Not  
to be overlooked, however,  
The Fisher Rush vs. the  are the rushing talents of  
Flanner Defensive Front  backs Dave Lichota and Erik  
Seven  Himan. QB Mike Daigler will  
This aspect alone will deter­ probably be expected to pass  
mine Fisher's chances for suc­ the football more this week.  
cess. Last week, Fisher's run­ especially in key game situa­ 
ning game found new life as  tions. This factor will be  
they ran through the Alumni  especially key since the Fisher  
defensive line, one that was  secondary looked shaky at  
considered the league's best.  times against the Alumni sec­ 
Fisher will also count on  ondary.  
quarterback Alfredo  The Fisher defensive line  
Rodriguez to repeat last  has shown that they could  
week's impressive rushing.  shut down even the best run­ 
numbers. The safety of the  ning game in the league by  
running game will depend on  stopping the Alumni rushing  
the offensive line anchored by  attack. This could prove to be  
Sean Lynch and Brian Regan  especially troublesome for the  
to stonewall the Flannor line  Flanner offense since the ma­ 
in the much the same manner  jority of their attack depended  
they stopped Alumni's agros·  on the running game.  
siVe lirie. ·  
Flanner;s defensive line  see IH I page 14  


Fisher's solid play  ting down many of the opponent's attackers, she is known for mak­ injury to her teammate, Julie Vogel, Fisher switched to defense.  
essential  ing breaks down the sideline sparking the attack.  She started every game at defend­er, and registered 13 assists.  
to defensive unit  "She is an intense individual on and off the field," said Petrucelli.  "She plays two roles," said Petrucelli about the defender.  
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer  Fisher starts for the Irish defense at left back, and is a member of the winningest class in  "One role involves the defending aspect. Kate does an excellent job shutting down the player."  
At the beginning of the season, the main focus for the Irish was defense. The defense has devel­oped into one of the strongest in the nation. Essential to an out­standing defense is guidance, leadership, and determination. Senior Kate Fisher provides these elements for head coach Chris Petrucelli. She is not one of the more rec­ognizable players on the team, but she is one of the most valuable. "Kate plays an important role on the team," said Petrucelli about his senior. Fisher is not extremely vocal when it comes to being in the spotlight, she prefers to show her power on the field. Besides shut- the history of the women's soccer program. She has been a solid defensive wall for this most suc­cessful class. While at Notre Dame, Fisher has found herself at various positions. She started her career with the Irish at forward, where she came off the bench to ignite offensive opportunities, chalking up four goals and ten assists. "She came in as a forward," said Petrucelli about Fisher's ini­tial role on the team. "And then we switched her into the midfield. Her best spot is at left back." Then in her sophomore year, she made the switch, which land­ed her in the position that she presently dominates. Due to an  Then last year, Fisher strength­ened the backfield yet again for the team. She scored her first goal since her freshman year, and she registered six assists. This year Fisher has proven dominance on the field. At this point in the season, she has scored a goal in the game against Santa Clara. Also she has regis­tered ten assists. Besides the sta­tistics, Fisher has found herself named to two all-tournament teams, at the Duke addidas Soccer Classic and the Santa Clara Nike Classic. "She is getting the recognition that she deserves," said fellow teammate senior Megan see FISHER I page 14  The Observer I Mike Ruma After Kate Fisher's switch from forward to the backfield early in her career she has thrived earning numerous all-tourna­ment selections .  

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Trophy Fish leads backfield with consistency 
• fOOTBAll 
Bowl picture remains unclear 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
SportS Writer  
With a national championship  
and an appearance in the  
Sugar Bowl out of reach, the  
Irish football team must strive  
for more modest post season  
goals. So the question remains:  
Where will Notre Dame be  
playing on New Years' week­ 
end? The easy answer is: It de­ 
pends.  
Despite a season that fell  
short of many Irish expecta­ 
tions, Notre Dame could still  
play in an Alliance bowl. Unless  
a natural disaster wipes out  
half of the nation's ranked  
teams, the Irish will not play in  
the Sugar Bowl. But Notre  
Dame still has a shot at the  
Fiesta Bowl or Orange Bowl.  
Here's where it gets confus­ 
ing. Four of the six Bowl  
Alliance spots will be awarded  
to the champions of the Atlantic  
Coast, Big East, Big 12 and  
Southeastern conferences. The  
remaining two bids are award­ 
ed to at-large schools. That's  
where Notre Dame can sneak  
into the Fiesta or Orange.  
According to the Bowl  
Alliance rules and regulations,  
the remaining two at-large  
positions may be filled by any  
team eligible for post season  
competition if they meet one of  
the following requirements:  The Observer I Dave Murphy  
Due to the losses to Ohio State and Air Force, coach Lou Holtz and  
I) has won at least 8 college  Ron Powlus wonder where their January date will find them.  
football games during the most  Today Poll than the lowest easiest of which would be to  
recently completed regular sea­ ranked team selected by a Bowl win at least 8 games. To meet  
son; not to include wins in ei­ from the Conference this requirement, the Irish need  
ther the Pigskin and/or Kickoff  Champions. to win 3 of their last 4 games. 
Classic. 2) is ranked among the Top  · ESPN analyst Lee Corso said Contrary to popular belief, that if the Irish are 8-3, 
12 bowl eligible teams in either  the Irish do not need to finish "they're going anywhere they 
the AP or the CNN/USA Today  in the Top 12 to be eligible for want except the Sugar Bowl."  
final regular season polls. 3) is ranked no lower in ei­ an Alliance bowl. They only That remains to be seen, but need to meet one of the  
ther the AP or the CNN/USA  Alliance's requirements, the see BOWL I page 14  
..  
at Boston College, at Boston College,  

SPORIS 
ATA 
GLAJ«E 
• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Interhall sentifinal to be heated rematch 
November 9, 3:30p.m. 
November 8, 7 p.m. 

• Harrick gets the boot 
Notre Dame Meet, 
Big East Tournamem, 
see page 12 

November 9, Joyce Center 
November 9, 11 a.m. 
• Dodger earns rookie of the year 
Big East Tournamem, 
vs. Rutgers, 
see page 10 

November 10, 4 p.m. 
November 8, 7 p.m. 



