
Thursday, September 19, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 19 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVINC. NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Provost outlines goals for ND future 

By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN focus on, however, would depend Assistant News Ediwr heavily on input from the various fac­ulty departments. 
Notre Dame faculty and students In his second priority, Hatch focused have a responsibility to create an on undergraduate education. "We environment of intellectual discussion must revitalize undergraduate educa­that reflects the Catholic character of tion by insuring the creative process the University. Nathan Hatch. the in the classroom, engaging students, recently appointed challenging their University Provost, ------------minds," he said. presented this view of He announced three Notre Dame's mission 'We have many initiatives that have in his installation dreams, but we already been imple­address yesterday. mented toward the 
Hatch spoke to fac-must temper these achievement of this 
ulty, administrators dreams with realism goal. The first was 
and students about d h T W the creation of the 
how he believes the an Uml Ity. e are Center for Teaching University can achieve not perfect. We are a and Learning, where his vision. "One can-human community and faculty members can not renew an institu-go to improve their tion, only people," he have our problems. I teaching skills. said, "The faculty hope that we will not Second, he introduced must work to chal-a new round of lenge students, and I paper-over those prob-departmental reviews, 
promise to foster an lems but address which focus on under-environment where them." graduate teaching. the they can do that." Finally, Hatch said 
The provost sets hir-Nathan Hatch that Father Tim ing policies for faculty Scully, Vice President and staff and deals· with much of the and Senior Associate Provost of the day-to-day administration of the University, has agreed to give over­University. In his address, Hatch out-sight to the entire undergraduate pro­lined his six priorities for the coming gram. years. "As a third priority, we have to go 
"First," he said, "we need to invest the second mile to recruit excellent in centers of excellence." He indicat-faculty and students," Hatch said. He ed that the University needs to focus noted that the faculty was a pivotal its resources on the specific programs component of the pursuit of excel­in which Notre Dame could become lence and said that the University the best in the country-if not the plans to hire 150 new faculty mem­world. "We need to be willing to take hers. risks on programs that we excel in. "We have to go beyond convention­The process should also pay special al hiring methods," he said, "I plan attention to areas that cross disci-on asking departments to set aside plines," he added. 
Provost Nathan Hatch delivered his inaugural address yesterday afternoon in DeBartolo Hall. 
The decision of which programs to
The speech was broadcast to other rooms in the building to accommodate overflow. see HATCH I page 4 
• STUDENT SENATE

Forum tackles gender 
Senate looks to re-election 
inequities on campus 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS Assistant News Editor 
these problems, and how the

Three-pronged 
specific groups plan to deal 
Student Senate tackled
with the problems over the 
important ethical issues at last
course of the next year. 

attack aims to night's meeting, including the
Gina Rucavado, representing 
resignation of Senator Joe
the Women's Resource Center. 
Lang for failing to comply with 

amend policies 
began by outlining the center's 
the student government con­
views and objectives as they 
stitution. Whether or not

By SFAN SMITH pertained to gender relations. 
News Writer Shane Bigelow should contin­
She spoke of the minimal 
ue to serve on the Student
opportunities offered to stu­
Senate despite the fact that a

In yet another response to dents in the area of inter-gen­
cries of concern from various der relationships, and that scheduling conflict will force student body and faculty mem­opening students to a "multi­him to miss upcoming meet­bers, students spoke out on tude of new possibilities" in that ings was also discussed. 
Additionally, Student

gender related issues at the area is prime on the center's Gender Studies and Helation list of goals for this year. Government President Seth 
Miller and Vice-President

Forum held yesterday. Rucavado also expressed the 
Megan Murray issued a sum­

The purpose of the forum was group's concern for the lack of 
mary of the issues that will be

to discuss the pressing prob­a sexual harassment policy in lems concerning the gender Du Lac. A revision in the docu­addressed in the Sept. 26 issues that exist throughout the ment, she stated, was essential report by student government to the Board of Trustees.
campuses of Notre Dame and to the safety and protection of in any way misrepresented his hall and a student senator, be Saint Mary's, and how they per­all Notre D11me and Saint Lang, a senior who lives off­constituents. Consequently, allowed to remain on Student tain to the students, faculty, Mary's students. campus, was originally elected Lang announced his decision Senate although he cannot 
and administration. The forum Sean Gallavan, Co-Chairman to Student Senate as a Planner to resign. attend meetings because of a consisted of a five-member Hall resident and representa­
of GLND/SMC, echoed many of "In the best interest of the class. The ethics committee panel representing various the panelists' view that it is cru­tive from district four. His campus, I have made this investigated a possible conflict campus groups, as well as a cial that every student body unanticipated move off-cam­decision," Lang said. "I real­of interest due to his dual role 
pus raised the issue of his eli­

broad audience that ranged member feel as if they belong at ize that I violated the in student government. from faculty and administrators the University "regardless of gibility and a Senate ethics Constitution. I must resign," Bigelow also expressed his to students. parameter". He went on to committee was formed to he added. As a result, a re­regrets for not being able to 
address the situation. 

Panel members opened the state that one of the group's election will be held to fill the attend upcoming meetings,
The committee recommf nd­

discussion by making individual major goals over the next newly vacant seat left by but pointed out that he made 
ed that impeachment proceed­

presentations concerning three twelve months is "to unite all Lang. many efforts to correct the sit­topics: the most pressing gen­gay, lesbian, and bisexual stu­ings commence if Lang failed The committee also recom­uation and rearrange his der issues failing Notre Dame dents." to step down as senator, but mended that Shane Bigelow, schedule, to no avail. and Saint Mary's students, what recognized that Lang had not both the president of Fisher should be done in response to see GENDER I page 4 see SENATE I page 4 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, September 19, 1996 
•INSIDE COLUMN 
There is no 

"D " • "t " 
n.on tn eatn 

Now that Notre Dame has played its first home game, the 1996 college football season has officially begun. Things are pretty different from last year at this time. Consider: 
After the ugly loss to Northwestern, "fans" were calling for Lou Holtz's resignation; stu­dents were selling their 
season tickets; Sports Assistant Accent Editor Illustrated was wonder­ing if Notre Dame's dominance was over; and everyone was criticizing, blaming, hounding, and denouncing Ron Powlus for all the prob­lems surrounding the football team. Some people probably think the quarterback had something to do with Holtz's neck condition too. This year, all that bickering seems distant, buried in the past with the Gerry Faust years. The team is 2-0, the running game has promise, the receivers are emerging, and the defense is one of the top three or four in the country. But everyone, it seems, continues to blame Powlus for all the faults. Here's a news flash for those of you in that category: Ron Powlus is not a bad quarterback, and it takes a team to win or lose games. Powlus has been the one and only starting quarterback at Notre Dame for three seasons. When he's been healthy, there has been no doubt who would be taking the snaps on gameday. In January, Powlus will have bro­ken Rick Mirer's career record for touchdown passes, and the single-season record set last year-Ron's second. It took Mirer four years to accumulate his numbers. Granted, Rick Mirer was considerably better at running the option and therefore passed less. But if Ron Powlus can throw the ball thirty yards for a touchdown in one play, there is no need for him to be able to run that distance himself or to gain fifteen on an option and hand off for the remaining fifteen. Instead of finding fault with Powlus when things go wrong for the Fighting Irish, look for reasons why he gets hit with so much unnec­cessary criticism. Maybe Coach Holtz praised him too much when recruiting him. Maybe that ESPN guy should have been fired for suggesting Powlus would win two Heisman Trophies. Maybe the sportswriters should realize that Notre Dame does not retire jersey numbers because the number on the uniform has noth­ing to do with the player under the pads. Wearing #3 does not mean the guy is going to win four Super Bowl rings or get drafted in the first round to go waste his career in a dome on a pitiful team. You don't see writers comparing Scott Cengia to Ricky Watters. Saturday, when the game was over after thirteen seconds of play, some people contin­ued to hound Powlus until.he finished the day 19-for-32 with 238 yards passing. Because of an open man in the end zone, Powlus was criticized for a pass to Chryplewicz that set up Autry Denson's 12-yard touchdown run in the first quarter. And he was chastized for the one interception when Malcolm Johnson slipped and couldn't get to the ball. Ron is quoted in Sunday's Chicago Tribune as saying, "We're 2-0, the only numbers I care about." Notre Dame won. That's all that matters. Leave the criticism, nit-picking, and looking for faults in generally impressive games to the coaches. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Kelly Brooks  Jason Dorwart  
Bridget O'Connor  Ashleigh Thompson  
Sports  Viewpoint  
Mike Day  Ethan Hayward  
Joe Cavato  Production  
Graphics  Maureen Hurley  
Melissa Weber  Rosanna Ventrone  
Chris Mullins  Lab Tech  
Shannon Dunne  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepr during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WoRLD AT A GLANCE 

Foriegn trade causes U.S. deficit to balloon 
WASHINGTON The United States spent $11.7 
billion more· on foreign purchases than it sold overseas in July, a sharp jump in the trade deficit that was blamed on increased demand for Japanese cars, Chinese toys and foreign oil. 
The Clinton administration insisted the 43 percent widening in the trade gap was only a tem­porary aberration. But the Dole campaign seized on the dramatic worsening of the deficit to high­light its attacks on White House· trade policies. 
"This underlines why we have to have a new economic policy," said Robert Lighthizer, a Dole trade adviser. "The country has become less competitive. We are losing our manufacturing jobs. Wages are stagnant. This is why people are so anxious." 
Wall Street was initially jolted by the larger-than-expected 
T d d f' . 
ra e e ICit 

The U.S. trade imbalance reached Hs highest level in more than eight years.The month-by-month changes in the government's new trade report, which includes trade in services as well as trade in goods: 
Total in billions 

1993 1994
0 
2
· 
-4 
_ ••
6 
-8 
-10 

.12 L__...cc..=.c~----~=-'~...cc.....cc.....cc...;___ __:j 
But by the close of trad­ing Wednesday, the Dow Jones industrial average had recouped some of its earlier losses, ending down 11.47 at 5,877.36. 
On the New York cur­rency market the dollar suffered its biggest one­day drop against the yen in seven weeks. In late trading the dollar cost 
109.15 
yen, down from 

110.24 
on Tuesday. The dollar also fell against the German mark and British pound. 


The Commerce Department said the July deficit in goods and ser­vices trade was the worst showing since the end of 198 7. The deficit in just goods of $15.6 billion was the second worst showing in U.S. history, surpassed 
deficit and renewed worries about rising interest rates. only by a $15.9 billion deficit in December 1985. 
Travelgate report issued amid debate Soldiers find Archbishop's body 
WASHINGTON 
Amid sometimes bitter debate, a Republican-controlled House commit­tee today adopted a report accusing President Clinton of misusing the power of his office in the White House travel office affair. Democrats boy­cotted the vote, walking out of the room after saying the Government Reform and Oversight Committee is 


engaging in a political witchhunt to embarrass the president. The report concludes that presidential aides embarked on "a colossal damage-con­trol effort" to cover up the roles of the president and first lady in the 1993 purge of the travel office -an episode in which the White House called in the FBI to investigate career employees. The report is based on innuendo and is part of a "shameful ... political smear campaign," declared Rep. Henry Waxman, the committee's ranking Democrat. 
Hussein warned of no-fly zone 

ANKARA, Turkey 
Renewed attacks by rival Kurdish groups were reported today near the Iran-Iraq border, and the leader of one of those groups crossed into Turkey for talks with U.S. and Turkish officials. A U.S. military spokesman in Saudi Arabia, meanwhile, said that Iraqi air defense systems have been tracking U.S. and allied warplanes patrolling a southern "no-fly" zone, but that Baghdad has kept its promise not to fire on them. Iraq said Friday it would stop firing on warplanes patrolling over northern and southern Iraq. However, they have continued to turn their radar systems on and off, said Lt. Col. Andrew Bourland. "We merely picked up an indication that their systems were turned on," Bourland told The Associated Press from the Saudi capital, Riyadh. "We only experienced minor indications from Iraqi surface-to-air encampments which we don't consider any significant threat." Bourland refused to say when this had happened. Iran claimed today that the Iraqi army and the allied Kurdistan Democratic Party shelled a refugee camp from the Iraqi side of the border, killing four Iraqi Kurdish refugees. 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi 
Soldiers found the body of a Roman Catholic arch­bishop today, buried in a grave near the village where his car was ambushed nine days ago. The body of Joachim Ruhuna, archbishop of Gitega, was found in an unmarked grave in Mwumbu, near the site of the Sept. 9 ambush 60 miles northeast of Bujumbura, said a government spokesman, Jean-Luc Ndizeye. He said Hutu rebels believed responsible for the attack were living in a house near the village, and the bodies of Ruhuna and a nun killed with him were buried outside. "When the investigation team approached, there was an exchange of gunfire and the terrorists fled," Ndizeye said. Witnesses said the archbishop was killed when the rebels sprayed his car with gunfire. Four people survived the attack and the body of another nun was found at the scene. Vatican envoy Cardinal Jozef Tomko held a memorial service for the archbishop Tuesday in Gitega's cathedral. A funeral will be held there Thursday. 
Scientists find possible asthma genes 
NEW YORK 
Researchers who trolled the human DNA for signs of asthma genes have found six spots where they might be hiding. Scientists already knew that several genes make people susceptible to asthma, which affects some 14.6 million Americans. Those genes team up with environ­mental triggers to bring on the disease. If susceptibility genes really are lurking in the areas identified, it will take maybe three to five years to find them, said Dr. William 
O.C.M. Cookson of John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England. There are also other asthma genes outside of the identified areas, he said. Once the susceptibility genes are identified, scientists may be able to find ways to identify people at risk and keep them from getting sick. Eventually, the genes may suggest new drugs for treat­ment. Cookson and colleagues presented their findings in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. It's the first pub­lished study that scanned virtually all the human DNA for asthma genes, said David G. Marsh, who studies the genetics of allergy and asthma at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. "This is really a very important advance," Marsh said. Two of the six identified areas had been pointed out by prior studies, he said. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forcast · The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 19. 

AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.i 
' 
Thursd~y
' 
Friday\ Saturda]y Sunda'f\ 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc 
Pressure 
H L Ea fSSI [Til 0 . ~ 8 <!) ~ u
Monday f . 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
;S'··,r--~'""; 

Via Assoaated Press 
Atlanta 79 52 Dallas 85 
Baltimore 74 54 Denver 65 
Boston 67 53 Los Angeles 85
~,~,~~~~ ~-~ 

Chicago 72 50 Miami 90 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Columbus 74 46 Minneapolis 67 
VIa Associated Press GraphlcsNat 

67 New Orleans 84 65 39 New York 74 56 65 Philadelphia 74 55 77 Phoenix 92 70 50 Saint Louis 74 56 

Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page3 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
SMC board searching for committee chairs 

By MISSY LIND 
News Wri[er 
D11spite the many familiar faces of returning members of the Saint Mary's Hesidence Hall Association (HilA), vacant chairs served as a strong reminder of the need to fill chairwomen positions. 
Applications for the open chairwoman positions are available at the front desk of residencfl halls and at Haggar College Center. 
HilA is working on develop­ing a theme to represent itself for this school year. Any design ideas should be direct­ed to the Hall Council Executive Boards of each resi­dence hall. The ideas will be submitted to the Executive Board which plans to use the theme design on shirts, which will allow HilA members to be identified throughout the col­lege community. 
Hall dance dates have been set by LeMans, McCandless and Hegina Halls. The LeMans Hall dance will be on Nov. 1, McCandless Hall dance on Nov. 2, and Regina Hall dance on Oct. 4. Annunciata and Holy Cross Halls have not yet set dates for their dances. 
Plans are in the works for Multicultural Awareness and Alcohol Awareness Weeks. Multicultural Awareness Week will be held th11 week of Oct. 1, and Alcohol Awareness Week will be held the week of Oct. 7. 
Anyone interested in helping with Alcohol Awareness Week should contact HHA president Nikki Milos. 
LeMans Hall Director and RHA Adviser, Jill Aitchison announced that the residence hall front desks will no longer be responsible for holding per­sonal belongings. Starting this Monday, ID cards and keys will no longer be held at the hall front desks. 
The next RHA meeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. 25 at 6:30 p.m. in room 304 of the Haggar College Center. 

The ObseNer/Rachael Sederberg Susan Vance, Suzie Orr, Peter Diffley and Mary Connolly advise Saint Mary's juniors and seniors on post-graduate options. 
Panel eases upperclass fears 
By SARAH CORKREAN News Writer 
The big questions on the minds of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's upperclass stu­dents these days are: 1) Should I attend graduate school? and 
2) If I should, which school and program should I choose? 
To the relief of many Saint Mary's juniors and seniors, students brought their ques­tions to a faculty panel of four advisors within the ND/SMC community last night at Saint Mary's campus. 
Although the semester has only been underway for four weeks, now is the time for stu­dents to start exploring their post-graduate options. 
The panel, jointly sponsored by the Counseling and Career Development Center and Academic Affairs, included Susan Vance of the Business and Economics Department; Suzie Orr, Director of Residence Life and Housing; Mary Connolly of the Math Department; and Peter Diffiey, Associate Dean of Graduate School at Notre Dame. 

"Now is the time to research schools and individuals that can answer your questions about every aspect of a school you are researching and con­sidering," said Nancy Mascott, Assistant Director of Career and Counseling Development Center. 
Vance focused on her own personal experience with grad­uate school. She credited her wait of a few years to go on to graduate school as beneficial for her. Working in the real world, "enhanced my graduate school experience by being able to bring real working world experience to the class­room." 
"Don't think you have to go to graduate school with a lib­eral arts degree," said Orr. "Don't limit yourself. First, explore the job opportunities before you enroll in graduate school if you don't want to enroll." 
With the rising cost of educa­tion, students are having diffi­culties financing their educa­tion, but according to Diffiey, "there are other options to financing an education." Along with federal aid, schools also offer teaching assistant programs, which cover part of tuition if you assist the profes­sor in grading and leading dis­cussions in undergraduate classes. 
"I appreciated the financial advice as well as the personal stories the panel provided," said Junior Heather Brown. 
Both Orr and Mascott firmly stressed to juniors and seniors. whether interested in graduate school or not, to make fre­quent visits to the Career Center just to keep in touch with any opportunities they may be interested in. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Hatch 
continued from page 1 
one-third of their hires to target spe­cial faculty members of considerable promise, giving special attention to women, people of color, and those who can help Notre Dame grow as a Catholic intellectual institution." 
When addressing student recruit­ment, Hatch said that the University has to adapt the financial aid pro­gram to fit future student needs. "We also have to develop persuasive, state of art recruiting materials to attract the best students," he said. 
His fourth priority deals with sci­

keep science and engineering at this University at the cutting edge," he said. "A Catholic institution cannot shrink from pursuing science." 
He noted that even though Notre Dame is the highest ranked Catholic institution with regard to science, "we are strong but not distin­guished," he said. 
"The University must foster an environment to understand technolo­gy in the modern world," Hatch said, "and we must not leave students with only a compartmentalized view of the world." 
As his fifth priority, Hatch expressed a desire to make Notre Dame a center of Catholic intellectu­al life. "This pursuit of Catholic intellectualism must come out of the 

Gender 

continued from page 1 
Otakuye Conroy, one of the seven mem­bers of the Multi-Cultural Executive Council, stressed the importance of educating stu­dents on the problems concerning gender relations and the Council's goal of making both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's cam­puses aware that these problems do indeed exist. 
Catherine McCarren, Executive Commissioner of the Notre Dam·e Student Government Gender Relations Department, stressed two major problems that the Department will attempt to deal with over the next year. She sighted the lack of com­munication between males and females on the campus and the inequality that exists among the two genders as problems. 
"Notre Dame is definitely not a setting for good social skills," McCarren said. 
One of the major ways in which the Department will try to deal with these prob­lems is by surveying alumni in an attempt to get a grasp upon the progression made in the areas of gender relations over the past several years. From those responses, the department hopes to have a better idea of where to center their efforts when dealing with gender relation problems. 
Heather Steinmiller, the only representa­tive of Saint Mary's College present on the panel, concluded the presentations by speaking of the gender issues that have arisen for the Saint Mary's Board of Regents in the course of replacing William Hickey, outgoing President of the College. 
faculty's own curiosity," he said. "We must encourage difference in opinion." 
Hatch indicated that while he thought it simpler to agree on ele­ments of faith beyond the classroom, discussion of Catholicism must be animated by intellectual life. "There is untold potential for growth in this area," he said. 
Hatch announced that his sixth and final priority is to foster a com­munity of intellectual engagement. "I plan on inviting proposals for world class conferences and collo­quia across the entire university," he said. Student interaction with pro­fessors was also a key feature of his plan as he called for more dialogue between faculty and students in the future. 
"We have many dreams," he said, "but we must temper these dreams with realism and humility. We are not perfect. We are a human com­munity and have our problems. I hope that we will not paper-over those problems but address them." 
Hatch has been at Notre Dame since 1975, when he joined the facul­ty as a professor of early American history. He rose to the position of Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, then moved up to Vice President for Graduate Studies and Research in 1989. He was inducted as an honorary member into the Phi Beta Kappa Honor Society last Thursday. Hatch officially became provost on July 1 of this year. 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Gina Rucavado speaks on gender issues. 
"Many at Saint Mary's feel that the new president should be a female, reflecting the fact that the College is all women," Steinmiller said. Others, however, including Steinmiller, feel that the Board should look to hire the most qualified candidate for the position, regardless of gender. 
Moderator Susan St. Ville, Coordinator of Gender Studies at the University. then opened the forum to questions and com­ments from the floor. The issues of coed dorms and the lack of gender studies within the classrooms of Notre Dame were dis­cussed briefly. 
. This forum is one of a continuing series of gender relation and study forums that have taken place on campus in the recent past. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
In a letter directed to all Student Senate members, Bigelow wrote, "While I tried and tried from the end of last year, right up until two days ago, to get a definite date on when the meetings will be this year, it was to no avail." At yesterday's Student Senate meeting, Bigelow cited poor communication on student government's part as another problem he encountered. 
The Sept. 26 report to the Board of Trustees will contain issues which have been previously been discussed in both student government and Board of Trustees meetings. The report is availible for review for all students on the Student Government World Web Site. 
Among the issues to be targeted by President Miller will be suggestions for the tentatively planned performing arts center, an audit of current student space, a review of office and club space, recreational space, study space, and public social space, and possible methods of implementing plans for the enhancement of student life as suggested by University President Father Edward Malloy's Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
Judicial Council President Ryan Mcinerney, a major defender of student rights at Notre Dame, voiced his concern over the omission of student rights in Du Lac, the University hand­book. He pointed out that students had more freedom to defend themselves in Student Mfairs hearings prior to 1993. 
Mcinerney also suggested that the Board of Trustees be presented with the idea of having a voting student member on the Board of Trustees. "The Board of Trustees makes the most important decisions on this campus and, as a group, has the least student input to its decisions," Mcinerney said. 
Mcinerney asserted that the report to the Board of Trustees report doesn't adequately facilitate a forum for student concerns to be consistently heard by the Board of Trustees. "The report to the Board of Trustees can't speak up at a meeting. Only a student can," Mcinerney quipped. 
After hearing many of the senators voice their concern over decreased parking space, Student Government President Seth Miller announced that an invitation will be extended to Phil Johnson, Assistant Director of University Security. 
Worried about the well-being of their con­stituents, off-campus Co-Presidents Brendan Tobin and Mike Irvine expressed their desire to draft a list of concerns to present to Johnson. They plan to address the issue of crime, for example, and how Notre Dame Security could help to minimize the amount of students who are affected by crime in South Bend. 
"We have a ton of things we'd like to talk about with Security, "said Tobin. 
The next Student Senate meeting will be held on Wednesday, Oct. 2. The time and place will be announced. 

Holy Cross Mission in California Seminar 
January 2-9, 1997
-
~ Nuestra Senora de Soledad Parish Coachella, California 
~ • Experience small Christian 

(?\MPUS
~~ Communities 
MINISTRY
Dlllllllllll • Dynamic Hispanic church 
lml!llll. 
lllllllllmW leadership 
• 
Special programs involving youth and the poor 

• 
Daily group prayer and reflection 


Informational Meeting Wednesday, September 25, 7:30p.m. 
Coffee House -Center for Social Concerns 
• Some knowledge ofSpanish or experience of Hispanic culture required 
Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry 

TONIGHT: 

GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
TOMORROW: 

FRIDAY LUNCH CLUB 
Open at noon 
SATURDAY:
SAME -GREAT BAR. 

ND vs TEXAS GAME 
Big Screen TV Open at 10:00 am
SAME COOL JUKE BOX. 

STILL JUST 50~ FOR A POOL GAME. 
NOW A NEW MENU! 

Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 
Nixon VP dies of leukemia 
Friends recall Agnew's 'raw political courage' 
By TOM STUCKEY 
Associated Press Writer 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

Spiro Agnew, Richard Nixon's strident point man who railed against the media as "nattering nabobs of nega­tivism" and became the only vice president to resign in dis­graec, died at age 77. 
Agnew died Tuesday after­noon of undiagnosed leukemia at Atlantic General Ilospital in Berlin, near his summer home in Ocean City, hospital officials said today. 
Picked by Nixon as his run­ning mate in 1968, Agnew established himself as a nation­al political force by employing a colorful phraseology in criticiz­ing anti-war protesters, liberals and the media, and by pro­daiming himself spokesman for tlw "silnnt majority." 
"Spiro Agnew earned the support of millions of his coun­trymen bncausn he was never afraid to speak out and stand up for America," GOP presiden­tial candidate Bob Dole said in offering his sympathy to the Agnew family. 
"Spiro Agnew had something few people in this city ever show: raw political courage," Nixon administration speech writer Pat Buchanan said today from Washington. "At a time when the Establishment was craven in its pandering to riot­ers and demonstrators, Vice l'msident Agnew told the truth about both of them." 
"We speak of the Honald Beagan revolution.... Spiro Agnew was the John the Baptist for that revolution," said Victor Gold. Agnew's campaign press secretary in 1972. 
His most famous lines came in a 1970 speech, when he attacked the news media as "nattering nabobs of nega­tivism" and "the hopeless, hys­terical hypochondriacs of histo­ry." 
But Agnew's meteoric six­year rise from county official to Maryland governor to vice president came to an abrupt halt in October 1973, when he pleaded no contest to a single count of income-tax evasion and resigned. 
"I thought that some of the things he said during his life­time were extreme and regret­table, but nonetheless, I mourn his passing and my sympathy is all with his family," said former Sen. George McGovern, defeat­ed by Nixon in the 1972 presi­dential election. 
"lie was a friend. I loved his family," former President Bush said today in Dearborn, Mich. 
Feeling that Nixon had sacri­ficed him in order to mollify Watergate critics, Agnew with­drew from political life, work­ing as a businessman and split­ting time between homes in Ocean City and Hancho Mirage, Calif. 
In May 1995, he made a rare public appearance, attending a ceremony at the U.S. Senate chamber as his bust was installed among the likenesses of other former vice presidents. 
''I'm not blind or deaf to the fact that there are those who feel this is a ceremony that should not take place," Agnew said at the time. 
Only one other vice president -John C. Calhoun, who had a political split with President Andrew Jackson-was forced to resign from office. Agnew's was the first resignation stem­ming from legal problems. 
In court, Agnew did not con­test the government's charge that he "willfully" evaded pay­ing $13,551.47 in federal income taxes in 1967. Judge Walter E. Hoffman fined him $10,000 and sentenced him to three years of unsupervised probation. 
But following the plea, Agnew denied all the government's allegations in the case, includ­ing claims that he accepted cash kickbacks from contrac­tors over 10 years while he was Baltimore County executive, governor and vice president. 
On Oct. 15, 1973, just five days after his resignation, Agnew told a national TV audi­ence that he resigned to restore "unimpaired confidence and implicit trust" in the vice presi­dency. 
He described his accusers as "self-confessed bribe brokers" and said he had done no wrong. 
Agnew's denial was rejected today by the prosecutor who handled the case, George Beall. 
"The case was not based on an isolated act. There was a pattern that was demonstrable for a long time," Beall said. 
Agnew was a virtual political unknown on the national scene when he was elected Maryland governor in 1966 because he was considered more liberal than the Democratic candidate. He took the chance Nixon offered him in 1968 and vali­dated the choice with his aggressive campaigning and hard-line statements. 
He attracted wide attention with his Jaw-and-order line and harsh ridicule of liberals and Vietnam War protesters, who he said did not speak for the "silent majority." 
He derided opponents of the war as "an effete corps of impudent snobs" and labeled national TV commentators "a tiny fraternity of privileged men elected by no one and enjoying a monopoly sanctioned and licensed by the government." 
Student protesters, he said, "have never done a productive thing in their lives. They take their tactics from Fidel Castro and their money from daddy." 

page 5 
POW and MIA Day to be observed on campus 
Spec:ial to The Observer 
Prisoner of War and Missing in Action Observance Day will be cele­brated on campus Thursday and Friday. 
A prayer service for MIAs and POWs will be held at the Grotto at 5 p.m. Thursday. A vigil, beginning at 5:30 p.m. Thursday and ending at 5 
p.m. Friday, wi11 be observed at Fieldhouse Mall. 
A closing ceremony, fea· turing South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan, a former POW, delivering the keynote address, will be held at the South Quad flagpole at 5 
p.m. Friday. 

The observance is spon­sored by the Notre Dame chapter of the Arnold Air Force Society, a nationwide honorary service organiza­tion of the Air Force Academy and Air Force ROTC cadets. Army and Navy ROTC cadets and mid­shipmen also will partici­pate. 
Gottleib makes court appearance 
Observer Staff Report 
Doug Gottlieb appeared in court yesterday to face felony charges of using stolen credit cards to make unauthorized purchases. 
The former Notre Dame bas­ketball player was formally charged last week with taking the charge cards of three Dillon Hall residents and using them to make over $900 in purchases in the South Bend area. 
Judge William Albright of the St. Joseph Superior Court entered a preliminary plea of innocent for Gottlieb, setting a trial date of Nov. 21. 
If convicted, Gottlieb could receive six months to three years in jail and a fine of up to $10,000. 
Gottlieb and his attorney, William Stanley, will make their next court appearance Nov. 14 to notify the judge if he intends to go to trial. If he does not, he would likely enter a guilty plea that day. 
After Gottlieb arrived in South Bend Tuesday, Stanley arranged for the 20-year-old resident of Tustin, CA to sur­render at the county jail. He was released on a $500 bond. 
The three sophomore stu­dents who reported the inci­dents to the police include Patrick Johnson of Goshen, Ind., S. Joseph Hand of Monroe, Conn., and Christopher S. Thomas of Hamburg. N.J. 
The unauthorized transac­tions took place between April 25 and May 5 of 1996. The three students were not aware of the problem until they received the bills after return­ing home for the summer. 
The case filed by St. Joseph County states: "Each of the men indicated that their credit cards had been taken from their rooms without permis­sion and replaced without them knowing about it." 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 

Thursday, September 19, 1996 
page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Campus Ministry••• 


I 
r 
r 
Considerations • •• reached his eyes.THE TASK BEFORE US Perhaps we think that angels are most easily found frozen in the window panes of aThere is a portion of Kentucky south ofthe Ohio river, with its own gentle land­basilica. Maybe we find them captured on a television network where, ifwe'rescape and a deep sense ofhistory for Catholics. Some folks call this area "the lucky, we can be touched by one, too. But I believe angels are not so blatant when Knobs" because of the small, button-like hills that populate the terrain. We at they spread their wings. On that day in August, on the first day ofsummer vaca­Notre Dame share some history with the place. Some of the great Catholic mis­tion, I was surprised to see that an angel -a "messenger of God," had assumed his sionaries ofthe 1840's visited here -Flaget and Badin and Sorin. And the towns position in a wheelchair and announced a truth to me.announce their heritage, too, with names like Loretto, St. Mary, and Lebanon. The truth was this: that for all of our talk about community and networking, My family visited the Knobs this summer, hiding out for a couple of days in one of about interdependence and global villages, some things in life are ours alone to do.the famous sanctuaries of the area, Gethsemani Abbey. There, on an early August No one else can experience our homesickness. No one else can taste the grief that evening, while the summer sun drenched the fields with her honey-light, I saw a is uniquely ours when a loved one passes away. No one else can completely know remarkable -yet at the same time ordinary -parable unfold before my eyes. the satisfaction that is ours when a job is done by our own hands. No one else can do our own homework, whether that be the work of the classroom or the work ofIt was after Vespers, the prayer at the end of the days' labors for the monks, and our ever-deepening awareness of God's call in ~ur life. No one else but us, and the visitors were concluding their liturgical· prayer with an icing of quiet, wandedng off One who knows all our secrets, the One who made us.among the hills, giving their mind a chance to absorb the mingling of incense and plainchant, giving their soul an opportunity to listen to the silence, where God is For all the charitable offers that come our way, sometimes we must politely decline, most at home. and declare that this work is for us to do. It is our own task. The task that lies before us.I was doing the very same thing, when the parable began to unfold before me. Steven C. Warner At the southern end of the monastery lies a gentle rise of landwhich the brethren call "Saint Joseph's Hill." It was crowned with a schoolhouse in the early years, until a bolt of lightning came down and finished the dwelling and the monks' TWENTY-FIFTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIMEapostolate to children's education in one fell swoop. Hardly a "knob," this hill of tufted grass is a pleasant stroll at the end of the day. Weekend Presiders Bur it is a stroll only for people with two legs that work. For the man I saw in the wheelchair that evening, this mound might as well been a mountain. St. Joseph's at Sacred Heart BasilicaHill is not paved; in essence, it is rutted pasture with a statue at the top of its crest. Here sat this man, who had driven his car to the edge of the pasture, managed to Sat. Sept. 21 5:00p.m. Rev. Charles Gordon, C.S.C.get his wheelchair out of the back seat, loaded himself into it, and began laborious­ly shoving himself up the side of the slope, through knee-deep vegetation. Sun. Sept. 22 10:00 a.m. Rev. Michael Connors, C.S.C. In the evening light that surrounded us, retreatant after retreatant approached the man and offered to push him up the hill. Maybe they were inspired by the newly­All School Opening Mass refreshed piety; maybe they were looking for a quick way to do something nice. Maybe they were sincerely motivated and took pity on this paraplegic who was at Joyce Center grinding his way up the tilted challenge ofthe cow pasture. It was his response that intrigued me, though I never heard his words. As each Sun. Sept. 22 4:00p.m. Rev. Edward (Monk) Malloy, C.S.C. offer of charity approached him, I could see that he was refusing each. He wasn't rude, he wasn't angry ... he was simply resolute. This was his own task -the task laid before him. Scripture Readings For An hour and a half later, he made it to the crest of the hill. I watched him every inch of the way, mesmerized by his journey. I watched as he made it to the top. Thts Coming Sunday No "Rocky" fanfare as the goal was reached. No splashy drenching of the sun over his sweaHoaked face. No cheering hordes. He sat there, resolute, quiet, inwardly proud ofhis accomplishment. He moved to each of rhe four corners of the crest, 1st Reading Isaiah 55: 6-9 as ifto savor the view so resolutely earned. I saw him rake deep breaths. I saw his 2nd Reading Philippians 1: 20-24, 27 face move slowly to rake in the panorama. And I tried to enter into the joy that his eyes beheld, gazing at the gentle beauty of the monastery and hills that now Gospel Matthew 20: 1-16 Campus Ministry Events Thursday, September 19 -Thursday, September 26 Voices of Faith Choir Retreat Friday, September 20, 8:00 -Midnight, Crowley Hall of Music "The Heart and Soul ofGospel Music"-A Workshop of Prayer and Praise Saturday, September 21, 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m., Crowley Hall, Room 115, ALL ARE WELCOME African American Student Leadership Commissioning and Freshman Welcome Saturday, September 21,7:30 p.m., Stanford-Keenan Chapel, ALL ARE WELCOME Confirmation Candidates/Sponsors Mini-Retreat Sunday, September 22, 12:30 p.m.-4:00p.m., LaFortune Ballroom All School Opening Mass followed by Picnic Sunday, September 22, 4:00 p.m., Joyce Center Freshman Retreat Applications Residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Farley, Fisher, Morrissey, Pangborn, Siegfried, and Stanford Halls: Please return application for October 4-5 retreat by Monday, September 30. Come Join us... Power Lunches-Thursdays, 12:45 p.m.-1:45 p.m., Faculty Dining Room Spanish Mass-Sundays, 1:30 p.m., Stanford-Keenan Chapel Campus Bible Study-Tuesdays, 7:00p.m., Campus Ministry-Badin Hall KAIROS(4th Day)-Wednesdays, 7:30p.m., Stanford-Keenan Chapel For information on RCIA, Confirmation, Catechist Formation, music and liturgy, call631-5242  

Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• BOSNIA

Changed immigration bill divides Republican party Muslim leader takes election 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

With the GOP deeply riven by the issue, Republicans are scrambling to come up with a new compromise on the prickli­est provision of a major immi­gration bill: a measure that would let states deny public education to children who are here illegally. 
The compromise could result in dropping the education pro­vision entirely, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss., said today. His Democratic counter­part, Sen. Tom Daschle, said issues other than the provision "have to be addressed," but dropping it "would be very helpful." 
Lott told reporters: ''I'm not sure it is in the best interest of the country to have the whole package go down on this one issue.... We are wrestling with that now." 
Asked whether that means the schools issue could be dropped, Lott replied, "We are considering that to get a bill." 
The Republican schism Tuesday stalled the far-reach­ing legislation to combat illegal immigration with only a few weeks remaining for Congress to pass it and send it to President Clinton this year. 
Clinton has promised to veto any immigration bill that includes the public schools pro­vision. Hepublican rival Bob Dole supports the provision. 
Daschle, D-S.D., the Senate minority leader, told reporters he could not say for !iUre that Clinton would sign the bill with­out the schools provision, but added: "My guess is he proba­bly will." 
Daschle contended that Dole seems to prefer that the immi­gration bill die in order to deny the White House a chance to take credit for a measure popu­lar in border states. He called that stance a "tragedy." 
The legislation would nearly double the size of the Border Patrol, increase penalties for document fraud and alien smuggling, and establish pilot projects for employers to verify job applicants' work eligibility. It also would toughen penalties on illegal aliens caught in the United States. 
GOP leaders in Congress dis­agree sharply over the prospects for the legislation, which Republicans have been pushing for months as a way to tap into voter concern about immigration. 
Lott insisted Tuesday that the immigration bill was "very much alive" -disputing state­ments by Sen. Alan Simpson, R­Wyo., author of the Senate measure. 
Lott said Republicans were trying to craft a new version of the schools amendment pro­posed by Rep. Elton Gallegly, R­Calif., that would be more acceptable to the Senate. 
More than half the 100 sena­tors -including conservative Texas Republicans Phil Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison as well as Democrats and other Republicans -have publicly opposed the Gallegly amend­ment. 
"The goal is to come up with something that will move through the House and through the Senate and onto the presi­dent's desk, and we're still con­fident that's an achievable goal," said Jim Maiella, a spokesman for Gallegly. 
A meeting of House and Senate negotiators seeking to craft a legislative package was canceled just before it was to begin Tuesday. The negotiators were tentatively scheduled to meet today, but no time was set. 

·Hamburgers  ·Potato Salad  
·Chicken  ·Cole Slaw  
·Beer Brats  ·Potato Chips  

• Free Soft Drinks 
Be~ch Volleyball Contest-Teams of 6 11:00 a.m.-6:00p.m. 
$10 Entry Fee includes: Co-ed teams Free Entry to Concert Double Elimination Prizes from Outpost and Chili's 
Concert 
From 7:00p.m. -12 Midnight enjoy: ·Live Remote by WAOR ·Dancing ·Live Band 

BySRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press Writer 

SARAJEVO 
Muslim leader Alija Izetbegovic won the most votes in Bosnia's presidential election, sparking street celebrations in Sarajevo today for the first chairman of the new three-man presidency. He was the only one of the three to favor a unified Bosnia. 
A close second to Izetbegovic in the election was Serb nationalist Momcilo Krajisnik, who campaigned for the Serb half of the country to secede from Bosnia. Croat nationalist Kresimir Zubak finished a distant third. 
While Izetbegovic's powers as presidential chairman are mostly symbolic, he will be the man international officials turn to as they try to make Bosnia's postwar reconstruction and new govern­ment work. 
Whether the presidency, created by interna­tional negotiators who stitched together the 1995 Dayton peace accord, succeeds will help deter­mine how many foreign troops remain in Bosnia, and for how long. Thousands of American troops, mostly in the north, make up the peacekeeping force. 
"This is a great day for us," said Mirza Hajric, an aide to Izetbegovic. "Today, for the frrst time after four years Bosnia-Herzegovina is reunited." 
Jubilant Muslims drove through the streets of Sarajevo, beeping car horns, leaning out windows 
Aasociated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. 
A former Roman Catholic archbishop says he frequently violated his vow of celibacy and kept quiet about charges that priests sexually abused children because he did not know it was a crime, The Albuquerque Tribune reported today. 
Robert Sanchez, who resigned in disgrace in 1993, gave details in a 1994 deposi­tion of physical or sexual con­tacts with 11 women, all in their 20s, the newspaper reported. 
He said his sexual contacts increased after he became 

and waving green and white party banners. 
"I am happy for Alija's victory," said 21-year­old Almir Bicakcic. "This is the party which will take Bosnia into its future." 
Robert Frowick of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe said complete returns from Saturday's vote gave Izetbegovic 729,034 votes to Krajisnik's 690,373. Zubak had 342,007. 
Frowick said the results would become official at the end of a 72-hour appeal period. Only minor adjustments in the vote were expected. 
The presidents are supposed to take office four days after the results are certified. 
The election was the first since the December signing of the peace agreement that ended 3 1/2 years of Balkan war. 
Even before final results were in, foreign envoys were pressing the 72-year-old Izetbegovic to start working on the institutions meant to pre­serve peace and to keep the country intact. 
The peace plan for Bosnia calls for a three-way presidency shared by a Muslim, a Serb and a Croat. The one with the highest number of votes is chairman for two years but has no specific duties or veto power. 
Under the Dayton accord, Bosnia's two halves -the Muslim-Croat federation and a Serb repub­lic-will enjoy a high degree of autonomy. The key to holding Bosnia together will be avoiding a political stalemate, not only among the three presidents but also within the ethnically mixed parliament. 
Archbishop admits to affairs 
archbishop of the Archdiocese of Santa Fe in 1974, the news­paper reported. 
"It was more frequent, at the -especially the early years," he said. 
Sanchez gave the pre-trial testimony for lawsuits alleging child sexual abuse by priests. The New Mexico Supreme Court on Tuesday cleared the way for public disclosure of about 700 pages of the testimo­ny heavily edited by a judge. Disclosure was sought by The Tribune, the Albuquerque Journal and KOB-TV in Albuquerque. 
The archdiocese, which serves some 275,000 Roman Catholics, was rocked by scan­dal in August 1991 with the fil­ing of the first of a series of lawsuits alleging sexual abuse by priests. 
Investigations revealed that for decades pedophile priests from around the nation had been sent to the Servants of the Paraclete, a treatment center for troubled priests near Albuquerque. 
Many of them were then given positions in New Mexico parishes, and several abused children again. 
Victims alleged the church had covered up the scandal, and Sanchez resigned after his own sexual misconduct with women was revealed. 
Sanchez, now 62, said he often did not notify parishes about child sex-abuse cases by clergy because he did not want to promote divisiveness and gossip, and because church law urged discretion. 
"In 1981 I did not understand that (molestation) to be a crime," he said. "I considered it to be a moral infraction of his (the priest's) own life, and it was an offense against a child." 
Sanchez remains in seclusion, The Tribune reported. In a statement issued Tuesday by his lawyer's office, he said: "If my silence has been misleading or has given offense, I ask your forgiveness." ~ 
Mary Ryland, spokeswoman for the archdiocese, said Archbishop Michael Sheehan was not available for comment this morning. 
The Tribune said most of the more than 140 sexual-abuse lawsuits filed against the arch­diocese had been settled. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! 
GET INVOLVED IN 1996-97 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairper­son. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity pass YOU by, apply now! 
• 
Applications are now available at the LaFortu Information Desk 

• 
Applications must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 26th. 


IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL. JOHN MENICUCCI X4113 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 19, 1996 
Abortion pill closer South Korea provokes attack 
to approval by FDA 
By JU-YEON KIM 
Associated Press Writer 
SEOUL 
After abandoning their sub­marine on South Korea's east coast, 11 North Koreans appar­ently committed suicide today and a 12th was captured in an extensive manhunt near the rugged, mountainous shore. 
Thousands of South Korean soldiers and police scoured a thickly wooded mountain that rises from the shore for eight more North Koreans believed to have come ashore, South Korean officials said. The active search was halted at nightfall, with soldiers ordered to lie in ambush until dawn. 
The captured North Korean said the submarine carried 20 men when it ran aground on a reef off Kangnung, 90 miles northeast of Seoul, according to Brig. Gen. Shin Sang-gil. 
Gen. Chung Hwa-un said it was unclear whether the sub­marine was trying to land spies in South Korea or had become stranded during a training exer­cise. The North Koreans found all wore civilian clothes and white sneakers. 
There was no immediate North Korean reaction to the apparent infiltration, certain to strain already tense relations between the Koreas. 
Shin said the 11 dead intruders were found on shore about five miles southwest of the stranded sub at 5 p.m., about 15 hours after the craft was spotted in the surf just yards off the coast. 
Shin said 10 of the bodies were together, and the eleventh a short distance away. He spec­ulated that the eleventh intruder killed his companions then shot himself in a mass suicide. A handgun was found on his body. 
Associated Press Television reported that 10 bodies were lying in a row, each shot in the face. 
Police captured the North Korean in a village about two 

North Korean infiltration attempts 
The mass suicide of II North Koreans 
Wednesday may have been the end 
result of an attempt to infiltrate South 
Korea. Major North Korean 
infiltrations in the 1990s: 

1990-91: North Korean spies infiltrate South Korea three times to give money and assignments to South Korean dissident Kim Nak-joong. 
May 21, 1992: South Koreans shoot and kill three North Koreans 800 yards south of the border. 
Oct. 17, 1995: South Korean soldiers shoot and kill an armed North Korean spotted swimming across the Imjin River, which separates the two countries. 
Oct. 24, 1995: A North Korean agent is captured near Puyo in central South Korea. His partner flees, triggering a three-day search that ends when the agent is shot to death. Three South Korean policemen are killed. 
July 3, 1996: A North Korean spy is caught after living in South Korea for 12 years, posing as a Filipino professor. He tells police that "scores, perhaps hundreds" of communist spies are operating in South Korea. 
50 miles 
ES 
50km 
miles inland. He was carrying a tured intruder told police the loaded pistol, but offered no submarine developed engine resistance. trouble shortly after leaving its 
SBS-TV, a private South home port of Wonsan on the Korean network, said the cap-North's east coast Monday. 
By CONNIE CASS 
Assodated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The drug RU-486, an alter­native method of abortion to surgery, passed its last major hurdle Wednesday on the way to becoming available to women in the United States. 
The Food and Drug Administration said that the controversial French pill was safe and effective when used under a doctor's close supervi­sion. But the FDA withheld final approval until it receives more information about how the drug would be manufac­tured and labeled. 
It should be in doctors' offices by mid-to late-1997, said Sandra Waldman, spokes­woman for the Population Council, the nonprofit group that has the U.S. rights to mar­ket the drug, 
The drug, already used by 200,000 European women, has long been the focus of an emo­tional debate between abortion rights supporters and abortion opponents, who argue that making the drug available in the privacy of doctors' offices will increase the number of 
U.S. abortions. 
The FDA sent a letter requesting further information on Wednesday to the council, which in March began the process to get approval for the drug, known chemically as mifepristone. 
Such letters are a common, usually minor, hurdle in the approval process. 
"We are sure we will be able 
to provide the FDA the out­
standing information necessary 
for approval," the council said 
in a statement. 
Once the FDA gets answers to its questions, it has up to six months to review the informa­tion. 
Abortion opponents accused the Clinton administration of rushing the approval process for political rather than sound medical reasons. 
"We have no idea what the long-term impact on women's health will be by this politically motivated push to get this chemical into American women's bodies," said Kristi Hamrick, spokeswoman for the conservative Family Research Council. 
Tougher rhetoric came from Randall Terry, founder of Operation Rescue: "The FDA is participation in the chemical assassination of innocent peo­ple," he said in a statement. 
The decision was hailed by abortion rights supporters, who predicted it will help end the days when women arriving for abortions have to pass through anti-abortion rallies outside clinics. 
"It's a new era of choice for American women," said Margaret Conway, vice presi­dent for public policy at Planned Parenthood. "American women have been waiting for years for this approval. They're ready for this." 
To induce an abortion, the pregnancy-ending pill is fol­lowed two days later by anoth­er pill that causes strong uter­ine contractions to expel the fetus. The process can be painful and cause bleeding. It must be monitored closely, requiring three separate doc­tor exams for safety. 
FDA officials would not give details of the information they still seek, saying that is consid­ered proprietary information. Labeling questions usually involve instructions and warn­ings for patients and doctors. 
The council also would not 
say what the FDA was seek­
ing. 

---, 
----------------------~-~--~------~---------~~---~­
I I 

Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Judge takes 'no excuses' in Simpson civil suit 
By LINDA DEUTSCH 
Associared Press Wrirer 
SANTA MONJ.CA, Calif. 

The O.J. Simpson civil trial opened Wndnesday with the judge displaying a style of jury selection summed up in two words: No excuses. 
Superior Court Judge Hiroshi Fujisaki turned away most claims of hardship by the first 25 jurors summoned to his courtroom. Only four people initially were able to convince him they could not serve on what's expected to be a four-month trial. 
The lirst wave of jurors was racially mixed with more than half white, a quarter black and the rest Asian or Hispanic. Hace was a key issue in Simpson's criminal trial last year; the jury in downtown Los Angeles was pre­dominantly black. 
Tlw wrongful-death trial is being held in Santa Monica, a prosperous seaside city with a largely white population adjacent to Los Angeles. Prospective jurors are being drawn from a 20-mile radius of the courthouse. 
Simpson was acquitted Oct. 3 of the June 1994 slayings of ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ronald Goldman. Ms. Simpson's estate and the Goldman family are suing Simpson for unspecified damages in civil court. 
Simpson was not present in Santa Monica. A separate battle for custody of his minor children in an Orange County court has occupied him this week. 
Fujisaki probed gently into the prospective jurors' professed family problems but sent a clear message that jury duty was more important than other concerns. 
He told an elderly' black man who cares for three grandchildren that per­haps his wife could handle the duties. 

When the man said his wife had dia­betes, the judge said maybe there were adult children who could pitch in. When the man said the children were "off on drugs," the judge was still unmovable. 
"This case will last four months," Fujisaki said. "If somebody can help your wife with the kids, we'd sure like to have you." 
A black woman retiree pleaded to be excused, saying she is claustrophobic. 
"I don't like courtrooms. I don't like being closed in. I don't like a Jot of sit­ting," she said. 
"How big is your living room?" the judge asked. She acknowledged it was smaller than the courtroom. 
Medical excuses were quickly rejected. The judge told a man with severe hyper­tension that if he needs a doctor, court will recess for him. 
Fujisaki also took a hard line with a woman who said she had non-refund­able airline tickets to Hawaii. The judge said he wants to see the tickets before he lets her go. 
A total of 168 prospective jurors were given questionnaires to fill out on whether they could serve, and then were questioned in groups of 25. About 400 of 4,000 people summoned were expected to be processed. 
Some jurors were heard muttering in the hall, "How do I get excused?" 
He did excuse a black woman who is pregnant, a Filipino man who has to attend a family reunion in his homeland, a white pastor of a Presbyterian church and a white man who said his company would not pay for his time on jury duty. 
The judge al~o ruled on motions. 
He ordered a hearing to determine whether jurors should know about chemical tests for the possible existence of blood. 

Technology places 
premium on integrity 
By CHET CURRIER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

If you're ever tempted to stretch the truth about your circumstances on a loan appli­cation, rental lease or resume, remind yourself that you are now living in a high-tech infor­mation age. 
You may have been told that "everybody fudges a little" in the course of managing their money and their personal affairs, whether they're doing their taxes, trying to line up a mort­gage or competing for a job. 
But you should also be aware that new systems are being developed all the time in com­puterized communications and data processing to verify what you say about yourself on any form. 
Where once it might have been too time-consuming, too expensive or just too much trouble for some other party to check up on you, that no longer may be so. 
"Lying is endemic in modern life and in real estate," says John Reed in his newsletter Real Estate Jnvestor's Monthly, published in Danville, Calif. 
"Resumes have long been inflated. Prospective tenants lie about where they've lived, their finances and so forth. Prospective mortgage borrow­ers lie about income and net worth." 
But now, Reed observes, "massive databases, combined with higher-speed, higher­capacity computers, will make it extremely hard to lie in the near future." 
For a vivid example of what is happening, consider a coop­erative effort between the Internal Revenue Service and lending institutions that is now getting a pilot test in California. 
It allows lenders to compare notes quickly with the IRS on income claimed by loan appli­cants. If applicants list a signif­icantly bigger income with their Joan request than they reported to the IRS, they may face a tax audit and even crim­inal prosecution. 
"People sometimes are tempted to bump up their income figure in order to quali­fy for a loan," says Sidney Norton, president of the California Society of Enrolled Agents, an association of feder­ally licensed tax advisers. "That is not a good idea. 
"Everyone who applies for any type of loan should be aware that deliberately falsify­ing income ·information can have serious consequences. 
"What's important for loan applicants to understand is when they provide income information, the figures should be accurate. The lender can verify them from other sources, including IRS." 
Reed says the Internet, in par­ticular, has opened up many new avenues for even small operators, including both land­lords and prospective tenants, to double-check facts and figures provided by other parties. 
A great deal of information about everybody is already public, Reed notes -in birth, marriage and divorce records, for starters, and also in mun­dane material such as business cards that you may hand out regularly. 
A lot of this information used to be cumbersome and expen­sive to obtain. But in a high­tech world, that's less true all the time. 
When people draw up resumes or biographical sketches of themselves, there is a natural temptation to "exag­gerate, lie and mislead by omission," Reed notes. "The Internet and advanced comput­ers will likely end self-created resumes. 

The Observer 
is now hiring 
a Saint Mary's Sports Editor. 
Interest in sports preferred. 
Call Caroline Blum at 631-4540 if interested. 

-----~~----~-----­

page 10 The Observer • ELECTION '96 Thursday, September 19, 1996 
Perot reaOy to battle 
•NEws ANALYSIS 

for spot in debate Deep cuts define Dole budget 
By ALAN FRAM occur because of the political Associated Press Writer risk of forcing such cj:J.anges in 
Dole's budget

By KATIE FAIRBANK Commonwealth Club of San 
Bob Dole has proposed a

government's role. 
Associated Press Writer Francisco. a public affairs 
$548 billion tax cut and a

WASHINGTON "You are talking about 
balanced budget by 2002. How he'll do it remains 
membership organization. 

The dramatic economic plan changing government radical­SAN FRANCISCO Maya Lipman. a Perot sup­
unclear, but it would likely 

dominating Bob Dole's presi­ly," said Rudolph Penner, the 
involve a 30 pen:ent cut in 
Calling himself a "cur dog" porter who had traveled from 
services and programs. 

dential campaign relies on Republican-appointed chief of who won't give up without a Burlingame to hear the spending cuts that would the nonpartisan Congressional fight, Ross Perot accused the speech, said she was furious reshape government -and Budget Office from 1983 to
major political parties by the decision to keep out 
exceed anything today's 1987 who is now an economic
Wednesday of trying to Perot. 
Republican-controlled consultant.
"frighten away" his support­"I just think that's unconsti­Congress has shown a taste "The cuts would just be tooers by keeping him out of tutional," she said. "But, it 
for. painful," said Robert
presidential debates. will put a point out to the Dole proposes cutting taxes Dederick, a former Reagan"Seventy-six percent of the American people (that) there's by $548 billion and balancing administration official who isvoters made it crystal clear obvious fear from the other the budget by 2002. also a consultant. Dederickthat they wanted me included parties." 
Like many campaign-season predicted Dole would ultimate­in these debates. That's a Perot made that same point, proposals by White House ly change his proposed mix ofrecent Harris poll. But their saying the commission was 
hopefuls, his description of savings "or probably the tax
views were ignor.ed by the biased. 
how he would pay for it is too cuts become smaller." 
debate commission," Perot "I was included in the 1992 ambiguous to conclude pre­Dole's proposed cuts havesaid. debates even though .my 
cisely what the effects would their defenders, chieflyIt was the Reform Party standing in the polls in 1992 be. Republicans and conservativenominee's first speech since was lower than they are now. 
Clearly, however, it would economists.
the Presidential Commission But they roared up after the require even more savings They say the GOP Congresson Debates ruled Tuesday that debates," said Perot, who won from benefit programs than has already achieved savingshe shouldn't be allowed to 19 percent of the popular vote the divided Republicans put in in welfare, agriculture anddebate because he didn't have in 1992. 
their own six-year budget in many domestic programs, anda "realistic" chance to win the "Now, do you start to under­June -though Dole has that Dole would need savingselection. stand why they don't want this exempted Social Security, just 6 percent deeper than the
President Clinton says he cur dog back in the debates So balancing the budget would require
Medicare, and veterans' and Republican balanced-budgetbelieves Perot should be again? Just two registered 
A 30-percent cutin
military retirees' benefits from outline Congress endorsed in
allowed to participate, but puppies, right?" he said. services and programs 
cuts exceeding that plan. June.
Republican nominee Bob Perot, speaking with the 
Including inflation's effects, "How can you not be able to :~::::tr::::.tiueCongressionalBudguOffice, whichDole's campaign doesn't want enthusiasm of a tent revival the plan would leave air traffic do that with a budget this . L__.____
him included. preacher, pounded the podium APff. Durand 
control, national parks and size," said John Taylor, aPerot plans to file a lawsuit several times and lost his hundreds of other domestic Stanford University economics Republicans fought amongthis week in federal court in voice at one point as he vowed programs competing for a pot professor and adviser• to themselves over its spendingWashington against the com­to fight for right to face of money at least 30 percent President Bush who helped reductions.
mission and its non-binding Clinton and Dole. 
smaller in 2002 than it is write Dole's plan. That non-binding blueprintdecision. seeking "more objec­"We'll ask the court to initi­today, according to AP calcula­"They don't frighten me. -opposed by President
tive criteria" in deciding ate a restraining order to 
tions using campaign informa­They're doable," House Clinton and most Democrats ­debate participants. delay the debates," he said of tion and inflation estimates by Appropriations Committee envisioned six-year savings"They've been conditioning his lawsuit. 
the nonpartisan Congressional Chairman Bob Livingston, R­exceeding $500 billion fromyou like Pavlov's dogs. They Perot said barring the door Budget Office. La., said of the cuts. Medicare, Medicaid, and othergave you a nice electric shock to him means 80 million view­Indeed, the proposal is so Dole would start with a GOP­domestic programs. It seemedyesterday to get you really ers won't be able to hear his far-reaching that an array of written budget-balancing out­as far as GOP conservativesfocused again." Perot told stands on the issues. They also budget experts said they line that narrowly passed and moderates could agree toabout 600 people attending a might not get the opportunity doubted the reductions would Congress in June after go.
luncheon with The to hear him in television ads. 

Finance Club 

Career Night 

ABN AMRO/LaSalle National Bank Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen & Co. AT&T Bank of America Baxter Health care Boston Consulting Group Cambridge'Technology Group Cargill, Incorporated CIGNA C.W. Costello & Assoc. 
Dain Bosworth  Dean Witter Reynolds  First Chicago NBD  Ford Motor Company  
General Electric  GE Capital Services  General Mills  General Reinsurance Corp.  
J.D. Edwards  Keycorp  Merrill Lynch  Merrill Lynch Investment Banking  

Merrill Lynch Private Client Group Moosbrugger Marketing Research Mutual of Omaha NIPSCO Northwestern Mutual Life Oak Brook Bank Olde Discount Stockbrokers PNC Bank Corp. Procter & Gamble Prudential Securities Staff Management The Summit Group 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 19, 1996 page II 
Working one's way into 'Hard-guy Heaven' 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patrit:ia Carson Tom Roland 

Newt Editor ....................... .llrad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Ac<ent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Saint Mary'• Editor................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insritmion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ to rials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcnr:uies, letters and lnsidt Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcners is encoufagcd. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Sports  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Production  631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
They said it over and over, but I never believed them. But it's true! Life at Notre Dame does go on without me. 
At least that's what my man in South Bend, Brother James Carroll, tells me. Personally, I am inclined to believe that it is a ruse intended to sting my vanity­that the paths really are empty and des­olate, that the video games in LaFortune are running their endless demos to an 

Josh Ozersky 
abandoned game room (particularly, the frightening one for Tekken). But I'm willing to concede that there might be life at Notre Dame in my absence. In fact, the quality of life for all concerned has probably gone up a notch or two without my lugubrious frame dragging itself around all day, making small talk with passing victims. 
And certainly no one can regret my absence from the pages of The Observer, which I'm sure has been tilled with exciting Inside Columns and up to the minute accounts of Coach Holtz's jeremiads against fumblers and no­goodniks. In fact, you may wonder, why have I chosen to reassert myself here at all'? Is it some primate longing for the community, such as that makes the wasted, elderly gorillas I see on nature shows drag themselves back pitifully to an unearing clan? Or is it perhaps the obsessive preoccupation of the stalker, brooding over past slights, and vowing to hang around until the opportunity to inflict lasting wounds presents itself? 
Neither! I just miss Notre Dame! How I long for the sight of our prize behe­moths, striding around campus and boasting of their heroic facedowns with 
Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advcnising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Ad Design Manager ......... , ..................... Jed Peters Production Manager.......................Tara Gricshop Systems Manager ........•..••.......... Michael Brouillet 
Controllcr .......................................... Tyler Weber 
onrushing locomotives, or our speedy tailbacks and tough-as-nails nose guards walking around with ice cream cones on the South Quad. How long will it be until I hear another one of Father Kerby's melodic and crafted baritone lectures, or listen to the shrieking infants at daily mass? When will I too be able to see the brand new ND Brickface construction which has swallowed up the stadium like Jonah in the whale? Probably about the time I pay my University Club bill off. 
Tupac, We Hardly Knew Ye 
The Romantic poets had Chatterton, "that marvelous boy." U.S. politics has its slain prince of Camelot, John Kennedy. Unkempt college students have the late Kurt Cobain of Nirvana. But until now, the youth of tomorrow have had no martyr to call their own. Tupac Shakur, the bard of bullets, has passed on to another hood. Is it wrong of me to mock his untimely passing? No doubt. But the passing of the Mac-9 has left on a legacy of lyrics that will long survive his critics. 
He cared little for the taste of the bourgeoisie, singing instead of a gritty life filled with drive-by shootings, sexual assault charges, and platinum albums. From his office high above Death Row Records in New York, he looked out over the raging city, and lent his pen to such hits as lesser men such as Vanilla Ice and Brian Austin Green will never know. He paid for his authenticity in his own blood, which is more than Gene Simmons can say. 
Though such less-gifted rivals as the Notorious B.I.G. may detract from his accomplishment, the work he leaves behind should inspire drive-bys from now until the end of the world. Is it any wonder that he is the idol of millions of middle-class white pubescents? 
An Addition to the Hard-Guy Canon Among my duties in New York this past summer was escorting my wife 
Th~ 

TerroPizer 
BunnJ 

around while she ~---------::::::::::=:;:::::::::=---------~ 
shopped. This was something of a full time enterprise, so I was lucky that I was able to find an absorbing book to read in the boyfriend chair most stores have. I got a copy of Nobody's Fool by Richard Russo for five bucks on Columbus Avenue, and I have to say I got an almost indecent amount of pleasure from it. It's five hundred pages long, and I 

wished it were a '----------------------------' 
thousand. There is no plot. There is no sex. There are no postmodern games, allusions, puns, or flights of cybernetic imagination. Just a week in the life of a hard guy. 
What is a hard guy? This is a question only answered by a dedicated perusal of the Hard-Guy canon in film and litera­ture. Hemingway summed up the theme in a title of one of his short story collec­tions, Men Without Women. Nobody's Fool's 60-year-old Sully, an unmarried construction worker who lives in an empty apartment, epitomizes this noble tradition. For the benefit of readers who may be curious about this quintessen­tially American genre, I can only offer the following sugg~stions: 
Film: Runaway Train: a two-fisted existential drama of two convicts trapped on a brakeless rushing locomo­tive in Alaska. 
The Road Warrior: the apotheosis of the filthy, ruthless hero who eats dog food and shoves his adopted child onto the hood of a speeding truck to recover a shotgun shell. 
Reservoir Dogs: the manliest of all movies. To see a moment of its utterly 
realistic yet godlike characters is to 
bathe in the shimmering clear liquid of 
pure virility. (Pulp Fiction, with its weak, 
chatty, unconvincing female characters, 
is hopelessly flawed in this regard.) 
Miller's Crossing: Reservoir Dogs' only rival for most monastically-pure hard guy epic; its script ("I can trade body blows with any man in town") exquisite­ly contextualizes the hard guy in bygone idioms and his essential locale-the gangster movie (!?ee Reservoir Dogs, above.) 
The list could go on and on-John Woo's Hard Boiled and The Killer. Independence Day, the stories of Thorn Jones, etc. But I feel too weakened by my married state to say much more. I have to get dinner ready. 
Tupac! Take me with you! I'll never get into hard-guy heaven at the rate I'm going. 
Josh Ozersky is a doctoral student in the history department. He can be reached at Ozersky. 1 @nd. edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
Yb4H, /oUIT, A L-OT 

ANY rF f'tOfU GO ro Qf£5-HW<5 7l) GtTNIJAY TICJNI7? FROM CCWIMC&:JA/..1­
Y£5, 'MTION. 15 TH£ ?tB­JIM. UC. GOING 7l) GO FORTH!$? 
"­

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"I read part of it all the way through." 
-Samuel Goldwyn 



page 12 Thursday, September 19, 1996 
by jason dorwart 

Descendents return with free show in Madison 
VICTOR MANUELLE Victor Manue/le 

(out of five) 

The salsa world is being turned around these days. 

The days where Ruben Blades, Willie Colon and Celia Cruz ruled supreme in their art form, are giving way to the new and energetic "young guns" of the salsa indus­try. 
One of the leaders in this new youth movement is the Puerto Rican born salsero, Victor Manuelle. 
Manuelle had just finished receiving many accolades for his previous CD entitled Solo Contigo, when the follow up to his previous effort was released. The self-titled CD, released by Sony Tropical, is a perfect example of how the true authentic salsa meets the new energy of Manuelle's style. 
Those who thought Solo Contigo was a good, but not great CD, will definitely not be disappointed with Victor Manuelle's new sound. 
Whereas, many of Manuelle's previous songs may have been labeled as conservative and mellow, his latest is a perfect illustration of how his romantic lyrics can be matched with fiery rhythms and screaming and punching horn lines, that will put anyone in the mood for dancing. 
However, for those of you who would rather choose a CD for listening to while studying, this CD is also ideal. 
Although a majority of Manuelle's songs on his current self-titled release are aggressive and energetic in style, he does mix these songs with his salsa romantica style, and his voice, resembling the voice of Ruben Blades at times, is smooth with a great tone quality. 
Many salsa singers are experimenting with high, raspy, and at times a little too much with their voices, but Manuelle has the traditional salsero voice. 
One reason the sound is so vibrant, energetic, and new is because of the musicians on this record. 
The hottest new percussionist in salsa, Marc Quinones, plays the congas, and Sergio George a great composer, plays the piano and keyboards. 
The musicianship is featured in every one of the songs, especially on the opening track, entitled Pensamiento y Palabra. 
For you salsa lovers out there, if you love traditional salsa combined with a new energy, Victor Manuelle is a must have. 
It is totalmente chevere! 
-by Ian Hernandez 
THE CARDIGANS 

first band on the moon 
(out of five) 
Note to the makers of the next James Bond flick: look The acoustic riffing of "Been It" will give a mouth a no further than the Cardigans for your opening credits workout as you switch from whistling to humming to sequence. making those pseudo-metal dental power-chords by 
No other band could better evoke the lost mystique of forcefully blowing bursts of air through a clenched jaw. 
Aston Martins, Ursula Andress, turtlenecks, and martinis. An entirely new genre of "indie-disco" is forged on the The music of the Cardigans is difficult to pin down. jangly, danceable "Lovefool," which answers all those An inoffensive pastel pastiche, the sounds of first band people who have been wondering what it would have 
on the moon shakes and serves the widespread influ­sounded like if John Lennon and Donna Summer had ever ences of the Beatles, 1940's MGM Musicals, Black Sab­teamed up. bath, the canned music "The Price is Right" plays over The subtle drive of the Cardigans comes from the inven­their showcases, and Blur. tive percussion. 
Hailing from Sweden, the Cardigans are simultaneously Dancehall beats, tinny snares, distorted tracks, drum­creatively sublime and lovably kitsch. Lead singer Nina stick and cymbal tapping, and 1,2 pop punk pulsing are Persson's angelic voice is undeniably beautiful and catchy found everywhere. 
· as hell, while her lyrics shift from coy and adoring to Meanwhile, the creamy, slinky bass keeps the rhythm smart-aleck and vengeful without resorting to the poseur fluid and forward. shock feminism of an Alanis Morisette or Tori Amos. Few other bands have such potential widespread 
The melodies and rhythms of the Cardigans constantly appeal, whether it be for reasons of nostalgia, pop-sensi­keeps a smile on your face while the texture continually bility or standards of musical craftsmanship. changes from head-bobbing to fist-pumping to chaise­reclining to rump-shaking. -by Brent DiCrescenzo 
After driving 250 miles to Madison, Wis. on Tuesday, Sept. 17, I couldn't help but begin to wonder if a trip of this magnitude could ever be worth it.I answered this question by means of logic. 
The answer was found in a simple one step equation: "The Descendents are playing in Madison, thus there is no other place to be in this world." 
To understand the impor­tance of this concert one must understand the importance of the history of this band. 
As testament to the band's influence on today's music, two years ago the University of California at Berkeley recog­nized the Descendents contri­butions by awarding them with special recognition for their achievements in music. 
The band was formed in 1978 when Bill Stevenson (drums). Frank Navetta (guitar), and Tony Lombardo (bass) formed a band with a rock-surf-pop-punk sound. Alas, Stevenson is the only original member still in the band; however there is history in the lineup changes. 
In 1980 Milo Aukerman joined the band as their first vocalist, then a flurry of changes ensued. For a period of about two years from 1983 until 1985 Stevenson played with Henry Rollins (Rollins Band) in the classic punk outfit Black Flag. 
The band later regrouped and after various moves ended up with current guitar and bass players: Stephen Egerton and Karl Alvarez. 
With this lineup they record­ed one more album, entitled ALL, and toured for much of 1987. However, at this point Aukerman needed to leave the band in order to further his studies. 
Dave Smalley, who had been in Dag Nasty, and is now part of Down By Law, joined the band after the tour and in 1987 the band released the album Allroy Sez under the new band name of ALL. The band went through two more singers (Scott Reynolds, now with Goodbye Harry; and Chad Price) and six more albums over the course of the next eight years. Pummel, the most recent, was released on lnterscope Records. 
Which brings us to the pre­sent day; earlier this year Aukerman who maintained a close friendship with the band, approached them about the idea of recording some songs together under their original moniker of the Descendents. 
Eager to have their original singer back, they recorded an album for Epitaph at they're own recording studio, The Blasting Room, in Ft. Collins, CO. Stevenson and Egerton who have produced and engi­neered many other bands albums recently, produced the new 15 track LP entitled 
Everything Sucks. 
With the release of an album, a tour is almost imminent, yet it won't come until December due to Aukerman's position in the University of Wisconsin's biolo­gy department as a post-doctor­al researcher. 
Aukerman was obvi­ously a favorite of the students, being that he is a member of such a big and important band but without the rock­star qualities. 
The band played a 50 minute energetic set and the crowd shared that same energy. The die hard fans sang along to every word of every song, yet paused at times in order to fully comprehend what they were witnessing. Aukerman and the Descendents were back. 
Aukerman miffed one or two song lines during the duration of the night, providing Alvarez with big laughs on­stage. 
Egerton wandered all over the stage in his typical manner and contorted his face as many ways that he could think of, the whole time dancing and shak­ing his head. 
Stevenson who started drum­ming with the band 18 years ago hasn't lost a beat. At vari­ous points in the middle of songs, he broke his drumstick and in one perfect rhythm, without even pausing to think about what he was doing, through away his old stick and grabbed a new one without skipping a cue. 
The band just wanted to enjoy themselves as they raced through their "girl songs" as they're known, and fun songs such as "Weinerschnitzel" and 

The Descendents played a free show Tuesday night in Madison, Wis. Pictured here from left ot right are Karl Alvarez, Stephen Egerton, 
Chad Price and Bill Stevenson. 
"I Like Food" (both on the soundtrack of the movie Pump Up the Volume), and avoided as much "stage chatter" as possi­ble. Basically, the only spoken words were "New song," or "Old Song." 
The band acknowledged this themselves at one point when Egerton broke a guitar string.Aukerman told the crowd that "Karl (Alvarez) is not relat­ed to (Wisconsin) head football coach Barry Alvarez." To which Karl responded, "Unless there is something that his wife and my dad don't know about." 
There was a pensive pause which was interrupted by Aukerman saying, "I guess that qualifies as stage chatter for us. We just like to play. 1,2,3,4!" Then the music was going again. 
After a short break the band returned for a three song encore. Which included the only ALL song of the night song by Aukerman. For the finale, Price, who stayed with the band to sing backup on the new album, came on stage to sing a song from one of the two albums he sing lead vocals for. 
Price appeared to be stoned on something and sang one of ALL's most angry songs, which seemed to dishearten the crowd and might have caused them to lose their spirit Yet when all was said and done the crowd was pleased with this experi­ence that was not supposed to happen in our lifetime. 
--------~--~-----------~-----~---~--~-----------·---­
Thursday, September 19, 1996 page 13 



• WVFI CORNER 
SOCIAL DISTORTION 
White Light, White Heat, White Trash 

(out of five) 

Very rarely can a group with its feet firmly rooted in one style of music make the transi­tion to another genre without both sounding cheesy and being accused of some form of "selling out." 
Social Distortion was one of the early 1<JRO's Los Angeles punk bands, but as the 80's progressed their style transformed to somewhat of a rockabilly flavored rock 'n' roll, not unlike the Holling Stones Exile on Main Street era. 
Indeed, Stones covers have been a main­stay of the Social D. set since the very begin­ning. With 1992's Somewhere Between Ilea/len and Hell, the band disappointed a lot of longtime fans while winning over some new OJles by almost completely abandoning thnir punk roots in favor of a Carl Perkins meets the Hamones in an overproduction nightmare type sound. 
It has now been almost 5 years and in Social D.'s fifteenth year as a band (only singtlr/guitarist Mike Ness and rhythm gui­tarist Dennis Uannell are original members) they have somehow managed to put out their hardest driving, best produced, and most consistent work they've done since 1982's Mommy's Little Monster. 
Jior the uninitiated. Social D. take one part .Johny Thunders, one part Hamones, and mix it with all the great 1950's rockabilly singers to a perfect edgn. 
However, with White Light, White Heat, White Trash the band has elevated them­snlves to the point form which bands of the future will be judged. The album, in all its aspects, is a homage to the rock 'n' roll 
lift~style. 
Tlw title is a takeoff of the monumental 
1%8 White Light. White Heat by the Velvet 
Undnrground. 
"Dear Lover" kicks it off with a fairly typi­cal Social D. song {at least lyrically). Instantly one notices that this is one of the most hard rocking bands. The insistent beats and guitar could almost be likened to Hocket from the Crypt, if one didn't consider that Hocket's sound is more likely attribut­able to Social D. 
"Don't Drag Me Down" has everything that makes Social D. so great. It relies on a drum beat lead, screeching guitar intro, short solo, disgusted lyrics and the "whoa­whoas" that put scores of Epitaph weenies back to bed. 
"I Was Wrong," the single off the album, actually takes a little more listening to in order to appreciate than, for example, "Through These Eyes," which would appear to be more radio friendly. 
Speaking of "Through These Eyes," it is the best song on the album. One can easily hear the influence form such bands as the Misfits and Holling Stones. The self-pitying and bluesy guitar solos we know and Jove are in full effect here. "When Angels Sing" is the same story. 
Courtesy of Epic Records 
"Down on the World Again," "Gotta Know the Rules," "Crown of Thorns," and "Pleasure Seeker" rip through their catchy hooks so fast the album is over before it can even get off the ground. 
Fans of Social D. beware: this is no Mommy's Little Monster. This is no Somewhere.... It actually gets closer to Prison Bound, except the production some­how makes it both modern and good at the same time. 
The album even contains the Stones song "Under My Thumb" as an unlisted track. 
It may just be the fact that I'm surprised that this album isn't cheesy, but I'm giving it the highest possible rating. 
There is absolutely nothing that detracts form the impossibly rocking White Light, White Heat, White Trash. 
-by Chris Owen, WVFI 
Noctume Top 1_0 
1. 
Catherine Wheel -Like Cats and Dogs 

2. 
Republica -Republica 

3. 
I mother earth -Sceney and Fish 

4. 
Tribe Called Quest -Beats, Rhyme and Life 

5. 
Sublime -Sublime 

6. 
Billy Bragg -William Bloke 

7. 
Trainspotting Soundtrack 

8. 
Pearl Jam -No Code 


9. REM -Adventures in Hi-Fi 
10. Robyn Hitchcock -Moss Elixir 

Dave Matthews Band 
Joyce Center Concert Postponed 
Due to the sudden and tragic loss of three week old Asian Mozelle, daughter of Dave Matthews Band bassist Stefan Lessard, all concert dates through September 26 will be cancelled. The tour will resume September 27 in East Lansing, Michigan. A rescheduled Joyce Center show is anticipated. 
Anyone wishing to send their condolences to the family can send donations, in lieu of flowers to: Asian Mozelle Memorial Scholarship Fund 
c/o Tandem Friends School 
279 Tandem Ln 
Charlottesville, VA 22902 

Rutledge delivers compelling recital 
By JULIE BRUBAKER and 
MICHAEL ANDERSON 
Accent Writers 

What do Rodney Dangerfield and a violist have in common? They typically get no respect. 
Last Sunday; Christine Rutledge's recital did everything to dispel the commonly held view that the viola is nothing more than an "oom-pah-pah" instrument. 
Rutledge, Assistant Professor of Viola at Notre Dame, present~d a program featuring works by Brahms, Hovhaness, and ShostakoviCh. Thomas Sauer. a graduate of the Curtis Institute of Music and the Mannes College·of Music, provided piano accompaniment. 
Wearing predominantly brown clothing, Rutledge prepared the audience for a concert that would be filled with emotionally wrench­ing harmonies and daunting melodic passages -aperfect match for a cloudy 50 degree day on campus. 
Rutledge (who bears a striking resemblance to Cleopatra) began her concert with Dmitri Shostakovich's Sonata for Viola and Piano, op. 147. 
The opening Moderato movement demanded a certain dryness of execution as well as musical sensitivity from both viola and piano ­Rutledge and Sauer delivered at all dynamic levels. 
Though noticeably different textures, the other two movements of the Shostakovich (Allegretto and Adagio) provided opportunities for the two to showcase their warmth and effortless control together and in dramatic solo passages. 
A lamenting theme from Schindler's List might best describe Alan Hovhaness' Chahagir for Viola Solo (op. 56A), Rutledge's second piece of the afternoon. · 
She finally used the dark sounds of the viola to her advantage as the Hovhaness piece called for ri~hness and expressivity in the lower register of the viola. Rutledge's execution of clarity and technique demanded that the audience hear the beautiful sonorities a viola can make. 
· Rutledge capped off this already compelling recital with Brahm's Sonata for Viola and Piano in F minor, op. 120, no. 1. Like most Romantic pieces, this work called for a wide range of dynamics. well-executed by Rutledge and especially by Sauer. 
Though the balance at times was awkward, the technique was at a level of the highest professional musicianship, and the dynamic lev­els of contrast were well-managed. 
At one point in the Andante movement, Rutledge and Sauer exchanged the nuances of articulation in a sort of call-and-response effect that worked well and served to intensify the movement. 
The audience demanded a double curtain call for Rutledge and Sauer -a clear testament to their highly expressive and moving performance. 
In addition to her duties as Assistant Professor of Music, Christine Rutledge serves as violist for the Notre Dame String Trio along with faculty members Carolyn Plummer (violin) and Karen Buranskas (cello). 
The group recently received an award from the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts of the University of Notre Dame for their recording of Paul Hindemith's String Trios on the Centaur Records label. Also, their recording of resident composer Ethan Raimo's String Trio has recently been released on the Centaur label. 
This Sunday, at 2 p.m. senior Joel Cummins will prese.nt a ~iano recital in partial fulfillment of his requirements as a music maJO~. Cummins is more popularly known on campus as the outstandmg keyboardist for Stomper Bob and the 4 x 4's. 
It is thrilling for us to see a classical music student in such a high profile musical role. In addition to his Stomper Bob responsibilities. Cummins devotes a great deal of time to the Notre Dame Glee Club, for which he serves as the Vice-President. 
As a singer and frequent soloist with the Glee Club, 'Cummins has performed with them in twenty U.S. states and in six European countries. 
This summer, Cummins had the opportunity to record original music in a Chicago studio. The result was the epic album Suspended in Time, Cummins' first solo recording available on com· pact disc. 
The musical variety and technique is remarkable. We bought our copy early (and we Jove it!), but you can expect that he will make them available at his upcoming recital. 
The actual recital promises to be packed, so get there early. Cummins will commence the concert with Kabalevsky's Sonatina no. 1 inC Major, op. 13, an exciting yet challenging modern work. 
Next rumor has it he'll sneak some of his originals in. We heard througb the grapevine that he'll even debut two. hot ~e~ piece~. Finally, to conclude his student recital, Cummms will Improvise at the piano for ten to twenty minutes. . Knowing his musical talent, this is something that all you classical music and Stomper Bob fans alike won't want to miss. We'll see you at the Snite on Sunday afternoon at 2 p.m .. 
' 
~ 
.~ 

-
-· 
~---------------.--~--~.---------------------------------------~---------.--------~~--~-------------------~---------------------------------~--------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
I ' 
Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
I 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  ***FREE TRIPS & CASH*** Find out how hundreds of student  GA's for all home games. CHEAP. Call4-1304  Priced  Need 1 OSU ticket Call Greg at 2318  NEEDED: One Wash. GA or con­verted STUDENT tix. Will pay$$$  ############ Need 2 OSU tix  
representatives are already earning  Kristin 4838  Will pay cash I  
Asian Int. Society Meeting  FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  Kenwood 200W Amp  ***Hey!*** Help me find two  Angela 271-1867  
Mont. Theater. Latf student centre  with America's #1 Spring Break  $300  Washington GAs for my parent's  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  
19sep, 7pm  company! Sell only 15 trips and  Lux Sound 4-Channel  DJ Mixer  first ND game, call lnga @ X2538  ALL GAMES HOME  HAVE OSU & WASH. TIX  
travel tree! Cancun, Bahamas,  Sound Effects, etc.  AND AWAY  (GAs &STUDS) 271-8279.  
WORLD YOUTH DAY  Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  $300  SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  232-0058  ######################  
WANT TO BE WITH THE POPE IN  CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  Call Isaac 289-9025  4-0931.  24 HAS.  
PARIS NEXT AUGUST?  ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now!  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Need GA's tor Air Force, Pitt &  
Call Jeff 232-0550  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ 92 JETTA 67K 5SP, CRUISE,  NEED TIX-HOME GAMES  Rutgers. Call Jay @287-3736  
EL  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  312-951-5008  TICKET-MART, INC.  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  (800)95-BREAKI  I need 6 OSU tickets  
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  '78 SILVER ANNIVERSARY  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Will pay high prices or  
255-1172  Looking tor an outgoing public rela­ CORVETTE, 30,000 MILES.  ETS, PUBLIC AND FACULTY  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  will trade BULLS tickets!  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  tions rep. to represent a chiropractic  $9,500 FIRM.  SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  232-0061.  Call Jason@ x1225  
You break it, we'll fix ill II  center at local health screenings.  CALL 243-0658.  
Paid training. Part time. Average $8  Preferred tailgate parking pass  $$$$$$  WILL TRADE 2 WASH GAS  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  -$9/hour. For more information call  12 Speed touring bike  needed for OSU game. Will pay  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  AND/OR $ FOR 2 OSU GAS  
Breakfast Inn has space available  (219)282-2828.  Kevelar Wave tires Aero bars  $$$.Call Matt at (614)469-3605.  ALL HOME GAMES.  CALL KEVIN X3286  
tor football wknds. 5 Rooms with  $175.00 (219)262-3739  272-6551  
private baths, $70 -$90,  Need F student to care for child PT  TICKETS WANTED -Will pay pre­ BAND PARENTS!!  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  in home while I work. Near Notre  COMPUTER 4 SALE  mium price tor 4 tickets for the  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  need 4 GA Air Force  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  Dame. Call April289-9914  Mac Classic w/sottware, modem,  ND/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  BOUGHT & SOLD  call collect  
1-800-41 8-9487  printer $300 Patti -1329  No student tickets please.  232-2378 -A.M.  (414) 208-1632  

 COLLEGE COUPONS -the student  "Dynamite" seats only. Call  288-2726-P.M.  
ILOST & FOUND I  coupon book you love to use is seeking a local sales representa­ 1988 Honda CRX, rare automatic, all maintenance receipts available,  Bill/Anna at 800-457-0486.  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell 674-7645  
tive! Earn $7/hr. or MORE! Put your  94,000 miles, call Ray/Jacky  NEED 2 OR 4 WASH. GAs. FOR  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  
REWARDII If anyone has or knows  sales experience to good use. Must  219/243-9182, $4500/best  PARENTS. HAVE 2 RUTGERS  DAVE (614)764-7355  2 Wash GA's  
someone who has my black ._  have car. Call 800/767-8393 ask for  GAs. WILL PAY OR TRADE.  Best Offer.  
Jansport backpack with a camara  Janet.  87 Mazda 323 129K 5SP AC  CALL DAVE@ 4-1913  Need Texas tickets for family who  1-612-427-3444  
and datebook inside, I will  $2,300 Call 256-5523  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ 
gladly give a reward tor its return!!  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  Grad Non-Degree Student needs  2550.  HAVE: 2 Pitt GA's, 2 Air Force  
Please , I would really, really,really  CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  IBM PS1 486 28.8 Modem  GA tickets to any games.  GA's. NEED: 2 Wash. GA's or Stu  
appreciate ill! NO QUESTIONS  PERSON FOR PART-TIME  CD ROM,Sound Blaster,  Call Val at 243-0798.  n. d. tickets for sale  tix. Call (610)530-0156  
ASKEDII  RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  Printer  271 1635  
Call 634-1403.  HOURS ARE  call 233-6903 eve.  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  
5 TO ?PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  312.404.4903  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s-Call  
Lost Purdue weekend: light blue  PHONE EXP A MUST.  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  Shawn 215-676-6685  
rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward.  $7/HOUR 243-9555  Real Men Wear Kilts  NEED 2 OHIO ST. GA OR STU­ 216-650-5264 7-9 PMC:DT M-F  
x-2081 **..*LOST***-•• I lost a Corona keychainlbottle opener (with three keys) on it over  Order your Irish Kilt now! FOR RENT I .........:~!~.~~~~~~.~~....... ....W-AL_K_T_O-CA_M_P_U_S----' I TICKETS  DENT 271-9278 Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy or trade. Call Matt 271-3683  ND ALUM NEEDS OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  Need 4 OSU stud tix Call Doug@243-9224 1 OSU GA tor sale Call Mike@243-9224  
the Purdue weekend.  It you found  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  ·  Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  
it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  232-2595  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Matt-271-3683  Sept.21 Call1-800-840-3548  FOR SALE  
REWARD.  ALL GAMES HOME  1 OSU GA. best offer  
Need a place to stay on football  AND AWAY  sold OSU Was AF Pitt Rut stu  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  Call Aaron 634-2058  
WANTED  weekends? Furnished apartment tor short term  232-0058 24 HAS.  tix2775931  ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  Need 1 STUDENT ticket for WASH!  
rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  BUY -SELL-TRADE  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  Jeff: 233-2460  
Babysitter Needed. ND/OSU game,  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  Need Ohio State tickets.  
9/28. Attend family tailgate, watch 1  4876.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call any1ime. 302-832-7786  G.A.'s FOR SALE  
yr. old daughter during game. Call  Ill FOR SALE Ill  ND vs. OSU  
Matt at (614)469-3605 during day.  ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­ Need 2 Non-Student Converted  STUD. TICKET BOOKLET  TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2  call 634-1708  
VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ GA's tor Ohio State.  tel. 243-9448  OSU GAs -273-8379.  
95' GRADS NEED 5 WASHING­ PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  Parents are coming into town­ For sale: Two OSU GAs. $35  
TON TIX! CALL KRISTIN 273­ BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  MUST HAVE!  I will trade one Air Force, Pitt or  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  each. Call Ryan Sachire at 4-1679.  
6136.  call George x3669  Rutgers GA for one OSU.Bob. 277­ FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
Need to get rid of 4 Dave Mathews  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  2510.  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088  PERSONAL  
tix at face value  APPL. $650. 317-942-2108  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  
call 283-0767  after 6-317-942-2408.  232-0061.  Call Rob x1902  DESPERATELY NEED WASH.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
GA'S. CALL #2456  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ THE PRIMROSE PATH B&B, locat­ I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  <><>Dave Matthews TiX<><>  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
Positions are now availalbe at  ed 20 minutes north of campus, is a  WILL BEAT ANY OFFERI  Tickets tor sale, call Mickey X1350  NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­ The highest quality full-color  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  1905 Victorian with 4 quiet guest  CALL 243-1287  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  copies are now available at  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  rooms. Bountiful full breakfasts.  I need 2 Ohio State tix, stud or GA  + $$  THE COPY SHOP  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  "Michiana Now!" Reader's choice  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  call Gina 273-5833  634-1382.  LaFortune Student Center  
extN55648  as one of  1st 1 0 Rows  232-0058  Phone #631-COPY  
"Michiana's Best of 1996".  Buy & Sell but need  Wanted: 2 or more GAs @ face $  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  http://www .laketolake.com/inns/prim  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  6 Washington Tix  for home games. 4121352-2219  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
-Students Needed! Fishing  rosepathldirectorypage  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  Call Vince x1186  Club 23 Thursday 1 0:30pm  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ 616-695-6321  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  What else really matters?  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  WANTED  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ 
Board! Transportation! Male or  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA  2 GAs for Air Force  ED -PLEASE HELP!!!  Hey Busty,  
Female. No experience necessary.  ND-SMC EVENTS.  TIX ... WILL PAY$$$  Carrie x2344  Family wants to come to a game for  It's been a great year, and I hope  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Call Gina 243-0771  my senior year. Please help  the future holds many more candle­ 
ENDS.  3 Dave Matthews tickets for sale  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home  light dinners, bubble baths, and  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  call Eileen x0760  game. Please call Brian at 287­ night swims for the two of us.  
Teach basic conversational English  243-0658.  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  4876. Thank you.  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  RON  Need 213 OSU Tix for guy who got  http://www.nd.edu/-rjervis  
teaching certificate or European  I Bedroom APT; clean, private bath;  me my FAKE ID, $150 ea. @0538  
languages required. Inexpensive  entrance 3.5 miles from campus. 6  ND Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  $$ Please Help!! $$  Tyler -I can't wait until you come.  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  or 12 month leases only. Call after  Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­ Seeking tickets for TEXAS. OHIO  94 ND Alum Needs  Too bad ND is going to crush OSUI  
into. call:  5p.m. 232-0355  6513  St., WASHINGTON, and PITT  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  Love, Me  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  Call Greg at 219-273-1007  Ohio St and Wash­ 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  FOR SALE  GA TICKETS WANTED GA ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call Joanne­516-742-1923 (night)  Adoption: A cheerful and cozy nurs­ery awaits a newborn. We will give  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE  NEED 4 AF + 4 PITT GAs  or212-415-3009 (day)  your baby a bright future filled with  
(813)360-2243.  COMPUTER 4 SALE  2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS  OR  CHRIS 288-91 02  endless love, opportunities & secu­ 
DELL LX4100D  LIKE NEW  INDIVIDUAL  GAMES  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  OS!J Weekend Hotel Rooms  rity. Perhaps we can help each  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  8MB, 100 MHZ  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  South Bend Marriott  other. Expenses paid. Call John &  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  $1500 CALL233-5114  Need Two GA's for Air Force game  Two Rooms -9/27 -9/28  Rosemary 1-800-984-9429  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  AFTER 6:30 PM  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  call Eric  x1661  At Cost (216) 622-8207  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP" ........... ..  Help! I need a senior bar parking  
$399, Panama City/Day1ona $1191  COUCH & DORM REFRIG.272­ RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS.. ..  TIX2 SELL  *******Need 4 Air Force Tix******  pass for OSU. Will trade JACC  
www .springbreaktravel.com  6306  Call Bing X2230  Please call MB at 4-1759.  pass plus money. Please call  
1-800-678-6386  NEED 2 OHIO ST. TICKETS  Allison at 243-9038.  
4 DAVE MATTHEWS TIX 4 SALE  G.A.or S.A. Please call ANNE  OSU TICKETS PRICED TO SELLI  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  
SPRING BREAK  CALL 272-3229  @634-3847.  All tix MUST go, call soon 4-1351  Family  EARN MONEYIIIII  
Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed! Sell 15 trips and travel free + cash!  '87 Mazda 323, Air, Automatic, 90k, Blue  NEED 4 GAs for WASH call CHRISSY @ 273-2580  Will Trade Hotel Room-Holiday Inn Downtown OSU game weekend  612-742-7638 Collect Need 1 OSU ticket  Please help me with my senior com­prehensive. I need to interview 10 people who grew up in single parent homes between the ages of 5 and  
Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  Great Condition  9/27-9/28 for tix to OSU game. Call  Student or GA  15. A reward for this confidential  
Call John 631-6414  STU BKL T 4 SALE 232-9750  Harry: 634-1126  Pleass call Darryl @ x4264  interview will be granted. Please  
call Caroline at 243-9264  

Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
AL West race tightens up Yankees breath sigh 
By JIM COUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SEATTLE 

Jay Buhner hit a three-run homer and drove in four runs Wednesday night as the Seattle Mariners shaved the Hangers' AL West lead to throe games with a 5-2 victory over Texas. 
Seattle has gained six games in the standings in seven days. The Mariners, just two games behind Baltimore in the wild­card race, have won seven straight going into Thursday's finale of the four-game series. 
Texas, which led the second­plaee Mariners by nine games on Sept. 11, has lost seven of eight. The Hangers have lost nine of 12 to Seattle this year, ineluding four straight in the Kingdome. 
Buhner hit his 41st homer of the season and raised his RBis­total to 130. Juan Gonzalez' 45th homer had given Texas a 2-0 lead. 
A boisterous crowd of 35,162, displaying a Refuse To Lose II banner, watched the Mariners continue their come­back. 
Sterling Hitchcock (13-8), who had lost three straight decisions, won for the first time since Aug. 16 and beat Bobby Witt (15-11) for the third time this year. Hitchcock allowed two runs and four hits in 5 2-3 innings. lie had a 9.39 EHA in his previous four starts, going 0-2. 
Mike Jackson and Norm Charlton finished with perfect relief, with Charlton getting five outs for his 18th save. 
Texas, which has averaged 

presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

ACADEMY. AWARDq) 
WINNER 
BEST FOREIGN LANGUAGE FILM 
FRIDAY SEPT. 20 and SATURDAY SEPT. 21 7:30 and 9:30PM 

10.1 hits per game, has just 10 combined in the first three games of the series. 
Gonzalez put the Rangers ahead 2-0 in the fourth when he homered just inside the left-field foul pole ·following Will Clark's double. 
But Seattle came back in the bottom half when Ken Griffey Jr. singled, Edgar Martinez walked and Buhner hit a 409­foot drive over the center-field fence. 
Buhner drew a bases-loaded walk from Jeff Russell in the seventh as Seattle scored two runs on one hit. Paul Sorrento added a sacrifice fly. Seattle manager Lou Piniella replaced Hitchcock with two outs in the sixth after he put Clark on first with his first walk of the game. Witt allowed three runs and six hits in five-plus innings. 
Have Something to say? Use The 0 bserver Classifieds 

By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

The Yankees can breathe a little bit easier. And Baltimore can forget about a sweep. 
Bernie Williams singled home the tying run in the ninth inning and Ruben Rivera singled home the winning run in the lOth Wednesday night, giving New York a 3-2 victory over Baltimore and increasing the Yankees' AL East lead to four games over the second­place Orioles. 
New York, which has won nine off 11 from Baltimore this season, assured itself of the division lead at the end of the three-game showdown series. The teams play a twi­night doubleheader Thursday. 
With Baltimore ahead 2-1 in the ninth, Randy Myers walked Paul O'Neill and Cecil Fielder starting the inning ­Baltimore's first two walks of 
JAZZMAN~s 
NITE Ci..uB 
. 

525 N. Hili Street 
• o 
presents: 

THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring 

Fat Rader and The Bad Guye 
Multi-Level, 2 dance floors and Of's between bands. Doors open 9pm-3 am. 21 and over with proper ID's, uniform security provided both inside and outside. Hold your off-campus parties at jazzman's on Phat Friday's, 
233-8505 to schedule your off campus party and avoid eviction notices. 
Free Jumbo Hot Dog w/Chips with this ad before 11 pm. One per person when presented upon entry. 
of relief, avoid sweep 
the game -and both were re­placed by pinch runners. Tino Martinez popped out and Alan Mills gave up Williams' run­scoring single. 
Mills retired Mariano Duncan on a comebacker and Joe Girardi on a fly ball to the gap in right-center that right fielder Mike Devereaux ran down. 
But New York won it the next inning. 
Derek Jeter opened with a single off Mills (3-2) and Charlie Hayes sacrificed. Tim Raines' groundout to second moved Jeter to third, and Rivera hit a 2-2 pitch into right field, just over second baseman Roberto Alomar's leaping attempt. 
Mariano Rivera (7-2) pitched 1 2-3 perfect innings for the victory. 
A night after the teams were rained out of the scheduled series opener, pitchers domi­nated. 
Scott Erickson held the Yankees to one run and seven hits in seven-plus innings. Yankees starter Andy Pettitte gave up five hits in 8 1-3 in­nings. But only after Brady Anderson started the game with a jolt. 
Anderson, who has 46 homers, ripped Pettitte's first pitch into the upper deck in right but it was just foul. He then took advantage of the sloppy conditions in the out­field by dropping a base hit into left-center between Raines and Williams, who both seemed unsure of their footing. Alomar sacrificed and Anderson scored on Todd Zeile's groundout. 
It would be the Orioles' only hit off Pettitte until the sixth. when Anderson singled lead­ing off. 
The Yankees tied it 1-1 in the fifth, aided by Erickson's indecision while fielding a bunt. 
Duncan doubled and Jim Leyritz's bunt was fielded by the pitcher just off the mound. But Erickson hesitated and his throw to third was too late to catch Duncan. One out later, Duncan scored on a Wade Boggs grounder. 

Called home lately? 
' 1-800-COLLECT ® 
Save up to 44% 
Savings based on a3-mln. AT&T operator-dialed Interstate call. 
----~---~--------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 1996 
'-Gant helps Cards inch toward Central crown 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Ron Gant and Royce Clayton homered and Todd Stottlemyre pitched seven strong innings as St. Louis beat the Chicago Cubs 5-3 Wednesday night, reducing the Cardinals' magic number to six. 
The win, combined with Houston's 6-2 loss in Atlanta, gave the Cardinals a 4 1/2­game lead in the NL Central, their biggest of the season. The Cubs dropped seven games _ back. 
Stottlemyre (13-11) allowed four hits and two runs while striking out seven in his first game since getting carried off the field after taking a line drive off the right knee Friday in Los Angeles. 
Dennis Eckersley gave up a two-out homer in the ninth to Scott Servais, but then got the final out for his 29th save. 
Steve Trachsel (12-9). who entered the game 4-0 with a 
1.35 ERA in his career at Busch Stadium, struck out five of the first nine St. Louis batters before Clayton's two-out homer in the third. 
Stottlemyre, hitting . 2 3 8 in his first season in the National League, contributed to a three­run inning in the fourth. 
Singles by Gant and Brian Jordan, and Gary Gaetti's walk loaded the bases with no outs. John Mabry drove home Gant with a sacrifice fly, and Tom Pagnozzi scored Jordan on a ground out. 
Trachsel intentionally walked Luis Alicea, but Stottlemyre lined a single to drive in Gaetti. 
The Cubs scored in the sev­enth to snap Stottlemyre's 13­inning shutout streak. Mark Grace and Ryne Sandberg walked, and Servais singled with two outs to score Grace. 
Gant hit a solo homer, his 29th, in the bottom of the sev­enth. 
Brian McRae, mired in a 2-23 slump, was thrown out of the game by home plate umpire Wally Bell in the third after being called out on a 3-2 pitch. McRae struck out looking in . both at-bats. 
The Cubs scored in the eighth on an RBI groundout by Grace. 
ROCKIES 6 DODGERS 4 
DENVER 

Less than 10 hours after being no-hit by Hideo Nomo, the Colorado Rockies' offense was back to normal. 
Andres Galarraga broke a fifth-inning tie with his NL­leading 46th homer as the Rockies rebounded to beat the 
_, 
Los Angeles Dodgers 6-4 
Wednesday. 
Los Angeles, which began the day with a 1 1/2-game lead over San Diego in the NL West, lost for just the second time in 10 games. 
The Rockies, who have been no-hit twice this season, didn't get a hit until the third inning but recovered from a 3-0 deficit to end Pedro Astacio's five­game winning streak. 
Galarraga, who glared at Astacio (9-8) after being hit with a pitch in the third, broke a 4-4 tie in the fifth with a 421­foot homer. Neifi Perez added an RBI double in the eighth off Scott Radinsky. 
Astacio, whose previous loss came July 7 against Colorado, was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the sixth. He gave up five runs
I , -four earned -and five hits. John Burke (2-0) pitched three hitless innings to win for the second time in six days. He struck out the side in the sixth 
and allowed only one runner, hitting Wayne Kirby in the sev­ent. Bruce Ruffin got three outs for his 23rd save. 
Colorado had been hitless for 11 innings until Perez lined a single into center following Steve Decker's walk leading off the third. 
Perez hit a liner past Astacio to drive in a run, Eric Young hit a two-run triple and Quinton McCracken tied the score with an RBI groundout. 
Todd Hollandsworth tripled in a run in the fourth off Armando Reynoso, but Colorado made it 4-4 in the bottom half on a run­scoring groundout by Jeff Reed. 
Raul Mondesi had put Los Angeles ahead with an RBI sin­gle in the first. Hollandsworth singled in a run in the second and Mike Piazza hit a run-scor­ing groundout. 
INDIANS 4 WHITE SOX 3 
CHICAGO 
Geronimo Pena homered in the first as the Cleveland Indians turned to their bench one day after clinching the AL Central and still beat the Chicago White Sox 4-3 Wednesday night for a three­game sweep. 
Pena's first homer of the sea­son, a two-run shot, was an his­toric one -it gave the Indians a club-record 208 for the sea­son, breaking the mark they set last year. 
The loss was an extremely damaging for the fading White Sox, who have dropped seven of nine. Chicago began the night 3 1/2 games behind Baltimore in the wild card chase and one­half game behind Seattle. The White Sox have nine games left. 
With the exception of regular right fielder Manny Ramirez, who served as the designated hitter, the Indians starters Wednesday night had totaled just 164 games combined this season. 
Albie Lopez (5-4) allowed six hits and an unearned run in five innings, and Cleveland turned four doubl(:l plays. Jose Mesa, the third Indians re­liever, got his 45th save but gave up an RBI grounder to 
s-l1e 
Qrieina£ qrish 
SJ?u& in 
Austin 
Danny Tartabull and a run­scoring single to pinch-hitter l;>omingo Cedeno. 
Casey Candaele led off the game with a double and Pena then homered to right off James Baldwin (11-6). 
The White Sox got one back in the bottom half when Tony Pena had a pair of passed balls. 
Chicago loaded the bases in the fourth before Don Slaught bounced into a double play. The White Sox had two on in the fifth but Lopez then got Frank Thomas to ground to shortstop, starting another double play. 

Cleveland made it 3-1 in the sixth on Nigel Wilson's RBI sin­gle. 
Damian Jackson doubled in a ninth-inning run for his first major league RBI. 
TWINS 7 ROYALS4 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Chuck Knoblauch tripled twice to raise his AL-leading total to 13, and Travis Miller got his first major league victo­ry as the Minnesota Twins beat the Kansas City Royals 7-4 Wednesday night. 
Minnesota stopped a five­game losing streak and Kansas City's four-game winning streak. 
Knoblauch, who got his 1,000th major league hit Monday night when teammate Paul Molitor got his 3,000th, was 3-for-5 with three runs scored. He hit an RBI triple off Tim Belcher (14-10) in the third and tripled off Jeff Granger leading off the seventh. 

of 
3 on 3 Basketball Tournament 
Sunday -September 2 2nd Play begins at noon on the Stepan Courts $2 entry fee 
Sign up outside the Sr. Class Office or at Alumni/Senior Club 
Prizes will be awarded, including Bruno's Gift Certificates~ 
9?art! on tfte 9?atio 
Saturday, September 21,@ 8:30a.m. 
Sl OFF with Notre Dame ID, an Indiana License, or with this ad! (6th Street Shuttle to and from the game) 
ROYAL WAR MEMORIAL STADIUM 
JO 
MLK 

x6TH5TREET 
Maggie Mae's Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Padres rally to close in on LA 



lead in the seventh, got the The Giants got a run in the win. Tim Worrell pitched the third when Benard singled, eighth, allowing Marvin went to third on Mueller's Benard's RBI-triple in the single and scored on a sacri­
Be ourguestfor the premiere teaching lecture ofthe year. A time to share 
eighth, the Giants' final run. fice fly by Bonds. The Giants had tied the The Padres scored two
your questions and aspirations with teachers from all walks oflife. 
game in the seventh off runs in the fifth to knock out Padres starter Andy Ashby. Giants left-bander Allen Benard led off with a double Watson. Henderson and and scored on Bill Mueller's Gomez walked and advanced
''The Company We Keep: The Ethics 
single. Bochtler relieved on Steve Finley's sacrifice 
Ashby and walked Barry bunt. Caminiti's single scored 
Bonds on four pitches, and them both for a 4-1 lead.
ofTeaching'' 

UNIVERSITY CLUB 
OF NOTRE DAME
Wayne Booth, Ph.D. 

is a Distinguished Service Professor of English Emeritus at the University of 
Is accepting membership 
Chicago. Author of The Vocation of a Teacher, and eleven other books and 
applications for 
countless essays on teaching, ethics, and literary criticism. 

Notre Dame & Saint Friday, September 20, 1996 
Mary's College 7:00p.m. 
& 
Center for Continuing Education, Auditorium 

Holy Cross Faculty 
and full--time staff. 
Sponsored by: 

Dues = $50 per year 
Notre Dame Alumni Association 

Call 631 ~46 7 8 
Alumni Continuing Education 

for membership applications or for more information 

oP.ii'IOPEDIC Sp~ 
<Jo.,o·tO ~ c~</.
~'?' ~ .... IS'_.>. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -Shines 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
Norre Dome 
I 00% Guarantee t 8-6 Monday-Iii
N 
Friday
>­
9-3 -Saturday
0

Mario's
• 0 
UJ 
1025 East 

MADISON 
Madison 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books In stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Jody Reed's RBI-single broke an eighth-inning tie and Ken Caminiti hit his third home runs two days as the San Diego Padres rallied after blowing a 4-1 lead to defeat the San Francisco Giants 8-5 Wednesday. 
The Padres pulled back to within a half-game of Los Angeles, which lost Wednesday at Colorado. The teams, battling for the NL West lead, begin a four­game series Thursday in San Diego. 
With the score tied at 4-4, Wally Joyner drew a one-out 
Fried Chlcken,Whipped Potatoea and G~vy. Green Beane-$2.95 
Free Espresso
T 
Free Gourmet Cookie
w 
with any purchase Free 12 oz. coffee
T 
with bagel purchase 


walk in the eighth off Rich DeLucia (3-5), went to sec­ond on Tony Gwynn's pinch­hit single and scored when Reed sliced a single down the right field line. 
The Padres added two more runs when reliever Jim Poole threw the ball away at third while Gwynn attempted to steal before the pitch. Gwynn scored and Reed went to third, and Scott Flaherty's bloop single to right scored Reed for a 7-4 lead. 
Caminiti hit his 37th homer in the ninth and Trevor Hofman got the final threee for his 37th save 
Doug Bochtler (2-4). despite failing to hold a 4-2 
w Hall Spirit Day Giveaway 
T  Notre Dame Jacket  
~  One Pair of Notre Dame vs.  
Ohio State Football Tickets  

Ent<:r a& often a& you lll<e--Need not be pr!j&ent to win Ent<:r from 7:'30 am • 2:30 pm 
Students Only 
Wed. is llall Spirit Day--Piwe wear your hall apparel. 

Mueller moved to third when Rick Wilkins flied to deep right. Bonds stole second, and when catcher Brian Johnson's throw bounced in the dirt for an error, Mueller scored. 
Ashby has not won since beating the Giants 6-1 on June 28, going 0-3 in seven starts while also spending two different stints on the disabled list with shoulder tendinitis. 
Hickey Henderson led off the game with a walk and scored on Chris Gomez's sin­gle for a 1-0 Padres lead. Archi Cianfrocco walked and scored on Ashby's two-out double in the second to make it 2-0. . 

T Pat Heiden Quartet WJewel & The Future T After Hours ~ Stomper Bob 
CARJaitS WJOKf 
------------~~~-------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

'Noles battle Wolfpack tonight Fitzgerald emerges 
By DAVID DROSCHAK Bowden said he and his staff "I can see a difference in By CHIP BROWN After transferring, Fitzgerald Associated Press Writer have tinkered with the team's maturity, but I don't see a Associated Press Writer had to sit out his sophomore offense since a 44-7 win over difference in their heart and in season at Texas in 1993. RALEIGH, N.C. Duke on Sept. 7 in which the their fight," Bowden said when AUSTIN, Texas "It was a case of a junior 
Florida State is itching to Seminoles gained an uncharac­asked about the Wolfpack's Texas tight end Pat college coach having the inter­play another game, which teristically low 221 yards and talent level. Fitzgerald has emerged as one est of his player foremost in could mean additional trouble averaged 3.8 yards a play. N.C. State has turned the ball of the nation's best after his mind as opposed to what for North Carolina State. "We need to try (the offense) over 17 times in the last three catching a school-record eight would be good for his team," 
While some teams in college again against another football games against the Seminoles, touchdowns last year -more Texas coach John Mackovic football have played three team and see if we're on the including six lost fumbles in an than any other returning tight said. "I don't know if Pat has games and a majority have right road," Bowden said. embarrassing 77-17 loss last end in the country. really stopped to appreciate played two, the third-ranked The Seminoles, who have season in Tallahassee, Fla. The But he hasn't forgotten his what the coach did." Seminoles are 1-0 and have outscored the Wolfpack 173-23 loss was the most lopsided in days as a reject. Oh, he has. had to wait 11 days before in the last three Atlantic Coast ACC history. Barely noticed at Agoura "I thank him (Fenwick) playing the Wolfpack on Conference meetings, might "There shouldn't be any High School in California, he every day for what he did," Thursday night. also want to look sharp in front pressure, nobody gives us a got one recruiting trip invita­Fitzgerald said. "It was his 
To make matters worse, of a national television audi­shot to win the thing," tion -to Idaho State. goal to help players out as Florida State has had terrible ence and poll voters, consider­Wolfpack coach Mike O'Cain It wasn't what he had hoped much as he could. practice· weather this week, ing No. 2 Tennessee plays No. said. for after a high school career I really wasn't expecting to with outside workouts called 4 Florida on Saturday. "A pregame speech is not go­in which he excelled at every come to a school as big as off Monday and shortened "I would like to be impres­ing to beat Florida State," he position he was asked to play: Texas, so I owe him a lot for Tuesday because of heavy rain. sive every time we play. I don't added. "We talk all week wide receiver, tight end. line­getting Texas to look at me." 
"It seems like the season is know how much our kids think about the little things that you backer, even punter. The whole nation got a look halfway over and we haven't about it, I think about it have to do. The first thing that So he was doubly flabber­at Fitzgerald last season, when got but one game under our because people call me and I did talk to (the team) about gasted when Idaho State led Texas took on Notre Dame and belt," Florida State coach ask me about it, but I'm more · was believing that you can win. him to believe he would get a led 20-19 in the third quarter Bobby Bowden said concerned about LSU and "As far fetched as that scholarship and then called before collapsing in the fourth Wednesday. Auburn," said Bowden, whose seems, you think people near signing day and said, and losing 55-27. 
"I think our kids would go son coaches at Auburn. thought Wake Forest was thanks but no thanks. Fitzgerald caught TO passes absolutely crazy if we had The Wolfpack (0-1) hasn't going to beat Northwestern? "I kind of think about that of 1, 15 and 19 yards in that another open date, and there been competitive against the Heck no, but they did. How every once in a while," game. The sixth-ranked probably wouldn't be any room Seminoles since a 34-13 loss in about Southwest Louisiana and Fitzgerald said. "I'm pretty Longhorns (2-0) take on the in the crazy house because the Raleigh in 1992, coach Dick Texas A&M? So every week glad that they didn't offer me a No. 9 Fighting Irish (2-0) in coaches would already be Sheridan's last season at N.C. there is one, why can't it be scholarship, considering how Austin Saturday afternoon. there," Bowden added. State. us?" things worked out. But it "I am not going into this 
serves as motivation." game looking for a repeat 
Fitzgerald landed at Los performance of that," 
Angeles Valley Community Fitzgerald said. "But that was
SEC battle captures spotlight 

College, where coach Jim one of the highlights of my 
ByTOMSHARP 
Associated Press Writer 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
It's the third game of the season and the conference opener for both teams, and already Florida and Tennessee had better be at their peak. 
Saturday's game will give the winner the inside track to the Southeastern Conference Eastern Division title and a trip to the SEC championship game. 
Then there are the national considerations. In two of the last four years, the SEC cham­pion has played for the nation­al title. 
Championships not enough? Then consider the crowd. The NCAA record for a regular­season college game, 106,867, could well fall Saturday when the Gators take on the Volunteers in the newly expanded Neyland Stadium. 
Rankings? Tennessee is No. 2, Florida No. 4. 
Stars? Quarterbacks Danny Wuerffel of Florida and Peyton Manning of Tennessee are both among the top Heisman Trophy contenders. 
Exposure? Tennessee has issued more media credentials than for any game in its histo­ry. CBS has the national TV 
broadcast. 
Rivalry? After a recent visit to his hometown of Sevierville, 35 miles from Knoxville, Florida linebacker James Bates said: "They hate us. I think they hate us more than the people around here hate them." 

I • 
Neither Florida nor 
Tennessee is a stranger to big 
games, but the experience 
edge goes to the Gators. 
Under Steve Spurrier, Florida has played in four straight SEC championship games and last year's national title game against Nebraska. Annual regular-season battles include Tennessee, Auburn, Georgia and Florida State. 
"I certainly think this is a championship-type football 
game, and there probably is something to the fact they've played under those condi­tions," Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. 

Fenwick promised he would season last year. It probably
For Tennessee's part, Fulmer Florida series has been is high­help Fitzgerald get on with a put me on the map as far aspoints to last year's loss to scoring. Another, somewhat Division 1-A school. tight ends went."

Florida and wins over Alabama surprisingly, is lopsided. 

After Fitzgerald earned all­Fitzgerald's 10 touchdownsand Ohio State in tbe Citrus The winning team has scored conference honors at tight end at Texas have him tied for theBowl as games with similar at least 31 points in every for the junior college, Fenwick career lead with Kerry Cashtrappings. game since 1990, when the 
contacted Texas offensive (1987-90). This season,
"I think it might be a bit of a series became an annual coordinator Gene Dahlquist Fitzgerald caught four passesfactor, but maybe not a great event, and the teams have and made good on his for a career-high 93 yards in aone," he said. combined to average 58.5 

promise. victory over New Mexico State. 
Spurrier isn't sure the expe­points. rience gives the Gators any But the average margin of advantage. victory has been 23 points. The 
"Obviously we didn't closest game was Florida's 41­compete at our best level in the 34 victory three years ago, and national game," he said refer­that is a little deceptive; ring to Nebraska's 62-24 Tennessee scored late and pounding of Florida in the added a 2-point conversion. Fiesta owl. Fulmer offers one possible 
"Hopefully we can explanation. compete a lot harder and play "Obviously it's a game of smarter in this game than that emotion and momentum," he one. I don't know if it has any said, "and it seems like when bearing at all." the momentum changes it 
One thing the Tennessee-changes a lot." 
Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 ~ Banquet rooms available up to 200 

We give students a breakJ
-REAT \YALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(next to Randall's Inn) 

%
odd, 
Happy 21st 

Off
Birthday. Have a great 

All Salon Services and Haircare Products 
Senior year at 

Adult Haircut reg. $9.95 
Notre Dame. 

ReGIS M€~S muLMITO""lELL. ~EBAHIAN 
Love, 

University Park Mall MasterCuts 
farriy haircutters
Mom, Dad, 

277-3770 Great Haircuts. Great Prices. Guaranteed.
Elaine, & Ryan 

No double discounts. Valid lor your entire family. Present coupon ond student I.D. 



~-----­
Thursday, September 19, 1996 page 19
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
j 

Father Malloy and Dr. 
Nathan Hatch invite all students, faculty and their families to the Votive Mass of the Holy Spirit 
. 

SEPTEMBER 22, 4:00 PM AT THE JOYCE CENTER WITH DINNER TO FOLLOW 
, Students and faculty will be seat­ed together 
mic depart­ment at,. 
•· ~4 ·..·. picnic. 
• 


-~ ----~--------------------------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 19, 1996 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Tornado, Rocket hurl way into history 
Nomo throws first 'no-no' at Coors Field 
By JOHN MOSSMAN 
Associated Press W rirer 
DENVER 
Hideo Nomo silenced the crowd as he silenced the Colorado Rockies' bats, throw­ing a no-hitter in the unlikeliest of ballparks. Then he shrugged off the accomplishment. 
The Los Angeles Dodgers right-hander pitched the third no-hitter of the season Tuesday night when he beat the Rockies 9-0 at Coors Field, a pitchers' graveyard where the resident Rockies have averaged 8.3 runs and 12.6 hits a game. 
Mixing fastballs and sinking split-fingers, Nomo baffled the NL's top hitting team. He walked four and struck out eight, capping his performance by fanning Ellis Burks. 
Because of a slippery mound, Nomo (16-10) pitched from the stretch from the fourth inning on, even with the bases empty. 
"You may not believe me, but I'm glad we picked up the win at this time rather than I ac­complished a no-hitter," Nomo said. "We're battling for the di­vision title, so this is a big 
win." 
With San Diego losing, the Dodgers increased their NL West lead to 1 1/2 games with 11 to play. The loss dropped the Rockies 7 1/2 games off the pace and virtually ended their faint postseason hopes. 
"Only in the ninth inning did I think I had a chance," the 28­year-old Japanese sensation said through an interpreter. 
Asked if he thought a no-hit­ter would ever be thrown at Coors Field, Nomo replied: "I cannot say it was impossible. I was never concerned about it." 
Others, however. found the feat unfathomable. 
"That was huge," Dodgers manager Bill Russell said, "especially to do it in Colorado. With the hitters they have over there and for Norno to throw a no-hitter against them and to strike out Ellis Burks is a tremendous effort." 
Added Dodgers first baseman Eric Karros: "He probably doesn't realize how unbeliev­able that accomplishment is. People in Japan probably don't know Coors Field, but I'm bet­ting it won't be done again." 
Rockies manager Don Baylor agreed. "In this ballpark, that was an incredible feat," he said. 
The start Of the game was de­layed two hours by rain, and although light rain fell in the first two innings, it dissipated. 
"It was a little muggy and the ball didn't carry as well as it usually does here," Los Angeles catcher Mike Piazza said. "That might have helped us." 
The last game Nomo started at Coors Field, on June 30, he was battered for nine runs ­five earned -in five innings. The Rockies stole nine bases against him in a 16-15 win. 
And things began shakily Tuesday night. Nomo walked three batters in the first four innings, including the leadoff men in the second and fourth, but walked just one the rest of the way. He had five strikeouts through five innings. 
The Rockies hit the ball hard, but harmlessly, several times. Vinny Castilla sent Raul Mondesi to the base of the right-field wall on a long fly in the fourth, and Mondesi hauled in Steve Decker's slicing liner in the fifth. Nomo reached high to spear Burks' bouncer to end the sixth. 
Nomo, who struck out Dante Bichette three times, also con­tributed at the plate, slapping an RBI single in the eighth. 
With fans in Japan watching live on television, Nomo had an easy ninth. Young and Quinton McCracken grounded to second and Burks struck out swinging. 
Nomo then punched the air and a smile spread across his face as his teammates came out of the dugout to mob him. The crowd in Coors Field gave him a standing ovation. 
"His demeanor never changed," Russell said. "We fi­nally got a smile out of him af­ter the last out. He was always focused. He was serious on ev­ery pitch to every hitter." 

Clemens likely cements Hall ofFame spot 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
Buddy Bell says he saw five or six no-hitters during his playing career. None, the Tiger manager asserted, was as dominating a performance as Roger Clemens' 20-strikeout shutout Wednesday night. 
"The no-hitters I've been in­volved with or seen, there was luck involved," Bell said after Boston beat Detroit 4-0. "This was a dominating perfor­mance. I think that was the best pitching performance I've ever seen. 
"I don't mean to take any­thing away from those guys {who threw no-hitters) because that's a great achievement. But that's as good as it gets. He deserves all the credit for this." 
Alan Trammell, a 20-year veteran, said Clemens remind­ed him of an outstanding out­ing against Detroit in 1990. 
"Randy Johnson threw a no­hitter against us and was domi­nating," Trammell said. "That was every bit as good as Randy Johnson's no-hitter." 
Trammell, batting .371 in his career against Clemens enter­ing Tuesday, said the right­hander was as good as he's ever seen him. 
"He had location and he threw harder than I've seen in a while and his split-finger was moving," Trammell said. "We had no chance against him tonight. He felt it. He sensed the kill and he did his job." 
Trammell had an infield sin­gle in the first inning but was strikeout victim No. 15 when he took a called third strike in the sixth. Trammell carne to bat again leading off the ninth with Clemens one shy of tying his own major league strikeout record. 
"I didn't want him to strike me out," Trammell said. "I was certainly aware he had 19, and I've got pride. If he did it, he did it, but I'm trying my best to a void it." 
Trammell popped out, but Clemens got No. 20 by fanning Travis Fryman to end the game. 
"I would say tonight was deja vu to the 80s," Trammell said. "You know when you're facing Roger Clemens you're facing one of the best. From what I've gathered, he's pitched better than his record and tonight he was outstanding." 
Fryman struck out four times. Rookie first baseman Tony Clark fanned in three of four at-bats. 
."When he's on his game I don't see too many guys being better," Clark said. "He was hitting his spots with every­thing he threw and his fastball had outstanding velocity." 
While Clemens tied his own single-game strikeout record, the Tigers equaled their own AL season mark, set in 1991, of 1,185 whiffs. It was one more dubious achievement in one more loss, the Tigers' 101st of the year. 

But Bell doesn't want that to detract one bit from Clemens' performance. 
"I know there are going to be a lot of people talking about us striking out 20 times," Bell said. "I would prefer to think it was all Roger Clemens tonight. I don't think there's any ques­tion about that. I've never been this close to someone as un­touchable as he was tonight. He would have done that to a lot of teams tonight." 
Please Recycle The Observer 
.......=~===~ 
ROXANNE­
You don9t have to wear that dress tonieht• •• HaPPY Belated BirthdaY! Love9 434 
Reflect Remember Resolve POW and MIA Observance Day • Sept. 19 Prayer Service 5:00p.m.; Grotto • Sept. 19-20 24 Hour Vigil 5:30 p.m.-5:00 p.m. Field House Mall • Sept. 20 Retreat 5:00p.m. South Quad Flagpole Join the ArnoldAir Society and remember the men and women who sacrificed great/11 /or our country. ~ will never/orgef their actions  


TONIGHT 
"Children in Sweatshops" Charles Kernaghan 
Executive Director-National Labor Committee New York, NY Graduate-Loyola University-Chicago 
A concern of Kathie Lee Gifford 
University of Notre Dame Room 122, Hayes-Healy Center Thursday, September 19, 1996 8:00p.m. 
Campus Information: 631-6213 
Co-Sponsored by the United Steelworkers ofAmerica and the Department of Economics -University of Notre Dame 
.. 

Thursday, September 19, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
page 21 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Leyland announces plans to end tenure with Pirates 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 
PlTTSBUHGH On what should have been the saddest day of all, Jim 
Leyland didn't cry. 
This was the man who shed copious tears when the Pirates won division championships, and when they lost pennants. When they nearly left Pittsburgh, and when they stayed. When his best players abandoned one of baseball's smallest and most distressed markets for big money. 
But the man who wore his 
ALCOHOL AND THE AMERICAN COLLEGE CAMPUS A Report From the Harvard School of Public Health 

Attached is a summary of highlights from the recently released Harvard School of Public Health College Alcohol Study. All that follows 'is direct quote, without embellishment or comment. It is presented as a 
service of Life Treatment Centers, Inc. 
Binge drinking is defined as five or more drinks in a row one or more times during a two week period for men and four or more drinks in a row one or more times in a two week period for women. Problems include getting into arguments, getting injured, forgetting where they were or what they did, and engaging in unplanned or unprotected sex. A drink is defined as a 12-ounce can or bottle of beer, a four ounce glass of wine, a 12-ounce bottle or can of wine cooler, or a shot of liquor taken straight or in a mixed drink. 
While some students may say four or five drinks aren't much, this study demonstrates that, for many students, this benchmark is indicative of a heavy drinking life-style. The data show that students who drink in these or greater amounts differ fi.'Om other students by the frequency and severity of their alcohol-related problems. In reality, many students in this study report drinking far more than this, often with the specific intention of getting drunk. 
Nearly half ( 44 percent) of all students were binge drinkers, and 19 percent had hinged three or more times in the previous two weeks. At nearly one-third of the responding schools, more than half of the responding students were binge drinkers. 
A number ofstudent characteristics are associated with binge drinking: men, students under 24, fraternity and sorority residents, whites, students involved in athletics, and students who socialize more are most likely to binge drink. Students who engaged in high-risk behaviors such as illicit drug use, unsafe sexual activity and cigarette smoking were more likely to be binge drinkers. Students who were involved in such activities as community service, the arts or studying were less likely to be binge drinkers. 
TABLE4 
· 
Relatively few binge drinkers considered themselves to be heavy or problem drinkers. Our study found that 91 percent of the women and 78 percent of the men who were frequent binge drinkers considered themselves to be moderate or light drinkers. Even the heaviest drinkers on low-binge campuses perceived their drinking to be within acceptable limits, seriously compromising outreach efforts targeted at this population. 
The most troubling findings of this study reveal the impact of binge drinking on students who do not binge -the "second-hand" binge effects. It is no longer possible to view hinging as solely the binger's problem: non­hinging students are paying too steep a price. Table 4 illustrates the secondhand problems at low-and high-binge campuses. On campuses where more than half the students are binge drinkers, the vast majority ofstudents (87 percent) who live on campus have experienced one or more problems as a result of others' binge drinking. Even at schools where binge drinking rates are below 3 5 percent of the student population, 62 percent of students who live on campus have been victims of second-hand binge effects. 
All colleges are unique. Each has its own culture and traditions, resources and priorities and relationship with the local community. But every college with a substantial pfoportion of binge drinkers must begin with the question "Can we accomplish our mission and fulfill our students' goals if we tolerate behavior that compromises the quality of students' educational and social lives, as well as their health and safety?" If that question leads to a commitment to act vigorously and systematically against campus alcohol abuse, multiple approaches tailored to conditions on each campus will certainly be needed. 

P&aC&lfrAGII OF SnmllHTS AT I..OW-81NCE AND HrnR-81NGE IJoiSTJTUTJONS Rtt:POilTING SECONDHAND Al.COHOL-R.t:LATED PROBLE)m 
Campus Problem Due to Otber~' Drinking Low-Binge Hlgh-Bin.:e 
Wu insulrtrl or humiliated Ellperienced unwanted ~exunl advances 
.. (b~..oflo women'! re~ponses only) ll~. aaeriouR arp.ument or qu•rrel Wns pu•IM'll, hll, or assaulted Studying or !leep was interTuph':d H•d IO"bnhy·sit" a drunken student Perso.'!~~. pro~y wa< rlllm•gtrl 
Suffel"'ld sexual assault or "date rape" 
21  34  
15  26  
l.l  20  
7  13  
42  68  
.11  ..•~~............ ..  
6  IS  
2  2  


emotions on his uniform sleeve 
no less proudly than he wore 
his No. 10 didn't cry on the day 
he told the Pittsburgh Pirates 
he was gone. 
No, this time, the tears were 
for others. 
''I'm trying real hard to not 
get emotional over this and it's 
tough," Leyland said after an­
nouncing his resignation, effec­
tive at the end of the season. 
"But there's new ownership, 
and there's going to be a new 
look next season. It's time for a 
change at the helm, too." 
Finally, the man who spent 
years battling to maintain the 
competitiveness and dignity of 
an historic franchise that has 
grown short of talent, money 
and leadership decided he 
(:OUldn't fight any longer. 
For as much as Leyland loves 
the Pirates, the team that gave 
him the chance to manage in 
the majors when others 
wouldn't, he decided he loved 
winning even more. 
"I've thought long and hard about this," Leyland said. "The one thing that kept hitting home with me was that Kevin (McClatchy, the Pirates owner) said it would probably be two or three years before we get to where we want to be. That would be six or seven years (since the Pirates' last division title in 1992), and I thought maybe it was time to move on." 
Leyland first considered leav­ing last season, when the Pirates' very existence in Pittsburgh was in doubt. But, fully aware of all of Pittsburgh's pitfalls -the lack of cash and the dearth of talent in the high minors -he never­theless signed a four-year con­tract extension through the 2000 season. 
"I love it here. This is my home, and my wife (Katie) loves it here," Leyland said. 

"We don't want to raise our 
kids anywhere else. Even when 
I retire, I'll live in Pittsburgh." 
It took a fourth consecutive 
sub-.500 season, an ownership 
change and more owner-or­
dered salary cuts to make 
Leyland realize he couldn't live 
with all the restrictions on win­
ning that exist in Pittsburgh. 
This time, he listened to some 
of his closest friends, including 
other managers, who had long 
argued he should pack up and 
find a franchise that would give 
one of baseball's best man­
agers the resources to win. 
As late as Aug. 29, Leyland 
was committed to staying with 
Pittsburgh. But, during an 11­
game California road trip that 
ended Sunday, friends noticed 
he seemed unenthused and 
unhappy, and that wasn't the 
Jim Leyland they knew. 
Leyland, the one constant 
throughout the Pirates' seem­
ingly endless trauma and tur­
moil, finally had changed, too. 
"I always felt that if we just 
worked hard, we could get this 
thing turned around," he said. 

Now, Leyland and the Pirates will turn in different directions -he to a contending team that might get him to his first World Series, the Pirates to a lower­paid manager undeterred by the prospect of not winning any time soon. 
And no doubt there will be tears at the Pirates' final home game Sept. 25, much like there were last September for what seemed might be the last Pirates home game ever. The franchise had yet to be sold, and there was talk of reloca­tion for the 1996 season. 
That night, the fans gave Leyland an ovation, just as they did when they altered the script for the '94 All-Star game with an unrehearsed, emotion­al three-minute ovation. 
law journalism publishing and editing fmancial services education marketing advertising/public relations post-graduate service opportunities social service career and placement 



Irish 
continued from page 24 
towards the NCAA's." 
also discussed the team's present ranking. 
"I could care less what the rankings say. The only poll that matters to me is the poll on November 25." 
Women 
continued from page 24 
the new dorm over the golf course the cross country course has some minor changes. The junior varsity race will start this Friday at 3:30 p.m. with the womens varsity following at 
4:15 and the men at 5:00. 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Former kick returner Clint Johnson mirror's today's star Allen Rossum. 

special Observer 
Ad 


UNIVERSI1Y OF NOTRE DAME 
CULPTURE 
It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summerjob because it was just a summer JOb? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years.  
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change  
daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is to help clients do what they do. Only better.  ANDERSEN  
CONSULTING  
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen  
Consulting.  Where we gofrom here:  
Andersen Consulttng IS an eQual opportuntty employer.  

Sign-ups for interviews with Andersen·Consulting will take place on Monday, September 23rd and Tuesday, September 24th at Career and Placement. Interviews will be conducted on October 14th and 15th. 

YMPOSIUM
>'·<.·:·.-·· ·.··.'·-:=>:.:·:. ·· .. .-......·.w:'.. :·: .. , :· 
keynote address: Robert Morris 
sculpture panel: moderator Austin Collins 
professor ofsculp1ure, University of Notre Dame 
Terrence Dempsey 

director, Museum ofContemporary Religious An, St. Louis University 
Robert Haywood 
professor ofan history, University of Notre D:une 
Kathyrn Hixson 
senior editor, New Art Examiner 
Gregory Knight 
chiefcurator, Chicago Cultural Center 
Lynne Warren 

curator, Special Projects, Museum ofContemporary An, Chicago 
Saturday, September 21, 1996 1 • 5 p.m., The Snite Museum of Art free and open to the public 
-=-=;;::::::-~x:~t~=~·--:.:::::~=x=~:=:::::=:::~=:·:=~==~:=·=~:=<·:=>::-:·-:·):·:=·=:·:···:=·::::.::>:;::~;.::,:;:.;;.,.,.,,,.:,:·:::::·:;:;:,:;.::::::::::::>:;:.,:·:::::~, 

Help only the d,·,cn 111~ Your love lik is ahout 1\l cn1e1 a IW\\ pha\L'. A home-cool-ed mL'ai "til hold SJ1eCtal 


apr~al for someonl' \\ ho tna,·l'l.., a lot. 
VIR(;() !Aug. 2.~-Scpt. 221: A new acquaintanl'e I11H.h you liTe· 
sistihle. The pie<:c.s ol a puule fall into place. llo nnt oc afraid to mnvc forward in a relat1on,htp. You deserve to have nothtne hut the best! 
LIBRA (Sept ::fl-Oct. 22) Romance could htt a rough patch now Diplomaq i, ncces,ary to reach your goah. If 1oint financial 
rL"\OllfCC~ i.li'C H ~ource Of tJisagi'Cl'· 
ment, consult an expcn together. 
SCORPIO !Oct. 2.~-Nov 211: A business or financial venture begin' ((}ray olf Temper hone,ly With tact 111 your relationships. A pruvocativc exchange could leave you tali-mg a blue streak. 
SA<;JTTARiliS !Nov. 22-l>ec. 21 ): Yow goodne" 'hlllC\ through no matter what you do today. Uphold your ideal'. Marriage plays a prominent role 111 your plans. Make sure your expectations arc realistic. 
CAI'IUCORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 

191: A very rewarding day lies ~· ahead. A mature and practtcal view­point wins favor. even if it is con­trary to your own. Hold your hand when it comes to extravagance. 
AQUARllJS !Jan. 2b·Feh. 18): Too much finatKial .:auttou could backfire. Share your feelings and resources with a trusted few. Occa­sionally you have to spend money in order to make monev. 
PISCES (Feh. -19-March 211): 13allling over money is not wot1h it. Work out an amicable compromise. Put your credit cards away and pay hy check or ca~h. Procrastination could work to your adl'antage where an ofticc situation is concerned. 


Thursday, September 19, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
HERE'S MY INVOfCE. FOR H'HNG '<OUR "'<EM\ 
E 
0 

.1000" COMPUTER 
..u 
'5i

PP-.OBLEf"\5 
E 


i ~ 
·;: 
53 Fitting-room activities 54 1957 #1 song 58 Spanish linen fabric 59 Down-to-the­wire campaigns 60 Subject of peer pressure? &1 Words of despair 62 Or--(if not) 
DOWN 
1 Terse saying 2 "I like that!" 3 Surrounds 4 Inscribed slab 5 Give--on the 
back 6 F.E.C. file entry 7 "Bye Bye 
Birdie" song

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Chaplin 


SCOTT ADAMS 


contemporary 
9 Atlantic fliers 10 Passing grade 11 Hasp. hookups 12 Precisely 
correct 
13 Cereal plant diseases 14 Volleyball's 
Gabrielle 20 Takes up, in a 
way 24 Orchard spray 25Wit 26--Major 29 Debuts 
" 
> ~ ... so HI5
g 
HEA.D 5PUN, .,.~ BUT IT DrDN'T 
30 Eighth in a series 35 Chewable wad 36 Lost vitality 37 Marine life used for jewelry 38 Workout figures 39 Event in a classified 43 54-Across, e.g. 44 Puts new prices on 47 Western plants 
48 Fiber named for a town in Mexico 
50 Eleva's place 
52 Classic Latin work"-­Rustica" 53 1979 Polanski film 
ssMadame-­of60's Vietnam 
56 Pennies: Abbr. 57--judicata 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

HAPPY IIIRTHilA \'! IN THE NEXT YJ<:AR OF YOliR liFE: Change' now under disL"U"HIIl will 
make your career more profitahlc. 
Let VIP, know that you arc interc,t­ed in acquinng new expertise. Clood writing skills will help you scale till' 
{Jrloymcnt ladder in record time. An intrigt11ng. newcomL"r chan~C!-1 your thoughts about romance ~IIHI 
marriage. 13e on the lookout for IlL"\\ money-maktng opportunittL's. Developing be11er rapron with your colleagues will ensure you find out everything you need to know. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DA \': a<:.IDr Jeremy Irons. model Twiggy. country 'inger Trisha Yearwood. baseball player Jim Abboll. 
ARIES !March 21-April i'JI. Others \\ant to hear your opinions. Take the lead 111 discussions. Listen to gossip. but do not accept it a' the truth. You will have to be pracucal if your business interests are to nourish. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 2111: Exercise more self-control when peorle tr) your patience. Pass10n plays a major role in your fantasies. Stop kidding yourself about a rela­tionship that will never be what you really want. 
GEMINiil\1av 21-.lune 20): You could he swe.pt ur into local politics or a spe.:tal work project. Trust onl) those people who ha1·e rroven their loyall). Romance will become more sausfying if you give it a fair chance. 
CANCER !June 21-Julv 221: Your chances for success increase as your energy level rises. Answer cor­respondence or return phone calls promptly. Love grows when you show more affection. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): People flock around you. seeking fa1·ors. 
~--~~~----------------------------~ 
ill OF INTEREST 
'*"' A hospitality luncheon supporting the Center for the Homeless will be held today in the CSC. A taste of Mexico will be served from 11:30a.m.·1:00p.m.; the <iOSt is $3.00. 
· English Career Night will be held tonight from 7-9 
p.m. in 102 DeBartolo: Professionals will discuss the relevance of liberal arts skills to specific career areas. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North Cajun chicken breast Stuffed Shells Chicken Acapulco Tomato Soup 
Saint Mary'stondon broil 

Sweet and sour chicken Omelette bar 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
South BBQ chicken Eldorado casserole Spinach quiche Yankee bean soup 


r 
~ 
I l '-· 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, September 19, 1996 
• MEN's CRoss CouNTRY • IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish aim for successful meet Similarities to 1993 
Notre Dame to 

are unmistakable
host Catholic 

Invitational 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY vailed only 27-13 and the Sports Writer Loyalists scoffed. (Images of By JOE CAVATO 1996 Vanderbilt abound.) Sports Writer Fall's arrival in South Bend Meanwhile, the gutless pollsters 
usually occurs about mid-way sat back and jeered at the Irish, 
The Notre Dame men's cross­through September, but for the falsely predicting doom in Ann country team proved why they past two years, it has come Arbor in the coming weeks. were ranked eleventh in the early and without warning for In just two days, Notre Dame pre-season polls with a perfect Notre Dame's football team. will play by far its most crucial 
I~ mark in the Ohio State Cross Any casual mention of fall, of game of the year. The folks Country Invitational by sweep­September 10, 1994, or down in Texas are bold enough ing the top five slots. September 3, 1995, strikes the to declare it the biggest game in They hope to continue their Irish fan with horror. Well, the Texas history. The Loyalists dominance in this weekend's first leaves have fallen here in know better -in 1993 no one National Catholic Meet held at South Bend and Notre Dame said a word before Michigan. the Notre Dame golf course. football is still 2-0. Even still, what takes John Although the Irish will figure The seniors try to suppress Mackovic two weeks to prepare to win the competition. the field the nostalgia, but the images takes Lou Holtz a couple of is much improved than what can be contained only so long days. they saw at Ohio State. -of Kevin McDougal running Should Notre Dame win this The Golden Eagles of rampant over Michigan, of the Saturday, the showdown on Marquette will likely be the Irish offensive line wiping the September 28 against Ohio closest competition for the field with Florida State's State will be the greatest one home squad who had five run­Derrick Brooks, of a pass bat­the Stadium has seen since 
ners finish under the outstand­ted to the ground and a kick 1993. A victory in Texas, like ing time 25:04 for the five mile that ruined the entire script. the pasting Notre Dame dealt run. Indeed the whispers can be Michigan three years ago, 
"It's good to see that we have heard everywhere: The last would act as a springboard to a that many guys that could run time the Irish were 2-0 was national title for Notre Dame. this well early in the season," 1993. A shallow perception Near letdowns, big games fol­
sophomore Antonio Arce com­perhaps, a mere footnote at lowed by bigger games, the list 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

mented. best, some might say. But goes on and on. 
Senior captain Matt Althoff prepares to lead the Irish this weekend. 

Coach Joe Piane's harriers things are actually shaping up While Lou Holtz may never are lead by senior co-captain he took flrst in the Ohio State "From now on, the meets will the way they did three years admit it, his defense has never Matt Altoff and All-Americans Invitational. start being more competitive," ago. looked this impenetrable. Fans 
Derek Seiling, a senior, and This weekend's action will Seiling continued. "The team In the home opener against will moan about the weak sec­Jason Hexing, a junior. provide a tune-up for the highly will have to step it up a notch Northwestern, the Irish scored ondary, but the facts of life are 
Red-shirt freshman Ryan competitive Notre Dame and improve with the competi­on the first play from scrim­on the table. People step up Maxwell will again try to be in Invitational. The top ten tion." mage when Pete Bereich inter­when they have to. Ask Kevin one of the top slots of the race ranked Michigan Wolverines The captain concurred with cepted a telegraphed play and McDougal, Lee Becton, Shawn 
this Friday. Maxwell missed will battle the Irish for their much of his teammates ran it in for the score. Wooden, or Kevin Pendergast. first real test of the season. remarks. Allen Rossum was still a In the 1994 Cotton Bowl,
his entire first year as he suf­fered a season ending injury. Seiling predicted, "We should "The National Catholic will be senior in high school, but clear­Pendergast hit a 31-yard field Maxwell came back in his win pretty easily, and it would better (than the Ohio State ly he liked the Bereich method goal to defeat Texas A&M. flrst competition since his high be nice if a lot of people would Invitational). It's a step when he stormed' 99 yards last He'll never be dubbed a great 

come out and watch." 
school days with avengance as 

l By MARIO ARCE Sports Writer 
The 17th annull.lN/il.tionail Catholic cross courtttyinv'itt~,• tional· will be held ihis Friday at the Burke golf c,ourse. The Irish women Will b:qpe tQ !$(;) the victory crown ftom ·1995 champion . ~~rqeut~e · University. The.lr.ish flriished. 
second to ·· · · · ·Eagles a 10 point di.issa;poiUttllent; "We're loctKUlll. stiffer co had at Ohio coach Tim week our against ·onr·~A11iiA!iL A eoillr()etitio!O. w.m definitely

I ~ 
Irish move . 

I 
field at Ohio field at the NaltioJ1taJ ~ca.tnolilcs. The Gol 

r 
ranked season

t 
ahead of the· "We are de have to. run a lot .nAr.r.Rr• r.nan 
at Texas September 21, 11 a.m. 

.. 
at St. John's September 20, 7:30p.m. 
vs. Connecticut September 20,7:30 p.m. 

week. The last time the Irish kicker, but he was dependable. 
see IRISH I page 22 

had a game breaker like For the first time in three Rossum was 1993, when Clint years, the Irish have someone Johnson played the lone man who's not afraid to kick the ball back. in freshman Jim Sanson. 
In spite of Bereich's play, the The winds are changing in '93 Northwestern game became South Bend, and the smell of a step in the wrong direction for Notre Dame. The Irish pre-see MEMOIRS/ page 22 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Former linebacker Pete Bereich can be likened to today's unit. 
at Michigan 

@) QJ
September 20, 7:00p.m. 
• Leyland plans retirement 
~ 

see page 21
Catholic Invational 
.....
~ September 20 

•Clemens fans 20 for second time ~ 
see page 20 
Volleyball vs. Hope
S¢ ~ 
September 19, 7:00p.m. 





