
Thursday, December 5, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 64 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Follett will assume operation of bookstore 


By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Following a trend that has spread to over 860 college campuses nationwide, the University announced yester­day that the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will be man­aged by an independent retailer beginning April 1. 
Follett College Stores, which operates over 515 coiiQge bookstores, was recommend­nd for selection by a group of five University officials, including Father E. William Beauchamp, the University's executive vice president, and Jim Lyphout, associate vice president for business opera­tions. 
The announcement repre­sPnts a major change from the University's trend to own and operate all facets of campus business organizations, induding its food services and retail stores. 
Lyphout said the committee 
• ::.ruoENT SENATE 
considered that pattern in its decision-making process. 
"We certainly recognized that this was a departure from the past, but that in itself was not a reason" to bypass the opportunity, he said. 
Under the terms of the deal, the University will retain own­ership of the bookstore and Follett will oversee its opera­tions, including the selection of book titles and the setting of used book prices. 
Because the prices of new textbooks are set by publish­ers, those prices are not expected to increase due to Follett's management. 
In exchange for the rights to operate the bookstore, Follett will provide a guaranteed income to the University. The amount was not disclosed, but Lyphout said he was pleased with the figure. 
"It's a number greater than what we've realized in any operation year to date," Lyphout said. 

With the University's plans to move the bookstore to the new Eck Center when it is fin­ished in December 1998, Lyphout said Notre Dame offi­cials felt this was the right time to contract out the man­agement of the bookstore. 
"We're combining strengths by virtue of the fact that they have the networks and tech­nologies that just aren't avail­able to us," Lyphout said. "They have the ability to amortize the cost of those technologies over their 500­some stores." 
Some of those technologies will provide customers with services previously unavail­able at the bookstore. For example, Follett plans to cre­ate a virtual store on the World Wide Web, which would allow faculty to place advance orders for textbooks and students to order their books by entering their class schedules on-line. 
see BOOKSTORE I page 4 

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Members of Student Senate unanimously passed three student rights resolutions. 
Resolutions take aim at student rights 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assisram News Editor 
The Student Senate focused on stu­dent rights and privileges by passing three resolutions on this topic at its mneting yesterday. 
Hyan Mcinerney, the chairman of the student rights committee, introduced tho resolutions which his committee had been working on for the semester. 
The first resolution addressed what the committee sees as a lack of student rights in tho University policies and procedures booklet, du Lac. It notes University discomfort with making dis­ciplinary procedures into criminal court proceedings. 
The resolution, however, argues that a statement on page 79 of Du Lac that says. "University disciplinary settings should not be confused with criminal court proceedings," clarifies the dis­tinction and insures that if rights are enumerated in Du Lac, then the stu­dents will not consider the hearing the same as a criminal proceeding. 
The second resolution dealt with the 
see SENATE I page 4 
V
etville (shown above behind Breen-Phillips Hall) existed on what is today the Mod Quad. Housing married students, the old POW bar­racks were demol­ished in 1962, shown at right. 


Hesburgh recalls Vetville 
Married student housing originated with veterans 
By DAVID FREDDOSO News Writer 

J
ust north of the Hesburgh library, between Knott and Siegfried, stands a plaque with the following inscrip­tion: 
"This Area Was the Site of 'Vetville' Married Student Housing 1945-1962 Many Were the Trials ­Thanks to the Holy Family For the Many Blessings Needed to Persevere" 
Very few students know the signifi­cance of this little monument, which is now celebrating its 30th anniversary. But for hundreds of families who once called it home, "Vetville" will not soon be for­gotten. 
At the end of World War II, a young Holy Cross priest by the name of Theodore Hesburgh became involved in the beginnings of Vetville. As Notre Dame men returned from fighting the war, he was given the task of helping them to continue their undergraduate studies. 
"We had promised that people who served in the armed forces could come back and finish their education here," Hesburgh said. "But it turned out that about 500 of them had gotten married 
see VETVILLE I page 8 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Turtle Creek cars targeted by burglars 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
Reminiscent of reported incidents in the 02 parking lot, Turtle Creek resi­dents have reported a rash of recent car burglaries. 
Rather than an attempt to steal the cars, the six Nov. 26 thefts involved car stereo equipment, which the cul­prits removed after smashing the win­dows. 
"There's no doubt in my mind that they are connected," said Sgt. John Williams, resident of Turtle Creek and the officer in charge of patrolling the area. "One girl parked her car after 
3:30 a.m., and another guy after 4 a.m., and they were both hit." 
In addition, the six vehicles were parked in a row, belonging to resi­dents of 1701, 1715, and 1733, which are adjacent buildings. 
Williams said that the stolen CD players were part of removable car stereo units; to this fact he attributes the robberies. "If you have one of those, take it out after leaving the car," he said. "That's why they make them that way, to avoid thefts. If you buy one, don't forget to remove it." 
One unlucky victim parted company with an assortment of 50 COs in addi­tion to his Sony stereo. 
see THEFTS I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, December 5, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Bank bombing rocks southern Pakistani resort town
The Struggle 
KARACHI, Pakistan f\ -~' A powerful bomb exploded 300 miles ,..:-1 ~;f~~;;h:~-{HINA
for 

Wednesday across the street from the ~ "-~.areas /' ·,
fi Sh H I Kabul 1 -~t-'0 >_,
1ve-star eraton ote , a resort pop-o ·.:·_-_;l,slam0avb,"d,··'-''',·._"\,
ular with tourists to this southern port . .,. ""("

Completion 

city. AFGHANISlfi.N ( ~;· ' Twelve people were hospitalized, -----Lahore'; It eats at your brain for ~~~~~~~ 
four with critical injuries. and dozens ,/;PAKISTAN I INDIA an entire year. At times, it 
of others received minor injuries from .... makes you hate, despise, 
flying glass, authorities said. \:::· .[l!l!lll.detest, deplore, and abhor 
No one has taken responsibility for ' ' · /·~·. : · · •
;' --~· being a senior in college. 
the bombing. ~j ~~~b blasts Ct / S '· · ; ,
1
You try to run, but you 
The bomb, planted in a flower bed \, , y' "'·>tkfjcan't escape it. You try to 
outside an eight-story office building, 1 r_"""'""~-,.. . ...;·, ·(__ //
~ I-./ \.A1 I
hide, but it finds you. It's 
gutted a branch office of the National ,,.0,,-wArabian Sea~~ 6 ' big, it's bad. and it's ugly. 
Bank of Pakistan and created a large APIWm. J. Castello It's your senior compre­
crater in the middle of the posh shop-..._______________, in Punjab province. hensive. Caroline Blum 
ping area. Windows in several nearby buildings were In the past Pakistan has blamed India for such explo-At first it fools you. You Saint Mary's Editor 
blown out. sions. India and Pakistan have fought three wars since think you can handle it. 
"Suddenly there was this huge explosion and the the subcontinent gained independem~e from Britain in You think. "It's all cool," and head out with 
windows shattered," said Huma Tahir, a guest at the 1947. your buds. But somewhere between the care­free senior nights at the beginning of the 
Mother Teresa's health improves Principal allegedly attacks reporter 
semester and the crunch lime before fall break 
you find yourself cornered. Your procrastina­
CALCUTTA, India WASHINGTON tion lime has run out. 
Mother Teresa took a few halting A newspaper reporter said she was shoved, kicked and 1\ll seniors at Saint Mary's must complete a 
steps in her room Wednesday for the then pushed out of a local school by a group of students senior comprehensive to fulfill their graduation 
first time since she was hospitalized and their principal -the third recently reported attack requirements. Whether it's a four-hour exam, 
two weeks ago with a heart problem, against the news media at schools in the nation's capital. a 50-page thesis, or a research study that 
and doctors said she may be allowed to Susan Ferrechio, an education reporter for The includes a 70-page paper and a ten minute 
return home this weekend. "Her over­Washington Times, said she was attacked at the Marcus presentation, they will not let you out until you 
all situation is better today," Dr. Tarun Garvey Public Charter School after she refused to hand complete -and pass-your senior comp. 
Praharaj, one of the doctors attending over notes of a conversation she had had with a student. As a communication major, I began working 
to the 86-year-old Roman Catholic nun She was there Tuesday afternoon working on a story on on my senior comp second semester of my 
at the B.M. Birla Research Center, said Wednesday charter schools, she said. Ten people attacked her. hit­junior year. At first I thought it would be easy. 
evening. "But she is still not out of danger because her ting her repeatedly, and principal Mary A.T. Anigbo But by the end of the semester, I looked clos­
irregular heartbeat continues," he told a news confer­shoved Ferrechio and demanded she get out of the er at the words my professor wrote in red ink 
ence. Mother Teresa appeared cheerful, he said. She was school, the Times reported Wednesday. Ms. Anigbo, stu­on my final assignment. 
free of an oxygen mask and intravenous tubes, and for dents and some staff members later struggled with police "At this point in your study, you have not 
the first time in three days did not have any chest pain. officers who arrived to investigate the incident, the paper adequately fulfilled the requirement of a senior 
Physical therapists massaged her chest every six hours to said. Anigbo said Wednesday it was Ferrechio who comprehensive." 
help her expel phlegm from her lungs, Praharaj said. shoved her. ''I'm surprised and disappointed that a pub­Stomach knots, pulsating head. Sweaty 
They were planning to make her walk in her room again lic medium like the newspaper can tell such blatant lies," palms. I read on. 
at night. She also sat in a chair for 30 minutes during a Ms. Anigbo said. She said Ferrechio had spoken to stu­"Your first task would be to rework your 
Mass held in her private room in the intensive care unit. dents without her permission and had taken the notepad research over the summer and formulate a 
While doctors said Tuesday that Mother Teresa would from the school's main office. The complaint against a new literature review." 
remain in the hospital for at least two weeks, Praharaj charter school. five of which were created in the city's Sure, no problem. I threw the comp in a box 
told the news conference that she could be sent home this troubled school system this year to provide alternative and headed to Italy for the rest of' the month. 
weekend if she continues to improve. learning environments, upset some proponents. In June, I started working. Early August: I fin­ished working. And then by the last two weeks 
Talk show murderer gets 50 years Astronauts forced to return early
before school started -hey, I needed a break 
all right'? 
PONTIAC, Mich. CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. But when I showed up for the first day of 
A man who killed a gay admirer who had revealed his With bad weather in the forecast. a jammed hatch and dass, I witnessed a moment I had been dread­
crush and hugged him on the "Jenny Jones Show"' was trouble with the navigation equipment, NASA on ing for four months, two weeks, and four days. 
sentenced Wednesday to 25 to 50 years in prison. Wednesday ordered space shuttle Columbia's astronauts "May I please see you after class. I want to 
Jonathan Schmitz, 26, faced a life sentence for the mur­to come home a day early. Columbia was due to land at see what you've accomplished over the sum­
der of Scott Amedure in a case that focused attention on Cape Canaveral just after daybreak Thursday. Earlier in mer." 
"ambush television" and the tactics TV producers use to the week, NASA had granted the five astronauts an extra, It took those last ten words to snap me into 
bring guests onto daytime talk shows. "I'd like to say the 17th day in space. But the space agency took it back after place. From that moment on, I lost the "too 
word sorry," Schmitz told Judge Francis X. O'Brien the astronauts accomplished their final job in orbit cool" attitude and adopted one similar to that 
before his sentence. 'The word "sorry" is a very power­Wednesday -retrieving the ultraviolet telescope they of my studious peers. 
ful word. It has a lot of meaning, and it is meant." The dropped off at the start of the f1ight. Flight director I felt the stress. My stomach went into knots 
judge said he took Schmitz' illnesses into account -his Wayne Hale said the primary concern was rain and fog every day of class when we discussed what 
defense lawyers said he had been fighting alcoholism, expected at the landing site on Friday and through the was due the next week. My head started spin­
depression and a thyroid condition when the show's pro­weekend. The stuck hatch and the failure Wednesday of ning and my eyes started hazing each time we 
ducers ambushed him and pushed him over the edge. a navigation unit also contributed to the decision to bring talked about "the final draft." I even experi­
However, "you still have to be accountable to society," Columbia back as soon as possible. "They certainly enced the "shortness of breath" syndrome 
said O'Brien, who added two more years on a weapons would indicate that you ought to button things up and be known to haunt so many senior comp cadets. 
charge. Schmitz will likely remain behind bars for at prepared to come on down at the earliest opportunity," I neglected sleeping. took up eating, and for­
least 20 years. Assistant Prosecutor Roman Kalytiak had Hale said. The shuttle has two backup navigation units got about such things as liquid lunch at 
asked for a life sentence, and the victim's family asked aboard. Two spacewalks considered crucial practice for Bridget's on Friday or Thursday cup night at 
for the maximum as well. "His actions not only destroyed building the space station had to be canceled because of Senior Bar (at least some of the time). 
my family, but his own family," said Amedure's mother, the stuck hatch. Engineers still have no idea why the As I ran through the main hall of the commu­
Patricia Graves, her voiee wavering. "When I look at the handle would barely budge. Flight controllers spent the nication department last Monday. two copies of 
defendant, I see a monster." Schmitz' lawyer said the past week devising ways for the crew to force open the my 70-page senior comprehensive in hand, I 
sentence didn't reflect "at all on Jon's mental illness." hatch just in case an emergency spacewalk is needed. began to ponder. Not just about the fact that I had no idea the comps were due by noon and it 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER
was now 1:13 p.m., but also about what I had 
accomplished. 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 5.

AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
I dropped my book into the morbid brown 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.

2 5 year of my life in a box. But all I could do was 
box and stared at it. Wow. It was done. A 
1®"" .... 
worry about what I was going to worry about 
r,__./.:.................................. 
next semester. Getting a job I guess. 
I L 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
~;
are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Thursday ~ 36 27 
i 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
Friday i ~ 40 26 
News Viewpoint 

Saturday ~ 39 25
Kelly Brooks Ethan Hayward 
FRONTS:
Michael Lewis Production 
""T"""T"" ............... ...............
Sports Heather Cocks 

Sunday1 ( ~ 37 21 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc
Tim McConn Mark DeBoy 
Pressure 
Lab Tech Graphics 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

Monday ~,-37 23 H L 
Dave McCaffrey Melissa Weber 

i}'-"\l'"-..,;/\, ·. 
,. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 
4 ..Q,Q,q 6.fo 8 {) ~ uexcept during ex;am and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Dallas  68  
Detroit  36  
Houston  75  


du· Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
hotel. Moeen Uddin of the police bomb-dis­posal squad said more than nine 
d f I . . I d 
poun s o exp os1ve matena was use 
in the bomb. 

It was the second explosion in Pakistan in as many days. On Tuesday, a ear bomb exploded outside a busy market in Lahore, the capital of Punjab province located 650 miles northeast of Karachi. 
No one took responsibility for that bombing either and no arrests have been made. 
In recent months. at least 80 people have been killed in bomb explosions 
Atlanta 60 Baltimore 44 Boston 38 Chicago 34 Cleveland 39 36 34 33 23 31 
Los Angeles 77 Memphis 58 
42 30 46 53 35 New York 42 Philadelphia 46 St. Louis 47 San Diego 68 Seattle 44 
40 38 
30 
53 35 

-------~---~-------~--------~......... 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bochy 'on-line' in con1puter lab 
By TATUM ELYSE MENGYAN 
News Writer 
Emily Bochy has relieved countless computer-related headaches, making her a favorite among Saint Mary's LeMans Hall lab users. 
Bochy, a senior business major, minoring in computer sci­ence, has worked in the comput­er lab for the past three semes­ters. Currently, she is the assis­tant chief lab supervisor. 
Surrounded by clicking key­boards, blood-shot eyes and sweaty palms, Bochy conveys a sense of placidity. Senior Jessica Zigmond pleads, "Emily, help! I am PowerPoint challenged!" Listening to the detailed speech, Bochy smiles and joins her at the screen. Two minutes later, Zigmond sighs an appreciative, "Thank you so much." 
Bochy, after completing a pro-· gramming course at Saint Mary's, realized her knack for computers. She quickly refutes her title as the 



DOWN 

HIll 

~~a v~arP 

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13 SWISS VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00PM COST: $27.00 INCLUDES LIFT TICKET. RENTAL AND TRANSPORT 
$18.00 LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT R-=-~ 
DEADLINE: DECEMBER ll 





Do all your 
The Ob5erver/Kim Michalik "Emily (above) is always friendly, always patient," says senior Jessica Zigmond. 
"computer lab goddess," stating, 
"I get a lot of, 'Oh my gosh, you're 
so smart,' but what I do are sim­
ple things, little things, like for­
matting disks, page numbering, 
transferring files -I guess things 
that people who aren't as com­
fortable with computers are 
impressed by." 
Bochy, working in conjunction 
with Angela Cataldo, chief lab 
supervisor, oversees the student 
lab assistants. "The most impor­
tant thing I do is to make sure 
that the lab assistants know 
what they are doing. If that means calling meetings, or meeting with individual stu­dents, so be it," Bochy comment­ed. 

Upon graduation, Bochy plans to enter the computer consulting or systems analysts field. She credits her position at Saint Mary's for providing her with the necessary foundation to do so. 
"I am as human as anyone else. I have my good days and bad, but working in the comput­er lab, I have become more of a 'people person,'" she said. "I am ready for any type of question, at any time, and have learned not to be afraid to admit that I just don't know something. Instead, I am patient, with myself and others, and try all available alternatives. This is the key." 
Bochy stressed that even she is still learning, saying, "I learn as I go along with assistance from Dan Mandell, th~;J assistant direc­tor for user services. He is the true superman around here. If any of us has a question, he will not hesitate to drop whatever it is he is doing to provide an expla­nation. He is the best supervisor I could ever have asked for." 
Bochy's position as assistant chief lab supervisor entails much more than one may suppose. Bochy was quick to respond, "It is a 24-hour-a-day job." Her roommate, sitting nearby, laughed in accordance. 
"People come to my room at midnight, I get phone calls at all hours of the day, and whether I am in the dining hall, the base­ment of the library, or Madeleva, someone with a question is cer­tain to fmd me. The funny thing is that I don't mind. I enjoy what I do and helping out wherever or whenever I can," she said. 
Zigmond, now working with agreeable support from PowerPoint, said, "I usually don't like to ask questions. I get the impression that I am annoying someone. With Emily it is differ­ent. She is always friendly, always patient." 

Christmas shopping at the Irish Express Christmas sale! All items 20/o off! 
1t 

Getting a 'face-lift' 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame Shenanigans, the University's only singing and dancing ensemble, will hold its annual Christmas Concert on Dec. 7, 1996, at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. There is no charge for admis­sion. 
The group is composed of students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. They will per­form numbers from the-'50s through the '90s, including several solo and small group songs. The concert will fea­ture traditional Christmas car­ols as well as many modern favorites. 

Thinking of doing ayear of seiVice? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: 
Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 


Thursday, December 5, 1996
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
tions feels that such a list process to attend. incidents before or during 
would encourage students to "Obviously we cannot think of Thanksgiving break. "One
Senate Thefts 
continued from page 1 
creation and revision of rules at the University. Currently, aceording to the resolution. the University solicits no opinion from students and faculty on the content of du Lac. The reso­lution calls for including faculty and students in the committee that determines the content of du Lac and for publishing the process for determining the content of du Lac in the pam­phlet itself. 
The final resolution calls for a list of services and resources to be printed in du Lac. The com­mittee that drafted the resolu­use the pamphlet more fre­quently and become more familiar with the rules and reg­ulations that it contains. 
All three resolutions passed by unanimous consent. The Senate also voted to send all three to the Campus Life Council. 
On a similar note, Mcinerney announced a meeting sometime early next semester hosted by the Judicial Council and College Democrats to address the possi­bility of creating a "Student Bill of Bights." He said that the groups have invited the heads of all campus organizations, all student leaders, and anyone else who is interested in the all the possibilities and aspects of the problem," Mcinerney said. "So any help that we can get is beneficial." 
Also at yesterday's Senate meeting, Brendan Kelly, chief of staff for student government, announced a reform committee meeting on Tuesday at 8 p.m. The committee will address reform of all campus organiza­tions. 
The Ad Hoc Committee on the Alumni Senior Club has not met as of yet. But it has planned a meeting for sometime in the next two weeks to discuss the resolution that the Senate passed concerning the Club last month. 
attempt was made, but it was continued from page 1 unsuccessful," Hodriguez said, adding that efforts will still be 
The best and most obvious made to step up security way to avoid a break-in, patrols over Christmas, when according to Williams, is to residents will likely spend a bring all belongings inside, as full month away from their locking them in the car is not apartments. always effective. "Take them Williams recommends that out, or at least hide them in residents read the Turtle the trunk," he said. Creek newsletter. "It reminds 
Williams recalled numerous students to leave a light on. so occasions on which Campus the apartments don't look View and Turtle Creek experi­vacant. enced problems simultaneous­"And please don't leave ly. Julie Hodriguez, manager of things in the car over break," Campus View, reported no he said. 
PLEASE RECYCLE THE 

Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
"The students will be able to just come pay for them and then haul them away," Lyphout said. 
Follett's networks with other college bookstores will allow the Notre Dame store to expand its inventory of used textbooks at lower prices. Lyphout said. Expanded inventories of general book titles and new music and multimedia collections also will be provided by Follett. 
"Follett will offer our faculty, students and stall' all the advan­tages of a national bookstore chain, but in a format specilkal­ly suited to Notre Dame," Beauchamp said. "We are excit­ed by the possibilities." 
Follett, based in Elmhurst, Ill., beat out other bookstore chains such as Barnes & Noble College Bookstores, which operates over 350 college stores, for the right 
'97·98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258·9996 
Appearing LIVE at the 
lMI&JD)JI~(Q)M (Q)1f~J.r1EJE IffiAJE 
402 EAST MADISON SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 288-3776 
Thursday, December S, Gizzae Friday, December 6, Duke Tumatoe Saturday, December 7, Yard Squad 
hours: Mon-Sat 3:00p.m.-3:00a.m. 
NATIONAL & REGIONAL ACTS HALF PRICE COVER WITH STUDENT ID 
SERVING EXCELLENT FOOD tilll a.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat. 
WEDNESDAYS: open mtc Jam THURSDAYS: reggae FRIDAYS: blues SATURDAYS: classic rock-alternative-retro national and regional acts 

INTERNATIONAL 
]OB SKILLS 
New professional M.A. in 
International Affairs or 
Interamerican Studies 
prepares you rapidly for 
exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 
0 public health 
0 government 
0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive 
multi-disciplinary degree 
in 12 to 15 months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details. 
GRADuATE SrnooL oF 
INTERNATIONAL SnJDIFS 
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 305-284-4173; Fax: 305-284-4406 
NewURL: 
http//www miami.edu/gsis 


OBSERVER 

Medjugorje 

November 25~ 1996 Message 
Our Lady, Queen ofPeace 
'"Dear Children: Today, again I invite you to pray, so that through prayer, 
fasting and small sacrifices you may prepare yourselves for the coming of 
Jesus. May this time, little children, he a time of grace for you. Use every 
moment and do good, for only in this way will you feel the birth of Jesus in 
your hearts. Ifwith your life you give an example and become a sign of 
God's love, joy will prevail in the hearts of men. Thank you for having 
responded to my call." 
First Saturday Devotions will be held this Saturday, December 7, in the Alu;nni Hall Chapel at 9:00AM. There will be a mass, followed by Eucharistic Adoration and recitation of the rosary. All are invited. 
For more information on Marian Apparitions and Devotions, see the Children of Mary weh page. 
to operate the Notre Dame store. 
"We looked at the financial offer of each chain," said Lyphout. "And when we looked at other stores, we looked at the proximity of their corporate offices to Notre Dame. We felt we would be better represented by Follett because of il<> proximi­ty and the relationship that we felt could develop out of that." 
While current full-time book­store staff members will remain Notre Dame employees under terms of the deal worked out between Notre Dame and Follett, all new bookstore staff members will be hired by Follett and be Follett's employees. 
The University and Follett expect that the staff will expand, particularly when the store moves to the Eck Center, just south of the Morris Inn. The new store will have nearly twice the space of the current building, and Follett will make a capital investment in the facility. The building also will house a visi­tor's center and a new head­quarters for the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Ground-breaking for the new store is scheduled for this spring. 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• FRANCE 
Clues in subway bombing point to Algerian group 
By ELAINE GANLEY 
Associated Press Writer 
PARIS 

Clue by clue, a shadowy net­work of Algerian militants emerged Wednesday as the prime suspect in a deadly Paris subway bombing. 
A gas canister. Black powder. Nails to cut flesh. All were hall­marks of a wave of bombings last year claimed by Algeria's Armed Islamic Group. All were present at the scene of Tuesday's attack, which killed two people and seriously wound­ed 35. 
The black powder mix was the same. So was the timin'g and the target: evening rush hour on a train line shuttling thousands of suburbanites to and from Paris. 
And, investigators note, 
despite dozens of arrests and 14 months of peace, an Algerian thought to be a ringleader of'the 1995 bombing wave remains at large. 
There has been no claim of responsibility for the bombing at the Port Royal station. But the evidence in hand forced investi­gators to focus on the theory that a network of Algerian radi­cals, thought to be all but deci­mated, had been reborn. 
The bombing shares "great similarities" with those of the summer of 1995, when eight people were killed and 160 were wounded, Premier Alain Juppe told lawmakers. 
Killed in Tuesday's attack were Lucien Devambez, a 41­year-old Frenchman, and an unidentified Canadian woman, French radio reported. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 

Paris Metro bomb 
Tuesday's explosion struck a suburban commuter line during the height of the rush hour. Two people are dead and dozens injured in its wake. The bomb went ott just as the train pulled into the Port Royal station. 

Medical center set Entrance to the up in nearby Port Royal university building RER station 
join a Rapidly Growing Pmfession 
According to U.S. Department of Labor statistics, occupational therapy is among the fastest growing health care professions, with the number of available positions totaling 55,000 nationally with an expected increase in nc~ positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
Study With the Health Care Team at Midwesteru University 
Midwestern University's College of Allied Health Professions offers a 30­rnonth, entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a Master of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 23 weeks of full-time clinical experience. You will work closely with sn~denrs in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of our interdisciplinary approach to therapy education. The University, which is located in Downers Grove, Illinois (a western suburb of Chicago) also administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. 
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 
Source: AP research APrrerry Kole
MESSIAH 
0 IRELAND 0 
8:00p.m. Thursday, December 12, 1996 

University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
IRSHMAN
Friday, December 13, 1996 Washington Hall 

Open to the public. Admission: $6 General; $3 Students & Senior Citizens Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 
Make a Differ·ence With ... OCCUPATIONAL TH~ERAP\' 
Improve Your Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and mental activities for individuals who are challenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and 
maintain health. 
.. 
r-----------------#----~-­
MIDWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROGRAM 
Please send me rhe following information (Check all that apply): 
0 OT Program Catalog 0 OT Program Brochure 0 Admission Application 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Undergraduate/Graduate College 
Projected Enrollment Date 
' Phone Return to Office ofAdmissions, Midwestern University; 555 31st St., Downers Grove, IL 60515 


---~--------~­
page 6 The Observer • PA:tD ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 5, 1996 
Calendar of Events 

THE ROCK STAR AS JOHN THE BAPTIST 
Power Lunch: The Spirit of Advent It was about twenty years ago, if you can believe it. An Invasion had taken place: not an inva­
Thursday, December 5 sion of aliens (though my parents thought so), but rather of a small group ofwell-armed and 12:45-1:45 pm highly vocal moptops from England. Gibson guitars in hand, their lyrics pulverized their lis­Faculty Dining Room 
teners and demanded a response. One of those guys is Mickjagger, and, well, Mick has been on my mind these last few days. 
Notre Dame Encounter 

The song was called "Satisfaction," and Mick belted it out: "I can't get no... " Perhaps you
Friday-Sunday, December 6-8 

know the rest.
Fatima Retreat Center 

This is why Mick's statement has been on my mind. For the past four days, we've watched Catechetical Institute Day news reporL~ of feasting, of folks showing up at Super Stores to buy everything from salad Saturday, December 7 shooters to stereos. There have been stories of folks showing up at stores on Friday morning, 
11:00 am-2:00 pm before even the sun was up, before their dinners were digested, ready for another frenzied NO Room, LaFortune 
feast. All through the weekend, we heard of people who could not afford to buy the things they 
Rejoice! (Black Catholic Mass) 

thought they wanted, running up outlandish bills. Buying stuff that would soon be trash. 
Saturday, December 7 

Expe1·ts went on air, cautioning people not to spend beyond their means.
4:00pm 

And if you consider the media to be a window into our behavior, then another vision is pre­
Fisher Hall Chapel 

sented, equally disturbing. For not only are we spending and consuming at an alarming Advent Lessons and Carols rate...we are just as frantic when it comes to the ways of loving. How often have you watched a Sunday, December 8 show about a sustaining, lasting, satisfying friendship? And conversely: how often have you 7:15pm been privy to a hot, passionate bedroom scene? Even in issues of love, what is held before us 
Basilica • 

is fast, groping, easily gotten, and quickly thrown away. So as our society careens toward another Christmas celebration, Mick's question screams out,
Campus Bible Study: 

like the voice of a prophet: Are we getting any satisfaction? Why do we buy, and eat, and even love, with such excess, and with so little enjoyment. In order to know satisfaction, another question needs to be raised, and it is a precarious one. How can we truly be satisfied unless WI! put ourselves in a position of incompleteness? We need to yearn! We need to wait! We need to embrace something that our entire culture 
Advent Penance Service· wants to keep as far away from us as possible: We need to hunger. 
Tuesday, December 10 

Over the years, we have devoted much energy to staying satiated-but satisfaction eludes us. 
10:00 pm 

It is because we arc afraid to be hungry. Our dance to stay away from hunger has been all­
Basilica 

"'& consuming, but we are the ones who have been consumed. We long to be satisfied, but the marketplace has only responded with shadows. We are told: "have it your way." (Can you 
Kalros: Anticipation of Feast of our 

really be satisfied with what someone else puts before you?) ''You can have it all." (This claim 
Lady of Guadalupe ·''"· 
·· 

goes for all the marbles!) And: "you can have it now." (Why wait? Why accept anyone else's
Wednesday, December 11 7:30pm timetable but your own?) Chapel of the Holy Cross But here God's message and the marketplace are at odds, and here too is precisely where 
Advent offers its gift to us. The marketplace shows us images chock full of bounty and opu­lence. God says, "I am a voice crying out in the desert!" The sounds of the marketplace are Second Sunday of frantic and grasping. But the Creator says, "Be still, and know that I am God." The market­
place says we can have it now. God says that we must wait. And waiting is precisely the gift
Advent 

that this season offers us. It is a gift not found in stores. It is a gift found in the desert, in silence, in the heart.
Weekend Presiders 

But it is not an easy gift to accept. To do this means that we enter into a vulnerable relation­
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

ship with our Maker. For what does it mean to wait? It means that we must live with yearn­ing. What does it mean to be satisfied? It means that a longed-for hunger has now been fed 
Saturday,December 7 

at its deepest level. And when we are fed on this deepest of levels, will we have the courage to 
5:00p.m. 

wait again, having tasted our hearts' desire? Herein lies the risk, a life which depends on God Rev. E. William Beauchamp, c.s.c. for true satisfaction. Advent is upon us. Maybe we envision the prophet as some bearded idiot eating bugs out in the boonies. I suppose that works. But this year for me, the prophet's voice was that of a rock Sunday,December 8 star. His screaming lyrics called me to look to the mystery of satisfying the hungry heart. Not with merchandise. Rather, with the gift of finest wheat. 
10a.m. 

Resist the frenzy that surrounds us! Risk satisfaction. 
Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
• 
Steven C. Warner
11:45 a.m. 
Campus Ministry
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this coming Sunday 
First Reading: Isaiah 40: 1-5, 9-11 Second Reading: 2 Peter 3: 8-14 Gospel: Mark 1: ·1-8 


(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Boutros-Ghali may not serve second U.N. term 
By ROBERT REID 
Associated Press Writer 
UNITED NATIONS Beaten down by unrelenting 
U.S. opposition, U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali suspended his candidacy for a second term Wednesday, opening the way for new nominees for the top 
U.N. 
post. 

U.N. 
spokesman Sylvana Foa said the 74-year-old Egyptian diplomat remains a candidate. The United States cast the lone veto against him in the 15­member Security Council on Nov. 19. 


"What he has simply done is to ask that his name not be put on the table for a second vote for the time being," Foa said. 
Western diplomats said they expected African countries to submit names of alternative African candidates to the Security Council, possibly as early as Friday. This would be followed by a series of straw polls next week to winnow out weaker candidates. 
"The council ... hopes very much that by the end of this week candidatures from African states will be forth­coming," council President Francesco Paolo Fulci told reporters. 
By remaining an official can­didate, Boutros-Ghali conceiv­ably could revive his candidacy if no one else wins broad sup­port. 
A European diplomat, speak­ing on condition of anonymity, saw the decision as a face-sav­ing move by Boutros-Ghali. 


20%-50% OFF ALL MERUIL\NDISE 
'1 ,Sale prices valid from Dec 2 through Dec 20, 1996 
('j ­
~ :<-:c------<?5>-­
----<s..~~-> 'Z~Y ~ 
• BOLIVIA 
First lady gains fans at summit 
Clinton delivers despite strain of 'complex' duties 
ByJOHN KING 
Associated Press Writer 
LAPAZ 
Hillary Rodham Clinton awoke Wednesday to a politi­cian's dream: two competing newspapers with flattering 
front-page photographs and identical headlines, in Spanish: "Hillary Steals The Summit." 
On televi­

sion and in Clinton the papers, Mrs. Clinton is treated as a celebrity abroad, applauded for her focus on women's and chil­dren's issues. That's the way it was at a conference of first ladies in Bolivia this week and during President Clinton's recent trip to Australia, the Philippines and Thailand. 
"She is, of course, the star!," a Bolivian official gushed Tuesday as Mrs. Clinton was introduced for a speech at the summit of spouses of Western Hemisphere leaders. "Hillary, Hillary!" called a La Paz woman Tuesday who fought her way through a crowd to hand the first lady a rose during her walk through a poor neighbor­hood. 
But as her husband prepares for a second term, things are hardly so simple back home. 
There, recent headlines have reflected the remarkable com­plexity of perhaps the most con­troversial first lady in history. 
She is a political power, help­ing shape her husband's sec­ond-term Cabinet and talking of perhaps taking a prominent 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
;A Student eha.m6e'l 
~eclta.l 
featuring works by Ludwig van Beethoven Johannes Brahms Benjamin Britten 
role in welfare policy. She is the protective mother, returning from Camp David over the Thanksgiving weekend to help daughter Chelsea get to ballet practice. 
She is also the worried wife, suggesting that her hoarse hus­band forgo receiving lines at the 20 White House Christmas par­ties this month to protect a fail­ing voice. And she is the subject of political whispering as the work of Whitewater grand juries intensifies and some Republicans openly predict she will be indicted. 
All this undoubtedly weighs on Mrs. Clinton, but she was in good spirits during her two-day visit to Bolivia and spoke only briefly of U.S. politics-criticiz­ing Republicans in Congress who cut funding for internation­al family planning programs. 
But Mrs. Clinton complains occasionally to friends and aides that she is misunderstood. And while she rarely talks about herself in her speeches, there is a staple line that seems to reflect Mrs. Clinton's belief that much of society underap­preciates the complexity of the working woman. 
IRISHHH 

Get involved in JPW 1997 Sophomore Committee Sign up at the LaFortune Info. Desk by December 9, 1996 
Questions? Call Matt Lynn, 4-2091 or Sue Christie, 4-4825. 
For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thow;and~ ofstudent~ the chance for agreat education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: a place to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, Holy Cross will have alimited amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with astrong liberal arts foundation, small classes and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cros.~ ha~ helped put many student~ on the road to asuccL-ssful college education. With our new resident facilities, we can serve our students even better. 
;f<, HOLY 
~~CROSS ~~COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O. Box308 Notre Dame. IN 46556-0308 (219) 239-8400 Fax (219) 233-7427 
E-Mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
Apply Now­
Interviews Begin Dec. 2 

• 8 weeks devoted to service-learning 
• $1700.00 Tuition Scholarship 
• 3 elective credits 
Applications available at the 
Center for Social Concerns from Hall Reps (names on posters) See your hall rep. for details 


Web Site: http.!!home. nazlisofl. com/ho(ycross

-l9% 


page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 5, 1996 
CIT INVOLVED! J44RI A DIFFiaiMCI! J4ARil'"OU8 VOICE HIA8D! 
Freshmen & Sophomores: here's your chance to get involved, work for campus-wide gender improvements, and even impress your SYR date! 
Join the Gender Relations Task Force 
First organizational meeting Sunday, December 8, 2:00PM 
Stop by the Student Government Office, 2nd Floor of LaFortune ~ or call1~4556 ~ 111 ~ou ra1a1r
UIIIUIIITY Ul Ncnu u~ ... lTuno•tt:ft••••.,••• 
Vetville 
continued from page 8 
while they were in the service. So suddenly we had 500 mar­ried couples here. There was no housing, there was no recre­ational facility, and they had very little money to live on." 
At that time, ofT-campus hous­ing was much too expensive for married couples living on the GI bill. This was especially the case if they had children, which most of them did. 
Something had to be done to help these men finish their undergraduate education. 
The University's solution was "Vetville." In May of 1946, the federal government dismantled 39 POW barracks and shipped them from Weingarten, Mo., to Notre Dame, to be reassembled on what is now Mod Quad. 
Although they provided rather Spartan accommodations, these barracks would go on to serve as affordable homes for poor stu­dent fathers and their families for the next 18 years. 
Memories of Vet ville 

llesburgh remembers that after he was made the first chap­lain of Vetville, a few problems had to be dealt with right away. 
One was that these poor cou­ples could not alford any recre­ational activities. "They had no way of even getting out to the movies, they had so little money," he said. 
llesburgh went to Washington, D.C., to try to obtain some sort of temporary facility from the fed­eral government that could be used for recreation. He managed to bring back "a temporary chapel from an army camp. We turned it into a recreational, communal building. We put on a dance party every Saturday 
night. For 25 cents, a couple 
could come and dance. We even 
put together a student band." 
Gradually, Vetville began to flourish as a part of the Notre Dame family that became a tiny community in its own right. Over 100 college families lived there each year. 
The residents of Vetville elect­
ed their own mayor, conducted 
town meetings, and even pub­
lished their own weekly newspa­
per, the "Vet Gazette." 

"It's one of the most interesting projects I was ever in," Hesburgh said, "because we had never had married students at Notre Dame until the end of the war. We had a very close knit community that really had a lot of fun, and we made friendships that have lasted to this day." 
"Many Were the Trials" 
Money was always scarce for the undergraduate fathers of families in Vetville. Despite the fact that rent there was a mere $27 per month, these men would often be forced to work long hours at jobs in town to cover their tuition, while at the same time attending classes, studying, and raising their children. 
With all their work, money was still so tight that most could not afford even the simple com­forts of a home. "The apartments were very simple," Hesburgh said. "They didn't have any luxu­ries." Each barracks housed three single family apartments. The walls were so thin, Hesburgh said, that "you could hear someone change their mind in the next room." 
Professor Ralph Mcinerny of the philosophy department, who moved into Vetville with his fam­ily in 1955, remembers that the cold was often a problem for couples with young children. "The units were freezing cold," he said. "They were heated with 
space heaters. You wouldn't 
believe how simple life was 
then." · 
The apartments were sparsely furnished with second hand chairs, tables, and beds, affec­tionately referred to as "early marriage decorum." 
The "early marriage" meals more often than not consisted of nothing but hamburger meat, since not much else was within the family budget. Over the years, hundreds of recipes for disguising hamburger came out of Vetville. 
Family Life 
The families of Vetville were steeped in loyalty, with every member being forced by the cir­cumstances to sacrifice for the good of the whole family. The "college wives" of Vetville were noted for their heroism in this respect. Husbands and wives became great teams, as the plaque on Mod Quad states, in the struggle "to persevere." 
The women often had to take full time work in South Bend to help finance the education of their husbands. Many of them already had college degrees, but chose to sacrifice their time and energy for their families. If asked, they would often say, in the slang of the day, that they were working for their "Ph.T." degree -short for "Putting him Through." 

All the adversity of life in body of only 4,000, was like Vetville truly brought families being among family despite all of closer to each other. In his 1962 the difficulties of life in Vet ville. letter to all of the past inhabi­After the University Village on tants of Vetville, Hesburgh said U.S. 31 was built in 1961, that through all of the hardships Vetville was finally destroyed. they experienced, only one mari­Its worn out barracks were bull­tal separation ever occurred dozed and burned to make way among the families of Vetville, for the construction of the new and that one was in a case of Memorial Library, which later mental illness. was given Hesburgh's name. 
Despite their poverty and the Many of the former residents fact that they were overworked, of Vetville would probably the married couples of Vetville rather not live there again. Still, did not hesitate to have children. they will look back happily on There were 106 babies born in their tough days in this relic of Vetville during the 1946-47 Notre Dame history. school year, and the birth rate Hesburgh wrote in 1962, increased in later years. "When "The greatest lesson of all is you looked up and down the how happy they were in their street," Mcinerny said, "you early days, when they had no would see all these kids tumbling money and were faced with all over the place." many sacrifices. They were 
He remembers that living on happier then than they'll ever campus, in the midst of a student be again." 
wwwwwwwwwwwww~~ww~~w~ww~~~w~w 
w w 
w "As You Wish" w 
~ Imports : 
w 
'it' Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry,
'it' 
w Accessories, and Much More! 


W Guatemala • Bali • Mexico • Brazil • ~ w Thailand • India • Ecuador w 'it' INCREDIBLE PRICES! w 
w GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! w W Unbelievable Bargain Corner! <93 W •Proceeds from this corner help send W W 6 Guatemalan children to school. W W Other Donations Greatly Appreciated ~ <93 Lafortune-Room 108, Dec. 2-7 (Sat) 10-5pm ~ 'it' St. Mary's LeMans Lobby, Dec. 10-13, 10-5pm w 
~wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww~ww~ww~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 



NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2)9) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 

CAMPAIGN 
MD~fD UK£.TO KICKO'i=F 

Managing Editors Business Manager 
0\JR FUND-PA!Sit-\G EFFORT

Patricia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
WITH A$1,CXX> A PLATE

FINANCE:
News Editor ....................... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan 
DINNER IN YOUR HONOR

Viewpoint Editor................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor .....Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop 
St:NATOR... ' 

Accent Editor.... . .......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.... . ......................... Tyler Weber 
REFORM 
Photo Editor ...... . .......... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the s[Udents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does noc necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objecdvely as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhc Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Vicwpoim Ediror, Accem Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Edicor. 
PAC
Commenraries, lcners and Jnside Columns presenr rhe views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available co all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief M:maging Ediror/Viewpoinl Sports News/Photo Accenr/Sainr Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• EDITORIAL 
Go. Irish to a bowl game 
Saturday's loss to USC knocked Notre Dame out of a high-paying Alliance bowl. . It also co~­firmed that the 1996 Irish were consistently inconsistent, Such a team does not deserve to go to •• a top bowl game. But they definitely deserve to go to some bowL . . . .. . •. . 
But as it stands right now, they're not going anywhere. Not only is that wrong. but it is also obnoxious. 
The decision has again painted Notre Dame as "holier-thaJl-thpu."The pompous tone,.Qf Athletic Director Michael Wadsworth in explaining why the Irish will be home for the holidays is unnecessary. · .· .· •• 
"Going to a bowl simply because it would be an attractive phi.C~ to spend~ week~quldnot]:>~ the reason (to go)," said Wadsworth; "The (players and coaches) are not looking for a week on ··• a beaeh somewhere. They're looking for a real opportunity." 
Well, the real opportunities presented to theIrish, The IndependenceBowl in Shreveport. l.a. and the Copper Bowl in Tucson, Ariz. (both, very much wanted ND) hardly resembled the type of vaeation Wadsworth seemed afraid of. Yet he declined both. 
"If the fopposing team) that is offered is ranked no higher than we are orunranked•. l wouldn't see that as an opportunity to advance our program," he said. · Notre Dame has suffered 11 los.ses in the past three years, five ()f which were big Upsets. At this point, Notre Dame is in no position to judgewho could adva.n.c.e thei:t program. No wil'l, 
especially against a team like would..:be Independence Bowl opponent Auburn could hurt a pro-· gram. it could only "advance" it; 
Possibly the biggest benefit of the bo;vl is. the extra time th~ tea:m wlll be. allowed to pr{lctice. · The NCAA places tight restrictions on practice time leading up to next fall but allows a squad~o practice for a bowl game. Thus, coach Bob Davie and the Irish should want to get as much tiille as possible. Playing in a bowl allows that. Staying.home does not. . ..••• . . ...• .. 
Practice is great but when playing against another school in front of 50,000 people, greater strides are made. Also, this team needs confidence that they can win the close game. some~ thing they failed to do in 1996. A bowl match-up will provide.another attempt tp do so
7
Granted. this a tremendous time of adjustment for the staffand they need to have theiratte}l­tion totally focused on 1997. Also, the school will not earn substantial revenue, and· may actu• ally lose s bit of money if they were.to go to a smaller bowl. li?\V~.ve,r.• there are nu,merouspq$~~ •·· tive that outweigh those negatives. . . · '!""· .·• ·> ··· . . ··· · ·.. ·•••··· .•...• 
The issue of being able to focus on recruiting has been raised but the ·lrish have playediti·•·••· bowl games for the past nineyears and have managed to recrujtju,~t(me,.}Jn.fact; bowlga@e . help the recruiting process in that they provide more exposure tot1reprogr~ Exposureis not
7
something Notre Dame really has to worry about but another game in the South should b¢'WeJ~ corned with open arms. Thelndependence Bowl, in partkular,.~Qll.l<t~:vethe Iris:q. ex:po!;inrein a state. Louisiana, which is a hot bed oftalent. This would be even mor{l I1ece~sary in a year in which Dave Roberts, Notre Dame's best recruiter and point rnan ofLouisiana recruiting opera.: tions, is likely to move on to a head coaching job.. . . . < •lk.:ii•; .. ·r.!ii , •. .· . • •i•( . 
And though he will not publicly admit, Lou Holtz surely does not want to end his ND career ~th the .disappointment of a loss. The administrators andplaji~rsshoilldt.ryto send 
hlnf wtth a wm. . . . . . ·. •. . . . •... Aii>.'iiy .·.·. ·'oil 
A very curious aspect of the decision is the feeling of t:q.e.I?.··· ....··.. . .•·. hei~ input fiito th · sion process has not been discussed atgreat length, aga,tn raising :the qu~stion ofjtist important in college football. .. . . · . ..· )·" H .) ..... . i ; [!Hilli!® .·••·...·· .· ..·.·•·•. 
If their opinions did play a role, it was mostly in. support of.t:q.~ c1loi£e tp decline the . • ......•....... tions. This, too, seems problematic: Sure, it would be a lot nieer tqbe playing Florida or Pe~n State in sunny Miami or Tempe•.but thi:ly decided their fate. 'fhey shouldacci:lpt thatJate ap(l line-up one more time in 1996. Having little desire to play another game indicates that a tru,e love for the game may not quite be as strong as it needs to be; Maybe thislack ofpassion can explain why the team is in the position that made such a bad decisio.t) nece!l.sary. 
--=''!?'/, 
Reasons for Notre Dame to go to a bowl game 
Dear Editor: 
Well, Mr. Wadsworth, you've managed to upset a lot of people. You've taken a team once labeled as Holtz's "best returning team on paper" and sent them home for the holidays without a bowl game. Why? Because going to a second-tier bowl would not "contribute to the advancement of Notre Dame's program." Sorry, Mr. Wadsworth, but I believe you've overlooked a lot of reasons TO go. So I thought I'd help you out a little: 
-Sportsmanship. Isn't "sport" the true purpose of playing? Isn't Notre Dame football supposed to epitomize all of college football? 
-Image. I don't know about you, but turning down a bowl game con­veys an arrogance that certainly is not in tune with the spirit of Notre Dame. 
-Another Chance ... to prove ourselves in a bowl game. Last time I checked, we lost our last two bowl games. Why not give our team this opportunity to compete and win? 
-The Seniors. Sure, the team made mistakes at USC. Give the seniors on the team one last chance to go our with their heads and helmets up! 
-The Fans. Come on, how can you cancel the largest, most visible, and most enjoyable event for Notre Dame? Alumni and fans want to see Notre Dame compete in a bowl game. You know that. 
-The Band and the Cheerleaders. The bowl game is the culmination of thousands of man-hours and hard work for these groups. In the Band's case, you only send them to one away game per year (USC sends their band to every game), snub half the Band on the trip to Ireland while cramming those who went in hotels, and now they're staying home for the holidays. 
-Lou. Sure, one loss at the end of the season doesn't tarnish Holtz's career, but it sure does leave a stigma on it. Let's let Lou go out a winner! 
-An 8-3 Record. As Dylan Barmmer said in his well-written article, "second tier teams deserve second-tier bowl games." Sorry, but it's true that we belong in a Copper or Independence bowl. As flawed as the Alliance system is, that's how it works. These bowls will never match nationat championship contenders, but they are for teams with honorable records who deserve a post-season bowl. 
So I ask you to give us a bowl game, Mr. Wadsworth. As someone recently said, "It's just the right thing to do." 
JEFF CATALINA Fifth year senior 
Ofl~Campus 
• DOONESBURY 
ORAL-AR6U­WHATAN !rl£3NT5~ 71-fAT APPALLING 5()(J\I/?!3 50I<T COMMENT,
oroesaNe YOUN6 AU 8Yrrst:V.1 MAN1 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
IT15PR£C!St/.Y THATKIN/? CF 077/3R.I115RESP!CTAN/1INCIV!t/TY THIVHA~~PU8UCSe!?v'IC£ 
50 /NH05PITAEJL./3 fOR.P&OP/..& 
P/HO GiWIJINUYP/ANT?VMA!<& 
A PIFftRBNCEINGOt!CI?NMtwT/ 
• llUOTE OF THE DAY 
"show me a good and gracious loser and I'll show you a failure." 
-Knute Rockne 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
• Goo 'N' LIFE 
Forgiving for your health 
"Do not let the sun set on your anger." 
Many people have heard or seen this old proverb somewhere. I've even seen it fn old romantic movies. displayed as a plaque on a bedroom wall. It is an admonition not just to those who are intimately involved, but for all human beings whose tempers flare for whntev-
Julie Ferarro 

er reason. 
Though considered "religious" in nature, i.e. that anger is against God's law, there is also an aspect of this proverb that is health-related. When someone gets angry, the heart beats faster and blood pressure rises. Muscles tense and breathing rate increases. In other words. the body becomes like a time bomb waiting to explode. If the anger is prolonged or trans­formed into a desire for r()venge, the damage to eertain vital body organs could be permanent. 
The idea of forgiveness follows this thread. By forgiving "those who trespass against us," we ease th<' pressure placed on our heart by angry outbursts. Such a "letting go" reduces the stress on our nervous system. Only after being reconeiiBd to the porson or people with whom we were angry can we truly relax. And, taking it one step furthet·, relaxation is essential to sleeping soundly. Slet)p is, again, essential to good health. While the cycle of anger is unhealthy, the cycle of forgiveness is refresh­ing, spiritually and physically renewing. 
To say the least, forgiveness is also rewarding for those who are married or in intimate rela­tionshipS:, or in a family setting. The joy of a forgiving hug, the peace that a genuine smile brings are expressions of love that encourage the process "forgive and forget." 
Forgetting is an important aspect of forgive­ness. My mother (God rest her soul) seemed to be able to remember everything I ever did wrong as a kid, and would remind me about the episodes years later. To let sour memories fester for extended periods can only take a heavy toll on one's mental health. Psychologists have proven that the only way to "move on" with life is to "let go" of the past; This is the same thing Jesus said in the Gospels when he warned his disciples that today has enough troubles of its pwn. We cannot change what has happened: we can only learn from events and try to do better. 
Especially in the area of anger. It may be helpful to spend a little time reflecting on what gets us "ticked off.'' If we understand what annoys . us, we can work toward lessening our sensitivity. That way, we may get angry less 
often. ·· · ·· What I am not advocating is never expressing anger at all. Anger is an emotion -albeit a negative one -and pent-up negative emotions can be just as unhealthy as any overblown emotion. Moderation can be a watchword, and following through with forgiveness and forget­ting is crucial. · And, in those moments when we enjoy the sunset and end of the day, let us forgive one another from the heart, and thank God for the chance to have a restful sleep. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary at the Friemann Life Science Center. 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 
• lETTER To THE EDITOR 
Fighting Irish spirit will persevere at ND 
Dear Editor: 

I resisted the temptation to write about the "Lou alTair," but the two letters in The Observer (Nov. 26 edition) prompted me to write. This is not as much against Lou as at the way the whole affair was handled and blown out of proportion. 
Lou was a good coach and one of the best, but if one says, as thn two letters implied, that "NO may never find a replacement for Lou Holtz," one is underestimating the lighting spirit of Irish foot­ball, as well as the potential of other great coaehf$. 
What I also did not like was the way Lou handled his msigna­tion. If he had decided to resign, and knew he was leaving, why turn it into a charade; one day feigning indeeision, and the next day resignation, causing media speeulation and frnnzy. and then blaming the media for that! He knew it would come as a shock to NO fans and the media alike. lie owed it to his fans and support­ers to be more forthright about his decision. 
If he wanted to leave, for whatever reason(s), why not? It was his deeision. He couldn't be here forever. Eleven years is a long time for someone to prove himself. 
Let someone else step in and take his place, and lead ND to vic­tories. I'm sure Bob Davie would be as great a eoaeh, and bring as many vietories. 
It would be appropriate to close with a quotation from Eedesiastes: "One generation passeth away, and anotlwr genera­tion eometh; but the earth abideth forever ...Tho sun also ariseth ... " 
Good-bye, Lou, Welcome, Bob! 
NORMAN SAITAR 
Graduate Student 
Government 

• WHEN PIGS FLY 
Better things to do at Notre Dame than football 
The end is here. At least I think it is. 
I will never undnrstand football. It's not for lack of trying; I aetually spent a year in high school as a eheerleader (and evnryone who knows me well enough to conjure up the mental pieture of me saying something like "rah!" ean stop laughing now). trying desperately to understand the rules of the game. I 

Bernadette Pampuch 
have vague memories of standing in sub-zero weather in a very, very short skirt wondering if the elock was ever going to wind down and basketball sea­son start. 
I admit there was a time when I aetu­ally understood concepts like "offense," "defense," and "first and ten." If pushed, I could give you a eheer for "offense," but not a definition. I remember specifi­cally that it goes something like this: "Offense! Offense! 0-F-F-E-N-S-E!" (Hepeat three times}. I think we did it when our football team had the ball. Or maybe it was when the other team had the ball. 
The point being, I don't know. Mostly I just followed the other eheerleaders because I was seared to death that I was going to start an "0-F-F-E-N-S-E" cheer when it was supposed to be "D-E-F-E-N­S-E," whieh is the eheerleading equiva­lent of scoring a touchdown for the other team. 
That was about live years ago. Today I have traded in the cheerleading uniform for a pair of sweats and a bowl of pret­zels next to the television on Saturday afternoons. That doesn't necessarily mean I'm watching football. For the last few years I've spent my weekends either making good use of my Video Watch card or (gasp!) studying in front of the TV with one eye on whatever isn't foot­ball (usually golf, even worse) and another on my books. I have never regretted my decision. 
There aetually was a time when I attended football games, way back in freshman year. The first game, after three hours of standing up in a space conveniently as large as a mailing tube stood on end, a demon in the form of an abnormally large, drunken freshman decided to pass me to the top of the stands. I froze, hoping his eyesight (mueh like a dinosaur} was based on movement and that if I stood very, very still. slouching in order to look like I weighed much more than I actually did, he would pass me up for someone skin­nier. He did, and the girl next to me was halfway up to the nosebleed section before I breathed again. 
After that, I learned to eope with hat­ing football. The proceeds from my foot­ball tickets financed not only my text­book purchases every year (Attention University offieials: I was able to do this because: 1. textbooks on eampus are so fairly, cheaply priced that 2. my football tickets, sold at legal face value, were able to adequately cover them) but also several shopping trips to University Park Mall. During the whole Florida State fiaseo of '93, I watched part of the game in the eleetronies department of Sears. 
It's not that I don't appreciate being part of such a football-dominated com­munity. I think everyone should have some sort of cause to rally behind. And on the plus side, it's given me hours of entertainment and insight into abnormal human behavior patterns and fashion nightmares. Case in point: Alumni foot­ball fans. 
There are some good things about being a football-hater: Hours of spare time on the weekends. The computer labs are always free on Saturdays. Extra pocket money. Never fighting for the washer or dryer. But it's hard, too. The down side is that I am continually mocked either for not liking football or for not understanding basic concepts when I ask simple questions like "Is Ohio State a good team'?" My father has threatened to disown me every year. 

Last Saturday night, I watehed what will probably be my last football game at Notre Dame. Against my better judge­ment I was trapped in a Castle Point apartment for four hours trying to think of something better to do (Sorry, Yolanda. Sorry, Ana Belis). I ate pizza. I read a magazine. I called some friends. I did all of this by stepping over the bod­ies of the twelve or so people spread out on the floor, couch and chairs with their eyes locked in that sort of deer-caught­in-the-headlights-stare with the televi­sion. 
To be fair, I went willingly. I thought that somewhere down the road I would probably regret not having seen the last football game with Lou Holtz if I didn't, and at the very least I would get some pizza if everything else went wrong. I had more fun quietly planning my schedule for next semester in my head and trying to decide if my senior comp would have footnotes or endnotes than watching the game. It's just that I admit that football is not for me. 
I'm not completely useless when it comes to sports; I can quote you the entire line-up of the LA Galaxy soccer team, the reigning U.S. gymnastics champion, and knock a softball farther than almost anyone you've ever seen. But· football is beyond my grasp. I beg your forgiveness. 
But it's all over now. "End of an Era." "Good-bye to Lou." That's what all thf\ newspapers say. Maybe. 
I think there might be one more foot­ball game. Some bowl or something. Like I said, I'm not quite sure. If it is, you can bet I'll be doing something I consider more exciting -doing laundry or maybe just reading my e-mail. .lust don't laugh at me if I'm wrong. 
Bernadette Pampuch is an English Writing major at Saint Mary's. She can be reached at pamp2029@jade.saint­marys.edu 

Thursday, December 5, 1996 page 11 
• CLASSICAL CORNER
BUSH Razorblade Suitcase 
(out of five) 
A
fter the success of Sixteen Stone. Bush was faced with the problem of how to maintain the 
Getting a 

standard of a debut album which, although for­mulaic, contained enough energy and memorable tunes to make it superior to most other works in this genre. "Everything Zen" and "Machinehead" were 
Handel on 

deservedly popular tracks, outstanding perhaps However, this album was a feeble attempt at a sequel. Throughout Razorblade Suitcase, one is left with the impression that something is absent -the extra 
'Messiah'

edge which distinguished their first album -the tracks hold up relatively well. Gavin Rossdale's voice ByJULIE BRUBAKERcontinues to project an instantly recognizable earthy 
and MICHAEL ANDERSON

quality, and his backing is as heavy and well-timed as 
Accent Mwk Crirics 

ever. "Greedy Fly," despite its crummy opening, is OJH~ of the highlights, as is "Mouth," a slow and n our final column of the semester, we would likebrooding piece well suited to Rossdale's strained to pay tribute to a masterpiece in the history ofnotes. 
I
classical music that will again find its way intoEverything else, however, is average and unin­shopping malls and orchestra halls across Americaspired. Bush has never been a band remembered for this Christmas season: Handel's "Messiah." 

its lyrics. llere they live up to their reputation; their Famous for its ''Hallelujah'' chorus, the "Messiah"greatest problem is that they are very low on the also contains the well-known "For Unto Us A Child Isscale of originality both lyrically and musically, and Born" and "And The Glory of The Lord." Amongwhen faced with the pressures of following a big 
many others, these three choruses have become

album their resort to standard techniques is both associated with the Christmas season.
expected and disappointing. 
In the words of Dr. Charles Burney, &n 18th centu­Bush really wants to be American, but isn't. Its rY music historian, George Frideric Handel's orato­respect for the Nirvana sound is deep, but they lack rio, "Messiah," has "fed the naked, fostered thethe skill and creativity to fully reach the levels set by 

orphan, and enriched succeeding managers of

tlwir American counterparts. This is the main reason 
Oratories more. than any other.single musical pro­duction in this or any other century." Written in 1741, the Messiah has become a timeless classic:ROBERT BRADLEY'S BLACKWATER SURPRISE 
today It is performed annually in almost every city
(out of five) 
S
throughout the nation. traight from the streets of the "motor city", Handel; a late Baroque composer, wrote the Hobert Bradley's Blackwater Surprise is gear­Messiah in just 24 days-clearly an astounding feat ing up for tonight's show under the double for a piece that contains 20 choruses and over 30 dome of the JACC .. The band's mix of classic arias and recitatives, all for chamber orchestra and Motown. blues, and old fashioned Rock and Roll pro­choir. Did we mention that Handel was suffering vides a truly unique style and a nice change of pace from partial paralysis while he wrote it? lwn) at Notre Dame. Drawing from influences such as ·"Messiah" premiered in Dublin, Ireland as a chari­Creedance Clearwater Hevival, the quintet's eleven ty benefit on April 13, 1742. By this time, Handel song album is their first, but thousands have already Wa$ completely blind, yet he still conducted the per­had the chance to experience Hobert Bradley's music formance and many other performances in subse­live across the country. For more than 20 years, the quent years. blind singer has made a living passing the hat on the Though "Messiah" is generally heard at streets of Detroit and other cities around the country. Christmastime, the oratorio was written for the "I wasn't on the street because I was hungry or Easter season. It is interesting to note that the homeless," said Bradley. "I just wanted to sing." famous "Hallell.\iah Chorus" and the following sopra­
Underneath tlw raspy voice and, at times, a 1970's no solo "I Know That My Redeemer Liveth" empha­stvln funk lie inspiring messages. Bradley draws from size resurrection and redemption-oriented texts. lit'n stories of political, social and economic problems 
What we consider "Christmas classics" are actuallyin "GovPrnor." Tlw Dylanesque, "For the Night" is a Easter pieces. 

bluPsy celebration of love. On other tracks, the influ­What is it about the "Messiah'' that makes it soPncn of Otis Hedding, Marvin Gaye (both of whom are popular? Quite possibly it is the most frequently per­featured in the lyrics to "Once Upon A Time") and formed classical composition_, Handel himself began many other past Motown legends shine through the this annual tradition by directing the Messiah everyband's gritty, funky blues. Bradley kept himself fed year, adding to and revising it as he did so.
and clothed playing music as he traveled around the On hearing the "Hallelujah" chorus in Westminster country with a beat up acoustic guitar and a great by Nate Rackiewicz Abbey; the composer Franz Joseph Haydn leaped tovision. His band's debut album is a perfect mix of his feet exclaiming, "He is the master of us all." It
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••! has been customary since that time to stand for the 



By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Accent Music Critic 
I
f ever there existed a success story in the music industry, Hobert Bradley's Blackwater Surprise, who opens for the Dave Matthews Band tonight at the .Ioyce Center, is a great example. 
Five years ago, Hobert Bradley's Blackwater Surprise did not exist at all. Robert Bradley was a street musician in Detroit and his future bandmates owned and operated their own recording studio. One day, the guys were in the studio and they heard Bradley's acoustic guitar and vocal performance coming through an open window. They invited him up to the studio and recorded a few tracks of just Bradley playing his guitar and singing. 
"We recorded some acoustic demos," said drummer Jeff Fowlkes. "Then we decided that we wanted to see what it sounded like with a whole band behind it, to take it to the next level." 
It took three years to come close to achieving tangi­ble proof of that "next level." In those three years, the band slowly but surely put together its identity. 
"We would get together on open days at. the studio and play," said Fowlkes. "One day we said, 'this is happen in.·. We would go out and play live and try to piece together something for a record." 
The band got a contract to record from RCA Hecords last December to release their first album. "We went into the studio and decided which were the best songs, picked the 11 that are on the album, and there you go," Fowlkes explained. "We produced the whole thing ourselves. We wanted to do it the old way." 
Tlw album is a mix of songs that the band wrote and songs that Bradley wrote on his own. "He !Bradley! was a street singer before he joined the group," Fowlkes said. "So he had a lot of songs already and we used some of those and some of our own and sort of brought it together. But there are a lot of songs that we did not include on this record which will show up on the next one." 
The band's influences stretch across the musical spectrum like a who's who of classic rock, soul and blues. Among the artists that the band draws on for inspiration are Creedance Clearwater Revival, The Rolling Stones, Otis Redding, and contemporary bands such as The Black Crowes. "We look at every­thing from Country and Western music to Bob Dylan to The Band and beyond," explained Fowlkes. 
As for playing a live show, Fowlkes described Robert Bradley's Blackwater Surprise in concert as "the record, just electrified." He also explained what he sees as the emotional character of the band's music. "Our songs are all folk tales," he said. "We take what we have put together and then put a lot of energy into it on stage. We've all been playing a long time, but it's great to have a real classic soul singer like Robert in the band. He traveled all over the coun­try trying to play on the big level. He is an incredible person. I have even seen him send women to the rest rooms crying after a set, so the songs are touching a lot of people." 
Fowlkes spoke about the first of their eight shows on tour with the Dave Matthews Band in front of 8,000 people in Omaha, NE and of the band's desire to eventually put together a sinal! club tour. "When you look out on a crowd of that many people it looks like it may as well be 100,000," he said. "We have some small dates down in New Orleans and in Florida, then maybe we can put together a tour of clubs. Clubs are nice because they are more intimate and you can get close to the people. But that's really a light at the end of the tunnel for us." 
If fortune proceeds for them the way it has to this point, Robert Bradley's Blackwater Surprise may step out of the tunnel and into that light very soon. 
"Hallelujah" chorus -what one might call a musical 
seventh-inning str(:ltch. 
Although there are literally hundreds of "Messiah" recordings available for sale at local music stores, to appreciate the full effect of the work we recommend YOIJ. hear this great masterpiece live. A recording simply cannot do complete justice to the powerful sounds and beautiful text settings that together tell a m(lst ~;ompellingstory of Jesus. . ·.· We urgeyou to checkyour hometowns for a perfor­mance· of the "Messiah" over Christmas break. While you're still here l)n campus, the·Notre Dame Chorale 
b'i} giving two spectacular performances. of. the 
essiah at 6 p~m. ~n Dec.l2 and 13 in Washington Ha.lL Tickets may lHfpurchased at the door or at LaFortune Box Office .. It is well worth it to trudge through t11e snow.to Washington Hall on either next Thursday or Friday to hear this oratorio. Not only yvill.the Chorale featur~ many of its best soloists, the renOVVJ:ledNotr~ipame ~hamber Orchestra will add a festive touch to"the piece. Get your tickets early, though -'-• the theater will invariably sell out to stu­dents and .South Bend residents. 
Fitially; the last ofthis semester's "non~holiday" concerts, A Student Chamber Recital will take place tomorrow (Friday~ Dec. 6) afternoon at 3 p.m. in the Anrtenberg Auditorium. at the Snite Museum of Art. Adlri:ission is free' This concert will feature graduates and undergraduates performing works by Beethoven, Brahms, Britten, and Schubert 
Chainber music primarily refers to music that 
requires a minimal number of performers. 
Traditionally, it is a piano and string combination, 
small woodwind ensemble, or small. vocal ensemble. 
Originally, chamber music was performed in the 
home Qr .a small studio; its aim, therefore, is to create 
an intimate environment ofpersonal music. 
Tomorrow's Chamber Recital promises to he a 
quaint and well-executed concert. Don't miss this 
exhibition. of talentwhose music will de-stress and sootheyou into exam week. 


-
-
-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Snyder, Cooper aim for roses 
By KEN PETERS 

A.sociatcd Press Writer 
PASADENA. Calif. 

In a very small and admitted­ly very biased poll, unbeaten Arizona State was No. 1 Wednesday and given a shot at winning at least a share of the national college football title. 
The voters were Arizona Stato coach Bruce Snyder and Ohio State coach John Cooper. Their teams just happP-n to play each other in the Hose Bowl on New Yl1ar's Day. 
Snyder and Cooper said they voted tlw Sun Uevils No. 1 in the latp,st USA Today-CNN coaches' poll. Arizona State is ranked No. 2 behind undefeat­ed Florida State in both The Associated Press poll and
-
coaches' poll. with once-beaten Ohio State at No. 5. Florida State may meet No. 3 Nebraska in the Jan. 2 Sugar Bowl, although Nebraska has to beat Texas this weekend to get that bid. Nebraska's only loss this season was 19-0 at Arizona State on Sept. 21. Florida, also with one loss, is No. 4. "I've not seen anybody play better than us," Snyder said at a news conference for the Hose Bowl coaches. "There might be teams as talnntnd or more tal­ented, but this team is playing so wnll together. fits so well to­gether. "I think we're playing well enough to be national champi­ons." 
-
Cooper. who left for Ohio State one season after coaching Arizona State to its only other Rose Bowl appearance, a 22-15 victory over Michigan in the 1987 game, agreed with Snyder that the Sun Devils have a strong case for the top ranking. 
"If they win this game, they should at least share the national championship," Cooper said. "All you can do is win all your games." 
The Buckeyes all but lost their national title hopes when they were beaten 13-9 by Michigan in the final regular-season game. But Cooper made a pitch for his team remaining in contention. 
"I feel like if somebody knocks off Florida State and we're fortunate enough to win the (Hose Bowl) game, we should have a share of the national championship," Cooper said. "If that happens, there's not going to be any undefeated teams. 
"If Nebraska beats Florida State. Arizona State already beat Nebraska, and if we beat Arizona State, we deserve it as much as anybody else." 
Cooper and Snyder also agreed that it's difficult if not impossible to vault over teams in the rankings unless they lose or play poorly. 
"1 don't how you determine who's No. 1 to start the sea­son," Cooper said. He then questioned some schedule-making. 
"Some of those schools down South know how to schedule," he said. 
Although the Rose Bowl has joined the Bowl Alliance to as­sure a No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup rotating among bowls, that won't begin until after the 1998 season. 
So this year's game could mirror the Rose Bowl game of two years ago, when Penn State beat Oregon 38-20 to finish undefeated but still wound up second behind Nebraska in the final poll. 
Snyder, who said he's really not comfortable lobbying for the No. 1 spot, seemed resigned to the fact that it usually takes several successful seasons to assure a high ranking in the early polls. 
"We have not won consistent­ly over a long period and we weren't going to start very high," he said, noting that the Sun Devils were No. 20 heading into this season. 
"We did beat Washington early, then Nebraska and that sent shock waves across the country. We knew we were going to jump some, although I'm sure a lot of people thought there were still skeptics that it was just a blip." 
Snyder said he had boen asked if he would be depressed if the Sun Devils went undefeat­od and did not at least share the national championship. 
And should ASU beat the Buckeyes, Snyder will become a huge fan of Nebraska the following day. 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 
•NFL 

Mirer, Seahawks to part ways after season 
ByJIMCOUR 
Associated Pre.~s Writer 
'M KIRKlAND, Wash. 
He came to Seattle four years ago fresh from a world of success at Notre Dame, where he was Lou Holtz's star player. 
As a rookie with the Seahawks, he had his best year and was compared to a young John Elway and a young Joe Montana. 
On Sunday, an older and wiser Rick Mirer -his value diminished after two seasons of failure under coach Dennis Erickson -will play in his final home game for the Seahawks. 
"1 think I've learned a lot," Mirer said Wednesday. "Sometimes, I've done things the hard way." 
The Seahawks (5-8), losers of three in a row and 1-6 with Mirer as their starting quar­terback, will play the Buffalo Bills (9-4) in the Kingdome. They'll wind up their season with two road games this month. 
After their season ends, the Seahawks will trade Mirer, a Goshen native, to the highest bidder because John Friesz has supplanted Mirer as the franchise's No. 1 quarterback. 
Mirer, 26, is the NFL's low­est rated quarterback at 53.5 

with only three touchdown passes and 11 interceptions. 
"I just look at it like I'm playing my dues now," Mirer said. "When it works out right, then 1 know I've earned it. That's really the No. 1 goal. To get back on top where the game's a lot of fun. It's fun to play then." 
Mirer. the second player chosen in the 1993 NFL draft behind Drew Bledsoe of Washington State, was sup­posed to be the Seahawks' quarterback of the future. 
The future ran out in Week 5 this season when he threw four interceptions and lost a fumble in a 31-10 loss to Green Bay. 
Mirer was benched and Friesz was given Mirer's start­ing job for the next week against Miami. Then the Seahawks tried to trade Mlrer to Atlanta for Je!T George. 
When George balked at coming to Seattle, the trade fell through and Friesz was given a two-year contract ex­tension to become the Seahawks' starting quarter­back. 
At Notre Dame, Mirer passed for a school-record 41 touchdowns and took the Irish to three bowl games. 
Mirer is starting the Seahawks' final 11ve games of the season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

SPRINGS/FRAME. GOOD QUALI-800-213-3960. gift! !I!!!!) Sponsored by the Michiana's largest night club and TY. $20.00 OR BEST OFFER Come to the CLASS MASS on Sun.
NOTICES .......................,....................
Student Union Board newest restaurant is now seeking CALL PIERRE 273-3054 in LaFun Ballroom at 7:30.
......................................
competant, hard working individuals Aide needed from FLORIDA (I'll be •••30 SHOPPING DAYS LEFT! to fill several positions within our GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT! in W Palm, but can get to any· NOW IS THE TIME TO GUAAAN· ILOST & FOUND I growing company. Positions now Name a star tor someone special. where) to South Bend after LUCAS!! TEE THE LOWES.T RATES AND available are: Hostess. Banquet $33 Call (800)701-7201 Ext. 14 Christmas, anytime before school BEST HOTELS FOR SPRING LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED and restaurant servers, bus per-starts. Promise to entertain, share THEY'RE GONE FROM THE BREAK. LEISURE TOURS HAS STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!! sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All FOR SALE: $ and driving, and make an other· OBSERVER, BUT YOU CAN GIVE PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE. PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331. positions are ideal for students. If POOL TABLE-$300. wise boring trip most enriching! call FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI· interested, contact Heartland and DP STAIASTEPPEA-$90. Brian 287-4876 APOCALYPSE AS A PERFECT 
.......................................

DA. Lost, One engraved Zippo lighter, The Old Chicago Steakhouse at BODY BY JAKE WITH VIDEO-CHRISTMAS GIFT .... ON SALE AT 800·838-8203 Inscription reads JDT IV. 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. $50. LAFORTUNE AND HAMMES! 
$30 reward tor return, If you have CALL 272-3753 AFTER 00000000000000000000000000000 SPRING BREAK Travel Free any information please contact ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES-3:30 OR LV. MESSAGE Looking for a unique gift idea? Seniors, Seniors, Seniors Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ Job Turner at 4·1 073 TEA AND DON'T KNOW WHAT AND WILL CALL YOU BACK. Custom Color Copy Picture Hand in resumes for first week of Cancun Jamaica Bahamas TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE? Calendars are now available at spring semester interviews in Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. Found: 1 chain and charm WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Career and Placement Services by 
TICKETS
all·u-can drink daily. Don Surt & in Nieuwland Cornp lab. AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL 4-Student Center. Just bring in your 5:00p.m. on Friday, December 6, Sun (800)763-5606. Identify and claim with Calvin 4843 favorite pictures and create a mem· 1996. @4·1772 Bahamas vacation package orable calendar!!! Choose from SENIORS. SENIORS, SENIORS for two, at less than $398 actual three formats: FIN 360/361 HOTLINE
FOR RENT
HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST LOST: cost. Call Noman @277-4269. (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip We are here to help with questions 
WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER 1 Tennis Bracelet (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear-Off and problems INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND Shaped in X's and O's WALK TO CAMPUS (3) 1 Picture Full Year View. Call xt-8432 Day or Night
PERSONAL
PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 Lost between the library and Lyon's 2-3-4·5 BEDROOM HOMES 00000000000000000000000000000 
P.M. ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6. If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE 232-2595 
call JAckie @ X2900 Mail Starved Domers in lnnsbruck AIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN hey gorgeous, 20 days until Spring Break Bahamas Party 7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 crave correspondence!! NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST-Christmas and you should get her a Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full lnnrain 33 MAS-I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL ring. HINT HINT HINT Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great WANTED bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted A-6020 lnnsbruck NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND MY Beaches & Nightlife! Prices ceil, porch, furniture avail. Tirol, Austria WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO COME don't worry, t. no bad things today. Increase Soon-Save $50! spring-Looking to copy a tape of televised BEAUTIFUL! Europe OUT ON SATURDAY-PLEASE we're keeping these ads clean. breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386 Autger's game. Please call Meghan 273-2580 HELP! THANK YOU clean. clean. 
at x2474 if you taped the game. COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! Call Brian 287-4876 Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Furnished room available for '97. COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS I remember your secret Santa. you Specials! 7 Nights Air &Hotel From Have a copy of the movie Midnight $300/mo. 5-min drive. VERY COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! SENIORS, SENIORS, SENIORS don't want to show up empty hand· South Bend $419! Prices Increase Madness? I want to buy it II Call NICE! The highest quality full-color HAND IN RESUMES FOR FIRST ed next Tuesday. Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on Kevin 273-8673 232-7175. copies are now available at WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER 
Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  THE COPY SHOP  INTERVIEWS IN CAREER AND  John.  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1·800·678·6386 Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  WANTED: MALE HOUSEMATE FOR NEXT SEMESTER. ACCOMMODATION 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS. 631-5118  REGGAE D. J. 234 0705 2 &6 BDAM HOMES AVAIL NOW OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM- LaFortune Student Center Phone #631-COPY 0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center  PLACEMENT SERVICES BY 5:00 ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 6. NO WINDOW NEEDED. GAME ON, DECEMBER 28.  You're older than you've ever been and now you're even older. And now even older. And now you're even older. And now you're older still  
- Hotel, Location. Price! 7 Nights $1291 Daytona·Best Location $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring· breaktravel.com 1·800-678·6386 WOADS...TO GO Term Papers, Dissertations. Resumes. Free Pick-Up and Delivery Available. Competitive Rates. 299-7224 "FREAKED OUT" over finals? Then come see the professional lunatic -HARLEY NEWMAN Friday the 13th -December 8 P.M. · LaFortune Ballroom Only $3 to see the FREAK! HARLEY can: 'Eat Nails 'Walk on Razors "Play with Electricity "Break boards with his head  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ·Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest. or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room &Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971·3680 ext.K55843 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, &Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206·971·3620 ext. N55849 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-351 0 extA55848  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­6306 STUDENTS-FIGHT THE URGE! Campus View Apartments are dirty, smelly, and ramshackle· that pool is closed all the time, and the rent is outrageous! Do yourselves a favor and rent elsewhere; the conve­nience just isn't worth it!!! HOUSE FOR RENT, TWO BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEWLY AEMODLED-4/5 BED· ROOM, FULL BASEMENT. AVAIL· ABLE SUMMER/FALL 97'. INCLUDES APPLIANCES, MONI­TO RED SECURITY SYSTEM. FOR SALE FOAM MATTRESS AND  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am • Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am • 7:00pm Sat. Noon · 6:00pm Sun. Noon -Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, PAATJEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETTE ADOPTION IS A CHOICE OF LOVE. Choosing Adoption is an unselfish act of love. Your child will be raised to know this. Caring couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Dad is kind and gen· tie. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's talk and see if we're right for you and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­ .......................................... Come see the neato-est band .... STOMPEA BOB at Bridget's on Friday night ························*············­.......................................... Come see the neato-est band .... STOMPEA BOB at Bridget's on Friday night ........................................ ....................................... Class of 1998 Pick up your DOG BOOK, CLASS T-SHIATS, &MESH SHOATS on Sat. &Sun. from 3-5pm in 213 LaFun. (They make a great SYA  Craig, Same as what was said for John. Kim. I hope you're getting these personals because if you're not then I'll be very disappointed because you're so far away and I've taken a great deal of time to think up these great things to put in here for you so I don't want them to go unread especially if you're the one supposed to read them. By the way, hi. Don't forget about me while you're in New York . Special Bulletin: The AP Waverace poll has been suspended this week because Mac had too much work and the Ricker got too drunk after getting molested on his test.  


Thursday, December 5, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NBA ... 
Rockets' 'Dream' of victory over Celtics comes true 
the game with a 21-7 first­''I've never felt better or had quarter run, but they could as much fun as I have this sea­never bury the Hawks. Detroit son," said Malone, who sat out led by as many 10 points, but the fourth quarter as the Jazz Atlanta actually took a 44-43 coasted to their second win lead late in the second before over the Lakers in two weeks. the Pistons pulled back into a "We executed and played well, 52-4 7 halftime lead. and everyone was ready to 
The Hawks scored the first play. But I like it that no one is eight points of the fourth quar­getting too hyped after a big ter, six by Christian Laettner, to win." take a 79-73 lead with 9:11 to The Jazz halted the Lakers' go. three-game winning streak and 
But the Pistons came back held them to tbeir lowest point with a 7-0 run of their own, total of the season. and regained the lead on a 3-John Stockton scored 18, in­pointer by Mills with 7:10 left. cluding four 3-pointers, and 
Atlanta continued to hang Jeff Hornacek added 13 as Utah close, but Mills hit three more closed within two victories of 3-pointers to fend them off, and the franchise record of 14 Detroit pulled away in the last straight wins in 1995. two minutes. Shaquille O'Neal scored 21 
points and Elden Campbell Jazz 101, Lakers 75 added 12 for the Lakers, who -·· fell behind early in the second SALT LAKE CITY quarter and never recovered. Karl Malone is enjoying him­Stockton had three of his 3­self like never before. pointers and a 2-pointer in a 
Malone scored 26 points, 13-2 run that broke a 24-24 tie including 17 in the third quar­and put Utah ahead for good. ter, as the Utah Jazz clobbered The Jazz led by at least 10 the Los Angeles Lakers 101-75 points the rest of the way. Wednesday night for their 12th Utah's largest lead was 31 straight win. points, 87-56 with 9:11 to play. 
Information Meeting 

Dec. 5th (Thurs.), 7:30 PM 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
-

African American & Hispanic 
Leadership Intern Program (LIP) Summer of 1997 
$2200.00 for 10 week program Three elective Theology credits 
St. Procopius 
St. Agatha Chicago Chicago and more and more 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I CaII 234·0363 273·8986 (24hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 


By MICHAEL GRACZYK 
Associated Press Writer 
HOUSTON 

Charles Barkley scored 19 points and grabbed 27 rebounds as the Houston !lockets, bolstered by the return of Hakeem Olajuwon l'rom a heart problem, held off the Boston Celtics 94-89 Wednesday night. 
Olajuwon, returning after missing Monday's loss at Toronto due to a second episode of an irregular heart­beat in two weeks, played 40 minutes and had 16 points, five blocked shots and seven rebounds along with one steal and three assists as Houston 
·-.... --........................ --..... ·· ........................................ -· .... 

I 

Exceeding your expectations: 
Join Deloitte & Touche representatives from across the country to discuss summer opportunities and your career. 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 

5:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Center for Continuing Education 
Deloitte& Touche uP
Casual Attire 

0 
improved to 16-2. 
Barkley, who entered the game as the No. 2 rebounder in the NBA with 15.7 per game average, added seven assists and three steals. 
After Eric Williams scored with 6:51 left to give Boston an 87-86 lead, Houston's defense allowed only one more bucket. 
The Rockets, meanwhile, with Barkley dominating the boards, made six of eight free throws in the closing minutes to send Boston to its fourth straight loss. 
The Celtics, paced by Rick Fox's 18 points, have yet to win in six road games this year. Boston, which lost by 24 points to the Rockets six days ago at home, kept it closer this time. 

Boston trailed 79-72 but started the final period with a 13-4 run -including five points from Todd Day -for an 85-83 lead with 7:49 to go. Houston's defense then took over, allowing the Rockets to come back from a fourth-quar­ter deficit for the ninth time in their 16 wins. 
Houston's victory also allowed it to sweep the season series with the Celtics for the first time in the 29-year history of the Rockets franchise. 
Pistons 100, Hawks 90 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. Terry Mills scored 14 of his season-high 25 points in the 
: fourth quarter to lead the 
: Detroit Pistons to a 100-90 vic­: tory over the Atlanta Hawks on , Wednesday night. : Detroit also got 22 points, 11 ' rebounds and eight assists from : Grant Hill, as well as 22 points : from Joe Dumars. Mookie : Blaylock led the Hawks with 21 , points, and Steve Smith added : ,18. 
•  The Pistons took control of  
111 CONNECTICUT 1m) ND1998 CONSTITUTION STATE  
••  THE 98 SHIRT $10 ON SALE NOW  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 
Service academies square off 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

The football offices at the Naval Academy are on the sec­ond floor of Ricketts Hall, where the walls are lined with team photos of various Navy teams over the last few decades. 
The selection process is sim­ple -the only squads that war­rant a space on the wall are ones that beat Army. Only the score of the Army-Navy game is printed underneath the picture. 
As if anything else matters. 

It's Army-Navy week, where the records and bowl implica­tions have rarely been a factor since the series began in 1890. This time, though, the winner
--Saturday goes to the lndependenee Bowl, captures the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy and perhaps gets to en­joy a postgame visit from President Clinton. 
pitch. It's Army-Navy, and that's all the incentive any play­er needs. 
"To almost everybody, this is the most important game of the season, whether both teams are 10-0 or 0-10," Navy quarter­back Chris McCoy said Wednesday. 
"It's a big game, no question. It would be big even we were both winless," senior fullback Omar Nelson said. 
The Army-Navy game always draws a huge crowd and a na­tional television audience, even back in the years when both teams had difficulty beating Division 1-AA teams. This sea­son, however, Army (9-1) and Navy (8-2) are worthy of atten­tion because of how well each team has performed. 
The only flaw on Army's schedule is a loss at Syracuse, while Navy has fallen only to Boston College and Notre Dame. Because both teams beat Air Force, the winner Saturday ally to the team with the best record in games involving the service academies. 
Navy is in position to win the trophy for the first time since 1981. Army last won it in 1988. 
The Midshipmen are already assured of its best season since the 1981 team went 7-4-1 under George Welsh and played Ohio State in the Liberty Bowl. But it won't mean much-and there won't be a picture on the wall -if Navy isn't victorious Saturday. 
The Midshipmen missed a chance at a winning season last year when Army drove 99 yards in the closing minutes to pull out a 14-13 victory, the Cadets' fourth straight in the series. 
"We're a better team than we were then," Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie said. "This team knows how to win close games and knows how to come from behind. We're more mature. And I think the players are 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 

ning the Commander-in-Chiefs Navy has won the last five Trophy." games in which the president 
Clinton will be the first U.S. was in attendance, and the president to attend the game Midshipmen arc hoping to keep since Gerald Ford in 1974. that streak intact. 

Every Thursday All-You-Can-Eat Pizza &Pasta for $5.00 • 6:00 p.m.• 8:30 p.m. • 

• 
Over 36 years of MCAT experience 


• 
The perfect balance of content 1-800-KAP-TEST and strategy www.kaplan.com 


• , ?, I If • • o C,. <I' a • • 1/1 , -• • 1 • '. , • • • p I I f" .7 • • • El l' ~ I-~ • J • _. ,. 
~ -----~------------------­
-~-------~-~~~-~-------­
page 15

Thursday, December 5, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
ADVERTISEMENT 
VDLUMI 2, NUMBIR 3 


tl 
DOING IT ••• Karen Schulte is commiHed to helping 
people in need. And she's willing to sweat to prove it. Schulte has participated in a half-dozen marathons and several triathlons. Her athletic life is intertwined with her spiritual one; Schulte ran her most recent marathon in order to benefit the Holy Family Catholic Worker House, a homeless shelter for South Bend families. Schulte would like to get involved with counseling after she graduates from Notre Dame this spring. Specifically, she would like to enter the field of prison ministry. Schulte once lived at a local halfway house for an entire year to help people who were recently released from prison get re-acclimated to the world. 
CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: TIMOTHY S. MCCONN, JUNIOR 
DICIMBIR 1998 


5 
My name is Colleen 
Henshaw, and I'm NIKE's student rep at the 
I 
University of Notre Dame. D It's my job to make cool things happen on campus,
E 
including this SportsPage,L so if you want to see 
I  S41tmething that's not here, let me know.  
N  Use my e-mail address: colleen.henshaw@nike.com. • •  
E  If you want to talk to NIKE HQ directly,  
s  use: sports.page@nike.com.  
Sport your favorite NIKE duds during crunch  

time in the library, and I just might have something to ease your stress ... Also keep an eye peeled for alternative ways to beat the final exam blues. 
TOE THE LINE 
If you find running to be a little too lonely for your liking, you are not alone-at least you won't be when you loin me for a group run. We're talking a decent jog here. No marathons. No sprinting to the finish. Just some healthy exercise-and good company. Join me on the steps 
of the Administration Building 
Wednesdays at 4:30 
p.m. (except during fmals and break). 

GOOD LUCK ON EXAMS AND ENJOY THE BREAK! 

1 
2 
3 
MEN'S BASKETBALL/¥ 
VS. INDIANA JACC. 7:00 PM 
WOMEN'S IASKDBALL/V 
VS. WISCONSIN JACC. 7:00PM 
MEN'S IASKITBALL/V 
VS. NEW HAMPSHIRE JACC 7:30PM 

4 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL/¥ 
NCAA FIRST ROUND 
NIKE RUN 
ADMIN. BUILDING 4:30PM 
11 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL/¥ 
VS. INDIANA JACC, 7:00PM 
NIKE RUN 
ADMIN. BUILDING 4:30PM (RESUMES IN JANUARY) 
15 
16 
17 

18 
5 WOMEN'S IASKETBALL/V 
AT PURDUE 7:30PM 
6 HOCKEY/V 

AT MICHIGAN STATE 7:00PM 
1 

WOMEN'S VOLUYBALL/V 
NCAA REGIONALS 
19 
WOMEN'S VOLUYBALL 
NCAA FINAL FOUR CLEVELAND, OHIO 
20 
7 
MEN'S BASKETBALL/¥ HOCKEY/V AT PROVIDENCE VS. ALASKA-FAIRBANKS 4:00PM 7:00PM WOMEN'S WOMEN'S IASKITBALL/V VOLLEYBALL/¥ VS. PROVIDENCE NCAA SECOND ROUND JACC, 1:00PM 
14 
MEN'S IASKETBALL/V AT KENTUCKY 8:00PM 
MIN'S IASKETBALL/V 
VS. LOYOLA (MD) JACC. 2:00 PM 
WOMEN'S IASKETBALL/V AT VALPARAISO 2:05PM 
23 
24 

25 
26 
27 
HOCKEY/V 
AT PRINCETON 4:00PM 
IOWLING/C 
AT 24TH ANNUAL LAS VEGAS INVITATIONAL LAS VEGAS, NV 

HOCKIY/V AT PRINCETON  MEN'S BASKETBALL/¥  In creating this SponsPage, NIKE has made every effort to accurately present the time and location  
2:00PM  AT LOYOLA (CHICAGO)  
IOWLING/C  ROSEMONT HORIZON  for upcoming athletic events on campus. We regret any schedule changes or mistakes. If your club or  
AT SAMS TOWN SHOOTOUT  7:00PM  
LAS VEGAS, NV  intramural sport wasn't covered, let your NIKE student rep know and we'll try again next month.  

Y:Yaralty I C:Ciub I !:Intramural 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPOF!TSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP
. 


-~---~ 

,_.----------~-~--------------,----~ -­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 5, 1996 
... 
• HOCKEY 

leers swept in holiday action 
By CHARLEY GATES Dusbabek cut the lead to 3-2. Four minutes later, just at the Sports Writ~r Urick's goal came after a cross­end of a 3-on-3 situation, ice pass from sophomore Cotnoir whipped a slapshot The Notre Dame hockey team Aniket Dhadphale on a 2-on-1 from the right point past suffered through a tough break from the Laker blueline. S~odsinski. FSU tied the game Thanksgiving weekend, drop­Ninety-five seconds later, with a pair of goals in the sec­ping three straight Central Dusbabek took a perfectly­ond period. Sophomore right Collegiate Hockey Association timed pass from sophomore de­wing Ed Kowalski converted on games. Notre Dame (4-8-1 fenseman Benoit Cotnoir and a powerplay, taking a centering overall. 3-6-1 CCHA} is now tied beat Grahame. Dusbabek leads pass from behind the net and with Western Michigan and the team in goal-scoring with blasting a shot past sophomore Bowling Green for sixth place seven. goaltender Forrest Karr. Five in the CCHA standings. Shortly after both teams minutes later, FSU freshman 
On Tuesday, Nov. 26, the returned to full strength follow­winger Brian McCullough Lake Superior State Lakers ing penalty, Sessa stole the scored following a turnover by handed the Irish a tough, 4-3 puck at the right wing boards, Notre Dame in their own zone. loss at the Joyce Center. skated in on Eisler, and put a Freshman center Brent !.akers' sophomore Jason Sessa shot just beneath the crossbar Wishart scored the game-win­
scored the game-winner with to give the Lakers the victory. ner at the 13:04 mark of the 10 minutes left in the third "There is always the tendency third period, shooting a low period, just moments after the to let down with five minutes of shot from the left circle that ric­Lakers had killed off a five­powerplay," averred Poulin, ocheted past Karr for the 3-2 minute major penalty. "but I told them that the first FSU lead. 
.Notre Dame dominated the minute should be the best of FSU continued their domina­first period, which has been the game and that every one tion of Notre Dame this season one of the team's goals. They after that should get better." the following night when they outshot the Lakers, 10-2, but The games later in the week blasted the Irish, 6-2. FSU could not solve Laker goal­did not get any better for Notre swept the season series with tender John Grahame. Dame. Playing against Ferris the Irish, winning all three 
"It was a terrific first period," State at Big Rapids, Michigan games. For Notre Dame, it was 
said Notre Dame head coach on Friday night, the Irish the fourth straight loss. Dave Poulin. "We just have to dropped a 3-2 decision after FSU scored twice in the first score goals." surging out to a 2-0 lead. eight minutes of the game 
The Lakers broke the score­The Irish had another strong against Eisler, and tallied two less tie 38 seconds into the sec­first period, striking twice. more against Karr to close out ond period. This seemed to Dhadphale sent a pass from the first period with a 4-0 lead. demoralize the Irish, as the behind the net for Urick, who FSU stretched their lead to 6-0 Lakers later solved junior goal­one-timed a shot past freshman midway through the second pe­tender Matt Eisler for two more goalie Mike Szodzinski, giving riod before Notre Dame got on goals, stretching their lead to 3-Urick his fifth goal in the last the board. A goal each from 
0. four games. senior Brian McCarthy and 
"I was concerned with the "He's playing well, he's play­freshman Tyson Fraser cut the flow of the game after LSSU's ing smart, and he's getting to lead to 6-2. The Irish had live first goal." stated Poulin. "It the net," said Poulin. "There's more power play opportunities really changed the flow of the a reason that he had a good following these goals but were game." freshman year, and when he unable to put any goals on the 
But exciting goals from plays like the power forward he board. In fact, the Irish only sophomore winger Brian Urick is and uses his strength, he's mustered only five shots during and freshman center Joe tough." the entire third period. 

The Observer/Jed Donahue Sophomore winger Brian Urick drew the praises of coach Dave Poulin for his efforts in the three games over Thanksgiving break. 

1. study for finals .I 2. put light-up reindeer in window 3. do laundry .I 4. nah ... bring laundry home .I 5. pack 6. SIGN UP FOR COMMUNITIES ND!! 
Have you signed up for Communities ND yet? 
Dodt miss out: 
• meet great people 
• talk about your faith 
• read the Gospel together 
Commun1t1es ND inv1tes you to be a part of a small faith commun1ty here at Notre Dame. Groups consist of 8 -10 men and women from all over campus. You meet regularly at t1mes convenient to you to reflect on the Sunday Gospels, to ask questions and learn about your fa1th, and to make great new fnends. 
SIGNUPS AND MORE INFORMATION: BADIN HALL OR LIBRARY CAMPUS MINISTRY OFACES NOW TILL YOU GO HOME 
(WITH OR WITHOUT YOUR DIRTY LAUNDRY. HO HO HO.) 
OR CALL: KATE OR DARRELL AT 1-5242 
FIRST MEETING: RALLY DAY; JANUARY 18, 1997 
-
(?Jv1PUSMINISID' 
r--------~ 
Thursday, December 5, 1996 
By BILL HART Writer 
As the end of the semester tt»I~Hl'<lCJle~r"' concentrating on final exams team. however, is focusing on swim meet of this year. The Notre today and continuing through. Satn··r·1·hiv·· ,,,fi\!'om the most exciting meets of the s~ason,. will 1nt1~nfllil<'A team to new events and challenges. ,,,i, < 'tW''' / ' ' 
"The Notre Dame Invitational is usually the bigg~st 1neet of the seme.ster," Senior Amy Bostick said, "For the, past few years, we ve gotten our largest c~wds, at tpis meet... \'f · 
This meet will be no exception, asthe · · ~s swimnlihg 
team hosts the Big East rival Connecticut at the Rolfe Aquatic Center over the next three ·· ··· Nov. 10 in Storrs, Conn., with the 
meet. But, although they prevailed .'·, ··'··· ' ·.· ·,.. ··..,•.', ·.. ·.,..••. ' ·· a ~ffer~nt !OrJ!lat tha~ the o~e ~layed ~arli(lt tbls Y~ar. •1,;"''' ,
The InVItational Will be Slmilar to the championship meets . the team will face later on," assistantR.oa:chKristin ,Heath com.~ men ted. "It will be a chance for the women to compete in all the events offered in the championships that are near the end ofthe
season." · · · · ··· · · · 
T~e ~nvitatio~al i~ set up as ~ "pre-championship meet", with prehmmary tnals m the mormng and finals in the evening of c~ch day. On.e event that the Irish will compete in is ~e ol'\8 mile relay, which the team has not performed yet this season. ·• 
Heath also commented that the meet offers a great t\0111\.-tnn,i->1 ty for the freshmen to perform well and make· a major . on the team's performance. "The invitationatis .also the meet of the semester," Heath said, "and we want to make we leave for our road trip on a high note. ,,,,,,,,,,,,, .... ,•."·'···· 
Keenan Underground Presents 
Friday, Dec. 6 at 10:00 p.m. 
Keenan Basement 
Featuring 

RICH RITTENHOUSE I<UNJORN CHAMBUNDABONGSE 
KEVIN  CUNNINGHAM  
jEFF  CLONINGER  
&  

RYAN O'NEILL 

Snacks & Refreshments will be Served! 
TONIGHT. 
JKa~r.·a~e.=k.e. tC:e;n·~t·e.s~t~ 
Enter contest by 9:00 p.m. 
weeklY prizes 
Music provided by 
All-Pro D.J. 
At Holiday Inn, University Area: One mile north ofcampus on U.S. 31/33 


The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
or

• MEN's SWIMMING 
Irish strive to achieve goals 
Rose and Co 
• 
confident about chances 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Writer 
As he walks out onto the pool deck each day, senior captain Matt Rose reflects upon the mission facing the Notre Dame's swimming and diving team. 
"Our goals this year are sim­ple: become not only the most cohesive team in school history but also the fastest and shatter as many school records as possible." 
As the Irish prepare for their most important meet of the year, the Notre Dame Invitational, their aims remain intact and their possibilities endless. Under the competent leadership of coach Tim Welsh and behind the strong swim­ming of Rose, the Irish are ready to show all those at the Notre Dame Invitational just 
how succe~sful their mission has been this year. Rose, who was a Junior National qualifier, hails from Memphis, Tennessee. However, his father is from 
Iowa. and his mother is from BraziL E~ery rear: the Not_re ~arne men s sw1mmmg and diV­
mg team competes in Brazil and he gets a chance to see his m~th~r's side of the family. 
It IS hard for me t? have ev­ery?ne from one .~Ide of my ~amily ~o !ar away, says Rose. 
The tnp IS always a really spe­cial time for me because it is the only chance _I g~t to see that part of my family. Rose also comp~tes for a club swimming team m Sao Paolo and his sis­ter, ~a~rielle, competed for Brazil _m the 1996 Olympic G<~:mes m Atlanta. Clearly this tnp means a lot more than swimming to him. 
W~ile he ca_n_not wait ~or the Brazil co_rnpetitwn, Rose IS also ~ery excited about the upcom­mg Notre Dame Invitational. The Irish are slated to swim against the University of Connecticut and the University of Buffalo in this meet. Earlier 
" 

Chinese -American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
~uthentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuisine . 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 
in the year, Notre Dame lost a tough meet to UConn at the home pool of the Huskies. As UConn now comes to Notre Dame, Rose is confident that the result will be different and for good reason. ' "I feel our chances are very 
good against Connecticut this time because this is the meet we have been preparing for all 
semester. When we swam against them earlier in the year we were missing Ron Royer and Herb Huesman, which definitely made a difference." 
The Irish, led this year by Rose and seniors Ry Beville, Rich Murphy, Josh Saylor, and Rob Lambert, have gotten strong performances from every member of the team, par­ticularly Royer, Huesman, Chris Fugate, and Scott Zumbach. 
The Notre Dame Invitational begins at 10:30 a.m. today and concludes Saturday. Rose and the Irish will be ready to carry out their mission against UConn and Buffalo. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543 

130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Weare 
now taking applications 
for next r! 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Central air 

• 
Swimming pool/Spa 

• 
Tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Flexible lease plans 


ApartJDents available for your selection. 
For more information call 272-1441 

Some apartments still available for fanuary occupancy. '· 
~~------~--------~--------------------------------------~-----------------------------~------------------, 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 5, 1996 
Jennie 
continued from page 20 
guard for the Belles. Her most memorable collegiate game came during the first half of this last season. 
"It was against long term rival Bethel College," recalls Taubenheim. 
"We hadn't been doing well, but everything seemed to be going right that day and we beat them." 
Unfortunately her basketball career came to a complete halt midway through her senior year season when she suffered a devastating knee injury. Coming off of a layup, Taubenheim crashed down on her knee and blew it out. She would not return for the rest of the season. 
"It wasn't the ending I was expecting," said Taubenheim. 
However, her athletic eontributions to the Belles were recognized at the end of the year sports banquet. Taubenheim was chosen as the Senior Athlete of the Year. 
When Taubenheim was deciding which eollege to attend. playing basketball was a partial factor for her. She was a basketball stand-out in her high school. In the end, she finally chose Saint Mary's. 
"I really liked coach Wood and the basketball program," she said. 
Another factor which led Taubenheim to Saint Mary's was the school's excellent edu­cation program. 
''I'm so excited to come back this weekend," said Taubenheim. "It's closure on a high note." 
JENNIE TAUBENHEIM•s CAREER HIGHLIGHTS 
Sophomore Year Freshman Year 
• Set single-season • Set single-season records in scoringscoring (383) and ~472~, reboundingsteals (69) records 208 , and steals (87) 
• 11th in nation in• Most Valuable Player scoring 
Junior Year 
• 
Set single-season scoring (476) record 

• 
18th in nation in scoring 

• 
Most Valuable Player 

• 
Voted Co-Captain 


• 
25th in nation in steals 

• 
Most Valuable Player 


Senior Year 
• 
Most Valuable Player 

• 
Voted Co-Captain 

• 
Sr. Athlete of the Year 


School Records Held by Taubenheim 
• 
Points: 476 (season) & 1533 (career) 

• 
Rebounds: 208 (season) & 625 (career) • '6teals: 87 (season) 


The Observer/Melissa Weber 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
junior Holly Manthei, who is amongst the NCAA leaders in career assists and who excels on defense. 
The ultimate slap in the face came with the announcement of the NCAA tournament brack­ets, when North Carolina received the top seeding. Despite the fact that the Irish are ranked No. 1 in the polls, they were seeded second behind UNC, a team they had beaten. 
This coming weekend, the Irish are not out to silence the critics but to win the title for themselves. They look at the criticism and neglect as pure motivation. 
So when asked if the team is ready for the Final Four, the simple answer is yes. And if all 
V-ball 
continued from page 20 

attacks. As of late, Lee has been the main cog in the Irish offensive machine in the absence of Angie Harris. 
"Jaimie has carried a huge offensive load for us," Brown observed. "One of the reasons we didn't move her back to set­ter this past weekend was because she is too valuable hit­ting and passing. She is pick­ing up her game at the most critical point in the season." 
The attack was a balanced one, as senior hitters Jenny Birkner and Jen Briggs put 8 and 6 to the floor respectively. The middle blockers were effective, as Mary Leffers had eight kills on . 727 hitting and Lindsay Treadwell had seven. 
of the aformentioned is notr:::==========~ enough. Yesterday when the defending national champions boarded their scheduled flight from Chicago to Santa Clara, they boarded with their rival, Carolina. Talk about a little 
motivation. 1~iii~~~·~PWiiliiii~
NOTE: The semi-final game II 
·will be shown Saturday on SportsChannel at 3 p.m. The championship game will also be shown on SportsChannel Sunday at 6 p.m. 


~ ~ JJ~nJJJ~nJJJ~nJJJ~nJJJ~nJJJ~nJ 
·~ JJ 
~ The directors and members ofthe Campus Ministry music ensembles -Notre Dame Women's ~ ~ Choir, Basilica Schola, Notre Dame Folk Choir, Notre Dame 
n 
el el Liturgical Choir and the Notre Dame Handbe/1 Choirs-cordially invite you to .J' J attend an JJ 
"f cAbt)ent ;£essons anb d:arofs ~ 



DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
Thurseday, December 5, 1996 CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
RA10CRT0 CORPORATE TRAINER ,. 

0 
0 
_; 0 
@) 
"' 

?5~ST! 
(/),. 
c 
"' 
,...
"'
,... 
,...----J 0 
r----J~ 
-~ 
w 
r:';;::==:::f~ 

~--~--~~~~=uL___~~~~~~~L-~~~--~J 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 lncote 
37 Saroyan s ·M_y Name Is­1 Kind of blocker 

5 Twonge 39 Underwater
9 Bog dos 
cave dweller14 Pholosopher 40 MultitalentedHoffer subject of thos15 Award for puzzle

"Curse of the Starving Class" 
44 Dangerous curve

16 lntomidate 45 Emerald
11 Title for 40-Across 46 time 19 "Ben Casey" 47Viewfrom star Edwards Klamath 20 Hasp. 
National Forest employee so Kind of permit 21 Title for 52 Hang 40-Across 54 N.Y. C. sports 23 Horse venue 
command 55 Certain training 26 Part of i. p.s. 56 Title for 28 Kiln 40-Across 29 Sunny • 60 Third word of 
32 Salutation abbr. "America" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

.-.-.,:::.~+-=-+-=-.JII..J..=-i,;;.j..:...,~~+-'-~ RRH-=-1~-=-1~-=-+~~ 
RI-=-1-=-R 27 Understands maneuvers L.:..Jc:..:...o..=..o..::...J 30 Farm layer 49 Conical homes 
62 Name on puppetry 63 Title for 40-Across 68 "La vita nuova" 
poet 69 Gulf war VIP 10 Have--in 
one's bonnet 71 Stack up 72 Quick drive 73 Borough 
DOWN 
1 "--sport. 2 Stub one's toe 3 Opening in 
"Hollywood Squares" 4Workout 
aftermath 5 Blotto 6 White House 
nickname 7 "Good work!" &"!can't-­
satisfaction" 
page 19

The Observer • TODAY 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Put your social connections to work for you. The contacts you have developed over the years are more valuable than you realize' Next spring, a temporary setback moti­vates you to look in a new career direction. Your confidence increases when you look at your personal and professional relationships from a different angle. Handle financial affairs with kid gloves and your assets will grow. Keep romance on an even keel; a wedding is possible' 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: journalist Joan Didion, rock 'n' roll legend Little Richard, swimmer Pablo Morales. gymnast Christina Bontas. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A friend offers to help with a difficult problem. There could be strings attached. Honest communication will put a relationship on healthier footing. Streamline work proce­dures.

c\\\NG 
' 
I'M TI-\E GRIM DOWNSIZ.ER. TRA lNER5 ARE THE FtR5T TO GO. I'LL J"U5T 1-\1\N(:, t..ROUND 1-\E.RE UNTIL TI-\E NE'X.T BUDGET CUT5. 
) 



51 Backward 59 Forces on 53 Administers 
horses: Abbr. medicine 61 R.B.I, e.g. 56 Scotch's 64 Junior's junior partner 65 Native Nigerian 57 Symbol of 66 Put in stitches happiness 
67 List 
Wanted: Reporters, pho,

sa Skeleton part complement 
tographers and editors.

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Join The Observer staff. 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
g 
! ~ 
"' 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Friends may challenge you to an athletic contest. Savor a victory without gloating' Shopping in bou­tiques could tum up interesting trin­kets that will please your one-and­only. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Investigate job opportunities in your field. Circulate your resume and keep in touch with former co-work­ers. Making confidential inquiries will protect your current position. 
CANCER (June 21-July-22): A job that seems like drudgery is not for you. Be choosy. Look for a posi­tion that will excite and challenge

DO YOU MIND IF t 
your imagination. Attending politi­cal and professional meetings will

SIT IN ON YOUR 
help you make new contacts.

5TRESS-REDUCTtON 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Net­
working leads to new clients or a job

CLA55? ------1 
offer. Avoid announcing your plans until you have Teceived a substantial 

1 DON'T THINK 
I'LL READ TI-\E CLI\55 EVfl.L­
UATION FORI"\S 
FROM TlUS Ot-.IE. 
offer. Join a co-worker at an interest­ing cultural event. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Weigh your professional goals care­fully. Discard those that have become obsolete. Higher-ups show new confidence in you. Live up to their expectations. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Help­ing to organize a church or charity event is an ideal way to meet new people. Join a health club if you want to get more exercise. A former employer contacts you with an intriguing offer. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new hobby becomes a passion. Avoid investing heavily until you know that your interest will prove long-lasting. A talkative friend wants you to join a worthy cause. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Pace yourself when things get really hectic. Taking an occasional exercise break will help clear your mind. A former lover haunts your thoughts. Think about getting in touch if there are still unresolved issues. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep your nose to the grind­stone; progress is certain 1 Behind­the-scenes meetings will be produc­tive. A new partnership or alliance results. Your romantic partner is planning a surprise. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Thoughts of the upcoming holiday or a desire to entertain, inspire you to give your home a facelift. Seek out­side cleaning help if your schedule is crowded. Your romantic partner may want a stronger commitment. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make sense of your dreams. Your subconscious is alerting you to something you have long denied. Friends could make an important introduction this evening. Put your best foot forward. Keep the conver­sation light and lively. 
(1965 song 
lyric) 9 Counsel 
10 Keels over 
11 Archeological inscription 12 Whenever 13 Suffix with mob 18 Old Chevy 22 Symbol of 
magnetic field strength 23 Deceits 24 Tangle 25 Wife, in Madrid 
31 Like St. Nick's "little mouth," in "The Night Before Christmas" 
33 Recipient 34 Happens again 35 Maximally 
cunning 38 Take away, at 
law 41 Gay 42 Unspoiled 43 Traveler's stop 48 Cheerleading 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, December 5, 1996 
• VOLLEYBALL 

With May back, Irish cruise to first-round victory 
By JOE CAVATO was uplifting to have Carey action against Ohio State this That speed and quick tempo the season as she assisted on Sports Writer back, we just know each other Sunday saw much of the same helped to dominate every 44kills. so well." as the Irish jumped all over the aspect of the contest. The "Setting was fine," May ex­
After being swept two times "It was critical to have her Flying Dutchwomen to a 11-1 Dutchwomen had a horrendous plained of playing with the fin­in two days and with the status back," Brown expressed. lead. hitting percentage of -.056 on ger. "I was tentative on block­of one of their starters uncer­"We've been weaker offensively Head coach of Hofstra, Fran the evening while the Irish ing. The couple of times I tain, the regular season left a and Carey made a difference." Kalafer, summed up the were flying high as they hit at blocked in practice I felt a lot of cloud looming over the Notre The Irish got out to big leads evening as her team scored the the outstanding clip of .422. pain, so I was scared but serv­Dame volleyball team. But, the in all three games before senior fewest points against the Irish The nets were also owned by ing and setting felt good." new season looked to lift some hitter Kristina Ervin served out this year. the Domers as they outblocked Lee got things going as shr of those clouds as the Irish the first two games from 10-2 "We were beat by a very, the visitors 8-2. put the first three points on the clicked on all cylinders in their in game one and 12-4 in game very good Notre Dame team May, who dislocated her fin­board with her explosive first round win of the NCAA two. The clincher which sends tonight. We just do not play at ger last Wednesday, engineered tournament. the squad to second round their speed." the finest attacking match of see V-BALLI page I 8 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
ing May back in the lineup. "It 

Senior middle blocker Jen Briggs extends herself for a ball in the yesterday's first round, NCAA tournament victory over Hofstra . 

• SAINT MARv' S BASKETBALL 

Record-holder to be honored 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When 1996 Saint Mary's graduate Jennie Taubenheim walks on to the basketball court at the Angela Athletic Facility on Saturday, she will be back in a familiar setting. As a four year team leader for the Belles, Taubenheim in her No. 33 jer­sey was well-recognized as a record breaker on the court. 
Now this weekend Taubenheim. originally from 

Kohler, Wis. will be honored for her past contributions to the team. Between the Belles first 1 
p.m game and second 3 p.m. game during the Roundball Classic, Taubenheim's No.33 jersey will be retired. 
Taubenheim. now a kinder­garten teacher at Sumerville Charter School in Boston, Mass. will be flown in for the dedica­tion. 
"It's a real honor," she said. From the very beginning of her collegiate career 

Photo courtesy of Angela Addington 
Jennie Taubenheim will have her number 33 retired on Saturday. 
Taubenheim showed that she would be a threat to the opposi­tion. A quick glance at the records she broke gives an indi­cation to the type of leadership she gave to the Belles. 
As a freshman she set a sin­gle season scoring record with 383 points and also set a new single season record for steals with 69. She was recognized as the Most Valuable Player by her teammates at the end of her first season. This honor would grace Taubenheim for the next three years as well. 
As a sophomore she broke the scoring record once again by compiling 472 points and also broke her own steals record with 87. She also set the rebounding record with 208. 
Looking back, Taubenheim recalls being a freshman and looking in the glass display case at the Angela Athletic Facility and being amazed by the career points record of 1251. 
"This was the record I was really working to beat," she said. 
Only three years later. co­captain Taubenheim accom­plished the seemingly impossi­ble. Not only did she beat the record. but exceeded it by 84 points. In addition, her single season points placed her 18th in the nation for Division III seoring per game. 
As a senior, co-captain Taubenheim saw her role change as she became the point 
see JENNIE I page 18 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Media, NCAA add to Final Four motivation 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
They have earned the bid, they are on their way, and they have their game together. What else does the women's 
soccer team need to secure -a national cham­pionship this weekend? Motivation. 
Someone 

else has pro-Lopez vided them that. All season long, the women's soccer team has dealt with the lack of respect given to them. It all started when the Irish claimed the title of NCAA champions, last year. Many critics questioned whether or not the win was a fluke. 
As the '96-'97 season ap­proached and the 'polls were released, and the team did not receive the acknowledgement they deserve·d. For the first time ever in the history of women's soccer, the defending national champion was not ranked atop the polls in the fol­lowing season. The Irish found themselves behind North Carolina, whom they had de­feated in the NCAA semi-finals the year before. 
Then in October the team thought things were going to change. The change they 

thought would come from their 2-1 defeat of the Tar heels in overtime. But they wern wrong. 
There was no acknowledge­ment of their victory, nor would the critics or the media admit that at that point in time there was a better team than Carolina. UNC head coach Anson Dorrance even stated that at that point in time "paro­dy hacl arrived." Tar lwei for­ward Debbie Keller even flat out stated, "I would say that there is a team bettt~r than North Carolina." Yet the soccer world chose to have selectivn hearing. 
The season continued, and the Irish began to pick up more momentum as the postseason approached. As the Big East tournament arrived, numerous accolades should have been bP­stowed on the team. but they were not. Granted. Chris Petrucelli was named Big East Coach of the year, and fresh­man sensation Jenny Streiffer received Big East Bookie of the Year, but what about the rest of the team'! Junior Kate Sobrero, who has been touted as one of the best marking backs in the nation, was not rewarded on the defensive end. Senior Cindy Daws missed the accolades also, even though sh11 is Notre Dame's record holder in career points. What about 
see SOCCER/ page 18 
• at Providence Saturday, 4 p.m. 

• Army, Navy face offSaturday
vs. Michigan State 
SPORTS 

Friday, 7 p.m. 
see page 14at Purdue 
ATA 

Tonight, 7:30p.m.. 
SMC Basketball 
• Hockey team swept over break Roundball Classic NCAA Final Four see page 16
~ w 

Saturday, I and 3 p.m. 
GL'tNCE vs. Portland 
• 
'.; 

Friday, 5 p.m. PST 
-





