
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 27 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

BY MICHAEL LEWIS 
News Writrr 
It is tlw responsibility of husinnssPs, not politicians, churehes. or schools to pre­snrvn and restore the natural lwauty of tho world, aeeording to Chadns VanDoren. 
Vanl>omn spoke as part of a sories on the effects of litera­tun! and rilms on business ethies put on by the Notre DamP Ct~nttlr for Ethies and Heligious Values in Business. lin eentnrnd his loeture amund the necessity of ethical con­duct in businoss. 
"Why should businessmen and women be required to be more virtuous than anybody dse'!" he said. The answer is that it is up to businesses to deal with social, political, eco­nomic, and especially environ­mental problems. 
VanDoren likened the situa­tion of business people to the moral dilemma of a group of people watching a girl being swept away by a rushing river and debating whether they should act. Her death immi­nent, a few individuals in the group (figuratively represent­ing business people) constitute thtl only element that both understands her predicament and has the physical ability to save her. . 
lie said the advances that humanity has made sometimes become problematic. Ideas about living standards and established conventions tend to restrict the scope of acade­mic thought. 
"Time, our greatest inven­tion, imprisons us," he said. Centuries ago, cavemen spent twenty hours a week gathering food and providing shelter, while they devoted the rest of their time to recreation and leisure. He said the complexi­ty of our modern society inhibits our pursuit of our nat­ural call. 
VanDoren said there are two main schools of thought by which people try to explain nature: science, which attempts to define nature, and art, which tries to depict nature. However, the domi­nant notions of science (that nature is rational) and of art (that people can imitate nature) are corruptive. 
The world's oldest war is the one between man and nature, and according to VanDoren, nature is losing. The world 
see VANDOREN/ page 6 
Racial slur leads to hearing 
Confrontation moves to Student Affairs 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
A racial slur hurled at minor­ity students three weeks ago has led to an investigation and administrative hearing by Student Affairs, according to Nikole Hannah, one of the stu­dents involved. 
Hannah, a junior from Siegfried Hall, said that she and her roommate were push­ing their car toward D-2 after it broke down on Sept. 8 at 
12:30 a.m. on Bulla Road, when two cars pulled up 
behind them. 
"Our car was not even dead for five minutes when the first car pulled up beside us," said Hannah. "It had four people in it, they pulled on by and left us behind. Then the second car pulled up next to us and [one of them] stuck his head out the window and shouted the racial slur at us." 
Hannah wrote a letter that The Observer published on Friday, Sept. 20. In her letter, Hannah quoted the person in the second car as saying, "Get out of the way you g-damn niggers!" 
Hannah and her roommate identified one of the people in the first car as a student that her roommate knows. According to Hannah, the iden­tified student leaned out the window and said, "Ignore those guys baek there, they're drunk," indieating the second ear. 
She says that this tipped her off that the people in the ears were students. She and her roommate say that on Friday, Sept. 13 they identified the stu­dent who hurled the epithet at them. The girls met with the Office of Student Affairs on Monday, Sept. 16 and submit­ted a written report on Tuesday, Sept. 17. 
Jeff Shoup, director of resi­dence life, when reached for comment said, "We can neither confirm nor deny any investi­gation of a student. That is our policy." 
He did speak generally about 
see HANNAH/ page 6 
• ELECTION '96 
By TARA CHURIK 
News Writer 
Yesterday afternoon, a panel of Notre Dame educators gath­ered to discuss the role of "Poverty and Welfare Issues" in the 1996 Presidential election. 
Expressing her outrage at Prcsdient Clinton's new welfare system, Associate Professor Jennifer Warlick of the Department of Economics shared personal insight while reflecting the consensus of the panel. Warlick criticized Clinton's own words in stating, "We really have no confidence ­even though it apparently 'ends welfare as we know it' -that it will be successful." 
Warlick criticized the media's interpretation of the welfare system by stating that they fre­quently over-cover long-term recipients and potential abusers of benefits. The spot­lighted individuals do not con­stitute a fair representation of those who are assisted by wel­fare. 
Warlick approved, however, of the previous system which did produce favorable results for American society. She stat-ed that seventy-five percent of recipients of public assistance exited the system within two years. But with current plans reducing the eligibility of every citizen to twenty-four months, Clinton's system has "removed the safety net" which the old system provided. 

Warlick's anger is rooted in her belief that the new system will place approximately 1 mil­lion children in poverty. She is similarly concerned with the bill's negligence concerning the distinction between welfare and poverty. According to Warlick, families with incomes just above the minimum poverty line do not qualify for welfare, therefore they are ignored by big government. 
To further clarify the possible ramifications of Clinton's plan, John Robinson, assistant pro­fessor in the law school. 
see WELFARE/ page 6 
Students dissatisfied with recurring homogeny 
Hdilor's note: In light of Multicultural Week at Saint Mary's College, this is the first in a series exploring diversity in the .<.,'aint Mary's and Notre !Jame Community. 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
While the Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs is busy celebrating Multicultural Week Sept. 30 -Oct. 4, many Saint Mary's students are concerned about the shorteomings of the oflit:e itself. 
"In my dealings with the Multieultural Offiee in the last four years, I haven't felt like the door is open to students for me to just talk; about racial issues that have been bothering me or even just for informa­tion," said senior Tracy Ilollingsworth. 
Hollingsworth's sentiments arc not unique among minority students on campus, some of whom have perceived both a laek of interest in the actual sit­uation of students and too much emphasis on the needs of faculty and administrators. 
In the past few years, the Multicultural Office has taken great strides to help faculty increase their knowledge of a more diversified student body, reflecting an increase from 59 total minority and international students enrolled in 1987 (when the Minority, International and Non-Traditional office was first established) to today's 125 stu­dents. Recent programs have included travel grants for facul­ty and administrators, funding to help introduce new curricu­lum to classes, the planning of multicultural activities, and a multicultural award to recog­nize faculty or administrators who have made a significant commitment t'o diversity on campus. 

As Hollingsworth and others point out, the College's commit­ment to faculty and increasing enrollment has not necessarily been mirrored with help for students already at the college. Hollingsworth, a social work major, points to a personal experience from last year when she approached the Office about helping fund her partie­ipation in a national conference on race and ethnicity. 
"When I first heard about the conference and I went to see if they could help fund it, they were funding five faculty mem­bers to go but no students. They told me that faculty had first priority," she said. She went on to express disappoint­ment in an office supposedly committed to the college com­munity in general. 
Freshmen Glowingrainbow and Leticia McDonald acknowl­edged that they have had very little contact with the Office of Multicultural Affairs aside from an invitation to a introductory dinner and a phone survey on prospective majors. 
"They've never called me to check up on me personally or to invite me to help out (in planning activities) or anything like that," said McDonald. Glowingrainbow admitted that she had very little knowledge of the Office at all and mostly "heard about activities through friends." 
While activities abound this week, controversy resulted last year over what some students saw as an over-abundance of activities centered around a Latino theme. As a result, this year's Multicultural Week reflects· Native American, Asian and international programs as a result of the dissension voiced by Saint Mary's students in meetings with the office's director, Maricela Hamirez. 
Olga Robles, a junior who last year attempted to ensure the addition of monl elements of Asian culture, said that "last 
see HOMOGENY/ page 6 

-----------~---~-----­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Smell the roses 
Hello again. No, this column is not a rant about the injustices of the system again. Inside you will find no political posi­tion or social commentary whatsoever. Instead, this column will begin and end with quotes from a 1966 graduate of the University of Notre Dame who cannot 

Matthew Loughran Assistant News Editor 
return to this area due to a possibly terminal ill­ness. 
"I remember walking down the Main Quad [in front of the Dome] in that cool, heavy, wet air with the leaves changing all around me ­wet leaves on the green grass ...You can't imagine how wonderful it was for a little 17 year old kid who never had anything and ­came from nowhere to be at Notre Dame." 
As much as I proclaimed my dislike for the University's paternalistic policies in this very space just two short weeks ago, the truth of this experience cannot be denied by anyone who has set foot here as a student. 
Notre Dame is a very special place. The announcers for Saturday's football game stat­ed that this was one of the most beautiful campuses in the country. The school is small enough that you never get lost in the shuffie like you can at a huge state school. The name recognition for this university is immense. You know that every time that you are asked, "Uhh, where do you go to school?" you will never need to explain your answer. 
Whether you are in the backwoods of main­land North Carolina, or in downtown Los Angeles, California, everyone has heard of the University of Notre Dame. There is even a story about a student from Argentina who knew of only three American universities when he was growing up in Argentina: Harvard, Yale, and Notre Dame. 
However. the name isn't everything. It is the campus environment and the people that make this place what it is. Like the above quote, some of the most vivid memories that people take away from their experiences at Notre Dame have nothing to do with the acad­emics and everything to do with atmosphere. 
So, take some time out of your busy day of school work and extracurriculars and look around you. Some people go to school here but do not live here. They blindly race through their four years of study without look­ing at the college experience as. anything more than a preparation for graduate school or a career. If you fall victim to this, you will have missed part of what makes Notre Dame so great. 
This is not to say that you should sacrifice your grades in any way. Failing out of the university will in no way help you to remem­ber this place fondly. 
However, no job, no prestigious Ph.D. pro­gram, nothing on this earth will give you back those years that you had here, and nothing will recreate the moments and atmosphere that you experienced here. 
As the aforementioned graduate of Notre Dame said, "Today I can't walk there but maybe someday I'll get a break and be able to do it again-if only once more." Don't wait until you have graduated and are gone to appreciate the splendor that is the University of Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TDDAY'S STAFF  
News  
Derek Betcher  Production  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Tara Grieshop  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Kathleen Lopez  Graphics  
Lab Tech  Peter Cilella  
Joe S[ark  
Bret Hogan  

Tuesday, October 1, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
AHA sets new dietary guidelines stressing compensation 
DALLAS 
So you didn't eat your vegetables yesterday and you really overdid it with the double-chocolate cake. Don't torture yourself with guilt. Just try to do better 1n the next few days. 
That recommendation comes from the American Heart Association, which has issued reduced-guilt guide­lines aimed at getting people to eat right over several days or a week, instead of obsessing over every day or every meal. 
The guidelines don't change the rec­ommended maximum levels of fat and cholesterol in people's overall diet. 
But for the first time, the guidelines cut people a little slack, allowing them to be gluttonous one day if they eat less the rest of the week. 
"This fits the theme of consuming a variety of foods and reducing guilt from eating something 'bad' now and then," said Dr. Ronald Krauss, chair­man of a committee that developed the revamped guidelines. 
"It's fairly clear now that the changes we associate with heart dis­ease risk do represent more of a long­term trend rather than changes that occur with any given meal." 
These are the first changes since 1988 in the heart association guide­lines, which were first published in 
More '\> 
Americans are \.::;1 
overweight...  ~  
75%  74%  
59% I. ,;,/.,I  II  
50%  1986  '94  '95  '96  

...and by more than a few pounds 
24 percent of American adults are over their recommended weight range by 20 percent or more. 

Source: AJan. 18-22 Louis Harris and Associates survey of Americans age 25 and over. 
APNJm. J. Castello 
1961. 
In the past, the association recom­mended daily levels for such things as fat and cholesterol, without suggesting that the levels could be a daily average over a week's time. -The change was made to alleviate frustration among people who felt that meeting the guidelines every day was unrealistic. 
Bernadette Latson, a dietitian at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, said the idea of meeting nutritional goals over a week's time is already advanced by many dietitians . 
"Getting an overall balance is what's really important," she said. 
Robert Ricci, 28, a sales engi­neer in Dallas, said he figured that out for himself. Ricci usually eats a low­fat, high-fiber diet heavy on foods like raisin bran and baked potatoes. 
"If I go to the El Fenix restaurant and get the Wednesday special, which is very good but very bad cheese enchiladas, it's all right once in a while," said Ricci, who was eating a fat-free brownie after a chicken sand­wich for lunch Monday. 
The guidelines, developed by the heart association's nutrition commit­tee, were published in Monday's issue of the association's journal Circulation. 
Parton still a country girl at heart 
NASHVILLE 
Dolly Parton, age 80, sitting in a rocking chair on her front porch some­where in the Great Smoky Mountains, strumming an autoharp? Hard to fath­om, huh? Especially when she's wear­ing a bustier. The image is supposed to be Dolly in her Golden Years. But it's pretty hard to envision the bodice­burning blonde ever slowing down. At 

50, she's as thin and glamorous as a model, dressed in white denim with a black bustier laced at her famous cleavage. And yet, here she is waxing about her retire­ment. Do you believe her? If so, it's time for a reality check. A born huckster does not willingly fade away. With a conspiratorial smile and nudge to the ribs comes the pitch: "And I'll be pushing those homemade tapes! But will you come and write about me then?" 
Woman fakes pregnancy, steals baby 
KEOKUK, Iowa 
A woman who pretended for months that she was preg­nant allegedly lured a new mother to her home, shot her twice in the head and then hid the body in her basement, passing the boy off as her own. Police said Kimmi Hardy bought a gun a month before the slaying, wore maternity clothes for about five months, and even held a baby show­er after the killing. Robert Hardy, 36, who prosecutors plan to charge as an accessory, told police his wife shot Theresa Lund, 34, a month ago in their basement and hid the body in a crawl space, according to court papers filed Monday. Hardy told police he wasn't home during the slaying, but later helped his wife get rid of the body and hide evidence. On Friday, Hardy led authorities to Lund's body, which was found along railroad tracks near Alexandria, Mo., less than 10 miles from the Hardy home. The Hardys and Lund lived in Keokuk, a Mississippi River town of 13,500 in the extreme southeast corner of Iowa, and were casual acquaintances, police said. 
Man weds lesbian, plans sex change 
PAINESVILLE, Ohio 
It's not a same-sex wedding, yet. But a judge issued a marriage license today to a man who plans a sex change after he marries a lesbian. Since Ohio law specifies marriage as a partnership between a man and a woman, Lake County Probate Judge Fred V. Skok asked for a doctor's note specifying that Paul Smith of Willoughby still has male sex organs. Smith agreed to the request and got the license to marry Debi Easterday of Medina, said Smith's attorney, Les Evan Rockmael. Smith dresses in women's clothes, except for work, and expects to complete his sex change with­in three years. The two say they are lesbians. The license issued to the couple is good for two months. Rockmael said the wedding date is Oct. 12 but might change. Smith, who began counseling five years ago over his feeling more like a woman, has applied in the same court to change his name to Denise. 
Loggers wield cow dung in protest 
SCOTIA, Calif. 
Environmentalists linked arms around a timber compa­ny's headquarters and spread cow dung in a Democratic party office Monday to protest a deal designed to save the world's last privately owned stand of virgin redwood for­est. About 250 chanting, wailing environmentalists sur­rounded Pacific Lumber Co. headquarters in Scotia. Sheriff's deputies in riot gear arrested three people after they refused orders to move. About three dozen protest­ers entered the Humboldt County Democratic Party head­quarters and spread cow dung and feathers in several offices, witnesses said. One person was arrested. The protests were the latest in a series aimed at the accord, brokered by U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., which would pay $380 million in state and federal money to financier Charles Hurwitz, who controls Pacific Lumber. The deal sets aside 7,500 acres, most of it owned by Pacific Lumber, for a public preserve in an old-growth redwood forest nearly 300 miles north of San Francisco. 

77 _58 75 51 
60 43 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

~,~,--~~~ ~ ~ ~ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th.e Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Via Assoclaled Press GraphicsNel 
Atlanta  65  53  Dallas  67  50  New Orleans 76  59  
Baltimore  54  38  Denver  42  25  New York  54  39  
Boston  52  38  Los. Angeles 64  45  Philadelphia 57  40  
Chicago  58  37  Miami  84  72  Phoenix  62  45  
Columbus  60  39  Minneapolis 49  33  St. Louis  64  46  

Tuesday, October 1 , 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT 
osu rowdies arrested in bW-3 weekend brawl 
Observer Staff Rcpon 
Several Ohio State fans couldn't leave town last week­end without running into trou­ble with the law .. 
Four Ohio residents were arrested Saturday at bW-3, 123 
W. Washington St., on eharges of disordnrly eonduet and public intoxiealion, aceording to Sgt. .John Williams, assistant public information officer for the South Bend l'oliee Department. 
Stefanie Pater, 22, of North .Jaekson, Ohio; David Sidenstricker, 26, of Amlin. Ohio; Douglas Sandholt, 22, of Circleville, Ohio; and Jeffrey Ford. 25, of Toledo, Ohio were those arrested, according to Williams. 
All were f!Jleased from the county jail on $100 bond and will appear in St. Joseph County Superior Court on Oct. 16. 
Two females suffered minor cuts under their eyes, and bW restaurant reported at least $600 in damage, including bro­ken tables and glasses, police said. 
Police arrived at the scene after restaurant employees called to report a large fight. The light had ended by the time police arrived, Williams said. 
Employees told police that the light began after verbal taunt­ing between Notre Dame and Ohio State fans intensified. The primary instigators of the light left the scene before police arrived, according to police reports. 
Those arrested allegedly dis­regarded officers' orders to leave, police said. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
SUB smoke leads to LaFortune evacuation 
Observer Staff Report 
Last night, the second floor of LaFortune Student Center went up in smoke. Literally. 
According to Tom Quarannillo of the Notre Dame Fire Department, a smoke machine in the Student Union Board (SUB) office was set off, filling the room with smoke, thus triggering lire alarms at 8:06p.m. 
Students were evacuated from LaFortune, and were only allowed to reenter after the building had been completely elearcd of the smoke and the alarms were reset; a delay of approximately 15 minutes. 
Dave Austin, Patrol Captain of Notre Dame Security, stated that the machine, which was used for a previous SUB event, was accidentially activated and could not be shut off. 
Officials did not know that the smoke was artificial until they arrived on the scene. 
However, Quarannillo stated that the machine should not have been stored in the room. "Smoke machines should not be in any room facility with a smoke detectors. It's just a common sense issue." 
Dances at Stonehenge ... 
A
s part of the Multicultural Executive Council's Fall Festival, Otakuye Conroy (left), a Badin junior, performed with the White Eagle Sings drum group (pictured above). Conroy, a Lakota Native American, danced while the Potawatomi drummers played. Continuing its week-long festival, MEG has planned martial arts demonstrations today at Fieldhouse mall from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. 
-==--==-------:------------~-----­
Planning to register to vote in Indiana? 
Voter registration forms are· due on Thursday, October 3 in the Student Government office, 2nd Floor of LaFortune 

Sponsored by Student Government 
UNIYliUTY o~ Notwl Ou.u \fUUIMl GnwfiNWIIU 
-•• ­
•CAMPUS BRIEF 
SMC sponsors voter 
•
registration drive 
Observer Staff Report· 
The Saint Mary's College Republican Club will be regis­tering voters today in the din­ing hall during lunch and din­ner hours, and Wednesday during all three meals. 
Saint Mary's students can register to vote as a resident of St. Joseph County by bring· ing a driver's license and a social security card to the 
LeMans side of the dining hall. 
If a student wishes to be registered in their home county, they should contact the registration office in their hometown to maintain an absentee ballot. 
The club hopes to continue their efforts in rajsing politi­cal awareness with their efforts today and Wednesday. 

You provide tne wings, SEI will provide the sky. 
SEf OFFERS THE KIND OF OPPORTUNITY AND CHALLENGE THAT MAKES CAREERS SOAR. 
1 
OPPORTUNITY AND CHALLENGE YOU RE Nat LIKELY TO FIND AT OTHER CONSULTING FIRMS OR CORPORATE' ENVIRONMENTS. 
SEf HAS OVER A QUARTER-CENTURY OF SOLID HANDS-ON EXPERIENCE HELPING LEADING CORPORATIONS SOLVE THEIR MOST CRITICAL BUSINESS PROBLEMS. THIS MEANS SEf CONSULTANTS DEVELOP AND APPLY BOTH CUTTING EDGE TECHNICAL AND MANAGEMENT 
1T OFFER STATIC SALARIES AND VAGUE PROMISES OF YEAR-END BONUSES, BUT INSTEAD PROVIDE GENEROUS COMPENSATION FOR EVERY HOUR WORKED. 
AITEND SEJ's (ORPORAT£ PRESENTATION AND LEAVE KNOWING THIS IS THE COMPANY WHERE YOUR CAREER WIU TAKE FLIGHT. 
OCTOBER 8, 1996, 6:30PM-8:30PM MoRRIS INN, ALUMNI RooM 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SER'(ED 
,.,......,,,,, ' -~·"""' . INTERVIEWS WIU BE CONDUCTED ON OCTOBER 9, 1996 
IF YOU HAVE QUEsrTONS, PLEASE CALL THE FOLLOWING NUMBER (279} 637-5200 
SE I 
information 
technology 
http://www.aei-it.com 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER 
·~· • ·"'··., -~ •• -~. ·-• .t ·' •••,J.......~ ....!..~·..• ·"'·""' ~•• ~"L1t.• •"' ...........• .• .~ ...~·.' .• .. '.' 4.~'.
................. 

~~-------~~~~--~­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 1, 1996 
PREJUDICE REDUCTION 

' 
ORKSHOP 
lfyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop. 
Limited Enrollment-Call Immediately 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 6 
9:30 A.M. -4:00 P.M. LOCATION TBA 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: Mickey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 

Tuesday, October 1 , 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Awareness week expanded 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
Nrws Writer 
Hesidence Hall Assoeiation President Nikki Milos attended the Monday evening nweting of the Student Activities Board in hopes of gaining support for Alcohol Awarmwss Week from October 14th-18th. 
Aleohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's Collegn is usually sponsored solely by the Hesidence /lall Association. Milos feels that the week has lost effectiveness because the activities are redundant from year to year. She cited linancial restraints as one reason for the repetition of the Aleohol Awareness Week events. 
"IUIA has very little funding, and that's why I'm coming to you," stated Milos. 
Milos requested SAWs financial and moral support in order to put more power­ful mechanisms back into the week. She f'nels that the issue of alcoholism and underage drinking on campus should be a concern for all branches of student govern­ment. 
Milos' main petition for the Student Activities Board included bringing comedi­enne Wendi Fox to Saint Mary's. Fox is a recovered alcoholic who is very serious about alcohol issues, yet presents informa­tion in an entertaining way. 
SAB voted to provide half of the money 
needed to bring Fox in for Alcohol 
WE.RE CREATING A MM0T~ 
COOKIE CO6> 6> 
6> 6> 6> 

uar Chocolate
Peanut Buu-. 
Macadamia Nut 
White chocolate 
chunky Oatmeal Raisin 
Attention Seniors 
October Events 
• Senior Class Service Project 
Starts October 1, Kim@ 243,1960 for more information 
• Free Food Night 
FREE food! At Alumni~Senior Club, 7,9 p.m. October 3. 
• Beacon Bowl Night 
Following free food at Alumni,Senior Club, $4 all you can bowl! 9,11 p.m. October 3 
• River Boat Gambling 
Gambling Cruise on the Express in Hammond, IN. October 5, 12:00 to 2:00, tickets are $5 at the Lafortune Information Desk. 
• Also; Senior Class Cookbooks are in, $8 at the Lafortune Information Desk. And...Off,Campus directories are coming soon 
Awareness Week. SAB Coordinator Lori McKeough agreed that other branches of student government should be involved. She advised Milos to petition Saint Mary's Board of Governance for the remaining necessary funds. 
"We are seeing a lot of this kind of col­laboration between the student govern­ment branches. If BOG agrees to help, we can name the sponsor as Student Government Association (SGA), which is all of the branches combined," said McKeough. "It's a relatively new term, but a very appropriate one in cases like this." 
Crackups Comedy Cafe Chairwoman Mia Rinehold, who will be in charge of booking Pox, is excited about bringing a female comic to Saint Mary's. 
"Getting a comedienne on campus this year was one of my goals," said Rinehold. ''I'm glad that her appearance here will take place during such a relevant and important week." 
In other SAB news, hypnotist Jim Wand will be making his annual appearance on campus this Thursday evening in Carroll Auditorium. Admission is free, and all are welcome. 
Also, elaborate plans for a Halloween party have been set in motion. Potential attractions include a murder/mystery game, and a candy and cookie reception in Haggar Parlor. 
Get a FREE half pint of milk or small coffee when you buy .2 FRESHLY BAKED GOURMET HUDDLE COOKIES for $1~00 
Monday, September 30 -Thursday, October 10 
The Huddle 
NASA privatizes industry 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press Writer 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
In the biggest change in the histo­ry of the space shuttle program, NASA is turning over day-to-day operations to private industry begin­nirlg Tuesday to save money. 
"Today is the first day of a new space program in America," NASA Administrator Daniel Goldin said Monday in announcing the $7 bil­lion, six-year contract with United Space Alliance, a joint venture of Rockwell International Corp. and Lockheed Martin Corp. 
Officials promise the shift will be gradual, with shuttle flight safety the No. 1 priority. 
In the short term, not even NASA and its contract employees will see much difference. 
NASA still will give the final "go" for launch and make the important decisions during a shuttle flight, as it has for the past 15 years. It will retain ultimate responsibility for shuttle safety and hire the astro­nauts. And it will still own the four space shuttles. 
But it will ease itself out of the routine, day-to-day work, such as preparing the shuttles for flight, training the astronauts and operat­ing Mission Control. Those duties will belong to United Space Alliance. 
Don't expect shuttle ads anytime soon, though, or shuttle seats sold to the highest bidder. 
Maybe that wilL come later, said Kent Black, USA's chief executive. Much, much later. 
The contract, which was announced Monday but was actually signed late last week, designates United Space Alliance as the single prime contractor for shuttle opera­ti"ons. It includes two two-year extension options that could bring the contract's total estimated value to $12 billion over 10 years. 
USA was formed in August 1995 and chosen by NASA as the single prime contractor three months later. 
By compressing many contracts into one -this first phase consoli­dates 12 previous contracts-NASA hopes to improve shuttle safety, con­tinue to fly shuttles seven or eight times a year, and reduce costs in tho $3 billion-a-year shuttle program. 
Because Rockwell and Lockheed Martin already handled most of the shuttle work, the transition, while historic, won't make much immedi­ate difference. 
Child abuse case aimed at Academy 
By ALEX DOMINGUEZ Associated Press Writer 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 
A former midshipman was sentenced to 90 days in prison Monday for molesting a 2­year-old girl, the second child abuse case this year involving a Naval Academy student. 
In the wake of those and other scandals, including a female student's alleged admission that she helped kill a romantic rival, the school announced a new independent review board Monday to review its operations. 
Jeremy Coale, who pleaded guilty in August to molesting the granddaughter of a couple he was visiting, was sentenced Monday to four years in prison, with all but 90 days suspended. He was also given five years probation and ordered to undergo counsel­ing. 
Coale made lengthy state­ment in which "he basically said he was sorry and was try­ing to get better," before he was sentenced by Anne Arundel Circuit Judge Raymond Thieme, prosecutor Laura Kiessling said. 
Coale, 20, of Grand Hapids, 
Mich., is the second former midshipman this year to be sentenced for child sexual abuse. In June, Patrick Michael Chapman, 25, a for­mer leader of the .academy's Big Brothers and Big Sisters program, was sentenced to four years in prison for expos­ing himself and sexually molesting a 13-year-old boy in 
-his hometown of Hock wall, Texas. Coale had spent weekends with a couple who volunteered in a program that gives mid­shipmen a home away from home. Prosecutors said Coale abused the child in March and she told her family. Coale admitted in April that he molested the child, and resigned from the academy after his, arrest. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 1, 1996 
Welfare 
continued from page 1 
explained the specific reforms entailed within the bill. He first acknowledged the measure's provision to reduce the federal government's role in welfare distribution and to make the presence of the states much stronger. If the premarital birthrate of a state should decrease, according to Clinton's plan, the federal government will financially reward that state. 
Robinson admitted that, while a true incentive is provided to the states to reduce the number of citizens on welfare, the plan's successful implementation will only occur if economic growth continually increases and if the unemployment rate continually decreases. 
Remarking on the perspective fallout if Clinton's plan should fail, Robinson echoed the panel's viewpoint question, "Will this [fallout] make liberal­ism even more of an obscenity?" 
Remarking that "the poor are always with us," Professor Joanne Albous established a solid foundation for following addresses citing basic sociologi­cal facts concerning poverty in America. For example, she noted that one of nine Americans reside in poverty. Albous also explained how the current welfare system evolved from a program entitled Mother's Pensions. These pen­sions were intended to benefit children of deceased or mentally handicapped parents. 
But following the Great 
Depression, state control of wel­
fare distribution led to the abol­
ishment of these stipends for 
children. In its place, the pro­
gram of Aid to Families with 
Dependent Children was imple­
mented. 
In the face of a media-induced 
onslaught on the institution of 
welfare. Albous clarified that, 
"Its cost is not really very exces­
sive." She added that, com­
bined with the monetary value 
of food stamps, not one family 
who receives welfare earns 
enough to cross the poverty line. 
Reflecting the overall consen­
sus of the panel concerning 
Clinton's welfare reform pro­
gram, Albous admitted that, "I 
have ambivalent feelings about 
this." 
Albous had much to say con­
cerning the lack of a job avail­
ability guarantee for individuals 
who wish to exit the welfare 
system. She also asserted that, 
because the majority of citizens 
on welfare are uneducated and 
unskilled, the government will 
have to subsidize job training 
programs and health care. In 
the process of preparing welfare 
recipients for work, Albous stat­
ed that, "Clinton's Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families 
will be more costly than our 
present program." 
This lecture was the fourth 
in a series entitled "The 1996 
Elections and the Common 
Good." The lectures are hosted 
every Monday from 4 until 5 in 
the Center for Continuing 
Education. 

Homogeny 
continued from page 1 
year we were very diss(!,tisfied with Multicultural Week," admitting that many changes were needed. 
"It's a really small depart­ment, but I'm sure we've improved from where we start­ed from," said Robles. 
Simply responding to varied concerns from students about college-wide activities may still not be enough to satisfy the needs of a student body facing issues of race, ethnicity. fund­ing for college, and other prob­lems. Lecoila Brogdon, presi­dent of the Sisters of Nefertiti, expressed some dismay in the lack of interest in the Office's recruitment of student volun­teers. 
In response to the myriad of activities planned for Multicultural Week, ranging from the lecture of noted African-American writer Marita Golden to various the­ater productions on campus, Brogdon said "It looks like a well-planned week, but it would be interesting to actually partake in the planning of it." 
She went on to say that one of the biggest problems facing the campus was the lack of diversity, citing the example of there being only three Mrican­American women in the entire freshmen class. 
Students at Saint Mary's have not been completely shut out of discussions focusing on issues of culture and diversity because many have found a refuge at Notre Dame's Office of Multicultural Student Mfairs. 
"I felt more receptiveness at OMSA. not only by the directors but also by the secretary. It's amazing to me how I could just walk in there and feel more at home," said Hollingsworth. 
Hollingsworth, a board mem­ber of La Alianza at Notre Dame, uses the services and support of the OMSA office on a regular basis, as do other women of SMC involved in 
groups  like  the  Filipino  
American  Student  
Organization,  the  African  

American Student Alliance, and other groups which are active on both campuses. 
Whether through increased involvement in activities at Notre Dame, heightened activi­ty in raising their voices on campus, or simply finding sup­port from friends, Saint Mary's students have managed to channel their interests else­where. As Robles concedes, "It's easier not to be involved than to try and make a differ­ence, but in the last few years there has been a lot of change." 
P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D 
Hannah 
continued from page 1 
the possible ramifications of shouting a racial slur at anoth­er student. "In cases of harassment like that, the item would come into an adminis­trative hearing," he said. "Punishment could be as harsh as suspension or dismissal, but it might be less. A lot would depend on the specific situa­tion.'' 
Hannah says that she and her -roomate were granted a hearing on Tuesday, Sept. 24. "He [the student] was allowed to meet alone with the board for about 40 minutes," she said. 
Hannah and her roommate were brought in later to con­front the student. He was allowed to ask them questions, then they were excused and the student's witnesses were 
VanDoren 
continued from page 1 
would be barren if man was its only inhabitant, and busi­ness people must rectify the situation through ethical actions and concern for allowed to speak to the board in private. 
"I have a bad feeling about this hearing," she said. She went on to say that the Office of Student Mfairs had not yet informed her of its decision. 
"They kept asking me if I was sure it was him, but when someone calls you that name, you don't forget his face," she said. 
When asked about the possi­bility of suspension for the stu­dent in question, Hannah said, "I don't want to see him kicked out of the University for it. But I was finally feeling like a part of the community, and he took that from me -he took my security. If you really want to hurt a black person. that is the word that will do it." 
At press time, no word had been received from the Office of Student of Affairs about the status of the case. The student in question could not be reached for confirmation. 
humanity and the envirion­ment, he said. 
Charles Van Doren has been a seminar leader of the Aspen Institute since 1973, and he received a PhD from Columbia. He has also been a consultant for the Encyclopedia Brittanica for over 20 years. 
RET I REM EN T I NV EST I N G 

Americans are living longer than ever. So it's quite .fl. possible you'll spend 20 or 30 years or more in retirement. Can you afford it? Unless you're indepen­dently wealthy, chances are you'11 need more than your pension and Social Security to support the kind of lifestyleyou'll want. 
How can you help ensure that you'll be in good financial shape? Sign up for TIAA-CREF SRAs -tax­deferred annuities available only to people in education or researcQ. 
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat. 
The best way to build strength -physical or fiscal -is to start at a level that's comfortable and add to your regimen as you go along. 
With TIAA-CREF SRAs, you conveniently contribute through your employer's payroll system. You 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
can start with a modest amount and increase your contribution as your salary grows. 
The important thing is to start now. Delaying for even a year or two can have a big impact on the amount of income you'll have when you retire. 
TIAA-CREF: Your fiscal fitness program. 
TIAA-CREF is the nation's largest retirement system, managing over $150 billion in assets for more than 1.7 million people. We offer a wide range of SRA allocation choices, long-term investment expertise, and remarkably low expenses.1 
Call 1 800 842-2776 for an SRA Enrollment Kit or our interactive SRA Enrollment Software. Or visit us on the Internet at gopher:l/tiaa-cref.org, or http://www.tiaa-cref.org. 
I. Stani!<W d Poor'JIRJuran<e &ling Analy.JiJ. 1995; Lipper AnalYtical Serviceo, Inc., Lipper-Di=tordAnalyti<al Data, 1995 (Quarterly) . 
For more complete information, including chargea and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, extension 5609, for a proapectua. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or aend money. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, Inc., diatributea CREF certilicatea. 
1196 
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Corn prices fall with Chemical suits used in Gulf 
Associated Pre55 
fair weather forecasts 
WASHINGTON 
By HILLARY CHURA 
Associated Press Writer 
Corn and soybean futures prices fell Monday amid prospects for beneficial Midwestern weather and a fed­oral report of unexpectedly strong U.S. stockpiles. 
On other markets, energy and gold futures prices retreated. The Commodity Hesearch Bureau's index of 17 commodi­ties fell 1.01 points to 245.63. 
The Agriculture Department said soybean inventories on Sept. 1 were 183 million bushels, 20 million above nxpeetations and 13 million above the USDA's most recent estimatn. 
The USDA report also said the 1995 harvest was 25 million bushels higher than anticipated and there is talk among investors on the Chicago Board of Trade that this year's yields also will surpass expectations. 
Soybean harvest begins this week, and warm, dry weather should allow farmers to make a lot of progress and also strengthen immature crops. Prospects for a damaging Midwestern frost in the near future also have waned. 
Corn futures fell to the lowest spot price in a year after the Agriculture Department said ending 1995-96 stocks would be greater than the current fore­cast. 
Soybeans for November deliv­ery plunged 25 1/4 cents to $7.58 a bushel -the lowest price since mid-August. December corn fell 6 1/2 cents to $2.96 3/4 a bushel. 
Reaching another goal... 
Legal at last! 
Happy 215t, Cindy 
Defense Secretary William Perry said today he has ordered his staff to investigate a report that commanders in Desert Storm ordered troops to disre­gard reports of low-level nerve agents on the battlefield -even as those commanders enjoyed the protection of chemical war­fare air filters in their head­quarters. 
''I'm very distressed that some people seem willing to believe the worst about the military and the Pentagon. I'm very con­cerned about that. We will look at this report very carefully and take whatever action is neces­sary," Perry added. 
He made the comments dur­ing a photo session in his office. 
The Birmingham News, in a report Sunday, cited log reports compiled for Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf at his headquar­ters in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to assess the threat of chemical weapons in the 1991 war against Iraq. 
The report said U.S. comman­ders, who had sealed their headquarters in Riyadh with airlocks and used to chemical warfare filters for ventilation, told troops to ignore Czech reports of low-level nerve agents. 
"Told them to disregard any reports coming from Czechs," the logs say. 
The Czech reports were made two days after the air war began in January, 1991. 
In the logs, a military officer responded to incoming reports of toxic· clouds: "Predictably, this has become -is going to become a problem." 
Gulf War symptoms 
Memory loss Ohe Pentagon will notify 5,000 
Headache Gulf War veterans that they may have been exposed to nerve 
Muscle painagents. On March 4, 1991, a Joint pam
battalion destroyed a bunker which may have housed chemical weapons. Exposure Chest pain could have reached 16 miles Shortness . 
of breathfrom the complex. There are reports of a separate January chemical exposure in Skin rash ...... 
Saudi Arabia. 
FIELD MASK (RESPIR.ATOR)-Protects face, eyes and 
respiratory tract. Air passes through valves into filter 
elements, removing chemical and biological agents. 
HooD FOR MASK-;-Protects the head. Butyl-rubber coating 
on the hood fabnc repels vapors and droplets of chemical 
or biological agents. 
GLOVES-Protects hands and provides a seal for sleeves. 
SUIT-Protects the body but restricts movement. 
CARRIER-Stores mask and accessories. 
BooTS-Complete the total covering of the body. 
Sources: Jane's NBC Protection Equipment, Armed Forces Epidemiological-Boar~ AP research -AP 
ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD: 
Entertainment for you from all corners of the globe. (and hey, we're giving away stuff) Be at Fieldhouse Mall ~ 4:00~6:00 p.m. 
NASAND -Native American Dancing Martial Arts demonstrations (can you lay a finger on these people?) TBA Ballet Folklorico & FASO Polynesian Chant and Dance 
TASTE OF NATIONS: 
Food & Entertainment from around the world! Friday Oct. 4th, 8:00 -12:00 ~l.m. It's a great time and all for only $1 
The Fall Festival is brought to you by the Multicultural Executive Council 


page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 1, 1996 

•IsRAEL. 
Tunnel reopening sparks Mideast fight 
By JEROME SOCOLOVSKY 
Associated Press Writer 
JERUSALEM 
Palestinian leader Yasser 
Arafat will fly to Washington 
for . President Clinton's 
Mideast summit, a senior 
Palestinian official said today. 
Clinton had called Prime 
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu 
and Arafat to arrange for the 
summit Tuesday after 73 peo· 
ple died last week in the 
worst fighting between 
Israelis and Palestinians in 
decades. 
The crisis began after 
Israelis enraged the 
Palestinians by opening a new 
entrance to an archaeological 
tunnel that runs alongside 
one of Islam's holiest sites. 
Today's statement from a 
PLO official in Cairo cami 
after reports that Arafat had 
requested a delay in the ses· 
sion, saying that more time 
was needed to make the 
meeting a success. Egypt's 
Middle East News Agency 
said Arafat had asked to 
move the meeting hack to 
Sunday. 
Arafat was expected to fly to Luxembourg this afternoon for discussions with European , Community officials and thenwill go on to Washington, tile PLO official said, speaking. on 
condition of anonymity. 
Netanyahu left for the 
United States to,P,ay as 
planned. · · 
Both Arafat and. Egyptian 
President Hosni Mubarak 
were hesitant to attend the 
summit without assurances 
Israel was ready to make con­
cessions, Mohammed Sobeih, 
PLO ambassador to the Arab 
League, said today. 
Israeli commentators 
described the summit·as a 
gamble by Clinton, because 
he set it up with no guarantee 
of success. Failure could 
breed more frustration 
among Palestinians and raise 
the specter of more violence. 
"The most important thing 
(the summit could achieve) is 
how to implement accurately 
and honestly what has. been 
agreed upon," Arafat said 
today in Cairo. 
Eurotunnel 
•
expansion suspended 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Eurotunnel, the troubled operator of the Channel Tunnel, suspended trading in its shares Monday as it negoti­ated with creditors to refi­nance its debts. 
The deadline to reach a deal with 200 banks was midnight Paris time, or 6 p.m. EDT, but negotiations continued past the deadline and an announce­ment was not expected until later Tuesday. 
After court-appointed nego­tiators finish their work, Jean­Pierre Mattei, president of the French commercial court, was to review any compact that emerged. 
Earlier, Eurotunnel suspend­ed its share trading in London, Paris and Brussels, saying it was doing so pending the review by Mattei. 
Extremists turned back 
Israeli police blocked an extremist Jewish group from entering the main islamic compound in Jerusalem's Old City this morning. Jews are not allowed to pray at the site Israelis call the Temple Mount but known to Muslims as Harem es-Sharif. 

,f\rafat wh.n.t~ Ml.lbai•ak. at the.sUll1miti.n case he· conies under united pressure. from.. Netanyahu, Cfinton and King Hussein of Jordan. 
In Washington, however, White House spokesman Mike McCurry said· Arafat was still expected at the meeting. 
"We expect Chairman Arafat will be here," McCurry said, without commenting on reports of a delay. "He said he would be here. He accept­ed the president's invitation." 
For Netanyahu, the summit puts ·his tough approach to peacemaking to its frrst major test since he was elected prime minister in May, defeating the Labor Party that launched the peace process with Arafat. 
HaPPY 21st Niall!! 
• AFGHANISTAN 
Terrorists threaten Taliban 
By KATHY GANNON 
Associated Press Writer 
KABUL 
A mullah with one eye, a wooden leg and a patchy, griz­zled beard beneath his black turban stormed into a meeting of Taliban militiamen and four foreign reporters Monday and, in a voice shaking with fury, roared at his local comman­ders: 
"Why are you talking to these infidels?" 
Before anyone could answer, he slapped the face of Gul Moussa, a burly Taliban com­mander and the acting garrison chief. 
Terrified, a dozen other armed and bearded fighters fell silent. 
Their crime was talking with the reporters. Even worse in the eyes of Mullah Turabi, the enraged Muslim cleric, one of the reporters was a woman. 
"Quickly tell this woman to get out! You all have to go. Get out!" shouted the stout cleric as he waved his arms and stomped back and forth, his artificial foot shod in a ragged shoe, his good foot totally bare. 
To leave the room, a con­crete-block square lined with chairs and sofas, reporters had to squeeze past dozens of scowling bodyguards with rifles. A few carried imposing rocket launchers. 
Turabi comes from Kandahar, a city in southern Afghanistan, where the Taliban religious army was born about two years ago, and now heads the group's new supreme coun­cil, which controls Kabul. 
His arrival interrupted local Taliban leaders and clerics who had been trying to explain that the strict Islamic rule they were introducing in Kabul would be relaxed -allowing girls to be educated and other religions to be tolerated ­once transportation and securi­ty matters were more settled. 
Since taking over the Afghan capital last Friday, the Taliban have moved quickly to establish their version of Islamic law. 
They have closed schools for girls and banished women from work -in a city where 70 per­cent of the teachers are women. 
Women, told to envelop 

themselves in yards of material from head to foot, have virtual­ly disappeared from the streets. Most have donned burqas, the flowing, single­piece garments that cover even the eyes, with dark mesh. Others wear black coats in SO­degree temperatures and swathe their heads and faces in black shawls. 
On Monday, Taliban fighters were seen whipping two women with a car radio anten­na in Kabul. It was not clear why the women were attacked, as both were dressed according to the rules. No one attempted to intervene, and the fighters eventually let the sobbing women run away. 
Later that day, the new regime's strict rules for women earned criticism from Muslim rivals in Paris. Mehdi Rouhani, the spiritual head of Shiite Muslims in Europe, said Taliban attacks on women who refuse to cover their faces "find no justification in the teachings of Islam." 
"If, according to the Koran, the women must cover their hair and must not wear low-cut dresses," they do not have to cover their face as well, Rouhani said. The Taliban are mostly Sunni Muslims, the larg­er sect of Islam. 

But women are not the only targets of the militants in Kabul. On Sunday, a small-time crook was paraded down a busy street; his face was paint­ed black and bills of the local currency were shoved up his nose and into his ears and mouth. 
Radio Kabul warned in sever­al broadcasts that death would be the penalty for murder, drug dealing and adultery, with amputation the price of theft. These measures go well beyond common interpretation of Islamic law; other predomi­nantly Muslim nations allow women greater freedom and do not use amputation as punish­ment. 
The latest on-air edict: All military and government per­sonnel should cease shaving and grow beards in the next 45 days. Violators will be pun­ished. Cleanshaven men in the region around Herat, in west­ern Afghanistan, which the Taliban have controlled for some time, are commonly forced to have their heads shaved, too, in a mark of shame. 
Within hours of the Taliban army's arrival in Kabul last week, the rebels burst into a 
U.N. compound where former Afghan president Najibullah had taken shelter the last 4 1/2 years and executed him. His bloodied body was left to hang for 48 hours outside the presi­dential palace. He was a mur­derer and a Communist, the Taliban said, and death is the punishment for murderers. 
--~ 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Business Manager 
P~uicia Carson Man Casey 
Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................Brad l'rondergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters 
Spon. Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop 
Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet' 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
Photo Editor ..........................Michael Rurna 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame Ju Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reAect rhe policies ohhe adminisrra­rion ofeither instimrion. The ne:ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commem:.~.ries, lenrrs and Inside Columns present the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lwers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Edimr/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Gtnerallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNER... 

About six or seven years ago, a Vancouver native published a little book eallnd Generation X. Basically, this guy interviewed friends of his from around the Seattle-Vancouver area who had grown up in middle-class families, grad­uated from college and begun successful careers, only to discover they had no idea what to do with their lives. 
Matthew Apple 
This happened to coincide with the birth of the "Seattle Sound," or "grunge," or whatever flashy name the music industry preferred any given wenk to call its invention. Within two or thren years, the music industry had already dumped Seattle in favor of Los Angeles and New York, but, by then, "alternative" music, which previously could not lit into any given genre, had become a genre all its own. The media picked up on this concept, and, voila, the "MTV" or "Nintendo" generation had yet another name. 
The idea behind "Generation X" was originally the same behind the "Existentialist" label: a name for a group of people who have nothing in common, and that is what they have in common. Needless to say, this is contra­dictory and somewhat stupid. For exam­ple, those described in the book Generation X were 22 to 25 years old in 1990, making them 28 to 31 today. I am 
24. My younger brother, who just began his college career, turns 18 this November. According to the media, these ages-31, 24, 18-constitute a "generation." I've never heard a bigger crock. 
Now, the title "Generation-X" has been applied, like "alternative music," to nearly everything that is not related to the Baby Boomers. The label appears in every printed and electronic media available almost daily; it is repeated like a mantra, or like a condemnation, or reminder, as if to say, "You are Generation X_ You are named." 
To back up this cock-eyed labeling, the media compared Generation X to the "Lost Generation," the high society of the Roaring Twenties with their flappers and their speakeasies, their young New Yorker and their AI Capone. The Lost Generation essentially partied their way into the Great Depression because it refused to do anything constructive or worthwhile. One could say that this cur­rent generation similarly has no focus­except that there is no single, current generation. · 
Generations are created by cycles of war and peace. The World War II gener­ation's males went away en masse, and when those who survived returned at the same time, they created the Baby Boomers. In turn, the Baby Boomers fought Vietnam, but not enough of them left and returned at the same time; because the Vietnam War was an unconventional war as wars go, the Baby Boomers didn't create a genera­tion. Instead, they spread their children out over two decades. Some claim that Generation X came to be because there is no war, no "big" concept which unites today's youth, while others claim that· Generation X is a backlash of sorts against the Sixties, against their par­ents' ideals. I claim that there are in fact a large number of smaller "generations" which comprise what the Boomers call Generation X, which is perhaps the ini­tial reason for the pseudo-existentialist label. 
An interesting analogy to the attitudes of the Nineties might be those of the "Korean War" generation and of the "Dazed and Confused" generation. Both are "forgotten" generations. Nobody cares about the early Fifties and Harry S Truman any more; no one wants to remember the mid to late Seventies (out of mass cultural embarrassment, if nothing else). Both periods can be char­acterized as transitional, exemplifying the awkward and uncertain feeling that comes with the nostalgia of lost ideals and the reluctant realization of a new societal order. 
'sak's Fifth Avenue sells 
"grunge" clothing, torn­up, faded blue jeans and plaid shirts, and people actually buy it. Students wear baseball caps backwards and rings on their ears, noses, and various other body parts, in an attempt to look different; and as a result everyone winds up looking the same.' 
One look at the self-appointed voice of this "generation," MTV, will tell you the current social order: boredom. On MTV's "Beach House," California teenagers with too much time on their hands wear sequined dresses and bicy­cle helmets while a crowd pelts them with a few hundred plastic floor l}.ockey balls. 
On "Singled Out," faithfully repro­duced here at Notre Dame last spring, a shallow "Generation X-er" can find his or her appropriately shallow "mate'-' by eliminating those contestants who don't have large breasts or small noses and then asking them to shriek as loud as possible into a microphone. On "Road Rules" and "The Real World," evidently the goal is to make a group of trendy spoiled brats live together for a short amount of time and take turns screwing and squabbling with each other on tele­vision. 
What has happened-the section of American society which formerly resist­ed the label "Generation X" has now gleefully accepted it. Generation X has become a self-fulfilling prophecy, and the media can pat itself on the back for once again being allowed to resort to hackneyed cliches instead of providing real communication between age groups. And the Generation X-ers love it. They love having a collective name, because it gives them a group identity. Having a name gives them a sense of purpose, contrived and pointless though it may be. Having a name means they no longer have to worry about being indi­viduals any more. 
And so, to quote Ed Brubaker, "Once again, the mainstream media has stolen youth rebellion and sold us back a blander version at a higher price. By portraying today's youth as 'slackers,' they've given us permission to be lazy and stupid." 
Upper-middle-class bored Californians think they're punk rockers because they dye their hair pink and complain that their rich parents haven't died yet. Sak's Fifth Avenue sells "grunge" clothing, torn-up, faded blue jeans and plaid shirts, and people actually buy it. Students wear baseball caps backwards and rings on their ears, noses, and vari­ous other body parts, in an attempt to look different; and as a result everyone winds up looking the same. 
It's the new and improved James Dean story: Rebels Without A Brain. Except, now, the counterculture has become the establishment, and the establishment's laughing all the way to the bank. 
Matthew Apple is an MFA candidate in Creative Writing at Notre Dame. He 
can  be  reached  at  
matthew. t. apple.! @nd. edu  or  at  
http:lt'www_nd. edu:BOI-mapple.  

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURY 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 

----~ --------~--~---------------..-----------~-~-----,
-----~-------­
;ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, October 1, 1996 

By JOEY CRAWFORD 
Accent Edi,tor 
J 
ust add a touch of humor to a beautiful face and a seemingly perfect body, and you will get Jenny McCarthy. She combines the physical comedy associated with Lucille Ball with the classic beauty and grace of a Marilyn Monroe or Greta Garbo, making her one of the most recognizable faces in the nation. 
Imagine being in your early twenties, your picture is plastered on magazines as well as dorm room walls, you have your own TV show, people of the opposite sex adore you and people of the same sex respect you. This was hard for everi Jenny McCarthy to imagine just a few short years ago. 
Jenny McCarthy was raised in an Irish Catholic family on the south side of 
Chicago.  Her parents as well as her  flirting and waiting period.  clown.  
·three sisters are supportive of her  She does, however, plan to  Fitnes  
career. The three sisters are as tal­ write a book for the X-genera- MTV's  
ented as the super-model, with all  tion, although many publishers  game:  
three receiving basketball scholar- have  been  giving  her  the  part t<  
ships to the University of Illinois  runaround.  She  explains,  ance,  
where they average a combined 45  "They claim our generation  work':  
points per game.  just doesn't read books."  She  leave  
As a child Jenny wrote letters to  reeognizes that Generation X  her 24  
Wonderwoman, but disappointingly,  does need a  book. arguing,  and h1  
she never wrote the young Jenny  "It's  hard  growing  up  in  chara~  
back.  This fact has helped Jenny  today's society."  She would  Rich a·  
McCarthy adopt the extraordinary  like to be the first to succesful­ lifestyl  

and appr?achable personality ~hat Eager fans line up for the chance to meet ly market a book for this gen-show ' 
she has. I know that when the httle Jenny McCarthy at Scottsdale Mall this eration. depict\ 
boys and girls come up with adoring past Friday. As the surfing sounds begin tbat w faces. I try to make their three to regain their popularity, stuff." seconds worth the three hour rate. I'd feel McCarthy capitalizes on the trend by releasing a com-McCl horrible if I did anything else." pilation of fourteen surf tunes. When asked how she of mo Following her graduation from compiled .the collection she explains; "I put together Miram Mother McAulley High School the songs that I thought were the coolest, like Hawaii You'rE (where she ran track, played soft-Five-0." Manzella boasts, "It is the best compolition in . and 0 ball and floor hockey, (yes, she said the genre, and it's affordable." To this McCarthy appear floor hockey)}, she attended began her antics, "AITordable ... school's out, surrs up, Stupid:I Southern Illinois University for two let's go out on a surfing safari." be a fal years where she majored in ours-During her tour, McCarthy stopped in South Bend to tious b ing. She left college three years sign autographs at the Scottsdale Mall and more numen ago and ventured to California by importantly, to see her favorite college football team, two ki1 herself to pursue her dreams of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. Th.e signing, spon­Jenny!': becoming a model. "At first every-sored by Musicland and WBRE, the Bear, brought in all of th one said that I well over 1500 Right couldn't do it," fans. televisi1 M c C a r t h y Radio personali-for a fil explained in ty, Joe from a netw1 Coach Holtz's WBRE, the Bear, which~ office, "I went to maintained that explai four agents and McCarthy's visit an 'I I they all said 'No, helped South Bend where get out of here, achieve some come we don't want recognition as a where you." Later on, cultural center, When Jenny sent her first claiming, "It is leads calendar to those four about time that respo hapless agencies. we bring true tal-and h< 
When Holtz learned of ent to the area, her early turmoils as a whether it be per-model he jokingly asked, formers like Jenny 
"Whf.t, dfd? ~het ha\e dfgs Irish coach Lou Holtz meets Irish beauty McCarthy before or musicians, and
1
as c len s · ven ua Y • Friday night's pep rally at the Joyce Center bring them to 
she met a "great manager" · South Bend and 
and current boyfriend Ray Manzella, and he show them that we have a really vibrant audience if she steered her towards MTV, where she has here. It's a change of pace. Why go all the way out to attituc achieved celebrity status. "Every time there Chicago, when you can do stuff right here in South female was a door that was shut I just kept going. I Bend?" her c 
just wanted to show people I could do it." Not bad The Bear, which has had a good working relation-soon for a girl who used to sell cole slaw at a Polish ship with Musicland, was excited about helping pro­ever Grocery Store. mote the book and CD signing tour. "The CD is fun that I 
Right now, McCarthy is on a tour promoting her music for the whole family. It reminds you of summer­to new CD and book, stopping at malls across the coun-time, and now that the weather is turning lousy it grou try, and occasionally taking in a Notre Dame football reminds you what summer was like. She is a very Manz 
game. The book, which she did not write, is a dat-intelligent woman who knows where she wants her acknr ing game book that Manzella classifies as a "non-career to go." edges book." Pictures of McCarthy decorate the book And where does she want her career to go? The sky natur 
that highlights the different appears to be the limit for the girl that Us magazine her p< Observer photos by Dan Cichalski stages of dating, including the called, "a cross between homecoming queen and class I a r i 

• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
Come on down! It's a showcase of cas 
Here you match wits with other would-be procrastinators in games scholarship from the Sunny Delight By DOMINIC FAHEY of pure esoteric trivia and mind-boggling crossword The small task at hand is to ar
World Wide Web Correspondent 
puzzles. The difficulty is variable between · 10 . · . engines and comb the entire In easy, medium, and hard. With tt't'\e tL ·:·.e.. logos pasted on web pages. Don 
So you're wasting time surfing the net, looking at the typical use­increased difficulty, you have to ,..Q'"' ..., 
wager more riddlets to play, but .,,\I .·
less home pages, when you could instead be making serious money 
th.e prizes are also larger if you ~"cJ
or winning a new car on the web! Yes, that's right, it's game shows 
wm. ~ 
on the web minus Bob Barker -so tell them what they've won, 
The first level is gener­
(//11
~oddy. There is no need to buy a vowel here, it's all free! _ 
ally simple enough to win .
;" Check-out http://www.riddler.com. This site is highly addictive. 
seventy-five percent of
The object is to collect monetary units called riddlets by winning 
the time on any mediocre 
games and then trading them in for prizes. It's sort of like gambling, 
trivia and crossword
but the riddlets have no intrinsic value since you get them for free 
skills.. The best part of winning is that
whenever you run out. 
you can get rid of your old Limited Edition
You can play solitaire games like answering the daily riddles that Pinto if you win the Microsoft sponsored Fordould stump even Alex Trebek, test your trivia knowledge in "Mental Explorer, or can travel anywhere in the U.S: free forFloss,' or solve the crossword puzzles in "Gridlock.' But if you want Spring Break, and many more prizes. .
to earn the big bucks fast, you have to risk it all for what's behind Once you have spent all night winning a"Riddler" t-shirtdoor number two, and play multiplayer trivia over the web called instead of studying for that dreaded Calc test, your parents are going
"King of the Hill" or multiplayer crossword puzzles called 
to refuse to pay your tuition. No problem. You can win the $10,000 since checks are sent every week to"Checkered Flag." 


----------~ -­
;ACCENT
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 page 11 

She has alrnady appearml on ESPN's Club, "Silk Stalkings," as well as Singlml Out," wlwrn slw eo-hosts the ow with Chris llardwiek. Thanks in IN wild antics and dazzling appnar­n show has hnconw one of th~ nnt­most popular st~rins. She plans to f' show on NovPmber 2 (a day after birthday) to purstw an acting earnnr own talk show on MTV, which she 
•riz1~s as "sort of likn 'l.ifnstylns of the I hunous, ·· hut <u:tually more like the s ol' llw daznd and confused." Thn 
·ill pn~miern this January and will llw winrd things that celebrities do normally do not snn in the intnrvii)W 
thy has already appnared in couple 'es. Slw made her debut in the r.llllllllllll 
·lilm "Things to Do in Denver When IK]I:.r::lL_ _..:O.EIJIIl.•ltlllJr.:.Uill.. ........__.-=-___.­I>Pad," which starred Andy Garda This fan is a little young to compete on "Singled Out," but he doesn't istoplwr Walk•m. Bncnntly McCarthy let that get in the way of meeting McCarthy in person. 
d in Nnw Linn Cinema's eomedy "The 
"Hoth guys and girls love her. She is so much fun and " starring Tom Arnold. Tlw movio proved to so approachable, she is like the girl next door." 
urP at thn box ol'lice, maybe because the ambi­Despite being an avid Irish fan her entire life, Jenny md was only in one scene. She has received paid her first visit to the Univeristy of Notre Dame this us ofl'nrs, hut as shn explains with a laugh (as past weekend and was greeted by the perennial bad s y1dl at her limo, "I know you can see me weather, to which Manzella replied was the perfect). "I( is just a matter ol' linding time between 
weather for her surfing CD. She attended the pep rally P d1aos." this past weekend hoping to inspire the Fighting Irish now, McCarthy's attention is pointed towards to victory, and even though it may not have been 
111, which slw hopes to use as a stepping stone enough to secure an Irish victory, her perseverance, m can~er. Jenny MeCarthy is still shopping for despite doubtful modeling agencies, can serve as a 1rk that will produen her own television show modnl for us all. She has proven that she is more than ·lw hopes will air next fall. She just a pretty face. 
s, "It's going to be a lot like In case you missod Jenny McCarthy ov•~ l.ucy' kind of show while she was on campus, she will It hPre is a lot of physical 
demonstrate her comic skills on 
ly, s I a p s t iek, t h n kind "Wings" this Wednesday night on I makP fun of myself." 
NBC. As for her kissing abilities, the nskPd which aetn~ss's 
only Domer that can attest to that is If' plans to follow, she Notre Dame kicker Jim Sanson, who 
1ds, "(;oldif~ llawn 
was rewarded for his game-winning r 1:arenr choiens. No lield goal at Texas with a kiss. 
tlllts to sen Goldie :ry and do a drama." ~ttrihutPs the multi-Joey Crawford and Dan 
1 
fans to hnr down-Cichalski thoroughly enjoyed 1 and approachable conducting this inter­
t. Slw knows that 
view, while in the 
~opts tlw superior back seat of her ~ Lh at some top limousine. ~dPbrities take, >wnl'all will )llow. "II' I 
tPl lih IVill full the 
11 d." 
eII a wl­1thP 1 of pu­
y. 
i and prizes on the web 
~unt@ http://www.sunnyd.com. If you really need that quick win fix, log into the first instant 
yourself with your best search winner sweepstakes on the web at http://www.surfs-up.com. All rnet for the numerous SunnyD you have to do is click on the surf board to see if you win one of tho worry, they generously give you thirty-live instant prizes available monthly. full page of clues that help you What kind of a win is better than a guaranteed win? The nt started on your way to finan­Jelly Belly site, http://www.jcllybclly.com, offers free jelly beans ial independence. when you fill out a survey. The biggest challange of all is finding a 

If you don't have throe time when the supply of 500 free samples hasn't run out. Order ono eoks to spend in front of your for late night snacks, one as a gift, one for later -heck, its free! ser, look no furth~lr than Now, there are probably some skeptics out there saying, 
://www.bingozone.com for all "How can all this be free?" Well. it's all in the advertising. How did our short term income needs. Hollywood Squares give away all those cars? Advertising spots. I idea is simple: you play bingo the site gives away more prizes, more people are interested. 
the web against other cash Therefore more advertisers want to buy a spot on their site, and licient webbers. You get throe more prizes can bo given away ... rds and a now ball is available So what are you waiting for? Time is money! ery 20 seconds. You just have 
get bingo before anyone else Guest Web correspondent Dominic Fahey is a sophomore computer win your $5, $10, or $20. It's science major who lives in Sarin flail. He can be reached at as good as going to tho ATM. dominic.ffahey. S@nd. edu. e lucky winners. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Antibiotics: Nectar of the Infirmary Gods 
By lARRY WARD Medical Minute Correspondent 
As anyone who has been treated by the infirmary here on cam­pus can attest to, antibiotics seem to be an extremely common treatment for a huge variety of ailments. However, recent studies prove that these frequently used "wonder drugs" are rapidly los­ing their potency. 
Antibiotics are the most commonly used drugs to treat disflases caused by bacteria. Researchers have found that almost all dis­ease-causing bacteria have developed a resistance to one or more of the one hundred and fifty antibiotics that are in use today. 
The future of antibiotic use as we know it today is uncertain. Many believe that· we are on the verge of returning to a pre­antibiotic era. In such a world, tuberculosis, pneumonia and typhoid could become common killers. Moreover, the very young, the very old, and the ill would be extremely susceptible to numer­ous disease-causing bacteria. 
One proponent of this idea is the American Society o Microbiology. In a statement released last spring, the society warned, "There is little doubt that the problem is global in scope and very serious. We are in greater danger from common dis­ease-producing organisms that are becoming increasingly resis­tant to antibiotics than from any exotic outbreak in the hot zone." 
Antibiotic resistance, or the ability of microbes to neutralize or evade drugs that previously had eradicated them, is evolved through mutations and natural selection of bacteria. Bacteria often undergo mutation in their genetic makeup. It is these mutations, coupled with the rapid multiplication of bacteria (new generations forming every few hours), that are responsible for the development of antibiotic resistance. 
Thes~ bacteria are capable of ridding themselves of the drugs trying to destroy them. Examples of bacteria capable of resisting antibiotics include the synthesis of enzymes that deactivate the drugs, alteration of cellular wall structure to prevent entry o antibiotics, and camouflage of the sites on the cell's surface to which antibiotics normally attach. Obviously, scientists are unable to create new antibiotics as quickly as bacteria are able to acquire resistance. 
Who is to blame for the rapid increase of antibiotic resistance? The answer to this question involves both drug companies and the general public. During the 1980's, the marketplace was satu­rated with many antibiotics. Thus, drug companies essentially abandoned antibiotic research in this time frame. In fact, the last class of antibiotics was introduced in 1987 and it is not expected that any significant new antibiotics will be released in the near future. 
In addition to the drug companies' role in the resistance prob­lem, the general public is also culpable. Through misuse o antibiotics, through means such as halting a course of antibiotics prematurely, the public has devastatingly contributed to antibiot­ic resistance. Doctors warn that infected patients must take all o a prescribed antibiotic in order to kill all bacteria, so that the organism does not reinfect in the future in a resistant form. Futhermore, doctors stress that, "the one-two punch of complete antibiotic treatment and the patient's immune system can usually sweep away both antibiotic resistant and nonresistant bacteria." 
Historically, hospitals are tho most common breeding ground for antibiotic resistant bacterial infections. The reason lies in the fact that the most common hospital patients: the very young, the very old, and the very sick have very weakened immune systems and are unable to suppress resistant bacteria. However, in recent years these strains have begun to spread to areas outside hospit­als. Cramped cities, day care centers and preschools have become prime sites for the emergence and spread of bacteria. 
Experts note that there is an urgent need to detect and combat resistant strains before they become widespread. With this knowledge, pharmaceutical companies have recently banded together to refocus efforts to develop new antibiotics. However, these new drugs are not expected for at least five years and then must still receive approval from the Food and Drug Administration. Hopefully, those antibiotics will not be too late. 
Larry Ward is a junior Science Pre-Professional major. He is always trying to think of creative topics to discuss in the weekly Medical Minute. He would be thrilled ifpeople would e-mail him suggestions at Lawrence.A. Ward.25@nd.edu. 
This article was adapted from: Saltus, Richard. Antibiotics: Overused and Misunderstood. American Health. Vol XIV No. 8, October 1995. 
·, 
~----­ ---·-------~-------­--­ 
1 I  
page 12  The Observer • SPORTS  Tuesday, October 1, 1996  

• NFL 
Cowboys' credibility restored 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA 
The Dallas Cowboys live. 
Lifted from their lethargy by Herschel Walker's kickoff re­turn, the Cowboys beat the Philadelphia Eagles 23-19 Monday night to restore their credibility and avoid the base­ment in the NFC East. 
It was a prime-time perfor­mance by Dallas' prime timers 
Troy Aikman, Deion Sanders, Emmitt Smith and Walker, who had a 49-yard re­turn after the Cowboys had fall­en behind 10-0 on Philadelphia's first two posses­sions. That ignited a run of 20 straight points in a 16-minute span of the first half. high­lighted by a brilliantly executed 96-yard touchdown drive. 
The Cowboys' defense, led by Sanders and Leon Lett, had six sacks and forced five turnovers. 
Three of the turnovers set up field goals by Chris Boniol, in­cluding an interception by Sanders, whose 39-yard recep­tion was the game's key offen­sive play. The fourth was George Teague's interception that stopped Philadelphia's fmal drive at the Dallas 30 with two minutes left. 
The win put Dallas (2-3) a game behind Philadelphia (3-2) and two behind Washington. And the Cowboys get another prime timer, Michael Irvin, back for their next game, at home to Arizona on Oct. 13. 
The Eagles, meanwhile, will be without their quarterback, Rodney Peete, for the rest of the season. Peete tore the patellar tendon in his right knee when he slipped dropping back to pass with 1:50 left in the half. 
How big was this win for Dallas? The Cowboys, who fell behind 10-0 on the Eagles' first two possessions, would have been three games behind the Eagles and Redskins had they lost. Moreover, they came into the game doubting themselves -they had just one offensive touchdown in their last six quarters. 
But the return by Walker, who returned to Dallas for the minimum salary after he was released by the New York Giants, seemed to provide a spark that had been lacking. 
The Eagles took a 3-0 lead on Gary Anderson's 36-yard field goal, then followed that with a 65-yard, nine-play drive capped by Ricky Watters 2-yard TO run on fourth-and-one. But Walker took the kickoff and burst up the middle to the Philadelphia 
44. Seven plays later, on a third-and-goal from the 5-yard­line, Aikman rifled a ball off his back foot to Eric Bjornson in the back of the end zone. 
On their next possession, the Cowboys were set back by two penalties -a holding call on Darren Woodson that set them back to their own 4 to start the drive, then a clip by Aikman on a reverse to Sanders that made it second-and-22 at the 14. 
Then came the play that may have turned the game ­Sanders took off down the left side on a fly pattern, got inside of Troy Vincent and took in a perfect pass from Aikman at the Philadelphia 4 7. 
Six plays later Smith, who rushed for 92 yards in 22 car­ries, capped the drive with a 5­yard TO run and suddenly the Cowboys led 14-10. The official length of the drive was 96 yards, but with penalty yardage added, the Cowboys actually netted 105 yards. 
Sanders' interception set up a 36-yard field goal and Peete's fumble on the play on which he was injured set up a 30-yarder to give Dallas a 20-10 halftime lead. 
• Philadelphia got back in the game on the first series of the second half when Philadelphia safety Brian Dawkins hit Aikman forcing a pop-up pass that Rhett Hall grabbed and re­turned 32 yards for a TO that made it 20-17. 
Bof!iol's 22-yarder after a fumble by Troy Detmer, Peete's replacement, made it 23-17 with six minutes left in the quarter. Then Lett blocked Anderson's 29-yard field goal attempt after Hall had recov­ered Aikman's fumble at his own 45 after he was sacked by William Fuller. 
The Cowboys took an inten­tional safety with eight seconds left in the game when punter John Jett ran out of his own end zone. 
Aikman was 13 of 23 for 149 yards. 
·to· the team week:. ·Hebert. who had fourtu:rnovers Sunday in a 39-171Qss to San Francisco that the Falcons too~ 4, the starting apparently for 

season, ,'%; _. _, _,_-___ , suspende.d ror 
,w....n~+;~, him about after a con~ 
frontation with Jones when the coach benched him in a 
loss to Philadelphia last week. spoke with several 
to give his side of then held a news 
/ii.i\nfflf-Ar\ill'!" with agent -Leigh his side,-to fur­
ther· the suspension. 
While insisting he is still a Falcon, George said he'd just as soon play somewhere else. He also made it clear he had no pl~ns to apologize to Jone~,. ~nd he said the sus• pen~tqttwas unwarranted becatiseiany competitor would ·complain about'being removed. 
the SWliJ)flllSiOill on from here. this week." 
Jones cited NFL rides that allow a suspension of up to four games for conduct detri­mental to the team. He said George m~t thaterite:ria. with 
···his post-suspension media blitz, although he conceded the NFL Players Association was ~ppealing both the initial suspension and the extension. 
When queried further about George's status, Jones declined to discuss the quar­terback any further. "I think I've said all }need to say 
-about Jeff.'' the coach said. "There's nothing more I can tell you than what I've been telling you the last three or four days." Neither Steinberg nor offi­cials with the players' union could be reached immediately for comment/but ifs clear George has played his last game in an Atlanta uniform. The only issue now appears to be whether he'll get paid dur· ing the suspension and which team he'll end tip with. The Falcons are working to trade George, who set a team passing record in 1995 with 4,143 yards but has stirred up controversy at nearly every stop in his career. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
SPRING BREAK  GA's for sale: All home games  Need 4 Air Force GA's  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
NOTICES  Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed! Sell15 trips and travel free+ cash!  -~ TICKETS '-----------..J  Call x1596 with b/o. Ask lor Mike. Need 3 Washington tix bad  243-11 85 (Cara) ND ALUM NEEDS  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! The highest quality full-color  
!!1!!11!!!!1!!!1!111!1111111111111111111111!!!!1111111111  Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  please call Nate at 271·1 846  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITI TIX  copies are now available at  
Anyone interested in playing disc  ALL GAMES HOME  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  THE COPY SHOP  
golf, call x0509  AND AWAY  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  LaFortune Student Center  
111111111!!!111111!1!11111111!1!111111111111111111111!111  TICKLER'S COMEDY CLUB  232-0058  (206)621-3485  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  Phone #631·COPY  
24 HAS.  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  Now Hiring:  BUY -SELL -TRADE  I need 4 Wash. Tix** Stud. or GA  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  
Breakfast Inn has space available  * Waitress/Waiters  TICKET-MART, INC.  Call Clare 243·9282  _(219)422·6088  Now hiring Bartenders and Door  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  *Marketing  PeopleIll Apply at Bridget's alter 8  
private baths, $70-$90,  * Ticket sales  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Need 1 Wash. Student Ticket.  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  pm!l  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Flexible work schedules.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call Rich or Mike @ 1306  674-7645-No student or student  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  Call232-7777 or apply in person  232-0061.  conv.  "There's 21,000 of 'em. You'll get  
1-800-41 8-9487  123 W. Washington -above  Wanted:  Tickets lor any or all  one."  
BW-3's  .I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  remaining home games.  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  
Textbooks boughVsoldltraded 5 blks south on ND Ave. 233-2342. Pandora's Books.  ...-----------,I FOR RENT  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER I CALL 243-1287  634-1152 I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's  G.A.s -I need 4 PITI G.A.'s -Call Shawn 215-676-6685  DO THE HUSTLE! COME TO BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN STEPAN FROM 7:00·  
ILOST & FOUND I  WALKTOCAMPUS  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 312.404.4903  $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396 I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's  i need tix lor washington. if u can help, please call RON at288-9102.  9:00 AND DO THE HUSTLE! ALSO, LEARN THE HUSTLE FROM "SATURDAY NIGHT  
·  ·  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA.  $$$Please call Laura$$$  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIXI  FEVER!"  
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green  232-2595  Will buy or trade. Matt271-3683  @ (219)284-4396  CALL ANYTIME • 284-5456  
stone. Great sentimental value.  LUCASII  
Please call 4-3425 if found.  Need a place to stay on football  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  $$$$$  Need 2 Air F. GA's  
weekends?  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  NEED 4 AF+4 PITI GA 288-9102  Amy 616-473-5825  happy birthday becca I  
Lost  $$$$$  
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  Furnished apartment for short term  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ Tamie.  
Sacred Heart  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  Cristina@ x2339  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  ENTS!  October 1, 1994: Don't look left,  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287·  ALL HOME GAMES.  CALLX1932  don't look right, just look straight  
REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  4876.  WANTED  CALL 276-201 0/288-2877 AFT 5  ahead. October 1, 1995: Dublin and  
2 GAs for Air Force  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  chocolate ... what more does a girt  
Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Carrie x2344  I NEED WASH. ST. TICKETS  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  need?  
if found call Maria-243-9282  ND-SMC EVENTS.  CALL 243-9357  Ocober1, 1996:???  
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  Need 4 Air Force Tix  Love,  
*****LOST******  ENDS.  student.  Call Meghan @232-7839.  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  Call Frank Walters  The Roomies  
I lost a Corona keychainlbottle  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  1st 10 Rows 232-0058  18002439683  
opener (with three keys) on it over  243-0658.  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  Leave name and # -will pay top $.  
the Purdue weekend. If you found  x2846  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Hey Gorgeous,  
it, please call Paul at634·1519.  1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  ALL GAMES HOME  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE  I didn't talk to you tonight!  
REWARD.  I CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306  Need 3 Rutgers GA's Call Erik @3807  AND AWAY 232-0058  or PITI. CALL SEAN x-3311  First time in a long time. Miss you.  
HUGE N::~p~~TE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  I FOR SALE Beds 4 Sale: 3 Combos in 1! Like  NEED two Washington tix, GA or student. Anne 289-4922 1@#$%"01.1'&&*)*"%"$%@$@#1*"  24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART,INC. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's call Nick 232-9944 I NEED OHIO ST. WASH. & AF GA's.272-6306  me Happy Birthday, Tamiel Corey,  
(813)360-2243.  NEW. $150.634-0926  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Things have changed since days of  
BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR  ::32-0061.  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ Rolling Rock, Bon Jovi and calcu­ 
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  ND EXPERIENCE  HAVE AF, PITI, RUTGERS TICK­ lus, but we still love you and wish  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  CAR FOR SALE -92 GEO Tracker  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  $$$$$$  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  you a happy birthday.  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  Red with convertible top -54K A/C  john_d._potter@ notes.pw .com  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ Your favorite London chicks  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  Great shape! $8,800. Call Pascal  !@##$%"&((*"*%"$#@$#$%*"%*  ALL HOME GAMES.  4273  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h)  272-6551  MODEL UNITED NATIONS  
www.springbreaktravel.com  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  HAVE 4 GA's FOR WASH.  Meeting Wed. 7 p.m.  
1-800-678-6386  Sell '84 4-door Honda Accord LX  GAMES 235·3394  n. d. tickets for sale  THAT I NEED TO SELL  ISO Lounge  
162000 mill00% Reliable/ Good  271 1635  FACE VALUE OR BST. OFFER  TVNCR raffle at  
Now hiring bartenders and door  condition: +1-$1100 or best offer  NEEDED: 1 student ticket to Wash  CALL GENO AT 1-0776  Acoustic Cafe  
people. Apply @ Bridget's after  Call Sebastian@ 273-3179  Game for younger brother  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  
8pm.  PowerMac 7200/90  Call JP@ x3414  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M·F 216-650-5284 7-9 PM EDT M-F  PERSONAL  HELPIIIIIII need 3 GAs for Air Force and 2 GAs lor Rutgers.  
Looking lor ride to BALTIMORE for  8MB RAM, 0.5 GB HD  ALUM NEEDS GA's  Please call x-2625.  
FALL BREAK. will help pay  $1,800  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  NEED 3 Air Force GA's  WHY DON'T YOU COME SIT  
lor gas. call erin at x2721.  Lima.1 @ I  273.0824  618·274-2990  M-F 8am-6pm  243-1185 (Ashley)  OVER HERE?  becca trantowski is 21 !!1111!!1111  


-l 
I
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Michigan State gains another victory 
By KATHY HOFFMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
LANSING, Mich. 
Michigan State coach Nick Saban didn't exactly smile Monday, but his expression is a lot Jess grim now that his team has won another game. 
''It was a very good team win for us," Saban said Monday, referring to the Spartans' Saturday trouncing of Eastern Michigan, 47-0. "Maybe for the first time in this season, we're coming together as a team." 
The Spartans (2-2) take on Iowa (2-1) at Kinnick Stadium on Saturday in the conference opener for both teams. It will be the 23rd meeting between the teams, with Iowa owning a slim 15·14·2 edge over Michigan State. 
Redshirt freshman quarter­buck Bill Burke, who handled his first game last Saturday, will be the starting quarter· back.Saban said that Burke tlarned the right to start Saturday. But he added that quarterback Gus Ornstein still could be a contender for the top spot in later games. 
"Gus has had a pretty good attitude about this," Saban said during his weekly news conference. "I would be disap· pointed in him as a competitor If he didn't feel bad. But he's taken the attitude that he's going to work hard." 
The Spartans had to turn to Ornstein after junior quarter· back Todd Schultz was injured in the Sept. 7 game against Nebraska. Ornstein finished the Nebraska game and led the Spartans' losing effort (30­
20) against Louisville Sept. 21. 
Saban said Monday that Ornstein and Burke were told last week that both would be sharing time in practice. 
"They both had a good prac­tice week," Saban said. "But we wanted to see what Blll Burke could do." 
Burke ended against Eastern with eight comple­tions in 22 attempts for 166 yards and two touchdowns. He missed his first•eight attempts before connecting on a 49­yard touchdown pass to Nigea Carter in the first quarter. 
"Bill was a little nervous at the beginning of the game.'' Saban said. "But as the game went on. he settled down." 
The Michigan State coach repeated his weekly theme that his players have to he more consistent and play for the entire game. 
Saban said the Spartans will have a tough time getting ready for Iowa because Iowa coach Hayden Fry runs .. a whole book of trick plays." 
"They do a lot of things that it takes a lot of time in prac­tice to prepare for," Saban said. But the Spartans can't just be ready for the surprises. 
"They beat you with the bread-and-butter (plays) if you're not prepared on the ba­sics," be said. 

1
IJt\JITFO LI~AO 11~ 
-· .... ---·· ..."" (fll 
New Pickup Point Effective September 30, 1996 
Starting September 30, United Limo will pick up by the main gate across from the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
For schedules and other information, consult your travel agent or call us at 254-5000. 

Your Airporl Connection...A/1 Oay...Every Day 
Check our Notre Dame schedule on the web at h :l/www.busville.com/irish.htm 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish hoping to stop Broncos 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
Last year, six of the nine wins recorded by the men's soccer team were shutouts. DePaul and Western Michigan were two of the six Irish shutout vic­tims. 
This season. after losing five starters to graduation, the Blue Demons avenged an 8-0 drub­bing at the hands of the Irish by handing Notre Dame its first loss of 1996 -ironically, a 1-0 shutout. Western Michigan suf­fered a 4-0 defeat at Alumni Field last year and, like DePaul, lost more than a third of their starters in the off-season. And if those similarities are not enough to make Irish fans won­der about tonight's matchup at Western Michigan, the Broncos and Blue Demons also played to a 1-1 tie earlier this year. 
Notre Dame is coming off of its second loss of the season, a 3-0 decision at Indiana on Friday night -yet another shutout. After losing to DePaul, the Irish responded rather well. tying a strong Connecticut team and beating Seton Hall. These two contests kept the Irish undefeated in the Big East. So 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Wildcats' to battle Wolverines 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Reminded that Saturday's game with Michigan -just as it was a year ago -is a "big" game for Northwestern, Wildcats linebacker Pat Fitzgerald was quick with a response. 
"It's a big game for them, too," he said Monday. "They have to play the defending Big Ten champions." 
Michigan played a huge role in Northwestern's ride to the Rose Bowl a year ago. First, the Wolverines lost to the Wildcats, 19-13 in Ann Arbor, a stunning victory that set Northwestern's remarkable season into motion. 
And then the Wildcats watched and rooted for Michigan as the Wolverines defeated Ohio State in the regular-season finale, giving Northwestern the league title and a trip to Pasadena. 
"I think they're pretty ticked off about last year. I think after they beat Ohio State, they probably felt they deserved to go to the Rose Bowl," Wildcats quarterback Steve Schnur said. 
"If I was them I'd be pretty ticked off. I fully expect them to be that way," he said. "We're just worried about preparing ourselves." 
Michigan, ranked sixth, brings a 4-0 record into Saturday's game after routing UCLA 38-9 last Saturday. The Wolverines have also beaten Illinois, Colorado and Boston College. 
Northwestern is 3.1. as it was a year ago when it beat the Wolverines, and is coming off a 35-17 victory over Indiana in its Big Ten opener. The Wildcats are ranked 22nd. 
Sunrayce 1997 
For those who need a little sun in South Bend . .. 
Come help build ND's first solar car. 
Join us for an Informational Meeting: 
how will the squad respond this time around? 
Acknowledging the compar­isons between the Broncos and Blue Demons, senior Chris Mathis said, "These teams have improved, but we're playing against ourselves (tonight). We have to be focused on this game." 
Head coach Mike Berticelli assured that the Irish are not overlooking Western Michigan .. 
"They are both (Western Michigan and DePaul) pretty decent teams," explained Berticelli. "What makes it diffi­cult is the environment at those places." 
The coach was referring to the small size of the field at the two schools.. This factor tends to help the home team to con­tain their opponents and pre­vents teams like Notre Dame from properly balancing their attack. 
Berticelli also mentioned the magnitude of the game from Western Michigan's perspec­tive. 
"It's huge for them," com­mented Berticelli. "They get extremely excited and motivat­ed to beat Notre Dame." 
Another concern for the Irish 
"You show me a coach who's confident going in to play Michigan and I'll show you a guy who is nuts," Northwestern's Gary Barnett said. 
Barnett is concerned about the Wolverine's unpredictable defensive schemes, which make their talented personnel, led by linebacker Jarrett Irons and corner Charles Woodson, even more effective. 
"On Monday I'm scared to death of everybody. On Friday, I'll be ready to go," Barnett said. 
Northwestern trailed the Wolverines 13-6 in the second half last season but rallied for the vic­tory in front of 104,000 fans. It was arguably the most important football win in school history. 
"We had what we referred to as a lot of belief without evidence and this year we have the evi­dence behind us that we can play with a Michigan and beat a Michigan," said Schnur. He was quick to call the Wolverines' defense the best he's seen in his five-year career. 
"It's hard to think that four years ago when I was here you looked at Michigan and would say: 'I just hope we can hang with them for a while.' 
..We legitimately feel we can compete with these g:uys. We did that last year." 
NOTES: Northwestern has won back-to-back Big Ten openers for the first time since 1969 and 1970.... Darnell Autry needs 149 yards Saturday to become Northwestern's career rushing leader. He trails Dennis Lundy. Autry has gained 100 yards in 17 straight games..... Saturday's game marks the fourth time in the last five games that Dyche Stadium has been sold out. ... On Michigan's last trip to Evanston in 1992, the Wolverines won easily, 40-7. 
Wednesday, October2 
1:00 p.m. 
353 
Fitzpatrick 

has been scoring. Their 5-2-2 record is not an accurate indi· cator of the way the offense has performed. In nine games, the Irish have managed just ten goals, two of which were scored in an overtime period. Friday night also marked the third time that Irish have failed to score a goal in regulation. 
"It's not a matter of changing roles," said Berticelli, address­ing the scoring situation. "We have the best players in the right positions to score. We have to focus on what we need to do to score those goals. We've been working on that." 
Eventually the Irish offense is bound to come around, and when they do, watch out. This team is capable of winning games with their smothering, in-your-face style of defense alone. lf one or two players can step up the offensive pres­sure for Notre Dame, teams like Western Michigan will serve as mere stepping stones in between conferences game that the Irish have shown they can win. 
But remember, this is just the kind of attitude that could make tonight's game "DePaul, Part II." 


·-----~----------------~-----------.
·---~------------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 1, 1996 
Lesson 
continued from page 20 
came up a yard short." 
"I did not really give our play­ers as good a chance as what they should have had." 
The team wasn't sharp in pre-game warm-up drills. The opening kickoff return was a slap in the face revealing im­mediate problems on coverage; special teams coverage was a focus of last week's practices. The inability of the offense to make changes when faced with unexpected stunts, blitzes, and twists showed hesitation and confusion. But these are all lessons to be studied. 
"You are concerned any time you set your goals high and you lose them this early; yeah it is devastating, but I tell you this ... we will address that," Holtz said. 
So now the plan is to regroup. The season is far from over. The coaching staff has every 
•NFL 
Kramer's injury forces him out for six weeks 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press Writer 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. 
Erik Kramer sat un­comfortably, a thick therapeu­tic collar wrapped around his nagging neck, discussing the football future he hopes is only a few weeks away. 
"I don't know what the possi­bility of me not playing again actually is. I've had it explained to me that it's very small," the quarterback said Monday, eight days after a herniated disk knocked him out of the Chicago Bears' lineup. "Now I just have to wait and see." 
Kramer spoke Sunday night with team orthopedist Michael Schafer, who said the injury should cause Kramer to miss six weeks. One of those weeks intention of making positive changes, especially on the of­fensive side of the ball. That means one thing: back to the basics. Goodbye "Blarney," hello smash-mouth. 
The team will resume prac­tice today after having the weekend off from contact drills, and will not practice this week­end. The key to the season may lie in how the Irish mentally and emotionally get back on track this week. 
No excuses allowed. It's time to put the pieces back together. 
Holtz and his staff realize this, and the Irish head coach displayed his usual knack for putting things in perspective. 
"(Skip Holtz, Connecticut's football coach) called me (Saturday) night and he didn't feel they played particularly well. He got mad and he went home and my grandson is there and he is watching a video called King Lion. He just told me one little phrase of it that I think is applicable. 
"The lion is standing there 
Dave Krieg will run the Chicago offense. 
Krieg, who turns 38 on Oct. 20, led the Bears to a 19-17 victory Sunday over the Oakland Raiders. 
After a slow start, he com­pleted 11 of 15 passes for 123 yards as the Bears scored on each of their final four pos­sessions. The last time Chicago had the ball, Krieg connected with Curtis Conway twice for 32 yards during a 13-play, 66­yard drive that set up Jeff Jaeger's 30-yard field goal with 11 seconds left. 
"Dave played great, making great decisions and keeping us in a position to win," said Kramer, who was hospitalized for five days last week. "Then finally, he took one drive at the end to put us over the top." 
"We knew we could win and confidence is helpful," Hardin said. 
Bryan Weeks' 71 on Saturday (83 on Sunday) and Doug Diemer's final round 77 also figured into the play-five, count-four format. 
1995's title set the tone for the entire men's athletic pro­gram, as the Irish men finished the 1995-1996 season as the 
already has passed, so he would be ready to play at Denver on Nov. '10 if he heals on schedule. 
"Six weeks? I can't even think six hours from now," said Bears coach Dave Wannstedt. "We're hoping that if they tum him loose in six weeks to play, he'll have had a couple weeks of practice to get back into sync." 
Their three-game losing streak behind them, the Bears (2-3) now need Krieg to pull out a victory over Green Bay. He has a 5-0 regular-season record against the Packers. 
"It'll be fun because people from back home will get to watch the game," said Krieg, a Wisconsin native. "But it's a division game, which is more important than anything else." 
and the monkey takes a bat and hits him in the head. The lion says why did you do that? The monkey says, it doesn't matter, it's in the past. And a few min­utes later the monkey took the bat and swung it at the lion again; the lion ducked this time. The lion said, why did you do that? The monkey said, doesn't matter, it is in the past, but you learn from the past." 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
tournament," junior Hardin said. "Playing a practice round on the course last year helped me." 
Last year's experience was a also a factor for the whole squad. 
Football Ticket Exchange Information!! 
Keeping in mind both the needs of students for a suitable ticket exchange program and the need to suppress unlawful selling/scalping of tickets, the Athletic Department and the Athletic Resources Department of Student Government have come up with the following Football Ticket Exchange Program for the '96 season. 
1) Ticket exchange will be available for all six (6) home football games 
2) Each student ticket holder may exchange a maximum of two (2) student issue tickets for general admission tickets during the course of the season. 
3) The exchanging of tickets will take place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to game week, at the ticket office in the Joyce Center, from 8:30 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
4) The number of tickets available for each game will vary by game, depending on the circumstances surrounding that game (see chart) 
5) Upon exchanging tickets, all students will be asked to sign a contract asserting that the tickets will not be unlawfully sold. 
6) **Any student wishing to exchange his or her ticket must be present at the time of the exchange, with the school 1.0., ticket booklet, and $16** 
GAME  # of Exchangeable Tickets  Dates of Exchange  
28 September Ohio State  400  17, 18, 19 Sept.  
12 October Washington  300  1, 2, 3 Oct.  
19 October Air Force  300  8, 9, 10 Oct.  
16 November Pittsburgh  400  5, 6, 7 Nov.  
23 November Rutgers  400  12,13,14 Nov.  

If you have any questions whatsoever concerning the exchange, please contact Student Government Athletic Resources ar 1x6283 ** Please take notice: If cases of scalping arise, Athletic Resources and the Athletic Department will be forced to discontinue this program. 
Tuesday, October 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
and she has done everything that we have tried so far." 
The team's offensive balance has likely been a part of the reason for their ability to battle through injuries. At every at­tacking position (middle blocker and right and left side hitters) the Irish boast a player who has ·a hitting percentage of .256 or better. LeiTers, Harris, and senior captain Jenny Birkner do most of the damage for the Irish. 
"The fact that we can go to different people keeps the other team of guard," Treadwell com­mented. 
Although the Irish have en­joyed their success they still see room for improvement. In their three matches against ranked opponents, the Domers have played tough but come up short on all three occasions. This break provided the team to refine some of their skills. 
"I think the break was really good for us," remarked Brown. "We worked on a lot of our weaknesses last week and we trained really hard and I think we are ready." 
That match will see Randy Litchfield's Ball State Cardinals challenge the Irish at the Joyce Center. Litchfield's team post­ed a 22-12 mark last season from which they return five starters. 
The Cardinals are lead by hit­ter Jennifer Schilling and Liz Cothren. Schilling marks a very good .301 hitting percent­age while Cothren leads BSU's blocking scheme with a 1.5 blocks per game average. 
Brown sizes up their match with Ball State, "They're a very, very good blocking team and I think that's their strength. If they have a weakness it is probably their passing and ball control, so I think we are going to work on serving aggressively and try to keep them out of their offense. 
Brown continued to explain the non-physical aspects of the game, "The other thing is that this is definitely a very big match for them. They always get fired up to play Notre Dame and I am sure they are going to have a lot of fans here and that it is going to be pretty emo­tional." 

Senior Jennifer Rouse and junior Angie Harris look to do damage against Ball State in tonight's match-up at the Joyce Center. 

Spanish· Mass Schedule 
October 6  Stanford-Keenan Hall  
October 13  Stanford-Keenan Hall  
October 20 October 27  Fall Break Fall Break  

Padre Don McNeill, esc 
Padred David Scheidler, esc 
(tMPUSMINISlRY 

page 15 
Defense dominates interhall contests 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON 
SportS Writer 
It should be said that football, like life, must go on. So with that in mind, IH football action resumed Sunday with three ex­citing games at Stepan Fields north. 
ZAHM 13 
CARROLL2 
Zahm used several key defen­
sive efforts to secure the victo­
ry and improve their record to 
2-0. 
The first half of this game 
displayed tremendous defen­
sive efforts by both teams. 
Turnovers by both offenses 
could have spelled disaster for 
either team. However, the 
worst that happened was when 
Carroll allowed Zahm into field 
goal range, which was no good. 
The second half of the game 
found Zahm ready to break out 
of the offensive drought that 
plagued them in week one. 
After stopping Carroll from 
cashing in on a Zahm fumble, 
quarterback Chris Orr hit Mike 
Garko with a long touchdown 
bomb. With the extra point, 
Zahm doubled their offensive 
production for the year. 
Carroll pulled within range of 
a victory by doing absolutely 
nothing at all. Early in the 
fourth quarter, a bad punt snap 
deep in Zahm territory rolled 
out of the end zone. The 
resulting safety reduced the 
Zahm lead to 7-2. 
Late in the fourth quarter, 
Zahm sealed their second victo­
ry with a sustained drive 
capped off by a Orr to Mike 
Bailey touchdown pass. which 
upped the final tally to 13-2. 
Zahm coach Jerry Fitzpatrick 
had this to say about his 
revitalized offense, "They [the 
offense] really struggled in the 
first half, but really started to 
gel in the second half. We just 
need more repetition." 
ALUMN116 ST. EDWARD'S 0 
Alumni again used quick of­
fensive production to run away 
with a convincing 16-0 victory 
over St. Eds. 
The brunt of the scoring for 
the Dawgs fell on Matt 
•Mammolenti, who was respon­sible for 10 of Alumni's points. 

During the initial part of the first quarter, after a long drive, Dave Schank produced a 25 yara touchdown run. After Mammolenti ran in the two­point conversion, the Dawgs jumped out to a 8-0 lead. 
In the second quarter Mammolenti, who had been pivotal in putting Alumni in scoring position during both Alumni drives, ran in a 10 yard touchdoWn. With the two point conversion. Mammolenti helped Alumni increase their lead to 16-0. 
O'NEILL 3 
SORIN 0 
Fans of great defense would have loved the finale ·for the day. Offense was nowhere to be found in this matchup be­tween the O'Neill Angry Mob and the Sorin Screamin' Otters. 
For three and a half quarters neither offense moved the ball effectively. Both defensive lines would not permit fumbles deep in each team's territory to be converted into scores. 
A Sorin fumble late in the game deep in their own territo­ry allowed O'Neill to drive the ball into field goal range to secure the victory 
Men•s lnterhall Power Poll 
1. Off-Campus (2-0) 
2. Zahm 
2-0) 
3. Morrissey 
2-0) 
4. Alumni 2-0) 
1-1)
5. Flanner 
6. Keenan 1-0) 
1-1)
7. 
Carroll 

8. 
O'Neil 


1-1) 
0-1)9. Keough 0-1)
10. 
Sarin 

11. 
Dillon 


0-2) 
12. Stanford 
0-2) 
13. St. Ed's 
0-2) 
Due to the fact that not all of the women's teams have played there will be no poll this week. 
Peter Cilella/The Observer 

AIDS Awareness/ Students With AIDS Training 
·Will be holding their lst~~ ­AIDS__ Training Seminiit;~_, _·. 
Tuesday, October 1st (TONIGHT!) 
7:30p.m. -8:30 p.m. Guest Speakers AIDS Training Pamphlets Refreshments will be served. 
l 
I 
l l 
"' I 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 1, 1996 

Flanner shuts-out Stanford 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
In a battle between teams fighting to establish themselves following poor, season-opening games last week, the Flanner 
Gamecocks  crushed  the  
Stanford Studs, 26-0.  The  
Gamecoc.ks  relied  on  solid  

defense and big plays to secure the victory. 
Opening drives stalled for both teams. On Stanford's sec­ond possession, Studs quar­terback Mark Rule 
back Drew Klusterman took a pitch around the left end, broke a tackle near the side­lines, and raced 38 yards for the touchdown. Of the run, Drew said, "The play was ini­tially designed to go inside, but the end was pinned in, and so I took it outside." The two point conversion failed, and Flanner took a 6-0 lead into half-time. 
The Gamecocks began the second half auspiciously. Fullback Eric Himan broke through the middle of the Studs' defensive line for a 45­yard scamper, and three plays later Drew Klusterman record­ed his second touchdown of the day on a 6-yard run around right end. The two-point con­version failed again, and the Gamecocks led 12-0. 
Stanford was unable to move the ball consistently on offense, as the Gamecocks controlled the line of scrimmage. Flanner defender Brett "The Hitman" Galley epitomized his team's dominance and hostility when he said, "We love killing peo­ple." 
On the first of Flanner's four passes, back-up quarterback Mario Suarez found Brandon Sherrets in the back of the end zone for another touchdown late in the third quarter. 
In the end, the long runs, the big passes, and the interception by the Gamecocks earned them the victory. 
OFF-CAMPUS 9 
DILLON 0 
Can anyone penetrate the Off-Campus Crime's defense? They're big, they're bad, they don all-black uniforms, and for the second straight week in a row, they shut out their oppo­nent as the team recorded a 9­0 victory. 
To understand how dominat­ing the Crime defense was on Sunday, consider these statis­tics: Dillon did not get one first down during the entire game, and the Crime defense outscored the Dillon offense. John Goetz, Joe Lang, and Rob "The Murrsman" Murray an­chor the defense. Said Murray of the effort, "We 
began a drive at their own 
44-yard line and marched down the field for a touchdown. Tailback Chris Pollina scored on a 6-yard run. Placekicker Mark Nicholson added the extra point, giving Off-Campus a 7-0 lead. 
Perhaps the only questionable spot for the Crime is their of­fense. Led by quarterback Scott Lupo and running backs John Mele and Chris Pollina; they are indeed a talented bunch. But penalites and turnovers forced three potential scoring drives to stall. 
In the fourth quarter, the Crime defense secured the vic­tory with a safety. Asked if he thought anyone could beat the Crime, tailback Pollina said, "Well, we have a tough game next week against Morrissey. It could be the best game of the Inter hall regular season." 
Dillon quarterback Stefan Moliner reflected, "We have a very good team. Our defense played great; we held them to one touchdown. But we have to work on our blocking, espe­cially on the offensive line." 
MORRISSEY 16 
KEOUGH 9 
In a game that went down to the wire, the Manor relied on a solid rushing attack to outlast the Kangaroos. 
The first half of the game, which was Keough's first of the season, belonged to the Kangaroos. Their defense con­trolled explosive Manor tail­back Mark Tate and held the Manor to a 28-yard field gool for the half. For the Kangaroos offensively, quarterback Brian Perez was simply masterful. Following an interception of an errant John Polk pass, Keough took over at their own 36-yard line with four minutes to play in the half. Perez hit wide re­ceiver Dave Voitier with a 40­yard strike to take the Kangaroos down to the Manor's 16-yard line. Three plays later, Perez hooked up with Voitier again for an 8-yard touchdown pass. Said Voitier of Perez's abilities, "He's a great quarter­back. He can put the ball wherever he wants it." Morrissey blocked the extra point, and Keough led, 6-3. 
At the outset of the second half, things looked bleak for the Manor. Fullback Brian Tilley fumbled the ball, but the Manor defense held. On the ensuing punt, the Manor mishandled it, and Keough recovered at the Manor's 23-yard line. On fourth and goal from the 2, Perez hit Voitier with another touchdown pass, but a holding call negated it. Keough then missed a field goal. 
The Manor turned to Mark Tate, their go-to guy, who led them downfield for a touch­down. A missed extra point knotted the game at 9. 
Morrissey's next series began at their own 20-yard line. Three plays into the drive, Tate took a pitch, broke several tackles, and used his blazing speed to score the game-win­ning touchdown. 
Keough tried to rally behind the passing of Perez but fal­tered. Perez finished the day 14 for 25 for 110 yards. 
Tate said of the victory, "We came out flat and started out S'lowly. But we didn't change our game plan, we just execut­ed. That was the difference between the halves -in the sec­ond half we executed." 
It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 

Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and 
offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is 
ANDERSEN
to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
CoNSULTING 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Where we JO from here: 
Andersen Consulting IS an eQual opportumty employer. 
Andersen Consulting is hosting a Career Day today from 12:00-6:00pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. Presentations will be at 12:30pm and 4:30pm. All majors welcome. Come see how yours fits in with Andersen Consulting. Casual attire is appropriate. 
_j 
Defense keys victory for the fiery Pyros 
By PATTY ANN HANLON Sports Writer 
The Pasquerilla East Pyros won their second game of the season on Sunday by the score of 8-0 over the Wea-sels of Pasquerilla West. 
After both teams went score­less in the first half, PE quar­terback Elizabeth Plummer scored the first touchdown on a 15-yard-run. The Pyros scored a two point conversion on a Plummer pass to Melissa Gorman. 
PE co-captain Kristen Tate com­mented on yet another successful game for the Pyros. 
"PW is an excellent team with strong hall spirit. Our suc­cess against PW was due to a strong defense and excellent teamwork." 
OFF-CAMPUS 2 LEWIS 0 "We were disappointed with the refs inconsistency," com­mented Lewis captain Angie Auth. Auth's bitter tone came as a result of the Chickens' upset at 
the  hands  of  Off-campus  
Sunday, 2-0.  
The  first  three  quarters  

ended in a stalemate, as nei­ther team could put any points on the board. 
The fourth quarter looked to be going that way as well. However, with 10 seconds re­maining in the contest, Lewis had the ball on the two-yard line. The oncoming rush by the off-campus defense was too much, as the Chickens' quarterback was sacked in the end zone for a safety. 
Despite her disappointment in the loss, Auth conceded that both teams fought hard. 
"All around the players on both Lewis and Off-campus played really well," comment­ed Auth. 
SIEGFRIED 0 FARLEY 0 Farley's Finest and the Slammers of Siegfried tested their football skills Sunday in a match that ended in a scoreless tie. "The score showed we are both good teams. Despite the tie, I think we'll do well in the playoffs," said Julie Shepard, Farley's captain. Jen Laurie, the Siegfried captain, agreed with Shepard. "It was a good battle. Siegfried's defense really kepts us in the game." 

LYONS 19 PANGBORNO 
tossed his fifth inter­ception of the young season, and Flanner took over with excellent field position at their own 44-yard line. Four plays later, Gamecocks running 
ran right through them [Dillon's offense]. The line­backers filled the holes and the sec­ondary played tight 
defense." Early in the second quarter, the Crime 
I ' 
ASaint Mary's College I John M. Duggan Series Event 
Hav~ ~~.· 
Th-e Delany Sisters' First 100 Years 
Friday, November 1 8PM O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Provocative and entertaining ...a dramatic experience to be shared with the entire family. 
Tickets*: Students: $5; Adults: $18; on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in Olaughlin Auditorium, 9am -5pm, Monday -Friday Saint Mary's College 
Credit card orders accepted by phone at 219/284-4626 
CE 
'discountsforseniorcitizens, • ~ SMC/NDcommunityandgroups FOR THE ARTS 



Tuesday, October I, I996 page I 7 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
75 Days of Student Government 
As of October 1, 1996, Student Government will have been in office for 75 academic days. Have we completed our major_ platform issues? Have we listened to your concerns? 
Are we really "Connecting You?" 
/?
/; 
'..~:/3ook Fair. An alternative to the Hammes and an easy, effective way 
to buy and sell your books o 
Ticket Exchange: An q . hange up to two stu­
dentfckets for GA's e 
·~.~·~ATM: One new ce on football weekends and spe§'l 
Opening Mass a 
with ,better relatiorn ·••· if?sl 
.·6SU Pep Rally: O.····a .. great way for us to come tog~tlie' ~.~,\~ .• led sportsmanship. " w+ 
/ 
·Presidential Ele(J 
i nforrnation, and c.2Q1P.,~ ign The Guide: New arid i classes and professors ··•······ ·.·. 
Board of Trustees Re ndation and proposal to the Board of Trustees on t ed social space on cam­
pu~ 
;~~~ender Relations Task Force: Offering a student perspective on what is ne~ded to improve gender relations at NO. ~Connection Forum: An opportunity for you to voice your concerns at an open forum with Seth and Megan.
I, 
\.~:Increased Access: Everything we do is on-line for your information. 
We are YOUR student government. Please contact us with your thoughts on what we have accomplished. Don't hesitate to make your voice heard at 631­7668 or stop in at 203 LaFortune. You can also reach us at http://www.nd.edu/,_Jstudegov. 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 1, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
Pang named volunteer coach 
As the season along follows the the conf1de~ce of . Saint Mary's soc Strong defensive play t.tn-mlllh out this past week bas home a record of 1 Belles. Now' notamg
of 2-7-1 +h~•A.........,., 
season, the B focused on improvement. 
Led by the dominating sive line, the Belles initiate<i strong attack again Anderson University this Wednesday.,. The Belles tained the 

Wednesday, October 2 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. 
Sr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. 
All meetings are private and confidential. 
I ' 
: . 
FormerESPN broadcaster assumes new position 
Observer Staff Report 
Former National Hockey League goaltender and current ESPN broadcaster Darren Pang has been named to the newly created posi­tion of volun­teer coach at t h e University of Notre Dame. 
Pang, 32, has served as a radio and 

Pang
television analyst since retiring from the NHL in 1991. He has worked for ESPN and ESPN2 since 1993 and will re­main with the network during the 1996-97 season. 
"If there's one thing I learned last season, it was that I am not a goalkeeper coach," said sec­ond-year Notre Dame head coach Dave Poulin, a former standout forward from the Irish from 1979-1982 before going on to a 13-year all-star career in the NHL with the Philadelphia Flyers, Boston Bruins and Washington Capitals. 
"Darren is an extremely high energy addition to our staff and having his veteran voice and experience on the ice is very valuable," added Poulin, who played in three Stanley Cup fi­nals during his NHL career. 
"The position of goaltender is a very unique one and Darren will help immensely in the ath­letic and mental aspects of playing in the nets at a high level. I'm convinced he will represent the program and the university to the highest de­gree." 
In addition to his continuing association with hockey as a broadcaster. Pang served from 1991-1994 as the goaltender coach for the University of Illinois-Chicago, a former rival of Notre Dame in the Central Collegiate Hockey Association. 
"Some players return to hockey because they love to remain part of the game, but I do it because I love teaching goaltenders and I have a pas­sion for the game of hockey," said Pang, who beat the odds by succeeding in the NHL de­spite his 5-foot-5, 155-pound frame. 
"A lot of my love for hockey has to do with the challenge I faced in making it to the NHL due to my size. I hope to instill that passion in the players I work with." 
"I have a great respect for Dave Poulin, for what he did in the NHL and for his decision to return to Notre Dame," added Pang. "Dave is a classic over­achiever who has succeeded in so many things because of his big heart, a love for hockey and an unwillingness to quit." 
"And when I got the call from Dave to be part of the prog'ram at Notre Dame, I thought it would be a perfect fit. We have the same love for hockey and similar goals, which include putting Notre Dame hockey on the map as a highly competitive national power." 
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBAll 
Belles secure double victory in triangular 
By KELLEY PROSSER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball team won both of its matches at 'the SMC triangular on Saturday, ending a five match losing streak. The Belles topped North Central College 15-7, 15­3, 8-15, 15-4 in the first match, and handily defeated Carroll College 15-4, 15-2, 15-3 later in the day, bringing their record to 11-8. 
Going into their own triangu­lar, the young Saint Mary's squad felt they had something to prove. "We wanted to be in­tense and prove to ourselves that we were the best team out there," said freshman outside attacker Agnes Bill. 
Not since defeating Hanover College on September 15 had the Belles felt the thrill of vic­tory, and for a short time Saturday it seemed as though the losing streak might con­tinue. After beating North Central easily in the first two games, the Cardinals came back taking the next two with little effort. "Our passing broke down and we weren't as ag­gressive," said freshman Melissa Miller. Saint Mary's re­grouped, however, in time to beat North Central easily in their fifth game. 
In the second match, the Belles were able to maintain their intensity throughout the match, soundly beating a weak Carroll College team in three quick games. "It was like hit­ting practice," said freshman Courtney Love, who con­tributed 84 assists on the day. 
Junior Meg Kelly led the Belles with 20 kills, 21 digs and 7 aces while Bill contributed 20 kills and 22 digs. Junior middle blocker Betsy Connolly and freshman right outside hitter Jayroe Ozbolt had 15 and 14 kills respectively. Junior defen­sive specialist Kelly Meyer con­tributed 21 digs. 
The Belles return to action on Thursday when they host Concordia University beginning at 7 p.m. 
Recycle The Observer 
PERSPECTIVES ON THE 
PATH TO .JUSTICE D~AD MAN APAN~L or~cu~~roN & WJTH R~JD~NTS! 0~
WALKING DJ~M~ I-IOUS!~ 
WED., OCT. I AT 7PM • THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

IH & G/~  les  
Camr......--·..-­ 
Entry  t. 26  Co-Rec  Watet Polo  

---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Tuesday, October I, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MIXED MEDIA 

DlLBERT 
WE'LL BE. HAVING AN ISO cwoo AUDIT SOON. ll-IE'r"LL CHECI<. TO 5EE. IF WE FOLLOW OUR. OWN DOCUMENTED PP.OCE.OURE5 FOR £.\JER'{THING 
WE DO 
) 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 29 Designer Lauren 33 Suffix with 
1 Yak bombard
4 Ending with 
34 Late Cabinet
Dixie Secretary Aspin
8 Mountaineer's 36 Exclamationgoal 
from Beaver 12 Sharer's 
Cleaver pronoun 
37-time 14 Casanova (never) 16ltem filed by a 38 Green secretary? 42 Captain Hook's 17 Hydrox rival assistant 18 Whatsoever 
43 S.F.-to-Vegas dir.
19 "--hungry I 
44 Neither's partner
could ..  "  
20 Blue  45 G. I.'s address  
23Anger  48 Fight off 48Winona  

24 Society page 
Horowitz's 
word 
professional 25 Sounds name surprised 
52 Word with time 27 Long---owl or memory 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ACUTE 0 AN AS 
":'+:::+.::+.~ -=+..,.-t:~:1 

lion"
40 Sixth sense 
volume 41 Bellini opera 
r.::-+;+.:;+.:1 22 "Yuck!" 42 Mule of song 
.___..~~-26 Sold-out sign 48 Kind of room 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Know your worth and expect to be compensated properly. Your person­al life will enter a period of transi­tion next month. Show more initia­tive on the job. A leadership posi­tion that opens up early in 1997 has your name written all over it! Friendship could influence a profes­sional choice you make next spring. Practical matters will keep you too busy to do much philosophizing. Travel whenever you can. Promo­tional activities will be an astound­ing success! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Julie Andrews. actor Walter Matthau, baseball great 
MIKE PETERS 
Rod Carew. actress Stella Stevens. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Local events prove exciting. A for­
mer romantic partner still makes your heart flutter. Don't fool your­self; you could wind up involved again. Concentrating on work helps you regain your footing. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Try not to be overly concerned if certain memories surface. Take a sentimental journey into your past. A parent could shed new light on an old puzzle. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Review financial documents. An investment opportunity suggested by a business associate could pay off handsomely. Reward this indi­vidual in a tangible way. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A SCOTT ADAMS 
mYCAR KeYs. 
romantic relationship feels right. 
You ponder a long-term commit­
.---------------,G.---------------. 
ment, perhaps even marriage. Disre­
~ .; I'LL TRI\IN OUR DEPA.RTI"\t.NT 
gard advice offered by well-mean­
ing friends or relatives.
= TO LIE TO THE 1\UDITOR.
. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A busi­
~ YOU CAN DOCUI'-\ENT OUR 
ness deal sounds better than it really is. You are wise to be cautious. Get 
t 11\li\NE 
all the facts and figures you can
"' 
• PROCEDURES. 
before making a commitment. A 
~ 
:. 
., 
I'VE DIVIDED OUP. 
PREPI\RA.TION \ASKS INTO TWO GROUPS: UNE.\1-\ICI\L 1\~D UNPRODUCTIVE. 
54 Sturdy tree 
56 First lady  
57 Yellow  
62 Linguistics  
branch: Abbr.  
63 Whiff  
64 Interlaken's river  
65 Turn down  
officially  
66"--isan  
island ..."  
670wllike·  
66 The Mideast's  
Gulfof­ 
69 Transmitted  
70 Actor Herbert  
DOWN  
1 Sweet treat  
2Thedawn  
3 Milwaukee  
profession  
4 "The Bridge"  
poet Hart  
5 No-goodnik  
6 Oriental nurse  28 Gen. Robt. -­ 
7 Phone or photo  30 Go along (with)  
preceder  31 Hawaiian  
8 Jung's feminine  accessory  
component  32 Hammer end  
9 Place for tents  35Graf-­ 
10 Squander  37"--inthe  
11 "Hold On Tight"  Dark"  
rock group  38lnfluenced, with  


!
·;: 
• OF INTEREST . a A panel discussion. entitled "It takes a Village 
::> 
to Raise a child: The African Perspective and the Controversy" will be presented by faculty from both Notre Dame' and IUSB today at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Auditorium. It is sponsored by the African Studies Association. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame 
North South 
Grilled ·salmon Fillet Beef Stew with Biscuits Winter Vegtable Blend Chicken FaJitas Grilled Ham Steak Ratatouille Spaghetti Pie 
.. Rice Valencienne 
~w~~i~t~wp. ·,::~If" 

Wanted: Reporters, 
47 --Brothers 55 Inclined (investment firm) 
58 Neb. neighbor 
photograp-hers and 
49 Bit of info 59 Cupid so Very eo Alaska gold rush 51 Turn in for 
town 
editors.
money. as 61 In its natural bonds state 53 Senor Bolivar 62 Senora Per6n 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
staff.
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665 . 
JEANE DIXON 
friend may want to date you. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A 
professional relationship becomes 
personal when you discover mutual 
interests. Go slow if this person 
offers to help you make new busi­
ness conn~tions. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Someone's arguments could make 
good sense. Their persistence is 
what irritates you! Remain your 
usual tactful self. You may be able 
to rescue the relationship. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Write down innovative idea~ before they are gone forever. Recycling an old project will lead to new profit~. Higher-ups will be impressed by your ingenuity. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A business trip will be highly profitable, especially if completed in one day. A career change or reloca­tion holds strong appeal now. Your mate or partner could require an explanation. State your case suc­cinctly. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A change you have long con­templated no longer seems neces­sary. There may be a less drastic way to accomplish your goals. Talk­ing with a counselor may help you get at the root of your restlessness. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone who ha~ disappointed you in the past wants to get back in your good graces. Meet this person halfway. A new hobby adds some pizzazz to your leisure hours. Invite your mate to join you. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A joke could boomerang, causing embarrassment. Make amends. Family members would like to do something special this week. Visit an art gallery or attend a dramatic performance together. Love thrives on consideration. Be thoughtful. 
• 
Campus Bowling -Oct. 2 
Be sure to bring your student 10 with you whenever you are using any of the athletic facilities on campus. 631-6100 
--------~~~----~ ~ ~~-----------------~~ 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, October 1, 1996 
• GOLF 
By TIM SHERMAN Sporn Editor 
Last fall, the Notre Dame men's golf team became the first Irish squad to win a Big East championship. 
Sunday. they became the first squad to win consecutive Big East titles. 
On the strength of Brad Hardin's 70­74 and Joel Hepler's 78-74, the Irish held off Georgetown by two strokes at the Tournament Players Club at Avenel in Bethesda. MD. 
"It's just a great way to end your senior year." co-captain Hepler said. "To win three straight conference 
Irish !inkster's claim second Big East Championship 

was starting to sweat," Hepler said.
ournament 
"We were all sitting at the scoreboard adding up the score and getting updates 
1. Notre Dame 289-306/594 6. 
from the course." With tougher Sunday pin placements 
2. Georgetown 301-295/596 
7. on the par 71, 7,002 yard course, the Irish slowly gave back much of their
/ 
once 11 stroke lead, but Hepler's
3. Seton Hall 300-312/612 8. 
improvement was key. "I was happy with the way I came
4. 
Villanova 304-314/618 9. back," Hepler said. "I was disappointed with Saturday but I just wanted to make 

5. 
St. John's 317-31 the most of Sunday. Knowing I wasn't playing for the individual title took the pressure off." 


Hardin, though, did have a great shotGeorge Thomas' squad looked to be in tic turn home. 
championships. two of them Big East, is at medalist honors, but Seton Hall's
great shape, holding a seven-stroke The co-captain finished the round 
a great feeling. We couldn't ask for any­Mike Costigan carded a 73 to take the
advantage over the field. bogey-double bogey-triple bogey for a 
thing more." title.
However, the pressure took its toll. 81 but the margin his teammates had 
And they couldn't have asked for it to "I had a bad last hole but I had a great
Senior Brian Donohue, who fired an built up was enough for the crown. 
be much closer. 
opening round 70 to share the lead "I knew he wasn't playing well enough 
With just three holes left to play, 
entering Sunday, had an uncharacteris-to make it a blow-out so Coach Thomas see GOLF I page 14 

• FooTBALL 
Loss equals lesson 
Team looks to regroup 
By DAVE TREACY Associate Sports Editor 
As disappointing as it is to accept, the only thing for the Notre Dame football program to do after the loss to Ohio State is to move on. Despite questions and concerns, prob­lems and pessimism. the Irish must treat the game as a his­tory lesson: something to learn from. 
"I would be shocked if this football team closed shop," head coach Lou Holtz an­nounced. "And it isn't going to close shop. There is no way that is going to happen." 
There are lots of questions 
that  the  team  needs  to  
answer.  Questions about  
intensity.  Questions about  

mental errors. Questions about coaching decisions. 
"The game, you still felt in the fourth quarter we had a chance to win," Holtz recalled. "Hindsight, I look back on fourth down and 11 
·from· their 26, probably should've kicked a field goal, but at that time I thought we needed a touchdown. We 
see LESSON/ page 14 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Ball State next on netters' list 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Senior middle blocker Jennifer Rouse uses her towering height to intimidate her opponents and solidify the 
talented middle blocking unit. 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 
About a third of the season is in the record books and the Notre Dame volleyball team looks like they could be headed for one of their best seasons ever. After a ten day break the squad will hope to build on their 8-3 record as they hose an up and coming 7-6 Ball State Cardinals team. 
Statistically speaking the Irish have been impressive to say the least. Coach Debbie Brown's squad is averaging over two and a half aces per game which ranked them seventeenth in the nation last week. The school's previous record was half an ace less in '94. Additionally. the current Irish ace to error ratio of 1.2 to 1 would shatter the· previous record of . 7 6 to 1. Junior hitter Angie Harris has been a big part of the serving game as she now ranks first in the nation in service errors. 
On the defensive side of the ball the Irish have been just as impressive. While playing a difficult schedule which in­cludes two top five teams, ND has held their first ten oppo­nents to a dismal .163 hitting percentage, just a tenth of a point behind the season best of .151. 
Some of the improved defense can probably be credited to the addition of new assistant coach and blocking expert, Jim McLaughlin. The Irish own the nation's seventh best blocking average at 3.26 blocks per game which would mark best in Brown's tenure. 
6-4 freshman Mary Leffers has played a pivotal role for the Irish in her debut season as she leads the team in blocks per game with 1.684 which also places her eleventh in the na­tion in that category. 
Sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell explained the team's improved blocking. 
"We have two huge girls, one 6­5 and one 6-4 (Jennifer Rouse and Mary LetTers), which obvi­ously helps but they also have very good hands for blockers. And, Jim helps by telling them little things so they can improve which really helps." 
Brown's squad has accom­plished these feats and are ranked twelfth in the country despite several key injuries. Junior setter Carey May, dislo­cated her shoulder before the season and is near her return. Coach Brown explains her pro­gression. 
"It is doubtful she will play against Ball State. We are just trying to get her in more and more. We want to get her into a situation where she can go a whole practice, I'm hoping that this weekend she can maybe get in and set a game or two. It is kind of a day to day thing, and we see what she can do 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 15 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Despite senior fullback Marc Edwards' offensive effort, the Irish still could not capitalize on numerous opportunities. 

vs. Washington, Notre Dame Invitational, October 12, 1:30 p.m. 
October 4 
J€t\' Q) •Men's soccer faces Western Michigan 
at North Carolina, 
Notre Dame Invitational, October 4, 5 p.m. 
~ October 4 ~ see page 13
..... 
at Western Michigan, Volleyball vs. Concordia, 
• Cowboys defeat Eagles 
~ 
October 1, 7 p.m. 
October 3, 7 p.m. 
see page 12 vs. Ball State 
Soccer at Kalamazoo, October 1, 7 p.m. October 1, 4 p.m. 
~ 

