
Tuesday, February 6, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 83 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Police recover off-campus stolen items 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assodalo News Ediwr 
A large number of items believed to have been taken in burglaries at Turtle Creek and Campus View apartment complexes have been recovered, ar.eording to Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Damn Security. 
Two suspm~ts in the burglary were arrested ear­lier last wnek, and are still in custody, Hurley said. The two men were arrested last week by Mishawaka Police after they tried to usc a stolen credit card to purchase stereo equipment at Alltronies store on Grape Hoad in Mishawaka, according to poliee mports. 
A search of the men's residence led to the nleovery of "quite a few items," according to Hurley. "Sonw of the recovered items may also have bllen taken from other off-campus resi­dences," he added. 
If you have lmen a victim of a burglary and have not mcovered your property. please contact Notre Dame Security Investigative Section at 631-8340, Hurley stressed. "Please advise the investigator which agency, South Bend of St. Joseph County 
see SECURITY I page 4 
• ':MnPUS tirE COUNCIL 

Discussion on coresidentiality weighs issues 
By Bll.l. CONNOLLY 
New> Wrilt·r 

Tlw Campus Life Council discussed their sub­eommittnll's rHport on coresidentiality yesterday in ordnr to make revisions on the plan before it eould lw votml on by tlw eouneil. 
Hall Presidents' Council Co-Chair Matt SehlattM, who wrote the report after the CLC and its subcommittee reviewed the issue, began the discussion by affirming that the model outlined in tlw report looked to include all concerns and questions tlw CLC had on eoresidentiality. 
Assistant Dmm Ava Preacher commented that rnmarks by students in The Observer caused her to realiz1~ that the model for coresidentiality in the committee's report discussed a building yet to be built. and nut a dorm. The report outlined a modnl for eornsidentiality as a 100-person build-
see CLC I page 4 


• ELECTION '96 

The Great Debate? 

The Observer/ Dave Murphy 

Ten pairs of candidates debated for the Student Body Presidential elections last night in the Library Auditorium. Top: Presidential candidate Mike Flood emphasizes a point during last night's question and answer portion of the debate. 
Ten tickets vie for run-off berths 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant News Ediwr 
and LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Editor 
I
ncreased communication be­tween the administration and students, greater conveniences 
on campus and better entertainment symbolize the range of issues expressed at the student government presidential debates last night. 
The debate began with candidates summarizing their campaign plat­forms and then answering questions from the student media organization of Scholastic, WSND, WVFI and The Observer. 
The tickets of Hyan Mciner­ney/Matt Wolsfeld, Seth 
ELECT I 0 N C 0 VERA GE' 
Watch for The Observer's special election coverage this Friday. Analysis, candidate profiles and endorsements. 
Miller/Megan Murray and Mike Flood/David Mullin dominated the audience question and answer ses­sion, fielding most of the questions. 
Claiming to bring realistic goals to campus, the ticket of Flood/Mullin supports a financial aid program that would supply $20,000 in Student Government funds for book scholarships for deserving students. 
The feasibility of this plan was questioned by several audience members, who expressed concerns about selection process and the appropriateness of Student Government funds for this purpose. 
"We would to have the rectors nominate students with guidance from the financial aid office," Flood said. If elected, Flood/Mullin plan to collect the majority of money from revenue generated by "The Shirt" sales rather than student gov­ernment funds. 
Mclnerny/Wulsfeld emphasized the need for student rights and a possi­ble student seat on the Board of Trustees. Citing the disappearance of the Student Bill of Hights from du Lac in 1993, the ticket plans to rein-
see DEBATE I page 4 

Critic addresses media effects 
Kilbourne to discuss female ad stereotypes 
By CLAIRE HALBRITTER 
News Wrilrr 
In honor of wonwn's week, .Jean Kilbourne, an interna­tionally known media critic, will speak on "The Naked Truth: Advertising's Image of Wonwn" this evening at 7:30 
p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. 
The lecture sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Activities Board will discuss the advertis­ing industry and consumers' exposun~ to over 1500 ads which sometimes sell addic­tions, stereotype women, and prod uen hidden messages and 
Women's Week 
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 
false images. 

Jean Kilbourne Lecture 
Carroll Auditorium 
Women's Health Forum 
Haggar Parlor 
Variety Show 
Carroll Auditorium Relationships & Self Esteem Lecture 
Stapleton Lounge 
Mass Communications Pro­fessor Carolyn Weber said, ''I'm glad to sec an increasing awareness of media effects on women and their issues. Jean 
7:30p.m. 6:30p.m. 7:00p.m. 
12:15 p.m. 
Kilbourne does a marvelous job of identifying these influences on such topics as body image and substance abuse." 
see KILBOURNE I page 5 

SMC panel explores meaning of service 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Sainr Mary's News Ediror 
What does it mean to be a community? 
Members of Saint Mary's Justice Education Department attempted to answer this ques­tion last night, as they opened their lecture/conversation se­ries entitled "Is community still possible?" 
A four-member panel, includ­ing professors and a Saint Mary's student, explored the meaning of community and how that interacts with service. 
"The hallmark of our age is personal development rather than personal responsibility," said Sister Francis O'Connor, a Kellog Fellow. "Everyone today is looking out for number one." 
According to O'Connor, many elements, ranging from shared values and vision, to a willing­ness to work together, combine to form a community. 
Professor Jan Pilarski of the justice studies department agreed. "We need to have a sense of vision, and need to come together and see where we want to be as a community, and how we can make a differ­ence," she said. 
Volunteering in South Bend gave Saint Mary's junior and social work major Tracy 
see JUSTICE I page 5 page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, February 6, 1996 

• Wmn.o Al AGLANCE 
Buchanan seeks to derail Gramm in 'Forbidden Caucuses' 
• INSIDE COLUMN 





How do we know? 

It's back. Once again the abortion debate has  Brandon Williams  
achieved prominence at  Assistant Viewpoint  
ND.  The Republican  Ediror  
primary campaigns and  

a national discussion of Partial Birth Abortion and fetal tissue research has brought the sub­ject to the forefront of political argument. 
However, amongst all the controversy I have rarely witnessed one perspective that poten­tially changes the frame of reference from which we view this debate. A greater rele­
vance exists within the storied fabric of human history. 
When one objectively examines the history of mankind one sees a mixture of both accom­plishment and atrocity. Among the atrocities various patterns are evident. One of the most blatantly offensive is mankind's Darwinian tendency to delegate other people as lesser human beings. It was the "less than human" Irish that the British starved and dominated into the twentieth century. It was the "savage" American-Indians that did not share in the natural human right to property during America's western expansion. It was the "dangerously inhuman" Jews that lost even their right to life, let alone dignity, at the hands of the "superior" Germans. Need I go on? Throughout human history mankind has attempted to play God and subjectively describe their natural brothers and sisters as superior and inferior, human and not quite human. In every scenario later generations are left to look in disgust at their predecessors and then do the same to other groups in their time. 
This time it's the unborn. Once again a medically human group is being defmed in subjective terms as inhuman at the expense of their life. Justification for some is the ever­changing point of autonomous viability, some­thing completely dependent upon technology. For others it is the belief that the unborn is not fully developed, but of course neither is a toddler. The devastatingly relevant point'is that highly subjective standards are again being used to ascribe humanity. The adamant pro-choicer would say that this time it's dif­ferent, this time they're not worthy of the value given human life. They would say so with the same surety of the British colonialist in Ireland, the American slave owner, the oppressive corporate fat cat, the paid Indian killer and the German sympathizer. 
I have no desire to condemn or judge. All are entitled to opinions and many good people possess what others view as faulty ideas. However, in the past the oppressed group could somehow, as Dylan Thomas said, "rage against the dying of the light." This time it's different. The unborn lie in the womb, an ironic metaphor for safety, helplessly awaiting a death they don't choose. They have no opportunity to physically oppose and maintain no voice with which to cry to the world out­side. Thus, my question to those who are pro­choice is simple. What if you are wrong? Are you so sure that these thirty-million aborted in America are not human that you can acqui­esce to what amounts to murder, if they are human? If this time they truly aren't human then we may heave a worriless sigh. If they are human than today four-thousand will die. What if you're wrong? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Too:w's STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Melanie Laflin  Meaghan Smith  
Deborah Schultz  Production  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Meagan McGrath  )ana Bruder  
Kathleen Lopez  Lab Tech  
Accent  Katie Kroener  
Krista Nannery  Graphics  
Mary Beth Ellis  Chris Mullins  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
WINNFIELD, La. 

Bidding for an upset in Louisiana's "forbid­den caucuses," Pat Buchanan labeled Texas Sen. Phil Gramm a supporter of higher taxes and racial quotas Monday as he tried to .J Population 4.3 million drum up interest in the first official voting of 

.;) Registered voters 2.2 million
the 1996 presidential race. 
Twenty-one delegates were at stake Tuesday in caucuses to be conducted at just 42 sites across the state, a process designed by Louisiana GOP officials who support 

Gramm. That made Gramm the heavy favorite, with most other GOP hopefuls boy­cotting the event in deference to Iowa's tra­ditional role as host of the leadoff caucuses. 
Without the participation of Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, publishing heir Steve Forbes and others, Louisiana GOP offi­cials lost their hope of staging the first major nomination fight. Still, the event -dubbed the "forbidden caucuses" by Buchanan ­was not without consequences. 
Whoever wins here will have the early, if perhaps fleeting, lead in a race for the nearly 1,000 delegates needed to win the GOP nom­ination. 
There were giant stakes for Gramm in 

what has boiled down to a duel with Buchanan for conservative bragging rights. Anti-abortion candidate Alan Keyes was also competing here, although he did not file com­plete delegate slates or come anywhere close to matching spending by Gramm and Buchanan. 
A year ago, Gramm won a straw poll of Louisiana GOP activists and suggested it proved he was the candidate most in touch with the party's grass roots. But he has stum­bled since, lagging well behind in early polling despite heavy spending. 
Still, his campaign has billed Louisiana as a major springboard to Iowa and New Hampshire. As recently as a month ago, Gramm was predicting he would win all or most of the 21 delegates to be decided Tuesday. 
Buchanan's aggressive challenge had the Gramm camp trying to lower expectations. 
Gramm, campaigning in Iowa, said that if he captures more than 11 delegates, "that would be victory." 
Buchanan's determined effort here was anchored on courting social conservatives with his opposition to abortion. 

The Beatles to release a new single  Failed rescue angers animal lovers  
LONDON  WINCHESTER, Va.  
The Beatles are back ­again. "Real  A cat stuck in a tree for nearly four days died after an  
Love," the second Beatles single to be  animal control officer tried to get it down by spraying it  
released in 25 years, will hit the air­ with a fire hose in freezing weather. The action angered  
waves on Valentine's Day, the  animal lovers who had a bucket truck en route to rescue  
Parlophone record company said  the cat. Sharon Rhodes, a neighborhood resident, said  
Monday. The group's first new single,  she found the yellow tabby lying in the snow gasping for  
"Free as a Bird," was constructed  breath with blood oozing from its eyes and mouth Friday.  
around a chorus the late John Lennon  She said its fur was soaked and its tail frozen stiff. "It's  
played into a cassette recorder around  hard to say if it came down on its own or if it fell out of  
1977. The surviving Beatles -Paul McCartney, George  the tree," Ms. Rhodes said. She tried to revive the cat by  
Harrison and Ringo Starr -wrote additional music and  blowing into its mouth, but it died in her car. She said no  
verses. After the single's release in November, some crit­ animal control officers were present when she found the  
ics questioned the value of using the original Lennon  dying animal, which had been stuck since Tuesday. Its  
recording, saying his voice is practically inaudible. By  owner was unknown. Harold Whitacre, who doused the  
contrast, Lennon recorded "Real Love" in a studio. A solo  tree earlier Friday, said he resorted to the hose after fire  
version of the song was released in 1988 on the sound­ department ladders couldn't reach the cat and he  
track album of the Lennon tribute movie, "Imagine."  couldn't find a bucket truck to help. The temperature  
The new version, recorded last year, features the surviv­ was in the upper teens. Whitacre said the stream of  
ing Beatles playing and singing backup. "It was good fun  water wasn't used to knock the cat out of the tree. "We  
doing it," the Parlophone press release quoted  sprayed over the cat. We sprayed around it," he said.  
McCartney as saying.  "We never aimed directly at it."  
Bill requires added solids for milk  Woman sues Letterman over photos  
WASHINGTON  STAMFORD, Conn.  
Milk drinkers could end up with extra ingredients in  A tennis fan who became a running gag for David Let­ 
each glassful -and paying more for them -under an  terman after she was caught on camera with peach juice  
overhaul of dairy programs making its way through  running down her chin is suing the comedian for ridicul­ 
Congress. A gallon of low-fat milk would cost manufac­ ing her. The New York City woman was featured repeat­ 
turers' 15 cents more to produce because of extra dairy  edly on "Late Show with David Letterman" in September  
solids required by the measure, the Agriculture Depart­ after a CBS camera caught her relishing a peach at the  
ment says, adding that consumers would probably bear  U.S. Open tennis tournament. Letterman showed the  
the brunt. Other cost estimates are lower. Prices could  footage of 54-year-old Jane Bronstein at least a half­ 
rise even higher because of other changes, the depart­ dozen times between Sept. 5 and Sept. 20. Letterman  
ment added. As a result, the bill would raise the cost of  also started a nationwide search for Bronstein, putting  
food stamps, school lunches and other federal feeding  her picture on the Sony Jumbotron electronic billboard  
programs by more than $1 billion over seven years, the  on Times Square. In a punch line for his Top 10 List,  
department says. The largest group representing dairy  Letterman referred to her as a "seductive temptress."  
farmers counters that the proposal would improve the  Bronstein, a large woman, suffers from a thyroid condi­ 
appeal of low-fat and nonfat milks, while adding even  tion and had childhood polio and two spinal fusions, her  
more healthful ingredients to milk than are already  lawsuit said. The lawsuit, filed in Stamford Superior  
there. The group, the National Milk Producers  Court near Letterman's suburban home, claims  
Federation, says the requirement will add a few pennies  Letterman and Worldwide Pants Inc. -the company that  
at most to the cost of a gallon.  produces the show-violated her right to privacy.  

The AccuWeather"'forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 6. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

.....,.........  ...a...a...  .............  
COLD  WARM  STATIONARY  C 1996 A.ccuWeather, 1nc.  
Pressure H L  EB  &'SJ  rnJ  0  .  ~  ~  i) £J.u  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  Pr CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Via Assoa.at«t Pie$$  
Atlanta  54  22  Dallas  64  40  New Orleans 60  38  
Baltimore 35  13  Denver 68  40  New York 34  17  
Boston  33  13  Los Angeles 78  54  Philadelphia 36  15  
Chicago  35  26  Miami 74  58  Phoenix  82  51  
Columbus 41  23  Minneapolis 33  22  St. Louis  52  35  

'g Unemployment rate 6.7% 
~J 1992 vote Clinton 46% Bush 
·---41% Perot 12% 
AP 


Luncheon probes eating disorder causes 
By MAUREEN HURLEY students. Lemker. "On campus, we need Center has helped students in S,,in• Mary's News Ediwr While Mascotte stated that some sort of pride for being a the earlier stages, along with there "is no single cause of eat­woman. As a senior, looking seeing students that have been 
To opnn nating disordnrs ing disorders," she cited mul­back, I wish I would have had in intensive treatment for an week, Saint Mary's faculty and tiple factors, ranging from the felt more strongly about being eating disorder before coming administrators met over lunch media's pressure to be thin to at a women's college." to Saint Mary's, and help them ynstnrday to discuss the causes the quest for perfectionism as In light of Eating Disorders continue on the road to recov­of eating disorders, and how it reasons driving students to er­Week, Mascotte told the faculty ery. afTncts Saint Mary's women. ratic eating behaviors. members, "we have a challenge Tomorrow, both Saint Mary's 
"It's not simply a bad habit. "I know several women on facing us-we need to encour­and Notre Dame offer the Na­It's a snrious psyrhiatric illness campus that have been the typ­age our students to look beyond tional Eating Disorders affprting all areas of a pBrson's ical textbook case of perfec­the pressure to be thin, and we Screening Program from 12:15 lifn." said Nancy Mascotte, as­tionists," Kristina Campbell need to as ourselves where this p.m. to 1:15 p.m. and 3 p.m. to sistant director of the counsel­said. "Saint Mary's is definitely !eating disorder! is coming 4 p.m. at the Saint Mary's ing and eartHH' development conducive to this perfectionism, from, and why this is going on." Counseling and Career Devel­enntnr. however, I think most of it !the The Counseling and Career opment Center and at the Notre 
Masrotll', along with a panel problem I is cultural." Development center offers indi­Dame Counseling Center from of thrnn studl'nts. discussed Others view pressure from vidual and group counseling, 9:45 a.m. to 10:45 a.m. and both 1:ultural and rampus influ­peers as a problem. "llere I've and doctors at llealth Services from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. Any stu­
•~ncns that rontrihut1~ to the dis­found a lot of the problem are trained to provide medical dents concerned about their easn that affects over five per­exists with women being criti­treatment for eating disorders. behavior or that of a friend's cent of collegP and high school cal of other women," said Tina According to Mascotte, the are encouraged to attend. 


Snite museum exhibits African art 
Special to The Observer dilh Small Nash, a New York said Douglas Bradley, curator tufts; a man's horseback riding 
City art dealer, and pieces from of the Snite's Arts of the Ameri­robe, designed to hang down to 
Notrn Dame's Snite Museum the Snite. All of the 12 pieces cans, Africa and Oceania the stirrups; and a 75-year-old is rnlt~hrating Black History on exhibit, with the exception Gallery. cotton battle flag from an asafo, Month by mounting an exhibi­of a Zaireun woman's wrap­The pieces on display include a patrilineal military regiment tion of Afriean t1~xtile art in the around ceremonial skirt, are a voluminous pair of men's of the Fante tribe in Ghana. rotunda of thn Univnrsity's the products of West African trousers, with a drawstring Lavishly colored and intri­Main Building. cultures and communities. waist exceeding 14 feet in cir­cately woven clothing is an ex­
The exhibition. entitled "These are wonderful examples cumference, from the former pression of wealth, power, and "Power Dressing: Wealth and of the brilliant color which Nigerian kingdom of Nupeland; social status in traditional West Fashion in Afriean Textiles," in­characterizes the ancient tradi­several wrap-around skirts African societies, according to dudns lnxtiles on loan from Ju-tions of African textile design," with embroidered threads and Bradley. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., FEB. 2 
12:50 p.m. A Pasquerilla West resi­dent was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of a laceration. 
2:54 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident re­ported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
3:20 p.m. A Fischer Graduate resi­dent reported vandalism to his vehicle while parked in the Fischer Graduate lot. 
9:17 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident re­ported the theft of his coat from the Joyce'"Center Fieldhouse. 
SAT., FEB. 3 
2:30 a.m A St. Edward's Hall resi­dent was transported by Security to St. Joseph Med1cal Center for treatment of a sports InJury 
5:30 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident was transported by Secunty to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury 
10:19 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
SUN., FEB. 4 
1:17 a.m. An Alumni Hall resident was transported by Secunty to St. Joseph Med1cal Center for treatment of an Illness. 
2:03 p.m. A Fisher Hall resident re· ported receiving harassing telephone calls. 
10:37 p.m. Secunty responded to a two car accident on Jun1per Rd There were no Injuries reported. 

.....------------------------­
Thinking of doing
MA 


ayear of service? 
How about doing it 

for alifetime? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Call New Horizons Travel "Your Party Planners" 
(800)639..4674 or (219)273..4934 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN 

24 ~~~ottine -(219)277-9749 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
state a bill that would guar­antee rights in judicial proceedings. 
When questioned about their promotion of cigarette sales on campus, Mcinerny/Wolsfeld explained that sales would be a convenience to smokers and would only be sold in the Hud­dle and the Bookstore. 
The 15 goals listed as the platform of Miller/Murray led to a wide range of questions with regards to the feasibility of some of their long-term plans. "Some of our ideas will have to be instituted in incre­ments," Miller said. "I feel that it is an advantage that I am a sophomore," Murray said. "Next year I'll be around to help out the new ad­ministration." 
The introduction of additional conveniences such as ATM ma­chines on North Quad, shuttle services from campus to vari­ous off-campus locations and a revision of the University's tail­gating policy were stressed by numerous candidates. 
Tom Roderick/Kate McShane proposed the "Shotgun" plan where students provide rides for other students to off-cam­pus bars and housing areas. The platforms of Brian Klausner/Anthony Reid re­ceived few questions from the audience, although they shared some ideas with the other plat­forms. "We really want to get involved in the average studen­t's life," Klausner said. One way they plan to do this is through a campus wide cele­bration of holidays. 
The platform of Ryan Guillen!Deborah Hellmuth fo­cuses on the upgrading of·stu­dents status in relation to the faculty. "Faculty doesn't have to walk from their parking lot in the cold, they don't have seats in the 82nd row of the stadium and they don't have to wait 45 minutes for their 
lunches," Guillen said. By ·ensuring better seats for stu­dents, better parking spots and more classes during the lunch­time period, the ticket hopes to 
alleviate these problems. 
Greg Zarzaur/ Ted Mahan 
also support greater changes to 
appease students. They are 
campaigning on the platform of 
more student lounges, on-cam­
pus passes for student cars and 
hot grah-n-go. 

In an attempt to make cam­
pus a little more real. Harry 
Howisen!Demian Nave want to 
bring a virtual reality roller 
coaster to Notre Dame. More 
tangible ideas include a student 
government web page and an 
expanded multicultural week. 
Mike Eger/Mike Bacon, oth­
erwise known as "Bacon and 
Eggs," emphasize greater en­
tertainment value at campus 
events. 

In addition to improving An 
Tostal and tailgating parties, 
they plan -to devote more 
money toward musical and 
"Adam Sandier-type acts." The 
more serious aspect of the 
campaign focuses on increased 
24 hour computer space and 
more money to each class. If 
elected, Eger promises to rent 
out Jazzman's for a celebration 
party where there will be a rit­
ualistic shaving of his head. 
The Kevin Glynn/Patrick Bel­
ton ticket began with the top 
ten reasons to vote for them. 
Aside from the comical theme, 
the candidates suggested talent 
shows, an all-campus spring 
formal and an adopt-a-teacher 
program. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
ing containing only seniors. 
Student Body President Jonathan Patrick stated, "We (in the committee) wanted to view this model as a different option for students. Even if this option would not be a dorm, it could still solve some problems with gender relations. Thus, this model could be a model for solving gender relations around campus." 
Assistant Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk com­plemented the committee for making a model fair to all the views expressed by the CLC. Yet Kirk insisted that it was not tbe CLC's place to include cer­tain buildings which could be­come coresidential housing, such as the Morris Inn, in the revision of the report. Kirk be­lieves the report should be seen as a model for years to come. 
Father Pat Sullivan com­mented that the report did re­flect the CLC's views. Yet, he wondered if the CLC was doing enough for gender relations ·by proposing a model which only 100 people could take part in. 
Sister M.J. Griffin agreed. "We need to emphasize the need for improved gender rela­tions in the revision; this is the critical issue." 
Yet, Preacher found many problems with the model. "We may be proposing something which is extremely elitist, even separatist. The group (100 peo-
Sister Tasianne DeYonker, O.P. 
BEIJING AND BEYOND 
INVITING REFLECTION AND ACTION 
Presentation focusing on the events and happenings of the non-governmental organization forum 
on women in Beijing, China during September of 1995 
law School Courtroom 
WEDNESDAY, fEBRUARY 7TH 
12:00 NOON 
For seven years, Paul Loeb visited 
over 100 campuses in 30 states, 
to explore the beliefs, values, and 
choices of today's students. 
aul 




February 6 

s onsored b the Center for Social Concerns 
Tuesday, February 6, 1996 

ple) would have to be chosen in a certain way, and is too small. This model may not bring coresidentiality to campus. Further, I see insurmountable practical problems. I don't see coresidentiality being imple­mented into structures which are already there." 
Preacher maintained that the model seemed to address the negatives of coresidentiality in­stead of the positives. She be­lieves gender relations will not greatly improve as a result of the model. 
Kirk then asked, "Why do we need coresidentiality to improve relations?" 
Father Joseph Carey com­mented that coresidentiality in dorms would probably never happen, so the CLC should not look at that issue. Carey asked the CLC to start with the model presented by the committee in order to bring coresidentiality to Notre Dame in some form. 
Kirk and Patrick discussed what the impetus of coresiden­tiality actually is. Kirk asserted that coresidentiality was origi­nally raised as a coresidentiali­ty issue, not as a gender rela­tions issue. Patrick maintained that one of the goals of coresidentiality was to improve such relations. 
Father Sullivan began to 
wrap up the discussion by en­forcing the need to revise the report based on the current discussion. Kirk added that a prologue might be necessary to explain to all those who read the report who the CLC is and what they set out to do before making the report. Kirk hoped that the report would view coresidentiality as a step of many steps toward improved gender relations. 
Patrick concluded the meet­ing by organizing four CLC members to revise the report in the two weeks before the CLC's next meeting. 'Then," Patrick stated, "the entire CLC can hopefully endorse the report on coresidentiality." 

Security 
continued from page 1 
police, you filed a report with." he said, "If you haven't yet filed a report, we will help you get one on record so you can recover your property." 
Hurley also emphasized the importance of providing serial numbers or other unique markings that will positively identify items that may have been taken. 

''eacl1 011e~ reacl1 011e; eacl1 011e~ teacl1.~~ 
. Black Catholic Series 
~ 
REv. ALBERT J. Mci\NIGHT, C.S.Sr. 

President, Southern Development Foundation National Organizer, Black Unity and Spiritual Togetherness New Orleans, Louisiana 
"Racism: our national Disease Getting sick was not our fault. Getting well is our responsibility." 
Wednesday, February 7, 7:15pm 




Meeting: 

Tuesday, Feb 6, at 
7!00PM 

II8 Nieuwland New Members Welcome!

.JL 


Tuesday, February 6, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 
Julian Samora dead at 75 SMC students register 
Special to The Observer Samora co-founded the Na­
tional Council of La Raza, one 
Julian Samora. professor of the nation's leading Hispanic emeritus of sociology at the organizations, and served on University of Notre Dame and a numerous governmental and preeminent scholar in the field private boards and commis­of Mexican­
sions, including the U.S. Com­American mission of Civil Hights, the Na­studies, died tional Institute of mental Friday at age Health, and the President's 
75. Commission on Rural poverty. 
A specialist At Notre Dame, he directed the in discrimi­Mexican Border Studies Project nation. civil sponsored by the Ford Founda­
rights, public tion. health and Samora Samora's numerous books rural pover-and publications include "La 
ty, Samora taught at Notre Raza: Forgotten Americans and Dame for 1959 until his retire­Mexican-Americans" (1966), ment in 1985. lie chaired the "Los Mojados: The Wetback Department of Sociology from Story" (1971), "A llistory of the 
1963-66. Mexican-American People" 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 

$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$1500 if you donate alone (first visit) 

t$ soo if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
t$1 000 per person if you recruit sumeone and they donate 
$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOU111 BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
(1977), and "Gunpowder Jus­tice: A reassessment of the Texas Hangers" (1979), all pub­lished by the University of Notre Dame Press. 
Among the many honors be­stowed upon him were the White House Hispanic Heritage Award in 1985 and the Aguila Azteca (Aztec Eagle) Medal in ·1991 from the government of Mexico. 
Born in Pagosa Springs, Colo., on March 1, 1920, Samora earned a bachelor's degree from Adams State Col­lege of Colorado in 1942 and a master's degree from Colorado State University in 1947. He received his doctorate in sociol­ogy from Washington Univer­sity in St. Louis in 1952. 
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty, Samora taught at Adams State College, the Uni­versity of Wisconsin, Washing­ton University,_the University of Colorado School of Medicine, and Michigan State University. The Julian Samora Hesearch Institute was established at Michigan State in 1989 and carries on his work by under­taking research of relevance to the Hispanic community. 
Samora is survived by three 
sons, Geoffrey of South Bend, 
IN; David of Santa Fe, N.M.; 
and John of Phoenix; and a 
daughter, Carmen, with whom 
he lived in recent years in Al­
buquerque, N.M. 
Memorial contributions may 
be made to the Julian Samora 
Scholarship Fund established 
in his honor at Michigan State 
University. 
A memorial service at Notre 
Dame is tentatively scheduled 
for April13. 

to vote in dining halls 
By MAGGIE WALSH voter turnout. News Writer Not only are women influenc­ing the vote, they are also be­
As part of the Saint Mary's coming a dominant force in Student Academic Council politics. (SAC) sponsored Women's According to Hutger's Center 
Week, voter registration will for the American Woman and take place in the dining hall Politics, women make up 21 today and tomorrow from 11 percent of the state legisla­
a.m. to 1 p.m. tures, and 18 percent of may­
Students registering do not ors in cities with populations need to bring any identifica­greater than 30,000. These tion, according to SAC. percentages have gone up 24 
Students who are out-of-state percent and 38 percent respec­residents may register for tively since 1985. absentee voting in their home In light of the upcoming pres­
state at these times also. idential elections, when consid­In recent years, women have ering the candidates, women 
gained national political clout focus on several issues. and influence. The Statistical According to political analysts, Abstracts of the United States women want proper coverage 
notes that in the 1992 presi­on health issues, such as breast dential elections, 62.3 percent cancer, along with coverage of of the 97.1 million women reg­topics such as education, wel­istered were included in the fare, and religious rights. 

Justice 
continued from page 1 
Hollingsworth that sense of vi­sion. "I didn't have a sense of what community meant until I started volunteering," she said. ''I've gotten a lot more out of volunteering than I've given." 
Pilarski challenged the audi­ence to "see what we have in common, and discover what can be gained by making that connection in a community." 
Next week, the series focuses on the role of community ser­vice in academic life. It takes place Feb. 13 at 12 p.m. in the Wedgewood Room in the dining hall. 

Kilbourne 
continued from page 1 
According to The Boston Globe, May 3, 1994, "Jean Kil­bourne becomes a superstar on the college circuit by taking ads to task." 
Women's week is meant as a time for men and women to come together to look at and discuss the issues concerning women not normally given the attention they deserve. 
All students are encouraged to attend. 

~OBSERV~~R  
is now accepting applications for the 1996-97 General Board Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Liz Foran by Monday, Feb. 12 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for for the content of the news section each day. generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers,public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and decides what letters will run each day. and layout ofadvertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpressmanages a statf of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Managertravel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on section each day. layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and content of the Accent pages each day. printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertisers. The manages a statf of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self­motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor CONTROLLER manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accountsgenerates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. at Saint Mary's.  





VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Notbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................•.. Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and wall readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising • 63 I -6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631'-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 63l-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• MAY THE FORCE BE WITH You 

Warm up to love on cold South Bend days 
This month, Saint Valentine and Hallmark send their best 
Kara Pavlik 
February is a psychosexual month, as most Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents can tell you. It's also unbelievably frigid as anyone who's been outside can attest. But no matter how cold South Bend becomes, keep in mind that to ev­erything there a season -welcome to the term of love. 
Accept that this month you will live your life among "dreamy" couples whose cutesy cuddling is downright nauseating. Every commercial that flashes on TV will be for a Hallmark valentine or for those stupid heart shaped M&Ms. And many will undoubt­edly spend vast amounts of time drop­ping hints for say... a dozen long­stemmed roses! 
It's reasonable to blame this behavior on Valentine's Day. Because the whole February-as-psychosexual-month metaphor goes back to St. Valentine. In February of the year A.D. 270, Claudius II sentenced the future St. Valentine to be stoned, beheaded and clubbed. Real nice, Claudius. Thanks for setting the dysfunctional tone that has surrounded male-female relationships ever since. 

Despite the fact that Valentine was later canonized by the Catholic Church, he stands today as a symbol of guilt, dis­appointment and large sums of money. Now Valentine's Day seems to be about materialism and sex -suggesting also that an entire relationship can be judged by the deeds of this day alone. A bit psycho? Definitely. 
To really celebrate the holiday, take measure of your partner and don't judge the health of your relationship on an once a year event. It's of no cosmic dif­ference whether your "buttercup" orders roses weeks in advance or barely remembers to give you a last minute dining hall treat -neither will do to seal love for the long haul. 
To promote real love, time is needed. And for most of us that indicates the weekend, or those cherished 52 days of ~he year. In fact, weekends appear to provide some relief to the -psycho and sexual -tendencies that breed in rela­tionships like bacteria this time of year. 
But the extent to which this is a psy­chosexual month, depends on your own petri dish. And the degree that it's been deprived of heat and light. 
Now that you've got the message, buck up campers. There's only 23 days of February left-sorry, but we're stuck with that damn leap year again. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached by email: pavl7087@jade. saintmarys.edu 
• DOONESBURY 
CY8&/?CITIZ£N17-FOI<-5T&VE­fOR£3C.§ HAVE GATHER&/? AT13CRNIE'$ BYTE '31-/AC.I<.. 
.2-fo 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

MOSTOFt.J3 HeRE A!<& /..OAI?W UP tu!TH '3T(XI( OPTION~ .I ANI?tu& ~VE 
'eM~IUE BUILT 7HI51Nf)(E7'fzy, BUT tuHAT'$ 7HE fDINT IF 
tu&/..05&/T AU IN 
/ 
• Qm.m: Of THE DAY 
"Does television news arti­
ficially hype things to lure viewers? You bet. Twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week" 

-Randall Rothenberg 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
page 7 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Time makes the best contraceptive 
Dear Editor: 
In reading the column, "Moral laws transeend the legal when it comes to abortion," I was disappoint!ld by some of the writer's logic. ller general idea, that abortion should not be used as a means of birth control, was true. Indeed, abortion wastes developing life and is very tragic for all those involved, including the mother. Christiane Likely also made very valid points about the nece~sity for accepting the responsibilities of having sex and that there are times when moral laws should transcend tlw legal. Yet, the argument against using abortion as birth control was undermined by her support of the "importance" of contraceptives. 
Is not the intent of contracep­tives to prevent life too? Why is it justified to kill the process of life before, but not after, preg­nancy is determined? Though having sex does not always result in pregnancy, the same pattern of sperm trying to fertil­ize an egg occurs every. time one engages in sex. Do not both abortion and contracep­tives prevent this chance of life from developing fully? 
There are two important ele­ments of sex. First, sex forms intimate relationships. Sex is a beautiful thing. It is rare for 
'Itis rare for peo­pie to use their bodies like a bowl of cookie dough, passing themselves around for everyone to sample.' 
people to use their bodies like a bowl of cookie dough, passing themselves around for everyone to sample. Since people only engage in sexual intercourse with a limited number of peo­ple, there is a permanent bond that will form between the cou­ple. No matter how they might feel towards one another after having sex, this personal con­nection remains with both of them for the duration of their lifetimes due to the limited basis on which sex is shared. Secondly, sex is intended for the procreation of life. This is a universal fact for all humans in nature, and it holds true for humans, too. This procreation of life can occur no matter how much prevention. Even con­doms have a proven failure rate. The only form of birth control that has 100 percent effectiveness is abstinence. "If you aren't ready to have a child, then you're not ready to have sex" because there is always a possibility of concep­tion. 
Even if you do not believe the Catholic perspective that mar­riage is the only environment in which sexual intercourse should occur, you still need to be ready for the commitment and possibility of life that is cre­ated in sexual intercourse. And by all means, do not use contra­ceptives (nor abortion), which kill life, to make yourself ready. Use time. 
MIKE NOVOTNEY Freshman Zahm Hall 


Evolutionists ask for just the facts 

Dear Editor: 
Edward Manier wrote an article (The Obser11er, Nov. 6) attempting to charae­tfwize as incompetent "[Tihe Center for the Philosophy of Heligion ... the Maritain Center, as well as one graduate student in the Physics Department, who arranged to put Darwin on Trial at Notre Dame." lie ends with this sarcas­tic quip, "IP(erhaps none of those who put Darwin on trial knows anything at all about molecular biology. If that's the case, the community can draw its own conelusion." 
Professor Manier refers to the talk that Phillip Johnson, U.C. Berkeley Law Professor and author of two popular anti-evolution books, gave here on Sept. 
18. The talk was well attended, and sparked some discussion in the pages of 
The Observer. 
Manier's argument here, is an attempt to argue that perhaps myself and others don't know what we're talking about bt~causn we're not molecular biologists. It is an adolescent argument --not one of substance, but of sly intimation and unwarranted inference. 
Miehael Behe is a molecular biology professor. lie has a forthcoming book entitled, Darwin's Black Boxes. It is his thesis that the great evidence molecular biology otTers, weighs against evolution­ism and for some sort of intelligent design that is far beyond the reaeh of ehance and natural proeesses. When it eonws to mohleular biology and evolu­tionism, I would rather put my cards with Dr. Behe, who is an excellent mole­cular biologist, than with Dr. Manier, who is a philosopher. I could also argue that I know more about molecular biolo­gy than Darwin. Paralleling Manier's logic one eould say "Jet the community draw its own conclusion [about Darwin's ignorance]." Or I could point out that the biology department, even after moths of interaction and request, chose not to provide a respondent to Dr, Johnson. Were they intimidated because Dr. Johnson regularly debates world-class biologists on this matter? Shall we let the community draw its own conclusion based on this evidence? 
Manier's non sequitur, as well as the above, does little to substantively argue for or against evolutionism. Perhaps it is not a coincidence; perhaps the collec­tion of ubiquitous just-so stories that is evolutionism (you know, fish eventually developed walking feet, reptilian scales evolved into feathers, giraffes' necks elongated from inches to yards ... ) bleeds over and dulls critical thinking in other areas so that just-so arguments are given a precedent and a "license" to be made in all academic disciplines. Let us abandon this unfruitful eourse of argu­mentation for another. 
Instead, I would like to provide a two point summary of Dr. Johnson's thesis. The evidence for "evolution --finch beak variation, change in frequency of vari­ous genotypes, variation in the dog kind --is readily embraced by antievolution­ists like Johnson. Every type of antievo­lutionist out there believes in natural selection, mutations, genetic drift and changes in gene frequency in general. Advocates for intelligent design distin­guish themselves from evolutionists in that they maintain there are limits to what all these naturalistic processes can do. Natural selection might play a (con­serving) role in making for large dogs, but it does a much better job at killing dogs and making for a more monolithic and less exotic dog character. 
The case for evolution is fundamental­ly an appeal for extrapolation to endless limits of these relatively trivial varia­tions that we see. Even the Anthropology Department, whose defini­tion of evolution fits with the beliefs of even the young earth creationists (but who are curiously lampooned for not believing in evolution), have been silent when their own definition of evolution was characterized as a "wet noodle" by a chaired philosophy professor in these very pages (The Observer, Sept. 12). 
Johnson's first point is that the deluge of evidence from paleontology, biology and chemistry drowns out any rational attempt to biologically connect an aphid to a dinosaur or to give a naturalistic explanation for their complexity. Even with an hour long period of question and answer, this point went wholly unchal­lenged. Indeed Richard Dawkins him­self, one of the world's most revered evolutionists, writes, "Biology is the study of complicated things that give the appearance of having been designed for a purpose" (The Blind Watchmaker). 
Johnson's second point is that given the infinite number of just-so stories which are required to prop up evolution­ary theory, believing in evolution is tan­tamount to believing in Agnosticism. The gullibility required, vis-a-vis an ori­gins model that warrantlessly denigrates theism to some transparent dressing on a naturalistic superstructure, should deter theists. Thus Johnson describes theistic evolution as a "theistic natural­ist." 
Relative to evolutionism and rationali­ty, an important point has recently been advanced (and originated) by a Notre Dame philosophy professor. Professor Plantinga proved that an embrace of the two beliefs: naturalism and evolution­ism, carries with it an undefeated defeater (independent of any molecular biology). He thus proved it is irrational to believe in both naturalism and evolu­tionism. I recommend that the many agnostic faculty here read his Warrant and Proper Function (chapter 13), and learn how their world view has been cut off at the knees. 
In his letter to the editor, Manier asked me for a discussion of "Darwin's intellectual legacy." Here's my response: I don't believe Darwin has an intellectual legacy. 
If I may follow Manier and pose a cou­ple questions to him and to any of his kind that think that they can defend the indefensible, I ask, "what is it about the Boltzmanian distribution that gives evo­lutionism entropic warrant to be called scientific?" Einstein said that the sec­ond law of thermodynamics is the most important physical law. Please too describe how evolution is falsifiable. 
PIEDER BEELI Physics Graduate Student Off-Campus 




page 8 Tuesday, February 6, 1996


ACCENT 




EAT 
OM.EN 
As members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, we are heirs to a rich heritage. Accent's feeling is 1that most of 
yo said: "As a member of the (insert your institution here) community, you are an heir to a rich heritage." And then 1he or she we you nodded politely and wondered when they would get to the part about football tickets. We can't escape this stuff, though. \,\'i; so? What mystical cosmic forces~~besides State Route 33-brought us here? Accent is proud to give ~you~~unplu 
·. 


5 billion BC 4 billion BC November 26, 1842 
Out of darkness, God creates, sea, sky, and Papa Man screws up. God decrees that man shall live Father Edward Sorin of France plunges into the Spring brings ~ John's breadsticks. He smooths out a place on no longer in a place of divine beauty, and banish­American Midwest winter, taking with him six to assist Fathe the Earth to serve as a home for man, and He es Adam and Eve to Ohio State (school crest brothers of the Holy Cross and a dream. Led by school of their o 
names it Northern Indiana. And it was .... not bad. motto: Nos victorious, nos obnoxious. Sorin's vision of a great university and the lights "What took you Translation: "When victorious, throw a riot.") So of Meijer's, they stagger through the unforgiving "Who in their Adam and Eve start trudging down the Indiana ice and snow and wind until they they reach a here in the win 
Toll Road, God turning Northern Indiana into a track of land near South Bend. The land is that ice and win 
vast expanse of corn and cows behind them. absurdly flat and prone to overly friendly squir­rels, but the brothers are sick of staggering , so they kneel in the snow, give thanks and name their school L'Universite de Notre Dame du Lac ("The University of Notre Dame Where It's Really Too Cold to Kneel in the Snow".)~
'• 
~ 

e7 <;) 0.......-:JO " c:::J C> 0 -...___;-... 0 '
0 


April 23, 1879 1899 
Much of Notre Dame is destroyed by Notre Dame physics students send the first wire­lire. Sorin, while walking amongst the less message in the United States to Saint Mary'sashes, looks to the heavens for inspira­campus. Seconds later a return message comes tion. from across the street ("ANYONE OVEH THERE 
"What this place needs," he says, "is a HAVE EXTRA KEENAN HEVUE TICKETS?")bigger football stadium." 
.-~ 
C(3j~\~
l' r;


~.-W-, Jt~ 
1930 October 11, 1930 October 12, 1930 1945 
Notre Dame Stadium opens. The new "Notre Dame Our Mother," written for the dedica­Not to be outdone, Saint Mary's adopts the The nun-intensive Bing Crosby facility boasts 2,000,000 bricks, 15,000 tion of the new stadium, is performed for the first entire soundtrack of Grease as its official movie "Bells of Saint Mary's cubic yards of concrete and a one-inch­time as NO's Alma Mater. Eleven students are school song, to be played continuously at song of the same name, is rei by-one-inch seating area per fan. overcome by seasickness. each subsequent SYH and formal. film, which helped give SMC h 

name, actually contains the fol BING CROSBY (to a group of nuns): What's going on? N another one? You must see this movie. 

1967 1968 1969 

The Freshman Register is published for the first time, cat­Notre Dame's first Blue•Gold Feeling pressure from fans, who had devel­The first abroad prograpulting Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to the shared honor game ends in a brawl over oped an overwhelming need to open the new Home. SMCs and Domer of the number one spot on U.S. News and World Report's which team gets to be Gold. year watching hysterically random halftime continent, somehow dra "Worst Colleges in Which to Get a Blind Date" poll. 
shows on national television, Notre Dame lifts ry, ancient culture, and I 
it forty-five year old bowl game ban. 

__ ~ t2!z 
Fall, 1992 1993 
The book Under a Tarnished Dome: Not That We
The motion picture "Rudy" is filmed on Notre The College Democrats--both of them--give 
Hate Notre Dame or Anything is published,
Dame's campus. Sean Astin voices the question Presidential candidate Bill Clinton a warm wel­shocking the world of college football by revealing men have been asking themselves since the dawn come to Notre Dame's campus. 
the following shattering information about Notreof time: "Did you know they put real gold in the 
Dame's program: Knute Hockne in "Knute
paint?" 
Hockne--All American" was not, in fact, the actu­

~.. :_:_:. 

al Knute Hockne, but actor Pat O'Brian pretend­' . 
ing to be him. 
~ 









Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
page 9 
I STORY 
were able to sense this from your very first campus visit, when an admissions counselor sat you in a living roomish chair and ton and on about pioneers staggering through the snow and various dead priests and nuns with buildings named after them and are SMC; we are (clap clap) NO. We are detex cards and psycho lawn sprinklers and dining hall yo~cream. But what made it d, uncut, and doctored within an inch of its life because unplugged and uncut can get really boring-our history. 
y 30, 1843 1844 1845 February, 1860 
n1r sistnrs of the lloly Cross The sisters found Saint Mary's Academy. The Notre Dame Marching Band forms. As of 
Father Sorin grants the men of Notre 
Sorin and opp,n a boarding The entrance fee is a mere $5.00; tuition. yet, there is no football team or Victory March1 Dame and the women of Saint Mary's a 
n. room, and board can be had for $35.00. so members' duties consist mainly of doing the holiday from classes. The occasion is com­·o long'!'' Sorin asks. The 
average bill for books comes to Wave and making fun of Vanderbilt's band. 
memorated with the following authentic ight mind would comp, up historical verse, which may be found in 
1~r and have to deal with all SMC's archives in the "Authentic Historical 
and snow?" they said. 
Verse That Will Make You Cringe" file: 
"Well. not withstanding this we pass To thank him now sincerely For giving all release from class (A boon we prize most dearly). " For some reason. Sorin gives few holidays after that. 
1908 November, 1914 1927 

Using a piano in Surin Hall, Michael and John For the very first time, students from Saint Notre Dame adopts "Fightin' Irish" Slwa create the Notre Dame Victory Marcl1. Mary's attend a Notre Dame football game. as the University's official nickname, Michael writes the famous melody while his Ushers confiscate their ticket books in the second choosing it form an array of af­quarter, however, as a penalty for crowd surfing. fectionate nicknames of the day.
brother helps shape the two verses and chorus now writtnn in thn hearts of students. alums, and 
among them "The Team From the Fighting Irish fans across the country: School Across the Street From Saint 
llally sons ofNotre Dame Mary's College," "Eleven Guys From .'>omething. something. something. something an Absurdly Flat Campus," "Fightin' (To chorus) du Lacs," and "The Team Appearing Courtesy of' the ND Alumni ...~ 
Association." 
~ 

1949 1953 12:30 PM 12:49 PM Ingrid Bergman September 1, 1964 September 1, 1964
NotrP Dame, seeing the University's need for

" featuring the Regis "And Kathie ten very tall young mPn in plaid skirts to First day of service of the ND/SMC shuttle
Pased. This line Lee" Philbin graduates First shuttle bus actually
dance in a vflry tall circle in front of the Dome bus. Belles, certain that their visits to

. r "Belles" nick­from Notre Dame. arrives at Le Mans and takes its 
at each home game, adds the Irish Guard to Notre Dame will now be facilitated be­

owing linr: passengers directly to Married 
the Band with the mandatn that the Guard's yond their wildest dreams, gather at Le

excitedly talking Student Housing, which it cirl­
members must be at least 6'2 in order to be Mans Circle to board the first bus, due to

otre Dame win ces for three hours. 
able to step on people who laugh at the skirts. arrive at exactly half past noon. The stu­

am is established in At Notre Dame's last home game of the season, a A Stanford resident is attacked when he Write it down, memorize it, celebrate it veteran walk-on is substituted in the linal seconds accidentally attempts to enter the dorm annually: At Elcuna Country Club in of the game, sacks Georgia Tech's quarterback, through the Keenan door. Elkart, IN, on a par 3, 170-yard hole, Lou and is carried off the field to heartwarming 
Holtz hits his first hole-in-one. 

~\ 
2 
I 3 . { 

i".'i 

., -z._ ~ .~' ~~ 1 
1994 1995 1997 
?Notre Dame begins a five million dollar campus

Saint Mary's celebrates its sesquicentennial by 
You decide. 
beautification campaign by encasing the entire

slapping a sesquicentennial logo on every single Administration Building in decorative scaffolding.
piecn of mail leaving the campus, hanging ban­The project goes over so well that plans proceed to
ners featuring the sesquicentennial logo along the surround Notre Dame Stadium with large mounds
Avenue, and selling sesquicentennial items fea­of dirt. 
turing the sesquicentennial logo at special sesqui­centennial prices in the bookstore. Incoming freshmen arrive on campus thinking they have arrived at Saint Mary's of the Sesquicentennial 
Researched and written by Mary Beth Ellis Collnge. Layout: Knsta Nannery. Accentl::anor 
Art: Chnstoane Fashek 




1983 March 21, 1987 



page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
not a case of university elitism, it's a every course that the student takes, for denied two recruits, wide receiver 
question curriculum. example shop, physical education and Randy Moss and running back James
Recruits 
continued from page 16 
are not to sure that Notre Dame is going to be their choice, and therefore, obvi­ously, haven't applied at this point. We cannot make a final admissions decision until we have a complete application. Some of these individuals who are being recruited by one hundred schools aren't going to sit down and file a hundred applications. We can only give guidance to the coaches until such time that we actually have an application on hand. " 
In examining the criteria for admis­sion it is necessary to understand the guidelines. This coming year the NCAA requires that the student complete 13 academic units in any of five major aca­demic areas: english, math, science, social studies and foreign language. However, foreign language is not a requirement. 
The NCAA has also implemented a sliding scale for acceptable grade-point 
-· averages and test scores. A 2.5 is the minimum acceptable grade point aver­age paired with a 820 score on the SAT. Yet, a student could balance out a 2.0 GPA with 1020 on the SAT. This is a change from the concrete minimums of a 2.0 GPA and 700 SAT that the NCAA demanded in the past. Notre Dame deviates from the NCAA's standards. The admission department requires that the student complete 16 academic units compared to the NCAA's 13, and mandates that two be in a for­eign language. The university also looks for a second unit of algebra, or a unit of trigonometry, to prepare the student for the Freshman Year of Studies program that includes calculus. As for the test scores, Rooney stated that they'll make some allowances con­sidering that as a group the "top 100 or 200 football recruits in the nation are not going to SAT scores in the 1200s." But to balance this allowance, they look for solid performance in the classroom day-in and day-out, "something other than a 2.0." For the admissions department this is 
"State universities are designed to serve the citizens of that state, and as a result have an incredible variety of ma­jors," Rooney commented. "Some of which would not exactly meet the stan­dard definition of a strong academic program. You compare that with Notre Dame's curriculum, and there is a huge difference. The students here may joke about each others' majors, but the fact of the matter is, there is no truly easy major here. I think every program at Notre Dame really provides some seri­ous challenges. Unlike some other schools, we don't have any place where a student could 'major in eligibility.' 
"No matter where the student is, the individual has to do some serious acade­mic work. Beginning in the Freshman Year of Studies you have a math requirement that exceeds that of virtu­ally every other university in the coun­try. I don't think you can find too many schools in the country where someone who wants to come in majoring in fine arts is required to take calculus in their freshman year. 
"We have to base decisions on our experiences here, we have to make deci­sions on individuals in light of what Notre Dame is all about. We can't worry about the fact that someone is going on to Michigan to possibly major in physical education. That's fine for Michigan to admit that person because they may have a program for which that person may be well qualified. But that same person would have no where to go here." 
This philosophy has made Proposition 48 a little-heard phrase at Notre Dame, but in actuality the admissions depart­ment admitted three Prop 48 players in 1986: football players Tony Rice and John Foley and basketball player Keith Robinson. 
"You have to put this in a historical context," Rooney said. "In the previous ten years, the NCAA's academic require­ment was simply a 2.0 grade point aver­age based on any courses the student had taken in high school. There were some high schools that would count other less demanding courses. There was no test score requirement whatso­ever. As a result some highly recruited students were not taking standardized tests very seriously. The NCAA moved to higher standards when it had become apparent that a lot of schools had grad­
'That's fine for Michigan to admit that person because they may have a program for which that person is qualified. But that same person would have no where to go here.' 


Kevin Rooney 
uation rates in the 20 percent range. 

"However for the students coming along that year there seemed to be a real lack of awareness that the NCAA meant business. In the case of two of these individuals, we had reviewed their transcripts and they really did have the courses and in a couple of cases had really done quite well academically. In another case the student was clearly improving at that point. 
They had not really concentrated on preparing for the standardized test. When they finally realized that this is a serious situation, especially that their eligibility could be in jeopardy, they got down to take the test and those three individuals fell short. The university's decision was that, considering that this was the first year of the Proposition 48 program, and since we had faith in their overall academic record, let's give them the benefit of the doubt. Ultimately all three graduated." 
This charity on part of the admissions department hasn't been felt since then. Last year the admissions department Jackson, because of academics. While Moss' situation was clouded by an assault and battery charge against him, Jackson and his family asked the univer­sity to admit him as a Proposition 48 athlete and were denied. 
"In subsequent years the thought was that people now have enough time to realize that all this has to be taken se­riously," Rooney explained. "We did not think it would be a good idea to bring in someone to Notre Dame with that kind of stigma of being a non-quali­fier. We just felt that the academic envi­ronment is tough enough without having to carry that kind of burden. And in general everyone coming out now has had advance warning of what the stan­dards are. People should be able to meet those standards. No real excuses could be made." 
The same kind of logic holds for Notre Dame's position on junior college play­ers. Most top universities dive into the JUCO ranks for quick fixes to early departures or poor recruiting cam­paigns. One dominant JUCO player is USC's Keyshawn Johnson, considered one of top receivers in the country and likely a top pick in the up-coming NFL 
draft. 
"The reality for a sport like football is that the vast majority of talented players who go to two-year colleges were non­qualifiers coming out of high school," Rooney said. "When they go to a two­year college they are not taking the type of courses that are parallel to Notre Dame's freshman year of studies. 
It's a simple matter of someone who couldn't make it into Florida State and goes to a two year college isn't taking calculus during their freshman year." 
No matter the explanation, no matter the result, the admissions department will get the blame for the Irish not get­ting more or better players. Yet, Rooney may look on it differently. He and the admissions department will have suc­ceededin denying the separation of stu­dent from athlete, and have ensured that the student and the athlete will re­main together for another year. 
The Observer accep1s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. lo 3 p.m. a1 1he Noire Dame office, 3 I 4 LaFonune and from I 2 p.m. 10 3 p.m. a! 309 Haggar College Cemer. 
Classifieds Deadline for nex1-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musl be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per charac1er per day, including all spaces . 
. 
SPRING BREAK! MISSING: Long, forest green coat With only 1 week to live, DON'T Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at BLOW IT! Linebacker. Please call Kim at Organize group-TRAVEL FREE x4946. Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 I lost my camera at McCormick's FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash last Thurs. 1/25. If found, please 1-800-426-7710 call Lorna @ 1275. 
WANTED

Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break CAMP EBERI:lART, THREE RIVERS, MI. LOOKING FOR MATURE, HARD­WORKING, RESPONSIBLE INDI­VI DUALS FOR OUTDOOR EDU­CATION PROGRAM. EXPERI­ENCE PREFERRED, (WILL TRAIN HOWEVER). MID MARCH TO JUNE. POTENTIAL FOR SUMMER & FALL EMPLOYMENT. $140PW INCLUDING ROOM & BOARD. CALL 616 244-5125 
Need caring, qualified person to babysit pt in our home. Need own trans. M & W. 273-9512 
Help! Anyone who has recordings or pictures (or negatives) from the Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch Silver (I played a song on stage) 277-2174 WANTED: Good people to earn Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp-SKIPPY­money by becoming reps for Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. DOES IT MAKE YOU MAD THAT I EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 1 00 Watts of tunes! Call John at LET YOU WIN THE MOVIE MANIA 299-1999 evenings. 232-2955 today! GAME?? YOU KNOW I KICKED 

YOU BUTT AROUND THAT DAMN ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students ALUMNI BOARD!I -BILLY MADISON PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start MANY BEDROOMS Flexible hours around classes. All 10 MINUTES TO CAMPUS PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls majors. Scholarships/Internships SALE OR TRADE NOW! Only a Buck! I CALL 282-2357 812-923-8486 
Nashville will never be the same! Uh, John Deere, KY signs, and

FOR RENT TICKETS 
Jack...Thanx for a great wkend! 
I I 

THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED-Need 4 Seton Hall GAs HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH!!! 
........

ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR Call Ellie 4-1325 ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES PLACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA need ST JOHNS tix CLASSIFIED ADS-NOW!! 2773097 call2342 
... * * * * ••• 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY WILL PAY BIG$ PREMIERE SHOW 219-291-7153 FOR MACBETH 3-4pm Friday, February 9 Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www .spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 Are you missing a ski jacket? Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25.
NOTICES 
Call Kim x4946. 
EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF­ERENCES. CALL (941)425-4404 OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, MUL­BERRY FL 33860 

Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days TIX; CALL BEN Lafortune Ballroom Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to AN OUTSTANDING OPPORTUNI-Deliver Telephone Books Earn HOMES FOR RENT AT X1563. Best Bars! 7 Nights In r<ey West TY with excellent commission Extra Money No Experience Now 232-2595 ME GAS $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great income potential. Part-time person Hiring People needed to deliver LIVE
PERSONAL
Beaches-Near Disney) $169! needed to sell advertising in your new America's Best Book 1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME. 
' Daytona $1391 http://www.spring-Chamber of Commerce media. Telephone Directories in So. Bend CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE Notre Dame's first ever breaktravel.com. Interesting work. Flexible daytime New Carlisle Mishawaka Granger NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL 000o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 live variety talk show 1-800-678-6386 hours. Candidate must be moticat-Osceola Elkhart Bristol Goshen UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!l 
ed and personable and have own Millersburg Nappanee Wakarusa 232-2794. THE COPY SHOP Questions? Call Kevin at x3669. transportation. Send resume to Lakeville Walkerton No. Liberty & Lafortune Student Center 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Villing & Co., Inc., 3900 Edison Surrounding Areas To become an Old studebaker home, Phone 631-COPY It's time to separate the women 
Lakes Pkwy., #100 Mishawaka, IN independent contractor you must be new interior, close to downtown. 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 from the girls ... book store or (you HELP! Someone must of picked up 46545. No phone calls, please. 18 years or older Use an insured safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect for 3-know the rest) my green, down winter coat Friday car van or truck & available a min. 4 students + appl. $625/ mo. 289-International Film Festival night after a party in 518 Flanner on TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-of 5 daylight hours daily To reserve 77281v msg JUDY! Londomers Fall of "95 love accident. It is waist length and has Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching a route in your neighborhood Call 1-''Tatie Danielle" you!! mittens in the pockets along with basic conversational English 800-827-1200 Job #1101B 10am-tonightl some computer disks. If you did or abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. 6pm Mon/Fri ADSCorp EOE FOR SALE "You look old. How old are you 
know someone who found it, PLEASE call Mary at x1496. 
A.S.A.P. Thank you. 
MISSING: Long, dark green L.L. Bean coat. Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at the Linebacker. If you have it, or if you are missing a similar jacket-! found a similar one the same evening-please call Kim at x4946. 
FOUND: Dark green Columbia ski jacket. Found at Linebacker, 1/25. Please call Kim at x4946. 
I lost my favourite scarf between Newland Science Hall and lhe post office last thursday. It is dark green and has a checkered pattern on it. Please, please, please call Chis al 4-1697 if you happen to find it. 
Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian Ian­guages required. For more informa­lion call: (206) 971-3570 ext. J55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55843 Teachers Wanted! 
-If you love teaching 
-If you really love teaching 
-Have the desire to learn 
all types of software & 
build your knowledge 
-Willing to "study".on 
your own time -Willing to work as a 
Sub-contract trainer 
-Would like to make 
"above" average pay 
-Interested in variable assignments Please list any software you are proficient at: Send resume to: SS Innovations 
300 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46601 Fax: 219-237-9447 
'89 BERETTA, V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, cruise, front-wheel drive, air. 
Excellent condition, new front tires & exhaust system, and new shocks. Call654-7439 (local call). 
1984 FORD TEMPO 5-spd manual transmission 96,000 miles, good heater, always dependable $800 Call Chris today at271-0271! 
JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. $154,900. 
Call Karen 272-3653. 

"EI Mariachi" Feb 7 anyway?' 
"Like Water for Chocolate" Feb 8 Please promise me that next All movies 7:30 ...$2.00 Sunday will be back to normal. 
Montgomery Theatre 
"Nasty Boys." 

BALLROOM DANCERS! COME AND BUST A MOVE! ROACH IE GOT BUTT!!!!!! 
TODAY IN THE CSC AT 
6:30 BEGINNER CLASS WALTZ I've got a headache this big, and it's AND 8:30 ADVANCED CLASS got recruiting written all over it. 
MERENGUE. WE WILL MEET IN THE CSC. SEE YOU THERE! Happy Early B-day, Sheila! 
If you haven't gotten a Lewis Happy Belated Birthday to Hall Grab 'n Go Bag then you're MEGAN KEENAN missing out on the chance to get a the godmother of tuff, the queen of ton of yummy chocolate chip gra-the pool and famous for the nola bars! Bags will be on sale immoratalline, 2/6&2/7 at both dining halls. ''You know, you're pretty engaging Don't miss out!! when you're sober." 
~------------------------------~--­
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Villanova contains Iverson, Georgetown 
By DAVE IVEY Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 

Freshman John Celestand had a season-high 19 points and No. 6 Villanova held Allen Iverson to five points in the sec­ond half in a 79-66 victory over No. 8 Georgetown on Monday night. 
The Wildcats (19-3, 10-2 Big East), playing without injured starting forward Eric Eberz, won their sixth straight game, while the lloyas (19-4, 9-3) had a two-game winning streak snapped. 
Kerry Kittles scored 17 points and Alvin Williams had 13 for Villanova. 
Iverson, who was 6-of-10 from the field in the first half and 1-of-6 in the second, fin­ished with 22 points, while Othella Harrington added 10 for the lloyas. 
Villanova opened the second half with a 19-5 run that included 3-pointers by Kittles, Williams and Celestand. Celestand's 3 with 13:22 to go gave the Wildcats a 52-40 lead. 
The Wildcats stretched it to 54-40 on Kittles' desperation 15-foot jumper with 11:30 remaining and Boubacar Aw's layup at the other end finally stopped a run of 13 straight points by Villanova. 
After Iverson's 3-pointer 


~ \hea••-Vf1ilz,es ck 
"Styles far all Walfts ofLife" 
In the Campus Shoppes 
Mon.-Fri. 9 am-8 pm Sat. 9 am-5 pm 
Sun. II am-4 pm 

• Stylists specializing in a wide range of styling 
for dances & special occasions • 
$5 Off
Relaxer/Perms 
Expires 3/8/96 

• Appointments necessary for tanning, relaxers, perms, and styles • (219)271-7674 



SUMMER STUDY Washington, DC 

GRADUATE • UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD • HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS 

For information call (202) 994-6360, Fax (202) 994-9133 or write us at 2121 Eye St., NW • Washington, DC 20052 for our Summer Sessions Announcement E-mail: sumprogs@gwis2 .ci rc.gwu. ed u 
G W is on equal opportunity institution. 
AP11/95 


175TH ANNIVERSARY 1821-1996 

trimmed the lead to 54-45, Kittles followed it with a 3 of his own -from 25 feet -with 
9:20 left. 
The Hoyas never got closer than eight points the rest of the way and the Wildcats led by as many as 17,72-55. 
Eberz, who bruised his hip in Saturday's win over Pittsburgh, is the team's second-leading scorer at 14.2 points per game. He did not dress but is expected back for Saturday's game with Rutgers. 
The game was played at the Spectrum before a crowd of 18,433 -the third-largest col­lege basketball crowd in Pennsylvania history. 
The Hoyas don't get a break 
Hoops 
continued from page 16 
pended from the team for dis­ciplinary reasons. 
In their stead, a number of other upperclassmen have been forced to step up, as Heshimu 
Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
after playing the sixth-ranked Wildcats. Six of their seven remaining games are against teams currently ranked in the Top 25: Syracuse, Boston College (twice), Memphis, Connecticut and Villanova, in their regular-season finale March 2. 
In the opening half, the Hoyas had eight steals and forced 12 turnovers, but shot just 37 per­cent (14-of-38) and it was tied 35-35 at halftime. 
Villanova shot 52 percent from the field in the first half but attempted 13 fewer shots than Georgetown, which had 11 offensive rebounds in the first 20 minutes. 
Evans, Jason Hoover, and Justin Phoenix all average dou­ble figures to pace the Jaspers. 
Such balance is enviable to the Irish, who aside from for­ward Pat Garrity have lacked consistency. Ryan Hoover has proven to be less than old faith­ful, capable of connecting for 26 points one game (St. John's) and four the next (Georgetown). 
This search for sco~ing punch has expanded the Irish bench recently, as freshmen Antoni Wyche and Phil Hickey both saw significant action against the Hoyas. 
"I decided to go with the young players (in that game)," stated Irish coach John MacLeod. "They got valuable experience that will pay divi­dends in the future," stated Irish coach John MacLeod. 
Wyche got an especially long look on Saturday because Hoover was saddled with foul trouble. The freshman has be­gun to regain his early season form after struggling through January. 
"''m now playing at my natu­



Wood 
continued from page 16 
won it all. 
The movie Hoosiers is loosely based on Wood's unlikely win in 1954, display­ing the influence he left on Indiana high school basketball. 
Wood later left Milan to coach at New Castle and North Central high schools for the next 11 years. 
He directed Mishawaka's high school basketball team from 1969 until 1980, when he left to coach the women of Bethel College. Today, Wood is in the midst of his 12th season with Saint Mary's. 
"It's incredibly strange," bas­ketball player Jen Turbiak commented. "We'll be at an away game and people every­where will be asking Coach for his autograph. But when we come home... nothing." 
Wood did not choose Saint Mary's for its fan appeal, but in order to work with players who enjoy the game and do their best. 
"Saint Mary's is the most positive place I've ever coached," he said. "Why else would I have stayed here so long?" 
A few years ago Wood bat­tled cancer. The key to his recovery was tlw desire to return to Saint Mary's. 
"When I was isolated in the hospital for 28 days I dreamed of getting back to Saint Mary's and doing my job," Wood recalled. 
Wood returned the next sea­son and led the Belles to a landmark 14-8 record. 
ESPN will conduct an exten­sive interview with Wood before the game Tuesday. Wood refuses to accept the credit in this accomplishment, rather seeing the event as an opportunity for his team. 
"The filming will be an event 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Netters remain undefeated after holding off BSU 
By JOE CAVATO do with the coaches who have "That win was my biggest in struggle of the day. Patterson the Irish more momentum as Sports Writer emphasized serving since the college by far," Pietrowski said. .came out on top, 6-3,0-6,6-4. they head into the toughest part 
Last Friday the Notre Dame's men's tennis team dodged a bullet, as the Irish were chal­lenged by a Boise State team who took them right down to the wire. But the Irish pre­vailed 4-3 over the 27th-ranked squad. 
Senior captain Mike Sprouse lead the way again, improving his season record at number one singles to 4-0. Sprouse defeated BSU's top player, Albin Polonyi, currently ranked 23rd in the country. Sprouse praised his serving in helping him to a 6-3, 6-3 victory. 
"It was the best I have served 
.­
so far this season," Sprouse explained. "A lot of that has to beginning of the season." 
"Mike has been a pleasant surprise this season in that he has been a pillar of strength," head coach Bob Bayliss said. "He has been our base, particu­larly with the surgery on (Ryan) Simme's foot. He and Jakub (Pietrowski) have really done a great job in the number one and two singles spots." 
Pietrowski dropped the first set 3-6 to BSU's Ernesto Diaz, who is ranked 26th in the nation. He faced some match points while down 3-5 in the second, but went on to win nine of the next sixteen games and the tie breaker to triumph in what proved to be the decisive point. 


"It felt good and great in gener­al to beat Boise State because they are such a good team." 
Junior Ryan Simme and se­nior John Jay O'Brien dropped their number three and four singles matches. Boise's Rickard Strom bested the recovering Simme 6-3, 6-4. 
O'Brien lost an extremely hard fought battle with David Dalgaard. O'Brien and Dalgaard split the first two sets, which were decided by tie breakers, but Dalgaard nipped O'Brien 6-4 in the third. 
"Ryan is not yet back where he needs to be. He is still a step slow," Bayliss said. "But, he is improving and considering that he just started playing the sec­ond week of January, I am sat­isfied with his play. 
"John Jay O'Brien deserves a lot of credit even though it doesn't show up in the box score," Bayliss said. 
At the number five and six slots, freshman Brian Patterson and senior Jason Pun each took three sets to defeat Ben Davidson and Jason Anderson. 
Patterson and Davidson played a grueling two and a half-hour match which was 



were asked why they didn't,c_ b~arth more 
often, they responded that ther~ just w~n't entertainment to make the -~ worthwhile. Their leader, Yukionaca, d.id mentio 
that they frequented IndianaJ;lue to a rare, but extremely high frequency of from a place called.; -· 
. i -~ 

'Help unite hurnan JOIN US. VV .-. _ 
sub is acc·epting'ap 

for all posit:ions · · 
by the office or call 631-7757 

Davidson was undefeated until Friday and had won in Boise State's matches against top­ranked UCLA and USC. 
"I was very pleased with Brian's play," mentioned Bayliss. "He beat a very good player today." 
Pun won the first 6-3 and then dropped the second, man­aging just one game. But he came back strong and domi­nated Anderson 6-0 in the third. 
On the doubles' side, Boise State escaped with two points. At the top ,spot, Sprouse and Pun were handed their first loss of the season by the 13th­ranked team of Diaz and Polonyi. 
Simme and O'Brien took Boise State's number two team to the brink but Strom and Ryan Thompson managed to come out with a 9-8 victory. "We fought really well when we were behind," Bayliss said. "But, we let it slip away in the tie breaker." 
At number three Pietrowski and Brian Harris conquered Davidson and Steve Vozeh 8-4 to push their doubles record to 4-0. 
of their schedule. Next Monday the Irish host top ten foe LSU at 2:00p.m. 
"This win just adds to our confidence," Sprouse noted, "It has been important for us to get off to a good start because we are getting into the heart of our season." 
The GREis on April 13, 1996. 
Are You Prepared? WeAre. 
• 
Limit of 10 Students per Class 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 

• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


~~CETON
~·REVIEW 
(Classes start February 17th! ) 
Call Today! 
800/865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton 


INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Tuesday, February 6th 7 PM in the Flanner Hall Pit 
Members ofthis years's Candidate Class will share their own experiences and answer any questions you may have. 
Or you may call Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. at 631-6385 
-

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Split decision for ranked Irish in Jayhawk territory 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Spons Writer 
It may sound cliched, but this wtwkend the Notre Dmae women's tennis team suffered the thrill of victory and the agony of defeat in Kansas. 
Saturday, the 16th-ranked Irish beat no. 13 William & Mary 4-3 but fell by the same scorn to no. 25 Kansas Sunday. 
Once again, the dynamic freshman duo of Jennifer Hall and Marisa Velasco turned in some outstanding perfor­mances. Both extended their winning streaks, as they were the only players to win all of their singles matches this weekend. 
"They played great, and both 
of tlwm  came  up  with big  
wins,"  head  coach  Jay  
I.ouderbaek said.  

"Against William & Mary we played well," Louderback went on to say. "They are a good team, and it was a tough match. We started slow in the doubles, but singles was good." 
The top doubles team of se­niors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord were victorious, as they squeaked out a 9-7 victory. But the Irish suffered losses at the second and third spots. 
The Tribe's Lauren Nikolaus and Laura Tsaggaris managed a 9-7 victory over the Irish's second-ranked team of Hall and junior Erin Gowen. 
Velasco was paired with a new partner, as sophomore Kelley Olson stepped up to play number three doubles and number six singles for the Irish this weekend. Olson and Velasco lost 8-4 to Christine Caltoum and Shawn 

Chinese , American _.&~ CR£AT Restaurantand :-~ 'UALL Cocktail Lounge 
~-li n Authentic Szechuan, 
. Bar and Restauraunt ope;a;d·~:::,:;:i~e 
Lunches starting at __ $4.25 Dinners starting at __ $5.95 \'otl'd Bl''l Oril'nt,d RL·,t,turant
Ranquet rooms available for up yo 200 in t\liL·hi,tn.t h,
130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
,\Jichiml<l NoH'

(next to Randall's Inn) Arrowsmith. 
In singles play, the Irish fared much better. Top-ranked Crabtree lost in straight sets, 6­3, 6-0, and at number six, Olson put up a fight but fell 7­6, 6-4 for the only blemishes. 
"It felt good to get in some match play," remarked Olson. "We all played really well, it was just a tough match." 
At number two, Lord defeated her opponent, 6-3, 6-3. Then the freshmen took over. Hall dismissed her Tribe opponent, 6-4, 6-0., and the undefeated Velasco rallied back from being down a set and won, 4-6, 6-4, 6-0. 
Sophomore Molly Gavin came in with a big win at number five, defeating William & Mary's Christine Caltoun, 6-3, 6-4. 
After capturing a close victo­ry, the Irish faced host Kansas. 
r-•....,
bare ~:I.e~
essentials ~~ 
81 5 W McKinley Mishawaka !College Square -accross from Town & Country) 
Grand Opening Celebration Feb. 8,9,10,11 
TANNING I month $30 • Hair • • Nails • 
~~'!)~ 
257-8266 
"We played well against the Jayhawks," stated Louderback. "It was a loud crowd and we are a little tired from the long trip, so we did not play as well as we wished." 
The Irish started off strong by sweeping the doubles matches. "In our match against the Jayhawks, we played the best doubles thus far. Our top team defeated Kansas' team, who is nationally ranked second," Louderback said. 
The number one team of Crabtree and Lord hardly al­lowed their opponents in the match in their 8-2 dismissal of Kansas' Kylie Hunt and Jenny Atkerson. 
The second-seeded team of Gowen and Hall kept the win­ning going with an 8-6 victory over the Jayhawks' Christie Sim and Kris Sell. Olson and Velasco's 8-5 win swept the doubles for the team. 
But the only two victories in the singles came from the freshmen. Hall won in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. Velasco again rallied to secure a 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 

Managing Editor 

Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 

Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principies. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Liz Fora!l by 5 p.m. Tuesday, February 6. For additional information about the positions contact Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 





SPADES OURN 
W~;Q .•..FEB. 7 

7:30;.,\PM $5. PER TEAM 
SIGN UP AT THE GORCH GAMES ROOM 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
SMC Basketball: ESPN will be filming the game vs. Lake Forest (7 pm) on Tuesday, Feb. 6. There will be a pep rally before the game begin· ning at 6 pro. Please come and show your SMC spirit. 
Jazz Darice: A Jazz Dance class will offere<_i on monday and Wednesday evenings from 
6:30 • 7:45 in Rockne llm. 
219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must register ln advance in the RecSports office and the fee is victory. 

Crabtree was clubbed by the Hunt, 4-6, 2-6. At. the second spot Lord lost a close match to Sim in three sets, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. At number five Gowen lost in another close one, 2-6, 6-4, 0-6. Then Olson went down, 3-6, 2-6 at number six. 
"We were all a little disap­pointed," Olson said of the per­formance against the Jayhawks, "But it is early in the season so we have lots of matches left to focus on." 
This weekend the Irish were missing the talents of senior Sherri Vitale. 
Vitale sprained ligaments in her wrist against Northwestern. Louderback said she will be out for at least a week, and her return depends on her progress. 
The Irish have a bit of time off, as the team's next match is set for February 15 when they host Tennessee. However, some players are scheduled to play in the Rolex National Indoor Championships this weekend in Dallas. 
$30. For more info., call 1· 6100. Open to all ND stu­dents, faculty, and staff. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7 pm in LaFortune. All levels wel­come. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236-7266. 
Archery Mini·course: HecSports will be sponsoring an Archery mini-course on Tuesday and Wednesday, February 6 & 7 from 7-9 pm. 
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Cory GrantandAudreyHepburn star in 
CHARADE 

directed by Stanley Donen $2 Adults, $1 Students 
t: ~~ 
1

00®Jt, . IN, Come have the best summer ofyour life. 
SCMary Lodge & Resort, Glacier park's finest, 
Now hiring for the 1996 summer secuon. Schedule an interview by calling The Career & Placement Servic-es. 
Don't pass up the ofa 



·---~---· 

page 14 

Penn State too much for fencers 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
All winning streaks come to an end, and against Penn State the women's fencing team's streak finally ended. It was a tough day all around for both squads at their tournaments in Boston, as the men dropped two of their five matches. 
The women's foil team was the bright spot in the tourna­ment, beating defending national champion Penn State 10-6 and the other three teams in the tournament 
Freshman Sara Walsh won all 14 of her matches, including a victory over Penn State's national champion foilist, Olga Kalinovskaya. Teammate Myriah Brown won ten matches and barley lost to Kalinovskaya, five touches to four. 
"The women's foil team did very well against Penn State," said Walsh, 46-0 so far this season. "We all fenced well because we were up for the match. Against Rutgers we were a little unprepared because they fenced different than Penn State. They were very scrappy and it was unex­pected to lost some bouts to them." 
The demise of the Irish's win­
ning streak could be attributed 
to Penn State's dominating per-


OFF-CAMPUS STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, February 9 (4PM) through dinner, Saturday, February I 0 
sign up at the Campus Ministry office in Hesburgh Library by Wed, February 7th at 5 PM 
any questions? call the Campus Ministry Office at 631-7800. 

0MPUS 

MINISTRY 

.. 
Saturday, Feb. 3rd-Saturday, Feb. 10th 
e().I1W ~OW/,~~ Mwp cwui ~: 


formance over the epee team. Senior captain Claudette de Bruin was slowed by an illness, and Penn State took advantage of this winning 13 of 16 match­es against the Irish. de Bruin finished the meet with an 9-3 record and sophomore Anne Hoos was 10-4, were a com­bined 1-7 against Penn State. 
"The women's epee team had an off-day," said coach Yves Auriol. "Claudette de Bruin was sick and didn't fence too well." 
The men did not fare as well in Boston. The squads com­bined for a 3-2 record, beating Brown, Harvard and Rutgers. 
"Penn State is far and away the best men's team," said Auriol of the team who took 19 matches from Notre Dame. 
The strongest teams for the 
Irish, foil and sabre, each were 
defeated six matches to three. 
Senior Jeremy Siek won 12 
matches and classmate Paul 
Capobianco won eight matches 
for the foil squad. Freshman 
Stephane Auriol was praised 
for stepping in and sweeping 
Brown University fencers in 
three matches. 
"I was a little disappointed 
about how we did," said the 
younger Auriol. "We could have 
done better. I was proud of 
how we competed. We fought 
hard." 
The previously undefeated 
This weekend the men's and women's track and field teams hosted some of the nation's premier track and field talent at the 1996 Meyo Invitational. The Irish were not the most gracious hosts as they provig~ ed a high level of competition that many of their guests could 
overcome. 
Senior Mike Fleisch set a new meet record with a 59, ,25 thrpw in the shot pup; 
met provisional NCAA qualifying.standards for the 1996 NCAA Indoor Championships. His throw was a seven foot improvement from bispreviousyear's best · "My technique has really im­
sabre team was handled by the defending national champion. Captain Bill Lester had a rough outing, winning nine matches but losing six, including three to Penn State. Freshman Luke L(}.Valle continued his strong rookie campaign, winning 12 matches. 
"A lot of pressure fell on the men's foil and sabre squad because the epee team isn't performing well. Bill Lester. Luke LaValle, Jeremy Siek and my son Stephane fenced well against U Penn and Rutgers" said the elder Auriol. "It was nice to see. We are a very young and inexperienced team. We will have better days." 

co.mJuented Fleisch, who has put on fifty pounds since last season and looks forward to league competition~ "The Big East really gives the inen and women a great opportunity to Work toward a team goal. Our team has really been pushing toward succeeding at the Carrier Dome in the Big East meet." 
The women's 4X400 relay captured first place and a Meyo Invitational record with a 3:47.91, erasing the University of Windsor's 
3:48..12 mark. 

Sophomore Berit Junker fin­ished second with atime of 2;09.0 in the women's 800 


Bulls Tickets lottery 
Bulls vs. Cavs 
Bulls Game is Feb. 2QTH Ticket lottery will be 
February 6TH 3:00-5:00 215 LaFortune (Senior dass Office) #'s posted at 6:00 
$25.00 tickets if you win the lottery 
7:00 game 
bus leaves at 5:00 
2 senior ID's per student 
(l ticket per I. D.) 

SENIORS ONLY 
QUESTIONS: CALL 631-5136 
w-·J··rJN:Js·r,-AY ·. ·.li·<l'N;T 7p.m. •Joyce Cfl._nter 
Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
meters..She also ran in the woman's distance medley. which posted 12:10.05 to beat Western Michigan. 
Freshman Kelly Saxen placed third in the women's high jump. Coach Joe Piane was excited but not surprised about Saxen's performance. "Kelly is a great athlete, and she is going to score some points for us in the Big East," commented Piane. 
While the Irish will be chal­lenged by their conference foes, they have not looked past their upcoming meets. Next week the men and women look for continued success at the Indianapolis Invitational and tbe men will also compete at the Central Collegiate Championships. 

----~----~~------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------------------­
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

r--~H~A~P=I='Y~B=IR=·=rH~D~A=Y7 ..-­
!~1N~T~H~E~-to~h~u~d-ge-t.-sa-n~d-a-cc~o-un-~­
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Take your rightful place as a leader' Your excellent organizational skills will help you find long-lasting solu­lions to any career or business prob­lems. Your cheerful, outgoing per: sonality continues to win you valu­able support and prestige. Count on your stot>k to rise even with those who do not fully understand your motives. A healthy dose of skepti­cism will keep you from being taken in by flatterers or fairweather friends. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: singer Natalie Cole. New York Yankees slugger Babe Ruth, actor Robert Townsend, gym­nasi Kim Zmeskal. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The emphasis now is on meeting your financial obligations promptly. Invest in real estate. By adopting a more creative approach to your work, you can lay the foundation for future gains. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Claim the spotlight -and your fair share of recognition' Being com­pletely open and aboveboard in your business dealings will protect your good name. Travel is best post­poned. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Well-thought-out changes will prove beneficial. Do not take too much for granted or lean too heavily on others. You need to take your time when dealing with financial figures or complex arrangements.
SCOIT ADAMS 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Business plans coulc! suddenly
E 

change. Look ahead. Others admire your flexibility and visionary out-
THE COf'\I'E.TITORS
z .!:.; r-:======::::::::::===::::----1 

look. Devote some thought to pro-
OOH! LOOK! THEY'R£. 

viding for your family's financial
t 
] u 

future. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A great 
PLANNING TO "UTILIZ£. 
SYNERGY." WE'RE IN 

day for submitting manuscripts.
'". ~ 
, 

Give free rein to your imagination
TROUBLE. 

and creativity. Someone may need a
sToP/ YOU'RE 
.... 

favor. Devote more of your attention
NOW/
.., KilliNG 


DILBERT 
f>..LICE I 'fOU'VE GOT TO LOCK UP THESE PROPRIETAR~ 
DOCUMENTS YOU HA.\IE 
IN '<OUR CUBICLE. 
Ir OUR COMPETITORS SEE OUR. PLANS, IT COULD BE. VERY DANGER.OUS. 
51 Slugger's stat 541951 Oscarfilm for Bogart 57 Inti. business 
accord 58 Perfume 59 Deprive of 
courage 60 Being, to Brutus 61 Grow dim 62 Bridge 
positions 
DOWN 
1 Goy~'s "Naked 
2 First of all 3 Start of the 17th century 4 Comic strip shriek 5 Bricklayers' 
tools 6 Peter Pan's loss 1 Golfer's object a Athena's 
symbol 9 Gets off a 
27 Bikini blastPullman 28 Sevres or10 Locust Wedgwood11 Prospector's 29 Relieved
bonanza 30 4/15 inits.
12 Out's partner 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Unusual ideas receive new support 
at work. Concentrate on business 
during the day, then devote the 
evening to fun. A task you under­
take now could include a special 
challenge. You rise to the occasion. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be 
on the lookout for an opportunity to 
advance your career goals. Small 
mistakes could prove costly later on. 
Check financial calculations careful­
ly before approving expenditures. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Decisiveness is the key to success. Others will admire your ability to perform well when under pressure. Busy maneuvering behind the scenes can boost you up the career ladder. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Control your impatience. Try­ing to force your opinions on others will backfire. Teamwork boosts profits and spreads good will. Bring correspondence up to date. The road to romance is free of obstacles. Forge ahead. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A positive approach will help solve a business problem. Limit your personal spending. Decline an invitation to go out tonight if it will cost you money. A dormant romance could spring back to life. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Seek the suprort of influential peo­pie who can provide financial back­ing. Loved ones are warm and affec­tionate. You realize how deeply someone cares for you. Postpone asking for special favors. Fulfill your family obligations. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Refuse to let co-workers take advan­tage of your good nature. Good tim­ing is the key to greater career sue­cess. Domestic matters require immediate attention. Be discreet. Keep your personal and professional lives completely separate. 
..:1 M.E.I! 
::>..
.. 
• OF INTEREST
.. 
"" 

Women's resource center will be having its spring semester open house today, Tues., Feb.6, from 3-6 
p.m. in the Student Government Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Come on in for free food and get some information about the Center! Feminists for Life meeting tonight in the Center for Social Concerns at 7:30p.m. All are welcome. Tonight in the Cinema at the Snite the movies "Divide & Conquer/ Battle of San Pietro/ Night Mail" will be playing at 7 p.m. and "The Four Hundred Blows" will be playing at 9:15. The <:ost is $2. Paul Loeb, author of "Generation at the Crossroads: Apathy and Action on the American Campus", will give a public presentation tonight in tho Hesburgh library Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. Reception will follow. Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and many other campus organizations. Experiencing the Lord's Prayer in Aramaic will be presented by the Educare holistic Center For the Arts of Healing, 505 ·E. Jefferson, Mishawaka. This will begin Feb. 6, 7 p.m. -9 p.m. for 4 weeks. Call 259­9900 to preregister. Fee is $25. The Passionist Lay Missioners, a year long lay volunteer program with placements in Chicago, Detroit and Cincinnati, will be holding a gtmeral infor­mation session at 7 p.m. at the esc on Wed., Feb. 7. Kristin Funk, grad '91, will be speaking. Individual appointments are available on Thursday. Residence hall contracts for 1996-97 academic year have been sent to the residence halls. In order to be eligible for housing in the fall. students must 
42 Nullify return the contract to the Office of Student Residences 
prior to 5 PM. February 14, 1996.
43 Capital of 
Zimbabwe 

Student residence hall staff applications are now 
44 Israel's Abba 

available in the Office of Student Residences, 311 
(Kerouac et al.) 

Main building. from 8 AM until 5 PM, Monday through
47 Homeowner's 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "The Cryptogram" playwright 
6 Like most workhorses 10"--you know!" 14 Calculating snake? 15 Hockey great Gordie 1& Shoreline recess 
17 Versatile one 
20"--my brother's keeper?" 21 Announcer's call on a pitch 
24 Comic Jacques 25 Jimmy Doolittle, for one 30 Food writer 
Rombauer et al. 31 Up --good 32 Topper 34 Paper quantity 35 Guitar ridges 37 --Marie 
Presley 3&Japanese honorific 39 Bellicose 
Olympian 40 Dumb mistake 41 Hobo 45 Geologic time 
divisions 46 Lie next to 

22 Slot cars, e.g. 47 Parasitic grub 23 "A --'clock 50 Some nest scholar" eggs: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

26 Muscat native 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS X 


CHAMPIONS 


•

SORIN & FARLEY 

-
anks to everyone who participated we were able to raise over $3,700 for Special Olympics! 
payment: Abbr. 53 Hostelries 

Friday. Applications received prior to February 28
33 Driveway cover 

..
48 Cries of 55 Wash. neighbor 
will receive priority,
35 Best seats in the 
discovery
house 56 Spenserian 

"Embracing the Current Crisis/Building for the 
49 Secures heroine 

Future!" at New Wings of Faith Church (The Sunday
36 Arbitrators, for 
short 

Place To Be), Located in the Historic 100 Center Com­
37 Pirate's 

plex, 100 N. center Street, Mishawaka. Indiana.
Get answers to any three clues 
recompense 

Service times are Sundays 9:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
39 Make-(err) 

Phone 219-271-8362 for more information.
5656 (75¢ each minute).
40 Curt 





SPORTS 

page 16 Tuesday, February 6, 1996 


II'. 
• 
-
Admissions department searching for balance 
By THOMAS SCHilDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Take a glance at a list of the top 100 high school football players. Now cross out 67 of those names on that list. This is how the Notre Dame football coaches feel every year, according to football recruiting analyst Tom Lemming. 
"Notre Dame admissions wreaks havoc on Irish recruiting classes," he explained. "About two-thirds of the class will be wiped out. If they had the same admissions as Michigan, they'd have the top class every year. The play­ers are NCAA qualified, but Notre Dame admissions has different standards." 
Recruiting Trail 
Admissions plays an important role. 
Coaches evaluate recruits and obtain academic transcripts. 
Admissions analyzestranscripts and returns 1of 3responses: 



Irish get a break with Manhattan 
ByTIM SEYMOUR Associate Spans Editor 
Tonight's contest against 
Manhattan at Madison Square 
Garden will be a trip down 
memory lane for Notre Dame, 
a chance to revert momentari­
ly to seasons past when oppo­
nents took on the importance 
of sparring partners rather 
than heavyweight contenders. 
In their blissful pre-Big East 
existence as an independent, 
every game was a non-confer· 
ence affair, where the 
pregame handshakes were 
heartfelt and goodwill was 
meant towards all. 
As recently as last season, 
Notre Dame's Joyce Center 
dance card was filled with 
these non-conference games, 
with such luminaries as Duke 
and Kentucky viewing the visit 
to South Bend as nothing 
more than a respite from the 
daily grind. 
"It's nice to come here and 
get away from the night-to­
s 

at a 
GLAN....... 
night· intensity of ACC games/' 
explained Duke's Cherokee 
Parks last season after his 
team, struggling at the time in 
the Atlantic Coast Conference, 
dismantled the Irish in the 
JACC. 
Now it is the Irish who .f"md 
themselves with a breather on 
the road, facing the Metro 
Atlanti.c champion Jaspers on 
a floor that was friendly to 
them last week in their· upset 
of St. John's. 
Manhattan caused a stir last season as the lowest seeded at-large team in the NCAA tournament, and proceeded to justify the selection commit­. tee's decision by knocking off favored Oklahoma in the frrst 
round. 
The Jaspers have struggled 
to follow up that success this 
season, though, floundering to 
an 11-10 start amidst internal 
turmoil, as seniors Ted Ellis 
and Keaton Hyman were sus­
see HOOPS I page 11 
Men's Basketball 
at Manhattan, Feb. 6, 6:30 p.m. 
Women's Basketball 
vs. Pittsburgh, Feb. 7, 7:00p.m. 
Hockey 
vs. Michigan, Feb. 9, 7:00p.m. 

Lemming's sentiments are shared world-wide. Whenever the Irish have a down year on the field or on the recruiting trail, admissions is the scape­goat, and to some extent the accusations are correct. 
Notre Dame's admissions de­partment pursues the ideal student-athlete. A phrase that the many accept as an oxymoron, but one Notre Dame bases it's reputation upon. It's the admission department's duty to make sure the student is never sepa­rated from the athlete. 
Admissions becomes involved early in the recruiting process. In May, coaches visit high schools around the coun­try in order to gain informa­tion on prospective players, and determine whether these players have what it takes to play for the Irish. 
"At the same time they gath­er academic information which they can then pass to this office and we review in the summer," Director of Admissions Kevin Rooney ex­
plained. "When we review"the The Observer/John Studebaker t · t th t th b · · Tony Rice was one of just three players to be admitted 
ranscnp s . a ey r~ng m, to Notre Dame as a Prop. 48 candidate. NO's strict we try to gi~e them gu~dance admissions policies prevent many prep stars from play­~s to how this person might ~t ing for the Fighting Irish. mto Notre Dame as a student. 
This is the point where names get admissible. crossed off the list. Some of the top ath-"Two, we need more information on letes in the nation are not even given the this perso~ before we can make a rec­chance to decide whether they would ommendatwn. For example. there may like to play for the Irish. be some people we're not sure are going 
"We will send them three types of to have the type of academic back­responses," Rooney continued. "One, ground we need unless we see what we tell them that this person clearly can their senior year courses are going to be recruited and looks as if he'll be be, or unless we see some more test 

SMC's Wood a Hoosier legend 
ESPN to feature coach, the real Norman Dale 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
As the Belles take their posi­tion on the court, they look con­fidently toward their coach. But Marvin Wood is not stand­ing on the sideline. He's not consulting the bench, either. Wood is trapped in a horde of fans seeking his autograph. 
Wood needs no introduction to basketball. At age 68, he has devoted 44 years of his life to coaching the game. 
Tonight ESPN will visit Wood's current home court to film his team's match-up with Lake Forest College. Footage from the event will be used in a documentary about Wood's contributions to the game. 
Wood started his career in French Lick, Indiana. After two years, he heard of an opening at a high school in Milan. 
Tennis 
Men and Women at Rolex Indoor Championships, Feb. 8-11 
Indoor Track 
at Indianapolis Invitational, Feb. 10 
SMC Sports 
Basketball vs. Lake Forest, Feb. 6, 7:00p.m. 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

SMC coach Marvin Wood instructs the Belles during a recent game. Wood's tenure at tiny Milan High was the basis of the film "Hoosiers." 
"My old high school coach And he did. Wood took the said there was an team to the state final four in opening(there)," Wood said. his first year, and in his second "He said the team was not well-he took the small Indiana known but had excellent talent. school to the finals two years in And the job was perfect for a row. In 1954, Wood's team someone who wanted to make a name for himself." see WOOD I page 11 



scores. We'll inform coaches what we need and they can decide whether or not they want to pursue that person. 
"The third category of people are those who just clearly are not going to be capable of being successful here, and coaches should not continue to pur­sue them because it doesn't look like this person has any chance of admis­sion." 
This process continues into the fall. The coaching staff makes further athlet­ic evaluations and obtains information on new and current recruits. 
Again they send academic transcripts to the admissions department for fur­ther guidance. 
In December, the recruits are able to make official visits to five schools, paid for by the universities. Each university is allowed to host only 56 recruits dur­ing this period. It is from this group that Notre Dame will ultimately sign their 25 players. 
Thus, the role of the admissions department is once again felt. 
"I hope that after doing all this prelim­inary work that the coaches will bring to campus individuals who are going to be pretty clearly admissible," Rooney stated. "Occasionally there will be indi­viduals who may still be in a 'need more information' category, and the coaches feel it would be helpful for us to meet the individual and get to know him a lit­tle better. 
"As we go through the recruiting visit process, every prospect does come through this office and ultimately meets with the faculty, coaches and current football players as well. 
"Along the way some of these people have already applied for admission and sent in their application. Others though 
see RECRUITS I page 10 

University pays for 56 official visits byplayers, 25 of which they hope to sign. 
Signing period. 
Player no longerrecruited 
Those that satisfyadmission standards are admitted. 
'Need more into' recruits who do not satisfy admission standards are rejected. 

• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
• 
Fencing teams fall to Penn State see page 14 

• 
Track dominates opening weekend see page 14 

• 
Weekend tennis results see pgs. 12-13 










