
Tuesday, October 8, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 32 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Smith: Next summer to be busiest for construction 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN the Colloquy for the Year 2000. wide, straight street." Assistant News Editor lie indieated that many of the Smith also addressed con­projects that University cerns about the width of the 
I>ireetor of Facilities President Father Edward road. "We do not design the Engineering Mike Smith. dis­Malloy outlined in the Colloquy. campus for the two days a year eussed, among other things, arc either in the planning that everyone is moving in or plans for a new bookstore, stages or are in the midst of out. If we did that, we would more parking 
construction. Smith evidenced have to pave over the whole space, and construction on Notre Dame campus," he said. the conver­Stadium, renovation of the The council expressed con­sion of South Dining Hall and the erec­cern over the lack of funding Siegfried and tion of the new dorms south of for a performing arts center Knoll llalls to the South Quad. planned for construction just male dorms The council asked about Holy south of DeBartolo Hall. "A last night at Cross Drive and the new main hotel is nice, and a new book­tlw Campus circle. "Why is that road so store is nice. But we have Life Council Smith winding and narrow?" asked those already and we have no meeting. Father Pal Sullivan, an ex offi­performing arts center of any 
"IWilh respect to construe­cio member. Smith answered kind, and I think that is kind of lionI we thought that last sum­that the road was constructed embarrassing," said Father nwr was going to be the with the intention of of keeping George Hozum, rector of busiest, with the stadium and people from speeding around Alumni Hall. llw new dorms, but it looks like the area surrounding the new Smith explained that the this summer will be even dorms. funding for the center has not busier," said Smith. referring to "When people hit a straight materialized but that it is still an enlarged map of the earn­section of the road, they speed high on Malloy's list of priori­pus. Crnatnd thrne years ago, up," he said. "The speed limit ties. 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne

tlw map gives a basie outline of on that section of road is 20 
The CLC met Monday afternoon to discuss a new bookstore, parking,
construrtion planned to fufill mph but that seems slow on a 
see CLC/ page 4 and the conversion of Siegfried and Knott Halls to male dorms. 

Moment of reflection ... 
Election '96 discussion works to educate voters 
By APRIL MONAHAN gies and platforms. News Writer Two panels were selected from each political party to present contrasting 
With Election '96 being the first views of the parties. Scott Pelalh, opportunity for most students to vote, Democratic; and Steve Schmidt, the Student Academic Council's forum, Republican, are campaign managers entitled, "Be an Educated Voter," gave from opposing tickets running for students at Saint Mary's College an Congressional seats in Indiana. opportunity to focus on the issues sur­Swaying from the expected discus­rounding this year's presidential and sion of the ideological differences Indiana congressional races, as Nov. 5 between Republicans and· Democrats, quickly approaches. the discussion focused on the 
Throughout the forum, which took Congressional race in Indiana, much to place last night in Stapleton Lounge, the dismay of out-of-state voters. most audience members realized that As the congressional race took center their political awareness was not as stage at the night's forum, "friendly keen as they thought. Individuals who mudslinging" between the panelists spent time behind the scenes in ensued. Bepublican and Democratic campaign oflices spoke on the respective ideolo-

Breast cancer focus of October 
Special to The Observer All proceeds from the book ter to breast cancer. 
sales support breast cancer Joining Hesburgh will be Rep. 
This month, distinguished research at Indiana University. Tim Boerner, D-South Bend, alumni, students, faculty and Kim Wagner, a registered addressing the politics of breast stall' at Notre Dame will promote nurse at the Indiana University cancer; Dr. George Sledge, pro­bmast cancer awanmess with a Breast Care and Research fessor of medicine in the IU comprehensive array of cam­Center, will deliver a talk titled Division of Hematology/Oncology, pus-wide programs and activi­"This Is Not .Just Your Mother's discussing the science of the dis­ties. Disease" during ease; and Dr. Worta McCaskell­
H e g i s a brown-bag Stevens, director of the IU Breast l'hilbin, a lunch today at Care and Hesearch Center,
'I've been involved in 

1953 Notre 11:30 a.m. in speaking on early detection. 
this cause for 14

Dame gradu­the LaFortune After the seminar, a candle­ate and cohost years, and I've never Ballroom. light vigil at the Grotto will of "Live with Herself a breast honor the memory of those who 
seen a university

Hegis and cancer survivor, have battled breast cancer. Kathie Lee," address this issue in Wagner will Notre Dame women's athletic former Notre provide infor­teams will recognize Breast
such a comprehensive

Dame football mation on early Cancer Awareness Month by coach Ara way. This is going to detection and wearing t-shirts promoting l'arseghian, self exams. breast cancer awareness during
be an exciting month.' 

and others Tomorrow pre-game warrnups and in prac­
who have con­night at 7 p.m., tice sessions throughout tributed Connie Rufenbager F a t h e r October. mcipns to the Notre Dame's breast cancer 
cookbook, ~ ~ : bou d r og rh ~ 
awareness campaign is a joint ".Just Peachy: Cooking Up a Notre Dame's president emeri­effort of several University and Cure," will take part in a book tus, will offer opening remarks community groups, including signing from Oet. 10 to 12 at the to a seminar entitled The Catherine Peachey Fund. llarnrnes Notre Dame Bookstore "Collaborating for a Cure" to be Based in Warsaw, Ind., the fund in recognition of Breast Cancer held in the Hesburgh Library Awarnness Month. Auditorium. Hesburgh lost a sis-see CANCER I page 4 
see ELECTION/ page 4 

Stugents, faculty, and alumni at the Univerity of Notre Dame willdbserve and support Breast Cancer Awareness Month this October with an array of events and presentations: 
Jibis is Not Just )'our Mother's Qjsease" 
"' 
Atalk delivered by Kim Wagner, anurse atthe IU Breast Cancer and Research Center, will be held on Oct. 8at 11 :30 
a.m. in the LaFortune Center Ballroom. 
"C,.,!ll~borating for a Cure"
..· Seminar with opening address by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. will begin at 7 p.m. on Oct. 9 in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
c~c,t.ndlelight Virgil 
AGrotto service after the seminar will honor the memory of those who battled breast cancer. 
···........ ftegis Philbin 1953Notre Dame graduate will be take part in abook signing in support of breast cancer research on Oct. 10-12 at the Harp~nes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Notre Dame Women's Athletic Teams 
wm,;~'ear t-shirts promoting breast cancer awareness during warbi-ups throughout the month of October. 
The Observer/Tom Roland 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
y 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




Relearning to look up 
In my last column, I was harping upon the differences between high school and college -the drastic, yet welcome changes experi­enced by all my fellow freshmen. I spoke of parties, homework, 
Saskia Sidenfaden parties, football, and 
more parties with gog­News Copy Editor 
gle-eyed enthusiasm. I 
wanted to take advan­
tage of my new found freedom. Finally ... NO 
PARENTS! 
Meanwhile, the first few weeks of abandon 
have flown by like a one-way freight train, 
and I have finally started settling into what 
everyone calls college Life. I know that if I 
turned around I would notice a tsunami­
sized wake of papers, reading, and mid­
terms lapping at my heels. 
Everyone I see is in the same situation. 
No one gets to sleep before 2 a.m. anymore. 
Nights of Jolt and Mountain Dew insomnia 
are starting to take their toll. Bleared eyes, 
pillow-creased faces, and jittery nerves her­
ald the sequel to "The Night of the Living 
Dead". Backpacked students bundled up in 
sweats and flannels are beginning to resem­
ble miniatures of our familiar descendant ­
Quasimodo. 
It wasn't till this past weekend that I real­
ized I hadn't seen the sky for days. During 
my stupor, the earth could have shifted its 
orbit and I wouldn't have noticed. When my 
friends started asking, "Where is the Golden 
Dome?" I began to realize that something 
was wrong -not because they were kid­
ding, but because I seriously didn't know! 
Well, you ask, what made me raise my 
eyes again? Who gave me such an upbeat 
attitude to such a serious topic? Well, 
freshmen, you may kill me, but yes ... it was 
my parents. 
Just like you, I had excommunicated 
myself from the family of my youth. I had 
renounced my dependency and vowed that, 
no matter what, I would never be homesick. 
Ahh ... foolish pride. 
A Sunday morning visit from my dad and 
younger brother, Tomas, proved the instru­
ment of my undoing. Flying in from a two­
day college tour, they popped in to good old 
Notre Dame for a short visit. I had dinner 
and breakfast off campus and did the tour 
thing for a couple hours. What I thought 
would be a ho-hum walk of campus photo 
ops turned into one of my greatest family­
daughter bonding experiences. My dad, a 
'64 graduate of Notre Dame, navigated the 
campus like a old pro, weaving around 
familiar buildings and marveling at the 
works in progress. Yes, we saw the Grotto, 
St. Mary's lake, the Dome, the Rock, and all 
the common tourist attractions, but this 
time I was seeing it all for the first time. 
I still see my dad prancing down the steps 
of Lyons Hall, his old dorm, like a young 
billy goat -the freshman that I once was. 
Tomas and I laughed at his shock of seeing 
a berobed girl trudging out of his old dorm 
room. "Sorry, papa, it's a women's dorm 
now," I giggled. 
He reminisced on his earlier years at 
Notre Dame-the stunts he pulled, the fun 
he had-and I reflected on my past few 
weeks. No, I'm not succumbing to home­
sickness. I'm just beginning to look up -to 
watch the seasons change, to probe the last 
blue sky for the first white snowflake, to 
navigate by the constant northern star ­
our Golden Dome. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Kelly Brooks  Tara Grieshop  
Saskia Sidenfaden  Jackie Moser  
Sports  Accent  
Brian Reimhaler  Melanie Waters  
Lab Tech  Julie Vodicka  
Kevin Dalum  
Graphics  
Tom Roland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 8. 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
"T"T" 
COLD 
Pmssun~ 

H L a &:;1 ITII 0 . IZ] 8 ~ ~ cCJ. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN FSTORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT.CLOUOY CLOUDY VJ.tAuod.tt.a'Pnla 
Atlanta 56 55 Fairbanks 40 26 New York 67 51 Bahlmore 66 38 Honolulu 91 72 St. Louis 77 52
·~-c:£lt&44 ~ ~. 
Boston 65 43 Houston 81 61 San Francisco 89 76
S~~~e~; T·~l~;,;,. Rain ;I~;;;~~ ·~~;.;;•· -=;~-::. Pt. Cloudy
Sunny Cloudy 
Chicago 53 53 Miami 87 75 Seattle 69 53 
Via Associated Press Graph/cSNet 
Denver 67 43 Minneapolis 57 39 Tuscan 95 70 

• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Two IRA car bombs strike British army headquarters 
LISBURN, Northern Ireland 

Bombers struck at the center of Northern Ireland's security Monday, detonating two car bombs inside the British army's heavily defended head­quarters and raising fears the province could again become a battleground between the IRA and pro-British para­militaries. Thirty-one people were wounded. 
There was no claim of responsibility. Whether the attack was carried out by the Irish Republican Army or by another anti-British group might determip.e whether the province's pro-British para­militaries call off their own cease-fire ­and send Northern Ireland back into retaliatory violence. 
The first bomb went off without warn­
ing in a parking lot inside Thiepval '---------.:!L~---J>~UJ-A__JP Among the army facilities damaged 
Barracks, the main camp for the 18,000 army troops in the British-ruled province. 
A second detonated 20 minutes later near the base's hospital, apparently to ambush passing soldiers, medical staff and people wounded by the first bomb. 
As flames and black smoke billowed from the blast site, soldiers and paramedics hauled off the wounded on foam mattresses. Some of the people injured in the sec­ond blast included medical staff attending to the victims of the first. 
The army said 21 of the injured were soldiers and 10 were civilians-including the three most seriously hurt. One man was critically wounded and four received seri­ous head, chest and leg wounds. The less seriously wounded included an 8-year-old girl who was treated for shock and released. 
Tape reveals married Diana's romp 
LONDON 
Princess Diana was videotaped dur­ing her marriage to Prince Charles frolicking with her riding instructor, stripping down to her underwear and riding on his back, a British tabloid reported Tuesday. The Sun said the 80-second, black-and-white tape appeared to show Diana and James Hewitt at Highgrove, Prince Charles' 

country mansion 100 miles west of London. It did not say when the videotape was shot, but Hewitt has said he spent weekends at Highgrove while Charles was away, before Charles and Diana's 1992 separation. The royal couple divorced in August. The Sun said that in the silent videotape, the lens zooms in on Diana and Hewitt embracing and kissing on a sofa. Diana then clambers onto Hewitt's back and he crawls around the floor on all fours, the paper said. 
Fuhrman: 'Ashamed' of racial epithet 
LOS ANGELES 
Mark Fuhrman, in his first interview since the O.J. Simpson trial, said he was "ashamed" of using a racial epithet, but denied he framed O.J. Simpson for murder. "I know what I am. I'm not a racist," Fuhrman tells ABC's "PrimeTime Live" in the interview airing Tuesday. "What they call me a liar for had nothing to do with the case about two people being hacked to death with a knife. Nothing." The remarks were first in public since the rev­elation that the former detective lied on the witness stand about using the word "nigger." Members of the black­majority jury have said Fuhrman's lies about the racial epithet weighed in their decision to acquit Simpson of the June 1994 murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman. Last week, Fuhrman pleaded no-contest to felony perjury and was sentenced to probation. 
Army forensic scientists estimated that the two bombs contained a total of 500 to 1,000 pounds of homemade explosive. Each left a deep crater in the pavement. 
The attack inside what, until now, had been Northern Ireland's most untouch­able army installation deals an embar­rassing blow to the British forces. Thiepvallies in Lisburn, a predominant-Iy Protestant suburb southwest of Belfast, and is home to the army's senior commanders, key officers' rami­lies and its elite bomb squad. 
Thiepval has a single entrance guard­ed by armed soldiers and security cam­eras, with every car requiring clearance -though most are not individually searched. 
were offices, the base's travel agency, the nursery and the chapel. The blasts smashed win­dows in surrounding civilian homes and at a nearby hos­pita!. 
The Dublin office of Irish Prime Minister John Bruton said that "the barbaric bomb attacks" were "deliberate­ly calculated to provoke further violence and bloodshed and (are) aimed at undermining the multiparty talks in Belfast." 
During a campaign stop in Portland, Maine, President Clinton called the explosions "another painful setback" for peace. 
The talks between parties in the conflict started in June with the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party excluded because the IRA has not held to its cease-fire. The talks have made little progress. 
Board to change harassment policy 
_ LEXINGTON, N.C. 
The school board that punished a 6-year-old boy for kissing a girl on the cheek voted Monday to revise its sexual harassment policy, but the child's parents weren't appeased. "No, I'm not satisfied," said an irate Jackie Prevette, mother of Johnathan Prevette, after the nine­member Lexington school board voted unanimously, without discussion, to allow school officials more leeway in implementing the policy. Her next move? "Legal action," she replied. Johnathan, a first-grader, was sep­arated from his class at Southwest Elementary School for a day and banned from an ice cream party after kiss­ing a classmate last month. "You need to change this policy so that it is age-appropriate and so that the pun­ishment fits the crime," Mrs. Prevette told board mem­bers before the vote. "I do not think to this day that a kiss on the cheek, whether the girl wanted it or not, had anything to do with sex. I think it was a friendly kiss," Mrs. Prevette said. 
Snapple summer siege falls short 
CHICAGO 
They came, they drank, they didn't buy. Quaker Oats Co. spent $20 million this summer giving away millions of bottles of its ailing Snapple fruit-juice and iced-tea line in hopes consumers would then turn around and buy mil­lions more in the stores. It didn't work. The Chicago­based food-and-beverage maker now has some tough choices to make as it tries to stem an increasing tide of shareholder discontent, analysts said. "To state the very obvious, Snapple has been an abject failure," Michael Mouboussin at CS First Boston said Monday. "It boils down to two things for Quaker to do now: Sell the busi­ness outright or attempt to run it next year with a vastly altered strategy." In July, he announced the giveaway campaign to learn where the so-called new age beverage is liked best and to entice consumers into buying. 
Tuesday, October 8, 1996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT ACTIVITES BOARD 
SAB plans spook fest 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board is bringing "Dead Man Walking" to campus this week. The film will be shown in Carroll Auditorium on Thursday at 7 p.m. followed by a reception in Haggar Parlor. 
Dr. Joseph lncandela, a pro­fessor of Heligious Studies at SMC, will lead a discussion about the death penalty and its moral implications for Catholics. 
SAB continues to expand its plans for the annual llalloween party and wr.ek-long activities. Entertainment Chairwomen Jen l.igda and .lessi l.entych, with Llw lwlp of their committee, are scheduling a day-long murder­rnystnry game involving the whole eampus. 
l.igda and I.entych hope to use familiar faces around the SMC campus as suspects, such as President Hickey, bookstore staff members, or dining hall personnel. 
Students who do not partici­pate in the murder mystery game will not be left out of the I Ialloween festivities. A cookies and candy party will take place in llaggar Parlor on Halloween night. 
The Board also addressed the importance of keeping commit­tell members involved and inter­BstBd. Rachel Tenyer, the tem­porary SAB adviser, submitted some pointers to the Board regarding its interaction with committees. 
Tenyer, the former hall direc­tor of lloly Cross, is no stranger to the workings of committees. ''I've had (this information) for a long time, and it's been very useful," said Tenyer. 
Much of SAB's work could not be completed without the involvement of the committee members, according to SAB Coordinator Lori McKeough. 
Digging in ... 



BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS 
of St. joseph County 
Attention!Attention!Attention! 
Are you interested in being the best you can be??? Come learn about becoming a Big Brother role model! 

Don't miss this great opportunity to give your help! 0 You'll be glad you did! 0 


McCartan named chair of Saint Thomas More 

Special to The Observer 
Patrick McCartan, managing partner of the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue and a trustee of the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed chairperson of The Order of Saint Thomas More, an organization comprised of alumni and other benefactors who contribute $1000 or more annually to the Notre Dame Law School. 
McCartan received his bach­elor's degree from the University in 1956, graduating from the Notre Dame Law School in 1959. He subse­quently served as law clerk to 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Charles Whittaker. He was elected to the University's Board of Trustees in 1989 after serving for 10 years on the law school's advisory council. 
One of the nation's preemi­nent trial lawyers, McCartan directs the 20 worldwide 

offices of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue from the firm's head­quarters in Cleveland. He is a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers and the International Academy of Trial Lawyers, as well as an hon­orary overseas member of the English Commercial Bar. 
McCartan is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the U.S.-Japan Business Council. He also serves as a trustee of the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, the Kulas Foundation, Ursuline College and Gilmour Academy. In 1994, he received the Archbishop Edward F. Hoban Award for Distinguished Service to the Diocese of Cleveland. 
Founded in 1869, the Notre Dame Law School is the nation's oldest under Catholic auspices and consistently ranks among the top five nationally in surveys of student satisfaction. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., OCT.4 
12:27 p.m. Security and Notre Dame Fire Dept. responded to a fire alarm at CCMB. 
5:26 p.m. AUniversity employee was transported to St. ·Joseph Medical Center lor treatment of an illness. 
8:26 p.m. A Pasquerllla resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
9 p.m. Three Keough Hall residents were cited by Security tor minor In poe· session of alcohol. 
SAT.,OCT.5 
7:06 p.m. Five Stanford Hall residents were cited by Security for minor In pos· &e$Sion ol alcohol. 
10:30 p.m. Security discovered dam· age to a conetruclion fence near the construction site for the new dorm&. 
SUN., OCT.6 
1:40 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident was transported by Security to St. Joseph MediCal Center tor treatment of a sports injury. 
6:10p.m. A Knott Hall resident report· ed the theft of her car stereo from her vehicle while parked In the D2 parking lot. 
6 p.m .. Security discovered the theft of a car stereo from a vehicle parked In the D2 parking lot. 
7:45 p.m. Security discovered dam· age to a vehicle parked in the D2 park· lnglot. 
• CORRECTION 
An article in Monday's Observer misidentified the last name of one of the recipients of a Hotary International Scholarship. The correct name is Beth Swiney. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer 
ad 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 8, 1996 


Election

Pope awaits surgery 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press Writer 
ROME 
Pope John Paul II had a bat­tery of hospital tests Monday ­including heart checks and a CT scan -on the eve of a sched­
uled appen­dectomy. 
T h e removal of his appendix, scheduled for Tuesday morning, is aimed at 

r e so l vi n g John Paul II what the Vatican says are recurring bouts of intestinal inflammation and fever that have forced the 76-year-old pontiff to cancel several engagements this year. John Paul, who had a bowel tumor removed in 1992, was admitted to Gemelli Polyclinic on Sunday night. On the eve of his latest surgery, John Paul's doctors pronounced both his spirits and his heart in good form. After checking in on him early Monday morning, Dr. Francesco Crucitti, the pope's surgeon, said the pontiff was in "excellent" spirits and "not at 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
In other CLC news, the sub­committees on student life, alcohol, and diversity were assigned last night to respec­tive chairpeople Shane Bigelow, Ryan Mcinerney, and Allyson Luck. 
William Kirk, assistant vice president of student affairs, decided not to sit on a commit­tee, because each chair may have questions to address to his office. 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 

INTERNATIONAL 
JoB SKILLS 
New professional M.A. in International Affairs or Interamerican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to IS months, while living in a fascinating international city. 
Free details: Contact our 
Admissions Secretary. 
GRADUATE ScHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIFS 
Coral Gables, FL 33124-3010 305-284-4173; Fax: 305-284-4406 http://www.urniarni.edu/gsis/ 

continued from page 1 all" anxious about the opera­tion. One student said she was 
An electrocardiogram and an "surprised by the campaign eco-doppler, which helps deter­managers' passionate support mine any narrowing of arteries, of their candidates." Others showed no problems, said car­agreed that the panels "pre­
diologist Attilio Maseri. "We sented their parties' platforms know that his heart is OK," he with an air of competition." said. While the two panelists did 
The pope's blood pressure provide general information was fine too, Maseri said. about the political parties, 
John Paul also had a CT scan neither answered specific of his abdomen -repeating the questions on the presidential test from August -to cover all candidates in length, even fol­bases, said Dr. Corrado lowing national discussion Colagrande, a radiologist who sparked by Sunday night's urged the pope last month to debates. have the appendectomy. In addition, Adrienne Sharp 
After another CT scan in and Megan McHugh spoke on 
August, the medical team said their experiences working at there was no sign of any the Republican and Democratic abdominal tumor. The orange­National Conventions in San size tumor removed in 1992 
was described by the Vatican as benign. 
The CT scan was repeated "to 
If you see news
be scrupulous," said Colagrande. "Everything is 

happening,

reassuring.'' Dr. Corrado Manni, the pope's anesthesiologist, told RAI state 
call radio that all operations pre­sent risks, especially for a 
The Observer at patient like John Paul, because adhesions, or scar tissue from 
1-5323 

previous surgeries, could com­plicate the operation. 
Diego and Chicago, respective­ly. Sharp said she was "moved 
Cancer by the political rally" in San Diego, while McHugh spoke of 
continued from page 1 the extensive renovations Chicago went through in honor 
honors the late Cathy Peachey, of the convention. 
a founder of the Indiana Breast The evening ended with 
Cancer Coalition, through fund­questions posed to the two 
raising efforts such as the book panels. Each were asked to 
signing. give their parties' view on 
"I've been involved in this what Schmidt called the "four 
cause for 14 years," said Connie basic issues"-taxes, spend­
Rufenbager, editor of the cook­ing, crime, and Medicare. 
book, "and I've never seen a The Student Academic 
university address this issue in Council, which sponsored last 
such a comprehensive way. This night's forum, felt that it would 
is going to be an exciting provide interested students 
month." with information needed to 
Other sponsors include St. cast an intelligent vote. 
Joseph Medical Center, Genevieve Morrill, who helped 
Memorial Hospital, Notre organize the forum, was 
Dame's human resources and pleased. "I thought the pan­
athletic departments, University elists did a good job. And they Health Services, the Faculty tried to address all of the ques­Senate, student government and 
tions asked." the Alumni Association. · 










Law Fair 
Wednesday, October 9 10:00--2:00 p.m. 
Center for Continuing Education · (Basement) 

Representatt from approximately 60 law schools will be available to answer questions and to distribute application materials and bulletins. 
w 

Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society •• 

Tuesday, October 8, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Avalanche hits Nepal, two Americans dead 
By BINAYA GURUACHARYA 
A.,;ociated Press Writer 
KATMANDU, Nepal 
Two American climbers miss­ing after an avalanche hit a llimalayan peak died of suffoca­tion after being buried under and had internal bleeding after trying to scale the 24, 715-foot mountain. 


He said the avalanche struck between 4:30 a.m. and 9 a.m. as the team rested after working on the most technically difficult portion of the climb, between camps at 14,500 feet and 21,000 feet. 
'They had suffocated in their sleep ... the heavy snow col­lapsed their tent," said Armstrong. 
Armstrong said he tried to dig through the snow around the tents to reach the two climbers, but it was too deep. 
"Hoping to hear any sign of life, I dug out the snow frantical­ly," he said. "I reached Rich's body and felt that he had no pulse and saw black blood com­ing out of his mouth." 
Nearby, he said he found Marshall's body in the same state and called the base camp by radio to give the bad news. 
Armstrong said he survived by continuously digging out the snow that was falling around his tent. When the rescue helicopter came, they left "the bodies buried there," he said. 
On a separate expedition, a Japanese climber was reported missing Monday. Nepalese offi­cials said Matsasugo Konishi, 58, had climbed the world's sev­enth highest peak, 26,775-foot Mount Manaslu, but did not return to base camp. 
Marshall last spoke to her hus­band and 1 1/2-ycar-old child on Sept. 16, the day the team left for Nepal. 
"It was supposed to be an easy mountain, very low risk," her husband, Chuck Marshall, said in Denver. "Debbie's not one of those who goes out and finds a dangerous mountain to climb." 

If you didn't go out last night, you will tonight, 
you wuss!! 
~ ~
. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 

CHICAGO FORUM •
• 

BUS TRIP •
•
•

Friday, October 11 • 
Most of the 178 ABA-approved
Sponsored by the 

law schools will be represented
Notre Dame Prelaw Society 
• 
Meet in Main Circle at 9:45 a.m. 

• 
Planned return to ND by 7:00 p.m. $10 round trip 


Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy by Wednesday, October 9. 
• 



Before setting off, Marshall trained hard in Colorado, where she had conquered 26 of the state's 54 mountains higher than 14,000 feet. 
"I've always been outdoor-ori­entated and enjoy the thrill and adrenaline rush of climbing," she said before leaving. 
During her 10 years of climb­ing, she had scaled Alaska's 20,300-foot Mount McKinley, and Mount Aconcagua in Argentina, the highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere at 22,800 feet. 
The expedition to Annapurna IV was to raise money for pro­grams to combat Alzheimer's disease. Marshall was one of three women on the expedition, which would have put the first American women on the sum­mit. 
Marshall was aware of the high death toll the Himalayas had taken this year. 
"It's something that runs through my head a lot," she said earlier of the trip's dangers. "For me climbing is almost like an addiction. You have to do it every so often to get an adrena­line fix." 
heavy snow, the leader of the expedition said Monday. 
Debbie Marshall, 31, of Glenwood Springs, Colo., and Rich Davidson, 46, of Los Alamos, N.M., were killed Friday while climbing Mount Annapurna IV in northwest 

Wednesday~ October 9 For tin1e and location of meeting~ call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C 
Fr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 



Living Out tfie CJospe( ofLife 
rrfiree r£'Venings ofPrayer, CR.§jCection, Song 11/afsfi Jfa([ Cfzape[ oftfze o/isitation. 
.>6-·"Jl (Prayerfor tlie Concfemnea' Joe Ci?pss, C.S. C mt·worli.jng on cfeatfi rO'[v rvoices ofrrait li ~]ospeCCfioir 7:00pm, rfuescfay, 8 Octo6cr 
t'6-·'Jt <Prayerfor tfie (Dying I' (/Jr. (/Ja·vicf (Young} .W<D '77 on filitfi awfmedicine 7Tre :Notre (})arne Po[/(Cfzoir 7:00 pm1 11iurscfay1 10 Octo6er 
~•·')I Prayerfor tfie Vn6om '' Liz Cenerfef(a JI,«D 197 on droositzg fzjt· 
Coro :Pn·ma·l!em 

7:00pm, Surrcfay, 13 Octolier 
rJiie qo.rpdvfLifi! i.• at t!i~ Hi·art vj"]nus' messu;c. 
•rwry.me fias a11 o61igt~Liim to serF~ Wi:. 
•J'PptJ .:tof!n ~Pau[ IJ (AMPUS 
~~~INIS1R>' 

Nepal, said Cleve Armstrong, the leader of the expedition. 
Armstrong, 54, survived a harrowing night of heavy snow to be rescued Sunday by a Nepalese army helicopter and taken to Katmandu for treat­ment. He was badly dehydrated 

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
Josephine hits Florida hard with winds, rain 
By SHIRISH DATE 
Associated Press Wricer 
ST. MARKS, Fla. 
Tropical Storm Josephine began lashing Florida's Gulf Coast Monday night with 70­mph winds and high surf, spawning tornadoes and dump­ing up to 5 inches of rain across the state. 
Pushing a storm surge of 6 to 9 feet at the peak of high tide over swampy, low-lying areas, the storm's center was expected to strike land at midnight near this remote fishing village about 30 miles south of Tallahassee. 
Josephine failed to reach hur­ricane strength, but was pack­ing considerable moisture. Forecasters said it would dump rain on southeastern Georgia and the Carolinas, then stay inland, bringing rain up the Atlantic Coast. 
"The winds will go down very, very fast once it hits land," said Max Mayfield, a hurricane specialist at the National Hurricane Center. "The core already is weaken­ing." 
Still, residents on Monday scrambled to secure their homes and boats. Hundreds of people had already taken cover in local shelters. Evacuations were ordered for the beaches and barrier islands of nine coastal counties. 
"I will probably stay as long as I can. If things get too rough, I'll be the first one out the door," said Rich Gray, mainte­nance chief at Shell Point Resort near St. Marks. 
At the Shell Point Marina, boaters struggled in gusts and 

High court protects judges from taxation 
By RICHARD CARELLI 
Associated Press Wricer 
WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court, saying its hands were tied by potential conflicts of interest, shielded some federal judges Monday from having to pay certain taxes imposed on most Americans. 
Four justices who might have a financial stake disqualified themselves from considering the case. Their action kept the court from gaining a quorum of six jurists to take the case, and thereby sealed the outcome in a way that could benefit them financially. 
Monday's action, although not a precedent-setting decision, had the effect of upholding a lower court's ruling that said it was illegal to begin requiring federal judges to pay Medicare and Social Security taxes in 1983 and 1984. 
The order, one of more than 1,500 issued as the court began its 1996-97 term, was extraordi­nary. Court officials could not immediately find the last time the justices had been so stymied. 
The result is a victory for 16 federal judges who sued the government in 1989 over tax­law amendments enacted earli­er in the decade. 
Those amendments for the first time extended Social Security and Medicare taxation to the president, vice president, members of Congress and the president's Cabinet, federal judges and all new employees of the federal government's execu­tive and legislative branches. 
The 16 federal judges, all already aruwinted-fo their life­time jobs when the tax laws 

Tropical Storm Josephine 
=== Tropical Storm warning --• Hurricane warning 

Source: Accu-Weather Inc. 
AP/Carl Fox 

driving rain to double up their 
mooring lines. 
"This could be serious if the 
wind pushes the water in here," 
said Frank Hanna, who had 
secured his 36-foot sloop. "We 
might lose the floating docks 
and all the boats tied to it." 
Bob Tweedie, 67, thought his 
31-foot sailboat would be safe 
"unless the surge goes over 10 
feet. Then we're all in trouble." 
Although Josephine strength­
ened quickly after forming 
Sunday night, forecasters 
doubted the storm would build 
to hurricane-force winds of at 
least 7 4 mph. 
"Flooding will be a problem 
with this one," said National 
Hurricane Center meteorologist 
Mike Hopkins in Miami. Once 
Josephine gets to South 
Carolina, he said, "what you're 
going to have mostly is a big 
blob of moisture right over that 
area." 
were changed in 1983, contend­ed that new taxes unlawfully diminished their salaries and thereby threatened judicial independence. 
The impact of Monday's order may not be limited to those 16 judges, however. Justice Department lawyers argued that the lower court's rationale might prohibit Congress "from apply­ing any increase in the rate of any tax, including the income tax, to sitting judges' salaries." 
"His songs about the problems, triumphs, absurdities and deeper aspirations of common peoples' lives are distinquished by a rich humor and pathos." -The Ann Arbor Observer 
"With encouraging regularity, Charlie King reminds us of the happy resilience of the human spirit. His message songs vary between the funny and the frightening, but he pulls them off with unvarying taste, 
musical skill, and charm."-Billboard Magazine 
In Concert at the Broadway Christian Church 1412 S. Carroll St. South Bend, IN 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL
Tuesday, Oct. 8, 1996 7:00 PM CONCERNS
Tickets: $3.00 All Welcome Sponsored by: Center for Social Concerns I University of Notre Dame Proceeds benefit: Center for the Homeless Also appearing at the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune from 12:00~2:00 PM on October 8. 
Scientists uncover AIDS strains 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD week, researchers said they Associared Press Writer also are investigating a small cluster of New Yorkers with WASHINGTON signs of still different AIDS 
Scientists are discovering the strains never before seen in AIDS epidemic is far more this country. diverse in America than previ­"We will now treat these ously thought, and they are problems as a global village: A scouring the globe for AIDS case anywhere is a case here, strains to ensure that U.S. tests and we will move more quick­for the disease are able to ly" to battle them, said Dr. Jay detect every type. Epstein, the Food and Drug 
Doctors here weren't too wor­Administration's blood chief. ried in 1994 when France first AIDS symptoms appear simi­sounded the alarm that an lar worldwide even though the exotic, hard-to-diagnose strain HIV virus is genetically differ­of AIDS was spreading. Then ent from country to country. doctors found the first U.S. case Tests to detect HIV are in July. designed to recognize a 
Then last month, scientists region's most common strains. uncovered a second U.S. resi­The concern is whether they'll dent infected with this rare also catch any rare foreign type of HIV, named Group 0. strains. Meantime, in interviews last Take the HIV type named 
· -------------------------------------.. 
~~~~~ ~~~--o.~<> 
Tuesday, October 8 --7:00p.m. --Hesburgh Auditorium 
Saint Mary's 

Open to all ND/SMC students 
~RYOHE WEL£011~-' 


Group 0, thought to lurk only in West Africa until a woman in France was diagnosed in 1994. Doctors didn't find the first U.S. case until July, a Los Angeles woman. Her infection had gone undiagnosed by routine AIDS tests, which miss Group 0 once in every five cases. 
Late last month, Abbott Laboratories filed an FDA application to sell the nation's first upgraded AIDS test designed to better catch Group 0 infections -just as federal health officials discovered a second Group 0 case, this one in Maryland. 
Both Group 0 patients found in the United States apparently were infected in their native West Africa, said Dr. Patrick Sullivan of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 



VIEWPOINT 


Holtz to play-calling what OSU fans are to class 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURV 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Nothing contributes 
more to peace of soul 
than having ro opinion at 
all." 
-Georg Lichtenberg 

Tuesday, October 8, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizab"t:th Foran Managing Editon Bu!lincss Manager Paui(;ia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
Nrw• Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager .......•................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spom Editor·········'· ........Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor.... . ......... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Carolinc Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .. . ...... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either imairurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhc majority of the Ediror-in-Chicf, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewp<>im Edi10r, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommC"nu.rics, lenC"rs and Inside Columns presC"nt [he views of rhe ;unhors, and nor necessarily those of The Obu·rvC'r. ViC'wpoinr space is available to aU members of rhC' Norre Damc/Sainr Mary's com­munity omd to all readers. The free npression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditotNicwpoint 631-4 541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Pnxluction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.I@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
The fans grumbled about another lost stmson. Hon Powlus graciously accepted defoat and the disappointment of an unfullilled eollegiate career. The visitors spat and taunted their hosts. And Lou Holtz tried to make excuses.The way the Irish played, blame eould be placed just about anywhere -the defensive front, the seeondary, the receivers. 
For many Irish fans, perhaps the most startling revelation from the OSU deba­de, though, is that the beloved Holtz was outcoached by John Cooper. Cooper is the Steve Fisher, the Homer Simpson of college football. Cooper is a coach who has proven that no matter how much talent his team has, he ean lose anywhere. Besides Notre Dame, he has only won one major game at Ohio State (against Michigan), and that saved his job. Cooper is a coach who kept Notre Dame in the game even though the Buckt~yes dominated. He outcoached Holtz two years in a row 
Looking back on the past few years, this fact should not shock anyone. We are talking about a coach who settled for a tie against Michigan by running a draw play. lie could not win a national championship with Jerome Bettis, Heggie Brooks, Hick Mirer, a good oiTen­sive line and even a secondary. 
Holtz is to play-calling what Buckeye fans are to class. In the first three quar­ters, before the Irish were forced to pass, lloltz ran on first down 14 times and only passed live times (not including the last minute of the first halO. Of those livn passns, two were screens and three wern strnaks down the sidelines. These patterns are easy to defend, especially when only four passes were across the middle the entire game. 
Powlus threw only two of his 30 pass­es to freshman Haki Nelson, who demonstrated Dnrrick Mayes-like hands against Texas. Kevin Caretta was virtu­ally non-existent, failing to draw some attention away from the receivers. Holtz claimed we could not run the ball on the Buckeye defense. No decent defense will allow more than 126 yards on the ground with the selection Holtz calls. In the first three quarters, 19 runs, nine of them Autry Denson's, up the middle accounted for 57 yards. The 11 runs towards the sidelines amassed 66 yards, twice as much per carry. Running Denson up the middle is a brilliant game 

plan, considering he can juke to fake players out but not break tackles or find holes. A perfect weapon inside. 
When the Irish got the ball inside the five, they called the highly predictable Marc Edwards screen for a touchdown. I don't know if we can score any other way. 
The predictable play-calling allowed the Buckeye defense to wreak havoc on Hon Powlus. The offensive line cannot be blamed for this massive assault ­the Buckeyes once sent eight men blitz­
ing, too many to block. The Irish, though, refused to adjust. Only the sim­plest plays can be run -no short, quick patterns, and nothing over the middle. Wide receiver routes take too much time to develop and are easy to defend, allowing defenses to blitz and sack Powlus at will. 
But what can we expect from the inventor of the Blarney offense, an oiTense so truly Irish one would have to be drunk to conceive of it. Sure, let's split our tight end out wide, making it easier for defenses to blitz. Let's play football with five receivers, but two of them will be slow fullbacks or tight ends. Easier to defend, once again easi­er to send more men to pressure the quarterback. And we blame the safety against Florida State last year on the referees because it was a questionable call? 
I'm just glad Allen Rossum did not return more kickoiTs, that Holtz decided to go for one point when losing by 13, that we ran the ball in the fourth quar­ter to eat up the clock. I wouldn't want Holtz to give his team a chance to win. "The players played their hearts out," Holtz said. "But we just weren't good enough." 
Coaching duties are much more exten­sive than simply "getting a team to play well on Saturday. Coaches have the responsibility to foster development of 
'coaching duties are 
much more extensive than simply getting a team to play well on Saturday. Coaches have the responsi­bility to foster development of their players, on the field and off.' 
their players, on the field and otT. One can forgive Gerry Faust for not being able to coach at the college level pre­cisely because he remains one of the most decent people in sports. Unfortunately, as Irish fans, we cannot say the same thing of Holtz. Holtz said of the loss, "I think so much of it has to do with confidence." 
The great humanitarian, showing his uniquely Buckeye roots, tried to develop this confidence in his team by calling Jim Sanson "foul ball" and Jarious Jackson a "fourth-string quarterback." Holtz said of the receivers, "There were a couple of plays where we could have come away something big, but we didn't. If we had Derrick Mayes, we'd probably make some of those plays." 
Even a young Powlus, clearly upset by his team's performance, said, "Derrick Mayes is an outstanding receiver, but I don't want to answer questions about him any more. He's not on this team, 

page 7 
~...-mAN~. MR.AW/MR... 
and our [receivers] do a great job. "Powlus' career at Notre Dame epito­mizes Holtz's poor coaching. Sports Illustrated featured a recent article on all the pressure the media has placed on Powlus. 
Yet remember back to training camp before his first game. Remember Holtz, not the media, touting Powlus as the best quarterback ever. Holtz, not the media, created the pressure and lofty expectations. Like Mirer, Powlus was then forced into situations and plays which he eould not handle. Powlus, a slow, immobile quarterback, needs to set his feet to throw well. Holtz, though, calls options and roll-outs which Powlus cannot handle. When Powlus injured his arm last season, everyone called Powlus fragile. But the injury was Holtz's fault, forcing Powlus to roll out and exposing him to unnecessary hits. Powlus could be a great NFL quarterback, but no with no help from Holtz. 
The players' true feelings towards Holtz shined through last year. The players carried Bob Davie off the field after the Texas game, showing not only love and appreciation for one coach, but indirectly castigating an absent coach. Holtz's egomania drove him to return for Ohio State, costing the Irish a victory 
The New York Times reported last week that if Barry Switzer is fired in Dallas, Jerry .Jones top candidate is Lou Holtz, if he's willing to leave Notre Dame. Let's just hope Troy Aikman can run the option and that Emmit Smith can play wideout. Holtz has nothing left to prove in college, except maybe ruin a few careers and devastating players' self-confidence. 
GREG HERCZEG Sophomore Dillon Hall 
ACCENT
page 8 Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
Multimedia Magazines an 

By JASON HUGGINS 
World Wide Web Correspondent 

T
o catch the attention of today's "MTV generation," publishing companies have to perpetually outdo each other by capitalizing on the next "big" thing. Right now, publishing on CD-ROM and the World Wide Web seems to be the next "big" thing. And Marinex Multimedia of New York, NY is one of the leaders in this hi-tech industry. 
Marinex Multimedia is a huge communications compa­ny specializing in electronic publishing. Marinex cur­rently publishes "The Biz: The Entertainment CyberNetwork" (www.bizmag.com); "The East Village: a CyberSoap" (www.theeastvillage.com); and "Trouble & Attitude", a CD-ROM and web magazine for men ( www. trouble.com). 
"The Biz" is cur­rently published exclusively on the 
World Wide Web , and is part cyber­talk show, part enter­tainment resource, part broadcast net­work, and part entertainment news and information ser'­vice. Integrating images and sound with text-only information, "The Biz" specializes in in-depth Q&A interviews with entertain­ment industry leaders. 

"The Biz" also includes daily news updates, regular columns about entertainment, download­able movie trailers and music videos, special weekly feature stories, and full entertainment statistics including weekly box office ratings. 
The defining feature of "The Biz" is the in-depth Q&A interviews. "The Biz" has connections with the top in the business. For example, "The Biz" has interviewed film­maker Spike Lee, New Line Cinema Corporation Chairman and CEO Robert Shaye, Warner Books President and CEO Laurence 
WWWoJUa,5J.U>.,s••J• 
its site to HTML. But postings shoehorned stage, supply store, 
"I wanted to make the Kirshbaum, PBS President Ervin Duggan, and Billboard Magazine Publisher Howard Lander. With images, full-text, and audio-clips, the interviews almost seem like a Web version of a talk show. 

Knowing who's who in the entertainment industry is always impor­tant. "The Biz" has a separate section, the "Source," dedicated to these lists. There's the Biz 100 (world's top entertainment compa­nies), Top 10 Entertainment Lawyers, Top 10 Entertainment Agents, and the 25 most important independent film makers in New York. The "Source" also includes a resource guide to entertainment sites on the Web, and Editor's Choice Links-recommendations of the best entertainment-related sites on the Internet. 
America has become the largest producer of entertainment in the world. And the entertainment business already has a number of established publications devoted to it. 
But what's truly interesting about "The Biz" is that it looks to be 
the future of publishing. It originally was supposed to be a print 
publication, but Marinex Multimedia decided to 
move it to the Web instead to fully capi­
talize on its audio, video, and 
graphics capabilities. 
"The beauty of the Web 
is that it's not linear," 
says Charles 
Platkin, Co­
president 
0 f 
Marinex 
Multimedia. "It's 
sort of participatory 
journalism." But Platkin 
remembers an initial response to the format that was less than favorable. "In the beginning it was like talking to a wall," he remem­bers about publicists' reactions to his requests for interviews. "Now they see it as a respectable wave of a future medium. This is the first medium that's global 24 hours a day." 
Another source of Web entertainment is Marinex's popular cyber­


--------------------------------------~--------~--------------------------------------------~·-------------------------------------------------­
ACCENT
Ti.1esday, October 8, 1996 page 9 
Showbiz Sites 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Dreaming of a Good Night's Sleep 
By LARRY WARD 
Medical Minute Correspondent 
Sleep. The word brings immediate pleasure to the minds of most college students. Everyone knows that most students never get enough sleep. And obviously, this is problematic. 
Sleep is not merely a time away from our ordinary daily rou­tines, hut rather it is essential to a person's physical and emo­tional health. 
In a physical sense, sleep often aids the Immune system in helping your body to reeover from an injury or any particular illness. Moreover, the correct amount of sleep also helps you to be more alert and to properly respond to external stimuli in tho environment. 
In addition, sleep has numerous emotional and m1mtal bone­tits. A recent medical survey showed that people who sull'ered from chronic insomnia were much more likely than those who received adequate sleep to develop numerous forms of psychi­atric problems. Furthermore, insomniacs were also found to be more likely to require the use of professional medkal services. 
Most people would undoubtedly agree that even occasional sleepingi)roblems can make daily life feel more stressful or cause people to be less productive. Sleep loss can also impair a person's ability to concentrate and accomplish required tasks. Moreover, a loss of sleep often res\llts in failure in htsks involv· ing memory, learning, logical reasoning. and mathematical cal­eulations. 
All in all. a loss of sleep can result in strained relationships with our family and friends. Furthermore, loss of sloop can rfJSult in failure at our school or other work. 
The inevitable question is : How mueh sleep is enough'! The answer to the question is that sleep needs vary from individual to individual. On average, most healthy adults need between seven to nine hours of sleep a night. It is actually rare for someone to only require five to six hours of sleep a night; how­ever, a fewsuch individuals do exist (it is th(~se individuals thnt most of us envy). 
You can measure the amount of sleep you need eaeh night by determining if you have trouble staying awake and alert in bor­ing, monotonous situations, such as long h~etures. If you do have trouble staying awake in such a situation, it is more than likely that you are not receiving enough sleep and you should thus adjust your sleep schedule accordingly. 
Sleep occurs in various cycles. The average sleeper experi­ences a predictable pattern of rapid eye movement !HEM) and non-REM sleep each night. The difference between tho two forms of sleep is that REM sleep is the period of sleep in which you experience dreams and is characterized by a high level of activity. During REM sleep, the heart rate, blood pressure, and breathing pattern are similar to your experiences while you are awake. On the other hand, non·REM sleep is a time period in which heart rate and respiration slow down and the blood pressure declines. It is believed that non-REM sleep is the most physically restorative time for our bodies. 
Medical researchers believe that the best sleep is the appro­priate blend of REM and non-REM sleep. Such sleep allows you to feel well-rested and enables you to function in your fullest eapacity. 
There are some factors which are common stealers of sleep. Most experts would agree that tho number one cause of sleep­ing diffieulties is stress. Most often sleeping difficulties will go away whenever the stressful situation also exits the person's life. 
Yet another cause of sleeping difficulty is shift work or irreg­ular sleeping patterns. When a person is constantly changing the time he/she goes to bed and wakes up In the moming, he/she is merely ruining the body's biological rhythm. These biological rhythms help to signal a person to remain alert and awake and when such rhythms are (:aught out of sync. sloe ping problems arise. To avoid such sleeping problems, thoro are several things that you can do: 
• 
avoid caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol in tho evening or nighttime 

• 
exercise regularly but not within three hours of bed time 

•don't 
nap during the day 

• 
don't use your bed for anything but sleep 


If you cannot fall asleep within thirty minutes of actually going to bed, do not stay in bed tossing and turning. Hather, get up and enjoy a relaxing activity such as listening to soothing music or reading an enjoyable novel. Remember to always try to clear your mind of all thoughts and do not use bedtime as a time to solve your daily problems. 
Larry Ward is a junior srience pre-profesional major. He can bee-mailed at Lawrence.A. Ward.25@nd.edu. 
lift~ of Evo Hamsay, a 24­of frinnds living in the East 
in thn form of diary entries 
•f tlw charaetnrs in action in ~rs speaking, downloadablo 
hieal information (includ­
trnn" showing how all of the ats and bulletin boards; music r~w York bands; and spn­duding a photo essay of 
from tho charae­
was ereatnd as 
in recalls, "In 
ing on [Thn Biz[. 
n Braun and I 
storming for nwnt proper­hich would p an audi­ncn com-
i II g back. 
oking to ision as a wn l"l~aliwd that soaps had a formula a11d audin11ce-a formula 

r agPs." t major production is "Troubln & riodical that usns tht: magazine 
ar-old male audinnen for whom ltimatn lime-sink. "Trouble & 

Attitude" is a men's magazine that Braun describes as "MTV meets Esquire." It runs on both Windows and Macintosh platforms, and hit the stands at a retail price of $9.95. 
Over the last two years, there's been a lot of hype over major media companies such as Time Inc. launching digital versions of their magazines in the on-line services and on the Web. But the CD­HOM magazine format differs in that many of the new titles, such as "Trouble & Attitude," arc from start-up companies, not from the established media entities. 
The CD-HOM format allows for an hour of video, 40 minutes of music and speech and hundreds of pages of text, which puts "Trouble & Attitude" in a category similar to "The Biz" when it 
comes to presentation versatility. From the first audio "booms" of the introduction screen, 
you know you're going to be in for a ride. You're guided 
through all of the various articles and departments 
by three very attractive female "cyberjockies." 
They can be clicked on to make them dis­
appear. but as they say. they "won't take it personally." 
Some articles are rather racy 
(e.g. "Buff Cleaning ­Nude Cleaning 
Agencies"). And though 
"Baywatch's" Pamela Anderson graced the cover of the premier issue, the magazine docs not uncover the "bare facts." There are a lot of women in bikinis and short-skirts, but the nudity would be in line with what's in a PG-13 movie­not that much. Most men's 
magazines,  or  even  
"Baywatch" itself. featu re  more  
skin.  

"Trouble & Attitude" contains a surprisingly diverse collection of 
articles complete with both video and text. What other magazine would have 
Brazilian martial arts video-clips, inter­views with Jazz and Blues greats, video recitals by New York taxi-driver poets, and a in-depth cover-story on .Jack Nicholson? "Trouble & Attitude" is a smart attempt to update the mainstream men's magazine for the 
digital age. With current entertainment news, cheesy melo­dramatic soap operas, or nude cleaning ladies, Marinex Multimedia will delinetly get your attention. 
dMagic on the Web 
Commercial venttll'es like Canada's Magical Secrets {www.magical.com/secrets), a virtual magic shop operated out of the village of Islington, have even more to lose if salable secrets fall into the hands of nosy infidels. Customers, therefore, must join the store's "Secret Society" and take an on-line oath "to protect the integrity of the magical arts" before gaining 
aeCilSS. 

"We faee the same danger that software vendors face with unauthorized copying and dis­
tribution," claims .James Biss, founder of Magical Secrets. "But with a low enough price for 
our secret doeumonts and onough eustomers, the problem is manageable." 
But tho Society of' American Magicians (SAM), the premier magicians' organization, isn't 
taking any chances with honor systems. While SAM maintains a Web page, it is merely an 
advertismnent for Spider Network, the socit~ty's direct-dial BBS. And, even though mttny of 
tho society's files are available to the general public, juicier secrets and SAM news features 
can only be accessed with a membership number. 
01' eourse, soerecy and security are pretty soxy issues. Yet perhaps the biggest problems 
faced by variety arts sites, or any non-commereial site, for that matter, are of a more janito­
rial nature. In orde1· to remain topieal and free of dead links, volunteers like JIS's Bakalor 
tind thomselves juggling jobs and family with Web site responsibilities. Bakalor adds, "a 
dozen voluntoers to maintain the site are hard to find." They're out there, but for these next 
two weeks they're studying for mid-terms. 
Jason Huggins is a Junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks, CA. If you like magic shows, be sure to rherk out Kevin Smith this weekend in the Keenan Kommons. 

~---------------------~~----------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------~----------~----------------------------------------·----,. 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Wildcats' defense switched signals on Wolverines 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
ROOMMATE NEEDED, SUPER  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  NEED 3 AF GA's  wash stu ticket for sale  WANTED 4 Tickets to Airforce  
NOTICES  RIVERFRONT HOME, $300 .STU­DENT OR PROFESSIONAL. 683­ ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  Anne 283-0165  x4215  Notre Dame Game. Call Collect 901-795-6724.  
3720 DAYS.  232-0058  NEED4 TIX  Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tix!  
#######LGBT########  24 HAS.  FOR AIR FORCE  Please call Patti at (610)775-5144  #@#@#  
.­ Attention all LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  BARTENDER, part time evenings and weekends. Cocktail, breakfast  BUY -SELL -TRADE  FOR MY FAMILY CHRIS @0788  I NEED 2 WASHINGTON GA'S  NEED 4 PITT +2 AF GAs 2 WASH Stud 288-9102  
students, faculty, and staff:  and banquet SERVERS, part time  TICKET-MART, INC.  CALL MIKE 243-9403  
National Coming OUT Week is this  for evening lounge and  I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S  FOR SALE Airforce StudTix  
week. That wonderful group of  breakfast/lunch restaurant. Good  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  CALL STEVE AT *0867  WASHINGTON STUDENT TIX  Christine 4-2699  
LGBT students is showing a variety  pay and steady hours for experi­ ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  FOR SALE, CALL 234-0913  
of films for the event.  enced dependable people. Located  232-0061.  WANTED: 2 WASH GAs or STUD.  2Wash.stud.tix  
three miles from campus. Please  upgrade FOR PARENTS. WILL  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  lv.offer on vmail  
Tues. The  apply in person, Varsity Clubs of  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  PAY OR TRADE 2 RUTG. GAs  ALL GAMES HOME  2597or2626  
Incredible Adventures  America, Main and Edison in  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  CALL DAVE@ 4-1913  AND AWAY  
of Two  Mishawaka.  CALL 243-1287  NEED 4 AF GA'S FOR OUR  232-0058 24 HAS.  PERSONAL  
Girls in Love  Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS !I  Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA.  PARENTS. CALL CHRISTINE OR  BUY -SELL -TRADE  
Wed. Wigstock  Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683  SONIA @ 243-9433.  TICKET-MART, INC.  #######LGBT########  
Thurs. The  Packages availablell  Attention all LESBIAN, GAY,  
Harvey Milk Film  INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­ Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  WANTED: 2 WASH. GA'S. WILL  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING  
TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!!  Cristina@ x2339  TRADE 2 PITT GA'S OR PAY  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  students, faculty, and staff:  
For times and locations, call the a­ Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  CASH. CALL JILL 312-871-0970.  232-0061.  National Coming OUT Week is this  
LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to  at  WANTED  week. That wonderful group of  
wear your purple ribbons on Friday  1-800-327-6013  2 GAs for Air Force  $$$$$$  LGBT students is showing a variety  
and join us for our picknic at  or http://www.icpt.com  Carrie x2344  NEED ONE GA FOR SENIOR'S  I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  of films for the event.  
Stonehenge on Friday from 11:00  FATHER-LAST CHANCE FOR  ALL HOME GAMES.  
to2:00.  HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  HIM!  272-6551  Tues. The  
#######LGBT ########  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  PLEASE CALL BRIAN 287-4876  Incredible Adventures  
(813)360-2243.  n. d. tickets for sale  
11!!1!!!!!!11!!!!!1!!!11!!!!111!11!111!11!1111!!!!!!!1!11  NEED 2 GAs for Washington game!  bless you  271 1635  of Two  
!!!!!  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  Call Megan at 243-9047  Girls in Love  
Anyone interested in playing disc  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  Wed. Wigstock  
golf, call x0509  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  Need GA's for Boston College  I NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS ­ 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  Thurs. The  
!!11!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!11!!!!!11!!!!1!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  call Tom x1741  PLEASE CALL X4121  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  Harvey Milk Film  
1111  $399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  
www.springbreaktravel.com  NEED GA for Washington game.  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  For times and locations, call the a­ 
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­ 1-800-678-6386  Call Suzy X4034  FOR SALE: STUDENT TICKET  ALL HOME GAMES.  LINE at 236-9661. Don't forget to  
cal piano training has openings for  BOOKLETS CALL 4 X4317  CALL 276-201 0/288-2877 AFT 5  wear your purple ribbons on Friday  
intro. piano lessons, children 8 &  FREE TRIPS & CASH I Sell SKI  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  and join us for our picknic at  
up. call Meaghen @ 271-7933  & SPRING BREAK beach trips.  x2646  NEED WASH GA'S FOR FAMILY  <<>Dave Matthews Tix<>>  Stonehenge on Friday from 11 :00  
Hottest places & coolest spaces.  WILLING TO PAY$$$$$$$$$$$  2 Tix for sale call Mickey 1350  to 2:00.  
Going to central PA along 80, have  Call immediately Student Express,  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  PLEASE CALL 273-2687-MARK  #######LGBT########  
room for 3. Leaving Thursday  Inc. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  (206)621-3485  OR 243-9476-KATE  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  
(1 0/17). 234-9533.  Ride needed: BOSTON area for  Need 3 Rutgers GA's  HELP-NEED 2 WA GA'S OR STU  FOR WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY (219)422-6088  FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  OCT. break. $Will helppay  Call Erik @3807  TIX CALL KATIE 289-4922  at  
Breakfast Inn has space available  gas,etc.$ call X1408  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  THE COPY SHOP  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  !@#$%"%"&&*)*"%"$%@$@#!*"  NEED 2 WASHINGTON GA'S­ 67 4-7645 -No student or student  Lafortune Student Center  
private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  FOR RENT  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  WILL PAY CASH OR TRADE FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S  conv.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  CALL DAVE X0806  i need tix for washington. if u can  
1-800-418-9487  WALK TO CAMPUS  BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR  help, please call RON at 288-9102.  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  ND EXPERIENCE  HELP!  in the LaFortune Student Center  
Textbooks bought/sold/traded  232-2595  I still need 4 WASH. GAs  Need 2 Air F. GA's  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
5 blks south on ND Ave.  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  call Chrissy @ 273-2580  Amy 616-473-5825  Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
233-2342. Pandora's Books.  Need a place to stay on football  john_d._potter@notes.pw.com  Wed. 7:30am -Midnight  
ILOST & FOUND I  weekends? Furnished apartment for short term rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  !@##$%"&((*"*%"$#@$#$%*"%*  I need 2 Washington GA's and 4 Air Force GA's. Please call Jessica @ 273-5833.  Need 4 Air Force Tix Call Frank Walters 18002439683  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­ FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  Leave name and #-will pay top $.  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
Lost  4876.  GAMES 235-3394  Need a student ticket for the  (closed home football Saturdays)  
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  WASHINGTON game? Call Mike at  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ 
Sacred Heart  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ALUM NEEDS GA's  4-4436  HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ RUSTED ROOT IS COMING!I!III  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS.  for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  I need 2 GA's for Washington, not in the student section please. Call  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273  Tix go 011 sale at the Lafun info desk on .Wed., 10/9. $13.50 for stu­dents. Bring your I D. max 4 I D's per  
Found. Photo negative with two exposures. One with 5 small chil­dren and one with 3 small children  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Wanted: Tickets for any or all remaining home games. 634-1152  Colleen at 288-0494. Need a Black Crowes ticket for the  Need 1 Student Ticket for Wash! Please call Diana @ 243-9432  person. GET 'EM WHILE YOU CAN!!!  
playing outside. Found near Fitzpatrick Hall. Call Judy at 1­5380 or stop by 156 Fitzpatrick Hall. .....LosT······  1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306  I need 2 WASHINGTON GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396  SB concert on 1 0/12? face value, call Ashleigh at 4-4985. Needed: 3 Wash. and 5 Air Force GA's. Call Eric at 271-9069.  I need 4 tickets for the Air Force game. My family's coming and I promise they'll cheer. Call Martin x1858  WALTZ THE NIGHT AWAY TONIGHT AT STEPAN CENTER FROM 7:00-9:00 WITH BALL­ROOM DANCE!  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle opener (with three keys) on it over the Purdue weekend. If you found it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst home. Rms avail for football week· ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from campus. 219.287.6797  I need 3 AIR FORCE GA's $$$Please call Laura$$$ @ (219)284-4396  NEED 1 WASH. GA x2119 I NEED 4 WASHINGTON TICK­ NEED 2 GAS FOR WASH GAME FOR PARENTS PLEASE CALL KAREN X4421  OPEN-MIKE TALENT NIGHT STARRING: YOU! THIS THURS. (OCT. 10) IN THE LAFUN BALLROOM AT 8 P.M.  
REWARD.  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  ETS, EITHER STUDENT OR GA'S.  
REWARD  FOR SALE  1st 10 Rows 232-0058  PLEASE CALL MICHELLE AT 288­1542111  I NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA's Call JON @243-9220  SIGN-UP TO PERFORM AT THE LAFORTUNE FRONT DESK &  
REWARD  Need 2 WASH. tickets  THE DINING HALLS ON  
REWARD  Mac !lei 20 meg RAM  Call Greg at 2318  Wash. GA for sale.  Leaving for Fall Break?  TUES./WED ...OR SHOW UP ON  
I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN  200 meg Hard Drive  B/0 X1308  I'd love your AF Tickets! Having  THURS!  
TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH  Monitor CD Modem  FOR SALE: 1 Wash. GA. b/o  friends in! Please call Jen or Sarah  
BIRTHDAY.  Programs $800  X0931.  HAVE RUTGERS GA'S, NEED  • 243-9019  BEST ACT RECEIVES TWO FREE  
CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE  272 4258  PITT GA'S. TRADE? 277-3609.  RUSTED ROOT TICKETS.  
ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE  1 WAS GA 4 SALE *CHEAP*  Sell 1 Wash Stud GA  FREE EVENT & FREE FOOD!  
GAME.  Mac llci 20 meg RAM  CALL WANG @ 4-3295  WASHINGTON TIX NEEDED,  $125 b/o @634-0538  SUB! SUB! SUB! SUB! SUB! SUB!  
CAMERA DESCRIPTION:  200 meg Hard Drive  LEAVE YOUR NAME,  HAVE RUDGE AS TIX TO TRADE  
RICOH MODEL Z-1002.  Monitor CD Modem  PHONE AND OFFER  CALL MIKE 243-9366.  HELP!! Need 3 Air Force Stud tix  Come here what all the buzz is  
PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­ Programs $800  or GA's. Pis call Anne @2625  about.  
GAST AT  272 425  Needed: 3 Wash. and 5 AF  Need 2 non-converted GA's togeth­ SCALCOHOLIKS  
860-651-1911 .  GA's. Call Eric at 271-9069.  er for Wash,$180 for pair  Two Washington GA's needed for  returning to Jazzman's Nite Club  
90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF  @0538  family from Calif. Call Dave x2030  Thursday, October 10@ 10:30 p.m.  
WANTED  5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569  Need GAs for Airforce and Rutgers X0501 ask for Sean  4 Wash. GA's for sale-face value!  I need 2 non-student GAs for Air  -Skankin' and Scorin!!  
LUGGAGE CARRIER for top of car,  Call Steven 4x1159  Force. Call FRANK at 4-3323.  The Gamblers will soon be reunit­ 
Ride needed: Fall Break -to  like new. $50.  Need 2 Wash GAs  ed!  
n.e.PAINJ area. Will pay gas, etc. Call 243-9357  616-684-6249.  and 2 Air Force GAs Call Chad 271-8019  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. 219-232-2378 a.m.  Desperately needed UW tickets. Please call Carey @ 232-0885  HI  
SPRING BREAK  TICKETS  SELL GA Wsh tix 2775931  288-2726 p.m.  NEED BC & WASH TIX  Dave, Will you ever forgive me?  
Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed! Sell 15 trips and travel free + cash! Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  I have a Washington GA that I want to trade for a student ticket. Call Mary at x3599  2 WASH. TIX FOR SALE BEST OFFER. CALLX3726  NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S WILLING TO TRADE 2 RUTGER GA'S FOR 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL TIM 634-2318  312-951-5008 **FOR SALE WASH GA Christine 4-2699  any girls interested in playing off­campus volleyball call erin @ 277-2598  

ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 

EVANSTON, Ill. 
They're no dummies, these Northwestern Wildcats. But in their biggest victory of the season they had to rely on some dummy plays. 
"Michigan had picked up some of our defensive signals and they knew when we were moving in certain directions. 
And as a result they were able to capi­talize on that early," Northwestern coach Gary Barnett said Monday, two days after his team dramatic 17-16 come-from-behind win over the Wolverines. 
"We changed some signals out there and dummied some of them," Barnett said. 
Defensive end Casey Dailey said Michigan center Rod Payne, whom he called one of the most intelligent players he'd ever faced, was able to pick up the Northwestern defensive scheme and relay it to his teammates. 
"He was like their quarterback," Dailey said. "He'd let Fitz (linebacker Pat Fitzgerald) make his call and then he'd make his. They were waiting for our slants.... They were diagnosing our defense." 
Barnett said one "dummy" call in the fourth quarter --when the Wildcats called out a defense they weren't really in --led to defensive end Keith Lozowski's tackle on Michigan running back Chris Howard. 
Northwestern jumped from No. 22 to No. 15 in the AP poll, ~till a spot behjnd Michigan, a school the Wildcats have now beaten two years in a row. 
"I could give a rip about any poll, from now or forever," Barnett said. 

r---------~----------~------------------------------------------------------~~----------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 8, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• MEN's CRoss CouNTRY 
Blue and Gold runner-up to regional rival Michigan 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Wri[cr 
Coach Joe Piano predicted it would b11 a two team race. He was correct. 
The results though did not fa­vor Piano's cross-country run­ners as the University of Michigan edged the Irish for first place at the Notre Dame Invitational. Michigan tallied 61 points, eight better than Notre Dame's final score. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Summer Engineering Program Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELC 
w 
::E 
<
0 
w 
a: 
b 
z 
u.. 
0 
i ~ w 
UJ 
a: 
> 
w 
UJ 
~ 
all 
0 
w 
a: 
0 
UJ 
z 
0 
0.. 
UJ 
Alumni-Senior Club $3.00 at the door 

Notre Dame was in prime po­sition to win the meet after fif­teen runners had crossed the finish line. Four Irish runners finished in the top 15, and needed one more in the next ten to win the meet. Jason Hexing again performed well, being the first of the Fighting Irish to cross the finish line, as he came in fifth place. Matt Althoff was separated from Hexing by one runner, in sev­enth place. Derek Seiling was the third Notre Dame runner in the top 10 at ninth, giving the Irish a good shot at winning the meet. Joe Dunlop crossed in fifteenth place putting the Irish a few points ahead of the Wolverines, with the crucial fifth finisher to be the deciding factor in the race. 
Michigan had four top 17 qualifiers, however the Wolverines' last finisher came in 11 places before the Irish's fifth finisher, Scott Grace, to seal the meet. The Irish need­ed Grace to finish in 24th place to secure a razor thin victory or 25th to tie Michigan. 
"Grace had a nerve problem (so he could not run as well)," explained Piane. 
"It (the meet) went fine," said Piane. "We had them beat through four runners. Mike Conway keeps improving but Ryan Maxwell didn't have as good of a race as he should have. You can't blame the loss on one runner, you may have to blame me. Maybe I didn't have them prepared enough. However, each guy would say he could have run better. We'll run better against Michigan the next time we face them." 
The Irish "B" team also came in second place in the Gold di­vision race. Sophomores Tony Arle and Tim Englehardt fin­ished seventh and eighth re­spectively, separated by one hundredth of a second. The Irish finished behind the University of Hochester. 
Notre Dame has this weekend off to prepare for possibly it's biggest test of the season at the Arizona Invitational. 
Notre Dame's ninth place na­tional ranking may be in jeop­ardy after this weekend's close .. finish. The Irish will face tough competition in the next two meets, the upcoming Arizona Invitational and the Big East Championships. 
Diamond Importer and Jewelry Manufacturer looking for 
CAMPUS REP 
to earn extra income by distributing catalogs and taking orders 
Engagement Rings, Wedding Rings and other Fine Jewelry 
, ' 1 1 , Call Gordia Knox 
...~1-800-922-0090 ~ oremallto 
sa peck@ interaccess.com 

~--~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
Men's lnterhall Power Poll 

Morrissey 3·0·0 2·0·1 
Zahm 2·0·0 2·0-1 
Alumni 3·0·0 2·1·0 
Off-Campus 2·1·0 2·1·0 
Flanner 1·1·0 2·2·0 
Fisher 1·1·0 2·2·0 
Keough 1·1·0 2-2-0 
Keenan 1·1·0 1-1·1 
Sorin 1·1·0 0·2·1 Carroll 1·2·0 
O'Neill 1·2·0 0·3·1 Dillon 0-2·1 0·2·0 Stanford 0·2·1 0·3·0 St Edward's 0-3-0 
The Observer/Tom 


• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Women's''interhall
Pettitte gets call for Game I 
Power Poll 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Andy Pettitte, 3-0 against Baltimore this year, was picked to start Tuesday's opener of the AL playoffs against Scott Erickson. 
David Cone, who pitched Game 1 of the first round against Texas, will pitch the second game on Wednesday against Mike Mussina. 
Pettitte, who walked six against Texas in Game 2 of the first round, had a 3.76 ERA this season in four starts against the Orioles that covered 26 1-3 innings, and he's 5-0 against them over the last two seasons. Baltimore was just 24-25 against left-handed starters this year. 
In Cone's only appearance against Baltimore this season, he was tagged for six runs and six hits in five innings on Sept. 19, the second game of a dou­bleheader split. 
Overall, the Yankees were 10­3 against the Orioles, including 6-0 at Camden.Yards. 
"Obviously, in the back of our minds we can say we've done something there before· so maybe that will mean some­thing," Cone said. "But in the playoffs, to me it's a wash." 
Dwight Gooden, taken off the roster for the Texas series, still has a tired arm and won't be activated against Baltimore. 
As far as the bullpen, all the Yankees seem to agree it was the key to New York's first­round victory over Texas, allowing just one earned run in 19 2-3 innings. 

"In the eighth and ninth, they've got some guys coming out there who are blowing cheese," the Rangers' Dean Palmer said Saturday after New York's series-clinching win. 
New York's relievers allowed just two runs and nine hits against the Rangers. The per­formance allowed the Yankees to overcome a 4-1 deficit in Game 2, a 2-1 ninth-inning deficit in Game 3 and a 4-0 deficit in Game 4. 
"The bullpen was the dif­ference in this series," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "We won three close games and our relievers got them all." 
As the Yankees slumped to a 27-30 from July 28 on, Yankees fans booed the relievers: David Weathers had a 9.35 ERA in 11 games, Graeme Lloyd had a 
17.47 in 13 appearances and Jeff Nelson wound up with a 4.36 in 73. 
But in the playoffs, none of them gave up a run. 
"I don't know where we would be without them," said Bernie Williams, who led the way against Texas with three homers. "They came in and got out tough hitters in key situa­tions." 3·0·0 
With Mariano Rivera and John Wetteland, the Yankees may have the best 1-2 com­bination since Rick Honeycutt and Dennis Eckersley with Oakland in the late 1980s or Ron Davis and Rich Gossage with the Yankees in the late 1970s and early '80s. 
"We knew that if we could just get a couple of runs, our bullpen would shut them down and we would have a chance," Williams said. 
Weathers, acquired from Florida on July 31, may have gotten the key outs of the se­ries. With Texas leading 4-3 in the fourth inning of Game 4, the Rangers put runners on first and second with no outs. Weathers relieved Brian Boehringer and faced Juan Gonzalez, who already had five 
homers in the series. See tomorrow's Observer for detailed game coverage. Gonzalez struck out on a 3-2 pitch and Will Clark hit into a double play. "It was probably the single II'HJatd tUtt "Jt7)I I most impressive outing in the bullpen we've had in the se­
~e i4 19 7~"
ries," Wetteland said. 


HaPPY Birthday
new and used cars Gates Chevy World Steve 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment Love, 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 

University ofNotre Dame International Study Program in 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
~/lfl~~~/ 

all Juniors in Accounting 
aTAILGATE 
Saturday, October 12 
1O:OOam to Kickoff at the Practice Fields behind Joyce Athletic Center 
University of Notre Dame 
International Study Program in 

tjJ 
IJ 
-~'--­

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
Information meeting with Professor Olivia R. Constable 
Thursday, October 10, 1996 
4:30PM 
Returning students will be on hand to answer uestions 

~-~----­
---~ ------------------~------------, 
Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
..

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Veteran first baseman agrees to t-wo-year extension 
Associated Press 
more seasons, agreeing to a the seventh time in his nine $9.35 million contract with a major league seasons, all with CHICAGO team option for 1999. the Cubs. Aftnr a eareer-year with the Grace, a two-time All-Star 
Under the deal, the Cubs will bat, Mark Grace agreed and three-time Gold Glove first increase Grace's 1996 salaryMonday to return to the 
baseman, finished in the NL's from $4.15 million to $4.6 mil­Chicago Cubs for at least two top 10 in hitting this year for lion, thus avoiding having a 
Center for Continuing Education 
CJ) 
"1J 
0 
z 
CJ) 
0 
]J 
m 
0 OJ 
~ 
0 
)> 
]J 
m 
m 
]J 
QO "1J 
r 
)> 
0 
m 
3:: 
m 
z 
-f CJ) 
m 
]J 
< 
(') 
m 
(/) 
c: 
z 
m< 
]J CJ) 
~ Arts 
"T1 
z 
Q 0 & 
]J 
)> 
m Letters
3: 
TUESDAY 
CTOBER 8 1996 
$450,000 signing bonus appear on their payroll in 1997, when there could be a luxury tax. 
Grace will get $4.3 million in 1997 and $4 million in 1998. The Cubs have an option for 1999 at $4.1 million, which would increase to $4.6 million if he's in the top five of MVP voting or wins the Sliver Slugger award. If the Cubs don't exercise the option, they would pay a $600,000 buyout. 
Under his current contract, Grace could have exercised a $4.6 million player option for next season. If he had done that, the Cubs would have had a $5.25 million team option for 1998. 
Grace, 32, batted a career­high .331 -fifth-highest in the league -with 39 doubles, nine homers and 75 HBis. lie lifted his lifetime hitting average to .309. 
Asian American Association 
General Meeting Tuesday, Oct. 8, 1996 9 PM at Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 
All Welcome! 
Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 
NINA BOP 
"Coolest of Cats" 
Have yourself a "scootin dootin" Happy 21st Birthday 
L6tJ.e, 

'i'Jt6nt,, Z)a,d, ,.4ti44a,, 
iDetM,& 
8/ea,d 

~ 
m_____________.. 
Tuesday, October 8, 1996

The Observer • SPORTS
page 14 

-• WoMEN's CRoss CouNTRY 
Irish defend turf, continue to dominate competition 
By MARIO ARCE 
Spores Writer 
The Irish women's cross country team once again proved to be invincible as they found themselves undefeated and atop the medal stand after last Friday's Notre Dame Invitational at the Burke Golf Course. The women were first with 88 points amongst the 18­team field. The Irish won hand­ily, with a 27 point lead over 1995 NCAA qualifier Bowling Green. 
"The meet went really well," ,mid head coach Tim Connelly. "We had a lot of athletes run incredibly well." 
Freshman Joanna Deeter once again led the squad and improved her undefeated streak to three races. Deeter broke the previous Burke Golf Course record by twenty sec­onds a week ago at the National Catholic Invitational by 20 sec­onds. Deeter ran away from the field early in race to break her two week-old record by 12 seconds. 
"Joanna ran great," said Connelly. "I really didn't think anyone could possibly run any faster on our course, but then Joanna goes out there and runs 12 seconds faster. Joanna is 
0-line 
continued from page 16 
men are very important as far as that is concerned." 
And while just who will com­prise that starting five unit re­mains a mystery, what is known is that the job will go to whoever wants is most in prac­tice this week. 
"We're just trying to look for some chemistry this week and get back on track," said Ridder, who may lend his ser­vices at left tackle this week­end. "If they need me to step in, I feel like I could do that now." 
He may get his chance. After 
all, right now is all that mat­
ters for the Irish. 
A season hangs in the bal­
ance, and the Irish can't afford 
to get pushed around right 
now. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replac.e zipper-Shines 


• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 

I 00% Guarantee 8-6 Monday­Friday 9-3 -Saturday 1025 East Madison 288-6211 


one meet to the next, but from point where I was coming up to
running about as good as any­conference selections. 
"The important thing for her success this season to the my last year, my senior year,"
one in the country right now 
disappointment of her last. Reichenbach said. "I wanted to
and she's got to have a great Nicole is for her to run with 
deal of confidence after three confidence," said Connelly. Reichenbach has been on the be remembered as a varsity 
great races," Connelly said. "Once she runs confidently and team for four years, running runner and not just another Freshman Nicole Laselle im­comfortably she'll be able to only for herself and to hopefully runner on the team." Reichenbach was not the only 
proved tremendously over her compete with the nation's someday make the varsity 
best." team. As a junior Reichenbach other member on the team to
performance at the National 
Senior Heidi Reichenbach ran in only one meet, and on step it up for the Irish as Kelly
Catholic meet as she finished in 
a promising seventh place. found herself as the teams third the junior varsity level, finish­Peterson finished 28th in the race with a time of 17:50.
Laselle improved 30 seconds on finisher, improving 15 seconds ing with a time of 21:53. This 
from two weeks ago. year she has stepped it up for Mieke Walsh also ran well for
her performance two weeks 
Reichenbach's improvement the Irish with a time of 17:31. Notre Dame finishing 33rd with 
ago, only to finish behind three 
"This summer I got to the a time of 18:07. 
past all-Americans and two all-should not be measured from 
Invites You To A Corporate Presentation and Reception 
Featuring Global Opportunities in Investment Banking, Municipal Markets, Debt, Equity &Capital Markets 
Wednesday, October 9, 1996 at 6:00 p.m. The Morris Inn Notre Dame Room 
All Undergraduate Students Are Invited to Attend 
Edison Plaza • 1 
Oust a 1/3 mile walk 


28 Principles of role 8 Robert Stack TV 
good conquct 7 Ten-percenter: 27 Tropical vine Abbr. 28 German town a Like Hamelin's 
29 Computer code piper 30 Powerful sharks eln flower 32 Marvy10 Place name on 

a3-Down box 33lce cream 11 Nullify drinks 12 Hardy girl 38 Historical period 
soprano

53 Leave no part empty 
58 Booty 54 Follow 81 Third of a instructions familiar trio 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
Ree-~ 
page IS 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPI'Y BIRTHI>AY! IN THE hetter than settling down. Be honest; NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: otherwise, someone who feels used Your efforts to get out of a rut or by you could turn htttcr. turn over a new leaf will have VIRGO (Aug. 2J.Sept 22): delightful results. Expect the unex· Stick to the tried and true at work. pcctcd 1 A family reconciliation is Acting out of character could shock possible over the December holl· those who rely on you. Entertain days. Business will recei'e a wei· neighbors in your home. Your artis­come boost early in 1997. A new tic endeavors attract favorable career npp011unity could make your notice. life more fulfilling. Postpone mak· LIBRA (Sept. 2.l·Oct. 22): Your ing a romantic commitment until good humor is contagious now. next spring. Property values could Look for ways to boost your prnduc· increase greatly hy this time next tivity at place of employment. Deal fall. Conclude a real estate deal a• tactfully with tired or overworked soon as possible. colleagues. CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 J: THIS I> A Y: actress Sigourney Others lind you hard to resist today. Weaver, the Rev. Jesse Jacbon. Avoid confiding everything you entc11ainment reporter Rona BaiTCII. know; an air of mystery makes you actor David Carradine. more interesting' ~clegate routine ARIES <March 21·April 191: Do responsibilities to subordinates. not be afraid to promote yourself. SAGITTARilJS !Nov. 22·Dec. You are your own best rcpresenta· 21 ): Your social circle widens. tive 1 Contact a sibling and catch up Becoming busines\ p;u1ners with a on family news. An annoying inci­friend or relative holds new appeal. dent could lead to a disagreement Be sure to get everything in writing. with a neighbor. A sudden infatuation could end TAliRliS (April 20-May 20): 4uickly. An excellent <lay to try something CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·lan totally different 1 Change your rou· 19): Invite a friend over for a chat if tine and do some shopping. Getting hop1ng to catch up on the late'! together v. ith loving friends will news. You may have trouble chom­make the e1·ening hour\ special. ing between two admirer>. Take GEMINI (May 21·Junc 20): your time. Disregard family mem­Lighten up' Taking yourself too bers· advice. seriously will prevent others from AQUARiliS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: knowing the real you. If you need a You are at your wittiest today. Jot loan, approach a friend or familv down your wry observations for member first. · future use. Intellectual pursuits bring CANCER (June 21·July 22): great satisfaction while incrca>ed You need to develop greater ease in physical activity boost' your energy dealing with strangers or authority level. fi!!ures. Be generous to those who PISCES (Feh 19·March 20l: hi1·e heen l~ss fortunate than you. You have more authority than in the Romance is more rewarding than in past. Stop making unrealistic the recent past. Enjoy 1 demands in your relationships. New LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Practi· ways can be found to boost your cal jokes have a way of hackliring. income. Guard your rc,ources. Con­Keep your humor gentle. Playing sult expens before nw~ing an) new the field in romance may 'uit you 111\"t~~llllCilh . • OF INTEREST ''A Prayer for the Condemned" lecture on the death penalty will be given by Joe Ross, C.S.C., tonight in the Walsh Hall Chapel at 7p.m. This is the first talk in the Living Out the Gospel of Life series for Respect for Life week. Th'e event will feature ND Voices of Faith Gospel Choir. Refreshments will be provided. Fall1996 Spades Tournament will be held tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7:15p.m. Sign-ups for a cost of $5 per team will take place until the first hand is dealt in the Games Room. Prizes will be awarded. Inner City Teaching Corps representatives will be at the Center for Social Concerns today at 4:30 p.m. and 7 p.m, for general information sessions. Folk Singer Charlie King will be on campus today from 12~2 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room. Admission is free. Tonight at 7 p.m.. King will perform at the Broadway Christian church in a concert benefiting tho •···· Center for the Homeless. A donation of $3.00 is requested. Call the Center for Social Concerns with any questions.  
•MENU ··N~treDame North :l!Jmt South Beef Noodle Soup Cream of Mushroom Soup Chicken and Dumplings Country Fried Steak Garden Quiche Neopolitan Style Spaghetti Rotini Pasta Primavera Baked Cod with Herbs Saint Mary's Pasta Primavera Buffalo Chicken Breast Sandwich Parsley White Potatoes  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  


Intramural Entry Dates 

October 3-10 
IH Volleyball Co -Rec Basketball Campus Badminton Deadline October 10 
Sign up a team in theR~~office. 
bring your student ID with you whenever you are using any of the athletic facilities on campus. 631-6100 
j 
1 
I 
I 
I I 
' 


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, October 8, 1996 
• fOOTBAll 

Questions abound for struggling offensive line 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
As Lou Holtz tries to shake the bitter memories of the loss to Ohio State, there are many areas of his football team that remain seemingly shrouded in mystery, many questions which need to be addressed. 
Can this team bounce back from the crushing blow they received at the hands of the Buckeyes? 
Do the Irish have the speed and depth at the wide receiver position to keep them in the game against top-notch compe­tition? 
Can this team regain the form on the ground that led them to a 9-3 finish last season? 
It is this last question mark which brings forth yet another mystery this season, a mystery which is as big as they come, both literally and figuratively. 
The offensive line. 
The behemoth unit which be­gan the season for the Irish has been remarkably erratic this season, appearing at times spectacular and at others, well, simply offensive. 
"Falling into a rhythm is real­ly important," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "We haven't been into a rhythm at all on offense this year." 
"We didn't function like we're capable of functioning {against Ohio State)." commented of­fensive line coach Joe Moore. "I don't think the players were satisfied. We weren't satis­fied." 
The five sacks which Ron Powlus endured at the hands of the attacking Buckeye defense probably didn't satisfy him ei­ther. 
This lack of satisfaction, cou­pled with injuries to several starters, has led to a good deal of shuffling along the line this season. 
Injuries to Mike Doughty and Jeremy Akers have allowed for the increased playing time of newcomers such as Jerry Wisne, Tim Ridder and Luke Pettigout, and occasional unin­spired play from Akers and Chris Clevenger have left Moore and company looking for answers. 
"The offensive tackle position is an area we need to look at," commented Holtz after the Ohio State game. "There is a possi­bility that Luke Pettigout or Tim Ridder could start at left tackle. We are going to find some an­swers in practice this week." 
"We're just always looking for the five best kids," commented Moore, who is still uncertain as to who will man the trenches when the Irish take the field against the No. 16 Washington Huskies this Saturday. "We're just looking for the five kids who are going to go out and know their assignments, and function properly. All the line­man are giving a good effort, but we just have to get better." 
The Irish offensive line will certainly have to get better if they are going to stop the likes of Huskies Jason Chorak and Ink Aleaga this weekend. 
Junior strong-side linebacker Chorak, dubbed the "Croatian sensation," picked up two sacks in the Huskies' 27-6 stifling of Stanford last Saturday, bringing his season total to six sacks in just four games. Chorak has also collected 9. 5 tackles for losses this season, and is part of a Husky defensive unit ranked 20th in the nation against the run. 
If the Irish need any further proof of the Husky defensive unit's prowess, they need only ask BYU's Steve Sarkasian, who was sacked eight times in Washington's 29-17 win over the Cougars earlier this season. 
Both Chorak and inside line­backer Aleaga, in addition to junior weak-side linebacker Jerry Jensen, were mentioned on the pre-season list of Butkus award candidates. Freshman Mac Tuiaea has also made an immediate impact at nose tack­le, and the size advantage the 6'6", 285 Tuiaea holds over Irish center Rick Kaczienski may enable him to add to his steadily growing sack collec­tion, which currently stands at 3.5. 


The Irish know that the of­fensive line's success is key to the team's success. The lack of a deep pass receiving threat was further revealed in the loss to Ohio State, and Irish fans may soon be seeing more of the old smashmouth football that they have become accustomed to under Holtz. But the success of the running game is contin­gent on the performance of the offensive line. 
"Our offense has to perform well for us to win," commented Moore. "Our five interior line-
see 0-LINE/ page 14 

..._ 

The Observer/Rachel Sederburg SMC hitter Agnes Bill (right) goes up for a kill in a match last week. The Belles' attack came up just short at the Kalamazoo Triangular. 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBAll 
Mixed results in busy weekend 
By ANGElA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's Sports Edit~r 
They played hard. 

They fought harder. 
They never gave up, but that just wasn't enough for the Saint Mary's volleyball team to emerge from the Kalamazoo Triangular on Saturday with a winning record. 
The Belles compiled a 1-2 record on Saturday, defeating Defiance 15-12, 15-9, 15-4 in their first match, but losing their next two matches to Calvin College 13-15, 14-16, 11-15 and Kalamazoo 6-15, 10-15, 15-11, 15-12, 11-15. 
The scores speak for them­selves. 
Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said, "We could have won any of those games." 
"All were heartbreakers," 
added assistant coach Jennie Joyce. 
The first match of the day found the Belles facing what Joyce called "a scrappy" Defiance team. 
"We started out slow, but we played really well," said junior outside attacker Meg Kelly. 
The Belles had little time to savor their win because soon after the match ended, they found themselves back on the court playing regionally ranked Calvin College. 
Joyce described the Calvin team as being extremely solid all around. After narrowly los­ing the first two sets, the Belles got themselves psyched up for the third and once again found themselves in a tough set which they just weren't able to win. 
"Our hitting and passing was extremely solid," commented Joyce. "They [Calvin] just didn't make mistakes." 
After battling it out in back­to-hack matches, the Belles found themselves on the court again. This final game was against a strong Kalamazoo squad and would become a tough five-set match. The Belles lost the first two sets but regrouped for the third and fourth and evened the match. This set the stage for a fifth set which would be filled with ral­lies. The two teams battled it out, with the Belles showcasing a strong defense and solid hit­ting. Neither team wanted to give the other any free points, but in the end it was Kalamazoo who pulled out the win. 
The Belles are now 13-10, and will be facing Lake Forest at 7 p.m. on Wednesday. 


vs. Washington, 

at Central Collegiate 
October 12, 1:30 p.m. 


• Women's cross country victori' 
Conference 
at Stanford, 

October 18, 7:30p.m.
October 11, 6 p.m. 


Soccer vs. Calvin
vs. Western Illinois, 

• Yanks to start Pettit. 
October 10, 4 p.m. 
October 11, 7:30p.m. 

Volleyball vs. Lake Forest
at Illinois State 

October 9, 7 p.m. 
October 8, 7 p.m. 






