---~-----~---~-~-------------------~­

Wednesday, September 25,1996 • Vol. XXX No. 23 
TI IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The tales of a world traveler 
SMCstudent participat~s in 
.

un1que programs 
By ANN KEARNS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Laura Grendahl has recently returned from the experience of a lifetime. After spending her junior year completing both the Semester Around the World and the Washington, D.C., programs, this Saint Mary's senior spent part of her 
The Observer I David Murphy summer in Bosnia. 
National renowned feminist Serrin Foster defends the 
Grendahl became interested in par­
traditional feminist view that supports the pro-life 
ticipating in the Semester Around the 
movement. 

World program during freshman ori­entation. "The more I heard about it, Photo courtesy at Laura Grandahl the more I wanted to go," she recalls. Laura Grendahl (center, with sunglasses) and fellow students participating in

Foster denounces 
the Semester Around the World program gather for a group photo in Asia. 

So, she made it happen. A group of 30 Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students left in late begin their studies. They attended and bench for each student and one

pro-choice women 
August 1995, for Tokyo. From there, Sacred Heart College, a university fan. She took five classes: govern­they traveled to Taiwan, Hong Kong, run by the Carmelite Fathers. ment, religion, economics, English,
By AMY SCHMIDT 

China, Malaysia, and Indonesia. Grendahl said that the school and the arts.
News Writer 

Although the group spent only a few tried to make the Americans feel at Grendahl was most struck by the days at each location, Grendahl felt home. But, because the Notre segregation by gender. Male andEnvisioning a "better world where no woman it was long enough to get a feel for Dame and Saint Mary's students female students were expected towill be drawn to abortion," Serrin Foster, execu­
the culture. arrived later in the school year, it use different staircases and differ­tive director of Feminists for Life of America. 
"When you are around a totally dif­was difficult for them to become ent sides of the classroom.
llSpoustJd the proactive ideals of early feminism ferent culture, you just notice things integrated with the native students. Grendahl and the group chose not
in her speech "The Feminist Case Against 
immediately. There is plenty to learn Each day, Grendahl attended to comply with this custom; insteadAbortion" last night. 
by going for a few days," she said. classes from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. with they continued to mix together asAceording to Foster, all early feminists opposed After this stay in southeast Asia, a short break for lunch. Typical they had been used to in the past. 
abortion. and supported the doctrine of natural. 
the group settled in Cochin, India. to classrooms had a picnic-style table
inalienable rights for all people. Feminists for 
see ABROAD I page 5 

Life works to eliminate the root problems that cause women to see abortion as the only alterna­tive to a crisis pregnancy, she said. 
Foster also said that an important shift in the 

Nouwen loss touches ND family
women's movement took place between the time of the early feminists and the 1960s paradigm of By DAVID FREDDOSO Donald McNeiU, director of the a broad-minded and open-hearted feminism. She added that the current concept of News Writer Center for Social Concerns, described writer. "He was a deeply Christian feminism. which includes the pro-choice move­Nouwen as a priest who was deeply writer. and he wrote as a priest," ment, would "sicken and horrify" early feminists Today, the Notre Dame family in love with Jesus Christ, and whose McNeill related. "His writing was such as Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. mourns the death of Father Henri greatest desire was to see Christ passionate, deeply rooted in faith, Anthony. Nouwen, a theologian and psycholo­brought to the hearts of those around and continually open to new ideas." 
She also addressed the shift that has taken gist who dedicated his life to those him. Nouwen began to write in the late plaetJ from resistance to patriarchy to the idea of who were viewed by mainstream McNeill also said that Nouwen was 1960's when he was teaching in the supreme matriarchy. society as outcasts. Nouwen died of also constantly concerned about soci­psychology department at Notre 
"1<J60s feminists have replaced [patriarchy] a heart attack on Sept. 21 in his ety at large and the current world. Dame. "He had this passion that with a perverted sort of matriarehy," said Foster. native Hilversum, Netherlands. He "The nuclear problem bothered him, came through his writings," said "There is an idea that we're more important passed away while visiting family the welfare situation bothered him, McNeill. "His readers will always say than this child." members before reaching St. the fact that Europe was not living 'He's speaking to me!'" 
She also said that this shift promised a world of Petersburg, Russia, where he was to out their faith like they should both­By the end of his life, Nouwen had film a documentary. ered him," said McNeill. 
see FOSTER I page 4 
His close friend of 30 years, Father McNeill also described Nouwen as see NOUWEN I page 4 
• SAINT MARY's ElECTION 

Beatty, Kowalski win SMC freshmen election 
By CAROLINE BLUM we're ready to work for the class," earned 76 percent. Marie Batz and Saint Mary's Editor Beatty said. Bellemarie Gonzalez-Estevez tied 
The Kim Martin (president) and with 75 percent each and Nicole It could be the start of a new era. Nancy Midden (vice-president) tick­Staab emerged with 72 percent of Fifty-four percent of the freshmen et placed second with 38.2 percent the vote.· 
class hit the polls to vote for their of the vote. ''I'm looking forward to this future class leaders Tuesday, ren­Following the tradition of fresh­opportunity and the challenges I'll dering a decision that for the first man elections, the Beatty ticket encounter this year," O'Leary said. time strayed from Saint Mary's invited Martin and Midden to join ''I'm looking forward to the friend­College history of abstentions, viola­their freshmen class board as a ships I'll make with the people on tions, and run-offs. consolation prize. the board and with the rest of the 
Freshmen Beth Beatty and Joan "I am excited about working with freshman class." Kowalski will assume the positions [Beatty and Kowalski] as board Election Commissioner Emily of president and vice president members," Martin explained. "And Miller was impressed with the class' respectively, after receiving 58.8 there are always three more years." 54.1 percent voter turnout. "I am percent of the votes. As for the election itself, Martin pleased with the turnout," Miller 
"We are really happy." Beatty admitted she was disappointed, said, "especially since there will not commented with excitement. "We although she was glad that the be a run-off. It's tough for fresh­worked hard campaigning door to Beatty ticket won. men; they have only been here for door. We couldn't have done it Martin and Midden will accompa­four weeks. And for over half of without our friends." ny seven other freshmen on the them to go out and vote -that 
Beatty and Kowalski, whose cam­board, who won their own races shows that they are really enthusi­paign plans include improving rela­Tuesday, competing for the 13 open astic." tions with Notre Dame and increas­board spots. With the additions of Martin and ing class unity, will meet with the Molly O'Leary received the largest Midden, 9 of the 13 spots on the freshmen adviser this week to vote with 79 percent; Beth Mayer board have been filled. Beatty and determine their first steps. and Vera Nackovic both won 78 Kowalski will decide if they want to 
"We want to get the word out that percent, while Janet Horvath fill the four remaining spots. 




~~----­
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 25, 1996 

• INSIDE COlUMN 

Respecting 
\Vhat has been lost 
Last week, the memo­ries of POWs and MIAs were commemorated. The event lead me to pon­der the role of the military in the USA. Growing up as military brat, my views are a bit skewed. Nevertheless, the topic is often addressed both on and off campus. 

On campus, students have often questioned the role of any military forces on a Catholic campus. However, all universities, especially schools such as Notre Dame, have a responsibility to help mold the officers of the armed forces. Receiving the education which emphasizes service to com­munity and understanding of self helps to influence the decisions of those in power in a positive manner. 
In the nation as a whole, the military has been grossly misunderstood over the years. Those people who have blindly sought peace have often overlooked one of the primary objectives of all branches of the armed ser­vices: To promote and protect peace. 
Movies and other media have perpetuated images of soldiers who are gun-toting killing freaks who go postal more often than mail workers. Military ethics are constantly being questioned, and the common joke that "mili­tary intelligence" is an oxymoron is almost as pathetic as "Why did the chicken cross the road?" 
Military spending is one of the first things to be cut in the budget because politicians, such as President Clinton, fail to realize the impor­tance of the military as a civilian as well as service body. The military-industrial complex does exist outside of text books. Towns near military bases feed on the defense contracts, business of military families, and civilian base jobs created by military presence. 
Perhaps not everyone who enters the mili­
tary does it for the altruistic reason of serving 
the nation, but the mere fact that they may 
be called upon to give their lives for their 
country deserves respect. The process of 
becoming a soldier is demanding, not only in 
physical conditioning but in mental condition­
ing. Failing to appreciate the people who 
dedicate their lives daily to the safety of the 
nation shows a lack of respect for those who 
preceded them in protecting the nation. 
Neglect of the visible military spills over into 
the lack of appreciation for those troops who 
are not seen. POWs and MIAs are people who 
have dedicated their lives to an ideal. By par­
ticipating in a war, they have supported a 
cause bigger than themselves. No matter 
what war they fought in, they deserve the 
respect of the nation. 

Today think about your own lives. If your 
father served in Vietnam or if one of your rel­
atives fought in the Gulf War, consider what 
would have happened if that person had died; 
been captured, or if you had to live with not 
knowing whether that soldier was alive or 
dead. Would you be alive? Would you be at 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's? What would 
your life be like? 

Now, think of the families who actually live 
with the pain. Thank God for the lives of your 
own family. Thank God for people like those 
POWs and MIAs. Pray that peace comes so 
that the military. will only have to protect the 
peace, not give their lives to secure it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



News Production 
Russ Williams Belle Bautista 
Jillian Pagloccia John Hutchinson 
Sports Accent 
Brian Fremeau Ashleigh Thompson 
Graphics Lab Tech 
Jon King Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. Allo<eproduction rights are reserved. 
• WoRw AT A GLANCE 
Welcome back to Earth: astronaut will be woozy, wobbly 
SPACE CENTER, Houston Astronaut Shannon Lucid can expect to feel weak, woozy, wobbly, fatigued and 
Aside from fatigue 
and wooziness, the

much heavier than her 150 pounds when 
bodily changes

she encounters Earth's gravity for the first 
astronauts Due to fluid

time in six months. 
undergo: shift, heart

She can also figure on being anemic and 
becomes

having a depressed immune system. 
smaller as 

Doctors have no idea what else to expect blood and -or how long it will take her to recuper­other fluids ate -when the shuttle Atlantis brings redistribute.
Muscle

home America's space-endurance champi­
loss in 

on on Thursday. 
hips, legs

Space travelers generally overcome most and lower 
Back on Earth,

of the side effects within weeks or months. spine. 
blood and other

But only one other woman, a Russian, has 
body fluids move 

come close to spending this much time in Bones, along from the torso,
with muscles, ......

orbit. All the other long-term space fliers head and upper
weaken. About

have been men. body back to the
25 percent of

Will the 53-year-old Lucid have a higher legs and the
strength is lost. lower body.

risk of developing osteoporosis because of all the bone lost during her 188 days of weightlessness? What about cancer from space radiation? Could her life be short­ened? 
Source: NASA APffracie Tso


"That's the sort of thing that 10, 20 years from now maybe we'll have an answer to," said Dr. Roger Billica, chief of medical operations at Johnson Space Center. "In the meantime, it is a concern, not because we think that we're putting them in increased risk but because we want to make sure that we're not." 
Lucid began the final leg of her long-awaited journey home when Atlantis undocked from the Russian space station Mir on Monday night. She had been living on the orbiting complex since March. 
"Do svidaniya," Lucid called out to the three men left behind on Mir -goodbye in Russian -as Atlantis slipped into the blackness of space. 
Vatican vows: no Polish Pope spy Black movie channel to start, at price 
The Vatican cast doubt Tuesday on reports that a Polish agent spied on Pope Paul VI during the late 1960s and 1970s. In its first response to reports in Polish and German newspapers, the Vatican challenged an account of a July, 13, 1970 meeting between the pope and German Chancellor Willy Brandt. The Vatican called the account, 
found in the files of the East German secret service and tainment," said Robert Johnson, chairman and chief attributed to the spy, a "faked reconstruction of the executive of BET Holdings. owner of Black Entertainm~mt talks." The statement by Vatican spokesman Joaquin Television. BET's main partner in the project is Encore Navarro-Valls said the report did not coincide with an Media Corp., which provides movies via cable and satel­account of the meeting in the Vatican archives. Navarro lite. Encore is controlled by Tele-Communications Inc., said the alleged spy report contained already publicized the nation's largest cable operator. Other investors in information on the meeting but left out discussions the venture are actor Denzel Washington and the com­recorded in the Vatican archives. pany that publishes Ebony and Jet magazines. 
Kiddie kiss leads to sexual scandal Millionaire Du Pont dubbed psycho 
LEXINGTON, N.C. MEDIA, Pa. 

These days, a kiss isn't just a kiss -not even in the Chemical heir John E. du Pont, who claims to be Jesus, first grade. A 6-year-old boy who kissed a girl on the the Dalai Lama and the last of the Romanovs, was pro­cheek was suspended last week on the grounds of sexual nounced a psychotic Tuesday and ruled incompetent to harassment. Jackie Prevette said the school overreacted stand trial in the slaying of an Olympic wrestler. Common to an innocent peck on the cheek by banishing her son, Pleas Judge Patricia Jenkins ordered du Pont committed Johnathan, to a room apart from his classmates. to a mental hospital, where he will be examined every Johnathan said that the girl asked him to kiss her and three months. He can eventually be brought to trial if that he was expressing friendship, according to his moth­doctors conclude he can help with his own defense and er. "Can't you just imagine children skipping down the understand the murder charges he faces in the Jan. 26 hall holding hands? Isn't that Norman Rockwell shooting of Dave Schultz. "1 think that was the right America?'' Prevette said. District spokeswoman Jane result on the basis of the evidence, factual and medical," Martin said the policy is clear: "A 6-year-old kissing said Thomas Bergstrom, a defense lawyer. "We should another 6-year-old is inappropriate behavior. Unwelcome see results within three to four months." Defense attor­is unwelcome at any age." neys said they never had a cogent conversation with him. 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 25. 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
..,......,... ............. ..,......,_ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H L B 5SI [!11 0 !Z3 8 -l) L-i U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN J".STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIII AssociatBd Press 

Manta 84 62 Coldwater 62 53 Miami 88 75 
Baltimore 71 50 Dallas 88 70 New Orleans 88 68 
Baton Rouge 88 66 Denver 40 38 Pittsburgh 74 48 
Boston 65 50 Los Angeles 80 64 St. Louis 73 62 
Chicago 63 54 Memphis 83 66 Sa~ Lake City55 42 
VATICAN CITY NEW YORK 

The first movie channel devoted to films made by and starring blacks is headed for cable, with a lineup ranging from classics such as "To Sir With Love" to the recent "Pulp Fiction." The new channel will be called BET Movies/STARZ!3 and will be a premium service, meaning subscribers will have to pay extra to receive it. "What we're doing is something that's unique. We're branding movies that appeal to an audience that has demonstrated a tremendous amount of interest in viewing film enter­
Her replacement on Mir, NASA astronaut John Blaha, was moved by the sight of the departing shuttle, which will return in January to pick him up. 
"Wow, it's a sight that I'll never forget," he said. 
Astronauts and cosmonauts can lose up to 25 percent of their strength while in orbit because in zero gravity there's little need to use the muscles. They also lose bone, for reasons that aren't entirely clear. 
Often, they feellightheaded upon return to Earth when the blood shifts back into the lower body. And they feel heavy because they are unaccustomed to the pull of grav­ity. 
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Freeman Scholarship opens door for staff 
New scholarship fund established to further education 
By LAURA PETELLE N.ws Wri1cr 
Sandra Krizmanich, a Notre Dame employee with two chil­drnn in eollege, can now afford to send herself to college thanks to the Fred E. Freeman Scholarship, newly offered to University staff members wish­ing to obtain their college degree or receive certification in a trade program. 
Freeman began working for the University in 1940 in the student health center, and served in several positions before retiring in 1987. At the time of his retirement, Freeman worked in human resources. Before his death in 1994, he left the University a bequest for the establishment of a scholarship fund to provide tuition reim­bursement to Notre Dame staff members. The scholarship is the first to be offered exclusive­ly to staff members wishing to obtain a degree or certification. 
This is the first year the seholarship has been awarded, and the field of hopefuls was fairly eompetitive. Candidates must be staff members, and must have worked full-time at the University for a minimum of three years. Members of the faeulty and the administration are not eligible. Each applicant is evaluated on the basis of his or her current post-secondary education, years of service, a supervisory recommendation, and an essay. Consideration is also given to the candidate's finld of study and its applicabili­ty to present and future employment by the university. 
The amount of the award 

depends on where the student will be attending school and the number of credit hours being taken. The maximum award is $1000 per semester per stu­dent, and the student must complete all courses with a C or better to retain the scholarship. Courses must be taken during non-work hours and no more than nine credit hours may be taken each semester. 
This year's recipients are tak­ing courses at the following area colleges: Indiana University at South Bend (IUSB), Bethel College, and Ivy Tech State College. Course awards range from $62.65 per credit hour to $215 per credit hour or more, depending on the program. 
Sandra Krizmanich, an administrative assistant at the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, received one of the awards this year. She earned her associ­ate's degree two years ago, and is now working for her Degree of General Studies at !USB, tak­ing one course at a time. She has two children in college and doubts that completing her degree would be financially fea­sible without this award. She did not know Freeman, but is "very grateful for this opportu­nity." 
There were four recipients this year: Krizmanich, Thang (Victor) Hoang, Annette Roberson, and Arlene Spitz. The recipients represent a range of ages and educational goals. 
Sarah Misener, manager of training and development at the Department of Human Resources, said: "I think [this scholarship] is great. I know it's not the he-all end-all [sic] because it doesn't allow every­one to participate, but it's a nice start." 
• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCil 
HPC promotes campus unity 
Council makes pitch for students to wear The Shirt 
Observer S1aff Report 

With the countdown to Saturday's football game against Ohio State dwindling, the Hall Presidents Council's co-chairs made a pitch for all students to wear The Shirt at the game. 
Deborah Hellmuth, one of the council's co-chairs, said the idea to wear The Shirt was suggested to her by an unnamed Morrissey Hall resi­dent. 
"The Shirt representation didn't go off that well (at the 
The Observer I David Murphy

first home game against 
Members of the Hall Presidents Council listen attentively as co-chairs

Purdue)," Hellmuth told the 
Mike Tobin and Deborah Hellmuth address the group. 


council members at their meeting last night. "It can be a Irish; the cheerleading squads;really big thing. A lot of upper­and Lou Holtz. classmen have seen the impact Student Union Board will of The Shirt." host a rave in the LaFortune 
Adding to the anticipation of Ballroom at 9:30 p.m., immedi­
the weekend, student govern­ately after the pep rally. ment is hosting a pep rally The rave will last until 1:30 Thursday evening at a.m. 
Fieldhouse Mall. The council also repeated an Slated to begin at 7 p.m., the announcement of Hall Spiritrally will include performances Day, which takes place today by several campus bands and at Alumni-Senior Bar. The appearances by Sara Walsh, activities include a competition an Olympic fencer and Notre to determine which dorm can 
Dame student; Thomas Krug, get the most residents to visit former Irish quarterback and Senior Bar while wearing 
current student coach; Chris dorm clothing.Petrucelli, coach of the Other activities at Senior Bar women's soccer team; Troop this week include a 1980s lun­NO; the Band of the Fighting cheon sponsored by Student 

Lunar eclipse to occur Thursday 
Observer Staff Report 

Given a clear sky and the ful­fillment of astronomer's predic­tions, tomorrow night will pro­vide a speetacular phenomenon for anyone with patience and 




Maybe you majored in advertising and did not even know it. 


LEO BURNETT COMPANY, INC. 
So you majored in English. Or Psychology. Or PLS. Or even Art History. No matter. Fact is, you may very well have pre­pared yourself for a career in advertising. At Leo Burnett, we're not interested in majors -we're interested in people who like to think. So come and learn about a career in Client Service. After all, you have the prerequisites. Seniors of all majors are welcome. Casual dress. 
Wednesday, September 25th, 7:00pm • Alumni-Senior Club 
Union Board on Thursday and an appearance by Stomper Bob on Friday. 
WVFI-AM will broadcast from Senior Bar at the lun­cheon on Thursday. 
Hellmuth also offered a note of caution to those who plan to enjoy the weekend's festivities, reminding them of the death of Mara Fox that occurred iluring the weekend of the Florida State game in 1993. 
"We want to remind every­
n
one to be careful, said Hellmuth, a Pasquerilla East senior. "We'd hate to see a repeat performance of what happened our freshman year." 
upturned eyes. 
Beginning at 8:12 p.m., the moon will be eclipsed by the shadow of the earth, giving a reddish glow to the moon visible from most of North America. The glowing effect results from a rare bending of the sun's rays through the earth's atmosphere. 
The moon, estimated to rise at about 7 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (ESTI, will become notice­ably eclipsed from 9:12 p.m. until 10:19 p.m. as the earth's shadow gradually overtakes it. At 10:19 p.m., a 70-minute phase will begin in which the earth will noticeably shade the moon, with the darkest moment occurring at 10:54 p.m. EST. 
At 11:29 p.m., a bright edge will appear on the left side of the moon's face. This partial eclipse phase will continue until 12:36 a.m. 
By 1:36 a.m. the moon will have returned to its normal state. 


Happy Birthday Tony! 
Love, Mom, Dad, &the rest of the Pohlen Family 


rn Tutors w 
The office of Academic Services for Student­Athletes is hiring tutors for the following sub­jects. If you are interested in tutoring and have demonstrated proficiency in the following subjects, please stop by 309 Main Building or call Jean, 1-5585 for information. 
Accounting (All Levels) BA 240 (Computers) BA 230 (Stats) Spanish Finance (All Levels) Writing Marketing (All Levels) Engineering 
page4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
Finance Club Career Night 

Foster 
continued from page 1 
equality and reduced poverty for women -a promise that has not been kept by the pro-choice movement in Foster's opinion. 
This "betrayal of feminism," as Foster calls it, has led women to believe that abortion is a fun­damental right of women rather than a forced choice. 
"No woman wants to have an abortion. This means that it is a cruel hoax to call abortion a choice," said Foster. "It is not a free choice, it is a last resort." 
In addition to calling for a renaissance of early feminist beliefs, Foster suggested a proactive stance regarding the prevention of abortion. She sug­gests that this campaign start with government funding for teenage pregnancy prevention programs that "encourage life­affirming choices." 

"We need an unbiased and honest tracking of life-planning skills, focused on shared responsibility," said Foster. 
She also suggested that pro­life and pro-choice women work together on the following issues: 
• child support enforcement • on-site day care 
• 
maternity coverage in health care plans 

• welfare reform 

• 
economic empowerment for women in the workplace 


• adoption as an alternative 
Foster encouraged college stu­dents to work together to "right the wrong of abortion" by changing the conditions of women in society. 
"We deserve a better way for our daughters, our sisters, and ourselves," she said. 
Please Recycle The 0 bserver 
take the inside track to grad school admissions 

• recommendations 
Thursday, October lOth, 7:00pm-9:00pm Debartolo Hall, room 131, Notre Dame University Graduate 7-Spm Business 8-9pm 
Space is limited! Call today to reserve your seat 

1·800-KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 

Nouwen 
continued from page 1 

written more than thirty books dealing with the subjects of prayer, suffering, and life and death. His last book to be pub­lished during his life, entitled "Can You Drink the Cup?" was released only a few weeks ago. 
Nouwen's life story is that of a journey undertaken in order to discern the will of God. "He was always searching for a home, always searching for a community. In his writings, you can see that," said McNeill. "Two of his books were written in a Trappist monastery. He was seeing whether that was the place God wanted him to spend the rest of his life." 
Nouwen went on to spend sev­eral years in South America, in the belief that perhaps he was being called to spend his life there serving the poor. But after twenty years of searching, Nouwen chose to dedicate him­self to the care of the mentally disabled. 
Robert Jonas, a friend of Nouwen, spoke on National Public Radio's "All Things Considered" about his friend's decision to dedicate his life to service in the L'Arche commu­nity for the handicapped, which is located in Canada. 
"Henri was a brilliant theolo­gian, but he was always restless in academia," Jonas said. "He was always more at home living out of the heart of God rather than merely talking about it. So I and many of my friends were not surprised when he joined a worldwide network of commu­nities for handicapped people, called L'Arche." 
During the last ten years of his life, Nouwen drew from his experience with the mentally disabled in his writings. One of his later books, entitled "Adam," tells the story of a mentally disabled boy whom he cared for during his service in L'Arche. 
Adam could not speak, nor could he eat or walk without help. "Henri spent months waking him up, bathing him," said McNeill. "And in the eyes of the world it was time wasted, but in Henri's eyes it was God's brilliance and beauty coming out." 
Jonas summarized Nouwen's life of compassion and love, say­ing, "Henri Nouwen wanted everyone to know that each per­son, no matter how broken, handicapped, or unimportant in the world's eyes, is the beloved of God." 


The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
llfl®wcilaJ~~dlw~illaJW 
2:30 -3:30  Contact  
DARDEN  Allen MCWalters x3331  
SWANSON  Susan Grondin x4268  
EGGLESTON  Kathleen Flynn x4355  
3:45-4:45  
NORTHEAST  Nicole Varneri x4039  
or Jennifer Jablonski x3552  
4:30-5:00  
LASALLE  Pete Dilella 287-5277  

!Thl~cflaJ~m~illaJW 
1:00-2:00 KENNEDY Katherine Murray 284-4435 3:00-4:00 ST.JUDE Sarah Magness 284-5217 
The Finance Club 
invites you to hear about 
"Career Opportunities in Consulting" 
presented by 


ARTHUR ANDERSEN 
http://www.arthurandersen.com 
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 5:00-6:30 p.m. Center for Continuing Education (CCE), Room 112 
Pizza and Refreshments Served Casual At:t:ire 
-~ -­

Wednesday, September 25, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
arise, Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly, The custom in India is to eat 
director of the Semester with your hands, but Grendahl
Abroad 

Around the World Program, and the group took advantage continued from page 1 acted as a mediator. of the opportunity to use uten­The group lived in a hotel and sils. 
Grendahl felt the student­ate most of their meals togeth­Grendahl felt she was teacher relationships went well er. These meals took place on immersed in the culture, but because both sides were intent the roof-top of the hotel over­only to a certain extent. "Living on compromise. "The teachers looking the Arabian Sea. They completely like them would there were very cooperative," consisted primarily of rice, have been very challenging and she said. If a problem did naan (bread), and dal (lentils). admirable, but I can't even 
The Thomas J White Center on Law & Government presents: 
Patrick Salvi 
A Litigator's Perspective on Tort Reform and on Trial Strategy 

Thursday, September 26 at Noon in in the Law School Courtroom 
ll~~ ·~0 '0 
~ '(]6\ 
. 0ue0 ° ('\~~ e 
\0 
6 v 

~o" ~o-'V"
•~0 

0~ ~JC.J 
o"e v \~" • Tt A
e'f..~\ "\60VJ o Ssist • iO 0 
TONIGHT, Wednesday, September 25 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. 
Sr. M.L. Gude, C.S.C. 

All meeting8 are private and confidential. 

imagine it," she confessed. 
Grendahl spent one weekend with her "home-stay sister." In this event, the participants were paired with another stu­dent from Sacred Heart with whom they spent the weekend. During this experience, she ate with her hands and showered with a bucket. In spite of the poverty-stricken conditions, the Indian hosts were very hos­pitable. "If I could think of one word to describe India, it would be love," said Grendahl. 
After coming home for Christmas, Grendahl left for her second semester in Washington, D.C. During her stay, she took two seminar classes, participated in an inde­pendent research project, and had an internship at the White House Press Office, where she was responsible for answering journalists questions and releasing executive orders. 
Because of her duties and the location of her office (50 feet from the oval office), she ran into President Clinton on sever­al occasions, and met him dur­ing a meeting with other interns. 
Seeing President Clinton at work, first-hand, gave Grendahl a new appreciation for his posi­tion. "He always needs to be concerned with public opinion, and he's always working," she said. 
Despite her positive experi­ences in the nation's capital, Grendahl has decided not to make Washington, D.C. her home. 
"One thing I learned in Washington," Grendahl said, "is that I don't want to go back and work there. I thought later in life maybe I would want a pub­lic office. I realized it's not for me. It's too die-hard and cut­throat." 
Returning from Washington D.C., Grendahl and her family planned a trip to Bosnia. 
Most of her time in Bosnia was spent praying. Grendahl and her family attended Mass, confession, and prayed the rosary twice a day. She referred to the time spent there as "really hard-core." 
Grendahl cherishes her week there because of the time she was able to spend with her family and the reflection time she was able to spend with her­self. 
When remembering the time she spent in Bosnia, she said, "It's what you do with it that counts." 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
.fr.\ 
m
·. ~~-r..·~l . 
.. '~JI r~o:t.'! :·~t1Ll· 
~~~:g~·ill·fi)J;-.~.·~t·ii·~w~ ~­
,.:;..,.. ·, .. -t, .,·t••:t.., 
• ~.J ~-,. .\' t,·~-' ' 't 
Trinity College University College Dublin Academic Year, 1997-98 Spring 1997 
Infonnation Meeting With Professor Patrick Murphy 
Thursday, September 26, 1996 
4:30-5:30P.M. 
119 DeBartolo 
Sophomores and Juniors are Welcome 

~Tuesday, October 8th, 6:00pm 
~ Notre Dame Law School Courtroom, 220 Law School, Notre Dame 
Scheduled Guest Speakers from 
DePaul University College of Law • Northwestern University 
School of Law • Notre Dame Law School • University of Illinois 
College of Law • Kaplan Educational Centers 

VIEWPOINT 
page6 Wednesday, September 25, 1996 

Mourning the loss of the ideologue candidate 
This is, without a doubt, the dullest presidential election in recent memory. As the national media so eagerly and often reminds us, Bill Clinton holds a two to three touchdown lead over Bob Dole in most polls with just six weeks left until the votes are cast. But the mere fact that the presidential contest is 

Christopher Kratovil 

far from competitive is not what makes it so utterly boring; it's the candidates themselves who are putting even politi­cal junkies like me to sleep. 
An election need not be close to be interesting. Senator Barry Goldwater prove that definitely in 1964: Goldwater was blown out of the water by LBJ but in the process he challenged political sensibilities and outlined a true ideologi­cal vision that helped give birth to the modern conservative movement. There have been other interesting big losers in presidential politics too. George McGovern, like Goldwater, was an ideo­logue who never got anywhere near the White House but whose campaign at least provided voters with a sharp con­trast with the status quo. Despite being losers in the conventional sense, candi­dates such as these at least added some spice and energy to the electoral process and enriched the level political dis­course. Both Goldwater and McGovern have left political legacies that far tran­scend those of more conventional van­quished candidates like Hubert Humphrey or Michael Dukakis. So in other words; if you're going to get crushed on election day at least go down with both guns blazing, making a stand in the belief that you are right and the 

other guy is wrong. 
Of course, Bob Dole, that master of Senatorial protocol and political com­promise, would never accept this perspective and seems determined to insure that he is remembered in political history as "The Republican Walter Mondale." Barring any indict­
ments of the First Family out of Special Prosecutor Kenneth Starr's office or a Big Mac induced Clinton heart attack, Dole must internally rec­ognize that this election is lost. Hell, it was probably over 
before it started: How could anyone seri­ously expect a plain talking, charisma­less old back room wheeler dealer with 
a reputation for being mean spirited to compete with the finest political cam­paigner that this country has seen in generations? But be that as it may, Dole now has a rare opportunity to articulate a true vision and ideology without any political consequences; what's the worst that could happen-losing by 15 percent instead of 12 percent? The problem is that Bob Dole has no underlying vision or ideology to introduce into the larger political debate. He has the podium to himself with a nationwide audience, yet he has nothing to offer aside from some retreaded supply side policies that he never really believed in the first place. A low credibility 15 percent tax cut just isn't enough to buy this election. 
Bob Dole's natural habitat is deep within the Washington Beltway. Take him away from the Senate cloakroom and Georgetown cocktail parties and he really has very little to say. He may well be the least charismatic man and worst campaigner to be nominated by either of the major parties since World War II. 

Then again, I don't get the impression that anyone is terribly excited about Bill Clinton either. Sure, Clinton still "feels your pain" and "believes in a place called Hope" but even Democratic loyal­ist realize that this is a man who seems to hold no principle so sacred as the results of the latest Gallup pole. The problem is that the Democrats are so eager to retain control of the White House that they're happy to overlook Clinton's naked political opportunism, lack of convictions and willingness to sell the Democrats in Congress down the river whenever his own political gain requires it. 
The conventional wisdom regarding Clinton amongst his many marginal "things aren't so bad and I don't like the other guy" supporters is even more revealing. "Sure," many lukewarm Clinton supporters admit, "he's a lecher­ous hillbilly with an underdeveloped sense of ethics, few core beliefs, artifi­cial charm oozing out of every pore and a bitchy wife-but the economy's okay, we're not at war and he genuinely seems to care about people like me and our problems." Such is the mandate of the leader of the Free World. 
The prospect of choosing between these two candidates has rather limited appeal to me. Barring some sort of polit­ical deus ex machina saving the day for Dole, the results are almost a foregone conclusion anyway. So I figure if I'm going to "waste" my vote I might as well waste it on someone whose got some­thing to say. And no, I 'm not referring to everyone's favorite vertically chal­lenged Texan billionaire when I say that. Me? I'm voting Libertarian this fall. But more on that in the weeks to come. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"compassion is not 
weakness, and con­

cern for the unfortunate is 
not socialism." 
-Hubert Humphrey 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
page 7 
• Goo 'N' ltFE 

Bridging the gap between 'us's' 
"Don't hate us, 'cause you ain't us." 

This motto on a T-shirt puzzled me, frankly. It just didn't make sense in a way that I could grasp it. 
Sure, it sort of means, "Get to know us before you condemn us, " but the phrasing smacks the reader in the face, as if to force 
Julie Ferraro 

that person to think about it. And the more I think about it, the more it makes me comfort­able. 
It strikes me as a bit "separatist" in some ways. The motto rightfully asks "don't hate us," yet in the same breath does not offer to build the bridge of unity and mutual under­standing. "You ain't us" and we won't let you be one of "us," either, it declares. There is also an underlying sentiment that, just maybe, it's okay for "us"-those wearing the shirts-to hate those who are not a member of their particular group. 
Which scares me. Being a part of a group or community is fine; a quick read-through of the Acts of the Apostles proves that commu­nities can be a nurturing, stabilizing element 
• WHERE I'M CALLING fROM 
in life. Never was it intended for one commu­nity to pit itself against another, though. 
God never intended that there be rivalries between religious orders, as happened in centuries past. It was not meant that blacks should be opposed to whites, or vice versa. 
The rich should not segregate the poor, based merely upon their material worth. Such prejudices have led to wars and endur­ing animosity. 
Bosnia, for instance, or the African coun­tries where "ethnic cleansing" is taking place are good examples. Why would Catholics and Protestants war in Northern Ireland, when both profess faith in the love of Christ? Because the enemy "ain't us," for reason of culture, religion, politics, or what have you. With this mentality, will it ever stop? 
Doubtful, since humans tend to be stub­born. We fight for our beliefs. When we become so close-minded that we see every­one else as "wrong" however, everything falls apart. 
"Don't hate us" is a wise reminder that, because God loves each individual, we should despise no one, regardless of what differ­ences or faults we perceive. By reaching out a willing hand to those who "ain't us," by keeping the lines of communication open even when the dialogue grows loud or angry, it may be possible to bring all the separate groups of "us" into a universal "we." 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center. 

rts to override Clinton 
~Veto have paid off 
ommaEia byMatt Apple's column dealing with partial birth abor­
columm shows no signs that he made no inquiry into the facts 
issue. In tact, I wonder if he just decided to make it all up. Are 
raJI~ehOf.l(Uijust a part of"creative writing?" 
of partial birth abortions is not an "emotionally 
description. The description is quite clear in the bill and 
from the words ot the abortionists themselves and adopted 
-,LtJ!)<!il.language to be made part of the U.S. Code. It reads, "The term 
birth abortion' means an abortion in which the person pertorm­
*.·e.<a:.·bo..r·ti···o·n··.partlall.y.,.vagin~lly delivers a living fetus·before killing,
fetus and C()mpleting the delivery." (H.R. 1833 Section 2, Paragraph 
b~ SubSection 1). . . . .· . . 
Clinton never salcl that be vetoed the legislation because of life ot the 
mother·and rape/incest exceptions. The life of the mother exception is a non·~sue.lt is inthebill! (Section 2, Paragraph a).· And it was Dole who authored it! It was called, appropriately. "The Smith-Dole AmeodmenV And rape/incest was never an issue. Women who are raped do not wait until they are t'ive months pregnant to abort! . 
Apple wrote· that "tlle Republican led Congress knew ahead of time that Clill~on vvas goingt() veto it." FALSE. Clinton said, in a letter to the .Southern Baptist ConventiQn, "Indeed, when I first beard a description of this procedure, I anticipated that l would support the bill." 
The onl~ explanation for his position on this issue is that be has been captured by the wealthy political interests of the pro-abortion move­ment Apple himself said there is a lot at stake for an abortionist who 
c:r!~~-: apartial birth abortion-$3,000 per partial birth abortion. to 
. Notre Dame Right 'ro Life is proud to join the ranks of liberal Demqcrats likE! Patrick Moynihan and Richard Gephardt who supported the ba.n. and we believe that our efforts in support of the legislation are noUn vain; ln ta.ct. we believe they have paid off as the House bas already voted to override the veto. The Senate will vote Thursday. 

MAUREEN KRAMLICH Pmident, Notre Dame Ri~r to Life 

In defense of an undergraduate's best friend 
After vowing in my last column to resist miring myself in cliched and ready-made campus crusades, I find myself compelled by a cause so vital to the social fiber of this University that I had to take up my pen in defiance. 
I am here in defense of every under­graduate's best friend. I will fight for the thing that is so dear to us Domers 
Thomas Coyne 

that it keeps us up at night (and asleep all day); the thing worth missing class for (whole weeks worth sometimes); your only true guide to the perverse world that is the Notre Dame social scene; your right hand man; your liquid lover; your steadfast source of sloppy fun and sexual deviance-BEER, GLO­HIOUS BEER! 
Beware fellow imbibers-there are insidious forces at work on this cam­pus. Lurking in the shadows of your social life, "The Man" awaits, patiently and purposely picking away at this campus' long-time tradition of exorbi­tant underage intoxication. The signs of this trend are subtle but unmistakable. The fact that Student Government and the administration have even addressed the notion of a dry campus should send shivers through your liver. Who can say where this budding tem­perance crusade might lead? 
Try to envision the apocalyptic future for Domers whose social scene had fall­en victim to the enemies of alcohol­sober students forced to rely on their own personality and charm when con­fronted with the opposite sex, 8 a.m. classes filled on Friday mornings, vomit free bathrooms, students graduating having never experienced the glory of a 56-hour buzz, Bridget's going bank­rupt, the polar ice caps melting, Canada invading the U.S.-I can't go on. Be afraid my friends. Be very afraid. 
You might scoff at my prophecy of doom. While a dry Notre Dame may sound as conceivable as a Student Affairs-sponsored orgy, I assure you that the day is coming. The signs of the end are all around us. 
Recent developments that would have seemed altogether inconceivable on the Notre Dame campus I came to just four years ago have threatened the future of the drunken Domer tradition. A moment of silence for our late friend Liquid Lunch. Senior bar, a once inte­gral element of the home football Friday afternoon, has replace beer with salads and sandwiches. My sincere thanks to the admin for looking out for my dietary well being, but if I want food I'll pack a lunch. I am 22. I have no Friday classes. Yet I cannot enjoy a beer with friends and alums at a com­mon and convenient location on Friday afternoon. I'm telling you-the end is near. 
The widespread crackdown on tail­gaiting is perhaps the most ominous development in the fight for our right to drink. The Notre Dame tailgate is more than a party, it's an institution. It is the place where friends meet each other's families and alums get to interact with today's student body. Dorm tailgaters are a unique setting where freshmen get to have a beer with seniors and even the most introverted underclass­men get to be part of a racous party, yet they are becoming extinct thanks to a diligent DuLacian security force whose favorite football game offense is quickly becoming the "student spon­sored tailgate party." Before you know it Notre Dame football games are going to be just about football. Oh the horror! 
And where did all the RV's go? In a stroke of administrative genius, some­one decided that allowing RV's to stay overnight in the parking lots encour­aged drinking and assorted bacchana­lian madness. They were absolutely right. But now instead of safe drinking, the University has told people bringing RV's to football games to come to the game no sooner than three hours before the start (contributing to the massive onslaught of automobiles that suffocates South Bend on Saturday mornings), park them so far from the stadium that they forgot what they even came for, and then leave the parking lot within three hours after the game, thereby unleashing hundreds of drunk­en drivers piloting house sized vehicles through the streets of South Bend. 

Sometimes I wonder if it's the adminis­
tration that's doing too much drinking. 
Moving off-campus, the last alterna­tive for students seeking uninhibited opportunities for inebriation, once brought an upperclassman a new level of alcoholic autonomy, but recent trends have seen the crackdown on alcohol extending beyond campus. The almighty SUDS force invaded Lafayette Townhomes just a few weeks ago, and the harmless gatherings at Campus View and College Park have been snuffed out by jittery landlords. 
A study printed in the Observer on September 19 is just a taste of things to come. Entitled "Alcohol and the American College" (and may the two never part), the Harvard study addressed the problem of binge drink­ing on college campuses. After learn­ing that binge is not some obscure mixed drink, I was interested to find that Notre Dame students are truly national leaders as our level of drunk­enness made the average college in the study seem like an elementary school. 
The study closed with a foreboding, "Can we accomplish our mission and fulfill our students' goals if we tolerate behavior that compromises the quality of students' educational and social lives? If that question leads to a com­mitment to act vigorously... against campus alcohol abuse, multiple approaches tailored to conditions on each campus will certainly be needed." 
I fear what a "tailored" approach might entail. If the admin wants to get drinking under control, the heavy­handed method is not the answer. Students are always going to drink. One must be realistic and address the issue by looking at exactly why we drink as much as we do. Two reasons: 1) we have nothing else to do, and 2) drinking . is the only way to break down the walls of sexual segregation that Notre Dame has so kindly constructed for us. Simply put, we're bored and we're horny. 
How does one remedy this? First, social alternatives would be needed­and I'm not talking about bowling and movies. It is not easy for underclass­men to get off campus and, unlike many student unions on other campus­es, there is no comfortable meeting/social area on NO's campus where one would want to spend a Friday night (hanging out in LaFortune is like hanging out in McDonald's with a big TV). So rather than do something more constructive and less abusive to our bodies, we sit in our rooms and drink. Then we go out and drink some more, and the next thing you know, it's binge city. 

As far as the opposite sex goes, it is no wonder that we've developed less than healthy drinking habits. The University puts every student in a fra-· ternity-like living atmosphere where sober interaction between the sexes is minimal. If the admin wants us to behave and drink like mature adults, residence life needs to stop treating us like children. 
The day I thought would never come, the issue I though would never rear its ugly head is here. Don't be blind to it. It is your apathy that they are banking on, those powers that would force you to live through a school year in South Bend without the aid of inebriation. A dry Notre Darne-l can barely get my pen to write the words. The times they are a-changing, and it's almost last call. So drink up. This one's on me. 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and 
Letters major. His column appears euery other Wednesday. 
page 8 
• ACCENT ASKS... 

If you had your own talk show, what would the topic of your first show be? 


"The pros and cons of a women's college." 
Angela Ginex Junior, McCandless 

• 
"Meet your fake I.D.!" 
Megan Taylor Senior, Off-Campus 


"Transvestites that leave their wives for 
Indonesian llamas." 
Sean Campbell Sophomore, Flanner 
"Sexy political figures." 
Patti Meagher Freshman, Holy Cross 



"Honey, I went away to school, but I'm still with you!'' 
Chirsca lndriolo Freshman, Regina 

"Transvestite ex-con makeovers." 
Julia Gillespie and Erica Bernhardt Freshmen, Knott 

The Observer/Kim Michalik and Dave Murphy 
:ACCE,NT 
Look 
By NORA MEANY 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

T
hey are a part of American culture. They are a reflection of human nature and the values. that accompany such. They are a platform for the emotionally unstable. They are an information source for the masses. They are entertainment. They are talk shows. 
It is an educated assumption that nearly everyone in the Notre Dame community has seen a talk show. (Those who argue against this hypothesis are obvious­ly lying to make themselves look better.) No doubt, many in the public sector watch them regularly. However, this is no small feat since the world of talk shows is virtually impossible to escape. They litter the morning and afternoon programming of the net­works with their syndicated saccharine chatfests. But in the opinion of Michael C. Thelen, a Sophomore from Morrissey, this is a great thing. 
"Talk shows are like life," he argues pensively. "There are those that talk, those that listen and the freaks up on the stage." Not unlike the spontaneity of day to day living, talk shows are an ever-changing establishment. To some, they serve as a metaphor for the trials and tribulations of life's experiences. Ricki Lake and her predecessors are the Gurus of conversa­tion to many, and serve to be forerunners in such a new medium of communication. As a service to the unsuspecting TV watcher, here is an easy-to-follow map of the South Bend syndication. 
9 am on Fox: "Uve with Regis & Kathie Lee" 
Premise: Jovial Regis and perky Kathie Lee inter­view celebrities as they shamelessly plug their new projects. Plus, not a day goes by without at least one mention of Kathie Lee's spawn, Cassidy and Cody. 
Average Topic: Interviews of popular television 
stars, B movie actors and musicians that could not get 
booked on MTV. 

Audience Control? The audience went wild on Monday when Regis put on some pantyhose and talked about getting a pedicure, but maybe they were just excited about an Early Bird Dinner they were get­ting after. Usually pretty tame. 
Fun Fact: For a twentieth reminder, Regis went to 
Notre Dame. 

Comments: Not a bad way to start your day. 
By ALYSSON COOK 
Assistant Accent Editor 

C
aryl and Marilyn, Rosie, Ricki, Montel. and Maury: these are just a few of the hottest daytime celebrities who join students and other really bored people with a lot of time on their hands in an "educational" look at what the "real world" is like. With the exception of the "Oprah Winfrey Show". most talk shows sensationalize tragedies and revere those of the human race lack­ing in class and/or morals. It seems that talk shows have taken over television and some of these shows are fun, but have talk shows gone too far? 
For example, on a recent "Maury Povich Show", the guest, a young mother, talked about how she left her sons in care of a convicted child molester (her father) because he had only molested girls and she thought the boys would be safe. 
As if that topic wasn't entertaining enough, Maury Povich also hosted the show where "Jason, an 18-year old from a small town in Ohio, stated that he was in love with Calvin. Calvin was having an affair with Jamie, Jason's twin sister. Jamie was attracted to Scott, who had sex with Calvin and Tiffanie. Tiffanie had sex with everyone except Jamie." (say what????) 
The popularity of talk shows is a given. The noise during the day in any dorm room is that of an audience's raucous involvement in a new twist to an already corny "My cat is a petiphliac and 



ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 

Talk•
1ng 
eonl with many. Audience Control? YES! Nobody stirred or talked re out of turn. It was almost like he was a former 
l. Commander in the United States Military. rs, Fun Fact: lley, he is a former Commander in the in United States Military! He graduated from the United 

States Naval Academy. Comments: Skip class for him if the topic is good. 
3 p.m. on ABC: "Jerry Springer" 
Premise: Jerry plucks the most outlandish people from trailer parks all over the U.S. and features them on his show. 
Average Topic: Two classics are "My Wife Weighs Over 900 Pounds" and "I Still Live in My Car!". The nd beauty of this is that it is not a joke. No one can make 
the up stuff liktl this. 
Audilmce Control: Everyone in the audience is prob­ably ashamed enough to stay quiet on an average day. But get a rowdy day, and watch the swears (and 
on chairs) fly! Fun Fact: Jerry Springer held relatively high politi­lflr cal oflice until he wrote a check to a prostitute. This 
m. just goes to prove that he holds a bond of common SllllSfl with most of his other guests. r:omments: llis show is exploitative and the guests are crass, hut Jerry Springer's eloquent "Final ICC Thoughts" makllS watching enjoyable. Trash, but in a 
good way. tat 
~n­
:J p.m. on CBS: "The Rosie O'Donnell Show" Premise: Like a Late Show, but during the day. not Average Topic: Interviews with both stars and aver­agtl people. Audience Control? Yes! She appeases them with 
ns. much interaction. g! I Fun Fact: She was on Gimmie A Break with Nell ave Carter and Joey "Woah" Lawrence at the beginning of 
her career. Comments: A nice, entertaining daytime treat. She's 
fun and witty, and does not shy away from insulting sit­lwrself on air. Not your average talk show, but a for rdreshing change. 
self 3 p.m. on NBC: "Hicki Lake" 
\OW Premise: Hicki recently changed her format to give oin tlw allusion of being more humane. Now she has a .k a nllW set. and she sits with the guests to show "emo-

I at!" episode of "Holanda". ' 1ese peoplo? It isn't as hard ! sidering those people get paid i !-expenses paid trip to the 
I tlw Inttmwt, one finds 1-800 w ever so helpful if a person to he a gunst or share his or >r a show. As one might have rtany of you might be interest­
"Rit:ki Lake", call 1-800-GO­
,it on "Maury Povich", call 1­tnfully, this will get the ball lt there who would like to be 
. limited only to daytime TV i·mw is familiar with such late ld Lnttnrman, Jay Leno, and 1se guys keep many students ' Papa .1o1m's, at the start of a 
lhows does not end there, how­~lows includes talk radio, polit­rs, and even Internet shows. ly sports oriented, and most ms provide these (an example 
·ee's WMC59). Listeners can r opinions or jnst chat. 11itical aiTIIiations are The 700 lligiously to the Christian Larry King Live" (Larry start­nrot campaign when Perot tiona! support" in tense times. But, considering that her guests are of the lowest common social denom­inator, this really doesn't help much. 
Averaged Topic: Ricki tackles such embarrassing topics such as broken engagements, estranged family relations and drug problems with little to no tact. For example, Monday's topic was "Cover Your Ears, You Don't Want to Know. Today I'll Tell You Why I Dumped You!!!!!" (in different colors, just for empha­sis.) A future topic, which will interest most Notre Dame men, is "Why Did You Take My Number if You Knew You Would Never Call Me!". No Comment. 
Audience Control? NO! The audience yells, cheers, boos and talks out of turn. Ricki has no control over them, as well as over her guests. After many censory dubs for swearing, Ricki has been known to exclaim, "We're on television. What would your mother think of that?" 
Fun Fact: She is married and pregnant. 

Comment: Exploitative. Base. Common. Ricki makes most watchers speechless, and also thankful for their mental stability. However, tune in just to hear teasers like, "After the commercial, we'll meet the man who told his girlfriend that he was only going. on a short vacation but actually moved away!" 
4 p.m. on CBS: "Oprah Winfrey" 
Premise: Oprah interviews guests and tackles tough topics with poise, grace and a little help from the audience. 
Average Topic: She has done trashy. She has done hip. She has done Hollywood. She has done it all! Audience Control? YES! They don't even breathe without her permission. 
Fun Facts: A perpetual philanthropist, she takes her staff to New York every year, and also helps to pay for staff weddings. "Her mother also lives in my city," says Megan Ferstenfeld, a Junior from Knott. And what city is that? Brookfield, Wisconsin. 
Comments: A classic never dies. But is it possible to have too much control. 
Final thoughts taken from Jerry Springer: With this extensive overview of some of the great syndication that South Bend has to offer, even the most television­impaired student can view with conviction. So, good luck, God bless and view with care. 
announced his candidacy on the show). If one is interested in a comic look at issues of any kind, Comedy Central's "Politically Incorrect" with Bill Maher is a great show. Bill Maher has a diversity of guests including movie stars, politicians, musi­cians, and writers, and the discussions most often lead to hilarious, heated debates. Another political talk show seen by many as controversial, yet in the spotlight, is Rush Limbaugh's show. Rush is both watched on TV and listened to on the radio and has a huge following of loyal subjects. 
An aspect of talk shows with which most people may not be familiar appears on the Internet. One can log in on-line and surf the net listening to or participating in the shows. A particularly interest­ing show found on-line is "Health Talk America". These folks discuss anything from plastic and reconstructive surgery to information on HIV, pedi­atrics, sleep disorders and anxiety. Basically, one can lind anything one seeks. 
Talk shows have become completely intertwined in the daily life of this country and are even becoming big in Europe. There is a wide variety of both trash and truth and all of it is seen as enter­tainment for some reason or another. 
It seems that for many daytime talk shows, the trash content is what has gone too far but, that's up to the viewers out there. For the Donahue fans, don't forget he will be here tomorrow to speak in the llesburgh Auditorium. Gee, does the excite­ment ever end? 
page 9 

• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
And still we watch... 
By RACHEL TORRES 
Assistant ~nt Editor 

Talk shows. We all watch them. We all love them.•.but why? What is it that keeps us locked to the set throughout the day and between classes watching our Maury, Ricki. and Oprah? From the early (gasp!) early morning lighthearted banter of Regis and Kathie Lee to the serious yet amusing Oprah in the late afternoon, we just can't get enough. Why? 
My guess would be that it Is a form of escapism. Is it just me, or does it seem as though once we turn on the tube and enter into talk show 1V land, we truly are on another planet? Like Bizarro world, perhaps? You knoW -that place where the evil Superman and the weirdo Lois Lane hang out? Uandom reference? Maybe, but just hear me out. 
Most of the guests on these shows are weird. There's really no getting around it, folks ... they're just plain weird! They amuse us, they amaze us, and they distract us. These hosts try to find the most obnox­ious guests and shamelessly exploit just how stupid they really are, and we LOVE it. • 
Granted,· some topics are far less cheesy than oth­ers. Some hosts, like Oprah and Montel try to stick to topics in which you need at least part of a brain to keep up, Heroin addiction is a serious thing, and that interview with JFK Jr. while he WII.B still single was completely riveting ... believe me, riveting. But, somehow these are not as fun to watch as the shows where ·the guests and audiences talk smack to each other; where chairs fly, tempers t1are, and whole chunk$ of audio need to be cut to avoid airing the gracious use of obscenities. Do they prep these guests before they go on? Ub, no I don't think so, But that's OK because it's this very kind of uninhibit­ed presentation that makes TV talk so watchable. Sometimes, it's bard to believe this stuff is real. but I've decided that even the best writers couldn't make it up. · 
Where else can we hear so much about the pathet· ic lives of others, but for talk shows? A HA! That's why we watch. I've stumbled onto something here. We are fascinated watching· Rickl's barely-literate guest panel talk about Dante's cheating ways on his girlfriend, Michelle with Michelle's older brother, Tyrone, who moonlights as a cross-dressing stripper. How can we possibly feel so stressed about that anatomy test when poor Michelle is dealing with st1·ess like this? We watch the weird people to make ourselves feel better. . 
Who can feel bad about being a few pounds over­weight when Jerry Springer shows us the 900 pound woman? How can we complain about the spineless, clueless, and thoughtless men we know when Hicki's guests are so much worse? The cheating and viscous cold-hearted women who traipse across the stages are somehow comforting to us, too. 
An  reason we watch? Pure comedy.  This  
,' ~tuf\'  rso inherently funny. we can't stop watch­ 
'  illg.  . . on't have cable or the Comedy Channel,  

but we do have the basics and can really make the most of it. We love to make fun of the stupid girl who will take Steve back even after he slept with her mother and bas escaped from prison. 
More than the guests or the audiences being funny, the hosts themselves are a boot. Jerry Springer ends every ahow with a three minute very prepared sch· piel called, "Sprillger's final thoughts." Jerry knows everything. Somehow, he pulls the whole hour of havoc into three< minutes of clear perspective and everything can be right with the world. HA! Every time I see Donahue. (well, before his last show,) I pic· ture Phil Hartman spoofing him on Saturday Night Uve. And, Ricki Lake ... well ... need I say more? 
Also; we get filled in on all of the new trends of youth today. Being tucked away in old South Bend, we don't catch on to the cool stuff like the latest fa.<ih­ions, or the coolest phrases. or for heaven's sake the stinking Macarena. (No, really, Oprah ... ! HBALLY haven'thad enough yet.) We can hear Ricki Lake ask things like, "Where's the proof in the pudding'!" I'll have to tuck that away for future use. 
One last thing I'd like to add about TV talk shows is that I really REALLY like the Rosie O'Donnell show. This it; v~cy funny. It's kind of like Dave Letterman meets dtt,ytime, And Rosie is funny in her own right. so we don't need to make fun of her to get a good laugh, lt's on CBS at 3 in the afternoon-check it out. 
So, it's OK to like talk shows. In fact, it can do us all some good. I'd prefer not to think of watching them as another way to procrii.Btinate. but rather a way t(llaugh at others and feel better about our· selves. 
Rachel Torres is a junior English and Communications maJor at Saint Mary's College. 

----------------~~~-­
-------------~­
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 10 
~ 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES SKYDIVEII  Are you interested in an internship in public relations and fundraising? Send cover letter and resume to Michelle Fean Regional Director of the American Diabetes Assoc. at  TICKETS NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  All Tix for Sale (Stud.-OSU, etc.) James x1658  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS.  FOR SALE: 1 GA FOR OHIO STATE & 1 GA FOR WASHINGTON. CALL 1-810-355-9140 & LEAVE MESSAGE. I WILL CALL  
Experience the ULTIMATE of all sports Training students for over 30 years 1 hour North of South Bend Call for class times GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS 1-800-351-6617 1-616-628-4892  115 Lafayette Blvd. Suite 501 South Bend, IN 46601. This position is 15­20hrs a week & intern has the choice of being paid or earning credit. Please send resumes by Oct. 15, 1996. Looking for ride to· BALTIMORE for FALL BREAK. will help pay for gas. call erin at x2721.  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$ x2646 FOR SALE: 1 OSU stud. ticket Call Steve with b.o.@ 232-7324 UW SA NEEDED Call Zane @ 2938 Need 2 OSU GA's  BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. $$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTV TIXS  YOU BACK. 4 OSU GAs 4 SALE. x0849 Need OSU GA tix. 259-2207 Will trade two GA Washington tick­ets for two GA Ohio State tickets. Call (919)286-8037(w) or (919)688-7852(h).  

Marketing Club Meeting  Ted X3439  ALL HOME GAMES.  
Wednesday at 6:00P.M. PART-TIME TELLER POSITIONS  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  272-6551  Need$$$  
Lower Lounge of COBA Valley American Bank is now taking  WILL BEAT ANY OFFERI  Need 1 Ohio St. student ticket.  Will pay cash 4  
Questions: 1-9330 applications for part-time teller posi- CALL 243-1287  Please call 243-9357  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  ND-OSUtix  
lions. Successful candidates will  BOUGHT & SOLD  Call Chad@  
possess excellent math skills and  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  Need 3 Washington tix bad  232-2378 -A.M.  1-800-Trade-it ext. 117  
DOG FOR ADOPTION: see per-enjoy customer contact. Previous  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  please call Nate at271-1846  288-2726-P.M.  
sonals cash handling and sales experience  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  For NO fan since 1943, seeing a  
is necessary. Must have excellent  ** 2 Ohio St. GA's **  n. d. tickets for sale  game in South Bend is as close to  
Entertainment Electronics Co. interpersonal and communication  WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  Call: Marc x1930 or Joey x1942  2711635  heaven as I'm gonna come! Need 2  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo) skills. We offer a variety of hours  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  to 5 tix for any home game to fulfill  
255-1172 and locations including prime-time  RON  2 OSU GAs FOR SALE  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  my dream. Call Ron COLLECT at  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2 positions with prime-time pay. Must  Call 4-2335 w/ bo  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  (612)559-4287...  
You break it, we'll fix itlll complete full-time teller training  ND Alum needs Ohio St. Tix (GAs).  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  and bless you!  
class that begins Oct. 7, 1996 and  Call (313)420-1208 or (212)250­ $$$$$$$$$$$$$  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and lasts three weeks. Hours for class  6513  Upto2 OSU  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  Need 2 Air F. GA's  
Breakfast Inn has space available Monday through Friday 8:00a.m. ­ tickets for sale  ALL HOME GAMES.  Amy 616-473-5825  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with 5:00p.m.  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  to the highest  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  
private baths, $70 -$90,  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP".............  bidder.  Need 2 Ohio State tickets. Will  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. We are currently taking applications  RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS ....  Senior student  Need Ohio State tickets.  trade 2 Wash. tickets and/or $.  
Toll Road, Exit #107, Tuesday through Thursday  tickets.  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  Leave message 800-582-3212  
1-800-418-9487 10:00am-3:00pm Please apply in  Need 1 OSU ticket  Call Bryan  X2465  
ILOST & FOUND I person: VALLEY AMERICAN BANK Human Resources  Call Greg at 2318 SELLING 1 Ohio State GA b/o  273-2812 $$$$$$$$$$$$$  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  OHIO STATE ticket for sale. call erin at x2721.  
~  101 N. Main St.  4-0931.  DESPERATELY SEEKING 4 OSU  (219)422-6088  
~  Lost Purdue weekend: light blue South Bend, IN  TICKETS. CALL KEVIN AT X1913  2 OSU GAs for sale  
~  rosary w/ silver cross. 20$ reward.  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES  Alum needs 2-4 AIR FORCE Tix for  NOT conv. stud. tix  
x-2081 TICKLER'S COMEDY CLUB  312-951-5008  Need OSU stud tix email Mark @  Family  Greg@ 634-1770  
~  
Now Hiring:  wach @voicenet.com  612-742-7638 Collect  
~ I  Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green * Waitress/Waiters stone. Great sentimental value. *Marketing Please call 4-3425 if found. * Ticket sales  BUYING N.D. FOOTBALL TICK­ETS, PUBLIC AND FACUL TV SEATS CALL 1-800-255-2850  $$$$$ Need 2 GA OSU tix. Rich Alum  ................................. TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ POTATO HOUSE NEEDS OSU TIX...PLEASE!! I Paul 243-9403  
I  Flexible work schedules.  847-473-6511  ED -PLEASE HELP!!!  IIIOSU GA GIVEAWAY CON­ 
~  Call232-7777 or apply in person  TICKETS WANTED-Will pay pre­ lv. message  TESTIIII  
~  123 W. Washington -above  mium price for 4 tickets for the  Family wants to come to a game for  4 OSU GA'S TO WINNER.  
~  ·····Losr-····· BW-3's  NO/Ohio State game on Sat. 28th.  For Sale: 2 OSU GA's  my senior year. Please help  Tell us why you need tix-be ere­ 
' I , ' I I  I lost a Corona keychainlbottle opener (with three keys) on it over FOR RENTthe Purdue weekend. If you found it, please call Paul at634-1519. REWARD. WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595WANTED  No student tickets please. "Dynamite" seats only. Call Bill/Anna atS00-457-0486. Grad Non-Degree Student needs GA tickets to any games. Call Val at 243-0798.  Call Rob (312)528-3542 Rich Alum Needs WA GA's (206)621-3485 SELLING Ohio State GA's b/o X1049  Would like 2-6 tickets for any home game. Please call Brian at287­4876. Thank you. ................................ $$ Please Helpll $$ 94 ND Alum Needs 1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  alive! I Best story wins. Call219 273 9747 anytime and ask for BoBo. SELLING: 1 O.S. STUD. TICK CALL RYAN 234-1 078  
I  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  NEED 2 or 3 GAs for WASHING- Ohio St and Wash- NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ 
I  SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING-Need a place to stay on football Anyone interested in coaching the weekends?  312.404.4903  TON Call Ed 243-9058  Call Joanne­516-742-1923 (night)  ENTSI CALLX1932  
I I I I I  synchronized swimming team, please contact Beth at x2725. Must Furnished apartment for short term have experience, enthusiasm and rent. Full kitchen, living room, two be willing to volunteer time and bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call287­effort. 4876. NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Need Ohio State tix. Willing to buy or trade. Call Mall 271-3683 Need Ohio St. GA's. Buy or trade Matt-271-3683 sold OSU Was AF Pill Rut stu  ********NEED OSU STD TIX CALL FRED 3744********* ..................................... FOR SALE: 4 OSU student tix  or 212-415-3009 (day) Need GA's for Air Force, Pill & Rutgers. Call Jay @ 287-3736 I need 6 OSU tickets Will pay high prices or  NEED: 4 GA'S for Air Force for my FAMILY. Chris x0788 WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  
i  Positions are now availalbe at ND-SMC EVENTS. National Parks, Forests & Wildlife IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK-Preserves. Excellent benefits + ENDS.  tix2775931 Need 2 OSU GA's For Parents  call Jenny @ 687-8435 ......................................  will trade BULLS tickets! Call Jason@ x1225  Need 4 Air Force Tix Call Frank Walters 18002439683  
I  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call Rob x1902  I have OSU GA. Brett232-7718  BAND PARENTSII  Leave name and # ­will pay top $.  
~  extN55848 243-0658.  need 4 GA Air Force  
~  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  2 WASH GA's 4 SALE-b/o  call collect  I NEED 1 Wash. student ticket.  
~  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT AFFORDABLE THREE ROOM  Cristina@x2339  CALLx2005  (414) 208-1632  PLEASE call Amber at x4292.  
-Students Needed! Fishing OFFICE IN CONVENIENT LOCA- 
t •  Industry. Earn up to $3,000­TION ACROSS FROM SOUTH $6,000+ per month. Room and BEND, DOWNTOWN U.S. POST Boardl Transportation! Male or OFFICE. JOIN A CPA AND Female. No experience necessary. ATTORNEY, PRESENT TENANTS,  WANTED 2 GAs for Air Force Carriex2344  Need OSU stud. or GA tix. Call Seen at 633-4855  N.D. Football Tix-Buy/Sell 674-7645 2 Wash GA's  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE or PITT. CALL SEAN x-3311 I need wash. stud. and/or ga's  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 IN THIS HISTORICAL HOUSE.  Seeking tickets for OHIO St.,  4 OSU GA's for sale  Best Offer.  call Nick 232-9944  
GREAT FOR BEGINNING PRO­ WASHINGTON, PITT.  Accepting offers  1-612-427-3444  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­FESSIONAL. FOR MORE INFOR- Call Greg 219-273-1007  x1503 or  
Teach basic conversational English MATION, CALL219-233-7928.  273-2578  Need Wash Stud. or GA. Call Molly  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  NEEDED: One Wash. GA or con- I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  atX0836  
teaching certificate or European  verted STUDENT tile. Will pay$$$  G.A.s -I need 4 PITT G.A.'s • Call  
languages required. Inexpensive 1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  Kristin 4838  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  Shawn 215-676-6685  OSU GA for sale -Best offer  
Room & Board + other benefits. For CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Ohio State Tix  Call 273-8384  
info. call: 272-6306  Help! I need 7 GAISTU tix for  Need 4 OSU stud tix  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  PITT.Contact Justin @x1871  Student ticket for sale. Please call  Call Doug@243-9224  Need 1 Washington student  
FOR SALEHUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  Need 3(or2) PITT TIX(Stu!GA)  243-9381 and leave your name, number, and price  1 OSU GA for sale  ticket. Please help! Call Diana @ 243-9432  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  Will Trade 2 AF TIX &/or Pay$  quote.  Call Mike@243-9224  
(813)360-2243. FOR SALE  Call4-1628  $•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$•$  WILL TRADE PITT, RUTGERS,  
1 OSUGA  FOR SALE  AND/OR $$$ FOR 2 WASH TIX  
call X1276 b/o  DESPERATE for 3 Wash tix. GA or  1 OSU GA. best offer  GA OR STUD KEVIN 634-3286  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  stud tix turned into GA thru  Needed: Ohio St. GA's Call Meg at  Call Aaron 634-2058  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  exchange. Offering handsome  232-7839  
SellS Trips & Go Freel Bahamas FREE DOGGIEII see personals  reward. Call Ryan @ 4-3592.  Need 1 OSU ticket  NEED 2 Ohio State GA's  

Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  ***HAVE 1 OSU GA ***  Student or GA  and Ohio State Student Tix  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $1191  300 videogame system: w/2 con- Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  CALL MATT 312-296-0671  Please call Darryl @x4264  and Washington Student Tix  
www.springbreaktravel.com  trollers, 11 games including  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  PLEASE CALL USIII  x4856  
1-800-678-6386  Wallenstein 3D & Panzer General.  SELLING (1) converted OSU  G.A.'s FOR SALE  
$150. 234-8129  NEED 2 GAs for Washington game!  GA.sec32tor$175.  @0538  NDvs.OSU  4sale: OSU stu tix @1207  
I I I I I  ***FREE TRIPS & CASH*** Find out how hundreds of student representatives are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and  ................................ Real Men Wear Kilts Order your Irish Kilt now! Call288-0116................................  Call Megan at 243-9047 -Wanted OSU Student Tix-­Who wants to sit in GA anyway? Just supply the ticket and I'll worry about the rest. $$$$  FOR SALE: 1 OHIO STATE GA. PLEASE CALL X4-4985. WILL TAKE BEST OFFER.  call 634-1708 FOR SALE 1 OSU STU TICKET CALL 4-1881 b/o  4sale: osu gas @ 1225 OSU GA'slstu for sale, x0500 cheapest on the market!  
I  travel free! Cancun, Bahamas,  Call  4-3005 and ask for Player  KATE NEEDS 2 WASH. TIXI  
I  Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  1 STUD. TICKET w/ID  WANT TO GO TO OHIO STATE  CALL ANYTIME -284-5456  
I  CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS  BID by Thurs. 634-1394  2 OSU GA Tix 4-Sale  GAME? I have 1 STUDENT TICK­ OSU tiks 4 sale. Call288-2917,  
I I I  '  ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI  Laptop for Sale! 486 with Microsoft Office.  Call 272-5138 Leave offer TRADE 4 PITT GA'S & $ FOR  ET for sale. Call Dylan at x2173 in interested. AM TAKING BEST OFFERS.  1 OSU GA FOR SALE B/0 NOTENDZONE CALL DAVE 4-4040  Need OSU tix for alum! Top$ Call Kevin@ 4·3170  
I I  LARGE REAL ESTATE CO NR.  Call 273-6071 LAPTOP 4 SALE  OSU TIX MATT 282-4213. 2 Stud OSU TIX  1 OSU Student ticket 4 sale Call Dave at288-9102  OSU GA for sale to highest bid. 284-4163  OSU student ticket 4sale 2n-4273 **For Sale** 4 OSU Stud. Tix.  
CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE  Compac 486 Subnotebook  x2626 or x2597  All NO St. tix for sale (with OSU  Same section. Call x1480. Leave  
PERSON FOR PART-TIME  $1000 b/o call Ken 4-2089  gamel). Call Arpita at 4-4425 or  ND Parents need tickets for OSU  b/o  
RECEPTIONIST POSITION.  I need 2 Air Force GA's. Will pay  1-9351.  game! Please call (630)810-0710  
HOURS ARE  1984 4-door Honda Accord  well. Call Becky at X3792.  
5 TO 7PM M-F, 9 TO 1PM SAT.  Runs PERFECTLY and I'm Selling  If you need 2 OSU student tickets,  Need 1 WASH stud ticket  2 OSU Stud. Tix 4-sale x0847  
PHONE EXP A MUST.  Cheap.  Need 3 Rutgers GA's  we have them!!!  will trade my OSU ticket or pay $  
$7/HOUR 243-9555  Call Sebastian @ 273-3179  Call Erik @3807  Chris 282-4213  Melissa x1339  see ClASS I page 14  


page 11 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
..-I I 

Professional Development l 
I 

Seminar Series 
''Market Research'' 
i 
' 


Wednesday, September 25 7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo 
•Speaker: Steve Hayes, Business Center Librarian 
•This is the second in a series of four seminars which will take place throughout the semester as 
a means of helping Notre Dame 
students polish professional skills 
and at the same time become 
familiar with basic business principles 
•
All majors encouraged to attend! 

•Other 
Seminar topics to be covered this semester: 

•
Business Communication & Etiquette 

•
Business Principles for Nonbusiness Majors 




•Public Speaking 
This event is brought to you by the 
-

Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
r----~­
~ -------------~--~----­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll. 

Purdue escapes investigation unscathed 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
The NCAA, unable to com­ment on specific investigations, hinted strongly on Tuesday that anonymous allegations against the Purdue men's bas­ketball program never went beyond an initial inquiry. 
An NCAA spokesman sup­ported the university's as­sertion that it had not received official notification that would be required if the school were the target of a full investiga­tion. 
"I've seen some articles where Purdue indicated it had not received that letter, which is how we start an in­vestigation, and I can confirm that's correct," said David Berst, the NCAA director of enforcement. 
"All that means is there is no NCAA investigation. We don't call those (preliminary inquiries) investigations. We simply call that trying to col­lect information." 
He would not say whether the NCAA had looked into the allegations short of a full investigation. 
"I can confirm the institution has not received our letter," he said. "The reason I'm hedg­ing is I can't provide new information under our proce­dures. I can only confirm what has already come out, and what Purdue said is accurate." 
Over the weekend, CBS Sports reported that the Purdue men's basketball pro­gram was being investigated for unspecified reasons, but the university denied the report. 
Earlier, allegations were lev­eled in an anonymous letter sent to the NCAA and to news media. And last spring, after she was fired, former Purdue women's basketball coach Lin Dunn filed a grievance with the university, alleging violations of NCAA rules in the men's program. 

"I receive anonymous and other allegations every day. We probably receive anywhere from 10-20 pieces of informa­tion regarding someone's con­cern of violations," Berst said. 
"We evaluate the informa­tion to determine if it appears to be reliable and specific, and if there is some easy way to test the credibility of the infor­mation," he said of anonymous tips. 
He said the NCAA may con­tact the school or individuals involved, but if a full in­vestigation is warranted, the NCAA will send a "letter of preliminary inquiry" notifying them of the allegations. 
The Fort Wayne Journal Gazette reported Sunday that Dunn said her grievance included an assertion that the women's program "was held to a higher standard of con­duct in regard to reporting of and adhering to NCAA rules." 
Dunn's team was sanctioned by the NCAA in 1995 for minor violations. 
She has denied sending the anonymous letter to the NCAA. 
Purdue spokesman Jim Vruggink said that he was not aware of the allegations con­tained in Dunn's grievance. 
Dunn said she had spoken with someone with Purdue about her "knowledge of alle­gations and concerns," but that no one from the athletic department had contacted her. 
Vruggink said the school hired a law firm to investigate the allegations and found them to be untrue. He described the letter as a hoax. 
An NCAA investigatiQn that began in 1994 led to 11 sec­ondary recruiting infractions 
Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 


Is Now• Open 
1n 
• 
Wilshire Plaza 
(Between Sam's Club & Waccamaw) 
Now you can shop along Grape Road and eat at BLIMPIE. Once you have tasted one of our delicious subs, there's no turning back! Our subs are made with choice meats, real dairy cheese, and crisp vegetables. We make hot subs, cold subs and fresh garden salads, so come by and savor the BLIMPIE difference. Your world will never be the same! 
~O%D~cou~onc~erin~ 
1 Please present this coupon before ordering. Not valid if 1 I altered or duplicated. One order per coupon. One coupon per 
customer per visit. Customer must pay any sales tax due. Not IIgood in combination with any other offer. Cash value 1/100 of 11 1¢. Offer expires 11/30/96. 
Offer good at: 5626 Grape Road I I ~ 243·1733, rax243·1734 I I o 1t4-a. ka~ f#~J-,.. I 
~ t:! . .JSC,IIS&ULADS ~
L 

and reprimands for Dunn and assistant coach MaChelle Joseph, who also was fired in March. 
"It has been determined that the long-term future of our women's basketball program will be best served under new leadership," athletic director Morgan Burke said at that time. 
In April, Purdue replaced Dunn with Nell Fortner, an assistant at Louisiana Tech 
SOUL FOR REAL 
For Life 

from 1990-95 and an assistant at Stephen F. Austin for four years before that. 
Hired in 1987, Dunn com­piled a 206-68 record, in­cluding a 20-11 mark last sea­son and a first-round loss to Notre Dame in the NCAA tour­nament. The Boilermakers made the NCAA tournament in seven of Dunn's nine seasons and won Big Ten titles in 1991, 1994 and 1995. The 1994 team reached the NCAA Final Four. 
THE REGULATORS 
Richard Bachman 
DuHon-HC 
l.ist24.95 
WEEZER 
Pinker1on 

SEVEN THE USUAL SUSPECTS 
Turner PolyGram 
Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bpwling Club -All inter­ested hi the Bowling Club. a general information rnef;lting wil\w;;be held. on Monday. §ep~mber 30•at 6 p~m. in the 
7:3Q p:lfi. in 123 Nieuland.' 
M L  .  mery;: ThiHI.ter in e. If interested and  
'~<> att~nd, caUJasrm at With question$;'.).;·. . . ·:· ..._,.. ~:<::f::~>-=~:  
ci~btream . Anyofi&!in~ ed in eit.fier, there will  
Jn~ot ation'  ~  .. nfl.l.{l:nd.or'­meetingon  
·tvtp~  a.)l't~\§~~tem]J~.l'  3~  at  

B your check bookif you 1 'te .in rest d~·mc:. · · 


THE GREEN MILE BOXED SET Stephen King -Signet -Set l.ist 18.84 

~---~~ --~ 
---------------------~~------------------~-------~~~ 
Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• NFL 
Rough ride for Cowboys' S01ith 

page 13 

By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associatod Pross Writor 
IHVING, Texas 

Emmitt Smith has bruised ribs, a sore neck, a sore knee, and a sore ankle. 
lie's averaging only 3.3 yards per carry. gainnd just 25 yards in his last game and is already 140 yards behind Washington's Tnrry Allen for the NFL rushing lnad. 
The NFL's four-time leading rusher and the once-fearsome Dallas Cowboys running game have hit the wall one-fourth of the way into the season. 
Coach Barry Switzer has decided Smith needs to be rest­ed during games until he gets baek to full strength. 
"Emmitt is not well and there is no question in my mind that lw is not 100 percent," Switzer said on Tuesday. "It would probably help him to play Sherman Williams some." 
This change in the running game will start Monday night at Philadelphia, when the 1-3 Cowboys try to refloat their sinking ship. 
Smith admits he is plagued by nagging pains. 
"I still have things bothering me," Smith said. ''I'm not used to being banged up this early in the season." 
Smith said another problem with the Dallas running game is "we're seeing a Jot of eight­man fronts, because teams feel our passing game is not as strong as it once was." 
Switzer added, "We have to run the football, and if we don't, we don't have a chance. Some teams pass the ball to set up the run. We run to set up the pass." 
The passing game suffered another blow on Monday when starting wide receiver Kevin Williams was diagnosed with a broken foot. Already out have been Michael Irvin, suspended for the first five games, and tight end Jay Novacek (back). 
Without his most reliable peo­ple, Troy Aikman has struggled and the Cowboys have scored only 64 points in four games, with 27 coming in the victory, over the Giants. Another 24 were in a Week 3 one-point home loss to Indianapolis in which Dallas blew an 18-point lead. 
The Cowboys will be playing a 
Colts undefeated, but in-poor health
Philadelphia team still steaming from a 30-11 loss in the 1995 playoffs as Dallas began its march to the Super Bowl. 
Eagles coach Ray Rhodes took acception to a Switzer's postgame remark that the Cowboys kicked the Eagles' rumps. Rhodes promised retri­bution somewhere down the line. 
Switzer was reminded of that promise on Tuesday. 
"That's just his demeanor, that's how he motivates his team," Switzer said. "I've been hearing payback since I was in junior high school." 
Switzer said the game against the Eagles is "very important. It's a division game. We would have liked to go through our first five games at least 3-2, but now we'd like to be 2-3 before we take our break." 
Switzer said he doubted the Cowboys will try to sign an­other receiver before Monday night because of the bye next week and the return of Irvin for the sixth game of the season. 
"I doubt if there is a receiver out there who could help us," Switzer said. "Besides, we get Mike back next week." 

By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press Writer 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Battered, bruised and unde­feated, the Indianapolis Colts were jubiliant Tuesday over their upcoming bye week. 
"This team needs it big­time," coach Lindy Infante said Tuesday of the bye. 
Infante is giving his players three days off this week and plans only light work the rest of the week before his injury­plagued team begins serious preparations for its next game on Oct. 6 at Buffalo. 
"We're not even going to run today," he said before meeting briefly with the players and telling them to report back Friday morning for another meeting. 
The Colts (4-0) have defeated Super Bowl champion Dallas and Miami in successive games despite having five or more starters sidelined with injuries in each game. The injury list grew longer during Monday's 10-6 victory over Miami when linebackers Stephen Grant and Quentin Coryatt both were lost on the same play in the first quarter. 
Defensive linemen Tony McCoy, who has battled in­juries all season without miss­ing a start, doesn't believe the bye will result in any loss of momentum for the AFC East leaders. 
"The type of leadership that we have on this team, I think the off week will not hurt us. We need to get people healed," McCoy said. "The bye week comes to us at a good time for us to step back, re­evaluate what we've done the last four weeks, and check out the negative things." 
Infante agreed. 
"We definitely need to be able to sit down and lick our wounds, and get well. If we had to go and play another game this Sunday, we would 
-lower lounge 
of..._~~.~..... 
I 

be awfully thin, especially at  
linebacker. So this (the bye)  
comes at a very, very oppor­ 
tune time."  
The status of Grant, Coryatt  
and reserve linebacker  
Sammie Burroughs was uncer­ 
tain because of injuries they  
sustained Monday. Meanwhile,  
he said he was optimistic that  
Marshall Faulk and Ellis  
Johnson would be able to play  
against the Bills. Faulk, the  
team's top offensive weapon  
the past two years, has missed  
the last two games with a dis­ 
located toe. Johnson, who had  
two concussions during the  
preseason, was cleared to re­ 
sume practice on Monday.  
Infante says the number of  
injuries that have struck his  
team since training camp  
opened in mid-July is un­ 
precedented in his 28-year  
coaching career.  
"I've had teams where key  
guys have gone down from  
time to time, but I've never  
been around a place where  
we've had so many injuries,  
and they just seem to keep  
mounting up. At many places  
that would be something that  
would keep a team from win­ 
ning, but here when guys go  
down, guys will step in and  
just keep going," Infante said.  
Despite the injuries, the Colts  
head into the bye off their top  
performance of the season.  
Indianapolis held Miami,  
which was second in the  
league with a 156-yard aver­ 
age, to only 28 yards rushing  
on 15 carries.  
The Dolphins were leading  
the league in rushing defense  
with a 43.3 average, but the  
Colts rushed for a season-high  
171 yards on 32 carries.  
"A lot of teams could have  
used all those injuries as an  
excuse over the last couple of  
weeks. This team has not done  
that," Infante said.  
He also discounted the possi­ 
bility the victory over Miami  
was tainted because the  
Dolphins lost Dan Marino with  
an ankle injury in the first  
quarter.  
"Maybe they didn't have  
Marino, but we also didn't  
have five of our defensive  •I  
starters," Infante said. "Them  j  
not having Marino didn't  
change their running game.  
When you hold a team that's  
running for 150 yards, or  
something like that, to 28  
yards, Marino wouldn't have  
changed that."  .l  

..· . . 

you you vvould__ 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh· 
computers, you can start doing whatever 
it is you want to do. And to make it even 
easier for you to purchase a Mac: apply 
for the Apple· Computer Loan. So you can 
take home a Mac, and you won't have to 
make a payment for 90 days~ How do 
you get started? Just visit your campus 
computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
(Leave your mark. 
'fl/fi-r I'Xf>ire.< lhto/H•r II. 1996. No f><!J'II/1'111 ofillltnst or prmcijxtlwi/1 h<• ntflltr"l for 90 tk!J>. /11/en~<l accrllill!i d11ri11R /hi< 9/J~dfl)' [><•riod will he addttllo tlx• f>nilcl{><tlmllill'llllxttr 111/m·st. wb1cb u·tll /x• mdllli<<imtlx• re{><(l'/111?11 .ll~<Yiule. fhr <Xtllltj>le. the 111011/b of~k!J' 1996 had <Ill inkn•·t mk• of12.15% ll'ilh an .~mlllllil~rmttax<' Rat<• IAPR) of/.1.93% AmolllhiJ'{><IJ'III<?II ol$32.116/rJr the Po11~r Mil<·-5260 ·')'Siem i< 1111 estimate h<Lil•d 011 a total/mil 11111011111 of$1.9/3.83. wlm:h md111k•.< a .<alllf>le p11rcht~•· prtcl' of$1.799 a11d a (>% !lXIII ongillalwnfi'e. Interest i< mrit1hle lxl.<"l 011/h<• !'rime Rate''·' reported 011/be 5/b lmsi11e.~< tifl)' ofth<· mo11tb 111 Tht'W.ul Streel )oumal. p/1<1" .<(>twill of}.9% Molllh(J'{><(J'/111?1/ andAPR sbo1111 t<«IIIII<'S defi-rmelll ofj>rillcipal anddoes no/ i11clude stale or /oat/ sa/,.,· kL\' 7'be Af>l>le l.hmj>lll<'r /iKm ht~<rmli-,Jitlr ilxmlt'rlllll'ilh 110 Pl'f!{><tJ'm<•niJwtutl~· a11d ~· suh;iocl to cm/ilt/Pf»YIIYII. Molllh(J'/k(J'mtwls 111/J.J'I'Il~J' depmd­"lii nllliCitull mmj>uler .11>1<111 prt<>•s. tota//omltlll/01/nt<..11ak mulloettl .lllies laws t1nd" clxlll/11' mth<•molllh(J' tYiritthle interest mle. ©1996 Apple Comfmler. Inc All 'l!lhls reserm/. Af>p/1', th<· Apple logo. .1/tiC t1nd Mtttilllosh are rt'IILI'II'I'!titmdt•llutrks of:lpp/e l.r/11/fllller. Inc. Pou~r Mac i< a trademark ofApple Ghmpuler. lr..-. All ,1/acm/ll<h amlf>lllm· al'l' deswmllo be am·."iblt•lollulil'llilllll,· with tk<ttbili(Jc 7b i<Ymlmore (US. on(J•J. w/1 800~600~78011 or m·H00-755~0601. 

Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 COMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable 
Pr1werf'C"60/I/20 MHri/6MB RAM PrJwerPC"60]el/20 MHri/6MB RAM 1.2GBI4XCD-ROM/15"di.<play /.6GB/8X CD-ROM/15"display 
Free one-year Apple warranty. 
USED FURNITURE Household Items -Clothing 
The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 10% Monday -Saturday Student & Faculty
#288-2539 
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. Discount With I.D. 
~---~P-~~::..._e_1_4____-_-_~_-_-_-_____________T::...:h::.:e:.....:O::.:b=-=s=erv:....:...=::er:._•_:S::..:P=--0-=--=R:..::.T=-=S-------------WI-e_d_n_es_da-=-y,-,_Se...:..p_te_m_b_~_r2_5_-,_1_99_6 
1
I Class 
l continued from page 10 
st. bklets 4 sale. Leave messg. @271­2845. 
1 OSU GA 4 SALE CALL MIKE@ 234-8129 W/ B/0, LEAVE OFFER ON MACH. 
I NEED OHIO ST, WASH. & AF GA's.272­6306 
PERSONAL 
COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
The highest quality full-color 
copies are now available at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone #631-COPY 
SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING-Anyone interested please come September 30th for a meeting at the Rock at 8 p.m. 
0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 in the LaFortune Student Center Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Wed. 7:30am -Midnight Thur. 7:30am -Midnight Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm Sun. Noon -Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 
SABOR LATINO 
Saturday 9/28 10pm 
atthe C S C 
SABOR LATINO 
DOUG MCKENNA of GEORGE AND THE FREEKS Playing Wed. nights at CJ's Pub 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS Jazzman's--Friday-1 0:30pm 18 and Under! 18 and Under! 
PLEASE ADOPT MY DOG I! I don't want to send her to the pound, but I'm facing eviction. She is very friendly, housetrained, small (30 lbs.), has shots, doesn't shed. If you take her till May, I'll assume ownership after 271-9432 
SENIORSIII Come to the Post-Graduate Volunteer & Service Fair TONIGHT at STEPAN CENTER from 7-9 p.m. Over 65 organiza-tions will have representatives at 

Chestnut House B&B, 
St. Joseph, MI. 
Elegantly decorated home overlooking LakeMichiganandonly40mins.fromND. Luxuriate in double whirlpools, private baths, full breakfasts & hors d'oeuvres served fireside. 
(616) 983-7413. 
Help! I need a senior bar parking pass for OSU. Will trade JACC pass plus money. Please call Allison at243-9038. 
EARN MONEYII!!I Please help me with my senior comprehen­sive. I need to interview 10 people who grew up in single parent homes between the ages of 5 and 15. A reward for this con­fidential interview will be granted. Please call Caroline at 243-9264 
MARKETING CLUB MTG Tonight!II Wed. 25th 

6:00 pm--lower lounge of COBA 
Sign up for committees! $10 dues ?'s 1-9330 

Hey Gorgeous, Find anymore cheap real estate? Know what? It's mallet time .... SOMEBODY PLEASE HIT ME IN THE HEAD WITH A MALLET NOW!! Love, me 
humanistic studies majors, unite! Check out HUST E-mail. 
"Sorry, guys. It's my anniversary. But I guess you can come and play mini-golf with us if you really want to." 
AS A WISE MAN ONCE SAID, ENOUGH!!! 
The bus will stop in Rome. Yee-haw. Taco Bell. Run for the border. 
My munchkin has a second name. It's d-o­n-u-t. 
Lunar eclipse? Sounds like a reason to party to me. 
alex, are you reading these? ifso, know that you and your bug are always welcome at my personal copy shop. No charge. Ever. How about some soup? 
This time last year, 
it was darts and beer. 
But now a year later ... 
STRESS, JUST PURE STRESS. 12 DAYS 
Nelson will dominate the Managers football Game. 
Props to 5a: Past Present and honorary members. 
Belle is my idol! !I 
Ryan, !will get you a basketball, I promise. I'm just really lazy. Specializing in party parisiteremoval. 
• 
MlB

Clemens h d
Onore 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press Writer 

BOSTON 
On the day when the Red Sox honored Roger Clemens for his second 20-strikeout perfor­mance, the three-time Cy Young Award winner said he may have pitched his last game for Boston. 
''I'm going to go about my work as if I'm going to pitch Saturday. If the game is mean­ingless, then I have to sit back and listen to what I've been advised," Clemens said before Tuesday night's game against Baltimore. "I want to play four more years, and I need to think about that." 
Clemens, who has spent his entire 13-year career with the Red Sox, is eligible to become a free agent at the end of the season. He has said he would like to stay in Boston, but the team has a policy against giv­ing more than two guaranteed years to pitchers. 
"It's got nothing to do with my age. I can pitch till I'm 45 with my work habits if I want­ed to. I've got four reasons why I don't," he said, a refer­ence to his kids. "I know what I can do. There's no reason to even discuss that." 
Clemens, who made $5.5 million this season, has said the only other place he would play is Houston, his hometown. He might also consider pitch­ing for the Texas Rangers, where his idol Nolan Ryan fin­ished his career. 
''I've never been in this po­
sition. I've never had to worry 
about the uncertainty of not 
having a contract," he said. 
FootbaII 
continued from page 16 
Irish Notes: The punt coverage unit is being bolstered in preparation 
for a tough OSU return gang. The starting linebacking corps of Berry, Tatum, Cobbins, and 
Minor will aid the special teams unit, as well as fullback Marc Edwards, now at 100 percent after playing through an injury against Texas. The Buckeyes returned a punt for a touch­down with eight men on the field earlier this season. 
Expect more of the same against Ohio State from the Irish offense. The team has been working on running the ball between the tackles, and also will look for continued sue­cess with short screen passes and hitch patterns. 
The offensive backfield can't seem to stay healthy for long. 
The latest casualty is Jamie Spencer, who has yet to prac­tice this week with an ankle sprain. If he can see any action tomorrow, he will most likely b 'l bl S d I 
e ava1 a e on atur ay. n 
his absence, Robert Farmer and Joey Goodspeed took snaps at fullback. 
Jim Sanson, fresh off his per­formance in Austin, has per­formed this week in practice. 
His holder, Hunter Smith, has noticed the difference. "(Sanson)'s come into his own this week. He's really killing the ball." 
Deke Cooper, according to Holtz, is being given a solid look to play quality minutes at strong safety. As off now, the starter is still Benny Guilbeaux. 
The jury is still out on who will start against OSU at left guard, Jeremy Akers or Jerry Wisne. Both are taking snaps with the first unit, and the coaching staff expects both lineman to play on Saturday. 
Golf 

continued from page 16 
At the Butler tournament Tuesday, a second-round surge by Marquette University was enough to win the title for the Golden Eagles. 
Wisconsin-Green Bay led after each of the first two rounds, but faltered with a final-round 321 to finish in a three-way tie for second place in the tournament, held at Eagle Creek Golf Course in Indianapolis. 
Cincinnati earned runner-up status based on the scores of each team's fifth player, edg­ing Dayton. 
Notre Dame's final round score allowed the Irish to slip into fifth place, ahead of Northern Illinois, which had led Notre Dame by seven strokes before posting a final­round 325. 
Rounding out the Irish scor­ing were Doug Diemer, who carded a 234, and Brad Hardin. who shot a 235. 
Hardin shot a 73 in the sec­ond round, the top individual round score for the Irish. Hardin's 73 was bested by just eight other golfers in the tour­nament. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
the Fair. See you there! Cheep!! Call X-1858 
A POST-GRADUATE VOLUNTEER & Ruma-SERVICE FAIR-tonight-at Stepan You are a perpetual provider of warmth Center-through chocolate, scampi and affection. 
7-9 p.m. Be part of THE great tradition for Grazie. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students! -Beatrice 


Wednesday, September 25, I996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON .. ~ 
l J 



• OF INTEREST The St. Thomas More Society is sponsoring a lecture by Rev. James Stajkowski, MS, "The story of LaSalette," today at 12:15 p.m. in the Law School auditorium. An African r..J.m by Dani Kouyate, "Keita," will be shown today at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo. Admission is a $1 donation. It is sponsored by the African Students' Association. A post-graduate service and volunteer fair will be held today from 7 to 9 p.m. in Stepan Center. The fair will host 63 service groups from all over the country. Call Maureen Skurski at the CSC with questions.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH SOUTH BeefStew with Biscuits Cream of Broccoli Soup .. Creole Soup Turkey GrUl Sandwich · Chicken Teriyaki Sandwich Chicken Strips Chicken Fajita Pizzas M&M Cookies Beef Tacos Baked Chicken Cheese Manicotti Spanish Rice  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
~-------------------------,:tr------------------------,
0 
()

i~t. HR':li LEG OF THE 
1 WON'T B£ PARJICI­
...i 
0 
c

"IRON MAN" TE.Af"\·C>UtlOING 
PA.TING BECI\USE M'(
® 

E~ER.CI~E lS ATE.N·MILE 
"':t 

TEI\MWOP..K SKILLS 
c 

SWif-\, I THINK. c;:;::J 
ARE ALREADY E'1.CELLENT.
.. 0 c 
... 
t---~--t8 
~....,.._en 

WHY NOT TRY A NATURAL HIGH?? 

-LAUGHING ... EATING A HOT FUDGE SUNDAE ... HUGGING... THE SUNSET ... ATTEND MASS ... FEEDING THE 
... DANCING ... WINDSURFING ... FLYING A KITE ... -BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL ... HAVE A PILLOW FIGHT ... -BUILD A SNOWMAN ... LIGHT A CANDLE AT THE GROTTO ... 
-DO SOMETHING FOR OTHERS ... ATTEND AN ATHLETIC EVENT... -WALK AROUND THE LAKE ... TALK WITH A FRIEND-
Sponsored By The Office Of Alcohol And Drug Education 
30 Ancient Phoenician city 31 Once more 32 ---majeste 35 Romanov leader 36 Not taped 37 "You don't say!" 38 Skid row type 
39 "The Bridges of Madison County" co-star 
40 Not lead 
41 Gender: Abbr. 44 Carried the day 

HAPPY BIRTHUA \'! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Making overdue ciHIIlg~' 111 your professional and per,onal life 1.1.tll do wonders for your energy and pro­ductivity. Consi<.ler moving your base of operatiom early in 1997. New projects or business associates will lead to fresh linancial gains! A su111rising revelation could alter !he direction of your life. When !he weather is nice. spend as much time as possible outdoors. An older romantic admirer will hring ou\ the hest in you. Repay love with loyalty. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: TV ituerviewer Bar­bara Walters, "Melrose Place" star Heather Locklear. actor Christopher Reeve, Chicago Bull Scottie Pippen. 
ARIES (March 21-Arril 19): Financial security cnuld he upper­most in your thoughts now. Let go of an emotionally unsatisfying rela­tionship. In business, you can suc­ceed where others have failed. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If unharpy. do something about it. Starting a health and exercise pro­gram will introduce you to a whole new circle of friends. Be careful not to go overboard if dieting. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emotions tun high at home. Focus on your financial assets and earning power. Do what is best for you. not vour friends. The stock market can he an intimidating place for an amateur. 
CANCER (June 21-July 221: Enjoy your turn in the limelight, bui do not let the attention go 10 your head. Open your heart to your loved ones. Do everything you can to reas­sure a child who feels disliked. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22}: Be will­ing to work overtime in order to get things accomplished. Travel and education are in on the agenda. You 
52 Untidy 60 "Nightline" 55 Tie name 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (751t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

will enJOY mc~llng "~" l"'"flk .11 ,, 'ocial even\. 
VIRGO (Aug. c.>-St•pi ~21 Take advantage of an oppo11unity to expand a husltlCS' or further your education. Help iiHhl' 111 n~~d. hu1 avoid neglcl'ting }Olll famil~ or 
work obligations. 
LJURA (Sepi. 2Hlt:t. 221: Giw your home ~~ fresh look. Appl) a new coal of pain! or wallpaper the bathroom or kilt:hen. Once 10u !!et the mess cleaned ur. 1nvi1e 111 the neighbor' to show off the re,uli,. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A good time to gel better organized a\ work. Streamline your schedule hy postponing nonessential meeung,. Chatty types who wan\ \o monopo­lize your lime should be di>cour­aged. 
SAGITTARIUS 1:--.iov. 22-lkc. 21 ): Women wield Qre;n influence today. Seek the co'Opt•ralion and supporl. Particip<~llng 111 activities away from home could change your life. Be reassunng. no\ conJe,ccnJ­ing. Love is sublime. · 
CAPRICORN (Dec 22-Jan. 19}: Try to he more detached when making financial choices. Praclicalt­ty is a musl. Your partner may he reluctant 10 oren up. Ask questions. Taking a small risk in bu>iness could lead to big retum>. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Others are disposed 10 gram your requests. Joining a professional or political organization wtll work to your benefi1. Your per\onal plans are subject to change. 
PISCES (Feh. 19-7\1arch 20): Use inside infonnalion wisely. Men­tal telepathy gives you special rar· port with someone. A person who tries to draw you out in conversation may have ulterior moti1es. 
.. 
I 
~ I 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Graycoats 5 Whirlpool 
alternative 10 Copycats 14 Terr~ tory 15 La Scala's c1ty 
16 Fountain treat 17 Gangster's gal 18 On one's toes 19 Capri, for one 20 "Ninotchka" 
w1th music, 1955 23 Author Umberto 24 Circumference· figuring figures 25 Kunta Kinte's tale 28 Woodcutter 30 Part of una casa 
33 ·La-en Rose" 34 Rope step on a Ship 37 Actor Wilder 
38 "Romeo and Juliet" with music, 1957 
41 Mandate 42 Confessors 43 Nav. rank 
44 "Beau Geste" author P C. 
45 Out in front 49 Saying 51 "­
dreaming?" 53 Mao ---tung 54 "My Sister 
Eileen" with music. 1953 59 On 

61 Uproars 62 Demeanor 63 Fortune 
profilees 
64 Queen----War (1702-13 
conflict) 65Jai-­66 Whirlpool 67 Beat 68 Circus props 
DOWN 
1 One of 12 pharaohs 2 Beethoven's Third 3 Elephant's sound 4 Polio vaccine developer 
5 Cremona craftsman 
6 Director ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Forman 7Smart--­8 Stoolie 9 "No" voter 

10 Friend of H....:...f-==+=-i•~+;-8.::-1.-.r'~~'f'!"~ Francisco 
11 Disregard .-!~~~::.ti.i.i,;,~~--~':+::+.':1 12 Building wing 
1-'=-ir.-t-:-t:":-lii-:':-H::-.;.....,F-<1-:':-i~'::'-+.'71 13 Fr. holy woman RB-'::'-I...,"!!'t=-1-:-'-i.•II!I..-.,_::...B....,..,.iiol 21 Lean eater 8R-:-:i'~-::wB~ .:C+:'-HH""""...,"""" 22 Second 
Amendment advocate: Abbr. 
26Wee 

27 Call. in poker 29 Once, once 
-~---­

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 25, 1996 
• FooTBALL 

Orlando is no Mickey Mouse 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 

l 
At the start of the 1996 sea­son, many people wondered if it would be possible to stop I Nebraska, winner of two straight NationalI Championships. Arizona State provided an answer. The Irish face a similar question against 
Ohio State this Saturday. ' 

I 
Can anyone stop Orlando Pace?

I 
The Buckeye offensive line­I ~ .. man, weighing in at a measly I 330 pounds, is considered by 
~ 
most football people, including coach Lou Holtz, as "one of the best lineman in football. Not college football. Football peri­od." 
The junior has started at left tackle since day one at Ohio State, garnering All-America honors as a sophomore. The big man won the Lombardi Award last year, was second in the voting for the Outland Trophy, and took home the Big Ten's Offensive Lineman of the Year in 1995. 
So far this year, Pace is per-_ forming up to par. In fact, he is 

Courtesy of the Ohio State Sports Department 

The Irish defensive front seven will have to play well against the likes of 330 pound Offensive Tackle Orlando Pace tor Notre Dame to win. 
.. 

in the early season running as a favorite for the Heisman Trophy. The last offensive line­man to win the Heisman trophy was way back in 1949. Man by the name of Leon Hart. Played for a small Catholic school in the middle of nowhere. 
Ohio State keeps statistics on the behemoth for "pancake blocks," or blocks where the defensive lineman ends up on his back, flattened by Pace. Through two games, the tackle has recorded 15 pancakes on the year. 
Sort of makes you happy that you don't have to line up against him, eh? 
Well, the same can't be said for the player Notre Dame hopes can be the answer to the Orlando Pace quandary. 
Irish defensive tackle Melvin Dansby is looking forward to the test. 
"He's like the best tackle in football," Dansby admitted. "It's a great task to undertake. But I think it'll be a great match-up, and I'm up for the challenge." 
"He mixes power with fi­nesse. He's a passive blocker who tries to get position on you and then slam you. He's got great fundamentals and great speed." 
A quick statistic: Dansby has never been pancaked; he also has no intention of it happening against Pace. 
The right defensive tackle has spoken with fellow Irish line­man Reynaldo Wynn, the player who faced Pace in last season's loss in Columbus. 
"(Reynaldo) was just telling me how good he was after the ball is snapped. He's not one of those guys who tries to knock you off the football or any­
• MEN's GoLF 


The Observer/Rob Finch 

Notre Dame defensive tackle Melvin "The Beast" Dansby will battle in 
the trenches with Ohio State Tackle Orlando Pace on Saturday. 
thing." has put plenty of pressure on 
"He doesn't come right off the three previous quarter­and try to knock you 15 yards backs, and has often faced dou­into your own backfield. "He's hie-teams in the process. And one of those guys who will take by no means is his afraid of you, stand you up, lock you out, Orlando Pace. slam you." Not having played against 
Interestingly enough, one Ohio State due to a neck injury player who did have some sue-last year, this contest means a cess against Pace last season chance for Dansby to con­was indeed Reynaldo Wynn. tribute, unable to do so last Wynn knocked him back con-year. sistently in last year's contest, "I thought I could've helped although the Buckeyes eventu-last year," he remembered. ally did hit their proverbial "But this is my chance." stride midway through the third Orlando is rolling to Notre ·quarter. But if Dansby is going Dame Stadium. It's Melvin to ask for advice, he's gone to Dansby's job to make sure that the right man. · it isn't a joyride. 
On the season, Dansby has also managed to impress. He see FOOTBALL I page 14 
Big East Championships looiDing 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Donohoe said. "If the scores News Editor had been in the mid-70s or low 70s, we would have been 
If consistency was what the much better off." men's golf team was seeking With the absence of Joel Monday and Tuesday at the Hepler, the other co-captain, Butler Fall Invitational, then and Bryan Weeks, the team's the team struck gold. But with­No. 3 player, due to academic out a round that set the team commitments, the Irish were apart from the other schools, looking to give the other play­Notre Dame found itself with a ers some experience as the fifth-place finish. team heads into the Big East 
Notre Dame's three-round championships this weekend. scores of 309-308-313 reflect­Hepler and Weeks were com­ed a level of consistency that pleting academic obligations was mirrored by the team's so that they would be able to individual totals. Freshman leave campus Thursday to Todd Vernon paced the Irish travel to the championships, to with a 75-78-77, finishing just be held at the TPC Avenel a stroke out of lOth place in course in Bethesda, Md. the 96-player field. "That held us back from a 

Golf Res 
1 Marquette 909 2 Cincinnati 919 3 Dayton 919 4 Wise-Green Bay 919 5 Notre Dame 929 6 Northern Illinois 935 7 Moorhead State 939 8 Butler 945 9 Northern Iowa 948 1 0 Creighton 948

Brad Santis' scores were higher finish," Donohoe said. L---------------' 
indicative of the team's trend. "We need to play better in the The junior's 78-78-78 left him future." four strokes back of Vernon, at Donohoe said he, too, 
234. planned to step his perfor­
Brian Donohoe, one of the mance up when he heads to team's co-captains, said the Bethesda. The senior brought Irish's scores weren't what up the rear of the Irish pack they were looking for. with a 238. 
"We were consistent, but not "It was more of a wake-up consistent in a good way," call, both for the team and for me," he said. "It's time for me to get refocused personally. I think we should be able to win (the Big East title), and I think someone could come out with the individual honors." 
Notre Dame claimed the title last year in its first year in the conference. 
see GOLF I page I4 


vs. Ohio State 
Notre Dame Invitational September 28, I:30 p.m. 
October4 
• Cowboys have problems vs. Marquette 
Notre Dame Invitational September 27, 7:30 p.m. 
October 4 
see page I3 
at Indiana Volleyball Triangular 

• Pwdue comes out dean 
September 27, 7:30p.m. 

September 28, II a.m. see page 12 vs. Ball State 
Soccer vs. Anderson October I, 7 p.m. Today, 4 p.m. 



