
Monday, September 30, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 26 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By DEREK BETCHER 
A.•sistant News Editor 
No singln word could aecu­rattdy d11scribe the atmosphere at the weekend's dedication of Marilyn M. Keough Hall. Ceremonies to thank the Keough family for its funding and to bless the hall displayed tlw solemnity of a state recep­tion and the festivity of a gala grand opnning. 
UnivPrsity President Father hlward Malloy's remarks at tlu~ hh~ssing were indicative of duality of thn nwning. Prior to intoning "Bless this building and all of those who will live, browse. and study here," Malloy jokingly warr1ed stu­dPnts that "We an~ n~rnindnd. this hall lwing namnd after a woman and a mother. that if any of you should ever come into this lobby after misbehav­ing at night. ... " 
Residents clad in jackets, ties, and boutonnieres contrasted the costumed kangaroo mas­cots and parodies of Coca-Cola jingles to underscore further the opposing moods of the evening. 
Donald Keough, chair emeri­tus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and retired president and CEO of The Coca-Cola Company, underwrote the con­struction of the $12.5 million dormitory. 
The pomp began with Friday afternoon's Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred I teart, which was attended by University trustees, administrators, roughly 2:~0 hall residents, and friends and family of the Keoughs. 
Following Mass, Malloy stood in the building's lobby and 
blessed the hall. For the cere­mony, dignitaries and residents crowded in front of a plaque recognizing Keough's wife. in whose honor the building is named. In addition to bearing the date of the dedication and Marilyn Keough's likenes~, the plaque also offers an Irish proverb: "People live in one another's shelter." 
Following the blessing, visi­tors toured the hall in a rare opportunity to witness how stu­dents live. Trustees, adminis­trators, architects, and contrac­tors were all given the chance to see living conditions of Keough's men. 
"It was a celebration for everyone who contributed to the hall and for everyone who gives the University leader­The Observer/Dave McCe"rey ship," Keough's dedication Donald Keough and wife Marilyn, who funded the construction of 
Keough Hall, stand with Father Mark Poorman and University President see KEOUGH I page 6 Father Edward Malloy following the dedication ceremony. 
Weekend in Focus 

C
lockwise from top: Jenny The Observer photos/Dave McCa"rey 
McCarthy and American hero 
Scott O'Grady attended Friday's pep rally, at which the cheerleaders roused the crowd; WNDU broadcast a joint outdoor performance of the Notre Dame and Ohio State Glee Clubs; and members of the Mohler family (seated, from left: Chet, Patricia, Chad, and Susan) enjoy the Joyce Scholars brunch. Chad (NO '94) was a recipient of the scholarship for NO and OSU students from Ohio. 
See Tuesday's Accent section for more on Jenny McCarthy. 


Multicultural week to commence at College 
h'dilor's Note: This week is late 19th and early 20th centu­Multicultural Week at Saint ry "assimilation years." Mary's College. Below, we pro­Lecturer Brenda Child's 1995 oicfe a list of activities that cel­book manuscript on the same ehrate this week. topic won the North American 
Indian Prose Award and will be By BERNADETTE PAMPUCH published in 1997. The lecture News Writer will take place at 4 p.m. at 
Stapleton Lounge in LeMans 
Multicultural Week activities Hall and is free to all members begin tomorrow at Saint Mary's of the community. with a lecture relating the Noted African-American nxpnriences of Native American writer Marita Golden will lee­ehildren and their families in boarding schools during the 
see SMC I page 6 

Quiet weekend for security 
the pep rally," confirmed Assistant Director of Security Chuck Hurley. "We did not encounter any serious trouble, though." 
Several reports were filed by students whose ticket books or wallets were stolen from their dorm rooms, which were left unlocked. 
Locally, one resident was par­ticularly unlucky in his attempt to sell his tickets. Standing just south of Angela Boulevard, the man approached a stopped car to negotiate the sale of his tick­ets. 
When he peered through the 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Associate News Editor 
Despite numerous rumors to the contrary, this weekend's much-hyped game against Ohio State passed without serious incident, according to Notre Dame Security/Police. 
"We did have a few arrests, people who were drunk and disorderly, but only a few of them were Notre Dame stu­dents," said Rex Rakow, head of Security. He added that, for the most part, the arrests were made in or around the stadium. 
"One fan was arrested after open car window, however, a passenger snatched the tickets and the driver sped oil'. The car pulled the scalper along until he was forced to relinquish his grip on the tickets and fell onto the street. 
The scalper reported the seat numbers, and security agreed to monitor the seats in ques­tion. "Unfortunately for him, we have not apprehended anyone in that case," Hurley said. 
Prior to the weekend's events, students expressed concerns about whether the level of secu­
see SECURITY I page 6 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Shake off the apathy 
As we enter into our Lori Allen sixth week of classes 
Saint Mary's News 
and in the aftermath of 
the Ohio State game, the Editor 
last thing most of us 
want to think about is school work. Alas, it's 
that time of the year again. You can even 
smell it in the air: midterms. As another 
round of tests and papers approach, you have 
pretty much decided that your professors are 
all involved in a conspiracy against you to 
purposely schedule every major test or paper 
deadline on the same day. You really try to 
get stuff done over the weekend, but some­
times it just doesn't happen. You're already a 
chapter behind in the assigned reading for 
your classes (all six), and Richard III eagerly 
awaits his debut. 
Some where in the wee hours of the all­
nighter to get that paper done before your 9 
a.m. class, you envision a life without stress and deadlines. It is a life of football games and parties. Then you realize that that's been you life for the last couple of weeks and you're still three chapters behind and have to read Huckleberry Finn for the tenth time. You get this brilliant ides to "save" all of your reading for the night before, and you stare at the clock and mathematically figure out how many pages per hour you'll have to write in order to finish your paper. You know it's not going to happen. 
It's usually around this time that something 
as exciting as Mystery Science Theatre 3000 
happens to be on TV, and you know it'd be a 
pity if you missed it. Procrastination. We all 
know it so well, we practically welcome it as 
our friend. There always seems to be some­
thing else to do. 
There are those rare moments when you 
can actually separate yourself from the insan­
ity and just step back and think about where 
you are. It's times like these when you really 
appreciate the LeMans Tower or the Golden 
Dome, when you realize how lucky you are to 
be where you are. You savor college life 
because you know it's fleeting. 
You smile as you realize that you are sur­
rounded by amazing people and ideas. You 
appreciate your friends for who they are, and 
the fact that they too loathe the ushers at the 
football games (you give a man a yellow jack­
et, and he thinks he owns the world). 
You leave a class one day after an amazing 
lecture and believe in you heart that you have 
the power to change the world. You sit 
through a class, "just to fulfill a requirement" 
and randomly discover what you want to do 
with the rest of your life. 
You'll take dasses with, or work in organi­
zations with, students who will inspire and 
amaze you. If you're really lucky, you might 
just inspire someone yourself. 
We're surrounded by over 15,000 of the 
brightest individuals in the nation, we can 
learn something from everyone. All it really 
takes is the desire to make something of what 
you've got, to seize the opportunity. 
We are all guilty of sitting in the dining hall and complaining about everything that is wrong with the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campuses. We complain about how sheltered we are and how much College and University policies restrict us. It's time we lose the label of "apathetic" and actually do something about it. After all, this is our time, and it's up to us how we use it. Now get back to that paper, the clock's ticking .... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  
Russ Williams  Production  
Laura Petelle  Heather Cocks  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Brian Fremeau  Accent  
Viewpoint  Joey Crawford  
Ethan Hayward  Rachel Torres  
Lab Tech  Graphics  
Katie Kroener  Jon King  
Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publisned Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduccion rights are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 30, 1996 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
U.S. envoy meets with Taliban leaders 
KABUL, Afghanistan  word on when or if they would reopen.  
The rebels who dragged a former  Markets were open and men moved  
president from his U.N. safe haven and  about freely.  
executed him are now ready to work  Late  in  the  evening, electricity  
with the United Nations for peace, a  returned to Kabul  -a city that has  
diplomat said Sunday.  been virtually without power for three  
The new rulers of Kabul, however,  years.  
would not promise to abide by interna­ The Taliban also control Sarobi,  
tional codes  on  human  rights  or  where the country's main power sta­ 
women's rights, U.N. special envoy  tions are located.  
Norbert Holl said after meeting with  Fighting with the ousted govern­ 
the senior leader of the Taliban guerril­ ment's forces, who have been driven  
las in Kabul.  
 north, also tapered off Sunday.  
The Taliban, formed two years ago by religious students, pressed on Sunday with implementing their version of Islamic law and tried to show that theyCOUld aCCOmplish their Other goa) -bringing peace to a society devastated by war. There were few women on the streets Sunday, most heeding clerics' calls from loudspeakers atop the capital's  Soviet soldiers fail to subdue rebels, an alliance of seven 1 factions receiving US arms Moacowinatallsnewleader, Najlbullah. """"'..""'M'kh'""o"'""~ announcssSOVIetwithdrawal ~"""""""!",! ~7FT'® 1 Najibullah rellnqulahel power, rebels sB!ze Kabul, then turn guns on each other.L  Tallbanrebelscapturelhesouthetn province of Kandahar. In ne•t two years, Taliban rebels seize huge tracts of land in southern, western and eastern Afghanistan tifMli1W::::2 r ' ~~~~r.:a~~~ ro:~~~~:s prime miniSter. ~1~.·,, Tahban rebels reject Hekmatyar's peace overtures, vow to capture Kabul. .;~27,1­Tallban rebels dnve Rabbanl out of ~!W~~g~ure capital, e•ecute i APIKo\a  Hoi! was welcomed in Kabul by a Taliban honor guard, then driven past the traffic post where the bloodied corpse of former Communist President Najibullah had hung in the sun until just hours before Holl's arrival. He was taken to the rocket-damaged presidential palace, headquarters to the new Islamic administration since the Taliban overran the eapital Friday,  
mosques to stay home. Those who  ·  to  meet  with  Mullah  Mohammed  


would venture out were told to wear traditional Islamic Rabbani. 
clothing, covering themselves head to toe. Hoi! gave few details of his meeting, but said he received Girls schools remained closed for a second day with no no apology for Najibullah's execution. 
Ronald sues McDonald's 
ABERDEEN 

If Ronald McDonald -the one with the big red nose -refuses to consider a name change, a Scotsman by the same name says he'll take him to court for clowning around with his heritage. "I wish to register a com­plaint about my name being comman­deered by a clown," the retired teacher wrote in a letter to 


McDonald's. "The prefix Me and the name McDonald have been used in Scotland and spread worldwide many centuries before your firm was ever in existence," he wrote. "Your name is an insult to millions of Scots." If McDonald's fails to respond to his satisfaction, McDonald plans to go to court. He didn't say under what law he planned to sue. The 61-year-old resident of the north­eastern city of Aberdeen said it was McDonald's own court actions that inspired him to so battle: He read that the company is trying to force a sandwich shop in cen­tral England to stop using the name "McMunchies." 
Chess player gets 911 help online 
BOSTON 

A disabled man who became ill while logged on to an 
Internet chess site reached out to fellow players from 
around the world for emergency assistance. Charles 
Drafts, a double amputee who types using a stick in his 
mouth, was playing chess in cyberspace Saturday on the 
multi-use World Wide Web site where 159 others also 
were logged on. Suddenly, he sent out this message: "i'm 
having physical illness problems and need help. i'm dis­
abled and havingshortness of breath, call ambulace." "It 
took a little while to know whether it was serious or not 
because there's an awful lot of kidding and bantering 
that goes on," said Daniel Sleator, professor of computer 
science at Carnegie Mellon University and founder of the 
Internet Chess Club. "At first, I think some people were 
thinking it was a joke. But others realized was a seriDus 
thing and started getting the information right away." 
Drafts managed to type in his address and a short while 
later Boston firefighters broke down his door to get 
inside. They rushed the 48-year-old man to the hospital, 
where he was listed in stable condition on Sunday, suf­
fering from an undisclosed ailment. 
Scalper gets life sentence 
FREMONT, Calif. 

A man who scalped his girlfriend with a kitchen knife was sentenced to life in prison. Frankie Vanloock, 33, allegedly had tried once before to scalp her but was foiled by a dull blade_ "It is appropriate for what he did," prosecutor Kamala Harris said of the sentence on Friday. "The manner in which this crime was commit­ted was incredibly sadistic." Surgeons have tried unsuccessfully three times to reattach a piece of Monica Meyer-Harnisch's scalp about the size of a hand. After drinking rum and taking methampheta­mines, Vanloock accused her of thinking about an old boyfriend. Prosecutors said he attacked her after she 'attacked his masculinity' by asking if he was gay. Vanloock was convicted Aug. 30 of aggravated may­hem, torture and misdemeanor assault in the September 1995 attack in Fremont, southeast of San Francisco. Vanloock, who will become eligible for parole in 12 years, is appealing. His attorney, Walter Cannady, said the ·crime was drug-and alcohol­induced. 
Traffic deaths increase 17 percent 
AUSTIN 

Trame deaths in Texas have increased 17 percent ­an average of 40 more per month -since the state began raising highway speed limits last December. In rural areas, where interstate traffic is now permitted to go as fast as 70 mph, fatalities increased 28 percent, the Austin American-Statesman reported Sunday. From Dec. 8 through June 30, accident records indicated 1,936 people died in Texas traffic accidents. That compares with 1,655 traffic deaths in the same period last year. At the current pace, about 3,600 people will die in traffic accidents in Texas this year -the highest toll since 1985, the newspaper said. The increase was similar to a review of California traffic records earlier this year that found a 17 -percent increase in fatal crashes during the first 11 weeks of higher speed limits. Traffic safety advo­cates said the findings confirmed fears that Congress' repeal of the federally mandated speed limits of 65 mph on rural interstates and 55 mph on other roads would lead to more deaths. "It's a nightmare. It's worse than I even thought it would be," said Bob Draper, senior vice president of the National Trame Safety Institute. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 30. 
_r-~-' 
-~HI 
~--L 
i 

Mondat ~ 1 72 56 Tuesdai ~ 75' 56 Wedne day~ 71 52 
I 

FRONTS:
Thursday ~ 62 45 
.,............ ............. ~ 
I i 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWeather, Inc.
I 

Pressure ~ ~
Frida~/ ~j58 45 
H L B ISSIITIJ 0 ~8 "¥ L_!U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW /C£ SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
/,·'\.t/'1 ··,,
~jv,y··--·~, 

V,.. AssocialtJd Press 
Anchorage 43 33 Houston 85 55 Philadelphia 75 55 
Boston 67 50 Los Angeles 78 62 Phoenix 96 72
~~~4aQ ¢-~ c::1 Chicago 74 53 Miami Beach 89 79 San F ransisco 68 53
' ,' ... ,'' ' ' ' ' .. :.. . ·:·.::=·.:·.:· --­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloud~ Cloudy Grand Rapids 69 53 New Orleans 79 59 Seanle 64 50 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Honolulu 89 75 New York 78 57 Topeka 84 56 
Monday, September 30, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
.• ELECTION '96 
Poverty, welfare top election lecture agenda 
Observer StaffRepon 
and associate professor of economics, will speak at the 

· Poverty and welfare will be event. 
the focus of the fourth install­
The presentation, which is ment of a weekly lecture free and open to the public,
series at Notre Dame, to be will begin at 4 p.m. The held this afternoon at the 
University Club is located just

University Club. 
north of the Center for 

The series, "The 1996 Continuing Education on Election and the Common Notre Dame Avenue. Good," allows Notre Dame 
A discussion session will fol­

faculty members to present lo_w the presentation. their ideas on all facets of the The series will run everycoming elections. 
Monday through Oct. 14, from 

Professors Joan Aldous of 4 -5 p.m. Future speakers will 
the department of sociology, be announced as they are John Robinson, director of the determined. Center for Law and Among the campus organi­Government, and Jennifer 
zations sponsoring the series 

Warlick, associate dean of the 
are the College Democrats and College of Arts and Letters the College Republicans. 

United Limo moves stop 
Special to The Observer 
Center today. In conjunction with this The United Limo bus stop move, United Limo no longer
moved back to Notre Dame will pick up passengers at the 
Avenue near the new Main 
East Gate bus shelter. 

Gate west of the Hesburgh 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Information Meetings: Monday, September 30-4:00-5:00 or 6:30-7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns 
... 

Shavers advances to new post 
Special to The Observer Association since 1992, serving Advancement and Support of 
as a liaison to more than 100 Education. 
Frances Shavers, most alumni clubs nationwide and as Prior to returning to the recently director of alumni the advisor to the Student University, Shavers was a man­clubs and student programs for Alumni Relations Group. She agement training associate for the Notre Dame Alumni also was the staff liaison to the Aetna Life and Casualty, Inc., Association, 
student relations committee of of Dallas from 1990 to 1992. has been the Alumni Association Board The establishment of the Life appointed of. Directors and the associa­Skills Program was one of Mike coordinator tion's Minority Alumni Wadsworth's first priorities of the new Network. upon becoming Notre Dame's Life Skills Shavers has served on Notre athletic director in 1995. Program in Dame's Committee on Cultural "We provide a first-rate edu­t h e Diversity since 1993 and also cational experience at Notre University's Shavers has been active as a tutor for Dame, and for those who department Junior Achievement, a mentor remain here to complete their of athletics. in the University's sophomore eligibility, 99 percent earn a 
A 1990 graduate of Notre mentoring program for stu­degree," said Wadsworth. "But Dame with a bachelors degree dents of color, and a partici­the reality is that our student­in sociology, Shavers had pant in the regional activities of athletes come from such worked in the Alumni the Council for the diverse backgrounds." 
Football Ticket Exchange Information!! 
Keeping in mind both the needs of students for a suitable ticket exchange program and the need to suppress unlawful selling/scalping of tickets, the Athletic Department and the Athletic Resources Department of Student Government have come up with the following Football Ticket Exchange Program for the '96 season. 
1) Ticket exchange will be available for all six (6) home football games 
2) Each student ticket holder may exchange a maximum of two (2) student issue tickets for general admission tickets during the course of the season. 
3) The exchanging of tickets will take place on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to game week, at the ticket office in the Joyce Center, from 8:30 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
4) The number of tickets available for each game will vary by game, depending on the circumstances surrounding that game (see chart) 
5) Upon exchanging tickets, all students will be asked to sign a contract asserting that the tickets will not be unlawfully sold. 
6) **Any student wishing to exchange his or her ticket must be present at the time of the exchange, with the school 1.0., ticket booklet, and $16** 
GAME # of Exchangeable Tickets Dates of Exchange 28 September Ohio State 400 17, 18, 19 Sept. 12 October Washington 300 1, 2, 3 Oct. 19 October Air Force 300 8, 9, 10 Oct. 16 November Pittsburgh 400 5, 6, 7 Nov. 23 November Rutgers 400 12, 13, 14 Nov. 
If you have any questions whatsoever concerning the exchange, please contact Student Government Athletic Resources ar 1x6283 
.. Please take notice: If cases of scalping arise, Athletic Resources and the Athletic Department will be forced to discontinue this program. 
TEAR OUT THIS COUPON INSTEAD 



OF YOUR ROOMMATE'S HAIR. 
When your roommate gets on your nerves, just tear out this coupon and chill out with aFREE Lemon Italian Ice at Fazoli's with any adult entree purchase 
r--------------------------------------------------------------, 
FREE LEMON ITALIAN ICE 
99¢ value 

will! purc/zase ofone adult entree (excluding Double Slice PiZZJI) 
0

s2no U.S. Route 33N, South Bend • 2n-4008 
One coupon per person. per order al participalrng Fazolfs only Not vahd wrlh any olher oNer. Expires 12/31/96 
L--------------------------------------------------------------~ 



page4 

MULT ..... -L WEEK 
I I 
* * Admission Charge for "The Last Angry Brown Hat" $5.00 Alianza Members 
I $8.00 Non-Members $10.00 General Public 
Co~Sponsored by: ND Alianza and SMC Office of Student Activities 
I I I I i I 

~~--~~~-----.--------~--------------~---.--------------------~--~-------~~--------------------------.-------­
Monday, September 30, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
• ISRAEL 
Israel reopens tunnel, consents to D.C. summit 
By KARIN LAUB 
A'sociared Press Wrirer 
.IEHUSALEM 

Israel defied world opinion Sunday by reopening a tunnel near Jerusalem's Muslim holy shrines. but agreed to a summit with the Palestinians in Washington in an attempt to revive peace talks and end the violenee that has taken 73 lives. 
President Clinton telephoned Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and told them he expected their summit Tuesday to end in suc­enss. 
"Thn president said the results nended from the meet­ing in Washington are an end 


How LITERATURE AND FILMS CAN STIMULATE ETHICAL REFLECTION IN THE BUSINESS WORLD Program of Events 
All sessions to be held at the Center for Continuing Education 
Monday, September 30 
2:00p.m. Bernard Murchland, Philosophy, Ohio Wesleyan University: "Mediums, Messages and the Economic Order: The Legacy of Marshall McLuhan Reconsidered" 
3:00p.m. Dennis P. McCann, Religious Studies, DePaul University: "If Life Hands You a Lemon...: Business Ethics from 'fl1e Apartment to Glengarry Glen Ross" 
4: IS p.m. Ellen S. O'Connor, Business Administration, Notre Dame: "Compelling Stories: Narrative and the Production of the Organizational Self' 
5:30 p.m. Reception and Dinner: Morris Inn 7:30p.m. ADDRESS: Charles Van Doren, Author: 'The Moral Challenge to Business Today" 
Tuesday, October 1 
9:00a.m. Michael Goldberg, Rabbi/ethicist: "Doesn't Anybody Read the Bible Anymo'?: Illiterates at the Gates" I 0:00a.m. John W. Houck, Co-director, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, Notre Dame: "Five Easy Pieces... for Ethical Reflections in Business" 
II: 15 a.m. Michael Medved, Sneak Preview film critic: "Does Hollywood Bash Big Business?" 
12:30 p.m. Lunch: Morris Inn 
2:00p.m. Eileen T. Bender, Special Assistant to the Chancellor, Indiana University-South Bend: "Malice in Wonderland: Working Girl Scenarios" 
3:00 p.m. Patrick E. Murphy, Marketing, Notre Dame, and John W. Houck: 'The Story of the 
Cigarette Industry as a Source of Ethical Reflection: Richard Kluger's Ashes to Ashes" 4:15p.m. Thomas L. Shaffer, Law, Notre Dame: "Stories of Legal Order in American Business." 6:15p.m. Reception and Dinner: Morris Inn Speaker: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Wednesday, October 2 
9:00a.m. David E. Collins, Executive-in-Residence, Notre Dame: "General Johnson Said ..." I 0:15a.m. Teresa Godwin Phelps, Law, Notre Dame: '"If Power Changes Purpose': Images of Authority in Literature and Film" 
II :00 a.m. Oliver F. Williams, C.S.C., Co-Director, Center for Ethics and Religious Values in 
Business, Notre Dame: "Other People's Money. Overcoming Self-Deception as the Beginning of a Moral Life" 
12:30 p.m. Lunch: Morris Inn 
to the violence and speedy renewal of negotiations," a statement from Netanyahu's ollice said. 
Although the reopening of the tunnel kept Palestinian anger running high, Clinton's person­al intervention was seen as likely to calm passions on both sides and renew hopes for progress. 
Arafat and Netanyahu initial­ly refused to make concessrons that would allow the summit to go ahead, but Israel's Channel 2 TV said a possible compro­mise was emerging. 
Arafat. it said, would pledge to end the violence and stop objecting to the tunnel, while Netanyahu would agree to a timetable for future negotia­


PANCAKE BREAKFAST 
--·· . . -.. -----,.. ' 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 5 
11:00 -STEPAN CENTER 
T -SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE AND $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 

tions and a date for Israel's mil­itary pullout from the West Bank city of Hebron. 
One remaining obstacle was the role of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. Clinton invited him to attend, and Arafat insisted the Egyptian be there, but Mubarak did not agree to go. 
Netanyahu adviser Dore Gold and Arafat deputy Mahmoud Abbas met ·in Israel late Sunday to work out the agenda for the summit, Israeli media reported. 
The 500-yard tunnel is por­trayed by Israel as a harmless archaeological excavation, but it runs alongside hallowed Muslim shrines and is seen by Palestinians as diminishing their claim to Arab east Jerusalem. 
Israel opened the tunnel on Tuesday night, triggering clash­es that left 56 Palestinians and 14 Israelis dead in the worst 

TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 Saturday 10:00-5:00 

!;i~J~~~ 
gunbattles they have waged in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in 29 years. Three Egyptian sol­diers also were killed by stray bullets that crossed the Gaza­Egypt border. 
Israel closed the tunnel Friday and Saturday, hoping to restore calm, and reopened it Sunday. Netanyahu vowed Saturday night that the tunnel "will always be open." 
The U.N. Security Council passed a resolution late Saturday that indirectly calls on Israel to close the tunnel. The vote was 14-0, with the United States abstaining. 
Arab teen-agers threw stones Sunday as Israeli guards opened the steel exit door of the passage leading onto the Via Dolorosa, Jesus's route to his crucifixion. 
The Jewish militant Temple Mount Faithful group said members would try to enter the 

AUDITIONS 

Opera Workshop 
Tues, October 1 2:00-3:15 pm Crowley Hall, Rm. 115 Accompanist provided. Bring something to sing. 
Looking for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester Opera Workshop Production of an opera yet to be selected. 
Call 631-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
Histori.c tunnel 
Israel reopen9d an archaeological tunnel near Muslim holy shrines Sunday, which last week triggered a violent reaction between Israelis and Arabs. Via Dolorosa 
Christians believe Jesus walked here on the way to his crucifixion. 

AP 
Islamic shrine area to pray Monday morning -a move likely to be seen as a provoca­tion. 
The site housed the Jewish Temple, which was destroyed by Homans in 70 A.D. Although the Old City has been annexed by Israel, the mount is con­trolled by Muslim clergy and Jews are not allowed to pray there. 
Israel's security chiefs told Isranlis they should brace for a new wave of suidde bombings by Islamic militants who this spring set off four blasts in Israel, killing 63 people. 
If the violence escalates, Netanyahu spokesman David Bar-IIlan said, Israel may con­sider disarming the Palestinian policemen. Hundreds of Arafat's poliee were involved in last week's gunbattles. 

College Democrats: General Meeting Tues., Oct. 1. at 7:00 
p.m. 
in 221 Hayes-Healy. New members welcome-??s call Catherine at 232-0431. Pre-Dental Society: First meeting held Tues., Oct. 1 at 8:00 

p.m. 
in 182 Nieuwland. Everyone welcome. Women's Resource Center: Open House Wed., Oct. 2 from 7:30p.m. to 9:30p.m. on the 2nd floor of LaFortune (inside the Student Gov't office). All are welcome! Toastmasters International Public Speaking Club: First meeting Sept. 30th; meetings every Monday at 7:30p.m. in 222 Hayes-Healy. *Come to improve your skills or overcome your fears* NO Aikido Club: meeting Tuesday 8:00p.m. -10:00 p.m. for practice. Friday 4:30p.m. to 6:30p.m. for discussion and prac­tice. Italian Disco: Friday, October 4 in the LaFortune Ballroom from 10:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. Admission free for all Italian Club Members, $1 for non-members. African Students' Association: Panel Discussion: "It Takes A Village to Raise a Child: The African Perspective & the Controversy", on Tuesday, October 1 at 4:15p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Free admission and reception; sponsored by African Students Association and Student Government. 


Stop by our 2nd floor LaFortune office to see what the 
Club Council has to offer you and your organization! 

~-------.-----.------~----~--------------,___ ..--------­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 30, 1996 
and "Zoot Suit." Fellow actors Danny de la Paz, Danny Haro, and Del Zamora have appeared respectively in the movie "American Me," the small 
Medjugorjescreen adaptation of Severo Perez's " ... and the Earth Did Not Swallow Him," and the tele­vision series "My So-Called Life." 

September 25, 1996 Message
Writer Alfredo Ramos' play was chosen as the winner of 
Our Lady, Queen ofPeace 
Plaza de Ia Raza's 1993 Nuevo 
"Dear Children: Today I invite you to offer your crosses and
Security 
suffering for my intentions. Little children, I am your Mother and continued from page 1 
I wish to help you by seeking for you the grace from God. Little rity would be adequate, as 
children, offer your sufferings as a gift to God so that they become
Hurley had announced no plans 
to specially increase his staff for 

a most beautiful flower of joy. That is why, little children, pray the game. "Our staff was more 
that you may understand that suffering can become joy and the
than sufficient," he said. 
"Everything that needed han­

cross the way of joy. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
dling was dealt with perfectly." 
Hurley singled out the Notre Dame and Ohio State fans as being well behaved and very 

First Saturday Devotions will be held this Saturday, October 5, in the Alumni Hall
compliant. "The media really 
likes to hype a hatred between 

Chapel at 9:00 AM. There will be a mass, followed by Eucharistic Adoration 
these groups. We found them all 

and recitation of the rosary. All are invited.
to be very classy and had no dif­
ficulties with them at all." 

For more information on Marian Apparitions and Devotions, see the Children of Mary web page.
The South Bend Tribune con­
tributed to this report. 
Listening to 

New Pickup Point Effective September 30, 1996 
Starting .September 30, United Limo will pick up by the main gate across from the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
For schedules and other information, consult your 
Did you know researchers have proven that study­
travel agent or call us at 254-5000. 
ing to classical music actually helps you retain information and therefore can help increase your 

*JAZZ 
intelligence? Tune in to WSND 88.9 FM for the 

*'8~
best in classical music and news during the day. And when 10:00 p.m. rolls around, put away your 

*Folk 
books & have some FUN, because WSND has the 

*WORLD BEAT 
finest in specialty shows, featuring:

Your Airport Connection...A/1 Day...Every Day 
*COLLEGE ALTERNATIVE 
For more information, call WSND at 631-7342
Check our Notre Dame schedule on the web at h :l/www.busville.com/irish.hbn 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
ture Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Little Theatre. Golden is best known for her books "Migrations of the Heart," "Long Distance Life," and "Saving Our Sons: Raising Black Children in a Turbulent World." Golden is the senior writer in the Graduate MBA Creative Writing Program at Virginia Commonwealth University and her works are taught in Women's Literature and Black Studies programs nationwide. 
Thursday, the Chicano/Latina theater production of "The Last Angry Brown Hat" takes place at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The play centers on four friends who gather together to deal with their past, present, and future when another friend dies. Sponsored in part by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's La Alianza organi­zation and the Saint Mary's Office of Student Activities, the production's English, ·spanish, and Spanglish dialogue tran­scends not only linguistic terri­tory but cultural bounds as well. 
Actor Enrique Castillo, cast as the welder in whose garage the action takes place, has appeared in "Blood In/Blood Out," "Mi Familia/My Family," L.A. Chicano Playwrights Competition, and focuses on themes of assimilation, the Chicano movement, and the his­tory of the Brown Berets. 
Friday will be a night of international food, music, and fun organized by Saint Mary's students. "International Night" showcases cultures ,and peoples from around the world. The event will take place at 7 p.m. in the lower level of the Dining Hall. 
Mixing elements of drama, comedy, and irreverence, "3 Non-Blondes" is a trio of Asian­American actors whose short scenes, sketches, and mono­logues combine to form a well­rounded theater performance. Produced in combination with "I Hop Sing Productions" of Chicago and the Angel Island Theatre Company, Chicago's only professional Asian­American theatre troupe, "3 Non-Blondes" speaks not only of the experience of being Asian-American but also deals with the universal threads of emotion that run through all people. Asian history, tradi­tions, heroes, and archetypes abound in a thought-provoking and occasionally unusual per­spective. 
"3 Non-Blondes" closes Multicultural Week at Saint Mary's at 8 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. 

Keough 
continued from page 1 
commissioner, Tom Matzzie, explained of the entourage. 
"The Keoughs were pleased with everything they saw and they were most excited about the contribution the hall was making to University residence life," he added. 
Visitors weren't the only group given a unique opportuni­ty. Students had a chance to interact with the individuals who guide their University from perceivedly distant positions. 
For some Keough residents, the opportunity wasn't wasted. 
"We're standing in the lobby waiting for the tours to start, and Father Hesburgh comes up to me and asks, 'Will you give me a personal tour around the dorm?' What are you going to say to him? 'No, I'm busy?'" Sophomore Adam Ortega recalled. 
On his tour, Hesburgh remarked on the stark contrast between his walk through Keough and his time as a rector in Badin years ago. "Luxurious" was a word he used to conclu­sively describe the new hall. 
Hall staff felt that the general approval of the visitors signaled a well-run weekend. 

Chinese -American Restaurant 
and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at ...-.$4.25 Dinners starting at ....$5.95 
Banquet rooms available up to 200 
GREAT \VALL Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Howard Johnson) 
"Our guys really carried the ball well. They rose to the occa­sion," said Mark Cawley, one of Keough's assistant rectors. "I think a lot of that had to do with who the Keoughs were. The guys really felt comfortable around them." 
Elected to the Board of Trustees in 1978, Keough chaired the group from 1986 to 1992, during which time he also served as national head of the University's fund-raising cam­paign. He was the 1993 recipi­ent of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, the most prestigious award given to American Catholics. He remains an active member of the Board and of the Fellows of the University. 
The Keoughs are also the par­ents of five Notre Dame gradu­ates. Even before underwriting the construction, the couple had been generous benefactors of the University, most notably with a $2.5 million gift to estab­lish the Donald and Marilyn Keough Center for Irish Studies and the Keough professorship in Irish studies. 






VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 30, 1996 
page 7 

Serious repairs needed on Vaness, other roads 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURV 
60T 17" con;Rff/). (,($ 5/Mfl.Y K£CP ~511/NG A«LAY AT INT£1?1()!?f5 IJ(JI)6fl, £VE"N­
7lJAtCI NHKING 711~ 
5'1'?7li.H ()EPENPeN'r 
ON~, ~/ 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
" A. s always, victory finds .f-\a hundred fathers, but defeat is an orphan." 
-Galeazzo Ciano 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631·7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor .•........•••........... Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager......................•..... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor..........•........ Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ...............................Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Accent Editor,,,,, ...................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo F.diror .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rhc indcpcndcnr newspaper published by the students ofrhc University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent thC' opinion of the" majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saim Mary's Edi[Or. Commentaries, lcucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those ofTho Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro ;all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Acccnt/Saim Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• THE WINTER OF Mv DISCONTENT 
The topic of this column is far from glamorous or sexy. In fact, this piece is about civil engineering-certainly a topic that I've never broached before and one that I never thought 1 would. Insofar as I know about as much about civil engineering as Lou Holtz knows about a sophisticated passing offense. 
~ 

Christopher ,~.~~'
; _:y.; t 
\~

Kratovil t 
I'm probably not even qualified to write this eolumn. 
Hut despite my laek of training in road design or construetion, I can recognize a bad situation when I see one, and this past home football weekend convinced me that there is a tragedy-in-waiting at the southeastern edge of campus on Vaness Street. 
I realize that "Vaness Street" may not be a name with which you are instantly familiar, but if you are a Notre Dame student, chances arc you've been on this obseum little thoroughfare many times. Vaness Street is the two-lane blacktop road that runs from Alumni Field (the varsity soecer stadium) to State Hoad 23, in the proeess passing such frequent ofT­campus destinations as Turtle Creek Apartments, Campus View and the "Campus Shoppes" shopping center (Studebagels, Pappa John's, etc.). Connecting Ivy Hoar! and SR 23. Vaness is also a primary route between campus and the Martin's/Osco strip mall. 
So needless to say, Vaness is amongst the most heavily traveled of the campus perimeter roads. In the mornings and afternoons it is filled with off-campus students walking, riding, or driving to and from dasses, and on the weekends it is clogged with students trying to make their way to parties, eateries and bars. 
Vaness is also an accident waiting to happen. Although it is frequented by students at all hours, it lacks any sort of street lighting. Despite having as much pedestrian traffic as any local street, it lacks sidewalks or even a proper shoul­der. While its width of 25 to 27 feet is sufficient under normal conditions, the fact that parking is allowed on both sides of the road can narrow the street to as little as 12 feet across, not nearly enough room for two cars to pass each other in opposite directions. And that's to say nothing of all the bicyclists and groups of students with which drivers must share the road. Vaness is also in desperate need of repair, with some of its potholes seemingly big enough to swallow a Volkswagen. (The largest pot­hole 1 was able to find measured three feet by 16 inches.) 
Lest you think that I. ignorant govern­ment major that I am, either don't know what I'm talking about or am merely trying to ignite controversy, I went out and solicited a professional opinion on Vaness Street. A senior civil engineering major confirmed that Vaness "is one of the most shoddily constructed roads I've ever seen... it definitely needs to be widened and repaired ... I feel like I'm putting my life on the line every time I ride my bike down it." The fact that some local residents refer to Vaness as "Death Alley" also clearly speaks to its condition. 
But the dangers found on Vaness Street go beyond its physical condition. On weekends it seems that the entire freshman class, a healthy percentage of it intoxicated, is trying to stumble home along it in large groups that refuse to recognize the right-of-way of cars. The University's decision to exile alumni RVs away from the stadium lots on football weekends has resulted in many of these house-sized vehicles taking up residence along Vaness, narrowing the street to the point that it is practically impass-
NeWT 
PUSHED 
HIM. 

able. With Coach's, the 'Backer and off­campus parties in such close proximity, many of the drivers traversing Vaness probably shouldn't be behind the wheel at all, much less on a dark, cramped street plagued with giant potholes, parked RVs and drunk pedestrians zig­zagging down the middle of the pave­ment. 
I don't pretend to understand the machiavellian machinations of local gov­ernment. I realize that the effort to improve safety along Vaness Street, and indeed the rest of the campus perimeter, would probably have to be a city and/or county initiative. But I've also seen that the University did a great job over the summer of improving Ivy Road (the north-south thoroughfare that parallels the east edge of campus), and I have lived in South Bend long enough to know that when the area's largest employer wants something, it usually gets it. The University needs to apply pressure to local government now, not in the wake of some future catastrophe involving a student, to improve road conditions along Vaness Street and the rest of the eastern edge of campus. It's about time that such ground-breaking, hi-tech inno­vations as the street light, road shoulder and sidewalk make their debut in the areas surrounding Notre Dame. 
Every senior remembers the last "big game" weekend at this school in November 1993, when a member of our class was killed trying to walk home at night along a road without sidewalks or lights. It is a disgrace that three years later, even in the immediate vicinity of our campus, conditions have not sub­stantially improved. But for the grace of God the Mara Fox tragedy could easily repeat itself on any given weekend. Anyone who doubts this need only drive down Vaness Street next Friday at mid­night. 
Christopher Kratovil is a senior Arts and Letters major. His-column appears every Monday. 



ACCENT
page 8 Monday, September 30, 1996 

By MARK TORMA "Stealing Beauty" (Oct. 4&5) bruising as it is, could become the most influential film Accent Movie Critic of the year --and wouldn't you like to say you saw This film from Bernardo Bertolucci, Best Director of the first time on screen that anybody ever dove after a 
N 
ewsflash: On weekends at Notre Dame, "The Last Emperor," is a union of beauties from the heroin suppository in a ... ? Oh, never mind, you'll have we, as students, get stuck in a rut. I am New and Old Worlds. The Tuscany hillsides, lovingly to see it and find out. not as familiar with Saint Mary's nightlife captured on film by Bertolucci, are the setting for this (I'll give them the benefit of the doubt), story of a young American ingenue {re: girl) who's out "The Celluloid Closet" (November 8&9) but there are only ever two choices of to learn about life. Well, OK, she's really out to lose things to do on this campus: go to a party, or go to a her virginity, but in real life she's Liv Tyler, the gor­Last year this documentary brought to light the fact movie. If you doubt this, try it (I have) and see if you geous progeny {re: kid) of Aerosmith's Stephen, so that, throughout film history, even in the McCarthy can come up with anything else without straying watching her cavort under Italian skies should be a lot '50's and the Reagan '80's, homosexuality has been from our campus confines. Then tell the world, and of fun. As Entertainment Weekly put it, "Stealing very present in our movies, even in some of our you will be named Campus Social Commissioner for Beauty" is "a great date movie," and yeah, that sounds favorites {oh, my!). The roles that Whoopi Goldberg, life. about right. Better than "Showgirls". Tony Curtis, and Tom Hanks created in "The Color Until that happens, though, those not up for room­Purple," "Spartacus," and "Philadelphia" are just some hopping and beercan-tipping have only the cinema "I Shot Andy Warhol" (Oct. 11&12) of the over 100 roles and movies that "The Celluloid Closet" brings out of the closet and into our film con­
to rescue them. If the forays to Videowatch come up 
The maverick director Mary Herron teamed up with sciousness. Attitudes towards sex roles on the silver
dry, then the weekly showings at Cushing are usually 
super indie-actress Lili Taylor to bring us this bio of screen have never been static, or even constantly pro­
turned to as the last resort. 

the fury-driven feminist Valerie Solanas, "man-hater" · gressive: as an example, the '70's saw a revolution in
Am I wrong? Allow me to be pompous, but I don't 
to the stars. In 1968, she opened fire on Pop Art icon openness as honest non-heterosexual portrayals
think so. This year, however, since the world needs a 
Warhol, hitting him three times and laying claim to gained respect with movies like AI Pacino's "Dog Day
break from Demi Moore (the good: providing a voice 
her 15 minutes of fame. Herron and Taylor give Afternoon," but the AIDS-inspired backlash of the '80's
for "The Hunchback of Notre Dame"; the bad: pro­
Solanas another public voice after almost thirty years, closed the closet again. It remained closed until Hanks' 
viding a show in "Striptease"), we all should know 
and while her story unfolds onscreen, the audience is historic win in 1994 for "Philadelphia," the first Oscar 
that YES, Virginia, there is an alternative -namely, 
treated to snippets of her SCUM Manifesto -that's for an openly homosexual role. 'The Celluloid Closet"
Cinema at the Snite. 

SCUM, as in "Society for Cutting Up Men". Limb a ugh­can show us just how much more the movies have hid­
Four times a week, under cover of night, the folks 
lovers can denounce it as unladylike, but I say a bit of den from us over the years, and how the touchy issue 
at COTI-I conspire to infuse this campus with a little 
the ol' ultra-violence has a right to be gender-blind. of sexuality was handled in the Hollywood industry for 
culture beyond huge spaceships and fake breasts. 
the last hundred years. 

Previously this year, their weekend fare has included 
"Trainspotting" (November 1&2) 
Best Picture nominee "Babe," Best Foreign Language 
Of course, these movies aren't for everybody, either, 
Picture winner "Antonia's Line," and the Coen broth­
The biggest indie of the summer was this Scottish but you're bound to find something more to your taste
ers' film noir parody "Fargo." 

film about heroin junkies and their aimless drift on the Snite's movie calendar {pick one up at the
On Mondays and Tuesdays, showings are also 
through life. This is the kind of thing that doesn't come museum entrance, they're free). Oh, look, just tonight
given of classics and recent independently-made 
to' every theater in the Michiana area, so the Snite has at 7 p.m. they're showing a great John Ford western
movies, or "indies." Woody Allen, Charlie Chaplin, 
taken it upon itself to give us the opportunity to watch {and a darn exciting one, I might add)-"Stagecoach."
and Francis Ford Coppola have already been fea­
our hero Renton and his fellows-"a bunch of losers, Go ahead, take a study break tonight. I mean, come
tured this year. But that was then; this is now, and 
liars, psychos, thieves and junkies" -discuss life in on, a movie with John Wayne, by the man who made
desperate moviegoers need this, a look at what's 
the seamy underbelly of Scottish society, even while John Wayne a star -it's more American than 
coming up on Weekends at the Snite. 

they live it out in a heroin haze. This movie, brash and "Independence Day". Just do it -patriotism is good. 
• AT THE VIDEO STORE WITH fATMAN AND DADDY 
It's an ordinary place, but an extraordinary video 
By FATMAN and DADDY  uation that is becoming increasingly  region in which they live. If this was the  actions.  
Accent Movie Critics  infrequent for this salty critic, Daddy wallowed in complete apathy while he  goal of Mr. Coen, as it might well have been, then Daddy will be the first to  Few films in recent years have pro­vided such a remarkable set of charac­ 
Synopsis: There's something good in your video store these days. If you find yourself needing entertainment on one of these superb South Bend nights, I  watched a movie that failed to stimulate neither his pleasure nor his pain cir­cuit. He did not particularly enjoy "Fargo,"  congratulate him on fulfilling his .aspi­rations. However, he will not thank him for attempting to prove a point that is, at its very best, already vividly obvious  ters. They are interesting in their ordi­nariness. From the pregnant, ever-hun­gry policewoman to the fumbling main character, all of them are believable  
suggest you go to any video rental establishment {except that nefarious  nor did he take an active dislike to it. He merely witnessed it in much the  to most thinking individuals.  and subtly remarkable. Daddy's criticisms of the film are  
new, mammoth corporate store on Ironwood -stay away if you value your  same manner that he and other isomni­ac's watch televi- Fatman: The witty creators of "Blood Simple," "Raising  legitimate. If one is not in tune with the characters and filmmakers, then the  
choice and selection) and pick up a copy of the Coen brother's latest film, "Fargo". The story is simple -a mid­western car salesman hatches a plot to obtain the money he needs for a big  sion at three in the morning. They sit slack in their chairs, waiting to be stimulated...or  Arizona" (one of the Fatman's all-time favorites). " M i I I e r ' s C r o s s i n g , "  movie can slide into an insipid mix of thick midwestern accents and bumbling fools. But, for the most part, I think that "Fargo" is highly accessible and far from obvious. If one looks to know the  
investment deal. He hires two men to kindap his wife so that he can ransom her wealthy and crotchety father for the required sum. But, as the potato eating poet writes in his muse, things fall apart. What seems to be foolproof road to riches leads only to a nasty dis­aster and a human tragedy of Rosie  just sufficiently subdued to the point that sleep itself becomes a viable option. In the end, "Fargo," much like late-night viewing  "Barton Fink" and "The H u d sucker Proxy" have again challenged their audience with a clever, well-developed  characters rather than focusing on fol­lowing the plot to some expected and cliched climax, then one will be utterly astounded at the depth of the movie. If not, it might seem just a little tedious. If one expects to be entertained by a movie rather than working to under­stand it, I don't see how one can derive  
O'Donnell's proportions. Daddy: "Fargo," in Daddy's personal opinion, is one of those rare movies whose cinematically-created impression mirrors the atmosphere of the American city after which it was named. Unfortunately, this assertion suggests that "Fargo" the movie, like Fargo the city, is a 01ildly amusing and sweet motion picture; likewise, it is one that is subtly numbing in its utter banality.  options them-film. Happily selves, provides enough for us, it neither of these now sits on the two exits from this shelves of video form of stasis; like stores every-the insomniac where. So when himself, it simply you waddle up exists without and down the really doing any-Alot can happen aisles wondering thing of interest. In the'middle of nowhere. whether or not The inherent c___________________ "Powder" is humor (and, for CourtesyofPolyGramVideo another Miami some viewers, per-Fatman: Fargo is a wise video rental choice. Vice episode or  much enjoyment from it. The film also depicts the Midwest in a way that few other films have. The set­tings, houses, cars, bars and restau­rants that populate "Fargo" all have a certain element of authenticity that usually gets lost in movies made about our part of the country. My case example of this failing is "Bird on a Wire" where the Fatman's unfortunate birthplace, Racine, Wisconsin, looks like a Nashville suburb instead of a true midwestern town clut­ 
"Fargo" introduces us to a small group of characters, indivuals who exist in an American tundra that is nearly as sterile and chilling as the narrative itself. They are, for the most part, archetypal midwestern folk; any denizen of the middle class can identify  haps the inherent beauty as well) of "Fargo" comes from the survey of midwestern life conducted concurrently with the movie's examina­tion of a relatively interesting murder that takes place in, and supposedly stands in stark contrast to, an over- just a film about one of Fellini's spooky clowns, you might want to check it out if you haven't seen it (or even if you have). "Fargo" is extremely well construct­ed. The murder plot does not revolve around overdone technical violence to  tered with dirty snow and American cars. A large part of what makes "Fargo" a great movie is its impeccable representation of Minnesota and its people. I really recommend renting this video. It offers such a contrast to the  
with them.  whelmingly drab background.  force the audience into the action.  overblown bombast of another rental  
However, despite this unavoidable connection that most of the film's audi­ence will experience, mere association, in this particular case, does not neces­sarily imply the existence of the empa­thy that so often accompanies it. Due to those personally perceived cir­cumstances, Daddy found himself a  Daddy's disinterest in "Fargo" might be due to the fact that he did not find the accents, lives, or eating habits of its characters funnier than the preponder­ance of guns and pickup trucks in Texas. On the contrary, he considered it to be just another sad indication of the  Instead, "Fargo" works to make every character real and believable so that the audience relates to the people rather than to the violence in and of itself. Whereas much of what passes for this genre of movie today is simly a dull extrapolation on the pointless vio­lence of shoot 'em up movies, this film  fave, "Braveheart." Listen to the sound­track of "Fargo," and then compare it with that of Mel's kilt-laden picture. Understatement can say so much more... especially when it is done well. All in all, the subtlety and depth of character in "Fargo" makes it a superi­or film where the audience cares about  
passive observer at a recent video showing of "Fargo." Embroiled in a sit- way people unconsciously confrom their lifestyles to the social mean of the  draws the viewer into people's lives rather than merely bringing us people's  the characters in a genuine, rather than contrived and jingoistic, way.  

~..........~~~--~------.-~~----------~.-------~~~~----------------------~~----------------,=---------~----..--.._.~~----~--­
Football 
OSU gained 6.2 yards pPr play to just 3.9 yards for the inept Irish offense. 


1996 
Shut down 
~Fullback Marc Edwards (left) breaks away from the OSU defense in a rare moment as the Buckeyes dominated the line of scrimmage. 
See page 2 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Notre Dame quarterback Ron Powlus was under heavy pressure all day from the likes of Winfield Garnett (68) and ...usually wound up on the turf (inset) as the offensive line 
surrendured four sacks and could not give Powlus time to operate. 
Do-it-all Buckeyes dismantle Irish 
13y TIM SHERMAN Spons Editor 
In somn ways, it was vnry mueh a disturbing rn<ding or dnja vu. In another, and more important regard, il was very much a rnnling unldt sinen 1990. 
Wlwn Autry Denson's late rourth­quartnr 1JO-yanl punt rnturn touch­down was 1~allep back due to a hold­ing penalty against Ty Goode, thoughts flashed back to Derrick Mayns' nngatnd punt rnturn in last sPason's Orange Bowl and Haghib "Hoeknt" Ismail all-ror-naught hero­ic run against Colorado in the 1991 Orange Bowl. 
As the <llwasting yellow flag hit the turr or Notre Damn Stadium, so too did the national ehampionship hopes of the Irish, as they fell to the 11th spot in the AI' poll (I 4th in the USA Today/Coaches' l'olll. 
And yet again, the 29-16 loss to Ohio State carne at home in September, a Ia Miehigan in 1994 and Northwestern in 1995. 
"Unfortunately, we've been in this situation before," senior tailback Handy Kinder said. "We've had our hopes dashed before." 
But not since the 1990 Penn State loss has Notre Dame been so domi­nated (6.2 yards per play for the Buckeyes compared to just 3.8 for the Irish) in all aspects of the game, particularly the line of scrimmage. 
"They blitzed and brought ev­erybody and we eouldn't get it (the pass) off," Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz said. "The better football team won the game." 
Make that the better. faster. big­ger. stronger. more prepared and smarter team won the football game. 
see BLITZKRIEG/ page 2 


• IRISH INSIGHT 

Where were the voices? 
S
ometimes r wonder if I want to grad­uate from Notre Dame. I'm not rnal­ly sure if I want to be an alumnus coming back for .a football game if what I have observed as a student here will hold true for me in the future. After [. gradu­ate, I still want to cheer. That's allowed, right? 
Despite running the risk of improperly clas­sifying an entire group of people, the disap­pointment I felt while Dave Treacy sitting in a stadium mostly full of ND alumni and fans who would not effectively make their presence known spurs me toward this critieism. 
see INSIGHT/ page 3 


-~-~~--~------~-----...­
page 2 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Monday, September 30, 1996 
~~-------------------------------------­
Offensive line fails to find answer for Buckeye defense 
By JOE VILLINSKI "We just didn't play Notre the backfield also encountered Associate Sports Editor Dame football and that's it," he trouble establishing the run. said. "There's no excuses for When the Irish did break the 
Notre Dame center Rick why we lost. Any team can line of scrimmage, Ohio State's Kaczenski walked out of a visi­throw anything at us and we're impressive tackling ability kept bly shaken Irish locker room on supposed to be prepared. Notre Dame from breaking a Saturday and calmly discussed We're Division I football players long run. The largest gain of why Ohio State dominated the and we should be prepared to the game from the Irish back­line of scrimmage during their pick any of that stuff up." field came on nine-yard jaunts 29-16 victory. That stuff includ~d a quick by Autry Denson and Marc 
Reporters questioned if the defensive attack that put con­Edwards. constant Buckeye blitzing stant pressure on the Notre "We didn't open the holes for caused a problem or why quar­Dame offense and exposed the backs," Kaczenski said. terback Ron Powlus was under weaknesses along the Irish "We had to rely on the passing heavy pressure the entire offensive line. The Irish were game, and in college football game. unable to take advantage of the you can't pass and win. You 
For Kaczenski, the questions constant man-to-man coverage have to be able to control the 
brought to light only one real and paid with the loss. With line of scrimmage and we 
problem. constant Buckeye penetration, didn't do that offensively." 
To put the inefficiency of the 
running game in perspective, 
Powlus led the Irish in rushing 
at halftime with 28 yards. The 


Irish also had 23 running plays of two yards or less. Notre Dame finished the half with only 51 yards on the ground and 126 for the game. 
"Offensively, particularly the first half, they controlled the line of scrimmage," Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz said. "They blitzed and they brought everybody and we had trouble getting it off." 
"We came with a lot more blitzes and tried to keep him (Powlus) a little off balance and that's out of respect to him. as a football player," head coach John Cooper said. 
"It (blitzing) confused us and it shouldn't have," tailback Randy Kinder said. "We prac­tice and prepare for anything and for some reason we just couldn't get things rolling today." 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Fullback Marc Edwards and the Irish running attack failed to break any run longer than nine yards while averaging less than three yards a carry against the Buckeyes. 
When asked what adjust­win, but the better team won." ments the Irish made to "We wanted to attack a little counter the constant blitzing, more in the second half," Powlus responded, "Not the Powlus said. "We tried to run right ones." The Irish quarter­at them more, but they were back was sacked four times and swarming us and we just didn't had Buckeyes in his face on respond," Kinder said. seemingly every play. The Irish made some strides 
Holtz admitted after the game attacking in the second half. that he did not recognize a but could not dig out of the first Buckeye defense that made half hole. Ohio State All­serious changes before the American candidatPs Mike game. Vrabel and Matt Finkes created 
"What they did the first two havoc on the defensive line, games was much different than while free safety Rob Kelly this," Holtz said. "They didn't spent most of his time charging blitz. They didn't do anything through the Irish front. that we saw here today. We "We could not get any move­tried to make some adjustments ment on them up inside," Holtz at halftime give us a chance to said. 
Blitzkrieg 
continued from page 1 
The Buckeye defenders showed they were better tacklers time and time again, bringing down Irish ballcarriers after just 2.9 yards per carry. 

Demetrious Stanley showed he was faster when he galloped 85 yards on the opening kick-off to set up an easy Ohio State touchdown. 
Tackle Orlando Pace showed he was bigger, crushing everyone in his way and even pancaking Lyron Cobbins and drive-blocking Kinnon Tatum like he was a blocking sled -on the same play. 
The Ohio State front seven showed it was stronger, as they manhandled the Irish offensive front and turned Ron Powlus (13-30, 154 yards, 2 int., 4 sacks) into their own tackling dummy. 
Ohio State even showed they were more prepared and smarter, as their gameplan of blitzes, stunts and twists baffied Notre Dame. 
"Ohio State was as good of team as we have played in awhile," Holtz admitted. "They do things you're unprepared for." 
No one could have been prepared for the disappointment that enused after Denson, who broke his left index finger in the first half, broke free only to have the play called back on the hold. 
"I didn't think I did it, but I guess the ref did," said Goode. ­
Although victim Antoine Winfield was unlikely to make the tackle, replays showed Goode did, in fact, have a sub­stantial handful of shirt. 
If the play stood, the Irish would have cut the lead· to less than a touchdown with 3:35 remaining. 
"I looked back and saw the flag and that was it," Holtz said. 
"We shouldn't have put ourselves in that postition (to be trailing 29-16)," fullback Marc Edwards said. "They won the war in the trenches for 3 quarters and it was too late when we did." 
The Irish still had their chances. 
Trailing 22-7, Notre Dame took the second-half kick-off and, on the strength of a 34-yard Powlus-to-Emmett Mosley strike, drove all the way to the OSU six­yard line. But a lack of running room on three straight tries doomed the driv.e to just a 26-yard Jim Sanson field goal. 

"Coming out and driving down and not getting a touchdwon was critical," Holtz said. ­
A similar and just as important of a drive came midway through the fourth quarter. After taking over 6 minutes off the clock by marching 68 yards, the Irish succumbed to the intense Buckeye rush, as on 4th and 11, Powlus was forced to unload a pass to Denson short of the first down marker. 
"He (Powlus) was definitely dis­traught," Buckeye safety Damon Moore said. 
That was John Cooper's strategy. 
"We controlled the tempo and put a lot 
of pressure on Powlus," said Cooper. "We had to keep him off balance." Powlu's play was gritty, but not enough. 
While Ohio State had receivers like Stanley and Michael Wiley (31-yard reception to set up late first-half score), the lack of a deep threat to stretch the defense for Notre Dame was never more apparent. 
"We just didn't make big plays," Holtz said. 
On various occasions, both Mosley and Malcolm Johnson had opportunities to make more plays, but neither consis­tently came through. 
"If we had Derrick Mayes, some of those plays Derrick Mayes makes," Holtz said. 
.Just as the receivers failed to make the key play, the secondary failed to make the necessary tackles. 
"We did not tackle particularly well," Holtz understated. 
In fact, Pearson (29 carries for 179 yards) broke two tackles to bring the Buckeyes to the goal-line with a 26-yard reception and tight end D.J. Jones broke Jarvis Edison' tackle attempt to score the game-clinching touchdown late in the third quarter. 
The Irish, and their national champi­onship hopes, were never the same. 
'The national championship is done," a red-eyed Powlus said outside the lock­er room. "It's over." 
--~~--~------------------------~ 
B 
turnovers, forcing a Needed to apply more Jackson at key times. 
ary C-
out the tackling dum­
Several missed stops third down conversions .momentum. 
.._.....,,au.u 
B­
and punt, but figured ·against Purdue was so as while try again. Then there's n .......,.,,H D,enso eturn. but can't cry over 

Offensive LineD+ .·..·.··. . . . .. Coaching C+ 
Holtz took responsibility after the game for not 
call~g all the right plays for Powlus. Buckeyes' 
·' r~vamped defensive $Cherne also caught Irish 
coaching staff in the center of a blitzkrieg. 

Defensive Lin~. B ::11::t OveraUGrade 2.43 
Stellar play by both Wynn and Maiden washigh-Holtz may have to keep these guys after school light of this ,grol!P· Dan.sby kept P~y.e's rwrm11l fp!J,pwing. S,atur~ay's p$rformance. If Irish can serving of flapjacks to a short stack/but the big avold any further breakdowns on the season, they man still kept plenty cooking on the griddle for maysome~ow find th~mselves near the head of J?earso:Qrun,$, . <theclass;tiit > .·;:l'i 
·.. ··· ·••· · ..Dylan Barinmer and Joe Villinski 


Monday, September 30, 1996 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 



Buckeyes' ground attack proves to be too much 
to impress everyone, both on

Pearson's 
the field and ofT. "lie's definitely an elusive back," said Notre Dame line­


173 yards 
backer Bert Berry. "lie's quick. able to find holes and get through them with his quick­


help OSU 
ness. lie had a great offensive line blocking for h;rn, and he was able to do the things that


destroy Irish 
he needed to do to win." While Pearson and his offen­defense sive teammates did their job. 
there will be many who will say By DYLAN BARMMER that the Irish defense as a Assistant Sports Editor whole were somHwhat neglect­
ful of their duties. 

Tlw winds of changH blew "In the first half, when they through Notre Dame Stadium did get into the secondary, we on Saturday. The storm that is didn't tackle particularly well," Ohio Statn blew the Irish off said a frustrated Lou lloltz in hoth lines of scrimmage, one of his trademark under­destroying hopr.s and dreams of statnments. Irish players and fans alike, "You know, you're going to dnvastating a team that came miss some tackles up front, into this game looking like it since you're getting off of could weather just about any bloeks. ete. But we missed a lot storm. of tackles in the secondary." 
And in the midst of the storm "I think the main story of the was onn man, a man who on whole game was that we just this day blew through tlw Irish missed tackles," said Irish defense likn a galP-forcn wind. defensive end Renaldo Wynn. 
llurrieane Pepe hit South "It snnrns like a lot of times, we Bend on Saturday, and the had them down and they just
carne against a rush defense The Eddie to whom Cooper is Pearson almost single handedly
wsults were disastarous. broke a lot of tacklns. The guy
that had b!len allowing just 60 referring to is Eddie George. led the Buckeyes down the field
Ohio Statn tailback Pepe (Pearson) is an elusive baek,
yards a game in their first three You may have hoard of him, he on that drive, accounting for 53
Pearson look advantage of both rna! fast. We just didn't tackle
games. won the lleisrnan Trophy last total yards and the touchdown
an immPIISPiy talentnd o!Ten­as well as we needed to tackle.
"Pepn's playing like I said he season. which put the Buckeyes up 22­
sive lirw and his own eonsider­lie's a great running back, but
was going to play," commented Pearson's heroics also includ­7.
ahlt~ ability, carrying the ball 29 we missed a lot of tackles on
Ohio Stall~ coaeh John Cooper. ed two receptions for a team­While it can be argued that
timt's for 173 yards and two him."
"We've had a lot of great run­high 42 yards, one of which he is more the beneficiary of a
touchdowns. l'narson himself It's not often easy, to contain
ning backs at Ohio State. We came in Ohio State's back­tremendous offensive line than
amassr~d rwarly 50 yards morn a hurricane. You try to do so.
lust Eddie last yt]ar, and Pepe's breaking six play, 84 yard scor­a game-breaking back,
than tlw e11tirt~ Irish rushing and you might just get blown
stepped in, and I think Pope's ing drive in the waning Pearson's quick acceleration
attack, and his gaudy numbers away.
done a gn~at job." moments of the l"irst half. and dance-hall moves didn't fail 
... 


TEAM RECORD 
1. Florida (57) 4-0 2. Florida St. (8) 3-0 3. Ohio St. (1) 3-0 
4. 
Penn St. 5-0 

5. 
Arizona St. (1) 4-0 6. Michigan 4-0 7. Nebraska 3-1 8. Miami 4-0 9. Tennessee 2-1 


10. Colorado 3-1 
11. Notre Dame 3-1 12. Virginia 4-0 13. Alabama 4-0 14. LSU 3-0 
15. 
North Carolina 3-1 

16. 
Kansas St. 4-0 

17. 
Southern Cal. 3-1 18. Washington 2-1 


19. West Virginia 5-0 20. Auburn 3-1 
21. Brigham Young 4-1 22. Northwestern 3-1 23. Texas 2-2 24. Utah 4·1 25. Wyoming 5-0 
POINTS 
1664 1586 1533 1459 1389 1330 1242 1198 1132 981 900 874 836 770 767 754 753 515 418 410 268 201 146 101 99 
PREVIOUS 
1 2 4 3 6 7 8 10 9 12 5 19 14 17 11 16 15 21 23 22 24 25 13 

• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
First Downs 
Rushed-yards Passing yards Sacked-yards lost Return yards 
Passes 
2" 
Punts 
Fumbles-lost Penalties-yards Time of possession 
Individual Statistics 

osu  ND  
19  17  
43-206  44-126  
185  154  
1-10  4-33  
167  129  
13-20-1  13-30­ 
4-36.3  5-46.4  
1-1  1-1  
3-30  3-9  
29:03  30:57  

RUSHING: OSU-Pearson 29-173, Calhoun 4-16, Montgomery 4-11, Keller 3-7, Jackson 3-minus 1. Notre Dame-Denson 19-55, Kinder 7-20, Edwards 7-18, Powlus 9-15, Mosley 1-10, Farmer 1-8. 
PASSING: OSU-Jackson 9-15-1-154, Germaine 4-5-0. Notre Dame-Powlus 13-30-2. 
RECEIVING: OSU-Pearson 2-42, Lumpkin 2-28, Jones 2-25, Stanley 2-24, Miller 2-18, Wiley 1-31, Keller 1-15, Calhoun 1­
2. Notre Dame-Johnson 3-40, Mosley 2-32, Denson 2-11, Edwards 2-7, Caretta 1-42, Champion 1-12, Nelson 1-10, Chryplewicz 1-0. 
SCORING SUMMARY 

1  2  3  4  F  
osu  12  10  7  0  29  
Notre Dame  7  0  3  6  16  

FIRST QUARTER OSU-Pearson 3 yard run (Jackson rush fumbled) at 13:15 (4 plays, 13 yards) Notre Dame-Edwards 2 yard pass from Powlus (Sanson kick) at 6:05 (4 plays, 15 yards) OSU-Calhoun 2 yard pass from Jackson (failed try for extra points) at 3:37 (7 plays, 80 yards) 
SECOND QUARTER OSU-Jackson 24 yard field goal at 3:52 OSU-Pearson 1 yard run (Jackson kick) at 0:54 (6 plays, 84 yards) 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame-Sanson 26 yard field goal OSU-Jones 13 yard pass from Jackson (Jackson kick) at 1:44 (6 plays, 34 yards) 
FOURTH QUARTER Notre Dame-Edwards 9 yard run (Sanson kick blocked) at 7:01 (5 plays, 61 yards) 

Insight 
continued from page 1 
Simply put, the relative silence of the home crowd 
contributed toward the loss on Saturday. 
It is really fascinating. People who have gradu­ated from Notre Dame, who helped comprise a perennially loud student body, who yell at their televisions and have perfected the art of armchair quarterbacking, suddenly transform into bench potatoes upon enterin~ Hockne's House. When things got tough in the ourth quarter, pnople who profess a deep love for and faith in ND began to file out as if the game was over. What was the prob­!em? Did they already feel the need to drown their sorrows and think up crafth ways that the Irish could still win the National C arnpionship? 
I cannot help but fume when I wonder if some­day I will feel that getting a ticket in the alumni lot­terk and racking up a 200 tab at the bookstore rna es me a fan. 
I have to say this for the OSU folks: they didn't let playin~ on the road affect their obnoxious rnentali­ty. W ile I don't condone obnoxious behavior, the red-clad fans started loud and stayed loud. I would not say that they took over our Stadium, but they certainly tried. 
Notre Dame, students, staff, and fans alike may exude class, but why must this como at the expense of noise when the opponent has the ball, no matter where they are on the field? 
Perhahs I am being too critical. Yes, there were some fo ks left in the Stadium at the end. And by the end, there really wasn't much to be excited about. But when the ~arne was still on the line and one momentum switc could have made the differ­ence, is it not the job of the fans to help make that happen? Can our fans say that they ~ave as much of themselves as theh ex~ected from t e team? 
Other schools s ou d fear coming into our Stadium to play. Its history alone should not be counted upon to intimidate the opposition; a loud and excited Irish home crowd should help fill that role. I have heard comments from players about 

..
how we have a "dead crowd." !low can we ex~ect our team to enter hostile environments sue 1 as those they have encountered in Texas, Ohio State, and Boston College territory if we cannot providn a similar atmosphere? Our Stadium ri~ht now is smaller than most, but dm~s this mean t Htt intensi­ty should go out the window? Once we add 20,000 more scats, are things necessarily going to get bnt­ter? We won't be accnptin~ 20,000 morn students who actually cheer, we'll n giving more alumni 

-
the ehance to come and maybe make somn noise. 

The student body can only do so much. But it was the collective voice of the students that forced an Ohio State time-out because their quarterback wasn't heard by his receivers. So it is obvious that a good crowd docs affect the game. .. 
Perhaps what we can do is sheak to family and friends. We can tell them t 1at they arc only allowed in our House if they are willing to make a difference. 
Maybe we should tear the benches out so that everybody has to stand.
The Observer/ Jon 

Monday, September 30, 1996 
The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Notre Dame celebrates following Autry Denson's punt return for an apparent touchdown. Ty Goode (24), guilty of an illegal block call that would negate the touchdown, does not participate in the celebration. 


Ohio State 29 Notre Dame 16 
Notre Dame Stadium September 28, 1996 

• GAME NOTES 
DENSON DINGED 
Sophomore tailback Autry Denson 
broke his left index finger in the first 
half of action Saturday, and continued 
to play throughout the remainder of 
the game. Denson, who underwent 
surgery on the finger Sunday, said that 
the procedure lasted only a little over 
an hour. "It went fine," said Denson. 
"It's just sore right now." Fortunately, 
the Irish have an off week and may 
get Denson back for the October 12 
clash with #18 Washington. His status 
for that game as of right now is "ques­.tionable." 
NO GOODE 
Notre Dame picked a horrible time to commit just their second penalty of the game on Saturday. With less than four minutes remaining and the Irish trail­ing 29-16, Denson broke a 90-yard punt return for a touchdown. However, junior Ty Goode was flagged for a holding penalty on the runback, negating what would have been a momentous touchdown. "I didn't think I did it, but the ref did," Goode said. 
SEPTEMBER MOURN 
The loss to Ohio State marks the third consecutive year the Irish have lost a home game in September. Last season, the Irish fell to Northwestern in their home opener, and the previous season's home opener was similarly depressing, as the Irish lost to Michigan on a last-second field goal. "We've been through this before," senior tailback Randy Kinder said. "We, as seniors, just have to hold this team together." 
BLOCK THAT KICK 
The Irish kick defense turned in an incredible first-half pnrformance in the loss to Ohio State. After surrendering an early touchdown to open the scor­ing, the Irish blocked an Ohio State PAT. Soon after, a muffed snap on the part of the Buckeyes led to a blocked punt by Bert Berry. The blocked punt left just a field goal block in order to pull off the triple play. Notre Dame completed the trifecta just three min­utes into the second quarter, when Benny Guilbeaux blocked a 49-yard field goal attempt by freshman kicker Dan Stultz. 
APPLYING THE PRESSURE 
Ron Powlus was under heavy pres­sure the entire afternoon, as the Ohio State defense launched numerous blitzes in a premeditated effort to hurry Powlus. "I knew every time they were blitzing," Powlus said. "We just didn't make the right adjustments." "They threw things at us that they hadn't before," said Holtz of the defen­sive flurries. "But they can -that's fair." 
OUTRUN 

Saturday's game marked just the first time this season that an opponent has outrushed the Irish, a factor that certainly had a large bearing on the outcome. Ohio State tailback Pepe Pearson himself accounted for 173 of the Buckeyes' 206 rushing yards. In contrast, the entire Notre Dame back­field was only able to muster 126 yards on 44 carries, an average of under 3.0 yards per carry. 
"I think their defensive line is so strong," said Holtz. "We could not get any movement on them up inside." The last time the Irish were outgained on the ground was in their 35-17 victo­ry over Navy on November 4, 1995. 
-
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Buckeye offensive tackle Orlando Pace lived up to the hype on Saturday afternoon, frus­trating Irish tackle Melvin Dansby all day long. The junior prevented Dansby and the Notre Dame defensive line from controlling the line of scrimmage. 


;ACCENT
Monday, September 30, 1996 page 9 
• Now PLAYING 
·2 Days• PulPed With Good Stuff 
By JOSH BECK 
Acccm Movie Critic 
W
hen the movie 'Pulp Fiction' first appeared in theaters, people had no idea of what was in store for them. Occasional remarks such as "Oh, look, they brought Travolta back" or "God, what is that growing out of Samuel L. Jackson's !wad?" might have been potential reactions to what everyorw saw in the previews, but no one really knew what to expect. The only exceptions were of course the die-hard Quentin Tarentino fans who had seen 'Heservoir Dogs' and his other films before then. The plwnomenal success of 'Pulp Fiction' was brought about by its abrasive, sometimes shocking style that is Tarentino's trademark. Movie-goers gobbled it up like Fat Albert at an all-you-can-eat buffet. 
Of 1:ourse, we all know what happens to most good things that have achieved success: others try to copy it. Before "2 Days in the Valley" was released on Friday, tlwre really hadn't been another flick like "Pulp." This already posed a poten­
way to the house of a loud and obnoxious designer (Greg Cruttwell) and his timid and apologetic secretary (Glenne Headly). 
Meanwhile, on the other side of the Valley, two vice cops (Jeff Daniels and Eric Stoltz) are trying to bust an Oriental massage parlor for prostitution. And in a cemetery in another part of town, a washed-out direc­tor (Paul Mazursky) is about to kill himself before run­ning into a nurse (Marsha Mason). The movie goes on its merry way from there, and all the plots somehow tie together at the end. 
Each character is his own plot. Seen through this specific lens, the movie is much more enjoyable. Unlike "Pulp," this film follows a specific order of events rather than flashing back to previous ones and somehow creating coherence. This makes it much easier to view and understand, although I haven't heard many people complaining that they couldn't comprehend "Pulp Fiction." This movie also shoots off in different directions at times, creating new dialogue that deviates from what we understand about the plots. And just as in "Pulp," the music helps the movie 
considerably. The songs 

tial problem for the  are darkly melodic and  
movie nwiewer, since  bluesy and they help to  
lw would hav1~ to most  tap into the dark nature of  
wrtainly compare it to  the film.  
Tan~nlino's masterpiece  The great thing about  
bncausn of thn similar  this film is that it is very  
styles. So when I  similar to the type of  
walkml into "2 Days," I  movie that 'Pulp Fiction'  
already had a notion of  is. On the other hand, it is  
what it was I would be  not as upbeat or original.  
viewing. I turned out to  While '2 Days' is sus­ 
lw right.  penseful, nothing really  
l.ikn "Pulp," this film  happens that could not  
doesn't concentrate on  have been spotted ahead  
one plot; rather. it  of time. For most people,  
dP)VPs into a plethora of  the idea that anything  
subplots that somehow  could happen at any time  
conrwrt at one time or  in a movie is different and  
anotlwr. This takns the  therefore more appealing.  
altPnlion ofT the game  The director, John  
plan and puts it on the  Herzfeld, has been around  
snparatn playnrs. so to  awhile and is evidently  
SJHHtk, sincn each char­ breaking new ground.  
al'tPr is a plot in him­ Too bad that it's not really  
Sldf. This adds up to  new.  
many rhararters and  This movie is blessed  
hPru·.n, a multitude of  with an underrated cast  
plots as WPII. Tlu• hnst  that displays stupendous  
way to view this film is  acting. Spader is chilling  
to IPt it take you on its  in the role of the sadistic  
own ridP, which will  assassin, Aiello is fine as  
for us morn on r.harac- Courtesy of Metro Goldwin Mayer the unsuspecting pizza  

tnr dnvnlopnwnt ratlwr "2 Days .in th.e Vall~y" closely follows the style of "Pulp Fiction," man, and Stoltz is stellar 
than onP giant plot. but has 1ts own thnlllng qual1ty. This typP of movil~ 
rPquirPs good acting, and just like 'Pulp Fiction.' this movie tak1~s lesser stars and makes them golden. Danny Ail'llo. James Spader, Tnri Hatcher, and Eric 
Stoltz lwad up an underrated all-star cast. 
I>Psrrihing all the plots of "2 Days" would be just as dil'firult as lining out Hoss Perot's presidential plat­form. It would also take up a lot of space. It's better just to givP you the initial setting and let the movie takP rarP of tho rest. The movie, of course, takes plarP in tlw Valley. though which valley is never told. An assassin (James Spader) is hired by an Olympic gymnast (Tnri Hatcher) to kill her husband (Peter llortonl. Tlw assassin picks out a washed-up pizza mak1~r (Danny Aiello) as the man who takes the fall for tlw hit and tlwn mystPriously dies al'terwards. After tht• husband is killml, the assassin and his girlfriend IC:harliw Tlwron) try to blow up the fall guy but are unsurrPssful. The pizza maker escapes and finds his 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL 
Accent l;encr~l Hospital Corre.~pondenr 
In thn world of the Port, Lois left Ned. He's devastat­ed; Brenda is terrified that if Ned and Lois can't make it work out, then thoro is no chance for her and Jax. Don't worry, the Aussie assures her, nobody leaves­ever. As for Sonny's reaction, well, if 1 were Jax or Tracy, I'd start locking my door and watching my back '1:auso Sonny's gonna ictl 'em. 
13ronda asks Jax to back off; ho responds with the story of his childhood, spent in a car, fishing for dinner with bent paperclips (woll, at least now we know why he loves oystf!rs so much-less effort). Brenda is touehed by his revela~ion and promises to stand by him, no matter what. Meanwhile, Ned sits in the gate­house, listening to Eddie Maine and crying. He tells Edward he'll sign the contract, but reserves the right to brnak il at any time; then, he calls a board meeting. N(ld offers to buy Sonny out, but once Brenda tells him about Lois being run out of town, he vows to stay and fight. lie asks Brenda how she can live with a world with no responsibility, then tells Mike: "Brenda's as a vice-cop who's been 
around too long. The other performances are good, but the surprising and maybe best one is given by Jell' Daniels, who is superb as the loud and abrasive partner of Stoltz. Another good showing is produced by the newcomer Charlize Theron. who is extremely seductive and devious as Spader's girlfriend and partner in crime. 
All in all, this movie isn't "Pulp Fiction," but hey, what lilm could ever be? In addition, I don't think it tries to be like it as much as it just borrows the style. The movie is good in its own right. Its beginning will grab you and keep you there until the end of the film. The acting is superb, and the lilm is directed with a sense that while it may not be as original as it could be, it still has a flair for the unexpected. And since this is only just one of the few movies of this type that has surfaced, there's always room for improvement. The best may be yet to come, but "Pulp Fiction" and "2 Days in the Valley" provide a good start. 
ignorning the obvious, and the beat goes on." Give the man a pat on the back-the light bulb has just turned on! Back at the penthouse, Jax dumps Tracy since they've lost the element of surprise. But I would have to agree with Sonny: Jax, get ELQ another way. 
Tony and Carly have a marathon session in the sack. Who can blame him-does anyone remember the last time the man had sex? Bobbie goes to Florida and bonds with her daughter's adoptive mom. Virginia admits she wanted to adopt a child to save her mar­riage, but it failed ...sound familiar, Bobbie? Meanwhile, Stefan has his ·minions working out who and what Virginia Benson represents to Bobbie. When the latter gets home, her house is empty ..and there are flowers from Stefan. When her husband comes limping in after his lovefest, he tells her he has not felt any­thing since BJ died. Cady trios to do the right thing by leaving the nursing program (and town), but Tony comes into her room ... and they begin Round #2, 
Laura finds the letter Nikolas was trying to give Lulu when Lucky attempted to whack him. The incriminat­ing evidence suggests: Luke wants Nikolas out of town. Laura is SURPRISED?! Maybe she and Brenda should get together and discuss reality. Nikolas tells Stefan he realizes that Laura loves him. As that beautiful senti­ment rolls out, Laura comes in to tell him goodbye. She 
-can't risk one son killing.the other. What she REALLY 
Days Of Our Lives 
By JENIFER KOCH and JULIE BARBOUR Accent Days of Our Lives Correspondents 
Hi Days fans! We trust that }'ofi've all been watch­ing the sands flow through the hourglass...but in case you're depending on us to keep you informed, we need to clear up a rumor we mentioned in la.stweek's arti­cle. As correspondents deeply concerned with relay­ing the truth to you, we did some more research into Melissa Reeves' (the OLD Jennifer's) alleged return and the departure of Jason Brooks from his role as Peter. While Brooks' role could go either way, Reeves is definitely not returning to portray Jennifer Horton . any time soon. So for now, it looks like we're stuck· with the space cadet they cast in her place. 
Austin redeemed himself this week as his Captain Clueless qualities took the back burner to his love for Carrie. When Carrie finally convinced him that he needed to marry Sami for Will's sake, Austin had no problems repeatedly telling Sami how much he did NOT love her. During the wedding ceremony, Austin pulled some stud moves as he looked at Carrie the entire time, refused to say Sami's name during the vows, and shot down Sami's idea to use Carrie's r~g. Our new fearless Austin even derailed Sanii's trick of getting into the shower with him as Carrie was on her way over to their hotel room. The French Justice System, which wasn't fooled by the fake marriage, threatened to make tho newlyweds stay in France for six months to prove their commitment. With Mickey, Lexy, Austin, and Carrie fighting the judge's plan; Sami went straight to the source to ask the judge to demand that they stay. Did no one consider the fact that it takes two for a divorce before Sami. and Austin tied the knot? 
The trio of Jack, Laura, and Celeste continued fram­ing Daniel this week during a high-stakes poker game. Daniel's debts were due to be paid the day after he lost all of his money to Jack. The only problem was that Jack and Laura missed Daniel's desperate phone call. 
With his past rapidly catching up to him, Peter final­ly convinced Jen that it was time for their six-month cruise around the world on his yacht. As added incen­tive, Peter is flying Abby to Paris so she can join them. Aunt Maggie has the honor of flying overseas with Abby-a good thing since the cast in Paris was start­ing to dwindle. 
John, Kristen, and Marlena made their appearance at Sami and Austin's wedding. Ironically enough, John condemned Sami's actions by denouncing any woman who uses a baby to keep a man away from his true love. Wake up from your hypnotic state and smell the coffee, John-Sami and Kristen have a BIT more in common than you realize. 
Franco's return to Salem sent Bo over the edge when it was revealed that he and Billie dated while in Europe. As if it weren't bad enough when Franco took Billie home, he then broke into her apartment in an attempt to convince her to see him again. However, the "new memories" Franco promised Billie might not be as positive as the ones of Bo she wants to replace. Hidden behind that exaggemtod accent seems to be the mind of a rnadman, and he's got the bandaged wrists to prove it. Jill's second attack struck Bo as too coincidental to be ignored. In the midst of Hope's defense of Franco, Bo has become obsessed with proving the Italian Stallion is Jill's attacker. Mr. Mighty Mouse Bo needs to take a break from saving all these women in distress and remem­ber that he's supposed to be planning a wedding. 
Watch this week to see' how Sami's visit with the French judge turns out. As for you, Carrie and Austin, be afraid. Be very, very afraid ..'. 
E-mail your questions and insightful remarks to Jenifer.L.Koch.6@nd.eduor barb2883@saintmarys. edu. 
can't risk is Luke and Stefan getting into a fight-and Luke putting one of Stefan's eyes out, forcing him to wear a patch. 
Felicia picks up the phone at The Outback ... and who is on the other line but Kevin'? He insists ho. was trying to reach Mac in order to tell him that he Is pleading guilty, but no one believes him. Tom thinks the nut case is striking again. Mac says he was having hL'i calls forwarded, but Dara uses it against Kevin. Lucy hires attorney Alexis Davis from New York City. (Guess tho Simpson Dream Team was busy ort. their respective book tours.) Lucy is convinced that Kevin needs love and help, and she promises he .will get lt. Mac asks Felicia to drop the charges; she refuses. ·• 
At the courthouse, just about everyone sits on 

... 
Felicia's side. Katharine gets up, sits next to Lucy, and holds her hand; they may hate each other, but they always manage to come together in times of crisis. Kevin changes his mind at the last minute and pleads not guilty. Felicia takes the stand, as does Tom. _Alexis gets Tom to admit that he. does not believe Kevin to really be "'B. threat. Kevin is denied bail, Felicia· is thrilled...but Mac refuses her high five. Kevin's new lawger makes a call to..STEFAN, no less, and fills him in. She's his hired gun ... but why? I like a man with a fmger in every pot...that makes him so much more exci~g. · 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 30, 1996 
• NFL 


Scuffles, ejection turns Pittsburgh blowout sour 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press Writer 

PITTSBURGH 
The Houston Oilers lost the ball, their tempers and the game. They put up a good fight against Pittsburgh ev­erywhere but the scoreboard, where the Steelers still own the AFC Central. 
The Oilers, overly eager to stand up -to the defending AFC champions, commit­ted four critical first-half mistakes that led to Steelers scores, and Pittsburgh again dominated Houston 30-14 Sunday behind Mike Tomczak's two first-quar­ter touchdown passes. 
Houston lost three fumbles and two starting defensive backs, Marcus Robertson and Darryll Lewis, both to fighting-related ejections. Coaches Jeff Fisher and Bill Cowher twice helped break up fights, and several fans even tried mixing it up with the Oilers. 
"That's what happens when you put some revved-up men out there and the hormones start flowing," Steelers line­backer Levon Kirkland. "They came out talking, but if you're going to talk the talk, you've got to walk the walk. We're not going to back down against any­body" 
The Oilers came out with an excellent game plan. Then Pittsburgh ran it to perfection. Houston wanted to run the ball, stay close and let quarterback Mike Tomczak beat himself with mistakes. Instead, Pittsburgh's Jerome Bettis ran for 115 yards in his third straight 100­yard game and Houston's Chris Chandler threw two interceptions and lost a fumble. 
The Oilers may have came out too excited. They committed two of their five turnovers and had a field goal blocked in the first half, when Steelers defensive end Brentson Buckner could be heard yelling to Eddie George, the Reisman Trophy winner from Ohio State, "You're not running against Iowa any more." · "It's an emotional game, but you have to understand how important it is to stay composed," Robertson said. "We played with them physically, but they beat us mentally. We've got to learn from this." 
Despite disruptive injuries to defensive stars Greg Lloyd and Ray Seals and a succession of roster changes, the Steelers (3-1) have won three straight since a season-opening loss to Jacksonville. 
The Oilers (2-2) missed a chance to take the divisional lead and have lost five straight to Pittsburgh and seven of nine overall. · 
"Houston always does a lot of talking, but we didn't get caught up in it," cor­nerback Willie Williams said. "They wanted to prove something to us, but we have something to prove, too. We've made a lot of changes, but it's all about getting down to business and doing the job." 
Tomczak eventually gave Houston a chance, throwing an interception that Lewis returned 36 yards for a touch­down in the third quarter. The score came only 2:21 after Chandler's 4-yard touchdown pass to Willie Davis and briefly cut Pittsburgh's lead to 20-14. 
But Norm Johnson's 36-yard field goal put Pittsburgh up by nine points, and Darren Perry finished off the Oilers with a 13-yard interception return with 5:17 remaining to make it 30-14. 
"Houston's a good team. They're going to get in your face and create some havoc," said Tomczak, 15-for-28 for 202 yards and two touchdowns. 
Mostly, the Oilers created problems for themselves. 
Mel Gray fumbled rookie Shayne Edge's first NFL punt on the opening series, and Tomczak came back to hit Kordell Stewart on a 16-yard touchdown pass on the next play with only 1:50 gone. 
Two plays later, George, who finished with 4 7 yards, fumbled, and the Steelers turned that into Johnson's 33-yard field goal. 
Then, one play after Buckner blocked Al Del Greco's 47-yard field goal attempt, Tomczak abandoned his usual dink-and-dunk style to hit Charles Johnson on a 62-yard scoring pass play to make it 17-0 with only 7:36 gone. 
Lewis seemed in perfect position along the Oilers' sidelines to break up the pass, but Johnson leaped above him to make the catch and shook off one other tackler on the Steelers' longest pass play this season. 
The game before, a play-it-safe Tomczak tried no pass longer than 6 yards. 
The Oilers had one more critical mis­take left in them before halftime. Chad Brown recovered Chandler's fumble, setting up Norm Johnson's 36-yard field goal with 23 seconds remaining. Chandler was 24-for-42 for 207 yards. 
"You let him {Tomczak) get up by 17­20 points, he's just going to feed his run­ning backs and have conservative pass routes," Lewis said. "He didn't have to make anything happen. It would have been different if it were 0-0 or we had been winning." 
Or, i( Tomczak had been ejected for fighting with Robertson in the third quarter. 
As Tomczak wrestled Robertson to the turf after an apparent fumble, Robertson nearly ripped Tomczak's hel­met off. Robertson was tossed, but Tomczak stayed in. 
"If you eject one guy, eject them both. But you can't baby-cake the quarter­backs," Oilers linebacker Micheal Barrow said. "It's no secret I hate the Steelers. This is the team that went to the Super Bowl." 
The second fight occurred with 1:48 remaining as Edge chose to run out of the end zone for a safety rather than risk a blocked punt. 
As Lewis ran down Edge, the two began fighting beyond the end line, with several fans caught in the middle. As the two coaches tried to separate the play­ers, some fans poured beer on the Oilers. 
Edge was playing in his first game after being signed last week to replace the injured Josh Miller. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS- Compuparts Lab., Inc.  I need 2 Pitt tickets.  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  I NEED OHIO ST. WASH. & AF  
NOTICES  Teach basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  Grand Opening! Very Low Price! Big Sales on Computer System  Call Kyle@ 4-1957.  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  GA's.272-6306  
teaching certificate or European  and Parts!  Need 2 GAs for WA. or OH. game  Wash. ticket for sale  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  languages required. Inexpensive  8 MB RAM EDO $43  Cristina@ x2339  ND ALUM NEEDS  B/0 Heather @ x2695  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  Room & Board + other benefits. For  8 X CD-ROM $99  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITI TIX  
255-1172  info. call:  2.0 GB Hard Drive $248  WANTED  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ 
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  (206)971-3680 ext.K55842  1 MB PCI SVGA CARD $35  2 GAs for Air Force  HAVE AF, PITI, RUTGERS TICK·  
You break it, we'll fix it!!!  and lots more!  Carrie x2344  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  320 N. Dixie Way (US 31, 1 block  ALL HOME GAMES.  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  south of Cleveland Ad)  Need lots of Washington tix-GA or  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  4273  
Breakfast Inn has space available  (813}360-2243.  Tel: 243-0421  student. Call Meghan @232-7839.  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  ND DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  TAKING THE GRE?  
private baths, $70 -$90,  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  CAR FOR SALE -92 GEO Tracker  need 5 WASH ga's or stud tix $$$  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  I need a student ticket/booklet (or  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  Red with convertible top -54K AIC  x2646  WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  GA) for the WA game on 10/12.  
Toll Road, Exit #107, ·  Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  Great shape! $8,800. Call Pascal  (219)422-6088  Friend from last yr coming in!  
1-800-418-9487  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h)  Please call Jen or Sarah-243­ 
$399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  Need 3 Washington tix bad  9019  
Textbooks bought/sold/traded  www.springbreaktravel.com  please call Nate at 271-1846  TICKETS DESPERATELY NEED­ 
5 blks south on ND Ave.  1-800-678-6386  Real Men Wear Kilts  ED -PLEASE HELP!!!  NEED 1 WASH TIX  
233-2342. Pandora's Books.  Order your Irish Kilt now!  Rich Alum Needs WA GA's  Fam11y wants to come to a game for  AND 2 AF TIX  
ILOST & FOUND I  Looking for ride to BALTIMORE for FALL BREAK. will help pay for gas. call erin at x2721.  Call 288-0116  (206)621-3485 NEED 2 or 3 GAs for WASHING­ my senior year. Please help Would like 2-6 tickets for any home game. Please call Brian at 287­ CALL X2765 Need 6 Air Force Tix  
••• 2 STUD TIX FOR SALE W/  TON  4876. Thank you.  Call Brian x0574  
Lost: Silver ring w/ bright green  TICKLER'S COMEDY CLUB  ID .......... CALL 243-9226****  Call Ed 243-9058  
stone. Great sentimental value. Please call 4-3425 if found.  Now Hiring: • Waitress/Waiters • Marketing  TICKETS  2 WASH GA's 4 SALE • b/o CALLx2005  $$ Please Help!! $$ 94 ND Alum Needs  PERSONAL  
Lost  • Ticket sales  1 or 2 Stud or GA tix to  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Golden Medallion of Jesus and His  Flexible work schedules.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  NEED two Washington tix, GA or  Ohio St and Wash­ Sending & Receiving  
Sacred Heart  Call232-7777 or apply in person  ALL GAMES HOME  student. Anne 289-4922  Call Joanne- at  
Sentimentally Irreplaceable  123 W. Washington -above  AND AWAY  516-7 42-1923 (night)  THE COPY SHOP  
REWARD Call Jeremy x-1045  BW-3's  232-0058  !@#$%"%"&&*)*"%"$•lo@$@#!*1\  or 212-415-3009 (day)  LaFortune Student Center  
24 HAS.  NEED GA'S FOR AIR FORCE  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  
Catholic Charities West Regional  BUY -SELL -TRADE  BRINGING CO-WORKERS FOR  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Lost-pair of Nike tennis shoes  Service Center ­ ND EXPERIENCE  67 4-7645 -No student or student  
if found call Maria-243-9282  Daycare has Full and Part Time  TICKET-MART,INC.  CALL (312) 540-2836 OR EMAIL  conv.  http://www.nd.edu/-rjervis  
openings. Send resume to:  john_d._potter@ notes.pw.com  
*"**"'LOsT•*****  120 South Taylor Street  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  ! @ ##$%!\&((*"*%"$#@$#$%*I\%.  I have 2 Air Force & 2 Rutgers  
I lost a Corona keychain/bottle  South Bend 46601  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  G.A.s-I need 4 PITI G.A.'s-Call  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
opener (with three keys) on it over  232-0061.  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  Shawn 215-676-6685  in the LaFortune Student Center  
the Purdue weekend. If you found it, please call Paul at 634-1519.  FOR RENT  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  GAMES 235-3394  Need 2 Air F. GA's  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
REWARD.  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  NEEDED: 1 student ticket to Wash  Amy 616-473-5825  Wed. 7:30am -Midnight  
WALK TO CAMPUS  CALL 243-1287  Game for younger brother  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
WANTED  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  Call JP@ x3414  NEED 2 WASH. GA's FOR PAR­ Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE  ALUM NEEDS GA's  ENTS!  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
For Macintosh: modem  Need a place to stay on football  PLEASE CALL 232-0058  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  CALL X1932  (closed home football Saturdays)  
(1200/2400), keyboard, mouse 1­ weekends?  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  
5610  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS  NEED: 4 GA'S for Air Force for my  Thank you St. Jude for prayers  
Furnished apartment for short term  GA. RUTGERS "CHEAP" ........... ..  FAMILY. Chris x0788  answered.  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  RUTGERS 272-7233 RUTGERS....  GA's for sale: All home games  
Positions are now availalbe at  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287­ Call x1596 with b/o. Ask for Mike.  WANTED: NO/WASH GA'S  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  4876.  NEED TIX -HOME GAMES  CALL MIKE AT 4-1615  He's not really from Wyoming.  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  312-951-5008  Need 1 Wash. Student Ticket.  He drives a pick-up truck, he has  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Call Rich or Mike @ 1306  Need 4 Air Force Tix  chew in one hand and a double  
extN55848  ND-SMC EVENTS.  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  Call Frank Walters  latte in the other.  
..  ...FREE TRIPS & CASH* ..  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS.  312.404.4903  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME  18002439683 Leave name and # ­will pay top $.  Hey Gorgeous,  
Find out how hundreds of student  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Need Washington Tix-Stud or GA.  AND AWAY  40 yard-line ....  
representatives are already earning  243-0658.  Will buy or trade. Matt 271-3683  232-0058  I NEED 1 Wash. student ticket.  You can make up for it at  
FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH  24 HAS.  PLEASE call Amber at x4292.  Washington  
with America's #1 Spring Break  1 & 2 BDRMS AVAIL. NOW. NEAR  $$$$$$  BUY • SELL-TRADE  Love,  
company! Sell only 15 trips and  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  TICKET-MART, INC.  I need two GA's for AIR FORCE  me  
travel free! Cancun, Bahamas,  272-6306  ALL HOME GAMES.  or PITI. CALL SEAN x-3311  
Mazatlan, Jamaica, or Florida!  272-6551  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Hey crip,  
CAMPUS MANAGER POSITIONS ALSO AVAILABLE. Call Now!  FOR SALE  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  I need wash. stud. and/or ga's call Nick 232-9944  I really can't cut on you, 'cause you can STILL get down. Impressive.  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAY·  BOUGHT & SOLD  
EL  Beds 4 Sale: 3 Combos in 1! Like  232-2378 -A.M.  n. d. tickets for sale  Need Wash Stud. or GA. Call Molly  Now what did grandma tell you  
(800)95-BREAK!  NEW. $150. 634-0926  288-2726-P.M.  271 1635  at X0836  about those holes???  

Monday, September 30, I996 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Gwynn earns batting crown, Padres secure playoffs 
By KEN PETERS 
As.~ociated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

Tony Gwynn considered it such a wonderful day that win­ning his seventh NL batting title seemed almost a footnote. 
!lis team, the long-suffering San Diego Padres, won the NL West for the first time in 12 years with a three-game sweep of Los Ang£\les to end the regu­lar season. 
llis brother, Chris, who had a mostly disappointing year, capped the Padres' dramatic eomeback with a pinch, two­run double in the 11th inning Sunday to beat the Dodgers 2-0 and clinch the division title. 
''I'm more happy with Chris getting the big hit than I am winning the batting title," Tony, soaked with champagne and beaming, said of his younger brother. "I hate to say it, but I've won it six times, so it's kind of old hat. 
"Something like this day, when we won the division and my brother got the big hit, that will probably never happen again." 
Gwynn, who went 0-for-4 and finished at .353, officially won the batting title despite falling four plate appearances short of the 502 required. 
The rules require an average of 3.1 appearances per game to qualify, but because of an injury that sidelined him for 31 games, Gwynn finished with 498. 
However, there is an ex­ception to the rules that allows players who fall short of quali­fying to be credited with enough hitless at-bats to reach the minimum if it still leaves them above the highest qualifi­er. 
With an extra 0-for-4, Gwynn would be at .349. That tops Ellis Burks of the Colorado Rockies, who led qualifiers at .344, and the Dodgers' Mike Piazza, next at .336. 
In the first time the rule has been a factor in the majors, Gwynn took the title and his .353 average will go into the books. 
"Rules are rules. He won the title, and so much for that," Piazza said. "I'm not disap­pointed. I'm proud of my year. Down the stretch, I ran out of gas a little bit." 
Burks said he was disap­pointed that he fell short. 
"I really don't understand what went into determining it and how Tony was eligible," he said. "But he's an outstanding hitter. It is fun to be challeng­ing a guy like that for the bat­ting title." 
Gwynn would have preferred to win the batting title without having to add the phantom at­bats, but a frayed right Achilles tendon sidelined him for 31 games in July and early August. 
"I feel for Mike and Ellis," Gwynn said. "They've battled all year long, and if you're going to win one, that's the way you'd like to do it. But it's out of my hands. It's not a situation were I have any control. It's just the way it is." 
Gwynn joined Rogers Hornsby, Stan Musial and Rod Carew with his seventh batting crown. The only NL player who won more is Honus Wagner, with eight. Ty Cobb tops the major league list with 12. 

NOTRE DAME 
AFRICAN STUDENTS ASSOCIATION PROUDLY PRESENTS "It Takes a Village to Raise a Child: The African Perspective & the Controversy" 
Panel Discussion Followed by a Reception FEATURING: 
I. Prof. James Bellis, Anthropology Dept., Moderator; 
2. 
Prof. Peter Aghimien, Accounting Dept./IUSB; 

3. 
Prof. Sylvanus Udoidem, Center for Philosophy of Religion; 

4. 
Dr. Lugayila Lukuba, Engineer, Pres., African Assoc. of Michiana; 

5. 
Paul Morgean, Teacher, Mishawaka High School 

6. 
Kagwiria Mbogori, Graduate Student, CCHRL/Law School; 

7. 
Moivabah Fofana, Graduate Student, Peace Studies Program 


Tuesday, October I, 4: IS p.m. Hesburgh Auditorium/Peace Studies Free Admission Reception to Follow 
OTHER EVENTS: -Wednesday Nov. 13 at 7:00 P.M./ I02 DeBartolo: In a Time of Violence (South Africa) I &2 -Wednesday Nov. 20 at 7:00 P.M./ I02 DeBartolo: In a Time of Violence (South Africa) 3 & Panel Discussion led by Prof. Peter Walshe 
DO NOT MISS THE DEBATE OF THE YEAR! 
world wide web address: http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 




We're looking for 
Sponsors: African Students' Association, Student Government, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Studies, & Educational Media. 

different degrees in caring. 
B.A.'s, and B.S.'s AND MORE. CIGNA, a leading provider of health care, insur­ance and related financial services, is recruiting students and graduating seniors who'd like to make an immediate contribution in a dynamic environment in the 
following areas:  
• Accounting  • Human Resources  
• Actuarial Science  • Information/Systems Management  
• Claims  • Insurance Analysis  
• Customer Service  • Marketing  
• Finance  • Telecommunications  
• HealthC.ue  • Underwriting  

Explore a career with a company that's focused on caring. On Campus: 
Date: October 1, 1996a· Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. J.ocation: LaFortune Student Center 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 

We're un t'q11al vppurtunity tmployer. MIF!D/V. •cJGNA ~refers tv CIGNA and/or unt vr mure u( irs Internet Address: subsidiarirs. Most empluvt'!'S art empluyed by subsidiarieJ vfCIGNA Curporatiun, which provide http://www.clgna.com insuranct and re/attd products. 
White Sox drop final game in tenth inning 
ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press Writer 
MINNEAPOLIS 

After Paul Molitor had de­livered another clutch hit and Chuck Knoblauch had scored another key run, the two locked in a tight embrace, alone for a few moments before their teammates converged. 
While the remaining fans cheered the Minnesota Twins' 5-4 victory over the Chicago White Sox in 10 innings Sunday, Knoblauch whispered what most people in the Metrodome were thinking: There was no better way for the Twins to end their season. 
After Knoblauch tripled in the tying run, Molitor won it with his third hit of the game. It was Molitor's AL-best 225th hit of the season, Knoblauch's team-record 140th run. 
"We were just enjoying a couple of seconds there, en­joying the season we both had," Knoblauch. "I just told him, 'This was your year.' You just had a feeling he was going to get that one more big hit to end the season on a high note." 
Hits defined Molitor's 19th season, a year in which he returned home to celebrate his 40th birthday by becoming the 21st player in major league his­tory to reach 3,000 hits. No player had ever reached 3,000 in a season in which he collect­ed 200 hits, and Molitor went out in style. 
He went 3-for-4 with two doubles, tying his personal best with 41. His game-winning hit off Roberto Hernandez also would have been a double. 
Molitor, who will take a cou­ple weeks to decide whether he will retire or return to the Twins said he wasn't thinking of writing a perfect ending to his marvelous year. 
"Things work out, and you get the hit to win the game, and you start to realize some of the circumstances make it almost unreal in terms of a way to end a season that's been remarkable and fascinating," he said. 
After Greg Norton gave the White Sox a 4-3 lead with a solo home run in the top of the 1Oth, pinch-hitter Greg Myers drew a two-out walk off Hernandez. 
Knoblauch followed with his AL-best 14th triple, scoring pinch-runner Mike Durant. Hernandez then walked pinch­hitter Todd Walker and Molitor lined a 2-2 single into right­center field. 
The 3,014th hit of Molitor's eareer also gave him the Twins batting title by one-ten thou­sandth of a percentage point over Knoblauch: .3409 to .3408. 
"He's not only the man of the minute and hour, but the man of the year," Knoblauch said~ 
Eddie Guardado (6-5) was the pitcher of the moment, getting the win even though he gave up Norton's go-ahead homer. It was only the second career homer in 23 at-bats for Norton, who was filling in for Robin Ventura on the final day. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Bowling Club -All inter­
ested in the Bowling Club, a 
general information meeting 
will be held today at 6 p.m. 
in the Montgomery Theater 
in Lafortune. If interested 
and unable to att(md, call 
.Jason at 4-1883 with ques­
tions. 
Ski Club/Team -Anyone in· 
terested in either, there will 
be an informational and or­
ganizational meeting will be 
held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 
123 Nieuland. Bring your 
check book if you are defi­
nitely interested. 
Domer Run '96-There will 
be a 3 &6 mile run and pan­
cake breakfast on Saturday, 
October 5 at 11 a.m. at 
Stephan. There will be t­
shirts given to all finishers. 
lt costs $5 in advance, $6 
day of the race. There are · staff and student divisions. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 30, 1996 
• NFL 

Struggling Cowboys to Ex-Raider Jaeger gets revenge 
face tough Eagle squad 
By JOHN F. BONFATTI 
Associated Press Writer 
PHILADELPHIA 
Their star wide receiver and tight end are missing. Their star running back and quarter­back are banged up. And the Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys are reeling from a 1-3 start. 
All of which doesn't stop the Philadelphia Eagles, who face NFC East rival Dallas on Monday night, from saying nice things about the Cowboys. 
Despite all the problems in Dallas, the Eagles (3-1) have a genuine respect for the

-
Cowboys, who have won nine of their last 11 games against Philadelphia, including an emphatic 30-11 victory in the playoffs last year. "Any time it's the Dallas Cowboys, you've got to sit up and listen," wide receiver Irving Fryar said. "They've had some mishaps on and off the field, but they're a great team." The Cowboys were a great team over the past four years, when they won three Super Bowls. And they still may be a great team -but they certainly aren't playing like one, particu­larly on offense. Dallas has the NFL's 24th­ranked offense, which isn't sur­prising with wideout Michael Irvin (suspension) and tight.end Jay Novacek (back injury), Troy Aikman's favorite targets, out of the lineup. "You cannot lose the talents of Michael and Jay and say it's not going to effect your team," Aikman said. Still, he said, "Regardless of who we've got out there ... if we perform better than the way we have, we're not too far off from being 3-1, and that's even after playing as poorly as we have." The receiving corps took another hit in last week's 10-7 defeat at Buffalo with the loss of last year's other starting wide receiver, Kevin Williams. Also, Aikman was whacked on the last play in that game and his ankle is sore. Emmitt Smith, who has run for at le.ast 90 yards in each of his last nine games against Philadelphia, is also sore, with coach Barry Switzer saying he may have to cut down on Smith's workload. "I just don't think he's hitting on eight cylinders yet," Switzer said. "And the offensive line is nicked up. We're playing noth­ing like we did last year, knock­ing people out of there, running north and south." That's not what Eagles coach Ray Rhodes said he &aw when he reviewed tapes of the Cowboys' offensive line. "These guys are the same guys who blocked the heck out of everybody last year," Rhodes said. "You see the same people knocking people's butts off the ball." Controlling the Dallas of­fensive and defensive lines will be the big challenge for the Eagles, who were overpowered up front in last year's playoff loss. ''I'm sure Ray will mention to us that we have to out-physical these guys because they took it to us last year," Eagles center Raleigh McKenzie said. "It's a measuring stick to see where we are physically." While the Dallas offense has sputtered, the Cowboys' defense remains formidable, ranked second in the league. 
Switzer said talk about shoddy tackling refers mainly to three screen passes in the 25-24 loss to Indianapolis two weeks ago. 
"We had nine missed tackles on those three plays alone," he said. "People running north and south, we haven't missed any tackles. We've usually swarmed pretty good." 
The Cowboys can expect to see a steady dose of Ricky Watters, the NFC leader in combined rushing and re­ceiving yards with 486. 
What they might not expect is a big game from speedy tight end Jason Dunn. The rookie has caught only three passes this year, but two have gone for more than 50 yards. 
''I'm waiting to see him catch the short pass and run through some people," Rhodes said. 
Rhodes was angry last year when, after the playoff victory, Switzer gloated about kicking the Eagles around. Rhodes told his team not to talk about that statement this w.eek, but the Eagles haven't forgotten. 


WE.RE CREATING A 






COOKIE CO~~~~~ 
BU.w.r chocolate 
Peanut ..-. Nut
Macadamia 
White Chocolate chunky Oatmeal Raisin 

Attention Seniors 
October Events 
• Senior Class Service Project 
Starts October 1, Kim @ 243,1960 for more information 
• Free food Night 
FREE food! At Alumni,Senior Club, 7,9 p.m. October 3. 
• Beacon Bowl Night 
Following free food at Alumni,Senior Club, $4 all you can bowl! 9,11 p.m. October 3 
• River Boat Gambling 
Gambling Cruise on the Express in Hammand, IN. October 5, 12:00 to 2:00, tickets are $5 at the Lafortune Information Desk. 
• Also; Senior Class Cookbooks are in, $8 at the Lafortune Information Desk. And...Off,Campus directories are coming soon 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press Writer 

CHICAGO 
Jeff Jaeger, cut by the Oakland Raiders in training camp, got even Sunday. 
He kicked four field goals, including a 30-yarder with 11 seconds left, to give the Chicago Bears a 19-17 victory over his former team. 
The Bears (2-3) trailed 17-3 in the second half, and were booed by their fans. But they rallied behind two intercep­tions, three final-quarter field goals by Jaeger and the play of 17-year veteran quarterback Dave Krieg, who started in place of the injured Erik Kramer. 
The Raiders (1-4) are off to their worst start since dropping their first four games in 1992. Oakland quarterback Jeff Hostetler was picked off four times. 
Trailing 17-16, Chicago ­also without injured running backs Robert Green and Raymont Harris and starting guard Todd Burger -started at its 23 with 5:44 left. Krieg 
Get a FREE half pint of milk or small coffee when you buy 2 FRESHLY BAKED GOURMET HUDDLE COOKIES for $1.00 
Monday, September 30 -Thursday, October 10 

The Huddle 
used his experience to work the clock and the field. 
Rashaan Salaam had a 17­yard carry, Krieg hit Curtis Conway for 17 yards and then on a third-and-5 from the Raiders' 23, the 36-year-old quarterback found Conway again for 10 yards. 
After three running plays, the final one losing three yards, the Bears called a timeout with 15 seconds remaining to set up the winning kick. 
Jaeger, who kicked for the Raiders from 1989-95, adjusted to a low snap and drove it through. Jaeger also had a 44­yarder in the first half and was good from 24 and 40 yards in the final quarter. Both kicks followed Chicago interceptions. 
Krieg finished 16 of 30 for 190 yards, and Hostetler was 19 of 35 for 172. 
The Raiders added to a 10-3 halftime lead on their first pos­session of the third quarter, 
. moving 70 yards for another score. On the next series, Krieg fi­nally converted a third down by hitting Ryan Wetnight with a 20-yard pass. Then Krieg 

MM0T~ 

passed to Michael Timpson for 28 to the Raiders' 6, and after a penalty, Krieg hit Salaam with an 11-yard scoring pass. 
James Burton intercepted Hostetler on the next series, and the Bears went on another drive with rookie Michael Hicks carrying 23 yards to the Oakland 13. That lead to Jaeger's 24-yarder. 
Barry Minter intercepted Hostetler after Oakland had moved to the Bears' 26, and Jaeger connected again from 40 yards, making it 17-16 with 
7:32 to play. 

The Raiders got going late in the second quarter when Hostetler hit three straight passes. Another toss of 10 yards to Hobbs and two penalties on Chicago put the ball on the 9. Joe Aska carried for 8, and Derrick Fenner's 1-yard touch­down run gave the Raiders the lead with just under two min­utes left in the half. 
The Bears couldn't move and had to punt. Hobbs' 35-yard punt return and three more Hostetler completions set up Cole Ford's 28-yard field goal to give Oakland a 10-3 lead. 

r----------~------~----......----­
Monday, September 30, 1996 

A Three Day Conversation 
.... 
Monday, September 30, 1996 
8:00 ., 9:00 PM, Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Black Students Only 


Facilitators: 


0MPUS

Rodney Cohen, Center for Social Concern Chandra Johnson, Campus Ministry 
MINISTRY 

Tuesday, October 1, 1996 8:00., 9:00PM, DeBartolo, Room 101
esc 
White Students Only 
CENTER FOR 
Facilitators:
SOCIAL 
Kate Barrett, Campus Ministry 

CONCERNS 
James Bellis, Assoc. Professor, Anthropology 
• 

Wednesday, October 2, 1996 
8:00 ., 9:30 PM, Center for Social Concern 
•

All Students Welcome 
Facilitator: 



~TUDE NT

Dr. Beverly Vandiver, Asst. Professor of Sociology, Penn State University 
60¥1111111 

Sponsored by: 
Campus Ministry Center for Social Concern Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Student Governtnent 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 30, 1996 
and Daws led the Irish, both 21 infractions. The challenge that the squad
... 
scored two goals a piece. These stats not withstanding, is now faced with is to repeatStreiffer had a perfectly placed the Irish dropped their toughest their first half performance ­continued from page 16 header off a Daws' pass, to continued from page 16 decision of the season and will no small feat considering their give the Irish the initial lead. be looking to respond in the 2-0-2 Big East record. just short of the net. "We Later in the first half, she the injured Brian Engesser) at coming week as they face "The bulk of the talent in our were very strong in the air." ripped one through the sweeper." Western Michigan and confer­Big East schedule falls in the said Petrucelli. "We had many Marquette keeper's hands to Goalkeeper Greg Velho ence rival Syracuse in tough second half of the season," shots on goal off of headers. give them the 4-0 lead. Daws matched his Hoosier coun­road matchups. Mathis acknowledged. "One of We are very dangerous in the gained her first goal off a terpart with four saves on the Until Friday night, it appeared our main focuses is on our fall air." penalty kick. Her other goal night and had no chance on the that Irish were ready for any break trip (to Rutgers,"We go for the ball if we came when a sliding Amy three &,oals, the Irish attack challenge. Now, as they enter Villanova, and Georgetown)." have a fifty fifty chance, or if VanLaecke found her all alone forced eight corner kicks to the second half of the regular The second half, and that trip we have a hundred to nothing at the far post. Indiana's five, and the Blue and season, they find themselves in particular, will indeed make chance," said Brown. "We "Against Marquette, we did Gold limited their fouls to eight, with only three home games or break the season for the want to try to gain control for a great job at attack," said while the oppponent racked up and six Big East contests left. Irish. the team." Petrucelli. "We spread them The Irish dominated the out and that allowed us to 
Depth Shutout 
are very motivated, driven, and weeks and look to do it again in 
shots on goal, as they chalked score" 


Belles 
solid players." the spring. The team has set 
up 25, compared to the Hoyas' The Golden Eagles came into The team consisted of an 
high exp~ctations for them­
3. The defending national the game having only lost once 
continued from page 16 equal balance of underclassmen selves. Their goal is to get invit­
champions manhandled the to the Wisconsin Badgers, and and upperclassmen (3 and 3) for ed once again to the Midwest Hoyas, 8-0. This victory was they had only given up two teams worked together. "The 
the fall season. Two members Invatational held in Madison,
reminiscent of last year's goals. The Irish scored five on number 3 team had never of last years team didn't come Wisconsin. They would like to crushing of Georgetown, 10-0. Marquette, and took 24 shots played together," said Cromer. 
out in the fall but will be re" improve on last years 11th seed 
Prior to Sunday's victory, the on them, compared to their The tandem consisted of fresh­
turning to the team in the by getting into the top 8 bracket 
Irish faced a vastly improved two shots on the Irish man Katie Valers and sopho­spring. "They will have to work of the Invite. Marquette team. The driving The second-ranked Irish are more Betsy Gemmer who fin­hard in the off season to main­During the off season the 
rain could not dampen the off until the weekend, when ished 3-1. Valers also found 
tain or obtain a playing posi­players will continue to condi­
offense, as they handed the they head down south to take success in singles finishing with 
tion," said Cromer. tion hard and improve their 
Golden Eagles their second on the top-ranked North a perfect record at number 3. 
Senior Nancy Sorota and games so that when they take to 
loss of the season, 5-0. Carolina Tarheels and the No. ''I'm really happy with our 
junior Jen Brahler gave leader­the courts for their first spring
Freshman Jenny Streiffer 16 Duke Blue Devils. freshman," said Cromer, "They ship to the team these past few 
match they will be ready. 

ENTERTAINMENT ON THE QUAD: 
Entertainment for you from all corners of the globe. (and hey, we're giving away stuff) Be at Fieldhouse Mall -4:00-6:00 p.m. 
NASAND -Native American Dancing Martial Arts demonstrations (can you lay a finger on these people?) Come hear the band-Vibe! Ballet Folkl6rico & FASO Polynesian Chant and Dance 

TASTE OF NATIONS: 
Food & Entertainment from around the world! Friday Oct. 4th, 8:00-12:00 p.m. It's a great time and all for only $1 
., 






Class DINNER
,,_uesda0, 

,Ll/umni-Senior Club 
October 8, 1996 All­ou-Can-Eat Papa John's Pizza $3.00 at the door
6:00-8:00 p.m. 
Monday, September 30, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


Mofl.€ COM•C STRIPS 
OF THe FUTURE.•. 

9/30 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
HAJ>J>Y BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OJ< YOUR LIFE: Success depends on how well you interact with other people. Bone your conversational skills and think about learning another language. A gentle, indirect approach will help you break through a business barrier early in 1997. A thange of person­nel works to your advantage. Greater financial security could be yours by next spring. Nurture your personal relationships, but be hon­est. Manipulative tactics could back­fire. Plan to travel in summer of '97. 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Angie Dickin­son, singer Marilyn McCoo, singer Johnny Mathis, author Truman Capote. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Real estate matters will go well if you heed your intuition. Others are relying on your sound judgment. Make a special effort to curb impul­sive purchases. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Careful attention to detail is essen­tial. Leaving things undone could throw a monkey wrench into a pro­ject. Welcome an opportunity to Jearn from people who have volun­teered their services. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Mind games playeJ in the past could return to haunt you. Take your lumps with good grace and you will win the respect of someone you wronged. People in authority applaud your leadership abilities.
SCOTT ADAMS 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Minor financial complications could arise. Panicking will accomplish nothing. Decide on a course of action and take care of the problem. If a confrontation is unavoidable, keep your temper in check. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try not to take yourself so seriously. You 

• OF INTEREST 
take pride in being self-reliant and know how to bail out of a sticky sit­uation. Tonight, relax with someone who cares about you. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your love life is in the spotlight. Watch what you say and do. Airting is fun but can also cause trouble at home. Women friends seek your advice; they find your independent attitude admirable. 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22); Bright ideas will come in droves now. Refrain from sharing them with your co-workers. Apply all of your talent, skill and brain power toward attaining your goals! 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Use some ingenuity at home where it will do your family the most glxxi. Tact is necessary when discussing a money matter with your partner. An irritable mood could be your undo­ing; curb your temper. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Read newspaper employment ads and listen to the advice you receive from people in the know. They can show you the way to greater professional success. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): While your income may increase, expenditures could outstrip it. Avoid all forms of gambling. Someone may ask for a loan or favor you do not want to grant. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Caution is advised in all financial transactions. Neither friends nor funds are inexhaustible. A pal will come through for you in an ~mer­gency. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A good day for buying or selling real estate. Be prudent; obtain an expert's advice. A member of the opposite sex may have you in a quandary. Stick to platonic relation­ships for the time-being. 


CROSSWORD 
• ACROSS 
1 Queen Latifah songs 
30 Part two of an 63 "The --Never election Sleeps" (bank 32 Ebb 
slogan) 

5 Less than 90' 34 Diaper holder 64 Business exec 
T. --Pickens

10 Mouth-to-mouth 35 Some VCR's 65 Farm: Prefix
14 Director Kazan 39 Parroted 66 Etta of the
15 Andrews and 40 In front funnies
Carvey 
42 Breakfast 16 Appoint restaurant &7 "The Age of 
11 "Right on, chain, for short Anxiety" poet 
brother!" 43 Actress Spelling 68 Tavern light 18 Sheep-ish 44 Catch some &9 Mideast canal 19 Use a rays 10 Uses a spoon,Smith-Corona 
45 Gas rating maybe 

20 1972 u.s. 
47 Changes 71 Eye problemOlympic hero 50 Nahuatl

22 "Get----of 
language

yourself!" DOWN 51 Hitting with
23 Dimwit's brain short punches 1 500 sheets
size 54 Right oH the 2 --mater
24 Francis and stove 3 Ship's landing
Dahl 26 Falsely 
56 Grown-up 4 Went under incriminate 57 Plum brandy 5 Ali's "rope---" &Champagne go-with ANSWER TO PREVIOUS'PUZZLE 
7 Part of B.T.U. 8 Neighbor of 


Benefit Concert: l(yan O'Neil of Keenan Hevue fame will have a. benefit concert on Monday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Admission is free. Donations will benefit the Dismas House and the Children's Center. 
"The 1996 Elections and the Common Good: 

.. 
Poverty and Welfare Issues" will be the topic for a lecture and discussion led by Professors Joan Aldous, John Robinson, and Jennifer Warlick. on Monday from 4 to 5 p.m. at the University Club, located nnxt to the Center for Continuing Education. The Irish Outdoors Club will hold a meeting about upcoming trips on Wt)dnesday at 9 p.m. ttt LaFortune in the Montgomery Theater. Holy Cross Associates will hold informational meetings on Monday at 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Holy Cross Associates places graduates in service positions in the U.S. and Chile. Applications will be avaliable. For more infor­mation call631-552l. The Nanovlc Center for European Studies pre­sents George Szablowski of York University lecturing on ~Democracy in Post-Communist Poland" Monday at 
4::~0 p.m. in 117 DeBartolo. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North 
Baked Chicken with Herbs 
Winter Blend Vegetables 

Kenya 28 Excellent server 49 Black eye 
Knickerbocker Bean Soup 

9 Suffix with 51 Raises, with
29 Publicist's coup
Japan or Sudan "up" &1 Where Helen 
Chicken Nuggets 

31 Turn over 
was abducted to

10 Broken 52 Goodbye 11 Skirt material 33Consumed 62Amateur 
South

53 Montana city 
publication, 
Roast Top Round of Beef 

12 Copious 36 Chew the fat 55 Hot spots 
informally 
Turkey Turnovers with Supreme Sauce
13 Yorkshire's 

37 Super-duper 58 New Jersey city 64 Undergradlargest city 
...
California Apricot Couscous Pilaf 

380n-(like 59 U-Haul rentals degrees21 Went 80 m.p.h. 
some writers' 
2280's TV alien 
assignments) 
Saint Mary's 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
41 Loiters with
movement are available by touch-tone phone: 
Sesame Chicken with Pasta and Asparagus

friends 

"-'+-'+-+''-f 2& Toga party 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Country Fried Steak 

46 Ancient Roman
venue Annual subscriptions are available for the 
Cheese and Vegetable Strata

censor
27 "--Man" best of Sunday crosswords from the last (1984 film) 48 Cambridge sch. 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
Don't miss the opportunity for students and faculty to meet and mingle at the all-campus picnic following the official opening mass of the school year on September 22. Students and faculty will be seated by department, and both dining 
halls will be closed during the event. 
Mass begins at 4 p.m. Please join us! 
Brought to you by Student Government 




Football 1996 

Ohio State 29 Notre Dame 
16 







SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, September 30, 1996 
• MEN's SOCCER • SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
Hoosiers stunt recent success Spring season in sight as 
.. 

• WoMEN's SoccER 


Georgetown, Marquette overwhelmed by Irish depth 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
In the dictionary, depth is delined as how deep something is .• For the second-ranked women's soccer team, depth is defined as senior Stacia Masters, junior Julie Maund, sophomore Laura Vanderberg, not to mention several others. The Irish depth is what sparked the team to a 8-0 vic­tory over Big East opponent, Georgetown. 
According to head coach Chris Petrucelli the bench is what got the team rolling. "We started slow," said Petrucelli about the Irish lirst-teamers. "The girls carne in off the bench excited to play. They provided the spark for us, com­ing and scoring for us. They deserve lots of credit." 

Midway through the first half. reserve midfielder Maund entered the game. She quickly matchup. Vanderberg found a in yesterday's game. Then in the second half, Boxx majority of the time, respecting setup for a corner and drilled a cutting Maund, who flicked the Sophomore Shannon Boxx was pounded a Manthei corner, off the Notre Dame attack. In the bending kick, which found ball past a Hoya defender. And dominating the midfield, along a Hoya defender into the net. air, the Irish challenged every freshman reserve Iris then she drilled the ball into with her teammates, junior Manthei chalked up two assists ball. Many of the shots on goal Lancaster who headed the ball the back of the net, catching Holly Manthei, senior Cindy against Georgetown. were off of headers. Freshman off the Georgetown goalkeep­the Georgetown keeper off Daws, and freshman Kara The Irish dominated the Jen Grubb had a spectacular er's hands. guard. Brown. Boxx dropped off a game against the Hoyas. diving header but it came out 
The reserves provided lots of The reserves were not the pass to Daws, who drilled a Georgetown played tentatively excitement in yesterday's only ones providing excitement goal in from 18 yards out. holding six players back the see DEPTH/ page 14 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Spores Writer 
With the exception of a sur­prise slip-up at DePaul two weeks ago, the Notre Dame men's soccer team had risen to the challenges placed before them in every game of the 1996 season. 
Through the lirst eight con­tests of the year, the Irish had allowed just 0.5 goals per game, including two overtime tallies by Big East powerhouse St. John's, and were holding strong in the middle of the Umbro Top 25 soccer poll. 
On Friday evening, the Irish faced yet another challenge in perennial power Indiana. But this time, the Hoosiers, boosted by two goals in the first 11 min­utes of the game, jumped out to a lead and never looked back. They outshot Notre Dame 6-3 in the first half and 13-7 in the game, en route to a 3~0 shutout of the Irish. 


"They (Indiana) are just so effective offensively," said Irish midfielder Chris Mathis. "They came out fundamentally intact 
and  they  are  tremendous  
finishers."  
Indiana  midfielder  Lazo  

Alavonja was responsible for two goals, both of them head­ers. Alavonja opened the scor­ing at the 43:20 mark off of a pass from defender B.J. Snow and put on the finishing touch in the second half from 18 yards out. 
"When they scored that third goal," explained Mathis, "the game was over. We didn't quit, but most of our opportunities came in the first half." 
The game, however, was cer­tainly not without positives for Notre Dame. 
"Ben Bocklage worked really hard," said Mathis, "and got a few shots and (Matt) McNew really stepped up (in place of 
see SHUTOUT/ page 14 vs. Washington, 
~ October 12, 1:30 p.m. 
at North Carolina, ~ October 4, 5 p.m. 
(•'


(.., 

at Western Michigan ~ October 1, 7 p.m. vs. Ball State,@) October 1, 7 p.m. 
promise proves primed 

By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's Spores Editor 
It seems like before the Saint Mary's Tennis Team even knew what happened, their fall sea­son was here and gone. The Belles took to the courts on September 16 for their first match and one week later found themselves playing their last. "Our whole season was 13 days including practice and the actual season," said head coach Katie Cromer. 

final 18 holes with an 11~ stroke lead. poor play down the"~'" stretch allowed Georgetown to sneak up and challenge the title. The Irish ¢setl,p¢d~ however, with. a one ptlinlvictory, §95·596 .. Look for a complete recap of the Big East title in tomorrow's 

,ohserver. · 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
~ October 4 ~ Notre Dame Invitational, 
JEt\, ~ 
October 4 Volleyball vs. Concordia 
••ri:J

October 3, 7 p.m. Soccer at Kalamazoo
s;,u: 

October I, 4 p.m. 
~ 
• Steelers drill Oilers 

see page 10 
•Gwynn wins seventh batting crown 
see page II 
The Belles ended the season with an rwen 2-2 record, play­ing their last match against DePauw at home losing 7-2. "DePauw ended the season last year ranked 15th in the nation for Division III" said Cromer. "We were in lots of matches so I feel good about it. We've only been playing 13 days so I was happy with our results." 
Cromer was especially pleased with how the doubles 
see BELLES/ page 14 






