

Wednesday, February 28, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 99 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Glendon 'honored' to address ND graduates 
Principal speaker compared to USN& WR peers 
Hy GWENDOLYN NORGLE A"istant New' FJitor 
Chosen as llw knynote speaker at Notre Danw's 151st C:ommniJCellHlnt HXercises, llarvard law professor Mary Ann (;)endon says she is hon­orPd and nxeitNI to address the dass of I!JCJ6, llwir tt-achers and tlHlir families. 
But although llwir graduation sptmker is an estem1wd lecturer, writnr and advocate of social reform. many Notre Dame stu­dents were surprised by the announcm1umt of Glendon as speaker. Some students expect­ed President Bill Clinton to be tho speaker this year, consider­ing that in tlw past Notre Dame has had tlw incumbent presi­dPnt speak at thtl Univtlrsity in a prtlsidential tllnction year: Carttll' in ·xo. H11agan in ·xg, and Bush in '1J2. 
"I am mwrmously honored," ( ;)pndon said of tlw University's invitation to havn her as thr. 
t:o mm nnee nw n t speaker. A friPrHI of Notrt• Damn's l'resi­dnnt I·:nwritus Fallwr Thnodore IIPshurgh, a roll.,ay;ue of thn faculty and an admirer of the studnnts, c;InrHlon, who has strong ties to the Catholic Church said she was "so awed by the honor" to speak at Notre Dame. 


In accepting an appointment by Pope John Paul II to lead a 22-member team to the United Nation's Fourth World Conference on Women last Septnmber in Beijing, Glendon beeanw the first woman to lead a Vatican delegation to a major world eonfPrence. 
An expilrieneed leeturer, Glendon has given numerous comnwncement addresses at law schools and universities around the country, including Brigham Young University, where she spoke in front of 
University of Notre Dame Commencement Speakers 
1992-George Bush President of the U.S. 1993 -Tom Brokaw Network Journalist 1994-Albert Reynolds Prime Minister of Ireland 1995-Condoleeza Rice Provost at Stanford 1996 -Mary Ann Glendon Harvard Law Professor 
25,000 people, her largest au­dience thus far. 
Though a veteran of com­menecment addresses, Glendon said she is looking forward to speaking at Notre Oarne, partie­
see GLENDON I page 4 


ND faculty probes infallibility 
1\y MATJ'IIEW LOUGHRAN 
N,·w,Writer 
Nowlu~m is thn ollice of !'ope listml among the ollidals of thn Vatican, nor is the doctrine of infallibility listed among the job df'SfTiptions of any of those ofli­daJs. 
With this point, Fath1~ r Thomas 0' MPara. William K. Warn~ n r hair in tlwology. opl'nf'd a controversial discus­sion last night. about infallibility, papal authority and tlw ordina­tion of wonwn. 
Tlw discussion. whieh was sponsorml by tlw Committen on Notrn Damn's Position on the Ordination of Women, Student Advocates li>r Inclusive Ministry, and the l>tlpartment of Thnology, was so heavily at­fossor of theology and Crowley 
tnndnd that it had to be moved O'Brien-Walter ehair. added from the llnsburgh Library that thn pope is not always infal­l.oung•~ to thn adjacent audito­lible. "The first Vatican confer­rium. ence set up the three classie 
O'Mt~ara focusnd his speech conditions under whieh the pope on the ollien of the pope and the may be infallible," said MeHrien. structure of the Valiean. "In "The first is that he must be many ways hn is an administra­speaking formally as the earthly tor," O'Meara said, "making !wad of the chureh. Second, the 
dtldsions about such things as issue must bn one in the realm what eolor a room should be, of faith or morals. Finally, he and should in no way be con­must dearly intend to bind the sidnrlld infalliblt~." entire church by the proclama­
O'Meara indicatml that many tion." of thn major dm:isions on theo­McBrien said that infallibility logical qrwstions are made by is a "negative gift from the Holy 
congnlgations. These eongre­Spirit, given to the entire gations isstw their own docu­dwrch." "Infallibility," he ex­ments that are sonwtimes un­plained, "only guarantees that a 
snPn by the popn. "The popt~ is teaching is not wrong. It may Bishop of Home," O'Meara said. not say much or even say it "!lis power to teach and define well." Catholicism outside of his dio­lie added that thnre are two cese eomns mainly from tradi­other ways that a teaehing may tion." be infallible. "The first," he 
Fathnr Hichard McBrien, pro-said, "is an exercise of the Or-dinary Universal Magisteriurn of the entire eollege of bishops. The second is a consensus of the faithful." 


Catherine Hilkert, visiting assoeiate professor of theology, used these criteria in her spench. whieh dealt with recent statements by the Congregation on the Doctrine of Faith on the possibility of the ordination of women. 
"The Congregation," said llilkert, "in answer to recent doubts about [the Apostolic let­ter released by the pope on fe­male ordination in April 1994], reaffirmed the decision and claimed it to be the universal tradition of the Catholic Church, and therefore infallible. 
"The universality of the con­sensus is in question here," she said, "there is a great doubt that all of the college of bishops 
see CHURCH I page 6 
Top 20 Universities and their Commencement Speakers 

1. Harvard  Vaclav Havel  Undetermined  
President, Czech Rep.  
2. Princeton  University President  University President  
3. Yale  Kurt Schmoke  Henry Winkler  
Mahor of Baltimore  Actor, Director  
4. Stanford  W lliam Perry  Mae Jemison  
Secretary of Defense  First Rlack Woman  
Astronaut  
5. MIT  Hanna Gray  Undetermined  
Former Pres. U. of Chi.  
6. Duke  David Gergen  Jane Alexander  
Political Analyst  Actress  
7. Cal. Tech.  Gordon Moore  Robert Inman  
CEO of Intel  Navy Admiral  
8. Dartmouth  Bill Clinton  Undetermined  
Pres. of U.S.  
9. Brown  Shimon Peres  Undetermined  
Israeli Prime Minister  
10. Johns Hopkins  George Bush  Barbara McCloskey  
former pres. of U.S.  U.S. Senator  
Ted Koppel  
Nightline Anchor  
11. Univ. of Chicago  Kenneth Polonsky  Cass Sunstein  
Professor of Medicine  Professor of Law  
12. Univ. of Penn.  Jane Alexander  Tom Brokaw  
Actress  NRC Anchor  
13. Cornell  University President  University President  
14. Northwestern  Henry Bienen  Undetermined  
University President  
15. Columbia  Universit' President  University President  
16. Rice  Bill Brad ey  Undetermined  
U.S. Senator  
17.Emory  Henry Louis Gates  Undetermined  
Harvard Professor  
18. Notre Dame  Condoteeza Rice  Mary Ann Glendon  
Stanford Provost  Harvard Law Professor  
19. Univ. of Virginia  Unavailable  Unavailable  
20. Washington  John Danforth  Undetermined  
Retired Senator  

source: US News and World Reporcs 

SMC play explores cultural diversity 
Senior urges understanding, open minds 
By LAURA SMITH Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Imagine being surrounded every single day by people who did not look like you and did not understand you. This is reality for the Afriean­American students at Saint Mary's College, who make up only one percent of the Saint Mary's student body. 
Being one of this minority group is what prompted Saint Mary's Senior Alia Paige to write a play about the feelings and concerns of Afriean­American students at Saint Mary's College. Paige's play "A Place At The Table" was performed by members of The Sisters of Nefertiti Monday night as part of The Spirit of Blackness Week at Saint Mary's. 
"The focus of the play is a lack of understanding of other cultures," according to Paige. "I believe we can bridge the gap by understanding each other. This can solve prob­lems. not only in the Saint Mary's community, but in society as a whole." 
"I thought the play was great," said Saint Mary's Junior Bronwyn McAuliffe. "It really opened my eyes to the way things are on our campus. We n11ed to be more nducated and open-minded. The best way we ean do that is to attnnd multi-cultural events on our own eampus." 
"I was pleased with the play and its outcome." said Erica Williams, an African­Ameriean stud e 11 t at Saint Mary's and a junior member of the Sisters of Nnfertiti. "The people who came to the play wnre open and ready to learn. We had a great discus­sion following the play." 
Some of the issues that were brought out in the dis­cussion included the subtle racism on campus and the unwelcome feelings many black students at Saint Mary's experience. 
"Recently, a prol'nssor told me that some girls in the Education Department were complaining because educa­tion majors are taught from a multi-cultural perspnctive," said Williams. "This really hurts me beeause I am an educator. You cannot call yourself an edueator if you are· unwilling to learn."The women who complained will be doing the childrnn in their classrooms a grave injustice. It is wrong to be unwilling to learn other people's eultures in a multi-cultural world." 
"It makes us feel unwel­come at Saint Mary's when our eulture is not represented 
see PLAY I page 6 



Wednesday, February 28, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 




















• Wmtltl AT A GLANCE
• INSIDE COI.UMN 
Nine die in devastating pile-up on European freeway 



Highlights
• 
BRUSSELS, Belgium dent, and it made the catastrophe In the second massive pileup in much worse," Flanders State Europe in two weeks, at least nine Secretary for security Jan Peters
Ill 
people were killed and over 60 told BRTN radio. 
injured Tuesday after 120 trucks A roaring gas-fueled blaze ignited 
and cars crashed in thick fog on a after the pile-up, hampering rescue 
busy freeway. efforts. 
For several hours after the acci-Authorities at first said 15 were 
Around South Bend, 

March 
dent, rescue workers frantically killed, but later lowered the death 
Dan Cichalski 
probed through the charred, soot-toll to nine. run right into sum­Accent Copy Ediror 
where winter seems to 
covered wrecks seeking survivors. -----~'==---~-~~v--1 "It was clear weather until we hit mer-and vice-versa­
Mangled vehicles were spread out 1 ::==;;;~~~~~~:;:::=;;:!:====r~ a wall of fog. It looked like the end with little transition, 
at all angles for a mile along the;::: of the world," survivor Danny these early months of the calendar year tend 
blocked highway near the northern North Ameye told BRTN. "The worst was to get jumbled together. If it weren't for 
city of Ghent. the sudden fire. Because of it, all bank statements and credit card bills, many 
"It's a catastrophe the likes of help came too late." of us probably would not notice the changing 
which we have never seen," said Firefighters from six towns head-months during the spring semester at Notre 
Herman Balthazar, the governor of ed for the scene and medical ser-Dame. But the end of February is upon us­
East Flanders province. vices in the region were put on with Leap Day less than a day away-and 
The mid-morning accident emergency alert. March is ready to play its part in the calendar 
occurred on the E-17 freeway at Fog is frequent at this time of year. 
Eke-Nazareth outside Ghent, 35 year on the damp, flat lands of With the glaringly obvious exception of 
miles northwes.t of Brussels. It Flanders. spring break, there are several reasons to 
apparently started when a truck In a separate chain collision celebrate in the coming month. Back in 
slammed into a car, blocking the SOmlles Tuesday, at least a dozen more kindergarten, we were taught that "March 
road in the thick fog. ES people were injured in a 100-car comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb." 
It was one of Belgium's worst 50 km pileup on the busy highway In South Bend it comes in like a smelly wet 
road accidents ever, and officials AP between Lille, France and Ghent. dog and goes out like, well, a smelly wet dog. 
said an increase of heavy truck traf-Eleven people were killed Feb. 12 Since there is no climate change to get all 
fie on the highway was a contributing factor. in a chain-reaction crash involving 300 vehicles in giddy about, here are just a few observances 
"A great many big trucks were involved in the acci-northern Italy. throughout the month to look forward to. (Saint Patrick's Day is not included because 
Clinton clamps down on Castro Court charges bishop with heresy
everyone knows it's coming, though few will 
remember it when it has passed .... ) 
WASHINGTON WILMINGTON, Del. March 2, 1962-Wilt Chaimberlain scores 
Under attack from critics who say the A nine-bishop Episcopal Church court was urged to put an NBA record 100 points in a single basket­
United States isn't getting tough enough a stop to "lone rangers" among its clergy Tuesday by ball game. lie then celebrated by scoring 
with Cuba, the Clinton administration making a bishop stand trial for heresy for ordaining a ·with 100 different women before his next 
today defended its response to the gay man. "This case is about order and the need for game. 
downing of two unarmed U.S. civilian order in this church," said A. Hugo Blankingship Jr., a March 3, 1959-A Harvard student by the 
planes off the Cuban coast. "We took lawyer for the 76 bishops who brought the charge. The name of Lothrop Withington, Jr. (really) 
additional measures yesterday which court is expected to decide this week whether Walter becomes the first American to swallow a 
are effective and will increase the pres­Righter should stand trial in May. Righter is only the sec­goldfish. He presumably became the first 
sure on Castro's government," said ond Episcopal bishop to face a charge of heresy in the American to, urn, pass a goldfish as well. 
Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff in an interview U.S. church's 206-year history. If found guilty, he would March 9, 1981-The Department of 
with CBS. "It's exactly what's warranted at this time." no longer be able to perform priestly duties. In 1990, Agriculture declares ketchup a vegetable. 
President Clinton announced a series of actions Monday while Righter was assistant bishop in Newark, N.J., he However, no organization has attempted to 
designed to retaliate against Fidel Castro's government ordained Barry Stopfel as a deacon. Stopfel has since classify a hot dog by restricting it to a single 
for the incident Saturday over the Florida Straits that left been ordained a priest by another bishop; Righter, 72, is category. "Food" is stretching it as it is. 
four occupants of the planes missing and presumed dead. retired and lives in Alstead, N.H. The church allows the March 10, 1967-The first official docu­
Another plane from the Cuban-American exile group ordination of married heterosexuals, celibate single het­mented octuplets are born in Mexico. She 
Brothers to the Rescue escaped Cuban MiGs and erosexuals and celibate homosexuals. Righter knew could have been an episode of "ER" herself. 
returned safely to the United States. Congressional Stopfel was a non-celibate gay man. Blankingship said March 14, 1860-The baseball cap is 
Republicans said Clinton's actions are welcomed but the heresy charge was a last resort made necessaryinvented. Of course, back then they under­
don't go far enough. because this issue is tearing the church apart. stood the purpose of the bill was to keep the sun out of their eyes. 
Imprisoned U.S. Marine released Vietnamese palace gets face lift 
March 15, a long, long time ago-The Ides of March. Brutus kills Caesar and high 
LEAVENWORTH, Kan. HANOI, Vietnam school students are condemned to read about 
Former Sgt. Clayton Lonetree, the only U.S. Marine The imperial palace in Hue, a lavish home for emper­it for centuries to come. 
ever convicted of espionage, was released from prison to­ors reduced to rubble by war, will regain its former glory March 16, 1944-My dad, Joseph, is born. 
day after serving nearly a decade. Lonetree, 34, was dri­under a $70 million restoration plan announced by the As a result, you have this column. He was 
ven in a closed van from the U.S. Disciplinary Barracks. Vietnamese government. Hue, a sleepy, coastal city 400 the most famous person to come out of South 
After a stop at the drive-up window of a nearby bank, he miles south of Hanoi, was the capital of Vietnam's last River, New Jersey, until that Theismann guy 
got into a car with an unidentified man and was whisked dynasty, the Nguyen. They reigned from 1802 until 1955, came along. 
away without responding to shouted questions from when a referendum sent Emperor Bao Dai into exile in March 20, 1980-The first "official" Elvis 
reporters. A woman believed to be Lonetree's mother France. The dynasty's founder, Emperor Gia Long, mod­Presley sighting in Butte, Montana. There's 
stood outside the van while the banking transaction was eled his palace on the imperial palace in Beijing, creating no word on whether or not John F. Kennedy, 
completed. Asked by reporters for a comment, she said, a walled expanse. with more than 100 buildings in the Adolph Hitler, or Marilyn Monroe were with 
"My son is a victim of Ronald Reagan's cold war." classical Chinese style. During the 1968 Tet offensive, him. 
Lonetree, who is from St. Paul, Minn., was stationed at North Vietnamese forces seized Hue for 24 days and dugMarch 22, 1990-New Kids on the Block 
the U.S. embassy in Moscow in the early 1980s when he in at the palace. South Vietnamese and U.S. forces drove and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles doll sales 
met and fell in love with a Ukranian woman who worked them out with grenades and hand-to-hand combat, leav­top $1.8 billion. Seeing "NKOTB" in the same 
as a translator in the embassy. She introduced him to a ing the palace in ruins. The U.N. Educational, Scientific sentence as "sales" and "$1.8 billion" is a 
Soviet agent, known only to him as Uncle Sasha. At his and Cultural Organization placed the Hue palace on its real reason to fear for the future of our coun­
1987 court-martial, Lonetree confessed to supplying list of world cultural heritage sites worthy of preserva­try. 
blueprints of the embassy building. tion. 
March 30, 1945-Eric Clapton is born. 
Within thirty years, no one could ever look at 
someone with the name "Layla" the same 
Wednesday, Feb. 28 
way again. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 28. 
Hopefully these anniversaries will help get 
20s
you through the harsh month of March, 
which is followed by the wet month of April, 
which is followed by finals. But don't kid 
yourself: it won't go by that fast. It'll go 
faster. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OHIO 

News Accent Gwendolyn Norgle Mary Beth Ellis 
FRONTS:
Jillian Pagliocca Production 
~ ...A...A.. .............
Sports John Hutchinson 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Betsy Baker Jackie Moser 
Pressure ~-~ ~ 
H L B ESl!Iil 0 IZl 8¥ L-.!.~
Joe Villinski 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
Graphics Lab Tech 
Vta Assoctat9d PrfJSS
KY. 

Brina Blank Michael Hungeling 
Atlanta 52 34 Dallas 44 32 New Orleans 57 47 
Baltimore 37 28 Denver 31 9 New York 34 31 

Boston 33 31 Los Angeles 62 45 Philadelphia 40 30
The Observer (USPS 5?9 2-4000) i; published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation period~. The Observr:r i.!. a member of 
Chicago 25 9 Miami 80 65 Phoenix 68 42 the Associated Pre!l.s. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Columbus 27 16 Minneapolis 21 -3 St. Louis 34 12 
Q,Q,~p~Q ~ ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via AssOCiated Press Graph1csNet Cl1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 

Wednesday, February 28, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Keys: Papal UN address
Ser.ies spotlights friendship 
By MAUREEN HURLEY how students view friendship, eheons at the halls' front desks. 
joins morality, politics 
Saint Mary's News Editor leading up to the weekly series, ~'The luncheons provide stu­
TUESDAY, MARCH 5 1 :30 and 7:30 P.M. Gregory Peck and Robert Mitchum star in 
CAPEFEAR 
and KATHLEEN POLICY 
News Writer 
Taking a new spin, a..c; it Into­graws lectures with discussions throughout the residence halls through a program co-spon­sored by the Center for Spiritu­ality and Campus Ministry. the Lenten lecture series, "Friendship as Iloliness," opens at Saint Mary's College this aftm·noon. 
"This is a new adv11nture-we nre unsure of how these will be ret:eived," said Judy Fean. di­roctor of Campus Ministry. 
According to Fean, there have been group diseussions in thll residence halls dealing with opening today. 
"The series is meant to be the occasion for conversation about the values and sacredness of friendship," said Religious Studies Chair Keith Egan, who is the series coordinator and this afternoon's speaker. 
"Friendship is often lost in to­day's society. People are so busy that we don't take the time to develop relationships," said Egan, who describes friendships as "religious experi­ences." 
Immediately following the Wednesday lectures, the pre· senters will be available for dis­cussion in residence halls. Stu­dents can sign up for these lun· dents with the ability to discuss the topies more in depth," said Egan. 
Students view the lecture se­ries topit: as relevant to the campus. MFriends are impor­tant because they're our family at·school," said Regina Hall sophomore Angela Ginex. "There are strong bonds here becausP-of the school's size.~ 
This afternoon's presenta­tion, "Friendship: A Sacred Tradition,'' will take place at 
12:15 p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. The luncheon will fol­low at 1 p.m. in the McCandless Hall lounge. 
The series runs every Wednesday through April 4. 

By GREG BARLIN 
News Writer 
In his October 5 address to the United Nations, Pope John Paul II attempted to synthesize the best in political traditions while combining contemporary sensibility with classical grounding, said Professor Mary Keys, who commented last night on the pope's speech, in which he called for a "common effort to build a universal civi­lization of love." 
Keys began with a summary of the pope's speech, in which he called for an awareness of today's present political situa­tion in terms of morality and 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST Ironwood Circle 20041ronwood Circle, Suite 1 
273·8986 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
ATTENTION: WAYWARD '96 GRADUATES 
(UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE) 
Notre Dame Volu.nteer Programme 


Jan1naica 
Is Now accepting Applications for Volunteer Positions in Kingston, Jamaica 
POSITIONS ARE AVAILABLE FOR STUDENTS IN ANY DISCIPLINE 
• 
Business (MBA's) • Religion 

• 
Science • Engineering 

• 
Liberal Arts 


Check out the Application and detailed information at the 
Center for Social Concerns 

Deadline for Applications 
and interview sign-ups is 
• • 5:00 pm, Friday, • • 
Interviews will be conducted by appointment on Saturday, March 2nd 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
Call 234·0363 
(24 hours) 
The original, directed by J. Lee Thompson $2 Adults, $1 Students 
the need to begin relations from a common foundation or "common moral core." He stressed the "respeet for di!Ter­ence" and the "fundamental right to exist as a nation." John Paul II described the role of the United Nations as one of "tran­scendence" -and that of the "true moral center of a family of nations," as Keys stated. 
Keys' commentary high­lighted parts of the speech and stressed the connection be­tween this address of the pope and previous works that he has written, specifically the encyclical "Splendor of Truth" and the recent book "Crossing the Threshold of Hope." 
Keys noted that in "Splendor of Truth," John Paul II points out the need "to begin from some common basic premises," just as he does in his speech to the United Nations. 
Keys also focused on the ar­gument about culture. Today, many people say that only peo­ple within a culture can under­stand it, but the pope takes a different stance. The pope says that not all cultures are essentially equal, but that the individual rights of nations should be respected and observed provided they are not infringing on the right of any other nation, accoding to Keys. 
Despite the present state of the United Nations and the world, John Paul II is still op­timistic about the future. With a change of heart, the popn be­lieves that the future can be significantly better, Keys said. 
To illuminate the optimism of the pope, Keys quoted from "Crossing the Threshold of !lope" in which John Paul II states that "hope is ultimately grounded in hope in Christ." The ultimate solution to a bet­ter society, according to the pope, lies with "fear of God" and finding a "common moral core," she said. 
------~-~----~----­
f 
page 4 

Glendon 
continued from page 1 
ularly to the class of 1996. Her speech, she said, will be appro­priate for the occasion and for the audience. Having attended numerous commencements, both for her three daughters and as a faculty member, Glendon, an acclaimed writer, social critic and advocate of social reform, said she knows the importance of a personal­ized address. 
"How often do you remember what a speaker has to say?" she asked. Not often, according to Glendon, who says her most im­portant speaking rule is that the speech should be for the grad­uates and the parents, and that it should not be concerned merely with matters relevant only to the speaker. 
Despite her sincere intentions and although her address may be well-received, Glendon faces the high expectations of a stu­dent body who was hoping for a president. A look at its peers' commencement speakers reveals the company Notre Dame's choice shares. 
In recent years, Notre Dame commencement speakers have included network journalist Tom Brokaw in 1993, former prime minister of Ireland Albert Reynolds in 1994 and Stanford Provost Condoleeza Rice last year. But comparable institu­tions have fared just as well, or even better. 
The following are the "Top 25 Best National Universities," ac­cording to a 1995 U.S. News and World Report survey. Their respective recent com­mencement speakers have been classified accordingly: 
• Political leaders -Harvard University's (1) speaker last year was Vaclav Havel, presi­dent of the Czech Republic. Cal Tech's speaker this year is Robert Inman, Navy admiral and Secretary of Defense nom­inee. Dartmouth University (7 ­tie) had President Bill Clinton 
The Observer • NEWS 

last year. 
Although Brown University (9) asks elected student speakers to address their graduating class, the school invites speakers on the Saturday before graduation. Last year, Israeli Prime Minister Shimon Peres spoke at Brown. 
At Johns Hopkins University's 
(10) general assembly address, Sadako Ogata, United Nations high commissioner for Refugees spoke. In an undergraduate cer­emony at Johns Hopkins last year, former President George Bush addressed the graduating class. This year's speaker at the larger assembly at Johns Hop­kins will be U.S. Senator from Maryland Barbara McColskey. 
Last year, Rice University (16) invited former U.S. Senator from Missouri Bill Bradley to speak at its commencement ceremony. 
•Academic leaders: Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy (5) had as its speaker Hanna Gray, former president of the University of Chicago. At Emory University (17) , Henry Louis Gates, Jr., a Harvard University professor, spoke last year. 
•Noted journalists: Last year, Duke University (5) invited David Gergen, the political ana­lyst who anchored the Gergen & Shields portion of the Mac­Neil/Lehrer News Hour. This year, Johns Hopkins invited "Nightline" anchor Ted Koppel to speak at its undergraduate ceremony. 
This year's speaker at the University of Pennsylvania will be Tom Brokaw, noted journal­ist of the "NBC Nightly News." 
•Entertainers: 
This year's speaker at Duke will be Jane Alexander, actress, producer and chair of the National Endowment for the Arts. Actor Jack Klugman spoke at Carnegie Mellon University (23) last year. 

• 
Business professionals: California Institute of Technology (7 -tie) had Gordon Moore, the CEO of Intel, as its speaker last year. 

•Alumni: 
During Yale University's (2 -tie) commence­ment last year Kurt Schmoke, mayor of Baltimore, a graduate spoke. This year's com­mencement speaker is actor, producer and director Henry Winkler, known for his charac-




r----------------------,
1 Unlimited Tanning r----------------------,
1 Month Unlimited : Until March 10 
I Tanning
for for 
I I I 
I S20 S35 
: includes: Beds & Booths includes: Beds & Booths 
: Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 Expires: Feb. 29, 1996 
~----------------------~ ~----------------------~ 
Satisfaction Guaranteed! 
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP Mall near KMart 
272-7653 256-9656 

Who said nothing in life is free? 
2 

9:45 p.m. to 1 a.m. 

skate rental, hot chocolate, & cookies provided 
Wednesday, February 28, 1996 

ter "The Fonz" on television's "Happy Days." Winkler is a graduate ofYale Drama. 
Stanford University (4) had as its 1995 commencement speak­er William Perry, secretary of defense. This year's speaker will be Mae Jemison, the first black woman in space, who is also a medical doctor and engineer. Both Perry and Jemison are graduates of Stanford. 
•A university's own: Some in­stitutions of higher learning rely upon noted academic figures from within their own walls. 
For example, Princeton Uni­versity (2 -tie), Columbia Uni­versity (15) and Cornell Univer­sity (13 -tie) have always had their university presidents speak to their graduating classes. In recent years, the speakers have been George Rupp and Harold Shapiro, respectively. 
At Vanderbilt University (22), the chancellor always speaks at the commencement ceremonies. Recently, the speaker has been Chancellor Joe Wyatt. "For more than 25 years, we've had no outside speakers ,"said Jean Moore, of the university's Public Affairs Department. 'The philos­ophy behind that decision is that commencement is a day for the graduates. We don't want the speaker to upstage the gradu­ates. We want the focus on them." 
The University of Chicago (11 ­tie) also has a tradition of having commencement speakers come from within the university, according to Michael Clark of the University of Chicago's department of Special Events. "Since the '30s, we have almost exclusively had University of Chicago professors as convoca­tion speakers," Clark said. 
Among the top 25 universities in the nation, Georgetown Uni­versity (21), which is ranked lower in the report than Notre Dame, has had a number of prestigious speakers address its graduating classes. In 1995, Juan and Sofia Carlos, the king and queen of Spain, spoke at a commencement ceremony for Georgetown's School of Foreign Service. 
Associate News Editor Brad Prendergast contributed to this report. 

The Notre Dame 6tudent Players Present 
tHe. 




\11e.RD 
'fSY LG{RRY <2Hue_ 
~'~(if...,!.··~~ .
·'J( .: ........ """t • -.J~-...::--.--"·~--· -•. 
february 28,29 (0 March 1 8pm Washin8ton Iiall $3 
Tickets available at the door 


ffi WJJIUIIJJIIIIIOJII••· "'OTTIJIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIUIU ffi 
ncounter 

An opportunlly, In dlelogue with others, lo de..,en your understanding ol rouneU, your valu11, rour rellllonahlp wtfh Chrtat. your eaperlenc:e of Ctwflllan communi!';' llni:t unlca. 
RETREAT 

MARCH 29-31,1996
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 

February 26-March 1 
SIGN UP 

4:00 p.m.-March 1 
DEADLINE: 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
COST: $25.00 
EE II!UIIUIIIIUDIIIIJJI" 
I 


Wednesday, February 28, 1996. The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Student Jfroups, student organizations or individuaf students interestell in discussing their coneerns with the Board of Trustees should attend an informational meeting on Thursday-!..February 29 from 7-8 pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Ball. 
Representatives of the Student Government Board of Trustees Report Committee will be present. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
McCarthy: Trustee reports need input 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
There can be a greater stu­dent voice heard by the Notre Dame Board of Trustees, ac­
''>rding to Student Body Vice P· esident Dennis McCarthy, who spoke at the Hall Presi­dents' Council meeting last night in Knott Hall. 
This semester, student gov­ernment would like to have more student Input in Its Board of Trustees report, which is submitted to the Board when it comes to cam­pus for its regular meeting eaeh semester. 
"We would like to get a feel of what students' experiences have been, whether it is HAs concerned with tlw curriculum or Hispanic students with a certain concern.~ McCarthy said. "It doesn't necessurily have to bo anything bad. 
Have a Q!ilWcey 21st birthday, Brenda Hoban!! 
ltJve, 
Kristi, Meg, 

Betsy, efenny, 
& Bridget 

People might really like some­thing, or hate something. We are hoping to get input from students across the campus." 
Student government is speaking at organizations such as HPC because it is easiest. but all students, whether or not involved in groups, are invited to participate. An informational meeting will be held Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in LaFor· tune Student Center. 
"After the meeting we will have an application process, and then we will pick an issue that we would like to work on. This is a great opportunity if you would like to voice a con· cern to a higher power. be­cause the Board of Trustees are the final say in a lot," McCarthy added. ''I'm not sure how this will work this year, but hopefully it will work well in the future. It Is definitely much better than simply hand­ing the Board a fifteen page summary report." 
In an effort to publicize the eating disorder committee that the Women's Resource Center has started, the Center's Kathleen McManus spoke at ' the meeting. The Center is hosting a seminar entitled "How to Help A Friend with an Eating Disorder." 
"It is a really great program where we show videos and talk about the Notre Dame environment and how con­ducive it is to eating disorders. We have already hosted one at Pasquerilla East and we were very happy with the turnout." · McManus said. 
Anyone interested in organizing a seminar can call the Center to set one up, said McManus, who added that male dorms are especially in­vited to organize a seminar. 



The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidpositions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Brad Prendergast by Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-5323 or 634-2098 
Fader01an provides history of lesbianis01 
By DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
History confirms that women are capable of loving other women, according to Lillian Faderman, professor of English at California State University at Fresno. 
In her lecture, "Naked Ama­zons and Queer Damozels," Faderman detailed the histori­cal development of lesbian consciousness to a full audi­ence in DeBartolo Tuesday evening. She also touched upon redefining lesbianism and the universality of lesbian love. 
''I've been studying lesbian history for the past twenty years. I've worked with a pas­sion because the time has been right to create what lesbians never had, a history," Fader­man opened. 
"It was clear to me from the beginning that fiction and scholarship were always angled to reflect the ideologies of the dominant grou'p. As I saw it, I was setting the record straight, or perhaps setting it unstraight," Faderman contin­ued. 
By scouring-sixteenth, seven­teenth and eighteenth century fiction, diaries, and letters, Fa­derman was able to find the background she was seeking. 
"History confirms that women are capable of loving other women. I wanted to normalize and universalize this Jove by giving it a histori­cal background," she explained. 
Faderman went on to emphasize that homosexual intercourse was not a primary consideration for discerning lesbians, that only intensely in­timate feelings or erotic behavior directed toward other women was essential. 
These redefinements entered 'romantic friendships' eommon to past eras into Faderman's history. Emily Dickinson, .Jane Adams, Willa Cather, and Eleanor Hoosevelt were les­bians, according to Faderman. 
"We have a particular right to claim these American heroes for the young people in our community looking for role models," Faderman explained. 
"The kind of history I wrote is what I would have liked to have read in 1956 when I came out. A history not just of odd girls and twilight lovers, but of a diverse, embattled. and brave community," Faderman added. 


~~ 


ACTIONifDml 
TUDI!/In' OOVBRNMBNT 


page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
Williams. "But I am honest. If Nefertiti and got to know the Finally, the audience and the According to Hermes, "We they are interested in the edu­black women on campus, that I actresses discussed the steps are all women here. We share

Play 
cation, I would encourage them realized I have never had a which should be taken to in­a common bond. It's not about because it is a quality educa­black professor before. " crease understanding on the black women and white
continued from page 1 
tion. But I would have to be "We should take a step in the Saint Mary's campus. women. It's about all of us 



• Appointments necessary for tanning, relaxers, perms, and styles • 
(219)271-7674 
in any way, shape, or form," added Paige. "College is not easy anywhere, but I couldn't honestly tell another African­American student to come to Saint Mary's where she would be in such a small minority." 
Not all black students at Saint Mary's feel as strongly as Paige. "I don't present-a nega­tive view of Saint Mary's," said 

Church 
continued from page 1 
could have possibly been con-suited on this issue." She indi-. cated that there was, in fact, no evidence that a consensus had even been attempted. 
Hilkert said that the problem of ordination of women was a relatively recent issue. "It is not whether the church erred in the past, but that new evidence has come about," she said. "There are precedents where the church has changed its teaching in the light of new data." 
"There is no positive tradition against the ordination of women," O'Meara added. "There just isn't a lot of discus­sion about it. Any heretical groups that ordained women were attacked for other reasons altogether." 
When asked what was behind 
the recent drive to exclude 
~---------------------------------·-------.I 



'\'\\evbiiD 
~ ~' 
,....----(~~;~~~_.._}·~l... ___ ___
llr"'l~alll-:l•,~:-r"'f/ 
Co-Ree -6 on 6* 
* Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times. 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, February 29 
honest about the obstacles we right direction at Saint Mary's face as black women at Saint and hire a black professor. The Mary's." • African-American students 
Another important issue dis­need to see someone who looks cussed was the lack of African­like them and can be a role American professors and ad­model for them," added Her­ministrators at Saint Mary's. "I mes. have attended predominantly 
white, Catholic schools all my life," said Saint Mary's sopho­
I I


·-------------------------------· 
more Ann Hermes. "It was only when I joined The Sisters of 
I GENERAL S1UDENr BODY I 
women from the clergy, the I panel offered three answers. 1 
"The ethos of Western Chris­tianity is the problem behind I it," O'Meara said. "It has devel-I oped around a monastic male 1 image which would all change if women were ordained. I could I comprehend the end of the I world, but I could not see the 1 ethos of Western Christianity I changing so drastically." 
According to Hilkert the root I problem was that of female sex-I uality. "There is a patriarchal 1 bias here that needs to be named and faced," she said. I 
McBrien's opinion drew some I gasps and some applause from 1 the crowd. "If you look at the I two religions which oppose women clergy there are two," I he said, "Catholicism, which has I a celibate clergy, and Orthodox 1 Christianity, which has a cell-bate hierarchy." "End celibate I clergy," he continued, "and I [ordination of women] will 1 cease to be an issue" 1 

i 
I
i 
1
I 

·-------------------------------· 
(otholi< Chuplnio, Atlanta Uru\le!Si/y (wter Vi<c President, Nutkmal Bloc~ Clltholk Clergy Coucus Fo<ilitotor. /993 World touth Day iii flcnver, Coiomdo Speaker ond Focilitotor, Catholic youth mmistry 

HCultut·t~, rl'!·adition and Stt~war·dship ot' Our History:{t llet~ipe for Sanctity" 
CZ\MPUS 
-MlNISTKY 

I
I 
I
I
1 
I
I
1
1 
I 
I
1 
I
I
1
I I 
I
1 
I
1 00 I 
: p.m. 1 
1 
to7:0~.m 
! 1 
I 
Info nesk ~~ ~ 
IAcnON 10m 1 
STUDtiNT OOVBaNMENT 

I 
"If there was an easy solu­tion, it would have been imple­mented long ago," said Paige. "We need to increase education and dialogue between members of different cultures at Saint Mary's." 
Wednesday, February 28, 7:15p.m. Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Father Branch will also celebrate the l 0 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. Mosses at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on Sunday, March 3. 
Black Catholic Series University of Notre Dome 
working together as one." 

"The answer is not to be color blind," said Paige. "If you don't see color, you don't see me. We need to recognize people for their differences, but not judge them by that difference." 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------­Wednesday, February 28, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Trinidad's diversity may cause strife 
ND grad: Brown case short on effectiveness
By DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
Thn United States has good causn to fear violnnt ethnic strife in its own backyard ­eonnict that could lwcome as hitter as that which has recent­ly plagued the Balkans or Hwanda. Citing the abrupt politieal transition in Trinidad's rnctmt nlection, Professor Halph Prnrndas spokn yestt~rday of the fmtr that tlw south Caribbean nation's dt~lieatn ethnic situa­tion could easily fester into armed lighting. 
"Tiwre has hetHl a very significant nleetion in Trinidad." Prmndas, a profns­sor at the Univnrsity of the Wnst Indies, said, elaborating, "This has implications involving not only Trinidad, but the larg­er eanvas of the western world." 
l'rerndas undnrlined the sig­nifieanee of Trinidad's potential probh1rns by explaining, "As a thrnat to all, modern hate has superceded nuclear war. Nearly all states in the world are polyethnie, and this cultural pluralism has allowed ethnic strife to emerge unchecked. We now have on our hands an eth­nic nuclear explosion." 
The island nation's notable petroleum reserves and key south Caribbean location give it stategic importance to the United States as well, Premdas added. 
Despite these attributes, Trinidad's particularly diverse population and its abrupt post­electoral transition have made the island nation a prime target for social strife, Premdas explained. 
Rising from former imperial­istic demands for plantation la­bor, Trinidad's current popula­tion is an eclectic cultural mix dominated by large African and Indian sub-continental groups. Premdas also noted significant concentrations of residual Eu­ropeans, Chinese, Syrians, Lebanese and a distinct inter­
mixed group with its own iden­
tity. 
"Add these together and you can see a deeply divided soci­ety. Separate residential clus­ters and occupational cleavages arose," Premdas said. "The African group dominated the urban, skilled. and civil service areas, while the Indians were confined to more rural oc­cupations." 
It is the recent unexpected displacement of the African group from decades of political control that has him worried, Premdas said. 
"The Africans will have to re­linquish their benefits. Their wariness of this, and even their fear of being returned to near­slavery complicates matters, especially because the army and police are largely staffed by the ousted group. Will they allow it, and will the new gov­ernment be allowed to stabi­lize?" ask Premdas, focusing on the key uncertainties of the Trinidadian situation. 
"While reason should propel us to share power, reason isn't what motivates people during crises. Trying to maintain neu­tral ground means getting shot at from both sides," Premdas said. 
Many of these problems lie within the political system itself, according to Premdas. 
"The existing electoral system is a provocation of the ethnic­cultural rift. The competitive electoral machinery installed years ago by the British makes political leaders exacerbate di­visions between cultural groups," Premdas said, noting that Trinidad's parliament is divided by purely ethnic politi­cal parties. 


By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Sainr Mary's News Editor 
Separate but equal was a legal myth, according to John Borkowski, a civil rights attor­ney and partner in the New Orleans law firm !logan & Hartson who spoke yesterday on "Contemporary Legal Issues of Race In Public Education." 
In the second of a six-part se­ries entitled "Separate but Still Unequal: The Persistence of Racial Segregation in American Life," Borkowski spoke about his experiences litigating school desegregation cases, while cit­ing historical examples that ad­dress the need to tackle the is­sue of equality in the public 
.school systems. 
"While Brown v. The Board of Education was the beginning of the end of apartheid, it resulted in neither the equality or inte­gration of education," he said. "The promise of the Brown de­cision has not been fully real­ized in this country. That promise comes down to equality and quality in education, no matter what race, ethnicity or gender." 
In the past 20 years, there has been a great deal of state court legislation to establish equality under state constitutions, according to Borkowski. 
Currently, school districts face two major questions: how to get out of court order, and what to do once that is achieved. "This urgency is the way to attract attention to something that we should have paid attention to all along," 
According to Borkowski, the 
late 1960's to early 1970's 
brought rise to the most dra­
matic progress in integration. 
However, despite those changes, 
problems still exist in school 
systems today. 
"Predominately minority schools end up with the short end of the stick in terms of re­sources and faeilities constantly, affecting the results of student achievement," Borkowski said. 
In addition to promoting "gen­uine equality in education," Borkowski said, "as our country becomes more diverse, there is an intrinsic benefit of children learning together and being exposed to different ethnic and racial backgrounds. 
"It is important that we rec­ognize the value of diversity, and promote it in our schools." 

Borkowski said he remains optimistic for the future. "I have incredible hope, and reason to believe that we can achieve equal opportunity for all stu­dents," he said. "With courts stepping out of the arena, it is up to us to make sure this promise is revealed." 
Borkowski graduated from Notre Dame in 1984 and re­ceived his law degree from Northwestern University. 
The 1996 Henkels Visiting Scholar Series, commemorating the centennial of the landmark Plessy v. Ferguson case, will continue when Douglas Massey, Professor of Sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, will speak on "America's Housing Apartheid Past, Present, and Future" on March 19 at 4:15 
p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 

7 P.M. Stepan 
Bob Barker says COME EARLY to get name tags! 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's F..ditor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pece Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­don of either institution. The news is reported as. accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available m all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  63 I -6900/8840  
Sporrs  631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
News/Photo  631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Edimr/Production  631-5303  Viewpoinr  E-Mail  Viewpoim.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

SO WE'RE. HEADED TO ARI20NA. To G£T TATTOOED AND KIC.I<.
Yt;.S, DADDY! 

9:A'v\E ME.X ICAN. BUTT.
I MS.T HlMAT THE PR:J-L\Ft;. ~M11LY PICNIC IN NEW 1-Wv\PSH\RE! 
I JUST KNOW H£'S MR. RIGHT! 


Generation X: The dead generation? 
I wonder sometimes if our student body is a bit too apathetic. I wonder if we really care about what goes on at this campus, especially the administra­tive decisions that affect our well-being, and our rights. It's funny how at Notre Dame, activism is expressed as writing a letter to the editor or asking the officers of this University to maybe, if they had the time, listen to a suggestion we have, if it wouldn't be too much trouble. 
Christiane Likely 
Are we a dead generation like the media likes to label us? The non-opin­ionated, non-progressive, apathetic mob of Internet-addicted morons? Sometimes, I tend to think so, but I would hope not. I spent my weekend talking, learning, laughing, and reflect­ing with a true revolutionary, Kathleen Neal Cleaver. Cleaver is the ex-wife of Eldridge Cleaver, a former leader of the Black Panther Party for Self Defense, but a leader in her own right. I must say that I was thoroughly impressed by what she had to say, and more impor­tantly how she said it. Now, I have met a lot of Black leaders, from Khallid Muhammed to Jesse Jackson, from Kwame Ture (Stokely Carmichael) to Kazembe Adisa, and she alone has spo­ken so true and clear to me that not only did I spend the whole weekend ques­tioning myself, but also my path and choices in life. 
Not to disregard all the numerous things she told me, there is one over­whelming matter that she told me that I will never in my life forget. She talked about choices. If we choose not to take a stand on any issue, if we choose to be passive, if we choose to not choose, then be assured that someone is making that choice for us. 
If I choose to live out my short time here at Notre Dame, knowing very well that there are a lot of things that I don't like and don't do a darn thing about it, then I choose to let the powers that be at this University decide what happens to me. Needless to say, I don't like that. I don't like how the student organizations, specifically pertaining to office space, are handled. There is hardly any office space for the more prominent organiza­tions. We all know that Flanner and Grace are being evacuated to provide more office space for University depart­ments and administrators, but I haven't heard much of anything in rega,rds to office space for student organization and we are the ones who do a lot for the stu­dents directly. 
I am speaking specifically for the office maintained by the African American Student Alliance (AASA), the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), and the Black Cultural Arts Festival (BCAF). These three organizations share a little ole office on the second floor of LaFortune and it isn't even big enough for one per­son to function, let alone the twelve offi­cers of the three organizations. This is unacceptable, even more so because we are in risk of losing our office for vari­ous reasons that are still unclear. And Student Activities hasn't really addressed this issue for us. Needless to say I feel strongly about this because we as a student body haven't been very active, and we haven't demanded any­thing more substantial than free football tickets. The administrative powers aren't going to take us seriously, but I think I have shown that when you are outspoken, and when you can stand on your own two feet, say what you feel, and demand what is right and just, peo­ple will take you seriously. 
Student Activities, and God knows who 

else wants to put all the ethnic organiza­tions, numbering close to fifteen, in one office, not even larger than a quad in most dorms..That is not even enough room for each organization to have a desk, let alone computers, file cabinets, book shelves, etc. And private meeting space will be non-existent. 
I'm not going to lie and please don't be mistaken, I'm down for me and mine, and I will defend and fight for mine til there is no need. "By any means neces­sary" like Brother Malcolm said. Call me a militant, call me a radical, call me ignorant, hateful, mean, or a racist, but don't call me nonresistant. I am a frus­trated young Black woman, and like Gwendolyn Brooks said "Black with a capital 'B' ." 1 will no longer be frustrat­ed when I no longer have to struggle and fight. I will no longer be a Black woman, when I no longer exist. You see, I believe in Revolution (with a capi­tal R), therefore I'm dangerous. I'm dangerous in the sense that I am con-
GARRY TRUDEAU 

sumed with the affairs of Black people in America, and that is what is impor­tant now. People's greatest fault is when they underestimate the power of frustration. Huey P. Newton once said in "In Defense of Self Defense" that "We have been brainwashed to believe that we are powerless and that there is noth­ing we can do for ourselves." We do not understand the power in our numbers. I do. 
In her lecture Sunday night in Washington Hall, Kathleen Cleaver said that she hoped we weren't dead. Dead in spirit. Dead in mind. Dead in heart. The price for being an activist or for being outspoken is high. It means you will be scorned, and targeted. It means you will be marginalized, but if you strongly believe in what is right and 
what is just then there regrets.  are  no  real  
Cristiane J. Likely is Pasquerilla West.  a  senior  in  


"Jt seems as if the Department Of Justice sees the value of the Bill of Rights as no more than obstacles to be overcome." 
-Prof. Sanford H. Kadish 
THe BUZZ ON 7HI5 PLAC/3. 15 THAT TIUO Or THe OI<IG­INAL BI<APY BUNCH HANG H&RE I AJV[) 7He 5Hit<TL-eSS GUY IN TH/3 C0f(l3 COr11MC.'ROI-1L...l 
IF I ~AW... HeY/ OVer<. 
THe<£, MIK/3-UXJK! IT'5 WHAT'5-HER-NAME./ TH& 
GIRL WHO US&!? TO PLAY 
AU THOE/3 \ 
81M805l 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 28, 1996 page 9 
• LETTER~ 1', THE EDITOR 
Griping about London Program clouds issues behind IRA bombings 
Dear Editor: In her n1eent Observer column (Vol. 
XXVII. No. 94), Liz Foran makes what I tak•1 to be two very serious errors in her discussion of the recent IHA cease fire and the two explosions in London. 
First. she makes an argument of the following sort. The resumption of the use of force in the IBA's attempt to secure its political desires is bad because it jea­pordizes the sal"nly of ND students who are participating in the London Program. Now it is clnar that when we are dealing with any question concerning the moral justification of the use of force in political disputes the issue of the loss of life looms large. lndnml, a pacifist will claim that it looms so large as to trump any other con­sideration. This seems to be Foran's view as well since she claims that "violence is never rational." But as such a position does not snem to enable one to give a moral justification of the use of violence in WWII. the American Hevolution, or even in personal self-defense, it would seem to be a difficult position to defend. 
Supposing that it is defensible, howev­er, we still have the problem with Foran's argument that it makes no difference to her point that the renewed violence might alTeet ND students. It is not the fact that London becomes a place of danger for ND students in the London program that mak11s the IHA bombing campaign morally suspect, but the fact that it m1dangers anyone's life whatsoever. 
But then we must wonder what Fvran's artide is about after all. And if we extend this reasoning to Northern Ireland, where violenee has b11en part of daily life from 11)(,<) up to less than 18 months ago, then we find that the 1350 deaths that have bmm causml by British soldiers and Pro­Loyalist paramilitary groups should cause one to roundly condemn all sides of this eonllict and not just the IBA. In fact, it is just this rlwtorie of condmnnation which seems to be blocking the prospect of pmu:e as one side (.John Major) seems to want the other side to make complete and unequivocal concessions before any optm talks can lwgin. Imagine how such an attitude would have impeded the his­toric peace process in Israel? 
The seeond mistake Foran makes is in concluding (presupposing?) that the goal of the IRA bombing campaign is to inflict the most amount of damage possible. This is what I take her to mean by "The question of why the bomb was being car­ried in the entertainment center of the city can only lead to sinister speculations. .. were these the targets of this pointless violence?" But this conclusion does not seem to be explanatory of the actual behavior of the IHA in recent years. Indeed, with only a few exceptions and some pre-mature explosions, the IRA has provided very distinct warnings about where and when their bombs will explode. The London constabulary knew of the Canary bomb at least an hour in advance of its explosion. 
If the IHA wanted to cause the most amount of carnage possii;Jie they would not give such warnings. It is more plausi­ble to postulate that the IRA's motives for planting bombs in economic districts of London is to cause the least amount of carnage possible while yielding the great­est de-moralizing and economically debil­itating effect. Indeed, this is consonant with what the IRA daims about its own usc of force. Foran plays into their hands by pointing to .the fear it causes in the hearts of those who travel to London. But the fear is unwarranted. As any good travel guide will point out that even Belfast, before the ceasefire, is safer than most of the big US cities. The number of people killed by the IRA since '69 would pale in comparison to the number of murders in NYC since '69. 
Foran admits this fact; but then one must wonder why she is trivializing a very important and complicated issue with her griping about how it will affect the London Program. 
DENNIS POTTER Graduate Student Department of Philosophy 

Congratulations on JPW success 
Dear Editor: 

Regis Holtzgrefe and her committee are to be commended for their dedi­cation and hard work in making Junior Parent Weekend an unforgettable experience. As a junior parent and employee of this fine university, this past weekend will always be remembered for the feelings of rejuvenated love for my daughter which I believe is the spirit of JPW. 
My husband and I were both moved by all the speeches, from Dean Keane of the Business College to Couch Lou Holtz of the football office. Our recept!on in J?eB,artolo with Professor Murphy was most enlightnning. I'm sorry tf we dtdn t feel the need to talk to her professors and ask, "Is she being a good girl in class?" And to be honest with you. I really.don't want to spend a weekend being lectured on social concerns -been them, done that! 
As a parent let me say that I don't believe that Junior Parent Weekend is a time to dwell on the past, discuss the social problems of this university, or in lay terms, turn it into a "bitch" session. We are all aware that this place is not a utopia, and it shares the same problems that most private. Catholic institutions share. 
Congratulations Regis on a job well done. From a parent's point of view JPW was a complete success. 
KAYHERRITY Junior Jl;lrem Football Office 

Sounding offpro-life from feminist point ofview 
Dear Editor: "the ultimate exploitation of women." 
In tlw I>m:emher 1995 issue of Common Sense, Ann On Nov. 6, 1995, FFL sponsored a talk by Lisa l'nttiftlr complains that " ... pharmaceutical birth control Everett entitled "The Pill, Norplant, and Depo-Provera: is having to contend with propaganda being bruited What Every Woman Needs to Know." The speaker about. most rectJntly by women calling themselves informed the audience of the abortifacient action of · Fmninists for l.ifn,' which portrays the pill as a threat hormonal methods and IUDs. She also discussed their to women's health. There is eonsiderahle deeeit in this risks, from immediate side effects such as nausea, campaign, for it dodges the issue of the dangers preg-weight gain, and depression, to long-term pill risks nancy itslllf poslJS to women's health-the very real such as heart attacks, strokes, and cancer of the breast risk of mortality in many of the poor ------------and cervix. All these methods have 
areas around the globe, not lllllst in the United StatllS... 
Wtl, the oflicers of Feminists for Life of' ND/SMC, wish to explain our posi­tion. Wn have chosen to respond in 
the neutral forum of The Observer in the interests of time and because an artide submittml by our president to 
Common Sense discussing feminist critiques of hormonal contraception, rtlproduetive technologies, and abor­tion was rejected. 
Wn are a campus chapter of Ftlrninists for Life of America, an organization which advoeates a "seamless garnwnt" ethic opposed to abortion, tJuthanasia, and capital pun­ishnwnt. We also eoncern ourselves with other women's rights issues, such as rhild support enforeement. 
pnwention of rape and domestic vio­ltmen, and I the subjeet of our on-cam­pus speaker) opposition to the puni­live aspects ofwnlf'arn reform. 
Most womtHl abort not out of 
been criticized by women's health ac­'Most women abort tivists, including many pro-choice femi­n 0 t 0 u t 0 f nists. This makes Pettifer's implied lit­
mus test for true feminism-unqualified"choice," but because support for every method of artificial they feel they have no contraception-an odd one. 
FFL of ND/SMC, like FFLA, opposeschoice-out of financial only those methods of family planning pressure, or lack of which are abortifacient, dangerous to 
women's health, and/or governmentally support from their sex-imposed. There are differences of opin­ual partners or fami _ ion on contraception among pro-life 
feminists, as became evident in the dis-lies. We argue for radi-cussion following Everett's talk. Some cal social change, of us see barrier methods as a positive 
family planning option. Others supportrather than the facile only natural methods, which are as solution of abortion. effective as hormonal methods but do 
not treat normal fertility as a disease,We not only "call" our-and require the cooperai.;on of both the selves feminists-we man and the woman. In either case, we 
arc well aware that hormonal contra-are feminists. ception and pregnancy are not women's 
"choice," hut lmcausn they feel they have no ehoice­out of financial pressure, or laek of support from their stJxual partners or families. We argue for radical sotial change, rather than the facile solution of abor­tion. We not only "call" ourselves feminists-we are feminists. Pro-life feminists are the true heirs of Susan 
B. Anthony, who called abortion "child murder," and Alien Paul. author of' the original EHA. who called it and toddlers in developing countries. NP, in contrast, strengthens both marriages and women's self-est11em, countering the macho tendencies rightly deplored by Pettifer. It is inexpensive and personally empowering to its practitioners. 
Poor women abroad and in the United States are at the mercy less of their fertility, as Pettifer suggests, than of economic and political injustiee. It is not preg­nancy itself that endangers their health, but dangerous conditions produced by poverty, oppression, and sex­ism on the national and international levels. The root causes of these evils need to be addressed, allowing them to conceive and bear children safely when they wish. We do not oppose foreign aid; unlike Pettifer, we do criticize the common practice of its being withheld unless poor countries impose dangerous population control measures on their citizens. 
Access to artificial methods of family planning is hardly a problem, since birth control providers concen­trate on Third World countries (and on poor and minority women in the United States). Women's health activists in developing eountries are more concerned about contraceptive research without informed eon­sent, coercive sterilization campaigns, and health clin­ics which are overstoekcd with birth control drugs and devices to the detriment of vaccines and antibiotics. In joining their protests, we are not guilty of sentimental­izing motherhood, much less "contemptible cal­lousness." 
Those who wish to take part in dialogue about this and other women's issues can find more information about FFL at our meetings and on our web page, http://www.nd.edu/-femlife (or through ND home page, then Student Life, then Groups and Organizations). We can also be contacted at fcmlife@baeh.helios.nd.cdu. 
FEMINISTS FOR LIFE OF ND/SMC OFFICERS: MAUREEN KRAMLICH LAURA GRIMES COLLEEN MURPHY ELIZABETH JENSEN 
only reproductive options, which 
Pettifer implies in saying that question­ing the safety of the pill "dodges the issue of the dan­gers pregnancy itself poses to women's health." 
Natural family planning is, in fact, an ideal choice for Third World couples. Hormonal methods, whose risks necessitate close medical supervision, are especially dangerous for women whose overall health and access to medical care may be low. They also make breast feeding difficult, which endangers the health of infants 
ACCENT

page 10 Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
Accent Checks 


Hanging out, zoning out, and sometimes ev 
• ACCENT ASKS 
What would you like to see in Accent? 


"Something that would make waves, controversy!" 
Dan Sullivan Freshman, Zahm 

"Fiction." 
Lynsey Miller Sophomore,Pasqueril/a East 
"More features, like the SYR piece that was done last week:' 
Alysson Cook Freshman, Regina 



"90210 and Melrose syn­opses." 
Shelly Hackett Sophomore, Knott 


"South Bend weather." 
Erik Goldschmidt Senior, Zahm 

"Random, funny things about people." 
Kathryn Schropp Sophomore, LeMans 
By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

F
ace it: Dorm rooms were not made to be studied in. You've got the phone, your best friend in the entire galaxy sitting in the next loft over, and pictures of scantily clad members of the opposite sex on the walls. Not exactly an atmosphere conducive to cramming three chapters of poli sci into your head. 
So you pack up highlighter and text and drag yourself to the library. And thanks to our friend the shuttle, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have access to two very different options. Architecturally and atmo­sphericly polar places to be, it is fitting that the library offerings of both campuses are as distinct as the schools themselves. 
Notre Dame's Theodore M. Hesburgh Library began as the "Memorial Library," its Word of Life mural distinguishing it as one of the most recog­nizable university athenaeums in the country. (Not every collegiate library in the nation boasts artwork that inspires the general public to cast the Son of God into the role of a referee, kids.) The Hesburgh Library houses 2.1 million volumes, 17,768 serials, 12,356 audio/visual items ... and the offices of two very familiar-sounding priests. 
Across the street is Saint Mary's Cushwa-Leighton Library, which bounced from Holy Cross Hall to LeMans Hall to Alumnae Centennial Library (which is now-surprise!-Haggar College Center) to its present modern art-ish location. Cushwa-Leighton, named for both an exceptional­ly dedicated Saint Mary's alumna and the founder of the Madeleva Society, offers students nearly 200,000 volumes and at least that many nooks and crannies to study in. 
But the heritage of the buildings they're sitting-or lying, or slouching­in is probably the last thing on student's minds as they take care of the pri­mary chore of college life. And true to their sibling nature, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students refrain from segregating by school where study habits are concerned. On any given weeknight or Sunday afternoon, it's not unusual to find Belles cracking the books at their brother school or to stumble across Domers studying away at Saint Mary's. 
The shoes-off comfortable Saint Mary's library, with its bright patterned carpets and open design, is so dependably quiet you can practically hear GPAs rising-even during the peak seasons of midterms and finals, when tables are at a premium. The silence is so deafening that students studying on the top floor can hear the occasional beep of the book scanner at the circulation desk some four flights of stairs away. Stocked with plush couch-

The Observer/Carah Smith 
Saint Mary's freshmen Maura O'Brien, Allison Schwab, and Karen Clark try to get work done on the second floor of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library. 

ompa 
Number of floors: Entrance door style: On-line catalogue: 

Twizzlers available in vending machines? Chair evaluation: Cool sun deck? Atmosphere on second floor: 
es, plenty of study carrels, a sun amounts of elbow room, Saint M happen to "I need QUIET!" 


where naps are frequent b•It not 
Saint Mary's senior Kimnerly lloor this afternoon, an rather than books. But mid teraction," she says. Neither is dent curled up with some rna aecessible for Saint Mary's done." 
Hey-are those guys over Baldinger and Dan Soenen, both Domers who cross the street to study time. "It's so quiet here," a lot easier to spread out." 
Up on the top level, where the the spectacular view of LeMa Cross is settled in a rocking the Saint Mary's library," she "!like it because it's so airy and 
Life's a bit more of a party in lower level, where decibel level conversation. Here are the me mail/Internet computers an machines. Here is Cushwa-Le famous second lloor. 
Ah, Floor 2 of Notre Dame's prepare not to attend to them. the new chairs have made their 
Satu 
Deceptively fun amusement park style turnstiles at entrance1 
View from uppermost floor: 
Elevator? 

Elevator interior painted disturbing shade of neon green? 
Potential for meeting decent SYR date: 
FOI 
ACCENT

Wc:J1w~day, Fc:bruary 28, 1996 page 11 

ut the ND/SMC Libraries 
Fn studying at Hesburgh and Cushwa,Leighton 
• ACCENT COLUMN 

(lnck, and hug•~ tables that grant obscene 1·y's library just might be the best thing to 
· since Vivarin. It's a nicely kPpt secret 
~ 
_,/ '.)1) 
-~ p/
I"' . 
/ 
with some psychology homework on owa.-L.,,·u hton Library. 
IH'OUf'llgPd. nro of l.nMans is stakP£1 out on the first warm Sunday that lwgs for rollerblades 
s •~all: ''I'm not in here for social in­ior llosn Madej•~wski. a lloly Cross resi­ing r«>ading. "It's quid and more easily .· " slw says. "You can really get work 
.? W.-lcom«> to our wonwn's rolleg«~. Mike uniors from (;race, arP just two of many h.-ir sistnr srhool to put in sonw major Lldingnr says. "Tlw bigger tables makn it 
r.-ath-snatrhing climb is made well worth tower, fb•shman Clairn Barrett of Holy 
r. "You can find more pnrsnnal space in ·. looking up from sonw psyeh homework. 
Ill fly ... 
he aru~r-hours study lounge down on the · can artually rnaeh the lnvel of normal ia cnnter. telephon11 hank. archives, e­try to control yourselves-vending m's whispnn~d answer to llcsburgh's in­
ary. BYOB-bring your own books, and sna of tastnful mauves and teals now that grand appoaranee, this is LaFortune with­
~wa-Leighton, 
s~c 
just weird. Stupid things actually fold open. OPAC acronym: line PublicAccess Catalog) 
No 
Take a nap 
Yes 
re Dame campus the first y after football season ends. No 
Awesome Yes Yes 
FOR MEN: Excellent WOMEN: Not as bad as you'd think, ladies. 
out the Iluddle, a dorm party minus the driving techno beat. Every hour is social hour on the second floor, and plenty of students like it that way. 
Nikole Rockwell, a sophomore from Farley, is working on some scary­looking math with two friends, dormmate Tracy Raley and Robert Mercer of St. Ed's. "It's great down here," Rockwell says. "If I go to the upper floors, I'll fall asleep. The last time I went up there to get a book. I got tired just walking around." 
A triplet of Saint Mary's students have taken over a table just a few feet from Hockwell and company. "I probably won't study," says freshman Al­lison Schwab of LeMans, casting a slightly guilty glance at her organic chemistry book. "We'll most likely just chit chat." 
"The atmosphere is conducive to talking and socializing," adds Maura, also a freshman in LeMans. "But it does help to study over here, because you know that you can't just take the tunnels back to the dorm to take a nap or watch some TV. You're pretty much stuck, so you might as well get some work done." 
The elevators outside are always busy, constantly ferrying students to the stacks within the Hesburgh library's massive tower. Away from the din of the second floor, some pretty serious work goes on "upstairs"; here, grad students, profs, and undergrad research and highlight side by side. Carrels are scattered in the narrow rows amongst stack after stack of books. The knowledge in the place is overwhelming. 
It's a stomach-dropping ride to the thirteenth floor, where student can study just a few feet from the offices of Father Edmund Joyce-and Father Theodore Hesburgh himself. Up here not even the cramped plainness of the windows can detract from the viewbook glimpses of Notre Dame going about her business some thirteen stories below. In the window before one shelf of a table, the stadium fills the narrow panes, silent save for the con­struction materials swarming about the first white row of expansion bleachers. The view a few steps from here gives way to LaFortune, Stonehenge, and the delicate beauty of Sacred Heart. 
Both downstairs and across the street, the men and women of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community are taking to task the nucleus of their col­lege education. Whether they prefer to face it huddled in a carrel squir­reled away from the word or propped up at a table amidst the thrum of steady conversation, they're sure to find a place to feel at home. 

The Observer/Carah Smith 

Grace residents Mike Baldinger and Dan Soenen put in some study time at their sister school. 
Hesburgh, ND 
14 
Blessedly normal. You pull the handle, you go in. That's all we need. UNLOC acronym: (University of Notre Dame Libraries' Online Catalog) Yes 
Try to adjust to not having to sit on vinyl. No 
Perpetual Mardi Gras 
Yes 
Awesome Yes No 
FOR BOTH: Opportunity abounds 

Welcome to Joey's world 
By JOEY CRAWFORD · 
Assistant Accent Editor 
.. 

I 
have been having the strangest night­mares recently. l can feel my life being slowly, but meticulously sucked into the sleepless world of The Observer, where the days are long and the nights are even longer. 
My "tragic" fate was determined just over a week ago, when I was appointed the new Accent Editor, replacing my mentor and tem­porary crutch, Krista Nannery. The influ­ence she had over me is immeasurable, now unfortunately she is the subject of one of my recurring Observer nightmares. During the nightmare, she continuously informs me that I no longer have time for a life, my life must be totally committed to The Observer. 
Eventually I escape from her wrath and seek refuge in the sanctuary of my dorm room. I attempt to steal a moment of "my life" back by calling one of my friends on the telephone. 
As I talk on the phone, I stare out the win­dow only to see Krista glaring back at me yelling, "Get off of the phone, you don't have time for that kind of stun· anymore." Then I wake up, it was only a dream, or was it? (Freud may propose that the souree of these dreams may be the fact that I want to be dominated by powerful women. I don't know? You decide.) 
I have been working with the Accent staff for just over a semester now as the Assistant Editor for Friday's Accent pages. Yes, I am the one who brought you cartoons, coloring, and the Dancing Fiends articles. I plan on bringing the same extravagant cheese that everyone loves to the Accent pages on a daily basis but with more spice. 
I have a number of goals for this coming year in regard to my life at the newspaper. First and foremost is maintaining my sanity. Without my sanity, there will not be any Accent pages. Some of the student body may be ambiguous to this, as I found out yester­day as I polled a number of students as to what they would be their ideal feature in the Accent pages. 
Sadly,_some of.the students did not have the slightest clue what the Accent pages are. Another student mistook us for the Viewpoint section, while still another extremely well­read student casually asked. "What is The Observer?" My goal is to change this and have both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents excited about the Accent pages. I want to bring them cutting edge stories and fea­tures that will have the student body yearn­ing for more. I want people to open the paper to the Accent pages and wonder, "What do those crazy kids in Accent have in store for us today?" 
I have a number of plans for the Accent pages for the next year. It is in the student body's interest to have stories that are perti­nent to them. · 
Concert, plays. shows and other high cul­tural events that occur within a two hour radius will be reviewed or previewed, or at ieast mentioned. Often times these events go completely unnoticed. I also expect to have a Star Wars extravaganza, an Academy Award preview, a weekly web-sight of the week, as well as a countless number of ideas, some really good, and some that may not be quite so good. 
But what I really want to see is a more exciting Accent section. Something that peo­ple will take interest in and not mistake us for Viewpoint. I also wouldn't mind featuring an Elizabeth Shue interview ... but that's an­other story. 
--------------------------------------~---------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• Ni~l 

Gretzky still a King, for now verb 
By BETH HARRIS Sanderman said the Kings have negotiations. Asked if he wants Associated Press not given St. Louis permission Gretzky to remain with the 
•....• sr~ ngnt
to talk to Barnett nor will they. Kings, Robinson replied, ifi1ii:l/t%hif·i.. ·"·i-•···"'ll" . ;, INGLEWOOD, Calif Sanderman described the 1 "Wouldn't you?" no doiilit h~ was 
The Wayne Gretzky trade watch lives another day. On a day when it appeared the Great One would finally be traded to St. Louis, the Los Angeles Kings said Tuesday the sport's most prolific scorer was still in their employ.  1/2-hour meeting as cordial, and said he hoped to reach a conclusion about Gretzky's sta­tus this week. Kings co-owner Edward Roski also attended the meeting. "We want to do what's right for Wayne. At the same time,  Marty McSorley, who was part of the blockbuster trade that sent Gretzky from Edmonton to Los Angeles in 1988, was one of several play­ers who expressed support for Gretzky, the team captain. "Wayne is our leader," he  the pte-fight test of following a news con­ference in which Tyson made no effort to answer questions whltsm~te(i'"-··-•••• before bringing itto an abrupt close b'y getting up to leave. Long after Tyson had left the -·roomalthe MGM Grand Hotel,  
Kings president Bob Sanderman announced there was "no conclusion" to the ne­ we owe it to our fans to do what's right for the Los Angeles Kings," Sanderman said.  said. "If Wayne had been moved, it would have been a sure sign of where the team  Bruno was still holding court. eager to talk about the first defense of the WBC title he  
gotiations with Gretzky and his agent on Tuesday, but the talks are to resume. In any case, Gretzky may well be in the lineup Wednesday night when the Kings play at home against Tampa Bay. Neither Gretzky nor his agent, Mike Barnett, attended the news briefing at the Forum. The announcement damp­ened anticipation in St. Louis, where the news conference was watched by reporters on a monitor and the team had a podium ready for a satellite  "What we're wrestling with is can we do what's right for everybody and have him remain with the Kings. That's our hope and desire." Gretzky was in the meeting while the Kings practiced for Wednesday's game at the Forum against Tampa Bay. He and Barnett left the building before the news conference began. Kings coach Larry Robinson is famous for his patience, yet he is ready for a final decision.  was headed. He's pretty sensi­tive and he cares about the team. This has been hard on him." Gretzky played on Monday night in Winnipeg, where he assisted on one goal in a 4-3 loss to the Jets. Afterward, he said he planned to meet with the Kings' owners on Tuesday. "There's no guarantees in this game," he said at the time. "But I can guarantee you that I'm not going to be traded until I can at least meet with the owners."  TnLUHrn_T prison WtJ,S sup· · se you up and a bl;ltter man/' Tuesday. "HI:l's to be honest, ring and out of the  won from Oliver McCall. "Now is payback time. Now is the time for revenge;" said Bruno, who was stopped in the fifth round by Tyson the first time they fought almost seven years ago to the day. "I can't wait to get my hands on him and I'm not saying that to sell tickets because I don't get any percentage. I'm talking out of my heart." While the British champion was talking out of his heart, Tyson wasn't talking much at all.  
news conference of its own. "They said it was ongoing," Blues president Jack Quinn said  "It's been going on for 2 1/2 months. Something has to be resolved," he said. "It's not  And that was clearly the case. To get Gretzky, the Blues sup­posedly are poised to give the  Tyson ignored some ques­tions and gave perfunctory answers to most others.  
from St. Louis. "I guess they just need more time. I'm sitting here waiting for them to call us." Blues spokesman Tom Maurer said Quinn and Mike Keenan, the coach and general manager, continue to negotiate with the Kings. However,  good for the team. It's not fair to Wayne either." Gretzky, 35, can become a free agent after this season, and the Kings risk losing him without compensation if they don't sign him. Robinson said he doesn't believe money is an issue in the  Kings rookies Craig Johnson and Patrice Tardif, 19-year-old prospect Roman Vopat and their No. 1 pick in the 1997 draft. 'Gretzky said in Winnipeg that he expects to be moved well before the NHL's trade dead­line.  around him ppuptv, ' Bruno said. not one ounce of · And after I Tyson they're..  "l'nr just confident in what I'm capable of doing," the for­mer heavyweight champion ljaid in a typical response. , About the only time Tyson came close to revealing any­thing about the fight was when he predicted he would beat Bruno .  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
.  __.,  NOTICES SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 7 Days $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 For anyone interested, the Morrissey FilmFest is currently accepting student films. For more information, call Andy at X3501. Will babysit in my home in Granger. Crafts, stories, play time, hugs. Fenced yard. 272-2554. ILOST & FOUND I LOST NAVY BLUE BLAZER, SIZE 41L at ALUMNI-KNOTI FORMAL on 219 at Senior Bar If you have it, or informlion about it , please call Brian x1173 LOST-at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's Formal: long navy blue wool woman's coat and men's navy blaz­er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on Friday night. Please call x-1407 WANTED ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students Part-time work. $10.25/start. Flexible hours around classes. All majors. Scholarships/Internships. CALL 282-2357. •••1 need a RIDE TO FLORIDA for spring break; wil pay for gas, etc. Please call Michael at 4-1155:•• Responsible babysitter needed for 2 and 6-year-old. Any major block of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­tion 10 miles south of ND. Call 299-0051. Call (219)282-3518. Free information. Earn money from your dormitory room!  Attention South Quad Men: City News Service is now hiring news­paper carriers to deliver to dorms in your area. Work 1 1/4 hrs each morning, earn $55 per week. Must have bike. Call Joe at 4-1680. CRUISE SHIPS NOW MIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 ext.C55843 BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED TOP$$$ PAID (800)269-5849 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55845 TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD -Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.Korea. Many employers provide room & board + other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan· guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843 $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext C1114 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board I Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55844 Anthony Travel. Inc. looking for part-time student assitance. Approx. 10 hours/week. Stop by our office in LaFortune or call 631­7080 and ask for Mary or Pat. ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR TRADE ND FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA ­(TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.) 2773097  FOR RENT IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­MINIUMS-SUBLETIING FOR MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST. CALL JEN, NICOLE. OR SARAH AT273-1738 2 BDR APT@ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER ONLY. BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 Room For Rent Nice Neighborhood. $300/mo. 255-9005 THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097 FOR SALE FOR SALE-MACINTOSH APPLE POWERBOOK 520C, only 2-3 months old, includes Clarisworks 4.0 software and a COLOR STYLE­WRITER 2400 PRINTER. Only $1500 o.b.o. For more info. call Jarvis@ X2159 H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card x3692 JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage. $154,900. Call Karen 272-3653  Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 MUST LIQUIDATE Selling TV, stereo, and speakers call JOE· 239-7959 TICKETS WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536-3431 PERSONAL 0o0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 YOU could be the next contestant on Pangborn Hall's THE PRICE IS RIGHT! Sat. March 2 Stepan 7:00 prn ??WANT TO GET INVOLVED?? Recyclin' Irish is looking for some dedicated people to act as officers for the 96-97 year. Application forms are available at , and must be returned to, 222 Admin. Bldg (Purchasing Dept.) Forms are due 2128/96 by 5:00 PM for the offices of Pres, VP, Sec, Treas. Hey single guys and girls! Have you watched MTV's Singled Out and pictured yourself in the winner's circle? If so, come be a part of Notre Dame's own version by join­ing our dating pool. Stop by the LaFortune Info desk between Monday, Feb. 26-Thursday, Feb. 29 and fill out a contestant question­airs. So get ready to strut your stuff on March 281 Knott Hall Casino Night is coming!! Get Friendly With Your Favorite Knott Angel To Get An Invitation! Saturday, 3/2 8:00pm Dear Mr.+ Mrs. T., Sorry about the personals ... It was all in good fun. No offense intended.  Baby this town rips the bones from your back its a death trap its a suicide rap we gotta get out while we're ycwng Cause tramps like us Baby we were born to run That Tyler, what a great guy. Must be from Stamford... the second best city in the country to raise children. They're all around man! Like vultures! They're coming to get me man! They're gonna kick me out! Game over man! Game over! Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ.• educ.• financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. Attn: SAW 1995: SAW., I love you, Make me your own. S.A.W.-Love B SAW SAW SAW SAW SAW Ok I finally am getting around to it. Please campus mail me all your personal thoughts-Ok anything you want to put in a SAW scrapbook-It might take me a while but I'm putting one together. Send Now! 233 Sieg-Ellen Do you have a ride home for Spring Break yet? Place a classified ad in The Observer!!! It's inexpensive and effective! Springsteen: Why? Good luck to Adam and Sue. Break a leg (or an arm, possibly a pelvis?) LUCAS! We miss you! But we can still put out a damn good paper ..... About the jewelry (and the jacket) ... You know, I know where you live (and how to get in, too .... ) Come check out campus band The Outside Inn on Thurs Feb 29th at Club 231 You'll dig it. Goodbye Grogan, It won't be the same at Senior bar without the sexiest man alive  Hey HUST majors-journals are looming in the dis­tance... so is a fifteen page rasearch paper and an exam next week ...how do you feel? Stressed? Never be. Spring break is less than two weeks away. and your brain can rest. consume mass quantities of caffeine. it helps. Treacy, Megan and Tara are understating the case. You cannot understand the void in their lives without you. Who killed the C-man? Shep, Those European VCR's suck. Oh well, keep living it up over there and watch out for the bombs. Bob has a tapeworm. Till, How's your tongue feeling? That's right Dom, you go off to Phoenix. Mr. Boca never liked you anyway. That was one hell of a weekend. CJ#1 Love ya -CJ#2 Panama City will learn to love the Bone Thugs Personal shoutouts to Matt Hynes Coldwater Rocks we'll be pool sharks yet... no silverware involved, but the tra­dition lives on. next time i won't take my glasses and then you won't walk into a room and go into shock Hey Mandie?-Does that Kerry Kitties story sound familiar or what?! Running up someone's phone bill-how rudel!!.!!!! Em -I'm there for you. Anytime. -B Munson, pie in your eye. The second coming of Dante is near. Bookstore XXV. Inferno. Rameses -RIP pal. Congratulations Fig! You survived! At least, I think you did. I just hope you didn't do any golden apples!  
' ... 'f. ..... •I ... ''­l  t  It  ..  _J  t  I  I  I  I  l  •  •  '­<I  I  ~  ~  ~  •  "  


Wednesday, l;ebruary 28, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• Mi-.JOK Li:AGUE BASEBALL 
Phillips shocks White Sox with news of retirement 
Assodarcd Press 
SAHASOTA, Fla. 

Chicago White Sox lnft field­
er Tony Phillips stunned his 
nnw team Tuesday by an­
noundng his rntiremtmt from 
basnhall. 
Phillips, a fren agent who signed a two-year, $:{.(J million contract with the White Sox on Jan. 20, lert eamp last Saturday and returned to his honw in Seottsdale, Ariz., for "family reasons." Monday night. lw phoned Chieago gen­t~ raJ manager Hon Sehueler and said lw was retiring. 
"I talkml to Tony last night and he told me that at this point, he wants to retire," Sduwler said. "I tried to talk him out of it. but he said his family means morn to him than playing basnball." 
Phillips, 36, was unavailable 
for 1:omnwnt Tuesday. 
Players on the White Sox 
said llwy wern stunned to hear 
tlw nnws about Phillips, who 
was eXJWeted to lead off and 
piay ld"t lidd. 
"It's something that sur­prist~d t~VIlryone," first base-
Get Lucky at Knott Hall's 
man Frank Thomas said. "In this business, people come and go all the time, but I'm dis­appointed beeause Tony's one of the best leadoff hitters in baseball. It's going to hurt." 
"I'm surprised because I talked to him before he left and he told me he had a great feeling about this team," said Sox shortstop Ozzie Guillen. 
"But you play baseball for a short while. Your family is there for your whole life. I hope he made the right ded­sion." 
Schueler said he might try to fill Phillips' spot by trading for another left fielder or signing a free agent. For now, though, veteran Dave Martinez and Lyle Mouton are expected to share time in left. 
Phillips, a 13-year veteran who also played for the Athletics and Tigers, batted .261 with the Angels last year and hit a career-high 27 home runs. 
lie had a lifetime average of .266, and only Barry Bonds 
(635) scored more runs since 1990 than Phillips (6?1 ). 
Saturday 
8:00PM 

The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: Associate Accent Editor Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Joey in 314 Lafortune by 7PM Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-4540 
Are you wondering about your future? Have you considered a vocation? 
Do you want some answers? 
Members of four religious orders will share their insights about these questions and more. 
When: Wednesday, 
February 28m, 10:00 PM 
Where: PW's Chapel 
PLEASEIDIN Us 
Cincinnati gets new catcher 
Assodated Press of playing time by manager 
PLANT CITY, Fla. 
The signing of Joe Oliver 
likely will reduce the role of 
Eddie Taubensee and end the 
brief Cincinnati Reds careers 
of catchers Don Slaught and 
Joe Kmak. ·-Oliver and Taubensee prob­
ably will platoon as the start· 
ing catcher. 
Taubensee shrugged off the 
disappointment of having the 
starting job taken away by the 
signing of a free agent. The 
same thing happened to him 
last year when Benito 
Santiago signed. 
"Joe's a great catcher, but I 
.feel I'm up there with him," 
said Taubensee, who has been 
promised a significant amount 

...and new stadium? 
~wc;iated Press deals forged in the past 25 
CINCINNATI 
A $544.2 million proposal to build two stadiums in Cincinnati is the most expen­sive sports complex plan ever. a newspaper reported Tuesday. 
Hamilton County voters will decide March 19 whether to raise their sales tax a half· cent to build a baseball-only park and a football-only sta­dium. 
Both the Cincinnati Reds and Bengals, which share 25­year-old Hiverfront Stadium, have threatened to leave the pity if they do not get new sta· diums. 
The Cincinnati Enquirer examined nearly 40 stadium 

Ray Knight. 
"I had my hopes up, but Ray said he still plans on playing me vs. right-banders. I know I can help this team win." 
Taubensee, who hit .284 with nine home runs and 44 RBis last season, is a left­handed batter. Oliver, who played for the Reds from 1989-1994, hit .273 with 12 home runs and 51 RBis for the Milwaukee Brewers last sea­son. 
Oliver agreed Monday to a one-year deal with a base salary of $500,000 and an in­centives package that will pay him $8,000 per game from his 81st to his 130th game. Should he play 130 games, Oliver will earn $900,000. 
years and concludeda that the total cost of Cincinnati's dual· stadium project is the highest. 
The closest in cost is Toronto's $425 million Skydome. Cleveland's $420 million Gateway project, which includes Jacobs Field for the Indians and the NBA Gund Arena, is third. 
Few projects have been as ambitious as the Cineinnati plan, the newspaper said. It involves razing Riv~rfront, relocating riverfront compa­nies and providing constant waterproofing and mainte­nance to withstand the freeze­and-thaw conditions that come from being so close to the Ohio River. 
Must be present to win at 
Basketball Movie 
Night 
February 28 La Fortune Ballroom HOOSIERS 8:00 p.m. 
HOO·P DREAMS 10:00 p.m. 
tickets will be distributed before Hoop Dreams with the drawing to be held offer 
NESS!!! 
IONAL FINALS 
&GAME TICKETS!!! 
"It's obvious that Joe Oliver · and Eddie Taubensee are our two catchers and the chances of carrying three catchers are slim," general manager Jim Bowden said. 
Neither Slaught nor Kmak has asked to be released, Bowden said. 
"We'd like to have them both in the organization. but if they have a better opportunity in the major leagues, we're not going to stand in their ways," he said. Slaught, who signed a non-guaranteed, $250,000 eontract Dec. 31, has been given permission to approach other teams about a job. 
"I want to be in a position where my skill dictates where I can play," said Slaught. 
The stadium-tax ballot issue asks voters to increase the county sales tax from 5.5 per­cent to 6 percent. Revenues raised from the increase would finance 56 percent ­or $303.8 million -of the project. 
The remaining $240.4 mil­lion is to be picked up by the state, private sources and the teams. However, the Reds, Bengals and regional corpo­rate executives have not for­malized agreements with county leaders. 
"We always have contended the sales tax is the most effi­cient way to raise such large 
sums  of  money,"  county  
Commissioner  Bob  
Bedinghaus said.  




page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
• Cou.EGE BASKETBAll 
Boilermakers full steam ahead 

contributions from them," ered even a remote possibility Clay rejoins the team. coach Gene Keady said in ref­in preseason forecasts by the "Luther is going to be back erence to guard Todd Foster media and coaches. with us Wednesday," Jennings and forward Justin Jennings. "We're used to it. For the said. "He had some problems. 
The Observer 
Foster, who has hit a team­last two years, the other two ... We support Luther, he high 52 attempts from behind championships we won, they knows we support him. He has 
is now accepting applications 
the 3-point arc, is averaging never picked us first," to do what's best for him. He 
7.9 points and Jennings aver­Jennings said. "Still, this title had some problems, basket­
for the following paidposition:
ages 7.7. will be real rewarding." ball-related and non-basket­
Sophomore Brad Miller, the In his 18th season at Purdue, ball related. He's going to be team's second-leading scorer Keady has won with a bal­back, and hopefully really at 10.2, also comes off the anced scoring attack. make some noise in the (NCAA) bench for the Boilermakers. Sophomore Chad Austin leads tournament.'' 
Illustrations Editor 
Celebrate a friend's birthday 

Contact G?;rrett.(;ray at 634-1786 
'

with a special Observer ad 
for more information 
1996·97 Student Government Position 

Applications are now available in the Student Government Office on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
APPUCATIONSAREDUE 
FRIDA~ MARCH I BY 5:00P.M. [I] 
JOIN TEAM CONNECTION IACTION I[illII[ill STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

DO YOU WANT
ARE YOU 
TO IMPACJ SJUDENT
A 
LIFE AT
LEADER! 
NOTREDAMEl 
, 

Bench catapults Purdue to lofty No. 5 ranking 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Unranked at the start of the year, Purdue can look to its bench to explain its drive to the No. 5 position in this week's Associated Press poll. 
Purdue's reserves have outscored their opponent's bench in 11 of their last 12 games. On Sunday, Purdue's bench outscored Indiana's by a 32-2 margin as the Boilermakers edged their arch­rivals 74-72. For the season, Purdue's bench has scored 818 points and reserves for their opponents have 458 off the bench. It has outscored the op­position in 23 of 27 games. 
"When you've got two seniors coming off the bench, you expect significant 
"Brad has really come on of late. He's scored in double fig­ures five straight games," Keady said of the 6-foot-11 center, who hasn't started since the first game of the sea­son and averages about 21 minutes per game. "I expected him to be playing this well ear­lier in the season, but for a while it was like he was in a fog." 
The Boilermakers (23-4, 13­2 Big Ten) are on the verge of becoming the first team to win the conference championship outright three straight years in three decades. Ohio State accomplished the feat 1960-62. Any combination of two Purdue victories or Penn State losses would give the Boilermakers the title this week. 
"We're in position to do something special with the three titles, but we haven't done it yet so we can't start celebrating," Keady said. 
Especially since a Purdue championship wasn't consid­an offense that has seven play­ers averaging between 7. 7 and 
11.9 points. 
"We don't care who gets the points, and it really doesn't matter who starts," Foster said. "We've been having a lot of fun this season. We're like family on and off the court, and we're all sharing in what has happened." 
Seven road triumphs have boosted Purdue's title bid. The team has won 19 of its last 21 games, including nine straight as it has held opponents to an average of 57.3 points per game. 
"Our defense is a big thing," Jennings said. "If we can't play good defense on the road, and we let the crowd get into the game, I think a lot of times we would get blown out. ... Our defense and our experience is really doing the job for us." 
As the Boilermakers prepare for Thursday's visit by Minnesota, the bench appar­ently will have some more depth when freshman Luther 


Wednesday, february 28, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page I 5 
·~--------~------~----~----------------------~~~~--------------------------------------------~~-­
looping Gafl'ney rights. concentrating on really con-DeBiasi's momentum carried necting with my punches."
Gaffney 
him into the second round, Gaffney's concentration paid 
"Eric is the one who inspired Notre Dame, and I wanted to me to do this," said Gaffney. share it with Brian and the oth­"He told us how great it was. ers." that it's a valuable experience. DeBiasi, who some would ex­I've really enjoyed the cama-peel to have been somewhat raderie with this group. There peeved at the judges' decision, are a lot of great, helpful, un-shared the same sentiments selfish people in this program." about the Bouts. 
"Brian is one of five guys in ''I'm looking forward to next my section who decided to box year," said a confident DeBiasi. this year," said a proud Hillegas "I've had a great time. It's all following the fight. "He went in about the friends you make, there and laid it all on the line. and the money that goes to I just wanted to try and encour-charity." age him. The boxing club Not a bad thing, these Bengal helped define my experience at Bouts. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Brian "The Nutty Irishman» Gaffney (left) outpunched favorite Mike DeBiasi in one of the night's crazier battles. Gaffney, a freshman, will go up against Dan Cunningham in Friday's finals. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports: Recsports is offer­Volleyball Tournament: ing interhall Women's, HecSports will be sponsoring a Campus, Indoor, and Co-Ree Co-Ree Volleyball Tournament Indoor Soccer, interhall 12" on Saturday, March 2, from 10 men's, women's, and gradu­a.m.-4 p.m. The registration ate/faculty/staff softball. All deadline is February 29. Play captain meetings are on Feb. will take place in the Joyce 29.. Please call 631-6100 for Center Fieldhouse. For more times. info calll-6100. 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any lnterhall Sports: All off-cam­students interested in colle­pus women Interested in play­giate bowling competition, ing interha.ll soccer plense please call Jason 4-1065. contact Bridget at 273-2284. 
Please Recycle the Observer 


Maestro Tsung Yeh, Music Director 
presents 
2'f:9&-r .C/Iq9u t firzulu~ ,o/(£i'fM·t£·1uuvl and 
{}/)eho~/, ~ ~Nn--,%i-eh.l't, t J;.Jj~~I'.I'IO 
Thursday, February 29th 7:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's College 
featuring 
"A TOUCH OF CLASS" Bach: Concerto No.2 for Harpsichord in E major, BWV 1053 Haydn: Symphony No. 49 in F minor, "La passione" 
AND MORE! 
GENERAL ADMISSION 
$13.00 CALL 219-232-6343 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra Co-sponsored by St. Mary's College Music Dept. 
continued from page 20 
pony-tail1~d novice who seemed to townr ovnr thn 6'2" snasoned DeBiasi. At times looking eom­plntely out of control. the rnllmtless Gaffney attacked the morn careful DdJiasi with reek­less abandon. missing several roundhouse blows but causing quite an effllct on DeBiasi when he did find his target. 
The action in the fight was non-stop, and when the dust had elllared the two fighters were stumbling around the ring. punch-drunk but some­how still standing. 
l>eUiasi appeared to win the first round, landing a few pow­erful uppercuts on Gaffney 
· whilll dodging more than a few where the pace remained breakneck, but his early edge seemed to disappear when he was floored by one of Gaffney's big rights. The junior hung tough though, landing several rights of his own while playing solid defense. He ran into trou­ble just before the end of the second round, however. finding salvation from a flurry of vi­cious Gaffney punches when the bell rang to bring the round to a close. 
By the time the bell had rung to open the third and final round. the crowd was in a fren­zy. Gaffney sensed that he was still trailing DeBiasi, and came out swinging harder than ever. 
"I knew I was a little behind going into the third," said Gaffney after the fight. "I was off, as the series of jabs he landed towards the end of the final round gave him what must have been a narrow victory on the judges' cards. 
"I felt like I was in pretty good shape, but he definitely got the best of me in the third round." commented DeBiasi. "I give him a lot of credit, he's a tough kid and a tough fighter. I was pretty sure he won the fight at the end." 
Gaffney received invaluable support from his eornerman Eric Hillegas, himself a veteran of the Bouts. 
Hillegas, who won the cham­pionship at 157 pounds last year, is back for a fifth year, not as a fighter but as a residence assistant in Grace Hall. 

HEY 
UNIORSit1~ 
~JvlO 

student Apply for the 
manager 
and best job on 
bartender applications 

PICK APPLICATIONS UP AT now THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE.
available! 
MANAGER DEADLINE! March 1 BARTENDER DEADLINE: March 27 

WE NEED A FEW GOOD PEOPLE 
KIDS CORPORATION, A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT OPERATES A VARIETY OF PROGRAMS FOR NEWARK CHILDREN, IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD PEOPLE TO JOIN ITS SUMMER STAFF. 
Kids Corporation operates su1nmer educational programs in Newark, New Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban education and the needs of young children. 
This is not a job, it is an experience. 
All programs run from June 21 through August 18, 1996. Students gross $125 per wt~ek, room and bourd, und three college credits in Urhan Education from St. Vincent College. The work is hard and the hours long, but tlu~ kids arc great. If you are interested in learning more ubout this 
opportunity, write or call:  
Kid!!! Corporation  Orlando Perozzi  
139 Lincoln-Laurel Rd.  Director  
Newton, NJ 07860  908-362-7410  

We will be available to discuss summer employment at the coffee house in the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday, Feb. 29 from 6:30-8:30PM. FREE PIZZA 




page 16 Wednesday, February 28, 1996 
The Observer/Brian Hardy Favorite Ted Pagano snuck by Tom Cranley with a split decision. Pagano, who is nicknamed "The Ragin' Roman", meets Doug Pollina in the 140 pound final. 

...... 
Se01is 
continued from page 20 
Stout" Kelly said. 
That was exactly the case in the 170 pound slugfust between Pat Maciarello and Erik Henderson. 
From the opening bell, the two upperclassmen engaged in a classic street brawl, exchang­ing wild roundhouse uppercuts and loping hooks. And they landed, much to the delight of the rowdy crowd. 
Tom "The Quiet Man" Kelly also did his part to make sure the crowd was anything but quiet. The sophomore landed perhaps the most blows of the evening in his win over Dave Hellen. 
"It was a very hard fought battle," an exhausted Kelly said after the fight. ""I just tried to stay in the middle of the ring and listen to my corner. Those guys know what they're doing." 
Those same coaches also know what they're doing in the seeding process. 
Of the 15 weight classes, the top seed is alive in all but one. 
And in classic Bengal Bout form, that one, Mike DeBiasi, went down with quite a fight. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
John Kmetz (left) defeated Lucas Molina in the 155 weight class (above). (Below) John Mele was bloodied by winner John Christoforetti. 
J 
,,,,,"''"'''''"'t'''''''''~ lJif~Ia~1Nli:~l::J l@lliI -
w 
lliill 
week, take about 10 minutes to fill it out, and help make Notre Dame a better place. Or...if you don't feel likeIACITONIOOWB writing out your answers, fire up Netsacpe, open the STUDENT GOVERNMENT WWW URL listed below and take the survey on-line! 
http://www.cse.nd.edu/survey/ 
If you have any questions, please contact Student Government at lx7668! 
Tired of waiting in lines in the clusters? Do you love surfing the Net? Are you sick of unhelpful consultants? 
WE WANT TO KNOW! 
Look for the Computer Survey in your mailboxes this 


-~-~ ----­

Wednesday, February 28, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY's SWIMMING 
Belles conclude trying season 
By LAURIE KELLEHER 
Sports Writer 
After a grueling 22 week stlason, the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving Team endtld their stlason with a fourth place-finish at the Lilwral Arts Championships this past weekend. The Championships brought the curtain down on the careers of the seniors on the tnam. 
"We finished the snason the way we were supposed to," said eoach Mike Whatley. 
" We trained to swim well at Liberal Arts and we did just that." 
Compared to other teams, the Belles, with only 13 swim­nwrs and throe divers compet­ing, wnre hindernd by the smaller number. The Belles competed in :{9 swims, scoring in :!5, and making thr. finals. 
"It was really positive to have everybody at the finals and swimming in finals, " said What.lny. 
"I'rn really happy with the about the outcome of the meet. The taper resulted in much improvement of times, and an overall good perfor­mance. 
lf~arn  dfort  at  the  
Championships."  
Most swimnwrs were  happy  

"The meet was awesome," said senior captain Natalie Cheeseman. "We had so much fun. Everyone swam well and it was a great way to end the season." 
There were several swim­mr.rs who had outstanding performances. Katie Rose placed in the top eight in 400 IM, 200 IM, and 100 back. Natalie Cheeseman placed sixth, eighth, and tenth in the 200 IM, 100 breast, and 1650 free respectively. Sarah Gillen finished in 100, 200, and 500 freestyles. 
Tara Thomas broke the team record and placed third in the 200 backstroke with a time of 
2:18.76. She also placed ninth in the 50 free and fifth in the 100 back. Shannon Kelleher placed first in the 500 free with a time of 5:21.69, second in the 1650 freestyle, and first in the 200 11y with a lifetime bnst of 2:22.69. All of the relays placed well. 
''I'm very pleased with how the meet went," said senior Jen Mitchell. ''I'm glad that the end of my collegiate swim­ming career ended with such an incredible meet." 
The Belles swimming and diving team had many chal­lenges this season. First and foremost, there was a new coach. They also had the ma­jority of their dual meets away, so they had to compete tired after traveling. 
The season extended over both semesters, making it hard to train through break. However, the team trained for over a week with N.C. State and came back early to train. The team managed to stay strong for the new semester and compete on the road almost every weekend. Most swimmers achieved personal best times and six team records were broken. 
"The season went so fast, " said Cheeseman. "It had its ups and downs. We're a very close team now because we went through so much." 
" We had a really good taper and everyone swam well." 

Have something to say? Use Observer Classifieds. 

fREE ADMISSION All NIGHT: DOORS OPEN AT 9 P.M. 
-----~---l 
page 17 

• SWIMMING 
-

:, Irish fare well at Big East meet 
By BRIDGET CASEY . Sporrs Writer 
Competing in their inaugural Big East Swimming and Diving Championships last weekend, the Irish swimmers came away with numerous season best times and the respect of their east coast conference members. 
The women finished third overall with 492 points to Miami's second place finish 
with  548.5  points  and  
Villanova's first  place  551  
points.  

"We weren't that far away from Villanova and Miami and didn't realize how close the meet really was until Sunday," commented senior captain Joy Michnowicz. "Overall the meet was a good indicator for next year, now that we know what to expect." 
Individually, Junior Erin Brooks came away with victo­ries in the 100 and 200 Backstrokes as well as meeting NCM Championship consider­ation time standards in both events, with a 1:59.47 and 
56.25 respectively. Sophomore Linda Gallo also met a NCAA consideration time in the 500 freestyle. 
In the sprint events, sopho­more Courtney South finished 6th with a time of 24.29 and 5th in the 100 with a time of 52.13. The women also came away with a first place finish in the 400 Medle) relay with a time of 3:50.00. 
On the men's side, the overall score does not re11ect the suc­cess of the swimmers as 14 of 17 swims were life-time best times. The Irish finished sev­enth with 262, a mere 19 point..'i off of sixth place. 
According to captain George Lathrop, "We were really happy to finish right in the middle where we did. We were pre­dicted to struggle and finish near the bottom, so we proved people wrong and swam well in the process." 
Individually, freshman Scott Zumbach set a new university record in the 1650 yard freestyle with a time of 15:47.50, and a seventh plaee finish. Fellow fnlshman Chris Fugate had an impressive meet finishing sixth in the 100 Backstroke with a time of 
52.19. Junior Matt Hose also swam well finishing fifth in the 100 and 200 Breaststroke events with times of 57.91 and 
2:06.04. nose was followed in seventh place in the 100 by freshman Steel Whowell in 58.24. 

Billy Joel. .. Greg Louganis ... NCAA Tournament Trip ... 
These and other events this year were brought to you in part by Student Activities 
Want to help plan events next year? And get paid for it? 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidpositions: 
Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Day Editor (2) 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Caroline Blum by Friday, March 1st. Questions? call 284-4349 or 631-4540 
Three positions for programming assistants are available for 1996-97for students who are creative, disciplined, and have leadership abilities. Be responsible for improving campus life by bringing comedians, lecturers, and entertainers to Notre Dame. 
Applications are available in the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) and should be returned by March 8th. 
Interviews will be conducted March 19th and 20th ... Please remember to sign up for an interview when you turn in your application. 
Call Gayle Spencer with questions @ 631-7308 
·­
.. 


page 18 really important in growing," explained MacLeod of the re­
Mia01i
-
cent home games. "Once we started to shoot the ball we re­
continued from page 20 
laxed and got into our rhythm." recently, following a close loss Rhythm is something that to Providence with their most Miami has lacked, especially on convincing win of the season, a the road. The Hurricanes are 72-60 victory over Seton Hall. mere tropical breezes away 
"We kept our composure and from Biscayne Bay, having didn't get frustrated and start failed to notch a conference to lose our composure, which is road victory this season. 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Still, the physical 'Canes pose matchup problems for a once­again injury-riddled Irish squad, who will be without the services of freshman center Phil Hickey (thigh contusion) and junior swingman Pete Miller (dislocated shoulder). 
In the previous matchup be­tween the teams, an ugly 72-64 'Cane victory in Miami, Notre Dame was manhandled inside, allowing Miami to shoot 44 free throws. 
Since then, the Irish have im­proved drastically on the glass, outrebounding the Pirates by 22 on Saturday. Especially without Hickey's inside pres­ence, a similar effort will be needed against the Hurricanes. 
"From a rebounding stand­point we're not backing up," said MacLeod. "Early on we 
were a  bit timid, but not any  
more."  
•••  

Tonight will be Ryan Hoover's last game in the Joyce Center. The senior captain has been a four-year part-time starter and is Notre Dame's career leader in three-pointers made and at­tempted as well as free-throw shooting percentage. 
Hoover has been the squad's leading scorer in the last three games, and has raised his scor­ing average to 12.4 points per game. 
"When Hoov begins to knock down those jump shots it does open things up inside," said MacLeod. "He gets the crowd going and our entire team rolling (with his three-pointers). We're going to miss that perimeter game next year." 
Oft-injured freshman swing-



PHRIS  $229  
MHDRID  $249  
FRHNHFURT  $229  
YIENNH  $309  

..::....:....::..:....;_:...;___~ CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On ltle Neb: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.hhn 
l-800-2-COUNCIL 
[1-B00-226-8624] 
App tions are now 

Pick up applicatio 
being accepted for Food 

at the office o 
and Supply Manager at 

Student Activities. 
the Alumni-Senior Club 

APPLICATION
for the 1996-1997 
DEADLINE:
school year. 

March 1,1996 
\) 

Come Join the Team! 
man Gary Bell has been healthy of late, and the Irish have bene­fited from his presence off the bench. Bell scored six points against Seton Hall, and might get substantially more playing time against Miami as Derek Manner struggles with a wrist injury. 
"Offensively, Gary has a knack for scoring, and he's not afraid to shoot the ball," said MacLeod. "Defensively he's gotten all mixed up chasing the ball in the backcourt and trail­ing his man -he needs to get that aspect of his game straightened out." 


Wednesday, february 28, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-

• OF INTEREST Marine Corps Flight Orientation Program is com­ing to the Michiana Airport today nnd tomorrow. If you are interested In an active duty commission as a U.S. Marine Corps officer and are between the ages of 18 and 26, a Marine Corps Aviator Captain will allow you to take off and land with him in his Cessna Crusader 303 . For sign-ups or more information, call Lieutenant Barrett at 1·800·945-3088. A Kids Corporation Representative will be at the CSC Coffee House tomorrow from 6:30 to 8:30. Free pizza will be served.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Marinated Flank Steak Roast Top Sirloin Chicken Fajita Pizza Turkey Turnovers Grilled Tilapia Vegetables Marinara Saint Mary's Chicken Primavera ltalian London Broil Louisiana Beans and Rice  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors . Join The Observer staff.  

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D  Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  
Name ____________________________________________  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have  Address _______________________________________  
found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ City----------State ____ Zip______  
ing form and mail it today to receive The  
Observer in your home.  

•.. tv.o lllf.t4 fP.o,., 1-\~r. ~o.J P.,..t> So o... AJ,.t>C."" ~o \o p..,. cmo.U-L1 HI!. ... So 01'1· .. 
I 
'""""/,1''7/'>{'/ / 

\.AII.f. l'"-f'SI! 
11\£~ 1-\P-11£ (\ t....~~. To f>e:psl !! .. . 
J 
... 1\r<o \llf.N E.,e...,-u~l-'-'1 lfJ-e: ~o To C~>t.f> .. · 
J 
Ncrr Be.fo1Ze: I Cl-le:C~o:. Oo-r T11u 
'e,P.NC.I-1\_0E$~ 
1\ol"'l'pN.,£.. , / 
JOEMART1N 


DILBERT 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=t=+::-t::-i 19 Kind of derby .-:+.=+:'-i 21 These can be 
brief 24 Dadaist Hans 25 Harrow blades 26"--Mio" 27 Correct the 
defects in 28 Org. for Doogie Howser 
,. 
0 
<.> 
_; 
0.. 
@) 
"' 
..
" 
..0 
,_
,_ 
0 
<.> 
"' 

~--------------------------,or---------------------------~ 
WE. A.LWAY5 BUILD A 
DATABASE... 
~\NO WE'LL NE£0 
C.OFF E.t f'\UGS FOR THE. PROJECT MISTER BOFFO 

52 Alternative fuel 56 Pussyfoot 58 Decline 
59 Insolent tad 60 An Autry 61 Entrance courts &2 Heave &3 Davis of TV's 
"Sinbad" 64 Like most movies 
DOWN 
1 Cargo vessel 2 Baby·faced 3 Labor Dept arm 4 Very in 5 Guthrie of the 
theater 6 Fizzling sound 7"--Town" 
a Easily bent 9 Lax to "C'mon, quit kidding" 11 Give --for one's money 
12 Muscle spasms
t 3 Cartoon cry 
'YOU HAVEN'T HEAR.D WHI\T THE PP-05LEM 15 YETi 
1-\0W CAN 't'OU RECO/"\MEN 
,. 
z 
THE. PR.OBLE.M.
u 
THAT COULD
= 1S TI-\A.T WE 
e,E THE
~ 
HAVE. POOR 
~ 
SLOGAN ON
PROC£55£5. 
~ 
OUR. MUGS~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 

30 Swung around 31--Maria 32 Bay window 35--verite 37 Bad temper 38 tn place of 41 Daredevils 42 Typical guy 43Canon 
competitor 45 Its tunnel vision is poor 
46 Alma mater of 53 "Cotton Candy" Meryl Streep trumpeter 48 "Oh, darn!" 54 Comics canine 50 Jay of note 55 Be the 51 FranQois's friends bellwether 52 Lola player in 56 F.D.R follower "Damn Yankees" 57 Cuckoo bird 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR Lll'E: Refuse to be discouraged by what seems to be an avalanche of paper­work. Perseverance will take you straight to the top! The month of May features an important business trip. A financial turnaround will benefit you more than others. Set aside time for romance and a satis· fying home life. Family ties could be the key to a new job and golden future. Be careful not to burn any bridges if you leave a current employer. Be a diplomat. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Stephanie Beacham, actress Bernadette Peters, basketball player Adrian Dantlcy, chemist Dr. Linus Pauling. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Vocational developments of a posi · tive nature are in the spotlight. Accept a heavier workload with good grace; it could mean a salary increase. Your rapport with an attractive member of the opposite sex improves. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your hunches are accurate. Use your bargaining chips wisely and you will land a new contract or assignment. Diplomacy helps you handle sensitive matters. 
GEMINI (May 21·June 20): Unexpected developments at work could put you on edge. Focus on what must be done. Once you get results, you can tum your attention to friends and fun! 
CANCER (June 2J.July 22): A declamtion of love rekindles a roman­tic flame. Act swiftly in a financial matter. Take a chance on information that will put you at the controls. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Defer judgment until all the facts and fig· ures are in. Give your mate or part­ner the benefit of the doubt. Getting caught up in a whirlwind of social activity will be good for you! 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Group interaclion will lead to new goals and friendf\llips. You instinc­tively know how to make allies out of your co-workers. Press onward. Leap over hurdles to finish an important race. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0cL 22): Group support makes a long day easier. Let your imagination roam during periods of reflection. Family members will respond favorably if you are affectionate. Emphasize both consideration and romance. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 21 l Stormy news could rock your boa,. Send oul a distress signal to sam•. · one in a position to help you. Things work out fine! You need to be cau­tious in financial matters. Rethink your priorities. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21 ): You have a strong desire to make things happen at work. Jump in the driver's seat and take the express lane to success! Bold ideas galvanize an appreciative audience. They beg you for more. 
CAI'P ICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Haste could make waste now. Slow down. Taking an interest in a special pr:1ject will help you estab­lish a bond with a fascinating new· comer. Offer praclical assiMance, not vague promises. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Transportation delays are possible 
today. Allow extra time to get to 
appointments. Planning ahead will 
work wonders at work. Let higher· 
ups see how you have taken every 
contingency into account 
PISCES (Feb. 19·March 20): You 
and a business associate are in com­
plete agreement on a financial issue. 
Try to consolidate your debts. Work 
out a plan to pay off a loan in stages.

BUILDING A. TO SOLVE IT?? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Great guy? 6 Boston bunch to Political suffix 
since the 70's t 4 Comfortable t5 At capacity t& Soprano Mills t 7 None of the 
above 18 Jovial roly·poly 
of legend 20 Exhaust 22 Squirrel treats 23 Actress Reinking 24 Shin's neighbor 25 Debut auto of 
1960 29 Catch, as a 
DATABA.SE. 
33 "That's clear" 34 Devilkin 35 Last·place spot 36 Turn on the 
waterworks, so to speak 
37 Galilee, e.g. 38 Christmas need 39 Verse heading 
40 Nuggets 42 He feeds 
54·Down 43 Dole (out) 44 George of 
"Where's Pappa?'' 45 "The Best Man" 
playwright 47 Crusoe's creator 49 Friday, for one 

J 
' 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday,February 28, 1996 
Veteran favorites squeak by in semi-finals 

By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Spores Editor 

For many, the Bengal Bouts are an entirely new experience. While train­ing is essential, it is the learning end of the process that is the most difficult for many novices. Fortunately. for many of the newcomers, there are plenty of veterans among the Bengal Bout upperclassman there to lend a helping hand. 
In last night's semifinal action, it was the time for the youngsters to return the favor. But instead of a pat on the back, it was more along the lines of right hook to the jaw, or maybe a left uppercut to the chin. 
But when all the gloves were stashed away until Friday night and the ring taken down frum the Joyce Center fieldhouse. it was the grizzled veterans who advanced for the most part. By the skin of their trunks. 
In the first of the 175-pound semis, senior captain Mike Farrell narrowly escaped his clash with sophomore Norm Beznoski. taking a split decision to advance to a final matchup with Matt Dowd. 
"I was definitely happy with the fight I fought." said Beznoski. "You never want to lose but Mike is a great guy. He's always been there to help me out. especially with mental preparation." 
Also moving into the finals. albeit with a little more difficulty than expected was Ted Pagano, the top seed in the 140 pound class. 
"The Ragin' Roman" needed a strong third round to prevail in a split deci­sion over freshman Tom Cronley. Cronley effectively used a reach advan­tage to frustrate a skilled Pagano, but the talent was too much to overcome. 
"I didn't think the fight was as close as the judges thought," observed sophomore Doug Pollina. who will be Pagano's opponent Friday night. 
The lighter weight classes followed pretty much according to schedule, but things got progressively more interest­ing as the 26-fight night wore on. 
"When you get in there, some people have heart and spirit, so anything can happen," 145 pound finalist Fred "Irish 
see SEMIS 1page 16 


Tournament seed on line tonight against Miami 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has been looking up at the rest of the Big East conference for the entire sea­son thus far. Tonight. it has the opportunity to take its first step up the proverbial ladder. 
The Irish (9-15, 4-12) have the chance to climb out of the cellar when they host Miami (12-12, 6-10) in the last game this season in the Joyce Center for a 7:00 p.m. ESPN-televised tip. 
Currently the Irish are dead­locked with St. John's and Pittsburgh with four conference wins apiece (although after their loss to Syracuse on Monday, the Red Storm is sta­tistically below the other two with 13 losses). 
Although Notre Dame enjoys the tiebreaker advantage over both schools for Big East tour­nament seeding, a win over the Hurricanes would go a long way toward ensuring a better draw in the conference prelim­inaries. 
A best-case scenario for the Irish would pit them against Providence on Wednesday March 6, with the winner to face the third-seeded Villanova Wildcats the next day. 

Gaffney turns brawl into upset 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

The fight was over, and boxers Mike DeBiasi and Brian Gaffney embraced, as the capacity crowd at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse stood to give the two fighters a rousing ovation. Referee Terry Johnson stood between them now, and the crowd hung on the announcer's forthcoming words. 
"And the winner ... by a split decision ... in the Gold corner ... Brian Gaffffffffney!" Johnson raised Gaffney's hand high in the air, and the jubilant freshman embraced DeBiasi again before raising both arms high in the air in a salute to the adoring crowd. 
The judges' decision received mixed reactions. as this fight in the semifinals of the 185 pound weight class was almost too close to call. 
Gaffney loomed large in the ring, a lanky. 
see GAFFNEY I page 15 
More than meets the eye 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
150 pounders Tom Kelly and Dave Hellen provided one of the evening's more entertaining bouts. Kelly emereged from the slugfest as a finalist. 
If Notre Dame finishes in ei­ther of the bottom-two posi­tions. likely tournament oppo­nents would be Boston College or Syracuse. 
But beyond the impending conference tourney, Notre Dame coach John MacLeod views the season's stretch run as an opportunity to build to­wards next year. 
"Next year's team will grow from this year's experiences." he said. "They will know what to expect. We're fortunate in that we have the kind of kids that have character -character kids don't back up, they keep moving forward." 
The Irish have certainly been moving in the right direction 
see MIAMI I pageIS 
th Annual Bengal Bo
66 

Semifinals lJfs 
~Best Bout 

Dave Helen vs. Tom Kelly-150 lbs. 
Best Brawl 
Patrick Maciariello vs. Erik Henderson-170 lbs. 
Crowd Pleaser
.;·: . ~<. :~ : 
Michael DeBiasi vs. Brian Gaffney-185 lbs. 

Center Matt Gotsch blocks a shot during Notre Dame's win over Seton Hall last Saturday. 
Men's Basketball Men's Tennis 
• Irish swimmers at Big East meet 
vs. Miami, Tonight, 7:00p.m. 

vs. Michigan State, 
see page 17
Today, 3:30 p.ro. 
Women's Basketball 
SPO 
Baseball
at Big East T ournamenr, Storrs, CT 

• Purdue keeps on rolling 
March 2, TBA 

at New Orleans, March I, 1:00 p.m. 
at a 
see page 14 
GL 
SMC Sports 
Hockey 


Tennis vs. Hope, March 2, I :00 p.m. • Cincinnati acquires Oliver 
vs. Ferris State, March 2, 7:00p.m. 

see page 13 




