------------------~-------------------~ --­

Thursday, February 29, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 100 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Cesaro, Griffin take run-offs 

High turnout makes for close freshman race 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Assistanr Nows Editor 
As the campus-wide election stmson came to a close yester­day, the sophomore and junior class ollices wt1rn filled. 
The ticket of Peter Cesaro, Michell!~ Costello. James Far­rell. and Erin llerlihy will lead the class of '99 in the coming year. Winning 5:1.6 perctmt of tlw vote they edged the Jay De­Coons. Karnn llilke, Joe !land, and Dan Mullen ticket. which managed 46.4 percent of the votn. 
Turnout in the sophomore elass election yesterday was high with 1,142 freshman vot­ing. 
In Monday's sophomore dass primary election the two tickets enwrged with 21 percentage of elnctoral votes. 
"Wn all worked really hard to pull this thing off." Costello said. "A lot of people got in­volvt~d and I hope that is rnllec­tivn of rwxt ytmr." 
Communication is an impor­tant issue in the Cesaro plat­form. Tlwy are planning a dass rwwsletter via the World Wide Web and a social-sopho­mon~ sports tournament. 
Although losing. DeCoons and llilke both rellected on the eltlction as a grnat opportunity and plan to eontinue working in student government. 
"We just want to thank our supporters and those who put thnir trust in us," DeCoons said. 
Matt Griffen, Anne Freedy, Beth Nolan, and Leon Stronsky won the junior class office elec­tion. The. ticket garnered 63.9 percent of the votes while their run-off opponents. Rick Duda, Becca Dalton, Sean Lynch and Stacy McNulty, managed 36.1 percent of the votes. 
Emphasizing class unity and becoming the 'Voice of '98,' the Griffen ticket is planning to of­fer mailings to juniors abroad and several class trips next year. The team would also like to establish a junior service week to inerease service oppor-


HOO Dreams! 
ThaObsarvartKatiaKroaner 

Notre t!'!me students sign up for Bookstore Basketball as spring rolls around the bend. 
tunities for the junior elass. 
"We are looking to get started early with concerts and trips to Chicago," Griffen said. 
The newly elected leaders look to get more students in­volved. 
"We really want to get more participation and more public­ity,'' Freedy said. 
Although Duda said his ticket did their best he applauded the Griffen ticket for their efforts. 
"They did a great job and campaigned more aggres­sively," Duda said. 

Gender Studies lecture addresses homophobia 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN trated on Tolerant Homophobia News Writer as a tactic in homophobic dia­logue. "Tolerant 
Stiekers displaying a pink tri­Homophobia," she says, "[is angle and the words "Safe when! the poliey 'tolerates' Zone" may be popping up all gays and lesbians as long as over campus soon. They are they quietly endure in­part of a program launched stitutionalized discrimination last night to provide areas on against them." campus that homosexual stu­However, she qualified these dents can go to speak about statements by saying that toler­issues relating to their sexual ance is desirable, if it is accom­orientation. panied by a change in the cur­
This program was the final riculum. "I am concerned," point of a series of remarks said Biddiek, "that recognition given last night on the topie of of GLND/SMC, as important as "Moving Beyond Homophobie that would be, by the adminis­Campus Space" that was spon­tration will only produce a sit­sored by the Gender Studies uation of homophobic tolerance Program. unless it is linked to policies of 
The first speaker was Kath­institutional discrimination on leen Biddiek, associate profes­sor of History, who concen-see SPACE/ page 4 
Burrows' walk depicts trials of Afro-Americans 
By GAYlA SPENNEY vineing portrayal of black News Writer Amerieans. Alia Paige, Saint Mary's se­
Tuesday night, as a part of nior and president of the Sis­'The Spirit of Blackness Week ters of Nefertiti stated that ·•It 11', a mixture of Saint Mary's was a well acted portrayal of students, faculty and adminis­African-Americans from slav­trators turned out to view ery to today, and it is truly a Vinic Burrows in her theatrical work of art." performance entitled, "Walk Burrows, after many Together Children." Broadway performances real­
Burrows' show depicted the ized that she lacked exposure trials, tribulations, and tri­as a black woman. umphs that black Americans To remedy this, Burrows have been and are eurrently started using her poetry and faced with. Through many dif­theatrical talents to portray the ferent personas, Burrows realities that face black developed a realistic and eon-
see BURROWS/ page 4 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 

Violence deepens quest for peace 
Editor's note: this is the first of a two part series examining the recent end ofthe IRA cease-fire, and how the return ofhostilities effects Notre Dame students living in London. 
By MARY KATE MORTON Associate News Editor 

After seventeen months of tenuous peace in the North of Ireland and the United King­dom, violence has re-assumed the role of primary player in the on-going peace process across the Atlantie Ocoan. 
Following the Feb. 9 explo­sion in the !wart of tho London business distriet and the Irish Hepubliean Army's declaration that their eease-lire is ol'licially over, the quostion arises as to whether or not the peace pro­cess has been permanently crippled by the lapse into vio­lence. 
Aecording to Hobert Jo­hansen. direetor of graduate studies at tho Kroe Institute for International Peace Studies, the consequences of the recent bombings are eomplex. "There appear to be two paths that re­actions have taken," said Jo­hansen, although he reiterated the fact that there is no simple 
London, Notre Dame & the IRA 
part 1 of 2 
answer. 

Johansen believes that two responses have manifested themselves in light of the end of the IRA eease lire. For some people, the return to violenee has made them witness more direetly their desire for peace. "Within Northern Ireland and the Hepublie of Ireland, the ae­tions of many Irish people have been encouraging. They have stood-up for their rights and for resolution and deepened their commitment to peace through non-violent methods," stated Johansen. 
For others, though, peace may not be as likely. "There have been reports that <Jertain people may be hunkering down in new fears and contemplating violent eounter-aetions," said Johansen. 
As for the role of the govern­ments in the wake of this vio­lence, their aetions may be even more difficult to prediet than the responses of the peo­ple. 
"When a threat is involved, it is harder for one side [govern­ment] to make clear conces­sions or decisions regarding a resolution," said Johansen. "The governments are con­cerned with their eonstituents and whether they will be per­ceived as conceding too much." 
David Cortright, visiting fac­ulty fellow at the Kroc Institute and a professor of non-violent eonflict resolutions, agreed with Johansen, stating that the British side remains an obsta­cle, especially after the re­newed violenee on behalf of the IHA. "John Major depends on his Ulster eonstitucnts for sup­port." 
Ultimatoly, there are numer­ous factors that can lead to how a specilie body of government, politieal group or individual will react to the end of the cease­lire. "We need to look at the various sides to evaluate the effects these bombings have had on their approaches to a resolution,'' said Johansen. 

But the time eould be right for peace. "Most encouraging is the rejeetion of the people of Northern Ireland and Ireland to a return to violence," said 
see IRA I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 29, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



The gift 
of 
•

existence 
I never met Cary 

Mary Beth Ellis
Paschall. The brief time 
Saint Mary's Accent 
he had at Notre Dame 

Editor
did not overlap my semesters at Saint Mary's. His extraordinary life has still brushed mine-and the life of this entire community. 
On February 16, I read in The Observer that Paschall, a Flanner resident, had lost a painful battle with bone cancer. Two days later I flew into Planner Mass five minutes late, having been held up at The Observer of­fice. As usual. My head was spinning. As usual. Assign this story, cram for that exam, and worry about room picks in the spare mil­lisecond in between. I was all agitation until the focus of the service became quietly ap­parent. 
Mass was offered for Paschall in Planner 
that night. Rector Fr. Bill Seetch filled his 
homily with a portrait of this uncomplaining 
freshman from Wichita Falls, Texas, whose 
promising athletic career was snatched away 
by radiation treatments and an amputated 
knee. 

But all Gary Paschall wanted, ladies and 
gentlemen, was a year at Notre Dame. Two 
semesters, fall and spring. That's it. 
It didn't happen. 

Failing health forced him home to Texas 
shortly after his first Christmas break. He 'II 
never see another pep rally, chem class, or 
Activities Night. 
Think about that. 

How often are we so caught up in college 
that we miss it? Our days are whirls of classes 
and dances and meetings, each precious sec­
ond of each precious day shaping us, making 
us more a part of this place and of each 
other's lives. It's overwhelming. But it's won­
derful-and we whine. We focus on the 
annoying guy who lives next door or the prof 
whose lectures have the excitement of a rice 
cake-and we whine. 

Life here shouldn't be sugarcoated, but it 
should certainly be appreciated. Loveliness 
abounds even amidst the mud and muck of 
February; if you can't see it in your physical 
surroundings, look to your peer surroundings. 
I guarantee you'll find it. The other week I 
was high-heel balancing my way to a dance 
when my date and I happened upon one of 
those infamous North Quad puddles you could 
hold a regatta in. My date, who, in the true 
SYR tradition, had known me for a grand total 
of forty-five minutes, picked me up and car­
ried me across. 

Things like that, I have noticed, just tend to 
happen around here. 

Life is beautiful because it is life. If you 
don't want to take my word for it, take God's: 
"This is the day the Lord has made; let us re­
joice in it and be glad" (Psalms 118:24). 
Smile, please. See the Dome instead of the 
scaffolding the next time you go past the Main 
Building. We're young, we're holding the 
future, and we're here. Send God a thank-you 
note the next time you pass by the dorm 
chapel. We have been virtually handed what 
Gary Paschall struggled for every day: the gift 
of the supposedly ordinary existence of a col­
lege student. Celebrate it-if not for your own 
sake, then for Gary's. 

He didn't have the chance. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News  Viewpoint  
Melanie Laflin  Meaghan Smith  
Deborah Schultz  
Production  
Sports  Jana Bruder  
Mike Day  Tom Schlidt  
Todd Fitzpatrick  
Lab Tech  
Graphics  Brandon Candura  
Chris Mullins  

The OhS<rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday except during exam and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated J>rrss. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
', ~·' .·,·..·.,·,·,·,·,·,·.... \ ~·~·. ,.......,-..,·..·~· ..·~ ..,......,. .. -·-..·~..·~·....... 
• Wmn.D AT A GLANCE 

Morissette captures two best album Grammys 
Los ANGELES 

Alanis Morissette's "Jagged Little Pill" was named rock album and album of the year and her emotionally raw single "You Oughta Know" won two other awards as the Grammys embraced some cutting-edge music Wednesday night. 
Seal's "Kiss from a Rose" won record and song of the year, and he was named best male pop vocal performance. 
Mariah Carey, who entered the competi­tion tied with Morissette's leading six nomi­nations, won nothing -her traditional-sounding album "Daydream" failed to gen­erate trophies in a year with the recording academy skewed to a not-so-romantic view of life. 

38thANNUAL "This award does not represent the fact GRAMMY that I'm better than any other women that were nominated with me but it does repre-
AWARDS sent a lot of people connected to what I wrote ... and for that I'm grateful," Morissette said after receiving her trophy for female rock vocal performance. 
Vince Gill, the trio TLC and Stevie Wonder also captured two Grammys apiece, Frank Sinatra scored his first victory in decades and Nirvana was saluted for its last effort before the death of leader Kurt Cobain. 
A surprised Annie Lennox said she was honored to win a Grammy for the best female pop vocal performance in a year of so many strong performances by women artists. 
Coolio won best rap solo for "Gangsta's AP Paradise." In perhaps the most meaningful

Morissette's "You Oughta Know" won best.._____________j acceptance speech, he addressed black and 
rock song and female rock vocal performance. 
With 1995's best-selling album "Cracked Rear View," Hootie & the Blowfish won best new artist and pop group vocal performance for "Let Her Cry." 
"You Oughta Know," with graphic sexual references, was performed word-for-word by Morissette on the Grammy stage but CBS bleeped out the most flagrant four-letter word. 
Hispanic students who have been engaged in brawls on a Los Angeles high school campus. 
Sinatra captured his first competitive Grammy in 29 years. His "Duets II" was named best traditional pop vocal performance. 
Hecording industry mentor Babyface, was honored as producer of the year. 
Candidatestussle over trade in S.C. 
CLEARWATER, S.C. 
Pat Buchanan lashed out at GOP rival Bob Dole on Tuesday over trade deals he said ship jobs overseas, pledging to wage a bare-knuckled fight for American workers against the "barons and knights" of the Republican Party. With trade a top issue in the runup to Saturday's South Carolina primary, Buchanan chose a shuttered textile fac­

tory as the setting to deliver his critique of trade deals that he said cost American jobs. Dole, !'or his part, head­ed for a BMW plant elsewhere in the state to offer free trade as a prescription for a healthy American economy. Thirty-seven delegates are at stake in South Carolina, a state where the competing approaches of Dole and Buchanan reflect differing views over where to find polit­ical gain. In South Carolina, as elsewhere, traditional industries such as textiles have suffered at the hands of foreign competition. But, at thQ same time, the state· has its share of high-tech companies, often heavily dependent on fo·reign investment. It was B'uchanan who struck first. Standing in a shuttered textile factory in Clearwater, he said Dole worries more about the bottom line for busi­ness than for the fate of American workers. 
Salvi sees girlfriend become vampire 
DEDHAM, Mass. 
The man charged with killing two people at abortion clinics descended into madness with visions of his girl­friend turning into a vampire and a belief that mobsters were stalking him, his father testified today. John Salvi III also told his parents that the family's home was bugged and that Freemasons controlled their credit cards, John C. Salvi Jr. testified today at his son's murder trial. The father was the second witness for the defense, which is trying to show that the 23-year-old Salvi was in­sane when he killed two people and injured five others at a pair of Brookline abortion clinics in December 1994. Prosecutors, who maintain the shootings were the work of a sane man who planned the shootings because he op­posed abortion, wrapped up their case Tuesday. The elder Salvi said his son believed his girlfriend had turned into a vampire before his eyes. 


Wineries hit by fallout from protests 
VILLEFHANCHE-SUR-SAONE, France 
Vintners, especially those in the Beaujolais heartland, are being hurt by a wine boycott spurred by French nu­clear tests. Exports of Beaujolais Nouveau dropped about 15 percent due to the boycotts, Michel Rougier, head of the Beaujolais wine growers association, said Wednesday. The boycotts were most effective in Japan and northern Europe, where sales plummeted 50 per­cent, he said. Wineries in Bordeaux, where France's most coveted and exported wine is cultivated, reported similar results. Bordeaux wineries will lose at least $200 million as a result of the boycotts, the Bordeaux wine growers' association estimated. Six underground nuclear blasts in French Polynesia from Sept. 5 through Jan. 27 spurred worldwide protests. In Australia, angry residents poured French wine into the streets. Exports of Beaujolais Nouveau since the fall were down by about 15 percent or 910,000 gallons, compared to the same period in previous years. That translates into $11.6 million in lost sales for wine growers in the Beaujolais region around Villefranche, in east-central France. Sales dropped 35 to 5'5 percent in Scandinavian countries. There was no change in U.S. sales. While Beaujolais Nouveau represents only a small fraction of wine exports, it's one of France's best known wines. 
European condoms take new lengths 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 
The European Union is taking unity to new lengths: Condoms must now be at least 6 4/5 inches long to earn the EU stamp of approval. "If it's not long enough, you can endanger the health of the consumer," Suzanne Lar­que, of the European Committee for Standardization, said Wednesday after the EU set the new size standard for condoms sold in 18 European countries. Testing will be standardized to ensure the safety of condoms, used to prevent pregnancy and the transmission of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. They must be filled with water to check for holes, and mechanically stretched and inflated to test strength. The guidelines probably will be in force by the end of the year in all 15 EU nations, as well as Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland, Ms. Larque said. Under the directive, the width of Euro-condoms can vary from 1 3/4 to 2 1/4 inches. 





Vta AssOCiated Press 
Atlanta 40 Baltimore 40 Boston 35 Chicago 33 
Via Associated Press GraphfCSNBt 
36  Dallas  43  26  New Orleans 49  45  
22  Denver  38  14  New York  34  22  
18  Los Angeles 63  47  Philadelphia 42  23  
13  Miami  83  67  Phoenix  69  45  
12  Minneapolis 27  11  St. Louis  37  24  




Rotary scholarships available to students 

Opening a vein for a good cause ... 
By MElANIE lAFLIN 
Assistant News Ediwr 
Applieations for the 1997-98 Hotary Foundation Ambassado­rial sdwlarships to be awarded worldwide am now available to all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students, cour­tl~sy of the Hotary Club of Hose­land. 
The sdwlarships. which are designed to further interna­tional undnrstanding and good­will. provide for study abroad in otw of tlw 153 muntries and 34 w~ographieal regions where Hotary clubs an• locatnd. Some 1,200 scholarships of various types will be available from dubs worldwidn. The value of eaeh scholarship and local availability varins. 
Acadmnic-Yt~ar Ambassado­rial Scholarships are for one aeadnmic ynar abroad and pro­vidt~ up to $22,000 or its equiv­alent for round-trip trans­portation, tuition and fens, room, board, neeessary educa­tional supplies, contingency ex­penses, and ontJ month of in­tensive language training, if as­signml by the Hotary Founda­tion. 

Multi-year Ambassadorial 
Scholarships are Oat grants of 
$11,000 pnr year for either two 
or three years toward the cost 
of a degree program in another 
country. 
Also available are Cultural Ambassadorial Scholarships which provide funding for three to six months of intensive lan­guage study in another country up to a minimum of $10,000 and $17,000 respectively. 
Aceording to H-oseland Hotary representative Jay Simkins, all Hotary Scholars are expected to act as "ambassadors of American goodwill" to their foreign host country. Through appearances before Hotary clubs and districts, schools, civic organizations, and other forums, the scholars represent tht1ir homelands and improve international understanding. 
For an application, contact Jay Simkin, 17924 Sable Ridge Dr .. South Bend, IN 46635 or call 272-8855 or 272-0285. 
The deadline to submit all application materials to the Hotary Club of Roseland will be April 1. 1996. 


The Observer 
News Department 
is now accepting applications 
for thefollowing paidpositions: Associate News Editor Assistant News Editor News Copy Editor 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Brad Prendergast by Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-5323 or 634-2098 
WE NEED A FEW GOOD PEOPLE 
KIDS CORPORATION, A NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION THAT OPERATES A VARIETY OF PROGRAMS FOR NEWARK CHILDREN, IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD PEOPLE TO JOIN ITS SUMMER STAFF. 

Film forum discusses diversity 
By ALYSSON COOK 
News Writer 
As the 'Spirit of Blackness' week continues, excitement on campus is at an all time high for the remaining events of the week. "The focus of all our events is to bring a culture which we feel is under repre­sented onto this campus and just celebrate it," said Alia Paige, president of the Sisters of Nefertiti. 
Tonight at 6:00 p.m. in Car­roll Auditorium, the Sisters of Nefertiti will show "Higher Learning", a film dealing with the struggles of students trying to find their identity in a racist world. Following the film. a dis­cussion will be led by Assistant History Professor Kelly Hamil­ton and Assistant Sociol­ogy/Anthropology and Social Work Professor Jeffrey Breese. 
Professor Breese and Profes­sor Hamilton are anticipating a unique and informative discus­sion forum after the film. "There are only 17 African­Americans on campus and not only do we lack diversity, but it seems like there's a lack of un­derstanding. We hope the dis­cussion will be an eye-opening experience to do away with ap­prehensions and raise the lev­els of awareness," said Breese. 
Professor Hamilton feels that this film really touches stu­dents. "What I hope and expect through the discussion, is that people will openly and honestly speak their fears and appre­hensions and really listen to each other," said Hamilton. 
The Sisters of Nefertiti will also be holding their jam cele­bration of African-American culture in Bagger Parlor from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday. 
On Sunday, an all school mass will be held in the LeMans Hall chapel at 4:30 p.m. where the Voices of Faith Gospel En­semble will perform. 
Kids Corporation operates summer educational programs in Newark, New Jersey. Each summer we hire college students who are interested in urban education and the needs of young children. 
This is not a job, it is an experience• 
_, 

All prn~ram!'l run from June 21 through August 18, 1996. Students gross $125 pt•r week, room ami hoard, and three college credits in Urban Education fr·om St. Vincent College. The work is hard and the hours long, 
hut tlu~  kitl!'l are great.  If you are interested in learning more about this  
OJ•portunity, write or call:  
Kid~ Corporation  Orlando Perozzi  

139 Lincoln-Laurel Rd. Director Newton, NJ 07860 908-362-7410 
We will be available to discuss summer employment at the coffee house in the Center for Social Concerns on Thursday, Feb. 29 from 6:30-8:30PM. FREE PIZZA 
T/w Winner of \ 

eekly Specials / . 
the lf1eek is 
Szchuan Fried Rice Sweet f.• Sour Cl.id..n 

picked [rom the B ·:'~ 1
al.f us 

weeks' orders. 
Ca/1271-0125 
In a Blood Drive at Saint Mary's yesterday afternoon, students Beth Lang, Marie Young, and Linda Coleianne participated in donating blood. 
The Observer/ Leslie Zielinski 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 29, 1996 

Friendship addressed in Lenten lecture series 
By KATHLEEN POLICY 
News Writer 
Friendship is precious beyond all words, according to Keith Egan, who spoke about the relationships between God and friendships in his lecture "Friendship: A Sacred Tradi­tion" yesterday. 
Opening the Lenten lecture series with "Friendship as Ho­liness", Egan spoke of friend­ships within the context of the Saint Mary's community. He believes that the history of Saint Mary's "bears witness to the beauty of women's friend­ship." Learning comes from friendship at Saint Mary's, he said. 
"We learn not from competi­tion, but from mutual search... a love of learning and a desire for God," Egan said. 
He spoke of friendships as sacraments. To him, friend­ships are like sacraments, events that bring us closer to God. They manifest God's goodness and reveal the pres­ence of God, he said. 
Egan used many Biblical ex­amples of great friendships, such as the friendship between Naomi and Ruth, mother-in­law and daughter-in-law, who became "fast friends," accord­ing to the Bible. Egan also cited the John's Gospel, " There is no greater love than to lay down one's life for a friend." 
Egan also drew examples from classical philosophy, cit­ing Aristotle and Cicero, who 
IRA 
continued from page 1 
believe in the arms struggle." 
Despite this optimism, the bombings have undoubtedly thrown a wrench into the peace process and resolution may not be around the corner. But the efforts of the men, women and children whose lives are affected on a day-to­day basis provide the world with hope. Perhaps the vio­lence will stimulate renewed efforts for a lasting peace. 
"It will take a long time but the longer a dialogue, a com­munication exists between the sides, the better are the prospects for peace," said Cor­tright. 

student manager and 
both discussed friendship in· their works. 
Egan stressed the importance of friendship as a sacrament. He stated that, although it may not be one of the seven sacra­ments, it is still one of the most important ways of experiencing God. Egan agreed with St. Thomas Aquinas, who stated that God sent the Holy Spirit to be our friend. 
"If friendship exists among us, it is because it exists first of all among God," Egan said, quoting Aquinas. 
Egan also stressed that the great tradition at Saint Mary's exists because of the friend­ships fostered between mothers and daughters. Egan feels this is a precious bond that fathers rarely have. 
Students agree with Egan re­garding the importance of friendship at the College. "Friends are the most impor­tant thing at Saint Mary's, next to my family," said sophomore Beth Phelan. "My friends here are like sisters to me." 
Egan is the Chair of the Reli­gious Studies Department at Saint Mary's and the Director of Planning for the Center of Spirituality. He is a Senior Fellow, Lilly Fellows Program in the Humanities and the Arts and an adjunct professor at Notre Dame. 
Next Wednesday, the Lenten lecture series continues as Stephanie Paulsel speaks about "Friendship: A Woman's Grace" at 12:15 p.m. in Staple­ton Lounge. 


Space 
continued from page 1 
the campus. And the core of this campus is its curriculum." 
Mark Jordan, professor from the Medieval Institute, was the next to take the floor. He spoke of the University's policy against homosexuals from a theological point of view. "Theologically speaking," he said, "it is a heresy to assert that the infinite truths of the Christian faith can be reduced to any set of human statements, no matter how large." 
He went as far as to indicate that homophobia is a sin. "Homophobia is a serious theo­logical topic for our community because it is an old sin in our community," he said, "a durable sin, with uncountable effects." 
He suggested that the only remedy for this problem is, "to stir up not a spirit of conde­scension, of toleration, of mere acceptance, but of penitent prayer." 
The next two speakers were John Blandford and Samantha Shannon, co-chairs of GLND/SMC. Blandford defined h9mophobic space as, "space that is sufficiently unfriendly enough to drive them[homosex­uals] back into the closet." 
He also indicated that there was a certain amount of xeno­phobia at the root of the poli­cies of the University. "There is a fear of others," he said, " a fear of strangers at the root of this. The homosexual is con­sider~~d the outsider and is forced back into the closet because of developing policy that enforces xenophobic ten­dencies." 
Shannon spoke of her expe­riences at Notre Dame and about what has helped her to cope with being a lesbian in such a conservative institution. "Positive female role models were very important," she said, "they accepted who I was and would not accept it as an excuse for doing badly in school." 
.The final speaker of the evening was Jason Lynch, the support group chairman of GLND/SMC. He introduced the "Safe Zone" program which he said was based on a program that he encountered at North­western University. "For the first time as a gay male, I felt safe on a college campus," he said. 
He contrasted that with the 

atmosphere that he found at 

The Observer/Alison Frick Mark Jordan, professor from the Medieval Institute, speaks out about homophobia in Debartolo at a lecture last night. 
Notre Dame. "When I .first ar­rived on this campus," he said, "I felt intimidated and iso­lated." 
He sees this atmosphere changing, if only slightly with the introduction of this new program, which designates of­fices and rooms as places that homosexuals can go and dis­cuss their problems without fear of reprisal. "Actual inter­action," he concluded, "is the most affective way of ending homophobia." 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 



Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444



Burrows 
continued from page 1 
Americans. 
"Dr. Burrows is an inge­nious, beautiful woman and it was the best experience that I've had in a long time," said an impressed Martha Moylan. 
Moylan also stated that "this was probably the most impor­tant event of 'The Spririt of Blackness Week II."' 
"I am very sorry for the peo­ple who did not attend this performance," said Gabrielle Bielak at the conclusion of Tuesday night's performance. 
v.~ l!ti(I;.


UNI0RS;rLUB.·~.·.··.(ID
HEY 
(f)\.; ~ 
~N~o·· 



Apply for the best job on 
bartender 
campus 
applications 
PICK APPLICATIONS UP AT now THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE.

available! 

MANAGER DEADLINE: March 1 BARTENDER DEADLINE: March 27 
ON NATIONAL TOUR 
South Bend's 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
March 6-7-8-9-10, 1996 
BY POPULAR DEMAND TWO PERFORMANCES ADDED Wednesday and Thursday 7:30p.m. 
Friday 8 p.m. • Saturday 2 p.m. & 8 p.m Sunday 1 :30 p.m. & 7:30 p.m. EST Tickets $13.50 to $47.50 Call 219-235-9190 
Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Charge to VISA, MasterCard, Amex Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 

-. 

Thursday, February 29, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Court rules for Doctor Death Branch: Black Catholic power needed in church 
By MIKE JACCARINO and being part of it means to News Writer be in conversation with every­one else. Because we have 
Black Catholics are continu­money does not mean we can ing to struggle for recognition be deaf to the rest of the in the American Church, ac­world" he explained. It is with­cording to the Heverend Ed­in this atmosphere of American ward Branch. Lecturing from a religious isolation that Black stage furnished by the growing Catholic History and thought is resentment and inspirited self­often forgotten and not includ­awareness of many Blacks, ed. Branch went on to say Branch unraveled America's that it is in this context that the African-American conscious­Pope continues to schedule ness, elucidating thought upon sojourns in Africa, stressing their continuing battle for other cultures and their revela­recognition. tory value. 
Branch, a priest of twenty­In reference to the over­two years and Campus Minister whelming Irish dominance of at the Atlanta University Cen­the church hierarchy and ter, spoke in the context of the population, Branch exhorted, Campus Ministry sponsored "Black Catholics don't have any Black Catholic Series. control over the authority and 
Listening to words of heart­decision-making of this church; felt rhetoric, the audience wit­it lies with the Fighting Irish. nessed Branch capture what he 64% of the church hierarehy is thinks is the essence of the Irish." He went on to point to anonymous and maligned fa­the small 4% minority of cade retained by the Black African Americans who com­Catholic Congregation of the prise Notre Dame's Black pop­Catholic Church. "In the ulation as an example of this church we have become pur­inequality. veyors of bad news; bad news It is within this inequality on the church closing front, that Branch found the greatest bad news of the African irony. Citing the growing re­American front, and we believe semblance of America's mod­it ... can't do becomes don't ern social problem with those do and this becomes won't do previously associated solely and then where are we? If we with Black families, Branch listen to the bad news spoken said that all Catholic people arn by people who have not includ­together in the challenges they ed us then we will become vic­face. tims of our own self-fulfilling He envisions Black Catholics prophecy." and the problems they face as 
In contrast, Branch extols a a tableau for society rather good news, embodied by Black than the forgotten minority Catholic History and often for­they are deemed by others to gotten or lost amidst attempts be. at integration or assimilation. In this setting of inequality, 
"We must learn to manage Branch views black religion as our information and history, a political, social, and econom­within which is a different pic­ic event as well as religious. ture of who we are and what is "Black Heligion should be an taking place. It is a heritage of event of civil protest on and the survival and success which we church a place of staging would do well to talk about and action during the week," he bank our souls upon. It a his­declared. tory that includes the presence Where the majority commu­of three times as many African­nity has other structures for American priests than there the implementation of their were in 1950 and a rising role politics, the Black Catholic of Black Woman in the Church. Community solely has the Let the stewardship of our his­Church, he said. tory begin with you," he pro­Calling for change, Branch claimed. implored the audience by say­
Branch condemned the em­ing, "There is a Black Catholic phasis of modern Catholic way of imagining reality which thought as limiting in its out­says that God looks like us and look and scope when applied to it is good. We have to study Black Catholics and other mi­our history so we know it, norities. speak up so others hear it, and 
"There is a hegemony of ante up so we're better off Western Catholic thought pre­when you're gone. The good sent, always listening to what news of the soul begins, if not the French, Germans, and here, then where? if not now, Italians are saying. then when? if not with you, Catholicism is a global religion then with who?" 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for thefollowing paidpositions: 
Saint Mary's News Editor Saint Mary's Sports Editor Saint Mary's Accent Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor Saint Mary's Photo Editor Saint Mary's Day Editor (2) 
Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Caroline Blum by Friday, March 1st. Questions? call284-4349 or 631-4540 
By BRIAN AKRE 
Assndalcd Press 
DETHOlT 

Proseeutors in Dr . .Jack Kevorkian's assisted suicide trial won another battle W1~dnesday after their fourth trip to app1lllate eourt since the proceedings began. 
Judge Jessica Cooper has eritieiwd prosncutors for their repeated appeals and their un­usually blunt attack on her ob­jectivity. Proseeutors rnpeatcdly havn allegnd that Cooper has henn biased in favor of the de­fenst~ since the trial bngan Feb. 20. 
Attorneys for both sides have said they cannot recall a ease in whieh thn state has turned to the apptmls court on an almost­daily basis to contest the trial judge's rulings on procedures and evi<h~nce. 
l'roslleutors said they plan to liln tlwir lil'th appeal Thursday -asking that Cooper be re­rnovt~d from tlw ease. 
Kevorkian is aceused of violating a now-expirnd ban on assistml suicide by aiding the 1 'J93 dtmths of Merian Freder­ick, 72, of Ann Arbor and Dr. Ali Khalili. 61 , of Oak Brook, Ill. 
The law carries a penalty of 
Menendez pleads innocence 
By LINDA DEUTSCH 
Associ;ued Press 
LOS ANGELES 

In a dramatic finale to her fi­nal argument, defense attorney Lnslie Abramson pleaded with jurors to acquit Erik Menendez, saying it would be "the ulti­matn tragndy of my life if I lose this case." 
"I have enough emotion in­volvt~d in this case that I could stand here and sob and not earn what tlwy said about me in tlw papers," Abramson said. "But I don't want to appnal to your emotions cheaply." 
up to four years in prison. 
In its ruling Wednesday, the Michigan Court of Appeals or­dered Cooper to read jury in­structions making clear the prosecutors' burden of proof in the case. 
The ruling follows more than a week of contentious debate over the instructions. 
Prosecutors first appealed Cooper's deeision to allow the defense to question potential jurors about their religious be­liefs. Cuuper later reversed her­self and the higher court ruled the issue moot. 
Later, the appeals court agreed with prosecutors that Cooper had erred in her origi­nal jury instructions when she said the state must prove Kevorkian intended solely to cause death, and not relieve suffering. 
The appeals court said that under the assisted suicide law, the state need only prove that Kevorkian provided the means or participated in the act that allowed the patients to commit suicide. 
When both sides could not agree on new instructions , Cooper simply read the jury one paragraph directly from the higher court's order with-
Abramson said the prosecu­tor's call for a conviction is "cold and callous and had nothing to do with my client. That kind of argument appeals to heartlessness." 
Erik, 25, and his brother Lyle, 28, admit they killed their father, Jose, and their mother, Kitty, in a barrage of shotgun fire, but claim they did it out of fear and to end years of abuse. Prosecutors refiled murder charges after separate juries deadlocked after their first tri­als. 
"It will be the ultimate tragedy of my life if I lose this out any explanation. At least one juror later expressed con­fusion and asked her to read them again. She told jurors she would at the trial's conclusion. 
Prosecutors appealed again, complaining that the paragraph contained some Latin and left jurors with two conflicting in­structions. 
On Wednesday, a three-judge panel of the appeals court or­dered Cooper to read a two­page, single-spaced, 12-para­graph instruction that clarifies what the law requires. 
Kevorkian attorney Geoffrey Fieger said he was satisfied with the ruling, which he called a "recitation of the law." 
'In addition to seeking Coop­er's dismissal; the prosecution's newest appeal seeks to bar Cooper from issuing a directed verdict of acquittal in one of the two cases against Kevorkian. 
Cooper ruled Tuesday that the state had presented enough evidence to refer the case involving Frederick's suicide to the jury. But Cooper said she would decide Thursday whether to acquit Kevorkian in the Khalili case. If she does, the state will be unable to prose­cute Kevorkian on that case again. 
case," Abramson said in her summation, "Not for my ca­reer, because I'm done with that. But it will be so unjust." 
Abramson painted an unusu­ally personal picture of her relationship with Erik. 
"Six years ago, l had a 19­year-old client who was very sick. I have watched him grow up in county jail and although we all deplore what happened in the den of that home, I was very proud of him, that he could take the stand in this case and fight for himself," she said. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 

-------------~-----------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 29, 1996 
Mugabe urges churches to protest against gays 
Associated Press 

HARARE, Zimbabwe 
President Robert Mugabe likened homosexuality to alco­holism, drug abuse and prosti­tution on Wednesday and urged churches to join his cam­paign against gays. 
Mugabe, addressing a gathering convened by U.S. evangelist Benny Hinn in Harare, called on Christian churches to join his govern­ment in a battle to restore moral values and fight "the cankering worm of debauchery and the affiiction of homosexu­ality." 
He said Christian teachings condemned homosexuality and preachers should fight it, just as they combat drug abuse and immorality. 
Last year, Mugabe's govern­ment banned a gay rights ex­hibit at a Harare book fair and Mugabe went on to make sev• eral outspoken attacks on gays. 
Homosexuality is illegal in Zimbabwe. Police have raided gay rights meetings and listed the names of participants but no arrests have been reported. 
Zimbabwe's small gay com­munity accuses Mugabe of tar­geting its members to distract attention from official graft and worsening economic hardships as presidential elections ap­proach. Mugabe is expected to overwhelmingly win another six-year term in the March 16­17 vote. 




Temperatures rise as epidemic hits Nigeria 
Associated Press 

LAGOS, Nigeria 
At least 15,000 people have died in the last month from epi­demics sweeping northern Nigeria, according to news re­ports Wednesday. 
Health Minister lkechukwu Madubike told the Lagos Guardian newspaper that in the last week, 50 people had died every hour in Kano state, on the northern border with Niger. 
The home state of Nigerian military ruler Gen. Sani Abacha is suffering from acute epi­demics of spinal meningitis, gastroenteritis, cholera and measles. 
"We are very alarmed," said Madubike. "We have not wit­nessed this type of epidemic in recent memory." 
It is the height of summer in West Africa. Temperatures can easily reach 100-105 with sti­fling humidity, causing food to spoil and sanitary conditions to worsen. 
The government said about 20 million Nigerians living in and around Kano state could be at risk. 
Parking lots in Kano state have been converted into chil­dren's wards because of a se­vere shortage of hospital beds. There is also a serious lack of trained doctors in the region. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 



Sun1mer Sessions 
*Transferable Credits *Start Dates May thru July *Accelerated Sessions 
Register by FAX, phone, mail, or in person. 
Interested? Call: 1-800-283-3853 For A Complete Summer 1996 Information/Application Package 


Summit sets terms for talks 
By SUE LEEMAN 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
In a dramatic turnaround, Prime Minister John Major and Irish leader John Bruton today set June 10 as the date for starting negotiations in Northern Ireland. 
The talks would begin follow­ing elections in Northern Ire­land for a so-called "peace as­sembly." 
Supporters of the Irish Re­publican Army had demanded a firm date for negotiations as the only way to restore the cease-fire broken on Feb. 9. 
The two leaders said inten­sive consultations with Northern Ireland parties would begin Monday and continue through mid-March. 
Major and Bruton both said an IRA cease-fire was essential if the Sinn Fein party wished to participate in the process. 
"Until that cease-fire is re­stored, both governments have made it clear that there can be no ministerial talks with Sinn Fein, nor can Sinn Fein take part in talks," Major told a news conference at his No. 10 Downing St. residence following his summit meeting with Bruton. 
Both denied that the renewed IRA bombing and three deaths in London this month had spurred them to act. 
"The violence has done noth­ing but create difficulty," Bru­ton said. "It has not in any way accelerated the process." 
Major indicated Britain is no longer demanding that the IRA begin disarming before 
Sinn Fein joins the negotia­tions, but he said the issue would have to be part of the talks. 
Bruton said the June 10 start of negotiations would not be changed. "The date is fixed. The date will not be changed," Bruton said, adding that if the parties cannot agree on ar­rangements for talks, the gov­ernments will do it. 
The Ulster Unionist Party, which represents the bulk of the Protestant majority in Northern Ireland, had called for elections to a peace assem­bly as a way of starting negotia­tions. 
Judge considers trial cameras 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Few cases have ever cried out to be televised more than a lawsuit seeking a takeover of the Child Welfare Administration, a Court TV attorney argued Wednesday. 
"This is a case that is a public policy seminar at the same time it is a judicial proceeding," Floyd Abrams told U.S. District Judge Robert Ward. "It is the sort of case the public ought to know more about." 
Ward said he would consult his colleagues before deciding whether to allow Court TV into the first hearing of the lawsuit. Two child advocacy organiza­tions want a court-appointed receiver to take over the city's child welfare agency. 
Lorna Goodman, a city lawyer, said parents who rely on the foster care program would "become dismayed and alarmed" if they saw grisly al­legations that could not be re­futed until a later trial. 
"There will be a tendency to distort the arguments," she said. 
Abrams said Goodman's statement should only bolster his case to allow cameras into the case. "That parents would be alarmed and dismayed would be the strongest argu­ment for more information, more publicity, an argument for cameras," he said. 
Ward's willingness to consult with his colleagues at Thurs­day's monthly meeting of Southern District federal judges was a minor victory for Court TV, which needs to persuade Ward to buck the findings of a policy-making body for federal courts. 
In 1994, the Judicial Confer­ence of the United States voted against opening its courts to cameras, saying there were concerns that some witnesses and jurors had been intimi­dated by cameras in court. 
Abrams, who specializes in First Amendment law, told Ward that local rules estab­lished for federal courts in Manhattan permit judges to de­cide for themselves whether to allow cameras in court. 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 

Stay at the Moose Krause House or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
Call (219)277-7003 • Fax (219)273-2455 
ONE MORE PLACE FOR YOU 

All Gay, Lesbian, and 
Bisexual Students are welcome to join confidential discussions regarding identity and sexuality 
NEXT WEEK'S TOPIC • 
"Life At Notre Dame" 
For More Information Call: 
Kate Barrett ................ 1-5242 Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC .......... 1-7800 or 1-5056 




0MPU5
Fr. Tom Gaugan, CSC ........ 1-6777 
t\111N I STRY 
Thursday, February 29, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Short cervix increases Surgeon spreads Hepatitis B 
By DANIEL HANEY The hepatitis B investigation to explain an outbreak of op­
risk of premature birth 
Associated Press was directed by Dr. Rafael erating room infection, such as 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
The length of a pregnant woman's cervix may be an im­portant clue to her risk of giv­ing birth prematurely. 
A study found that the short­er her cervix, the more likely a woman will give birth too soon. Even those whose cervixes am normal in size have a greater risk than those with especially long ones. 
As intriguing as this finding is, though, researchers say it is too soon to make cervix mea­surmnent a routine part of pre­natal care. One reason is that doctors have no good way to prevent premature birth, even when they know the risk is high. 
Prematurity is one of the country's most diflicult health problems. 
About 1 in 10 babies is born before reaching full de­velopment. and this has not changed in the past 50 years. 5% of premature babies die in infancy. 
Combinations of several fac­tors are probably involved, and the latest research appears to identify one of them. 
The cervix separates the uterus from the vagina. 
In the final stages of preg­nancy, it shortens and widens to allow the baby to pass through. Doctors theorize that a long cervix delays birth by providing a stronger barrier and putting more distance between the fetus and germs in the vagina. 
The idea that the length of the cervix has something to do with prematurity was been sug­gested by earlier research. So the National Institute of Child Health sponsored a study of 2,915 pregnant women to test the theory. The results were published in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
The researchers-led by Dr. Jay lams of Ohio State Univer­sity -used ultrasound to mea­sure women's cervixes at 24 and 28 weeks of pregnancy. Then they followed the women to see how many gave birth at less than 35 weeks. 
Flowers, Roses,
FLOWERS 
Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 

Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
~7 DAYS~ 

Plush Animals and Gifts 




1?asy tatGh 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 
51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 277·1291 or 1·800·328·0206 
South Bend 
BOSTON 
A young heart surgeon un­knowingly infected at least 19 of his patients with the hepati­tis B virus, despite wearing gloves and carefully following all of the other usual operating room precautions. 
While this virus can be ex­tremely infectious, the high rate of spread startled experts, especially since they could not find that he had done anything wrong. 
About 1% of U.S. surgeons are believed to be infected with hepatitis B. which can be fatal. Most of them, like the doctor in the newly described case, ap­parently caught it from their patients during operations. 
The outbreak occurred four years ago at two Los Angeles hospitals where the physician trained in thoracic surgery. Over 12 months, he passed hepatitis B to 13 percent of his surgical patients, mostly during heart operations. 
"Finding this was a real eye­opener," said Dr. James Cherry, who was head of infec­tion control at UCLA Medical Center, where some of the in­fections occurred. "This may be more common than realized." 
Operating room safety rules have been tightened in recent years to protect patients and health care workers from the AIDS virus. However, the hepatitis B virus is about 100 times more infectious than the AIDS virus. No surgeon-to-pa­tient spread of AIDS has been documented, although a Florida dentist infected six of his pa­tients in 1992. 
Harpaz of the Centers for Dis­ease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. It was published in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. 
The physician involved is still working as a doctor but not performing surgery. He coop­erated with the investigation and was not identified. 
The outbreak occurred in 1991 and 1992 at UCLA and the Wadsworth Veterans Administration Hospital. The infected patients ranged in age from 14 months to 83 years. Six actually got sick with hepatitis but recovered. Nine of the 16 who are still alive are chroni­cally infected but not sick; how­ever. chronic infection raises their risk of liver disease. 
According to the American College of Surgeons. at least two dozen clusters of surgeon­to-patient spread of hepatitis B have been identified since 1972. More than half have in­volved obstetricians or heart surgeons. 
The investigators pointed out that the Los Angeles outbreak could have been prevented if the doctor had taken the hep­atitis B vaccine -something that is now done by virtually all medical students. 
llarpaz said the risk to pa­tients is already low. and "we expect it will go lower still as there are fewer and fewer sur­geons who are not vaccinated. But given the fact then~ is a rare chance of transmission, we still need to understand how it occurs so we can develop ever more measures to prevent it." 
Typically, investigators are able to spot some obvious error the surgeon repeatedly pricking himself while sewing up in­cisions. 
"The thing that was unusual was that after review of surgi­cal techniques, we were not able to find the precise mecha­nism of transmission," Harpaz said. 
The doctor used gloves, changed them frequently and was careful not to cut himself. 
However, the investigators found that when he tied sutures repeatedly, he bruised his lin­gers. The pressure of the thread actually caused tiny slits. like paper cuts, that bled inside his gloves. 
If this indeed was what hap­pened, investigators are still uncertain how his blood might have gotten through the gloves. 
A separate journal report from Dr. Juan Esteban and oth­ers from Barcelona, Spain, described another incident in which six patients picked up another form of the virus, hepatitis C, from a heart sur­geon during valve replacement surgery. There is no vaccine for hepatitis C. 
In an editorial in the journal, Dr. Julie Louise Gerberding said doctors should be rnquired to get hepatitis shots. She also recommended other innova­tions, such as blunt suture nee­dles. improved instruments and reinforced gloves. 
Dr. Donald Fry of the Univer­sity of New Mexico, a spokesman for the college of surgeons, cited federal figures showing that about one-third of surgeons who have been prac­ticing more than 10 years are vulnerable to hepatitis B infec­tion. 
Student l(roups, student organizations or individuaf students interestell in discussingtheir eoneerns with the Board of Trustees should attend an informational meeting on Thursday, February 29 from 7-8 pm in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Hall. 
Representatives of the Student Government Board of Trustees Report Committee will be present. 

~~ 
AcnoNI[]IIJ 
TUDI!NT OOVHRNMBNT 
• • • : .: '{' .--•.• "'l' ....-......·.;. .......... ll .......... '"'I .... ~ "' ......... , ......... , .•• 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 29, 1996 
• CUBA .IRAQ 
FBI denies knowing planes would be shot 
By EVAN PEREZ 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Cuban defector Juan Pablo Roque was a paid informant for the FBI, the agency acknowl­edged Wednesday, although it vehemently denied knowing in advance that the Cuban gov­ernment would shoot down planes flown by an exile group. 
Along with claiming he worked for the FBI, Roque has said that the agency knew the Brothers to the Rescue planes would be downed last Saturday if they flew near Cuba. Four people on the planes are miss­ing and believed dead. 
"The FBI is calling Mr. Roque what he truly is, a liar," Paul R. Philip, who runs the FBI office in Miami, said Wednesday. 
The FBI routinely cautions all informants against doing any­thing illegal, and agents had warned Roque about flying over Cuba several times, but not specifically with the knowl­edge the planes would be shot down Saturday, Philip said. 
"The FBI ... told Roque that he could not violate Cuban air­space because it was illegal," Philip said. "It could cause an international incident and it could result in being shot down." 
"Had we known (of the im­pending attack) we would have tried to stop it," Philip said. 
The group also was warned not to fly over Cuban territory by the State Department, which told the group it had received warnings from Havana that the Cuban government would take action if the Brothers flew over the island again. 
The State Department also told the group that it could not intervene on its behalf if it con­tinued to fly over Cuba. 
In an interview with CNN in Havana, Roque claimed he had passed on a specific warning from the FBI to others in the Brothers' group. 
"The U.S. government knew they were going to shoot them down," he said. "FBI Agent Oscar Montotto tells me on Feb. 21, 'Don't go on that mission because they're going to knock you out of the sky."' 
Philip said the FBI did speak to Roque on Feb. 21, when he tried to pick up $1,500 owed him. The agency could not come up with the money before he left for Cuba. 
Roque defected to the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay in 1992 and volunteered to join the pilots group. He also volun­teered to be a paid informant, beginning in 1993, Philip said. 



Trial opens against terrorist's accomplice 
By COLLEEN BARRY 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 

More than a decade ago, the jet-setting terrorist Carlos the Jackal allegedly ordered a se­ries of attacks in an attempt to free his lover and several asso­ciates from a French jail. 
Today, his right-hand man, Johannes Weinrich, went on trial on charges of carrying out one of the attacks: the 1983 bombing of the French cultural center in then-West Berlin that killed one person and wounded 23. 
Shortly after the trial opened amid tight security at a Berlin courthouse, Weinrich's lawyers attacked the credibility of the prosecutor's evidence. 
Weinrich, 48, sat impassively in a glass-enclosed secured area as the charges were read. 
Weinrich was Germany's most-wanted fugitive before he was arrested last summer on murder and terrorism charges. During the 1970s and '80s, he headed European operations for Carlos' terrorist group. 
On Aug., 25, 1983, Weinrich placed a bomb on the fourth floor of the Maison de France, prosecutors say, killing a man. 



.. 


Saddam purges relative rivals 
Associated Press 
NICOSIA, Cyprus 
Saddam Hussein has killed two of his own grandchildren in his savage purge of two defec­tors and their supporters, Iraqi opposition groups claimed Wednesday. 
Reports of a bloodbath per­sisted, with one opposition group saying many army offi­cers in the northern city of Mo­sul were fleeing with their families for fear they, too, had been marked for death because of real or suspected links with the defectors, Saddam's sons­in-law. 
There has been no indepen­dent confirmation of the opposition reports of a purge orchestrated by Saddam's sons Odai and Qusai. Diplomats in Baghdad reported the capital was quiet, although there were opposition reports of clashes in the city. 
One report said the eldest son of Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz, a longtime confidant of Saddam's, had been arrested. 
If that is true, it could indi­cate the purge may be mushrooming out of control with Odai targeting his rivals as well as those deemed tainted by their connections to the high­ranking former defectors. 
Odai and the younger Aziz have been business rivals for years. 
The state-run Iraqi media has been silent on the reports from various opposition factions which, despite some contradic­tions, concurred on several points. 
The two defectors -Lt. Gen. Hussein Kamel al-Majid and his brother Col. Saddam Kamel ­were among the first to be slain Friday, three days after return­ing to Baghdad in the apparent belief that Saddam had forgiven them. 
The al-Majid brothers had been married to Saddam's daughters, Raghad and Rana. 

The women accompanied their husbands to Jordan when they fled Aug. 8, then divorced them a day before they were slain. 
The Iraqi government said the brothers were killed by rel­atives shamed by the defec­tions. 
Critics say Saddam ordered the killings. 
The one point on which most opposition reports agree is that Saddam's son Odai is slaughtering anyone connected with the al-Majid brothers. Opposition sources said Odai himself led the squad that killed the brothers and their relatives Friday. 
King Hussein of Jordan said Tuesday that he had reports that "many of the children" in the defectors' families had been slaughtered. 
Opposition sources said the children included at least one of Hussein Kamel's three chil­dren, 1 0-year-old Ali, and Sad­dam Kamel's 7-year-old son, Ahmed. 
Kuwait's Al-Watan daily, quoting Iraqi sources, said Hussein Kamel's two sisters and one of their husbands, Abdul-Hadi al-Majid, were also killed. 
The Tehran-based Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revo­lution in Iraq, the main opposi­tion movement, said Odai has arrested Ziad Aziz, apparently in Baghdad, for unknown rea­sons. 
Odai and Ziad's father Tariq Aziz, Saddam's senior diplomat and an associate for more than three decades, differ sharply on how Baghdad should respond to the crippling U.N. trade sanctions imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990. 
Odai advocates a confronta­tional approach to the U.N. Se­curity Council, while Aziz has urged a more diplomatic ap­proach to try to end the em­bargo. 
Odai was reported Tuesday to have placed Wathban Ibrahim, one of his father's three half­brothers, under house arrest after thwarting his plot to defect to anti-Saddam forces. 


WVFI 
has openings for substitute "dee-jays/' 
For information, call Ben @ 631-6888 
come on do .,
11 

[;)1l)f.lil~[})®~W Wil100 
PRESENTS 


saturday march 2 
7 p.m. Stepan 
tickets $3 at the door or Lafortune 

Bob Barker says ~®Wl@ @~[?~}7 to get name tags! 
Thursday, February 29, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• MEXICO • RWANDA 


Judge rejects deportation of ex-Salinas justice official 
UN officials deny Hutu massacres 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON Human Rights Field Operation 
Associated Press for Rwanda, said revenge 
killings have occurred in 
KIGALI Rwanda, but his office had no 
Rwanda denied Wednesday evidence of systematic killings. 
that the government has en­He invited anyone with evi­
gaged in systematic killings of dence to bring it to U.N. au­
Hutu civilians and U.N. officials thorities. 
said they have no evidence of Liberation said it arrived at 
large-scale revenge attacks. the 100,000 figure by analyzing 
A rep.ort Tuesday in the re­lists of missing or dead tabu­
spected Paris daily Liberation lated by village authorities in 
said the Tutsi-led government the central province of Git­
had killed at least 100,000 erama, then extrapolating re­
Hutus since mid-1994 in sys­sults for the entire country. It 
tematic attacks to avenge the said about 17,000 people were 
genocide of hundreds of thou­killed in Giterama. 
sands of Tutsis. But Martin said it would be 
Rwanda's information minis­surprising to learn about mas­
ter, Jean-Pierre Bizimana, de­sacres on such a scale only 

AP/Carl Fox
nied the report on Wednesday, now, considering the dozens of 
pled the Hutu government in
saying it was fabricated by investigations conducted by 
July 1994 and set up a new
Hutu extremists intent on U.N. and independent human 
government. More than 1.7 mil­
bringing down the Rwandan rights groups. 
lion llutus, fearing reprisals for 
government. "Extrapolation is seriously 
the genocide, fled to neigh­
"The accusations ... are de­questionable because the situa­
boring countries. 
signed to discredit the Rwan­tion is different from one place 
Reports of large-scale re­
dan government and further to another," Martin said. 
venge killings have circulated
confuse the refugees on the is-More than 500,000 people, 
outside Hwanda for months. 
.sue of repatriation," Bizimana mostly minority Tutsis, were 
Former Prime Minister
said, referring to government killed from April to July 1994 
Faustin Twagiramungu, who
and U.N. efforts to convince by Hutu-led government forces 
was ousted in August, accused
about 1.7 million Hutu refugees and Hutu extremists. 
the Rwandan army in Novem­
to return home. Rebels of the Tutsi-dominated 
ber of committing genocide. 
Ian Martin, chief of the U.N. Rwandan Patriotic Front top-
By JEFFREY GOLD 
Associated Press 
NEWARK. N.J. 

A federal judge today threw out deportation proceedings against a former Mexican deputy attorney general, ruling that the U.S. government's case was unconstitutionally vague. 
Mario Huiz Massieu has been accused in Mexico of obstruct­ing the investigation into the assassination of his own broth­er in order to shield the broth­er of then-President Carlos Salinas de Gortari from being implicated in the killing. 
U.S. District Judge Maryanne Trump Barry said Huiz Massieu can be freed Friday unless the .Justice Department obtains a stay of release from an appel­late court. 
lie has been in custody for nearly a year. 
The U.S. and Mexican gov­ernments have said the return of Huiz Massieu is important to relations between them, al­though the judge noted at a hearing last month that most charges against him in Mexico have been dismissed. 
Those charges included that he embezzled the equivalent of $750,000 before leaving office in November 1994. He also had been accused of accepting drug bribes. 
Ruiz Massieu, 45, maintains his innocence and filed for political asylum in December, saying he is being persecuted by the administration of President Ernesto Zedillo. 
Mario Ruiz Massieu was de­tained at Newark International Airport by Customs agents in March for allegedly failing to declare about $40,000 before trying to board a flight to Madrid, Spain. 
Four attempts to extradite him to Mexico failed. 
After the last attempt failed in December, the U.S. govern­ment filed deportation proceed­ings on grounds that Secretary of State Warren Christopher had concluded a failure to re­turn him to Mexico posed "potential serious foreign poli­cy consequences." 











CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
TO PRAY AND TO SERVE: LMNG THE SOCIAL TEACHINGS OF THE BOTH SIDES OF THE CATHOLIC COIN CATHOLIC CHURCH Thursday, March 21 in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel, 7 p.m.-8:30p.m. 
CHRIST NEEDS YOU TO ENLIGHTEN THE WORLD AND 
;,: . ,,!J<TO SH$W-fi THE.PATH.:TQ LIFE.. THE CHALLENGE IS ro''11 ''.. . What are the Social Teachings ofthe Catholic Church and MAKE THE CHURCH'S YES TO LIFE CONCRETE AND How Can \Vt> Live Them Out? EFFECTIVE THE STRUGGLE WILL BE LONG, AND IT Presenter: Fr. J. Bryan Hehir, Professor, Harvard Divinity School NEEDS EACH ONE OF YOU PLACE YOUR INTELLIGENCE, YOUR TALENTS, YOUR ENTHUSIASM, YOUR COMPASSION 
HOW DO I GET INVOLVED IN SERVICE?
AND FORTITUDE AT THE SERVICE OF LIFE! 
Sunday, March 24 in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel, 7 p.m. -8:30 p.m. 
-Pope John Paul II at World Youth Day 1993 
A look at the ways in which people try to make the Churchs "Yes" to life concrete and effective at Notre Dame and beyond. 
It is one thing to say that we are Christian or Catholic, but it is a little more 
Presenters: Coach John MacLeod and students difficult to really be Christian and Catholic. It is one thing to say we believe in the Church's teachings, it is a little more difficult to make the Church's 
"WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP?"
"YES" to life concrete and effective in our own lives. 
For People in Serious Relationships 
It is not always easy to live in this world and be faithful to God and our Sunday, March 31, 1996
consciences. For more information: call 631-5242 
You may feel that part ofyou is being pulled in one direction, and part ofyou is being pulled in another. Maybe you feel the pressure to pursue that major and to go for that career that will simply enable you to make the most money, 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS: while at the same time you want your life to mean more than that. 
Every Friday at 7:15pm 
in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart This Lent, Campus Ministry will sponsor a series devoted to examining how we are able to live in the world and be faithful to God and our consciences. The series will be devoted to the Social Teachings of the Catholic Church. 
SECOND SUNDAY OF LENT -Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. March 2 5:00p.m Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
BALANCING THE PRESSURES OF BOTH WORLDS 
Sun. March 3 10:00 a.m. Rev. Ed Branch
Tuesday, March 19 in the Stanford-Keenan Chapel, 7 p.m. -8:30p.m. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Ed Branch
Music by the Notre Dame Folk Choir 

Sunday Vespers 
A discussion about the challenge ofliving and working in this world while at the 
same time beingfoithfol to the Gospel message. 
Sun. March 3 7:15p.m Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 







VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 29, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995~96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objeccively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and ) nside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advettising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

Election '96 through the lens ofGilded Age campaign verse 
As a student of history, I'm here to tell you that American elections aren't what they used to be. They're just too issue oriented, too sober. The mind hearkens back to the "good old days" of the Blaine-Cleveland contest, when the only issue to speak of was the tariff, and the only question how much to raise it by. 
"Blaine, Blaine, Continental liar from the state of Maine," went one chant, while loyal unionists waved the bloody shirt and sang plaintively, in the voice of Cleveland's bastard child, "Ma, Ma, where's my pa?" 
You didn't have to worry back then about David Brinkley giving you a hard time, nor how a handful of bearded acorn farmers would interpret your "message" in New Hampshire. The decisions were made in smoke-filled rooms full of corpulent men, and by God, the work got done. 
' !propose getting a little 
more into the spirit of the Gilded Age, in my case by giv-­ing the muse a good kick in the pants, and calling for the powers that be. in politics to cough up something in the 
way of campaign verse.' 
I propose getting a little more into the spirit of the Gilded Age, in my case by giving the muse a good kick in the pants, and calling for the powers that be in pol­itics to cough up something in the way of campaign verse. 
This glorious genre was last heard, to my knowledge, when Frank Sinatra sang "The Kennedy Song" in commer­cials in 1960. If you exclude Richard Nixon's performance of "Get Off of My Cloud" on Laugh-In and Ronald Reagan's memorable rendition of the Buggies' "Video Killed the Radio Star" in 1983, the genre has been moribund. (I 


Josh Ozersky 
am excluding Eugene McCarthy, whose mordant verse was never intended as the sort of crassly vulgar sloganeering I am calling for). 
Each candidate would need a different form, to fit his personality. For the sin­gle-minded Forbes, for example, the Japanese haiku would be apropos: 
My father left me 
Millions; now they want to take 
It away from me 
Such an approach would be enor­mously more cost-effective than Forbes' current ads, while boiling down his essential message to an irreducible economy. Forbes could barrage pri­maries with different haiku, for exam­ple, "Behind my thick glasses/my beady eyes weep at the thought ofno flat tax." 
Forbes has an essentially intellectual view of things; how would a more vis­ceral candidate, like Pat Buchanan, con­vey his message? 
I look at Buchanan's piggy face, and I see star material. I see Buchanan tak­ing a page from the group Nine Inch Nails, and adopting their song "Head Like a Hole": 
Ifyou are a real hard hat 
You'd better vote for Mr. Pat! 

•  DiHlNESSURY  
MIKe! MY 605H-Mi4T ARE YOlJ IJO­INGHERE7 \  I.WASGO­/N6TOASI< YOUTH& SAM& THING, 500P51C...' I  YOU MEAN YOU l?ll?N7H~? I'M A BACI<CROFCAF/5. CAMEO.' Me ANl? CHARO ANI? KATO KAEL./N ANI?Hell?/ FtE/'35 ANI?A GIUIGAN STAR.  

Naturally, Buchanan's core con­stituency might not go for the aggressive power chords of this song, so perhaps he might vary it with a jingoistic ditty based on Jimi Hendrix' "Hey Joe" 
"Hey Jews, where you going with 
those jobs in your hands?" 
''I'm going to give them to foreigners, 
I don't have to pay them in a far away 
land." 
Such aggressive melodies would not play for a more moderate candidate like Bob Dole. No, for the Senate Majority leader, no bumptious melodies will suf­fice. Dole is the candidate of sober Republicanism, hands-off government in the Roman model. Could there be any poetic form more suited to him then than the Augustan couplet? For Bob Dole, the mighty iamb is ideal. It con­veys his wisdom, his restraint. his global view of things: 
Survey Mankind, From Orange County to Vermont 
And ask thyself, can thou find a want 
Of Education, of Plenty. of the arts of Health Which could not be solved without Big Government's Wealth? 
See the Liberal! who in his wasteful hour, Builds for homosexuals the bridal bower Subsidizes the Media's tentacles of vice, and spills our blood for Serbs, without thinking twice! 
Such verse is inevitably tiresome to ordinary people, and perhaps it is just this aloofness which has handicapped Dole among the acorn farmers. Yet form must follow function, and it is impossible to conceive of Dole bringing down the house with scores of mad­dened yahoos, a Ia Buchanan. No, let Dole build his house of marble, and pre­pare for an octogenarian run for the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO, NO, I JU5TFtaU 
UP HeRE FOR JOEY !3U7TAFUOCO NIGHT. 
rings in 2000. 
The problem with all these campaign poems is that they lack a certain venom. As with the Blaine-Cleveland election. direct attacks may be in order. As a good democrat myself, I would suggest a few jingles to the President -which he 
' The problem with all 
these campaign poems is that they lack a certain venom. As with the Blaine­Cleveland election, direct attacks may be in order. As a good democrat myself, I would suggest a few jingles to the President -which he could then release through anonymous functionaries, disavowing, Mission­Impossible style, any knowl­edge.' 
could then release through anonymous functionaries, disavowing, Mission­Impossible style, any knowledge. "The fruit doesn't fall from the tree," "Let's give Dole a hand!" and "Buchanan looks silly in his cowboy suit" would circulate throughput the infosphere. But I doubt they would be received in the right spir­it. The other side would start making snide jokes about "Whitewatergate" and "Mrs. President" and we would be right back in the Gilded Age again. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is Joshua.A. Ozersky.l @nd. edu 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only fence against the world is a thorough knowledge of it." 
-John Locke 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, fc:bruary 29, 1996 
page 11 
• GOD 'N LIFE 
Take time out for yourselfbefore eternity hits 
Leap Year. 
Once every four years, we get an extra day-aeeording to the ealendar, at any rate. That "time" is just a fig­nwnt of human imagination, or just an invention to make society more ordt~red, has been debated for cen­turies. Do we really need wall eloeks, wrist watehes, Big Ben? What would our t~xistence be like without time? 
Hnrnity. 
!\ scary eoneept, eternity, and also tlw tnpie of numerous debates. We are told-in Christian religions -that we face an tmdless eternity upon dying. In lwaven. wt~ will sing God's praises with the angels. If we land in hell (another scary concept), we will sutTer without 
t~nd. 
liternity is a time line with no begin­ning and no end. Still the image of a line to deseribe it is wrong. Eternity is. When we get there, we'll understand, but for now we have to live by a con­cept somebody developed to keep us in dwck, to get us to class and work even if the sun isn't up yet. 
Is this a call to revolt? Perhaps. Maybe technology has gone too far, 
• l£HERS TO THF EDITOR 
beginning with time. People used to get up when the rooster crowed, feed the livestock or plow the fields. Everyone got a good night's. sleep, going to bed when the sun set. There was no "night life", because there was no artificial 

Julie Ferarro 
light. Without the prt~ssure of the clock, life was simpler. 
Anyone out there yearn for a simpler life? It might be said that life can't be any simpler than on a college campus. Food and bed are supplied, a schedule tells us where to be at at what hour on what day, and the rest is "free timn " Complications always seem to ari!>e, however: papers to be written for class, tests, family emergencies, etc. Just about the time we're ready to relax, the water main in the dorm springs a leak, or the power goes out. 

What can be done to make life sim­pler, then? Should there be a clock bonfire in the C-1 parking lot some evening? I don't think the administra­tion would look kindly on that. Should all the wrist watches on campus be boiled in oil or scrapped out for spare parts? Doubtful. 
Let's stop being slaves to time, any­way. Such minor obsessions can grow into major ones later in life, and lead to unhappiness. Take a "night off'' now and then just to relax. Better yet, take a weekend off for a personal retreat. Find a secluded inn or retreat center and forget time for a day or two. Sit in a hot tub, get a massage, say a prayer. 
Do it now, while you have the chance. The one undeniable thing about time is that it ultimately runs out for all of us. Then we'll have to be in good voice, so we can sing for eternity! 
Julie Ferarro is secretary in the Fr·eimann Life Science Center . 

Evolution issues require an exorcism 

.. 

Dear Editor: 
Graduatn students do not go to Notre Dame. (;raduatt~ sltuhmts haunt Notre Dame. They are rnstlHss spirits. largely invisible, with an unre­ltmting drive to gloom their opinions upon the living. 
Onn such voiee, a very restless one, has fre­qunnted the editorial page with a series of uncorporeal attacks on matters of Evolution. It does not befit a line University to have its cam­pus paper filled with nonsense. These bumps in the night demand exorcism. 
I must admit though, my motives for writing are derived from pure emotion. It gets my Irish up when someone tells me that my ancestors DID NOT EXIST. It bothers me because they worked very hard, for over a billion years, to ensure the success of their children, to ensure the survival of their families. A billion years of family values is worth defending. 
I know they existed because, equipped with common sense and also a little biochemistry, I can see their legacy all around me. !\ newspa­per is not a proper forum for debate on techni­cal 111atters-you don't have enough fonts. llowevnr it j., ThP Ob-;nrver that decided to 'unearth tlw evululwn df'hate' and so thus sum­moned, I offer a sa111ple of living, breathing facts. 
Consider the mouse, the human, a bacteria familiar to most of us called E. coli, and baker's ynast. Evolution demands us to consider who is morr• dosely related to whom. Can one test it? Can one qualitatively address this in the limited amount of space of an Observer column? No place for complex babble about bones. teeth or tlH-l romposition of various bits of slime. We nm~d a morP interesting meter stick, interesting mwugh for I'he Observer audience. 

EDUCATIONAL INTERLUDE-Living things have a myriad of common features. One is that they make proteins. Required for this process is a certain type of 'key' molecule called tRNA. If mutations take place on these molecules it's most likely a bad thing. Organisms are careful not to let this happen too much. The code for these tRNA is a string of DNA. Everyone has heard about DNA, it's the thing of which your genes are composed. DNA 'speaks' in a code of four letters. The human and the mouse sequences are identical. The bacteria E. Coli differs from the human in 22 places -the yeast with the human in 17 places. A very ele­gant theory implores us to draw a qualitative tree. 
People with microscopes have been able to create this kind of thing for a century; your own eyes can tell you that you have much more in common with a mouse than puddle of slime. Other single genes might better show kinship more clearly, but they are large. For more information it is best to compare a variety of genes. Which brings us to general maxims. 
1) Biology makes no sense without the theory of evolution. 2) Evolution is made only more robust with more data. Christopher Columbus has taken some hard knocks in this paper ­apparently for simply being a product of his times. Surely one thing can be understood, his belief that he had discovered a way to the fringes of Asia. All Chris had ever read suggest­ed so. Hard to understand are those that can reside amid the pregnant winter fields of 20th century Indiana and expect to find the Great Khan shacked up in Granger. 
Observer readers deserve better. LESTER LAMBERT Graduate Student 
All Irish sports teams deserve student support 
Dear Editor: 
This Jetter is informally addressed to every member of the 
Notre Dame student body. I am writing primarily because of the 
widespread lack of support for our sports teams. and to further 
comment on the issues raised in Bob Corson's letter of February 
22, 1996. 
Last weekend. I had the opportunity to visit the University of Connecticut. While there, I watched UConn beat Rutgers (at Rutgers) in a televised women's basketball game. After announcing that 5000 fans were in attendance, one of the announcers mentioned that when playing at home, the UConn women's team draws an average of 8000 fans per game. That's right: 80001!!!!! Granted, their women's team has been nation­ally ranked for as long as J can remember; however, over the past few years, Notre Dame's women's basketball team has beeq. as good, if not better (as we should see in this weekend's game against UConn, and in the Big East Tournament begin­ning March 2) than both UConn and Rutgers. So, I ask, why does Notre Dame only average 1500 fans a game, with fewer than a tenth of those being students?!? 
A similar question was raised when the women's soccer team won the national championship earlier this year. Why is it that Irish fans are so enthusiastic about football games, but fail to support many of the other fine athletic teams? I guess they must have something better to do than support their fellow classmates. Personally, I have been to nearly every hockey, women's basketball, and men's basketball game over my four years here, and also try to attend as many of the other sporting events as possible. Obviously I cnn't go to EVERY game (I need SOME time to study and to spend with friends), but at least I (and a handful of other Irish "faithfuls") make the effort. 
We have many superior teams here at Notre Dame that deserve our respect. There are a few simple things we need to do as a student body to improve the level of support: 
(1) 
Attend at least one ND sporting event a week. This only takes 2-3 hours (a wonderful study break!), and the teams would really appreciate the effort. Plus, most of the events are FREE-just show your ID. at the door. 

(2) 
Learn the school songs (not just the fight song and the alma mater), and the cheers that accompany the percussion cadences (e.g.. "In Your Face Abuse"). Start cheering along with the cheerleaders -they're not there just to look pretty, they· support the teams. Student and fan unity can play a vital role in the outcome of the game. What though the odds ... 

(3) 
Cheer loudly and often for the team, even if they're losing. We should show approval for the players' efforts. even if we're not particularly happy with the outcome of a partkular play or the game. The players will become more confident, and. will take pride in representing their university. 

(4) 
If the band is at the game, remain at the game until the alma mater is finished. If the band isn't there, sing it your­selves. Not only will you be supporting the team, YOU will be paying respect to your school. (lt was very disheartening to see only 6 fans stay for the alma mater after the Providence basket­ball game.) 


Let's bring the Notre Dame spirit back to this campus by encouraging our athletic teams. Remember, the athletes on these teams live in our dorms, have papers and exams like we do, and eat in the dining halls. We need to support our class­mates, our friends, and our school. So, put on your Gold and Blue, and come join the "faithful"!!!! 
CYNTHIA DUBELL Senior Lewis Hall 

page 12 Thursday, February 29, 1996 

11!!11 


(out of five) 

iris I 
st 
s House of GVSB 

W 
ite it down on your hand. Girls Against Boys abbreviated as "GvsB") will rule the rock world very soon. Don't be fooled by their chosen name. "Girls Against Boys" tends to conjure up images of bands like Blur who prudishly prance around pools in primary­colored Adidas warm-ups. But one should know that the drumming of Alexis Fleisig alone could beat the snot out of those swaggering modsters all the way back to the UK. 
House of GvsB, the band's fourth full length album, is the most mature and diverse release to date by these New York-by-way-of-D.C.-ers. Mixing lounge, funk, hard-core and post-purik, Girls Against Boys creates a completely unique sound. Like few other bands, GvsB also creates a definite texture and atmosphere. You can practically smell the music. Scott McCloud's voice, the growling Barry White of indie-rock, combined with muddy rhythms and snaky keyboards is the house music of an imaginary club. 
Down a dark, rain-slick alley, under a pink fluorescent glow lies the door to the exclusive House of GvsB. Smoke from constantly igniting cigarettes gelatinizes the dark air, as sweaty punks, super models, tycoons and club-kids whisper into each other's ears under the jingle and clank of cocktail glasses and the thump and whack of GvsB, the post-modern, hard-core Tony Bennett. 
Musically, GvsB has tweaked their sound considerably. The wah guitar on "Super-fire," the old-school hip-hop beats on "Vera Cruz" and the industrial sounding drums on "Zodiac Love Team" complement the band's sexy eclecticism. The fact is, one can't mention this band with­out mentioning "sex" or "sexy." It's only natural. With a name like Girls Against Boys and songs like "Zodiac Love Team" what could one expect? Some might even go so far as to say that sub-conscious suggestions in their music trigger the lobes of the brain responsible for pelvic thrust­ing, head bobbing and hip-swaying. 
For evidence of this theory, check out "Click Click" and "Cash Machine." Both songs pummel and seduce the ears with locomotive drums, crisp guitar rhythms and GvsB's trademark double-bass assault. Unlike the myriad of other hard-core/punk/indie/metal bands, GvsB refuses to rely on the guitar as chief rock power tool. "TheKindaMzkYouLike," for example, mirrors Helmet-like rhythms without the use of the guitar, mutat­ing the music into hard-core dance hall. On the other hand, "Vera Cruz" goes down in history as the one song that can successfully mix the Beastie Boys and Fugazi. 
House of GvsB demands to be listened to at maximum volume and bass. Be careful to fasten and secure loose objects in your room. Clear the floor. Work up a deep sweat learning the all the dance moves. But, hurry-Girls Against Boys is touring with the Foo Fighters and recently signed to Geffen Records, securing their imminent suc­cess. Be the first on your block. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 

1. 
Tori Amos -Boys For Pele 

2. 
Smashing_ Pumpkins -Mellon Collie & lhe lnjtnite Sadness 

3. 
Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning Glory?


4. 22 Brides -Beaker 
5. 
No Doubt-Tragic Kingdom 

6. 
Urge Overkill-Exit the Dragon 


7. 
Foo Fighters-Foo Fighters 

8. 
Possum Dixon -Star Maps 

9. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers-One Hot Minute 

10. 
Tripmaster Monkey -Practice Changes 



1. 2 Pac -All Eyes On Me 
2. Gin Blossoms -Congratulations
3. Smashing Pumykins -Mellon Collie & the lnjznite Sadness 
4. 
Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 

5. 
Collective Soul -Collective Soul 

6. 
Friends Soundtrack 

7. 
Natalie Merchant-Tigerlily


8. 
Lou Reed -Set The Twilight Reeling 

9. 
Seven Mary Three -American Standard 


10. Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

• WVFI CORNER 

THE RAYMOND BRAKE 
Piles of  The Raymond Brake  
Dirty  
Winter  
(out of live)  ,  ,,.  

T
he Raymond Brake is the next North Carolina indie rock sensation from the area known as "the triangle," the region encompassing Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill. The triangle has certainly produced a dispro­portionate number of great bands, including the Archers .of Loaf, Superchunk, and Small. These twenty and twenty-one­year-olds. who are currently students at the University of North Carolina-Greensboro, are by no means a one-trick act. Their songs range from cool pop tunes to intense, screaming anthems. with a folk song thrown in for fun. Songs like "Philistine" and "New Wave Dream" showcase their talent for writing catchy, poppy tunes that you'll be humming for days. 
The Raymond Brake are no sellouts; they stay true to their indie rock roots, with influences such as Polvo and the Grifters. On "Filthy Lucre," they pull you in with a catchy melody, but as soon as you start humming along, they blow you away with a powerful chorus complete with desperate screaming vocals. The range of styles makes Piles of Dirty Winters difficult to grab at first, but after a few good listens you'll realize it's the best thing you've heard in a long time. 
-by Dan Connolly 

I Pulp I 
(out of five) 

D 
espite a numb~r of 
preVIOUS albums, Pulp has only recently joined the pan­theon of Britpop which is today so dominant. Along with Blur and Oasis, Pulp has achieved a level of performance which justifies naming them among the very best of today's bands. Their previ­ous effort, His 'n' Hers, was a notable achieve­ment, but with A Different Class they have pieced together an album which is as profound as it is memorable. 
Its highlight is "Common People," an energetic track with splendid flashes of the famous Jarvis Cocker irony: "She came from Greece/She had a thirst for knowledge/She studied sculpture at St. Martin's College/That's where I caught her eye" (imagineJce'f stl!:~¥ing at varct!l. So · criti­cism is bpth ~)wious and i .... . fl. rare ·... ·from · a contemp~;~r"'y:q.an,d and q~e . ~t iswort~Jsten­ing out for. Th@ hilarious" orted For E's and Wizz" asks, "Is this the way they say the future's meant to feel, twenty thousand people standing in a field?" Hopefully the answer will be a negative one, but Pulp's uncanny ability to question those trends of which they form a part is both refreshing and amusing. 
From the general they move to the particular, and then back again. The second best track on the album, "Disco 2000," is a personal narrative con­cerning a pathetic and forlorn love set to a thump­ing disco track that is guaranteed to have clubbers dancing all over the place. Images of awkward childhood abound and are treated with the usual Cocker self-deprecation, while more adult con­cerns in "Live Bed Show" demonstrate that sad­ness as well as humor fall well within the band's repertoire. 
Above all this is a challenging album, and one that will find few friends amongst those who settle for the status quo. The theme of social division and injustice runs throughout the ten songs, but do .not fall into the trap of thinking that this is all 
Courtesy Island Records 

serious and whiny liberalism. There is none of the joylessness of a Billy Bragg but all the dark satire and humor of a Leonard Cohen. As with many ~n.glishhan.ds. Pulp has an instantly recognizable sound which ensures thatthey remain unforget­table. Cocker's effortless cabaret style involves the listener in his tales of self-conscious and distantly ironic trauma, and the production decision t.o let vocals remain unsubmerged makes the whole experience an enjoyable one. 
A Different Class is excellent and therefore unmissable; it is an album one finds hard to stop listening to and will provide as much enjoyment as Oasis' epic first two albums. Like Oasis, Pulp comes from the north of England, and it must be hoped that their confrontational style will provide more happy events like last week's Brit Awards­just don't expect Michael Jackson to guest on their next album. In only a few short months, A Different Class's strengths have already propelled Pulp to superstardom in England, and its imma­nent release this side of the Atlantic will bring pleasure to many who choose to investigate the enormous amount this album has to offer. 
-by Julian Elliott, music critic 
-
Thursday, February 29, 1996 page 13 
by 
Dominic DeVito 





the club is open 
Guided By Voices Midwest Tour February, 1996 

O 
ver tlw course of night days, Dayton. Ohio's Guided By Voices braved the harsh dimes and monotonous terrain of the north central U.S. to dnliver four amazing eon­cPrts for tlwir growing legions of fans. This intrepid journalist was fortunate enough to attend three or these exhila­rating cwents and talk to nwmbnrs of the band about tlw trials and joys of being middhHtged rock stars. 
The first show was in the Patio, a small bar outside of Indianapolis. Approximately 500 fans. many from Dayton, packed into this cozy pub to lwar what is possibly the best-kept snen~t in live music today. 
BPI'orn the show. guitarist/songwriter Tobin Sprout expressed enthusiasm about GIW's upcoming album, Under the /Juslws, Under the .\"tars, the band's 11th rnlease. ''I'm n~al happy with it," said Sprout, although he had written more than thP four songs of his which appmtr on it. 
Frontman Bob Pollard was recently quite busy writing new songs, and his twelve on the album all made an appc~arance at the show, while Sprout didn't sing any lead vocals. Not that it nmllnn~d; Pollard's track record for pen­ning catchy pop songs in the tradition or The Beatlm; and The Who speaks for itself. 
The band shocked many by opening their IJO-rninute set with eleven brand­nnw songs. For those who were used to (;BY's lo-fi short song sound, the new tracks showed a new direction for the hand: longer songs with more intricate structures and instrumental passages. 
llowever, the trio of Pollard, Sprout and guitarist Miteh Mitehell proved instantly that tlwy hadn't lost the magic toueh for beautiful hooks and haunting Iyric~s. Eac~h new song was received with mass approval as they all seemed to be instantly familiar. From the rolling "Your Name is Wild," to the brilliant chorus of "Underwater Explosions," and the unprncedented dynamics of "Cut Out Witch," this preview of the new album had everyone drooling in anticipation. 
After disposing of the new stuff. GBV delved into a hearty helping of the best material from their last four and most popular albums. The erowd went nuts. As Sprout said regarding their best music, "It's power pop. It roeks," and songs as familiar as any Beatles anthem brought thn erowd to repeated frenzies. Even Handy the t-shirt guy got involved, providing substitute vocals for an exhausted Pollard on "Madder Eater Lad" during the eneore. 
For those unfamiliar with GBV's repu­tation as beer-drinking rock'n'rollers, it's most definitely true. Throughout the Indy performance and in subsequent shows in Eau Claire, Wisconsin and Chieago, the band spent the entire night working themselves into a drunken fren­zy. 
Bob Pollard's lanky frame hovered and spun all night long, pausing occa­sionally to open a new bottle or light a cigarntte. Mitchell, cigarette and long locks ever-present, leapt and strummed like a madman possessed with the devil of music, while bassist Greg Demos strutted and twirled (and occasionally fell), stroking his guitar like a phallus 
Courtesy Matador Records 

Dayton, Ohio natives Guided By Voices kicked off their 1996 touring season with a visit to the Heartland, stopping in Indiana, Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, and Ohio. 
and daring anyone to question the plaee of this Dayton lawyer in a rock'n'roll band. Drummer Kevin Fennell did a superb job keeping time for those pop masterpieces, flailing but always in con­trol. Sprout's reserved stage demeanor contrasted the rest of the band's antics, but his playing and harrn~nizing spoke well enough for themselves. 
The next weekend brought Guided By Voices to Wisconsin and Illinois. The Eau Claire show, held at the state university, was a much different affair than the Indy show, with a huge room and stage and a smaller and younger crowd. 
The band delivered a phenomenal per­formanee, choosing this time to mix the new material in with the old and interacting more with the audience. A big surprise carne when Matt, from the opening band, New Radiant Storm King, joined GBV for a breathtaking "Smothered In Hugs." 
The following night at Chicago's Metro was the perfect eapper to the road trip from heaven. The band was in good spirits from a positive press session, and the heartily sold-out club welcomed them with open arms. 
The longest performance of the mini­tour showed the band to be giving a bit extra to each song (the newer material sounded espeeially polished), and the band showed their appreciation for a good show by giving a pair of long encores. 
Basically, the lesson from this exr.ur­sion with GBV is this: they're good live. They will be touring the entire country starting in April, so be sure to check them out when they come by. Picking up the new album and the last four (on Matador or Scat) wouldn't hurt either. 
CAMPUS MUSIC CAMPUS MUSIC 
by 
Kevin Dolan 


Getting funky with the Reverend Funk 
T
hn campus musk scene has never been a breed­ing ground for trends. This might seem odd at a school wherP everybody started rollerblading at ahout the same time, but historieally, identifiable trends have been avoided. The Itoadapples did their thing (and r,urse the past tense!), Big Earl did theirs, emiLy had their turf. and Brian Colin and Vince were there to keep things light. 
This ynar, however, and at the end of last year, tlwrll has been a growing trend on the part of campus hands to move back to our diapr,r days, the '70s. Fr,ar not: w1~'m not talking about Sr,als and Crofts or the Carpenters lwre. It's funk. Bands with singers who mnphasiz1~ soul more than striet precision, rhythm sec­Lions that aetually know what "syneopation" means, and llw odd horn thrown in here and again. This is the campus funk sc:mw, and it is somehow appropriate that a hand named Hnvnnmd Funk would exemplify that scntw as it has come to be. 
I.nt it bn said straight away that Heverend Funk is not a prntentious hand. Cocky, yes, but not pretentious. A band opens itsnlf up to questions like that when it namns itself "Hevenmd" anything. Heverend Funk, howovnr, like tlwir prodncessors whom we aren't old mwugh to remnmlwr in contnxt. placn mom value on soul and mwr1,ry than instrumnntal virtuosity. 
That's not to say thny can't play their instruments. In fact. all involved am tough to bnat in terms of eom­posite musical talent. Every player hPre carries his wnight, espndally bassist Chris Mueller, who is nvery hit as eapahln of playing a compelling solo as he is of laying a solid line. The oecasional Hiehard .Johnigan sax solo is a tmat. and should bn utilized more often for color. Overall, however. Heverend Funk is musical­ly solid. 
A quiek trip through a Heverend Funk demo tape gives one a good ovnrview of their influences. They an~n't nearly as broad as one might hope, but then, funk is not the most diverse of gcmres. The band cred­its "Gimmn Some Lovin"' to the Blues Brothers. This is possibly a charming way of being progressive and knnping things in the (relative) present. llowever, Steve Winwood and the rest of the Spencer Davis Band, who recorded the original (and superior almost beyond words) version of "Gimrne Some Lovin"' before the Blues Brothers were out of high school, might be a bit annoyed. What this says about Heverend Funk's influ­ences is up to you, but then, what has Steve Winwood done lately? 
Other covers stiek pretty much to the basic campus-funk idiom. 
s "Briekhouse," of course, is in ~· . there, and let's be honest: If ~­you've heard one version of ~ that Commodore's chestnut, . you've heard them all. ~ There are at least two ·~ bands on campus who .&......~ play this song, and ........_ there is precious little to distinguish any ren-Cl.:t dition thereof. ~ 
The same holds true ..a.­for "Do A Little .......­Dance." Granted, this _ ,..­
one is very, very •~
....·~ eatchy. But then, so is , ~ mono. Heverend Funk, J 

as they do with every ~ song they play, bring out ~ the best in the song. Here, ,..I) it's an atmospheric guitar ,., 
~~u~~c~f~but actually~17-uo~~works~~~~esx~~utper-~~~~~
~·~. · fectly. Still, questions of historical know!-· · edge arise. As with . everything on the Pulp Fiction sound­track, would anyone think twice about this song if we didn't have an ultra-hip visual association to go with it? Not likely. "Low Rider" is another cover you've heard a hundred times, but Heverend Funk slows it down a bit, and the results are quite niee. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 29, 1996 
•NHl 

Without Messier, Rangers stumble at home 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ray Bourque and Rick Tocchet scored goals 2:35 apart in the second period and the Boston Bruins beat New York 3­1 Wednesday night and handed the Rangers their third straight loss at home following a club record-tying 24-game unbeaten streak. 
Steve Heinze also scored for Boston with 4:31 remaining in the third period as the Rangers dropped their third straight at home for the first time since last April. 
The Rangers, playing without leading scorer Mark Messier, got their only goal from defenseman Bruce Driver as they maintained a four-point lead over Florida for the top spot in the Eastern Conference. Messier injured his shoul­der in Tuesday night's 5-3 loss to Washington. His status is day to day. 
The Bruins played without top goal scorer Cam Neely, out indefinitely with a strained right hip. 
Boston goalie Bill Hanford stopped 39 of 40 shots. Glenn Healy had 30 saves in 33 attempts. 
Bourque, MVP of the All-Star game earlier this month, broke a scoreless tie midway through the second period with a power-play goal. Just two seconds after Alexander Karpovtsev went off for boarding, Adam Oates made a pass to the slot and Bourque fired a blast over Healy's right shoulder for his 18th. 
Less than three minutes later, Tocchet gave the Bruins a 2-0 lead when he worked the give-and-go on a 2-on-1 break with Shawn McEachren and beat Healy to the glove side. 
The Rangers finally scored with less than five minutes remaining in the sec­ond on a blast from the point by Driver. New York had the man advantage with Philip Von Steffanelli off for holding. 
Although the first period was score­less, the Bruins set the tone. Shots on goal were even at 11 apiece, but Boston had a 14-7 faceoff advantage in Messier's absence. 
Flyers 4, Stars 4 
DALLAS Eric Lindros scored his 40th and 41st goals and Craig MacTavish tied the 

game with 7:00 to play as the Philadelphia Flyers rallied from a two­goal, third-period deficit for a 4-4 tie with the Dallas Stars Wednesday night. 
The Flyers missed a chance at the vic­tory with 23 seconds left in overtime when Anatoli Semenov missed an open net from point-blank range. 
Mike Modano collected his 31st goal and Benoit Hogue had three assists to put him over 400 points for his career as the Stars stretched their unbeaten streak to four games and continued their climb in the Western Conference playoff race. 
The Stars brought a three-game win­ning streak into the game and a victory would have given them their longest of the season. 
Daryl Sydor, Guy Carbonneau and Grant Ledyard also had goals for the Stars. Pat Falloon also scored for the Flyers, who had won three of their pre­vious four games. 
The Flyers capped their third-period rally on MacTavish's 30-foot blast from the high slot at 13:00. 
MacTavish's fifth goal of the season tied the game at 4-4. 
Dallas had a two-goal lead after two periods but Falloon narrowed the gap to 4-3 1:25 into the final period with his 18th on a wrist shot from the top of the left circle. 
Lindros scored his second of the game at 13:40 of the second period when he knocked in his own rebound, narrowing Dallas' lead to 3-2. 
But the Stars boosted their advantage to 4-2 with 2:21 left in the second period when Modano backhanded the rebound of Ledyard's shot past Ron Hextall. 
The Stars came out aggressively and charged to a 3-1 first-period lead on goals by Sydor, Carbonneau and Ledyard. 
Sydor notched his second goal of the season and first since he was acquired from the Los Angeles Kings on a rebound at 4:23 of the first period. Carbonneau gave Dallas a 2-0 lead 3:22 later, scoring his seventh goal on a 25­foot wrist shot off a pretty setup from Grant Marshall. 
Lindros hit the 40-goal mark on a blast from the right point to narrow the Stars' advantage to 2-1 at 13:31 of the first period. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaForrune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  FAX IT FAST!! I  SAW SAW SAW SAW SAW Ok I  Big Orange,  
NOTICES  TOP$$$ PAID (800)269-5849  219-291-7153  Sending & Receiving at  finally am getting around to it. Please campus mail me all your  II appeared the other da that you seemed to be having one of those  
HOMES FOR RENT  THE COPY SHOP  personalthoughts-Ok anything you  not so fresh days. I understood  
SPRING BREAK!  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 232-2595  LaFortune Student Center  want to put in a SAW scrapbook-It  your pain. The torture you have  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  Positions are now available at  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  might take me a while but I'm  experienced in the past two years is  
BLOW IT!  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  putting one together. Send Now!  more than any thing should have to  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  NEED A PLACE FOR THE SUM­ FAX IT FAST!! I  233 Sieg-Ellen  bear. Just remember when you're  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  MER? COLLEGE PARK CONDO­ in the dark and the demons come,  
$359 Florida $109  ext.N55845  MINIUMS-SUBLETTING FOR  Hey Kiddie,  Do you have a ride home for  I'll be there with you.  
FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  MID-MAY THROUGH AUGUST.  There is a support group for Gay,  SPRING BREAK yet?  
1-800-426-771 0  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD ­ CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH  Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning  Hey Monarch boy,  
Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching  AT 273-1738  People tonight. Maybe you should  Place a classified ad in The  Don't hurt yoursPII tending bar over­ 
For anyone interested, the  basic conversational English  give the Q-line a call and find out  Observer!!!  seas.  
Morrissey FilmFt!st is currently  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and  where it is?  
accepting student films. For more  S.Korea. Many employers provide  It's inexpensive and effective!  I find that rather odd.  
information, call Andy at X3501.  room & board + other benefits. No  2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK  The number is 287-6665. I think it  
teaching background or Asian lan­ FOR RENT FOR THE SUMMER  is at 7:30. II takes a lot of courage  REVEREND FUNK  Wild one,  
Will babysit in my home in Granger.  guages required. For more informa­ ONLY.  to go, but I'm here for you friend.  <<<><><><><><><><><><><>>>  Mr. Boca has something in store for  
Crafts, stories, play time, hugs.  tion call: (206)971-3570 ext.J55843  BEST OFFER! (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE)  You can do ill  you.  
Fenced yard. 272-2554.  CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907  JAZZMAN'S  
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  WIN FABULOUS PRIZES!  SATURDAY NIGHT  Dom,  
Friday 9:30 Saturday 7 & 9:30  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  come & get a free funk injection  Say hi to Cotton Fitzsimmons. He's  
INDIAN IN THE CUPBOARD  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  Room For Rent  Meet the Barker's Beauties!  the other loser out there in Phoenix.  
Carroll Auditorium Free Admission  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  Nice Neighborhood. $300/mo.  Come to Pangborn's Price is Right!  ATTN: IDIOT WHO PUTS STAR  
ILOST & FOUND I  Necessary. GDE. 919-929-4398 ext C1114  255-9005 THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ Sat. March 2 Stepan 7:00 pm COME ON DOWN!  WARS DIALOG IN PERSONALS EVERYDAY  Mara, That mass was pretty hilarious.  
Call (219)282-3518.  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  Hey single guys and girls!  Please call me and tell me who you  Nobody knows me like the photo  
LOST  Free information.  ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  are so I can come and beat the hell  guy.  
NAVY BLUE BLAZER, SIZE 41L  Earn money from your dormitory  CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA  Have you watched MTV's Singled  out of you. Ron x4010  
at ALUMNI-KNOTT FORMAL  room!  2773097  Out and pictured yourself in the  
on 2/9 at Senior Bar  winner's circle? If so, come be a  There once was a girl named  
If you have it, or informtion about it , please call Brian x1173  Catholic Church vocation informa­tion available at:  FOR SALE  part of Notre Dame's own version by joining our dating pool.  Luke, I am your father  Chrissy, at times she acted quite prissy.  
http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/html  Stop by the LaFortune Info desk  Now Main Street's whitewashed  
LOST-at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's  lvoc1.html  FOR SALE-MACINTOSH APPLE  between Monday, Feb. 26­ windows and vacant stores  So her friend liked to call her Tori,  
Formal: long navy blue wool  God has important work for you to  POWERBOOK 520C, only 2-3  Thursday, Feb. 29 and fill out a  Seem like there ain't nobody wants  but that is another story.  
woman's coat and men's navy blaz­ dol  months old, includes Clarisworks  contestant questionaire. So get  to come down here no more  
er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on  4.0 soflware and a COLOR STYLE­ ready to strut your stuff on March  They're closing down the textile mill  Then came a guy named Pete,  
Friday night. Please call x-1407  Tall, thin white male looking for  WRITER 2400 PRINTER. Only  28!  across the railroad tracks  and she thought that he was quite  
working and inflatable lung. Left  $1500 o.b.o. For more info. call  Forman says these jobs are going  neat.  
FOUND  preferred.  Jarvis @ X2159  Knott Hall Casino Night is coming!!  and they ain't coming back  
I accidently picked up the wrong  Get Friendly With Your Favorite  to your hometown  He had a nickname, too.  
jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a  Will pay cash.  H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card  Knott Angel To Get An Invitation!  Everyone called him "The Meat."  
Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at  x3692  Saturday, 312 8:00pm  Murray I promise we'll take you out  
x4010.  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  to dinner soon  Don't ask me why, I haven't a clue.  
Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  JUDAY CREEK gem.  Hey Mark & Sean ­ Really  Writing these poems is all that I do.  
LOST  to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  Well-maintained, ~-bedroom ranch  bzzzaaa  
I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer  Room and Board! Transportation!  with a 17 x 25 home office  Yours truly, Bitter Pat  Hey,  This couple had quite a great friend,  
pullover at Bridget's. If you found it  Male or Female. No experience  & 3-car garage.  Can someone please play bizarre  who was funny and smart to no  
please call Eddie at x4010  necessary. Call (206)971-3510  $154,900. Call Karen 272-3653.  Going to Pittsburgh area over  love triangle.  end.  
extA55844  break? I have space for 2. Call  
found small amount of money  x1777.  EMILY LORD  I won't say his name, but you know  
outside of doors on sunday the  Anthony Travel, Inc. looking for  Waterfront Condos  & friends  him the same, if you are also a  
25th. Call 273-6205 to verify  part-time student assitance.  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  CasiJones­ Kevin Fleming, Jim Maher, Ed Wolf,  friend.  
amount.  Approx. 10 hours/week. Stop by  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  "11'11 be Fine!"  
our office in LaFortune or call 631­ New Decor  singing your favorite songs!  Thanks for your time, and I hope  
WANTED  7080 and ask for Mary or Pat.  EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame  Driving down at least as far as Austin-San Antonio? Desperately  Saturday March 2, 10:30 pm Club23  that you like my rhyme. -T.F.  
ALUM WANTS TO BUY OR  BEAUTIFUL!  seeking ride to SA for Spring Break!  
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  TRADE  NORTH SHORE CLUB  Willing to $, drive. Call me, Paulina,  Sarah Jane- The Great One is finally in St. Louis  
Part-time work. $10.25/start.  NO FOOTBALL MEMORABILIA ­ 232-2002  4-2985.  Tori knows the truth!  and he's bringing the Cup.  
Flexible hours around classes. All  (TIC STUBS/PROGRAMS, ETC.)  
majors. Scholarships/Internships.  2773097  ATTENTION!!  Dante must be an accounting  GO BLUES!!  
CALL 282-2357.  MUST LIQUIDATE  IF ANYONE KNOWS OF SOME­ major. He's all about cash flow.  
Responsible babysitter needed for  Selling TV, stereo, and speakers  ONE WHO TAPED THE BILLY  He might be a meteorologist. He's  Petroteach is fun ...  
...1need a RIDE TO FLORIDA for  2 and 6-year-old. Any major block  call JOE-239-7959  JOEL LECTURE ON Jan30,  all about rain too. His entrance  Besides, red heads get hit on in  
spring break; wil pay for gas, etc.  of time 9:30-5:00 M-F. Great loca­ PLEASE CALL x4122. WILL PAY  into the NBA next season will dou­ Russia ...  
Please call Michael at 4-1155. •••  tion 10 miles south of NO. Call 299-0051.  TICKETS  BIG BUCKS$$$  ble the amount of eyetalians in the pros. Gugs will be lonely no more.  Why didn't somebody tell me your  
,I  SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP ­ FOR RENT  WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$.  You can SKIP like a record, HOP like a bunny, or JUMP like a rope but only a LEAP can keep you eter­ Who's that winking bandit in the  crotch itches when you shave it? And why does DQ close so damn­ 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE  nally young! HAPPY 13th LEAP  boxing pictures?  early every night...i mean, hello,  
NEAR LAKE PLACID  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  (908)536-3431  YEAR BIRTHDAY MOM! i luv you,  who wants a blizzard at eight am?  
1-800-786-8373  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  gretchen  K.P.'s child,  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games  PERSONAL  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ That guys's no president.  i'd rather have chocolate tempt my tummy than the taste of nuts and  
Earn up to $2,000+/month working  219-277-7003  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ honey...  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ 0o0o0o0o0o0c0c0c0c0c0  born. Will provide love, nurturing  Happy belated birthday to the star  
panies. World travel. Seasonal &  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!!l  environ., educ., financial security.  of the U-17 National Team. Happy  Elenka, you rock...  
full-time employment available. No  HOME.  THE COPY SHOP  Hollywood Hills home has large  17th Potempa.  
experience necessary. For more  VERY CLOSE TO NO.  LaFortune Student Center  back yard and loving dog. Call  To Billy Dutch, I still want you even  
information call1-206-971-3550 ext.C55843  IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194.  Phone 631-COPY 0c0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0o0c0  818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential.  C'mon Seymour. Just a little cough.  if you are an obsessed lover ... see you in the real world ...  

-0-... , .... .0.•, ....... ~--· .. ~ ..... •' "" .... -........ ' M 4-0 ... ~ ' #', # -·~~~ ... o0 ••.,,... .-•·Ill.,; .. •• . ~,,., ... ··~...... 

.. 
• toLLt!:. ASl..O::TBALL 
Allen scores career high in win 
STOHHS, Conn. 

Bay /\linn scored a career-high 39 points, including a eareer-lwst nine 3-pointers, rallying No. 4 Conrwr.ticut from an early 15-point deficit to a 78-66 victory over Hutgers on Wednesday night. 
/\linn, who hadn't made more than three 3­pointers in the previous five games, hit four straight from beyond the are late in the first half aftnr the lluskies had fallen bnhind 30-15. 
Connecticut (26-2, 16-1 Big East) took a 39-37 halftime lead. but Hutgers stayed in the game, and led 58-57 on a scoop shot by Damion Santiago with 7:45 left. 
Allen responded with his seventh 3-pointer, which started an 11-0 run that put the lluskies up 68-58, and ahead to stay, as the Scarlet Knights (9-1 6, 6-11) 1wver got closer than seven points the rnst of the way. 
Tlw ganw spoilnd an impressive performance by Santiago, who tied his career-high with 27 points. Andrew Kolbasovsky had 11 points for Hutgt~rs and Hob Hodgson added 10. 
l>oron SlwfTer, who didn't score until there wnrn two minutns left in the first half. finished with 12 points for UConn, which finished unde­feated in 15 homn games this season. 
The Huskins, who had already secured the No. I stHld for tlw Big East tournament, wrap up the mgular season Saturday against Seton Hall. 
/\linn has 91 3-pointers this season, breaking 



The original. directed by J. Lee Thompson $2 Adults, Sl Students 
For ticket information contoctlOGAN Center of 
289-4831 
Celebrating a Tradition of Service lo People with Developmental Dllliulties 
Join us in meeting 
Chris Zorich 
of the Chicago Bears featured speaker at 
The Great LOGAN Nose-On Luncheon 
the school record of 85 he set last season. 
Indiana 76, IUinois 64 

Bob Knight gave Lou Henson a going-away pre­sent Wednesday night, then Indiana gave the retiring Illinois coach a 76-64 loss in his final game in the Hoosiers' Assembly Hall. 
Brian Evans scored 25 points and Todd Lindeman added 19, including 9 during a 27-5 second-half streak that broke open a tight game and kept alive Indiana's hopes for an NCAA tour­ney bid. 
The two coaches, who feuded five years ago after Knight criticized Illinois for recruiting viola­tions, embraced during a pre-game ceremony honoring Henson, who will retire at the end of the season. Knight gave Henson an engraved chair and called him a "tremendous part of Big Ten basketball." 
Then they went back to war. 

The Hoosiers (16-11, 9-6 Big Ten) had lost the past two games and three of their past four and appeared in trouble after Illinois (17 -10, 6-9) ral­lied from 10 points down to lead 4 7-44 seven minutes into the second half. 
But the Illini managed only two baskets by Bryant Notree, one of them a 3-pointer, over the next 10 minutes. 
During that period, Indiana steadily pulled away. A 3-point goal by Neil Reed gave the Hoosiers a 58-49 lead before Notree's 3-pointer. 

UMass rebounds, Marquette upsets in overtime battles 
Associated Press 

AMHERST, Mass. 
Marcus Camby had 21 points, 15 rebounds and his 300th career blocked shot Wednesday night as No. 2 Massachusetts rebounded from its only loss with a 68-66 overtime victory over St. Joseph's. 
Camby hit a turnaround jumper in the lane with 1:44 left in overtime to break a 63­63 tie, then registered the mile­stone block at the other end. With 16 seconds left and UMass leading 67-66, Edgar Padilla missed two free throws that could have iced it, but Camby grabbed the rebound. 
Terrell Myers and Reggie Townsend each had 14 points and Townsend added 11 rebounds for St. Joseph's (13­11, 8-7 Atlantic 10), which had won four in a row. 
UMass (27-1, 15-1) was com­
$3 A 

ing off its only loss of the sea­son, 86-76 Saturday to George Washington. The Minutemen haven't lost two in a row in three years. 
Marquette 80, No. 21 Louisville 79, 20T 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 
Aaron Hutchins hit a 3-point­er from the right corner with three seconds left in the second overtime, lifting Marquette to an 80-79 victory over No. 21 Louisville on Wednesday night. 
Hutchins' game-winner spoiled the return of Louisville center Samaki Walker, who had missed 10 consecutive games while the school con­ducted an investigation into the purchase of an automobile by his father. 
Walker finished with 24 points and 12 rebounds. Louisville (19-9, 10-4 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Illustrations Editor 
Contact Garrett Gray at 634-1786 for more information 
Conference US/\) took a 79-77 after Tick Rogers made two free throws after picking off a pass and being fouled by Anthony Peiper while driving to the basket with 8.8 seconds to go. 
After a Louisville timeout, Hutchins took the inbounds pass and drove down the right side and launched the 3-pointer to give Marquette (19-6, 9-4) its sixth victory in its last seven games. 
Louisville's Alvin Sims lofted a shot from midcourt that was way off the mark as time expired. 
Hutchins, who was 5-of-6 on 3-pointers in helping Marquette to a 37-29 halftime lead, fin­ished with 23 points. Roney Eford collected 14 points and 12 rebounds, while Pieper fin­ished with 13 points. 
Damion Dantzler, whose tip­in with 14 seconds sent the game into a second overtime, scored 18 points, while DeJuan Wheat added 14 and Brian Kiser 12 for Louisville. 
Marquette overcame 34 per­cent shooting (23-of-67) by making 12 of 13 shots from 3­point range and 21 of 27 free throws. 
Louisville shot 44 percent (29-of-66), but made just six of 19 3-pointers and missed 10 of 25 foul shots. 
Pieper appeared to have the game iced for Marquette when he made two free throws for a 63-61 lead with 4.3 seconds remaining in regulation. But Wheat was fouled by Hutchins while bringing the ball up the court at 1.9 seconds and made both foul shots. 
Pieper's 3-pointer with 36 seconds left in the overtime gave Marquette a 69-67 lead. Dantzler came through with a tip-in on B . .J. Flynn's miss 22 seconds later to force the sec­ond overtime. 
Louisville, losing its second straight game, opened a 77-7 4 lead on Walker's short hook with 1:31 left in the second ex­tra period. 
Marquette's Chris Crawford countered with a 3 at 1:14 to tie the game. 
page 16 Thursday, February29, 1996
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 
Final Report ofAd Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs Submitted to Professor Patricia O)Hara, Vice Presidentfor Student Affairs 
I 
n your March 6, 1995, Open Letter to the Notre Dame community, 
you announced the establishment of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay 
and Lesbian Student Needs. This letter will serve as the final report 
of the committee. 

In order to put the work of the committee into context, it is important to understand the circumstances which led to the creation of the committee. The Office of Student Affairs has had a longstanding dispute with GLND/ SMC regarding whether granting official University recognition to this or­ganization is an appropriate means of meeting the needs of gay and les­bian students on this campus given the University's responsibility to be faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church. Student Affairs has twice considered requests from GLND/SMC for University recognition-first in 
1986, when recognition was denied by the then Vice President for Student Affairs, Rev. David 'JYson, C.S.C., and again in the spring of 1992 when you denied an appeal by GLND/SMC of a decision by the Office of Student Activities refusing recognition. In denying GLND/SMC's appeal, you cited the "value neutral" approach expressed in it~ application materials and a history of dissent from official Church teaching among some of its leadership. 
As an unrecognized group, GLND/SMC is not permitted to use campus facilities, receive University funds or sponsor activities. In the spring of 
1995, Student Affairs informed GLND/SMC that, in light of its unrecog­nized status, it could not use a room in the Counseling Center for regular and publicized peer support meetings. This decision sparked a heated, painful and divisive campus debate. For some, the refusal to grant recog­nition suggested that the University wished to disavow its gay and lesbian student~ as integral and valued members of this community. 
On February 20, 1995, the Campus Life Council (CLC) passed a resolu­tion that called upon Student Affairs to grant full recognition to GLND/ SMC. In your Open Letter of March 6, I995, in response to this res­olution, you articulated Student Affairs' rationale for refusing to grant recognition to GLND/SMC. At the same time, you affirmed the University's genuine desire to acknowledge and support gay and lesbian students on this campus: 
We value our gay and lesbian student~, as we value all student~ 
who are members of this community. We want the University 
to be a safe and inclusive environment in which every student 
can pursue the educational endeavor to which we are com­
mitted-free from harassment of any kind. A.~ with all our 
student~, we want to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian 
student~. We seek to do so through appropriate channels­
channels which we believe are best equipped to address the 
issues with which gay and lesbian students deal and channels 
that allow us to balance our desire to support our gay and 
lesbian students with our responsibility to remain faithful to 
the teachings of the Catholic Church. 

In your March 6, 1995, Open Letter, you also announced the creation of this committee to advise you on how, apart from recognition of GLND/ SMC or another student organization, Student Affairs could do a better job of meeting the needs of gay and lesbian students. Specifically, you asked us to consider the following questions: 
I. How can the University, through Student Affairs, sponsor a facilitated setting respectful of Church teaching in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support? 
2. 
What types of programs should Student Affairs sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs professional~, to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian student~? 

3. 
What additional measures should Student Affairs take to promote an environment free of harassment based on sexual orientation? 


S 
ince its inception a year ago, the committee has submitted to you two interim reports, the first on May I, 1995, and the second on December I, 1995. Both interim reports were published in The 
Obseroer. 

In our first interim report in May 1995, we offered specific recommen­dations with regard to question two of our mandate, namely on those programs Student Affairs might sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs professionals, to better equip them to meet the needs of gay and lesbian students. These recommendations, as they appeared in our May 1995 report, are as follows: 
RECOMMENDATION 1: 

That the Office of Student Affairs incorporate into its orientation pro­gram for all resident assistants and assistant rectors a workshop on how to assist gay and lesbian student~. 
RECOMMENDATION 2: 

That the Office of Student Affairs offer continuing professional education to all residence hall rectors on the psychosexual development of college­age student~, both heterosexual and homosexual. 
In determining the content and format of these workshops, the Office of Student Affairs should call upon tl1e University Counseling Center, Campus Ministry and most importantly, upon our own gay and lesbian student~. for input. 
RECOMMENDATION 3: 

That the Office of Student Affairs make resources available to assist 
rectors in sensitizing their staffs and hall resident~ to the needs of gay and lesbian students. 
RECOMMENDATION 4: 

That in their words of welcome at the beginning of the year, residence hall rectors be encouraged to specifically articulate their willingness to be a resource for those who are struggling with issues of sexual identity or who are self-identified homosexuals. Rectors should also communicate to tl1e hall community the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. 
W
e concentrated our early effort~ on the portion of our mandate relating to programs to be offered to hall staff 
members and Student Affairs professionals because we 
were hopeful that our recommendations would be imple­mented as early as fall 1995, when hall staffs once again participated in staff training and orientation. We are pleased to note that most of our recommendations have been or are in the process of being implemen­ted: all resident a.~sistant~ participated in a workshop on gay and lesbian student needs during hall staff orientation; residence hall rectors were encouraged to specifically articulate their willingness to be a resource for those who are struggling with issues of sexual orientation and to emphasize the. Universi1¥'sc intolerance fM. harassment· OJY1ire bJSis-ofrl hh lflfl~ sexual orientation; and Student Affairs has planned a workshop for rectors on the psychosexual development of college-age student~. 
In our second interim report in December 1995, we described what we heard in the course of the listening sessions hosted by the committee during the 1995 fall semester. Several of our meetings were devoted to listening to the voices of gay and lesbian student~ on this campus. Many students, both undergraduate and graduate, expressed feelings of fear, frustration and isolation. The students spoke of the very real terror they experienced at the prospect of revealing their sexual orientation to room­mates, friends and family. Several student~ reported feeling such a sense of isolation that they contemplated suicide. Others chose to act out in ways that were equally self-destructive. 
The gay and lesbian students with whom we spoke talked about how very difficult it is to be gay at Notre Dame. They have had to look to each other for support and a.~sistance, feeling that their needs are largely ignored by the University. GLND/SMC has been the primary source of support for most of the students to whom we listened. 
Many gay and lesbian student~ spoke about their commitment to their faith and their desire to find a way to live as adult Christians. They want the University to provide gay and lesbian students with the resources they need to integrate their sexuality and their faitl1 lives. They expressed their need for gay and lesbian role models who can assist them in this process. 
Our December report also described what we heard from a small group of gay faculty members who shared their perspectives on the needs of gay and lesbian student~ at Notre Dame. The faculty members underscored many of the concerns raised by the students. Some described an atmos­phere of fear among gay and lesbian faculty which impacts negatively upon student~ who are coming to terms with their own sexual identity. They urged that the nondiscrimination clause found in University pub­lications be amended to include nondiscrimination on the basis of sex­ual orientation. 
T 
he committee has spent the months since our la.~t report en­gaged in careful reflection and constructive dialogue. We have formulated our recommendations in light of what we have heard and within the context of our mandate. Throughout our work together as a committee, we have been conscious of ilie centrality of the Catholic character of Notre Dame. The recommendations we offer rep­resent our best efforts to address the needs of gay and lesbian student~ within a community that is committed to Gospel values and to the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
l I . 
I 
--------~--------~-------~----------­
A~rcat deal has happened since the committee be~an il~ work together a year a~o. As painful and divisive a~ the campus conversation surrounding the issue of recognition for GLND/SMC has sometimes been, the commit­tee has been encoura~ed by the small but important si~ns of progress we have observed as a result of this dialogue. The fact that your words of wel­come at Freshman Orientation made specific reference to gay and lesbian studenl~, the fact that several rectors have made efforl~ to welcome and support gay and lesbian students, the fact that letters have appeared in The Obsemer from Campus Ministry welcoming the gay and lesbian stu­denl~ in our midst, all sug~est that as a community, we have become more aware of the pain and sense of alienation experienced by gay and lesbian studenl~ on this campus. The committee hopes that we will continue to take steps toward becomin~ a place where studenl~ arc valued for their uniqueness. While there is still a great deal of work to be done, the dia­logue about these issues has moved us beyond where we were as a community a year ago. 
Asimilar process has taken place among members of this committee. 
Each of us has been deeply moved by what we have heard over these past 
months. We have been inspired by the ways in which gay and lesbian stu­
dents have cared for and assisted each other, and we have been impressed 
hy the earnestness and faithfulness witl1 which many seek to live out their 
lives as Christians. In the course of our work together, the members of 
this committee have grown in their respect for and trust in each other. 
We arc hopeful that the collaborative spirit which has animated our work 
lo~ethcr will also enliven the University's ongoing efforts to respond to the 
needs of gay and lesbian studenl~. 
Within the context of questions one and three of our mandate, the com­
mittee offers the following recommendations as specific steps designed 
to move the University closer to becoming the kind of welcoming and 
inclusive community we strive to be. 
RECOMMENDATION 5: 
That a University group of gay and lesbian student~ facilitated by one or two members of the faculty or administration be constituted. This group, which would stand in special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs, should assist ~ay and lesbian studenl~ in coming together to find mutual support and in exploring common issues within the context of this com­munity and tl1e teachin~s of tl1e Catl10lic Church. The group's advisor(s) should besel~'!\.uhy-the student·mctmn~rs·and approYed by the Vice ,,,,,,, President for Student Affairs. However, for the first year, the Vice President should solicit names of possible advisors from gay and lesbian students and appoint an advisor or advisors to convene the group. Through il~ advisor(s), this University ~roup should receive University funding, pub­licize il~ meetings and have use of University facilities for its meetings. 
RECOMMENDATION 6: 
That a standin~ committee on the needs of gay and lesbian studenl~ be created to advise the Vice President for Student Affairs. It should be the ta~k of this committee to act as a resource to the Vice President in identi­fying the ongoing needs of gay and lesbian student~, to continue the dia­logue begun by tl1e ad hoc committee, and to assist in the implementation of campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues. The committee's membership should consist of appropriate members of the faculty, administration and student body. At least half of the committee's members should be gay or lesbian persons. 
RECOMMENDATION 7: 
That the University Counseling Center continue to play a vital role in 
providing ongoing psychological support for those struggling with is­sues of sexual identity. 
Many of the gay and lesbian studenl~ with whom we spoke indicated that they found tl1e services provided by the Counseling Center helpful at various stages in tlJCir lives. The committee commends the work of 
the Counselin~ Center in this area and encourages the staff to consider 
new ways of enhancing its outreach efforl~. 
RECOMMENDATION 8: 
That Campus Ministry provide forums for gay and lesbian student~ in which issues regarding faith and sexuality can be discussed in a non­judgmental atmosphere, while at the same time challenging studenl~ to live up to Christian ideals. Campus Ministry should also provide re­treat experiences geared specifically to gay and lesbian student~. 
In addition, Campus Ministry, in consultation with the University Coun­seling Center, should develop and offer retreal~ open to all studenL~ who wish to explore issues relating sexuality to faith. 
The committee wishes to acknowledge and affirm the effort~ of Campus Ministry in forming a pastoral support group for gay and lesbian studenl~. 
RECOMMENDATION 9: 
That the Office of Student Affairs coordinate forums on sexuality, personal development and faith for the campus. There is a need to engage studenl~, whether heterosexual or homosexual, in meaningful conversation about their sexuality and the integration of sexuality and faith. While Campus Ministry has offered studenl~ some opportunities for such dialogue, most notably through il~ "Keeping the Faith" lecture series, a more comprehen­sive program which will reach a greater number of students should be developed. Given the large percentage of undergraduates who reside on campus, the possibility of hosting such forums within each residence hall should be considered. 
RECOMMENDATION 10: 

That dulac, the Faculty Handbook and the Sta.ff'!::mployee Guidebook include specific statemenl~ which articulate the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation and which express the University's desire to welcome and support the gay and lesbian members of this community. In addition, the University should take steps to heighten awareness of the procedures in place to address harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. The University's current discriminatory harassment policy provides for the appointment of a University ombudsperson who can serve as a resource to those who are the target~ of discriminatory harassment. All materials publicizing the University ombudsperson should include a specific statement that the ombudsperson can be of assistance in addressing incident~ of harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. 
RECOMMENDATION 11: 

That in orienting new student~, faculty, staff and administrators to 
Notre Dame, the offices responsible for such orientation should make affirmative statement~ which articulate the University's intolerance for 
harassment on the basis of sexual orientation and which express the University's desire to welcome and support the gay and lesbian mem­bers of this community. 
RECOMMENDATION 12: 

That the Vice President for Student Affairs should raise to the University officers the issue of modifying tl1e nondiscrimination clause which ap­pears in University publications to include sexual orientation. 
Thank you for your support for the work of this committee. We hope that we have been able to a~sist you and the University community in exploring effective ways of addressing these important issues which affect us all. 
Signed, 
Sister Susan Bruno, O.S.E Rector of Pasquerilla West 

Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. Hesburgh Professor of Theology and Philosophy 
Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. Assistant Director of Campus Ministry 
Ms. Ann Firth (Chair) Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs 
Rev. Terence tinton, C.S.C. Rector of Grace Hall 

Mr. Dennis McCarthy Student Body Vice President, 1995-96 
Ms. Sharon Miller Graduate Student 

Mr. jonathan Patrick Student Body President, 1995-96 
Professor Maura Ryan Assistant Professor of Theology 
Mr. Anthony Silva Undergraduate Student 

Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich Assistant Director of the University Counseling Center 
Dr. Patrick Utz Director of University Counseling Center 
Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. Director of Campus Ministry 

Thursday, February 29, 1996
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 


Seattle makes final effort to keep te~am 
By TIM KLASS Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
King County officials met with NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue for 2 1/2 hours today in New York in an effort to keep the Seahawks in Seattle. 
There was no immediate comment from either side. 
Seattle was represented by King County executive Gary Locke, who made the trip with county council budget commit· tee chairman Peter von Reichbauer. Also present was John Nordstrom. the Seahawks' former owner, rep­resenting the Seattle business community. 
Behring announced Feb. 2 that he was moving the fran· chise to the Los Angeles area. That move drew a barrage of legal action designed to enforce the club's Kingdome lease, which has 10 ·years to 

. run. 
The county sued Behring, Behring responded with a move to void the lease on grounds that the Kingdome would collapse in an earth­quake and Washington state filed an antitrust suit against Behring. 
In addition, Tagliabue said he advised Behring not to try to move the franchise and suggested that the effort could be reversed. 
···<:= 
Last year Behring voted for a resolution, signed by all the NFL owners. that gave the league control of. the Los Angeles market following the departure of the Rams to St. Louis and the Raiders to Oakland. 
Behring met Tuesday with Portland Trailblazers team president Bob Whitsitt, who is exploring purchase of the team by Microsoft co-founder and Trailblal:ers owner Paul
Allen. .,.,,,,.,,,,,,,i;: ,. 
The meeting between Behring and Whttsitt in Danville. Calif .. was.. reported in today's editiops of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer. · 
A Behring spokesman re· fused to answer questions about Tuesday's :m~eting with Whitsitt, who is the former president of the Seattle. SuperSonics. 
''The team is n{)t for sale, period. And we will have no further comment about any sales rumors," Alan Elias told the P-1. 
But von Reichbauer 
remained optimistic. 
''Meetings going on on the 
East Coast and West Coast are 
critical to ()Ur keepjng the 
Seahawks in Seattle,'' von 
Reichbauer told the newspa­
per. 
"What's at stake in Seattle is 
a metaphor for what's going 
on throughout the NFL." 

Piazza hopes to stay at catcher 
ByJOHN NADEL 
Associared Press 

VERO BEACH, Fla. 
Long before Mike Piazza be­came baseball's best hitting catcher, he decided to call it quits one day. 
Fortunately, he was talked out of it, but was glad it hap­pened because it changed the way he looked at his job. 
"I really wasn't enjoying the g~me," Piazza said at the Los Angeles Dodgers' spring train­ing complex, where he was playing for the Class A Vero Beach Dodgers in 1990 when the incident occurred. "I was ready to move on in life and do something else. 
"I just said I was quitting. I had just had a bad run-in with the coach I was playing for. I just felt a lot of resentment to­ward me, that he had it out for me." 
Piazza recalled telling a friend that if he wasn't in the starting lineup on one particu­lar day, he was going to walk out. And that's what happened. 
"When I got home, I decided I was going to pack up and leave," he said. "I was ready to retire. They convinced me to stay. I had to apologize to the team and I had a big fine." 
Piazza, whose father was a boyhood friend of Dodgers manager Tom Lasorda, was the team's 61st pick in the June 1988 Free Agent Draft. So the club probably wasn't too con­cerned when he talked about quitting. 
"It's a good thing they didn't 
say, 'Well, OK, see ya, good luck,' " he said with a smile. "I believe everything happens for a reason. I was putting a lot of pressure on myself. 
"The next year, I said, 'I'm just going to go out and play ball. If it doesn't work out, I'll be able to say I gave it a shot.' I had a lot more fun playing the game after that." 
Piazza played for Bakersfield of the California League in 1991 and hit .277 with 29 homers and 80 RBis. With Vero Beach in 1990, he hit only .250 with six homers and 45 RBis. 
"Believe it or not, I honestly believe if I had quit, I would have done something," he said. "It's funny how life is, you never know what to expect. 
"I appreciate the accolades and the attention. If it were to end tomorrow, I'd still be happy. I'd move on." 
Now 27, it's doubtful Piazza will be moving on for a while. 
harge 

Through three full seasons, his numbers compare favorably with former great catchers at that stage of their careers. 
From 1993-95, Piazza hit .327 with 91 homers and 297 RBis. Hall of Farner Johnny Bench, for example, hit .287 with 86 homers and 320 RBis from 1968-70, his first three big-league seasons. 
Last year, Piazza hit .346 with 32 homers and 93 RBis in just 112 games. He was side­lined for more than three weeks early in the season after sustaining a torn ligament in his left thumb caused from falling and landing on it while rounding first base. 
There has been talk about a change of position for Piazza because he's such an outstand­ing hitter and there's a lot of wear and tear on a catcher, but he said that's not something he's thought about yet. 
eady ~o go 

Thursday, february 29, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS 
• Coll.EGE BASKETBAll 
Georgia Tech clinches ACC 
Associated Press 
TALIAIIASSEE. Fla. 

Malt llarpring scored 22 points to lead No. 18 Georgia Tnch to an 83-68 victory over Florida State on Wednesday night, clinching the Atlantic Coast Conference title. 
Drew Barry and Eddie Elisma had 16 points each as Georgia Tech (19-10, 12-3 ACC) had lit­tin trouble handling the Seminoles (13-12, 5-10) in set­ting a school record for confer­ence victories. 
The win, the Yellow Jackets' sixth straight, also made Bobby Cremins the winningest eoach in Gtmrgia Tech history with a 293-170 record. Cremins over­took .John "Whaek" Snyder, who went 292-271 from 1951­73. 
.James Collins led the Smninolns with 14 points and Kirk l.uchman added 12. 
Gnorgiu  Tech  opened  its  
higgnst lnad  at  54-39 with  
14:41  to  play  Lwfore  the  

Snminolns cut tlw lt~ad to h0-54 on LaMarr Greer's 3-pointer with 7:40 to go. 
But Florida State couldn't overconHl its inconsistency on tlw boards, tlw foul line and hnyond the 3-point arc. The StHninoles also were without Corey Louis, their top re­houndtlr and second-leading st:orer. who was suspended Wednnsday for violating team rultls. 
Whiln both teams shot more than 50 pNeent from the linld, <;norgia Tneh madn 75 pereent (21-of-281 of its free throws while Florida State could only muster 40 percmll (6-of-15). 
Louis, who had averaged 6.6 relmuntb--ti gumt, -watched in slrPnl clothes as tlw Yellow .lacknts nnjoyed a 35-28 advan­tagn on thn hoards. 
Florida Slate coach Pal 
Kennedy suspended Louis for two games. lie will sit out the Seminoles' last regular-season against Maryland, but return for the ACC tournament next week. 
It marked Louis' second sus­pension of the season. The sophomore forward also missed the season's first two games for ignoring academic responsibili­ties. 
The Yellow Jackets made 10 of 21 3-pointers, led by Barry's 4-for-6 shooting. The Seminoles were 4-of-13 from 3-point range. 
No. 20 Iowa 69, Wisconsin 54 
IOWA CITY, Iowa 
Jess Settles scored 25 points, including 10 straight in a sec­ond-half rally, as No. 20 Iowa outlasted Wiseonsin 69-54 Wednesday night. 
Andre Woolridge added 12 of his 19 points in the second half and Huss Millard finished with 13 points and eight rebounds for Iowa (20-7 overall, 9-6 Big Ten), whi<:h won for the 13th time in 14 games at Carver­Hawkeye Arena and gave coach Tom Davis his 93rd league vic­tory to make him the win­ningest Big Ten coach in school history. 
The Badgers (15-12, 7-8) lost despite a career-high 22 points from Sean Daugherty and 19 from Jeremy llall, whieh matehed his career best. 
Ilall hit three 3-pointers and Daugherty two in a 17-4 spurt to open the second half and turn a 30-26 halftime deficit into a 43-34 lead with 13:17 to play. Sotllm;, who had a buc~et.. during the Badger run, rallied Iowa with eight more points to key a 12-2 run that gave the llawkeyes a 46-45 lead with 9:52 remaining. 

Sam Okey, Wisconsin's lead­ing scorer at 13 points a game and a top contender for Big Ten freshman of the year, hit a free throw to tie the game at 46-46 before Iowa scored 11 of the next 13 points, capped by Kenyon Murray's basket, to open a 57-48 edge with 3:26 to play. 
Wisconsin climbed back twice to within seven, the last time at 59-52 on Okey's bank shot with 
2:14 remaining, but failed to close. 
Okey, who leads his team in scoring, rebounding, assists and blocked shots, scored just six points although he had 10 rebounds, three blocked shots and four assists. 
·Iowa, outrebounded 34-29 in an 80-71 loss to Wisconsin on Jan. 13, pounded the Badgers 37-26 while holding them to 
40.8 percent shooting from the field. 
Kansas St. 92, No. 23 Iowa St. 87, OT 
AMES, Iowa 
Elliot Hatcher and Aaron Swartzendruber each scored 22 points and freshman Ayome May hit a 3-pointer for the go­ahead basket in overtime as Kansas State beat No. 23 Iowa State 92-87 Wednesday night. 
Kansas State {16-9, 7-6 Big Eight) rallied from an 11-point delkit in the first half and came from live points down in the fi­nal 2 1/2 minutes of regulation to keep its NCAA tournament hopes alive. 
Iowa State (19-8, 8-5) got a season-high 31 points from Kenny ....Erat.t,....an.d .24 -from Dedric Willoughby, who sat out three minutes in the first half after twisting his right knee but returned to play a strong game. 

sarah jtssica parktr rric schatffrr tilt macphtrson 
I~ LUCY ~ILL 
AcomPdy for thP romantically chaiiPnCJPd 

m~~~~ ~~~m~mrmfim !M~rm~ ~~~mu ~~~~~mm~ ~f ~Mf~l~~ ~i~~~m~ li m~~l!lm~ WI!~~~~~ m~~r! ~rm ~lmf~ ~m~ Jmm~~ ~mf~ r~1~ ~~~wm ~f~ mll~ fllf Mm~r~~~~ ·1r l~~r rru· J~Ml~ ~m~~~~ ~~~~M ~~m~rM~~ ~~~mm~ ~m~~~~~~M~~~~ ~~~m Ill'=~~~ m~m~~m ~~~ r~1~ ~~~mm, m~r ~r1~m~~m ~~Nilri r~1~ ~~~mrm ~~ ~~~~ m~~r m~r mm~ ~~~~ Jr~m llcr~ r~1~ ~~~~mm 
IJ{~J. ~ ~·.;~:.·=. mIT SOON AT ATHfATRf NfAR YOU :~'1..1-:!. ~= ·-~~ 
VISIT THE SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT SITE AT hHp:Jfwww.sony.com 
page 19 

• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Pitino, Kentucky relish top ranking 
By KEN BERGER 
Associated Press 
AUBUHN. Ala. 
Hick Pitino was expression­less as he walked out of the tunnel before the game. His face showed nothing but angst from tipoff to the final buzzer. 
A smile finally came when the Kentucky coach was asked to explain why his top-ranked Wildcats beat Auburn by ONLY 15 points on Tuesday night. 
"I think the reason for that is that Auburn was very good," Pitino said after the Wildcats' 88-73 victory over the Tigers. He started out in a serious tone, and then began laughing when pressed about his team's "off night." 
"You know," Pitino contin­ued, "we're a hell of a good basketball team. That's why we're No. 1 in the country. We did some things poorly tonight -not indicative of a No. 1 team. But, you know, we've got great players. When you have an off-night and you win by 15 in this type of environ­ment, you've got a real good basketball team." 
Kentucky (25-1, 15-0 Southeastern Conference) shot only 40 percent in the first half; 43 percent for the game. The Wildcats made only eight 3-pointers and couldn't get many fast break points. Auburn kept it close early by surging through the usually impenetrable Kentueky defense for easy baskets. 
But as usual, Kentucky was too good for too long. Just as fans have trouble sustaining noise for the entire 35-second clock, defenses have trouble chasing the Wildcats that long without breaking down. 
"We played hard, and the crowd was into it," Auburn coach Cliff Ellis said. "But they're not intimidated by anything." 
As March grows nearer, tan­talizing Pitino with the possibility of a national cham­pionship, the players are not only believing his gospel of perfection; they're preaching it. 
"We came out and our press 
wasn't good," Walter McCarty complained. "We gave up a lot of easy baskets and layups." 
Still, the Wildcats passed a tough test in an incredibly loud building that has seen upsets before. 
The fans at Beard-Eaves Memorial Coliseum seemed to muster some of the ear-ring­ing noise that fills the football stadium-on this campus in the fall. 
A team bidding for the first undefeated season in the SEC since Alabama did it in 1956 might prefer to go without a trip to Auburn. The Tigers won the last two meetings with Kentucky with the Wildcats holding the No. 1 ranking. Last year, Auburn (18-10, 6-9) shoeked then­defending national champion Arkansas at home. 
Kentucky stayed in the lock­er room longer than Auburn before the game. When the Wildcats emerged, they were buried in that SEC football­type noise. 
The pep band played louder and cut its notes cleaner than any game all season. Cheerleaders got more height on their kicks and were wind­ed and sweating after their first routine. 
The Wildeats' faces said, 'Ho-hum.' They see this every­where they go. 
Pitino was the last to emerge from the tunnel, look­ing nervously at his feel while walking deliberately along the baselins behind the basket. Fans shouted expletives at him. 
"This is a tough environ­ment," Pitino said. 
But it would take more than environment to rattle Pitino's sturdy machine, whieh has won 24 straight games by an average of nearly 25 points. 
''I'm just from a different school," Pitino said. "Crowds, teams needing games or it be­ing senior night-I don't think any of those things mat­ter. I think what wins games is execution." 
What has mattered so far has been Pitino's ability to keep all his stars happy. 

God gives each persononelifetime. What are you doingwithyams? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame tor college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
.... 
----~ ­

woulcJ. keep him tQ.e 1-!HL's, es,'' a team: spokes.wan. said,,:iiiiJ' highest-paid player. · · · ·· Without question Gretzky 
With about two months left will boost tick~! sales. The in the regular season, the Blues are' averaging 1S.218 Blues will pay Gretzky. about per game and can seat about $2 million, which boosts their 20,000 at the Kiel Center. On payroll to about $22 million. Monday and Tuesday alone, 
For now, though, the the Blues sold 2,200 tickets. 

By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
After working on the Wayne Gretzky deal for more than a month, the St. Louis Blues aren't about to let him get away. 
During trade talks that re-suited in the deal Tuesday night, the Los Angeles Kings did not allow the Blues to talk to Gretzky or his agent. Michael Barnett. But neither Gretzky, who can be a free agent July 1. nor the Blues exped any trouble reaching agreement on a new contract. 
"We just think we have enough knowledge, enough experience and enough back­ground to complete this before any danger of his leav­ing would occur." Blues presi­dent Jack Quinn said. ''We don't really think that's going to be a problem. 
"We're going to start irnme­diately." Gretzky is making $6.5 mil­lion this season, and the nine­
~~er :~t~sa~~e~:;th!~r:~~, 
$21 million, an amount that 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 29, 1996 


'Great One' seeks final goal 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associated Press 

Wayne Gretzky won four Stanley Cups in Edmonton. He then went to Los Angeles and did the strangest thing, making hockey fans out of Southern Californians. 
Now the Great One is in St. Louis, and the mission is no less imposing -winning a Stanley Cup for the Blues. 
"There are no guarantees in this business that anyone for sure is going to win the Stanley Cup," Gretzky said Wednesday in a conference call from Vancouver, where he is to play for the Blues on Thursday night. 
"And that's what makes it so special when you get to lift the Stanley Cup." 
There is still a lot of ground to cover between now and the start of the playoffs in mid­April. But, for the moment, Gretzky has given hope to a team with a 26-24-11 record and saved Mike Keenan's shaky relationship with the St. Louis community. 
Keenan, however, makes lit­tle of his team's mediocre record. He says the object, as always, is the playoffs. 
"I think we've built that type of playoff team that we'll be very comfortable with," he said, speaking on the same con­ference call. " ... Certainly, the acquisition of Wayne Gretzky is a big part of the success formu­la." 
The Blues general manager and coach had been criticized of late for many unpopular moves, most notably trading Brendan Shanahan and Curtis Joseph and stripping Brett Hull of his captaincy. 
This time, Keenan didn't give up any fan favorites to get the biggest name, and biggest draw, in hockey. 
Gretzky's box office magic is just as important to the Blues as his magic with a hockey stick. The team's goal of sea­son-ticket sales at the new Kiel Center is currently short by 3,000 and Gretzky should make an immediate impact there as much as he did in Los Angeles. 
"Looking at this organization and Michael's leadership, (the Blues) are as competitive as any team and I'm darn excited about being here," Gretzky said. "I feel like a young kid." 
He will immediately move into the No. 1 center's position and play on a dream line with Hull, one of hockey's most potent scorers. 
While the trade rumors swirled around him, Gretzky had fairly salivated about the prospect of playing with Hull, who once scored 86 goals in a season -six shy of Gretzky's record. 
"Who knows?" Gretzky once joked. "If we play together, he might get 100 goals." 
Hull would settle for a Jot less in exchange for a Cup. But there's no guarantee of that, just because of Gretzky's ar­rival. 
At 35, Gretzky is not the play­er who once scored 92 goals in a season and made 200-point seasons a habit. 
And he's joining a thirtysome­thing group of players who, in many cases, have seen their better days. 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paidpositions: Associate Accent Editor Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a resume and one page personal statement to Joey in 314 Lafortune by 7PM Monday, March 4th. Questions? Call631-4540 
WVFI is now accepting applications for the following positions 
Paid Positions Include: 

Assistant Station Manager -Responsible for overall management of the station Director of Personnel -Charged with the duty of managing station 
announcers Advertising Director -Creater of all WVFI propaganda in various media 
Non-Paid Positions Include:
Remotes Director Sports Director 

-Coordinates WVFI sports broadcasts 
News Director 
-Coordinates WVFI news programming 
Music Director 
-Reviews and supplies all music for airplay 
Chief Engineer 
-Oversees technical aspects of daily operation 
S_t_a_ff_L-ia_s_o_n------------~ 
-Processes remotes requests and booking  -Enhances the relationship between staff and  
Saint Mary's Coordinator  announcers  
-Liason between Saint Mary's College and WVFI  Production Manager  
-Responsible for all announcements and related  
promotion  

• Applications now available at LaFortune Info Desk and Saint Mary's Haggar College Center Info Desk. ·All applications are due March 8th by 3:00 pm in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
WVFI does not discriminate against applicants with no previous WVFI general broadcasting or music experience 

THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION IS LOOKING FOR PEER EDUCATORS FOR THE 1996-97 ACADEMIC YEAR. 
PEER EDUCATORS ARE STUDENTS FROM A WIDE RANGE OF PERSPECTIVES, WHO VOLUNTEER THEIR TIME TO HELP SHAPE POSITIVE NORMS REGARDING ALCOHOUOTHER DRUGS AND RELATED ISSUES. 
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE .... PLEASE PICK UP AN APPLICATION AT THE OFFICE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG EDUCATION 1 MEZZANINE LEVEL LAFORTUNE OR CALL X7970 FOR MORE INFORMATION 

•NB~ 
Blaylock propels Hawks 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Mookie Blaylock wori the game with a late 3­
pointer. but he wouldn't have had the chance if 
tlw Atlanta Hawks hadn't preceded it with a pair 
of ofl'ensive rebounds. 
Blaylock's 3-pointer with 11 seconds left was 
the difTHmnce in Atlanta's 90-88 vietory over the 
Portland Trail Blazers on Wednesday night. 
Portland's Clifford .Hobinson missed a last-sec­
om! 20-footer. 
"We just couldn't get those rebounds when. we 
rwmlml tlwm. and they did," Harvey Grant said. 
Arvydas Sabonis hit two free throws to give the 
Trail Blaznrs an 88-87 lead with 41 seconds to 
go. Blaylock, who finished with 23 points and 
night assists, nailed the game-winner from the 
lnft side after he and Craig Ehlo each missed. 
"The fact that wn were able to get·some offen­
sive rnbounds at the end is what helped us win," 
said Christian Laettner. who had 15 points and 
six rebounds in his first start since the Hawks 
aequirod him from Minnesota last week. 
"We kept passing it around. Craig missed a 
shot. We got the rebound. Mookie missed one, 
and we got another rebound and then ~ookie 
nailed it," said Laettner. who logged 34 mmutes 
in his first home appearance in Atlanta. 
Tlw win was the third in a row for Atlanta and 
left Lenny Wilkens, the NBA's all-time win­
ningest eoaeh, one victory shy of 1,000. He'll go 
for the milestone on Friday when the Hawks host 
Cleveland, his former club. 
The Hawks are undefeated since the Feb. 22 
four-player trade for Laettner and Sean Rooks 
whieh sent Andrew Lang and Spud Webb to the 
Tirnbnrwolves. 
Steve Smith added 17 points and Stacey 
Augrnon 14. 
Sabonis collm:tnd 26 points and 10 rebounds, 
and (;rant add1~d 17 points. induding live in the 
final thren minutes. 
Tlw lead changed hands seven times in the 
final tlmle minutes after Portland rallied from a 
9-point deficit in the final nine minutes. 
Celtics 121, Hornets 116, OT 
BOSTON 

David Wnsley scored :n points, including the 
go-ah1~ad basket in overtime, as the Boston 
Celties snapped a five-game losing strnak by 
!waling the Charlotte Hornets 121-116 
Wndrwsday night. 
Wesley's jump shot with 3:40 left in overtime gave the Celtics a 116-114 lead. Todd Day and Wesley made a free throw apiece and Day made a jumper for a six-point lead. Charlotte scored only one basket in overtime. 
Dino Radja and Hick Fox scored 16 points each and Pervis Ellison had 20 rebounds for Boston. 
Kenny Anderson had 22 points and 13 assists but lost his dribble at the end of regulation to force overtime and was ejected in the final peri­od for throwing the ball at Day. Larry Johnson led the Hornets with 26 points, Dell Curry added 21 and Glen Hice 19. 
Notes: Boston used a starting lineup of guards Fox and Wesley, center Dino Radja and forwards Ellison and Eric Williams -the first time that unit has started a gamn. It was Williams' first start in the NBA.... Boston made two roster moves prior to the game, placing guard Dee Brown on the injured list with a sore toe on his right foot and activating forward Doug Smith from the IL. 
SuperSonics 94, Pistons 80 

SEATTLE 
Gary Payton scored 17 second-half points and Seattle held Detroit to 32 points in the final two periods as the SuperSonics won their 11th straight game Wednesday night, 94-80 over the Pistons. 
The Sonics broke the game open without the services of Shawn Kemp. lie was ejected by offi­cial Steve Javie for arguing a call with 9:31 left and the Sonics leading 73-68. 
Led by Payton's six points and five from Frank Brickowski on a 3-point shot and fast-break dunk, the Sonics opened up a 91-74 lead with an 18-6 spurt. 
Kemp, who earned Player of the Week honors last week, topped the Sonics with 23 points on 9­for-14 shooting and 14 rebounds. 
Allan Houston paced the Pistons with 29 points and Grant Hill added 15. Detroit made only eight shots in 34 attempts in the second half. 
After trailing 48-36 at halftime, the Sonics outscored the Pistons 32-16 in the third period -Payton scoring 11 -for a 68-64 lead after three quarters. The Sonics blocked six shots in the third quarter, four by Ervin Johnson. 
Notes: Seattle has won 11 in a row at Key Arnna and is 26-2 at home.... The Pistons scored just one more point than their season-low of 73 at Orlando on Dec. 23.... The Sonics were 11-1 in February, their best month since going 11-1 in Nov. 1993. 
SAVE A LIFE FOR FREE! 
~tJ«.L? 
• Join the Bone Marrow Donor Registry • 
1()~? 

• Friday, March 1, 1996 • From 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. • 
1fl~? 
• LaFortune Ballroom (2nd floor of LaFortune) • 

Sponsort•d /Jy: Tilt• .llinorily Prl'-.llt•dical ·"'odt•ly (.lJP.lJS) 
MYTH: Bone marrow is extracted upon registry FACT: A simple blood test is all that is required to be placed on the national registry 
MYTH: There are already enough registered donors FACT: The chances offinding a bone marrow match are similar to winning the lottery ... THERE ARE NOT ENOUGH REGISTERED DONORS! 
YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
ALL WELCOME 

•NBA 
Shaq tops Alonzo, Magic escape Heat 
ORlANDO, Fla. 
Shaquille O'Neal won anoth· er personal matchup with Alonzo Mourning and the Orlando Magic cooled off the Miami Heat with a 116·112 victory Wednesday night. 
O'Neal had 31 points and 14 rebounds to Mourning's 18 points and 10 boards as the Atlantic Division leaders im­proved to 29·0 at home and dealt Miami its first loss since coach Pat Riley remade the Heat with three trades last week. 
Anfernee Hardaway just missed a triple-double with 27 points, 10 assists and nine re· bounds. Dennis Scott added 25 points for Orlando, which also beat Miami in another Shaq·Zo showdown on Feb. 17. 
Tim Hardaway, one of the five players the Heat obtained before last Thursday night's trade deadline, led Miami with 22 points and 13 assists. Rex Chapman had 16 and Wa.lt Williams 14. 
Orlando led 91·89 going into the fourth quarter and pulled away by making 8 of 11 free throws during a crucial two· minute stretch. O'Neal was just 2-for-10 from the foul line in the first three quarters but made his first five free throws in the fourth. 
Miami, which had won three straight since the blockbuster trades -and four overall ­fell .behind 108·97 and never seriously threatened after that. 
The Magic shot nearly 70 percent in the first quarter, opening a 39-26 lead before Miami bridged the first and second periods with a 15-0 run to go up 41-39. 
The Heat made up the 
deficit with Mourning on the bench, but Orlando steadied itself and rebuilt its advantage to 10 before settling for a 66­58 halftime lead. 
Chapman Jed another Miami surge in the third quarter with 11 points -nine on 3­polnters -to help the Heat battle back to a 75-73 lead. 
Suns 117, Timberwolves 93 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Charles Barkley finished one assist shy of a triple-double and the Phoenix Suns outscored the Minnesota Timberwolves by 20 points in the third period of a 117-93 victory Wednesday night. 
Barkley had 24 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists and rookie Michael Finley added 21 points. The Suns shot 62 percent to move over .500 (28·27) for just the second time since Nov. 25. 
Danny Manning scored 11 points in the third quarter and finished with 17 in his 13th game since returning from the knee injury that sidelined him for a year. The Suns are 9-4 in those games and have won four of their last five. 
Isaiah Rider led Minnesota with 21 points, but had just three after halftime. Andrew Lang, acquired in a trade last week, added 18 points and nine rebounds. 
Minnesota, which has beat­en Phoenix just once in seven sea.'lons, led 55-52 at halftime as Rider and Barkley dueled for 24 minutes. Rider had 18 points and Barkley had 17 in the half. 
Manning scored two quick baskets over rookie Kevin Garnett to start the third quarter and the Suns went on to hit 13 of 16 shots in the period. 

THE TOAST oF THE N.Y. FILM FESTIVAL! 
TKI VIUAGEVo'iCE "SMART AND FUNNY. 
Amosr ausprciaus dutcto1111 dtbllf AsJ1chr 'NO EXIr • 
drwvoRK'rt'Mts "CONFIDENT COMIC STYLE 
mi>~~tl ~irfl utbhM tl~¥erness ~~td 1h&ng-lom •ocr1l Jtrucruflf • 
!ijrN&V'mrn "LOVELY, UNDERSTATED 
w.rb ap~t1tc~ en>tmble cur· 
!1itN.v oAm~[ws "A DELIGHTFUL COMEDY! AN AUDIENCE PLEASER!" 
NN(WYORKPOST "GENEROUS, WITTY COMEDY. 
Ont-lilllrt wilil b; lih bull1ts in 1wtJ~rn 
J(lst> olh,ia l)<lt~l!r chris .·.J PIK 
r.amilton d'a!>o posey cigernan stoltl 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 &9:45 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 29, 1996 
Frazier hospitalized for unknown reason 
Associated Press ing a weekend autograph ses­sion in Norfolk, Mrs. Frazier LINCOLN, Neb. said. She called the hospital­
Former Nebraska quarter­ization was a precaution.back Tommie Frazier, who led the Cornhuskers to a national "He almost passed out," she championship at the Fiesta told the World-Herald. "They Bowl last month, is in the hos­wanted to make sure it didn't pital. turn into pneumonia." 
Suzanne McMasters, spokes­Frazier, the runnerup to woman at Bryan Memorial Ohio State's Eddie George in Hospital, confirmed last year's Heisman Trophy Wednesday that Frazier had voting, had blood-clot prob­been admitted but would not lems during his junior season. 
disclose details. Officials at Anticoagulant medication dis­
Bryan on Monday had denied solved a clot behind his right that Frazier was hospitalized knee but the clot later re­there. formed . 
..,. 
The Omaha World-Herald Frazier missed seven games, quoted Frazier's mother, but returned to play in the Priscilla Frazier, as saying her 1995 Orange Bowl and lead son was undergoing tests to Nebraskato the fit·st of two determine if another blood consecutive national titles. clot had formed in his right Professional scouts have pro­leg. jected Frazier as a defensive 
Frazier was admitted to back, but he has said he Bryan on Monday for a sinus wants to play as a quarter­infection that worsened dur-back. 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Walliham defeated Patterson 6­4,5-7,6-2. Ben Hetzler battled O'Brien in the first two sets, 4­6,7-6, before dominating the third 6-1. Aaron Murray beat Pun in the No. 5 singles posi­tion 7-6,6-1. 
With the match being decided by only one point, Andy Chmura came through in just his second match of dual match play. The senior overcame los­ing the first set tiebreaker and defeated Mark Jacobsen in the second and third 6-2,7-6. 
The 4-3 Irish victory pushes their record to 7-4 on the sea­son. The Irish are at the mid­point of their season with eleven more dual matches re­maining. They will need a strong second half of the sea­son to reach their goal of a top ten finish. 
Irish 

continued from page 24 
mount a furious second half comeback," said Miami coach Lenard Hamilton. "I'm very proud of our youngsters for maintaining their intensity." 
Intensity was lacking from the Irish from the outset. Despite national television and their last opportunity to play in front of the home crowd, the Irish slept-walked through the first half, shooting 28% from the field. 
Notre Dame did not score a point during the last 7:54 of the half, allowing Miami to stretch a six-point lead to a 24-point blowout. 
"We've had a lot of those periods this year when we've blanked," stated MacLeod. "We've had a difficult time putting two good halves together. We have to grow up and mature quick­ly in this league." 
The loss cast a damper on the final home game for Irish senior captain Ryan Hoover. Hoover, a crowd favorite because of his proficiency from long range, struggled early, missing all four of his first half three-pointers before finishing with 12 points. 
"It's really disappointing," he said of the loss. "I have lots of great memories of this place and wanted to go out on a note that would exemplify how it has been, but this was a low point." 
·"I was sorry to see it end this way for Ryan," added MacLeod. "I wanted to see him lead the team to the locker room victorious and end his career here in a blaze of glory, but what hap­pened was the opposite." 
Pat Garrity led the Irish with 20 points, while freshman Gary Bell, starting for an ill Derek Manner, chipped in 10. 

Who said nothing m life is free? 
Student Acti~ities presents 
E, Skate iglrt! Satu;day, March 2 
~ ~ 

''(f: 
JACC Ice Rink 
9:45 p.m. to 1 a.m. 
skate rental, hot chocolate, & cookies provided 
ATTENTION: WAYWARD '96 GRADUATES 
(UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE) 

Notre Dame Volu.nteer Programme 
Jan~faica 

Is Now accepting Applications for Volunteer Positions in Kingston, Jamaica 
POSITIONS ARE AVAilABLE FOR STUDENTS IN ANY DISCIPLINE 
• Business (MBA's)  • Religion  
• Science  • Engineering  
• Liberal Arts  

Check out the Application and detailed information at the 
Center for Social Concerns 
Deadline for Applications and interview sign-ups is 
• • 5:00 pm, Friday, • • 
Interviews will be conducted by appointment on __..... Saturday, March 2nd 

Leap i ..to so•-.e ..e~ d-..ds. 



~ • ~ .... " • ·, .. -·,'c. ..... -.. ·... ·.. •... ·.. •...c.~....................... •.•..·-·.. ·-·-"-···········-·· ......._._._.. _._._.,_._.._.,_._.,_._._ ... ·-· " ...........-. • • • • • • • .... -............................
Oio 
\T's P.t..mosT Ove~ 1>ES. Ourz.
1 

(o1..'-E.U.E. L1FE. 1~ A1.f"'D'S.T 
0

0'1e.l2. SooN WE \..L 'BE j•'"' · 
'"'"' TI'IE REAL \Nolle D ....T...xES, 
fl\ottTl'::IA(:,E.~. · · 
./ 

MISTER BOFFO 
DILBERT 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE when you adopt a more confident NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: approach. Do less. but do it really well. Curb a VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A tendency to bite off more than you good day to review accounts and can chew. feamwork is the key to catch up on your bookkeeping. Fam· getting ahead. Delegate at.thority to ily members can help if you tell trustworthy subordinates. Artistic them exactly what you need. Find· and creative types will receive new ing common ground with a co· financial support as the year pro· worker is not easy. Try harder. gresses. Develop an idea further LlllRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The before presenting it to higher-ups. sure path to success becomes slip· Vacation travel may have to be post· pery. Keep your footing by checking poned while you work on an excit· the accuracy of the infonnation you ing assignment. Temporary sacri· arc given. Refuse to act without fices will be rewarded. proof. CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): THIS DA'i: actor Dennis Farina, Knowing the ropes puts you at an actress Mi..:hele Morgan, baseball advantage now. You could receive a manager .'1.1 Rosen, bandleader substantial pay raise. Give some Jimmy Dorsey. thought to purchasing a car. Clear ARIES (March 21-April 19): An communication is vital at place of overdue message could make this an employment. A-1 day! There is no need to walk on SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. eggshells or act hard-boiled. Good 21 ): You will make swifter progress news centers around a romance or if you do not fret over your work· events taking place at a distance. load. Do everything you can to clear TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A away a web of confusion. If a real new project or duty is your vehicle estate deal is pending. settle it this to stardom. It pays to clarify team afternoon. goals and each player's role in CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. ensuring victory. Let your actions 19): Be practical in money matters. reflect what you feel in your heart. Even minor repairs will make your Romance soars! home more comfortable. Paying GEMINI (May 21-June 20): closer attention to detail will prove You are an ingenious business man· highly beneficial. ager who knows the score. Take AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): direct action on several fronts. Pay You could receive something of a more attention to psychic prompt· shock at work. Take any changes ings and intuitive hunches. that are announced, in stride. Stick CANCER (June 21-July 22): to the task at hand instead of chat· Romance occupies your thoughts. ting with co-workers. Those who As you receive new information. gossip will waste valuable time. someone's motives and objectives PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): become clear. Take the initiative in Use your negotiating skills to gain your personal relationships. long-tenn benefits. An older person LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your has played a major role in your pro· smooth style and excellent timing fessional and personal life. Try not put you in the swing of things today. to be thrown by a change in your Bright ideas abound; take steps to relationship. protect yours. Romance brightens  
• OF INTEREST Career and Placement will be holding a workshop on "Office Visits/ Plant Trips" today from 4:00-5:00 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room in Lafortune. There will also be a Hesume Development Workshop today from 6:30-8:00 p.m. in 207 Debartolo. Kids Corp and Tentmakers representatives will present information about service and employment opportunities this evening at the CSC. Tentmakers will present at 4:00 and 5:00 p.m. Kids Corp will host a pizza and info. gathering from 6:30-8:30 p.m. Stuck here for Spring Break? Help Habitat for Humanity build a house. Come to the informational meeting on March 3 at 7:30pm. in 301 Lafortune. II' you cannot make the meeting or have any questions. contact Johanna at 4-4813. Indiana Black Expo is now accepting resumes for Summer internships in the public relation depart­ment. For more information, contact Carolyn Mosby at {317) 925-2702, ext. 16.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH SOUTH Chicken Fajitas BBQ Chicken Buffalo Chicken Wings Spinach Quiche Mel!t Ravioli Yankess Bean Soup Saint Mary's , Black History Month Special Dinner  

 

r-------------~
'f'\\Frr?!! We ~EA\1 ... Go OuT W•Tt\ P. 
'S'f'''-'-1-\P.~E.lirnE tsAN~!I L~T!! h-'s NoTOvER Eu.c.'f\..'1!1 o,.E. l.An ~Ed 'v.JE''IE JUST 'EASII Bq·oflE. \TS ~o'I"{P. ~o OuT A,..o P.1.1-6-Je.rz..•. .'! Sue."~< \I'IE. (Y\p,p,rz.ow \ II
OUT ov L.•f~-. 

JOE MARTIN 

SCOTT ADAMS 
OOC,BERT1 I NEE.D YOU 
WE'RE CREI\TlNG A 'TO FI\ClLITATE. 50ME. 
PROCESS l'O FI~ OUR I'\EETING5. 
PRODUCT DEVELOPM~NT PR.OCES5. BUT FIRST 


Wl-\t-.1 KIND 
WE'RE HAVING 50t-\E 
OF ME.£.\INGS? 
PREPLI\NNING MEET­INGS ... 
f 

~ ~--~~----~~~~~~~----~--~--------~~~--~~~-L~LLLL--~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Insurgent, 51 Erratic driver briefly 54 Bonsai
1 Bootlegging or 26 Eyewear for gardenerextortion, e.g. 
Col. Klink 55 Medicinal herb 

7 Enamored (of) 
29 Not a science, 57 In a reverie 11 Gullet but-­
60 1994 Olympic 14 Tropical lizard 32 Trolley rink star 15 Surmounted 36 Involving 61 Covered with dispute soft hair
11 Actress d'Abo 3D Smug 
62 Somme season10 Like desert 

39 Nobel-winning &31972 pactwater, usually 

poet 64 Posture

19 Missile's Quasimodo heading 
41 Tooth, in Torino 
DOWN

21 Subject of many 42 Drink recipe an ode words 
1 Lip 22 Develops 44"--the 2 Muslim official slowly, as an season ..." 
3 Unexpected idea 45 The "first pitch 24 --mecum martyr" 4Sammyand (handbook) 48 Retired Danny 5 Make into law &Gong 7 Landlord's sign
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

a Eggs 9 Trawlers' gear 10 Radiator 
drainpipe 11 Craze 12 Modify 13 Doorstop, 

maybe 33 Roman army 49 Greenland 56 Ripken Jr. or Sr. 16 Sporty Chevy 
commander native 58 Pres. advisory 20 Ear doctor's grp.
34 Those opposed 50 Magnetic
device 

induction unit 59 "Well, I'll bel"
35 66 and others:
22--salami 
Abbr. 
23 Wizard 
37 Adherent: Suffix
25 Hip-hop hits 

Get answers to any three clues
40 Widespread27Capt. of 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
industry 43 One-ups 

5656 (75¢ each minute).

u~~u 
";u.&Sa-e. F/IO:p.m. s~ 2p.m. $2.00 
-... --....... . 
. l 

SPORTS 
Irish wiped out by Hurricanes 
Rich, Miami ruin Hoover's home finale 

By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame returned to the Joyce Arena floor with over eight minutes left in the half­time intermission. Evidently, there was not much need for discussion after the team's most abysmal half of the sea­son. 
Miami (13-12, 7-10) scored the final 18 points of the first half en route to an insurmount­able 41-17 lead at the break and coasted to a 71-59 thrash­ing of the Irish (9-16, 4-13). 
The final score was deceptive though, cosmetic surgery masking the true chastisement delivered by the 'Canes. 
Miami, which won its first Big East road game of the season, came out with more intensity from the opening tip and over­whelmed the sluggish Irish with its athleticism. 
"We should be embarrassed by our performance in the first half," said Doug Gottlieb. "We came out terrible. The effort wasn't there for some reason." 
In contrast to the Providence game a week ago, where Notre Dame fell behind by twenty before mounting a furious rally to get within one at the buzzer, the Irish were never able to whittle away significantly at the Hurricane lead. 

"It's difficult to overcome a 20-point deficit," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "We can't keep relying on a monu­mental effort to dig us out of a hole." 
During spots of the second half the Irish appeared poised to mount that comeback, but Miami maintained its compo­sure and responded to every challenge. 
Hurricane center Steve Rich was dominant in the paint, scoring 14 points on 7 -of-12 shooting. He was complement­ed by freshman forward Tim James, who despite hoisting only one three-pointer all sea­son, hit two of his four attempts to finish with 14 points and eight boards. 
"My biggest concern about Notre Dame was that they have in every game been able to 
see IRISH I page 22 
The ObseiVer/Brandon Candura 
Point guard Doug Gottlieb (left) and swingman Antoni Wyche (right) were unable to help the Irish overcome Miami's devastat­ing 18-0 run to end the first half. In the final home game of the season, Notre Dame could not erase a 24 point halftime deficit despite outscoring the Hurricanes (13-12, 7-10) by 12 points in the second half. 
Bengal Bouts ..QbiP.E~rr~.~~ Chris Sikor~·····
Final Round 
Frank Diorio J. Christoforetti 

~ -Tommy Y.V!.U.
:;1 '•",·.,·:· 

TQl::>Y ~olch_ini Matthew Bardol: 
..:··.··,··~··-"""t"--... -··:-:-·-··-· 
Ted Pagano Doug Pollinai············ 
····:::-··················· 
Andrew Dicelllo __ Fred_"5_elly~ 
Butch Cabreros 

Rick Rogers John Kmetz,_ ........ 


Bob Lalor Patrick Maciarielli Mike Farrell 

~----··-··--~-···-·-·---· 
Matthew Dowd 
Bric:t.n G.c:tffn~y 
Dan Cunningham
···:.:r:·;:::r::·:.....·······\r··.--.' ... ······:-..:w.·········· 
Mike Mantey Ken Olipbant .TCQY Phillip§ 

~--·-···················································. 
Cory_Spens~· ~Tim RegaiJ, 

•!,.-,-.----·-·--
Shanngn_ QQQOY?If -·~. .. . 
Men,s Basketball 
at Syracuse, March 2, 4 p.m. 
Women,s Basketball at BIG EAST Championship, Storrs, CT March 2, TBA 
Hockey 
vs. Ferris State, March 2, 7 p.m. 

The Observer/Christopher Mullins 
Men,s Tennis 
at Illinois, March 2, I p.m. 
Women,s Tennis 

Notre Dame struggles past Michigan State 
By JOE CAVATO 
SportS Writer 
After suffering through a tough weekend in Louisville, the Notre Dame men's tennis team got back on the winning track. The Irish dropped all three of their matches in the UST A/ITA indoor champi­onships which pushed their record to 6-4. 
The Irish returned home to the Eck Tennis Pavilion yester­day and prevailed in a tough match against the Spartans of Michigan State, 4-3. 
Notre Dame got off to a fast start as they swept all three doubles matches. The No. 1 tandem of seniors Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun over­came State's best squad 8-5. 
In the second doubles slot, the sophomore/freshman combination of Jakub Pietrowski and Brian Patterson improved their record to 4-1 as they easily defeated the Spartan team of Beyley and Ben Hetzler, 8-3. 
The last doubles match saw junior Ryan Simme team with sophomore Danny Rothschild, who saw his first dual match action this season, to overcome Alberto Brause and Trey Eubanks while surrendering just three games. 
On the singles side, captain Mike Sprouse continued to im­press. Sprouse defeated Brause, who could only manage to win four games, as the final was 6-2,6-2. Sprouse's record now stands at 9-2 on the sea­son. He has produced a terrific start leading the way for the Irish. 
Sophomore Jakub Pietrowski did not see singles action today which bumped up everyone by one position. Simme breezed by Eubanks 6-0,6-0 in the No. 2 singles slot. 
The Spartans won their points in the 3,4, and 5 singles slots. Freshman Brian Patterson and senior John J . O'Brien were bested in matches that went the distance. Dan 
see TENNIS I page 22 
vs. Kansas State, March 2, 10 a.m. 
• Georgia Tech clinches ACC title 
Baseball 
at New Orleans, March I, I p.m. 
see page 19 
SMC Sports • Allerrs career-high 39 rallies UConn 
Tennis vs. Hope, March 2, I p.m. 
see page 15 
• Tommie Frazier hospitalized see page 22 


• 





