
Thursday, January 18, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 70 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
school early from break  
found a 'locked' campus  
By KELLY FlTZPATRICK  
News Writer  
If you were like many students attempting to  
return to the University and get settled back in  
early, you were probably turned away at the  
sneurity gate.  
Flanner senior Mark Hengel reported that he  
was not allowed past the security gate, but  
sptmt the night in an off-campus house.  
Angela Hodriguez, a freshman in Lewis Hall,  
also tried to return to her dorm room early, but  
instead had to stay with friends in South Bend.  
Why this sudden change in the Uniyersity's  
treatment of narly-returning students? A num­ 
bnr of' students were under the impression that  
they would he allowed into the dorms early.  
However. aecording to Director of Student  
Hesidnnees Kevin Cannon, this is not a new poli­ 
cy. Cannon said that the regulation was adver­ 
tisml far in advance "so that pnople could make  
traw1l plans in accordanee with it."  
Cannon eonlinued to say that "s.tudents and  
stuff don't come hark until Sunday so that  
things stay us secure as possible."  
Sister Annette George, reetress of Lewis llall,  
confirmed this by saying that the University has  
long hnld thnir poliey of not allowing students  
back in to thn dorms before the posted date­ 
this ynar iL was noon on Sunday, January 14.  
Aeeording to Gnorge, the policy of the University  
was to literally padlock the doors so that no one  
eould gel into the dorms. This procedure was  
enforced to deernase the instance of theft that  
has oeeurrml during past breaks. "We have to  
just go on our experienee in the past," George  
statnd, "It's a question of liability."  
Hengnl, however, said that he was not aware  The Observer/ Mike Ruma  
that he would not be able to return to the resi- A student found himself turned away at the Security Gate as he  
attempted to return to campus after break. The guards would not let  
students on campus before noon on Sunday, January 14.  

No room at the inn? 
Students returning to 
see CAMPUS I page 4 
School benefactor dead at the age of 93 
Special to The Observer 
Notrn Dame bnnefactor Kenneth Montgomery died Sunday at his home in North­brook, Illinois at 93 years of agn. 
Montgonwry, a rntirnd part­rwr in tlw Chieago law firm Wilson & Mdlvairw, had been a nwmher of thn Law School's advisory couneil since 1972. 1111 nstablishnd thn Kiley Fnllowships in Uw Notrn Dame Law School in I!)(,H. Narnnd in honor of .Judgn Hognr Kiley, 
orw of t lw Notre Darn e Law School's most distinguished 
alumni jurists, the Kiley fellow­ships annually provide three outstanding Notre Dame law students with full tuition, room and board. 
A native of Apalachicola, Fla., Montgomery was a gradu­ate of Dartmouth College and Harvard Law School. Weallhy as a result of an inheritance from the cereal fortune of the 
C.W. Post estate, Montgomery resolved to give away 80 per­cent of his money. In defense of this deeision. he remarked in a 1978 Chicago Tribune inter­
· see DEATH I page 4 

Report: Financial aid increases nine percent 
Special to The Observer 
Undnrgraduate scholarship aid awarded by the University of Notrn Damn in the currnnt acadmnic year rose more than IJ pnrcnnt from 1994-95 totals. according to a report from the Oniee of Financial Aid. 
l'n1pared by Joseph Husso, director of financial aid, thn re­port provides a preliminary summary of all student aid from University, government and private sources for the 1995-96 academic year. The totals will rise when a final re­port is issued at the end of the fiseal year .June 30. 
Uni ve rsi ty-ad ministered seholarship aid for this year to­taled 13.1 million, some 1.1 million more than the 12 mil­lion distributed in 1994-95. 
Scholarship and grant assis­tance provided by the Univer­sity includes funds awarded to Notre Dame Seholars-students 
see MONEY I page 4. 


Multi-purpose debit card to debut in fall '97 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
Hight down to the pepperoni on your Huddle pizza. Thanks to the recent progress that has been made toward the installation of the new debit card system at Notre Dame, the card will help students pay for "everything and any­thing," according to Student Govenment Campus Improvements Committee Commissioner Brendan Kelly who spoke at the Student Senate meeting on December 6. 
Kelly listed a number of places where the card ean be used after its implementation in the fall of 1997: token dispensers, change dis­pensers, single or multiple price vending maehines, laundromats, photocopiers, parking gates, arcade and video machines, public tele­phones, and turnstiles for concerts and athletic events, which he said will make football tickets "basically non-existent." 
The debit card will replace other student cards like the phone card beeause it will con­tain a Cinncinnati Bell Long Distanee account. And it will serve as a detex at some security aecess points, like female dorms. "The security systems for dorm aeeess will be reliable and specific," Kelly said of the card. 
Kelly also announced aspects of' the debit eard system that will af1'ect meal plan flexibili­ty. Students will be able to use their debit cards at food sales services on and off campus. Outside of the dining hall, students may have up to $200 credit at campus restauranats like The Huddle. Eventually, the card may be hon­ored at off-campus restaurants like McDonald's. 
With the new debit eard system, students will save money because it will narrow down food and board priee, Kelly said. 
"Now, people who eat 14 meals a week are 
see SENATE I page 4 



Sentences stiff for bombers 
Nine sent to jail for World Trade Center disaster 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
A federal judge handed down stiff sentenees today to nine fol­lowers of a blind Egyptian cler­ic in a terrorist conspiracy that targeted the United Nations, FBI offices and other New York landmarks. 
The judge came down hard­est on El Sayyid Nosair, sen­tencing the assassin of Habbi Meir Kahane to life behind bars for the 1990 murder of the extremist anti-Arab rabbi in a midtown Manhattan hotel. 
Nosair, 40, who had been acquitted in state court for Kahane's murder, was found guilty of the murder in federal court as part of the terror plot hid by Sheik Omar Adbei­Hahman, who planned to give one last "message" before sen­tencing Wednesday afternoon. 
Nosair protested that he did not participate in the bombing of the World Trade Center, but 
U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey replied that he was at the center of "a conspiracy to commit vast destruction in this country." 
The other eight co-conspira­tors received between 25 and 35 years from Mukasey, who flatly told one defendant: "You agreed to participate in a con­spiracy to commit monstrous crime." 
The judge sentenced Nosair's cousin, Ibrahim A. El­Gabrowny, 45, to 57 years for conspiracy and other charges, including keeping bogus pass­ports and visas to get Nosair out of the country following a jailbreak. 
"I have never touched an explosive," El-Gabrowny protested before receiving his sentenee. "Never in my life." 
A dozen city police of'lieers ­twice the usual complement ­patrolled outside and two bomb-sniffing dogs instead of just one were going through the courthouse with federal agents this morning. 
Concrete barriers were installed outside the courthouse to prevent vehicles from approaehing the building and keep any demonstrators at bay. However, there were no prob­lems as the sentencings began. 
Abdel-Hahman and nine oth­ers were convicted Oct. 1 of seditious conspiracy in the plot to bomb the United Nations, FBI headquarters in Manhattan, two tunnels and a bridge connecting New Jersey and New York. The government said the group also was respon­sible for the Feb. 26, 1993, 
World Trade Center bombing that killed six people and injured more than 1,000. 
The government said the defendants wanted to use urban terrorism to pressure the United States into curbing sup­port for Middle East nations that opposed the sheik's extremist brand of Islam. 
The 57-year-old sheik also was convicted in a plot to assassinate Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak. 
Defendants Clement Hampton-El, 57, Vietor Alvarez, 29, Tarig Elhassan, 40, and Mohammed Saleh, 39, were sentenced to 35 years in prison. Alvarez was portrayed during the nine-month trial as a bor­derline retarded man from a broken family, but the judge was unmoved. 
Fadil Abdelgani, 33, was sen­tenced to 25 years in prison; his eousin, Amir Abdelgani, 35, received 30 years; and Fares Khallafalla, 33, received 30 years. Fadil Abdelgani was cap­tured on videotape mixing chemicals for a potential bomb. 
Mukasey said the varying sentenees were tied to each ter­rorist's involvement in the plot. Defendants who took the stand and lied also received harsher sentenees, Mukasey said. 
All the defendants, speaking before their individual sentene­ings, proclaimed their inno­cence. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 18, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Minding 
the 
gap 
Well, we're back, and the weather is lousy as usual. So why read on? Because at least 80 faces are miss­ing from this Indiana bliss exploring the wonders of London instead, and read­ing what they are up to is much more interesting than whining about the weather. 
Actually, they proba­bly don't know themselves what they are doing at this point. The first few weeks of studying abroad brings a colossal whirl-wind of excitement, fear and curiosity. You think you have found the greatest pub of all time, the Rat and Parrot, only to find out it's the 7­11 of British establishments. You don't know whether to buy meat or eggs because some of the grocery stores (especially their refrigera­tion devices) look as if they belong in Beirut. The whole conversion concept has not sunken in, but your miserly nature will soon fade away as you come to equate pounds to dol­lars. 
But best of all, you are living like a real per­son in a real world with real responsibilities. Well, sort of. But this is a peculiar thing for Notre Dame. Living in London is the closest most Domers can get to co~ed housing while under a University roof. Can you believe that life went on without parietals? That members of the opposite sex saw themselves as friends and not sexual objects? The experience is by far one of the best lessons Notre Dame teach­es; unfortunately, you have to cross the Atlantic for it. 
But life in London will bring much more to this spring's group. Classes will transcend the mundane and incorporate operas, castles, gal­leries and even a field-trip to Paris. It is not too often you'll visit the Louvre with a world­class art critic and scholar who has timed your tour to view da Vinci's "Mona Lisa" just as the rays of the setting sun reflect off the Seine and onto the canvass. All this so that you can experience the precise moment when the painting's ambiguity and infamy come alive. Not a bad deal, nor will the dinner be that evening. 
You'll dance in bizarre clubs and sample more than your share of Newcastle. You'll cram onto the Tube and wonder why you are the only one wearing deodorant. You'll grab lunch at one of the unusually cheap Mayfair sandwich shops and they'll make fun of the way you say "banana" even if you are not from the midwest. You'll explore Camden Town and Covent Garden a bizillion times and still find new things to buy, and amazingly have the food-money to do so. And you'll later ask yourself why you didn't get to know Judy, Kay and Dr. Bradshaw earlier and why it is that you do know Rodney West so well after just one class. 
Eurailing across the continent clutching your Let's Go Europe book promises new adventures and experiences. But don't be afraid to let go of that tried and true advice. Small, unexpected discoveries like the 11th­century island monastery in Cannes with the azure Mediterranean lapping at its foundation or what appears to be the original "Giving Tree" in Hyde Park are more important than hitting 16 major cities in nine days. 
So soak up the culture, visit with the people, 
eat all the food and drink all the wine, and 
never forget how to play dumb-American­
tourist. But most importantly, remember your 
friends-new and old-and trust that you and 
these 80-plus people will one day share some­
thing very special. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Jaime Heisler  Graphics Chris Mullins  
Melanie Laflin Sports Mike Day Todd Fitzpatrick  Production Belle Bautista TomSchlidt Lab Tech Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wt!RW AT A GLANCE 
Republicans seek election-year advantage with tax reform 
WASHINGTON whether to eliminate politically popular Hoping to turn tax pique to political ''·..;, /-~~··~~.)i deductions such as one for mortgage advantage, a Republican commission on 
interest. It said the matter should be Wednesday recommended replacing the Tax reform.,._../'/ 
studied. nation's intricate tax code with a single 
Publisher Steve Forbes, who has
A Republican panel has embraced ,rate and personal exemptions to shield the idea of a flat tax, but fell short il 
moved up in GOP presidential polls with the poor. GOP presidential front-runner of making a specific recommenda-.! 
heavy advertising for his flat-tax plan,
tlon in a plan released Wednesday. · 
called the Republican group's recom­Bob Dole cautiously welcomed the effort 
some highlights:
to find a "fairer, flatter, simpler 
mendation encouraging. "I see it as a approach," but warned that any change ;/' A single, low tax rate with 
step forward," Forbes said on CBS's
generous personal exemptions. 
"This Morning." must not shift more of the tax burden 
;/' Atwo-thirds majority vote In from the rich to the middle class. Congress to Increase tax rates. 
He offered his own plan as the answer. 
•'The middle class always seem to end ¢ Deduction lor Social Security and It calls for a 17 percent flat rate, no 
Medicare payroll taxes.
up with the heaviest load, and they're deduction for mortgage interest and no 
¢ Individual deductions for new
tired," said Dole, the Senate majority investment and saving or 
individual taxes on interest or capital leader. In an election year filled with eliminating capital gains tax. 
gains. talk of a flat tax, Dole and House Speaker 
Dole seemed worried Democrats could
Some major differences between 1!
Newt Gingrich called on President Clinton seize on the plan to argue Republicans
a flat tax and the current, " to work with Republicans to junk the cur­pr09ressive system: 
are abandoning the middle class -a key 
Current 
swing group of voters either party needsrent tax system and start anew. 
Flat tax system
But Clinton's spokesman was cool to 
to win. the commission's ideas, saying a flat tax vHowmany One Five 
"We all agree that we don't shift the
levels? :~ 
burden from the upper income to themight lead to tax increases for the middle 
vWhatls Steven Forbes 15 percent i[
class and swell the budget deficit. 
middle income," Dole said, stressing the
·· therate? calls for 17 forthe .!"Sometimes simple ·ideas can be simple­percent; Sen. poorest; •[ 
importance of the mortgage interest 
Phil Gramm 39.6 for the '
minded if they are not artfully construct­
deduction to homeowners. ed," said White House spokesman Mike percent will 
says 16 wealthiest. ,; 
Forbes' plan has been ridiculed by his 
work. 
GOP rivals as a "nutty idea" and a wind­The GOP commission, headed by for­</How many Two 437 
McCurry. 
fall for the rich. Several Republican
fOI'f!lll? 
hopefuls have proposed modified flat-tax away from endorsing a specific plan or 1 
mer Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, shied 
proposals that would preserve the 
flat rate pushed by any GOP presidential -4:'.:fnC:::;7" deductions would be '! deductions for mortgage interest and candidate. 
Mortgage Interest payments, charitable '! charitable contributions. contiibtitions,stateandlocallaxes. !i Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas, who
Instead, it laid out a dozen principles 
vWhat would not be taxed? :! k k
that should be followed in changing the tQVelllment earnings from savings accounts i! .. unveiled one such plan this wee , too tax code. The panel, heavy with Dole .gj~d~ookdivklends;capitalgains. } an oblique swipe Wednesday at Dole for supporters, also sidestepped the issue of AP failing to embrace a specific plan. 
Queen refuses to rescue Fergie Blood donors upset over Nutters 
LONDON ATLANTA 
Out go the annual skiing holiday, 
It was a tradition: You gave blood, you got Nutter appointments with the hairdresser, two Butters. Then the peanut-shaped sandwich cookie disap­of her nine staff and expensive peared, crumbling the hopes of American Red Cross Christmas presents for her in-laws. blood donors across Atlanta. They protested -and won. The flame-haired, fun-loving Duchess ''I'd give more if they had Nutter Butters," said Paul of York is having money troubles and is Blanchard, a Georgia Power Co. employee who munched being forced to cut corners. British a chocolate chip cookie Wednesday after giving blood. tabloids reported Wednesday that she "They had Nutter Butters so long, you just expect it." owes $1.55 million and her mother-in­The cookies, a staple since the 1970s for Red Cross law Queen Elizabeth II won't bail her out. "These are donors needing a quick blood-sugar fix, were ·pulled matters which the Duchess of York must discuss and about 1 1/2 years ago when the local organization ran resolve with her bankers and other financial advisers," a short on funds. Substitute cookies were provided, but it Buckingham Palace spokesman told the British news just wasn't the same. And while donations have declined agency Press Association. The duchess, popularly known nationally, officials suspect the missing Nutter Butters as Fergie, says she is cutting back. "The truth is I am may have had something to do with the 20,000-pint drop making financial cutbacks, huge ones," the Daily Express in donations the year after they were taken away. The quoted the 36-year-old duchess as saying. Wall Street Journal wrote a story on the demise. 
Teacher gets caught with porn Buffett's plane hit by police 
YARMOUTH, Mass. KINGSTON, Jamaica 
A high school teacher was fired Wednesday for making Jimmy Buffett's seaplane was shot at by police who 
and appearing in porno movies and for allegedly asking a apparently thought drug traffickers were landing in the 
student to appear in an X-rated video. Robert "Bubba" sea off this Caribbean nation's west coast. The musician 
Walenski, a freewheeling teacher who let students call was not on board the plane, and no one was hurt in 
him by his first name and taught poetry with rock music, Tuesday's incident, Commissioner Col. Trevor MacMillan 
was dismissed after 25 years at Dennis-Yarmouth said today. Acting on an anonymous tip, police mistaken­
Regional High School. His whereabouts were not imme­ly believed that the seaplane was involved in drug traf­
diately known Wednesday. He has not spoken publicly ficking and opened fire, MacMillan said. A pilot was on 
since he was abruptly suspended on Friday. Walenski board the aircraft, which was struck twice by bullets, but 
has produced and appeared in low-budget porno movies all passengers had left the plane before the shooting 
filmed on the West Coast. The movies are called "Bob's began, he said. "Aircraft come in here regularly on 
Videos." In one video obtained by the Boston Herald, ganja (marijuana) missions," MacMillan said. "Thank 
Walenski is seen massaging a woman's bare buttocks God no one was hurt. It was an incident we regret most 
and licking her toes. "Boys will be boys," he says. sincerely." 

Thursday, Jan. 18 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 18. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
............... ...A-A... ............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeathar, Inc. 
Hrossui. m bSI !Til 0 ~ G !) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 50 41 Dallas 73 60 New O~eans 76 59 
Baltimore 54 32 Denver 42 25 New York 54 39 
Boston 52 38 Los Angeles 64 45 Philadelphia 57 40 
Chicago 55 37 Miami 84 72 Phoenix 62 45 
Columbus 60 39 Minneapolis 42 33 St. Louis 64 46 


"Nothing is sticking out about Dole, the survey found that reg­Dole as a positivn character," istered voters favor Clinton commented Andrew Kohut, over Dole by a margin of 53 director of the independent percent to 41 percent. Breaking polling center. that number down by party, 
"That may come with time,'' Clinton held a similarly strong Kohut eontinued. but for now, lead among independents, 53 
the numbers suggest that despite Dole's huge lead in horserace polls, he is still vul­nerable to Forbes and the rest of thn GOP pack. 
Forhns, thn long-shot candi­date who has catapulted to sec­ond place in most polls. has gained considerable name recognition since he nnt1lred the presidential race in Snptnmbnr as an unknown. 
The Pew survey found that 61 percnnt of Americans natio·n­percent to 38 percent; and 18 percent of Republicans said they would be inclined to vote for Clinton over Dole. 
By contrast, the defection rate among Democrats, where Clinton faces no serious chal­lenger. was less than 10 per­cent. 
The telephone survey of 1,200 Americans over age 18 was conducted Jan. 11-14 and claims a 3-percentage-point margin of error. 

Savings Worth Stu(lying 
Any student cun get agreat haircut from licensed, professional stylists at everyday low prices. And you never need an appointment. Stop in at our convenient mall location. At MusterCuts we trim prices, not quality. We carry: Regis, Paul Mitchell, Biolage, Nexxus, VaVoom and KMS. 
\.!u1t p1~1t'nt 1tud~ntl 11 ~otry. n•!dnuhlrtltl~ount~ MasterCuts •
.. . . .... . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . ..... . ... University Park Mall 273-3770 
C AI' h Cor urullun 1995 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
Exxon Corp. will receive $300 million from Lloyds of London and about 250 other underwriters in a partial set­tlement of a lawsuit to recover expenses from the 1989 Valdez oil spill. 
Exxon, which made the an­nouncement Wednesday, had sought more than $1 billion from its insurance companies and underwriting syndicates for the tanker accident and oil spill. The insurers refused to pay. saying the accident was caused by the company's negli­gence. 
The Irving, Texas-based com­pany still has another $250 mil­lion in unresolved claims pend­ing with Lloyd's and other underwriters. An April 8 trial date has been set in state court in Harris County, Texas. 
Exxon spent $3 billion to clean up the 11 million gallon spill after the Valdez ran aground in Alaska's Prince Williams Sound on March 24, 1989, and settle lawsuits filed by the state and federal gov­ernment. 
Insurers contended the disas­ter was caused by Exxon's own misconduct -putting a known alcoholic at the helm of the Valdez. Joseph Hazelwood was acquitted in 1990 of operating the tanker while drunk. 
Exxon was ordered to pay $5 billion in punitive damages to commercial fishermen, Alaskan natives, property owners and others harmed by the spill. It also was ordered to pay $287 million to fishermen for actual losses. 
§!JJIJMIJMIJEJF{ §JEJF{WJICJE IPIR OJ]]IE CCJ!§ 
Information meeting: 
JANUARY 18 (Thurs.) 
6:00 -6:30 pm at the Center for Social Concerns 
find out how you can spend eight weeks in a social service agency and earn a $1500.00 tuition scholarship 
Study finds method to track AIDS 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
A drug company added evi­dence Wednesday to something doctors have long suspected: The amount of the AIDS virus in a patient's blood is a good predictor of how long they will stay healthy. 
Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc. found that patients who lost about 70 percent of the virus floating in their bloodstream · cut in half their risk of worsen­ing or dying quickly. 
Doctors now rely on another measurement to gauge AIDS progression -patients' level of an immune cell called CD4. The IIIV virus kills CD4 cells, and many patients change their AIDS medication when their CD4 levels drop. 
But some people have no AIDS symptoms despite very low CD4 levels, prompting doc­tors to look for additional ways to monitor the disease. 
Last year, doctors got a new test allowing them to measure "viral burden," the amount of IHV in the blood. It's an expen­sive test -anywhere from $150 to $500 -that must be repeated every few months, so doctors wanted to know how to use the results. 
The Pharmacia data, revealed to AIDS activists and reporters Wednesday, indicatn viral burden is important in tracking patients' changing health, said company investiga­tor Dr. Mark Pierce of Vanderbilt University 
But Pharmacia did not release figures showing how the patients' CD4 levels changed as their viral burden dropped. The company said that change was not statistical­ly significant. 
While patinnts should watch this technology's development, there is no proof ynt that they need a viral burden test more than CD4 monitoring, empha­sized Troy Petinbrink of the National Association of Peopln With AIDS. 
The Food and Drug Administration will continun to ask how all AIDS drugs affect both CD4 levels and viral bur­den, said spokeswoman Ivy Kupec. 
[ ~p_ag~e_4 T~h~e~O~bs~e~rv~e~r_·~~~E=~~~S______________________________T_h_u_rs_d~ay~,~Ja_n_u_ary~l_8~,-~19_9_6 
Congress demands new Clinton plan 
By ALAN FRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Republican congressional leaders abruptly canceled a budget-bargaining session with President Clinton Wednesday, saying there was no reason to meet until the adminis­tration pre­sents a seri­ous new otTer. 
The deci­sion, further clouding 

Clinton
already trou­b I e d prospects for a budget deal, fol­lowed a 40-minute telephone conversation among Clinton, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, House Speaker Newt Gingrich and House Majority Leader Richard Armey. 
Afterward, the GOP leaders issued a statement calling the talk "frank and useful," and saying they would meet the president "once he proposes a firm budget offer that moves in the direction" of the plan 
Senate 
continu~d from page 1 
paying for 21," he explained, adding that along with the debit card may come a meal plan fee that is proportional to the amount of meals consumed by each student. However, details like these are still being dis­cussed. 
And the more communica­tion between students and the administration on these topics, the better. according to Student Body President Jonathan Patrick who encouraged further discussion by the Senate. "When you come next semester (Spring 1996) to discuss meal flexibility, keep in mind how we can help out," Patrick said. 
While the most important requirement of the new debit card system is that it is easy for students to use, one concern of the debit card committee was the production time of the card. Because the card only needs to be run thorugh a machine after 
Ca01pus 
continued from page 1 
dence hall. In fact, he said, "there were many students on my flight that didn't know if the dorms would be open." 
Rex Rakow, of Notre Dame Security, explamed the University's policies as to why students may not return until the appointed day that resi­dence staff also return, saying that the regulation is enforced to protect the security of the students' rooms and posses­sions. "As far as I know, the policy isn't any stricter than it has been," Rakow said. According to Rakow, security merely enforces these policies which have been in effect for some time. 
Cannon stated that he already has notices about the date next August on which the dorms will reopen. Students are encouraged to adjust their arrival dates to comply with the policy. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Republicans offered last week. No new meeting was scheduled. 
But Wednesday's session was also called off at a time that several GOP congressional strategists, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, describe as one of confusion for the party. 
They say many Republicans want to end the talks immedi­ately because they believe Clinton is merely using them to portray himself as serious about balancing the budget. 
But halting the sessions, they fear, would let the president blame them for walking away from the negotiations, which could alienate voters and roil financial markets. 
Illustrating their internal indecision, Gingrich, R-Ga., wanted GOP leaders to attend Wednesday's White House ses­sion while Dole, R-Kan., wanted to forgo it, said Republican par­ticipants. 
And in a show of pique, Dole also complai;led that after Clinton promised no pho­tographs would be taken at their last negotiating session, the White House gave Time magazine a photograph of 
a student picture is taken, its processing will only take a minute and a half, Kelly said, adding that this concern and all other committee requirements are being met by companies bidding for debit card system. 
Of all the companies involved in the bidding process, AT&T had the most impressive pre­sentation, mainly because it was "the most flexible," Kelly said. 
This spring, the committee, which was formed in April of 1995, will choose companies and negotiate final contracts. 
"The last word is Fr. Beauchamp," Kelly explained about the installation of the new system. "But people in food services and myself as the rep­resentative feel it is the best," he said, offering his overall opinion of the system. 
Kelly also presented an update on the renovation of South Dining Hall, which will begin in the Fall of 1996 and will be completed by the Fall of1997. The Oak Room will no longer exist and will be con­"Clinton up there lecturing the rest of us." 
"We told them we're not go1ng to go to the White House unless there's a solid proposal, unless we can be assured we're all going to play by the same rules," Dole said on CNN. "We sit there as props in a Time magazine piece and that wasn't the understanding." 
Though the two sides have not met since Jan. 9, neither would characterize Wednesday's cancellation as evidence that the long-running talks were dead. 
Republicans said they have received recent indications that the administration might make new suggestions for balancing the budget by 2002, the goal of the talks. 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D .. and House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt, D-Mo., traveled to the White House and had even sharper words for Republicans. 
"I guess you'd call a situation where the Republicans have told us they're not prepared to come to the table an impasse," Daschle told reporters. 
verted into a huge food area with 700 new seats. 
Despite all the changes being made to SDH, Kelly assured, the "architectural integrity," "scenic value," and "historical look" of the building will remain. The SDH renovations will be discussed at an upcom­ing meeting with South Quad and God Quad Senators and the hall presidents. 
Campus security is also being increased with the installation of at least 30 new lights near the tennis courts and outer edges of campus. 
New sidewalks and trees are being added to improve campus appearance. And laundry machines will be placed in Sorin and Morrissey Halls in the near future. 
When asked by Senior Class President Kevin Kuwick why the two male dorms were the only ones receiving laundering services, Kelly responded that it is "Student Government's opin­ion that all male dorms should have them but it comes down to money." 
The Observer 
The Viewpoint Department is hiring for this semester: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Submit a resume to Michael O'Hara at The Observer by January 26, 314 LaFortune. For information call631-4541. 

Money 
continued from page 1 
who are designated the most accomplished in each incoming class-as well as Holy Cross grants awarded primarily to minority students based upon their academic and personal records and proven ability to overcome economic or social disadvantages. 
With these and with all Notre Dame-based financial aid pro­grams, demonstrated financial need is an essential considera­tion in addition to the students' outstanding credentials, Russo said. 
This year's totals for Univer­sity-administered scholarship aid do. not include Notre Dame's recently announced decision to provide over the next five years an additional 5 million for scholarship awards beginning with the 1996 fresh­man class. Over this period, some 425 more undergraduate students will benefit from these newly committed resources. 
Since 1990, undergraduate 
Death 
continued from page 1 
view that "no one has figured out how to take it with you." 
In addition to his gifts to Notre Dame, Montgomery established scholarships at Dartmouth, Harvard, and Stanford. 
His philanthropy also extend-scholarship aid awarded by the University has grown from 5.4 million to the current 13.1 mil­lion. 
Other highlights from the 1995-96 financial aid report: 
• 
Loans to students and their parents account for 36 million of the 40.1 million from federal assistance programs. The re­maining 4.1 million comes in the form of grants and work­study programs. 

• 
Nonfederal financial aid­including scholarships earned from outside the University, al­ternative loans, grants-in-aid, tuition remission and University student employ­ment-rose 3 percent to 53.5 million. 

• 
ROTC scholarships rose by an average of more than $1,500 per student and totaled 


7.8 million. 
• 
70 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates and 85 percent of graduate students are receiving aid this year. 

• 
Of the 102 million in aid distributed, about 66 million is going to undergraduates and. 36 million to graduate stu­dents. 


ed to a variety of liberal politi­cal causes and to the fine arts. 
Survivors include Mont­gomery's wife, Harle; a daugh­ter, Henrietta Montgomery Heydon; and a son, Kenneth. 
A private funeral service will be held tomorrow in Jack­sonville, Florida. 
The Notre Dame Law School plans to hold a memorial ser­vice for Montgomery at a date to be announced. 
Suininer 
Service 
Projects 
• Eight weeks of volunteer 
service with a disadvantaged population 
• 
Sponsored by a Notre Dame Alumni Club 

• Students receive a $1500.00 Scholarship 

• 
Applications are available in December and January at the 


Center for Soeiol Concerns 
• Watch for further information 
• Information Sessions: Jan. 18~ 6:00-6:30pm 

Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Professors discover two planets Donahue ends 28-year 

a)  I  had four finals,  a  project and five papers;  I  just forgot.  
b)  I  just made  a  New Year's resolution to do something good for myself.  
Whether you chose a). b) or llnone of the above.~~ you still have time to sign up for Communities ND.  

Sign up by Friday Jan. 19 
at either the Badin Hall or 103 Hesburgh Library office of Campus Ministry. The RALLY DAY to begin Communities ND takes place on Saturday, Jan. 20 from 11 am -4 pm in the Lafortune Ballroom. 

a) 
small Christian communities at Notre Dame, open to ALL undergraduates 

b) 
co-ed, student-led groups of 8-10 undergraduates which meet every other week 

c) 
a chance to share prayer and conversation and to learn about your faith 

d) 
all of the above 


did you guess d)? it's the best answer --no partial credit 
By PAUL RECER Associa1ed Press 
SAN ANTONIO 
Astronomers have discovered two huge planets, only the sec­ond and third found outside the solar system, and at least one could have a warm, watery "broth" perhaps ideal for the chemistry of life. 
GeoiTmy Marcy, professor of physies and astronomy at San Francisco State University, announeed Wednesday that one ear.h has been found orbiting the stars 70 Virginis, in the constellation Virgo, and 4 7 Ursae Majoris, a star within the Big Dipper. 
lie told a national meeting of tho American Astronomical Soeiety that the diseoveries opt~n a new era in which scien­tists ean seriously address, for the first time, a real possibility of other worlds like the Earth existing around stars other than the sun. 
"We are at a watershed," 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Systems Manager Web Administrator 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Ifyou have Macintosh experience and are look­ing to run your own network, submit a one-page personal statement to Sean Gallavan by Friday, January 26. Call631-8839 with questions. 
said Marcy. "There is a dawn­ing of a new field in science. These new planets offer a chal­lenge to us to compare th.,em with those in our solar system." 
Marcy's announcement came about three months after Swiss astronomers announced discov­ery of a planet in orbit of the star 51 Pegasi. Marey and other American astronomers have confirmed the Swiss discovery. 
All of the discoveries are based on long-term measure­ment of gravitational variations in the stars. The presence of planets is thought to be the only explanation for the characteris­tic wobbles that were found. 
Other astronomers said the rapid fire discovery of planets moves scienee doser to investi­gating directly the existence of life beyond the solar system. 
"What has been left to the imagination is now going to be the subject of scientific inquiry and there is going to be an answer," said Robert A. Brown of the Space Telescope Scienee Institute. 
All three stars hosting the new planets are within 40 light years of the Earth and eaeh is about the size of the sun. 
Marcy said the planet orbiting 70 Virginis is about nine times larger than Jupiter, the largest sister planet to Earth. The plan­et orbits the star every 116 days. He said the heat from the host star would keep the planet at about 185 degrees Fahrenheit, a temperature that would permit the presence of liquid water. 
He said the water would be like "a nice toasty warm bath" or a "broth" that possibly could permit formation of complex organic molecules, such as amino acids and proteins, "that presumably led to life on Earth." 
Marcy said the 70 Virinis planet may not have a solid surface and may be mostly gaseous, similar to Jupiter. But it could have moons, he said, where life could form. 
The planet about 4 7 Ursae Majoris has a mass of about three times that of Jupiter and has a circular orbit of just over three years. It, too, may have water, but Marcy said it proba­bly would be frozen. He com­pared it to the water that is thought to be frozen in the polar regions of Mars. 
Brown said the discovery of the 47 Ursae Majoris planet is particularly important. 
"It is the first find with char­acteristics of mass and orbit that are similar to the solar sys­tem," he said. "We know of only one way to get such a thing and that is to have an event around that star that is the same event t}:!at happened around the sun. 
career as talk show host 
By SCOTT WILLIAMS Associa1ed Press 
NEWYOHK 
Phil Donahue, who invented the issue-driven daytime talk show, then watched his ratings slip while low-brow imitators outperformed him, is call­
ing it quits at ._ the end of the season. A nine-time Emmy Award winner as outstanding h 0 s t ' Donahue will continue to work on TV speeials and new projects in broadcasting and cable, his syndicator, Multimedia Entertainment Inc., announced Wednesday. Industry analysts blamed his departure on slipping ratings and a market crowded with more sensationalistic talk­shows. A spokesman for the show said Donahue was taping a pro­gram and would not be avail­able for interviews. "Phil Donahue essentially started this company and began an entire industry in daytime syndication," said Multimedia President Bob Turner. "He was the first to intimately involve his studio and home audiences." Seen in more than 45 coun­tries, "Donahue" marked its 25th anniversary in 1992. 
Donahue 
Please Recycle The Observer 
It has won 20 national Emmys and broadcasting's prestigious Peabody award. 
It first saw the light of day on Nov. 6, 1967, in Dayton, Ohio, where the then-brown-haired TV personality was launehing a couch-and-desk talker, when a studio audience showed up for the canceled variety show he was replacing. 
"Somebody said, 'Why don't we sit 'em down and let 'em watch the interview?" Donahue recalled in a 1987 interview. His guest was atheist Madalyn Murray O'Hair, and the audi­ence asked her questions dur­ing eommercials. 
Donahue thought the audi­ence's questions were better than his. "Sometime during that first week, I jumped off' my chair and ran into the audi­ence," he said. 
The program moved to national syndication and the top of the ratings -until a newcomer named Oprah Winfrey debuted in the 1986­87 season -and knoeked him out of first place. 
Still, Donahue struggled to keep to the high road, even as his show's ratings began slip­ping three years ago. 
The show's doom was sealed in August, when New York City's WNBC-TV declined to renew it for this fall season, and no other New York station picked it up -depriving it of 7 112 percent of the nation's viewers. 
.. 
Any questions? Call Darrell Paulsen or Kate Barrett at 631-5242. ~ 
Co~ties fi
(?MPUS 
MINISTRY 


NEW THEOLOGY COURSES 
LITERARY CATHOLICISM 
The Voices of Faith 
taught by Professor Charles Gordon 
Gospel Choir 
THEO 286 Sec. 01-#4495-3:25-4:15 MWF THEO 286 Sec. 02-#4494-2:20-3:10 MWF 
is looking for pianists that 
116 O'Shaughnessy 
can play by ear. Ifinterested, please call 
This course employs twentieth century novels by Catholic Authors in an exploration of the Church's 
Courtney Smith at 634-2978. 
theological and cultural traditions. 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
• RUSSIA 
Parliament elects ne-w speaker 
By JOHN lAMS Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia's new parliament elected a Communist Party member as speaker Wednesday, a move likely to intensify confrontation with President Boris Yeltsin's gov­ernment. 
Gennady Seleznev, the previ­ous parliament's deputy speak­er, won by 231 votes, five more than required. 
The balloting ended a two­day deadlock over selection of a new speaker. 
The Communists, who seek to roll back free-market reforms, finished first among 43 parties in last month's parliamentary elections. 
"It is difficult to say how con­frontational a figure Seleznev is going to be." said Yeltsin politi­cal adviser Georgy Satarov. 
"It depends not so much on 
• hm..v 
Ex-premier charged with bribery 
By DANIELJ. WAKIN Associated Press 
MILAN 
Silvio Berlusconi, the media magnate who transformed Italian politics and quickly won and lost the premiership, went on trial Wednesday on corrup­tion charges, just as he attempts a political comeback. 
Italy has been without a for­mal government since Premier Lamberto Dini resigned last week. President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro is consulting with political leaders to try to come up with a candidate to succeed Dini, and it is Berlusconi's turn on Friday. 
Wednesday's opening session of Berlusconi's trial on charges of bribing tax auditors who were reviewing the books of his business empire was largely devoted to procedural matters. 
But it was the trial's timing two days before Berlusconi's meeting with Scalfaro that mat­ter. 
Berlusconi heads Italy's cen­ter-right political coalition and is struggling to convince Italians that he is a better alter­native to govern the country than a center-left alliance dom­inated by the former him, but on the policy his party and the opposition in general will choose." 
Seleznev said he was not eager for confrontation. 
"The president has started to make big shifts in the govern­ment," Seleznev said after the balloting. "We'll wait and see what proposals the new Cabinet makes." 
Speaking to reportPrs, Seleznev indicated he hoped to be able to work with Yeltsin to improve living conditions for Russians impoverished by the reforms. 
Seleznev, 48, rose through the ranks of the Communist Party after joining in 1970. 
He was editor of the newspa­per Komsomolskaya Pravda from 1980 through 1990, and became editor of the party newspaper, Pravda, in 1991. 
He remains on its editorial board. Most of his backing came 
Communists. 
Asked during a break whether the trial will affect his political fortunes, Berlusconi said: ''I'm the victim of a politi­cal plot. I'm here to sustain my country. If the people believe me, it could even give me a boost." 
On trial with him are five business associates, including his brother Paolo. 
They are accused of paying $237,000 in bribes to tax inspectors. 
Five government tax inspec­tors are also on trial on charges of accepting bribes. 
On arrival, Berlusconi looked at reporters crammed inside a cell built into the courtroom's side, smiled broadly and said: "Finally you're in your place!" 
from fellow Communists, the Agrarian Party, and supporters of former Prime Minister Nikolai Ryzhkov and nationalist Sergei Baburin. 
Members of both the pro-gov­ernment Our Home is Russia party and ultranation~:i.Iist Vladimir Zhirinovsky's party said they could work with the new speaker. 
A member of Zhirinovsky's faction, Alexander Vengerovsky. praised Seleznev as "a good professional, a very sensible, calm and intelligent person." 
Seleznev said the Chechnya war would dominate the legis­lature, or State Duma. in com­ing weeks. 
Parliament issued a state­ment Wednesday blaming the government for "unfounded actions resulting in the death of innocent people," and accusing it of generally botching policy in the rebellious republic. 
Berlusconi sat in the front row squeezed between two attorneys. He took notes and occasionally massaged the bridge of his nose. 
Ironically, the media mogul sought to bar live television coverage of the trial, arguing it would turn the case into a spec­tacle and influence the behav­ior of witnesses. 
Judge Carlo Crivelli agreed, but permitted the proceedings to be videotaped and allowed live radio broadcast and pho­tographers in the courtroom. 
Berlusconi, whose Fininvest empire includes Italy's three largest private television sta­tions and the Milan soccer team, gave his permission to be videotaped. Italian defendants have the right to refuse. 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 
By CHARLES HUTZLER 
Associated Press 
i.. . . BEIJING China has ordered two for~ 
eign military attaches -an American and a Japanese ­to leave the country, accusing 
them of spying on military installations. . 
It ·was the second time in. six months that an American mil­itary attache was ordered out of China. Washington and Tokyo lodged protests, criti­cizing Beijing for violating international agreements pro­tecting diplomats. 
Lt. Col. Bradley Gerdes and Col. Kenji Maetani were detained last Thursday for nearly 24 hours before their governments were notified, 
U.S. and Japanese embassy officials said Wednesday. 
The two men have been freed and told they must leave China by Friday. 
They entered restricted mili­tary zones twice and illegally obtained information on the Chinese'' military, Foreign Ministry l)pokesman Shen Guofang charged Wednesday. 
In Stl;lte 
Thursday, January 18, 1996 
closed areas. 
Tensions between Beijing and Washington have eased after a summer-long con­frontation over Taiwan and human rights, but China is still very sensitive on both subjects. 
This time, China may he retaliating for an American decision to issue a transit visa to Taiwan Vice Presid.ent Li Yuan-zu so he could attend last weekend's presidential inauguration in Guatemala. 
Beijing has sought to isolate Taiwan, home to the Nationalist government that the Communists defeated in a civil war 47 years ago. in hopes of pressuring the island to reunite with the mainland. 
Authorities stopped the two attaches Jan. 8 on Hainan island, China's southernmost province, and confiscated pho­tographs and videotape, a ministry statement said. 
Three days later, it said. they were caught at a military airport outside Zhanjiang, a southern port city north of the island, which serves as the headquarters for China's South Sea Fleet. 
The South Sea Fleet is responsible for protecting China's claim to the Spratly Islands, a chain claimed hy six Asian governments. 
Beijing has heightened its military presence on some of the islands in the past two years, sparking fears of con· frontation. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 
~asy tatGh 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
51400 US 31 North Phone Answered South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277·1291 or 1·800-328·0206 
WANTED: by The Observer News Dept. 
Talented Dedicated Individuals for the Following Paid Positions: 
News Copy Editor 
Interested? Submit a one-page resume per­sonal statement to Dave Tyler, News Editor, in Rm 314 LaFortune by Monday, Jan. 22. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323. 
~----------------------------------· 
Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Rushdie no longer fears for his life 
By BRIAN WITTE 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
Author Salman Hushdie said Wednesday he is "losing interest" in dntt~rmining the status of an lslamie rnligious edict calling for him to be killed. 
Hushdie has been in hiding since Iran's late spiritual leader, Ayatollah Huhollah Khomnini, issued a fatwa, or rnligious edict, and a $1 mil­lion bounty in 1989 saying Hushdin must be killed because his novel "The Satanic Verses" blasphemed Islam. 
Appnaring in Washington to promote his latest novel "The Moor's Last Sigh," Hushdie said Iranian government ofli­eials have conducted a "charm offensive" to placate crities in the West over the affair, which has soured rela­tions between Iran and many Western governments. 
"I don't know what lessons to draw from this," Hushdie said at the National Press Club. "But the faet is that I'm losing interest." 
Nevertheless, the Indian­born British writer said he is wary of the reeent statements sinee Iranian officials won't put it in writing. 
Seeurity at the event was tight, with bodyguards stand­ing next to the table where Hushdie spoke and a dog to sniff bags for bombs. 
Hushdie said that in recent months officials in the Iranian government have not only said they are not interested in car­rying out the edict, but that they never sought it in the lirst place. 
"It would have been nice if they had told us before," he said. 
Iran will not attempt to hunt down Hushdie, parliament Speaker Ali Akbar Nateq­Nouri has said, but he also has said the edict cannot be revoked. 
Approaching the end of a book tour that has taken him around the world, Rushdie has made strides to return to public life cautiously. 
US. government sends diplomats to hault the plan 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASI-IINGTON 
India's reported plan to deploy a nuclear-capable mis­sile and indications that the south Asian country may be preparing to conduct a nuclear test explosion are troubling the Clinton administration. 
Diplomats are tactfully advis­ing New Delhi of their worries. Indian officials are being reminded that a virtual eutoff of 
U.S. eeonomie assistance would result if they push ahead with India's second nuclear blast in two decades. 
An Indian news agency reported last Saturday that the Prithvi medium-range missile, a surface-to-surface weapon effective as far as 155 miles, would undergo its 14th flight test soon. Prithvi's range would reach targets in both Pakistan and China, neighbors with which India has fought wars. 
India also has tested a long-
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
"~ must combine the toughness ofthe serpent 
and the softness ofthe dove, a tough mind and a 
tender heart. " 
-Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Ifyou're like me, through the years you have discovered that in some ways you are not as tough as you thought and in other ways you are tougher than you thought you were. 
Maybe you have tried to avoid emotions because you thought they were threats to the detached thinking and acting which seem to make for a successful career. 
Maybe you have discovered that you have a bigger heart than you thought had. 
Maybe you have tried to avoid thinking too deeply about things because it disturbed the way you felt the world was arranged. Feeling good is important, so maybe you have tried to avoid thinking about things that disturb you. 
Maybe you have discovered that, as disturbing as thinking may be, facing the truth and thinking about it clearly is important. 
During our lives, especially during our time in school, it is pos­
India to conduct nuclear testing 
range Agni missile, which has a 1,500-mile range. 
"We have made our concerns well-known," State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said Wednesday. "Deployment or acquisition of ballistic missile delivery systems by India or Pakistan would be destabiliz­ing, and we think it would undermine the security of both countries and of the region." 
The administration also is registering concern over signs that India may be preparing to conduct another nuclear test explosion. 
India said the first one, in 1974 beneath the Rajasthan desert 340 miles southwest of New Delhi, was for peaceful research. 
Burns and other U.S. oflicials said India is aware that a sec­ond test could have major eco­nomic repercussions. 
Under legislation passed in 1994, the United States auto­matically would cease virtually all aid. The amendment is directed at all nations other than those who have declared they have nuclear weapons. 
The legislation, sponsored by Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, also compels the United States to oppose World Bank loans and other assistance from interna­tional lending organizations. 
As the largest shareholder of the World Bank and regional development banks, U.S. oppo­sition to loans could be domi­nant in punishing India, which is pursuing an ambitious eco­nomic reform program. 
Frank G. Wisner, the U.S. ambassador to New Delhi, and other American diplomats have discussed the administration's concern with Indian officials but have lodged no threats, said an official, insisting on anonymity. 
The administration has been trying to improve U.S. ties to India, the leading power in south Asia. 
In 1994, India reeeived U.S. aid worth $154.3 million. 
Last December, a Foreign Ministry spokesman dismissed as "highly speculative" reports that the United States has obtained evidence through satellite observation suggesting India was preparing to conduct a nuclear test. 
Pranab Mukherjee, the Indian minister for external affairs, has categorically denied that a nuclear test is being prepared. "Those reports are speculative and baseless," he said. 
tough-minded and tender-hearted, to blend realism with ideal­ism, to think clearly and to have compassion. 
Education at a Catholic school like Notre Dame is to be devot­ed to cultivating both tough-mindedness and tender-heated­ness: realism and compassion. 
It is not easy to be both tough-minded and tender-hearted. It is a lifelong struggle to exercise our heads and our hearts. Yet it is deadly to live our lives as simply a "head-person" or simply a "heart person ". 
May the memory ofMartin Luther King, Jr. help us to see that it is possible to be tough-minded and tender-hearted. 
-Fr. Bob Dowd, C. S.C. 
Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday at Notre Dame Panel Discussion 
~~!~'#-~' 
How Government Policy Changes Affect All People Tonight, Thursday, jANUARY 18 7:ooPM, Lafortune Ballroom 
sible to begin to "live in our heads" and neglect what our hearts are calling us to. It is also possible to be so wrapped up with how we feel that we neglect our minds, making it impos­sible for us to do the clear thinking that would enable us to do the right thing. It is possible to oversimplify ourselves as either "head people" or "heart people". Jesus calls us to be both. The call is to be wise as serpents and tender as doves. The call is to seek the truth regardless of how disturbing it may be and to love, to be affected by the world around us and to be people of compassion. This week and next week, at Notre Dame, we celebrate the life of Martin Luther King, Jr. who tried to follow Jesus: to be  ,,, Prayer Service Sr. Jaime Phelps, O.P., Ph.D. of the Catholic Theological Seminary, Chicago With choral celebration: El Coro Primavera, Notre Dame Folk Choir and Voices of Faith Ensemble Wednesday, jANUARY 24, 7:15PM, Stanford Chapel  
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Sat. January 20 s:oo p.m Rev. E. W. Beauchamp, C.S.C. Sun. January 2I IO:oo a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky,C.S.C. I I :45 a.m. .Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C. S.C.  

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 18, 1996 

• Yucosuw!A 
Bosnian withdrawal continues 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA 
After burning and looting houses in an apparent attempt to prevent Bosnian Serbs from returning, government soldiers were withdrawing Wednesday from a bitterly contested front line in north-central Bosnia. 
NATO officials said the with­drawal here was going ahead of schedule, and they expected forces all over Bosnia to meet a midnight Friday (6 p.m. EST) deadline to pull back from for­mer confrontation lines. 
In Washington, Defense Sec­retary William Perry said the pullback of opposing forces is "the most positive develop­ment" since NATO-led troops entered Bosnia last month. 
"It would appear that the forces will voluntarily remove themselves from the zone of separation and the NATO forces will not be required to use force to make that happen," Perry 
· told reporters. However, another step in the U.S.-brokered peace accord­the release of all prisoners of war -probably won't be met by the Friday deadline. Bosnian Foreign Minister Muhamed Sacirbey demanded Wednesday that the Muslim-led government must have unim­peded access to Serb-run pris­ons and suspected mass grave sites in Serb-held territory. The government's insistence that up to 20,000 missing per­sons must be accounted for has already thwarted plans to re­lease hundreds of prisoners of 
war this week and made it even less likely the Friday deadline will be met. 
In northern Bosnia, the front­line village of Panjik was crammed with soldiers as their brigade withdrew from the for­mer battle line. 
"They are almost finished with it," said Capt. Joakim Martell, a commander of a Swedish company patrolling the area. 
On-duty soldiers were still walking down the front-line hill overlooking the village, while the next shift was setting up new positions according to the peace agreement. None of them carried weapons. 
"My troops withdrew to the new front line last night," said a local Bosnian commander who refused to give his name. Standing in the middle of the burned-down village, he denied reports that government sol­diers were conducted any loot­ing or torching. 
The entire region of Mount Ozren, including Panjik, was mostly populated by Serbs even before the war. But government forces captured it just a few days before the cease-fire took effect on Oct. 12. 
NATO officials reported that scores of houses were looted and at least 20 burned in the region over the last week. Even though Panjik remains on the Bosnian government side of the front line, and outside the sepa­ration zone, it was stripped down and looted over the last week. 
A confidential NATO report obtained by The Associated Press said the burning likely was to prevent Bosnian Serbs from returning to those villages once freedom of movement is fully restored. 
Looting and burning of enemy villages have been a hallmark of Bosnia's war. But Martell said there also may be other reasons for such actions, in which both Bosnian army sol­diers and civilians participated. 
"I think they don't have bricks for their own houses," he said. "I think they needed them, for themselves, or per­haps they can sell it and get some money for it." 
Swedish troops had stepped up patrols and managed to pre­vent the destruction in some areas, but their armored vehi­cle hit an anti-tank mine on Sunday. 
Six Swedish soldiers were injured, and the Swedes reduced patrols for fear of more such incidents. 
Martell said looting and burn­ing continued in the region. 
"Today, there's nothing much left to burn or loot here," he added. 
A few government soldiers passed along the road through Panjik, carrying windows, tin plates, insulation material and whatever other useful things they managed to find in the devastated village. 
As soon as they saw journal­ists approaching, they would disappear between houses. 
NATO pilots. as well, are struck by the amount of de­struction they've seen on the ground -much of it from fight­ing. 
McKinsey&Company 
THE NORTH AMERICAN BUSINESS ANALYST PROGRAM 
CASE STUDY INTERVIEW WORKSHOP 

We invite Y<?U to join us on Thursday, January 18 at 7:00p.m. in the University Club Main Lounge for a case Study Interview Workshop. 
For f!10St graduating seniors, the cas~ study intervie~ is unfamiliar. This workshop is designed to help you confidently approach the case study mterview. At this workshop, McKinsey consultants will: 
• 
Explain exactly what to expect in the McKinsey interview 

• 
Discuss various types of cases used in interviews 

• 
Allow you to role-play case interviews 

• 
Answer any questions you may have. 


McKinsey a Co~pany, Inc. will begin the 1996 Business Analyst Program interview process for University of Notre Dame semors m January 1996. For further information, please call Kathleen Hornstein at 312/551-3666 or contact the Placement Center. Casual attire, please. 
Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
New scientific evidence Race begins for state governor 
supports sunspot theory 

Woman to run for lieutenant governor 
Associated PrC~H runners in the gubernatorial 
primary.
LAFAYETTE, Ind. Lieutenant governor candi­
A northwest Indiana legisla· dates are chosen by delegates tor sa.id she'd lik,e to do what to each party's state conven­:rio. Republican woman has tions. Landske, 58, is in the done before her -represent second year or her third full her party as the nominee for term. lieut~nant governor. ~ State Hep. Mike Young, 
: ' State Sen. Sue Landske of Early's campaign manager.Cedar Lake planned to file said Early has talked with sev­papers Wednesday to form a eral potential running mates. campaign committee. She said Landske said she planned on she was asked if she would be keeping her options open by interested in running by Rex talking with all potential GOP 
Early, one of two likely front· governor candidates. 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Mayor Steve Goldsmith will have $3 million on hand for the governor's race the day he offi­cially launches his candidacy next month, aides say. 
Goldsmith, who just two weeks ago took his oath for a second term as mayor, will announce his candidacy Feb. 5 in Indianapolis and then tour the state by plane. 
That evening, he will hold a fund-raiser at the Federal Express hangar at the Indianapolis Internationa) Airport -an event that his campaign manager, Anne Shane, said will boost his cam­paign resources to about $3 million. 
Goldsmith addressed the pos­sibility of a gubernatorial run during his mayoral run last year. 
"People like politicians who tell the truth. I was forthright about it before the election," Goldsmith said. 
He would enter the race as perhaps its best financed candi­date, certainly among Republicans. 
According to campaign finance reports filed with the state this week, former state Republican Chairman Rex Early had cash reserves of $1.111 million on hand at the start of the year. He raised $1.686 million for his guberna­torial bid from Jan. 1, 1995, to Dec. 31 and spent nearly $575,000. 
Republican George Witwer, co-owner of a Bluffton newspa­per, reported raising $286,405 during the year, spending $270,662, and having a cash balance of$15,742. 
By MALCOLM RITIER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Scientists have found direct Avidcnce for the theory that sunspots arn caused by curved magnetie fields that stiek out from the sun lik11 eroquet wiek­nts. 
It's the best support yet for that theory, which attempts to explain one of the most difficult questions about the sun, one expnrt said. 
Sunspots are dark, cooler patches on the face of the sun. The number of sunspots rises and falls in an 11-year cycle of solar activity that can disrupt radio communications on Earth and might also affect Earth's climate. 
The leading theory of sunspots is that horseshoe­shaped magnetic fields are cre­ated deep in the sun, and then reach up to poke through the surface, clustering there like a hunch of croquet hoops. 
The theory says hot solar gas flows toward the hoops and then plunges toward the center or the sun. 
As the gas dives into the sun, it draws off heat, producing a relatively cool spot at the sur­face. 
In Thursday's issue of the journal Nature, researcher Thomas Duvall and colleagues reported that they have detect­ed gas diving under sunspots. Duvall is an astrophysicist for NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Grnenhelt, Md. 
The new work provides the strongest evidence yet for the rnagrHllic-hoops theory, said Gary Chapman, professor of physics and astronomy at California State University in Northridge. 
"It's clearly an important finding, becaus~ it's very, very difficult to understand how sunspots are formed and held together," he said. 
Sunspots typically last a few days but can persist for a month or more. Their tempera­tures are typically around 6,700 degrees; the surrounding gas averages about 9,750 degrees. 
"It's been very frustrating to look at sunspots from just the surface effects. You can't understand how they're form­ing and how they're held together," Chapman said. 
"Ultimately you're going to have to get down below the surface somehow, and that's what this technique (used in the new study) can do for you." 
Duvall and colleagues detect­ed gas diving faster than a mile per second, flowing down to about 1,200 miles deep. 
To detect those flows, they traeked seismic waves that are created by the sun's turbulent gas and eonstantly criss-cross throughout the sun. 
The researchers timed how long particula·r waves took to go between two points on the surface. 
Just like swimmers, the waves speed up when going downstream in a gas flow and slow down if they are fighting the current. 
So their travel times revealed the presence of the diving gas flows. 
State Sen. Robert Garton of Columbus, who dropped out of the race in December, reported raising about $315,000 and spending just under $277,000 for cash-on-hand of $38,772. 
On the Democratic side, Lt. Gov. Frank O'Bannon began 1995 with about $900,000 and, after raising more money and spending nearly $365,000, still ended the year with $2.294 million. 
Early suggested that Goldsmith should resign as mayor. 
"If he wins, we'll have an appointed mayor for three years and we'll give up having a mayor this year while he's out campaigning," Early said. "He ought to step down and allow someone else to be mayor." 
Meanwhile, Witwer scheduled a Statehouse news conference for Thursday to discuss his plan to reduce property taxes. 
Local school building projects and the state's welfare pro­gram have pushed up property taxes the past four years, he said. 
"We have failed welfare poli­cies that are simply not doing the job of moving people off of welfare, into the private sector, and those failed welfare poli­cies are causing an explosion in the cost of the welfare, and much of those costs are being carried by county govern­ments," Witwer said in Lafayette on Tuesday. 
Witwer called for the state to pay for welfare, taking the funding responsibility off of county governments. 
In response, Fred Nation, a spokesman for Gov. Evan Bayh, said federal waivers obtained by Bayh that were in effect by June have put Indiana at the forefront of welfare reform in the nation. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, January 18, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porrer Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................Jen Mackowiak Spons Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ..................Jacqudine Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Ediror, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 63 I -5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General lnt'Ormacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


More to black history than just Martin Luther King 
monthly meeting. The historic the ship to the Bahamas where they know each other, were they friends or "Germantown Protest" denounced slav-were granted asylum and freedom. enemies? The only consolation is to
Author points 
ery and the slave trade. In 1859, the last slave ship, the accept all the people of Africa as my On Sept. 9, 1739 a ------------Clothilde, landed with a own and claim all her descendants and slave revolt erupted in shipment of slaves in ancestors as mine.to earlier links Stono, South Carolina, 'John Rolfe said the Mobile Bay, Alabama. A few days ago we celebrated the 
led by a rebel named President Abraham birth of Martin Luther King, Jr. He was Jemmy. Twenty-five ship arrived 'about Lincoln signed the indeed a great man and we should Here are some facts taken from Before whites were killed the latter end of August' E m a n c i p a t i o n honor him, but he is not the only one. It the Mayflower: A History of Black before the insurrection and that it 'brought not Proclamation which is a shame that we have such useless America by Lerone Bennett, Jr: was put down. On Sept. freed slaves in rebel day as Columbus Day, and no other na-In August 1619, the history of Black 30, 1750, Crispus anything but 20 and odd states with the excep-tiona! holidays to celebrate and com­America began with the landing of Attucks escaped from Negroes.' Surviving evi-tion of thirteen parishes memorate the lives of many other Black 
twenty blaeks at Jamestown, Virginia. his slave holder in (ineluding New Orleans) Americans. · 'o John Rolfe said the ship arrived "about F r a m i n g h a m , dence suggests that the in Louisiana, on Jan. 1, I know there will never be a holiday the latter end of August" and that it Massachusetts. Twenty twenty blacks were 1863. On Feb. 20, 1895, for Malcolm X because of what he did "brought not anything but 20 and odd years later he was the accorded the status of Frederick Douglass, the for us. He made proud men and women 
Negroes." Surviving evidenee suggests first of five persons leading black out of many black people. He promoted that the twenty blacks were accorded killed in the Boston indentured servants.' spokesman for almost self-determination, pride and, God-for­the status of indentured servants. Massacre. Some histori-fifty years, died. bid, self defense. Hatemonger? Not so. 
In 1624, the first black child in ans have ealled him the A year ------------Actually before 
English America was ehristened William first martyr of the later in May, their untimely in the Church of England in Jamestown. American Revolution. the u.s. 'I have little or no deaths, Martin and 
In December 1641, Massachusetts On Oct. 23, 1775, the Continental Supreme Court decision Malcolm were quite 
became the first colony to give statutory Congress approved a resolution barring (Piessy v. Ferguson) upheld known ties to Africa similar. Martin was recognition to slav-blacks from the the doctrine of "separate but besides what 1feel in my finally coming ery. Other colonies army. equal" and so began the age around. followed: A year later, of Jim Crow. April 27, 1903, heart and my soul in the We should be glad Connecticut, 1650; in the summer the U.S. Supreme Court early pre=-dawn hours if to celebrate· Martin Virginia, 1661; of 1776, the upheld clauses in the . Luther King, Jr. and Maryland, 1663; Declaration of Alabama constitution which the mornmg when I his life dedicated to New York and New Cristiane Likely Independence disfranchised blacks. stare at the hungry love and to peace, Jersey, 1664; South was adopted And so begin the lines of d Af . I but don't forget the Carolina, 1682; with a section my history. Hidden and starve ncan peop e hundreds of years Rhode Island and denouncing the masked in the dark years of on the television. I will of black history that Pennsylvania, 1700; slave trade slave~y and degradation. in never know if that per-came before him North Carolina, deleted. That Amenca, through revolutiOn . . and the years that 1715; Georgia, next summer, and struggle, to the shim-son IS my family, and I have past and will 1750. Vermont became the .first American mering of light that is our can only wonder if some come after him. 
On Sept. 20, 1664, Maryland enacted colony to abolish slavery. future, the history of my life . I Despite popular 
the first antiamalgamation law to pre­By 1783 slavery was prohibited in lies. time ong ago our ances-belief he is not the vent widespread intermarriage of Massaehusetts and New Hampshire and I have little or no known tors were sisters. • end all of the black English women and black men. Other many states in the North soon followed ties to Africa besides that struggle. colonies passed similar laws: Virginia, suit. what I feel in my heart and 1691; Massachusetts, 1705; North The United States population in 1790 my soul. In the early pre------------­Carolina, 1715; South Carolina, 1717; was 3,929,214 with the black population dawn hours of the morning Delaware, 1721; Pennsylvania, 1725. numbering 757,208, about twenty per-when I stare at the hungry starved On Feb. 18, 1688, the first formal cent. On November 7, 1841 a slave re-African people on the television I will Cristiane Likely is a senior living protests against slavery by an organized volt occurred on the Creole en route to never know if that person is my family, inPasquerilla West Hall. She can be white body in English America was New Orleans from Hampton, Virginia. and I can only wonder if some time long reached over e-mail at made by Pennsylvanian Quakers at a Rebels overpowered the crew and sailed ago our ancestors were sisters; did they clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU 

MR./3lJTTS, 7HE FORY~, 
AM&RICAN PflJ­7H/3/R!<I3'R£­PUOtu&YaJ :£NTATIV£? ()II 
ANAPOt..a5Y... 7H!~t:OMM!Tff& 
H4V&f?UTlll£$­
tYHJUNPE31? YaJR./N/?t.I'51RY,.. 
/ 
... /NV£§176ATING 
YO~ !Jl3MON!ZIN6 
YW, TAXJN6 YO().' 
td/3i.i., '3/R., Ya:R 
N16HTMAR£ I~ 
ov~.r FPe~;i,VM 
/~8AO<./N 
lOIUN.' 
/ 
"~deplore ... the putrid state 
into which the newspapers have passed and the malignity, the vulgarity and the menda­cious spirit of those who write them." 
-Thomas Jefferson 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, January 18, 1996 page 11 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Passing the doctoral exam 
Favorite topics for coming year 
Happy new year! Or at least, happy for me. Headers of mine will be pleased to learn that I have passed all of my Ph.D. exams, and am now well on the path toward becoming either a fry­chef or, at the very least, a sullen cashier at a major university. The path was far from easy, let me tell you. First, I had to pass the Spanish exam, in which an Josh incomprehensible block of text was to be translated into an idiomatic English 
Ozersky 
essay. I took a lucky guess, and wrote of a small boy named Juanito who longed for "tiny shoes." This was apparently close enough to the spirit of the thing to gnt me by, and of course the written exam was fairly easy, given my creative writing skills and thn readiness of my examiners to give me the benefit of the doubt. ("Lyndon Johnson, an 
author of the Constitution? Perhaps he means to mind. (pause) 
Examiner #2: I see. Now, moving on, Mr. Ozersky, in your second blue book exam, you make the case that Daniel Boorstin, beside writ­ing the Americans trilogy, is also the author of the books "100 Red Hot Web Spots," "A How-To Guide to Sentry Removal," and "Baywatch: a Viewer's Guide" (with Alastair Mcintyre). These books are not, to my knowledge, part of Professor Boorstin's bibliography. Can you enlighten us as to your thinking in listing them? 
Candidate: Well, Boorstin has written a num­ber of books under pseudonyms. Do you know 
W.W. Buttercup, the author of the popular "Gramps" series? 
Examiner: I do not. 
Candidate: That's Boorstin. Or Raven Schlossberg, the author of "Bite the Pillow! A Radical Lesbian Manifesto?" 
Examiner: No. I find these assertions highly ques­tionable, Mr. Ozersky, and they do not fill me with con­
fidence in your understanding of history. Candidate: Urn. Can I go to the bathroom? 
The proceedings went along like that for a 

this as ironic.") ------------while, but with the aid of an 
The true test eame in the Oral examination. This painful-'The true test came sounding experience is every bit I'n the Oral examl·­as bad as it is eraeked up to be,
and that is saying something. nation. This painful (Most graduate students tend to experience is every bit 
k 1 
spea on Y in complaints, and as bad as it is cracked 
oral exams rank with hemor­rhoids and sexual dysfunetion as up to be, and that it is favorite topics. 1 for one think they put too negative a spin on saying something. (Most 
things. What's so bad about graduate students tend hemorrhoids? At least they get k I
to spea on y in com-
you off your feet. In any ease, you get the point. Graduate stu-plaints, and oral exams 
dents dread these "orals.") rank with hemorrhoids 
Thn examination itself went 
and sexual dysfunction 
something along the following lines: as favorite topics. I for one think they put too t' · 
Examiner #1: You say in your 
nega IVe a spm on
blue book that "Behind every 
things. What's so bad
gr•~at legislator in Ameriean his­
about hemorrhoids? At
tory, is another legislator." Just what do you mean by this? 
least they get you off 
Candidate: I think you know 
your feet. In any case, 
what I mean. (wink, then sober­ly I I mean to say that no one 
you get the point...)
ever does a good thing alone, understanding board and the absorption of half a dozen !ran­quilizers into my bloodstream, I 
was able to settle down and answer the questions in more or less satisfactory fashion. So now 
I'm ready to begin my last semes­
ter as columnist in residence for 
the Observer. And yet, the ques­tion returns to me again and again. How am I to best serve the Observer's growing audience in the Spring 96 semester? The 
et rn of t 1 t
r u some s o en proper y from Campus View might make a 
decent start, but that seems too 
t b · 
00 0
easy, vwus. 
I have decided, instead, to
forego my usual frolics in the coming months and instead write instruetive commentaries on the Psalms, as given in the new 
Inclusive translation of the New Testament. Each week I plan to look at a different psalm. and 
draw from it such morals as may enrich the lives of my readers, as they strive to resist the blandish­ments of an increasingly secular world. May the Peace of Christ 
-----------~ be with you all. 
and legislators least of all. Examiner: Well. what might be an example of 
Josh Ozersky can be reached over e-mail at:
sueh a relationship? 
joshua.a.ozersky.l@nd.edu
Candidate: The Washington monument eomes 
• Goo 'N LIFE 
Faith, common sense stand above political correctness 
For 1996, I resolved to be a kinder, gentler human being. 
Especially when it comes to my opinion of those who insist on 
being "politically correct". This is terribly difficult for me, as 
when this "political correctness" turns the Holy Bible into a 
veritable joke. 
Yes, ajoke. 
An advertisement I received about this "revolutionary new 
version of Scripture" elaims that the New Testament and 
Psalms translation "speaks more directly than ever before to 
some of today's social concerns... " Some of the quotations 
given as examples are absolutely ridiculous: "All things have 
been handed over to me by my Father-Mother, and no one 
knows the Child exeept the Father-Mother." (Matthew 11:27). 
The translators have eliminated any wording that might offend 
Jews, African-Americans, and women. What is left? 
A politically correct Bible for the politically correct 90s. 
I'm sorry, but I am not politically correct. I am a woman who 
believes herself a unique child of God, but that does not mean 
that "exclusive" ian--==~==========~== 
guage offends me. ­
During the era the 
biblical books were 
written, men were 
considered superior 
Ju11·8 Ferraro 
to women. It is his­torical fact and ean­not be changed. Men went to the Temple 
orthelocalsynagogue______~============~-------­
to worship; the 
women remained at home or outside. Nothing any woman says 
or does, no translation of the Bible worded in a politically eor­
rect way, can change that. 
The Bible is a historical document; it is not something that 
should be adapted to "suit the times." The important state­
ments that transcend this historical element carry over into the 
lives of believers, i.e. the Ten Commandments, the Sermon on 
the Mount, the Last Supper discourse. Even then, these words 
cannot be deemed politieally "incorrect," bee a use the prophets 
and the authors of the Gospels, even St. Paul, wrote to men. 
Jesus Christ was a man. Who can be ofl'ended when He refers 
to Himself as the "Son of God"? Whether you belfeve the Pfrst 
Person of the Trinity is male or female or a little of both, Jesus 
would still be the son, as any male child of a parent is. 
Whoa-getting into deep water, here. Better slow down. 
My point is this: it is entirely possible in the present age to 
find meaning in the Bible without worrying about whether the 
language is inclusive or the phrasing politieally correct. Faith 
surpasses all of that. I fully realize that there are lay women 
and women in religious orders who have fought a valiant bat­
tle to have the equality of the sexes reflected in Scripture, but I 
think this particular translation goes way too far. 
I suppose a better New Years' Resolution for me might be to 
not act so old fashioned. Which isn't saying I'm not open-mind­
ed. I hold that we are all God's children, no matter what par­
ticular religion (if any) one follows. All people are worthy of 
respeet and fair treatment. If more people saw it that way ­
which is basieally what the Bible is trying to teaeh us -the 
world would be a better plaee. 
Julie Ferraro is secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
America's wealthy starve their poor neighbors 
Editor's Note: The following is the sec­ond in a six-part series on the Martin Luther King. Jr. holiday. 
The prevailing eeonomic philosophy in the United States is dominated by an id11ology fixated on eompetition and suc­eess dnspite social welfare legislation to eustl our eonseienees. Many will deny that this describes the essenee of 1\mnril:an economic philosophy. 
1\nd yet eaeh day we are reminded of its aecuraey: tlw down-sizing of AT&T where thn managers and stoek holders get ridwr while the employees get fired, the exaltation of sports' stars, the atti­tude of Congress and the business eom­rnunity toward welfare legislation, the whole philosophy of sueeess whieh mea­surns thn value of people by their pro­duetivity. 
Covernment social programs estab­lished during the past 60 years are !wing attaektld bneause they supposedly rnduen ineentives and thus produetivity. Fnw up the eeonomy and all will be well. Hmluee welfare, minimum wages, and unemployment benefits so that the poor will have grnater incentives to work. Lower taxes and remove regula­tions on business so that the resulting higher profits will encourage corpora­tions and wealthy individuals to save and invest. Increase productivity and growth in GNP will result. Eventually, the benefits will trickle down so that even those on the bottom will be better off than before. 
We have been pursuing this goal since 1980. We have made the eeonomy our master instead of using it as our ser­vant. We close industrial plants, create unemployment, devastate whole com­munities, and call it an efficient reallo­eation of resources. We, who have pros­pered from free market policies, caution that nothing ean be done because natur­al economic forces are at work. The poor, the unemployed and the underem­ployed bear the burden of this free mar­ket myopia. 
Since the mid-1970s poverty has been increasing and income distribution has been beeoming more unequal. The num­ber of persons living below the poverty line increased from 23.0 million in 1973 to 26.1 million in 1979 to 38.1 million in 1994, an inerease from 11.1 percent to 
11.7 percent to 14.5 percent of the pop­ulation. The top five percent had a 39.4 percent increase. In the face of this ris­ing poverty the Federal admini<>tration was cutting aid to the poor. Cuts from the Food Stamp Program during the 1980s eliminated more than a million recipients from the rolls and reduced benefits for 20 million others. From 1982 to 1985, $5 billion was cut from the four basic ehild nutrition programs: school lunch, school breakfast, child eare food, and summer food programs. In 1996 Congress is trying to do even more cutting of programs designed to help the poor. 
One result has been a growth in hunger and homelessness in the United States. The medical community eom­monly defines hunger as the involuntary shortage of enough nutritious food to maintain body growth and good health. By this definition of hunger but the med­ieal community commonly defines it as the involuntary shortage of enough nutritious food to maintain body growth and good health. By this definition, about 9percent of the population were hungry in the late 1980's. Estimates in homelessness ranged from 250,000 to 2 million, a dramatie increase from the 1970's. 
In 1994 the richest 20 percent of American families received 49.1 percent of national family income--the highest percentage ever reeorded. The legaey is an upper-class bent upon immediate gains and conspicuous consumption and an underclass frequently hungry, home­less, and incapacitated by drug depen­dency. As a result, by the end of the 1980s, the United States had the highest rate of incareeration in the world, with the prison population increasing from slightly over 300,000 in 1980 to over 500,000 in 1986. The jails in every state bulge, often foreing early release pro­grams in order to eope with the over­erowding. 
If we believe that the natural order of society is one in whieh the strong win their way to power over the ruin of the weak, we will find nothing fundamental­ly wrong with business as usual. If we object then we are driven to override market outcomes when they yield results that we regard as morally unae­ceptable. Then the hard work begins-­how do you intervene in the market without creating more harm than good? This should be the issue we debate in the remaining years of the twentieth century. 
CHARLES WILBUR Department of Economics 

-
ACCENT
page 12 Thursday, January 18, 1996 
• ARTIST PROFilE 
STOCHANSKY SOUNDS HIS WAKE-UP CALL 

past year he created Population 60, his own record outstanding reflection of the man behind the music. label through which he released his first solo effort The album's intoxicating music and powerful lyrics While You Slept, a celebration of his own musical tal­combine for an unforgettable listening experience. In ents. fact, Stochansky includes two different versions of a 
The creation of this new album was not an easy task Ukrainian folk song, to which he gives a new-age for Stochansky as he is constantly touring with Buffalo, touch, on While You Slept, reflecting the heritage NY native Ani DiFranco, a self-made woman in her which plays an integral part in his song writing. own right who has helped Stochansky explore new Songs on While You Slept like "I Am Standing" and musical boundaries. At the same time she helped him "To No Yourself' bring a funky upbeat sound whereas become well known world wide through her own suc­"Pass The Wheel" and "The Voice" provide a soothing cess, including feature articles in top-notch music pub­vibe. It is difficult to describe the exact sound of While lications including Rolling Stone. You Slept because it incorporates such diverse sounds 
Stochansky was noticed by DiFranco five years ago on each song. One thing is for sure: Andy Stochansky while playing in a club in Buffalo. Much to his sur­has progressed into the surreal with this album, an prise, she called him one month later and asked him to album that is a mirror image of the artist. play drums on her upcoming album. Two years later, Even with the completion of While You Slept, the Stochansky and DiFranco began touring and continue explorative nature of this quiet introvert is always evi­to do so, and are on pace to release a new album every dent as he takes on new projects, the majority of which eight months. are made up of guest appearances on other renowned 
This busy schedule proved difficult for Stochansky. musicians' albums. The new year brings Stochansky He was trying to pursue his own solo career, fitting in to the studio three times as he works with Veda Hille, a recording sessions in his own studio every time he pianist from Vancouver, appears on a Celtic compila­returned home for two week breaks from touring. tion album, and releases another album with Stochansky's dream, however, will never die because DiFranco. he is constantly trying new instruments. "Music just Stochansky admits that the music industry is not all
Andy Stochansky keeps me going. I never feel I know enough about glitz and glamour, or sex and drugs for that matter. music, so, I look at it as something I just do," Instead, it is a world full of gambles. His own experi­
While You Slept 
Stochansky says. He has mastered instruments rang­ence has shown that all musicians are an investment,Population 60 Records ing from guitar and keyboards to djembe and rare per­not artists -any song they write is owned by their cussion implements. respective record company, and, if it does not gain***1 Coupled with Stochansky's musical diversity is the acceptance by the public, the artist can be financially, out of five realization that his career is constantly changing direc­as well as morally destroyed. But, Stochansky notes, tions. "Every six months things take a hard right or "If you sell one million albums it has worked because By CHRI£.UAN STEIN left turn, but I am going to keep writing and learning you recoup their investment, you [the artist] have the 
Music Editol new instruments." Stochansky is truly rolling with the chance to reach people through their publicity." turbulent tide he faces every day and, as seen in his Judging from his own successes, Andy Stochansky is present success, he is adapting well. one of the select few who followed his dream, and
R
enowned Toronto drummer Andy Stochansky Stochansky's solo project is a major milestone in his regardless of the hardships he has faced, he lives ahas, after fifteen years of hard work, finally 
fifteen year career as a musician but the success he comfortable life. 
enjoyed the rewards of success that few musi­
has reaped while working with Ani DiFranco is never
cians experience in the cut-throat world of rock and 
overlooked. "Putting out my own album is my own This is part one of a two part series. Next Thursday
roll. 
high, but working with Ani is what I should be doing Christian Stein will be profiling Ani DiFranco and her
Stochansky, over the last two years, has gained 
right now," Stochansky admits. latest album "Not A Pretty Girl" on which Andyacclaim as one of Canada's best drummers and percus­
Regardless, While You Slept has proven to be an Stochansky plays drums. 
sionists as well as becoming a popular solo artist. This 
• Cm'lCERT REVIEW 
A COCKBURN CHRISTMAS 
Bruce Cockburn and friends Sony Records Studio New York, NY December 17, 1995 
F
or the last four or five years, Canada's Bruce Cockburn has invited a couple of his musical friends to join him at Sony's Manhattan studio for a live-to-air Christmas concert. This year those friends were Patty Larkin, Peter Stuart (Dog's Eye View), and Jonatha Brooke (The Story) and a very merry time was had by all. 
The Sony people had created a wonderfully intimate atmosphere for the invite-only audi­ence of only 150 or so by placing a couple of imposing Christmas trees and brightly burn­ing candles in the cavernous stone studio and 
I
t's only early January,and one of the best ~bums of the year has 
by providing oriental rugs just in front of the been ~elivered. !he j)Opular music press woul~ have you believe 
stage for those who wanted to get really close that Sdverchair ts. the boy-wonder supergrl:ntpfrom. down under. · 
to the action. In short, the venue was just But their power-grunge bar chord rock could be taught to a chimp with 
perfect. a few scientific sessions. On the other hand, Aussie band Noise Addict, 
Cockburn kicked off the set with a vigorous led by sixteen-year-old Ben Lee, have already put out a couple of 
solo version of "Joy Will Find a Way." One of appropriate for the Christmas season. If the releases on the Beastie Boys' Grand Royal Records in the ,last two 
the strongest songs of Cockburn's early years, rest of the corpus of Dog's Eye View is com­years. In his short existence on this planet, Ben Lee has mastered the 
"Joy Will Find a Way" is also the perfect parable with this song, then they are a band fine art of crafting the. perfect pop song, and could well be the second 
Christmas song in its jubilant juxtaposition of well worth checking out. coming of John Lennon (sorry, Julian). An obvious Beatles influence 
birth and death. After that old favorite it was Jonatha Brooke was the last musical friend runs throughout the entire album, with sing-along choruses and jangly 
time to air a new song as Cockburn exposed to take the solo spot, but the wait was cer­guitar chords rampant in songs about girls, innopent teen frustrations, 
"The Coming Rains" to public scrutiny for the tainly worth it. She was fantastic, a veritable and being in a rock band. Yet, Meet The Real 'Yo~ ~ muph more amplk 
first time. Written on a recent trip to Africa, angel in the house. Accompanied by fled and sprinkled with punk than previous N«:>i§~ Addict release~.· 
"The Coming Rains" weds the lyrical depth Cockburn on guitar, Jonatha breathed an Besides the Fab Four. influences from Pavement Guided By Voices, 
that one expects from Cockburn with an unparalleled degree of intensity and passion Matthew Sweet, and Liz Phair can be heard in.·these·fuzzy, sugar"coat­
unusually touching and plaintive melody. into "0 Come 0 Come Emmanuel" before ed gems which surpass their mentors in originality. But Noise Addict's 
Patty Larkin took the microphone next, first moving on to give an equally inspired perfor­strength lies in the lyrics, as expected from someone who wrote "I 
with her song "Tango" and then with "The mance of "Is This All?" and the unforgettable Wanna be like Evan Dando" before hitting puberty. After one listen, 
First Noel." As a song, "Tango" is fairly rou­"War," both of which can be found on her lat­you'll be singing such unexpectedly catchy lines like "Like a pimple on 
tine and formulaic, but Larkin's guitar play­est album, Plumb. your face, I'll be the blemish in your place." 
ing is anything but standard: some of her Cockburn finished his Christmas concert 
Ben Lee proves he's wise well beyond his .s·txt<e()Jl y·ear licks put Cockburn, himself no mean guitarist, with another performance of "Joy Will Find "Get yourself every Beatles LP today, the!). to shame. A Way," but this time everyone got involved. with the heavy songs and tattoos. but ......,. '"'"u"' Finally Peter Stuart got a chance to hawk Music that celebrates the true spirit of the ring to Silverchair? his wares (he had been taking pictures of the season from four of the finest musicians in 
audience up to now). After confessing to a the business -what more could one want for long-time respect for Cockburn, Stuart played Christmas? "Small Wonders," a song he described as one
-Brent DiCrescenzo, JYm 
of the few items in his repertoire that are -by Tim Bayne 


Thursday, January 18, 1996 page 13
ACCENT 
• ALBUM REVIEW 
Please, let the pendulum swing back! 
Lowen and Navarro 
Pendulum 
Parachute Records 
out ** of five 
W:
lat gives with Lowen and Navarro? It seems like any two hacks who can Jlay guitar. write songs that rhyme and have the luck to meet each other tre forming acoustic duos and being deep. This is not a new trend, of wursn. The storied '70s are lilled with guitar playing, folkish duos. 
S1mls and Crofts. Loggins and Messina: their names ring through the head like the alarm dock on New Years' Morning. Sweet relief came in the late '80s from the Indigo Girls, and Jackopierce lilled in the male half of the equation later. But now w1~ have Lowen and Navarro, and throughout their new album Pendulum, you can't avoid the oerie f1wling that you've been here before. 
l·:rie Lowen and Dan Navarro. in all fairness. at least look the part. There they are on tlw front eover, with their acoustic guitars, wearing their ultra-sensitive dark dotlws. Onn knows straight away that these two have some insights into the human eondition; this. aftflr all. is what folk singers are for. 
But alas, the insights are nonexistent, by and large. The album's opening track, "Looks Like Sunshine" muses over ... well, something. It's often hard to guess what thn turw-smiths are talking about because they're so busy trying to rhyme. "You're on tlw right track/ You just got on the wrong train/ And it looks like sunshine/ But it fnnls like rain." WI!! I, what is it? Sunshine or rain? 
One has a lot of tinH~ to ponder these lyrical conundrums because the musical arrangenwnts arn inconsequential throughout the album. "Pendulum" rolls slowly ov1~r four minutes with chord changes that a tone-deaf person could predict. "Cry" is surprisingly bouncy, along the lines of James' "!.aid," considering that it's a hrnakup song. And it's a humorous one at that: ''I've learned the hardest lessons/ I won't curl up and die/ I'll stand up stone eold sober/ And be the toughest guy." 
Oh wait, they w1~ren't kidding. Granted, standing sober is preferable to falling down drunk. but didn't we already know this? That's the catch about this here plain folksy kind o' stull': you like to think a band is going to say or play something you've nev1~r lward. Where are the lyrical turns? Whither the haunting melodies, the echo­ing guitar lines? Whither, for that matter, a good song? 
Lowen and Navarro, God help us, will likely record again. This has a little poten­tial to lw a good thing. On the liner notes, they acknowledge some heady company: .John and Paul, Mick and Keith. Paul and Artie (Artie?). However, those influences wert~ mostly ignored here. In fact, Lowen and Navarro are not the sum of their parts as mueh us they are the sum of what's missing: the mood of Jackopierce, the wit of tlw Indigo Girls, the energy of the Bodeans. They may record again, but why this mutters to anyone other than their blood mlatives is a mystery. 
-by Kt!llin Dolan 

• Al6UM Rt:VltW 
Saturday morning'90's style 

Saturday Morning: Cartoons' Greatest Hits 
MCA Records 

aahh...Saturday mornings when 

ou're a kid ... get up before dawn, 
Ill up a big bowl with some sort of artificially-sweetened cereal concoction, and prepare to spend the entire a.m. immersed in the world of animation commercially exploited for your benefit by the bigwigs who run the show on the idiot box. But of course it's all okay, because when you're young you don't care about anything else when your fa­vorite 'toons are on, not when there's action, adventure, laughs, and most importantly, good music to be enjoyed for those several blissful hours before noon on Saturday. 
Which brings us to this new CD from MCA Records and producer Ralph Sail (who brought us the brilliant Grateful Dead tribute album a few years back). On Saturday Morning: Cartoons' Greatest Hits, Halph brought together an aggregate of today's hottest "alterna­tive" stars and asked them to play some theme songs from their favorite animat­ed and Jive-action puppet shows of the past. A brilliant marketing ploy, or so it would seem. Surprisingly enough, it comes off quite well, with only a few blemishes on this otherwise fun and sprightly collection. 
The tracks on this album run the full gamut of early cartoons, from "Speed Racer" and "Spider-Man" to "Fat Albert" and "The Bugaloos." The artist selection is not quite so diverse, which is why the collection isn't entirely brilliant as a whole-there are not that many differences between Toadies, Sponge, ticularly exciting and outrageous. even though it strays quite a bit from Hen and Stimpy's version). 
Matthew Sweet's voice on "Scooby Doo, Where are You?" sounds almost like an exact match to that which opened the cartoon which was a person­al favorite for many during the forma­tive years. Combined with Sweet's pop­pier-than-pop guitars, this track stands out as one of the most deliciously stuck­in-your-head songs on the disc. Other highlights are Juliana Hatfield and Tanya Donelly on "Josie and the Pussycats," the Hamones' breakneck­speed "Spider-Man," and The Murmurs' "II.B. Pufnstuf'." 
As far as negatives go, some of the stuff is a little over-punked to be suc­cessful. Punk music and cartoon theme songs usually do NOT mix, but the mate­rial is hilarious enough to make criti­cism of the efforts irrelevant in light of how much fun the overall concept of the album is. Some of the themes are a little before the time of the average college student, and so the songs are not imme­diately familiar, but they too will even­tually become as infuriatingly addictive as the rest of the collection. 
A pair of interesting notes about the disc: first, the liner notes are excellent and invaluable, as complete lyrics are included, along with great photos and biographies. Secondly, the band Semisonic is featured backing Mary Lou Lord for the Archies' "Sugar, Sugar." Semisonic may be remembered by some Domers as they opened for Freddy Jones 
Sublime, and Dig to really differentiate Band back in November at Stepan why one band was chosen for a particu­Center. They deserve to be on the disc
***' 
lar track over another. However, most as well.
out of five of the selections are still fun and rela­tively faithful to the original renderings -by Dominic DeVito (Wax's "Happy, Happy, Joy, Joy" is par 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January18, 1996 
Without Lemieux, Penguins rely on Barrasso, shutout 
• PITTSBURGH 
Lloyd blames confusion for use of post-game profanity 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Greg Lloyd was unaware he was on live national television when he uttered a four-letter expletive in the Pittsburgh Steelers' locker room Sunday. 
Steelers coach Bill Cowher supported Lloyd, saying technical difficulties had inter­rupted a trophy presentation ceremony and the players did not know they were on TV. 
"I asked the camera crew to pause," Lloyd said. "I didn't expect it to go out over nation­al television. What's said in the locker room should be in the locker room. It was meant to be heard only there, in an emotional moment. Nobody in the room had a problem with it." 
Lloyd's use of the expletive came as he was handed the AFC championship trophy, the first won by the Steelers in 16 years. 
"This thing belongs to Mr. Rooney," Lloyd said, referring to Steelers president Dan Rooney. "It belongs here, and let's see if we can bring this damn thing back here next year, along with the Super Bowl." 
Lloyd has been widely criti­cized for his lack of discretion, but Cowher said there was considerable confusion in the locker room immediately fol­lowing the Steelers' 20-16 vic­tory over the Colts. 
He said the players had no way of knowing when they were on TV and when they weren't. 
Most NFL players are accus­tomed to having inadvertently uttered profanities edited out of TV interviews. 
"Greg Lloyd is always _news when he says something," Lloyd said. "They jump on any little thing I do. I can't go back now on TV and say, 'Hey, kids, don't say that.' I'm a human being. It was said, it was done and I can't go back and apolo­gize for it now." 
By BUCK¥ GLEASON 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
The Pittsburgh Penguins were without Mario Lemieux, and they didn't need much more than Tom Barrasso. 
Barrasso put together one of his best games this season in helping the Penguins to a 1-0 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Wednesday night. 
"We stayed with the basics," Penguins coach Ed Johnston said. "We haven't been giving him any help. It was target practice for the last three or four games." 
Barrasso, who had allowed 21 goals in his three previous starts, made 31 saves in earn­ing his first shutout of the sea­son and 22nd of his career. The Penguins, who rested Lemieux, snapped a three­game losing streak. They are 2-4-1 without their star center. 
Jaromir Jagr scored his 38th of the season and gave the Penguins their only goal 59 seconds into the game after catching Buffalo out of position in the Pittsburgh end. 
Pittsburgh would have won by more had it not been for Buffalo goaltender Dominik Hasek, who made several big saves in the third period in his second start after missing 10 games with a strained abdomi­nal muscle. 
"I don't think anyone in the world would have believed 59 seconds into the game, you had your game-winner," Penguins forward Ron Francis said. "That's what happens when you have two great goal­tenders." 
Jagr, with Rusty Fitzgerald on a 2-on-2 break, skated un­touched from the far blue line, faked Hasek and Buffalo de­fensemen Garry Galley and Mike Wilson to the ice before flipping a backhander into the short side of the net. The Penguins then rode Barrasso the rest of the game. 
"I faked the pass and the de­fensemen went down," Jagr said. "From there, I could have done anything I wanted." 
The Penguins (27-14-3) have a comfortable lead over Montreal in the Eastern Division going into the all-star break. Pittsburgh resumes its season Monday against Boston at home. 
Buffalo (18-23-3) has lost four straight and slipped to five games below .500, its worst record so far this sea­son. 
The Sabres will play Hartford at home Jan. 24. 
"We said after Edmonton (a 5-4 loss Saturday) that we wished we could go right back at it," Sabres coach Ted Nolan said. "This time, I think a rest is due. We can reconsider what we've been doing the last couple days and go right back to work." 
Jagr was shaken up with 
17:12 remaining in the second period when he was cross­checked into the Buffalo net by defenseman Mark Astley. 

Olajuwon's 37 propels Rockets past Nuggets, 120-112 
Associated Press Clyde Drexler added 22 points as the the final quarter, compared to Denver's three-point play with 4:27 left made it 
Rockets overcame injuries to post their 2 of 3. 106-101, and another three-point play
DENVER third straight victory. Rookie Antonio McDyess led Denver with 3:56 left gave the Rockets a 109­
Hakeem Olajuwon scored 16 of his 37 Tim Breaux and Eldridge Recasner, with a career-high 31 points. Mahmoud 103lead. points in the fourth quarter, including a forced into the lineup because of sec­Abdul-Rauf had 26 and LaPhonso Ellis Two baskets by Abdul-Rauf gotpair of three-point plays with about four ond-quarter injuries suffered by Mario 20. . Denver within 111-107, but Breaux then minutes left, and the Houston Rockets Elie and Sam Cassell, hit key baskets McDyess' slam produced a 96-96 tie hit a 3-pointer and Recasner tipped in a pulled away from the Denver Nuggets down the stretch. with 6:31 left, but Olajuwon then scored Breaux miss with 1:39 to go for a 116­120-112 Wednesday night. Houston made 17 of 22 free throws in 11 of Houston's next 13 points. His 107 advantage. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 
Clueless Carroll Auditorium. SMC Friday & Saturday 7 & 9:30 Free Admission! 
SPRING BREAK! With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $1 09 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-771 0 
SPRING BREAK'S "HOTIEST 
TRIPS" 
CANCUN -SOUTH PADRE 
ISLAND -BELIZE 
1-800-328-7513 http://www.studentadv1rav.com 
FREE FOOD & DRINK PACKAGE 
FOR EARLY SIGN-UPS 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Leaves From Ft. Lauderdale! http://www.spring­break1ravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specialsl111% Lowest Price · Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www .spring­break1ravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $1691 Daytona $139! http://www.spring­breaktravel.com. 
1-800-678-6386 
AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! Farley Hall Players' production of "Royal Gambir Thurs 7-9pm, Fri 3-5pm in Farley Basement Call Monica x4253 for details AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS! 
ILOST & FOUND I 
I lost a very special gold heart bracelet either at the JACC or Senior Bar on Jan. 15. If you found it please call Erin at 232-7991. 
Found: pocket knife near • Stonehenge on 1/17. Call1678. 
Lost: Gold rope bracelet. Lost on 1/17 somewhere between Knott and O'Shag. Great sentimen­tal value! Please call Susan @ 4980 
WANTED 
WANTED Students who want to make extra cash delivering The Chicago Tribune. Must live on-campus. Notre Dame/St.Mary's Call 684-4302. 
BOHICA The campus band needs a singer. Interested? Call Brian x2300 
My dad (N.D.'93) needs ND/SMC students to care for me when he and my mom work. Hrs vary 8A­2P, M-F. Call273-4642. 
GREEK/LATIN HELP WANTED. Graduate Patristics student knowl­edge in the Fathers needed urgent­ly for translation and library research. Call anytime 219-848­5187. 
Will you be paying rent on an empty apartment this summer? Ex ND staffer and wife wish to rent your apt. Reliable, non-smokers, no pets. References. We have rented student apts past 8 summers with arrangements advantages to both parties. Will take first apt on which we can agree to terms, so don't wait. Call (941 )425-4404 or write 
135 Lakeview Dr., Mulberry FL 33860. 
TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD-Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea. Many employers provide room & board +other benefits. No teaching background or Asian lan­guages required. For more informa­tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext. J55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55844 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6.000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55843 
Area company seeking accounting 
professional. Salary $30's. 
Permanent position. Fee paid. 
Accounting software knowledge 
and experience in MS-DOS/LAN 
required. NOVELL a plus. Call 
219-825-3909. 
'----F_O_R_RE_N_T_--ll 
One person furnished apt. 
3.5 miles from campus Must see Call after 6:00 232-0355 
THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED­ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
Great Apt. for Sublet!!!! furnished apt. minutes from ND 2 BdRm w/ central air, wash & dryer -located at 617 Portage Ave. $375/mo. plus utilities Call Colleen at #233-1495 
Need to sublet apr! at College Park. Only $166/ mo. Washer & Dryer included. Call Tim at 273-9768. 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 
ROOM FOR RENT. NICE NEIGH­BORHOOD. $300.00/MO. 255­9005 
MISHAWAKA-HOME FOR RENT. NEW CONSTRUCTION. 3 BED.-2 BATH. $900.00/MO.+ 257-0457 
Perfect for 2nd Semester Furnished Student Apts Heat included -large 1 bedrm, $330 -small 1 bedrm, $260 -studio, $235 755 South Bend Ave-1 blk west of NDAve deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 
TWO ROOMS FOR RENT AT LAFAYETIE SQUARE TOWN HOMES. FULLY FURNISHED AVAILABLE !MEDIATELY CALL JESSE OR BEN AT 634-1838 FOR DETAILS 
2 VERY NICE rooms for Sum/Fall '96. 5-min. drive! $250 inc! utilities & extras! 1-4809/232-7175 
~-.I_F_O_R_SAL_E_ 
__J 
The Dating Handbook-2002 Things to do on a Date. Fun. Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages. $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 
W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, PA 19341 
PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
Finally, The Top 10 from Coconut Grove 
10. That's alright, that's okay. You're going to work for us some­day. 
9. Vegetable sacrifices every Wednesday at the Hare Krishna temple. 
8. I'm gonna rinse off in the ocean. Wannacome? 
7. Hey, whose top is that? 
6. Look! It's Paul Grab-some-a**es brother! 
5. I really hope it's all champagne. 
4. They hooked up... under water. 
3. It's 4 a.m. How many people are in your hot tub? 
2. You can't swing a dead cat ten feet without hitting one of Michelle's ex-boyfriends. 
1. Happy New Year Baby! Thanks to Morrissey, PE, Farley, Steve, Joan and Finnigan the Dog (I've never had hives before) for the best new year's ever. 
DUST OFF YOUR DANCING SHOES AND "SPRING'" INTO ACTION ALL YOU BALLROOM DANCERS! CLASS­ES WILL RESUME TUESDAY, JAN. 23, 6:30-9:00 PM, WITH SWING/JIVE IN 301 ROCKNE MEMORIAL. ALL ARE WELCOME! DON'T FOR­GET YOUR I.D.! 
Interested in helping out the Environment? Call Recyclin' Irish at x1283 :) 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
What happened? Where? Found him in a junk pile? Oh, what a mess. Chewie, do you think you can repair him? Lando's got people who can fix him. No, thanks. l"m sorry. Am I interrupting any­thing? Not really. You look absolutely beautiful. You truly belong here with us among the clouds. Thank you. Will you join me for a little refresh­ment? Everyone's invited, of course. Having trouble with you droid? No. No problem. Why? 
Some people need to get a life 
!!SOPHOMORES!! sophomore four will hold auditions this sunday, 1/21 from 2-7 pm in 204 o'shag all sophomores welcome !!AUDITIONS!! 
ATIENTION JUNIORS!!! Junior class ski trip tickets are now on sale at the LaFortune info. desk! Gel your tickets now for $55--For a full day and night of skiing and an overnight stay in Madison Wisconsin. 
Prepare ... 
The Wake is coming ... 
Bring back Mirrorland 
Bring back Mirrorland 
~----------------~----­
Thursday, January 18, 1996 
The Observer ·ADVERTISEMENT 
page IS 

-

~~ N~e 7AAN'YVJ~"" 
CONNECTICUT 
----vs.---­
••• to set the Notre Dame Women's Basketball attendance record ••• 
"Don't worry Rachel, Notre Dame students can go to Jammin' the Joyce at 7 tonight and still watch or even tape our show." 
' 
~ I 
I 
I 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 1996 
•NBA
-• NFL Rodman risk-pays Coach improving after sideline collision 
By JANINE ZUNIGA Haskell, 52, received is "always touchy" but he Associated Press has shown steady improvement. Foreman said
off as Bulls go for 70 
Haskell will require comprehensive testing DALLAS before the extent of his injuries and rehabilita­
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
A distraction. A disruption. A cancer. Skeptics said Dennis Rodman would be all those things and more. He'd turn the Chicago Bulls into a freak show. 
It hasn't happened. All Rodman has done is help turn an outstanding team into, per­haps, a team for the ages. 
Sure, there's Michael Jordan to score just about whenever he wants. And there's Scottie Pippen to do everything else. But would the Bulls be a threat to achieve an NBA-record 70 victories without Rodman? Would a fourth league title in the 1990s be possible without the Worm? 
"Now," said Philadelphia center Sharone Wright, "they have Superman, Batman and Rodman." 
Even Jordan, Pippen, coach Phil Jackson and other Bulls wondered if the preseason trade· of Will Perdue to San Antonio for Rodman would work. They knew he under­mined the Spurs' bid for a championship last year and worried that he might not be the right fit in Chicago. 
They've found that under­neath Rodman's colored hair ­red three months ago, green three weeks ago, blond today, anyone's guess tomorrow ­and underneath the tattoos and pierced skin, beats the heart of a team player. 
"We don't all hang out with each other off the court, but Dennis has been a good team­mate," Jordan said. "He's will­ing to do the dirty work, which is something we needed. And he's a lot better passer and a lot smarter than some people think." 
Rodman had one of his best games ever in Tuesday's 116­104 victory over the Philadelphia 76ers, pulling down 21 rebounds, scoring 10 points and dishing off a career­high 10 assists. It was his first triple-double in 700 NBA games and it helped the Bulls improve to 32-3 overall and 19­0 at home. 
"He prides himself on re­bounding, but he's doing other things for us," Jordan said of the four-time league rebound­ing leader. "He showed he could play an all-around game. People have to respect him." 
Chicago fans fell in love with him almost immediately. An enemy during his days with the Detroit Pistons, the Worm often draws more cheers than Jordan. He gets standing ova­tions for even routine re­bounds. And when he made his first 3-pointer of the season Tuesday, the crowd reacted as if the Bulls had won a playoff game. 
Rodman hasn't spoken to the media in recent days, but he said earlier this season that he likes to play up to the crowd "because they pay the big money and want to see a big show." 
"Right now, he's probably the fans' favorite," Jordan said. "They respect his work ethic. He does his job and deserves some reward." 
Rodman has said some silly things, committed some hard fouls and drawn some techni­cals. just as he did in San Antonio. lie's posed naked in Playboy and has promised to name names in an outrageous autobiography to come out this year. 
But unlike his time with the Spurs, he's been a dedicated practice player, hasn't shown up late for workouts and hasn't defiantly ignored team huddles during games. 
"This is the happiest I've seen him," said Philadelphia coach John Lucas, who was San Antonio's coach during Rodman's first season there. "I'd attribute it to Dennis being in his last year, looking for a huge contract." 
In other words, maybe the Bulls' big risk wasn't much of a risk at all. If Rodman wants megabucks next season, when he'll be 35, he needs to show that he can both play and con­
form. 
Green Bay Packers assistant coach Gil Haskell is alert and his memory is improving, but doctors said even though his recovery has been rapid and remarkable, it's still too early to predict his progress. 
Dr. Michael Foreman, who has been directing Haskell's care at Baylor University Medical Center, upgraded Haskell's condition Wednesday to fair and moved him out of the neurological intensive care unit into a private room. 
"He's walking some, but he's not real steady," Foreman said. "We anticipate that at the rate of his current progress, he should be able to go to a rehabilitation facility soon. We don't know when." 
Haskell's skull was fractured during the Packers' loss to the Dallas Cowboys in the NFC championship game Sunday. His head struck the artificial turf at Texas Stadium when Cowboys safety Darren Woodson blocked flanker Robert Brooks out of bounds and into the Packers' assis­tant on the sidelines. 
Foreman said an injury such as the one 
tion program are known. 
Packers coach Mike Holmgren, who called Haskell one of his very best friends, said he's very encouraged by Haskell's improved condi­tion, but he admitted that Haskell physiGally "doesn't look good." 
Holmgren and Packer head trainer Pepper Burruss attended a news conference Wednesday at Baylor in Dallas. 
Holmgren said the team met at the checkout meeting earlier this week in Wisconsin and prayed as a group. He said there were "lots of tears" as Reggie White led the somber invoca­tion. 
On Monday, Burruss said there was no evi­dence of neck injury. He had said earlier that possible injury to the brain, not the skull frac­ture, was the main concern. 
Foreman said Haskell remained in good spirits Wednesday. 
"We're so tickled that in the last 36 hours, he's just improved so much," Foreman said. "It's been rapid and remarkable." 
B:nn pm Washingtcn Hall Saturday, January 20, 199Ei 

Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
-
• COlLEGE BASKETBALl 

Photo courtesy of UNC sports Information North Carolina freshman Antawn Jamison, shown as high school senior, has been a key ingredient to the Tar Heels' top ten ranking. 
NO SHOES? 
~ ~~~~ 
SunSpree Resorr South P11dre Island 
4i 
Radisson. 
Spring Break 
Partv 
Headquarlers 
Newly Renovated located on 1 0 acres of beachfront. For reservations call 
1-800-292-7704 
210-761-6511 
Tar Heels slam Cavaliers 67-53 
Associated Press 
Antawn Jamison didn't wait long to show Virginia's first sellout crowd this season that North Carolina is already past the rebuilding stage. 
Two minutes into the No. 10 Tar Heels' 67-53 victory at Virginia on Wednesday night, the 6-foot-8 freshman took a pass from Dante Calabria and dunked. He was fouled by 7-4 Chase Metheney on the play, and made the shot. 
Before the night was through, Jamison grabbed 20 rebounds, becoming the first North Carolina player since Mike O'Koren in 1979 to do that. lle also scored 16 points, handed out three assists and blocked two shots. 
"I'm the type of guy that doesn't care about what the media says about Jerry (Stackhouse) and Rasheed (Wallace) being gone," said Jamison. "I just knew I had to come in and step up my game to help this team." 
After losing five players from last season's team, including NBA top 10 selections Stackhouse and Wallace, the Tar Heels were supposed to be just one of the many contenders in a wide-open Atlantic Coast Conferenee race. 
But, with Jamison and fellow freshmen Ademola Okulaja and Vjnce Carter playing major roles, the Tar Heels are 13-3 overall and 4-1 in the ACC. 
"No one cares any more about who scores -we just play as a team," said Jeff Mcinnis. "We are playing with a lot of heart. We're kind of tired of hearing about last year and how Jerry and Rasheed aren't here anymore." 
North Carolina led 39-28 at the half and used a 9-0 run early in the second half to take the crowd -and Virginia ­out of the game. 
Virginia (7-6, 2-3 ACC), which came into the game as the ACC's worst-shooting team with a .368 percentage, was even worse, making 19 of 59 sl~ots, a .322 percentage. 
Curtis Staples, who led Virginia with 17 points, said the Cavaliers played right into North Carolina's hands. 
"They let us have a lot of open first shots hoping we would take them, and we did," he said. "Then they got the re­bounds and were off." 
North Carolina outrebounded Virginia 57-32, including 24-12 on the offensive end. They also got balanced scoring as Serge Zwikker had 14 points, Mcinnis 13 and Dante Calabria 11 for North Carolina. 
The second half started well for Virginia when Chris Alexander scored on a follow and Staples energized the 
Whv Fish Around 
When YOu can Land A Beauty Like This? 
LARGEST 
Spring Break Club 
on the 
PLANET 
andConferenceCenter 
SPRING BREAK '96 
A tropical resort on the beach. Beachside Bar • Nightclub • 2 Pools • Restaurant • Texas Size Hot tub • 15 lush acres 
Spring Break Promotions/Events 
BAHIA MAR RESORT South Padre Island, Texas • 800-99-PADRE (72373) 
crowd with two 3-pointers 2:15 apart that pulled Virginia to within 43-36. 
"I thought that would get us on a role," said Staples. 
It didn't. 
Calabria made two free throws and followed with a 3­pointer at the 15:38 mark, Mcinnis seored on a drive and Alexander was called for goal­tending. 
The IJ-0 run put the Tar Heels in front 52-36 with 14:25 re­maining, and when Staples, Harold Deane and the rest of the Cavaliers couldn't fllward the crowd's encouragement with points. they were finished. 
Staples finished 5-for-14 from 3-point territory and 6-for-17 overall. And Deane, who came in averaging 28.3 points in his last three games, was limited to 10 points on 3-for-14 shooting, including 2-for-9 from down­town. 
No.1 UMass 77, Rhode Island 71 
Top-ranked Massachusetts didn't need Marcus Camby to stay unbeaten. It had Donta Bright. 
With Camby still hospitalized following his collapse before a game Sunday. Bright scored a career-high 32 points and made all 14 of his free throws as the Minutemen beat Hhode Island 77-71 Wednesday night. 
Leading 52-51 with 10:42 left. Massachusetts (15-0. 4-0 Atlantic 10) scored 19 of its re­maining 25 points l'rom the l'oul line. Bright had two of the field goals and Edgar Padilla. who scored 14 points. had the other. 
Rhode Island (9-5, 1-2) took advantage of the absence of the 6-foot-11 Camby by going in­side and led most of the lirst half. which ended in a 36-36 tie. Its last lead was 38-36 be­fore Massachusetts got the next six points. 
The Rams were led by Antonio Reynolds with 15 points and Josh King and Tyson Wheeler with 14 each. 
Camby. one of the nation's top players. collapsed before Sunday's 65-52 win at St. Bonaventure. lie was expected to be released from University of Massachusetts Medical Center on Thursday after ex­tensive testing failed to find the 
-
cause but ruled out heart prob­lems and a number of neuro­logical problems. 
No. 19 FSU 75, Clemson 62 
James Collins hit four 3-point shots in the second half and scored 23 points as Florida State handed 19th-ranked Clemson its second straight de­feat, 75-62 Wednesday night. 
Collins, who has scored in double ligures in 46 consecu­tive games, hit three straight from long range after Clemson had pulled to 49-45 with an 19­8 run to start the second half. 
Avery Curry scored seven points in the final minute of the first half when the Seminoles (10-4, 2-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) opened a 41-26 lead at the break. 
Curry was the only other Seminole in double figures with 16 points, 12 coming in the opening half. 
Clemson (11-2, 2-2 ACC) lost its second straight game after an 11-0 start. 
Greg Buckner led the Tigers with 14 points. Tony Christie added 13 and reserve Danny Johnson scored 11. 
page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 1996 
-
• COllEGE BASKETBAlL 
Associated Press 
Danny Fortson got one of Cincinnati's two technical fouls, then steadied himself and scored a career-high 40 points Wednesday night to keep the Bearcats unbeaten with a 99-90 victory over rival Xavier. 
No. 3 Cincinnati (12-0) matched its best start in the last 36 years by overcoming a taunting crowd and two first­half flare-ups on Xavier's home court. 
The Bearcats also were 12-0 in 197 6-77. Cincinnati has had just two better starts in its 95 seasons -13-0 in 1959-60 and 19-0 in 1962-63. 
Xavier (6-7), which starts three freshmen in a rebuilding season, is off to its worst start in 14 years. 
The foul-marred game added to the crosstown rivalry's re­cent lore. The last game at the Cincinnati Gardens two years ago degenerated into a shout­ing match between the bench­es, and Cincinnati's Bob Huggins refused to shake for­mer Xavier coach Pete Gillen's hand afterwards. 
Huggins is friends with cur­rent Xavier coach Skip Prosser, but the players haven't gotten any chummier. Fortson and Art Long drew technicals in the first half, giving Xavier the chance to trim a double-digit deficit to 3 points shortly before the intermission. 
Fortson and Long were the main targets of Xavier fans, who waved signs and invented chants reminding them of their arrests last year. Long was ac­
~ 0 • • • • .. •
. . . . .. . . .. . 
• • 0 ••••• 
• .. • • • 0 .... • • 0 •••••
. . . . . . . . . 
• 0 0 • 0 ••• ..... 0 ..... • • • • • • 0 • 0 •• 0 ...... • • 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 •• 0 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 0 •• 0 • 0 • 0 0 ••••• 0 •••• 0 ••• • • 0 •••• 0 • • • • • • • 0 • • 0 •• 0 0 • 0 • •••••• 0 • 
• • 0 •••••• .. 0 0 •• 
quitted of assaulting a police horse. and Fortson was acquit­ted of disorderly conduct while intoxicated. 
The front-court tandem got a measure of revenge by leading a decisive spurt that opened the second half. Fortson had eight points, including a rim-rattling dunk set up by Long's block, in a 17-10 flurry that pushed the lead to 57-44. Cincinnati even­tually opened a 17 -point lead. 
That was too much for Xavier to make up. The Musketeers cut it to 96-90 on Lenny Brown's three-point play with 27 seconds left, but went cold. 
OSU 72, Northwestern 71 
Much has been made of the fact that five of Ohio State's top six scorers this season are freshmen. 
On Wednesday night, the lone upperclassman in that group made sure he wasn't over­looked. 
Inserted back into the lineup with 12.1 seconds left because of his experience, senior Rick Yudt took an assist pass from freshman Damon Stringer and hit a 15-footer with 2 seconds left as Ohio State beat Northwestern 72-71. 
It was Ohio State's first lead since a 7-5 advantage three minutes into the game. 
"It couldn't have worked out better," said Yudt, who had played only a minute in the Buckeyes' last game because of an injured thumb on his left or non-shooting hand. "We got a great screen from (Steve) Belter. Damon penetrated -it was a great play by him -and he kicked it out and I got a good look at the basket." 
Stringer had drawn the de­fense to him as he drove around Belter's screen and into the lane, then flipped the pass to Yudt on the right wing. 
"The biggest play was the pass to Yudt, because Stringer was under control at the end of his drive," Ohio State coach Randy Ayers said. "With his quickness. he can get the ball anywhere he wants when he's under control." 
"I was looking for the shot or to take the ball to the basket," Stringer said. "Rick was wide open when they collapsed on me. I never thought about my shot. I had to pass, as good a shot as Rick is." 
After calling timeout with . 9 seconds left, Northwestern threw a long pass to Evan Eschmeyer but his off-balance shot from the left baseline was short as the buzzer sounded. 
Yudt, Ohio State's second­leading scorer before the injury, finished with seven points in 13 minutes. 
Stringer had a career-high 24 points for the Buckeyes (8-5 overall and 1-3 in the Big Ten), hitting 5-of-6 shots from 3­point range. 
Geno Carlisle scored 18 points, Craig Duerksen 13 and Eschmeyer and Jevon Johnson each had 10 for Northwestern. 

Photo courtesy of Xavier sports infonnation Junior guard Sherwin Anderson and the Musketeers, whom the Irish defeated over Christmas break, almost succeeded in knocking off No. 3 Cincinnati. 
..........
. . . . . . . . . . 
..........
. ........ . 
0 ••••••••• 0 •••••••••
. . . . . . . . . . 
.·. . . 
<· 
·.· 
·.·
·.· 
-

Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•NBA • 
Hawks win fifth straight, beat Miller-less Pacers 102-93 


Associated Press 
Atlanta, taking advantage of flu-ridden Reggie Miller's ab­sence, held Indiana scoreless for nearly five minutes in the third quarter and, paced by Stacey Augmon, won their fifth straight game, 102-93 Wednesday night. 
Augmon scored a season-high 24 points to lead the Hawks, whose winning streak is the longest since they won five in a row nearly two years ago. 
Steve Smith added 19 points, Mookie Blaylock 18 and Andrew Lang 17 for Atlanta, which made 28-of-30 free throws and outrebounded the Pacers 39-24. 
Indiana's four-game winning streak came to an end, despite 25 points from Rik Smits. The Pacers were only 7 -of-1 0 from the line. 
Defense carried the Hawks during a 14-2 run closing out the third quarter, a task made easier when Miller, leading the Pacers with 20.3 points per game, missed only his second game of the season. 
After Indiana's Antonio Davis ti~d the game at 63 on a layup with 6:13 remaining in the pe­riod, the Pacers didn't score again until Davis hit two free throws with 1:37 left. During that stretch, Augmon had a couple of steals and Lang added a pair of blocks for the tena­cious Hawks. 
Then the offense turned it up, closing out the quarter with six straight points to give Atlanta a 77-65 lead. 
The Hawks stretched the margin as high as 18 points in the final period before Indiana made a late run. Ricky Pierce, filling in for Miller, scored 16 points, while Derrick McKey and Dale Davis added 11 apiece. 
Even without Miller, Indiana led 50-49 at halftime largely because of 59 percent shooting from the field. Smits had 17 of his points in the first half, con­necting on 8-of-13 shots from the field. The Pacers, however, shot only 46 percent in the final two quarters. 
Rookie reserve Alan Henderson tied his career high with 12 points. 
Atlanta's last live-game win­ning streak came between Feb. 23-March 5, 1994. 
Nets 97, Hornets 93 
Two free throws by Kenny Anderson with 6.6 seconds re­maining clinched the New Jersey Nets' 97-93 victory over the Charlotte Hornets Wednesday night. 
The loss prevented the Hornets from reaching the .500 mark for the first time since Nov. 11. 
Since then, the Hornets are 0­6 when they have had an opportunity to level their sea­son record. 
Anderson finished with 22 points in the Nets' fourth road victory in 19 tries this season. 
After the Hornets crept to 95­93, Anderson was fouled. He sank both free throws to ice the game. 
Neither team led by more than four points in the fourth quarter. With the score tied at 89, Anderson hit a follow shot to put the Nets ahead with 1:49 remaining. 
After Larry Johnson missed a 3-pointer, Chris Childs hit a short jumper to give the Nets a 93-89 lead with 49.8 seconds left. Dell Curry's long jumper for the Hornets was answered by former Hornet Armon Gilliam's long shot as the Nets moved in front 95-91 with 21 seconds to go. 
Aft:er Matt Geiger scored on a follow shot, Anderson iced the game with his two free throws. 
Gilliam led the Nets with 24 points. 
Curry and Glen Rice each had 23 points for the Hornets, while Johnson added 20. 
The Hornets heated up from 3-point range to take their first lead of the game late in the third quarter. 
Michael Adams' 3-pointer ­Charlotte's fifth of the period ­put the Hornets up 74-73 with 
1:18 remaining. The Hornets made 5-of-9 3-pointers during the quarter, spearheaded by Curry, who had 12 points in the period. 
Rice became the 210th player in NBA history to reach 10,000 career points on a free throw with 5:10 remaining in the lirst quarter. 
Timberwolves 98, Warriors 88 
Isaiah Hider scored a season­high 31 points Wednesday night to lead the Minnesota Timberwolves to a 98-88 vic­tory over the Golden State Warriors. 
Rider added seven assists as the Wolves posted their first two-game winning streak since Dec. 6-8. 
Tom Gugliotta added 18 points and 14 rebounds for the Wolves. Joe Smith had 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Latrell Sprewell had 19 points for the Warriors, who shot just 34 percent from the field. 
Rider, who had both of his two career 40-point perfor­mances last season against Golden State, scored 27 in the first three quarters as the Wolves built a 76-63 lead. 
A four-point play by Chris Mullin capped a 15-6 run to start the fourth quarter for the Warriors, bringing them to 82­78 with 6:56 to play. A 6-0 Minnesota run gave the Wolves a 90-80 lead before Golden State pulled to 90-84 with 1:52 to go. 
A dunk by Rider ofT a baseball pass from Gugliotta helped the Wolves stay in front. 
Minnesota built a 49-38 lead with 2:38 left in the second quarter. Smith had 12 points in the half for the Warriors, who pulled to 51-45 at intermission. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Typist 
• Flexible Hours 
Interested? Call Melanie at 273-8660. 
I
NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
!lfioBcENGLisHOO 
CONVERSATION SCHOOL 
is seeking university graduates for a one year teaching position in Japan. Attractive salary, benefits and travel opportunities. Japanese Language Skills Not Necessary. 
RECRUITING DATES: February 5, 6, and 7 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. Sign-ups Open This Week 
-
'\ 
-----------------~--------------------~ ~-------~ 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, January 18, 1996 
•NBA 
Big Dog's 37 carries Bucks past slumping Sixers 
Associated Press 
Glenn Robinson scored 37 points and Milwaukee overcame Philadelphia's 81 percent first-quarter shooting Wednesday night to hand the 76ers their third straight loss, 111-100. 
The Bucks took their first lead, 91-89, with 5:41 to play on Robinson's 3-pointer, but Vernon Maxwell converted a 3-point play at the other end and the Sixers went back up 92-91. 
Two free throws by Robinson and a jumper by Vin Baker, who scored 15 of his 22 points in the second half, gave Milwaukee the lead for good at 95-92 with 
4:20 to play. 
Milwaukee, which has won four straight at the Spectrum and two in a row overall, also got 19 points from Benoit Benjamin. Baker had 10 rebounds. 
Maxwell led the Sixers with 20 points and Trevor Ruffin had 12 of his 17 in the first half. Jerry Stackhouse added 16. 
The Sixers are a league-worst 4-13 at home this season. 
Philadelphia made 10 of its first 11 shots in the game while building a 38-28 first­quarter lead. The 76ers were 17 -for-21 in the quarter, their best shooting quarter this season. 
Milwaukee's Sherman Douglas 
was ejected in the first period after arguing a traveling call. Lee Mayberry, his replacement, had 10 assists. 
The Sixers hit 26-of-38 field ~oals (68.4 percent) in the first half, but turned the ball over 12 times and led only 59-52 at the intermission. 
Milwaukee cut the lead to two points three times in the third quarter, and trailed 84-81 at the end of the period. 
Heat 96, Bullets 89 
Alonzo Mourning tied his season high with 38 points and the Miami Heat overcame the ejection of two players for fighting to beat the Washington Bullets 96-89 Wednesday night. 
Juwan Howard of Washington was also ejected following the sec­ond-period brawl, along with Bimbo Coles and Keith Askins of Miami. 
Mourning missed his first eight shots, but still outdueled 7 -foot-7 Gheorghe Muresan, who had 19 points and a career-high 21 rebounds. Mourning scored nine points in the first five minutes of the final period as Miami pulled away to an 83-73 lead. 
The Heat broke a five-game los­ing streak even though the ejec­
-tions left them thin. Billy Owens, Miami's second-leading scorer, was sent home before the game with an upper respiratory infec­tion. The fight began when Howard shoved Coles as both players were running down court following a basket that gave Miami the lead for good, 40-38. Coles shoved Howard back before other players intervened, and a swarm of play­ers spilled off the court and into the first row of the stands. Askins stepped between the two main combatants but was ejected for throwing a punch, a ruling that Heat coach Pat Riley protested. No punch was visible on television replays. One of the officials was Bennett Salvatore, part of the crew in Miami's 90-89 loss at Portland last week. Riley complained about the officiating following that game and drew a $10,000 fine . The three players ejected face automatic one-game suspensions and fines. Brent Price scored 27 points and Rasheed Wallace 22 for Washington, which lost its third in a row. Mourning grabbed 15 rebounds and hit 13-of-33 shots. Miami, next to last in the NBA in scoring, won despite shooting just 39 per­cent. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------• 
Magic 113, Suns 95 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 18 of his 35 points in the third quarter Wednesday night, helping the Orlando Magic beat Phoenix 113-95 and spoil Cotton Fitzsimmons' debut in his third stint as coach of the Suns. 
Fitzsimmons, who last coached in the 1991-92 season, returned from the front office to replace Paul Westphal, who was fired Wednesday. 
It was a franchise-record sixth consecu­tive home loss for the Suns, but this time they weren't booed. 
The Suns played hard and managed to keep up with the Magic until the second quarter, when Anfernee Hardaway had 10 of his 25 points to lead Orlando from behind to a 61-45 halftime lead. 
Dennis Scott had 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Magic. 
Michael Finley scored 18 points, and Wesley Person and Wayman Tisdale had 16 each for Phoenix, which dressed the league minimum of eight players for the fifth consecutive game. 


1/15 1/16 1/17 1/18 1/19 1/20 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
GEAR 
fOI SPOIT! 
Ask for it by name. 
9am-5pm 9am-8pm 9am-8pm 9am-8pm 9am-5pm 9am-5pm 
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
ESPN to spotlight '96 Irish 
1996 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE. 
September 14  Purdue  1:30 EST  
September 28  Ohio State  1:30 EST  
October 12  Washington  1:30 EST  
October 19  Air Force  1:30 EST  
November 16  Pittsburgh  1:30 EST  
November 23  Rutgers  12:30 EST  

• AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
NBC and Notre Dame recently announced the start­ing times for all six football games next year at Notre Dame Stadium. To no one's surprise, but to many stu­dent's disliking, the home slate will not feature a night game. 
However, the Irish will have at least one chance to shine under lights, as well as in front .of ESPN cameras. 
The match-up \'-'ith the Commodores, originally scheduled for Saturday, September 7 will now be played on Thursday, September 5 at 8 p.m. 
Fourth seed Pierce falls in upset 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE, Australia 
A walkabout Down Under is an aimless trek to nowhere, and Mary Pierce's tennis version of it Thursday ended her reign as Australian OpHn champion. 
She wandered around the court as if shn had no idea what to do, slugged shots that would have been wide in doubles, didn't bothHr chasing balls two steps away. 
It all came crashing down on the fourth-seeded Pierce in a 6-4, 6-4 loss in the second round to Elena Likhovtseva, a Hussian ranked No. 51. 
''I'm shocked," Pierce's coach, Nick Bollettieri, said. "For Mary not to do any­thing is unbelievable. Mary just was lost out there. You have to give the other girl credit. She put some pressure on her, but I've never seen Mary miss so many shots by so much." 
In a game of inches, Pierce often missed by six feet. But more than simply clubbing everything wild, she also failed to make an effort on some shots, as if it were beneath her to chase a ball. She played nothing like her form of a year ago, when her precision and power augmented her desire to break through with her first Grand Slam title. 
The one time during this match when Pierce really worked hard, she broke Likhovtseva in the fourth game of the sec­ond set after eight deuces. But even then, Pierce simply accepted the gift of a dou­ble-fault on the last of five break points. 
Pierce returned the favor in the next game, double-faulting at 30-40 to fall 
behind 3-2. 
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SournBEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 
Spring begins in February! 
Our spring semester features new classes in building work teams, conflict management, Norwegian, negotiating, grant writing and the healing arts. Plus our regular selection of personal and professional development programs. Also, take note of our series of youth programs. 
Catalog now available 
Call237-4261 for your free copy 

presents: 
THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
TONY-TONY PLAYING YOUR FAVORITE HIP-HOP & BOOTIE CALL MUSIC TO DANCE TO! 
• Both Dance Floors Open. 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
• COllEGE BASKETBALL 
Griffin, Pirates shock injured Wildcats 78-73 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Adrian Griffin scored a career-high 31 points and Seton Hall posted its biggest win in four years. defeating No. 7 Villanova 78-73 on Wednesday night. 
The loss was the second in three games for the Wildcats (13-3, 5-2 Big East) and it was the best for Seton Hall (8-6, 4­
3) since beating No. 6 Ohio State on Jan. 26, 1992. 
Danny Hurley had 18 points and Jacky Kaba 14 for the Pirates, who opened a 69-58 lead with 5:03 to play on two free throws by Griffin and then held off a late charge by Villanova. 
Eric Eberz led Villanova with 17 points. Kerry Kittles, who didn't start because of a groin injury, added 15 points and Jason Lawson had 14 on a night the Wildcats didn't shoot or rebound well. 
Villanova shot 41 percent Photo courtesy of Villanova sports Information from the field and was outre­All-American guard Kerry Kittles scored only 15 bounded 48-30 by a Seton Hall points in defeat as he was sidelined with a groin 

team that has been outrebound­injury. ed an average of seven in con­ference games. 
Kittles, who only played a minute in a 69-67 win over West Virginia on Saturday, came in five minutes after the start and scored four quick points as the Wildcats bounced back from a six-point deficit to take a 27-20 lead with 7: 13 left in the half. 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Kirk King made his 22nd straight shot -three short of the NCAA record -before a miss Wednesday night, and No. 5 Connecticut ran away early for an 88-73 win over St. John's. 
King made his first three shots, all dunks, for the Huskies before his missing an eight-foot pullup jumper with six minutes left in the first half. The record of 25 in a row was set by Ray Voelkel of American University in 1978. 
King, a power forward, start­ed with nine straight field goals against Villanova on Jan. 9 and was followed by 10 shots in a 
row against Providence last Saturday. 
Travis Knight emerged from a scoring slump with a career­high 22 points for Connecticut. He hit his first seven shots and then only missed once the rest of the way as the Huskies (15-1, 7-0 Big East) beat St. John's for the sixth straight time and ex­tended their winning streak to 14 games. 
Knight, who had 16 total points in the previous four games, including a scoreless night against Villanova, was a threat from everywhere, hitting at least three of his baskets from beyond 15 feet. He also grabbed 14 rebounds. 
Ray Allen finished with 26 points and Doron Sheffer added 18 for Connecticut, which took 
Seton Hall, however. finished the half with a 17-6 spurt, scoring the final six points to take a 37-33 lead. Griffin, whose previous high was 26, had 1 7 at the break. 
The Pirates never lost the lead after halftime as Villanova never got closer than four points. 
• COLlEGE BASKETBAU. 
King misses, yet Huskies prevail 

control early and then stayed in command the entire game, us­ing several rotations to wear down St. John's and get their transition in gear. 
Zendon Hamilton scored 24 points to lead St. John's (7-6, 1­4), which was coming off wins over West Virginia and Louisville. Felipe Lopez finished with 15 points after going 0­for-4 in the first half. 
St. John's, which trailed by 14 twice in the first half and fell behind 58-41 five minutes into the second, had a 7-0 burst that cut it to 58-48 with 13 minutes left. 
St. John's coach Brian Mahoney hit the 100-game milestone with the Red Storm, dropping to 52-48. 
PRODUCTIONS 
-
.. 
_ 



-
·• 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
their undefeated record of last year, but they are still very much in contention for the Big East and NCAA champi­onships. 
Rizzotti and Wolters have continued to live up to their preseason billing. Rizzotti is averaging 11.8 points and 6.6 assists, while Wolters has con­tributed 19.0 points and 7.4 rebounds. 
At present, the Huskies are ranked No. 3 in the AP poll and have their sights set on continuing the trend they began last year, that of con­quering not only the Big East, but the entire NCAA as well. 
more on my all-around game, my ball-handling, my defense." 
Right now, The Scorer is concentrating on knocking the Huskies back down to earth. 
While she cites the first ever meeting between these two programs as "just another game on the schedule," it's ob­vious she can't wait to tee it up Thursday night. 
"I think we've had a great start this season," commented Morgan. "We're doing really well, and I only anticipate bet­ter things from here on out. I think if we concentrate on our strengthS, we can beat any­body." 
Tonight, the Huskies just might topple from somebody to anybody. They just might get torched by the hot hand of The Scorer. 
IRIII CaUNTIY BED I BIIEAIFUT RECIITIY 
Tile Preferred Registry 
Resarvad luxurious rooms or private homes lor 111/SMC special event weekends: JPW/GradJFootban 
-
UConn 
continued from page 24 
returnee in rebounding. 
Despite the return of these elite contributors to last year's team, some people have claimed that because Lobo was a senior and now is not around to help them maintain that level of championship play, the Huskies will fall. 
The people that made this 
claim must not realize that 
this year's team is just as 
stacked with talent as last 
year's squad. 
Morgan 
continued from page 24 
to stop The Scorer. 
"I've always been 'The Scorer'," says the affable yet intense Morgan. "I guess that's always been my strength." 
The first player in the history of the Notre Dame program to reach the 1,000 point plateau as a sophomore, Morgan has always been known to light it up. 
Currently fifth on the all­
time scoring list, Morgan owns 
a Notre Dame record with 32 
games in which she has scored 
at least 20 points, including 
nine such games this season. 
In three of those nine games, 
Morgan has gone one step bet­
ter, tallying at least 30 points. 
As impressive as her scoring 
credentials have been, Morgan 
does not come across as a 
pampered superstar shooter. 
content with being perceived 
as a one-dimensional player. 
"The label (scorer) is not one 
I really want to break," laughs 
Coach Geno Auriemma, de­termined to retool in order to stay on top, convinced Parade All-American Tammy Arnold, the Big East Preseason Newcomer of the Year, to enroll at UConn this season. 
This addition. plus several others, promise to help the Huskies toward their goal of a second consecutive champi­onship. 
So far, Connecticut has not 
been able to completely dupli­
cate their success of last sea­
son. Their record of 14-3 ( 4-1 in the Big East) may not equal 
Morgan. 
"It's what I want to do. also want to concentrate on the other aspects of my game, 
though. 
"I want to be more versatile and take my game to the next level. I felt it would be more beneficial to the team if I could 
do that." 
She has, and it has. The newly-versatile version of The Scorer, in addition to leading the team in scoring (22.1 ppg), free throw percentage (88.5%), and three point field goal per­centage (45.7%). is also third on the team in rebounds, haul­ing in 4.9 boards a game, and tied for first in steals with 31. 
A key factor in Morgan's 
stellar all-around performance 
this season has been her 
health. Hampered by a knee 
injury last season, Morgan is 
feeling good so far this year, 
and the team is reaping the 
benefits of her health. 
"The big difference this year 
is I feel healthy," said Morgan. 
"I worked hard in the off­
season as far as hitting the 
weights. and I concentrated 
Thursday, January 18, 1996 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
"We're not thinking about the past. We're thinking about the future and focusing on our in­tensity. We think of Connecticut as we think of any other team. We have a very good chance against them," stated Gaither. 
Every opponent who pre­pares to play the Huskies must be ready to guard Connecticut's imposing center, namely 6'7" Kara Wolters. So Coach McGraw has reached into her bag of tricks to pre­pare her team for Wolters. 
Senior Todd Leahy. who is 
approximately the same height 
as Wolters, has practiced with 
the team so that the players 
can gain experience against 
such an imposing figure. 
Leahy's basketball experience 
includes playing for Grace 
Hall's intramural A-team and 
reaching Bookstore 
Basketball's Final 32. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editors Accent Copy Editors 
Freshman and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please submit a one-page personal statement to Krista in 315 LaFortune by January 251h. Call631-4540 with questions. 
"It is hard playing basketball against such a big guy," admit­ted Gaither. "We learned that quickness is our advantage." 
When the real Kara Wolters plays the Irish, Coach McGraw insists that Notre Dame can be successful without making many adjustments. 
"We're just going to play our game, but we'll play with a lit­tle more help behind her," ex­plained McGraw. 
Despite the importance of 
tonight's match-up, McGraw 
has attempted to downplay the 
impact of the game. 
"They know it's a big game, 
but this isn't a game we have 
to win to get ranked and earn 
respect. If you have that atti-• 
tude, you're setting yourself up 
to be very disappointed if you 
lose." 
When the Irish joined the Big 
East, they knew a day would 
come when they would have a 
chance to play against the best 
of women's basketball. That 
day has come. The challenger 
is ready. 

Thursday, January 18, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
m;;;;=;;;;;~;;;;~~;;::::;:;;~ 
MISTER BOFFO 

D1LBERT 
~------------------~or-~~~~~~~~~~, 
DOGB£RT MEETS WITH e SOFTWARE DEVELOPER 5 c5 1--N-O_T_E._T_H_£._1-\_UG_E_M_t.._R_K_ET_F_O_R-t ~ 
50FTWAR£. THAT RUN~ ON \~E ''OOG~ERT .1000" 
OPERA1lNC, S'<STEM. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Hopping-­32 Shopping aid 
1 Geometry calculation 35 Twins, e.g. 5 Mere tool 36 Unattached 9 Cupid's master 37 Theme of this 14 Gun blast puzzle 111 Kyrgyzstan's 40 Doctrines --Mountains 41 Philatelist's 16 Athenian sheet general 42 Radical Newton 11 Yemeni city 43 Vane dir. 18 Trapper's trophy 44 Dracula's home 18 Gathered, as 46 More blessed bees 48 Sheriff's cry, in 20 37-Across from a western a 1953 western 
53 37-Across from 23 Nonetheless the cartoons 24 Not practice 57 Moon over 
moderation Uranus 27 Carpenters, at 59 Girlfriend times abroad 
c 
~ 
§ 
(A 
·;; E 
.;, 
THe.r<,lX•r<C. LoN">VmE.fi!-Fll.•£r<1>'-'1 i'fiA(I. \l-Ei lr< 6 lEC.I-INIQ\lE'S1TI-IE l:>1'S­
HAPPY BIRTIIDAY! IN THE
T.cz,ev..-oll. )l'li.CZoO>KE'S ~ov12. p.czofe.'S 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You win new accolades and earn a
Sof!. To T.le. UI"IQVE \IP.wE. oFTI-IE.Te.l<-r. 
promotion. Rely heavily on your intuition when: career and financial manors are concerned. Your special 
\-\e.Res 1\le.l>e"'-•1'op:s. ~<>u lr.;e. 
services and talents will be in \3aol< 1 We. (:,,ve. ~ 1\ fREE. 
greater demand early in 1996. Keep your passport up to date. Travel isC,p'1 1 p.,.b AT,..R.E.E ~Ei'R. 'Sve.­
favored next spring. Wonderful :Suz.q>-r>oN To "f'apuL.ill>.. (/1-1'\!.IC!. ;• 
financial luck means more creature AJ'ID.. A \)1\TE.. 
comforts. At work, show respc::ct for othe~ viewpoints. A spc::cial friend· ship could culminate in marriage. Follow your heart. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: artist Georgia O'Keefe, actor Ed Asner, poet Mari­anne Moore, conductor Daniel Barenboim. 
ARIES (March 2l·April 19): Remain flexible; others are counting on your versatility. Expc::ct the unex· peered. A move to another city or state is possible. The value of your property will increase if you deco· rare or renovate. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Gracious words or acts will benefit you in unanticipated ways. Discuss any financial problems with experts. then follow their advice. A chance meeting could lead to exciting busi· ness or social developments. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Being more tactful will ease a tense situation. Family members now have greater influence on the decisions you make. Meet deadlines on time to protect your professional standing. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Work assignments grow more diffi­cult but rich rewards are forthcoming. A clear focus will increase effiCiency
SCOTT ADAMS 
and boost profits. A timely call moves you closer to realizing a dream. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work
l)UT Wl-\0 CARES'? Tl-\[ ~ 
could be strenuous today. Team­work may be difficult to achieve. At 
11'\PORTANT THING I.S ~ 
social events, you dazzle others with 
your wit and charm. Visits and trips
THAT I BROUGHT A ~ 
51\G OF TOYS. ~ ~ 
12 Kicker's asset 13Aiso 
member 22Actor-­Buchholz 211 A number 1 
Sappho 28 Belief of one billion 29 Climbing vine 
Jones" star 
• OF INTEREST 
wi)l be successful. Let your hair down this evening. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Pay more anention to the needs of your romantic partner and family. Help nip gossip in the bud by not repeat· ing it. All fonns of spc::culation and gambling should be avoided. Exer· cise self-<liscipline. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A good day for bargain-hunting. Pay more attention to the advice of fmanciaJ experts. Revising the fami· ly budget will relieve a temporary money crunch. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Attending weekend or evening classes could boost your earning power. Enlist family members' cooperation. A secret relationship needs careful nurturing. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Additional income is linked to your helping others. Telephone calls bring good luck. Any high-tech skills you possess can be put to good use. An influential person is impressed. Anend a social affair tonight. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Think about expanding your business or sphere of influence. A new relationship looks promising despite a rocky beginning. End a family squabble by playing the role of peacemaker. Get several bids if pondering home improvements. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Favorable trends enhance your image. The financial outlook will soon brighten. Keep a closer watch on everyday spending. Investigate the needs of someone who suddenly changes their pattern of behavior. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Steer clear of secret transactions proposed by friends. Although your neighbors may not be interested, community activities appeal to many. Take steps to alleviate a teen· ager's wOITies. Romance keeps you guessing. Play a waiting game. 
The Wrestling Club will be having practices Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursdays from 7 PM to 
8:30 PM in the JACC wrestling room in preparation for the Edinborough Open on February 20th. 
•MENU 
eo Zola best seller 61 Trite 62Swerve 63 Suffix with fabric 
or authentic 64 Upset 65 Loose items, 
sometimes 66 Stitches 
DOWN 
1 Rope plant 2 Home health 
hazard 3 The bad guys 4NixonVeep 5 Yellow fruit 6 Mr. Guinness 1 Alternative to hit a Louse eggs 9 Cold sorrel 
soups 

Notre Dame Call 631-0111 for menu information. 
Saint Mary's Call 284·5400 for dinner menu. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1o Dress style 11 37 -Across from a raven 
and editors. 

32 Rodeo ring? 
33 37-Across from a witch 
34 Message In a bottle, maybe 36 Singer Christie 37 Christian 
symbol 38 Good-time Charlie 
39 Place to see a catch 44 "Is that so!" 
411The 112 Despots unemployed 114 Reliever's 47"Do--a quest Waltz?" 115 "You said a 
Join The 
49 Mrs. Chaplin mouthful I" and namesakes HTolda 110 Kind of glass whopper 51 Words of 
57 Legal org. 
Observer staff. 
understanding 58 Fled or bled 
Get answers to any three clues by touch·tone phone: 1·900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
-
•
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________.________ Address _______________________________________ City---------------State _____ Zip__________ 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, January 18, 1996 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

.. 
-
-
Opportunity knocks for Notre Dame, a team striving for national recognition 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The champion is here to defend its title. The challenger is poised to deliver the upset. 
Notre Dame faces Connecticut, the reigning national champions of 
women's basketball, tonight at the 
Head Coach JACC. An Irish victory would pre­serve its perfect Big East Muffet McGraw Conference record, and more 9th season at importantly, position itself to Notre Dame become one of the nation's elite. 258-124 lifetime 
"The players are treating this game as a chance to earn respect. We want to put the Notre Dame women's basketball program on the map," said senior Stacy Fields. 
If past opponents are any indication of future suc­cess, then the Irish should have a great deal of confi­dence going into tonight's contest. Earlier in the sea­son, Connecticut suffered one of its three losses at the hands of Syracuse. Last week, the Irish crushed the visiting Orangewomen by 39 points. 
Muffet McGraw, Irish head coach, warns that it is dangerous to make such comparisons. 
"You cannot compare scores from different games. Connecticut just came out flat for their game against Syracuse," commented McGraw. 
Katryna Gaither, Notre Dame's star center, agreed that the team needs to focus on the game itself with­out dwelling on past results. 
see IRISH I page 22 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Beth Morgan has already hit the 1000­point plateau for her career. 
··~:······ 
Irish 
11·3, ranked 26th, 6-0 in the BIG EAST Forward Beth Morgan 

'~Lineups 
Morgan 'The Scorer' much more than a shooting threat 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
The Scorer is relaxing now, draining her water bottle after having been her­self drained by a two hour practice. The sleeves are rolled up, and the sweat is collected on her face in tight beads. 
In a little more•than 24 hours, The Scorer will again take the court, deter­mination stamped on her face and fire in her eyes. This time the opponent won't be a handful of fellow teammates in gold 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Rutgers January 20, 2:00 p.m. 
Huskies 
142, ranked 3rd, 4-l.in the BIG EAST Forward Nykesha Sales 
13.6 PPG 
Forward Jamelle Elliott 
9.6 PPG Center 
·'~::··· 
Kara Wolters 
19.0 PPG 
.,.Guard Carla Berube 
10.3 PPG 
Guard Jennifer Rizzotti 
11.8 PPG 

jerseys, but rather a ferocious pack of Huskies. 
When third-ranked Connecticut struts into the Joyce Center tonight determined to end the Notre Dame women's basket­ball team's 16 game home winning streak, they will have to contend with Beth Morgan and the rest of the 11-3 Irish. Someone will have to shut down the surging Irish if the Huskies are to emerge triumphant. Someone will have 

vs. UICJanuary 19,7 p.m.
Women's Volleyball 
vs. Connecticut January 18, 7 p.m. 
SMC Sports 
National power Connecticut is the reason for a growing interest in women's basketball 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 
Going into tonight's Big East bat­tle with the University of Connecticut Huskies, the Fighting Irish have a perfect 6-0 record in the conference and are right on the fringe of the Top 25 rankings. 

However, the ultimate, long-term Head Coach goal of the Notre Dame women's Geno Auriemma basketball program. or any pro-11th season at gram for that matter, is to win the Connecticut national championship. That is 241-83 lifetime something the Connecticut Huskies have already done, and look to con­tinue this season. 
Last year, behind the play and leadership of national Player of the Year Rebecca Lobo, UConn tore up the competition on their way to a 35-0 record and their first ever national championship. Their 35 wins were more than any other unbeaten team in NCAA Division I history, men or women's. Also, they were only the second team in NCAA history to go undefeated on their way to an NCAA title. 
The two key players returning from last year's team are, among others, guard Jennifer Rizzotti, All­American last year and this year's preseason Big East Player of the Year, and All-American Kara Wolters, a 6-7 shot blocker who scored 32 points in the Big East Championship last year to earn MVP honors. 
Also, senior forward Jamelle Elliott is the top 
see UCONN I page 22 
see MORGAN I page 22 
Hockey 
January 20 Swimming at Hillsdale 
Fencing 
Northwestern Open January 19-21 
see page 21 
• Seton Hall knocks off No. 7 'Nova 
see page 21 
• Cincinnati survives Xavier scare 
see page 18 




