Wednesday, November 13, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 52 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Six students robbed at off-campus apartment 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
Six University of Notre Dame studr-nts were robbed at gun­point Saturday night at an off­campus housing complex, according to Sgt. John Williams of the South Bend Police Department. 
The group vvas socializing in a Notre Dame Avenue apart­ment when "an unknown per­son entered through their unlocked door. wielding a small black handgun," Williams reported. 
He said the suspect locked the door behind him, pointed it at the students. and demanded that they hand over their monev. 
"TI1e suspect threatened to shoot all of them," Williams said. "He said that if any of them tried to leave, he'd kill them." Following that, the sus­pect allegedly left the apart­ment. having received a total of $80 from the students. 
• it~ll 0 RESIDENTS COUNCil 
The owner of the apartment attempted to contact the police five minutes after the robbery, only to discover that the phone lines had been severed. "He was forced to leave the apart­ment and run to a neighbor to call from their telephone," stat­ed Williams. 
In the police report, the sus­pect was described as a black male, 5'10". of medium build, with a scar under his eye that was vaguely L-shaped. "Ironically, he was allegedly wearing a stocking cap with an NO emblazoned on the front," added Williams. 
Williams warned students that, although such occur­rences are rare, doors should be locked, especially at night. 
"I live in Turtle Creek, and when I am on duty there and I choose to knock on a door, peo­ple just yell out, 'Come on in' without knowing who it is. 
"That's dangerous. Please be careful. Lock your doors," he advised. 

By BRIDGET O'CONNOR News Writer 
An amendment to the Student Government constitution regarding the student repre­sentative to the Faculty Senate was introduced at last night's meeting of the Hall Presidents Council. 
According to Deborah Hellmuth, co-president of HPC, there has been a student repre­sentative on the Faculty Senate for a number of years and the amendment only formalizes the position with respect to the constitution. 
The amendment specifically outlines the duties of the repre­sentative. detailing which meet­ings he or she is required to attend and the procedure for selection of the representative. The Student Senate approved the amendment last week and HPC will vote on it next week. 
Among the suggestions for 
see HPC I page 4 
The Observer I Kevin Dalum 

Students discussed racism at Notre Dame and offered proactive steps to be implemented by the ·administration at last night's meeting sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. The meeting is part of a series entitled "Race and Racism Under the Dome: Where Do We Go from Here?" 
Forum dissects race issues 
By MARISA HIGGINS News Writer 
I
n a continuation of the forums that are being held around campus concerning race relations, last night's presentation at the esc is the type that many hope will become a permanent fixture. 
Professor James Bellis, associate professor, anthropology, and Chandra Johnson, assistant director. Retreats and Special Projects for Campus Ministry, argued that these meetings are not crisis-driven, but rather a way of keepii).g the public involved in important issues at the forefront of campus concerns. 
These meetings, entitled "Race and Racism Under the Dome: Where Do We Go from Here?'' are attempting to address racial prob­lems at both the student body and administra­tive levels. 
They are a convenient way for a diverse group to meet and collaborate on current issues and concerns. 
Race relations has become an especially important topic here at Notre Dame after the University was rated the 13th worst school in the nation in dealings with these problems. 
Johnson opened the forum by asking the audience why they had come to the meeting. Many of the attendees had questions left from the last meeting, while others wanted to dis­cuss recent developments both around cam­pus and in society. 
It was agreed upon that it is of utmost importance to keep the issue of race relations before the public. 
People of minority background claimed that certain ethnic groups around campus have built up tension and are on the verge of dras­tic action. 
Clarifying their concerns, many students claimed that they fail to observe a relation problem between races here on campus. Others explained that it is not outright bigotry that they observe, but complete ignorance. Some felt that many students fear the unknown, which in this case may be a race different from their own. 
The forum ended with proposed steps for the administration. One idea was that an eth­nic studies class be added to the Freshman Year of Studies curriculum. An alternative to the ethnic studies class could be mandatory readings added to enhance courses already being taught. 
Other suggestions discussed included a diversified faculty, more time devoted to racism awareness during resident assistants' and Freshman Orientation training, a more "truthful" representation to prospective stu­dents during spring visitations, and personal invitations to the administration to attend the forum series. 
Students desiring to keep involved between the monthly meetings signed up to join small­er groups to discuss issues on a more personal and intimate level. 
These implementation groups hope to repre­sent all races within the Notre Dame commu­nity and will try to ease tensions through dis­cussion and support. 
The next of these forums will be held in December, with the date and time to be announced in the coming weeks. 
Keenan unearths 'Underground' 
he Keenan "Underground" 
Fri, Nov 15 -70's Night Sat,_ Nov l6,~; Polka Night:,~-10:00 PM"'' 
.=t-*N 

·::r.-.m:~«·:-:.. . . . 
Fri, Nov22-50's and 60's Sock,,l:lop Sat, Nov 23 -,Notre Dame Tuesday/Night Jazz Band 
. , ...J~~·:··~··'·'~·-·~=-:-·:;~::::;:~~:'' -">".....,.."'""". 
Fri, Dec 6::-~iano Night 10:00 PM0et." 
,~,~~q~p==··· ........~~;;w==·=!,=: ··:-===~;f .·:.(=}··=·=·.....,.:,\w .. ;.r~,,,,.,,, 
Fri, DecJ;3r Study Day Film~ lO:OOPM Sun; Dec15 -Christmas'·Mass 4:30PM 
i" .:_:'->~<~ ..,,..: 
Dec 16-19 -EXAMS:"'Mbvies 10:00 PM 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
Keenan Hall will host a disco party on Friday as part of an -effort to provide campus-wide entertainment every weekend. This program began with The Great Pumpkin Contest on I Ialloween and ·will run for the rest of the semes­ter. 
Organizers have labeled the program, which includes events on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, the "Keenan Underground." All of the events take place in the basement's televi­sion and game area, known as the Kommons. 
"Our original plan was to provide more enter­tainment for students," said Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall. He went on to stress that the events are open to all students from both campuses. 
The planned events come at a time when stu­dent alcohol consumption has become a hot topic for discussion at Notre Dame. "We wanted to create something to do on weekends in addition to going to dorm parties and drinking," said Kevin Hutchinson, a resident assistant in Keenan. "We geared [the events] toward people who were looking for something to do on Friday and Saturday nights," he added. The events begin at 8:30 p.m., which, Hutchinson says, "gives students a chance to go to them and still 
see KEENAN I page 4 
Wednesday, November 13, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
You 01ake the call! 

I play interhall women's~==~~=~~ football. For some rea­son, this eampus doesn't seem to recognize the lPgitimacy of this activity as a sport. For some rea­son, many of our games are poorly attPnded and often ignored. Margee Husemann
Controversy arose last Associate Viewpoint 
year wlwn the women dared to play what had Editor originally bnen thought to be the last game in the original stadium. Why? 
The women on campus who choose to play any interhall sport put a large amount of time into practice and games. Their dedication is to thn sport is just as great if not greater than the dedication of any man to his interhall team. Yet, although women playing sports is nothing new -just look at our amazing soc­cer team -a clear lack of appreciation is shown to all women's sports. 
When I tell other people, both on and off campus, that I play football they usual have either one of two responses. The first response is a snicker followed by the phrase "YOU play football?!" The other response is "Oh really, what position?" This response typieally accompanies the glazed "How cute ­girls playing football!" look. (If these people tell me that they play football, I give the appropriate "Oh really. what position?" along with the "llow cutn-men who feel secure enough to wear spandex in public!" look.) 
We women who play interhall football do not play powder puff; we play flag football. We don't hide our bodies beneath pads and plastic protection. Our tackles consist of pulling the flags off of our competitors waists not pushing each other, but that doesn't mean that we don't play a contact sport. I am sure that anyone who plays the game will show you most of their bruises. 
As football players, women do (surprise, surprise) actually run plays. We have cogent defenses to try to counter these plays. Our receivers run patterns, our offensive line blocks. and our linebackers blitz. We have less players on the field at a time than a men's game, and our field is shorter, but we are still skilled athletes. 
Women don't typically conform to the gen­der constructions which are prevalent on campus. No matter what you want to believe, women football players don't do each other's color charts at half time or comment on how r.ute our feet look in cleats. No, our jerseys don't always match our shorts. 
Women play football for many reasons. I'm sure that there are probably some women who play because they like pain. Most women play for the comraderie and for challenge. We train in the rain and in the snow. Football to us means both fun and commit­ment. The same emotional investment that a man has to his football game, a woman has to her football game. 
Take a few minutes this afternoon. Head the women's intnrhall results. Pick a favorite team to cheer for. Find out when and where their next game will be played. You may not realize it, but the emotional impact of a favor­able crowd can increase the excitement of the game . .Just think of how the team with the golden helmets would feel if they walked into the stadium on Saturday to an empty student section. Women have also inherited the Notre Dame football legacy. Come and watch us show you how. 
The uieu•s expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Kelly Brooks Jillian Pagliocca Sports Kathleen Lopez Allison Krilla Viewpoint Ethan Hayward  Lab Tech Brandon Candura Production Belle Bautista John Hutchinson Accent Ashleigh Thompson Joseph Wider Graphics Jon King  
Wednesday~ 34 Thursday ~ 33 Friday J ~ 38 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is rublished Monday through Friday ncept during tXilm and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

351 believed dead as Saudi jumbo jet collides with airliner 
NEW DELHI 
A Saudi jumbo jetliner collided with a Kazak airliner today near New Delhi, exploding in flames and sending fiery wreckage plunging into the fields. 
• Aviation officials said 351 people were believed killed in the third-deadliest air crash ever. The Saudi plane had just taken off from Indira Gandhi International Airport bound for Saudi Arabia when it hit a Kazak Airlines plane that was making its landing approach. The collision between the Saudi Boeing 7 4 7 and the Kazak aircraft took place after nightfall about 60 miles west of Delhi near the town of Charkhi Dadri, authorities said. 
Civil aviation chief H.S. Khola said the accident occurred about seven minutes after takeoff, when the Saudi plane was 
In-flight collision 
~r 
Ars;~an 
Bay of Bengal 


sao miles
'£ii* 
LANKA 

one on the ground was believed to have been killed. 
• Building contractor Hao Singh wit­nessed the crash: "I saw fireballs and big black smoke about three or four kilometers from my house falling into the fields," he said. reached by tele­phone and speaking in Hindi. 
"The sky was absolutely n~d." he said. 
Singh said neighbors in Charkhi Dadri, a town of 50,000 residents, reported debris was spread across a six-mile area. 
Four hours after the accident, only four or five bodies had been recoven~d and brought to a hospital, said poliee Constable Balwant Singh. 
Poliee cordoned off the area and res­
A Saudi Airways jumbo jetliner collided cue vehicles went to the crash site. The 
with a Kazakh Airways airliner.
Hundreds are feared dead. Indian government ordered a judicial 
cleared to climb to 14,000 feet and the ---------=A-=PNJ-:-:-:-m-.-:J-:.C:::-a-.,-18.,-inquiry into the accident. 
Kazak aircraft was authorized to descend to 15,000 feet. 
The Saudi plane carried 312 passengers and crew and the Kazak Jlyushin-76 from Shymkent had 39 people on board, officials said. 
All were believed killed. 

Because the wreckage fell on farm fields after dark, no 
Newt conciliatory after elections 
Borrowing a phrase from Honald Heagan, House Speaker Newt Gingrich declared "It is morning in America again" now that Republicans have retained control of the House and Senate. But in a speech Monday night showcasing a more conciliatou Gingrich, the Georgia Republican insisted that his party must share its 

dawn with President Clinton. Hepublicans "should not flinch from four years of working with this administra­tion, because it is the administration the American peo­ple chose," Gingrich said in his first speech since last week's election. Gingrich spoke of cooperation in the grandest of terms, saying not just America but the world depends on congressional Republicans and Clinton working together. "We'll seek to find every possible common ground to work with him for the betterment of America because the entire world is watching to see if we can make this experiment of self government work," he told the friendliest of groups -GOPAC, the political action committee he chaired until last year. 
'Boss of bosses' on trial for bombings 
FLORENCE, Italy 
Imprisoned Mafia bosses were among 28 people whose trial began Tuesday in the 1993 wave of car bombings that killed 10 people and injured 94 others. Prosecutors contend Mafia leaders ordered the bombings that also damaged the Uffizi Museum in Florence, an art gallery in Milan and two Rome churches in response to a gov­ernment crackdown and Pope John Paul ll's condemna­tions of the Mafia. Twelve defendants were in court Tuesday, including Salvatore "Toto" Riina, the reputed "boss of bosses," and his brother-in-law Leoluca Bagarella. Italian law does not require defendants to attend their trials. They are charged with massacre, weapons violations and damaging Italy's artistic trea­sures. Meanwhile, police in Palermo issued arrest war­rants for nine people in connection with the 1992 assas­sination of prosecutor Paolo Borsellino and five body­guards. Several others already are on trial or have been convicted in that killing. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather.,forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
I ~,-~ ......,,,_,,,..... r~-..... ..........-: 

H 
\ 

Saturd~y ~ 43 Sund~y ~ 43 
\_ ··~/\f'-'"'-··\.0' 

a~~~du ~
''''' ~' '' ..... ·:·.·:·::· ~-=--=­

Showers T-sronns Rain Fl~rries S~o·~ Ice Sunny 
L 
20 16 24 29 28 
~ u 
5 110 

The weather in Delhi was normal for this time of year-clear skies tainted by hazy pollution. 
In 1977, two Boeing 747s operated by Pan American and KLM collided at the airport on Tenerife in Spain's Canary Islands, killing 582 people. In 1985, a Japan Air Lines Boeing 747 crashed into a mountain on a domestic flight, killing 520. 
Air PM sleeps for good 
NEWYOHK 

Open Air PM, a quirky newspaper created by an eccen­tric multimillionaire, is out of business after five money­losing months, although its publisher promised today that it will return in January. Staffers arriving Monday found the office doors padlocked and signs posted in the hallway announcing they were "terminated, effective immediately." Fifty employees lost their jobs without warning. Publisher Abe Hirschfeld said there had been tremendous problems with distribution, and that he and the paper's editors clashed over its cvntent and financial plan. "I told them, 'If you don't want to follow the plan, why don't you open your own newspapers'!"' llirschl'eld said today. Hirschfeld, who made his fortune in real estate, said he could write one thing that his stall' could not: "Checks." He said he will bring a new version of Open Air PM back in January. Open Air PM was atypi­cal, with no editorial page, no op-ed page, and no lettnrs column. Readers could write their own obituaries for as little as $50. Editors were not allowed to change stories. It debuted June 13, selling for 50 cents. llirsehfeld said he hoped to sell 100,000 copies, but acknowledged today that circulation was between 20,000 and 25,000. 
Columbia approved to take orbit 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 
NASA began the countdown today for a Friday launch of space shuttle Columbia after concluding that insula­tion in its booster rockets is safe. The shuttle was sup­posed to take off last Friday on the 16-day science mis­sion, but shuttle managers wanted an extra week to investigate heat damage to one of the two boosters used to launch Atlantis in September. Engineers spent two months investigating about 60 grooves that were burned into the thermal insulation in the nozzle at the bottom of the Atlantis booster. After testing some 1,000 samples of insulation from 19 nozzles, engineers concluded the problem probably was caused by the processing of the carbon insulation and other related factors, NASA spokeswoman June Malone said. Shuttle managers accepted that recommendation Monday and cleared Columbia's launch. "We've .tested it to prove that theo­ry. We've analyzed it with computer models and backed it up with sample testing," Malone said. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressurs 

H L m &SI ITIJ 0 . ~ 8 {)~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa AtJSoclltt~ Preu 
Anchorage  34  26  Coldwater  32  
Atlanta  53  32  Columbus  35  
Baltimore  43  20  Green Bay  28  


Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 39 29 Honolulu 87 
ViB Associated Press GrapflicsNst 
Chicago 35 15 Houston 75 

31  Key Largo  75  75  
14  Los Angeles 79  53  
14  New Vorl<  41  26  
73  Omaha  32  26  
65  St. Louis  35  30  



Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
More wo01en serving in 01ilitary 
Tickets are $3, but you can get a free one from any Student Programmer! If you know who we are! 
When: Tuesday, November 19th What time: at 8:00 P.M. Where: 101 DeBartolo Hall 
feminist discussion. During the Vietnam War, for example, some court cases argued that the exclusion of women from the draft was unconstitutional. 
Kerber said that historically, the association between bearing arms and being a citizen held true for men, but women were responsible for "keeping the home fires burning." 
However, developments in the late 20th century have proven that "women form an increasing portion of military strength," Kerber said. 
She also said that the current influx of women into the military and the prevalence of violence outside of the state (namely in domestic situations) has proven that it is possible to revise sys­tems of gender difference. 
"The promise that women can rely on men for physical protec­tion looks like an empty one," Kerber said. "We have come to understand that women can be _ used as agents of state violence just as men can." 
Loux relates Cameroon experience 
By TATUM MENGYAN English-speaking university in dress herself in the News Writer Cameroon. While there, she col­Cameroonian fashion. lected stories by and about "My dressing in their clothes 
Yesterday, members of the women in Cameroon, which she delighted them. It showed my Saint Mary's community gath­compiled in a book entitled, respect and understanding of ered in Stapleton Lounge to set "That Rocky Place." the dignity that their clothing out on a voyage to Cameroon. "One cannot re-create in lan­gave them." That is, with the help of stories guage what it is like to be in The second area of dissimilar­presented by Associate another country," said Loux. ity that Loux noted was the con­Professor of English, Dr. Ann Loux, instead, chose to re-cre­cept of time. Loux. ate the settings, contradictions "Time," stated Loux, "really 
Saint Mary's senior Debbie and feelings she experienced doesn't exist in Cameroon as it Justice commented, "It is so while in Cameroon by employ­does for us. The emphasis in vital to have forums like this to ing the imagination of all who Cameroon is on the individual, get the ball rolling. We are cul­attended the symposium. the person, not the clock. turally lazy and tend to rest in "Imagine we are seated Putting the clock over the per­
the protection of our dominant around a bonfire in the back­son is unheard of in Cameroon." society, often forgetting to yard of my Cameroonian com­Loux went on to describe two entertain new ideas." pound. The most fragrant flow­other areas, work and nature, 
Dr. Loux, with assistance from ers, such as orchards, crawl which deviate from our cultural the Fulbright Association, sperit through the open windows, norms. Loux commented that an the 1995-96 school year in while a plethora of mangos, understanding of Cameroonian Cameroon teaching literature papayas and bananas hang culture is important for West and writing to students at the from the trees above." Africans and African Americans University of Buea, a new Loux entertained the idea that because they share many of the 

submersion in a foreign culture same cultural similarities. 
opens the eyes to contradictions In Cameroon, Dr. Loux proved 
within that specific cultural herself not only an effective lec­
realm. turer, but also a friend and 
"You see one thing and start mother to her students. In 
in on a theory, and immediately response, she acquired the title 
encounter conflicting behavior. "mummy Ann." 
It is intellectually stimulating as Loux concluded her talk 
well as exhausting-movement entertaining questions and com­
one can't begin to imagine," ments from the audience. One 
stated Loux. Saint Mary's student inquired 
Although contradictions are about the manner in which the 
evident within one given cul­Cameroonian students thought 
ture, Loux noted four significant of American students. Loux, 
differences between the pausing briefly, commented that 
Cameroonian culture and our her Cameroonian students had 
own. The Cameroonians take asked the same question. 
pride in their clothing as Loux continued, "And I said, 
Americans take pride in their and I think this is very true, 
homes. Even the poorest of the except maybe on days like 
population follow this tradition. today, my students don't think 
Loux noted this, and began to of you." 
The Observer I Kevin Dalum 

Professor Linda Kerber traced the history of women and military ser­vice in her lecture "The Constitutional Right to be Ladies" last night. 
~I 


at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 
Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
News Writer 
"We have slid into a situation where the protected exclusion of women from military obligation has eroded," says Professor Linda Kerber who spoke about gender and the obligations of citizenship as part of the Provost's Distinguished Visiting Lecture Series last night. 
Kerber, a professor of liberal arts and history at the University of Iowa, and a renowned American historian, traced the history of women and military service in her lecture entitled "The Constitutional Right to be Ladies." 
Kerber said that American women's relationship to the state has been substantially dif­ferent compared to their male contemporaries. 
"The idea of military obliga­tion turns out to have construct­ed different civil obligations for men and women," Kerber said. 
Throughout history, the idea of "civil obligation" has been constructed as consisting of both negative and positive rights, according to Kerber. These rights are defined as: 
• 
The obligation to refrain from treason 

• 
The obligation not to be a vagrant 

• The obligation to pay taxes 

• 
The obligation to serve on juries 

• 
The obligation to risk one's life in service to one's country 


This last obligation, in Kerber's opinion, has experi­enced major shifts throughout the history of America. 
Kerber noted that different types of conscientious objection have emerged over the years, ranging from religious objection to the secularized conscientious objection raised by African American draftees before World War II. 
In the latter part of the 20th century, however, the question of gender and the draft came to the forefront of political and 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1997-98 Academic Year "Should I Stay or Should I Go" With Professor Paul McDowell 
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 7:30p.m. Room 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
-------~--------~-----------------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 13, 1996 
Keenan 'Jenny Jones' guest debuts with a bang
continued from page 1 
By GRETA GUEST he was publicly ambushed and Scott Amedure got lost in the "We all felt he had a definite 
go out afterward." 
This week's disco party is seen by many students as a chance to have a dance with­out officially having a dance. "It's about as dose to an SYR as we can legally get without making it a dance," said Tony Ciampas, another resident assistant in Keenan. He added that the rules about dorm resi­dents and having a date, how­ever, do not apply. 
"We thought it might be a good way to improve inter­dorm relations." said Ciampas. "It will give people a reason to come to Keenan, and give resi­dents a chance to interact with residents of other dorms." 
Others simply see it as a good time. "It gives me a chance to show off my pink shirt," said Nate Rackiewicz, a resident of Keenan and disc jockey for the evening. 
The profits of the events contribute to charity. For everyone in attendance, a donation of one dollar will go to the Native Americans of South Dakota. The dorm has agreed to make a donation for every student that shows up dressed in 1970's clothing. Any students dressing normal­ly will be asked to donate themselves. 
While the Fridays and Saturdays are dedicated to music, Thursday nights involve the presentation of movies at 10 p.m. on Keenan's big­screen television. The 1980's hit, "Stand By Me" will be fea­tured this week. Comedies are planned for the last three weeks of the semester. "Planes. Trains and Automobiles" will show on Nov. 21. "Sleepless in Seattle" on Dec. 5 and "National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation" on Dec. 12. 
"For our previous events, the room was packed," said Ciampas, "so we hope to see great participation in the com­ing ones." 
Brother Bonaventure stated that he believed that the dorm would try to carry the pro­gram over to next semester due to its success. 
Associated Press Writer 
PONTIAC. Mich 

A onetime "Jenny Jones Show" guest was convicted yes­terday of a lesser charge of sec­ond-degree murder for fatally shooting a gay admirer who revealed his crush during a tap­ing of the TV talk show. 
Jurors opted against the more serious charge of first-degree murder against Jonathan Schmitz, which would have car­ried an automatic life sentence without possibility of parole. Second-degree murder carries a sentence of up to life in prison. Sentencing was set for Dec. 4. 
An Oakland County Circuit jury of seven men and five women deliberated all day Friday and about 2 1/2 hours today before reaching its deci­sion. 
Schmitz, 26, was charged with fatally shooting Scott Amedure three days in March 1995 after the two were taped for a "Jenny Jones Show" segment on same­sex crushes. 
His lawyers said the show misled him into believing he was going to meet the woman of his dreams, and said 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
the best ways to use the remaining portion of the HPC funds allocated for charity were There Are Children Here, Habitat for Humanity and El Buen Vecino. Although HPC allotted money to The Great Pumpkin Contest, the majority of the fund is still intact. 
A representative from Lyons Hall expressed the Hall's grati­tude to all those who partici­pated in the Mara Fox Run last Saturday. 
The event was a huge suc­cess, bringing in between $700 and $800 for the Mara Fox Scholarships. 
Cavanaugh Hall will host a lecture by Sister Frances O'Connor entitled "Women: Image and Likeness of God?" in the Cavanaugh Hall Lounge, 
THE DEPARTMENT OF ART. ART HISTORY, AND DESIGN Presents 
.r\_Cfeminine Science<;>: A.._nna ~fdns and CJTte c.Ear£-y Wftotogram 

Thursday, November 14 7:30PM Annenberg Auditorium 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Carol Arm&trong is a 1994-95 recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship and is on the editorial advisory board of Octoba. In 1993, she won the CAA best t>ook award for her s<:holarship on Edgar Degas. 
humiliated when his  secret  
admirer  turned  out  to  be  
Amedure.  

"It's OK," Schmitz said to his mother in the gallery as he was being led from court after the verdict was announced. Connie Schmitz appeared upset and near tears. 
"I think they Gurors) knew it couldn't be first degree because of his capacity being so obvious­ly diminished," defense attorney James Burdick told WDIV televi­sion after the verdict. But Burdick said he would appeal the second-degree murder con­viction. 
Amedure's brother, Frank Amedure Jr., said defense lawyers threw confusion into a clear case of murder and he felt "utter disappointment." But "I suppose it could have been a lot worse," he said. 
The case focused attention on "ambush" television and titillat­ing daytime talk shows. 
But Prosecutor Roman Kalytiak said in closing argu­ments that the defense was try­ing to blame everyone but Schmitz. 
"This isn't the Jenny Jones case," Kalytiak said. "Somehow, 
on Monday at 9 p.m. The female image of God and the role of women in the church will be covered in the talk. A discussion and refreshments will follow the presentation. 
In other HPC news: 
•St. 
Edward's Hall is spon­soring a Clothing Drive next month with the aim of collect­ing 2, 500 articles for St. Vincent DePaul. 

•A 
Pre-Holiday Memorial Service will be held Sunday at 3 p.m. in the Sacred Heart Parish Center. 

•Breen-Phillips 
Hall will host a blood drive Dec. 4 from 9 


a.m. to 4:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
shuffie of this particular case." 
Prosecutors contended that Schmitz planned and carried out the slaying Amedure, 32, of Orion Township on March 9, 1995, three days after the never-aired show was taped. 
Defense attorneys never denied that Schmitz shot Amedure. But they contended that he had been misled by pro­ducers before appearing on the show. 
And they said the humiliation 
. of learning that his secret admirer was a man, coupled with his history of depression, a thyroid ailment and other prob­lems, left him mentally inca­pable of forming the intent to commit first-degree murder. Schmitz's parents testified that their son behaved oddly as early as 3 years old, when he would bang his head against the wall in anger. They said by the time he was 16, he was battling weeks-long periods of depres­sion. The monthlong trial also included testimony from show host Jenny Jones, show produc­ers, psychologists, and a friend who introduced Amedure and Schmitz. 

mental problem, ... and the show exascerbated that," juror Dale earlington said. Juror Joseph Wurm, asked about the relevance of Jones' testimony, said, "Quite a few of us felt they could have save the plane ticket from Chicago." 
Producers denied misleading Schmitz. Jones testified that she knows very little about how her show operates and does her host duties by following scripts she usually receives the night before a taping. 
The same-sex crushes seg­ment never aired, but was played in court during the trial. 
Frank Amedure said his fami­ly would press ahead with its lawsuit against "The Jenny Jones Show." 
"None of this would have hap­pened if it wasn't for the Jenny Jones Show's exploitation of homosexuality, a sensitive issue, and then exploiting those per­sons that had difficulty with the tolerance of homosexuality, such as Jonathan Schmitz," he said. 
Some jurors said afterward the show wasn't to blame in the slaying, although they said the show acted as a catalyst. 
Saint Mary's College Deportment of Communication, Donee and Theatre presents 
Edward The 
Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 at 8p.m.; 
Nov. 17 at 7:30 p.m. 
Little Theatre 
Kairos 
(Formerly Fourth Day) 



Notre Dame Folk Choir 
Presents 

Taize Prayer 
Please join the Kairos Board and the Folk Choir in an evening of prayer through music and spiritual readings. 
Meet us in the Chapel of the Holy Cros~ (the chapel between Stanford and Keenan) at 7:30PM on Wednesday, November 13! 

Sponsored by Campus Ministry 0MPUS MINISTRY 
-·---------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Bishops push youth outreach 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

The nation's Catholic bishops today called for using every available means-from the Internet to health clubs to men­toring programs-to reach young adults. 
Following up on Pope John Paul II's challenge in 1993 at World Youth Day in Denver, the bishops by voice vote approved a pastoral plan for ministering with young adults. 
Only 33 percent of Catholics born after 1961 attend Mass regularly compared with 64 percent of those born before, according to a 1995 study by the Catholic Pluralism Project at Purdue University. 
The plan adopted today calls on parishes to invite young adults into the life of the church. 
Bishop Tod Brown of Boise, Idaho, chairman of the commit­tee that wrote the plan, blamed some declining participation on society's movement away from religious institutions. 
But, he said, "To some extent, there has been a failing on the part of the church itself in reaching out to young peo­ple." 
Separately, the bishops approved a two-page frame­work for economic life, summa­rizing Catholic teaching on eco­nomic justice. It's a follow-up to the bishops' landmark 1986 pastoral letter on the economy and will be distributed to parishes in the form of posters and cards. 
"We are very concerned about the poor, the vulnerable, those slipping through the cracks," said Bishop William Skylstad of Spokane, Wash. "There is a strong sense of soli­darity among the bishops about this." 
On Monday as the National Conference of Catholic Bishops opened its four-day meeting, the group's president defended the requirement of celibacy for priests, even as a dwindling and aging corps of pastors struggles to serve a growing flock. 
"There is no greater sign of hope in the Lord than to believe that serving Him is worth sacri­ficing the most truly human of all joys-marriage and family," said Cleveland Bishop Anthony 
M. Pilla. 

Pilla alluded to instances of priests and bishops fathering children and allegations of cler­gy abusing young children. 
"The painful last few years of instances of inappropriate behavior by a few has called into question the very notion of celibacy itself," he said. 
Most Catholics "do not judge the priesthood by the behavior of an individual priest," but among the media an apprecia­tion for celibacy "often takes second place to a malign plea­sure at instances of its viola­tion," he said. 
Between 1965 and 1995, the number of priests in the United States has decreased from 58,362 to 49,551 while the number of Catholics has increased from 45.6 million to 
60.2 million, according to The Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate at Georgetown University. 
Voters support gay couples' rights 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
While a majority of Americans supports allowing states to prohibit same-sex marriages, there is significant support for giving gay couples inheritance, parental and other rights associated with spouses, according to a poll conducted for a gay rights organization. 
The Human Rights Campaign poll found that gay rights issues were not a major factor for most voters in deciding whom to support in last week's presidential and congressional elections. Yet gay and lesbian groups ranked low when respondents were asked to rate various subjects on a scale of one to 100. 
President Clinton scored 52, for example, while the Democratic and Republican Parties each got a 54 mean ranking in the survey of 1,007 voters conducted Nov. 5-8. House Speaker Newt Gingrich scored a 35; gay and lesbian groups a 31. Religious and conservative groups that often are at odds with the gay rights community in policy battles scored higher, with a 48 ranking. 

Clinton last year signed Republican legislation called the Defense of Marriage Act. It allows states to refuse to recognize gay marriages per­formed in other states and to deny spousal benefits such as pensions to gay couples. 
The Human Rights Campaign survey, conducted by Democratic pollster Stanley Greenberg, found that 55 percent favored such a law, 34 percent opposed it and 11 percent were not sure or refused to answer. 
But, citing other poll responses, the gay rights group said there appeared to be public support for extend­ing many spousal benefits to gay couples. 
For example, the poll found that 82 percent of respon­dents favored full hospital vis­itation rights for gay partners and 62 percent supported inheritance rights for gay couples. 
Army files sexual misconduct charges 
By KAREN TESTA 
Associated Press Writer 
FORT LEONARD WOOD, Mo. 
Three Army noncommis­sioned officers have been accused of sexual misconduct involving basic trainees, the second such charges announced in a week. .. 
A court-martial trial for one of those charged was to start today, the Army said. 
In a separate investigation, five men were charged at a base in Maryland. 
The charges announced here today range from consensual intercourse to indecent assault, or touching. None of the cases involve charges of rape or forcible sodomy, the Army said in a statement. 
Other allegations were being investigated. 
The Army last week filed criminal charges against three trainers and administrative charges against two more-all married-at the ·Army Ordnance Center at Aberdeen, Md. Those charges ranged from rape to sending improper love letters to female trainees. At 
1:·:·;, t.:: ~;::~:::;; 'f''l::::'::: 
:==······ 
least a dozen women were involved, average age 21. 
An additional 15 instructors at the Maryland base were placed on administrative duty but not charged. 
The Fort Leonard Wood mis­conduct took place from the summers of 1995 to 1996 and the cases were not related, the statement said. 
The soldiers charged were not identified and there was no immediate word whether the trial scheduled for today had gotten under way. The other cases are to come to trial over the next month, the statement said. 
The Army said the average age of the victims was 21 and that all were basic trainees. Officials did not say if all the victims were female. At least one of the accused is a drill sergeant. 
The investigation at Fort Leonard Wood, one of the Army's m_ajor training sites, was separate from the case in Maryland, said Lt. Col. William Harkey, a spokesman at the Pentagon. 

Officials earlier said it had been going on since September, before the Army set up a hot line late last week. 
Gen. John Shalikashvili, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Monday the Army had to assume such improper conduct was taking place else­where. He said officials were looking all across the Army, particularly its training centers, to root out sexual wrongdoing. 
The Army last week set up a toll-free telephone at the Aberdeen Proving Ground near Baltimore for any personnel who felt they had been victims of sexual misconduct. About 2,000 telephone calls had been made by Monday afternoon. 
Of the calls received from Thursday to 4 p.m. Monday, 246 were deemed serious enough to be referred to the Army's Criminal Investigative Division for further inquiry. The rest needed no follow-up, offi­cials said. 
IAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
THURSDAY Nov. 14 
STOMPER BoB 
FRIDAY Nov. 15 SKALCOHOLIKS 
Doors open 9:00 p.m. ­2 Dance Floors -DJ's Between band 21 and over with proper I D's 
NEXT WEEK Thursday Nov. 21 Friday Nov. 22 SKA-FEST Parents Weekend SKALCOHOLIKS
3 Bands 2-Moon Record Bring a Parent Party 
Recording bands from 
NY
.·,·.=.·.'.:..•..··.····.·..·.·.·.•·.·.:.·.·.>.·: .....:••, .•·.;.:::.;.·.:;•. :: :: :: :: :: :::\:•.. :: ·==:·.· ::.:~:. ·==.:..:=­
..
~= . ... ... ..·::.. 


• Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Texaco investigator disputes claims of racial slurs 
By JIM FITZGERALD charges the company discrimi­Texaco Inc. officials, alleging Associated Press Writer nates against minority workers the company had levels of man­and that executives made racial agement that were "all-white WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. slurs. sanctuaries" and bemoaning Texaco executives met with The Rev. Jesse Jackson the company's "pattern of race 
civil rights leaders today about arrived today to meet with and sex discrimination." 

Answers to these and more questions. • • • 
Passionist Ministry 
St. Gabriel's Youth House 
Shelter Island, New York 
Youth Ministry Internship 
Information Sessions: 
Date and Time: November 1 3 4:00 pm & 7:00 pm November 14 1 0:00 am 
Place: Center for Social Concerns 
Speaker: Bob Scott, Director 
-ISM (N.) M u 1 t i me d i a,--.......~~!!ft'P.W~~
I S•rlfJllf;'t~ I¥1t1i•';JIJ¢1 ~.. Campus....._______~~~~..­
Divers it  'U;)iNW'''tif1 a*'  
Summit  HTIP:/ /PUBLICMEDIA.ORG/ISM  
LIVE SATELLITE VIDEOCONFERENCE  
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1996  
7:00PM -9:45PM EST  
WITH MAJOR SUPPORT FROM  4:00PM  -6:45PM PST  
PROJECT CHANGE: AN ANTI·  JOIN DR. RONALD TAKAKI, PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC  
RACISM INITIATIVE OF THE  STUDIES AT UC  BERKELEY AND DISTINGUISHED  
LEVI STRAUSS FOUNDATION  AUTHOR AND 10, 000 COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM  
AROUND THE COUNTRY FOR AN  INTERACTIVE DIS­ 
the way things are ...  the way things an be  CUSSION ABOUT DIVERSITY ON COLLEGE CAMPUS­ES. COME TO ASK QUESTIONS, OFFER YOUR PER­SPECTIVE, LEARN, AND BE A CATALYST FOR  
ACTION!  
Institute for Public Media Arts  MODERATED BY:  

Farai Chideya, CNN political analyst, former MTV news editor 
VIDEOCONFERENCE INFORMATION 
:10:1 DeBartolo 
CENTER FOR
7:00PM November 1.3th SOCIAL CONCERNS
for more info contact Rodney Cohen 631-5293 
"Will there be repentance, renewal or a kind of corporate cover up?" Jackson asked before ducking inside. 
He and other black leaders have threatened a boycott. 
A $520 million discrimination lawsuit has been filed against Texaco and plaintiffs claim for­mer treasurer Robert Ulrich said "(expletive) niggers" dur­ing a 1994 discussion about the suit among company execu­tives. 
An investigator hired by the company said Ulrich was bemoaning "poor St. Nicholas" and not uttering a racial slur during the secretly recorded conversation. But his comments were still unacceptable, the company said. 
Earlier today, the leader of the NAACP met with Texaco chairman Peter Bijur. 
"The racist and anti-Semitic tone of the language used by the executives is symptomatic of a larger mood of intolerance that is too often given comfort in corporate America," Kweisi Mfume, president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said after the meeting with Bijur in Baltimore. 
Mfume said Texaco agreed to report back in 30 days on steps taken to improve its racial cli­mate. 
"We have not eliminated the option of having to shut down these talks for alternative mea­sures," said Mfume. "Whether we are talking about long-term extended boycotts, stock divesti­ture campaigns or targeted information picketing, we have not ruled out any course of action." 
Lawyer Michael Armstrong, whom Texaco hired to analyze the tape, enhanced a digitized version of the recording, remov­ing laughter that obscured some of Ulrich's words. 
"The phrase '(expletive) nig­gers' just doesn't exist on the tape," Armstrong said Monday. 

He· said Ulrich actually said "poor St. Nicholas" -a refer­ence to Christmas -while dis­paraging Hanukkah and the black cultural festival Kwanza. 
Bijur said the findings "mere­ly set the record straight as to the exact words spoken in the conversations, but they do not change the categorically unac­ceptable context and tone of these conversations." 
Cyrus Mehri, an lawyer for the plaintiffs, said, "We stand by what we said was on those tapes and transcripts as best we could hear and determine at the time we received them.... Bottom line, even if you took out the word ... you still have all the racial hostility on those tapes." 
In the lawsuit, Ulrich is accused of calling black work­ers "black jelly beans." 
Armstrong's report said the remark apparently was not intended as a racial slur, but stemmed from an analogy used in a speech attended by Texaco executives. The colors of the beans were used to symbolize how different colors can keep their separate identities when part of a larger group. 
In both versions of the tape, executive Richard Lundwall states: "That's funny. All the black jelly bea,.ns seem to be glued to the bottom of the bag." 
The statements were record­ed in 1994 by Lundwall, who attended meetings of the com­pany's finance department. 
Armstrong did not address the other task Texaco gave him -to determine if company offi­cials had tried to obstruct the plaintiffs from access tp compa­ny documents on the hiring and promotion of blacks. 
However, The Wall Street Journal reported today that out­side investigators hired by Texaco determined that the company failed to produce some of the requested docu­ments. The Journal said its report was based on sources familiar with the inquiry. 
The lawsuit contends that Ulrich also said during the meeting, "We're going to purge the (expletive) out of these books, though. We're not going to have any damn thing that ... we don't need to be in them." 
A federal grand jury is inves­tigating whether executives ille­gally destroyed documents on minority hiring. 
• 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, November 13, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Bwincss Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Managcr ....................... Tara Gricshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent thC' opinion of the majority of rhc Editor-in-Chief. Managing Edimr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe auchors, and noc necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EditorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Informacion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observet@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU

• DooNESBURY 

• Goo 'N' LIFE 
Promoting the healthy ·spirit 
Illness. 
The thought makes many people cringe. Everything from the common cold to ter­minal cancer is dreaded. When I had pneumonia recently, it was no joy ride, to be sure. 
During that horrible week, I reflected on 
Julie Ferraro 
why God allows illness and suffering. Some people see it as "the road to salva­tion," our own personal means of purifica­tion. Since it is so very difficult to "grin and bear it" · no matter what kind of ill· ness "it" is • I really can't hold with this viewpoint. After all, wasn't the purpose of Jesus' suffering, death and resurrection to guarantee our salvation? 
Of course, there are passages in the let­ters of St. Paul indicating that our suffer­ing is a sharing in Christ's -a sort of "payback." Some good Sisters of decades long past taught that our illnesses could be used to save souls. I've heard a few people in my life state that "suffering is good for the soul." 
Faced with the growing number of assist­ed suicides, can this be true? Is it more right to suffer illness patiently and put self, family and friends through years of anguish, or should an individual "end it all" before the worst happens? 
At this point, it might be advisable to call upon the ethics experts or theologians, because· this kind of issue can get pretty deep. 
What does it mean, though, for the every­day man or woman walking the Notre Dame campus? Haven'Lall our lives been touched by illness -terminal or tempo­rary -at one time or another? Should we simply write it off as the "human condi­tion?" 

For one thing, the viruses, bacteria and other germs that cause illness are a part of nature, and we must accept that. It is interesting that what causes illness in a dog may not bother a human -this is so for a wide variety of species. It is a "one man's trash is another man's treasure" kind of thing. 
'Haven't all our lives been 
touched by ilness -ter­minal or temporary -at one time or another? Should we simply write it off as the human condition?' 
By keeping ourselves healthy -I don't mean taking all the fun out of eating or recreating -we are less likely to become seriously ill. A little bit of exercise, some fruits and vegetables can do wonders. It is also important to keep the mind exercised, through reading and lively conversations. Maintaining this healthy "balance" also includes the soul. A few prayers now and then, or a bit of meditation, never hurt anyone. 
Such a balance may be "thrown oil"' by a sudden illness, but having the balance in the first place will make enduring and recovering somewhat easier. Ilaving friends and family to help out is important. too. Even with a case of the flu, having someone to heat up the chicken soup ­instead of doing it oneself-is a source of relief. 
While we may never be entirely free of illness, what we do suffer doesn't have to drag us down. There is alway~ -in some form or another -hope. We just have to look for it. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center . 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"The least of things with 
a meaning is worth 
more in life than the great­
est of things without it." 
-CarlJung 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 page 9 
• lETIER To THE EDITOR 
Student's experience shows need for forums 
Coyne's guide to dating the Notre Dame female 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing this letter in response to an incident which occurred on the evening of October 29th at the Hesburgh library. At approximately 5:30 p.m., I was called a "nigger" by a fellow stu­dent. 
As a result, I have written to a number of University officials in an effort to address the issue of racism on this cam­pus. The fact that I have only been a graduate student here for three months, and have heard about, seen, and experi­enced more racism within this short period of time than I have during my entire undergraduate career speaks vol­umes about the necessity of campus forums and dialogues to discuss the issue of race and racial sensitivity, as well as mandatory courses in which stu­dents are exposed to and informed about those of other cultures. 
However, I think the solution to this problem goes beyond any policy con­cerns; it begins with the individual. The prejudice which exists on Notre Dame's campus needs to be fought on the administrative level, but we must begin to fight the prejudice within ourselves. And so I write this letter to the Asian student that called me "nigger." Dear fellow human being: 
I am sure that this time of the semes­ter is as stressful to you as it is for me. Sometimes the upcoming deadlines and crowded computer rooms can make the day harder than it should be. When I politely asked you, "How much longer did you intend to usc the computer ter­minal?,"! by no means was making an attempt to disturb you as you worked. 
• WHERE fM CALLING FROM 
My apologies to you readers looking for a rebuttal to my dear S.E. Oross -I refuse to waste another entire column addressing his attacks. Oross -if you have something to say, write me a letter, give me a call, or stop on by. And if you want to be in The Observer every week, get your own column. You claim that I'm only writing for my fifteen minutes of fame, yet you have no problem with riding my coattails to get yours. In the 
Thomas Coyne 

mean time, a few final comments on our little weekly banter -remember Oross, I'm in here all the time -I'll always get the last word. 
You contend you know the type of per­son I am, the standard shallow drinking Domer with the "lampshade on my head" (?) who refuses to engage issues of importance or take responsibility for what I do or say. Well I know the type of person you are, the standard brooding intellectual who bites his thumb at everything "mainstream" Notre Dame because of its bile attitudes and its com­promised morality. 
You aren't a crusader-you're a mis­anthropic teetotaller, the quintessential angry young man who sees himself as one so enlightened that any individual who chooses not to abide by your partic­ular codes or mores (like myselO is a low browed ignoramus who, with your help, will see the error of his or her ways. But you're not interested in preaching to us, you would rather rail at us. You find my humor in bad taste so you call me and my peers irresponsible hypocrites. I enjoy myself both in the 
However, since you had been on the terminal for some time, I wasn't sure -that you were aware that you were using the only one on the 10th floor. Had you told me that you really were busy, and asked if I could please find another terminal to use, I would have acquiesced to your request, because I do understand the pressures that we, as students, are under. 
But you didn't. Instead, you reacted angrily, and said to me, "Why are you bothering me? Get out of here (the library, ) you f-ng nigger!" As I stood there stunned, I felt Fear... Rage ... Shame... Anger. And more than that, Pain. By casting off your own humanity, you stripped me of mine. You did some­thing to me that no human being deserves. As my head spun, I was not able to rationalize what was happening to me. Your words ran straight through my head, and hurt me to the very depths of my soul. Even in writing you this let­ter, I can't express to you the unspeak­able pain that I felt at that moment. 

I wanted desperately to make you know the pain that you inflicted on me. I could have easily made our situation merely a war of words by calling you all of the dirty words that I had ever heard in reference to people of your race. But for some reason, my consciousness would not allow me to call you any of those terrible things because I knew that words would hurt; because I knew that they weren't just words. 
In that moment of my feeling pain, 

anger, and frustration, I struck out at 
you and for that I am ashamed. But 
striking out at you, just as the dirty 
bars and on this page and you resent me for it. It's not resentment that I have for you, it's sympathy. 

As a peace offering, I plan to give you and every other young lad across this snowy campus some guidance -judg­ing by your letters it sounds like you could use it. In my never-ending pursuit to provide pragmatic and pertinent information to my readers, I endeavor to explain the mystery behind the most enigmatic of species -the Notre Dame female (Latin name -Handsoffis Lessimdrunkis). While running the risk of alienating my female readership, I feel this knowledge must be shared. At long last, the never before released Guide to ND Girls by R.T. Coyne. 
Urn, girls here are, uh, well, kind of confusing. After four years under the Dome I have been able to glean just a few nuggets of cloudy insight, and I have little wisdom to offer save a beseeching, "Girls -What the hell?" But it's not just girls I'm berating -it's the whole social scene, this perverted sorry excuse for a college dating environment. 
My complaint is a common subject of Domer dialogue -the dating scene here sucks; you're either quasi-married or you're indulging in the NO rite of ran­dom Thursday, Friday, and Saturday hook-ups; nothing happens involving the opposite sex unless alcohol is involved -such cries have been heard across campus for years. 
The reasons for this lamentable state of dating are various and I'm not really interested in them -we're drinkers; we're sexually frustrated; there's nowhere to take a date (though Don Pablo's can really sweep a girl off her feet); this school's too small and gossip ridden, etc. We know why this scene is so lame. The challenge is dealing with it. 
Should you be heroic enough to indulge in the occasional date, a few words of guidance forged in the fires of rejection. Girls that explain to you what women want know nothing -they know terms running through my head, did not ease my pain. It was not until later on as I sat in the lobby waiting for campus security, did my numbness wear off and the pain in my soul was expressed in tears. As I sat there, I not only cried for myself, I cried for those who were to come after me. who you will not see beyond the color of their skin. I fear, because of the confidence and apparent justification in your tone with me, your ignorance will surface once again and you will continue to disregard.their humanity as well. 
I understand that I do not live under an invisible guarantee of humanity at Notre Dame. Notre Dame is a micro­cosm of our large and diverse society. Our school is made up of people with ambitions, desires, dreams, feelings, and unfortunately, people with prejudices. The goal of an institution of higher learning is more than just to provide you 
what they want in their fantasies, but the translation to reality never works. They'll tell you girls want to be treated right, they want to be wooed, they want flowers, they want dinner, they want a guy to open the door and ask for the check. Liars! Here lies the evil of the indecisive female species that has plagued men for ages-women don't know what they want. 
We've all done it -we've tried being the sweet Notre Dame gentleman (which we all naturally are) only to find a girl tepid to our every nicety. As much as girls say they like nice, they love diffi­cult. If you show up with flowers or stop by just to say hello, you run the grave risk of being too nice and scaring a girl away. So if you really like a girl, ignore her or be mean. I know it makes no sense, but remember how well it worked in the fifth grade? Girls want the excite­ment of the chase, the pleasant agony of not knowing, and as much as they might deny it, the revel in the twisted fun of playing games. 
What they want is a challenge -and there's the rub-we all want what we can't have. No one asks someone out that they think they're settling for; they want someone they're shooting for. And it's always the nice guy that gets shot down. 
So let's forget the nice guy. Let's be jerks. Try that and you'll be told that what a girl really wants is a nice guy who brings her flowers and calls to say hello and asks her how her day was. And then you're stuck right where you were -nice guy, hard to get... who knows what anyone wants? The Notre Dame female surely does not. 
I shouldn't be so pessimistic -there are girls who know what they want, and that is what makes them women. They don't play games, they're straight up with you, and they realize that they are 
·no · longer in high school (by the way, 
none of this has anything to do with sex 
-I'm saving that for my next column.) 
If you're lucky enough to meet such an 
~'~
8 

with the tools necessary to thrive in the workplace. 
What kind of quality education are you receiving if after four years, you leave this institution just as naive, uneducat­ed, and unexposed to people of other cultures as you were when you entered? Are you truly being educated? You are doing yourself a grave disservice, by falling prey to the images and stereo­types that you are bombarded with, instead of educating yourself about the reality of those around you. I recognize that it is my responsibility to treat every person .as an individual, and to respect the "human" in all people. Why don't you? 
BADISAHAD MA/Ph.D Candidate Department of English 
individual, everything will become clear and your faith in Notre Dame dating will be restored. And then there will be a date, a second date, maybe even a third. Though your intentions may be strictly non-commital, the omnipresent NO social voices (who seem to thrive on cre­ating relationships from mid"air) will eventually bring down their indictment: COMMITMENT. And when the rest of the world thinks you're taken, you might as well be. A serious relationship might be fine for some, but it can be con­straining for your average twenty-year­old male. 
The alternative is to date around, to "see other people" as the popular how­to-dump-someone cliche goes. Sound good? Well it never works. Try and do it and you're automatically a player ­girls won't trust you or give you the time of day (I'm sure just for writing this some girls will think I'm a player when I get about as much play as my dad's 8­track collection.) It's the dating Catch­22 -come on too strong and you're cooked; be aloof and meet other girls and you're a player. Either way you're left hanging in the wind, a ship with no port, a peg with no ... anyway, the situa­tion is an ugly one. 
The only advice that makes sense in the light of all this confusion is lame but true -just be yourself. The right girl and the right situation will eventually come around, but not necessarily on this campus. I may sound like a spurned man, but I assure you I'm not. I'm just another Notre Dame male who has been befuddled by the mysterious NO female. Now if any young lady out there would like to go out for a beer and explain it to me ... 
R. Thomas Coyne is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
ACC~NT· 
page 10 Wednesday November 13, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS... 

What is the most 
absurd play 
you've seen? 


"The Tempest" 
Tony Reid Senior, Flanner 


"The Odd Couple" 
Kim Varsi Senior, LeMans Hall 


" 'Annie' in high school because Daddy Warbucks wasn't bald." 
Mary Clare Lucy Junior, Holy Cross 
"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" 
Brendan Johnson Senior, St. Edward's Hall 


"Camino Real" 
Meg Winkler Junior, LeMans Hall 

"Waiting for Godot" 
Jen Turbiak Senior, LeMans Hall 
The Observer/Kim Michalik 

~fje ;£abies of aJain 
By NORA MEANY 
Saint Mary"s Accent Editor 
is weekend, Saint Mary's 
College is having a visit 
with the "Lady From 
Dubuque," an absurdist play writ­
ten by Pulitzer Prize winning 
author Edward Albee. It takes 
place in the Little Theatre of 
Moreau Center for the Arts on 
November 14-16 at 8 p.m., and 
November 17 at 7:30p.m. 
How is absurdism used in "The 
Lady From Dubuque"? Andrew 
Crow, an actor in the play, gave a 
wonderful definition when he 
described "Lady From Dubuque" 
as the following, "In the first act, 
the characters are surreal people 
dealing with life in a realistic sit­
uation. By Act Two, the mood 
changes, and the surreal people 
are thrown into a surreal situa­
tion." It is the job of the audi­
ence to identify and interpret 
what they see. 

The play deals with the acceptance of death and the reality of living. The play opens with six friends playing party games together in the house of Sam and Jo. Through their dia­logue, we learn that Jo is dying of cancer, and the others are struggling to accept and deal with the situation. 
Her husband, Sam, is the most vocal in trying to alleviate, or at least calm over, the ten­sion in the room. Lucinda and Edgar, a perfectly-paired sub­urban married couple, and their cohorts Fred and Carol, the dating set of the group, con­tribute to the fun. 
By the end of the first act, we realize how real Jo's physical pain is, as well as Sam's emo­tional torment. The audience is taken through fights and humor, and given glimpses of the personalities at hand. Lucinda the blonde housewife, Edgar her loyal husband, Fred the domineering one of the group, and Carol the new girl­friend and "outsider," are pri­mary people on the stage. We are also introduced to Elizabeth and Oscar before the lights fall, but their purpose is left up to the imagination of the audi­ence. But, let's meet the actors themselves. 
Melissa Dunne, who plays the lady herself, is proud of the ambi­guity she helps to create with her character. "[The play] makes the audience think who she really is. Whether the universal mother or the Angel of Death, the audience is left to decide what her purpose is in this story." However, she did admit finding a challenge in playing a character many years older than herself. 
In her years at Saint Mary's, Melissa has been a familiar face on the stages of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, starring in last years' production of "Steel Magnolias" as well as "The Baachae" and "Our Country's Good." Aside from her acting, Dunne boasts many other unique accomplishments, such as head­ing the Midwest Chapter of the Bon Jovi Fan Club. She bubbles, "I just love it. It is really reward­ing work, and helps to prepare 
"~fje ;£aby frc 
me for my future in the entertain­has to change roles quite often, tl 
ment business." from being dominant to graspy c: 
Elizabeth's sidekick is Oscar, and needy." However, Cotter 
played by Mark Smith. This is confides that the audience can ~ 
Mark's first play with Saint relate to Sam quite easily by the d 
Mary's, though he has some act­end of the play. "Sam is like all of tl 
ing experience in South Bend. lie us. He has a mask, and rarely 
was seen last year in the Civic's reveals his inner-self and pas­" tl 
production of "The Miracle sions. However, when the mask (I 
Worker". He said that acting is pulled off. the center of comfort H 
with Saint Mary's was "an experi­is pulled away as well." 
ence," and genuinely liked the Playing his wife, Jo, is senior 
character he played. Collin Shaughnessy. She rose to 
"My job is basically to make fun the challenge of her first Saint 
of everything that went on in the Mary's play, being cast in one of 
Andrew Crow (Edgar), Mardi Moburg (Lucinda), and Corinne Mary's College production of Edward Albee's drama "The 
first act," Mark says. "Oscar is there to belittle Sam in every way possible." The most difficult chal­lenge that Mark faced was having to slap a fellow actor, in which he described feeling like he was "pulling off Sam's face." However, on a more serious note, Smith notes that there is much relevance to reality in the play. "It shows us that we are nothing behind our titles." 
Kerry Cotter, who plays Sam, is no stranger to the acting business either. He has previously worked in Indianapolis, New Orleans and Los Angeles, but counts this pro­duction as one of the most sup­portive in which he has been. "The character analysis and warm-ups are like a refresher course in acting," he states. 'They really bring the actor back to basics." 
In dealing with the character, Cotter admitted that Sam was quite difficult to portray because he is so multi-dimensional. "Sam the most emotionally draining roles. "It was hard because I'm so far removed from death." she said. "Death is not something we like to think about, and Jo is a character that has to accept and feel death." 

Jo, in fact, goes through a metamorphosis in the play, from dying to death. She has to say goodbye to those she loves, and cuts off her ties with life. Jo is also the first in the play to acknowledge her dying and speak of it openly. If anything, Shaughnessy liked the challenge of conveying this in the audience. Collin believes the message of the play is to realize the value of life. "People don't appreciate life," Collin says, "and they don't appreciate each other." No doubt, Collin's portrayal will change that. 
Andrew Crow, who plays Edgar, admits to having no previous act­ing experience before this play aside from reading "MacBeth" in 
ACC6NT 
Wednesday November 13, 1996 
t cmary's ~ut <Dn 
lm ~u6uque" 
1e tenth grade. So, he had a face emotions and is not often 
ean start with the analysis of his realistic. Also, she can be quite 1arar.ter in an absurdist setting. inappropriate at times, varying lhen asked what makes Edgar from goody two-shoes to socially ifferent from the other r.harac­awkward." !rs. Crow replies, "lie senses No doubt, her Lucinda is a very 
hat Sam and Jo are going believable pairing to Crow's 1rough and does nothing ... Edgar. However, Mandi is care­~dgar] is afraid to lay himself on ful not to play her character as a te line." stereotype by giving her a softer, However, in retrospect, one can more vulnerable side when deal­
·asp the human tendencies of ing with Jo's biting sarcasm. 
1~ar in the play. Often uncom-As described in the play, a ten­
ble with the subject of death, sion has existed between the two 
avoids the topic and tries since college, with Jo playing cat 
( 
Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's College 

rahan (Carol) perform a scene from the Saint 
om Dubuque." 
get involved with the sur­of others. s slow to show his feelings, 
in Crow's eyes, is a com­·ait for most Americans. a nursing student at ws University, Crow has 
•ed that in many cases is no room for death in the an society." A believable the play is the cold shoul­Lt Sam receives from his when dealing with death. 1gh Mandi Moburg is only more at Saint Mary's, this ;econd time gracing the ge in one of their produc­ast year she was seen as n "Agnes of God", and 1 two styles of playwriting 
to compare. "The two 'erent, but are equally :legrees of difficulty," she 
a, inhere~. is a little bit describe. "She is like a eaver in that she's a ker. She deals with sur­
to Lucinda's mouse. Watching the two characters bicker throughout the play adds an interesting aspect to the plot. 
Fred is Notre Dame's own Dan Golonka, a junior from Keenan. He likes the fact that Fred is "per­sonal and sociable," though Golonka admits that his social­ness is downfall. "Fred likes to be the center of attention with his jokes and personality, but does not like it when his jokes are unaccepted or the focus changes." 
Like Lucinda, the audience is led to believe that Fred and J o have a love-hate relationship with each other. Dan explains that Fred does respect Jo, and looks for respect from her in return. Through dialogue with Jo, Fred shows his sensitive side that is often hidden through sarcasm. "Fred and Jo have mutual respect for each other for their quick-wit­tedness." 
Corrine Hanrahan enjoys the 
variety that her character, Carol, contributes to the play. "I like that she's different than the rest of the group." says Hanrahan. "She has more sensitivity and insight at times, and these differ­ences open her to ridicule by the other characters." She believes that the audience can really iden­tify with Carol for this reason. 
Hanrahan liked working on this play for many reasons, most hav­ing to do with the exceptional tal­ent of the other actors. "It is a fun ensemble play with excite­ment and variation. The actors are fun as well. It's interesting to see how Katie managed us all." 
"Katie" refers to Kathleen Sullivan, the director. When asked why she picked such a dif­ficult play to direct, Sullivan 
praises the work of Albee. "Edward Albee is a prophet... and is far from being cynical. He gives a message of hope to society, as well as optimism." She chose "The Lady From Dubuque" because it was a "true ensemble piece with no small roles." 
However, this is not Sullivan's first working with the play. She was cast as Elizabeth while in graduate school, where she first noticed Albee's humor in the play. 
Working with Sullivan was Thomas H. Boelman, who designed and built the sets. Fresh from Montana, where he had been working and earning his Masters of Fine Arts, Boelman started working on the sets for the play in August. 
He describes the brainstorm­ing session he had with Kathleen Sullivan as "perking," where they took their ideas for the sets, worked them over and finally projected them into the reality of the stage. After the building of the set, he has a total of three weeks to set the stage, use it in the play, and strike it. 
Also, Jen Peterson kept the cast from nakedness as the Costume Designer. She is the first student in Saint Mary's history to completely design the costumes for a mainstage play. Although she was not paid for this, she did earn 
credit  towards  Projects  for  
Theatre  Majors.  This,  she  
described, was no small task.  

"How I perceive people has to come through in the costumes." she says. "The complexity in my job is to find clothes that fit the body types of the actors, the per­sonality of the characters, and blend with the sets, lights and stage." She was out in the stores daily shopping for the cast, and described the job as "challenging bargain hunting." 
However, she says that though the ordeal was draining, she enjoyed working with such a wonderful cast. "It was a great cast, and everyone was so fun to work with. I learned a lot from Katie about the production of a play as well. I can do anything now after what I've learned in this play." 
However, one final question remains. Who exactly is the Lady from Dubuque? 
.QlJI
.:;::~h:· 
··.EAND 


I;SOME! 
A ~-·~t~a!i;;ln~n~~~~t e:::n~~! ~~~~~ ~;'!~ ~:u~~ ~Y l<\$tpaper, hut the realization that there IS some­thing FUN t6 do here on campus. Believe me, it's true. Read on, I'll tell you all about how this l.mfolded. Collin ·s.hauJ;{htleS!>·v·told us a:n about the play she was staring in ... . .·.. ..• . From Dubuque." What anidea! · holt oflightning. I don't know sn't matter. 1just know it's ..v.uo;:l,uu•J;~; a;merAnlt. something fun, something inexpensive, . .. I know people who are participating in it. I'll be there, 
· ..•.. •· ·.. so should you. E~ward Alb~~·s "The Lady Prom ~upuque." It has a ni()e...t:ing to it, d6tl,'t you think? · ·· I will use th~ space in "Accent Speaks" this week to dis­cuss student~produced events on campus. I'll make it sim­ple: GET .OUT<'J'HEREAND SEE THEMtl Because the whole theme .. of}oday's A~cent section centers .around "The Lady From DllbU:que," lWill rrrst suggest that everybody try to go see it. Not just because ram, but also because it will be the coolest, most talked about event of the century, and believe me -:-you won't want to miss it! It is playing at the Little !fbeatre in the Moureau Center for the Arts this Thursday through Sunday, and it will be a very rewarding experience, I guarantee you. WHY? Well, first of all, the performers are your peers. They are students just like you and I. and they have worked very hard to produce it. Also, how often do we get a>ehance, while we're pent up here in South Bend, to expe­rience much of anything fun? Some of our only forms of entertainment are movies, parties, bars, football, and well, people of the opposite sex. Big deal. When do we getto do anything different? We all know that South Bend is no thriving hotbed of alternative anything. For example, movies can be seen anytime. Parties and bars -just bow long does their entertainment last? "Monotonous.. is a word I could use to describe weeks of them~ seeing the same drunken. faces at the same crowded places gets plain tiring after a while. Football season only lasts so long; ·As for people of the opposite sex ... you could bring one along with you to the production. See? It's so simple to expand your list of entertaining things to do. See 
a~tudent p~o~uetion! > .. . ·•··· ·...·• . . .. · 
Student productions ofplays, concerts, and other activi­ties· are a welcome change. from the· norm on campus. They're also usually very inexpensive~ For example, "The Lady From Dubuque" oqly costs $4,00. Thafsfar less than ai~pvi~ tic~l:l~· .ll.nd ;l:hisi~. better t}l.ap a movie., anyway, because this ~ LIVE ACTION!! ..... · 
Also, productions like these are a chance· for students to showcase their talents. You never know -this might be · star before he or she . an,d .Sigourney $omething to 
are lletJes ~~v.~ peJrtormalnces all ()f int,erlltall contests are also place all oi the time. ..··~ ..~·"' £H:fi,.iiiii)UI1d in friendly 
-
J 

-----------~-------------------~--------­
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Paterno addresses current state of college football 
Associated Press Writer 

STATE COLLEGE, PA 
Instead of discussing X's and O's, Joe Paterno spent much of his weekly press conference Tuesday on the issues of on­campus gambling and job secu­rity among Big Ten coaches. 
Four conference coaches have lost their jobs this season. Illinois fired Lou Tepper and Indiana fired Bill Mallory, while Purdue's Jim Colletto and Minnesota's Jim Wacker chose to resign. 
''I'm saddened. All the people that are leaving this year are all really quality people -peo­pie I like very much," said Paterno, who has been at Penn State for 4 7 seasons, including 31 as head coach. 
"I think it's a crying shame when people like that can't be kept in our profession," he said. "They're all good people and I am truly sorry to see them go." 
Paterno's 11th-ranked Nittany Lions (8-2, 4-2) have games remaining this season against two Big Ten schools with second-year coaches. Penn State plays at No. 16 Michigan (7 -2, 4-2) Saturday and hosts Michigan State November 23. 
Paterno, whose teams have 

won two national champi­onships, said the coaching carousel makes his job more difficult. 
"You've got to get used to new people," he said. "New schemes on both offense and defense. Different psychology. Different people handle things in different ways. It makes our job more demanding." 
The nation's winningest active coach said his team took advantage of the off week to get rested and healthy. 
"It can work either way. There are some years where 1 would not want to have a week off," Paterno said. "But I think we needed this week off. Many of the young kids were getting tired and run down. Now, we're fresh. I think it's a big advantage for us." 
Paterno was also asked his opinion on the Boston College gambling scandal. Thirteen players were suspended last week for violating an NCAA rule that prohibits gambling. 
During preseason practice, Penn State players meet with FBI and other law enforcement representatives. 
"Whether they listen to him or not, you don't now," Paterno said. "It is a very, very tough job for a coach to absolutely be positively certain he doesn't have kids out there gambling." 
Though he agreed with the NCAA's rules in principle, Paterno said that a coach would have to be naive if he thought his players weren't tempted. 
"The rules we have are tough because they don't apply to so­ciety," the coach said, referring to the popularity of lotteries, legalized gambling and office betting pools. 
"You can't just take a bunch of people and say, OK, we're going to take you out of all that and put you over here -as if we're monks," he said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre 
-
Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

House for Sale by Owner  MUST SELL!!  FOR SALE: PITT GA-STUDENT  Gang green is in the house on  
NOTICES  Paid house & dog-sitter for 12125­1/6. Large house close to campus.  1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3  10 GAs FOR RUTGERS! FACE VALUE!  CONVERTED. B/0 CALL NICOLE X4684.  Saturday.  
2 medium size, sweet dogs to walk,  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  PLEASE CALL x3765.  THE COUNTDOWN IS ON ­ 
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  feed, and keep company. 287­ attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths,  NEED 1 RUTGERS GA  47 DAYS TOGO  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  3054.  1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ I Have 2 Pitt Student Ga's!ll  Preferably Student Ticket  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  ment. ale, disposal, all appliances,  Call x1049  Converted to GA  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  Security System.Compietely  Cali JEFF @ 3633  your mother and me ..a beautiful  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  refreshed to sell. asking 88,500.  For Sale: 2 WEEZER tics, Nov.16  thing...  
Sun (800)763-5606.  (813)360-2243.  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. Call219-295-8727  Chicago, low price, call x0515  PERSONAL  ethanator, by the power of  
Hey, do you need to get a room?  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  NEED RUTGERS TIX  grayskull...  
have a room @ the S.B. Days Inn for the Pitt weekend that I can't use.  basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  TICKETS  Brigitte x4055  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  Cora's budget is incredible.  
Do you have friends/family/signifi­ teaching certificate or European  NEED 2 PITT TIX.  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
cant other who can? It so, call  languages required. Inexpensive  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  CALL BRENT 4-3662  The highest quality full-color  thanks for the camel, liz. it's giving  
Steven @4-44871 Call now!  Room & Board + other benefits. For  ALL GAMES HOME  copies are now available at  personality to my keychain.  
Demand is highl  info. call: (206)971-3680  AND AWAY  NEED  THE COPY SHOP  
 
ext.K55843  232-0058  2 Ga's or conv Stud Tix  LaFortune Student Center  No Kent... ..Sorry Kent... ..  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  24 HAS.  Big Reward  Phone #631-COPY  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ BUY -SELL -TRADE  call Christian x3592  Spicoli will someday ref in the NBA.  
GAMES AT SCOTTSDALE MALL.  Positions are now available at  Ok, who's sick of Tim Corbitt?  I just hope he will remember his  
CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO.  National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  TICKET-MART, INC.  NEED 1 RUTGERS STO TIX  original partner.  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  CALL MICHELE @X2984  Come see Doug McKenna  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  of George and the Freeks  She's mine Kent  
Breakfast Inn has space available  N55849  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Tickets needed: 2 Pitt GA's, call  every Wednesday night  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  232-0061.  Eric at 271-9069.  at C.J.'s Pub.  I've got $5 on N. So B.  
private baths, $70 -$90,  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  
 
Middlebury. 30 miles from campus.  Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  4 Pitt GA's for sale at cost  Ali undergrad, grad and faculty  Thanks for the hospitality T.C. 1669  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  GAMES 235-3394  call Chris Kratovil 243-9118  interested in presenting their work  
1-800-418-9487  Room and Board! Transportation!  ask for the SCOTLAND ARTICLE  at the 1997 Sophomore Literary  Better run your trick plays Fatboy  
Male or Female. No experience  ALUM NEEDS GA's  Festival are invited to audition on  
 
Spring Break Bahamas Party  necessary. Cali (206)971-3510  for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS  I am looking for a student ticket for  Tues. Nov. 19 at 8pm in the  What's up, Flight School!!  
Cruise I 6 Days $279! Includes All  extA55848  618-274-2990  M-F 8am-6pm  Pitt game. Call Dylan at X2173 if  Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune.  
 
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  you have one for sale.  Please prepare a 5-10 min. reading  Patty 0. deserves his name in the  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  and submit a written sample of your  paper.  
Increase Soon-Save $501 spring­ Mazatian. Sell 15 trips and travel  219-232-2378 a.m.  Need 1 GA or student ticket for Pitt  work. ?'s call Meg at x3025.  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  free plus cash. Lowest Price  288-2726 p.m.  Call Diana @ 243-9432  Sa props: past present and future  
Guaranteed! Food and Drink pack­ ADOPTION IS A  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  ages available. Call Sunbreaks.  TIX for every home game.  #########################  CHOICE OF LOVE.  Tuss shout outs.  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  800-446-8355.  Call (301) 445-3955  FOR SALE:  Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  4 Rutgers Student tix  act of love. Your child will be raised  Two words describe what Bobo will  
Soon-Save $501 Save $150 on  Bass Player needed for otherwise  !@#$%"&'())("&"%$#@!  call Jenny @ 687-8435  to know this. Caring couple wish to  do to Vasco on December 20:  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  complete band.  I NEED PITT TICKETS !II  #########################  share our love, laughs, and lives  HAT TRICK  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  Cali Brianx3859  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to  with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­ 
 
1-800-678-6386  GA ...  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's  Lohman, what happened to your  
Spring Break Panama City!  FOR RENT  CALL 4-4217 ... !@#$%"&'())("&"%$#@!  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  talk and see if we're right for you and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­ team? Atietico 5 Vasco 1  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  232-0058  800-213-3960.  I need a ride to Omaha really badly  
Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  WALK TO CAMPUS  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  24 HAS.  for Thanksgiving! It anyone is gain  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  BUY -SELL -TRADE  Interested in starting a GWAR fan  even remotly near there call me!  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169ispring­ 232-2595  club here at NO? If so, call Tris at  Will help pay gas and tolls. x-1858  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  PLEASE­ TICKET-MART, INC.  x2174. Long live the Sexecutioner.  
7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 .  NEED 3 RUTGER'S GA'S. CALL  Hey Gorgeous,  
Junior "nanny" looking for a family  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  SISTER NANCY MILLER  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Chestnut House B&B,  Will you marry m~.  
in need of loving babysitter. Will  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  257-0996.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  St. Joseph, MI.  Love,  
work nights and weekends for a  ceil, porch, furniture avail.  232-0061.  Elegantly decorated home over­ me  
reasonable rate. I have a car.  BEAUTIFUL!  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ looking Lake Michigan and only 40  
Please call Lama at 634-1291 for  273-2580  DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU­ $$$$$$  mins. from NO.  Mr. and Mrs. T  
references  DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­ Made you look  
(3 yrs w/same family).  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  MEGHAN @232-7839  ALL HOME GAMES.  vate baths, full breakfasts & hors  
ILOST & FOUND I  NO-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ENDS.  Desperate for Rutgers tix!! $$Will Pay$$  272-6551 n. d. tickets for sale  d'oeuvres served fireside. (616) 983-7413.  Hey Gorgeous, Just kidding  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Please call Amanda at  271 1635  ATTENTION LONOOMERS ........  Here you are Panch, and you  
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY  243-0658.  (301 )314·8671  Kern, Kratovil and O'Brien invite  thought I wouldn't remember.  
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED  or send email to  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers  you to  
SPORT JACKET.  IF FOUND,  REGGAE D. J.  adew@wam.umd.edu.  No std -pref. side In  the ROB "BASS" VEGA party!  Son of a farmer  
PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT  234 0705  Peter 1-800-746-3755  November 16th at Jazzmen's-Be  
X3677.  HELP!  there. Cod and Salsa may  King­ 
2 & 6 BORM HOMES AVAIL NOW  Student needs Rutgers GA's  Pitt. GA's 4-sale  appear ...  You are the ultimate graphic person  
OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­ for family.  Cali Ed x1643. Leave best offer,  to work with. You make me happy  
HELP HELP HELP HELP HELP  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ name and number  MISSING: 3 laid back yet bold  when skies are gray!!!  
LOST: brown leather London Fog  6306  Call Mark at x1487  upperclassmen not afraid to see  -Kathleen  
jacket @ library on Nov. 6  1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill @ 412­ Romeo & Juliet w/ 3 cute girls sick  
Call x2653 HUGE REWARDIIIIIIIII  ATTENTION: 5 Bedroom, 1 1/4  Rutgers student ticket needed.  661-0459 or 1-800-545-0482 ext.  of NO scene  Word of the day is __ ADDIS  
bath, 2000 sq. ft., 2 car garge, 2  Please call x3755.  753  IF FOUND: Call 243-WELS  
story house for rent close to cam- John­ 
LOST-Columbia ski parka near the  pus. $1000.00 per month. 5 people  4 SALE: 2 Pitt GA's  GA.s FOR SALE GA.s  TONIGHT AT DALLOWAY'S:  As the semester winds down, I real­ 
Main Building. Brown. green and black. I really need this back. If found, please return. Dan-x3214  ($200.00 per person). Rent Negotiable. CALL 255-3251. I  Cali w/ best offer: 277-9957 Help! I need a Pitt ticket for one of  """"""""'"PITT, RUTGERs , USC , GA.s CALL. ....272-7233.  Larry Enpelding-Singer and Guitarist. Taking the stage frorp8-12 p.m.  ize that without you my life would be meaningless. You are all that and more., even if your hat is  
I  WANTED  I """':~:,~~E  my buddies. Please call Myron­243-1267 4-SALE:4 PITT GA  SALE: Two GA's for PITTSBURGH. Contact 277-1530.  Come for great coffee. Come for good conversation. Come for the relaxing atmosphere.  funkdafied. -Kathleen So tell me really, how as your week­ 
NOW HIRING: University Sales and  Like new, '96 model.  x4-3144 Dina  For Sale-1 Rutgers & 1 Pitt. stu­ Senior Camp, senior swamp.  end!!!  
Marketing, the leader in on campus  Orig. cost: $2000.  dent ticket. Face value.  There are reasons why only  
employment for college students, is  Sell $1500.  NEED 3 RUTGERS TIX  277-4269  SMC seniors are worthy of  Meek Dog, Super Girl and Super  
hiring at your school. Marketing and  8 MB, 100 MHz  Call Mike 4-4131  this task.  Freak- 
Promotions positions available.  Cali 233-5114.  SALE  Know what creeps me out? Solar  
Work on campus, Flexible hours,  Stu-conv Pitt GA 4-sale  x-2737  4 50 YO LN GAS  PC and CB. Causing TB in IL with  Wind!  it's like wind from the sun.  
Great pay. For Information, Call  DAVE MATTHEWS BAND  FOR PITT  MC and TS in CHICAGOOOO!  -Alvin  
800-562-8524.  8 GREAT SEATS  LOW PRICE  Please help! Need Stu/GAs for Pitt  312-862-2204  
 
 
Cali Soonll x1251  ask for Tom  Brian@ 243-9405  and no dogs allowed for God's  Marty is most definatiy the PAN­ 
NEEDED:l ROOMATE/TURTLE  II CHEAP TICKET II  sake.  THER, but he sure @#$like a  
CRK APTS/2NO SEM/CALL 634­ 2 Pitt. G.A's for sale.  Buy/sell NO Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ Pitt Student Ticket $35  tigerII  
2059  B/0  x1308  Check our price 67 4-7645.  Call X4-1473  smoking kills.  -Candy and all her tired friends  

..------~-~--------------------~~--~---,-------~------~-~-------~----~-­
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 • The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 


RecSports "Champion Student Award' recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Jeremy Lingenfelser comes to the University of Notre Dame from Selma, North Carolina. He is a junior Government and Theology major who resides in Morrissey Manor. Jeremy officiated over 100 contests as a freshman and increased his total as a sophomore. Well on his way to the century mark as a junior, Jeremy has been a fixture at soccer games, Grad/Faculty/Staff football games, and baseball games. Considered a specialist in soccer and basket­ball, Jeremy is competent in floor hockey, flag football, and baseball. Jeremy had this to say about his experience as a RecSports official: "I enjoy working with all the different people from all the dorms. You may think that referees make a lot of enemies, but I find I make a lot of friends". 
Recipients receive ((::~ merchandise from the 

VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Qoyce Center) 

VARSITY SHOP 
"I"' "Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <J:~ merehan 1se courtesy o an t e vARSITY sHoP ocate on t e secon oor o t e oyce enter. e
d. f <J:~· d h dlziJ. I d h d fl f h J C Th '"~"' 

vARSITYsHoP is open Monday-Saturday 11:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. and Sunday 1:00 p.m. to 4:00p.m. (Phone: 631-8560). 
'I"' 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 1996
.. 
•MLB 

Indians may make Belle highest paid in MLB history 
Associated Press Writer 
CLEVELAND 
The Cleveland Indians have made a rich offer to free agent slugger Albert Belle. If they want to keep him, it looks like they will have to make an even richer one. 
"We're in the game. I guess that's the safest way to put it," Cleveland General Manager John Hart said. "We're not 
close, but I think we've sent 
the right message to Albert 
that we want him." 
The Indians have reportedly offered Belle $8.5 a year for four or five years, whichever the slugger prefers. That's more than the five-year, $38 million offer that Belle rejected 

-
in spring training. Negotiations stalled during the season, and Belle became a free agent on Oct. 28. 
Hart assured Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, that this was not the final offer. It has been widely reported that Belle is seeking a contract that would pay him $10 million a year and make him baseball's highest­paid player. 
"I suppose if we don't have a deal, that means the offer was not acceptable," Tellem said. 
Belle is allowed to start talk­ing money with other teams on Friday. The Plain Dealer re­ported Tuesday that Belle had an appointment with the Florida Marlins that day, but that it might be pushed back to next week because of schedul­ing conflicts. 
A Marlins spokeswoman said Tuesday she knew of no such meeting. 
Hart said he is working on a contingency plan in case Belle does not re-sign with the Indians. 
"We might have to build a club without Albert," Hart said. 
Tellem, who represented NBA star Reggie Miller in lengthy contract negotiations with the Indians Pacers, pre­dicted Belle would be signed by Thanksgiving. 
"I don't think it's to anyone's benefit to drag this out," majors with 234 homers. Barry Bonds was second with 217. 
Belle's production has never been a problem. His behavior has. Belle has been suspended five times in his six-year big league career for various in­fractions, including berating a TV reporter at the 1995 World Series and using excessive force in knocking over Milwaukee Brewers second baseman Fernando Vina in a game marred by brawls. 
The Indians have some other potentially big bills coming due soon. All-Star center fielder Kenny Lofton is playing out his option in 1997, and third base­man Jim Thome is signed through '97 with a club option for '98. 
Free agent reliever Eric Plunk has reportedly rejected a two-year, $2 million offer. 
Tellem said. ­
Belle was the top player in baseball the last two seasons, according to statistical rank­ings by the Elias Sports Bureau. In 1995, he became the first player to hit 50 homers and 50 doubles in a season. Last year, Belle hit .311 with 48 homers and 148 RBis. 
From 1991-96, Belle led the 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
•NBA 

Rose unhappy with playing ti01e 
Associated Press Writer only four minutes in the second able season-ending knee injury quarter and scored two points to Haywoode Workman. That INDIANAPOLIS in an overtime victory over left Travis Best as the starter, Jalen Hose is disappointed Washington Saturday night. In with Rose and Jerome Allen the with his meager playing time, four games, he has 26 points only point guards off the bench. and the Indiana Pacers are and nine rebounds. "Larry's meeting me for the disappointed with Rose's mea­He met with Brown after first time and I'm meeting ger defense. practice on Monday and Larry for the first time," Rose The two are related. cleared the air before the team said of the coach's criticism. "I 
"He has to work harder on left for tonight's game at guess the things that he says defense," coach Larry Brown Dallas. and does to players, I won't be said. "That's what we're trying "Hopefully it's all behind us the first and I won't be the last. to accomplish. It's just a matter now," Brown said. "It's impor­I've got to take it in stride. of teaching him and working tant that I understand where "It can't make me weak. It with him. He understands he's coming from and that he definitely can't make me weak. that." understands me." I can't be like a cancer to the 
Rose, who came to the Pacers Rose likely will get more guys. I just have to go out and in an offseason trade, played playing time because of a prob-play the best I can." 




Students for Responsible Business 
---New Leaders for Better Business 
Corporate Social Responsibility Does It Matter? Does It Pay? David E. Collins 
Former chairman of McNeil Consumer Products who handled the Tylenol Crisis 
Wednesday, November 13 5:00PM Room 161 COBA 
Brought to you by Students for Responsible Business 
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•MtB 
Hentgen edges Pettitte for AL Cy Young Award 
By RONALD BLUM seconds and one third for 104 set-up we had." Hentgen said. "There was just throwing arm. 
Associated Press points in balloting by the Yankees set-up man Mariano a point where I knew I could go "I didn't even think I'd make Baseball Writers Association of Rivera earned the other first­out and pitch a good game." it thought the season if you NEW YORK America. place vote and finished third He got his 20th win when he asked me in the middle of the 
Pat Hentgen and Andy Pettitte "All the talk was that I would with 18 points. led Toronto over Baltimore 4-1 season when by elbow was both were surprised Tuesday definitely win," Pettitte said. The closest vote came in at SkyDome. He had a chance killing me," he said. when the Toronto right-hander ''I'm like, these people know 1969, when Mike Cuellar and to win his 20th against Charles Nagy of Cleveland won the AL Cy Young Award. something I don't. ... I was a lit­Denny McLain tied. In 1972, Baltimore on the final weekend was fourth with 12 points, fol­
"I feel honored that my tle surprised." Gaylord Perry beat Wilbur three years ago, but Toronto lowed by Mike Mussina of name's next to that award for­Hentgen, who turns 28 Wood 64-58. lost to Rick Sutcliffe 8-4. Baltimore with five. Alex ever," Hentgen said after his Wednesday, led the majors in Hentgen, who became the "I think when I look back at Fernandez and Roberto upset victory. "To be honest, I complete games (10) and in­first to win the award for a '93 in Camden Yards, going for Hernandez of the White Sox definitely prepared myself to nings (265 2-3) and was second Canadian team, was 8-6 with a my 20th win, I was a little ner­were tied for sixth with one come in second. I was a little in ERA in the AL behind team­3.86 ERA before the All-Star vous," Hentgen said. point along with Ken Hill of shocked. I think I'm over­mate Juan Guzman (2.93). game, then went 12-4 with a Pettitte, 24, led the AL in vic­Texas. whelmed right now." Hentgen pitched three shutouts, 2.58 ERA after the break. tories and went 13-3 after Hentgen, who made $2.25 
Hentgen went 20-10 with a tying Ken Hill of Texas, Rich "Things just snowballed for Yankees losses. He pitched for million, gets a $50,000 bonus 
3.22 ERA, winning his 20th on Robertson of Minnesota and me in the second half," many months despite a sore for winning the award. the final day of the season. In Kevin Brown of Florida for the 
• SOCCER

matching the second-closest major league lead. vote in the history of the AL Cy "When the season ended and Young, he received 16 first­I was talking to my wife, I told place votes, nine seconds and her Pat deserved it," Pettitte 
Goalie recovers from fan pelting -­
three thirds for 110 points. said. "He was totally dominat­Pettitte, 21-8 with a 3.87 ing. I didn't go out and domi­Associated Press Writer without the help of a respirator. Alencar of Rio de Janeiro stateERA, had been considered the nate games. Of course, I didn't Pinto was targeted by irate ordered an investigation into the favorite. He drew 11 firsts, 16 get complete games with the 
The Observer is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Please submit a resume and one page letter of intent to Ethan Hayward ( 631, 4541) at the Observer office by Friday, November 15, 1996 
RIO DE JANEIRO Fluminense fans during incident. Police obtained a TV 
Goalie Ricardo Pinto had Sunday's game, which Atletico videotape of the game to identify surgery Tuesday to remove a won 3-2. Pinto's attackers. blood clot from his brain, two Fans pelted the goalie with The Brazilian Soccer days after he was beaten by fans rocks, sandals -even a radio. Confederation penalizedduring a first-division game. After the game, fans surged Fluminense with the loss of Pinto was listed in serious con­onto the field and surrounded home field advantage for five 
dition at the Cajuru Hospital in Pinto, punching and kicking games. With only one home Curitiba, where he plays for the him. One man grabbed a pho­game left this season, Atletico-Parana soccer club. tographer's aluminum tripod Fluminense will serve out the 
"The surgery went well, but and beat him. punishment next year. the next 72 hours will be criti­Pinto was carried to the lock­Soccer violence in Brazil is cal," team doctor Edilson Thiele erroom where he received eight nothing new, but it usually in­said in a televised interview stitches, while fans pounded on volves rival fans, not players. from Curitiba. Thiele said doc­the door shouting "We'll kill Last year, a brawl between ri­tors decided to operate after him." He left the stadium under val factions at a junior champi­
Pinto showed difficulty moving police guard. onship game between Sao Paulo his left arm, and tests revealed a The goalie denied he had pro­and Palmeiras left one teen-agerconcussion and fluid on his­voked fans with an exaggerated dead. Police used TV film brain. celebration after the game. footage to identify an assailant, 
"The surgery was to prevent "I celebrated as I always do," who was arrested and chargedfuture problems," Thiele said. he said. "But here, there were with murder. "He is conscious and breathing animals." Governor Marcello 

-


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 1996 
MR. HOLlAND'S OPUS 
'~ollywood Pidvies 
2PAC/MAKAVELI The Don Killumina~ The 7 Day Theory 
Football 
continued from page 20 
really a good leader. I mean their football team has just gotten better and better since they have gone to him." 
Irish Notes: 
SPEED KILLED? Rumors have circulated recently con­cerning the statuses of re­ceivers Raki Nelson and Shannon Stephens as neither player made the trip to Boston College. Lou Holtz acknowl­edged that it was his decision to leave the players at home, but did not comment on any reason why they did not travel. 
"We made a decision and I believe we made the right decision," Holtz offered. 

-·-
Nelson admitted that the rea­son for his weekend at home was simply due to lack of con­
centration. 
"I need to grow up," the freshman allowed. "I haven't put in enough effort at prac­tices, and haven't paid atten­tion in team meetings. We have three games left and I'm going to concentrate on them." 
Nelson said that Stephens was left behind for the same reasons. 

IFRIEIS IFRIEIE IFRICIE lm~ILIL YIP>AN<CDNG W(Q)~DCSSH(Q)IP 
Wednesday November 13 7pm-9pm L:J.fortune Ballroom 

M E D I M E J R I X® G R 0 U P 
Join Medimetrix Group for pizza and soda and an informative presentation on the dynamics of the healthcare industry and the opportunities avail­able at our national healthcare management consulting firm. 
•Our 
information session is November 18 at 7:00 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room at LaFortune Student Center. We will be interviewing on campus on November 19. 

• 
University of Notre Dame Alumni Presenting Include: Terri Clarke, Eric Armbrecht, Rebecca Hellmann 


As for other speculation that the receiver was considering a transfer, Nelson declined to comment, stating that he would prefer to concentrate on this season and answer ques­tions of that nature after the end of the year. 
Holtz denied that either re­ceiver had spoken to him about the possibility of a trans­fer. 
"No, no, not at all. (Nelson and Spencer) may be ( consid­ering a transfer). But none whatsoever." 
INJURY UPDATES: Jason Ching, one of Notre Dame's two top freshman prospects on the defensive line, is out indefi­nitely with a major back injury, according to Holtz. 
"Jason Ching has a back problem at the present time. I believe he is going to have surgery. It is a serious back injury. It could possibly jeopardize his future. And that is sad for all of us because you get a young man with his tal­ent, his abilities, et cetera, but we are just going to wait and see and say a prayer."... 
Kicker Scott Cengia, forced to leave the University due to medical problems, is at home and positive about his condi­tion. 
"The reports on Scott Cengia are very, very positive. There is a difference of opinions with the doctors down there. (B)ut talking to Scotty he is very up­beat and very, very positive," Holtz assessed ... 

Offensive guard Mike Rosenthal has returned to the practice field and could possi­bly be back as early as Rutgers ... 
Safety A'Jani Sanders' moth­er's funeral is being held today, and he is expected to rejoin the team this week. If he can practice by Thursday, Holtz considers him available for action against the Panthers. 
ANY VOLUNTEERS: Coach Holtz is open to suggestions on how to better prepare for home games, a problem as of late for the Irish and their coaches. 
"Time is a problem at home (on football weekends) and I don't know, but I can assure you we are looking at it and if anybody has any suggestions ... show me a schedule for a weekend at home." ... 
THE IRONMAN: Tight end Kevin Caretta played on all 31 special teams plays against Boston College, grading out positively on every one. He also lined up at end on 22 occasions in the game.... 
RECLAIMED: Defensive line­man Brad Williams has shifted back to defensive tackle after a semi-successful stint at offen­sive guard in the last two games. 
"We are going to look at him in a back-up role on at the pre­sent time on defense. I feel his best position is on defense. But he did an awfully good job over there at offensive guard. I think that... his future lies on the defense." 
Tim Ridder is expected to claim the starting spot at right guard vacated by the move. 


35% OFF ALL NEW Y'ORK TIMES HARDCOVER BESTSELLER$ 
N£VW" SOFTVW"A.H£ 


MADDEN NFL97 
CD-ROM 
"""-~-""'--"-= CD·ROM 

Sale ends November 21, 1996. Quan~tes limited. Selection varies by stare. 
Wilshire Plaza, Mishawaka, 271-0696 
STORE HOURS MON-SAT: 1OAM-1 OPM, SUN: 11 AM-7PM 
THE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES MOTHUGS Soundtrack Family Scriptures 
MY STORY SARAH, THE DUCHESS OF YORK With JeH Coplon 
Simon & Schuster · HC list23.00 

-

Wednesday, November 13, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS 
V-ball 

continued from page 20 
the best defensive player on the team and she is also good offen­sively." She brings a lot to the court." 
Teammate, Carey May also expressed the importance of Briggs and Ervin to the squad. 
"They give so much depth and experience to our team, and I know what to expect when they come into the game. They bring in a great attitude, desire, and work ethic to the game. They bring in exactly what we need both on and off the court. Having seniors come of the bench is very key because they are either starting or filling in for someone. I expect just as much from them, maybe even more because they are seniors, and I think they have fulfilled their roles." 
Sophomore middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell explained Briggs and Ervin's games and attitudes, "They are injured themselves so it takes a lot for them to get our there and do what they do. They have so many skills and have both played for so long it brings a lot to the team." 
"I just go out there and play," JB explained of how she comes off the bench. ''I'm with people I've been playing with since I was a freshman and I get a lot of support from them, and we're all one so I don't think it really matters who is out there." 
The super-subs have accepted their roles on the team and have thrived. 
''I'm not playing for myself, I'm playing for my team," ex­plained Briggs. "So wherever I'm needed that is where I go and that's not always easy. My job is to go in and hit the ball hard when I go in." 
"My role is pretty much as a mental support, I think I am a stabilizing role on the team," Ervin described. "I am excited, but under control, I come in and play different positions. I get a 

The Observer/Rob Finch With her versatile style of play, senior Jen Briggs has made a signifi­cant contribution in her role off the bench this season. 
PEACE CORPS 
"THE TOUGHEST .JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE" 
SENIORS 

We want to urge you to apply now. Please submit your application by November 30. If qualified, you could depart for your rewarding and exciting Volunteer assignment in one of over 93 countries as early as the spring or summer of 1997. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 
1-800-424-8580 
www. peacecorps.gov 


The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies in conjunction with the Medieval Institute presents: 
Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library A reception will follow the lecture; all are welcome. 
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
lot of reps at practice at those positions which helps me to be ready." 
"Both are quiet but they get the job done," Treadwell re­marked. "They go out there and do what they are suppose to." 
Briggs and Ervin's success is not only limited to the court, they have excelled in the class­room as well. Both are mem­bers of the Dean's List. Both have been honored with the Rockne Student Athlete award which is given to the player with the highest grade point average on the team. Both were mem­bers of the 1995 Big East acade­mic all-star team. and just recently they have both been nominated for academic all­American selections. These awards and talents have also proven invaluable to coach Brown's team. 
"They are both great stu­dents," Brown admired. "They are both very good influences on the younger players because they take their studies seriously, they manage their time well. They are good examples for othe!' players on the team to fol­low. 
One of those younger players is freshman Mandi Powell who has performed well in her in­creased playing time. 
"With Kristina shas spent her time on the bench too, so she knows how I feel and she has helped me with what I should do and how I need to focus," Powell expressed. "They have both helped me so much with little and big details and I love'em to death. If I would ask them a question they would be there for anything so that's very nice to know." 
When asked how she manages to balance her books and her blocks Ervin did not have a clear answer. "I ask that question myself each year. It's very hard during the season," commented the Art major. 
·•·SPORTS BRIEFS 
.Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be offering Drop-In 
Volleyball on Tues., Dec. 3,and Dec. 10, from 7"10 p.m. in the 
Joyce Center. No establishedteams or advanced sign~ups neces­
sary; For more information call1·6100. 
Late Ni~t OlYJllpi~ ~tee~g;.CoiiU11it~ee -Anyone interestedJn serviltgpn;$ " ... ' . . . e~ring Commjttee, pleas 

'can Kara. 'tv:s .·.. .·•.····.. ... > . . ... 1r • · ••·• • ..
Oft;7G*mpus Vo~eyb . . one interested in playing o pus in~th~ll yolleyQall<Plf!!!Se call Gt~ at 273-9553.;: }it 
School of Information 
Step into Our 
Future 
Preparing for the challenges oftomorrow's information careers takes a school with exceptional resources and faculty commitment. It takes the School oflnfonnation at the University ofMichigan. Apply now for summer and falll997. 
Our Master ofScience in Information and doctoral programs value tradition yet boldly embrace technological advances. 
Fa<;ulty expertise spans library studies, information sciences, archival administration, economics, management, organizational development, behavioral science, user interface collaboration technology, human-computer interaction, computer science, and systems engineering. 

Application Deadlines 

January 15, 1997-The doctoral program (fall tenn only) Febmary 1, 1997-MSI (in consideration offinancial aid) April 15, 1997-All other MSI applications 
Join Us! 
(313) 763-2285
• 
SIAdmissions@umich.edu 
http://www.si.umich.edu/ 

The University of Michrgan is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Institution 
page 17 

Briggs and Ervin's athletic tal­ents do not just lay on the vol­leyball court, they have also found success with track and basketball. Under the Dome they have found glory in Bookstore Basketball as in their sophomore year they teamed up on the girl's championship squad. 
"It was a great time, I hadn't played since high school," Briggs said. "It was fun to play with Erv, she's the star of the team." 
"We had the greatest time, both of us love to play," re­marked the former Minnesota all-state performer." 
In fact Ervin's multi-roundball talents landed her in Sports Illustrated her 1,000 points in hoops and 1,000 kills in volley­ball got her picture in 'Faces in the Crowd.' 
Briggs, a Kalamazoo, Michigan native, has been hin­dered with surgery on both of her knees. Throughout her career tendinitis has plagued her and has not allowed her to really soar. 
"I really admire her," Brown praised. "Ever since she's been playing she's been playing in pain. That's really tough to do, it's hard to work hard in prac­tice every day and she is the type of person who will go to far, you have to stop her." 
"Everyone always asks me what percentage of your po­tential do you play at, and I refuse to answer that question," Briggs stated. "This is who I am, I am a player with bad knees so there is no reason to wonder how good I could be or how much better a hitter I could be, there is a reason that I have had to go through this and it has made me stronger." 
Briggs and Ervin have also felt impact of Notre Dame, not just the athletics and academics. When asked to comment on their years as a Domer they answered in similar fashion. 

Real Jobs, Real Futures 
Our graduates can be found: 
• 
At CNN, America Online, United Technologies, Microsoft, and other leading corporations 

• 
At Dream Works and other entertainment companies 

• 
At libraries, museums, and archives throughout the world 

• 
As Internet/Web trainers 

• 
On university faculties 


... 

r-----------------------------------~ -----------------~------------~ 
page 18 

The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 13, 1996 Hans Rasmussen: If the Irish hard enough, I could be the Class 5-A. He was second 
the court he's a warrior, and
Recruits 

had live Pat Garrity clones on player I want to be on the next team all-league and led his dis­off the court he's the nicest guy 
the floor would they finally be level." 

trict in rebounding. in the world. He's a nightmare continued from page 20 competitive? Once it was said "Rasmussen is a big kid with "He's a natural rebounder for guards because the way he 
as a joke, but it looks like the good perimeter skills, but he's and an excellent leaper," coach defends. He's one of my top 10 consistently outplayed basketball department is tak­not on anyone's top 100," Bailes explained. "He can 
prospects in the country and if 
lngelsby. It is claimed that ing the question seriously. Gibbons said. "He's somewhat reach 11-6 off one step and has they can get him, he pulls the during one preseason game Hans Rasmussen (6-9 205-in the mold of the players they a 33-inch vertical jump." class together." Bieg stole the ball away from pounds) joins the current already have-Todd Palmer 
According to one report, Within the past week, the Ingelsby three consecutive Garrity trend that the Irish comes to mind. But there's Williams recently went ballistic battle for Artest has been times up the floor. started last year with the sign­some promise there." during a fall scrimmage, scor­between Notre Dame,
Apparently, one school ing of present freshman for­Rasmussen also had offers ing 37 points, grabbing 15 re­Providence, St. John's and agreed with the alumni ward Todd Palmer. from Santa Clara, Navy and St. bounds and blocking four Miami. According to his coach, response concerning Bieg and Rasmussen, a native of Joe (PA). ·shots. While this is impressive, Artest may not announce his lngelsby. Stanford, who has Portland, Oregon, averaged a Leviticus Williams: Leviticus it should be remembered that decision until January.shown interest in both players, meager 10 points and seven Williams may eventually be the this was only a scrimmage. Mike Sullivan, of Insiders 
had Bieg rated ahead of rounds a game last season jewel of the class, but right Rice and SMU were also in Report, believes that Notre lngelsby and compared him to while playing power forward now he is definitely the 
the race for Williams. Dame needed both Artest and their All-American point guard and center for Central Catholic unknown prospect. One to go: The success of 
Vershaw to have a good class. Breven Knight because of simi­and was named honorable "I've never heard of him," the Irish's recruiting campaign Sadly the Irish were unable to lar quickness and ball-handling mention All-Conference. It Gibbons responded when asked depends on the final scholar­land Vershaw and it appears
skills. wasn't until an AAU tourna­about Williams. ship. After 6-9 Mark Vershaw they are falling behind on But here's the kicker. Some ment game this summer that "His basketball is absolutely of Peoria, IL committed to Artest. 
of you may have recognized Rasmussen felt he could be a ahead of him," William's coach Wisconsin over the weekend, "I don't think Notre Dame is that last name, "Bieg." He is Division I player. Chris Bailes proclaimed. only one top 60 player, 6-6 Ron going to get Artest," Sullivan the younger brother of Notre "There have been times I've Williams is the only recruit Artest of Manhattan, NY, is still said. "There's a lot of local Dame senior Greg Bieg and the wondered if I was good enough with the athletic potential to be showing interest in Notre pressure on him to stay home." son of a Notre Dame alumnus. to be a real player at Division I. a star in the Big East for the Dame. 
To sum it up: I guess PrepTim was very interested in Then this summer it happened. Irish. The 6-7 190-pound for­"Now Ronnie Artest is just Star's Recruiter's llandbook playing for the Irish, but that I had an awesome game and ward from Spring, Texas aver­what the Irish need," Gibbons 
says it best: "Notre Dame 
interest was never reciprocat­all my doubts went away. I aged 14 points and 11 re­said. "He's that 6-6 explosive seems to be consistently miss­
ed. came to believe that if I worked bounds a game in Houston's athlete they haven't had. On ing the elite prospects." 


You have a choice in health plans. To designate Saintjoseph sMedical Center asyour
-
prejf17edhospital select either Family Health Plan of Indiana or CIGNA. 
\ 
The ability to sG.ett a health plan ofyour choice is one ofthe benefits ofbeing a Notre Dame employee. This is an important decision. And to make this decision you need as much information as possible. That's why Saint Joseph's Medical Center, through the Select Health Network, wants you to know the only way you can make sure we are your hospital ofchoice is by selecting either Family Health Plan 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

oflndiana or CIGNA. 
Irish head coach John Macleod faces a difficult road ahead without the boost in recruiting that was expected from joining the Big East. Why is this important? Because Saint Joseph's Medical Center ha~ served people like you throughout 

... __ 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD FRE"D 1 FRED., ARE YOU OK! 
~--------------------------,
.----------------------------­
Wednesday, November 13, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
) 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
YOU MUST HA'VS PASSED 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOl!R LIFE: 

OUT FROM RUNNING 
FAR! ) 
Strike out on your own. You will REALLY~ HOW 
never make a name for voursclf it you tamclv follow the c~owd. Cre­

FAR DID "J:. GET?
( .___...,.. 
;,tive idea; abound as 1996 draw., to a clos~. Write them down lilf future u'e' Romance bloom, early til 11)97; get to know each other really well before making a commitment. Long-range business and financial projects look promising. Work on xour own when feasible, but be will­ing to team up with partners when doing so will maximize profits. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Whoopi Gold­berg, actress Madeline Sherwood,

MIKE PETERS 
football player Vinny Testaverde, author Robet1 Louis Steven"m-
ARIES !March 21-April 19): Experience show:-. you ways to reduce costs. Make lower bids. An off-again, on-again romance may be more trouble than it is worth. A longtime friendship could suddenly become something more. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ignore an uneasy feeling this morning. Your wonies are unfounded. Be confi­dent if you have prepared for a test or examination. Take care of minor car repairs before they become major. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although others may be in trouble. you come out smelling like a rose. Change physicians ifdissatisfied. Wonderful business opportunities exist right under your nose. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Let go of clutter. Donate no-longer­~eeded items to charity and g'et a 
c 
receipt for tax purposes. Working at home will eliminate transportation 

IF YOU HI\V£. A FIVE­u WHEN l SAID I "SEE 
GALLON BUCKET 1\NO HOW YOU THINKI,, 
and wardrobe costs. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Steer

A. FIFTY-GALLON WHAT I MEANT 
clear of troublesome people. lmpul-

BUCKET, HOW CAN Wl\5 ... YOU TELL WHICH ONE 

DlLBERT 
WE LIKE TO A51<-OUR APPLICANTS SOME. QUESTIONS THAT WILL ALLOW U 5 TO 5EE 1-\0W 
YOU THINK. 

.....
64lt means nothing to Nanette 
65 Jewelry in Pocatello? 68 Belly-button 

type 69 Family relation 70Grammy 71 Certain NCO's 72 Author Richard 
Henry and others 73 Goon 
DOWN 

1 A little laughter 2 Kind of proportions 3 Cabinet 
member Janet 4 Canner? 5 Droop &"Oh my," to 
Ohm 7 Cube creator 8 Made up (for) 9 Sage or thyme, 
e.g. 30Rip 49 Evangeline's sa Orange exterior 10 Secret supply home
32Yemen's 60 Penny11 "Take--!" peninsula 51 First name in 61 Hardly exciting ("Scram!") 34 Blight victim the Kremlin 
&2 Diner's card 
12 Recluse 36 Take different 52Fitfor-­
&3 Dateless
13---frutti paths 53 Chane! product 
66 Nipper's co. 
18 Little map on a 37 Go for 54 Awards for Neil Simon 67 D.D.E.'s '52 and 
big page 38 Baltic feeder 22 Dermatologist's 39 Treaties end 56 Veep Barkley '56 rival 
case them 24 Commotion 42 1974 N.L. 25 Land in the batting champ Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
ocean Ralph are available by touch-tone phone: 27 Difficult situation 45 Once-over, 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 28 Danza/DeVito maybe Annual subscriptions are available for the sitcom 47 Hideout for best of Sunday crosswords from the last 29 Scraped (out) Anne Frank 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

.... 


::E 0 
u 
-' 
0 <!!>"' 
"'::E 
0 
"' 
... 
"' 
... 
u 
.. "' 0 
E 
.;, 

HOLDS /"\ORE WATER? 
ow! 
ow.1 
) 
ow! 
~i ve mon!~ and dec1~10n' arl' he'! avoided. Follov. the lead and adncc of a highly responsible as">eiatc 
VIR(;() !Aug. 2.1-Scpt 22): Take ~tep ...., to a' oid a ~eparat1on. Coun.seling coulu help. Nos) neigh­ho" should be given a wiue berth. Dealing with Zteeper ernottonal issues proves liherating. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 221: If someone criticizes your efftH1s. con­sider the source. Your motivation to succeed returns in full force' Be diplomatic when expressing dislike for a friend's unattractive habit. 
SCORPIO !Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Good timing is essentiaL Wait until the afternoo'O to let a surprise out of the bag. A;,k for a raise or transfer if you feel you deserve it. However, be prepared to wait a while longer. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21 ): Passions run high today. Defer to the wishes of your loved ones. You instinctively know how to han­dle tricky career matters. Refuse to get drawn into a power struggle. 
CAPRICORN iDee. 22-Jan. 19): Higher-ups surprise you. Try to give the right answers. but be honest if you will need more time to obtain certain information. A terrific wind­fall allows you new creative or artis­tic freedom. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be optimistic when tackling a prob­lem. Listen carefully to suggestions from people who want to join your team. A family situation requires great tact. especially if you are not aware of all the circumstances. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Reexamine your priorities before tackling a new assignment. You may have to make some last-minute changes in your schedule. Have a backup plan in case things go awry 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Zeus's'wife 5 "Nearer. My God, to Thee" 
writer~~ 
Adams 
10 See 59-Across 14 Tiptop 15 Critical 16 1 0 C-notes 11 Person next door in Honolulu? 19Aretha Franklin's "-­NoWay" 20 Tough nut 21 Clothes hamper in Gary? 23 Lace with liquor 2&Word on a French valentine 27 Musical sets 31 Dapper one 
33 Tea holder in Pittsburgh? 35Make new furrows 40 They can take a yoke 41 Wyeth's "-­Pictures" 43 Fictional slave girl of Egypt 44 Fidget 
46 Circus employee in Cambridge? 
48 Tide alternative 50 Tex and John 51 Tend to the 
turkey 55 200 milligrams 57 Pen in Tulsa? 59 Weapons 
limited by 10-Across 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, November 13, 1996 
• fOOTBAll • ON RECRUITING 
Holtz pleased with offensive performance Irish miss 
By DAVE TREACY Associat< Sports Editor 
Despite numerous fumbles. penalties, inconsistencies at wide receiver, and injuries this season. Lou Holtz finally had somPthing completely positive to sav about his offense at Tues(lay's press conference. 
They've found a rhythm. 
It would seem that the coach is right. Over the last two games. the Irish offense has tallied 938 vards of total offense. including 729 on the ground. Smashmouth football has indcPd returned to Notre DamP football. with a flourish and a cloud of dust. 
"I think offpnsively, we are falling into a rhythm." Holtz appraised. "I think our players are not a great football team, but I think we are falling into a rhythm... Several weeks ago I commented we weren't into a rhythm. It was distressing. We seem to be in one now." 
The statistics back him up. Hight now the offense is mov­ing better than John Travolta in Saturday Night Fever. Hopefully, the fluid moves won't change for the worse due to the knee injury suffered by Marc Edwards. The ques­tion is. however. what kind of a juggernaut would be releasPd if the mistakes, espe­cially the fumbles, were shak­en out of the system'? Or if the passing game fell into place? 
lloltz would love to find out. 
• VOLLEYBALL 

Briggs and Ervin crucial to Irish success 
ByJOECAVATO 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame volleyball team needs a 
lift from the bench or when one of their stars 
goes down, head coach Debbie Brown knows 
she can look down her bench with confidence as 
seniors Jen Briggs and Kristina Ervin will be 
ready to answer the call. 
The four year letter winners make up half of 
one of Notre Dame's most successful classes in 
history. Briggs and Ervin team with fellow 
classmates captain Jenny Birkner and blocker 
Jen Rouse to contribute to a 104-28 record in 
their career under the Dome. 
You will not find their names in Irish history 
books but you will find them at the heart of the 
team's success. With the lingering knee prob­
lems and subsequent surgery of Angie Harris. 
Briggs has come on lately filling in for the all­
district player from a year ago. In the past five 
weeks the outside hitter's cannon for a right 
arm has lead the Domers in kills in four match­
es which currently places her fourth on the 
team in that category. 
"JB has done a great job of switching from 
middle blocker to outside hitter," Brown raved. 
"She hits the ball really, really hard. When she 
is on, she's unstoppable." 
Ervin has been used as a backrow player with 
her terrific defense, but her versatility has
.. 
become invaluable with the early season injury 
to Carey May which took hitter Jaimie Lee to 
the setter slot. 
"Erv's never been a regular starter, but she's 
always been a key contributor," Brown ex­
plained. "She has very, very good skills. She's 
see V-BALL I page 17 


"Our backs our playing well," he said. "Other than the fum­bles and the penalties, and our inability to throw the ball on a consistent basis against man­coverage... I feel very comfort­able with the rhythm the foot­ball team is in at the present time." 
Holtz is predictably con­cerned, however, with the 16 days of preparation afforded to Johnny Majors and the University of Pittsburg 

Panthers. 
"They changed their offense and defense (since an open date before Virginia Tech and Boston College}," Holtz re­ported. "They have 16 days to prepare for the University of Notre Dame. I have never had a team have that long to pre­pare for us unless it was an opening ballgame." 
The revamped offense fea­tures quarterback Matt Lytle, a big sophomore who likes to 
roam. Lytle also has quick re­ceivers to use, and a decent of­fensive line in front of him. 
"Since they changed quarter­backs and went to Matt Lytle, their offense has really had a good spark. He is a good scrambler. He runs the ball well, runs a lot of play-action passing. He is a big young man, six-foot-four. Throws the ball with a strong arm. He is 
see FOOTBALL! page 16 
out on top recruits 
W
here did we go wrong? They said if we would join it, they would come. So we cursed and abandoned our basketball independence and 
joined the r-----------, 

Big East, yet the players still would not acknowl­edge our 
presence. 
·""-'. 

We pointed to our indict­ed point ~~-~~~­
guard and Recruiting 
said see. Correspondent we're no dif­ferent from Georgetown and Villanova." But still thev laughed and turned away, and all we can ask is: "why'?" 
For one week, beginning today, top high school seniors can sign with their college of choice, and Notre Dame is ex­pected to fill three of its four available scholarships during this early signing period. 
Martin lngelsby: With ex­starting point guard Doug Gottlieb off the team, ironically because of his signature play, the "charge," point guard has become a priority for the Irish. and Martin lngelsby is their man. 
The 5-11 165 pound lkrwyn, PA native averaged 17 points, six assists and three steals his junior year while starting for Archbishop Carroll. lie shot 92 percent from thn frnn­throw line and was namPd to the first-team All-Catholic League. Stanford. Michigan State, Princeton, Davidson and LaSalle were also in the run­ning for his serviees. 
"lngelsby does some things that Doug Gottlieb did." recruiting analyst Bob Gibbons said. "lie's a coach's son and a gym rat. lie makes great decisions and he's fundamen­tally sound. The only thing that he's lacking is exenptional athletic ability, but he'll be a good get." 
Yet it is this lack of excep­tional athletic ability and size that have eastern Notrn Dame alumni furious. It seems that Ingelsby wasn't the best point guard in the area available to Notre Dame. Apparently, Tim Bieg was. 
Bieg. a 5-11 185-pound point guard from Camden Catholic in Cherry II ill, NJ, averaged 18 points , 7 assists and 6 steals a game his junior season. According to scouts in the area, Bieg is a much quicker guard than lngelsby and is a better physical match for the rugged Big East style of play. 
When the two have matched up in summer league and pre­season games, Bieg has 
see RECRUITS/ page 18 
vs. Pirrsburgh

,-
aJ •Pacer's Rose wants more time
SPORTS 
November 16, 1:30 p.m. 

at Connecticut 
@ November 16, 2 p.m. ~ see page 14
vs. Indiana

... 
.....
ATA 
;.~-November 17, 1 p.m. 

vs. Ferris State CIJ • Paterno's reactions 
'\_
vs. Connecticut 

November 15, 7 p.m. 
-see page 12 :~ November 16 GLANCE 
~ 



