
Tuesday, April30, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 134 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'96 exchange includes all ga01es Several SOH employees 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students looking to exchange llwir football tickets for general admission tieknts next season will now be able to ehoose from all six homfl games, two more than wern available last year. 
This is part of the newly re­vamped football ticket exehange program. announced by student governmnnt yester­day. In addition, for four of the six gamns, 400 tickets will be available to the program, up from 300 last year. For the othu two games. the ticket allotment will remain at 300. 
The details of the program were worked out between stu­dent govllrnment's athletic re­sources department and the University's athletic depart­ment. .Jeff Ward, nxecutive di­redor of the athletic resources dnpartrnent, said the University was Vllry coopnrative in devel­oping the new nxchange pro­gram. 

University sponsors cycling day 
By ERIN LUM News Wrilrr 
It's spring-a perfeet time to enjoy the onset of good weath­nr and the artivities that come with it. In cnlebration of sun­shirw and the beginning of warm WIHtllwr, the University of Notre Dame will hold its semi-annual Bike to Campus Day tomorrow. 
The event, whieh was creat­ed Lo fosttlr an appreciation for tlw benefits of bieycling among Notre Dame students and fae­ully, will kiek off tomorrow morning with a nweting of participating bicyelists between 
see BJKE/ page 4 
Football Ticket Exchange Program Below are the exchange dates for home football games of the 1996 season. Game Exch.angeable Exchange Dates

T1ckets 

Purdue 400 September 1 0 .. 12 
Ohio State 400 September 17-19 
Washington 300 October 1-3 
Air Force 300 October 8-10 
Pitt$bUrgh 400 November 5-7 

Rut ers 400 November 12-14 
"The University has been very receptive to all our sugges­tions," Ward said. "This new program will benefit the stu­dents, and that is what's impor­tant." 
During the course of the sea­son, eaeh student will be able 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCIL 

The Observerffom Roland 
to exchange two student tickets for GA tickets. The exchanging of tickets will take place at the ticket office during the Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to 
see TICKETS/ page 6 


upset with management 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
and EREK NASS 
News Writer 
South Dining Hall officials' demands on their elderly em­ployees have grown increas­ingly unreasonable over the past several weeks, according to several dining hall employ­ees. 
Dining hall officials have be­gun enforcing what they main­tain are the directives of the job description for the o1der workers who stand at the exits. These dining hall workers are no longer allowed to sit at the doors, but are required to stand for their shifts. 
Many of the older workers find it difficult to stand for such a period of time but have not spoken up previously because they say they fear losing their jobs. 
One worker was willing to 
talk under the condition of anonymity. ''I'm so afraid of him [South Dining Hall Senior Manager Jim Yarbrough]. Very afraid," the worker stated. ''I'm scared to look at him." 
Yarbrough had no comment but did explain that it was never a stated policy that workers were allowed to sit. "Their job description does not allow for sitting down," he said. 
The only exception was al­lowed in the case of a man with a prosthetic leg, who was re­quired to obtain a medical ex­cuse first. "We have one gen­tlemen who has a problem with his leg, but we allowed him to sit with a note from his doctor. And we honor that," Yarbrough explained. 
Workers say they were told to stand so they could better watch the students who try to sneak extra items out of the 
see SOH/ page 6 



New members table Ad Hoc resolution 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Assislant News Editor 
A new resolution was presented com­menting on the Ad lloc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and the response by Vice President of Student Affairs Patrieia O'Hara to their report yes­terday at the final Campus Life Council meeting of the year. 
Ava Preacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters, introduced the resolution, which was the third proposed by a CLC member regarding O'Hara's response to the Ad lloe Committee. 
The resolution states: "Whereas the Final Heport of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs was issued after a year long eonsultative process involving several constituencies on campus, and whereas the Final Heport is a careful, thoughtful, and productive contribution to the campus dialogue on a controversial is­sue... 
" ... The Campus Life Couneil is disap­pointed with the highly qualified response of the Vice President of Student Affairs to her own committee's report, and we urge Vice President O'Hara to accept the report in its entirety, without reservations." 
Before Preacher introduced this resolu­tion to the council, Sister Mary Griffin voiced her concern that, this being the sec­ond meeting of the new council, the rela­tively new members were not ready to vote on the issue. In order to be more prepared, she suggested council members reflect more on Church teachings regarding the issue. Griffin suggested that members of the Theology department might be able to offer a better understanding of the issue for the council. 
Griffin then urged the council to have this reflective session at their next meeting in September. Although many members approved of the idea, Preacher maintained that she wanted the council to make a statement on the issue before the year ended and offered her resolution to do so. 
Before discussing this resolution, Student Body President Seth Miller suggested vot­ing to table the other two resolutions until 


The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice-president of Student Affairs, favored tabling the CLC's resolution. 
eouncil members had a better knowledge of the issue. His suggestion passed unani­
see CLC/ page 4 


Moving '96: 'Cause packing up is hard to do 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
As-ndJI< New• Ediwr 
Thern anl lofts to dismantle, a room to el!Htn, and finals to study for. In the rush of the last two weeks ol' the school YIHtr, who really has time to worry about packing and ship­ping or storing thn rnmains of tlwir dorm room'! 
Whilll packing may seem like Llw lnast of orw's worries, a few guidnlines offer students the bllsl way to ensure that tlwir lwlongings will remain safe until the beginning of the next school year, aeeording to Hose Horak, owner of the Country llarVIJSter, a store located in the hasenwnt of LaFortune which olTtlrs UPS shipping ser­vien. 
For students who have to ship boxes horne, the guidelines should be adhered to as a nec­essary precaution for the ship­ping process. Boxes should be sturdy and properly secured, packed with cushioning mate­rial to protect the contents of the box. 
"Tennis shoes, towels, and crumpled newspapers do not count as packing material." Ho­rak said. "Styrofoam chips are morn resilient and have more paeking power. Any break­ables need at least two inches of this packing material on the top, bottom, and all sides, espe­cially.. for eleetronic compo­nents. 
When sorting materials to mail, books ean be mixed with elothing in order to obtain the best value for the money. Packing dothing with heavier items such us books also adds extra cushioning, Horak noted. 
In addition to boxes, UPS also ships suitcases, crates and duf­fel bags, provided that they are loeked. 
Cartons only require one ad-

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Many students struggle to completely pack their rooms before the hall storage deadline. Shipping boxes home is a popular alternative. 
dress label, Horak said, due to essential, and the label should UPS' method of shipping. Ho-include the complete address of rak also said that legibility is the box's destination. 
In the event that a package is lost or damaged, UPS insures packages that have a declared value of less than $100 free of charge. Additional insurance can be purchased at 40 cents per $100 of increased value. 
"The insurance can be in­creased up to $25,000 so it is no problem to insure items such as computers," Horak said. 
If a package shipped via UPS from the Country Harvester is damaged, the owner should call Horak at the store, and she will pursue the claim against UPS. Claims usually take between 14 and 21 days to be processed before a check is mailed to the package owner. 
Last year, Horak mailed over 300 packages via UPS from her store, and only four were re­ported lost or damaged. 
UPS offers ground service 
see PACKING/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April30, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
How 
•

time flies 
Ten years ago, some friends of mine in fifth Mark Torma grade noticed some-Accent Writer thing-Hey, Mark, your mom's pregnant, isn't she?" I hadn't told them, but I was glad, and proud, that they had noticed that Mom was carrying my third and last brother. My brothers David and Ben were also younger than me, but this time I was old enough to appreciate the new family member, and I anticipated "him," whomever he would be, with great impatience. 

Finally, on June 21, Daniel was born. Ire­member thinking he was no larger than my arm. David, Ben, and I all treated and mis­treated him like a brother, but he was so much smaller than all of us, it was kind of hard for me to think of him as a real person­we were boys, and he was a baby. I couldn't find any sign of full humanhood. 
Talking-now that made all the difference in the world. As soon as Daniel learned to talk, he was otT and running. He talked at almost all times when he was with people­not loudly, just constantly-and when he was alone, he didn't have fun. I had finally found a smidgen of Daniel's personality. At least now when people asked me about my youngest brother. I had something to say: "He talks a lot." 
Even so, I still saw him as a distant relative, not as much of a brother as David, who I played, argued, and fought with regularly; I couldn't do any of that on an equal level with Daniel. As he grew, so did I. up and out and off to high school and then college, and our interests grew farther apart. David and then Ben burst through the barrier of adolescence to become people of a size and depth I could relate to, but Daniel stayed a little boy. 
Today, Daniel is left at home, watching his brothers leave the house one by one. Even if David and I have other things to think about as we leave at the end of breaks, Daniel watches his family at home grow smaller, los­ing his brothers for longer and longer each year. This was brought to light for me this Easter. when Mom said Daniel was teary-eyed after saying good-bye to me; it was the first time he had seen me since January, and the last time until June, when he turns ten years old. 
It amazes me to think that in another ten years, that little boy will be full-grown person, tall. strong, and articulate. I hope he is able to go to Notre Dame too, if he wants to. But more than anything, I hope that I get to know him by then. I fear that later, when someone asks me about Daniel, I will have nothing to say. I can't let that happen, though; if he knows me as his brother. I should know him as mine. This summer, I've decided I'm going to get to know him as I should and talk with him more than I have. 
As we close out this school year, I entreat all of you to remember those you go home to now; it won't always be that easy to go back to them. I know the seniors are feeling it, the rP.st of us have it deferred for a time. Still, the time is really very short, and whether it's a younger sibling, a grandparent, or anyone else close to you, don't wait: time well-spent with them now will save you a lifetime of won­dering what you missed. If you're disap­pointed that I haven't moralized or addressed any ultra-cool campus issue in this column, save your complaints until next year. I'll be occupied with family business 'til then-I hope you understand. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Heather Cocks Russ Williams Production 
Belle Bautista Sports Heather Cocks Kathleen Lopez Lab Tech Katie Kroener
Graphics 

• WORW AT A GLANCE 
Despite UN presence, violence persists in Bosnia 
SJENINA, Bosnia-Herzegovina 

Muslim refugees confronted a Serb roadblock and crossed a minefield Monday in a resolute effort to reach homes they had not seen in years. At least two Muslims were killed and a dozen injured. 
A third Muslim died after being wounded in a separate clash with Serbs near Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital. A dozen other refugees were injured in that confrontation. 
The Muslim-Serb disputes present a major challenge to the international peace effort, which is based on refugees' freedom to move about. Until Monday, no one had been killed in showdowns between would-be re­turnees and their former enemies, who don't want them coming back. 
Muslims and 25 Serbs at a checkpoint Monday near Doboj, about 60 miles north of Sarajevo. 
When some Muslims tried to circum­vent the obstruction by crossing a near­by minefield to reach their former homes, several blasts were heard and a dozen people were hurt, officials said. They later reported that two Muslims had died. 
NATO spokesman Maj. Jerry Rehn said one was killed by small-arms fire of undetermined origin and the second presumably by a mine blast. 
Maj. Paci Karonen, a spokesman for peacekeepers in Doboj, a few miles southwest of Sjenina, said seven dead or wounded had been evacuated by 
'----------'----=------' helicopter but that U.S. Apache chop­
The U.S.-brokered agreement that ended the war pro­vided no clear way to enforce its guarantee of freedom of movement. This forced the NATO-led peace force to enter the breach and perform a task it had steadfastly resisted: scrambling to put out one dispute after another, aware that any one could touch off new flareups in Bosnia. 
Swedish and U.S. troops stood between about 300 pers had spotted another five people still in the minefield. 
It was not clear whether any of those were dead. 
There were conflicting descriptions of the incident. 
A statement from the NATO-led peace force blamed local authorities for failed crowd control. It said small numbers of people had been allowed to cross at the same point Sunday, but the crowd Monday grew impatient and Muslim civilians began throwing rocks. 
Clinton defends record on drug war 
MIAMI 
Criticized as weak in the war on drugs, President Clinton announced a drive Monday to curb a sharp rise in marijuana use among young people and to stop the spread of the cheap and dangerous drug methamphetamine. The administration said Clinton's elec­tion-year initiative was the opening shot in a 10-year effort aimed at 

returning America to a 1960s, pre-Vietnam level of drug use. "Make no mistake about it, this has got to be a bipartisan, American, non-political effort," said Clinton, even as Republicans scoffed at his drug-fighting record. "Since Bill Clinton was elected, the number of illegal aliens is up, the number of drug addicts is up," House Speaker Newt Gingrich said in a Las Vegas speech. The administration acknowledged that Clinton erred early in his administration by cutting staff in the White House drug control office. Clinton implored Congress to approve his request for a $15.1 billion initiative relying heavily on drug education, prevention and treatment programs, in­terdiction efforts and a crackdown on drug-related crime and violence. It would amount to a 9.3 percent increase in drug-fighting funds. 
Feds investigate church fires 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 
At 4 a.m. on Jan. 8, the phone rang at the home of the Rev. David Upton. The urgent message from one of his congregants: "The church is on fire!" The pastor anx­iously negotiated his way through a half-foot of snow, only to find the two-story brick building engulfed in flames. For seven hours, he stood and watched the increasingly futile efforts to save it. Like the return of a Biblical plague, predominantly black churches in the South are enduring a wave of vandalism, burnings and firebombings reminiscent of the attacks that took place during the height of the anti-integration era more than 30 years ago -the most notable being the 1964 bombing of a Birmingham church that claimed the lives of four schoolgirls. Though no one has been killed or injured in the current wave, federal agents are investigating 23 church fires that have been set since January 1995-16 of them since Christmas alone. 

Lionel Richie on the comeback trail 
NEW YORK 
It's midafternoon and Lionel Richie, after a series of interviews and photo shoots in a scant few hours, is look­ing -well -a bit haggard. With a new beard and a new album, the one-time superstar has been breezing through a public relations marathon of late to promote the release of "Louder Than Words," his first album of all­new material in a decade. He's also been on location with Denzel Washington and Whitney Houston with a bit part in Penny Marshall's "The Preacher's Wife." So, he ad­mits to being weary as he begins yet another interview. But don't talk to Richie about taking a break -his last "vacation" lasted almost a decade. "As much as I'm sounding exhausted, the alternative is to have nothing to do because no one cares," he said, relaxing in a New York hotel room. "If you ever catch me saying I'm taking a vacation again, just please stop me." After years of racking up hits with the Commodores, Richie catapulted himself into superstardom with his quadruple-platinum, self-entitled debut album in 1982 and the subsequent 1983 release of "Can't Slow Down," which sold more than 8 million copies in the United States alone. He also won an Academy Award for best original song in 1985 for "Say You, Say Me," from the movie "White Nights." Then, he dropped otT the face of the music world. 
Geneticists find blindness gene 
NEW YORK After searching for more than a decade, scientists have found a gene for a disease that usually blinds men by age 
30. The condition is a particularly severe form of retinitis pigmentosa, or RP. Overall, RP affects some 100,000 Americans. The gene, when defective, causes one of the most common forms of RP, accounting for about 10 per­cent to 20 percent of RP cases. The discovery of the "RP3" gene might eventually help researchers devise treatments. RP3 is one of three genes known to be on the X chromosome that cause particularly severe RP that hits hardest in men. The newfound gene causes about 70 per­cent of these cases. The two other genes haven't been identified. Boys with a defect in one of these genes have difficulty seeing at night and develop tunnel vision. By 30, they are usually blind. No cure is known. The finding of the RP3 gene was reported in the May issue of the jour­nal Nature Genetics by Dr. Alan Wright. 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April30. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Tues Thursday Frida.y 

i 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pr9ssure

Satut:day 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
~~-~./'...~---..... ,,._.,.. /'......~·:.:.": 
,:;.,,· .. 

Vta Assoclatfld Press 
Wedne~day­
Tom Roland 


Q..r'l4'1d&18(f ~ ~ 
,,',,,~,~.· .....·.+.::=·.::=·-=--=--=­
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Via Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  73  45  Dallas  80  52  Miami  77  67  
Baltimore  71  46  Denver  69  40  Minneapolis  55  32  
Boston  67  50  Green Bay  50  30  New York  66  51  
Calgary  44  21  Las Vegas  94  63  Pittsburgh  55  42  
Chicago  52  32  Los Angeles 87  64  Seattle  59  43  

Tuesday, April 30, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Radostits stresses benefits of leadership, initiative 
By ALYSSON COOK ful people that have entered her News Writer life because of her involvement with leadership in the communi­
"Celebrating A Leadership ty. She stressed the role leader­Community" continued yester­ship played in all that she has day at the Community accomplished and all that she Leadership Luncheon, as Saint will do in the futuro. Mary's College explored the During this 1995-1996 school ways in which the College fos­year. Hadostits played a key role ters a community of leaders. in the development of "Grade Linda Timm. Viee President for Expectations" through the Student Afl'airs, in lwr weleome Leadership Development to all those attending said, Committee stressing that "Thank you all for the various "grades are extremely impor­levels of leadership and involve­tant, and their implications ment. It is this that makes Saint inOuence students and the com­Mary's College such a dynamic munity." In explaining the rea­eommunity." son for a celebration of a leader­
Tlu~ kt~ynolf~ of the luncheon ship community, Radostits was Teresa Hadostits, a said,"we are all called to leader­Humanistic Studies major and ship positions which allow us to current member of the change and grow with one LtHtdership Development another, and we must see how Committee, who shared a brief these experiences of leadership addrt~ss, "Changing Who We shape and change the communi­Are: Our Experiences of ty." Leadership and Community." The Student Leadership Hadostits rcnected on how fur Appreciation Award was pre­slw has come, and the wonder-sented during the luncheon to 


Are You Prepared? WeAre. 
~ small classes of 15 or fewer 
~ free caduceus software 
~ free extra help witth your instructor 

~ four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams 
~ independently verified score improvements 
~ guaranteed satisfaction 
THE 
, PRINCETON 
REVIEW 

Classes begin June 8th for the August 17, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
'The Prinl-elon Review is nol affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 
Kevin Kirwan, Director of Marriot Dining and Food Services. Kirwan. on recelVmg the award said,"I was pleasantly surprised at such an honor. This award a(:lded to the rewards I gain from working with the stu­dents." 
Jen Turbiak, Saint Mary's College Student Body President­Elect said of the I u n c he0 n ... This 



The Observer/Kim Michalik 

event is about As part of events for "Celebrating a Leadership Community," Sister Rose Anne provided 
celebrating, not cop1es of the mission statement at the Commissioning Ceremony in the Church of Loretto. only for what we have already a wonderful community." students realize that leadership accomplished, but to inspire Anne Werring, a sophomore at doesn't just involve a defined current and up-coming leaders Saint Mary's College, position, and that everyone can to realize their potential in such said,"Programs like this help all be a leader in their own way." 
Authorities probe crash cause 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The jetliner crash that killed Commerce Secretary Ron Brown and 34 others in Croatia earlier this month might have been avoided if military rules and procedures· had been foi­l o w e d , according to published reports. 
Brown
The pilot and copilot had never seen the airport in Dubrovnik before but neverthe­less attempted to land in heavy clouds, The New York Times reported on Sunday. It said even Croatia Airlines will not 

Cavanaugh Hall. 
SUN., APRIL 28 

11 :45 p.m ASouth Bend resident was 9:28 a.m. A Carroll Hall resident was
cited for speeding on Ivy Road. transported by Security to St. Joseph 
Medical Center for treatment of a iacera·

SAT., APRIL 27 
lion.

5 a.m. A University employee reported 3:08 p.m. A Howard Hail resident
damage to her vehicle while parked on reported the theft of her laptop computer
the east side of North Dining Hall. from the second floor of the Hesburgh
12:29 p.m. A Keenan Hall resident Library.
reported the theft of cash from his 8:54 p.m. Avisitor was transported to
unlocked room. St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment
4:44 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident was of an illness. 
Chinese ~ American k _.-&fa. GR£AT Restau.rant and 
J; ·~-~~uALL Cocktatl Lounge 
.'I ft Aurhenttc Szechuan, M.mJenn & llunan Cutsme 
Bar and Restauraunt open 7 days a week 
Lunches starting at__ $4.25 \'otl'd Bl'~t
Dinners starting at __ $5.95 Oril'nt.d Rl·~t.lllr.mt
Banquet rooms available for up yo 200 in ~\it:hi.1n.1 b, 130 Dixie Way N.,South Bend 
;\lit-l!iwtu ;'\'ott' 

(next to Randall's Inn) 



Old Mill Storage 
400 s. WEST STREET 
MISHAWAKA 259-9311 
sizes sxs to IOX25 Now available, recently expanded 
Announcing the AT&T 
"Ultimate ROAD TRIP" sweepstakes. 
Studying abroad this Fall? AT&T would like to help pay your way. 
10 GRAND PRIZE WINNERS ­Round-Trip Air Transportation from the U.S. to the country where you will study. 
Plus thousands of other 
chances to win... 
• 
Leather-bound passport folders 

• 
High-quality currency converters 


To enter, call 
Or see your Study Abroad Counselor for more details. 
No purchase necessary. Void where prohibited. Sweepstakes ends IJ/31/96. Open to citizens of the U.S., 18 years or older, attending school abroad for the Fall '96 semester through participating schools. See your Study Abroad Counselor for official rules and details. 
C 1996 AT~T 

let its own crews land in Dubrovnik if both the pilot and copilot have never done it be­fore. And the Air Force told pi­lots based in the United States never to land there in anything but clear weather, The Times said. 
USA Today said today that the flight broke Air Force rules by trying to land at a foreign airport that had not been sur­veyed for safety. 
Published charts say a pilot must be able to see the runway within 2 miles of and 1,631 feet above the airport and if that is not possible, the landing should be aborted. the newspaper 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., APRIL 26 
7:12 p.m. A Cavanaugh Hall resident reported the theft of her laptop computor from the fourth floor study loung.e in 
said. 
A military log obtained by The Associated Press detailed a frustrating string of false re­ports about the location of the plane after it crashed on April 
3. A storm, misinformation and Croatian roadblocks kept the 
U.S. military from reaching the scene for half a day. 
By the time they arrived, Croatian police had taken con­trol of the crash site and a po­lice roadblock kept the U.S. commander waiting for an hour. The plane was more than a mile off course when it slammed into the mountain­side, killing all aboard. 
transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
8:38 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. There were no injuries reported. 


--~---------. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 30, 1996 

Notre Dame's commitment to supporting the use of non-mo­

Bike 
need to give her time," he said. Sullivan then proposed a Preacher then stated, "We are greater dialogue with the stu­at the same point we were at dent body on the issue as Seetch continued from page 1 last year. We need to educate had previously requested. Miller council members, and then start promised he and his staff would mously, and the resolutions the whole process over again in work on doing just that over the were pushed back until next the fall." She added that she summer. He also suggested the year. had a difficulty in doing the council have a meeting with 
Preacher believed the new same thing again knowing the members of the Theology de­resolution did not need to be effort involved by many people. partment on the Monday after tabled along with the others. "If we don't make a statement, registration. The council will Since the report only com­it seems like we're acquiescing then convene on the first Mon­mended the work of the Ad Hoc to the new group [allowed by day in September. 
Committee, she argued, most O'Hara]." In other CLC news, Miller up­council members should have Rozum said that the council's dated the council on Student enough knowledge on the issue silence on the issue would be Government's efforts to re­to vote on the resolution. interpreted as recognizing the search the effectiveness of the Tom Matzzie, Judicial Council hard work put in by all groups University's advising system.president, agreed with involved in the issue. He didn't CLC members had outlined the Preacher, asking the new mem­see the point of the negative system earlier this year, and bers if they thought they were statement against O'Hara in Miller now plans to compareready to vote on the resolution. Preacher's resolution. Notre Dame's system with simi­
Several felt they were not Father Bill Seetch suggested larly structured systems across ready at this point to make a that it might be beneficial to get the country. decision. Yet, Deborah Hell­the general student body's opin­Council members reminded muth, Hall Presidents Council ion before moving the issue any Miller of the biggest complaints co-president, felt that the na­further. Campus Senator Shane they felt students had about the ture of Preacher's resolution Bigelow, outlining both sides of advising system. Suggestions was different from those two the debate, said, "The problem included better advising stu­that were tabled. is that Gays and Lesbians at dents on how many credits they
Bill Kirk, assistant vice-presi­Notre Dame does not fit in with needed to graduate and to sat­dent of Student Affairs, rebutted the values of the Church, but isfy a major, and help duringHellmuth's statement, stating, O'Hara has put too many the transition from freshman to "It would be naive to say this restrictions on a campus sophomore year. 
only commends the Ad Hoc group's ability to thrive," he Student Government Chief of Committee. The resolution also said. Staff Brendan Kelly discussed criticizes O'Hara." Kirk felt that The statements by new mem­Student Government's textbook 
some members who were not bers caused Miller to again sug­exchange program. The pro­yet acquainted with O'Hara's gest they did not have enough gram will allow students to post response to CLC resolutions background on the issue to vote. books they want to buy and sell might not be in the proper posi­However, as some felt the reso­on the Internet. The hope is that 
tion to criticize her judgment. lution did not require a lot of transactions between students Father George Rozum agreed experience in order to be put to will save students the money it with Kirk, and worried that the vote, Father Patrick Sullivan takes to buy and sell books at 
resolution gave the council the submitted a motion to end the the Bookstore. impression that O'Hara did not debate, and then a motion to Kirk endorsed the plan be­respond in good will. Rozum suspend the rules in order to cause he felt it would not signif­
responded by saying O'Hara vote on the resolution on the icantly affect the Bookstore's acted with the best of inten­same day it was presented. revenue. According to Kirk, the 
CLC 

tions, whether or not one agrees The first motion passed, but corporations who publish the with her decision. "The the second motion, which need­textbooks often fix high pricestimetable for further action by ed a two-thirds majority to be on the Bookstore which the stu­O-'Hara is already written in. We successful, did not pass. dents end up paying for. 
continued from page 1 
the Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering and the Snite Museum of Art, where bagels, juice, and coffee will be served. 
Notre Dame Security Police will also set up a "bike corral" until 5:30 p.m. It will serve as a place for participants to store their bikes. In addition, all par­ticipants will be eligible for a drawing of prizes such as bicy­cle helmets, rear safety lights, headlights, and sports bottles. 
The Bike-to-Campus Day was established by the Faculty Sen­ate's Pedestrian and Bikeways Committee, with the mission of promoting promote bicycling as a non-polluting, non-motorized means of transportation and recreation. 
Kern Trembath. one of the organizers of the event, said that the event serves a dual purpose. He said, "First, it shows that bikes can be a seri­ous and regular commuting vehicle during good weather months. Second, it shows 

Packing 
continued from page 1 
that takes three to four days to arrive at any U.S. destination, as well as three-day select service, second-day air, and next day air. 
To handle the end of the year traffic, the store will offer the following extended hours: May 6-10, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Sat­urdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m."We will be shipping through May 22 to accommodate seniors here after graduation," Horak said. 
The Notre Dame Post Office torized forms of commuting in order to improve employee health and job performance, traffic congestion, and air qual­ity." 

The Pedestrian and Bikeways Committee hopes that because of the participation and support of both students and faculty, the local government will become more willing to fund projects that will make bicy­cling around campus safer and more enjoyable. Peter Shaw, another event organizer, said that projects may include the widening of road shoulders and marking bicycle lanes, as well as possibly implementing other safety measures needed for safe bicycling. 
The organizations sponsoring the event include Notre Dame Security, University Food Ser­vices, the Department of Hu­man Resources, and University Support Services. 
For more information on how to become involved with this event, contact either Trembath at 631-6292 or Shaw at 631­5603. 
will also be offering shipping services through commence­ment week, with a special mo­bile unit set up by the Hammes Bookstore. Postal Service options include Express Mail­guaranteed the next day; Priority Mail-delivery within 1­3 days; First-Class-delivery within 1-3 days; and Parcel Post-delivery within 3-8 days. 
While the Post Office offers better rates than UPS, it does not offer the free initial insur­ance. The Post Office's special hours are May 9-11, 8:30 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. and May 15-17, 8:30 a.m.-4:30p.m. 
Either I mistake your shape and making quite, Or else you are that shrewd and knavish sprite Calfd Robin Goodfellow: are not you he That /rights the maidens ofthe villagery; Skim milk, and sometimes labour in the quern And bootless make the breathless housewife churn; And sometime make the drink to bear no barm; Mislead night-wanderers, laughing at their harm? Those that Hobgob/;n call you and sweet Puck, 
You do their work, and they shall have good luck: 
Are not you he? 

(Dedicated to Mandy Abdo) 
Directed by Paul Rathburn, ND Department a/ English Artistic Design: Paul Down, ND Department a/Art Design
Washington Hall 
Music: Lakeya Cook, ND Department a/Music May IS at Noon Stage Manager: Maria Thieneman May 16 at Noon May 17 at I I :30 a.m. 
No Admission Charge! Pick up tickets at La Fortune Info. Desk: 
Friends, Parents, Seniors,All Welcome! 
very fast! 
Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
•TAIWAN 

China increases threat, City Hall suivives bombing 
By JOHN WILEY 


plans war games, tests 
By ANNIE HUANG two semi-official organizations Associated l'rcss handle bilateral contacts in the 
absence of formal ties. 
"It takes both sides to clear up the clouds and foster a good atmosphere," Koo said. 
Since last month's war games ended, both sides say they want to resume talking, but neither has made concessions to break the deadlock. 
On Sunday, a Chinese organi­zation, the Association for Helations Across the Taiwan Straits, said Taiwan must first "come up with concrete aetion" to prove it really wants reunification with China. 
China has insisted that Tai­wan give up its bid to rejoin the United Nations. 
Koo said that Taiwan simply wants the United Nations to study the question of whether "the voices of our 21 million pnople should be silenced," he said. "Can't we even ask for a review of the issue?" 
Taiwan was expelled from the United Nations in 1971 when China joined it. 
"Our goal of reunification should not be doubted," Koo said. But China is split into two political entities, and "until they are unified, each side has the right to pursue actions appropriate to being a separate entity." 
In a sign that people-to-peo­ple exchanges are continuing despite the political standoff, a religious group arrived from China Monday bearing a statue of Matsu, a Taoist fishermen's TAIPEI 

China is planning a military cxnreise that simulates an at­taek on ctmtral Taiwan, a I long Kong newspaper reported Monday as Taiwan's govnrn­nwnt urged Beijing to reopen talks it suspended last June. 
Tlw Sing Tao daily quoted a sourc~n in Bt~ijing as saying the war ganws in the hills of Fujian and .liangxi provinces would bn lwld in late May. The Tai­wanese I>nf1msn Ministry said it was studying the report. 
China claims sovnreignty over Taiwan and has hnnn thrnatnn­ing it for JHlarly a year over l'msicllmt Lnn Ttmg-hui's moves to nnhan<:ll thn island's sepa­ratll diplomatic status, which China sons as a bid to discard tlw doctrinn that Taiwan and China arc~ onn country. 
China lwld war games and missiln tnsts off Taiwanese wa­tm·s through mueh of March, alarming its Asian neighbors and bringing U.S. warships to llw nlgion to !wad ofT a possi­bln war. Snvnral of these exer­cises wnre l'irst fornshadowed in llong Kong newspaper mports. 
Koo Clwn-foo. Taiwan's top rwgotiator with China, told a news confnrnnen Monday that his Straits Exchange Founda­tion had asked its Chinese eountnrpart to resume talks put on hold af'tm Lon's visit to the Unitml States last summer. Tlw 
Happy 21st Birthday, Ka 
Love, Mom, Dad, Mary, Ian & Sam 
Associated Press 
SPOKANE, Wash. 
A shrapnel-filled pipe bomb exploded in a doorway of City Hall early Monday, hurling three-inch nails more than a block away into a park. It was the Spokane Valley's third bombing in less than a month. 
The building was unoccupied and no one was injured in the 3 
a.m. blast, officials said. lleavy 
oak entry doors deflected the force of the explosion. 
"Why a shrapnel bomb would be used at that hour, in such an uninhabited location, we don't know, unless it's a message, or 

~o~~~~~!·f ~er~:~~~~=nr~~~~ 
No one immediately claimed responsibility for the bombing, and police found no notes or other written materials with the debris. 
Mangan also said police "sim­ply do not know" if the ex­plosion was related to other bombings, such as a package that detonated Monday morn­ing at a Jewish center in Cal­gary, Alberta, 120 miles to the northeast. 
A bomb squad searched City Ball for other explosives, and employees returned about 1:30 
• RUSSIA 


115 mile · 
·_~ .· 
c. ·.·'··.····..·.."'"·. ••·•
"" ~~ r ~~~< ·.. •• .. /
S~Q.·C ~-~9:/-j 
Spokane Jl'aUs Blvd 
0'11. ·~ . ·. ·.. • 
,i ·.······lmlii!D 
· -; , II: 
j,, AP 
p.m. Officials arranged height­ened security for their regularly scheduled City Council meeting Monday night. 
The federal Bureau of Alco­hol, Tobacco and Firearms and the FBI were called in, and city employees searched other mu­nicipal buildings, Spokane In­ternational Airport, and bridges and communications sites as a precaution. No other devices were found, Mangan said. 
On April 1, men in ski masks and military-style fatigues set otT a small bomb while robbing a bank in suburban Spokane Valley. Minutes earlier, another pipe bomb had exploded out­side a nearby suburban office of The Spokesman-Review newspaper. 
It wasn't known whether the blast was intended to divert at­tention from some other crime or is related to bombings ear­lier this month at a newspaper office and bank in Spokane. 
Monday's bomb exploded just yards from the spot where up to 60,000 runners cross the lin­ish line in Sunday's 12-kilome­ter Lilac Bloomsday road run. 
The earlier blasts were rem­iniscent of bombings in the 1980s in Spokane, Seattle and Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, which were carried out by members and sympathizers of The Order, an offshoot of the white supremacist Church of Jesus Christ Christian. Those bomb­ings appeared to be aimed at diverting police away from si­multaneous robberies. 
Authorities are investigating whether the Spokane Valley blasts are connected to the Aryan Republican Army, a white supremacist group that has committed 16 robberies . 

Chechens deny death of leader 
By CANDICE HUGHES 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Only a week after the Rus­sians killed Chechnya's sepa­ratist leader, Dzhokhar Du­dayev, reports surfaced Mon­day that his successor had died at the hands of rebel comrades. 
None of the sometimes con­flicting reports about the death of Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev could be confirmed. None quot­ed rebel sources, nor did they offer gave details of his death. 
There were several denials, including one late Monday night from Yusup Soslanbekov, the chairman of the Confedera­tion of Caucasus People, a group often accused by Moscow of promoting regional sepa­ratism. 
"All the rumors around the death of Zelimkhan Yandar­biyev and a split. among the field commanders have no ba­sis whatsoever," he told the ln­terfax news agency. "Yandarbiyev is alive and well." 

The first and most extensive reports came from ITAR-Tass, the official Russian news agency. 
ITAR-Tass, Russia's chief news organization, said that pro-Moscow officials in the breakaway republic had heard Yandarbiyev, 44, was shot and killed in a fight with other separatists late Sunday or early Monday in Gekhi, a village 12 miles southwest of the repub­lic's capital Grozny. 
Dudayev reportedly died near Gekhi in a Russian airstrike on April21. 
But the Interfax news agency, which had earlier carried simi­lar reports, said later Monday that Yandarbiyev was alive. 
It quoted a high-ranking offi­cial in the Federal Security Service, the Russian intelli­gence agency, as saying that it was actually Yandarbiyev's nephew who had bnen killed. 
The Security Service head­quarters in Moscow could not confirm the official's comments, and neither it nor the Defense Ministry confirmed reports of Yandarbiyev's death. 
"It's still too early to speak of this as an accomplished fact," the commander of Hussian troops in Chechnya, Gen. Vy­acheslav Tikhomirov, cautioned lnterfax. 
Almost overshadowed by the rumors of Yandarbiyev's death was a report that the sepa­ratists had also chosen a new top military commander. 
Yandarbiyev, vice president in the separatist government the Russians ousted last year, was an ideologist in the inde­pendence movement and never played a role in military opera­tions. 
Many observers have said he 
would probably serve only as a 
transitional leader. 
ITAR-Tass, quoting unidenti­
fied "sources close to the sepa­
ratists," said Shamil Basayev, 
the man who led a spectacular 
raid on the southern Russian 
town of Budyonnovsk in June 
1995, was the new military 
commander in chief. The re­
port could not be confirmed. 
Basayev is a hero among 
Chechens for his fierce devo­
tion to independence and his 
daring in battle. The rebels' 
choice of such a hard-liner 
could be an ominous sign for 
peace negotiations. 
Up to 30,000 people, most of 
them civilians, are thought to 
have been killed since Presi­
dent Boris Yeltsin sent tens of 
thousands of troops into 
Chechnya 16 months ago to 
end its three-year indepen­
dence drive. 
Dudayev's widow, Alia Du­dayeva, has asked Hussian officials to guarantee her safe passage to Moscow for a peace mission to the Kremlin. Rus­sian and Turkish news agen­cies said she had asked Turkish President Suleyman Demirel to act as her interme­diary. 








Medjugorje 
April 25._, 1996 Message 
Our Lady, Queen ofPeace 
Dear Children: Today I invite you again to put prayer in the first place 
in your families. Little children in the first place, then you will, in all 
that you do, seek the will of God. In this way your daily conversion will 
become easier. Little children, seek with humility that which is not in 
order in your hearts. Conversion will become a daily duty that you will 
do with joy. Little children, I am with you. I bless you all and I invite 
you to become my witnesses by prayer and personal conversion. Thank 
you for having responded to my call. 
First Saturday Devotions, including mass, rosary and adoration, will be celebrated this Saturday, May 4™, starting at 9:00 AM in Alumni's chapel. 
Join Children of Mary for a May procession and rosary Wednesday, May l ST. We will meet at the Grotto at 3:00 PM. 
• 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday,April30, 1996 the expected demand for GA Revising the ticket exchange
• SICILY Tickets tickets of each game. program was a major plank of 
continued from page 1 
the week of the game. For example, for the game against Ohio State on Sept. 28, the exchange will take place Sept. 17-19. 
For the game against Purdue on Sept. 14, however, the ex­change will take place the week of the game, on Sept. 10­12. 
According to Ward, the rea­son that some games will have 400 tickets available while oth­ers will have 300 is based on 

"We assessed each game in­dividually to find out what was best for the students," said Ward, noting that the athletic department could not make 400 tickets available for every game. "We chose the games that we thought would have the greater student demand," he added. 
Upon exchanging tickets, each student will be asked to sign a contract, agreeing not to sell unlawfully the GA ticket. The student must also pay the difference between the student ticket price and the GA price. 
the platform of Student Body President Seth Miller and Vice President Megan Murray dur­ing their campaign. "The tick­et exchange is an issue that really concerns students," Miller said, adding, "As repre­sentatives of the student body, our main concern is that stu­dent needs are met." 
The 1996 season will be the second year for a ticket ex­change program. Last fall, the program was available for the games against Vanderbilt, Texas, Southern California, and Navy. 
SDH 
continued from page 1 

dining hall. Some of the workers feel that the directive is an attempt to eliminate the older workers in the dining hall. 
"That is the main thing they want -to get rid of us. That is our feeling; that is everybody's feeling.... They don't want us around," the worker continued. 
This worker claims to have spoken with the shift supervisor about allowing workers to sit for some of the shift, especially when they become fatigued. The supervisor returned from speaking with Yarbrough and told the worker that they could not sit down. 
One student worker commented on the situa­tion again under anonymity. "Personally I have no problems with him [Yarbrough]. However, his military background is apparent in his man­agement style, and in this situation it is obvi­ously inappropriate," the worker said. 
David Prentkowski, director of University Food Services, claims there was no problem between the workers and management. "We are not aware of any complaints," he said. 
For now, the elderly worker will remain in South Dining Hall, stating, ''I'm not looking for other jobs right now... I'm going to wait and see if it improves.. I still need money to pay the [medical] bills. I have to stay until the bills are paid." 
The medical bills, paired with the cost of liv­ing, necessitates finding another source of in­come. "Here I am [in my early eighties] and I have to work." 
are using carve out new selves inside Cosa 
By tradition, take the blood entrance into Society. as the itself. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
But turncoats say . . mony is held no mote, and . denee is building that .many women are now as much a 
TheCollege ofScience Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series presents: 
part ofthe Mafia as their men. A Palermo criminologist, 
May is Sunglass Month 
What do you look for in selecting_ a pair ofPremium Sunglasses . or Performance Sport Eyewear? 
• Designer Brands • Style and Sophistication with an Emphasis on Fashon • 
Comfort, Protection and Performance • Advanced Eyewear Technology • 
Great Choices for Adults and Children • Great Values and Prices • 
"-Guarant~ed Customer Satisfaction • [~­
#~' \_31119. Bi~ ~ ~~";;"1'/Ct 
·# For the first time in Michiana, you can meet A~ 
ofyour Premium Sunglass and Performance Sport Eyewear needs ~ with confidence! ' Dua:/f~S the entire month of May, the 
' '::JNDIANA EYE INSTITUTE Is hostlng·'ihe premier DESIGNER, FASHION & b SPORT SUNGLASSES EXTRAVAGANZA.
• -.c:.a•.­

r-----30-%DII_____l --~ 
cuss' 
5n7 Grape Road 401 NMichigan 154 WHively I I Mishawaka South Bend Elkhart 

: on each pair ofprescription or : 
277-2400 288-1451 293-3555 : non--prescription sunglasses. : 
282-2020 674-5346
L----------------------J 
We're Cheap. And Easy. 
Why pay more tor the 11convenience11 of on-campus shipping when Boxes Plus doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes Plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 



lWlJ!D1W 
CombatingResistant Bacteria: 
On the Trail of New Antibiotics 
Dr. Paul Helquist 
Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry 
7:00PM Tuesday, April 30th • 155 DeBartolo Hall 
Intensive Italian Summer.Language Program June-July, 1996 

Earn up to Nine Credits in Italian Fulfills Arts and Letters Language Requirement 
Survival Skills for Travel • Grammar • Culture Music •Movies ·Art 
ROIT 101, Beginning Italian 6/18-712 ROIT 102, Continuing Beginning Italian 7/3-7/17 ROIT 103, Intennediate Italian 7/18-7/30 
Classes meetdailyfrom 9:10-11:20 A.M.
You can also buy boxes & shipping materials at 
Tutorialfrom 1:30-2:30 P.M.
Boxes Plus. 
5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 
Contact:Summer School Director at 631-7282 
277-5555 

~ 
.), .... _.~ ~'-'.::i"'"'! ....... 'l,o!I;II.,... •• .L ~ .......... ,. ............. , ............................... ' ........ ,. ...
~,:-~:i~~--~~~~jrl~)~..i ··-~ '~~:· ~ ;\.,-~.....,.., • .,..._....___ ...... h-' 

Tuesday, April30, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Fire scorches New Mexico, nears nuclear lab 
By DEBORAH BAKER 
Associate<! Press 
NEW MEXICO 
Firefighters today mapped an area for intentional burning as they ruslwd to protect the Los Alamos National Laboratory, tlw birthplace of the atomic bomb. from a raging forest fire. 
As tlw wind-whipped fire burned for a fifth day over northern New Mexico's parched, rugged terrain, it movfHl within six miles of Los Alamos, tlw nation's only op­tlrating nudear weapons labo­ratory. 
FlamtlS have scorched 14,500 acres ovnr five days -an in­cmasn over an earlier estimate of 11.HOO acres due mainly to more accurate mapping, fire in­formation officer Jamie Kings­bury said. 
Firelighttlrs were planning to 


Arafat vies for Clinton backing 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Pres. 
WASHINGTON 
Looking toward new talks with lsranl bnginning in early May, Yasstlr Arafat tries to en­list President Clinton this week behind his d rtlltm of a Palestinian stalll with its capital in .IPrusalem. 
T h A Palestinian lt~ader's visit • tests Clinton on one of the most Stlnsilive issues in on­again, off-again Middle East negotiations. Arafat will see 
Arafat 
Ready to sell your books? Don't wait in line... 
. . . : t ::· . -· . . .·.:· :: ._ ·:-. : :.:· :. ·. 
Intro~u(m~ a eat war to ~et more 
ana ~ar le~ wit the on·llne ~ooK fair~ Forget high prices and low re-sale. 
Hold on to your books and get yourself connected to cash at 

http://www.nd.edu/I'JstudegovI 
brought to you by Student Government 
set a backfire on the northwest corner of the lire to prevent the blaze from spreading toward Los Alamos, where the first atomic bomb was built in 1945, and Bandelier National Monu­ment, Kingsbury said. 
"It reduces the unburned vegetation and puts a black line right up against the fire, so in the heat of the day it doesn't have the ability to heat up and make a run because it's run up against a black line," she said. 
The firelighters were helped early today by weather so cold that ice formed inside crew tents overnight, Kingsbury said. The cold increases relative humidity, and "just that mois­ture helps," she said. 
Officials at Los Alamos, where radioactive and explosive mate­rials anl stored, said their 43­square-mile campus does not pose a danger to public even if 
him at a time when the presi­dent's popularity among Israelis is sky-high and moves are under way toward a defense pact between the United States and Israel. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres, on his own visit to ·washington, said Monday a study group would be set up soon and that Israel might ask for American technicians to help enforce its peace accords with the Arabs. But he said at a news confer­ence: ''We do not ask for American soldiers to come and defend our Israel." 
In the meantime, the admin­istration is expanding coopera­tion with Israel on missile de­fense, promising more intelli­gence warnings of enemy rock­et and missile launches. Washington also is to step up development of a new laser weapon to shoot down the kind of rockets extremist Muslim guerrillas fired on northern Is­rael this month to start a cross­border conflict that Secretary of State Warren Christopher stopped last week with an agreement protecting civilians in northern Israel and in Lebanon. 
A Palestine Liberation Orga­nization spokesman in Wash­ington said Arafat is arriving Tuesday afternoon and speaks Tuesday night at the Center for Middle East Peace and Economic Cooperation. Peres meets with Clinton at the White House Tuesday afternoon. 
the fire does reach it. It was open this morning as usual. 
"There's a lot of concern among some people about nu­clear materials being lofted into the air," lab spokesman John Gustafson said. "Let me assure you there's no danger. Those materials are stored safely in our facilities." 
As a precaution, emergency crews removed explosives from one building in the line of fire. Explosives in a second building are stored in fireproof bunkers surrounded by earthen berms. 
More than 800 firefighters were battling the blaze, be­lieved to have been touched off by sparks from an abandoned campfire. U.S. Forest Service officials have said it could take a week to control it. No serious injuries have been reported. 
The blaze has burned about 4,000 acres of the 32,000-acre 

AP/Wm. J. Castello Bandelier National Monument, for Cochiti tribal ceremonies, which is known for its ancient are in the line of the fire .. Indian cliff dwellings. "The state's ready to go up in 
Several artifacts, including flames," said Gov. Gary John­the Stone Lions Shrine, an an­son "This is the driest it's ever cient circle of stones still used been." 
Medicare suffers, may face bankruptcy 
ByJIM LUTHER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Unless Congress and the president can agree on a rem­edy, the Medicare fund that pays hospital bills for 37 mil­lion elderly and disabled Americans will be out of money within five years, a new report estimated Monday. 
The Congressional Budget Office projections indicate the hospital fund, which last year paid out exactly what it took in and had a $130 billion sur­plus at yearend, will deplete that surplus by Sept. 30, 2001, and go $29 billion into the red. 
By 2006, the fund's deficit would grow to $444 billion. In that year the fund would be spending $112 billion more than it took in. 
"This new report confirms the worst fears about the Medicare Trust Fund," said Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Calif.• who chairs the House Ways and Means health subcommit­tee. "Medicare is in worst shape than we were told last year and its balance is declin­ing every day." 
A report last year had fore­cast the Medicare fund would 
~fje <EngCtsfj EPummer ~our 8or «rfjeater;£ol.)ers 
r..··a"'.. fyou love the th.eater, this is an English summer t~ur to die for. It 
, . begins In beautiful Stratford-Upon-Avon (home of the Royal 
' Shakb$peare Company and birthplace of William Shakespeare) and ends with a banquet in Hatfield House, the Elizabethan palace In which 
the first Elizabeth was told she had succeeded to the throne. 
et~e major productions-ranging from West End hits and musicals to (_)'Shakespeare-fill the Intervening days. All theater visits Include both perfonnances and private backstage tours. 
CY.\fent.Y of time for shopping, for history, for pubs, and yes-for more 
'f'plays!! Of special interest: A private guided tour of the newly recon­-ttnlded Globe Theater on Bankside, followed by a IJ.YIIIt to famous 17th century eatery: The Anchor Inn 
/;;f?:..fie tour comes complete with host Notre Dame Shakespeare profet. 
·"tt;;.,r Paul Rathburn, plus professional guides for visits to the Cotswolds, to Oxford, to Blenheim Palace, and to famous London sites of interest. 
E!)upcr6 accommodations: Rrst In Stratford's ''The Shakespeare Hotel" . (A.D. 1637!1 and then In the lovely Rubens Hotel near the Theater District In London. 
IEl)ponsorcb by the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association which extands an open welcome to all who love the theater. 
For additional infonnatlon and a brochure, please call, fax, write or e-mail to: University of Notre Dame Alumni Association \<#.~ 201 Main Building ~~ ~ Notre Dame, IN 46556 #;·~~ Lucille.C.Becker. 11 @.nd.edu ~f!F<l'.~t.~ 
Phone: (219)631~ Fax: (2191 631 ·7902 
retain a tiny surplus, $4.8 bil· lion, at the end of 2002. CBO now says the fund will be $86 billion in the red Itt that time. 
Thomas said he had no indi­cation from CBO why the report is so much more gloomy than the one submit· ted last year by trustees of the Medicare Trust Fund, who include three members of President Clinton's Cabinet. 
The only sure thing, Thomas told a news conference, is that the more pessimistic projec­tions cannot be attributed to an unexpected growth in the number of Medicare benefi­ciaries. The number of. eligible recipients is projected to grow at a relatively modest rate ­from 38 million in 1997 to 43 million in 2006. 
There is speculation that most of the difference could be attributed to CBO's and the trustees' using different sets of assumptions on how the economy and inflation will grow over the next decade. 
The 1995 report by the fund's trustees shook Congress and the administra­tion -but not enough to force them into agreement on a solution. ''These new numbers ought to sober us all up," Thomas said. 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
Open Letters Front the Gay and LesbianAlu~nni/ ae ofthe University of Notre Da10e and Saint Mary's Colle;;-e (GALA-ND/SMC) 
W
e write on behalf of our membership of more than 500 gay and lesbian alumnilae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College in response to the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and also in response to the findings issued by the Vice President of Student Affairs, Patricia A. O'Hara. Having a large and growing membership, GALA-ND/SMC naturally represents a spectrum of political beliefs and member experiences. We welcome this diversity within our ranks and have, in the following letters, attempted to present two perspectives on the issues raised by the Ad Hoc Committee recommendations and the subsequent administration findings. We offer these letters in hope for future coordination and positive administrative action. 
Thomas R. Zahn, '67 Chair, Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
W
e are glad that the University has taken steps to support the presence of her gay sons and daughters, particularly those who are currently graduate and under­graduate students. Thank you, members of the Ad Hoc Committee and those who par­ticipated in drafting the twelve recommendations. They demonstrate an attempt, albeit long overdue, on the part of the Office of Student Affairs to focus and bear resources on the issues of sexual orientation and identity as they pertain to lesbian and gay student life. 
GALA-ND/SMC offers our experience to provide positive lesbian and gay role models in implementing any of these recommendations. In the "collaborative spirit," we also offer our services to the Office of Student Affairs, Campus Ministry, the Uni­versity Counseling Center, the Alumni Association, Public Relations and Development, and the Notre Dame Magazine. With respect to RECOMMENDATION 6, we endorse the idea of a standing committee on the needs of gay and lesbian students. There are a number of openly gay and lesbian alumni/ae, both locally and nationally. We request that some of us be asked to serve on this advisory committee. 
At last Vice President O'Hara has acknowledged the contribution of GLND/SMC as "an agent for change." We are proud of this organization and the students who have been on the front lines of advocacy and defense. For many of us, the gay student group provided a safe haven in a sometimes hostile and often homophobic environment. Some of us can say that GLND/SMC-or the other gay student groups before it-saved our lives. Moreover, in the face of repeated institutional denial and suspicion, gay student organizations have persevered in articulating the needs of gay and lesbian students, supporting each other along the way, while contributing to the vitality of residential life. This group can count on our continued support and encouragement. 
We are bitterly disappointed in Vice President O'Hara's response to RECOMMENDA­TION 5, where she states, "I do not accept GLND/SMC's call to be formally constituted as the University group contemplated." Furthermore, we are dismayed by the "man­date" that from the outset foreclosed the question of "recognition." We sense a deeply mistrustful attitude on the part of the Vice President toward gay students. Did she forget that her throwing the student group out of the counseling center precipitated the form­ing of the Ad Hoc Committee in the first place? By refusing to allow student leaders to represent GLND/SMC on the committee, she excluded a major stakeholder. The Vice President asserted fundamentally inappropriate control over the deliberations of an oth­erwise well-intentioned committee. 
This erroneous mandate and its inherent close-mindedness collides with the prin­ciple and spirit of academic freedom of inquiry and thought, the liberal tradition that makes our alma mater top-notch. There is no question that the teachings of the Catholic Church on homosexuality present "special challenges" to Notre Dame. However, other Catholic universities-including DePaul, St. Louis, Santa Clara, and Loyola Chicago-­do formally recognize gay groups on campus. Still other schools-Boston College and Georgetown University-while not recognizing such groups, grant privileges, includ­ing the use of school facilities. While Notre Dame has made great strides in welcoming women, African-American, Asian, and Hispanic members of the family, the effort to include us lags far behind. At the alumni level this effort is virtually nonexistent. 
There is an injustice in refusing to recognize GLND/SMC. As a simple matter of fairness, gay students have the basic human right to organize and represent themselves freely. The University has the duty to acknowledge this basic right and. respect it. By denying gay students the freedom to organize-as other groups are permitted to do-­the school's policy fails to acknowledge that honesty, responsibility, leadership, and peer support are essential for students to develop during their college years. The pater­nalistic ban on GLND/SMC fosters invisibility and encourages the closeting of gay and lesbian students where they remain isolated and afraid. 
In her introduction, the Vice President identifies two goals: remaining "faithful t6 Gospel values and to the teachings of the Catholic Church." She also advocates "chas­tity." Denying recognition to GLND/SMC is not-as she suggests-about this virtue or "expressions of dissent from Church teaching" or the "call of the Gospel with respect to sexual mores." There is nothing wrong with calling individuals to chastity, while re­specting their right to privacy in making such a highly personal decision. There is a crucial distinction, however, between individual and organizational chastity. No other student or alumni group is expected to endorse chastity as one of its organizing prin­ciples; it is blatantly discriminatory to hold gay groups to a different standard. 
The Vice President would be well-advised to change what comes across as her patronizing attitude toward gay students and their leaders. There is a need for less con­trol of gay student organizing and more respect for student responsibility and self­governance. Since this change in attitude appears unlikely, we request that the Vice President refer this particular issue-that of recognizing the student group--to the Presi­dent. 
With respect to Recommendation 12, we endorse adding "sexual orientation" to the university's nondiscrimination policy. Not only should the Vice President "raise this matter for consideration" to the officers and trustees, but also she should advocate it. To make a fully informed decision, the trustees and officers should also invite sub­missions on this issue from a variety of perspectives, including ours. The issue affects not only students, but also alumni, faculty, and staff. By virtue of her :irea of official responsibility, the perspective of the Vice President of Student Affairs on this matter is much too limited. 
We fear that the "attendant complexities" to which she refers is administrative jargon, masking institutional inertia for change. When the Vice President writes that "raising this issue for discussion is obviously not a decision on the merits of this issue," we ask, "What?" Ifother officers reason as she does, we doubt that they will give this recommendation "full analysis and discussion." We, too, intend to press the officers and trustees on this much needed change in policy. Most of our peer institutions have voluntarily added sexual orientation to their nondiscrimination policies. 
As the end of this academic year approaches, we agree with the Vice President that 
we are "a little further in our journey but with many miles to travel." From our perspec­
tive, there is still much to do. We are dedicated to working for positive change within a 
framework of mutually shared values. 
Charles R. Colbert III '78 
T
he recent response by Patricia 0'Hara to the Ad Hoc Committee's Final Report does not surprise members of Gay and LesbianAlumni/ae of Notre Dame/St. Mary's College (GALA-ND/SMC). Collectively our members have been negotiating with Uni­versity administrators for over 20 years. We haven't forgotten much along the way­especially the great disappointment individuals feel when those who you're taught to respect find ways to avoid doing the right thing. 
Professor O'Hara has found numerous ways to avoid doing what is right, here, even by doing some things which might be considered positive. However, before we fully embark on our answer to University administrators, we want to first thank the students, staff and faculty members who have truly changed the University over the years, especially over the last amazing year. In working as hard as you have, more of a community exists than was there before. Many of us cannot even imagine the affirming environment that has been built by your dedicated involvement. We wish that your hopes for change had been met. Unfortunately, the dismay and anger you must feel allows you to share even more with us. 
After its year of work, the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs issued its Final Report. The document could have been a bridge to an even better future for the lesbian and gay students, faculty, staff and alumni/ae at Notre Dame. Yet, as we read through Professor O'Hara's response to the Ad Hoc Committee Report, we see so much that is familiar. Much is borrowed from a statement first written by Richard Warner on National Coming Out Day in 1991, when University Administrators first ended their silence on lesbian and gay issues. 
For, as far as words were concerned, University administrators discovered that they could do much. No longer would they speak suspiciously of the lesbians and gays in their midst. They could begin to create a verbally accepting and affirmative environ­ment; they could denounce harassment based on sexual orientation; they could make new attempts at counseling students (Fr. Warner attempted two support groups). 
We see all of these initiatives repeated in the response of Patricia O'Hara. In her acceptance of some the Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations, Professor O'Hara es­sentially broadens the scope of what was tried by Fr. Warner five years ago. Yet, she never takes the important step of deepening University administrative support for les­bian and gay students. It is in her handling of Recommendations 5 and 12 where this becomes clear. 
With Recommendation 5, lesbian and gay students would have their third Univer­sity attempt to co-opt GLND/SMC, only this time the support group would have the name "Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students". Never mind that the entire lesbian and gay community would be shrunk down to its peer support group. That's bad enough, but we're most angered that Vice President O'Hara would presume to set up an organi­zation that would compete with the good work already being done by GLND/SMC. In an arena that needs more understanding backed by committed action, this administrator serves up competition. Why? 
It is in denying lesbian and gay students the "privilege" granted to other students of forming their own organizations that equal rights are denied at Notre Dame. Adminis­trator O'Hara's refusal to grant equal status to lesbian and gay students makes a mock­ery of all her welcoming words. Ifthis were a matter of race, we would not have even reached the double-standard of this country's long-dead Jim Crow laws. Here we have separate. We most certainly do not have equal. The Vice President of Student Affairs would have us settle for separate and unequal when gay and lesbians students, faculty staff and alumni/ae should be receiving full integration into the University family. 
The lack of commitment to full equality becomes most clear in Professor O'Hara's response to Recommendation 12, which calls for inclusion of sexual orientation in the University's hiring/firing policies. She only promises to "raise" the issue to the Univer­sity Officers. Were she committed to truly fulfilled lives for the lesbian and gay students at Notre Dame, she would become an advocate for their equality before the Trustees. Her good talk, it seems, only goes so far. 
Inclusion of "sexual orientation" in the University's nondiscrimination clauses has been suggested before. The first request came in 1985 from a yet another University Task Force, the Task Force on Marriage, Family and Other Life Commitments. Fr. Malloy called for that Task Force and signed its final report. University Officers com­pletely ignored the issue of nondiscrimination based on sexual orientation then. We have little to make us believe that administrators' commitments have changed. 
It is, in some ways, difficult for us to sound such a contentious note in the wake of the great steps forward taken by the Notre Dame Community as a whole. We think, however, that positive lesbian and gay talk is undermined by University administrators' negative actions, by their continued refusal to grant full and equal status to lesbian and gay students. Although we know that supportive talk in the dorms will help students live more safely there, we think that talk sounds cheap to the staff or faculty members who risk being fired, even today, for being honest about who they are. We worry about the harm done to lesbian and gay students by talk which in the end sounds hypocritical. 
In closing, to the Notre Dame Community, we again offer our gratitude for making Notre Dame more welcoming. No longer do lesbian and gay students have to remain invisible, nor must they continue to feel isolated. This, alone, is an extraordinary step. To University administrators we can only say: grant these students, their counterparts on the faculty, staff and in the ranks of alumni/ae, full equality at Notre Dame. Publicly declare that GLND/SMC can exist on campus in some way. Publicly declare that you will not deny a job or promotion based on a candidate's sexual orientation. Only then can you begin to congratulate yourself on doing the right thing. 
J. Michael Vore, '86, MA'93 Chair, University Officers Subcommittee, Gay and Lesbian Alumnilae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College 
For more discussion of these issues and concerns, please visit the GALA-ND/SMC Web site at: 
http://galandsmc.org/ 
GALA-ND/SMC 
University Club of Saint Paul, 420 Summit Avenue Saint Paul, Minnesota 55102 
Vice Chair, Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Galandsmc.aol.com 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager P.urki;,. Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
New~ Editor ........................ Brad l'rondergast Advcnising Managcr ........................... EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ..............................jed Peters Sporu Editor .................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ...................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor .......................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van 
Saint Mary's Editor................ Caroline Ilium Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber l'holo .Edioor ......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the indepcndenl newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of the University ofNorre Ilame du Lac and Saim Mary's C.ollege. h does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of rhe adminisrra· lion of either instimlion. The news is reported as accuracdy and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials reprr.em rhe opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoim Ediror, Accem Editor. l'horo Editor, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. Commcntilrics, lcncn ;and Inside: Columns prcsem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and w :~II readers. The fret" expression of varying opinions rhrough leners js encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in·< :hief 631-4)42 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Viewpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spom 631-4543 Systems/Markering Dept. 631-8839 N01s./Pho1u 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Au:cnr/Saim Mary's 631-4540 l'ax 631-6927 Day Edirorll'roduction 631·5303 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoinr.1@nd.edu (~enerill I nfurmarinn 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Appalling ends: The parting shot across the bow 
Now that it's the end of the semester as we know it, and therefore my last col­umn of this aeademic year, I thought it only appropriate that I summarize everything I've learned in this, my first year at Notre Dame: 
• 
There is but One God, and Lou Holtz is his prophet. 

• 
There is but One Student Life Tyrannical Overlord, and her name is Patty O'llara. 


Matthew Apple 
• 
You, too, can start your very own reehts-radikalen "good news" magazine. J\11 you nend is a prelature and a dream. 

• 
Diversity is toleratnd in all its forms, as long as the tolerated don't demand any respnet from the rest of us. 

• 
There exists no cold and rainy day that gusts of 40 mph can't make even more miserable. 

• 
There really isn't anything to do in South Bend other than to drink. 


I've often been aecused of sensational­ism; I've been told that I seem to write "controversial" columns just to get a rise out of people. 
There are two primary reasons I write this column. First and foremost, I like to write. It's that simple. I like to express my own opinions, misinformed or other­wise, bm:ause it's fun to spew. It some­times happens that people find my opin­ions "eontroversial" -though, all things considered, it's not too difficult to be considered "controversial" at God's College. 
It's always surpnsmg to me how afraid people in general are of differ­ences. Different cultures, different politi­cal viewpoints, different preferences (religious, sexual, sports teams) -peo­ple tend to react to the unknown or the inexperienced through fear or hatred. 
I suppose that's the second reason I write this column -to remind people cloistered here that Notre Dame is not the be-all or end-all of humanity. It has been remarked to me (mostly via email, which allows anyone to speak their mind without the annoyance of having to talk in person) that students came here, to Notre Dame, to "get away from you people," i.e., to run away from "lib­erals." (I suspect the real reason these people came here is because their dad­dies had the money to send them.) 
I never claimed to represent the "lib­eral establishment" -in fact, I was unaware that there was one in the good ole U S of A. If anything, this country is among the most politically conservative of the current Western democracies. It has been fairly conservative for most of its history (not that there's anything par­ticularly wrong with that; the US just tends toward gradual rather than abrupt social and political changes.) 
I obviously don't associate myself with anything conservative, or else Notre Dame would surely have welcomed me with open motherly arms. I tend to con­sider myself more in the middle, and, as usual, those in the middle get it from both sides. 
I suppose it would be easier for me to side with one camp or another, or to side with one religion of another, or one major interpretation or another. But I don't. I prefer to remain a free agent for now, a "free thinker," with somewhat anarchist opinions (in the sense of 
• DOONESBURY 
ANI?uqrm-THE/?CN{)!N(J HUUJ? OH,MAN... Of f3AP.WCAR! .WHAT~ t30­HeAR /N<7 ON? 50M/3 TeRR/8/.e
7HAT:? 9/A{l(}((/ Of LXJOM 
I~ 51Ue&PINf3 OveR 7HI3 tZWIPANY!


-'---"1.-1 

Bakunin and Kropotkin, not the Unabomber -though obviously this is an extremely complicated subject which I won't get into right now.) 
"Free thought," or "intellectualism," seems to be a much-frowned upon con­cept at Notre Dame. Or, at least, Notre Dame grudgingly tolerates it, so long as 
'Actually, that would be a 
third reason why I write: to try to make people think. If there's one thing I can't stand, it's the appalling indifference and unquestion­ing attitude some people have here ... Blind acceptance, even in faith, leads to black and white attitudes, the con­cept that in the world things are either wrong and right, A and B, Us or Them .. .' 
the individuals in question agree not to make waves and to adopt a "Christian" outlook (whatever that means -whole­sale cultural butchery, religious intoler­ance, and regicide are among the more vicious aspects of the historical Christian outlook, but people always seem to non­chalantly skip over glaring hypocrisy). 
Actually, that would be a third reason I write: to try to make people think. If there's one thing I can't stand, it's the appalling indifference and unquestion-
GARRY TRUDEAU 
.WEU, I THINK I CAN EXPLAIN 7HAT.•. T/M. IT~ TIM, 15N'TIT? 
page 9 
ing attitude some people here have. I suppose this would also apply to people in general, but, of course, people in gen­eral don't read my column. Blind accep­tance, even in faith, leads to black and white attitudes, the concept that in the world things are either wrong and right. A or B, Democrat or Republican, Us or Them, "Christian" or "heathen," "God" or the "Devil," Coke or Pepsi (sorry, got carried away). It's easy to divide the world into twos. It's easy not to think. 
Or, as Mark Twain wrote, "For every problem there is an answer which is simple, easy, and wrong." 
This fall, Notre Dame will initiate a new class of Freshmen (that's FRESH­MEN, not "1st Year Students." God, I never thought NO, of all places, would stoop to PC standards. It's freshmen, dammit, pronounced FREHSH-min, got it? Freshmen freshmen freshmen. Nyah.) 
And within the first month of the semester, Notre Dame's new students will unconsciously adopt their beloved institution's insistence upon the continu­ation of high school lifestyles, with 9 class periods a day, immature gender relations, high school-ish sports pep ral­lies and dances, an over-reliance on authority figures instead of developing their own independent consciences, the indifferent acceptance of bland Mid­Western homogeneity, and the automat­ic merging with the March of the Lemmings between DeBartolo and LaFortune each morning. 
Unless I get to them first. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame, who will be stuck here all summer in sunny 
South  Bend.  Contact  him  at  
matthew. t. apple.l @nd. edu  or  
http://www. nd. edu:BOI-mapple.  

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"What lies behind us and 
what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us." 
-Oliver Wendell Holmes 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
• lETIERS To THE Emmn 
Yearbook errors create 
Student's 'Reason 'ing cites ND 
.:::$::· 

disappointment for grads 
publication is not in the 'Right' 
Dear Editor:
Dear Editor: less than discriminatory harassment -and I 
According to the entry in The Dome. the 1995-1996 year­The mindless hypocrisy and ruthlessness of the have filed a complaint as such to the Office of book, this year's edition will be "a book students and alums most recent "Right Reason" publication (I use Residence Life. 
will treasure for years to come." As a graduating senior. I amthat term very generously) reminds me of school­That they fabricate this quote to depict me as a not sure I can say I feel the same.
yard jibes intended both to provoke rebuttal and salivating dyke who lusts after all women (espe­Looking through the pages of The Dome, I was dismayed atbully the "victim" into silence: "Fight us, c'mon cially those in bathrobes and flips-flops) is the the countless mistakes and misspellings. Beginning with onefreak. let's duke it out!" But this fight is always offense here, not that they make public my sexu­of the most important buildings on campus. the "BASCILICA of on the harasser's terms. If I remain silently al preference. 
the SCARED Heart," to numerous senior majors such as "GER­enraged, l am supposedly cowed; if I Now these self-righteous bigots MANY" AND "CAAP," the misspellings do not even end at the protest, I dignify their puerile are tattling about the redistribution "Note FORM the Editor." Some students have been given com­taunts. of their precious papers (to the pletely different last names in the picture captions. 
I would be flattered if this funda­'lAJho wants to dumpsters) by a couple of gay in­I have also been a victim of this careless editing. When Imentalist "parody" had stayed with­V V be passively dividuals (not GLND/SMC), expect­received my first yearbook freshman year, I. like many stu­in the bounds of ethical journalism. ing to come off as the offended dents, looked forward to the day I would have roy one guaran­
polarized to a radi­
Instead, this last issue is party, as holy martyrs. 
teed "claim to fame"-my senior portrait. 
Limbaughish mud-slinging and cal position just Let'"s speculate how long an issue As I anxiously flipped through the pages to the R's, I wasprejudice. "Right Reason" has of a gay paper would remain out astonished at what I saw. Not only was my last name spelled
because "Right
intentionally gone too far, pushing (pun intended) if distributed. It incorrectly, but I was listed as a Finance and Sociology major. 
buttons across the spectrum. Reason" wants to would never even get the adminis­Funny. but why do I remember taking so many courses in the I am particularly livid at the pub­trative approval to appear. 
Biological Sciences, and so few (meaning: none) in Finance OR
pick a fight?'
lishing of my name and Erin Granted, my friends had no legal Sociology? My name was not even listed in the index. 
Trahan's, with our phone numbers---------­right to kype the papers, and 
This stimulated many interesting conversations with friends(from a flyer not intended for the GLND/SMC denounces the act, but I in the days that followed. After enduring the teasing remarks,larger public) -without our permission. ask the larger public to understand their moti­I discovered I was not the only senior with the yearbook blues. 
Snickering, they mock the Women's Resource vating frustration. 
Several other names were misspelled. and some were evenCenter as the exclusive headquarters of campus The hit-and-run cowardice of this issue's tim­placed under the wrong pictures. 
lesbian-pagans. ing astounds me. Who has time at semester's I f"md it difficult to believe more care was not taken to ensureThis is not surprising since they totally scoff end to respond to "Right Reason's" bile? Who the accuracy of such a widely distributed University publica­the existence of rape on campus -what else wants to waste the energy in an all out PR war? 
tion.
could the WRC volunteers possibly have to do? Most importantly, who wants to be passively Although there is not much that can be done to compensate
"Right Reason" has targeted the bisexual polarized to a radical position just because 
for the disappointing result, I can only hope that next year'scommunity, putting us on the defensive. They "Right Reason" wants to pick a fight? This paper staff of The Dome, though possibly less "experienced" andknow that we will protest their vicious slurs and is a far cry from intelligent satire (always nec­"unified" as this year's returning staff claimed to be. takeshope that in doing so we protest being outed. essary from the left and the right) -it is an more time to proofread captions and articles so students willThe greatest journalistic travesty in the issue is insult to all progressives in its intellectual pover­have a book they can truly treasure. 
the snide lie on the back page, where I am quot­ty and causeless malice. 
JENNIFER RADWANed as having said, "But I like living with girls... SARAH CORSON 
Senior
. " This slanderous "intentionally demeaning Junior 
Pangborn Hall 
expression" (DuLac, p. 35) constitutes nothing Lyons Hall 
Jeer, jeer Irish mascot Welcome one and all to multicultural activity 
Dear Editor: Dear Editor: events. 
What do we think of when we look at the lep­In response to "Diversity is a life lesson for However, this invitation is not quite often rechaun? Most students would see everyone," (April 24), I would like to say first, accepted. Some white students feel uncomfort­him as the short, lovable guy who there is no lack of opportunity for Meaghan able at such functions because they feel that the symbolizes the fighting spirit of Smith to express her culture if the culture she particular group hosting the event will not accept Notre Dame athletics. wishes to express is white culture; which I as­them there. 
For our purposes as students and sume it is due to her lack of reference to a specif­While this is a valid concern, it is my opinion fans, that answer may be sufficient. ic ethnic group. that majority students are uncomfortable attend­But for Irish immigrants to the United White culture is the dominant culture at NO, ing OMSA's programs because in that atmos­States in the nineteenth century, the lep­and anyone who disagrees with this is both cul­phere they become the minority, something that rechaun had a very differen "--__...... turally and socially disillusioned. Secondly. the students represented in OMSA live daily on meaning. Smith refers to Multicultural Student Affairs as a this campus. 
Perhaps it is time for the student body to take a closer look at group; it is not. Dealing with diversity is not always a comfort­the history behind the symbol of the leprechaun. In the process. The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs is a able process because it requires experiencing we need to re-evaluate what we mean to represent by our mascot. division of Student Affairs. Its policies are things that one might not be familiar with. 
The Irish people were victims not only of famine, but also of cen­derived from the University's administration and In making this response I do not wish to attack turies of discrimination and repression at the hands of the not from students who wish to segregate them­Smith. I applaud her article for bringing the English, who viewed the Irish as a subhuman creatures. While selves. issue of exclusion up for discussion. It is a valid the journey to the United States offered emigrants a chance to Third, OMSA (Office of Multicultural Student issue that should be addressed. escape famine, it did not free them from prejudice and discrim­Affairs) does not send "secret" messages!! However, the attempt to place blame on OMSA ination. Anyone who would like to receive OMSA's voice is misdirected and illustrates a lack of research 
According to the science of physiognomy, popular in the mid­nineteenth century, facial and body characteristics indicated both character and temperament. Anti-Catholic and anti-Irish cartoon­ists and writers depicted the Irish with large jaws, mouths, and other ape-like features, portraying them as less-than-human, nat­urally belligerent creatures. 
They dubbed the Irish "white Negroes," because African­Americans were also believed to be less than human. George Templeton Strong, an outspoken opponent of the Irish, wrote in his diary in 1863, "No wonder St. Patrick drove all of the ven­omous vermin out of Ireland! Its biped mammalia supply that its full average share of creatures that crawl and eat out and poison every community they infest." This view of the Irish was perpetu­ated through the simian depictions of the leprechaun. 
Unfortunately, the image of the Notre Dame leprechaun bears a close resemblance to the ape-like leprechaun of the anti-Irish car­toons of the nineteenth century. Why does such a renowned University base its mascot on such a negative image? 
Given the negative history behind the simian image of the lep­rechaun, we believe that the countenance of the mascot should be altered to include more human features. As one of the most respected universities in America, one which stresses community, faith, and tradition. it is important that Notre Dame rise to the challenge of possessing a symbol for the school which promote both harmony and good spirit. 
By changing the leprechaun from an ape-like figure to a more human one, we could take a positive st€p in educating the stu­dents and the nation about the history of the Irish in America. This ethical and admirable act would strengthen the real Irish spirit and maintain the fighting spirit of our athletic teams. 
BRENDAN PAULSON  DENNIS BORGERDING  
DANIELL£ GRAY  MATTHEW BITINER  
MONICA KETCHUM  KENNETH KEPPEL  
KATHERINE STENSKE  MANSA "BOO" GALLAGHER  
LORCHAN O'BRUDAIR  KATHLEEN SPROWS  

mail needs only to stop by the office and request the messages. I encourage any student who feels excluded by OMSA's to get on the voice mail and attend the programming that OMSA supports. 
We are all adults in college and nothing will be handed to anyone who sits back and waits to be personally invited. If you want something bad enough you have to go and ask for it, (a lesson that the under-represented student body on cam­pus knows too well). OMSA's messages do invite students not represented by the Office to its and misinformation. 
For students out there concerned about diver­sity issues please be encouraged to become a part of the Diversity Council in student govern­ment, because the only people who deserve to complain are those who work hard for change. 
CHERYL IGIRI 
Diversicy Commissioner 
Student Government 
Students graduate without learning how to think 

Dear Editor: 
In an item under the heading "Known by their Fruits," the 
latest edition of Right Reason complains that Notre Dame 
"graduates students who haven't even been taught how to 
think." If indeed this is the case, I would expect the editors of 
Right Reason to be pleased. After all, thinking people tend to 
reject blind obedience. If we are all to slavishly and unques­
tioningly obey every utterance of the hierarchy of the Roman 
Catholic Church, as the editors of Right Reason would have us 
do, then why do we even need to think? The Church has 
already done all our thinking for us. 
JEANIACINO Graduate Student Theology 



:ACCE-NT 
'Ii.resday, April 30, 1996 page 11 
Multimedia musical adventures on CD-ROM 
By JOEY CRAWFORD  Stones, the cranberries, Peter Gabriel,  make this critically acclaimed album a  sists of a song by the San Francisco  
Acc~ru EJiwr  and Soundgarden all have tried their  constant fixture in the CD player.  band,  Sausage,  that  includes  J.es  
hand at this unique form of entertain­ Om's newest project to hit the markets  Claypool.  The music found in the disk is  
l·:very so ol'ten a truly innovative prod­ ment) but there are none like this. The  is Go Big.  This album will keep any  as diverse as the artists' names, ranging  
uct hits the markets and changes the  experience offers a trippy amalgam of  punk fan enthralled and  for  from ska to  and from rap to speed  
fa1:o of tmtortainrnnnt.  Motion pictures  art, photos, music, computer enhanced  more.  In  metal.  Musically,  
wnrn thn fad in thn early twentieth cen­ images, the powerful words of activist  addition  there is something  
tury, tohwision became popular in the  Alan Watts, and  a section on holistic  to  a  full­ for everyone.  The  
lif'tins and sixties.  Personal computers  health.  A click of the mouse takes the  length  CD-HOM contains an  
stornwd tlw nation in the eighties along  weary traveler into whole new worlds  a I bum  assortment of music  
with thosn miniature, shiny frisbees  within the safe confines of the computer  packed  videos, short skate­ 
known  as  eompact  discs.  San  screen.  w  i  t  h  boarding and snow­ 
Frands1:o-base Om records plans on  The Groove Action Collection oll'ers an  today's  boarding  movies,  
taking the late nineties by the reigns  alternative to hip-hop and jazz fans.  youngest  art  from  various  
and riding into the 21st century with a  Again  the  CD  street artists, and  
bold rww multimedia produet that eorn­ consists  of  a  cartoons.  Some of  
bin<~s  tlw brashness of today's music  CD-HOM  pro­ the  models  are  
with  tl11~  information superhighway  gram with graf­ familiar faces to the  
aeeessihlt~ through desktop computers.  fiti, interviews,  entertainment  
Om reeords is not the typical small  music  videos  industry, including  
lahtd reeord company.  Om, "a mixed  and  spoken  KIDS  star  Chloe  
nwdia reeord label" has released three word. The albums thus far, but .--------------- Sevigney (Jenny). Go Big offers a new  
tlwy have already bro­ experience  each  
ktHl  many traditions.  time.  Hidden icons  
Tlw first two albums  take people all over  
this group of revolu­ the Om universe.  
tionarit~s  released  and brightest  Om records is a dream come true for a  
were  tlw  ambient  punk  and  group of young Bay Area residents. They  
Spiritual lligh and the  thrash  funk  get a  chance to break into the music  
hip hop based album  bands and the  world without doing the same old boring  
Tho (;roove Active col­ typical  CD  thing.  Don't get them wrong though - 
loetion.  Om  rncords  ROM  enter­ they desire respect from the veterans in  
put togHthHr some of  tainment, the  the field, who muy be set in their wuys.  
tlw top up and eoming  CD possesses  Om wants to open people's minds to  
artists in tlwir respee­ a  new  and  new music and new experiences.  
tivn music gnnres and  unique concept.  The ingenuity of Om  The label plans on releasing a series  
compilnd  these  two  offers the first ever world wide web  of albums this year to fit the various  
uniqw~ albums.  Along  hyper links on the Go Big COs.  These  tastes of any music aficionado.  The COs  
with  sueh  favorite  links give the adventurer direct access  are compatible with PC's and Mac's.  
ntlwroal artists as the  to the Internet where they can find up to  Despite the fact that these albums are  
Moodswings and Fluid  date information on bands, fashion, and  packed with what seems to be an infi­ 
Motion,  the  album  rn ore  a vast assortment of other topics.  They  nite amount of entertainment, Om  
includns  a  CD  HOM  impres­ are the first company to incorporate  records has somehow managed to keep  
track that appnars to be as boring as  sive, consisting of funky tracks from A  these links on CD HOMS.  Tracks from  the price affordable.  At $15.98 the  
any otlwr ECD (Entertainment CD).  Tribe Called Quest, The Brand New  Shelter, Sublime, 311, Porch, and Front  albums will take the viewer/listener on  
I·:CJ>s havn beeorne some what popular  lleavies, and the Hoots. The powerful  End Loader highlight the album.  Primus  an odyssey of the mind that will not be  
in tlw musie industry, (the Holling  lyrics, heavy bass, and random samples  fans are happy to see that the CD con- easily forgotten.  

• WORLD WIDE WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
Six-string sites: Picking apart the OLGA connection 
By JASON HUGGINS 
World Wide Web Correspondenr 
l.ast August I decided to try to bo "cool" by learning to play the guitar. I mentioned this to my friend Justin, another "cool" guitar player, and he surprisingly gave me his old ncoustic as a gift to help me realize my dream. He explained to me how a friend guvfl him his nrst surfboard, and that he would continue the kindness by giving me my first guitar. Cool. 
The next day, I raced to the music store to pick up some beginning guitar books. I devoured them instantly and had the basics down after a wtlek. Back at Notre Dame again, I continued my quest for eoolnnss and joined In late night "jam session~ with my pals in 3W Kl'cnan. 
Interested in starting my own pnrsonal rnusie library. I asked my friend Greg where he obtained all of his guitar music. lhl refermd mil to the Internet und the tons of free stuff it con­tains. Thanks to Greg, I found many valuable guitar resources on tho wnb, and now it's my turn to continue the kindness and pass this free information on to you. Tho following is the story of one of my favorite web sites, OLGA. reprinted with permission. 
OLGA. the On-Line Guitur An:hive (www.olga.net), is a collnction of over 15,000 files of chords and tablature (a type of muslcul score espedally for guitar), as well as lessons and software that enable guitarists all over the world to play their favorite songs. OLGA even has information on building gui· tars, and many links to other guitar-related Web sites. 
The archive was begun in 1992 by James Bender as a holding place for all of the playing information that was being passed around on the guitar bulletin boards. Because of the sheer number of mes­sages posted to the Usenet sys­tem, each posting is only kept on-line for a limited time (usu­ally three days) before being removed. With the creation of the archive, files could be stored permanently and accessed by anyone with ftp or web access. 
The archive was taken over in June 0 f 1994 
cur-r e n t adminis· trators and has quadrupled in size since then. OLGA is probably the net's most popular guitar resource, serving, at a very conservative estimate, 200,000 requests per week. 
The central site. which twen­ty others around the globe then Publishing (U.S.A) sent a letter copy (or 'mirror'), is at the to UNLV (not to OLGA itselO University of Nevada, Las alleging that it was in breach Vegas (UNLV). The entire of U.S. copyright law in holding archive is comprised of files OLGA and unless a license was that have been sent in by indi-acquired it would employ all vidual users from all over the available means to enforce net that they worked out them-their rights. UNLV decided to selves. The archive does not ~ c.lose their site on 
charge any fee, and it is run  '~  February 8th while  
by volunteers. The guitar  '  It considered its  
archive is a  mass Do-lt­ response. Other  
Yourself project taken on by  ~  '  OLGA  sites  in  

thousands of individuals, with great success. 
OLGA depends on UNLV and other sites for distri· bution of t h e 
archive, 
t h o u g h 
there is no 
official connec· 
tion between 
OLGA and any 
of its hosts. 
OLGA is mir­
rored in 
Australia, Italy, 
Greece, South 
Africa, Germany, 
Denmark, the United 
States and elsewhere. The 
only condition that OLGA 
organizers impose is that 
access must be made freely available to the Internet in general, oven if the site mirror­ing the archive is commercial. The most important OLGA site is obviously the one at the University of Las Vegas. All the updating and archiving of new files goes on there, and the others mirror it. 
In January of this year EMI ' Wisconsin and 
' Tennessee closed 
quickly afterward, and the sites in Crete and Stuttgart closed in March. 
As of March 28th, UNLV had not had any reply from EMI to a letter they sent on February asking for clarification of EMI's initial letter. as that letter did not make it clear if EMI was referring to the whole archive, to 1iles of music by l;:MI artists, or tiles for which E~11 actually publishes scores; .nor was it specified exactly what law(s) were being broken. 
EMI Publishing has forced the closure of several ftp sites around the globe with the mere threat of a suit. It has deprived users from playing materials that have nothing to do with EMI, such as lessons and soft­ware, and appears to loathe any process that would lead to a resolution of the matter. While UNLV agrees that the process is torturously slow, it is unlikely they will reopen the site until the matter is resolved. OLGA has tried to contact EMI directly, but since EMI's representative did not seem to realize the involve· ment of OLGA as a body sepa· rate from UNLV, he put down the phone. 
Even though many OLGA sites are still open, the archive has now gone without being updated for almost two months, and its capacity to serve requests has been seri­ously diminished. Virtually nothing has happened since the closure of the UNLV site, to the mounting frustration of its users and administrators. Since OLGA itself is not being threatened, it Is not clear whnt legal action OLGA can take. Instead, OLGA supporters have been using the Internet to pub· licize the matter. A letter writ­ing campaign has been started, as well as a boy(~Ott of all EMl products, not just sheet music. 
Users are infuriated by what they see as the short-sighted· ness of EMI. Many testify that they have spent more money on music products as a result of using OLGA, and challenge EMI to demonstrate their loss of earnings. Many others sup­port OLGA on legal grounds, claiming that sections of the US Copyright Aet protect OLGA. EMI is widely seen to be attempting to force their inter­pretation of the law on an enti· ty that it does not understand. As newcomers to the net, EMI's throat is being viewed as a knee-jerk reaction on the part of a corporate business eager to profit from the Internet gol· drush, without taking the limo to look around and habituate itself to the new environment. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Michiana Paintball -If you've never played you'll love the game. If you've played before, you'll love the field. 291-9462 
J U N I 0 R S 11!1 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­
MENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOWI 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
The commencement issue of The Observer is May 17-come in and place personal congratulations to your senior friends! 
The Last Support meeting for Gay, Lesbian, and questioning folks will be on Thursday night at 7:30. Call 287-6665 for more information. 
Are you OVERWORKED? Are you UNDERPAID ? Are you graduating WITHOUT a JOB? Let's TALK, 273-3804 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST 
14' Softball Glove 
near Stephan last Sunday (21st) ­
Please Call Mike at X1017 
LOST: a black minolta freedom camera on april 17th between stepan basketball courts and turtle creek (by way of the road that runs by the tennis courts). it had a strip of duct tape on the back and a fin­ished roll of film inside. if you find it, please call bridget at 273-8575. need it for senior week! thanks ... 
Lost -Women's Seiko watch. 
Between Crowley and library, 
4/15. Please call Jean, 277-6233. 
Found ... Gold bracelet with name 
Missy in Debartolo Hall, 
Call Tim 273-4389 to reclaim. 
Did you lose a ROSARY the 
day before Spring Break in front 
of NOH? I have it. Sorry it's 
taken me so long to find the Lost 
and Founds! Call Beth at 4­
4936 to identify. 
LOST-GOLD WATCH AT BRIO· 
GET'S. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. 
REWARD -CALL SHARON. 4­
2841. 
Found Gold Watch 
Please call 4-4244 or 4-4064 

WANTED 
ARE YOU GOING TO BOSTON? Need a roommate attending Boston College or Harvard in the fall. Call Adela at 259-5342. She's going to Beantown in the fall. Are you? 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 
SUMMER 
WORK 
$10.25 to start 
National company expanding local­
ly. Scholarships. Possible 
interns/co-ops. Build your resume. 
Call office nearest your hometown. 
SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357 FORT WAYNE 219-471-6113 INDIANAPOLIS 317-767-5416 MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352 LAFAYETIE 317-449-1954 BLOOMINGTON 812-339-3966 KOKOMO 317-454-8840 TERRE HAUTE 812-231-6824 EVANSVILLE 812-428·6675 
Anyone from the Philly area who 
knows who is driving the U-HAUL 
with your stuff home for the 
summer, please call Amy at 
271-8346. I need info!! 
I need 1 or 2 graduation tix. Can 
you help? Call Amy@ 271-8346 
Looking for a JOB in South Bend? 
Life Treatment Center needs a 
male, non-drinking, NO student as 
a live-in house manager. Rent is 
free.Call Jim at 239-6418 for Info. 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. N55847 ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­.Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per 
month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or female. No experience necessary. Call 
(206)971-351 0 ext A55845 
LARGE REAL ESTATE CO. NR. CAMPUS IS SEEKING RELIABLE PERSON FOR PART-TIME RECEPTIONIST POSITION. PHONE EXP. A MUST. EMPLOYMT. TO CONTINUE THROUGH END OF 1996. PHONE #243-9555 TO APPLY. 
YOUR FUTURE IN SALES CopyRite is experiencing dramatic grow1h and is seeking Sales Representative in the state of Indiana. As a division of IKON Office Solutions and Alco Standard Corporation (NYSE), CopyRile offers enormous potential to appli­cants possessing strong written/oral communication skills, effective ana­lytical and listening skills and a focus on exceeding customer needs and expectations. Please fax resume to: Mr. Jon King, Senior Vice President, Sales & Marketing, IKON Office Solutions at 317-329­4401 for immediate consideration. 
J U N I 0 R S !!!! 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY 
OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­
MENT SERVICES FOR 
RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
Early vestiges of a classic R'n'R band looking for DRUMMER KEYBOARDIST Who know how to PLAY Brian x3744 
Wanted: Back issues of JUBILEE, 
Catholic magazine pub. 5/53 to 
9/68. Ralph Gustafson 3 Mich. St. 
Apt.#1 Valparaiso, IN 46383. 465­
1699 
Summer Bbysitter Wanted 
2 days week 2-6pm 
2 children age 6 & 8 
Must have reliable transportation 
Please call 277-5786 
DO YOU LIKE WALKS? READ­
ING? PUZZLES? 
WE NEED YOU PIT TO SIT IN 
OUR HOME M & W. 
PLEASE CALL 273-9512. 
I am looking for as many 
graduation tickets as possible. 
Will pay$$. Call Katie X1093 
Office assistan1 position open in 
downtown South Bend law office. 
Part-time, mornings. Computer 
experience needed with Windows 
and Word Perfect. Send resume to 
P.O. Box 511 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
A SUMMER OF PLAY FOR PAY! 
NO couple ('83) seeks energetic, 
loving, fun summer nanny for our 
sons. Phila, PA Main Line area. 
800-523-1036 X15907 
Female roommate for summer school and/or '96-'97 school year. Turtle Creek, 2 bedrm apt., part. furnished, AIC, $260/month, N/S pre!. Call Laura @ 273-5890 ASAP for more details! 
Need someone to share your 
rent in Chicago this summer? 
Please help me find somewhere 
to sleep!! ASAP Amy 284-4344 
Do you have old mag. issues of 
WIRED, SPIN, SPY, GEORGE, 
SWING or INTERVIEW? Please 
call me. Amy 284-4344 

FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO NO. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 
272-6194. 
COLLEGE PARK APT 
FOR SUMMER 
BEST OFFER 
CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 
Mishawaka, clean upstairs 
1 bedroom apartment, no 
smokers, $300/month, open 
June 1, call after May 8. 255­
4766. 
2 HOUSES IN SAFE AREAS NEAR NO. ONE W/6 BEDRMS; ONE W/5 BDRMS. EXCEL. COND. READY FOR 96-97 SCHOOL YR. CALL MARK KRAMER 289-5999 OR 255-9471. 
3 bdrm brick ranch, pool, ale, 5 min drive to campus, close to state parks, $850 month + $850 deposit, corner of US 31/33 N & Adams Rd 273-1144 2-6 pm, 289-3663 after 7 pm 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
ROOM FOR RENT $295 incl utilities and extras! Great location !I 232-8953 
Living in Chicago for the summer? We (two guys ND95) need a sum­mer roommate from June to mid­August. In the heart of Lincoln Park (best neighborhood). Two blocks from lake and two steps from bus stop. call Tom (312) 528-1482 
NEED ROOMATE FOR SPACIOUS DOWNTN APT PRIV 1/2 BATH W/ROOM $200/MO HEAT INCL ALISA@ 237-1840 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Cozy Furnished Student Apts 
-large 1 bedrm, $330 -small 1 bedrm, $260 755 South Bend Ave 
1 block west of NO Ave 
deposit, references 
1-800-582-9320 
OAK HILL CONDO 2 BDR/2 
BATH/ LOFT $665/ MONTH 
JUNE 1-MAY 31 CALL MRS. 
MARCHIOLO (818) 968-7030 
MISHAWAKA EFFICIENCY 
$ 255 MO.& LIGHTS. SUNNY 3RM.2ND FLOOR;QUIET BLD. 
1 ADUL T,NO PETS,BUS LINE. 
259-6050. 
Students Welcome! New Mini 
Storage Facility, M82 Brick Rd. 
Call219-277-3122. 
RM FOR FALL '96/SPR '97 
$250, FURNISHED, 5-MIN DRIVE. 
232-7175. 
GRADUATION COTIAGE & 
RESIDENCES NEAR N.D. @ 
$60/NIGHT-& AVAILABLE FOR 
SCHOOL YEAR. 272-1968. 
Room for rent -summer or school 
year '96-97. Nice neighorbood. 
$320/mo. 255-9005 
2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­
PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­
6306 
Need a place to stay for the sum­mer???? Two bedrooms, two full bath at College ParkCondominiums Upstairs apartment with high ceil­ings and outdoor deck $690/month (utilities not included) Call Matt @ 273-8859 
DISCOUNTED & FURNISHED 
APARTMENT FOR RENT THIS 
SUMMER @ COLLEGE PARK. 
CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH 
@ 273-1738 
CHICAGO Sublet -1 bedrm Apt. on Lake in Gold Coast for 5/96-6/96. $610. (918)459-8701 or 4-1289 

FOR SALE 
1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., condo, two full baths, walk to NO, finished lower level, all appliances, garage, one­owner, $76,900, 277-8898 
87 HondaCRX-88K, $2500 OBO 
call Manuel@4-3294 
•••••• A GREAT DEAL 
84 Ford Escort ...standard...white ... 
runs great... very reliable! $975 
Call today before it's too late! 
234-4219 
lggy Needs a Home Ill! I am going abroad and can't take my iguana with me. Could you give lggy a home? Everything included at a super low price. Call273-1612 if interested. 
MAC POWERBOOK 150 8/120, 
only $850 with carrying case. 
Stylewriter printer, $95. 
MAC LC with 12" color monitor, 
$600. Call, 287-4528. 
BED & DESK FOR SALE 277-8260 
GREAT STUFF FOR OFF-CAM­PUS LIVINGIII!!III Double Bed, Twin Bed, Dining Room Set, Couches, Chairs, Desk and much, much more. Call Larry at 271-1732. 
86 Accord OX sedan, 5spd. good condition, $2500/best offer, 273­6212. 
Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 
D.J. Mixer 4 Channels, Cross-Fader, 6 Band Equalizer, Mic. Talk-Over, 6 Sound Effects, Cue Switch, etc ... by Lux Sound. $240 Flat Calllsaac 634-1668 
1991 Jeep Cherokee Sport 20 4WD Stick, White, Cruise control, towing package, fog lights, Iondo lover, Top condition: $10,500 Call: 684-2665 between 6-Bpm. 
RED '93 LEBARON CONV. EXCEL. COND. LOADED. (616) 471-1557. 
386/40, 130 HD, 4 Ram, 14" moni­tor, printer, Windows 3.1 + plenty of software. $750 OBO. Matt at 234­8129. 
VCR Call David @ 4-4385 
FOR SALE: KEGERATOR!II Holds 3 industrial KEGS!!! --once used at Busch stadium CALL 239-8922 

TICKETS 
i need class 1 cruise tix call bridget at 273-8575 

PERSONAL 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!l! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center EXTENDED FINALS HOURS 
Fri. 5/3 7:30am -Midnight••• 
Sat. 5/4 9:00am -Midnight••• 
Sun. 5/5 9:00am -Midnight••• 
Mon. 5/6 7:30am -Midnight 
Tues. 5/7 7:30am -Midnight 
Wed. 5/8 7:30am -Midnight 
Thur. 5/9 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri. 5110 7:30am -7:00pm 
We're open all SUMMER too! 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN ALL SUMMER! Our summer hours begin after finals are over on Saturday May 11 Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm 
CALL 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Ride needed to Southern NY or Northern NJ on Sunday 5/19 or Monday 5/20. Also, anywhere near Meadville PA on 5/19. Please help, I will pay for gas/tolls, drive, and keep you entertained! Call Brian x1173. Thank you. 
I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! PLEASE HELP ME AND MY THREE LOVING GRANDPAR­ENTS WHO ARE COMING FROM CANADA CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-67 43 
Jeff: 
Don't forget your underwear. 
THERE ARE FEW THINGS IN LIFE AS SATISFYING AS A GOOD LAUGH (EXCEPT MAYBE A LIGHTLY CHILLED PABST BLUE RIBBON) ..... SO GET THE FIRST FOUR FOOD GROUPS BOOK: "A WELL BALANCED MEAL" (AVAILABLE AT WHEEL LAFOR­TUNE AND THE HAMMES INFO DESK) 
THERE'S NOT MANY LEFT! 
GET YOUR FOUR FOOD 
GROUPS BOOK, "A WELL BAL­
ANCED MEAL," BEFORE 
THEY'RE ALL GONE! 
SABOR LATINO 
"AJIRAN" CD RELEASE PARTY 
Thursday May 2nd 9 pm-? esc 
SABOR LATINO 
T-2 days till Thursday. I can hardly wait clarke. 
HEY DORKESS, 4 MORE SLEEPS! 4 MORE SLEEPS! WE WILL HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND ... ! DECIDED. LOVE ALWAYS, JAMES 
10,000 Spoons when all you need is a knife? If you were really that desperate for a knife, wouldn't you use the edge of the spoon to saw through what ever it was you needed to cut? Even the toughest pork chop can be perferroated by a spoon! 
Hey Liz­1 found my underwear, but I was wondering where I can find some of that strawberry lotion. -Jeff 
The Tuesday night power team is coming. Be afraid. Be very afraid. 
ADOPTION: I'm a very happy little girl named Caitlin who is adopted. I would love a baby sister or brother to play with. My parents are NO grads. Dad's a lawyer and mom plays with me full time. We have a wonderful life, with plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential &legal. 
ADOPTION: We long to give your newborn endless love, opportunites & security. Perhaps we can help each other. Expenses paid. Call Rosemary & John 1-800-984-9429 
GOLF SCRAMBLE Friday, May 3. -2nd Study Day­9 am shotgun start. Pizza after­ward! 4 person teams; $10 per player. Call Todd@ x3249. GREAT PRIZES. 
The Last Support meeting for Gay, Lesbian, and questioning folks will be on Thursday night at 7:30. Call 287-6665 for more information. 
Do you need a part-time job (8-12 hours/week) for the '96-'97 acade­mic year? THE COPY SHOP in the Lafortune Student Center will be hiring one or two Notre Dame stu­dents for next academic year. Ideally, we are looking for students who will be sophomores or juniors. In addition, up to 40 hours per week will be available for the first two weeks before each semester begins, so it would be helpful if the applicant lives in the Michiana area or will be living off-campus. Apply in person at THE COPY SHOP in the Lafortune Student Center TODAY!!! 
Thanks to the Posse... 
All roads lead to the Backer 
Keith and the Boys 
You're goldamn right I did 
Fountains 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
Wyoming Boy 
Random 
Taking one for the team 
Finding new cats 
Breakfast at Tiffany's 
Never Leave your Wingman 
St. Mary's Police 
Malicious Prostitution 
Jedi Mind Tricks 
Snipers 
It's All Good 
Isn't it ironic ... 
...don't ya think. 
Remember Mom with the book 
"FOOD FOR BEAUTY, HAPPI­
NESS AND LONGEVITY," by 
Monique Kobayashi. She will love 
you for it. To order: Send check or 
money order, $15 per copy, which 
includes S/H, to Monique's 
Enterprises, 
POBox8131, 
South Bend, IN 46660. 
FOR SALE: 
KEGERATOR!! Holds 3 kegs!! 
Industrial -Once used at Busch 
Stadium!! I 
call 239-8922 right away! 
Well, Gamblers-
our year is coming to an end. 
Don't worry we still have a list of 
lots to do! Looking forward to a last 
3 weeks w/ my favorite chicas! 
love always, jaw 
Live in fear, ex-editors who hold on to the past way too closely ... a 36 page paper 
Mr. play it safe, he was afraid to fly He packed his suicase, kissed his kids goodbye He waited his whole damn life, just to take that flight And as the plane crashed down, he thought' Well isn't this nice" 
Lovejoy. 
Who would you say has been the main influence in your work? It would have to be our family cat, THE UBIQUITOUS SMOKEY. Mom, can we go out and buy a Minkin painting? After you finish your dinnerr. 
I want to sit next to Lovejoy. 
Tenille, thanks for putting up with me for the last few weeks. I'll make it up to you-I promise. 
Mia, Julie, Bryan, Julie, Jen: 
This has been an outstanding year because of you guys ... blah blah blah, yada yada yada ... and other sentimental stuff. It'll be a long, hot summer but I've got these past eight months to look back on and smile. Thank you all. Dan 
Oh yeah, we're dating. 
100 Rocks! Yeah Sharpy! You happy now Jim? 
To my Pennes of Queeen's Court (esp. my wonderful roommate) who welcomed me and became my friends: Thanks for sharing your laughter, support, and birthday cake. Forever grateful, Kelly 
MB , I miss you and my lillie 131 room! How are you? I haven't seen you in eight thousand years. I miss our 100 Lovers. Love, your scary roomie HAC 
Orange boot. Can't WAIT to see that picture. 
Kevina, 
There's just no need for Philo. NO NEED. So just let's not go and we'll get drunk during "class" on Wednesday. 
-H 
Falco can rock MY Amadeus any­
ime. 
Dan, thanks for typing that classi­
fied in for me. P 
cora and ash and charity, too­will be fun living with you 
alex-that dingleberry stuff is just crass and real gross, but tell me 
more. 
to the dog and lsi-we could have 
hit the deer. and smoking, by the 
way, kills. 
EILEEN­
There's a new toy in the kid's club meal at Burger King. Are you in? It's worth the flight back. Plus you need to get your sweatshirt. Those are sometimes known to get pil­fered around here. Good luck on the big test Saturday. and sorry to hear about the fiendish tricks he used to play on you with the pickle juice. 
ARF and EKL, 
i told you everyone thinks you're 
pretty even that guy at Bridget's. 
asked him myself. 
EKL, How's Bob these days? 
Stacy, 
You survived! The last one to edit 
is tonight. Yippee. 
munchkins are not donut holes. 
you is a munchkin. 
TIM CORBETI TURNS 21 IN ONE WEEK! Everyone take a shot in honor of this great event. 
membership has its privileges and 
everyone wants a piece-of the 
rock. 
we talk about the most random things at 4 a.m. around here-what possessed us to talk about that stuff? 
~;p..............,..,.~....... -.~----------------------------;f 


....·­
April 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page·l3 


NBA fin.es Rodman for obscene gesture 
By MIKE NADEL B.odman declined comment Associated Press Monday. But on his television show the previous night, the DEERFIELD, Ill. "Worm" repeated what has 
Once again, the Worm is been his standard line of turning into .a playoff distrac­defense all season: NBA refer­tion. ees are out to get him. 
Dennis B.odman, whose Rodman was assessed his erratic behavior, selfishness second technical foul -and and bickering with referees the automatic ejection that contributed to the San Antonio goes with it -for slapping at Spurs' postseason failure last the ball but hitting Miami's year, was fined $5,000 by the Alonzo Mourning with 3:01 left NBA on Monday for making an in the third quarter. The whis­obscene gesture at a referee in tle had blown several seconds the Chicago Bulls' playoff game earlier because of a foul on the night before. Chicago's Ron Harper. 
B.odman was ejected from Rodman stormed off the 
The Observer I Mike Ruma 
the 106-75 victory over the court, took off his shirt to give
Michael Jordan suffered severe back spasms in the Bulls' match-up against the Miami Heat. The Bulls went 
Miami Heat, and Bulls coach to a fan (as is his custom) and 
on to win 106-75. 
Phil Jackson is concerned crossed his arms in an obscene about his moody, mercurial gesture toward referee Bill forward. Oakes.

Jordan rebounds after spasms 
"Dennis and I had a little It was just the latest in a talk," Jackson said Monday. series of incidents involving 
I By MIKE NADEL seoring average leader returned take quite a few falls. He's "I'm not comfortable with Rodman, who tied for the NBA 
A'-'"' i:ut·d Pre" for the third quarter -to always been able to bounce 
Dennis' mental standpoint. He lead with 29 technical foulsrelieved applause from the fans back." 
felt like he was picked out and this season and served a six­I>EEHFIELI>, Ill. who consider him the greatest Some of those falls came 
made an example of. It was a game suspension for head­
In agony with back spasms player ever -he was noticeably against the "Bad Boy" Detroit physical game, but Dennis car­butting a referee during 1tabout I!i hours narlinr, Michael stiff. And Jordan left the court Pistons, who had a big rivalry ried it too far. March 16 game. 
.Jordan walked into Chicago for the trainer's room well with Chicago in the late 1980s 
"We tried to tell him that Despite his problems,
Bulls Iwadquarters Monday with before the Bulls wrapped up the and early '90s. Three former after the whistle blows, contact Hodman won his fifth consecu­a bounce in his stnp -and with 106-75 victory that gave them a Bad Boys are now with the stops. I think Dennis under­tive rebounding title, ltveraging r:on lidnnce that he 'II be ready 2-0 series lead. Bulls: Dennis Bodman, John stands. How he's going to play 14.9 a game, and helped thefor tlw rwxt ganw. .Jordan received treatment Salley and James Edwards . 
is another statement." Bulls to an NBA-record 72"I WitS surprised at how well Monday but didn't practice, and "I played against this guy and The Bulls will try to complete wins. He has been popularlw was doing. llr~ WitS quite a bit he left without talking to the I put him on his back a couple of a three-game sweep of their with the fans -partly for hisloosnr than yesterday," Bulls media. times," Salley said. "One time, opening-round series colorful hair and tattoos, partly trainPr Chip Schaefer said. "Michael feels quite comfort­Dennis and I hit him, and his Wednesday at Miami. for his high-energy work ethic. 
"Now I'd lw surprised if he's not able that he'll be ready feet went out from under him. dosn to normal hy tomorrow." Wednesday" at Miami, coach lie fell on his tailbone and I 
.Jordan suffered the spasms Phil Jackson said. "Michael has knew he was in pain. He got up law in the seeond quarter or the ability, like a lot of great ath­limping. They called a timeout Sunday's playofl' victory over the letes, to recover quickly." and when he came out of the Miami lleat. bringing the sellout Said Scottie Pippen, Jordan's timeout, it was like he had gone erowd to 1tn uncomfortable only remaining teammate from out and gotten a new tailbone. sihmce. the 1991,1992 and 1993 cham­"He just keeps going. He's a 
Though the NBA's all-time pionship years: "I've seen him competitor." 

The Observer I Mike Ruma 

Dennis Rodman was fined $5,000 on Monday after making obscene gestures at the referee . 

.Mother's Vay is on its way! Take home a taste ofNotre Vame! 
~
Announcing extended hours and 
(jreat 'Beginnings. 
(jrand' Tina[es. 
additional accomodations for Anals: 
Tfie on[y cook6ooR.
1st floor of LaFortune open 24 hours May 4-8 one need's for making fa6u[ous ayyetizers
Library open 24 hours May 2-10 
anad'esserts. 
Faculty Dining-Hall, 2nd floor of SDH 
(jreat for tai(gating anaentertaining. 'Easy to fo[[ow, tried'anatrue recipes.
open every night 'til 3 a.m. O'Shag and Hayes-Healy open 'til1 a.m. May 2-5 
Any :Mom wi[[[ave tfiis Junior 
League ofSoutfi 'Bend' cookbook. 
Avaifa6{e at tfie Jfammes 'Bookstore. 
brought to you by Student Sen2te 


__.. _ 
page 14 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April30, 1996 

US POSTAL SERVICE 
GET THE MOST FOR YOUR 
$$$$ 
USE THE POST OFFICE To MAIL YOUR PACKAGES HOME 
For your conuenience the Post Office will haue a Mobile unit set up by the Hammes bookstore/ Badin Hall to § handle PACKAGE MAILINGS. ~ ~ 

HOURS 
0 
Thursday, 5/9 
Friday, 5/10 
""
~ 

I Saturday, 5/11 
• We offer more choices 
than any other company. 
• We offer the best prices (as reported by the Observer last year)

Confirm delivery of merchandise 
• You'll.get a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for you're 
··::; package and the date it was ·.·· recelvecl 
$1.20 in addition to postage. 
Insurance coverage for merchandise. 
•Insurance coverage up to $600 for a lost or damaged article. 
Starts at $.75 in addition to postage. 
• For an additional $1.10 you'll get a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for your package and the date it was received. 
For mail up to 11 oz. 
$.32 tor 1 oz. 
$.23 tor each 
additional ounce. 




HOURS~~ 

'---------. 
"" 
Monday, 5/13 
Tuesday, 5/14
~ 
I 
0 

""00 


Registered Mail 
Secured delivery for mail with significant value, such as jewelry and stock certificates. 
• 
Absolutely secured mail delivery. Your mail travels safely locked and Is tracked and recorded on signed receipts by postal officials. 

• 
Optional Insurance available up to 


$25,000 
Starts at $4.85 in addition to postage. 
• For an additional $1.10 you'll get L-___, a postcard in the mail as proof of who signed for your package and the date it was received . 
Parcel opost 
3·8 Days* 
For packages up to 70 lbs. 
Economical rates based on distance. 

------~------------------------------------------~---------------------­
Tuesday, April 30, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page IS 
• SAINT MARv'S TRACK 

Track team season ends with best performance 
By DESIREE LEAK 
Spons Wri1er 
The Saint Mary's track team's unprecedented season came to 
a  close  on  Saturday at  the  
Elmhurst InvitationaL  
Head  Coach  Larry  

Szczechowski's career record of 263 points, set in 1995, was shattered this season as the Belles scored an impressive 435 poinlo;. 
''I'm extremely proud of this year's team. Everyone's hard work has really paid off and I'm really looking forward to next season." said Szczechowski. The Belles collected eight first place finishes and a total of 107 points. 
Fmshman Stacy Davis contin­UI~d her lirst place streak as she edged past a competitor at the finish line of the 1OOM dash. ller 1OOM dash victory was only the beginning as she easily won tlw 200M dash. 
"This has been an enjoyable freshman year and I'm looking forward to next year. I hope to tontinue improving my times," said Davis 
Freshman Carrie Ferkenhoff participated in her first SK. She h~d tlw pack from early on in the race and finished 200M lmfi1rt! any of the other runners. 

....................
..................... 
.........................
...,..................._. 
"I loved running the SK. This meet was the by far the best this year," said Ferkenhoff. Her sec­ond race of the day. the 3K, resulted in her second first place linish. 
Freshman Sarah Gallagher began her day by taking third in the lOOM hurdles. Gallagher, Davis, freshman Kelley O'Donnell, and junior Courtenay Powers came from behind to claim third in the 4x100M relay. 
The team placed in all three jumping events. Sophomore Alisha Barbee took fourth in the long jump. 
O'Donnell and junior Desiree Leak took third and fourth respectively in the triple jump. High jumper. junior Paula Kivinen, tied her personal best and secured first place. 
"We've been working very hard this year and it's been a truly rewarding season," said Kivinen. Kivinen plans to attend a last chance meet on May 10. ller goal is to beat the school record of 5'3". 
The last race of the day brought the entire team to their feet as they cheered the 4x400M relay. Wenner, Kivinen,. fresh­man Janice Weiers, and Leak claimed first place as they fished 1OOM in front of the second place team. 


Hawks soar past Pacers 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associa1ed Press 
ATLANTA 
Steve Smith scored 26 points, including a critical 3-pointer with 1:31 remaining, and the Atlanta Hawks took command of their Eastern Conference series with Indiana, beating the Pacers 90-83 Monday night. 
Christian Laettner, appearing in the NBA playoffs for the first time, outplayed Indiana center llik Smits, adding 24 points as the Hawks took a 2-1 edge in the best-of-5 series. Atlanta is trying to advance to the second round for only the second time in eight years. 
Atlanta went nearly four minutes without scoring until Laettner put the Hawks ahead for good, backing in against three defenders and putting in a shot that made it 81-80 with 
3:06 remaining. 
Then, after Indiana missed two straight 3-pointers, Smith fired in a shot from at least 5 feet behind the stripe as the 24-second clock expired to push Atlanta's lead to 84-80. 
Haywoode Workman hit a 3­pointer for Indiana with 57 seconds to go, but that was the last basket for the Pacers, who eliminated Atlanta from the playoffs the last two years and went on to reach the Eastern Conference finals both times. 
Indiana had a chance to take the lead with 12 seconds left, but Mark Jackson missed a jumper. 
After Smith made one of two free throws with 10.8 seconds remaining to put Atlanta up 85-83, Hawks' guard Mookie Blaylock stole a pass from Indiana's Ricky Pierce and was fouled. Blaylock made two free throws for an 87-83 lead, then stole Indiana's inbounds pass and hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer for the final margin. 
Pierce was starting in place of the injured Reggie Miller. 
Miller, who underwent eye surgery before the playoffs, watched from the bench in a suit and sunglasses. Without their emotional leader, the Pacers searched around for a go-to shooter but never found him. 
Blaylock had 16 points, seven assists and tied a playoff record with eight steals for Atlanta. 
Derrick McKey and Smits scored 13 points apiece, Dale Davis and Workman had 12 apiece and Pierce 10 for Indiana. The poor showing by Smits, who averaged 24 points in the first two games of the series, was especially crucial as he failed to take advantage of his five-inch, 30-pound advantage over Laettner. 
Laettner, a natural power forward forced to play center for the Hawks, played with the emotion he showed during his college career at Duke. He made 1 0-of-11 free throws and even outrebounded the larger Smits, 8-5. 
Smith, meanwhile, has stepped up in the series and fi­nally appears to be living up to the potential that made his the fifth player selected in the 1991 draft. He is averaging 26 points per game in the series. 
"Women's Bookstore captures Trash Talkers, CJ's Pub, You'll the essence of the sport of bas­Be Cryin' Tomorrow,
Bookstore 
ketball, which is to have fun." ShortstuiT, and the Shifters. Fields also mentioned the Athletes that also participat­
continued from page 20 
high degree of sportsmanship ed in Women's Bookstore 
K.C. Goyer from Notre Dame and talent that was present in included N.D. women's basket­also teamed up with the Saint the final game and throughout ball player Carey Poor as well Mary's athletes. the tournament. as law school students like 
Stacy Fields of Top Five Rea­Aside from the tournament's Casey Ryan, who completed sons, and winner of Miss Book­finalists, other outstanding her seventh year in the store1996 commented, teams included J. T. and the women's tournament. 
Programming with Java! 
Tim Ritchey • New Riders Java is the robust, high-performance language that makes the Internet "carne alive." With this book, you'll learn how to make your sites come alive with Java. 
$35.00 USA • ISBN: 1-56205·533-X 0 
Teach Yourself JAVA in 21 Days 
Laura Lemay and Charles Perkins • Sams.net Introducing the most detailed tutorial on developing applications with the hot new Java language from Sun Microsystems. 
$39.99 USA •ISBN: 1-57521-030-4 0 
Teach Yourself Web Publishingwith HTML 3.0 in a Week, Second Edition 
Laura Lemay • Sams.net Ideal for those people who are interested in creating Web pages of their own-covers 3.0, Netscape extensions, and Internet Explorer extensions. 
$29.99 USA •ISBN: 1-57521-064-9 
Copyright <C> t996, Macmillan Computer Publishing· USA. ASimon & SChuster Company Th& Publishing Operation ol VJacom, Inc. 

Webmaster's Professional 
Reference 
New Riders Development Group • New Riders This book is for intermediate-and advanced-level users who want to use the Internet in their job, home, or hobby; use the Internet to make money; or use it to expand the way they do business by establishing an Internet site. 
$55.00 USA •ISBN: 1-56205·473·2 
Available 4/96 
Special Edition Using Netscape 2 
Mark R. Brown • Que This is the most complete reference to Netscape and mastering the hottest new Web technologies-Java, VRML, CGI, JavaScript, Plug-Ins, Frames, Netscape Servers, and Navigator Gold. 
$49.99 USA • ISBN: 0-7897·0612-1 0 

HTML &CGI Unleashed 
John December and Marc Ginsburg • Sams.net HTML & CGI Unleashed is targeted to professional developers who need guidance in the planning and execution of Web development. O 
$49.99 USA • ISBN: 0·672-30745-6 
Web Site Construction Kit for Windows NT 
Christopher Brown and Scott Zimmerman • Sams.net The Web Site Construction Kit for Windows NT provides the reader with everything they need to set up, develop, and maintain a Web site with Windows NT. $49.99 USA •ISBN: 1-57521-047-9 0 
~ oueQD




Riders' 
·­
~------~----------~~-----­
----~------------~----­
The Observer • SPORTS 
Tuesday, April 30, 1996 
Football 
continued from page 20 
shoulder injury and freshman John Cerasani has stepped for­ward to provide depth. Cerasani caught a touchdown pass in the first Blue-Gold Game and had two receptions in the second game. 
Running backs continue to be a strong position for the Irish. Denson and junior Marc Edwards will be the starters for the Irish come Fall. Denson ran for 111 yards on 16 carries dur­ing the second Blue-Gold Game after a disappointing showing in the first game, while Edwards powered his way for another 41 yards on 7 carries. Freshman Jamie Spencer wowed the fans during the first Blue-Gold game 
with 112 yard game on eight 
carries and two touchdowns. 
"Last week I said we didn't 
have a tailback," Holtz said. 
"But Saturday he (Denson) 
played like a big-time back, and 
Marc Edwards played like a big­
time back." 
Yet the Irish aren't as deep as in the past. Junior Randy Kinder was on University sus­pension for the spring season and Robert Farmer re-injured his knee during the first Blue­Gold Game. While the severity isn't known at the moment, surgery doesn't appear to be necessary. 
The quarterback situation ap­pears to be the most clouded for the Irish. With Ron Powlus on the sidelines recovering from his broken arm and Tom Krug's future uncertain, freshman Jarious Jackson has wowed the 
crowd with his impressive run­
ning and improved passing. In 
the two Blue-Gold games 
Jackson completed 21 of 35 
passes for 337 yards and two 
touchdowns while scrambling 
26 times for 101 yards. He was 
named the offensive MVP in the 
second game. 
With the uncertainty at wide receiver Jackson provides an option that Powlus doesn't, the option. Yet, Powlus is the starter unless Jackson contin­ues to improve and can unseat Powlus in the Fall. 
"I don't think he (Jackson) throws consistently enough," Holtz said. "Yet there are times when you say 'wow,' and he runs the ball well. If he makes as much improvement throwing the ball in the next six months like he did in the past six month he will be fine." 
--< 
. . The Observer I Kyle Kusek 
~umor Melvin Dansby has dominated spring practices and may be the Impact player coaches have been searching for. 
Coming WednesdtJy11 Mt1y I ••• 
Open Mike JVight Coffeehouse 
After a semester oflistening to 
endless,  _  "rina l~ctures  
finally a  'to lake  the mike  
and let  what  
ts  

... 
Did you know? 
...30% of Notre Dame seniors go on for further education 
...8% of all Notre Dame grads do full-time volunteer work in the year after graduation ... Only three out of four who intend to begin a 
career right after graduation actively look for a job before graduation, but half the people not looking get job offers anyway 
...78% of those who look for jobs have one by May 
...Nearly two in five seniors going into employment get two or more offers 
How do we know all that? 
From the 1995 

Future Plans Survey 
Just to let you know, graduates this year will be surveyed as well. It's quick, it's painless, and it helps a lot. When you pick up your commencement tickets, .please allow about five minutes to complete a very short survey to let us know what your plans are! 
Congratulations! from the Office of Institutional Research 
• • • Appear In• our 



RESUME BOOKS 
Deadline: Before you leave campus in May! 
Placement Services 
fRNST &YOUNG MANAGfMfNT CONSUlTING CONGRATUlAHS CONSUlTANTS fROM UNIVfRSITY Of NOTRf OAMf ANO ST. MARY 1S COllfGf 
Ernst & Young LLP, the world's leading integrated professional services firm, salutes the unlimited dedication of our new consultants. Your hard work and devotion is keeping the Notre Dame and St. Mary's traditions strong. 
At Ernst & Young, we have our own tradition of creating opportunities for talented graduates who earn high honors. We invite students majoring in Management Information Systems, Computer Science Engineering, Mathematics, CAPP or receiving an MBA to learn more about our organization and our opportunities for professional challenge and advancement. 
For more information, please contact Ivy Posada, Ernst & Young LLP, 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL '0'0' or send e-mail to IVY.Posada@EY.com 
E!/ ERNST& YOUNG LLP 
Ernst & Young LLP, an equal opponunity employer, values the diversity of our worldon:e and the knowledge of our people. 
University of 
Notre Dame 
Full-Tiine: 
Kathleen McEntee 
Charles Clark 
Trent Bell 
Michael Celtruda 
Joanna Fico 
Kristina Klukowski 
MarkNaman 
Lisa Reidmiller Sarah Tuchinsky Hitesh Patel 
Katherine Anderson Brian Seiler 
Jeannine Solvat Michael Sundy Thomas Hermanan Sharon Flynn 
Summer Interns: Ryan Guillen Michael Hicks 
St. Mary's: Maria Vogel Sara Stronczek Melissa Wiggens 

Tuesday, April 30, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-
. 
What's New At T.j:s This Week? 





SWIMSUIT SPECTACULAR 
ASPECIAL COLLECTION OF FAMOUS NAME SWIMSUITS jUST 
$J6~l~sewhere 
for $34 & up. 
• 
Hundreds of swimsuits for misses and juniors in sensational solids and prints 

• 
Hurry in for best selection -at this price, you'll want more than one! 


. I 
Going On Now 
y.. 

Mishawaka: Indian Ridge Plaza. Grape Road and Indian Toll Road. south of University Mall 
Ill& ::IE.--~ IC 1996 lj Maxx Styles may vary by store. 
THOUSANDS OF NEW FASHIONS COME IN EVERY WEEK, AND SO SHOULD YOU. 
Tuesday, April 30, 1996
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BOOKSTORE RECAP 
The Observer I Katie Kroener  
CCE's Dan Gustafson attempts to regain possession in front of CJ's Wooden Shoes' Ryan Hoover, who was  
named to the All-Bookstore Team (above).  
The Observer I Mike Ruma  
Models Inc. veteran Conrad James elevates over Jeff Enes in the  
semi-final (above).  Travis Brown of Showtime drives on Models Inc.'s  
LaRon Moore during Showtime's upset (left).  

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL~ 
RecSports will be offer­ing Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesday, April 30, from 8­11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign­ups necessary. 

50% OFF 
SHIPPING SUPPLIES 
WHEN YOU SHIP YOUR 
PACKAGES WITH US 
All packing boxes, tape & peanuts are 50% off when we ship your items horne. UPS, FED EX, U.S. Postal. WE S1DP IT AIL Offer good ooly at: 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
5776-51 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza Mishawaka Phone 273-8382 

The Observer I Mike Ruma 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Majors ­
SOPHOMORES TO BE 
Consider the Aerospace and Mechanical Fifth Semester in London Program. 
An Information Session will be held early in the Fall Semester and Applications will be due before Fall Break. 
For further information contact the Department Office 365 Fitzpatrick Hall 1-5433 

TLe Original 
SuL~a Sand~i~L 
Hot Dogs, Popcorn, Drinks 
just 50 cents each! 
See the Irish Baseball Team play rival Michigan ouHiHed in 1950s replica uniforms and caps • 1950s cars parked around the stadium • Elvis im· penonation contests between innings • More! 


• OF INTEREST International Students Organization is holding a picnic on Wednesday, May 1st, It is being held at Stepan from 5 to 7 p.m. The best part • EVERY· THING IS FREE! Please come and bring your friends! Everyone is invited to attend.  
•MENU Notre Dame North South Grilled Turkey . Shrimp Spaghetti Cheeseburger Pie Chicken Strips Baked Jardiniere Creole Soup Saint Mary's Eggplant Parmesan Rotisserie Chicken BeefLo Mein  
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  



DILBERT 
CATBE.RT I HR DIRECTOR 
I'VE COI"\E.  C>UT IV£.  
TO GIVE  WORI<.£D  
'fOU  HERE. FOR  
"EM.PLOVEE.  '<E A.R.S.  
ORIENT~TION,"  
WALL'<.  

"' 
(high society) 9 German spa 
N.D. Security The Observer N.D. Golf Course Rockne Memorial Rolf's Aquatic Center Loftus Sports Center Joyce Center Ice Rink Athletic Grounds Crew Athletic Commissioners RecService Course Instructors Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center Intramural Officials & Aerobic Instructors Student Supervisors & Issue Room Workers Medical Services, EMT's & First Aid Personnel 
and all of the participants. 
:II 
0 
() _j 0 
c 
"' 
I> :II 
c 
c 
c 
.... 
.... 
0 
() 
"' 
·;; 
E 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
56 See 17 -Across 58 "Thanks --I" 59 Comic Johnson 60 Flee to wed 61 Department 
store department 62Armychow 63 Irritates 
DOWN 
1 Bills and coins 2 Lower-calorie beer 3 Mideast sultanate 4 Old Tunisian 
rulers 5 Stitch 6 Shaw of "Star 
Dust" 7 Big Apple area a--monde 
u
.. 
~
'1'0U STILL HAVE A u Glll"\t'\ER OF HOPE. .!: 
! 
u
'<0U'Ll HAVE TO WATCH 
~ 
THI5 MANDATORY .. 
"' 
'TRAINING VIDEO. 
. ~ 
... 
.,.•
e 


• "Dinner of Champions"

•
•
• 



lrJ '(.
Dl IJ IN VIJ lfAlfIJ 1() IN 1() IN 1L'¥ !l 
631-6100 
May 2, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
______________..::......________, 
IIAI'I'Y IIIRTIIDA Y! IN TilE NEXT YEAK OF YOlJK LIFE: A 
romantic relationship will he strengthened hy the events of this 
~1'-~11" 
t'>u,-l>1e. coming summer. Put impulsive
\?E.~'" ~fl,. \$ 
career moves on hold. An older per· \-low LL<-AA m'i 
son plays a prominent role in your professional and personal life. To protect your financial security. take a more realistic approach to invest­ment opportunities. A psychic expe­rience will prove prophetic early in 1997. Hard work and longer hours will help you realize your goals. Emphasize your managerial talents. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Michelle Pfeif­fer, tennis star Andre Agassi. actress Kate Mulgrew. legendary band leader Duke Ellington. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Learn from your mistakes without dwelling on them. A secret love affair may be difficult to resist. Dou­ble-check directions if driving to a business appointment. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Banish that green-eyed monster known as jealousy. A confident approach will attract admirers. Showcasing your special talents will help you find new financial backing. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Although good luck flows in your direction, you may need to help it along. Constraints surrounding a relationship cause you to think twice about continuing it. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need roots more than most peo­ple. An attractive member of the opposite sex could have you dream­ing about settling down in a vine­covered cottage. Are you really 
JOE MARTIN 
ready for a pem1anent commitment? LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money 
SO, '1'0U STILL 
HA.VE. HOPE ... 
j 
is tight. You may have to spend some cash in order to prime the
RELA.'L. 
pump. The best business partner may be right under your nose. The
LET IT 
less you compromise your princi-
GO. 
\ 

pies, the better' 
VIKGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have energy to burn: Use it judi­ciously. Setting priorities will keep you from spinning your wheels. A self-employment npportunity could present itself. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Good deeds create good will. Expressing your positive feelings in a letter or phone call could work wonders. Stylish professional attire boosts your Image. 
SCORPIO (OL·t. 23-Nov. 21): Your drive and desire will make exciting things happen both at work and in romance. Take the express train to success by acting on your convictions. Give your loved ones the benefit of the doubt. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Love and luck bloom today. A friend encourages you to become more competitive. Resist peer pres­sure. A clever idea or dramatic move will produce the results you seek. Strike while the iron is hot. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The rapport you want can be established now. Making your views known in a calm way will help you take charge of a situation. Hold off on making new purchases. A flirta­tion could prove unwise. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are highly creative and expres­sive. Take steps to protect your ideas and projects. Put the finishing touches on a current assignment before starting a new one. Your partner is more supportive than in recent days. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You voice your views very convinc· ingly today. A caring approach cap­tivates a loved one. Share your secret ambitions with that special someone. The nesting instinct is stronger than in the past. Scrutinize real estate ads. 
... 
• 
• 
43 Decrees 44 Chinese secret society 45 goo from 
fore-and-aft 46 Shade tree 47 Religious 
observances 49 Clinton's Veep 

50 Picnic pests 51 Limp watch 
painter 52 Army deserter 53 Stock ticker 
output 54 Nays' opposites 56 Hoover, e.g. 57 "--the 
ramparts we ..." 
ACROSS 
1 Blockheads 
6 Late tennis V.I.P. 1oDirty literature 14 Evangelist-­
Semple McPherson 15 Wander 16 El--, Tex. 
11 With 36-and 56-Across, an announcer's plea 
19 "Leaving on --Plane" 20 Rooster's mates 21 Melee 22 Stingless bee 23 Female deer 
24Womanin charge of a prison 
25 Keep 29 What a dinner partner might 
pick up 31 European autos 32 Came up 33 Louis XVI, e.g. 36 See 17 -Across 39 Observe 40 Eggs on 41 Reach in total 42 Left-hand pages 44Sinew 45 In the center of 47 Fish eggs 48 Count with an 
orchestra 49 Profit 51 Kind of 
processing 55 Cecil B. DeMille work 
1oAncient Greek city 
11 Like many advertised appliances 
12 "--hooks" 13 "On a scale of 
one--" 
26 Fencer's sword 27 Much-used advertising 
medium 28 Sum total 29 Endeavors 30 Doesn't share 32 Jason's ship 
-------------------~------~-------­





SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April30, 1996 

Freshman talent runs deep for the Irish 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's beginning to be obvious why they were ranked the num­ber one class in the country. With injuries, suspensions, and transfers the Notre Dame foot­ball team needed a couple freshmen to fill a couple key positions. Now as the spring season comes to an end it ap­pears as if the freshmen have taken over the team. 
Outside linebacker Kory Minor and running back Autry Denson were the first to consis­tently start for the Irish, but now it looks like guards Mike Rosenthal and Jerry Wisne will join the famous duo taking over departed seniors Ryan Leahy's and Dusty Zeigler's positions. 
"There is a very good chance that Jerry Wisne and Mike Rosenthal will be the starting guards," Holtz said after Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. 
Yet, they may not be the only starters from the freshmen class as much depends on the Fall practices. 
Either of the freshmen safeties Bennie Guilbeaux or A' Jani Sanders will be the starting free safety opposite of strong safety Jarvis Edison. Guilbeaux and Sanders led the Blue team in tackles Saturday with seven and six tackles re­spectively. 

At corner, freshman Shannon Stephens continues to battle Ivory Covington for the corner position opposite Allen Rossum. 
"Rossum really had a great spring," Holtz said. "A'Jani Sanders and Bennie Guilbeaux have stepped up, but I still have some concern about the other corner. Shannon Stephens matured a lot this spring. I like the way he competed." 
While the linebacking core is set with seniors Lyron Cobbins, Kinnon Tatum and Bert Berry and Minor, two freshmen have made strong pushes for playing time. Both Bobbie Howard and Lamont Bryant played well in place of Cobbins and Berry, who were injured for part of the spring practices. Coaches admit that it will be hard to keep both off the field. 
Bryant, who was just moved to the rush end position this spring after missing the fall s~ason recovering from a car accident, was the defensive MVP of the first Blue-Gold Game. 
With the depth and talent at linebacker and the emergence of a strong defensive line the Irish may have the strongest front seven in Holtz's tenure. Renaldo Wynn continues to im­prove after a break-through season. Yet the talk of the town is the return of Melvin Dansby. After experiencing a life threat­ening neck injury before last year's Blue-Gold Game Dansby has returned with a vengeance. Up to 286 pounds Dansby is stronger than ever and is still as quick as a cat. In the second Blue-Gold Game he recorded eight tackles and three sacks on the way to being named Defensive MVP. 

"I think our front seven is stronger than what we've had for a while," Holtz said. "Last spring we really thought Dansby was a big play guy, and his improvement from last spring is leaps-and-bounds. He and Renaldo Wynn give us two fine defensive linemen." 
The offensive line has been a mess all spring. When the Irish finally had some depth to work with, they were decimated by injuries. Both starting tackles Chris Clevenger and Mike Doughty have missed practice. Clevenger had surgery in the off season to take care of a linger­ing weakness in his shoulder and missed the full spring sea­son, yet will be ready for the Fall. Doughty injured his ankle in the first team scrimmage and missed most of the remaining spring season, but did play sparingly in the final Blue-Gold Game. 
"I felt Clevenger and Doughty needed a Spring , " Holtz said. "Clevenger, Doughty and Akers have an history of being injured and that concerns me." 
Rosenthal continues to be the most advanced among the freshman and firmly implanted himself at right tackle. Returning senior Jeremy Akers was the front runner for left tackle until shoulder injuries opened the door for Wisne. 
Receiver continues to be a problem area for the Irish. Emmett Mosley has stepped up and will be one starter, but no other receiver has stepped for­ward. Holtz doesn't rule out a freshman starting there next season. 
"I don't think we resolved our problems at wide receiver," Holtz said. "I thought that Emmett Mosley stepped up and had a very fine game. We have to be able to throw the football, and a (freshman) wide receiver is going to get the opportunity." 
At tight end senior Pete Chryplewicz continues to be the number one option despite a 
see FOOTBALL I page 16 
• WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE 
.. 
.. 
The Top Five Reasons to Play Bookstore Basketball defeated Hey, That's My Bike, 21-9 to claim the Women's Bookstore title. 

Top Five Reasons dominates, claims title 
Special to The Observer 
The final game of Women's Bookstore Basketball XVIII turned out to be a wet and slippery one for the tourna­ment's finalists, The Top Five Reasons to Play Bookstore Basketball and Hey, That's My Bike. Despite the in climate weather, Top Five Reasons dominated My Bike, 21-9. 
The points were evenly spread for Top Five Reasons with volleyball player Kristina Ervin, and former N.D. wom­en's basketball player Stacy Fields, each scoring five points. Meghan Shannon and Susan Schumerth helped cap­ture the victory with four bas­kets each, while captain Shelly DeMott scored three points. 
Although Hey, That's My Bike struggled in the down pour to keep up with Top Five Reasons, they were by no means without talent. Four of the five members are students at St. Mary's; Barb Howells, Kristin Ross, and Lori Gaddis are former SMC basketball players, and Sheila Sandine is presently playing for the Belles. 
see BOOKSTORE I page 15 


• Bookstore recap 
Lacrosse 
see page 18 vs. Ohio Stare, May 4, 3 p.m. 

Men's Tennis 
NCM Regionals, May 10-12 

Softball 
• SMC track shines at last meet Big East Championships, May 3-5 
see page 15

Women's Tennis 
Baseball 
NCM Regionals, Pay 3-5 
• Jordan's bout with back spasms 
vs. Pitt, April 30, 3 p.m. 
see page 13 









