
Tuesday, October, 15, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 37 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Malloy tackles campus issues in Senate address 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS abuse. Assistant News Editor While citing the rise of Notre Dame's under­graduate program in national surveys in recent 
l!nilf~rating many of the popular coneerns years, particularly the renowned U.S. News and n~garding lifn at Notre Dame, University President World report survey, Malloy said, "We shouldn't Father Edward Malloy made his annual address to exaggerate the significance of how our peers see the Faculty Senate last night at the Center for us." lie emphasized the importance of recruiting Continuing 1\ducation. new faculty and improving the graduate programs 
Malloy gave a comprehensive at the University. and informativn presentation, In the past six years, there has which was followed by a question been an additional $44 million and answnr snssion with faculty 'Weare making added to endowment for financial nwmhnrs from the senate. The almost no aid, including $5 million for grad­highlight of that question and uate scholarships, and $1.5 million 
progress in the hiring 

answnr session was the contin­for law school scholarships. "Our tJPd qunstions regarding the hir­of underrepresented long term strategy continues to be ing of a nnw professor in the the­to build up endowment for finan­
minorities, and we are
ology dt~parlmnnl, and the al'fir­cial aid," said Malloy in reference mative action policy of the quickly slipping below to the increase in financial aid Univnrsity which includes Holy funding.
50 percent in the hiring 
Cross priests along with women, Malloy lauded the improvements historical minorities, 'and of Catholics. We have made to the School of Architecture Catholics. good reason to pursue building, the new London program In his opening statement, facilitate off Trafalger Square in 
our affirmative action 

Malloy said, "There are a lot of London, and the success of indicators as to why we should be goals.' University institutes like the pleased." Center for Philosophy of Religion. 
Among thn reasons for opti­Malloy said the new London facili­mism dtml by Malloy include the Faher Edward Malloy ty was a result of the convergence d1wnlopnwnt of a new center for of available space, good location, tnaching and learning at Notre Dame, the and funding. improvemnnl of tho University's academic reputa­In light of the increasing concern on campus tion nationwidn, continued steady funding for regarding alcohol abuse and "binge drinking" by graduatn programs, and the ongoing improvement students, Malloy emphasized the need to tackle of thn physical appearance of University building the issue. "I have a high regard for our stu­facilities. dents ... , and it would be non-responsible, in my 
Expressing a bright outlook for the future, judgment, not to bring to our common attention Malloy focused on serious topics such as the Notre what I consider clear evidence that our students Dame affirmative action policy in hiring faculty, consume alcohol, particularly in the category of diversifying the students and student alcohol 
see MALLOY I page 4 
• ELECTION '96 
Appleby: Consider faith in vote 
By ALEX ORR his talk, "The Catholic Social Tradition and News Writer the Catholic Vote," given as the culm.ination of the weekly lecture series "The 1996 
For most American Catholics, the letters Elections and the Common Good." CST connote nothing at all. Even the mean­Pope Leo XIII initiated the CST with his ing behind the initials, the Catholic Social 1891 encyclical on the condition of labor, Tradition, will likely illicit little more in them "Rerum Novarum." This work came out as than a vague impression of Christian ser­a stance against the often opulent and vice, or centuries of almsgiving parishioners. destructive excesses of laissez faire capital­But a wealth of information pertaining to ism, and both the atheism and denial of pri­Catholic identity, particularly in the political vate property of socialism. sphere, is contained in this body of doc­"Socialism denies individual rights, and is trines, the first of which was formulated well out of sync with the defined natural ordllr over a century ago. that allows the individual the expression of 
Scott Appleby, Director of the Cushwa his own creation in God's image through Center and associate professor in the work and the support of himself and his department of History explained the history family," explained Appleby on the papal and modern import of this often-overlooked teaching of the Catholic Church last night in 
see ELECTION I page 4 

Seniors agree with GMAC survey •SEcURITY 8 
.EAT 

. . . . . Security warns students
By MICHELLE KRUPA whether those plans mvolve hvmg) will be higher. I guess A•sistanr News Editor entering the work force or I'm just .an optimistic person, f I t t th ft 
pursuing post-graduate edu-but I went to Notre Dame and . 0 ap op compu er e S 
They may be the optimists, cation. my parents went to small col-but Notrn Dame seniors gen-"I think my standard of liv-leges, so I've had more oppor-By LIZ FORAN computers unattended only for a nrally oxpecttheir standard of ing will be a little bit better tunities here," said Matthew Editor-in-Chief few minutes, the computers wern living to be higher in 20 years because of my Notre Dame Gotsch, a government and -------------gone when the students returned, than their parents' had been experience. I had more computer applications major, After several thefts of laptop he said. at that time. opportunities and met more said. computers over the past several The laptops have disappeared 
This hopefulness is shared people here than I might have "Our parents have been able weeks, Notre Dame Security is from a number of locations, by nP.arly two-thirds of 1,000 elsewhere," Thomas to give us things that they had issuing a warning to all students including one from Fitzpatrick college students who partici-Threadgold, a civil engineer-to work very hard for. We during midterms week: Hall, two from the library, one paled in a survey by the ing major, said. have breaks, like scholarships Don't leave your computer alone. from the Joyce Center and two George II. Gallup International "I have the feeling that com-and being able to go to col­Eight portable computers have from the Law School library. Institute on behalf of the ing out of Notre Dame or any lege, that were much rarer for been stolen since school began, Two other portable computers Graduate Management reputable university that we, them," Leonarcl Talbot, a bio­according to Chuck Hurley, assis­were taken from an unlocked Admission Council (GMAC), meaning the children, will be chemistry major, commented. tant director of Notre Dame room in Flanner Hall. the details of which ran in The making equal if not more than Others are not as sure, but Security. Most of the thefts have "Students should not leave the Observer yesterday. our parents," said John remain confident in the hope occurred when students have left computers unattended," Hurley 
Many felt that having Bruno, a biology major plan-of attaining a comfortable the computers to use the restroom said. "Take them with you. Almost attended Notre Dame will ben-ning to attend medical school. or get a drink. every one of these thefts could efit their future plans, "Hopefully it {standard of see GMAC I page 6 Although the students left the have been prevented." 


r 
! f 
r 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A Self Portrait 
When she said, "Your next assignment will be your self-portrait," my reaction was very common. Then I actually thought · about painting myself, and all of a sudden the assignment became 
very scary. There are  Jed Peters  
things I'd rather lose  Ad Design Manager  
sleep over than trying  

to pick the best way to shade blemishes and 
shadow scars. My anxiety was lessened 
when I was informed that I could represent 
myself however I wanted. Perfect, I 
thought. I'll just come up with some 
"artsy" symbolism and I won't have to paint 
my face. But, the more I thought about it, I 
decided that it would be, after all, easier to 
paint my face. 

Figuring out how to symbolically repre­sent oneself is an exercise in self percep­tion. I considered depicting myself as some sort of martyr overwhelmed by school, work, the future, fear, pain, religion, life, etc., but I figured that a painting motivated by such uninteresting cliches would be about as groundbreaking as revealing the conspiracy of our administration against· the world. 
Self perception should not be a reflection of that which brings you down. Self pity has been done before; it is an overused and ineffective statement. Instead, a portrait should be a reflection of that which makes you go: your passions. 
I've never put any real thought into what my passions could be. I've got things on my mind: How deep do you have to dig to find a core? Could getting A's be a passion? Is your major your passion? How about clubs, school, success, romance, fishing, or col­lecting stamps? No matter what you come up with, it seems to become trivialized by reducing it to a word. Why is it so hard to put labels on what is the most important set of influences in your life? We all treat a Math 104 midterm like it's going to make or break our lives but are never willing to express what really matters to us. 
It's a veritable search. The self-centered nature of it is what makes it difficult for me to take seriously. But I've found that pin­pointing passions makes life a lot easier. I'm not saying that I've gotten to the finish line and discovered what my passions are, but there have been moments where study­ing consumer tendencies or a marketing miscue project is fun for me. I do know that marketing can't be it, though. I would like to think that I am a little more compli­cated that the BCG Martrix and Life Cycle Graphs. 
There are always those attractive pas­sions such as helping others, romance, love, peace. or unity. But are these too abstract and idealistic to coin them as the to your life? To simplify myself this much, it would make it seem that I could really conjure up just about anything that seems that it would be a good passion and make it applicable to my life. Heck, why not just find a color that represents my passions and dip the canvas in it? 
How do I paint myself? Perhaps trying to figure out what my passions are and an earth shattering approach to putting these on canvas is the wrong angle to take. Now that I think of it, it would be a lot easier to actually represent my facial blemishes than to paint something that actually has mean­ing. Maybe I'll just use my dog-book pic­ture. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Kelly Brooks Production Bridget O'Connor Maureen Hurley Sports Belle Bautista Brian Reinthaler 
Lab Tech
Viewpoint 
Jed Donahue

Ethan Hayward Accent Graphics 
Melanie Waters 

Peter Cilella Julie Vodicka 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacadon periods. The: Observer is a member of rhc: Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
-------~ --------~-------­
Tuesday, October 15, 1996 

The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Kurdish rebels claim advance on lrbil 

OThe Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUKI recaptured Sulaymaniyah and other districts in the area from the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDPI on Sunday. 
f) 
PUK troops routed KDP forces from six districts ~ing between Sulaymaniyah and lrbil advancing as far as Kuysanjaq. 

E) 
PUK forces entered the !own of Halabja east of Sulaymaniyah and repulsec what it called amajor KDP counteroffensive. 


group's leader, Jalal and Irbil. 
Talabani, said he was reluctant to take on Saddam's powerful mili­tary. 
"We have no plans at present to retake lrbil because it's surround­ed by Iraqi tanks," Talabani was quoted as telling the London-based Arabic daily al-Hayat on Sunday. 
The rival Kurdistan Democratic Party captured Irbil with the help of Saddam's army Aug. 31 and went on to seize virtually the entire Kurdish region in northern Iraq. Iraq's assistance prompted the United States to retaliate with cruise missiles. 
Iraq has urged the two Kurdish groups to resolve their problems through talks and sternly warned the advancing faction against "dealing with foreign powers," a reference to the PUK's ties to Iran. 
Meanwhile, U.S. officials spoke to both Kurdish factions, also urging them to end the fighting. 
"We see no constructive role for either Iraq or Iran in this conflict," White House spokesman David Johnson said. 
A statement by Talabani's rebels, faxed to The Associated Press on Monday, said they routed their Iraqi-backed rivals from six districts between Sulaymaniyah 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
A Kurdish faction claimed new gains Monday in a push through northern Iraq, and the U.S. and Iraqi govern­ments were put in the curi­ous position of agreeing on something: The feuding Kurds should settle their dif­ferences to keep the conflict from spreading. 
The American and Iraqi positions did not completely coincide, however. The White House said both Iraq and Iran should stay out of the conflict, while Iraq warned against involvement by Iran. 
The Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. which is battling a Kurdish faction allied with Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, said Monday that it was marching closer to Irbil, northern Iraq's principal city. However, there was no indi­cation that PUK fighters planned an assault on the city -which is fortified by Iraqi tanks -or that Iraq was planning to intercede. 
On Sunday, PUK rebels seized the key city of Sulaymaniyah, but the 
Perot steps up campaign effort 
DALLAS 
With just three weeks left to turn around his struggling presidential campaign, Ross Perot is ready to leave the television studio and join the cam­paign trail for a series of rallies across the country. Perot had planned to concentrate his campaign on 30­minute television broadcasts until he had difficulty buying the time he want­

ed. So in response, he's planning eight rallies, beginning Thursday, and two speeches before the election. Along with running-mate Pat Choate's appearances "we'll be able to cover a good portion of the country before this is over," campaign coordinator Russ Verney said. Since Perot accepted the Reform Party nomination on Aug. 18, the Texas billionaire has made about one appearance a week and held just one rally. 
Police arrest suspected IRA men 
DUBLIN, Ireland 
Police invoked anti-terrorism laws today to arrest three suspected IRA members, including one who is wanted in Britain on charges of terrorism and escaping from jail. The arrests came a week after the IR3A bombed the British army's main barracks in Northern Ireland, killing a soldier. It was not known if the men arrested today were being linked with that attack. Police said they arrested Nessan Quinlivan. 31, the man sought by Britain, and two other men in the western Irish town of Limerick. The other two men were not identified. Press Association, the British news agency, quoted unidentified sources in the Irish police as saying all three were being questioned about involvement with the IRA. Ireland's anti-terrorist legislation allows police to hold a suspect for up to 48 hours without charge. · 
ADM to plead guilty in price-fixing case 
DECATUR, Ill. 

Archer Daniels Midland Co., whose products go into everything from shampoo to soft drinks, said Monday it will plead guilty to two charges and pay $100 million to settle a federal price-fixing case. The fines are the largest ever for a criminal antitrust case, but shouldn't harm the bottom line of the $6 billion company, analysts said. The agreement announced by ADM, which calls itself "supermarket to the world," is a significant step to end a scandal that has rocked the agricultural products industry worldwide. However, several clouds still hang over the giant grain-and soybean-processing conglom­erate. including the fate of two executives targeted in the investigation and scores of civil lawsuits. In addition. fireworks are expected from disgruntled shareholders coming to Decatur for the company's annual meeting Thursday. ADM said itagreed to plead guilty to charges of "anticompetitive conduct." 

Children lead police to dead mom 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 

An 8-year-old boy caught shoplifting food led police to his home, where he and his sister had spent nearly two weeks alone while their mother's body decom­posed in a bedroom, authorities said. Police were searching Monday for the children's father, who was suspected of stabbing his wife to death. Arrest war­rants for murder and assault were issued for the chil­dren's father, Robert Castorena, 38, who abruptly quit his teaching job last month, said Sgt. Bob Mitchell. Janice Castorena, 38, probably was killed on Oct. 1 and Castorena left within two days, investigators believe. "As he left he said 'I'm going to find the enemy,"' Mitchell said. "If he has a fixation on an 'enemy,' he could harm anybody. He's got a 10-day start and he could be anywhere in the United States by now." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 15.
AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
\ 
~ ~ ~ 
Sunn~ Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 


• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Budget, plans discussed 
By ALLISON KOENIG News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board discussed gen­eral business for the remaining serrwstf.'I' us well as upcoming nvents during tho lnngthy meeting last Tuesday. 
Coordinator Lori McKeough informed thn board of the cur­rent budget status, which is in the ballpark of $38,000. The sum is to cover the board's costs for the rest of tho year, including providing weekly campus-wide entertainment. 
Treasurer Melissa Sanchez promisnd to have a detailed budget outline. including the broakdown of funds for each eommittee, at the next meeting. 
Funding for SAB comes from thtl annual student activities fee that Saint Mary's students pay each year. The money is distributed in different allot­ments to each of the student government branches. 
The board discussed charg­ing students a small fee of $1­$2 for the more expensive guest speakers. The money collected from these events would enable the board to stretch the budget further. 
"I really feel that students should not have to put forward any more money towards stu­dent government," said McKeough. "They have already paid their fee, and most students will not go to every single event." McKeough also cited the healthy state of the budget as another reason to refrain from gathering extra funds from students. 
Other board members also expressed their reservations about charging students for certain events. However, all members agreed to allowing the public to be charged for events, since they had not pre­viously given any money. 


A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16 
2:00 and 7:00 P.M. 
Vincent Price stars in 


Think of us as your school bus. 

Frequent service, all day from campus gets you on schedule. And when it's time to hit the again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to . No hassels, no problems. For Information and schedule consult your travel agent 6r call: 
800-833-5555 
http://www.busville.com/irish.htm 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Main Gate  Arrive Midway (via Tri State Coach­transfer in Portage)  Arrive O'Hare Terminals 1,2 & 3 (International termi­nal15 minutes later)  
3:00AM  6:10AM  5:55AM  
5:00AM  8:10AM  8:10AM  
7:00AM  10:10 AM  9:55AM  
8:00AM  11:10AM  10:55 AM  
9:00AM  12:10 PM  11:55 AM  
11:00 AM  2:10PM  1:55PM  
12:00 PM  3:10PM  2:55PM  
1:00PM  4:10PM  3:55PM  
3:00PM  6:10PM  5:55PM  
5:00PM  8:10PM  7:55PM  




UNITED LI~~OI' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day . .. Every Day 
SMC celebrates Founders' Day 
Community honors 152­
Saint Mary's College 


year tradition 
Founders' Day 
Observer Staff Report 

Events 
The celebration of Founders' Day, commemorating the 
IRiedinger Open House 
anniversary of the founding of Saint Mary's College, will take 
Reidinger Alumnae House 
place today on campus. 
Tours: 2:30p.m. to 4:30p.m.; ep.m. to 7 p.m.The annual event spotlights the College tradition estab­

jFounders' Day Dinner 
lished by its founders, Mother 
Dining Hall
Angela Gillespie and Father Edward Sorin, and looks to 
Senior Officers of the College, the General Council of the 
the current and future leaders 
Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and members of the 
of the College. 
Sisters of the Holy Cross with connections to the College dine with 
"We are all, in a sense, 
students. 
founders, not only Father Moreau, Father Sorin, Mother 

jFounders' Day Liturgy 
Angela; but the faculty, staff, 
Regina Hall Chapel 
administration, students, alumnae, and all who have 
Liturgy celebrating Founders' Day as a community, 9 p.m. contributed and continue to contribute to help preserve 
rate the day. be present.
and the heritage of Saint Tours of the Reidinger Members of the StudentMary's," said Sister House will top off the event. Alumnae Association will
Bernadette Marie, in an article The tours of the house, which serve as tour guides of thein College archives commemo­was built in 1939 and contains Heidinger House and as dinnerrating the event. · extensive memorabilia of the hostesses.
Traditionally, Founders' Day College, will take place from The event closes off withtakes place on Oct. 13. 
2:30 to 4:30 p.m. and 6 to 7 Mass at 9 p.m. in the ReginaWhile the first observance of p.m. Hall cha,pel. 
Founders' Day is not known, it The Dining Hall will host a T-shirts commemoratingdates back to the early years special dinner tonight for stu­Founders' Day and theof the College. Back then, dents and faculty, and the College's third year ranked as
classes were cancelled in 
Senior Officers of the College, the number one liberal artshonor of the event. 
the General Council of the college in the Midwest will be
While classes will be held 
Congregation of the Sisters of sold throughout the day by the 
tomorrow, the Student 
the Holy Cross, and a group of Residence Hall Association
Alumnae Association has 
Sisters of the Holy Cross with and the Student Academicplanned events to commemo­connections to the College will Council. 

!PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER] 
•' '! ' ~ 
. . 
' , .·~·~·~ . . ..__..., . ~­
0 
I } , '' 1~1 ' \ ' .0, 
, , 
. "ill 
"' . .. 
.' I l ~ ~ ~-.... '•~ \ 


It isn't always clear which one of the big six firms is focused on your future. However ... 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
then be rejected by the depart­sized the need for concern for major transition of the Catholic ment?" others. Church away from the individ­


Malloy Election
Malloy responded that it is Nowhere was this ecclesiasti­ual's relationship with the 
continued from page 1 

binge drinking, above the national average, and this has a direct correlation not only to the personal well-being of our students, but also with related matters like safety of them and others around them," said Malloy. He suggested attempt­ing to influence the reasons why students drink with the hopes of eradicating any abuse problem. 
Malloy expressed support of affirmative action programs in all realms of life at Notre Dame, and noted the success of an open-door policy advocated by the administration over the past three years in some areas, but the lack of progress in oth­ers. In particular. he said that over the past three years, of 128 faculty hirings, 39 were women, 13 were Asian, 3 were black, 5 were Hispanic, and 107 were white. 
"We are making some progress in the hiring of women... we're making almost no progress in the hiring of underrepresented minorities, and we are quickly slipping below 50 percent in the hiring of Catholics," he said. "We have good reason to pursue our affirmative action goals." 
Malloy included Holy Cross priests when discussing affir­mative action policies, and it was a major point of interest for many of the faculty senators during the question and answer session following Malloy's pre­sentation. Of the 17 questions asked of Malloy, nearly half dealt with a disputed hiring in the theology department and the procedure followed by Malloy in overruling that department's chairman, as well as questions as to how that hir­ing fit into the University's affirmative action plan. 
Professor Gregory Sterling, a professor of theology. stated that the faculty of the theology department has interpreted the application of affirmative action in the hiring, which took place last summer, as a "man­date" in hiring procedures. 
Professor Jean Porter of the theology department also inquired about a comment in a letter from Malloy to the chair­man of the theology depart­ment, Lawrence Cunningham. In the letter, Malloy stated that a respective department is expected to "eagerly and open­ly pursue" members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross upon completion of their degree for teaching positions. 
Porter asked, "Does this real­ly envision the possibility that a candidate who has just finished his degree and has been eager­ly and openly pursued might important for a department to embrace the affirmative action policy of the University as a whole, and this includes "affir­mative action in the seeking of qualified Holy Cross priests." 
Later during the session, Father Pat Sullivan asked Malloy to elaborate on who is ultimately to determine which candidate is qualified to be hired and which isn't under the University affirmative action policy. Malloy reiterated that he would not comment on ques­tions regarding departmental personnel matters, at which time Sullivan said, "I think you owe us an elaboration." 
On a whole, Malloy limited 
his statements on the hiring 
throughout the question and 
answer period, contending that 
it is not University policy for 
the president to make com­
ments on particular hiring 
decisions. 

When asked by Professor Philip Quinn to comment on the tenure procedure at Notre ·name and how the administra­tion would improve it, he responded, "I have frequently, in many circles, defended tenure for faculty members." He also mentioned the post­
tenure review policy currently 
utilized at the University of 
Portland, and the positive 
impact that could have at Notre 
Dame. 

Faculty senators also raised 
questions about the dissolution 
of the Urban Institute following 
the departure of Roland Smith, 
the institute's last director, to 
Rice University this past sum­
mer. "The Urban Institute died 
a necessary death to be revived 
in some other way," said 
Malloy, adding that the goals of 
the institute are still considered 
very important by the adminis­
tration, and a "revival" will 
continue to address those goals 
in the near future. 

Malloy concluded the gather­
ing by emphasizing the impor­
tance of retaining senior facul­
ty members. "It is a healthy 
sign (that faculty members are 
being recruited away by other 
top universities). but is also a 
warning," he said. 

Prior to the meeting, Faculty 
Senate chairman Fr. Richard 
McBrien announced the hiring 
of Barbie Rekos as new secre­
tary in the Faculty Senate office 
in Decio Hall, and also 
approved the journal minutes 
from the Sept. 11 Faculty 
Senate meeting. 

The next faculty Senate 
meeting will be held Nov. 7. At 
that time, the senate's academ­
ic affairs committee will reveal 
the findings of its investigation 
into the disputed theology 
department hiring by Malloy. 
ing for the best deal on new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 
continued from page 1 
condemnation. 
The next important, pope-dri­ven document in the Social Tradition was the 1931 "Quadragesimo Anno" written by Pius XI, which moved sharply away from the train of much of previous Catholic thought. 
"They were not matters, strictly speaking, of theology, doctrine, and 
cal shift from the spiritual to the mundane more apparent than in "Gaudium et Spes" which encouraged "the work of justice in the service of peace." 
"Jesus did not speak much about Heaven, but a lot about the poor," said Appleby. Vatican II was a call to "prayer, a spirit of devotion, and a fre­quent reception of the Eucharist -in context a of commitment to the world." 
Almighty toward what Appleby called a "shared community of grace," CST finds a place of importance in modern Catholic thought. 
The Social Tradition stresses the work for the common good, the solidarity of all people at all levels of society, the avoidance of governmental infringement in the lives and capacity for decision making of individuals, a "preferential option for the 
poor," and the inviola­

dogma," but dealt bility of certain human, with the relation religious, and economic
'There is no such thing as a rights.
between the public and the private," 'Catholic vote.' There is no one-Appleby concluded remarked Appleby. his talk by recounting
to-one correspon-dence between 
"'Quadragesimo the importance of these Anno' was a defense Catholics and a political party.' tenets, mostly unknown against all encroach­to the Catholic public, ing states." Pius, in in the preparation for order to protect and Scott Appleby the upcoming presiden­preserve the "sphere ---~---------------tial election. The ques­
of authority" natu­rally delegated to families, cor­porations, and governments, expounded on a theme of main­taining subsidiarity. 
"It is an injustice and a grave evil to assign to a greater and higher association what lesser and subordinate organizations can do," quoted Appleby from Pius. 
The church took an even more prominent position regarding the secular world fol­lowing the changes-run-ram­pant of Vatican II. 
Whereas the Tridentine Church had stressed the impor­tance of personal salvation, the Second Vatican Council empha-
In keeping with this "world commitment," the Council also issued the "Dignitias Humanae," declaring the sanc­tity of rights "rooted in human nature;" even the rights of those in "theological error." 
"This is not theological rela­tivism," insisted Appleby, but a protection from certain forms of discrimination. "You cannot discriminate against people if they are not of your race or creed or ethnicity," he said. 
Vatican II in 1965 was, according to Appleby, the most important time in the long and storied history of the Catholic Social Tradition. With the 
tion arose as to whether or not the CST is a Democratic or Republican platform, which Appleby quickly debunked. 
"There is no such thing as a 'Catholic vote,' as such," he commented. "There is no one­to-one correspondence between Catholics and a political party." 
White, black, Hispanic, old and young Catholics all have very different voting habits, but could all benefit from studied reflection on the Catholic Social Tradition. 
"(The CST) is not a political platform. It does not tell you how to vote. But it should inform every Catholic con­scious," he stated. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323. 

• 
. . . with more information it should become clearer ... 

Candidates target suburban vote 
Ballot measures aimed 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press Writer

at hunting restrictions 
By DAVID FOSTER 
A.sociated Press Wri~er 
POHTLAND, Ore. 

Sam Burr waxes poetic about the thrill of the chase and the courage of men in the woods. Nancy Perry speaks of slob hunters, of animals dying horrible deaths. 
Ilunter vs. wildlife lover: It's a familiar faeco!T, but what's new is how many Americans are being asked to choose sides. 
llunting and trapping laws, are the subject of Nov. 5 bal­lot questions in seven states. 
Animal-protection activists, the force behind this year's reeord number of initiatives, say they merely want to give the publie a voice in wildlife eonsfJrvation. 
But hunters, defensive after a six-year string of ballot-measure defeats, see more at stake. They say America's rural heritage is vanishing, threatened by animal-rights fanatics and an urban society grown ignorant of the natur­al world it professes to cher­ish. 
Idaho; Washington, Michigan and Massachusetts have initiatives seeking to ban various combinations of bait­ing and hounding of bears, cougars and other wildlife. Colorado voters are being asked to ban leghold traps. An Alaska measure would ban aerial tracking of wolves on the same day they are shot. 
Here in Oregon, the hunters are fighting back, trying to repeal a 1994 initiative that banned the use of dogs and bait to hunt cougars and black bears. 


----~--------------­
PEACE CORPS 
"THE TOUGHEST.JOB YOU'LL EVER LOVE" 
October 15 & 16 
Information Session October 15 Center for Social Concerns 7:00-8:30 p.m. 

Interviews October 16 Career Planning and Placement 8:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Register at the Career Planning office. Can interview on 10/17 at St. Mary's. 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 

1-800-424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 







STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be a ND/SMC student. Only flat works will be accepted (drawings, design, plwtography, painting) with a maximum size of 3'x3'. 
The exl1ibit will be shown in the Sarin Room at the LaFortune Student Center November 4-8. 

315 LaFortune. 
Special Tlumks lo: Alumni A..socialion, Snilc Museum, and the Student Activities Office for their donations to tbe purchase prize awards. 
. .. ill ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Junior Accounting Majors! Summer Internship Interviews November 12th and November 13th 
Maximize your future with an Ernst & Young summer internship! Submit your resume now to Career & Placement for an interview with us on November 12th or November 13th 
ST. PETERS, Mo. 

As the working mother of a 16-year-old son and 21-year­old daughter, Sue Horton doesn't have much time for 
politics. But she is intrigued w h e n Pres i d·e n t Clinton talks about mak­ing college more afford­


able. And Clinton when Bob Dole warns about rising teen­age drug usc. 
In the tug-of-war for the votes of suburban moms, put Horton squarely in the middle. 
"Dole won't bend when it comes to crime and drugs and that is important," Horton says. "But Clinton is more tuned in to education." 
Who will get her vote? "I really don't know." 
Clinton and Dole have a lot riding on her decision. While Horton may have just one vote, she is representative of a grow­ing force in American politics -suburban parents and, more specifically, suburban mothers. 
In the 1980 presidential elec­tion, 40 percent of the votes were cast in the suburbs, according to the Census Bureau. By 1992, with the number of people living in rural areas declining, the share of presidential votes cast by suburbanites had risen to 49 percent. 
This year probably will be the first national election in which a majority of votes come from the suburbs, home to millions of voters who voice little faith in politicians, have little if any party loyalty and juggle con­flicting priorities when deciding how to cast their ballots. 
"The targets are fairly young married couples with small 

children," s a i d Republican pollster Neil Newhouse. "Their con­cerns are most likely to be education, 

Dole crime and taxes-and almost always in that order." 
Horton is a case in point, describing herself as a "very pro-military, Gulf War nut" and "white collar conserva­tive" who voted for George Bush in 1992 but is worried about Republican positions on education this year. 
For Dole to win Missouri, an important state in national elections, he would need to win convincingly here in St. Charles County outside St. Louis. Republicans average 57 per­cent of the conservative coun­ty's vote in presidential elec­tions, but Bush got just 36 per­cent four years ago, barely beating Clinton and losing the votes of many disgruntled sub­urbanites to Ross Perot, who got 28 percent. 
This year, one of the major factors in Clinton's consistent lead is that he is more than holding his own here and in suburbs in other battleground states. 
A survey in Michigan, for example, found Clinton running eight points ahead of Dole in 
The growing suburban vote 
President Clinton and Bob Dole are courting suburban voters, aclear reflection ofachanging political climate. How the voting distribution has changed: 
Percent of the vote cast in urban, rural and suburban areas in presidential elections. 
II Suburban DUrban • Rural 
1992 

a~

t.tV 


How one county changed 
George Bush carried the state of Missouri with 52 percent of the vote in 1988. But in 1992, Bill Clinton carried the state with 44 percent, Bush had 34 percent and Ross Perot got 22 percent. In St. Charles County, out.~ ide St. Louis, Republicans suffered badly. 
CJ Republican 0Democrat .Independent 
1988 
% 
%
@ 


buietJendent: nla 
Source: U.S. Census Bureau AP 
suburban Detroit's Oakland County, where Republicans average 54 percent in presi­dential elections. "More and more male Hepublicans are coming back to Dole but Clinton is still strong among soccer moms," said indepen­dent pollster Ed Sarpolus. 
Dole is just barely ahead in GOP-leaning Cincinnati sub­urbs that Republicans need to win big if they are to take competitive statewide races, according to a recent GOP poll. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 

SMC announces Alcohol Awareness Week agenda 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Many outsiders might not envision Saint Mary's, a "dry" campus, as a school who needs to address major alcohol prob­lems. However, the fact that Notre Dame was ranked num­ber one on the list of universi­ties with the highest rate of binge drinking should send off warning signals about Saint Mary's as well. 
Saint Mary's women are just as much a part of the Notre Dame social life as other Notre Dame students. They attend the same parties; they go to the same bars; and they practice the same drinking habits. The educational aspects of the two schools is completely different, but the social life is one and the same. 
The annual Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's College, which contin­ues through Friday, has 

GMAC 
continued from page 1 
standard of living. 
"I would hope to attain that standard of living [of my par­ents) and I'm very optimistic about that, but I'm realistic in knowing that that might not be possible and that my opportuni­ties are very different from those of my parents," MaryAnne Boley, an English major, said. 
Fewer believe their living standard will be lower or not even comparable, but primarily due to career choice. 
"I think it will be lower because the kind of thing I'm interested in going into, which is public interest law, will not make very muclt," added Katie Meyer, a government major. 
"I think I will have more peace of mind than my parents do, but financially my life is a little different, the way I live is different. I will not have the same kind of material wealth that they have," explained fine arts major, Peter Kittleson. 
Students are also concerned with the existence of the "glass ceiling," primarily in business related fields, but women feel that its eradication is coming slowly. 

received a much-needed facelift in light of questions about student behavioral pat­terns and alcohol. 
Residence Hall Association President Nikki Milos cam­paigned last year with Alcohol Awareness Week in mind. The redundancy of events from year to year was deemed to be the cause of the week's declin­ing impact, and Milos wanted to do something about it. 
"We need to address this issue, with whatever it t~kes," stated Milos. 
RHA board members Hollis Janowak and Amanda Hicks co-chaired the committee that planned the events for this week. 
On Monday, students signed pledges to not drink alcohol in order to further awareness. Students who made the pledge were given bracelets to sym­bolize their promise through­out the week. 
"We received a lot of 
"To not recognize the glass ceiling would be very naive, but with hard work and persever­ance a woman can achieve and dispel its myth," Boley said. 
"When my mom was growing up the only opportunities for a woman were being a teacher or a nurse. Now things are a lot different," added Meyer. 
"The glass ceiling is some­thing you have to be aware of, especially in the older, more established companies who do things in more traditional ways. Things are changing, though, as women are gaining strength in the field," commented market­ing major, Amy Pines. Pines plans to get her MBA in her quest for increased job opportu­nities. 
Students who plan to attend graduate school in a particular field will do so primarily in order to increase their potential earn­ings. Many base the decision of attending graduate school on whether or not they are admit­ted. Students are turning to graduate school because they feel they must be more qualified for the job market. 
"People need to be more spe­cialized and need more educa­tion for a certain field. I think a college degree got you more jobs 20 years ago," Stacy Ward, American studies major, con­cluded. 
@Freshman@ Study Break 
Tuesday October 15th 
6:00 pm --8:00 pm 
Gorch Gatnes Room (LaFortune) 
Take a break from studying for your 
midterms and play some free pool, eat some free food, and receive a free Class of 2000 t-shirt (for the first 30 people) 

brought to you by Gorch Games Room & <ifiih> 
where fantasies are a wa of life 
pledges-a lot more than we originally expected," said Hicks. 
RHA is showing the film "She Cried No" in Carroll Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. The movie, starring Candace Cameron and Mark Gosselier, tells the story of a college freshman who is raped during a night of excessive drinking. 
On Wednesday, comedienne Wendi Fox will perform in Stapleton Lounge at 7:30 p.m. Fox is a recovering alcoholic who offers a humorous yet informative perspective on drinking. 
Fox's appearance is spon­sored by Saint Mary's Student Government Association (SGA), which is composed of the three main government branches: RHA, Board of Governance, and Student Activities Board. All three boards recognized the importance of the week and the importance of making Fox's visit possible. 

To wrap up Alcohol Awareness Week, RHA will be passing out red ribbons on Friday. The ribbons are to be tied on car antennas as one final means of raising ~!coho! awareness. 
Janowak and Hicks will con­tinue to work with the issue of alcohol problems on campus throughout the year. Their involvement will hopefully lead to the formation of a perma­nent committee than can address a number of substance abuse issues. 
Milos proposed the concept of an Alcohol Task Force to the Board of Trustees on Thursday. Discussions are pending, and Milos is hopeful. 
The idea behind the task force is to have a group lend administrational advice to stu­dents investigating issues of abuse. The task force could possibly work in conjunction with the FIPSE grant COLT team who is addressing overall campus wellness. The pro­posed cooperation condenses efforts of multiple groups who are interested in gathering basically the same information. 
"We need a group that stu­dents can turn to with their problems," said Milos. "A stu­dent-run group with perhaps a professional counselor would be helpful." 
Funding for the proposed task force is also questionable. Milos has suggested starting a branch of BACCHUS, a national organization whose goals are similar to those of SADD. "BACCHUS is the college equiv­alent of Students Against Drunk Driving," said Milos. 
Milos and RHA realize that Alcohol Awareness Week is only the beginning in a series of efforts to address alcohol and other abuse issues on the Saint Mary's campus. They are already planning a Narcotics Awareness Week for second semester. 
Celebrate afriend's birthdaY with an Observer ad. 
The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 

Monday/Wednesday: 
2:30-3:30 Darden Swanson 

Contact: Allen McWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 

Tuesday/Thursday: 
4:30-5:30 Northwest 
Contact: Cindy Cicon x287 4 


--------~-----------~ -------~---­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 15, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Edi<or-in-Chief 
Elizahe1h Foran 
Managing Editors Business Manager 
P.awcia Carmn Man Casey 

Tom Roland News F.di1or ........................ Brad Prendergas< Adverlising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viowpoinl Edi1or...................E1han Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed l'elers Sporu Edilor .....................Timo<hy Sherman Production Managcr ....................... Tara Gricshop Acccnl Edi<or...........................Joey Crawford Syslems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillec 
Saini Mary's F.di1or................. Caroline Blum Con<roller .......................................... Tyler Weber Pho1o F.di1or .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is che independem newspaper published by 1he studems of 1he Universi<y of Norre Dilmr du l~c .md Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisrra­rion ofcichcr instirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials rcpresenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoonl F.di1or, Acccm Ediror, Pho1o Ediror, Spor<s Ediror, and Saini Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, lcucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily rhose of The Ob!erver. Viewpoinl space is available to all members of1he Noue Damc/Sainc Mary's com­mur.iry ami to .1U readers. The free expression of varying opinions through \etters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Edi<or-in-Chief 631-4 542 Busine.<S Office 631-5313 MJnaging Edi<or/Viewpoim 631-4 541 Advmising 631-6900/8840 Spons 631-4543 Sy>!cms/Marke<ing Dcpr. 631-8839 News/Phmo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accen1/Sainc Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Oay Ediror/Prod,u:rion 631-5303 Viewpoinl E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.cdu Cenerallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CORNER... 
Campaign '96: Act One, Scene Two, Take Two 
Toduy's column will be a drama in two acts, the sm~ond of whir.h will air at a latnr date, thus once again pre-empting your favorite TV show. The questions and answers have all been agreed upon six months ago, and all aetors have been thoroughly coached and weight-trained. The candidates are not allowed to ques­tion naeh other directly, but they may 
Matthew Apple 

make snidn side-rmnarks in thn interest of appearing humorous. 
(Act Onn, Scene One: A small press dub in lnsurancehurg, Connecticut) 
Qunstionnr: Mr. President, you've won tlw eoin toss. Will you take the ball or the down-wind side of the field? 
Mr. Presidnnt: I'll take the ball for 

IOO,.lirn. 
Qunstioner: Okay. Out of 100 people survnynd, how many believe this is a eompletn and utter farce? 
Mr. l'rnsident: That's easy. All 100! 
(sound ell"ects: Ding! ding! ding!) 

Questioner: You are correct, sir. Anything you'd like to say to the cam­era'! 
Mr. President: My fellow Americans, Mr. Senator, the press, the TV viewing audinnee, that little eross-seetion of Americana which supposedly rates us according to a cutesy little hand-held turn-dial machine, my Mom: I am hon­ored to be here today. I will begin by saying how respoetful I am of tho Senator, how respectful I am of democ­racy, and my wife, and America and free marketplaces and McDonald's, and GOD BLESS AMEHICA! Thank you, good 
night! Questioner: Uh, you're ahead of your­self there a bit, Mr. President. Mr. President: Oh, yeah. Sorry about that. 
Questioner: Mr. Senator, the President has fumbled the ball on his own 20 yard line. What will you do? 
Mr. Senator: Well, I, uh, I want to thank you all for giving me the, er, opportunity to be here. I have nothing against the President personally, I want to thank my wife for making me a mil­lionaire, and my daughter, and that guy in the big hat who helped me in the mountains of Italy so many years ago when my arm was nearly chewed off by a rabid Nazi goat, why, if it hadn't been for that corker of a guy, I'd... 
Questioner: Thank you, Senator. First question: What is your vision of America? 
Mr. President: We have come a long way since the death of Kurt Cobain. We have struggled as a people through Burger King cups and Wendy's commer­eials, and we have still gone to McDonald's in record-breaking num­bers! Now, that's something we can all be proud of, as Americans. We created over 10 million new jobs, and it's a good thing, because I'm starting to get a little hungry right now. 
Mr. Senator: In our, in my administra­tion, these young hoodlums who have been doing ten times the amount of drugs I did in my day, I mean, since two years ago, in selective group te~ts, blind­folded, throwing away the white popula­tion, I mean, how could you? 
Mr. President: Do I get to respond? 
Questioner: Yes, go ahead. 
Mr. President: We have come along ways since the death of Kurt Cobain. We have struggled as a people ... Questioner: Thank you, Mr. President. Next question ... Mr. President: Stay the course! Four more years! Questioner: Mr. Senator, where do you stand on health care? Mr. Senator: Right here. Now, he, I 
mean, the President, and 1 will call you President, you didn't, you should have called Mr. President, that guy we'd all like to forget very much he ever existed. 
Uh...l mean, look at the commercials. You're scaring senior citizens. Stop that. That's my job. And, lawyers, I mean, my wife's a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, you're a lawyer, we should be working together, but trial lawyers, well, I guess they're lawyers, too. 
Mr. President: Senator, you voted against my health care package. You voted against the weapons ban. You always vote against me, darn it. Stop that. 
Questioner: You have questioned the President's foreign policy, Senator. 
Mr. Senator: You bet. When I was back there in the Mekong Delta, I mean, the United States before World War I just sat around drinking a lot and watching Babe Ruth. 
Then I went and.fought for my coun­try, and then after World War II we fought wars selectively, that's where we are now, after World War II. But he, but we're, there's no selectivity any more. What's this UN business? Why should we pay dues? We own the thing. What's Somalia? 
Mr. President: Well, I'd just like to say that I take full responsibility for what happened everywhere in the world. Northern Ireland, Bosnia, the Middle East, we're better off than we were four years ago. Stay the course, stay the course, looking good, America's number one. 
Mr. Senator: I haven't heard you demand everybody stop the violence yet. Why don't you demand everybody stop the violence? If I were president, I'd demand everybody stop the violence, so I think you should demand everybody stop the violence. 
Questioner: What makes either of you believe you can relate to the average American? 
Mr. President: Well, Jim, I grew up in a backwater state and my momma was poor as poor does, so I think I can relate to Americans everywhere. I've even rid­den in buses around the nation just to prove that I, too, have suffered greatly. Look at my wife. Take my daughter, please. 
Mr; Senator: I know what good, hard­working Americans go through every day. I was one, I am one, now, was, then, I fought for my country, I married Elizabeth, we became multi-million­aires, but we know what hardship is like. 
You'll all, Mr. President, me, my wife, we'll all benefit from a ridiculous tax cut for no apparent reason other than to make me look good. I mean, drugs and kids and these new-fangled computers and my arm... 
Questioner: Go ahead and finish your sentence, Senator. 
Mr. Senator: Okay, food. 
Mr. President: Well, that sounds like a good idea. I low would you like to go em­ate a few more jobs? 
Mr. Senator: Sounds good to me. You know, you can really tell we're friends. That's why you can cheek out the new America on the Internet at "www.leech­es.com." I haven't seen it, and I have absolutely no idea. I don't really know what an Internet is, but my underpaid, overworked interns say it's looking good. 
(Scene Two: A TV talk show the same night) Mr. Perot: Bad. Very bad. 'Course, Perot's on at 11:00. 
Ralph Nader: NO NUKES! SAVE TilE WHALES! DOWN WITII BIG BROTIIEH! FREE WILLY! PLANT A THEE, SAVE THE AIR! 
Matthew Apple is an MFA candidate in creative writing at Notre Dame. Register to vote and then vote your con­science: visit http:l/www. nd. edu:80/-mapple/etrig­an.html on the World Wide Web or email matthew. t. apple.l @nd. edu for more information. 
• 000NESBURV 
l!£/?NI&, J(I1AT!; THe PeA/... NITH 6(): G0:8UZZ-7He DlJZZ:? 
NCU(tu~ gf!E? f ' . 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
Y&AH, 5/Z, lH&REA· 50N I A51< It; THAT THE !JtEIGN/3R. 5lfa(EI)VP. YOU 
M&M8ERKIMr 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
" A. President needs polit­
1-\.ical understanding to 
run the government, but he 
may be elected without it." 
-Harry Truman 
A CCCNT
page 8 Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
The Alcohol Policy: From the "D 
The legend of the "Sarin Seven" lives on after 20 years 
By MELANIE WATERS 
Assistant Accent Ediror 
When Richard Hohman and his former roommates return to Notre Dame this weekend for their annual mini-reunion, Sarin rector Father Steve Newton might hesitate before rolling out the red carpet. 
On the other hand, he might just be glad that he was never their rector. 
Twenty years ago this month, Hohman and six of his Sarin roommates were served with eviction notices from their resi­dence hall at the com­mand of Dean of Students James Roemer. Their offense? Nothing too seri­ous -only operating a full-service bar out of their 
third floor suite of One of the Seven panels the rooms. wall of room 315 in preparation for 
Twenty years later, the 1976 opening of the Do Drop Inn. the infamous "Sarin Seven" will find little changed about the alcohol policy on campus, other than that it is a concern now facing off-campus residents as well with recent crack-downs on off­campus parties. 
Their entrepreneurial endeav­ours started in the fall of 1976 as they transformed room 315 Sarin Hall into the "Do Drop Inn," which one student described as "Notre Dame's newest watering ·. hole" at which "customers pur-· chase tickets which are exchanged at the bar for the bot­tles of beer. Three beers for a buck is one of the best booze bar­gains anywhere in the ND social scene!" 
Three beers for a buck? Kind of makes Senior Bar's Thursday night cup specials look like a rip­off. And as for the decor, the Do 
-Drop reportedly reveled in its authenticity. "Once inside the bar you may not believe you are in a dorm room," accord­ing to former student Tim Boyle. 

"The large mirror behind the Posing in front of their new "home" at 1034 N. Eddy Street, tory strike from their sturdy bar, the bare floor and the Sorin Seven continued their partying ways (but didn't new residence at 1034 
wood paneling give the Do Drop invite the Dean.) the ambience of a real saloon. All it lacks is a cigar store Indian; one wall already sports a rebel flag." 
An article in the Nov. 2, 1976 Observer notes that the Seven also treated their "customers" to kegs in the dorm and water balloon and 

N. Eddy St. 
On Nov. 20, 1976, Dean Roemer was probably slightly suprised to be "served" with the following notice: 
"Dear Mr. Roemer: You are formally advised that you are hereby removed 
fireworks "Do drop in!" to the 40­launches something Sarin from the Seven this third floor weekend, the windows. residents of 
Needless 315 will to say, the probably 

administration did not look kindly on the Seven's efforts to "improve the hall," as then-senior Sean Gibbons called the group's efforts. On Oct. 27, 1976, the Sarin Seven were summoned to Roemer's office and handed· their eviction notices. 
"You are formally advis.ed that you are hereby removed from Sarin Hall permanently, effective as of 
• 
•WEBSITE 

Take Me7C5tit fo the Web Site: 
Baseball On~Line 
ByJASON HUGGINS Web Site.<:of theWeek Cottelipondriiit. 

It's no longer summer arid the days of fall are filled with screaming fans and the occasional free-for-all dog fight. That's right, it's base­
ball's  race  ·  ·  if  ·  ~an'tget out to the ballpark  
for a wonders of  favorite pastime via the the lntern~t. Take a mid..:tetm  
break,  web server; and visit these sites  

6 p.m. Sunday on Oct. 31, 1976," Roemer wrote. "You are further directed that you shall not enter Sarin Hall for the remainder of your undergraduate years at Notre Dame." 
In a follow-up statement to the Observer, Roemer added that "That kind of lifestyle ­odd hours, loud music, parties with alcohol ­belongs off campus." So, in accordance with the 1976 du Lac clause that gave the University the "right to unilaterally reassign students under the Housing Contract," Roemer gave the group four days to relocate. 
In addition to the obvious anger by the Seven, who claimed they were never contacted in regards to any problems with their behavior, Roemer's decision caused a good deal of ten­sion between other Sarin residents and the hall staff who ultimately sought the Dean's intervention. 
In a letter to the editor in the Nov. 5, 1976 Observer, six Sarin residents wrote, "The lifestyle of the ejected students may have 
If we encounter any further problems with you in or around this house, immediate disciplinary action shall be 
initiated against you by this house ...  
Very truly yours,  
T  h  e  
o r  i  n  
Seven"  

During h e spring semester, members of the S o r i n Seven peti­tioned the Dean's office that they be allowed to visit their friends in Sarin Hall, 

been considered slightly hedonistic and less In the end, a mirrored wall and empty bar were all that which was firm­than conclusive to the monotonous atmos-remained of the Do Drop Inn. ly refused by 
phere which usually permeates the campus, but it certainly was not detrimental to, or infringing upon, the respective lifestyles of their hall mates. Otherwise, these seven would have been ostracized by 
their neighbors long before the administration got around to it." 
Perhaps the administration of the 70's was influenced by a 
more liberal society, because the Seven were never actually charged with a disciplinary offense. According to 
Roemer, "they have simply been shifted off-campus," where such behavior as 
keg parties and loud music was actually permitted and even expected. 
Offense or not, the Seven were less than pleased with the administration's 
decision, and decided to mount a bit of a retalia­
from the 1034 Club permanently, effective as of now. Your name has also been scratched from the Sarin Seven Fan Club. 
You are further directed that you shall not enter our house at 1034 N. Eddy St. for the remainder of our undergraduate years at Notre Dame. 
Roemer in a lengthy letter to Hohman, Gibbons, and housemates Jeffrey Bartlett, George Gulyas, Patrick Murnane and Patrick Lennon. 
" ... You arc advised that I have decided that I will 
not reconsider this sanction," wrote Roemer. "You 
are not to be allowed on or about the premises 
at Sarin Hall including the porch and includ­
ing the inside of the building in any loca­
tion." 
One week later, the Seven had 
this to say in a letter to Roemer: 
"You are not to be allowed on or 

about the premises of 1034 N. Eddy 
St. including the porch, front and back 
yards, and including the inside of this 
building in any location." Needless to say, 
Roemer and the Sarin R.A.'s were conspicu­ously absent from the guest list at the Seven's 1034 Club 10 keg housewarming party. 
While the Do Drop Inn has long since closed its doors, the tradition of 315 Sarin Hall lives on. Luckily for Newton and the current R.A. 's, though, its residents have managed to avoid such clashes with the administration. 
Sarin senior Mike Eberly, who has lived in 315 for two years, says that the room is "meant for parties and just lounging around. It's a room for the whole floor." 
Roommate Kevin Shay adds, "We all want to have a good time, but the Sarin Seven, they were dedicated! Every now and then you get a group that takes partying to a new level." 
The Seven continue to trek back to Sarin each year for some "Otter bonding" with the current Sarin Hall Screaming Otters. "We greet them back every year," says Eberly, "buy them some beer, and they tell us about the 'good old days."' 
So, while Newton might extend a 
want to hold off on ordering that cigar store Indian for a while. 
Special thanks to Mike Eberly and John Rzeszut for their research assistance, and to Mr. Richard Hohman for photos and documents. Welcome back! 
and packs quite an statistics to columns recaps, injury 
access. 

Especially cool is Instant Ball ed playing field that allows u watch, in virtual-realtime, ne League Game. Instant Ballpark of all current games and perso for the season. 
For something completely ditli Association (www.clark.net/p ter of someone's ideal baseball mountain gorilla as an outfielde Jagger as third baseman. It is much free time will put up on th 
Speaking about free time, co about baseball? Believe it at Titles" (www2.ari.netlhome/od ken down into several categorie list and a list of "funny titles." cover they've forgotten your 
David 'Letterman's famous The first is entitled, ·"Good 


ACCENT
Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
Drop Inn" to du Lac 
Reading between the line_s: a look at the du Lac policy of 1996-97 
By JACKIE MARTINEZ Atnnt Copy Editor 
If you'vn nvnr actually taknn a glance at the alcohol policy outlirwd in du Lac, whether as a result of the informative Washington Ilall smninar or the mandato­ry alrohol awarerwss pner counseling session of fresh­man days gorw by, you may have noticed some glaring contradictions. 
h1r orw, according to du Lac (the Notn~ Dame law hook, for those of you who "accidentally" missed the hombardmnnt of alcohol no-no's in the meetings dPsrribnd above), "Studnnts arn responsible for com­pliancn with Indiana <:riminal law regarding alcohol possession and its usn." 
llowewr, du Lac also stal!~s that "no alcohol may bn SPrVPd in privatn rooms at :lily social gatherings that, for any n~ason, nxtmul h<~yond the privacy of the room in whirh tlwy an~ hdd." 


Without dancing around the takes the forefront in most leisure issun at hand, what tlw University activities of students at Notre Dame. flll'ans is that studnnts are "I think it does by default," says allownd to consunw and snrve Seetch. alcohol in tlwir own privato By that Seetch means that, "People rooms as long as tlwy knep it on don't realize that there are other tlw down-low. things out there to do and even if 
Somn of you may lw saying to they do, they're either not interested, yoursnlvns, "WPII, that isn't com­or think it's just easier to grab a six­plying with Indiana criminal law, pack." Seetch adds that, "It's not is it'!" just Notre Dame, but most students 
FPar not, for you an~ not alono in most schools." in your bafflnmnnl. As frnshman Minihane somewhat shares Kalin l>orn statns, "By trying to Scetch 's feelings. ahidf' by both Indiana and Notrn "Unfortuantely alcohol very defi­llanH' law, tlw school makes it nitely takes the forefront in many confusing for both freshmnn and students activities," says Minihane. any ollwr stud<~nt who doesn't She also sees, "an increasing num­know who to answnr to." ber of kids that don't want alcohol 
Anothnr gray arna lies in the anq we have to listen to that group." transport of akolwlic beveragns "We have in our halls and off cam­on campus. K<~nping in mind that pus some of the finest people on the du Lac doHs allow studnnts to face of the earth," says Seetch. 1:onsumn alcohol in tlwir own pri­Consistent with the belief of many vate rooms as long as they're students, he puts it best when he 
hush-hush about it, du Lac also says, "No underage 
JWrson may possnss or transport alcoholic beverages 
in any public area of campus." 
One!! again, thHre is a lack of consistency in the 
UnivHrsity's polirins. If students can drink beer in 
their rooms, but can't carry it there, then how is it 
supposnd to got from outside of their rooms to inside 
of tlwir rooms'! Maybe the university assumes that 
studnnts will use tlw Foree to beam it there? 
.!niT Landry, Assistant Director of Hesidence Life, 
was willing to clnar up sueh matters, however. lie 
says that thos<~ contradictions senn in du Lac regard­
ing tlw aleohol policy are going to be looked at in the 
near futuro to make sure that there aren't any indis­
ernpaneins. 
On tlrn otlwr hand, Zahm llall H./\. Matt Boever 
donsn't think any changes need to be made on the 
al<:ohol policy. 
"Tiwn~·s too rnw:h nmphasis on evaluating and 
n~<waluating the alcohol policy whereas other things 
rwml to hn looked at, such as the relationship between 
sexns," says Bonver. 
To surface y<~t another rampant misconception, I Landry spok<~ on thn dry campus issue. When told I that many stud1mts on campus fear that Notre Dame is 
pushing toward lweoming a dry campus because of its 
approach on tlw alcohol policy, Landry's response 
ILrk, the award-winning Java-animat­~1rs with .lava-enabled browsers to rly overything of interest in a Major ~rovides animation, lineups and slats ll.liznd replay of' any play of any game 
1·ent, surf over tn the Cosmic Baseball 1/t:osmk/pprost.html). A quirky ros­itoam. eomplotu with an Emdangored f Andy Warhol as shortstop, and Mick rnazaing to see what people with too 
Not. . 
~you, believe 420 songs were written ' . o "Bibliography of Baseball Music mwald/ballb/intro). This list is bro­
. induding a chronologically ordered be sure to add to the list if you dis­
ito ballpark ditty. en lists have also featured baseball. gs About Playing Baseball in New York" (www.cbs.com/lateshow/lists/950426 ). The seeond •."Proposed New Baseball Rules" (www.cbs.com/lateshow/1ists/950609.html)is oqually hilarious. Read 'em and weep. Or rather, read 'em and groan is more like it. One sample from the proposed new baseball rules: "#1: Rtmch a base. Do a shot." · 
Cool pictures and information about many ballparks across the country can be accessed at "l3allpa~ks" (www.ballpar:ks.com). The site even includes "My Baseball Dream" a travel diary by Ray Bergman. Ray is a baseball fanatic whose dream is to tour all 28 Major League ballparks over a two·month period. Hebasically goes to games all over the U.S., writes stories about his experi<titces at each game, and then posts tho stories on his Web site. He'll even e-mail you his stories if you'd like. 
There you have it, eight well-crafted baseball web $ltes for the. week. Have fun! · · 
Jason Huggins, a Junior MIS major from Thousand Oaks, CA., is stranded here for fall break. Send your condolences by e-mail to Jason.R.fluggins.3@nd.edu. 
was, "Absolutely not." 
Landry says, "I've worked at other schools that have been dry and I do not think a dry campus works. Students learning how to drink and do it responsibly is part of the college experience." 
"In general, I think students abide by the alcohol policy pretty well," continues Landry, "but there are some cases where there is abuse." 
Although Landry does not see abuse as a problem at Notre Dame, rectors Sister Maureen Minihane of Siegfried Ilall and Father Bill Seetch of Flanner Hall do. Minihanc thinks that, "Part of it is because of peer pressure. Some people feel that in order to be accept­ed by peers, they need to be part of the party scene." 
Seetch's stance on alcohol abuse is that, "The vast majority of problems arc a result of alcohol-fights, student injuries, vandalism, etc. I certainly enjoy hav­ing a couple of drinks. I even think it can be healthy, but so many students can't stop at just a couple." 
Seetch also agrees that alcohol 
says that, "Alcohol is developmental. If we push it down in one place, it will ooze out somewhere else." 
Beginning with seventh or eighth grade, students have been warned and lectured on the deadly effects alcohol can have on a person if not treated with cau­tion. But do the lectures ultimately make that much of an impact on an individual's decision-making? At what point is it that all of the lessons and teaching turn into a little too much preaching? 
At what point does letting a student know what their options are regarding alcohol take on a negative con­notation so that the lessons of caring arc interpreted as feelings of distrust? 
If Notre Dame does indeed have some of the finest students then does it not also have some of the finest students that possess the ability to make a responsible decision without having their hands held --or hair held, whatever the case may be? 
The University is not here to ram what is right and wrong down students' throats concerning alcohol intake. However it is the University's responsibility to make sure its students are safe. But then, when is it that students cease to be regarded as children to be cared for, but adults to be reckoned with? 
page 9 

• MEDICALMINUTE 
The 
Pumped Up Myths About Steroid Use 
By LARRY WARD 
MedicalMinuteCorrespondent 
We·are all familiar with the controversy of steroids in tho at:hletic arena. Steroids give many athletes an unfair advantage over their competitors. This past summer dm·­ilig. the Swnmer Olympics, many swimmers claimed that Michelle Smith, a distance swimmer from Ireland, had used steroids to help her win the medals she did. Fortunately for Smith, she passed a drug test with "flying ~~olors." 
Granted, steroids do help athletes become stronger and fare better in intense competition; however, the adverse ~ffects that steroids have on the statuesque users' bodies far outweigh the benefits. 
Anabolic androgenic steroids are a class of steroid hor­mones which assist in the buildup in tissues of the male body. These steroids are closely related to the natural male sex hormone testosterone which promotes muscle mass. 
..··These drugs are so controversial that they have actually become illegal in the United States as of 1991. Steroids are traditionally taken by athletes who specialize in athletic events which require intense power such as weight lifting and sprinting. Such athletes take the steroids in hopes of gaining muscle mass and muscle strength. Unfortunately,· the use of the drugs has become widespread in our nation's high schools. 
However, who can blame athletes for wanting to use the drugs? Studies have been conducted which confirm that steroids can increase the mass of lean muscles when taken 
··· inJarge amounts and joineQ. by heavy exercise. In fact, one stqdy proved that a gain of 8.9 pounds oflean muscle occurred with drug use over a ten week period. Moreover, some people claim that in a year's period, 40 pounds of weight can be added by using steroids. 
Ofcourse, the negatives of steroid use far outweigh lmy positive attributes ofthe drug. For example, females who use the drug do add male type muscle strength and mass. However; these women also grow facial hair and tend to begin talking more like Michael Jordan rather than Janet E:vans. In addition. steroids have horrible effects 011 the humanreproductive and cardiovascular systems as well as the liver, and the drugs are also believed to alter behavior. 
btmales, sex hormone secretion is normally controlled by 
the testes and•anterior pituitary. However, when a man ·h~girui to use steroids, he damages his endocrine system by ..ba~iFallylnbibitlng the anterior pituitary from secreting 
~~rmones thatactivate hormones in the testes. This in turn 
.C!l.USes the male to fail in secreting testosterone and pro­ducing sperm. As aresult, the testes of the male eventunlly decrl)ase in stze and mass. 
F~males 11re just as affected by steroids, and the secretion ofhormones is also inhibited; Thus, females who use the dtugswHleventuaUy fall to ovulate and will have extreme irregularities in their menstrual cycles. Furthermore, such feiliales will begin to notice their breast size decreasing. 
.Anabolic steroid use has also been shown to lead to de:Velopment ofatherosclerosis in users. Atherosclerosis is J.Uost conunonly associated with an increase in heart l:tttack$ and dehabilitating strokes, Other effects on the car· ~i(iv~c~lax system include the destruction of good cholos­tef"Qlcarriers which assist the removal of cholesterol from t~~ body and an increase in the user's blood pressure. 
•···· f'.1a~y.s..cientlsts also believe that damage to the muscles oftlie heart can occur dUring steroid use. Dysfunction of the liver also occurs in users ofsteroids. 
In addition to damage to the reproductive system, the 
•·cardiqva!l~;ular system and the liver, steroids are also believed to promote aggressive, abusive, and hostile behav­ior. in users of the drug. This claim is still unfounded by 
.scientific research but many close to steroid users claim 
·that users become dangerous during use of the drug. The aggressive bouts ofbehavior displayed by steroid drug users are referred to by physicians as "roid rages." 
Finally, anabolic steroids are believed to be addictive to many o(the users of the· drugs. This dependency is severe because physiological damage tends to become much worse wi_th prolonged use of tho drugs. 
Obviously, the use of anabolic androgenic steroids is plain sttipid.Jfyou or anyone you know is or begins using ste.roids, seek professionaly help before the damage is 
.irreparable. 
. Larry Ward is a junior Science Pre-Professional major. j!s his physiology classmates might know, this article was adapt&dfrom Lauralee Sherwood's lluman Physiology. 
1993. 
-
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
• NFl FOOTBAll 

Beebe, Jacke jilt '49ers in OT 
By DAVE GOLDBERG Associated Press Writer 
GREEN BAY 
With Robert Brooks gone early and Edgar Bennett gone late, the Green Bay Packers turned to Plan B -Don Beebe. 
While it was Chris Jacke's 53­yard field goal, the longest over­time kick in NFL history, that gave the Packers a 23-20 victory over San Francisco on Monday night in the most dramatic game of the season, it was Beebe who was the real hero. 
The 32-year-old veteran, who spent most of his career with Buffalo, had 11 catches for 220 yards, third-most yardage in Packers' history, including a controversial 59-yard catch from Brett Favre for Green Bay's only touchdown. 
That gave him at least a share of the hero's mantle with Jacke, who had four other field goals, including a 31-yarder with eight seconds left in regulation that sent the game into overtime. 

He also was a reluctant hero when he was sent on to kick from 53 yards. 
"A kicker never hopes for those situations," Jacke said. ''I'd much rather be kicking for extra points. " 
"I hate it," he added of kick­ing with the game on the line. "There's not a kicker in the league that wants to be in that position." _ 
Beebe's heroics, meanwhile, came just in time for the Packers (6-1). 
Brooks, Favre's favorite tar­get, injured his knee on Green Bay's first offensive play and coach Mike Holmgren said after the game that he will be lost for the season. 
It was a game that lived up to its billing -two of the NFL's best teams in one of the league's best settings -as San Francisco ( 4-2) tried to avenge a 27-17 loss to the Packers in last sea­son's playoffs. 
"It was a great game for our team and our fans," Holmgren said. "Truly a great game. To come back against a team like this is something that can lift us up." 
San Francisco's defense, led by Marquez Pope, Lee Woodall and Dana Stubblefield, con­trolled most of the game. It forced Favre to pass 61 times, a team record, and he completed just 28. 
"Our team played a heck of a game," 49ers coach George Seifert said. "But we didn't make the plays." 

Bryant Young and the San Francisco defense limited the high-octane Green Bay offense to juts 23 points, but it was three too many. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

SPRING BREAK  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  '95 grad needs 2-6 Air Force GA's  Need 2 Air F. GA's  If your dollar bill wants to be spent,  
NOTICES  Cancun, Mazatlan From $399 Lowest price guaranteed!  GAMES 235-3394  for parents. Call Joe@ 1-800-736­3399 x6169 and leave message. I'll  Amy 616-473-5825  & you've already paid out the rent, Then bring us that dough,  
Sell 15 trips and travel free+ cash!  ALUM NEEDS GA's  return call asap.  NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS­ & come to the show,  
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Call Sunbreaks 1-800-446-8355  for WASH, AF, PITI & RUTGERS  HAVE AF, PITI, RUTGERS TICK­ It's tonight and it's IRISH ACCENT.  
!!!!!  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GA's  ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK  
Anyone interested in playing disc  HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR  Call Brian @ 4-1737  601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­ There once was a comedy troupe,  
golf, call x0509  5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S  4273  IRISH ACCENT's the name of the  
!!!1!1!1!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!  (813)360-2243.  CALL STEVE AT *0867  NEEDED: 2 non-stud GAs for Air  group;  
!!!I  Force. FRANK 4-3323.  Leaving for Fall Break?  They do improvs and skits,  
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Sell SKI  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  I'd love your AF Tickets! Having  & their fans all say, "It's  
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­ & SPRING BREAK beach trips.  ALL GAMES HOME  Needed: 6 Air Force GA's, Call Eric  friends in! Please call Jen or Sarah  A really great way to spend a  
cal piano training has openings for  Hottest places & coolest spaces.  AND AWAY  at 271-9069  -243-9019  Tuesday evening, and it only  
intro. piano lessons, children 8 &  Call immediately Student Express,  232-0058  costs a buck, so CHECK IT  
up. call Meaghen @ 271-7933  Inc. 1-800-SURFS-UP.  24 HAS.  ***FOR SALE*** 2 Air Force st. tix  NEED BC & WASH TIX  OUT!-what are you, CHICKEN?  
BUY -SELL -TRADE  b/o 272-9759  312-951-5008  HUH?"  
- IRISH ACCENT TONIGHT! IRISH ACCENT TONIGHT!  FOR RENT  TICKET-MART, INC.  AIR FORCE STUD. TICKET W/ ID  WANT 2 or 3 Non convert  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0  
0 MY GOSH 0 MY GOLLY!  N.D. Football tickets bought & sold.  must sell!!  AF GA's, John 634-4219  in the LaFortune Student Center  
IRISH ACCENT TONIGHT!  WALK TO CAMPUS  219-232-2378 a.m.  call wendy at 243 9430  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  288-2726 p.m.  NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX  Tues. 7:30am -Midnight  
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  232-2595  FIRST ROW PHISH TIX FOR  Call Pat X3015  Wed. 7:30am -Midnight  
Breakfast Inn has space available  Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tix!  SALE!!! Friday's PITISBURGH  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  Need a place to stay on football  Please call Patti at (610)775-5144  show. Call Brian at X1824.  Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm  
private baths, $70 -$90,  weekends?  Will trade Air Force Student Ticket  Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  Furnished apartment for short term  WANTED: 3 GA or upgraded stu­ @#%$  and $ for Rutgers GA  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  rent. Full kitchen, living room, two  dent tix to the Air Force game . Call  NEED 4 AF GA BADLY 288-9102  Call 273-6039  (closed home football Saturdays)  
1-800-418-9487  bedrooms, sleeps 4+. Call 287­ Jamie 4-1501.  %$%$  
4876.  Need 2 Air Force GAs for parents  
That comedy improv troupe!  STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR  TIX for every home game.  call Brian at 634-0559 (4-0559)  DALLOWAY'S GRAND OPENING  
IRISH ACCENT!  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  SALE-ALL GAMES!!!  Call (301) 445-3955  Monday, Oct. 14 from 7-10 p.m.  
At 9 tonight in the Ballroom!  Private Homes for Football,  call James X1658  I NEED AIR FORCE GAs!!!!! Call  Open Mike Night!  
It's only ONE DOLLAR!  JPW, Graduation, etc.  $45  X4121  Everyone welcome, anything  
Can ya BEliEVE IT?  219-291-7153  Academy Grad  WILL PAY $45 FOR  goes!@  
ILOST & FOUND I  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY .. private homes for football, JPW,  NEEDS 2 GAs for AIR FORCE call Emily x1480  1 AIR FORCE GA Call Brian x1961 $45  I NEED 2 RUTGERS GAs!!!! Please call X3886.  Questions? Call Jen or Lisa at 243­9264, or Carolyn at 243-9343.  
·graduation, etc. 219-291-7153  NEED TIX FOR PITI & BC  !@#$%"&.()(*&"%$#@!!@#$%  Stepan Center Court Time  
LOST:Rockhurst class ring '93,  Victoria x0781  Need TWO AIR FORCE GA's  scheduling meeting for any  
Black neck band with silver eagle  4-bdrm. home N. of campus in  NEED BC TIX!  Call X1468 & Leave Name,  organizations wanting to reserve  
and balck Acqua watch at Stepan  Roseland. Walk to ND/SMC.  ####################  As many as possible  Number, PRICE  weekly court time at Stepan:  
volleball courts, on Sun, 9/29@ 2pm  Ideal for faculty, staff or student.  DESPERATELY NEED  CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382  !@#$%"&*()(*&"%$#@!@#$%  Wednesday, Oct. 16  
Tom x0573  Available now.  AIR FORCE GAs  or (617) 828-1089  4prn -Montgomery Theatre  
287-9342.  Karin @ X4635  AF Stu-tix 4 sale x-2737  1st Floor LaFortune.  
REWARD  ####################  
REWARD  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Sale,Stud Tix,all game.  FOR THE LOVE OF GOD!!! I need  IRISH ACCENT  
REWARD  ND-SMC EVENTS.  Help!!!! Need a GA for the Air  2438161.  2 Air Force GA's for my parents!  comedy improv troupe  
IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Force game. Ask for Tina  Call Tony anytime x0915  FIRST SHOW OF THE YEAR!  
I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN  ENDS. VERY CLOSE TO CAM­ 4-3113.  4 Sale: Pair of Std tixs for last 3  TONIGHT!  
TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH  PUS. 243-0658.  games. Will trade any into GAs.  FOR SALE AF GA-Paul @ 283­ (Tue., Oct. 15)  
BIRTHDAY.  ***NEED 3 AIR FORCE GAs***  x2557 or x3950  0392/0397  9:00 LAFUN BALLROOM  
CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE  FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst  CALL PETE @ 4-0975  Admission: ONE DOLLAR!!!!!!!!  
ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE  home. Rms avail for football week­ Need 3 AF GA's  What--do you think we're MAKING  
GAME.  ·ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from  NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !I  Call x1195  FOR SALE* stud. AF-Call Paul  THIS UP?  
CAMERA DESCRIPTION:  campus. 219.287.6797  Call Elena x2900  @ 283-0392/0397  
RICOH MODEL Z-1002.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  HAVE YOU BEEN DUMPED? BIT­ 
PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­ Moving to Chicago?  WANTED, 2 AIR FORCE GAs  ALL GAMES HOME  AF Stu tix for sale call X-1158  TER? then join BPND-Bitter  
GAST AT  SWF Alum looking for a roommate  CALL BIG PAT@ 273-5875.  AND AWAY  Persons of Notre Dame to get on  
860-651-1911.  to share 2 bdrm apt in goldcoast  232-0058  4 SALE AF/PITI/RTGRS  our FREE mailing list-call  
area. Very reasonable. Call 312­ NEED AIRFORCE GAs  24 HAS.  1 STU BOOK, 2 MARRIED STU  "disgruntled" @x3331 and leave a  
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette  787-7850. Leave message.  CALL SHANNON @ 4-4624  BUY -SELL • TRADE  BOOKS  msge  
labelled "Letter Perfect 1" on Wed  TICKET-MART, INC.  $125/BOOK OR BEST OFFER  
Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. If found, please call Jeanne @287-5467.  FOR SALE  WE NEED AIR FORCE TIX-STU­DENT OR GA-CALL MEGHAN  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  232-2586  LISTEN! YOUR WALLETS TALK­ING!! It's the picture of George  
@232-7839.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Need 2 Air Force GAs  Washington on your dollar bill! He's  
FOUND:  Gray 87 Cutlas Cierra loaded auto  232-0061.  Call Chad at 271-8019  saying  
LARGE AMBER CLIP EARRING.  excellent condition. New parts 101  NEED TICKETS 4 AIR FORCE  "E PLURIBUS UNUM"-which is  
CALL DOROTHY 272-2136.  K. Best Offer. 219-296-7546(night)  G.A.'S CALL SEAN X0644  $$$$$$  FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S.  Latin for "IRISH ACCENT, the com­ 
1-9397(day).  I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  CHRIS (201)763-9346.  edy irnprov troupe, is having a show  
WANTED  1993 Honda Accord EX. One owner. 39,000 miles. Very clean,  Not going to the game on Sat.? Why not donate your ticket to the Logan Center? 50+ tickets are  ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551  PERSONAL  TONIGHT, October 15, at 9 in LaFortune Ballroom! It only costs a dollar! Spend ME!! Spend ME!!"  
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!!  rear spoiler, CD , loaded. Asking  needed so that local disabled peo­ n. d. tickets for sale  (He's also saying, "ANNUIT COEP­ 
Absolute Best SPRING BREAK  $14,500. 256-7152.  ple can see a ND game. Please call  271 1635  TIS"-which is Latin for  
Packages available!!  Mike @41002 or Amy @284-5101  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  "What--do you think we're making  
INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­ AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET  ASAP. Thanks a lot.  NEED 1 BC GA!!II!!!!I  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  this up?")  
TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!!  must sell!I! call wendy at 243 9430  MUST HAVE FOR BROTHER!!III  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  
Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS  Need 3 A-Force GAs  call Tom x1741  The highest quality full-color  !5 years overdue, but the Yankess  
at  90 VW JETIA BLACK 2DR SNRF  call Matt 4-3573  copies are now available at  are on their way to title No.23 ...  
1-800-327-6013  5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569  $NEED WASH, & AF TIX  THE COPY SHOP  Too bad No. 23 himself couldn't be  
or http://www.icpt.com  NEED 2 AF GA's  708-848-9432 5-7 PM EDT M-F  LaFortune Student Center  a part of it.  
Hundereds of Students Are Earning  TICKETS  Brigette@ 232-1971 FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITI  708-847-7614 7-9 PM EDT M-F NEED 2-4 GA TIX  Phone #631-COPY Have you turn~d  Too bad they still play in that sprawling gutter they call New York.  
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  AND RUTGERS GAs FOR  ALL HOME GAMES.  in your  
Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  SALE 272-7233**•••••••••  CALL 276·2010/288-2877 AFT 5  LONDON PROGRAM  New York smells really bad.  
Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  232-0061.  APPLICATION???  
$399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  NEED 1 maybe 2 AF ticket GA for  GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell  
www.springbreaktravel.com  BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL  sisters  67 4-7645 -No student or student  IRISH ACCENT TONIGHT!  
1-800-678-6386  312.404.4903  call Bill 4-3906  conv.  IRISH ACCENT TONIGHT!  goin' to the 'backer to get squashed  

• Nl CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Bats explode as Braves stay alive, rout Cards 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Pross Writer 
ST. LOUIS 

They were swift, startling and 
merciless. 
The Atlanta Braves needed 
merely to beat the St. Louis 
Cardinals to avoid elimination 
in the Nl. championship series. 
lnstoad. they beat them up. 
Spraying hits with a vengeance from the start, the defending World Series champi­ons matched the biggest rout in postseason history, overwhelm­ing St. Louis 14-0 Monday night to dose their deficit to 3-2. 
"I didn't sense the killer instinct in us last night," Atlanta's Chipper .Jones said. "Tonight, I did." 
The Braves silenced the Busch Stadium record crowd of 56.7H2 that came to sec a clincher with a l'ive-run first inning, then kept attacking in an awesome display that set LCS records for hits and most lopsided vietory. 
"Bnf'ore they could evnn get their popcorn and beer, they wem down five," .Jones said. 
And. thn Braves never let up. They finished with 22 hits, and even stole a base with the game out of hand. 
Smashes oil' the walls, and far over them. Shots up the middle and into the corners. The outs wern hard, too -Fred McGriff 
knocked down first baseman 
John Mabry with a line drive. 
By the time Javy Lopez sin­
gled in the fourtli, every Braves 
batter had gotten a hit. When 
he homered to dead center the 
next inning, Atlanta led 11-0 
and already had set an NLCS 
record with 17 hits. 
The Braves, a team that be­gan the game batting only .213 in this year's postseason, got four hits each from Mark Lemke and Lopez. 
"Our flares fell in, our line drives fell in," A'tlanta manager Bobby Cox said. "Everything fell in." 
It was as if, overnight, the Braves had decided they were not about to let their season end. Cox talked to the team about that possibility in a brief pregame meeting. 
"We got out early and took their crowd out of it," Lemke said. "I think you have to credit the whole offense. The team really came through." 
John Smoltz added two hits, and also pitched seven shutout innings for his second win in a week, sending the best-of-7 series back to Atlanta. 
Atlanta's runaway victory, following two one-run defeats, ended St. Louis' nine-game home winning streak in post­season play. And, it gave the Braves all the more reason to think these playoffs would still turn out OK. 

Four-time Cy Young Award 
winner Greg Maddux will pitch 
Game 6 on Wednesday night 
against St. Louis' Donovan 
Osborne. If the Braves win, 
they'll start Tom Glavine, MVP 
of last year's World Series, in 
Game 7. 
"We think we can do it," Cox said. "We talked about it all day with the team." 
The Cardinals, meanwhile, will certainly continue to hear more about some of their past failures. Of the 47 teams to take 3-1 leads in postseason series, 40 have gone on to win -St. Louis is the only club ever to twice blow such an edge, in the 1968 and 1985 World Series. 
'.'Before we could escape, they had put up a couple of crooked numbers," Cardinals manager Tony La Hussa said. "It just wasn't any fun. That game got away from us." 
The Braves broke the LCS record of 19 hits set by the New York Yankees against Oakland in 1981. 
The Braves also surpassed the Chicago Cubs' 13-0 win over San Diego in 1984 for the largest margin of victory in an LCS game. 
The Braves matched the record for a postseason rout. The New York Yankees beat the New York Giants 18-4 in Game 2 of the 1936 World Series. 
Yankees see pros and cons to five-day lay-off 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEWYOHK 

The elubhouse was nearly quiet, mail piled neatly on the players' chairs, World Series tickets lilting envelopes on a tabln in thn middln of the room. 
Aft1~r winning thnir first AL pennant in 15 ynars, thn New York Yankees took Monday off. They'll start Series prnparations with a workout Tuesday. 
"I don't think you would want five days ofT," manager Joe Torre said after Sunday's 6-4 victory at Baltimore, which wrapped up the best-of-7 AL dwmpionship series in live games. 
"As far as the alternative, we will take five days as opposed to playing Tuesday and Wednesday," he joked. 
Hest will give players a chance to heal before opening the World Series against Atlanta or St. Louis at Yankee Stadium on Saturday night. 
Second baseman Mariano Duncan missed Sunday's game because of a sore hamstring. 
Third baseman Wade Boggs, bothered by a bad back during the second half of the season, is 3-for-28 in the postsea­son. 
Hight fielder Paul O'Neill, hobbling because of a pulled right hamstring, is just 5-for-26. 
And David Cone, who returned from surgery in September, has struggled in both of his postseason starts. Orioles manager Davey Johnson said Cone showed signs of a dead arm, muscular tiring that usually hits pitchers in the middle of spring training. 
Torre also has some big decisions to make about his pitchers. 
The rout gave Cox a chance Game 2. Then again, this time 
to relax. With his team far Stottlemyre was pitching on 
ahead early in the game, he three days' rest for the first 
was passing time in the dugout time since July 1995, and just 
by waving a bat. No doubt, the the fifth time in his career. 
career .224 hitter would've "That's the way it goes," 
liked a chance to swing in this Stottlemyre said. "They were 
game. lighting for their lives." 
Smoltz, not that the Braves Two outs later, a single by needed him on this night, was Jermainc Dye set up a key play, his usual, brilliant self in a catchable 11y ball to right-con­October, improving to 8-1 life-ter. time in the postseason and 3-0 Instead, center fielder Willie this October. The major league McGee and right fielder Brian leader in wins and strikeouts Jordan both backed off and ball this year, he passed Bob Gibson fell between them for a two-run and Whitey Ford to become triple and a 5-0 lead. baseball's career leader in Singles by Grissom and postseason strikeouts with 98. Lemke in the second set up an 
Todd Stottlemyre, the winner • HBI single by Jones that fin­in Game 2, was given the job of ished Stottlemyrc, and Hyan pitching the Cardinals to their Klesko singled home a run off 16th pennant. He had extra Danny Jackson. Through two incentive, too, because a win innings, every Atlanta hitter would put him in the World except Smoltz had either scored Series against the New York a run or driven in one. Yanke,es, where his father, Mel, At that point, with Atlanta is the pitching coach. ahead by a touchdown at 7-0, 
But the Braves were not surely many fans watching on about to accomodate him. television were getting set to 
Marquis Grissom sliced a sin-tune into the Monday Night gle on the first pitch and Lemke Football showdown between doubled off the wall in right. the Green Bay Packers and Sa,n Jones followed with a two-run Francisco 49ers. double to left and McGriff sin-Smoltz singled home a run in gled for his first RBI of the the fourth, and Lopez doubled series. and scored his fourth run in the 
Only 13 pitches, and Atlanta eighth. McGriff hit his first had four hits and three runs, home run of this series and sec­exactly matching its totals off ond of the postseason in the Stottlemyre in six innings in ninth. 
New York fans show rousing support for Yankee success 
By VERENA DOBNIK 
Associated Press Writer 

NEW YORK They got trampled, they got drunk, . they got high, they got dirty and dead 
· tired. But they got The Tickets. Up to 10,000 fans, by some estimates, spent a night or two outside Yankee Stadium for a chance to see the Bronx Bombers play their first World Series in 15 years. "It's for The ... Big ... One," said Liam Collins, a bleary-eyed 23-year-old clutching his tickets as he left the South Bronx stadium Monday morning. Fans waited out the night in a park across the street in tents, sleeping bags and cots, leaving behind a sea of trash amid fallen police barricades. The ground was strewn with reeking bottles of beer and food. Some even survived an overnight 
stampede unscathed. 
At about 3 a.m., police opened up a gate in the chain-link fence, "and there was a huge surge of people, running," said Robert Eisner, 33, a city employee from Manhattan. "Chairs got knocked out of their hands, some went down and got trampled." And on the other side of the fence, he said, "I saw cops who were frightened. I saw it in their eyes." 
Among those who went down was Christine Mallis, 16, of Islip, Long Island, who had arrived with her father at 5 p.m. Sunday to wait for the gates to open at 9 a.m. Monday. 
"It was a little scary," said the teen­ager, nursing her knee in a plastic chair -but sticking to her place in line at 10 a.m., about an hour away from getting her tickets. 
She was down for about a minute, adding excitedly, "It was just like a rock concert!" 

~---~-~---~---------------~~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
..__ 
• CREW 


Observer File Photo 
The men's and women's crew team competed at the Head of The Rock in Rockford, Ill. on Sunday. 
Men's & Women's Crew Results Sunday, Oct.13 Head of The Rock, Rockford, II 
8+ fifth place
Women's Open 

Peter Cilella/The Observer 
Switch 
continued from page 16 
yet he does the best job on our team of holding up their sprinters." 
Although Cooper may not have tremendous speed, sophomore Shannon Stephens can fly. Stephens is listed as the third fastest Irish player behind Allen Rossum and Randy Kinder. That's one of the reasons he was chosen to replace Cooper at receiver. 
"Shannon Stephens is the one guy (at receiver) who can run," Holtz said. "There is no doubt about it. Shannon Stephens will be a great asset. But when you run a route, a lot of it has to take time and experience." 

Experience is the second reason for Stephens' switch from cornerback to the receiv­ing corps. Although previously he had never played offense at Notre Dame, Stephens had plenty of practice in high school. 
In addition to rushing for 2,498 yards as a junior and senior in high school, he caught passes for 697 yards during his last two seasons. 
"You have got to be at the right place; you have got to be able to read coverages," Holtz said. 
Stephens was certainly at the right places against Washington's secondary. He simply made a sliding 42-yard catch, ran a reverse for 10 yards, scored a fourth quarter touchdown and led all receivers with 93 total yards. 
Thanks to solid perfor­mances from Cooper and Stephens, it's safe to say that Notre Dame's big switch has been a big success. 
Deion Sanders would be proud. 
~-------------. 
Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
Media Day 
continued from page 16 
have the opportunity and I think I'll make the most of it." 
The Irish are also looking to make the most of their second year in the Big' East. 
A dismal 4-14 inaugural year in the conference exposed Notre Dame weaknesses such as lack of physicality and speed. 
With a year under their belt, MacLeod understands that those initial growing pains were necessary and will make his squad stronger this year. 
"In our second year in the Big East, we now know where the locker rooms are," he said. "We have a much better feel for the opposing teams. We also have a better feel for the style of ball played in the Big East." 
Even though the new Irish re­cruits have shown promise, MacLeod will be heading into games with a veteran group on the floor at the opening tap. 

"For the first time in quite some time, we will not have a freshman in the starting line­up," MacLeod added. "It indi­cates that perhaps the roster is beginning to solidify." 
That does not mean the Irish will be a completely revamped team. MacLeod and the coach­ing staff want to address such problems as free-throw shoot­ing, transition defense, and field goal percentage. 
"We have a lot of things that need to be corrected and ques­tions that need to be an­swered," MacLeod said. 
If these areas are improved even a little bit, Notre Dame has only one place to go in the Big East this year. 
"We finished dead last a year ago, so our objective is obvi­ously to make a big jump," MacLeod concluded. "I think this team is going to create some excitement." 
Players are expected to at­

~+w-·'ten.d both the 7:30-9:30. p.in. ses;slorn in the Joyce Center on ~___ 16th and th~ 6:30 p,.m. basi~etP't-!Hisl~·~-iSiO•li in the auxilltary gym 
Pit) on the 17th. 

HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLAS S I F I E D S . 
Consider the Air Force ROTC. They did. • • 
Seth Miller Student Body President 

Call 631-4676 for more info. It might be one of the best moves you've ever made. 
Carol Bouchard SMC Nursing Student 
Julie Henderson Women's Basketball Team 
Bryan Johnson Irish Guard 

*Service to country *Guaranteed job when graduate *Competitive starting salaries, 
plus outstanding benefits *Leadership opportunities 

NSCAA/UMBRO 
Men's Soccer Ra_~..ki~g 


For a Healthy Tan All Year Round SPEC lA 
The Castle & co".'J1J\N 
• Wolf Tanning Beds 
'7--':#/

• 
Facial Tanners ~~~~·/

• 
Luxurious, Clean Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo & Body Cooling with Every Lounge 


Tan All You Can  Minutes from Campus State Road 23/lronwood  
for one month $3s.oo  
272-0312  Expires November '96  

LaSalle Partners, a global leader in the commercial real estate indus-. 
try, invites you to learn about LaSalle Partners' reputation as an innov­ative creator of value for real estate owners, investors and users. 
Position 

Financial Analyst for LaSalle Partners limited, an international real estate firm providing Advisory, Management Services, Tenant Representation, Investment Banking and land Services to corporate and institutional clients. 
Location 

We are hiring for offices located in Atlanta, Chicago, los Angeles, New York, Sacramento and Washington, D.C. 
Education 

All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative aptitude and sound com­munication skills are preferred. 
Presentation 

A presentation outlining the Financial Analyst Program and LaSalle 
Partners will be held: 
Tuesday, November 12 
6:30 -8:30 pm 
Foster Room, LaFortune 
Interview Date 

Interviews will be held on November 13. Additional information is 
available at the Career & Placement Office or visit www.lasalle.com. 
Please send resumes by October 28, to LaSalle Partners, 200 E. 
Randolph, Chicago, ll 60601, attention: Joe Kovach. 
Atlanta . Chicago . London . Los Angeles. Mexico City. New York. Paris . Washington, D.C. 
---~-­
The Observer I Mike Ruma 

Irish coach Chris Petrucelli and his toppled Irish will hope to get a bit of retribution against Santa Clara when the Broncos host the Final Four. 
lost to Stanford. Henola felt the
Soccer 
Irish had something to prove to the folks out west. 
continued from page 16 
"In a way, it was more disap­pointing for me that we didn'tHenola grew up minutes away 
play well in either game
from Santa Clara in Los Gatos. 
because I had a million peopleFurther. it was only the sec­
watching me," said Henola.
ond time since her freshman "We haven't really proven any­campaign that the Irish played thing to that area of the coun­in California, and in 1993, they try, and that's a tough lesson to 
learn."

ot>-1\-IOPEDIC Sp€ 
It seems only convenient that
<?f5c.:, ~~ c~< 
Santa Clara will host this year's 
~'?' ~y /IS';­
NCAA's. The two-time All­American spoke of possible re­Quick Service-Reasonable 
tribution. "We're lucky to have the 
• Fix any leather goods 
chance to go back and maybe 
• Replac.e zipper -Shines 
get a shot at them again," she 
• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
said of the Broncos. "It would be the same team, same field. I00% Guarantee 
We have some unproven busi­8-6 Monday­
ness." Friday 

Notre Dame's 13-0-0 start 
9-3 -Saturday 

had been the best in the history
I025 East 

of the nine-year program. 
Madison 
288-6211 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Anniversary Sale • Oct. 14-25 
To celebrate our first anniversary, we're cutting 20% 
oH the price of the works of writers such as Augustine, 
G.K. 
Chesterton and J.H. Newman, as well as au­thors in Paulist Press' Ancient Christian Writers and Classics of Western Spirituality series, and Catho­lic University's Fathers of the Church series. Come stock your library and enter a drawing for the Bible of your choice! As always, a// books are l0% off for ND­SMC faculty and students. LASALLE BOOKSTORE, 237 

N. 
Michigan, So. Bend. Open l 0-5, Man-Fri. 234-0003. 


............ 
Rank Team 
1 2 
3 4 
5 
6 7 8 
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
The Observer I Mike Ruma 
24

Sophomore Ben Bocklage has been a key part of the recent offensive surge which has boosted the 
25 Irish to the No. 15 ranking in the country. 
Virginia NC-Charlotte James Madison St. John's California Rutgers .· ..... Wisconsin-Madison So. Methodist NC-Greensboro Washington Creighton Harvard Cal-State Fullerton Penn State Notre Dame William & Mary Furman Cornell Evansville Fresno State Hartford 
Duke Air Force UCLA George Mason 

Peter Cllella/ The Observer 
Record 10-0-3 11-1-0 10-0-0 10-1-1 10-2-2 9::2-J 8-2-3 9-3-0 12-0-0 10-2-0 8-2-1 8-1-0 8-3-1 8-3-1 9-2-2 9-2-1 9-2-0 7-1-1 9-2-0 7-3-1 10-2-1 

I 
---~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 15, 1996 
I 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll 


The Observer I Jed Donahue An Alumni Hall receiver stretches for a ball during this weekend matchup with Zahm. Alumni was victorious in the game, handing Zahm its first loss of the season . 
• SMC VOLLEYBAll 

Belles defeat Lake Forest 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sporrs Writer 

The absence of two key con­The Observer I Jed Donahue tributors can threaten to pro­Pangborn's quarterback looks downfield as she advances the ball duce detrimental affects to a toward the Walsh goal line on Sunday. 
team consisting of only ten players. And although the Saint Mary's volleyball squad had little trouble defeating Lake Forest at home last week, they will be relieved to welcome back Jayne Ozbolt and Ashley Dickerson as the Belles travel to the University of Chicago Tuesday evening. 

Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek foresees no problems while facing the unranked Chicago team. Saint Mary's played strong in last Saturday's Kalamazoo Quadrangular and easily overpowered the Foresters this past Wednesday. The Observer I Rachael Sederberg 
"The University of Chicago is The Saint Mary's volleyball squad, after easily beating Lake Forest at 
a pretty tough team," the Angel Athletic Facility, begins to prepare for the University of Chicago. Belles head coach commented. "They run a solid program, but seemed to plague them all sea­play for an entire week. we've been playing tough as son. If the team can work Whether this rest will be bene­well." these bugs out of their system, ficial or harmful to their game 
Schroeder-Biek hopes to im­their games prior to fall break remains to be seen. 

prove the difficulties the team should not threaten their 13-Schroeder-Biek hopes that has been suffering from in lO.record. their current successes, ample their latest practice sessions. Fall break, however, may be practice time, and a win In preparation for their the only foreseeable problem against Chicago will be enough upcoming game, they have for the success of the Belles. to boost them over the hump concentrated on offensive Saint Mary's is the only team of fall break and encourage 
passing, one facet that has 

in their division that does not them on to further victories. 
Men's lnterhall Power Poll 
Morrissey 4·0·0 Alumni 4·0·0 . Off-Campus 3·1-0 Zahm 2·1·0 2·1·0 2·1·0 1·2·0 2·2·0 1·2·0 Keenan 1·2·0 Carroll 1·3·0 Dillon 0·3·1 . Stanford 0-2-1 0·4-0 
The 
Women's lnterhall Power Poll 
1. P.E. 5·0·0 2. Lyons 4-0·0 3. Siegfried 3·1·1 4. P.W. 3·2·0 5. Howard 2·1·1 6. Walsh 2·2·1 7. Off-Campus 3·3·0 8. Breen-Phillips 3·2·0 9. Lewis 2·3·0 10. Pangborn 1·2·2 11. Cavanaugh 1·2·2 12. Farley 0·4·1 13. Badin 0·4·0 14. Knott 0·5·0 
The Observerffom Roland 

See tomorrow's Observer for weekend scores. 
-------------------------------------~--------------~ -­


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
IF iOU PLf>.N TO HAVE A. I f\ECOt'\MEI'\0 THE DHUX£ HOW WOULD T\-\E. DELUXE C>OOTI-1 AT lt\E il\fo.DE SHOW, BOOTH. IT'S GUI\1\~Nit.ED BOOTH GE.NE.R/l.IE. MORE. YOU NEE.D TI-l[ "DOGBE.RT TO GENER/l.TE THE r-'\05T REVENUE. !=OR MY COMPANY? Tf\AOE·S\10W CONSULIING Rt.VE.NUE. COI"\PA.NY" TO 
OH, 5UDDENLY 

DESIGN IT. 
THI5 IS ABOUT YOUR. COMPANYf 
( 

CROSSWORD 
fash10n1 Conlused 65 "B1g Mouth"33 Enter. as a car

5 Lake m Afr~ca 
Martha 9 Detest 
35 Frontiersman 1n 66 The Pentateuch a coonskin cap14 Carpet cutter's 67 Tallies calculation 39 Party line? 

68 Balanced 

15 Pref1x w1th 41 Fore's 69 Atlantadynam1c counterpart 
university1& Solo 42 Rubber hub 
70 Track contest 11 "The G1f1 of the 43 Dom1ngo's voice 
71 Pause in the 
" 

44 Skirt feature music 1a Sof1 cheese 
46lke's W.W. II 19 DIStinCtiVe domain DOWN
glows 47 Slack 20 Where a student 49 Feels nostalgia 1 Lion's trusting may solve a for 
compan1onproblem 2 Kind of hyg1ene51 Honesty23 "What I Am" 3 Electronic54 Shortlys1nger Bnckelf game giant55 God of war24 Actor Lukas of 4 Chinese"W1tness" 56 Obsequious 

discipline25 "Fat" Cosby student 
5 Sauerkraut,characte1 62 Defeats 

essentially27 Using the VCR decisively 
6 Grinders 7 Song for Madama ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Butterfly 
Puzzle by Andrew Goldstein a Not an idler 
9 Bond rating 10 Place for a  30 Biathlon equ1pment  51 AIa 52"--With a  57 Wander 58 Ye­-Shoppe  
student's essay  31 K1tty starter  View"  59 Stat for a goalie  
11 Crowd  34 A little night  53 Prefix with  60 Peepers  
12 Walking-­ music  surgeon or  61 1996  
(elated)  36 Mineral rocks  transmitter  Tony-winning  
13 Put back to zero  37 Memorandum  54 Stockholm  musical  
22 Pops  38 Slaughter on the ballfield  native  &3Timid  
26 Wine poured to honor a deity 27 Diplomat's specialty  40 Reward for a student 45 Surrounded by  Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420~5656 (75¢ per minute).  
28 Healing plant  48 Sphere  Annual subscriptions are available for the  
29 Teller's partner  so Nighttime  best of Sunday crosswords from the last  
in magic  noisemaker  50 years: (800) 762-1665.  

R~~ 


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY HIIUHDAY! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF \'OUR LIFE: A large-scale bu<ine.~s venture cap­tures your imagination. Think hig and you will win hig 1 A special award or pay raise is featured in De­cember. Look forward to romance taking on a new glow as 1997 gets underway. A long-awaited hreak­rhrough improve~ your financial prospects. Next spring will bring pleasurable travel and new friends. Postpone an oversea~ trip until mid­summer. Wedding bells could ring out next fall. Guard a wonderful legacy. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: director Penny Mar­shall, sportscaster Jim Palmer, actress Linda Lavin, novelist Mario Puzo, sprinter Bobby Marrow. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Getting beuer organized will reduce tension at work or home. Put your loved ones' needs first. Seek expcn advice if you have difficulty obtain­ing credit. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Romance is a waiting game now. Focus on ways to increase your income. Partnerships launched this month will prove profitable over the long haul. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You are now in a position to com­mand a better salary. Analyze where you are headed in your professional and personal life. A lucky break comes from an unexpected source. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Perseverance will take you beyond your fondest expectations. Set real­istic business and financial goals when talking with your partner. A practical approach will keep you on course. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A career change requires careful thought. Creative and anistic pursuits enjoy • favorable influences. Be willing to invest time and money in develop­ing your talents. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-SepL 22): Be on time to meetings; your reputation is at stake. Big bu.,inc.~s <leah arc in the works. Become a maJor player' Your romantic panncr will be sup­p<>r1ive if you uo not let succes., go to your head. 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22)·. Bide your time. Those in authonty expect great things from you. Perf(>nn up to the highest standards. Ignore office gossip; others may envy your .me­cess. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Good luck affects your inve.mncnts. However, a partner may think you are not being aggressive enough. Stand your ground. Research the background of any company you are asked to invest in. Love continues to deepen. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Someone may misinterpret your seemingly eccentric behavior. Explain your intentions to those who matter. An inventive idea works great; you reap the credit you deserve' Keep in touch with old friends and former schoolmates. 
CAJ'RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Adopt a wnciliatory approach toward your co-workers, especially if they are holding the reins. Romance could slip away if you neglect it. Be attentive. Shop for children's clothing only after study­ing mail order catalogs. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A more experienced individual offers to be your mentor. There could he certain strings attached. Romance is parr of the picture tonight. Show good judgment if faced with a rough choice. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Self-discipline is the key to getting a new project off the ground. Buckle down to work. Private talks with family members help you mend some emotional fences. Take the initiative; patch up a quarrel. 
• OF INTEREST 
''Uncivil Democracy: States, Autogolpes, and Hybrid Regimes In Latin America and Russia" Is the title of a seminar to be given by Maxwell Cameron today at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
"Field Demonstration of a Bloslurry Reactor for Explosives-Contaminated Soli: Success and Concerns" is the title of a seminar that will be given by John Manning, Jr., Ph.D. and presented by the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control today at <t-:30 p.m.. in 283 Galvin Life Sciences. 
"The Sweetness of Carrots: Incentives and International Cooperation" is the title of a lecture that will be given by David Cortright, Ph.D., presichmt of Fourth Freedom Forum today at 4:14p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center_ 
The job search beyond on~campus Interviews 
WilUa.ke place tomorrow from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Notre Da.meroom of LaFortune. Topics covered will include: identifying and contacting prospective employers. sending correspondences, appropriate fol­low-up techniques. and writing a successful cover let­ter. This seminar will be presented by Paul Reynolds, Associate DirectorofCareer and Placement. 
•MENU 
Notte Dame 


South 
Roast Turkey Breast 
Irish Fried Sole 
Rotini with 
Spring Vegetables 
Grilled Chicken Breast 
Carved Roast Beef 
Oven Roasted Potatoes 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

Checkout the 
R~~ Homepage www.nd.edu/-recsport 
The homepage can provide you with information about Club Sports, Fitness, lntramurals and RecServices, as well as all athletic facility schedules and policies. 
631-6100 


SPORTS 
page 16 
• fOOTBAll 
The Observer I Mike Ruma 
Ex-cornerback Shannon Stephens has immediately stepped into the Irish receiving corps to make big plays. 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Cooper, Stephens star in trading places for Irish 
-By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
William "The Refrigerator" Perry did it. Deion Sanders does it. So maybe it shouldn't be a surprise that Deke Cooper and Shannon Stephens gave it a shot. 
Cooper began his Irish career on offense. Stephens played defense. Then they switched. 
It's not uncommon for a player to switch from offense to defense, or vice versa, early in his career. But it is unusual for two players ... on the same team ... at new positions ... after switching sides of the ball ... against a ranked opponent ... to have career games. 
Cooper, a freshman who played the first part of this season at receiver, made a definite impression at safety early in Saturday's game. On Washington's first offensive series, Cooper intercepted quarterback Brock Huard's errant pass. His interception set up the first Irish touchdown. 
"I think Deke Cooper has helped our sec­ondary," Lou Holtz said. "Our secondary is getting better, and if it can continue to get bet­ter we can be outstanding on defense." 
Cooper continued to impress Holtz by mak­ing 4 tackles, which was surpassed in the Irish secondary only by Benny Guilbeaux's 8 tack­les. 
"For having been there only a couple of weeks, I thought Deke Cooper made a lot of plays," Holtz said. "He just shows up. He is not very fast, yet he is our sprinter on the punt team. He doesn't look like a great athlete and 
see SWITCH I page 12 
eighth; the typi­hungry are these. 
s~enit 
yea:r,tJ:ie South Bend 
see OR\ loss 
And· despite a 4-0 drubbing of Stanford prior to the Santa Clara showdown, missed chanc~.~ ~nd muffed shots by theJrtsb characterized the early moments. These strug­gles continued against Santa Clara. 
"We didn't even create good chance~f to score goals," Petrucelli claimed. "And we gave up big plays on defense." 
"They came to play and we didn't," said All-American co­captain Cindy Daws. "It re­minded us that on any day. anything can happen, but it happened at a good time." 
The senior midfielder has seen it all before. In 1994, the Jrish cruised through the sea­son undefeated, then were thumped 5-0 by the Tar Heels in the championship match. 
Last season, though, the Irish lost twice during the sea­son, but were mentally geared for the NCAA tournament. 
"These kinds of games expose your weaknesses," continued Daws. "lt's a per­fect time for us to regroup, to have some good practices, and to be ready for the Big East games and the NCAA's," 
For All-American keeper Jen Renola, the game held a special meaning and a more poignant disappointment. 
see SOCCER I page 14 

With loss of Kurowski, Miller back in the fold 
Shunned Miller's return much needed for Irish backcourt 
By JOE VlLLINSKI Associate Sports Editor 
Last Friday, the excitement that per­vaded the JACC did not only exist at the Washington Pep Rally. 
Amidst the hoopla surrounding Saturday's football game, the Notre Dame men's basketball team scheduled their own day of hoopla as a formal christening of the upcoming season. 
While the team officially commences practice today, the medi& day served as an opportunity to take a team picture and for head coach John MacLeod to deliver his State-of-the-Irish speech. With the start of a season, comes an inevitable amount of optimism. 
"Like all teams at this time of the year, we're excited about what is going to happen this year," MacLeod said. 
Besides point guard Doug Gottlieb's departure in the off-season, the major story out of the Irish camp is Keith 
, Kurowski's decision to forego his fifth season of eligibility. A recently diag­nosed herniated disc in his back was the last in a long line of injuries Kurowski has dealt with as he decided against another season. In his place, steps senior Pete Miller who originally decided against playing 


this year because of the absence of a scholarship. Once Kurowski's schol­arship was made available, Miller's return became possible. 
Miller and Kurowski spoke about how Kurowski's misfortune turned into an opportunity for Miller. 
"He was disappointed because he real­ly loves the game and he's had such an unfortunate career with injuries," Miller added. "I really feel bad for him and he feels bad, but he was happy that I was going to get a chance to play and he was very gracious about that." 
Due to a shoulder injury, Miller had surgery in the off-season and had not been working out anyway. Having only been back a week now, Miller realizes it will take time to return to playing condi­tion. 
"''m just working on trying to get back in shape again," Miller said. "Its going to take me a while to catch up to where I want to be physically. It has only been a couple of weeks now that I have been medically cleared to play." 
After walking on the team his fresh­man year, Miller was awarded a schol­arship the next two years for his contri­butions. When a scholarship was not available this year, Miller left for finan­cial reasons. Now, he has a chance play out his senior year. 
"It feels good to come back and just be with the team again," he said. "After playing for three years, I wanted to fin­ish out all four years. I'm thankful to 
see MEDIA DAY I page 12 
vs. Air Force, Ocrober 19, 1:30 
1€& 

vs. Rutgers, October 20, I p.m. 
at Arizona Invitational Ocrober 19 
Volleyball at U. of Chicago, see page 12at West Virginia, ~ October 15, 7 p.m. 
~ 


October 19, 2 p.m. 







