--------------~--------------------------------~----------------------------------­
-

Tuesday, November 19, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 56 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Holtz to leave squad today DART phone lines 

By TIM SHERMAN Sports Editor 

• 
One game is about to offi­cially end and another is ready to begin. 
According to all indica­tions, the intense scrutiny and media circus that has ensued regarding Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz's future with the Irish will end tomorrow. 
The 59-year old Holtz will announce at his regularly scheduled press conference that he is indeed stepping down as coach of Notre Dame. 
The final decision came as a result of a Monday meeting of Holtz, University executive vice-president Father William Beauchamp and Athletic Director Mike Wadsworth. 
"They have reached a deci­sion and it will be announced at 1 p.m tomorrow," said John Heisler, Notre Dame Sports Information Director. 
Talk of Holtz's departure has quickly mounted in the past few days and talk of his sucessor is bound to build just as quickly. But for now, the focus is clearly on Holtz. 

The 11-year coach of the Irish informed the team of his decision yesterday after­noon before the squad took the practice field of Loftus Sports Center. 
According to those present at the meeting, Holtz instructed members of the team not to discuss the deci­sion to leave with members of the media. 
"He's going to make an announement tomorrow," said leading receiver Malcolm Johnson. "That's all I can say." 
His teammates took the same approach. 
"Our team meetings are confidential," said Kinnon Tatum, Notre Dame's leading tackler. "If he (Holtz) want­ed us to talk to the media, he'd let the media into the meetings. So, I have no com­ment." 
Holtz, himself, continued to steer clear of explicitly stat­ing his intentions. 
"I will talk about that (fu_ture) at the appropriate time," Holtz said. 
Vision of Virgin connects ND to past 
By SASKIA SIDENFADEN News Writer 
Between the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the Notre Dame sacristy stands a small statue of the Virgin Mary entitled "Our Lady of La Salette." On the wall hangs a plaque reading "Statue of Notre Dame which was the last earthly object which Father Sorin gazed on before his death." As we shuffie in and out from Sunday Mass, this statue affords little reason to stop and muse. After all, there are myriad images of the Virgin Mary across campus. But this particular statue of St. Mary, howev­er inconspicuous, has perhaps the closest link to the founding of Notre Dame. 
The hidden story 

Our Lady of La Salette is the first modern apparition of the Virgin Mary as she appeared to two peasant children atop a mountain in La Salette, France, on Sat. Sept. 19, 1846. Maximin Giraud, age 11, and Melanie Mathiew, age 14, were tend­ing their cows when Melanie noticed a bright light at the bottom of a ravine. As Maximin later recounted, "The light was incomparably more brilliant than that of the sun," form­ing two spheres. 
One of the spheres appeared to open, r9vealing a lady sitting on a stone by a dried spring. The lady had her head in her hands and appeared to be weeping bitterly. A moment later, the lady rose, beckoning the two children towards her. 
The children later described the Lady's costume in detail. According to John Gallery in his book entitled Mary vs. Lucifer: The Apparitions of Our Lady, Mary was wearing "a white robe studded with pearls, a gold colored apron, and roses of many colors at her feet." Hanging from her neck was a heavy gold chain in lace fashion, hemmed by roses, and a peculiar gold crucifix. A hammer was near the left hand on the crossbeam and a pair of pincers near the right hand. 
Our Lady commenced weeping for God and for the world and the com­ing punishments from God for the ingratitude of man. Of all the sins 
see STATUE I page 6 
back in service 

By MICHELLE KRUPA Assistant News Editor 
The DART phone lines, which enable students to register for courses, will be back in service today after a temporary shutdown due to mechanical problems. 
According to Harold Pace, University registrar. the problem, which resulted in modification of the regis­tration process, was due to a faulty wire. 
"We think we found the problem [last] night around 5 p.m. It seemed to be a physical break in the wire that leads the DART computers to the mainframe," Pace said. 
According to Pace, the obstructed connection between the DART system and phone lines made it impossible for students to reach the mainframe to reg­ister for courses. 
Students were requested via voice-mail to visit the registrar's office during specific times to register for courses. Pace said that the meetings went well, but that the system should be operative this morning. 
"Everything went very smoothly [yesterday.] We registered all of the students who had to be registered, but if everything holds together, the system should be up immediately," Pace said. 
God bless us every one ... 


The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Notre Dame's Communication and Theatre Department will put on Dickens' "A Christmas Carol" this weekend at Washington Hall. Tickets are avail­able at the LaFortune ticket.tesk. 




Science-related jobs as difficult to come by as any 

By LAURA PETELLE News Writer 
You always knew you would go to college, major in phi­losophy, graduate, and go directly into a job in your major. 
Back up, start over. Almost no one would believe this scenario for an Arts and Letters graduate, but this is still the overwhelming view of science grads. It is also one that is simply not true anymore. 
"It's a very difficult job market," Francis Castellino, Dean of the College of Science, said. "Any one week can change the field so dramatically." 
Gerald Jones, Chair of the Physics Department, agreed that the job market is "tougher across the board." 
So does that mean that a degree in science is irrelevant to today's job market? Should professors stop encourag­ing first year students to enroll in the College of Science? Should advisors stop encouraging their students to pursue advanced degrees in the sciences? 
Absolutely not, said Harry White, the chemistry depart­ment's corporate relations consultant. "The market is 
see JOBS I page 4 
Is science program hiding the facts? 
By lAURA PETELLE News Writer 
Censorship in the Stepan Chemistry Building?·~ 

That was the accusation leveled in an anony.:. mous note received on Nov. 1 by The Observer staff. The note was attached to the article ,.Jobs in Labs Grow Scarce.. and accused that the "fac~ ulty •removed it immediately upon reading it (within one hour of its post) in order to hide it from the undergraduate and graduate students.. and concluded that "if I [the writer) use my name, I would get in big trouble from [sic] the department." 
'Was the article something the College of 
see SIDE/page 5 



--------------------------------~--------------------------------~ 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 19, 1996 


• INSiDE Cm..UMN 




Words 
•

rtng true 
Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, a gentle man of peace and love, has prematurely been called away from his work, which included the recon­ciliation of Catholics divided on issues. 
Bernardin meant more 


to American Catholics  Liz Foran  
then many at this  Editor-in-Chief  
University may realize.  

Steadfast in his faith and in his work, he remained a leading figure in Catholicism to his last breath, and will linger as a modern day role model for years to come. 
He advocated traditional Church teaching, including opposition to abortion and artificial birth control, the death penalty and euthana­sia. One of his last stands was to implore the Supreme Court to reject arguments for doc­tor-assisted suicide. His ardent belief in the dignity and value of all human life spawned his leadership in opposition to the arms race. 
Bernardin was criticized at times for his lib­eral views. Upon learning of his impending death, Bernardin immediately sought to bring something good from the tragedy by propos­ing increased dialogue between the Church and Catholics who dissent from some of her teachings. 
Areas for increased discussion, according to Bernardin, included artificial birth control. the marriage of priests and the ordination of women. He may not have agreed with their viewpoints, but he was tolerant of concerns and always a patient listener. He saw the value of drawing a sometimes divided flock together. 
He was described as a mediator and a trot,~­bleshooter. He called for Catholics to come together and to tolerate each other's views. He did not want the Church or its people to be allied with a single issue or political party. 
Bernardin's words speak to the Notre Dame student population, which election surveys have shown to be predominately conservative Republicans. Students cited most often the issue of abortion as the primary or only rea­son for voting for the Dole/Kemp ticket. Issues that should also be of concern to Catholics, such as economic justice and equality of edu­cation, were overlooked in favor of one moral issue. It is possible to be pro-life and a mem­ber of a political party other than the · Republicans. 
Tolerance on this conservative campus of the views of dissenting Catholics and those who seek change within the structure are often ignored or vehemently opposed. As a leading Catholic university, Notre Dame should be willing to at least listen to, debate and make statements about concerns of Catholics who are seeking honest change. These Church members are speaking out because they care, because they want to rec­oncile with the Church. They are not leaving in disgust or taking the easy way out by not practicing their faith. 
Objecting is difficult. It invites criticism and can lead to shunning. Giving the cold shoulder to those who care about their faith and their Church is detrimental t., the institution of Catholicism. 
Bernardin recognized this. Had he not died so suddenly he may have made more of an impact in the area of tolerance between Catholics and their brothers and sisters. But the fruit of his work will hopefully prosper. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Saskia Sidenfaden Michelle Krupa Sports Brian Reimhaler Lab Tech Kevin Dalum  Production Jackie Moser Chris Uhart Accent Melanie Waters Leslie Fields Graphics Peter Cilella  

The Ob~rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
GOMA, Zaire 
A British-based compa,ny supplied arms and ammunition to the former Rwandan government after it began slaughtering a half-million of its own people in 1994, according to docu­ments that Hutu militias left behind when they retreated in eastern Zaire. 
The documents, made available to The Associated Press on Monday, indi­cated the Rwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of machine guns, mortars, grenades, ammunition and other military hard­ware from the company, Mil-Tee Corp., between April and July 1994. 
Some shipments appeared to contra­vene a U.N. embargo on exporting arms to Rwanda, imposed in May 1994 following acts of genocide by the for­mer Hutu-led government against minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus.­
A U.N. Commission of Inquiry has been investigating a British company for allegedly supplying arms to the ex­Hutu government or its militia allies after they fled to Zaire, it was reported earlier this month. It could not be learned whether Mil-Tee is that company. 
The continued arms trade in the volatile region has drawn sharp protests from international human rights groups, which allege that the French government also supplied weapons to the retreating Hutus after the 1994 genocide. France denies it. 
Aristide 'serves people' of Haiti 
JACMEL, Haiti 
Each time Jean-Bertrand Aristide 
leaves home, he is besieged by hun­
dreds of destitute Haitians, many 
thrusting hand-lettered envelopes at 
him in the belief that he alone can 
solve their problems. Nine months out 
of the presidency, Aristide still com­
mands an unmatched devotion among 
Haiti's poor. It is a following that many 
'-"----· 
Haitians expect to sweep him back to power in the next 
elections in 2000. "He.'s the only one," Benz Monald, 28, 
said during a rally by Aristide's Lavalas Family political 
coalition in the south coast city of Jacmel. "Aristide is 
going to come back." The current president, Rene 
Preval, is also a member of the coalition, but no matter. 
"I am the one responsible for the family," Aristide said 
in a recent interview. But he remains typically evasive 
about plans to run again for office. "We need to consult 
the millions of people," he said. 

Millionaire launches 'Solo Spirit' 
ST. LOUIS 
Millionaire adventurer Steve Fossett, known for throw­
ing caution to the wind, has announced another attempt 
to be the first to circle the world in a balloon. Fossett, 
52, picked Busch Stadium, the home of the NL Central 
champion St. Louis Cardinals, to promote his second try 
at an around-the-world flight. He plans to launch his 
hot-air balloon "Solo Spirit" from the stadium sometime 
in the next few months. "Ballooning is the oldest form of 
aviation, yet it is the area of aviation for which no one 
has made an around-the-world flight," Fossett said at a 
news conference Nov. 14. "We think it's the greatest 
unachieved goal in aviation." Two other teams will 
compete with Fossett to grab the title during the winter 
ballooning season, which runs until Feb. 15. Fossett will 
fly solo in an unpressurized cabin. This will make the 
flight even more challenging, Fossett said, because he 
will not be able to fly as high and will have to rely on 
oxygen and heaters to complete the flight. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather~»forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·,t-._,,,r'/,:.:.......................,..,.....c; 
H L 
Tuesday u 45 32 WednesdayU 38 28 Thursday 35 24
~ 

Friday) '-~ 37 23 
f 
? 


Saturday ~ 39 27 
v··
:·~ ~..A~.... :=-........_ /~"'\..: ...:: ~t.) -..; ~/ ..., 
4,~,~8~c8 (f ~ ~ 
Baltimore 51 34 Fairbanks 3 -12 Philadelphia 50 35 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurritts Snow Ice Sunnr Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 46 38 Honolulu 84 69 Phoenix 83 56 
v .. Associated Press GIB/)IticsNet 

Chicago 41 32 Los Angeles 68 59 Seattle 42 32 
British arms scandal 
The Rwandan government bought more than $5.5 million worth of weapons and military hardware from a British company, contravening a U.N. embargo on exporting arms to Rwanda. 
Arms were flown from .... 
• NATUJNAL \NEATHER 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 19. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Pressure 
A

H L k~~"~ ISS'l [I!] 0 f~xxi § {) ~ c::l 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAiN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUOY CLOUDY 
l1o Auoolofwd ...... 
Anchorage 20 6 Dallas 80 56 Miami 81 66 Atlanta 68 49 Denver 70 34 New York 48 38 
APN/m. J. Castello 

Belgium's Sabena, Germany's Lufthansa and Russia's Aeroflot, according to the documents. 
They were delivered to the Rwandan capital, Kigali, and then later -when government forces fled into neighboring Zaire -flow:q. to Coma and Kinshasa.. the Zairian capital. Payments were made through Belgmm, France and Egypt, the documents said. 
The documents included demands by Mil-Tee to the Rwandan government for overdue payment of $1.9 mil­lion. 



Indians protest Miss World pageant 
NEW DELHI, India 

Miss World contestants are expressing bewilderment at the violent opposition to their beauty pageant in India, where one man already has burned himself to death in protest and more threaten to. "This is the land of Mahatma Gandhi," exclaimed Miss Costa Rica Natalia Caravjal Lorenzo. "This is the land of peace." Critics of the pageant, being held this year in India, have staged often-violent protests for nearly a month, saying it is against Indian culture, dehumanizes women and pro­motes the use of cosmetics and plastic surgery. Opponents trashed a showroom of a corporate sponsor last month and staged an 800-person sit-in Sunday on a road at the pageant site of the southern city of Bangalore. Last week, a protester fatally burned himself while shouting slogans against the pageant. Organizers have tried to defuse protests by moving the contest's swimsuit competition to the Seychelles Islands. But a right-wing group has vowed to wreck the Nov. 23 finale through more self-immolations. 

Border crossers swallowed by wave 
BROWNSVILLE, Texas 

A large wave "swallowed" a group of people apparent­ly trying to wade across the mouth of the Rio Gra'!de from Mexico, and at least four of them drowned, officmls said today. Authorities searched for bodies today along the beach between the river's mouth and Brazos Santiago, an inlet separating Padre Island from the Boca Chica peninsula. Witnesses said they saw about 10 peo­ple at the river's mouth about 20 miles of Brownsville on Sunday, said Chief Deputy Joe Elizardi of the Cameron County sheriff's department. "They were walking on a sand bar on the Mexican side. When they got to the end of the sand bar, this large wave came in and swallowed them up," he said. He said authorities believed the group was trying to reach the U.S. side of the river. Two men put out in a boat from the Mexican shore in a res­cue attempt, but the vessel capsized in the waves. Both men reached shore safely, Elizardi said. Three bodies were recovered. 
Public pressure led the South African government on Nov. 6 to announce it was suspending arms shipments to the new, Tutsi-led Rwandan government. 
The documents were found in a bus, part of a wrecked convoy abandoned by retreating Hutu militias in Sake, 18 miles west of Coma. The Hutu militias, remnants of the former Rwandan army that fled Tutsi forces in 199~. were fleeing from Zairian rebel troops swe~ping through eastern Zaire. 
The documents indicated Mil-Tee is based in Douglas, the Isle of Man, off England's northwest coast, and in Hove, 50 miles south of London. But it is not listed in telephone directories and could not be reached for com­ment. 
The arms were flown out of London's Heathrow Airport; Tel Aviv, Israel; and Tirana, Albania, via such carriers as 


.-------------------------~----------------~----------------------------~~------------------------------------------------~------------­
ROTC offers additional resources for financial aid 



Increased scholarship money tied to endowment 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
Cadets receive more than just a scholarship 
Editor's note: ROTC scholarships are a unique financial aid resource. Neither a loan nor a scholar­ship in the traditional sense, they definitely merit some further investigation. 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
Department Page Editor 
When junior Jeremy Scarlett was a sophomore in high school, he realized that paying for college was not going to be easy, especially if he wanted to go to a private school like the University of Notre Dame. His father told him, as many fathers do, that Notre Dame was out of the question. He couldn't afford to send him there. Still, Scarlett turned down two less expen­sive state schools and even refused two full scholar­ships from other institutions in order to go to Notre Dame. 
How did this student manage to finance his educa­tion? He did what everybody at Notre Dame wishes they could do: he asked his uncle for the money. 
This particular uncle (Sam, as he likes to be called) has some pretty deep pockets. In fact, he currently accounts for over seven million of the available $67,000,000 offered by Notre Dame's Office of Financial Aid. Calling Uncle Sam generous, however, would be a bit misleading because there are special terms and conditions to that scholarship resource. After all, the United States Armed Forces are not going to pay your tuition for nothing. 
While the actual terms and conditions may vary between the three, the Army, Navy, and Air Force all offer ROTC scholarships at Notre Dame. The basic terms dictate that an ROTC cadet be commissioned as an officer upon graduation and serve at least four years in active duty and four years in the military reserves. All of the programs are the same in terms of the service commitment, and they all offer a $150 stipend, or subsistance allowance, each month. 
Scarlett mentioned that he researched each pro­gram and chose Army over the other ROTC scholar­ship for which he had qualified because it most suited his needs and ambitions. He credits his brother 
• THE MONEY'S COMING••• 
By DEREK BETCHER Assisram News Editor 
Student tuition and fees account for only 45 percent of the University's income, but Notre Dame is still expect­ed to generate substantial amounts of 
financial aid money. While students worry with how the University dispenses these funds, Notre Dame's Development Office concerns itself with bridging the gap between money that 

comes in and money Reagan that could be spent. 
The Development Office collected over $70 million in gift income in fiscal 1994-95, a significant amount of which was earmarked for financial aid. 
"For the past several years, there's no question that enhancing financial aid has been our top priority," said Dan Reagan, director of development. 
Having collected $940 million since 1960, much of which has been either placed into endowments or spent directly on scholarships, the Development Office has established itself as a key figure in the aid process. It is responsible for bringing in the sup­plementary funds that enable scholar­ships. 
"Certainly the donors have the free­dom to designate their funds," Reagan noted, "But most of them are thinking financial aid, and financial aid is what we talk about the most." 
Scholarship Funding awarded by 
Growth of the Endowment the University of Notre Dame since 1985 
(1976-1996) 
15 

(/) 
~ 
as
VJ 14 
~ 

0
as 

Cl
0 13 
Cl 

.....
12 

0 
...... 0 11 

(/) 
c 
(/) 

.Q
c 10 .Q 

~ 
·-9 
~ 

c
8 
c 7 
8 
5 
0 ~--------------------------------~1

'88 '87 '88 '89 '90 '91 '92 '93 '84 '95 
1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 



Current figures state that nearly a quarter of all charitable donations Notre Dame receives are appropriated for financial aid. The significance of that role is not lost on the Office of Financial Aid 
"Certainly, big donations take time to assemble. Theirs is a major undertak­ing," Jim Russo, director of financial aid, said. 
In trying to meet Colloquy 2000's goal of being able to meet the financial need of all admitted students, the Financial 

p Money Available 
$12,800 ,, $9,000 
$5,000 Per academic year $150 monthly stipend $225 per semester for books 


Air Force 

Full larship$9,000 per year(can be increased to cover 80% if GPA is> 3. 
$150 monthly stipend Free books 
Full Scholarship $150 monthly stipend Free books 
Jason, NO '92, as being the person who helped the most in his decision. Jason Scarlett accepted an NROTC scholarship from the Navy, but warned Jeremy to be careful in selecting his program. 
"The Army covers 80% of my tuition," says Jeremy, "and it is the only program that will grant me a leave of absence after graduation to attend medical school." Indeed, not all of the programs offer such flexibility. 
Captain Rusty Pickett, director of the Naval ROTC program at Notre Dame, clarified that the Navy will not grant such a leave of absence unless the cadet qualifies for a special scholarship program such as the Rhodes or Fullbright scholarships. However, the Navy does boast a program allowing a select number 
• Today ... 

ROTC Programs 
The second edition -the last of a two-part series on financial aid -features the ROTC programs at Notre Dame and the relationship between the Development and Financial Aid offices. 
Aid and Development offices have made attracting endowment contribu­tions their focus. 
Both Russo and Reagan noted the importance of endowment funds, because of the steady reliable flow of its income. 
"The good news is that an endow­ment is there forever," Russo said. 
'"Forever' is a lot of students." 
Increasing endowments will be the key to increasing scholarships in future years, according to the financial aid of individuals to attend medical school at the Navy's expense. Colonel Runge of the Air Force ROTC men­tioned a similar program for medical school minded cadets. 
One aspect of the Air Force ROTC that is unique to the other ROTC programs is that a student may actu­ally be assigned to a major or course of study. 
"The Air Force tends to want technical majors," says Runge. He adds that while "we do have people who are majoring in [subjects like] economics and business, the emphasis is on technical majors." Because of the nature of the Air Force scholarship terms, if a student wishes to change his major he also runs the risk of losing it. 
It is important to note, however, that unlike a other scholarships and grants, ROTC scholarships are not need based and their availability depends upon the needs of military. A ROTC scholarship candidate typ­ically applies in high school, although students can apply for two and three year scholarships up till the end of their sophomore years. 
As Lieutenant Colonel O'Brien of the Army ROTC revealed, "each applicant is evaluated in terms of the whole person. Things we consider include GPA, lead­ership potential. extracurricular activities, in addition to what we see during the interview process." 
The ROTC scholarships for all three programs are competitive, and the service commitments are very real. Scarlett is happy with his decision, though. He comments that "while [the service commitment] takes away some freedom, it is also very safe. No ROTC cadet ever has to worry about a job after gradua­tion." In fact, it is because of this very aspect of ROTC that inspires some students to participate on a non-scholarship basis. 
The service commitment of such a student naturally will lessened, but the cadet will graduate a commis­sioned officer just like the scholarship cadets. For example, an Army ROTC cadet will graduate with the rank of Second Lieutenant and will make about 26,000 dollars a year with several promotions sched­uled for the future. 
ROTC may be difficult, and it may not be for every­body, but then again so is Notre Dame. 
A statistic provided by USA Today contributed to this article. 
office. Russo acknowledged tht endow­ments trade quick pay offs for long­term stability. 
Regardless of the conservative nature of this type of financial planning, schol­arship will continue to grow as the Development Office continues to receive endowment funds. 
"Endowment enables better plan­ning," Reagan added. "Does it attack the need as immediately? No. But it's there in perpetuity and that's the beau­ty of it." 


--~-......... 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
---~·-~ 
opening. Many PhDs spend a sities to change their curriculum At the same time, he said, the can be learned on the job by few years as a postdoc, a to adapt to the changing job universities must not become intelligent and disciplined indi­



Jobs 
research scientist who has com­market: "It's clear that the edu­technical training schools. viduals. 

continued from page 1 
tight," he says, but a science degree opens many doors, espe­cially for students with manager­ial, business, or computer skills. 
The perception of a shrinking job market in the sciences is 
largely driven by the lack of cialized, requiring more study 
"pure research" jobs available. and research to become an On Sun., Oct. 20, AP wires car­expert. ried a story entitled "Jobs in What about students who do 
Labs Grow Scarce," which not want to spend several years addressed the decrease in pure as a postdoc in pursuit of an research jobs and the increase eventual teaching or research in industry jobs available to sci­position? 
ence grads. "It's an era of science and 
The article, posted in the technology," Duman said. There Stepan Chemistry Building, are opportunities everywhere for upset at least one student, who both bachelor's and PhDs in 
wrote to The Observer in an industry, especially in small anonymous note that "the pro­companies who specialize in fessors tell us graduate students areas such as biotechnology, bio­that there are plenty of jobs and pharmaceuticals, computer tech­
encourage undergraduates to nologies, chemical manufacture, enter into science. After reading and various environmental con­this article, I think that is totally cerns. 
wrong." Alexander Lappin, Chair of the 
While the industry is not in a Chemistry Department, said that boom cycle, there is certainly no science opens up opportunities lack ofjobs for science grads. for students. 
"Up until about two or three "The student should think years ago some of the national about adding breadth to the professions societies [in the sci­core," Hahn said. ences] were predicting a Duman agreed that an under­stronger job market than has graduate should design his or come to pass," Jones said, her curriculum carefully: "The adding that this has caused courses and opportunities are some bitterness among science here." PhDs. White stressed the importance 
John Duman, Chair of the of internship and real-life expe­Biology Department, said that rience. Hahn also emphasized "the difficulty comes from these the importance of having skills episodes of cutbacks in govern­outside the realm of science. 
ment funding for basic As in any other field, a worker research." in science must be able to com­Duman stresses, however, that municate and work effectively 
there are still research jobs with others. available. Alexander Hahn, "We will see amazing things Chair of the Mathematics over the next twenty to seventy 
.. Department, agreed that there years," Duman said. Hahn added are pure research jobs available that students need to be pre­for those who are willing to pur­pared to make "the adjustment 
sue them. to the shifting reality" of the job 
It has always been difficult to market because "as one area 
get a tenure position in an area weakens, another appears." 
where there are as many as one Hahn commented that, unfor­
hundred applicants for every tunately, it is difficult for univer-
Students looking 
new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem 

at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$100 Off 

A Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series 
Program "The Election, Leadership and Public Policy" 
pleted his or her doctoral work, but who has not yet found a teaching or research position. 
While the average number of years spent as a postdoc is ris­ing, this may be due to the fact that the scientific fields are becoming more and more spe­

"Broaden your horizons," Hahn recommended. "The job market has contracted but to say there are no jobs is a gross exaggeration. And opportunity favors the prepared." 
cational community, from research universities on down, have to be aware of the trends going on which will cause shifts in the job market and adjust to those shifts." 
Castellino agreed that "we are not training people for jobs; we are educating people." 
A scientific education is what prepares students for a wide variety of jobs; specific training 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Group sets calendar for upcoming holiday plans 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Earth Day. Mardi Gras. SMC Tostal. St. Patrick's Day. 
Most students know little about these holidays, much less how to celebrate. Many students have yet to plan for Thanksgiving, even if it is only one week away. 
Fortunately, the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board is hard at work planning celebrations for Thanksgiving, as well as for future holidays during the sec­ond semester. 
Coordinator Lori McKeough began filling in the official SAB calendar with confirmed events from each of the various com­mittees. The Student Activities Board will be sponsoring two musical groups, two comedians, three lecturers, and events with holiday themes. 
In other SAB news, board members are in the process of proof-reading the final draft of a survey that will be submitted to students in the next few weeks. The board intends to collect feedback on how they can better serve the students and the over­all College community. 
SAB hopes to receive a large number of completed surveys back from students. The larger the sampling of the populous, the better the board will be able to accommodate the school's wants and needs. To encourage student participation, SAB is offering free CO's to the first one hundred students who return their surveys. 
Director of Student Activities, Georgeanna Rosenbush, sat in as adviser for the meeting. The office of Student Activities is currently trying to fill the posi­tion of assistant director, who is the regular adviser to SAB. 
Rosenbush complimented the board's work thus far this year. 
"Compared even to last year, your efforts are noticeable. Every year (student government) just gets better and better." 
Rosenbush continued to cite the board's overall strength and ability, and her hopes for the continuance of high caliber pro­gramming. 
Sullivan shares job experience 
By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
Returning to the Saint Mary's campus to share her insights and work experiences in her career as a pharmaceu­tical sales representative, Sarah Sullivan, last year's stu­dent body president, presented a lecture on the pharmaceuti­cal indus try. 
Sullivan is currently a pro­fessional representative in Human Health specializing in. osteoporosis for Merck & Co., Inc. Merck is the largest phar­maceutical market which, holding a significant amount of the world's pharmaceutical business. 
Sullivan discussed her role as a sales representative in the South Bend area and sur­rounding communities. She makes frequent stops at local hospitals and clinics for lunch­es with doctors and specialists informing them of new advancements in medications and answering the concerns of her clients. 
Sullivan spends a lot of her time researching medical jour­nals searching for answers to the questions of clients. 
"The homework never ends," Sullivan said. "Everyday I research a new area of a topic to answer a doctor's question. By researching every topic on osteoporosis, I get exposure to every aspect of the medical field pertaining to the topic." 
As a biology major and chemistry minor at Saint Mary's College, Sullivan always thought about going to medical school. With the com­mitment and time medical school demands, Sullivan wor­ried that she wouldn't be able to practice the way she wanted to with the complications of insurance policies and regula­tions. 
Sullivan then decided to stay in the medical field and start with sales to get exposure to different medical environ­ments and get doctors per­spectives about the future of medicine. ''I'm worried about the direction medicine is head­ing," Sullivan said. "Change isn't popular, but change has to be made to focus on the patient, not the insurance poli­cies." 
Having trained for three and a half months over the sum­mer to acquaint herself with Merck's line of osteoporosis medications, Sullivan is excit­ed about the challenges she faces in the business of sales. With the added benefits of a flexible work schedule, inde­pendence and creativity, Sullivan is trying to find her own style of selling by carving a name in the profession. 
"Being new in the area of sales, I'm driven by the fact that how I manage and market myself as a Merck representa­tive, has an effect on people when doctors give me feed­back of how the patients feel using medications I sell," Sullivan said. "I see action and it is a personal challenge to keep the action going." 




Side 
continued from page 1 
Science wanted to hide from its students? 
No, said Francis Castellino, Dean of the College of Science: "I gave that article to the grad students in my lab." 
Alexander Laprin, Chair of the Chemistry Department, said 
THE PAUL M. AND BARBARA HENKELS VISITING SCHOLAR SERIES, The Creative Writing Program, 
and 

The Department of English Proudly Present 



Award Winning Poet 


Paul Zi.mmer 
Reading Tonight!!!! 
T"DJLcescdla1.y~ N«J)Vcemm1hceJr Jl~ttJh.~ 7~3(()) PM 
Workshop Wedbmce§cdlSJ.y~ N({J)Wcemlbcer 2(0tJh.9 ~~3(0) AJMI Room 119 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
All are welcome 
that the article discussed the issues accurately and that he wouldn't advocate pulling it. Harry White, the Corporate Relations Consultant for the Chemistry Department, had a copy of the article in his files to share with students. 
Sophomore Science Pre-pro­fessional major Nicole Seibert said that because she's a sophomore "we haven't really talked about jobs yet" and that she has not used the career counseling services in the col­lege but she knows it is there. 
Junior Biochemistry major Tim Cordis said, "Science is tough, period. I knew that com­ing in." 
Then why was the article pulled? Probably routine main­tenance; nothing can be posted in Stepan Chemistry Building without an approval stamp from the secretary's office. 


Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST  DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND  
Ironwood Circle  417 N. St. Louis Blvd.  
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I  Call 234·0363  
273·8986  (24 hOlliS)  

BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 
.....-------------------------------------......--~---~~--~----------------------~--~--------------­
page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 

Statue 
continued from page 1 
committed by man, Mary focused upon two sins of the frrst three commandments: honoring prayer on Sundays and refrain­ment from profanity. According to Mary, "these two things are what makes the hand of my Son so heavy." 
Mary prophesied that if people did not mend their ways "the potatoes will continue to rot in the field and there will come a great famine." And according to Father Ed O'Connor, "she warned of a flood of bad books... there would be a World War, and that the Pope would have much to suffer as the church would see a fall from grace." 
The Lady then confided a sepa­rate secret to each of the chil­dren, after which she said, "Well, my children, you will make this known to all My people." She then rose above the field in an orb of light and disappeared. 
The cross and gold lace chain 

According to Ervin Lovas and other patrons of the apparition at La Salette, the hammer and pincers on the cross are "the instruments of Christ's crucifix­ion." The La Salette Fathers, members of the religious follow­ing of La Salette, contend that the hammer symbolizes the cru­cifixion of Christ by the sins of 
~ 
men while the pincers recall how r the nails were extracted. As
r 
~ Lovas said, both "remind us of 
~ our obligation to expiate the sins 
r of the world through repara­
r tion." 
r It is widely agreed that the gold chain around Mary's neck 
, symbolizes the "chains of idola­try" as mentioned in the Lord's prayer. It seems like Mary is bound by the sins of man: his materialism, sex, heresy, drugs, and other false gods. 
The Notre Dame connection 
As it turns out, Our Lady's 
FREE Parties FREE M•als FREE Activities 
Student Express. Inc. 
1.800.SURFS.UP 
prophecies did come true. In 1830, there was a revolution in France involving much of the know world at the time. During the rise of industrialism in France, people did work through the week, including Sundays, and religious instruction was suppressed. ' 

But more relevantly, the famine of which St. Mary had spoken was indeed the potato famine that ended up affecting not only France, but the whole of Europe and Ireland. Gallery esti­mated that a million people died of famine in Ireland alone caus­ing many to emigrate to a place none other than good old South Bend. 
As related in a feature article in the Nov. 8 edition of the South Bend Tribune, families like the D'Arcys, Devines, and Martins of South Bend are direct descen­dants of ancestors fleeing the Irish potato blight of 1850. In fact, the preponderance of Irish Catholics in Northern Indiana helped establish the Irish roots of Notre Dame. 
The statue 

The apparition occurred just five years after Father Sorin sailed for America to found his University of Notre Dame du Lac. From a letter dated to Jan. 20, 1880, exchanged between Melanie and Sorin, we know that the priest paid a visit to Melanie's convent in Castellamare, Italy. When the written account of the apparition was published in 1879, Sorin wrote to Melanie to verify its authenticity and received back a confirmation along with several copies of the document. 
In a later letter addressed to a Reverend Father, Sorin mentions that he knew Melanie and was "profoundly impressed" with her accounts. In fact, he was so impressed by the apparition that he kept a statue of the Lady (characterized by the peculiar cross) in his rooin. As written on the plaque in the Sacristy, wit­nesses confirmed that this was the last object on which he looked before he died. 
In 1848, just two years after it took place, the apparition was accounted in detail by the then Superior General, Father Moreau, in his bulletin Estrennes Spirituels. In Volume II of Basil Moreau's biography of Father Moreau entitled The Dark Night, "as soon as [the interpretations] became known, Father Moreau devoted a good deal of attention to the apparitions at La Salette... and as far as can be determined, Lourdes interested him less." 
Father Moreau paid a visit on Dec. 8, 1863, to the cradle of the congregation of the Holy Cross (now part of Notre Dame) at Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix, Le Mans, France. There he invited Maximin Giraud, the other peas­ant child (now grown), to give an account of the apparition to the Council. In this way, Moreau became deeply involved and influenced by the prophecies of the Lady at La Salette. 
Why is it so little known? 
The apparition of La Salette has not been forgotten by all Catholics. In fact, this particular apparition is the only one for which a religious order was founded, namely the missionar­ies of Our Lady of La Salette. 
Nevertheless, the apparition is little remembered among the general public. There are several reasons. As Father O'Connor said, "At La Salette, Mary wept. At Lourdes she smiled." In the same token "At Lourdes, she healed people while at La Salette there were no miracle healings," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor further explained, "Generally the people are more attracted to someone who is cheerful than someone who is weeping." Even today, revela­tions of the Virgin Mary are syn­onymous with miracle healings. Alluding to the hammer and pin­cers on the cross of the Lady at 
La Salette, O'Connor said, "No 
one wants to be reminded of 
Christ's crucifixion." 

In the same token, the church experienced a great upheaval upon learning of the prophecy of its own "fall from grace." Wealthy and corrupt bishops of the time didn't want to popular­ize the fact that the Church was in need of reform. In fact, according to Gallery, it was not until five years after the appari­tion, on Sept. 19, 1851, that Pope Pius IX declared the "Apparition of La Salette is a true and certain fact. .. and that a church and house of refuge for pilgrims shall be immediately begun on the site ... " 
According to an article by Dom Bevenot in Heritage Magazine, it wasn't until 1852 that "work was begun on the great romanesque basilica we see to­day." Built on a mountaintop nearly 6000 feet up, it is very often shrouded in cloud, and completely unapproachable dur­ing the snowy winter months. 
The apparition of Our Lady of La Salette remains obscure to many, both in place and memo­ry. Though the Grotto may be the preferred sanctuary for prayer and reflection, Our Lady of La Salette holds a place in the history and spirituality of Notre Dame. 

WHATlrou SHOULD KNOW WHENAPPLYING TO LAW SCHOOL Presented by a panel of Notre Dame Law Students Tuesday, N oventber 19 • 8:00 p.tn. Moot Court Rootn, 220 Law School w•• Sponsored by the Notre Dame Prelaw Society .....  


Student Government can help with The Guide on-line! 
Just log onto our homepage at http://www.nd.edu/~studegov for exclusive information about professors, work load, exams and course evaluations. 
Your best weapon for DART (Besides the redial button.) 
U•J•t&IIT' "' NftTU o ..... 
••••,., c:. .......... 








OINT 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 7 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAII'IT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Eliza~th Foran Managing Editon Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sporu Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor .......... ~ ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller ......................................... .Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michad Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spores Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all mem~n of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free exprcs~ion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63 I-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4 543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 63 I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gener-1l Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNER.•• 
Notre Dame and the Web: Let the censored speak 
obscene, adj. 1. offensive to modesty or decency; mdecent; lewd: obscene pictures. 2. causing, or intended to cause, sexual excitement or lust. 
"...graduate student and computer con­sultant...(who wished to remain anony­mous) noticed Apple's homepage and alerted..." 
Matthew Apple 
pornographic, n. obscene literature, art or photograph_y, esp. that having little or no artistic ment. 
" ... was reported to Rapagnani a few weeks later by a party who wishes to remain anonymous." 
offensive, adj. 1. causing resentful dis­pleasure; higtlly irritating or annoying. 2. unpleasant or disagreeable to the sense. 
3. repugnant to the moral sense. 
'"Who does it and how it's done and what happens isn't relevant,' he says.'Notre Dame is taking care of its busi­ness.'" 
indecent, adj. 1. offending against recog­nized standards of propriety or good taste; vulgar. 2. not decent: unbecoming or unseemingly. 
The United Nation Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948, Article 19: "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinionswithout interference and to seek, receive, and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers." 
vulgar, adj. 1. characterized by igno­rance of or lack of good breeding or taste: vulgar ostentation. 2. indecent; obscene; lewd: a vulgar work; a vulgar gesture. 
" ... this does not concern the First Amendment in any way ..." 
Theodore Schroeder: "Obscenity has no objective existence. It is neither a qualitythat inheres in or emanates from a book, picture or play. On the contrary, obsceni­ty is wholly an attitude or predispositionof the viewing and accusing mind, which is only delu!;!ionally read into, or ascribed to, that which is accused of beingobscene." 
Excerpt from "Responsible Use of Information Technologies at Notre Dame," somewhere in Dulac and on the internet: "Impermissible uses (some of which may also constitute illegal uses) include, but are not limited to, the follow­in~: [emphasis added] 
• Posting or sending obscene, porno­graphic, sexually explicit, or offensive material 
"• Posting or sending material that is contrary to the mission or values or the University." 
Quis custodiet ipsos custodes (.Tuvenal, The Satires, VI, 347)-"Who guards the guardians?" 
Anonymous Notre Dame parent: "I didn't send my daughter to N"otre Dame to be subjected to perversity!" 
adult, adj. 1. having attained full size and strength; grown up; mature. 2. of, per­taining to, or befitting adults. 3. a. intended only for adults; not suitable for children. b. pornographic. -n. 4. a per­son who is fully grown or develoJ?ed or of age. 5. a person who has attamed the legal age of majority. 
The Bengal Bouts: boxing fightsarranged for on-campus public displays by and for a university with a mission whereby male members of the communi­ty between the ages of 18 and 22 are per­mitted to batter each other senseless "that weak bodies may be nourished." 
"'You have to understand how commit­ted Notre Dame is to protecting its image..."' 
Lenny Bruce: "And you know why we got this -this is really weird -the cen­sorship? It's motivated by bad early toilet training." 
Excerpt from text on the Notre Dame www server file listing Personal Pages at http://www .nd.edu: 807Persona1Pages/: 
"The University of Notre Dame recog­nizes the value and potential of personal publishing on the Internet, and so allows and encourages students, staff, and facul­ty to experiment with producing personal WWW pages. However, the University can accept no responsibility for the con­tents ofthose pages [emphasis added]. 
"The links from this page are the per­sonal home pages of Notre Dame stu­dents, staff, and faculty. While these pages do not in any way constitute offi­cial Notre Dame content, we hof.e youfind the information in them usefu , or at least entertaining. The views and opin­ions expressed in the pages below are strictly those of the page authors, and comments on the contents of those pages should be directed to the page authors [emphasis in original text)." 
disclaimer, n. 1. the act of disclaiming; the repudiating or denying of a claim; disavowal. 2. a person who disclaims. 3. a statement, document, or the like that disclaims. 
Excerpt from "Telecommunications Act amounts to censorship," the Observer, Feb. 14, 1996: "In deference to the free­thinking spirit of the CDA [Communications Decency Act], I have reserved a special Anti-Censorship page on my own homepage. Be warned: this page will contain a few graphic images ana sons lyrics which some may consiaer "vulgar or simJ?,lY "uncouth" and most definitely "unPC. ' I do this not because I particularly approve of juvenile pantings over naked men and women, but because I can do it. It is my right, as a U.S. citizen and as a human being." 
"...whenever someone from outside the Notre Dame community views your page,they see nd.edu in the address ..." 
Letter dated October 15, 1996: "Further, I am concerned that the juxta­position of links to your teaching materi­als and these photographs would create 'an intimidatmg, hostile, or offensive University environment' for your students as described in our University policy on sexual harassment... In my judgment, 
you essentially invited this outcome by the way you designed your homel?age.This is impermissible and, in my Judg­ment, wholly irresponsible warranting the actions I have taken." free will, 1. free choice; voluntary deci­sion. 2. Philos. the doctrine that the con­duct of human beings expresses personalchoice and is not simply determined by physical or divine forces. 
Excerpt from my personal statement to the Office of Residence Life, dated November 10, 1996: 
"The day after my AFS privileges were frozen without prior warning, Professor Kantor, Vice President and Associate Provost, hand-deli.vered a letter,... In this letter, Professor Kantor allegea that the file contained 'offensive, sexually orient­ed photographs of nude male an(I female figures accompanied by a vulgar narra­tive.' 
"In fact, the file contains the following: 
"The word WARNING! in bold capital letters and large font set to 'blink' repeat­edly;
"A lengthy amount of text designed to fill one f7" computer screen top to bot­tom, explicitly explaining that the file had been created for the purposes of advocat­ing the First Amendment and rereating my personal distaste for materia which encoura~es the objectification of human beings ... 
Voltaire: "Though I may disagree with what you say, I will defend to the death your right to say it." 
degustibus non est disputandum ­"There is no disputing about tastes." 
(Unidentified quotes taken from the Scholastic, Nov. 14, and numerous phoneconversations. Word definitions courtesyof Webster's Encyclopaedic Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language,excepting a personalized definition of legalized and evidently Catholic-approved thuggery.) 
Matthew AfJple is a graduate student in the English department who, as the constitution does not apply to private universities, must enjoy the right to free­dom ofexpression at an offcampus inter­net provider: mapple@skyenet.net or http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple. 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
ANYif/AY,7HAT57HC PLAN. IF IJ£ CAN RA15E '"!He MONel, atE'!?&601/IK3 7rJ 5TAR:TOUR aqv.... I 
...........II/­
SOF'TUI4f?£ aM~. 
• 

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
''Freedom of expression 
is the matrix, the indis­
pensable condition, of near­
ly every other form of free­
dom." 

-Benjamin Cardozo 




By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON Associate Accent Editor 
W:
ile the idea of joining the real world haunts like a ightmare for some, becoming part of MTV's "The Real World" may seem like a dream. Perhaps that's why almost 2000 hopefuls flocked to Chicago last Thursday and Friday, eager for their chance at stardom. Maybe that's why my friends and I jumped in a car of our own, complete with a full tank of gas and a carload of excitement. 
We honked and screamed and wondered which one of us would certainly be chosen, yet as we pulled up to Chicago's Hard Rock Cafe, we fell silent. Hoards of people meshed into a scattered line that spanned at least four blocks, in what proved to be the largest response to an open call that Music Television has ever received in its history. In the 20 degree weather, it was going to be a long wait. Thank goodness there was a lot to see. 
As with any function revolving around MTV, one would expect to see more than a few trendy Generation Xers ready for their ten minutes of fame, and boy, were they there. Crowd scans revealed two heavily made-up women, clearly beyond "The Real World" age limit, flirting with several blue-haired 14-year-olds, as people of every shape and color looked ·on. Tattooed women conversed with men in three­piece suits taking the afternoon 
ofT. 

As luck would have it, we even spotted about a half dozen other Notre Dame students. Even though we held our own in the body pierc­ing category, we just couldn't com­pete with the gentle­man standing in front of us, who had four huge, 
metal spikes emerging from his bottom lip, four nose pierces, three eyebrow rings and at least 15 different earrings between both ears. His apparent fetish probably proved equally intimidating to the MTV execu­tives that periodically circulated among the crowd. 
They walked up and down the line, sizing up the crowd, and announced that by· remaining in the line, we were agreeing to allow our likenesses and voices to be used in an upcoming MTV documentary on the making of "The Real World."· To be aired as the first episode of the Boston season (the site of the 

show for which we were auditioning), this documentary would 
reveal all stages of the show's production. pulled Mr. Face Piercing out of the crowd to have a cute, pseudo-natural conversation on tape with Mr. Three-piece Suit. 
The obvious visual contrast the crew was attempting to force yet pass off as sponta­neous appeared almost obnox­ious, and as the Director passed us by in the line I shouted, "What? Are we too normal to be on 'The Real World'?" This challenge pro­voked his attention, and he turned around and countered, "Stand by. Rolling. So you think you're too normal to be 
on 'The Real World'?" With 
cameras and microphones in our five faces, we tried to be as 
witty as possible, realizing this might just be our five minutes of fame. We expressed our brilliant insight concerning diversi-· ty as the key to the show, and knowledge that everyone couldn't look like the cover model for Grunge magazine. 
Applications for both "The Real World" and "Road Rules" were then distributed.---­
to anyone 
between the 
ages of 18 
and 25, ask­
ing such 

original, 
thought-provoking 
questions as "What ·was your most embar­rassing experience?", "What is your best quality? Your worst?" and "Why would you make an interesting roommate?" 
As a matter of fact, 
why would we make l,;,:;::;:::5a·-;.· • good roo mmates ? I?'r)~::!i· ·;::.:·::i~;.t.;:!;!!~i!~·:;j··· ·:;··\!£ 

Because the show usu-lilllll~~~~~~~~~~~~~t=;;~~~·~~~~!!!!~!!~!!~~ maybe
ally lacks a wholesome W you see Catholic character? The Observer/Ashleigh Thompson thing's Because we scored 
competitively on the Hoards of young adults gathered at the Hard Rock Cafe in downtown Chicago on SAT? Geographic Friday, hoping to earn a place in the cast of The Real World or Road Rules. 
diversity? Maybe this 
.·.•· .· · · · 
Camera crews 

MTV programming (i.e.: Vee-jay Eric who app Real World"-New York), while others are a national lecture circuit. 
And what does MTV get in return? Millions < 
in weekly to watch every aspect of these pPople the amazi11 mat of thE all season else is add the occa Mor the 
privacy. 
•. A ....,.,.~;;;·;;; 
Put<etd~arao•~e· player supports this fiJe
· . club .... .. . people CQ!lle to have fun by singing pop.songs. 
shareware· utilities written that

. This · site of the week will help you to turn your computer 
· or play a .kar tile.. ·•·· . •: . ·.·. .· . . .
into a karaoke machh!~. so you can haye as much fun ln your 
. .·.. . . .y~~:;:?~·.· . . ....; . . ..:;~:¢>;:~~­
One. such shareware program ·is... the 
. . . . = 

' I 

Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 9 I



ACCENT 
I 


I I -l 
j I I I 
j j j 
~ 
j j 
~ 
•~ ~ 
~

arriors and real roomies ~ 
"real world." ever knew insane with envy, we stood in line for an hour. strong per-Then two. Then three. We huddled together, trying to keep spark that the warm, and were comforted by visions of our house in "The Contemplating Real World"-Boston. The roommates will be just might not working at a youth community center, and I enough for this is where we thought we had just as hum-our true advantage. Knowing that they couldn't pick being chosen people who self-inspec­would trauma­worth it. The tize the chil­, as the par­dren, our con­but a real fidence grew arranges for when reflect­le to live in ing upon our all expenses relatively a humongous, conservative been in such appearances. s New York, All we had to do Q and Miami, was sit and wait clubs and tan­for the interview aches. Some to convince MTV of obs on regular what we already 
d on "The knew. ually on the Several MTV inter­
viewers waited inside, but as viewers tune the onslaught of perspectives fun-lives. That's neling on to Ontario and Clark Street grew, the intense, per­gly simple for­sonal interview process apparently dwindled to six people seat­entire show, ed around a table, with an interviewer asking two or three of Nothing them a single question. With this consolation in mind, we , except for didn't feel so depressed when quitting time eventually rolled ional Alanis around just as we neared the restaurant entrance. MTV per­ng thrown in sonnel announced that they ~ere getting kicked out of the background. Hard Rock Cafe, and that they would accept all remaining ent every applications and photos. Handing the casting agent our appli­nd glance, cations and photos felt like throwing them in the garbage, but 

catch every since that minute possibility of getting a call still existed, we sation, and smiled as walked into the warm Hard Rock Cafe. called con­My comrades and I slumped around the table and ordered 
are designed beverages, attempting to alleviate our frostbitten bodies while g the confes-contemplating our day. We felt tired and a little disappointed, 
d innermost but had a lot of fun during the one-of-a-kind experience, if for of each and no other reason than escaping South Bend for the day. member. All When "The Real World"-Boston cast members grace our 
e, none of the television sets iri several months, the five of us will probably 
a viewer, you laugh and remember the day we tried to make this dream our sgusted by what · reality. At least our absence from the cast won't be for lack of r hear, but one trying. The warped and wonderful characters will experience r sure, at least their own self-absorbed trials and tribulations for all of eason, you're America to see, and I'm sure somewhere along the line, I'll 
jealous. watch and think that I could've taught them something about is inner desire the what the real world really is. everyone we 
: 

Jason Huggins is a junior Mcmanetnetlt l1tlolrmllt#Jn S;yst.~tn$ major from Thousand Oaks. CA. As evt~'1encea of this article. he has way too much free Jason.R.Huggins.J@nd.edu. 
LOke Player 1.5 


Tuesday, November 19, 1996 page 10
The Observer • SPORTS 



Capitals defeat league-leading Panthers in Miami 
By JOHN PACENTI Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 

The Washington Capitals did 
something Monday night that 
no other team has done this 
season. They made the Florida 
Panthers look bad. 
Chris Simon scored twice, and 
Todd Krygier added a goal and 
an assist to lead Washington to 
its third consecutive victory 
with a 4-2 win over Florida. 
The Capitals outshot the Panthers 20-7 in the first pe­riod and took a 3-0 lead. 
"It felt pretty weird on the whole," Florida's Scott Mellanby said. ''It was foreign territory. You couldn't help but pinch yourself and say this isn't us." 
The loss was only the third of the year for Florida (11-3-5) and its first by more than one goal. Washington, which start­ed out 1-5, moved over .500 for the first time this season at 10­9-0. 
"Instead of fighting to get to .500, our goal is to get to the top," said Capitals center Jason Allison. "We are not satisfied to just to make it to the middle." 
Florida's comeback efforts were thwarted by Washington goaltender Olaf Kolzig, who made 27 saves and stopped several one-on-one breaks. 
"I thought Kolzig was the dif­ference," said Florida coach Doug MacLean. "He made six or eight unbelievable saves." 
Simon and Krygier, who didn't play when the Panthers beat the Capitals 4-2 on Nov. 7, made the difference Monday night. 
Also making big contributions for the Caps were Peter Bondra and Andrei Nikolishin, who each had two assists. 
"We didn't want to start out 
like we did last game we came 
in here," Allison said. 
Bondra set up the Capitals' 

first goal at 6:02 of the opening 
period when from 
Washington's zone -he put 
the puck on the blade of 
Krygier. 
Krygier, who was racing down the right boards, beat Florida goaltender John Vanbiesbrouck stickside with the slapshot for a 1-0 lead. 
Washington made it 2-0 at 

8:12 of the first when Andrei Nikolishin flipped out a pass from behind the goal line and Bondra redirected it to Simon in front of the net for the score. The goal extended Simon's scoring streak to four games. 
The Washington scoring surge didn't stop there. The Capitals took advantage on the power play at 12:12 of the first when Sergei Gonchar picked up a rebound and put it by Vanbiesbrouck, who was screened by Krygier and his own defenseman. 
Florida got one back with 

1:48 left in the first period when Scott Mellanby scored his first shorthanded goal in his 11-year career to cut the lead to 3-1. 
Simon made it 4-1 at 6:29 of the third on a breakaway, just getting it by Vanbiesbrouck with a slow-rolling backhand. Florida's Radek Dvorak finished the scoring with his fourth goal of the season with 3:22 left in the game. 
Krygier has seven points in his last five games, while Simon has three goals since coming to the Caps in a Nov. 2 trade with Colorado. 
"He has been a real addition to our hockey club," coach Jim Shoenfeld said of Simon. "He has been playing well and his confidence level is way up." 
Red Wings 2, Coyotes 2 
Darren McCarty scored with 
1:43 remaining Monday night to lift the Detroit Red Wings to a 2-2 tie with Phoenix Coyotes. 
Brendan Shanahan also 
scored a goal and assisted on 
the game-tying goal for the Red 
Wings. 
Jeremy Roenick and Chad Kilger scored first-period goals less then a minute apart for the Coyotes, who are winless in nine of their last 10 hom'e games (1-6-3). 
Phoenix goaltender Nikolai 
Khabibulin made 34 saves. 
Shanahan set up the game­tying goal when he gained con­trol of the puck to the left of the net and skated toward the crease. Khabibulin made the initial save, but McCarty batted in the puck from the top of the crease. 
Roenick gave Phoenix a 1-0 lead at 9:28 of the first period with his third goal in two games. 
Kilger extended the Coyotes' lead 40 seconds later when he one-timed a Bob Corkum pass past Osgood from between the circles. 
Shanahan's short-handed goal at 14:47 of the first period pulled Detroit within a goal. Shanahan faked right to draw Khabibulin to the ice and fired into the open net. 
The Red Wings appeared to tie the game when right wing Mathieu Dandenault blasted a 40-foot wrist shot at 15:33 of the second period. 
But video goal judge Don Moffatt disallowed the score, ruling left wing Tomas Holmstrom was standing in the crease as the puck went in the net. 
Phoenix center Mike Hudson had a chance to extend the Coyotes' lead midway through 
the third period when he was 
awarded a penalty shot after 
being pulled down from behind 
by Ward. 
But Hudson, playing his first 

game for Phoenix after being 
recalled from the Phoenix 
Roadrunners of the 
International Hockey League on 
Sunday, fired the puck directly 
into Osgood's right pad. 
Osgood, who has stopped all 

three penalty shots taken 
against ·him during his four­
year career, made 21 saves for 
Detroit. 
Bruins 4, Sharks 2 

Sandy Moger had two goals and an assist and Bill Hanford made 31 saves Monday night as the Boston Bruins continued their dominance over San Jose by beating the Sharks 4-2. 
Steve Heinze and Troy Mallette also scored for the Bruins, who won their third straight game. 
The victory also extended Boston's unbeaten streak against San Jose to 10 games (7 -0-3). The Bruins and New York Rangers are the only two teams the Sharks have never beaten. 
San Jose goalie Chris Terreri, playing in his first game since injuring his wrist Oct. 20, made 23 saves. The Sharks are win­less in their last four games (0­2-2). 
The Bruins scored three unanswered goals after San Jose had taken a 1-0 lead on Viktor Kozlov's spectacular goal in the first period. 
Kozlov, braking in down the right wing, faked defenseman Don Sweeney out of position before firing a rising wrist shot over Hanford's left shoulder 
7:19 into the first period. 
Boston tied it when Steve Heinze pushed his second rebound attempt past Terreri from in close midway into the opening period. 
The Bruins made it 2-1 when Moger redirected Ray Bourque's shot past Terreri at 
14:35 of the first period. Bourque fired a shot from along the right boards and Moger, positioned in front, tipped the shot inside the right post. 
Seconds after a Boston power 
play expired early in the second 
period, Troy Mallette's goal 
made it 3-1. 
San Jose closed to 3-2 on Tony Granato's goal midway into the period. 
Moger's second goal, with 
1:43 to go in the third period, made it 4-2. 

Rick Tocchet returned to the Boston lineup after missing two games with a sprained shoul­der. 
Flames 5, Rangers 3 

The Calgary Flames snapped out of their slump with a big third period Monday night. 
Theoren Fleury scored twice, including the go-ahead goal in the third, as the Flames rallied to beat the New York Rangers 5-3. 
With the score tied 2-2 in the third, Fleury scored his second goal of the night on a power play at 7:07, blasting a slapshot from the blue~line past goal­tender Mike Richter. 
Three minutes later, Fleury assisted on Jonas Hoglund's goal on a 2-on-1 break. 
"We really dug down in the third and came up with a big effort to get us these two points," Fleury said. "No ques­tion, this win will give us a Jot of confidence starting this homestand." 
James Patrick and Dave Gagner also scored for the Flames, who were 1-5-1 in their previous seven games. 

The Observer accepts classificds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 Lafortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach basic conversational English in  FOR SALE  FOR SALE-2 GA's and 1 student ticket for Rutgers. Call 634-4985  Sale: Two GA's for RUTGERS.  They closed down the auto plan in  
Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  with best offer.  Call 277·1530.  Mahwah late last month.  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  teaching certificate or European  NEW SINGLE BED WITH FIGHT­ 
 Ralph went out looking for a job, but  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  languages required. Inexpensive  ING IRISH COMFORTER,  I NEED 2 GA's FOR RUTGERS  • *NEED 2 GA's FOR usc· •  he couldn't find none.  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  Room &Board + other benefits. For  FRAMED N.D. POSTER, T.V.  CALL MIKE 243·9403  • *please call 243-0760. •  he came home too drunk from mix·  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  info. call: (206)971-3680  WITH STAND VACCUUM CLEAN­ ing Tanqueray and wine  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ ext.K55843  ER, N.D. WINE GLASSES BLUE  4 SALE: 3 RUTGERS STUDENT  Got a gun dshot a night clerk now  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678·6386  AND GOLD DISHES,  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  TIX  DINA 43144  they call him Johnny 99.  
VARIETY OF KITCHEN ITEMS  ALL GAMES HOME  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at  CALL 277-7829  AND AWAY 232-0058  PERSONAL  To all of you, especially Lauren,  
Specials! 7 Nights Air &Hotel From  National Parks. Forests. & Wildlife  Macintosh Power Book 520 with  24 HRS.  Carol, PAS and STUDS. my  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  color screen, modem included &  BUY • SELL -TRADE  Looking for a place to eat with your  eternal thanks for supporting me  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext  portable color Hewlett Packard  parents this weekend?  in these past dark days. To  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  N55849  printer for SALE!!! 4-1266 Mary.  TICKET-MART, INC.  Come to Guido & Murphy's Italian  those of you (excluding MS)  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  Restaurant!!  Formerly "the Works"  who betrayed my trust, pray to  
1·800·678·6386  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT •  House for Sale by Owner  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  but now much better!!  whatever God you believe in  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Call 232·4414 for reservations.  t011ight.  
I  c.  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Estates.  Walk to Notre Dame. 3  232-0061.  "ANONYMOUS"  
Spring Break Panama City!  month. Room and Board!  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Transportation! Male or Female. No  attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths,  DANCERSDANCERSDANCERS  THANKS ST. JUDE FOR FAVORS  
Hotel, Location. Price! 7 Nights  experience necessary. Call  1313 SF main level, 1 025 sf base­ $$$$$$  BALLROOM DANCERS COME  GRANTED. TKS  
$129! Daytona-Best Location $139!  (206)971-3510 extA55848  ment ale, disposal, all appliances,  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  AND LEARN THE FOXTROT AND  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring·  Security System.Completely  ALL HOME GAMES.  REVIEW STEPS LEARNED EAR­ 
breaktravel.com 1·800-678-6386  NEEDED:1 ROOMATE!TURTLE  refreshed to sell.  asking 88,500.  272-6551  LIER THIS SEMESTER! WHEN:  Connolly, how do you feel today?  
CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634·  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday.  TONIGHT I  Remember this time last year? The  
2059  Call 219-295-8727  n. d.  tickets for sale  6:00-8:00 IN STEPAN CENTER  horrid smell of smoke infested  
WOMEN OFFICER MARINES TO  271 1635  ALL ARE WELCOME!  clothing. The day after.  it's fun  
DISCUSS CAREER OPTIONS! A  Part Time Nanny Needed.  TRANSFERABLE $1000  being 21 isn't it? Welcome, pal!!!  
PANEL OF FEMALE U.S. MARINE  Flexible hours. Call 273-2713  VOUCHER ON AMERICAN  Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets­ Roxana,  -------,,---Joseph  
OFFICERS WILL DISCUSS THEIR  AIRLINES $800 080  Check our price 674-7645.  Some ask, "Is it possible?  That  Hyder of 304 Keough doesn't flush.  
EXPERIENCES IN THE USMC, FOLLOWED BY A QUESTION & ANSWER PERIOD. 7 P.M., TUES­ FOR RENT  .I  2719387  GA.s FOR  SALE  GA.s  I'm a lover?" Answering I say, "Fool! I love Juliets! But am I Romeo?  Ask him why! ---------To repeat: Freshman Joe Hyder of  
DAY,  """""'""""PITT,  RUTGERs ,  USC ,  No!  South Bend DOES NOT FLUSH!!  
19 NOVEMBER, MORRIS INN,  GA.s  CALL ....272-7233.  I am only a moth that stumbles at a  
ALUMNI ROOM. FOR MORE  Rutgers GAs for sale: up to 6 seats  star.  needed:  a sports writer to cover  
INFORMATION CALL:  together: (219) 250·3150  Need Rutgers GA's?  Cyrano  fencing for The Observer.  please  
(800)945·3088.  3 for sale @ 277-9957  call  
ILOST & FOUND I  ########################## FOR SALE: 4 Rutgers student tickets  Need 4 Rutgers GAs Katie x3572  Mail Starved Demers in lnnsbruck crave correspondence!! lnnrain 33  1-4543. STANLEY·  
REGGAE D. J.  call Jenny @ 687-8435  A-6020 lnnsbruck  i have what U R looking 4.  
FOUND: One gold necklace  234 0705  ##########################  3 DAVE MATT. BAND TIX OR $65  Tirol, Austria  Rendez-vous 1900 hours @ the  
between LaFortune and Hayes­ FOR A RUTG. STU. GA CALL ED  Europe  new Juice Bar.  -IRIS  
Healy. To claim call George x3669  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  !!!!!!!RUTGERS GA FOR  @1350  
OR NEXT FALL NEAR CAM­ SALE!!!!!!!!  ...SLF iS COMING. •••  To my posse: O·Ball, ZZ, Mike D,  
WANTED  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272· 6306  ·····call Nicole @ 4x2807"....  I NEED TWO RUTGERS G.A.'S. URGENT!!  Start preparing early by coming to the CoHeehouse. Thursday, Nov.  Special K. and Mo .... Peace Out!!! ·C·note  
2 RUT. GAs 4 SALE  CALL NEIL 243-9219  21 in the LaFortune  Ballroom,  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  Rooms for Rent F·Ball wknds.  X2626,2597: lv.offer  from 8·1 0 pm.  Come to listen or  Hi everyone  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  in home 2 mis. N. of campus cont.  SALE: RUTGERS STD.TIX. 273·  sign up in the DH to read or play  You're glad  
(813)360-2243.  brkfst incl 277-8340  For Sale 2 Rutger GA 243·9384  8262 & 243-8161.  music.  All are  welcome.  you are not us!!!!!!!!!!!  

_______._...,..~-----~ 
Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

II 


x er1ence e 



II 

x raor 1na 



•• Mentalist Extraordinaire·· Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk 
Tickets are $3. but you can get a ~[}'11~1~ one from any Student Programmer! If you know who we are! . 
~ I I I 
I I l 
I I I j I I I l j j I I I I I 
j I I 
j j 
j j 
I j j 


Tuesday, November 19, 1996 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL

Record 
continued from page 16 

Boniol, 'Boys kick around Packers, 21-6 
her achieve her goal. The freshman has been stretching longer, doing breathing exer­cises, and working to add dis­tance to her stroke. Progress has already been made. Samreta started out the season with sixteen reaches per length and now that's down to fifteen. 
Time is really on Samreta's side in a two-fold way. The swimming season has just be­gun and Samreta is only a freshman. If she keeps up her current pace with each meet, it will be only a matter of time before the record book will need to be changed again. 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 
counted, hitting seven of its last nine field goals to seal the pro­gram's biggest victory in years. 
"To play as well as we did against a Final Four caliber team this early in the season is really encouraging," comment­ed Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "We controlled the tempo from start to finish. We went up against a good team and showed that we are a good team as well. We played with a great deal of poise." 
Please Recycle The 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Ex-Irish recruit arrested again 

Observer 
Summer Grants for Undereraduate Research on International Issues 
Informational Meeting 
For Interested Students 
Wecdbme~dity~ Nowemb~rr 2(Q JRO())m 11.11. ~ DeiCElrrit((J)R(J) 5~(0)ij JPM 

Grant Competition sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 

Travel and expenses up to $3,000 



mr PICTUHt Of 
Further information 
oon1~n onn
available from Professor Michael Francis Hesburgh Center 312 
Since losing 38-27 here in the NFC title game last January, the Packers had been pointing to this game as a chance to demonstrate that they had passed the three-time Super Bowl winners at the top of the conference. 
Instead, they lost by double digits for the seventh time in seven games in Texas. 
The Packers came in severely handicapped on offense ­without Robert Brooks and Antonio Freeman, their top wide receivers, and tight end Mark Chmura. 
All were injured and sorely missed against the NFL's lead­ing defense. 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press Writer 
IRVING, Texas 

The Dallas Cowboys have beaten the Green Bay Packers in some notable shootouts the past three years. 
Chris Boniol's foot was the only weapon they needed Monday night. 
Boniol, who was in bed with the flu for two days last week, tied an NFL record with seven field goals as the Cowboys beat the Packers 21-6, their seventh straight win over Green Bay in four seasons -all at Texas Stadium. 
Boniol's first five field goals 
Associated Press 
ST. ALBANS, W.Va. 

Marshall athletic department officials said Monday they were investigating a scuffie between record-setting wide receiver Randy Moss and his ex-girl­friend. 
Coach Bob Pruett and athletic director Lance West said no decision had been made about whether disciplinary action would be taken against Moss, who has 1,173 yards receiving this season and two previous brushes with the law. 
Moss, 19, and Elizabeth Offutt, 21, of St. Albans, were charged with domestic battery after a scuffle Sunday at Offutt's home. She also was came on Dallas' first five pos­sessions. The last two came in the second half, the final one a 28-yarder with 20 seconds left in the game to tie the mark shared by Jim Bakken and Rich Karlis. 
Right before the record-tying kick, Dallas quarterback Troy Aikman took a knee and the Cowboys called timeout to get Boniol onto the field. 
After the kick, the teams milled around, with the Packers apparently angry about Dallas adding a needless score. Reggie White appeared the most upset as he jawed with Cowboys re­ceiver Michael Irvin. 
"I feel good, it's something 
charged with destruction of property. Both are free on bond. 
The charges carry a sentence of up to a year in jail. 
Police reports indicated nei­ther Moss nor Offutt was seri­ously injured. 
"We're still trying to gather information on it," Pruett said. "Randy's part of our family. Any time any member of your family has a problem, you try to stick by them and support them. To be fair to everyone in­volved, I don't think we need to make any comment or any de­cisions until I get all the facts." 
Marshall has been ranked No. 1 in Division 1-AA all season and probably will be seeded first by the NCAA in the 16­I'm proud of," Boniol said. ''I'm not excited about what hap­pened after the fact, but how many times do you get to kick seven field goals?" 
The Cowboys (7-4) pulled into a second-place tie with Philadelphia in the NFC East. Dallas trails Washington by one game, and has two games left against the Redskins. 
Green Bay (8-3} lost for the second straight week, but re­mains in good shape in the NFC Central, two games ahead of Minnesota. 
But the loss meant more to Green Bay than just a game in the standings. 
team playoff field. The playoffs 
begin Nov. 30. 
Moss caught at least one touchdown pass in every game for Marshall (11-0), breaking the 1-AA record of 10 consecu­tive games with touchdown re­ceptions, set by Mississippi Valley State's Jerry Rice in 1984. In March 1995, Moss was arrested for beating a fel­low DuPont High School stu­dent. His probation on that charge was revoked in June after he smoked marijuana, and he subsequently was kicked ofT Florida State's team. 
A judge released Moss from jail prior to this football season, and he was no longer on proba­tion when he attended Marshall this fall. 

$1 Students LITTLE THEATRE For information, 
call 219/284-4626 

Tuesday, November 19, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MEN·s SWIMMING • WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish confident despite defeat Freshmen strong in 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA and improve in all parameters lost." Spons W rirer of their swimming, but were Indeed, Notre Dame has im­
conference victory
unable to defeat the Panthers, proved with every meet that 
"There are two types of excellence in swimming," stat­ed swimming coach Tim Welsh. "One is time and the other is place. We have achieved excel­lence in the first regard and are confident that we will have success in the second regard soon." 
This statement applies to the Notre Dame men's swimming team, which suffered a tough loss, 180-115, at the hands of Big East rival the University of Pittsburgh last Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The team continued to swim faster times who are favored to place either first or second in the Big East this year. 
Although the margin of defeat was the largest of any of their losses this year, the Irish re­mained positive, and for good reason. According to Coach Welsh, "One of our objectives was to measure ourselves against what might be the fastest team in the Big East. I am encouraged by the im­provement of the team from week to week and am pleased with the way we swam against Pittsburgh even though we they have swam this year. 
Appalachia Seminar Task Force  
e Appalachia Seminar is currently seeking one membe to join the Appalachia Task Force for the spring semester 1997 and the 1997,98 school year. This is a three semester commitment. The Task Force consists of seven undergraduate students who are responsible for creating, implementing, and maintaining the Appalachia Seminar. The Task Force is dedicated to teaching experimental learning as a means to enhance higher education; there, fore, we are in need of an interested, enthusiastic, and committed person to join us.  
Applications: Now available at the Center for Social Concerns Applications are due: Friday, November 22, 1996 For further information: M.]. Adams, 634,3880, Lauren Stein, 634,3690, or Rachei Tomas, Morgan, 282,2209  

There were some individual highlights for the Irish in this loss. Matt Rose, narrowly de­feating teammate Steve Whowell, took first place in the 100 meter breaststroke while Herb Huesman placed first in one-meter diving. Rose also placed second in the 200 meter breaststroke and Scott Zumbach finished second in the 200 meter butterfly and the 400 meter individual medley. Ron Royer took three second­place finishes in the 200 meter medley relay, the 50 meter freestyle, and the 100 meter freestyle. Other Irish swim­mers who placed in the top three in events included Chris Fugate, Jeff Page, John Lubker, Robert Fetter, Tyler Maertz, and Rob Lambert. 
The loss to a tough Panthers squad dropped the Irish to a 2­3 record, a record that is de­ceiving because this has been a successful year so far for the Notre Dame men's swimming team. 
By BILL HART 
Spores Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team gained momentum with a win over Big East foe Pittsburgh at the Rolfs Aquatic Center on Friday. 
The Irish started out strong by winning the 200 meter med­ley relay. 
Despite one relay team's dis­qualification, the team of Allison Brooks, Shannon Suddarth, Liz Barger and Courtney South finished three meters ahead of the leading Pitt team, opening up a nine point lead. 
They continued to dominate, leading by thirty-one points after five events. Notre Dame never trailed against the Panthers, as they claimed every non-diving event. Pittsburgh's Jaime Tomazich won both the one and three meter diving events. 
Three women placed first in more than one individual 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
University of Notre Dame Chorale 
& 

Chamber Orchestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
jfall <!Concert 1996 
Lotti Bach Handel Mendelssohn Liszt 
8:00 p.m. Wednesday, November 20 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 
event. Linda Gallo placed first in both the 1000 freestyle and the 500 freestyle. Courtney South won the 100 and 200 freestyle while freshman Shannon Suddarth won the 200 breaststroke and the 400 individual medley. 
The freshman swimmers won many of the events in the meet. Allison Hollis claimed first in the 100 backstroke and Brittany Kline won in the 100 breaststroke. 
Other freshmen winners in­cluded Laura Shepard in the 50 freestyle and Leticia Herrera in the 100 butterfly. 
"The freshmen played a ­major role," South commented on the performance this Friday. 
"We have about nine fresh­men on the team, and they swam really well. They were excellent in our wins last weekend and they really stepped up against the Panthers." 
Notre Dame's women's squad, having won their last three meets, now improve to 3­1. 
The Irish dive into action again when they play host to the Notre Dame Invitational Dec. 5-7 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASS IFI EDS. 


Student Government's Financial Aid Dept. wants YOU!! 
If you're interested in: 
• 
Finding scholarships and aid for others while helping yourself 

• 
Getting involved in Student Government 


Join us at the Student Government office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune on Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. 
FREE PIZZA!! If you can't make the meeting, call Mark at 4-3677 

U•••••u'' .,., Naru Ouu 
Think ofus 
as yourscHool bus. 
-lnli'4"""', semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
II~ITt=n II~AO 
~ i ~· ii _.....,. iiii..iii i 
ii......, 

Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 19, 1996 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Harriers dominate District IV 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
It's like deja vu. 
The Notre Dame men's cross­country team is again peaking at the right time, as the team won the 1996 District IV meet in Champaign, Illinois on Saturday. Last year the Irish finished third at the Big East fi­nals, second at the District IV meet and finished off the sea­son with an eighth place finish at the NCAA's. 
The Irish dominated the field by finishing four runners in the top 10. When Tim Englehardt finished in 31st place, the vic­tory was sealed for the Irish who beat out defending cham­pion Wisconsin by three points. After struggling in recent weeks, Notre Dame returned to the form the team had in the beginning of the season when the Irish were consistently fin­ishing three runners in the top­10. 
The day belonged to the first four runners who qualified for the Irish. Jason Hexing re­peated his Big East finals per­formance, finishing in second place out of 240 runners behind Michigan's John Mortimer. A trio of Irish run­ners filled out the top-10. Matt Althoff, Derek Seiling and Joe Dunlop finished eighth, ninth and tenth respectively. The three runners were separated six-hundredths of a second. 
"I guess we are vindicated for our fourth place finish at the Big East championships," joked coach Tom Piane ...We ran very well. I have been to a lot of dis­trict meets, 22 in fact, and I had never known so early in a race that we had qualified for the NCAA's. I knew at about 3,000 meters that we had qualified because we had our four guys running really well. I didn't know we would win the meet until 6,000 meters." 
Dunlop was clearly a pleasant surprise for Notre Dame. He saved his best performance for the last and most important meet of the season. Dunlop had continually been the fourth Irish finisher in meets but this was easily his highest finish of the season. 
"He's the linchpin of the team," Piane said of Dunlop. "Honestly, I knew Joe could run very well. If he runs well, the team runs well. Hexing, Seiling and Althoff ran the way they have all year nut Joe Dunlop was the key for us. He ran ex­tremely well and Tim Englehardt ran terrific also." 
Now the men set their sights on Arizona and the NCAA meet, which will be held on Monday, November 25. The Irish ran well there early in the season, finishing in eighth place against an array of teams similar to those that will be represented next Monday. 
The two top teams look to be Arkansas and Stanford. The top-ranked Arkansas Razorbacks are the defending national champions and return the same team as last year. 
"After this weekend we are very excited about the meet," said Piane. "We are awfully positive coming off the meet. Antonio Arce ran very well at last year's finals and I hope he can bounce back and do that again." 
letters abr 
Do you have ajunior mena;mru abroad? Drop off a Lafortune by Thurs. we will mail Hfor you! 
Gender S.tudies Critical Issues Roundtable 
AIDS Education: 
Resources and Challenges in the Notre Dame/South Ber1d Community 
Presenters: 

•Deb Stanley, AIDS Ministries-South Bend 
•Sylvia Galvan, AIDS Ministries --South Bend 
•Scott Baker, AIDS Awareness/SWAT -Notre Dame 
•Steve Newton, Rector, Sorin Hall --Notre Dame 
Moderator -Tony Silva, Gender Studies Concentrator 
WEDNESDA~ NOVEMBER 20 4:30 6:00
= 

] 40 DEBARTOLO 

available in M, ~ &XL 

Buy yours at 213 Lafortune Today from 7to 9pm 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tut:sJ.,_\. ~ovember 19, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

lt:\1'1' \ IH K lit IM \! II\ 1111·. 
NEXT YEAR OF YOliR LIFE: Keep up the good work. You are doing great! Home life will hold real charm next month. ll1erc is no place 

you would rather be for the holi­days' A career dcctsion you make in January will result in rewards and honors next fall. The future of a romantic alliance depends on your willingness to make a true commit­ment. Fame and fortune could fol­low the signing of a book or enter­tainment contract. Do not neglect tried-and-true friends. 
MEDIA 1996@ AOLCOM a..~ 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Jodie Foster, 
fashion designer Calvin Klein,MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
sportscaster Ahmad Rashad, actress Meg Ryan. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): When someone behaves erratically, take the hint. Distance yourself until the cause is known. Solo projects enjoy highly beneficial influences. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional undercurrents are felt at work or home. Others may be reluc­tant to reveal their true feelings. Talking openly about your hopes and dreams with loved ones will encourage them to do the same. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make the most of every minute at work. You are on a roll' Do every­thing possible to further important goals. Your words and actions sway others. Use your influence wisely; be an advocate for harmony. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
Business allies admire your drive. Ration your energy; tackle top prior­
CATBERT: EVIL H.R. Dn\E.CTOR 
== 

ity projects first. Use shortcuts only
~£.'5 B~NNING POPCORN! 



TO: ft..LL £.MPLO'<EES THE SMELL OF POPCORN IN TI-\E OFFICE. IS UNPROFE.55ION"'L ••. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Movie souvenir 
5 E. COil watchdog: Abbr. 
8 Neil Simon's "--Suite" 13 Moon goddess 14 Unaccompa­nied 15 Arthur Miller's salesman 16 Genesis son 17 Opposed to, in dialect 18 Do penance 19 Noted Ballet Russe dancer 
22 The "A" in Thomas A. Edison 
24 Network' 
sat1nst 31 Birds at sea 32 Was in debt 
33 K1nd of soup 34 Duds 35 Algebraic 
grouping 37 Halcyon 38 Prefix with 
lateral 39 Swiss river 40 Marx and 
Malden 41 "Pulcinella" composer 45 Biblical verb suffix 46 ---Day vitamins 47 Eighth in a Taylor series 

23 ---Cat (winter 54 J.F.K. terminal vehicle) architect 
55 Pay to play. w1th up 56 Mrs Chaplin 57 Three-time 
P.GA 
tournament champ 58 Pastry chef, at times 59 Resort near Mt. Jackson 
60 Swarm 61 Law. to Lucius 62 "Laugh-In" 
name 
DOWN 
1 Eastern European 2 Bottom brass 3 French articles 4Chopin compositions 5 After-dinner sipping 6 Sixth-century date 7 And, e.g.: Abbr. 8 Mapped out 9Many 10 Run--(go off course) 


25 Surgical procedure. for short 
26 Hebrew prophet 27Wonder 28 Explosion's 
cause 29 Shade of green 30 Candied items 31 Holder for 
needles and things 35 Frazzled comic strip heroine 36 Puckster Bobby 37 Womanizer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

39 Spanning 49 Bomb 
40 Baby bouncer 50"--bitten, twice shy"
42 Go over again 51 Fly high43 Maelstrom 

Wanted: Reporters,
52 Sweater, 
44 Lay to rest 

usually 47 Alphabetic run 53 Word on a lock 
48 Copycat 54 Language suffix 
photographers 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
and editors. 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Join The Observer staff. 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
12 Chemical suffix 14 "Get it?" 20 Local 
legislators: Abbr. 21 "The best --· to come" 24 Pitchfork part 
u 

... \HIS BRING~ f-\E. TO 
if certain that you can get the same
" 

results. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to the straight and narrow when around conservative people. Concentrate on 
'"orl. aln:all) 111 p1ngn:". po-.qx111 
mg a pet projccl until a more appro priatc time. 
VIRGO <Aug. 23-Sept. 22J Rely on your instincb when dealin~ with new people. Efforts to obtain financial backing for a major ven· ture are favored. One-on-one meet ings prove most effective. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Re\ yourself if you are not feeling at your best. Letting your co-worker' take the lead in Qusiness meeting' will give you an opportunity to learn from their mistakes. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Studying your finances will let you find ways to improve them. Profes­sional advice pays off. A close rela· tionship offers you lasting security. A dream can come true if you con· fide in a friend or relative. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Tempers flare over budget restrictions or a change in financial policy. Tum your creative or artistic ideas into a source of income. Nur· ture your friendships. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Repaying a loan with interest will give you a feeling of accomplish­ment. Take advantage of a unique chance to travel. A fascinating new­comer adds excitement to yoU?life. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Someone who courts you is mainly interested in your assets. Come to terms with the truth and stop playing the fool. Home-study courses will increase your business skills. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be 
realistic. Others may be too busy to 
give you much assistance. Concen­
trate on projects you handle alone. 
Reserve judgment. if confused by 
your partner's activities. Withhold a 
decision until more facts and figures 
are available. 
·~ 


•

A healthy body makes for a strong mind. 

Sign up for a fitness class in the~~~ office today. All classes are half price. 
Be sure to bring your student/staff 10 with you whenever you are using any of the athletic facilities on campus. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------­
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 19, 1996 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Gaither buries Hawkeyes 
Seniors lead No. 20 Notre Dame to early seson upset ofIowa 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
The season is hardly two games old, yet Notre Dame is spinning the world of women's basketball on its fingertips. 
The Irish women won a landmark game .)unday night, handing the sixth­rankeo Iowa Hawkers grim defeat, 61­50, in their own Carver Hawkeye arena to advance to the semifinals of the Preseason WNIT. 
The shocker was Notre Dame's third­ever victory over a top-1 0 opponent, but the Irish will have ample opportunity to expand that figure tonight against fourth-ranked perennial powerhouse Tennessee in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
Once again, Katryna Gaither owned the floor, torching Iowa for 27 points and 14 boards. 
"One thing I wanted to do was go hard to the boards," explained Gaither. "On offense, I just wanted to go inside." 
Gaither took over the game from the very start of the contest, scoring eight of the team's first 10 points and swinging the momentum to Notre Dame for an 8-0 early lead, one it would never relinquish. 
The senior star picked up where she left off in the second half. Gaither scored to boost the Irish lead to 10, then seconds later connected on one of two free throws, but followed her missed shot to complete a three-point play. 
Iowa head coach Angie Lee was quite impressed with Gaither's performance. 
"She's incredible," Lee said. "Talk about somebody who doesn't quit. She doesn't quit." 
Things became sticky though as the Hawkeyes cut the lead to 34-33 with 
15:35 left in the game. Instead of buck­ling under the pressure, --as they may have done in days past, the Irish, led by Beth Morgan and Gaither, buried their victims with a 15-3 run over the next seven minutes. 
Notre Dame then caught fire when it 
The mens soccer team will face UNC-Greensboro on Sunday in the first round ofNCAA tournament play. 

Observer File Photo 

The Notre Dame fencing team made a very positive showing at the Penn State Open this past weekend. Performances such ~s that _of fre~hman Magda Krol, who defeated the defending national champion in the epee, bode well for lnsh nat1onal t1tle hopes. See tomorrow's Observer for in-depth coverage. 
vs. Rutgers, 

NCAA T-ournament 
November 23, 12:30 p.m. 

~ 
(.., 
at UNC-Greensboro 
NCAA Tournament 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
-
vs. Wisconsin

(.,
! 
Sunday, 1 p.m. 

~ 
-


The Observer/Rob Finch 

see HOOPS 1page 12 Senior center Katryna Gaither poured in 27 points as the Irish advanced to the semifinals of the preseason NIT by beating sixth-ranked Iowa. 
• SMC SWIMMING 

Freshman phenom smashes record 
Samreta begins assault on SMC record book 
By ANGELA OLSEN Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Get out the record book be­cause a change needs to be made. A 13 year old school record has been broken -by 
a fresh­man. 
In Thursday's home swim meet ver.:. sus Calvin College, S a i n t 

Mary's Samreta newcomer 
Michelle Samreta set a new record in the 100 breast­stroke with a time of 1:12.23. 
The old record of 1:13.98 had been held by Gail Casey since January 1983. 
Even more amazing was the fact that Thursday's meet was the first time Samreta had ever swam this event in college. 
"It was a goal for me throughout the day," said Samreta. "It's my personal best time in the event." 
"She did a great job," said co-captain Tara Thomas. "The team is really happy for her." 
Saint Mary's head coach 
Angela Addington predicts more records will be broken by the freshman in the future. 
"It's a matter of her being in the pool and going in mentally tough," commented Addington. "There is the adrenaline factor of the meet that just isn't there at prac­tice. [In Thursday's meet] the girl in the lane next to her was pushing so hard." 
Addington also pointed to the drive factor which makes athletes work hard and break records at the result. 
"Michelle has that drive. I expect her to go to nationals and have a good showing there. She has that much drive and dedication," said Addington. 
Already Samreta has shown that she is a contender for breaking the current school record in the 200 breast stroke. ' 
"It's my next goal," said Samreta. 
On November 9 iri a meet against the University of Chicago, Samreta swam the 200 in 2:46.05. Then five .days later against Calvin she shaved over four seconds off that time and swam to victory with a time of 2:42.03. Now she has exactly two seconds left to go in order to topple the current record. 
Addington is working with Samreta in practice to help 
see RECORD I page 12 

~ 
aJ •Harriers win District IV meet see page 14
..... 

CIJ •Cowboys extend streak against Pack

.. 

Big East Championships November· 23 see page 12
at Bowling Green ~ November 22, 7 p.m. 
~ -e 

:..._ 
•I 




