
Tuesday, April2, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 117 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND announces tuition hike New student leaders 
Rate of increase declines for 7th consecutive year 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Associate News Editor 
A 5.5 percent increase in un­dt~rgraduate tuition and fees for the 1996-97 aeademic year, announced by the University yesterday, marks the seventh 

eonst~cutive year that the per­centage of tuition inerease has past few years demonstrates a dedined. University commitment to mod­
The increase will bring the erating the cost of tuition cost of tuition at the University increase. to $1H,H10, up $H10 from last "Operating costs of the Uni­year. and will bring the cost of versity continue to go up on a room and board to $4,760, up yearly basis, but the commit­$11 0 from last year. While the ment [on the part of the Admin­total increase equals over $900, istrators and the Board of the pereentagn of increase is Trustees] has been to bring the 
the lowest that the University tuition increase down while has implemented since 1960. maintaining the quality of edu­According to Dennis Brown, cation," said Brown. assistant din~etor of Public He­The University has also lations, the eontinuing decline demonstrated a eommitment in tuition inen~ases over the 

Minor SMC blazes spark fire awareness program 
By MAUREEN HURLEY aged in the second floor fire; !laint M.try\ New• EJiwr and there were scorch marks on the students' desk in the 
"Want to see your college ca­third floor lire. n~nr go up in smoke'?" Posters "There was no real monetary boasting this slogan are seat­damage," Chlebek said. ll~red around Saint Mary's I.e­The student handbook states Mans llall. as fin~ safety be­that burning candles is prohib­eonws a hot topie following two ited, as it is viewed as a "lire­minor fires in tlw residence hazardous aetivity." hall last week. "The rules arc there to pro­
According to Hiehard Chle­teet us. People really shouldn't lmk. direetor of Saint Mary's have candles or an open flame Sncurity. two unndated fires in their rooms," said LeMans caused by unattended candles resident adviser KayLynn De­sprnad at (J:40 a.m. and 9 p.m. Carli. "With the recent fires, on the second and third floors people are being more seri­of l.nMans llall on March 24. ous," she added. Both fires were detected and According to DeCarli, the 1~xtinguished by resident advi­!'ires sparked a hall-wide fire sors ht~fom causing structural safety awareness program. All damage. sections in LeMans Hall are re­
"The damage was minor, quired to see the security compared to what it could video, "How Fast it Burns." have been if it had happened at "If the H.A. had shown up 30 4 a.m .. wtwn everyone was seconds later, this whole build­slm~ping," said Chlebnk. ing probably would have gone 
Security reports state that a down, since it's such an old student's bookshelf was dam-dorm," DeCarli said. 
Man, I hate these training wheels ... 



appoint executives 
Observer Staff Report the new departments to ad­dress various aspects of stu­
As one of the first official acts dent life," said Miller, the of their administration, the Student Body President. Seth Miller-Megan Murray The Student Government Ex­Student ecutive Coordinators selected Government are: Administra­• Kate McShane, Intellectual tion announ­Life ced the dep­• Molly Detgen, Student Life artments and •Chris Trenta, Controller 


department • Stacey McNulty, Public
The Observer/Chrislopher Mullins 

recently to increasing the heads that Relations 
amount of scholarship assis­would be • Jen Dividio, Chief Counsel tance available to students, ac­
serving in the •Jeff Ward, Athletic Re­upcoming sources
cording to Brown. A move by year.

the University in the past few • Catherine McCarren, m()nths will add $5 million to While last year's administra­Gender Relations 
tion consisted of only four de­• Steve Marshall, Informationfunding for financial aid and 
partments, Miller and Murray Technologywill allow the University to offer have created an additional four • Jeff Catalina, Financial Aid
an additional 425 scholarships over the next four years. departments to their staff: "We are blessed with talented 
Gender Relations, Athletic Re­people working for us and are"With this move, combined sources, Financial Aid, and In­excited about this year," saidwith other enhancements, we formation Technology. Murray, the student body vice­
expect that University-en­

"We think Student Govern­president.
hanced scholarships will 

ment's potential on campus is Yesterday marked the first see TUITION/ page 3 underutilized, and we created day of the new administration. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 


Miller outlines future agenda 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Assistant News Editor 

Outgoing Student Body Presi­dent Jonathan Patrick finalized his chairmanship of the Cam­pus Life Council and new Stu­dent Body President Seth Miller outlined his goals for the coun­cil he will chair at yesterday's CLC meeting. 
Patrick outlined the three points he will focus on when formulating the CLC's report on co-residentiality. These include the history of co-residentiality, the discussion of the issue at the CLC, and a call to action for the Board of Trustees on the 

dress the University's advising be amended to include: "Anymatter. 
system next year. student or student organizationPatrick also pointed out the The CLC was pleased that Pa­wishing to provide comment on presence of the campus calen­tricia O'Hara, Vice President policies ... in du Lac is encour­dar on the World Wide Web for Student Affairs, agreed that aged to submit such commentsnext year, which will include there needs to be an amend­to student government repre­descriptions of campus organi­ment to du Lac allowing the sentatives."
zations. Student Senator Kate CLC to discuss policies under Miller then outlined his agen­McShane emphasized that she 

consideration for revision in the da and stressed that he would
and Judicial President Tom 

next edition of du Lac. 
Matzzie will continue to ad-
O'Hara suggested that du Lac 
see CLC/ page 3 


Rotary Foundation awards scholarships 

A disgruntled sibling tours the campus during Sophomore Sibs Weekend. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Three seniors and a recent graduate were awarded schol­arships by The Rotary Founda­tion to study abroad for the 1996-97 school year. Scholar­ship recipients Jesse Barrett, Maria Capua, Jason Subler. and Catherine Mcintyre will be beginning their programs in their respective countries this summer. 
The Hotary Foundation awards scholarships yearly for students to study in foreign countries. The students must pass a selection process that includes interviews at the local to district level and they must also take a language aptitude test. 
"You must be accepted to the University yourself, but other than that, !The Hotary Foundation I takes care of all the other arrangements for you," said Jesse Barrett, who will be going to American University of Cairo in Egypt. 

Scholarships are given for single year and multi-year pro­grams in any country in whieh there is a Hotary Club. The scholarships are granted to students that The Hotary Foundation considers to have qualities of good leadership and good citizenship, as well as an ability to express them­selves. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, April2, 1996 

A 
need for 


change 

As the spring weather fmally heads into South Bend, I look out of my win­dow in Flanner and see the basketball courts down at Stepan full of willing Bookstore Basketball partic­ipants. 
This leads me to ponder my Bookstore experience last year as a freshman here at Notre Dame. More than anything else, I remember the crowd, the majority of whom were white, cheering on the NBT II team, a team composed of 5 white guys: At the same time, the crowd booed the eventual winners, Models Inc., whose members were black. I thought it troubling at the time, and I continue to feel that way. 
Speed ahead to 1996. As it is an election year, I have been inundated with vast informa­tion about presidential candidate Pat Buchanan and the divisive message he professes. 

His story appeals to a distinct group of Americans by placing the blame for all prob­lems on other groups. I hear him say that we should build a wall along our border with Mexico. He declares homosexuals to be the source of the decline in morals. He makes inflammatory statements about different groups of people that serve no other purpose than to place the blame of America's problems on other shoulders. 
Not only is Buchanan despicably wrong in citing these as the roots of all problems in America, but he is also perpetuating an ele­ment that poses possibly the greatest dilemma of our day: intolerance. 
Webster's Dictionary defines intolerance as the "state of quality of being unable or unwill­ing to endure; bigotry." We are all guilty of it. People today seem to be so focused on individ­ualistic goals that, when they face difficulties, they seek out culpability in others. 
When dealing with real-life human relation­ships, intolerance and all-out competition have no place. Although our American system has proven that competition breeds excellence, it has also demonstrated that people have a ten­dency to allow their own personal successes to become their sole priority. They forget that they live in a family or a community, and must deal with the other people in that family or that community on a regular basis. 
In America, that community is composed of people from a wide variety of ethnic, religious, and sexual backgrounds. That, however, is not suppose to matter in this nation of freedom and equality. Our country's founding fathers fash­ioned this country out of the liberal mold that allowed people to come together and live peaceably regardless of their heritage. Although the thread appears somewhat thin, this tolerance is the value that keeps the United States from becoming the next Yugoslavia, or even Canada, where the French-speaking province of Quebec seeks to secede from the rest of the nation simply because of ethnic dif­ferences. 
I enjoy the rich diversity that one is able to find in this country. I am glad that we do not all look like each other, and that we can enrich each other through our differing viewpoints. For this country (and this school) to persevere into the future, we must appreciate each other individually and learn to live right alongside those that happen to be different than us. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• Tm:uw's STAFf 
News Deborah Schultz Russ Williams Production Heather Cocks 
Sports Jackie Moser Stephanie Buek Kathleen Lopez Lab Tech 
Dave Murphy 
• Wmtw Ar A GtAt{CE 

Haitian ferry capsizes, death toll undetermined 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti 
A sailboat ferrying about 50 passen-:::.. gers between two Haitian towns cap-r::::::J sized in the Caribbean Sea, and at least 50 km 15 people drowned, a survivor said. 
The survivor, Jeansly Jean-Baptiste, said in a Radio Nationale interview broadcast Monday that the sailboat L'Aviron, which operated as a ferry, sank off a remote village in southwest­ern Haiti last Thursday. 
News of the incident was delayed because of poor communications with the remote area, 140 miles west of the 

capital, Port-au-Prince. The boat sank L________,...!;!!.-'-'-'-'-'-'.:..C=== the radio. He blamed the government for 
near Tiburon, for which there are no listings in the Haitian telephone directory. 
A U.S. Coast Guard spokesman in Miami said he was unaware of any ferry sinking. A Haitian government spokesman said maritime officials sent to the area to in­vestigate a reported shipwreck were not expected to re­turn until Tuesday. 
Police officers from Jeremie, a three-hour drive from Tiburon, also went to the area over the weekend to inves­tigate rumors of a. boat sinking but couldn't confirm them, said Eric Fait, spokesman for the U.N. mission in Haiti. He said the police returned to the area on Monday. 
Minimum wage debate rages on 

WASHINGTON 
Democrats marked the fifth anniver­sary of the last minimum-wage rise by attacking Republican presidential can­didate Sen. Bob Dole on Monday for blocking increases while supporting raises in his own salary. Aides to Dole, the Senate majority leader and President Clinton's certain opponent in the November election, counterat­


tacked, pointing out that Clinton did not propose an increase when Democrats controlled Congress. Oppo­nents of a higher minimum wage argue it will destroy entry-level jobs for poor and minority youths. Repub­licans cited a three-year-old Clinton statement that rais­ing the minimum wage was "the wrong way to raise the incomes of low-wage earners." Clinton last year pro­posed a 90-cent increase, spread over two years, to bring the minimum wage to $5.15 per hour. Senate Democrats on Thursday sought to force a vote on the proposal. 

Umpire death prompts postponement 
CINCINNATI 
Baseball's 328-pound umpire John McSherry died Monday after collapsing on the field seven pitches into the Cincinnati Reds' season-opening game. McSherry, 51, walked away from home plate and motioned to the other umpires. Then, in front of the TV cameras, he fell to the ground near the backstop. He was pronounced dead at a hospital about an hour later. The hospital said McSherry had sudden cardiac death, in which the heart beats out of control. Reds manager Ray Knight said he was told by another umpire that McSherry had postponed a doctor's appointment for arrhythmia, or irregular heart beat, because of the season opener. "He said John was supposed to go get his arrhythmia (treated) earlier and he didn't want to do that," Knight said. "He said, 'I'm going to be here opening day with them and then go get that tomorrow." Knight said McSherry was considered one of the more personable umpires, always willing to talk things out. "Whether or not he was right, he was always fair," Knight said. "He would never try to over­power you. He was a supportive, solid, caring umpire." The game against the Montreal Expos was postponed. 



1\tesday, April 2 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 2. 
FRONTS: 
~ ............... ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Associated Press 
Jean-Baptiste's account of the capsiz­ing followed a report by a Haitian legis­
;>rf:'?%r\;;·z:i!ru lator who said more than 200 people were feared dead after a passenger ferry sank Thursday in the same area. The legislator, Rep. Luc Lindor told Radio Haiti-Inter that the ferry was carrying about 300 people. Lindor, who represents the Tiburon area, said he based his information on witness accounts. Efforts to contact him were unsuccessful. "The region is completely isolated from the rest of the country," Lindor told 
not building an adequate highway system to let people travel without risking their lives on unseaworthy boats. 
Sea travel has traditionally been a main means of transport in this poor, mountainous nation on the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. Many interior highways have deteriorated in recent years. 
Meanwhile, the U.S. Coast Guard said it had rescued 103 Haitian migrants on an overcrowded 40-foot sailboat near the Bahamas on Sunday. The Haitians were trans­ferred to the cutter Courageous and were being returned to Port-au-Prince, according to a statement from Coast Guard headquarters in Miami. 

Andy Rooney fans show support 
NEW YORK 
Andy Rooney's viewers heeded his call and jammed the switchboard at Associated Press headquarters in re­sponse to a column suggesting the crusty "60 Minutes" commentator should retire. The Associated Press Chief Television Critic, Frazier Moore, suggested in a March 20 column that Rooney's show-closing commentaries had become dated and "chronic fuddy duddy." He told Rooney that the program "would be better off without you." Rooney responded by putting the address and tele­phone number of AP's Rockefeller Center headquarters on the screen and urging viewers to call and express their opinions on his future. Calls began immediately, tapered off overnight and began again this morning, forc­ing the news service to add an extra operator. About 5,000 calls had been logged by noon EST, said AP spokeswoman Tori Smith. No breakdown was immediate­ly available, but "they're overwhelmingly in favor of Andy Rooney," she said. Rooney was not available for comment on the offending article. 

Healthcare giants merge 

NEW YORK 
Aetna Life and Casualty Co. is buying U.S. Healthcare Inc. in an $8.9 billion deal that would create the nation's biggest provider of health insurance, reaching one in ev­ery 12 Americans. Combined, the companies' medical plans cover 23 million people receiving such things as life, health and disability insurance and mental health, vision and dental care. Of that number, 14 million get full-scale medical coverage through HMOs or other pro­grams. The deal, announced Monday, marks a major push by Aetna further into the fast-growing arena of health maintenance organizations and managed care, where U.S. Healthcare is an innovative leader. They will merge under the name Aetna Inc., which will be based at Aetna Life's headquarters in Hartford, Conn. U.S. Healthcare is based in Blue Bell, Pa. Aetna spokesman Fred Laberge said that the merger will result in an unde­termined number of job cuts. "It would be irresponsible to throw out a lost jobs estimate before we've done all our homework," he said. Aetna has been looking to merge with another healthcare company for approxi­mately four years. 
Graphics Chris Mullins 

4,Q,~p@Q i) ~ ~ 
Thr Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion righrs are reserved. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 


Atlanta  79  46  Dallas  74  55  New Orleans 77  47  
Baltimore 60  37  Denver  60  40  New York  52  36  
Boston  4B  30  Los Angeles 72  53  Philadelphia  55  3B  
Chicago  54  41  Miami  79  62  Phoenix  B3  5B  
Columbus 59  40  Minneapolis  41  29  Seewer, KY  45  27  

Tuesday, April 2, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CLC 
continued from page I 
usn April as a tnst for what polieins work wnll in order to lwttnr snrve tlw stud1~nt body nnxt ynar. Miller's main issues for the nnxt CI.C meeting inrludn improvnrnents in the aeadmnic lil'nstyh~s of students, and improvmnnnts in both the llnivt~rsity advising systmn and at hI~~ tic rnso urt~Hs under Millt~r·s new Athletic Ht~sources I>Ppartnwnt. 
At the conclusion of the mnnting, Miller prnsented Patrick with a resolution from thn Studt~nt Senatt~ thanking Patrick and Student Body Vice Pn~sidnnt Dnnnis McCarthy. 



Tuition 
continued from page 1 
inernasn 19 pHrcnnt to almost 
$15.7 million in 191J6-97," said Fatlwr Edward Malloy in a lnttnr to the parents of 1996-97 urHiergrad uatt~s. 
"This is evidenee that we are inttmt upon kt~eping the doors of NotrH Dame open to talent, not eeonomie eircumstance," lw statml. 

Himes links community, God 

By ANGELA CATALDO 
News Writer 

The concepts of God and community are firmly inter­twined, according to Father Michael !limes, who spoke last night on the Saint Mary's cam­pus. 
"Christians are committing themselves, the moment they speak about God, to speaking about the community," began !limes, who delivered the final lecture of the Saint Mary's Col­lege Justice Education "Conversation Series." 
Father I limes wrapped up the series with his reflection on the subject on a theological level. 
"The word of God and the community are absolutely linked to one another," Himes said. "If you really experience community, you cannot not be­lieve in God," he added. Himes also stated that the relationship with God can be interpreted as "the lover, the beloved and the love between them." 
I limes, an author and profes­sor of theology at Boston College, believes that the com­munity is difficult to develop because it requires wisdom and courage, two qualities which are extremely hard to practice. 
"Wisdom is the ability to see the other as other" he stressed. Himes claimed that we must attempt to see individuals as their own person, not as exten­sion of ourselves. "Too often we think of people as 'my mother' or 'my friend' and not as individuals," said Himes. Courage is the ability to "dis­cern what is best for the other 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Father Himes was the last speak­
er in the "Conversation Series" at 
Saint Mary's College. 
individual, and more im­portantly to act even when the other doesn't want you to," said Himes. 
for treatment Ofa sports Injury. Her purse was lett unattended at the time
• SECURITY BEAT 10:13 p.m. A South Bend resident was of the theft. arrasted for criminal trespass.
FRI., MAR. 29 
SUN., MAR 31

11 :59 a.m. A University employee was transported to Memorial Hospital for treat­SAT., MAR30 1:26 p.m. A Zahm Hall resident was 
transported to Memorial Hospital for treat­
ment of a back Injury. 3;30 a.m. A Keenan Hall resident was 
ment of a sports injury. niles that were in possession of a stolen Medical Center for treatment of a lacera· 
2:03 a.m. Security apprehended two juve­transported by Security to St. Joseph 
2:21 p.m. A Howard Hail resident report­bike. lion. 
ed receiving a harassing telephone call. 
3:36 p.m. An off-campus student reported
7:50p.m. A Carroll Hall resident was 12:45 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of transported to St. Joseph Medical Center her purse from the Joyce Center Arena. 
the theft of her wallet from her coat pocket while at the Clarke War Memorial. 


Observer r:l 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Ad Desian S"*aH 
• More money than you coUld spend in a lifetime! 
• Unparalleled excitement and experience! 
• Flexible hours! 
• Countless benefits! 
And all you have to do, is have moderate working knowledge ofMacintosh computers, and an unlim­ited capacity to learn. 
Freshman encouraged to apply. H interested contact Jed @ 4-1 177 Oust like Papa's) 
SMC to host classical guitar recital 
Special to The Observer 
The Department of Music at Saint Mary's College will pre­sent a classical guitar recital on Wed., April 3, at 8 p.m. featur­ing IJean Wachs and Gerry Zubko. They will perform works by Fernando Sor, Antonio Lauro, and Mauro Giuliani. 
The recital will take place in the Little Theatre located in the Moreau Center for the Arts on Saint Mary's campus. Admission is free and open to the public. 
Dean Wachs, who teaches at both Saint Mary's College and Indiana University South Bend, has been playing the guitar for over 30 years. lie began his classical guitar studies with Richard Wisner in 1974 and continued until 1982. Wachs began teaching guitar in 1978 and has been teaching at Mendoza's Guitar Shop for the last 16 years. 
Gerry Zubko earned a bache­lor of music education degree from Indiana University South Bend in 1982. lie studied guitar under Hichard Wisner and has taught guitar at Andrews University, Indiana University South Bend, Southwestern Michigan College, and the Community School of the Arts in Saint Joseph, Miehigan. 
He currently offers private lessons at Mendoza's Guitar Shop and teaches part-time at the University of Notre Dame. 
• CORRECTION 
Donations will not be col­lected at the memorial service for Meghan Conley on Wednesday, contrary to a report In last Thursday's Observer. 
concentration in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics (PPE) is design r faculty and undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Many of our udents go on to further work in law. public policy, and the foundations of litics. 
PE has three main attractions: 
• 
PPE integrates different approaches to foundational issues in political justice in a way not usually possible merely with a second major {and also requires many fewer courses than a second major); 

• 
PPE students interact closely with faculty members. in courses as well as less formally in advising and conversation {the student/faculty ratio in seminars and colloquia is about 10:1 ); 

• 
PPE students develop an intellectual community among themselves. especially through the justice Seminar. PPE's intensive gateway seminar. 



year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted PPE; check it out to see if it is for you. You can call one of PPE's student 
nsultants for the inside scoop: Karla Arenas 4-3881 Sheila Moloney 273-5178 Hans Detlefsen 4-06 7 5 Michael Williams 4-4681 
can also contact Professor David O'Connor, the director of PPE, at 1-6226, r O'Connor.2@nd.edu. 

TIONS and further infonnation are available outside Professor O'Connor's ce, 307 Decio, and at the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shag. application deadline is April 11, 1996. 


Congressman· 
Pete King (Rep.-NY) 

u Louis Farrakhan: 
A Threat to 
. 11

Amer1ca 
Hesburg Auditorium ~ednesday, April 3, 7:30 PM 
tions: call Erin King at 
.. 272-2910. 
..---~---------------­





VIEWPOINT 
page 4 Tuesday, April2 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 


1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor •••.... _ ..•.............. Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Jocy Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .............••........... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the student; of rho University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect tht' policies of the administra­
tion ofeither institmion. Th~ news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­
torial; represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, 
Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commentarie!>, leners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is av~ilable wall members of lhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary'!> com­
muniry and 10 all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-53H Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary'> 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Easter: The full moon fever ofthose Europeans 
Today's column will be utterly void of controversy, with a simplistic and chatty description of a boring topic, like how I have decided to repent my evil ways and rejoin the happy Catholic family in worshipping ecclesiastical control of my thoughts or how my relationship with my dog Marcus embodies the ultimate meaning of Christian ideals. 
April Fool! 
No, wait, that was yesterday. Dang. I never get my columns printed on any cool days. I mean, what the hell happens on April 2nd? Even Opening Day was yesterday. Today is the Rodney Dangerfield Day. 
Matthew Apple 
With that kind of lead-in -and with the knowledge of just how many writers this week will bleed their passion for the Savior onto the page -how can I resist writing about Easter? 
I have mixed memories of Easter as a child: being forced to dress up in dumb three-piece suits handed down from my uncle, waking up my parents at 6 a.m. as my siblings and I scoured the living room and dining room for our Easter baskets... 
Now there's a thought. ..what do eggs and bunnies have to do with a Christian holiday? llmm, I probably ought to do some research before 1 write any more about this. Hold on. Stay right there, I'll be right back. 
Okay, I'm back, that didn't take too long. The wonders of modern technology -I don't even have to go to a library to find authoritative information (books are obsolete, man). From obscure World Wide Web files, I present the following potentially-jarring religious information: 
" ... the name 'Easter' was taken from the name of a Teutonic female lunar goddess, Eostre (from whence we also get the name of the female hormone, estrogen). Her chief symbols were the bunny (both for fertility and because her worshippers saw a hare· in the full moon) and the egg (symbolic of the cos­mic egg of creation). images which Christians have been hard pressed to explain. Her holiday, the Eostara, was held on the Vernal Equinox Full Moon. 
"Of course, the Church doesn't cele­brate full moons, even if they do cal­culate by them, so they planted their Easter on the following Sunday. Thus, Easter is always the first Sunday after the first Full Moon after the Vernal Equinox. If you've ever wondered why Easter moved all around the calendar, now you know. 
"(By the way, the Catholic Church is so adamant about NOT incorporating lunar Goddess symbolism that they added a further calculation: if Easter Sunday were to fall on the Full Moon itself, then Easter was postponed to the following Sunday instead.)" 
(Excerpted from "Lady Day: the Vernal Equinox," by Mike Nichols.) 
Food for thought, eh? I have no idea if any of this information is correct. Most likely it's simply interesting speculation -for instance, I'd like to know where the French and German words for Easter come from, because, since Easter is an English word, they sure didn't come from "Eostre." And they still haven't explained my sudden craving for Easter chocolate. 
The thing about the moons is pretty interesting, though. It has a ring of truth to it. After all, the "Christmas tree" was adopted by Christianity from various Germanic/Celtic tree-huggers, as was "Santa Claus," whom the Church sainted for no apparent reason. 
And, of course, there is the relation of the Resurrection to various myths from antiquity. The fertility cycles of Adonis (Syria), Attis (Phrygia), Osiris (Egypt), and Dionysus (Greece) are all about death and rebirth, and most involve trees and journeys into the underworld. Practically every culture throughout the world has similar cycles of rebirth and rejuvenation. Easter is just the Christian version. 
Difference is, the cycles of antiquity were all celebrated either in August or October at the harvests. The northern Europeans evidently celebrated at the beginning of spring. And since the Church wanted to expand control over Europe, why bother holding a festival of rebirth in the fall? Makes sense. 
I don't mean to lessen the importance of Easter at all -just to show that Christianity doesn't have a monopoly on human culture or history. Easter, the Equinox, what have you, is a time to rejoice at the coming of Spring and the banishment of crappy South Bend weather. I can't believe I'm actually looking forward to 45 degrees and hori­zontal rain. 
So, eat, drink and be merry, etc., etc. Hey, we've got a four-day weekend com­ing up. Sounds like a three-day celebra­tion to me. 
Matt Apple is a creative writing grad­uate student at Notre Dame. Party hardy at http://www.nd.edu/-mapple/ or call the idolatrous pagan at matthew.t.apple.l@.nd.edu. 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
ale JU57L05TA A14..Ji:JR  I'~NCWeoT60 t:MPtOY­ 
CU5TO~ FOR OUR. N&T-MC1?PH UPGI<'Al:E. (}(JR. tfJHot£ 8077DM  13&5 51mN6AR.a./Nt:J/?O­/NGNOTH/N6. I'V& 60TNO OIOICC BUT 'JO,,[J()t(JNSfZE.  
LIN&/UASRIP­/NG ON /T. ..  (j(}P, I HA7l3 lJIAT taJRP. I /U/51-f  
Tffl:RE tli3RE  
ANOTHf3<,  
~'  
- 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifpeople don't want to come out to the ballpark, no body's going to stop them." 
-Yogi Berra 




VIEWPOINT
'li.1csJay, April 2, 1996 page 5 
• ~Ti:EfiiNG BY THE STARS 
Good morning: The all-nighter 
I finally did it last night. Chances are, you've done it too. I swore I would avoid it at all eosts, but the situation was out of control. 
I havH just pullnd through my inaugural all-nighter, and my body is extremely ticked off with me. It hates nw now. "What did we ever do to you?" my bloodshot HYilS arn whining. Too bad. This is college, and all of you major organs are in it with me. 
Any of this sound familiar? 
Sunday, 11:18 PM: Poli sci exam in eleven hours. llaven't studind as mueh as I would have liked to. The reason. bless him, is currently fast asleep in a guy's dorm aeross the strent. 
This is why I am attending a women's college. Men arn basically walking problems with nice smiles. 
II :20 I'M: Okay. l11t's approach this situation calmly. Thern is no 1wed to panic. You just need to organize. llighlight tiHl definitions. Make nashcards. And out­lines. Outlines arn good. Just sit down and outline all... live ... chaptors. There is NO NEED TO PANIC. 
11:21 PM: I begin to panic. 
11:22 I'M: Still panicking. 
11:24 PM: I gather my 
Walkman and pages of Supreme Court rulings and settle into the IHnpty hallway. The longest 
Mary
night of my life, with the possible excHption of the 1wening with the SYH date who greetod me with, 
Beth 
"Got any Zima'!" hegins. 
Monday, 12: 17 PM: A corri­dormat!l with a speech to write, 

Ellis 
to lw known here as "Barbara" 
bHcause that is lwr real name, appears with a two-litHr of Coke to hH self-dispnnsed between us like morphine to wonwn in childbirth. We take turns hanging our heads against the wall, telling each other how stupid we are and how WH will never ever do this to ourselves again, at lnastnot until next week1md. 
12:5H AM: "Karma Chameleon," that eighties anthHm of extreme funkiness, cues up on my Walkrnan. Work ceases for this important event, and Barbara and I attempt to analyze the vast literary nwrit of the work. Why a chameleon? Who is the ehanwlnon, anyway? Is it the guy singing the song or the girl he's singing it to? Beeause if it's to the girl, sonwhody should clue this guy in to the fact that most wonum really don't appreciate being compared to rep­tiles. 
1:4H AM: Barbara emerges from her room to announen the faet that she is dropping out. "Don't lm absurd," I tell her. "How will you get into the football games?'' 
2:10 AM: I hate the Supreme Court. If I live to see dawn, I am no longer a poli sci minor. It is a silly suh­jeet. My new field of study will be: TVNCR Hepair. I pagn through thn course catalogue looking for class oiT11rings, prnferably ones with no exams. 
2:5H AM: CaiTeine is my friend, my very speeial car­bonatnd friend that makes everything not so blurry. I erawl in thn Barbara's room. plastic Dixie cup upraised. 
"Coke," I hng. ".Just a few more fnPt, honey," she says, holding out th~.l ~JOttl~;-Tlw lloly Grail. Lokn, I beg. "Try not to fall aslnep while I'm pouring like last 

time." 

3:44 AM: A friend passes by on her way to the restroom. Iler reactions to my sorry situation range all the way from "You're STILL up?" to "You're still UP?" 
4:01 AM: I lose consciousness in the middle of the hallway. 
4:45 AM: I awaken to find myself surrounded by cor­ridormates on their way to an early morning jog. 
"Is she dead? Get her pulse." "Maybe we should take her to 

Health Services." 
"No, they'll just tell her she has an upper respiratory infection and send her to class. Besides, how would we get her there?" 
"I could go get the luggage cart from the front desk." 
"You think it's okay to move her?" 
"We have to. She's blocking the fire exit. She's gonna get fined." 
"Wait, she's trying to say some­
thing." "I can't make out what, though." "It sounds like 'More Coke."' 
5:47 AM: Breakfast time. God bless Pop Tarts. Barbara, her speech glowing happily from the comput­er screen, plugs in her toaster. 
"Is it a good idea to balance it on the full plastic trash 
can like that?" I ask. "It's fine. It always smokes while it's warming up." Our blueberry pastries spring up and I unplug the 
dorm inspection nightmare sitting in front of me. 
"We're all safe now, " I say contentedly. "You aren't. I am going to kill you." ''I'm not? You are?" "You just unplugged my computer , you blonde." 
7:12 AM: I'm running down my review sheet, mak­ing sure I've crammed all the material I've needed to cram. Suddenly I feel quite, quite, ill. 
I have beef! studying the wrong chapters for the last two hours. 
I previously had no idea it was humanly possible to sob and crack up simultaneously. Barbara, for some reason, finds the entire hole I've put myself into highly amusing. 
10:59 AM: Exam over. Piece of cake. I'm fine. I'm golden. I'm in mint condition. I even have time to dou­ble-check one of my essay answers. And find: 
"The Supreme Court, in its landmark Miranda v. Arizona decision, ruled that karma karma karma karma karm.~ chameleon, You come and go, you come and goooo ... 
Mary Beth Ellis, a freshman at Saint Mary's College, pulled another all-nighter to write this piece but is functioning just fl3q88 yd;gkp. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Abdul-Rauf's actions require different view 
Dear Editor: 
This is a response to David Hart's editorial on Christiane Likely's article on March 20. David, your characterization of Likely's article as "racist and ignorant" sounded rather harsh and uneonvincing. To deem a person as "racist" for enjoying spending time with people of one's ethnic background seems a little overdone. But since your main concern focused on Mahmoud Abdul-Raur, I too will skip to that discussion. 
You faulted Likely for not having "pride and respect" in her country because sho supported his position of not standing during the national anthem. You mentioned your appreciation of' "countless other freedoms" for which Americans have fought and died. I too cherish these privileged American "freedoms." 
But I noticed your seoming inability of setllng things from Abdul-Raurs point of view. Perhaps it hasn't been part of your experiences to face hostil­ity because of your ethnicity. or your religion. 
Perhaps you haven't felt the anger and humilia­tion imposed on you by others when fadng discrim­ination from friends, fellow students, co-workers or even store clerks. Perhaps you haven't lived with that sinking, empty feeling when thinking about your parents and grandparents who faced even more severe restrictions on those beloved freedoms you mentioned. 
Not every American's experience has been a full enjoyment of those ideals guaranteed by the found­ing fathers. Can you see how it might be more dilli­cult to praise the symbol of those freedoms when your family's experiences have been much more limited? 
A person can still be a genuine, faithful Amerkan although he or she chooses to criticize amas of weakness within our country. Don't let your fine patriotism blind you from facing the weaknesses where we have failed to live up to our very own standards. By refusing to stand for the nag, Abdul· Rauf forced me to consider some of the shortcom­ings which led him to conclude that oppression is alive and well in this country. 
Are you prepared to universalize your own expe­riences and declare that oppression does not exist here? I believe I "respect and honor" my country better by facing squarely its shortcomings and then trying to change them rather than blindly assuming they don't exist. 
Who is the better American-the NBA fan (like myselO who stands and sings away, or the consci­entious American trying to make America a better place? I don't know if Abdul-Raurs intentions cen­tered on this or not. But I do think we should be a little more tolerant of those who are willing to make an unpopular stand in order to make this nation just a little bit better, or at least the rest of us just a little more informed. Then perhaps our "pride and respect" for our country will be a little more gen­uine. 
KRISTINE BOEKE 
Graduate Student 
History Deparrment 


Mothers deserve their own 'right to life' for health risks 
Dear Editor: 
Bec!lntly you havn published opinions on abortion by both Charles Hiee and Matthnw Appln. Hice's pieee seems to eontain a contradiction. First he seems to say that abortion nHcessary to save tlw mother's life is pHrmitted by the prindple of "double effect." Further on he says 'Even if tlwre were a case where it was nnenssary to save the life of the motlwr. abortion should not be allowed'. Civen the rest of Hice's picee, and the gPIWral incolwrniH~n of the prineiple of double eiTecl, I take it that it is the see­ond of tlwse viPws that he endorses. In his pinc1~. Appll~ says he finds "partial birth" abortions disgusting and ahhor­rnnt. 
I takP it tlwn that both Hice and Apple opposed President Clinton's veto of the legislation banning "partial birth" abor­tions. Tlwy would regard as inadequate Clinton's grounds that the legislation did not adequatnly provide for those abor­tions n~quirnd to prol.ect the health of the mothnr (although perhaps Apple's remarks were just incautious). I think Clinton was right to veto the ban, and pro-lifers especially ought to agree. Mothers always have a right to an abor­tion if their health is at serious risk. Let me explain. 
Pro-lifers generally appeal to some Kantian notion of the dignity of life. Human life is ultimately valuable, and may not be traded for any other end. As each person is endowed with life, they are also endowed with a right not to be killed, thus killing generally and abor­tion specifically is wrong. Let's just assume that that is right. 
Because I have a right not to be killed, I have a right of self-defense. This prin­ciple is generally established in law as well as morality. I may use reasonable and possibly deadly force, not merely to save my life, but to protect my person. In Texas this right even extends to pro­tecting property, but then that's Texas. 
What has this got to do with abortion? After all, the pro-lifer may argue, the fetus is innoeent, my attaeker is guilty. 
That may be so, but my right of self­defense does not depend on the guilt or innocence of my attacker. Suppose someone put LSD {or perhaps some more powerful drug) in your coll'ee, and in a delusional rage you attacked me with a Samurai sword. If it were the only way to protect myself, I would be completely justified in killing you in self­defense, even though you were com­pletely innocent. It is my innocence that counts. It is because I am innocent that I have a right of self-defense. 
The fetus that threatens the mother is like the unfortunate victim on LSD. If we respect the mother as a full and equal person, we must allow her the right of self-defense. To insist on a right of self defense in all cases except for those involving pregnancy reduces the mother to a mere fetus carrying receptacle, a mere means, and not a end. To deny her the right to self-defense when pregnant is either to imply that the mother is not innocent, or to fail to respect her as a person. 
Some people seem to imply that women lose their innocence with their virginity, and thus lose their right to self defense. But such a view is absurd. It would imply that almost no adult has a right of self-defense, t\t least against vir­gins. 
On the other hand, people have tradi­tionally failed to respect women as peo­ple. Great thinkers such as Aristotle and Aquinas had no problem relegating women to the status of second-class citi­zens. Such traditional views of women are evil and should be consigned to the intellectual garbage heap of history, brought out occasionally like nazi horror stories in order to sober the youth. Unless Pro-lifers wish to treat pregnant women either as evil sinners or as mere fetus gestators, they ought to whole­heartedly support Clinton's vnto. 
Mll:ffi THRUSH Graduate Student in Philosophy 


~---~ ~~---------------~--~---~-­



ACCE-NT 
page 6 Tuesday, April 2, 1996 

By JOEY CRAWFORD Accent Editor 
E
veryone has heard of Brandon, Kelly, Steve, Donna, David, and Valerie. But has anyone ever heard of Eve, Daphne, Tom, Lila or Mick? Probably not. These are the characters of the new melodrama produced by Marinex Multi­media, "The East Village," which director/pro­ducer Charles Platkin characterizes as "Melrose Place/9021 0 meets Slacker." The combination creates some outstanding results, but this mesh is not the only interesting aspect of the program. Let's take an "inner look." 
In today's society, computers play an increas­ingly important role in our daily lives. A day probably does not go by where there is no interaction of some sort or another with a com­puter. Among the most popular uses of com­puters is gaining access to the World Wide Web. With this in mind, the entertainment field, namely the soap opera genre, has created a melodrama for the future. 
"The East Village" is combination of text, on­location video shots (taken throughout New York City), audio samples, and video clips (not available until the sixth episode). It is one of 
sion, and modeling) is done

the first Websites that thrives on original 
through articulate, yet con­
entertainment. 
cise diary entrees. 

found at http://www.theeastvillage.com on 
Katherine Keating,

the World Wide Web. It promises to 
director of public

bring the same sexuality, contro­
relations, assures 

versy, mystery, suspense, and 
fans that despite the

cheese that soap operas have 
fact that "The East

brought to the TV screen for years 
Village" is centered

to the comfort of the computer 
around Eve, many

monitor...without the commer­
other characters' per­

cials. But how was the idea of an 
spectives are taken into

interactive soap opera conceived? 
account. "The main

Platkin explains "The Internet is 
episode is taken from

definitely here to stay as an enter­
Eve's point of view, but her

tainment medium, and soap operas 
focus is on the affairs of her 

are a natural sort of programming for 
crazy friends. All you have

the Web. The Web is an ideal medium for 
to do is click on a different

serialization because content can be added and 
point of view to get another character's per­

accessed 24 hours a day." 
spective of the events that occurred." In addi­

Co-producers Jonathan Braun and Platkin 
tion, biographical information pertaining to all 



including music from favo. 
New York bands, special 1 characters, including Daphn out in the city, and Mick's East Village. Maria's East Joan's weekly horoscopes a via "The East Village's" W~b 
• WEB SITE OF THE WEE 

By JASON HUGGINS World Wide Web Correspondent 
I miss many things abou surfing in Malibu, beach vo I miss the most (even more surprise, but South Bend alternative music (an oxym 
Most of us have to suffer we go back home for brea back tapes of their favorite mail friends at other school 
But lament no longer! Us Dame and Saint Mary's stu any radio station a (http://www. audionet.com) sible. 
Almost overnight, Audio network, offering live broa WRHK Pittsburgh. Using Progressive Networks (http AudioNet is able to digitall ing stations. All a station Internet connection, so WV 
With HealAudio technolo link in AudioNet's web pa without download delays. FM mono signal and the so 

~~----~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

A. Introduction 

I 
write in response to the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. The final report is the cul­mination of a process that began on March 6, 1995. At that time I wrote an Open Letter to the University community explaining the rationale behind the decision of the Office of Student Affairs to deny official University recognition to Gays and Lesbians at Notre DamrJSaint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
In the Open Letter of March 6, 1995, I also established the Ad Hoc Committee. I asked the committee to advise me on how, apart from recognition of GLND/SMC or another student organization, Student Affairs could do a better job of meeting the needs of our gay and lesbian students. In particular, I asked the committee to consider the 
i-following questions: 
1. 
How can the University, through Student Affairs, sponsor a facilitated setting respectful of Church teaching in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support? 

2. 
What types of programs should Student Affairs sponsor for rectors, hall staff and other Student Affairs professionals, to better equip them to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students? 

3. 
What additional measures should Student Affairs take to promote an environment free of harassment based on sexual orientation? 


In the year that followed, the committee submitted two interim reports--the first on May l, 1995, and the second on December 1, 1995. The committee published its final report on February 29, 1996. The final report reiterates four recommendations from the first interim report that address the portion of the committee's mandate relating to the training of rectors, hall staff and Student Affairs professionals. The final report also offers new recommendations that relate to the remaining parts of the committee's mandate. 
I am very grateful to the committee for all of its efforts. It is clear to me that the committee worked hard to stay within its mandate, while 
at the same time giving authentic voice to the feelings of fear, 
frustration and isolation that they heard from many of the gay and 
lesbian members of this community to whom they listened. 
In submitting its final report, the committee notes: 
"The recommendations we offer represent our best efforts to address the needs of gay and lesbian students within a community that is committed to Gospel values and to the teachings of the Catholic Church." 
In this single sentence the committee captures the two goals of the Office of Student Affairs with respect to our gay and lesbian students: Our desire to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students and our desire to do so in a manner that allows us to remain faithful to Gospel values and to the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
Each of these goals is critically important to us. For this reason, 
before responding to the specific recommendations of the committee, 
I would like to return to some of the discussion in my original Open 
Letter regarding these dual goals. 

First, as a community of scholars and a community professing Christian values, we desire to build an inclusive environment in which every member feels welcome and prized as a unique creation of God. We value our gay and lesbian students, as we value all students who are members of this community. We want the University to be a safe environment in which every student can pursue the educational endeavor to which we are committed-free from harassment of any kind. As with all our students, we want to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students. We seek to do so through channels that'we believe are best equipped to address the issues with which our gay and lesbian students deal and channels that balance our desire to support our gay and lesbian students with our responsibility to remain faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church. 
The Observer· PAID ADVERT~IS=-=E=M:.:.=E=N-=-T-=--------.~---------=-p~ag=-e-1 
An Open Letter in Response to 
the Final Report ofthe AdHoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
Second, as a Catholic university, we strive to create a community for our students premised on behavioral expectations that are consistent with Gospel values and the teachings of the Catholic Church. One such value is the very inclusiveness discussed above. Another is the guidance proffered by the Gospels and the moral teachings of the Catholic Church on issues related to our sexuality. Thus, as you know, Notre Dame has an explicit student behavioral policy that expresses our belief that a genuine and complete expression of love through sexual union requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of a man and woman in marriage. We call all our students-­whatever their sexual orientation-to chastity. Chastity requires those who are single to refrain from sexual union. 
We recognize that this call is a difficult one. It is a call which 
sometimes receives little societal reinforcement from the media or 
elsewhere. But it is the clear call of the Gospels with respect to our 
sexual mores, and it is the ideal for which we strive. 
What we ask of our students as individuals, we also expect philosophi­cally and conceptually of student organizations that seek official University recognition. To receive University recognition, a student organization's purpose must be consistent with the mission of the University and the moral teachings of the Catholic Church. The Office of Student Affairs denied recognition to GLND/SMC because we found the group's discussion in its application materials regarding the range of ways in which gays and lesbians might live out their orientation to be inconsistent with official Church teaching, as were expressions of dissent from Church teaching made by some of GLND/SMC's leadership in conversations and correspondence with our office over the years. This is not a characterization with which GLND/SMC necessarily agrees. 
The two goals discussed above-building an inclusive community 
in which our gay and lesbian students feel prized, and remaining 
faithful to the teachings of the Catholic Church-are not goals that 
we regard as mutually exclusive. On the contrary, we believe that 
both goals can be attained. Their integration, however, does present 
special challenges. 
It is for this reason that in drafting the mandate for the committee's 
work, I asked the committee to advise me on channels, apart from 
recognition of GLND or another student organization, through which 
Student Affairs could better meet the needs of our gay and lesbian 
students. It is the judgment of Student Affairs that in our particular 
institutional milieu a student organization is not the appropriate 
mechanism for best integrating our dual goals. 
There are those who are critical of the parameters within which I asked the committee to work. They regard the parameters as evidence that Student Affairs wishes to retain some control with respect to this issue. I do not dispute this. Retaining some measure of institutional control is the way that Student Affairs seeks to balance our desire to support our gay and lesbian students with our responsibility to remain faithful to Church teaching-a Church that prizes each of us for our uniqueness, recognizes every one of us as a member of the body of Christ, regards the sexual dimension of our humanity as a gift from God and calls all of us to chastity in the exercise of this gift. 
The final report of the committee notes that we have taken some small but important steps during the past year in recognizing the sense of alienation experienced by our gay and lesbian students and in increasing our outreach. The committee acknowledges, as do I, that a great deal of work remains to be done in this regard. The committee expresses its hope that the recommendations offered and the collaborative spirit which animated its work will move the University closer to becoming the kind of welcoming and inclusive community that we strive to be. This is a goal that I fully share. 
Within this framework, let me respond to the specific recommenda­tions of the committee. 

page 2 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
B. Response to the Committee's Recommendations 
RECOMMENDATION 1: 
That the Office of Student Affairs incorporate into its orienta­
tion program for all resident assistants and assistant rectors 
a workshop on how to assist gay and lesbian students. 
I accept this reconunendation. For the last several years the Office of Student Affairs has included a workshop in hall staff training entitled "Sexuality and the Christian Tradition." As noted in the committee's final report, this year the hall staff orientation program also included a workshop on gay and lesbian student needs. Ann Firth, Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs and chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, organized this workshop. The workshop included presentations by the Director of the Counseling Center, the Director of Campus Ministry, a member of the Department of Theology, an undergraduate gay student and an undergraduate lesbian student. These presentations were followed by a period for questions and answers. Student Affairs fully intends to include discussion of these issues in pre-service or in-service training for hall staff in future years. 
RECOMMENDATION 2: 
That the Office of Student Affairs offer continuing professional education to all residence hall rectors on the psychosexual development of college-age students, 
both heterosexual and homosexual. 
I accept this reconunendation. As noted in the committee's final report, the Office of Student Affairs began efforts in this regard during this academic year. Student Affairs devoted two rectors' meetings to discussions on the psychosexual development of college-age students. The second meeting was an ali-day workshop led by a noted psycholo­gist. Student Affairs intends to continue these efforts in future years. 
RECOMMENDATION 3: 
That the Office of Student Affairs make resources available to assist rectors in sensitizing their staffs and hall residents to the needs of gay and lesbian students. 
I accept this reconunendation. During the past few years the Office of Student Affairs has made a concerted effort to increase the resources available to rectors to sponsor programs in the halls on a wide range of issues. Student Affairs distributes a manual to rectors that describes successful programs sponsored in each hall during the preceding academic year. This manual also lists programs and resources available through a variety of University departments within and outside Student Affairs. Funds are set aside in the budget of the Vice President for Student Affairs to subsidize hall programs on topics relating to diversity, intellectual life, spiritual growth or developmental issues. This same budgetary line, which to date has not been fully utilized, will also be available to support programs sensitizing hall staff and hall residents to the needs of gay and lesbian students. 
RECOMMENDATION 4: 
That in their words of welcome at the beginning of the year, residence hall rectors be encouraged to specifically articulate their willingness to be a resource for those who are strug­gling with issues of sexual identity or who are self-identified homosexuals. Rectors should also conununicate to the hall conununity the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. 
I accept this reconunendation. This recommendation first appeared in the committee's May 1, 1995, interim report. The Office of Student Affairs distributed the text of this recommendation to the rectors at our opening meeting in August 1995. Student Affairs specifically requested that each rector include these messages in their words of welcome. Student Affairs will continue to do this in the years ahead. 
RECOMMENDATION 5: 
That a University group of gay and lesbian students facilitated by one or two members of the faculty or administration be constituted. This group, which would stand in special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs, should assist gay and lesbian students in coming together to find mutual support and in exploring conunon issues within the context of this conununity and the teachings of the Catholic Church. The group's advisor(s) should be selected by the student mem­
bers and approved by the Vice President for Student Affairs. 
However, for the first year, the Vice President should solicit 
names of possible advisors from gay and lesbian students 
and appoint an advisor or advisors to convene the group. 
Through its advisor(s), this University group should receive 
University funding, publicize its meetings and have use of 
University facilities for its meetings. 
I accept this reconunendation subject to the discussion that follows. Let me begin by saying that in formulating this recommenda­tion, I believe the committee chose language designed to stay within the mandate which I gave the committee-i.e., to advise me on how, apart from recognition of GLND/SMC or another student organization, the University could sponsor through Student Affairs a facilitated setting respectful of Church teaching in which gay and lesbian students can come together as a group to explore common issues and find mutual support. I do not believe that the recommenda­tion calls for creation or recognition of a gay and lesbian student organization, nor would I accept such a recommendation. 
I consider the following language in the recommendation to be of particular significance in distinguishing this University group from a student organization: 
(a) 
the group is facilitated by one or two members of the faculty or administration; 

(b) 
the group stands in special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs; 

(c) 
the group shall assist gay and lesbian students in coming together to find mutual support and to explore common issues within the context of this community and the teachings of the Catholic Church; 

(d) 
the group's right to receive University funds, publicize its meetings and use University facilities for its meetings comes through its advisor(s); 

(e) 
the Vice President for Student Affairs plays a role in the selection of the advisor(s). 


Let me comment on each of the above portions of the recommenda­tion in turn and add my own content to some of the language in an effort to clarify my intentions with respect to implementation of this recommendation. 
Akey part of this recommendation is the notion that the University group of gay and lesbian students shall be facilitated by one or two members of the faculty or administration. Together with the group's special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs, the concept of facilitation plays an important role in making this group directly sponsored by the University, as distinct from a student club or organization. 
I regard the concept of facilitation as calling for a higher level of involvement and an even more direct University link than that normally associated with the role of a faculty/staff advisor to a student club or organization. On the one hand, to facilitate does not mean to control, nor does it mean to lead. On the other hand, I would expect the faculty/administrator advisor(s) to be present at all meetings of the University group; to be willing to assist the conversations of the group, in whatever ways are appropriate, as the dynamic of the group evolves; to exercise sensitivity to the portion of the recommendation that calls for the meetings of the group to take place within the context of this community and the teachings of the Catholic Church; to function as a liaison between the group and the Office of Student Affairs; and to play an administrative role with respect to the portion of the recommendation that calls for the group to enjoy the right to receive University funds, publicize its meetings and use University facilities for its meetings through the advisor(s). 
The recommendation states that this group shall stand in a special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs. I intend to implement this part of the recommendation by establishing an ongoing relationship between the faculty/administrator advisor(s) facilitating the group and a member of my Senior Staff. I have asked Ann Firth, Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs, who served as chair of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, to serve in this capacity. I will ask the advisor(s) to the group to meet with Ms. Firth on a regular basis to report on how the group is progressing, to review upcoming publicity of meetings and to process requests for University funds from the budget of the Vice President for Student Affairs for expenses associated with meetings, such as advertising expenses or expenses for food or meals that might be provided in connection with meetings of the group. 
page 3 


The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.. 

The recommendation notes that the University group shall assist gay and lesbian students in coming together to find mutual support and to explore common issues within the context of this community and the teachings of the Catholic Church. The University group exists to assist gay and lesbian students in coming together in a facilitated setting in which they can learn from each other and provide support to each other. As such, I regard the University group as fundamentally an institutionally-sponsored group that is designed to support our gay and lesbian students, not as a student club or organization. Thus, although I expect that leaders will emerge informally as happens in any group dynamic, the group will not have officers, directors or other titled positions, nor will it sponsor events, activities or programs apart from its meetings. 
Like any group, I expect that this group will evolve and establish its own dynamic. The nature of the relationship between the group's advisor(s) and Ann Firth will allow for ongoing review and evaluation of the group as this process unfolds. Moreover, Recommendation 6 contemplates creation of a Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. I expect to appoint some members of the group to the Standing Committee. This will allow the group direct input into recommendations for campus-wide educational programming sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs, as well as make the group a part of the continuing dialogue on the needs of gay and lesbian students and issues related to campus climate. 
The recommendation states that the group may receive University funds, publicize its meetings and use University facilities for its meetings through its advisor(s). As I discussed above, I expect the advisor(s) to play an administrative role in this regard. Recognized student organizations enjoy these same privileges, but the fact that exercise of these privileges comes only through the advisor(s), who as part of the special relationship with the Office of Student Affairs will be in regular conversation with Ann Firth, distinguishes this group as directly University-sponsored. 
Finally, the recommendation suggests a mode of selection for the advisor(s) in which the Vice President for Student Affairs plays a role. The recommendation states that for the first year of operation, the Vice President for Student Affairs shall solicit names of possible advisors from gay and lesbian students and appoint advisor(s) to convene the group. Thereafter, the recommendation contemplates that the members of the group shall select the advisor(s) subject to approval by the Vice President for Student Affairs. 
It is clear from my discussion that I regard the advisor(s) as playing a key role. Given the concept of facilitation outlined above, the advisor must be someone with whom the student members of the group feel very comfortable. At the same time, because the group is directly University-sponsored, the advisor must be someone with whom Student Affairs can work. In the weeks that remain during this academic year, I want to invite gay and lesbian students to make an appointment with or write to me or Ann Firth to suggest faculty or administrators who might fill the role of advisor(s). 
I have a genuine desire to see the University group for which this recommendation calls succeed. It is my hope that we will find person(s) with the collaborative skills that both the members of the group and this office need. I also want to give the group time to evolve during its early years and see how the dynamic of the group unfolds. I believe that continuity of the advisor(s) might prove to be important in this regard. I am not prepared to commit at this time to the portion of the recommendation that calls for student selection of the advisor(s) after the first year. It is my hope that this will become a moot point in the course of actual operation of the group, i.e., that after soliciting names from gay and lesbian students this spring, the advisor(s) whom I select for next year will prove to be person(s) whom both the student members of the group and this office will want to continue in the position for several years. 
The University group constituted under this recommendation shall be known as Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students. 
Following publication of the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, the co-chairs of GLND/SMC wrote to me on March 18, 1996. In this letter GLND/SMC discusses some of its reflections on the final report. The letter states: "We are especially heartened to see that the Committee, despite the restrictions of its mandate, recommends the formal constitution of a student group of lesbians and gay men." Noting that the Ad Hoc Committee mentioned that GLND/SMC has been the primary source of support for most of the gay and lesbian students to whom the committee listened, the co­chairs call on me to formally constitute GLND/SMC as the University group serving the needs of lesbian and gay students in our commu­
nity. Attaching a copy of its constitution, GLND/SMC applies to be formally constituted as the University group of gay and lesbian students. 
I think it was entirely appropriate for the committee in its final report to give voice to the reflections shared with the committee by the gay and lesbian students to whom they listened regarding the role which GLND/ SMC has played in their lives. Moreover, notwithstanding the differences that Student Affairs has with this group, I recognize that in the dispute surrounding the refusal of this office to grant recognition to GLND/SMC, GLND/SMC has functioned as an agent for change. As I acknowledged in my original Open Letter, I believe that Student Affairs acted too slowly and presumed too much about the adequacy of our outreach to gay and lesbian students in prior years when we relied on services offered to students on an individual basis through the Counseling Center, Campus Ministry and hall staff. 
At the same time, as I have discussed above, I do not believe that in formulating this recommendation the committee acted "despite the restrictions of its mandate"; rather, I believe that the committee worked hard to stay within the framework of its mandate. I do not think that the committee's recommendation calls for recognition of GLND/SMC or another student organization, nor would I have accepted such a recommendation. I think that the recommendation calls for a new University-sponsored group facilitated by faculty/administrator advisor(s) and standing in special relationship to the Office of Student Affairs, not for a student club or organization. As outlined above, this is the basis on which Student Affairs is prepared to move forward. Thus, while acknowledging GLND/SMC's contribution to this debate, I do not accept GLND/SMC's call to be formally constituted as the University group contemplated in this Recommendation 5. 
On March 26, 1996, I received a letter from the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) offering the CLC's reflections on the Final Report of the Ad Hoc Committee. With respect to this Recommendation 5, the CLC encour­ages me to solicit input from GLND/SMC with respect to the planning of the University group in order to assure the creation of the best option for our gay and lesbian students and to encourage GLND/SMC's ownership of and collective participation in the University group. 
In response to the CLC letter, let me repeat my earlier invitation. Any gay or lesbian student is welcome to make an appointment with or to write to me or Ann Firth with suggestions for faculty or administrators who might serve as advisor(s) to the University group. Moreover, any gay or lesbian student will be free to join the University group and, together with the other student members, help to shape the group within the parameters that I have discussed above. With respect to the CLC's reference, however, to GLND/SMC's collective participation as an organization in the University group, I reiterate what I stated in denying GLND/SMC's direct request in this regard. Notre Dame Gay and Lesbian Students will be a new University-sponsored group of gay and lesbian students that is different in significant ways from a student club or organization. 
RECOMMENDATION 6: 
That a standing committee on the needs of gay and lesbian students be created to advise the Vice President for Student Affairs. It should be the task of this committee to act as a resource to the Vice President in identifying the ongoing needs of gay and lesbian students, to continue the dialogue begun by the Ad Hoc committee, and to assist in the implementation of campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues. The committee's membership should consist of appropriate members of the faculty, administration and student body. At least half of the committee's members should be gay or lesbian persons. 
I accept this recommendation. I have asked Ann Firth, Assistant to the Vice President for Student Affairs, who chaired the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, to serve as chair of the Standing Committee. In addition, as I indicated in my response to Recommendation 5, it is my intent to ask some members of the University group to serve on this committee. In the weeks that remain during this academic year, I hope to be able to give thought to other individuals whom I will ask to sit on this committee so that the committee will be able to meet at the outset of next academic year. The work of the Ad Hoc Committee that resulted in these recommendations was an important step forward in our effort to identify steps that we need to take to create a more inclusive community. I hope that the collaborative spirit that animated the work of the Ad Hoc Committee will be the springboard for the work of the Standing Committee in our ongoing efforts to respond to the needs of our gay and lesbian students. 
-~-­


page 4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
RECOMMENDAnON 7: 
That the University Counseling Center continue to play a vital role in providing ongoing psychological support for those struggling with issues of sexual identity. 
I accept this recommendation. The Ad Hoc Committee included Dr. Patrick Utz, Director of the University Counseling Center, and Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Assistant Director of the University Counseling Center. I know that the Counseling Center stands ready to continue its role and to enhance its efforts in this area. 
RECOMMENDAnON 8: 
That Campus Ministry provide forums for gay and lesbian students in which issues regarding faith and sexuality can be discussed in a non-judgmental atmosphere, while at the same time challenging students to live up to Christian ideals. Campus Ministry should also provide retreat experiences geared specifically to gay and lesbian students. 
In addition, Campus Ministry, in consultation with the University Counseling Center, should develop and offer retreats open to all students who wish to explore issues relating sexuality to faith. 
I accept this recommendation. Father Richard Warner, C.S.C., Director of Campus Ministry, and Father Robert Dowd, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Campus Ministry, served on the Ad Hoc Committee. I know that Campus Ministry looks forward to the opportunity to implement the suggestions in this recommendation, as well as to continue the outreach provided by the pastoral support group for gay and lesbian students which Campus Ministry currently sponsors. 
RECOMMENDAnON 9: 
That the Office of Student Affairs coordinate forums on sexuality, personal development and faith for the campus. There is a need to engage students, whether heterosexual or homosexual, in meaningful conversation about their sexuality and the integration of sexuality and faith. While Campus Ministry has offered students some opportunities for such dialogue, most notably through its "Keeping the Faith" lecture series, a more comprehensive program which will reach a greater number of students should be developed. Given the large percentage of undergraduates who reside on campus, the possibility of hosting such forums within each residence hall should be considered. 
I accept this recommendation. I wholeheartedly agree with the committee's observation that the Office of Student Affairs needs to engage our students-whether heterosexual or homosexual-in meaningful conversation about their sexuality and about the integra­tion of sexuality and faith. Although initiatives have been undertaken, I agree that a more comprehensive program targeted at a greater number of students is necessary and that the halls provide natural forums for such programs. 
RECOMMENDAnON 10: 
That du Lac, the Faculty Handbook and the StaffEmployee Guidebook include specific statements which articulate the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation and which express the University's desire to welcome and support the gay and lesbian members of this community. In addition, the University should take steps to heighten awareness of the procedures in place to address 
harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. The University's current discriminatory harassment policy provides for the appointment of a University ombudsperson who can serve as a resource to those who are the targets of discriminatory harassment All materials publicizing the University ombudsperson should include a specific statement that the ombudsperson can be of assistance in addressing 
incidents of harassment on the basis of sexual orientation. 
I accept this recommendation as it relates to du Lac, and I will encourage the appropriate officers to accept this recom­mendation as it relates to the Faculty Handbook and Staff Employee Guidebook. Each of these publications now includes the University's current discriminatory harassment policy, which does articulate specifically the University's intolerance for harassment on 
the basis of sexual orientation. The recommendation calls for including words of welcome in these publications, for heightening awareness of existing harassment procedures, and for publicizing the availability of the University ombudsperson as a resource for incidents of harassment based on sexual orientation. I accept these suggestions as they relate to Student Affairs, and I will encourage the appropriate officers to accept these suggestions as they relate to faculty and staff. 
RECOMMENDATION 11: 
That in orienting new students, faculty, staff and administra­tors to Notre Dame, the offices responsible for such orienta­tion should make affirmative statements which articulate the University's intolerance for harassment on the basis of sexual orientation and which express the University's desire to welcome and support the gay and lesbian members of this community. 
I accept this recommendation as it relates to Student Affairs, and I will encourage the appropriate officers to accept this recommendation as it relates to faculty, staff and administra­tors. In my remarks at Freshman Orientation, I cover a number of issues, including a summary of some of our more significant behavioral expectations. Consistent with the discussion of our dual goals in the introduction to this letter, I always include a clear li' statement regarding the University's expectation that students will 9 reserve sexual union for marriage, as well as a discussion of the University's intolerance for harassment in any form. For the past several years, my discussion of harassment has included a direct reference to harassment based on sexual orientation. Moreover, this year I prefaced my remarks on harassment based on sexual orienta­tion with words of welcome and support to our gay and lesbian students. I will continue to do this in future years. 
RECOMMENDATION 12: 
That the Vice President for Student Affairs should raise to the University officers the issue of modifying the nondiscrimina­tion clause which appears in University publications to include sexual orientation. i 
I accept this recommendation. This recommendation asks me to ' '­
t' 

raise to the officers of the University the issue of modifying the non­discrimination clause which appears in University publications to include sexual orientation. I will raise this issue for consideration by the officers. Raising this issue for discussion is obviously not a decision on the merits of this issue. I am sure that the officers will give this issue and all of its attendant complexities full analysis and discussion. 

C. Conclusion 
I 
realize that my response to the recommendations of the (_ 
Ad Hoc Committee will not satisfy all members of the University 
community-in particular, those who regard recognition of 
GLND/SMC or creation and recognition of a student organization as the only acceptable solution. I believe, however, that, taken as a whole, the recommendations that I have accepted offer a significant base on which to build. 
like the committee, I think that the dialogue surrounding these issues has moved the University beyond where we were as a community a year ago. like the committee, I acknowledge that we still have much work to do. The recommendations for hall staff training, continuing education of rectors, campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues, forums on integrating sexuality and faith, the University-sponsored group, the efforts of Counseling Center and Campus Ministry, better communication of our intolerance for harassment based on sexual orientation, as well as the role of the Standing Committee in continuing our dialogue on these issues, represent the beginnings of a more comprehensive approach toward addressing the needs of our gay and lesbian students. 
The members of the committee spoke of the respect and trust for each other that grew in the course of their work together. May this same spirit characterize our work as a University community as we move forward in implementing these recommendations. I end this letter as I closed my original letter a year ag<r--a little further in our journey but with many miles still to travel. I ask you to join me in our continuing efforts to build a community in which each of us can realize our God­given potential-a community that is faithful to Gospel values which call us to chastity in a society that frequently settles for less, and a 
community that is faithful to the inclusive call of the Gospels both to 
see Christ in each other and be Christ to each other. 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs April2, 1996 




ACCENT
'luesday, April 2, 1996 page 7 
• MEDICAL MINUTE


-

the Internet 


Healthy tid-bits 
The PllJ For Men? 
Dr. Dennis Brown of Massachusetts General Hospital and colleagues claim that it may be possi­ble, at least in principle, to disrupt the acid environ­ment during sperm devel­

opment, "... opening the John Galvin 
door to a contraceptive Health Correspondent 
protocol that would pre­
vent normal sperm maturation." 
Due to high cost and time commitment lor research, many drug companies are backing off from developing new contraceptives. ~herefore, the idea of a chemical contracep­tiVe for males may he more of a vision than a reality. 
Alcohol Promotes Spread Of Cancer 
The next time you drink-to-delusion you may face a larger risk than ending up at the Linebacker. Binge drinking has been recently linked to the spread of eancerous tumors. 
Dr. Shamgar Ben-Eliyahu at Tel Aviv University, with colleagues at UClA, report in the April issue of Nature Medicine that " ... acute alcohol intoxication suppresses nat· ural killer cell activity and promotes tumor metastasis." Alcohol suppresses your natural immune response to the spread of cancer. 
Since about half of all tumors spread, and because this proctlss may occur before thEl detection of the primary tumor, the risk of excessive alcohol consumption should bfl taken seriously. 
Man's Blood May Harbor Cure For AIDS 
New Yorker Steve Crohn has the first known substance in the world that will defeat the HIV virus. Scientists alrElady know of many individuals who remain healthy t'or a very long time between infection with HIV and developing full-blown AIDS. However, the difference in the case of Crohn is that he appears to be completely resistant to HJV infection. 
Scientists have already identified one set of biochemical compounds, known as chemokines, which appear to be aeting in his blood to defeat HIV. These substances were first recognized only five years ago and appear to play a role in the immune system • the body's defense against invading bacterin and viruses. 
Despite the potential that lies in Crohn's blood, scientists stress that any vaccine or treatment is still a long way ofT. 
FDA Approves Nicotine Spray 
Smokers trying to quit are getting n new weapon: a nasal spray that gives them a squirt of nicotine to help resist cigarette cravings. The Food and Drug Administration announced Monday that Nicotrol NS is approved for sale, even though inhaling the pure nicotine poses a small risk that smokers will become as dependent on the mist as they are on cigarettes. 
The nicotine nasal spray. developed by Pharmacia & Upjohn Inc., enters the blood­stream faster than gum or the nicotine patch, offering the potential of almost immediate relief from the urge to smoke. 
McNeil Consumer Products, which will sell Nicotrol NS, said the spray will be in phar· macies later this year. 
John Galvin can be reached for questions and comments at John.P.Galllin.3@nd.edu 
few kny strokes o offers a variety 1~1liums as well, 
ite underground rojncts from the ·'s guide to going­llwto Pssay of tlw llage history and 
• easily accessible ite as well. 
unique aspect. Loyal fans will be able to 
join "cliques" to receive exclusive infor­mation pertaining their favorite characters, including those vicious rumors that are characteristic of melodramas. During the first viewing, "The East Village" seems just as shallow as other "soaps." But upon a deeper look, the soap opera exam­ines some very controversial sub­jects. It is not just random infor­mation on a computer screen, but rather an examination of what our culture has become. Keating explains, "'The East Village' is pure entertainment. It is not slow, and is certainly not for day-time soap audiences; rather, it is geared towards a younger crowd." The amount of work put into this World Wide Web effort must also be appreciated. The concept is truly unique and stands to gain a cull following as large as "Melrose Place" and "9021 0." "The East Village" will take some time to de­velop into a truly prosperous form of entertainment, but bear with it, because most serials do take a while to develop. Hemember the first few r.pisodes of "Beverly Hills 90210," "The Brenda Years"? The plots were so sim­ple, and the acting was so bad, yet the show has evolved into one trashiest and can continue and schedules do not need to be most-folh>wed television series of the decade. interrupted. Just check out the new episodes Unlike other soap operas, fans do not need to each week on Tuesdays and Thursdays to get a tune in at a certain time each week. Studies glimpse of the future of entertainment. 


rnati.ve' On-L •
1ne 
Southnrn California-the warm weather, lnyhallat Zuma 2. However, the one thing than my mom) is a good radio station. No 
STINKS!!! Personally, I love popular ), hut I also like hip-hop and rap. rough what South Bend has to on·er until But somn arn ingenious enough to bring 
stations from homn. And others call or e­to find out what's popular. g your eomputer and the Internet, Notre 
ts can listPn to any type of music from und the world. And AudioNet onn of many companies making this pos­
~~t has hneomc a major radio broadcast of stations such as KDGE Dallas and rnvolulionary sound terhnology from .realaudio.com) railed "HealAudio", transmit radio broadcasts from subscrib­nnds to go global is Pentium PC and an 
--takn note. 
, you only have to cliek on a HealAudio and thn audio begin playing instantly, w sound quality is equivalnnt to a good rn to run it is available for all computer 
platforms (PC, Mae, Unix). 
Thn eool part is that the stations offered by AudioNet are first-rate­everything from alternative music to classic rock. (No rap or hip-hop, though.) AudioNet also offers live broadcasts of most major sporting events, and even has a jukebox with over a hundred CDs in their archives. 
By now, you might be thinking, "Yes! Yes! This is a dream come true! But what do I need to make it work?" To eonnect from your dorm room or ofT-campus, you'll either need a minimum of a 486 PC or 68040 Macintosh, tons of HAM (memory), the HeaiAudio software from the above web address, software from the IHC (Information Hesource Center) and a 28.8 kps modem. When the eampus "HesNet" is finally turned on, you'll need the appropriate hardware and soft­wan~ to eonnect to that funny looking white box in the corner of your room. Call the orr for superfluous advice next fall. 
To cheek out AudioNet you can also use any PC, Mac, or Sun SPAHCstation in the clusters. You'll need some intestinal fortitude to set things up the first time, but once you do, you'll be very happy. 
AudioNet is on the cutting edge of Internet technology with its new apporaeh to radio broadcasting. This is the future of radio, and it is available now. The Internet won't save the world, but it'll definitely make it a better sounding plaee. 
As for me, AudioNet finally makes living in South Bend bearable. Well, almost. We still don't have cable TV... 
Jason is sophomore living in Keenan Hall, from Thousand Oaks, CA. You can e-mail him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd.edu 
r-~---------~-------------------------------__j 
~---­
page 8 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 2, 1996 
• TRACK 
Mixed results at Purdue Invite-
BY BRIAN REINTHALER 
Sports Writer 
The outdoor track and field season is officially under way. The Irish got out of the blocks last weekend with the Purdue Invitational. 
Two Notre Dame athletes in particular proved to be quick starters, turning in quality per­formances in more than one event early on. 
On the women's side, junior Alison Howard was outstanding in the field as well as on the track. Howard took first in the long jump with a leap of 5.38 meters (17-07.75). The jump was just enough to edge out her competitor from Purdue, Dawn Kline (5.36 meters). 
Howard continued to impress, capturing places in two running events. She finished fourth in both the 100 and 200 meter dashes, with times of 12.58 and 25.91, respectively. 
Head coach Joe Piane was very pleased with Howard's showings. 
"Alison just had a wonderful day," Piane said. 
The other star of the season­opening meet was sophomore Errol Williams. The highlight of his day came in the 110 meter hurdles. Williams crossed the finish line first in a time of 14.24, just three hundredths of a second in front of Indiana State's Will Lash (14.27). Williams proceeded to grab another top-three spot in the 200 mf)ters, with a 22.38 perfor­
mance. 
Other strong times for the men were contributed by senior Derek Seiling who finished third in the 1500 meter run and junior Pat Gorman who cap­tured third in the 800 meters. 
Long-distance races proved to be the strong point for the women as senior Kristen Dudas, freshman Kelly Peterson, and junior Heidi Reichenbach all turned in top ten fmishes. 
Dudas took fourth in the 1500 meters with a time of 4:41.91, while Peterson fmished eighth in the 3000 (10:33.34) and Reichenbach managed ninth in the 5000 (18:31.7). 
The field was also key, es­pecially for the men, who gath­ered six top five places. Senior Lamar Justice was the standout of the group. Responsible for two of the six impressive finish­es, Justice captured second in the triple jump with a distance of 14.69 meters (48-02.5) and fifth in the long jump with a bound of 6.90 meters (22­07.75). 
Freshman Thomas Dovidio added a fifth place in the triple jump, while sophomore Chris Smith pitched in a No. three fin­ish with a toss of 56.25 meters (184-06.0) in the javelin. 
Pole-vaulters turned in two of the top field performances for the match. Freshman Mike Brown and junior Dave Gerrity tied for second in the event, with equal vaults of 4.75 meters (15­07.0). 
However, these results did not please Brown. A jump of 16­
06.0 won the pole vault. 
"Neither of us were happy with our jumps," the freshman said. 
Yet, according to Brown, there is probably no need to worry at this point in time. 
Brown further explained, "Some individuals performed well at Purdue. Others of us did not. It was our first meet though and we are all looking to improve." 
The Irish will begin to look for that improvement as they face their home-opener this weekend at Moose Krause Field. The team will host a duel meet with Western Michigan Saturday. 
Piane said that the home meet will be the first true test for the team as a whole because there were no team scores at Purdue. 
~·our goal is certainly to win the meet," Piane said. "They (Western Michigan) have tons of sprinters and are strong in the field events. Let's just say it should be interesting." 
• NCAA BASKHRAU. 
Kentucky captures 'The Big Dance' 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD 
Kentucky has its first national championship in 18 years, the one it was sup­posed to win all season. 
The Wildcats got it with a 76-67 victory over Syracuse on Monday night, a loss that earned the Orangemen the respect few gave them going in. 
The sixth national title in school history, second only to UCLA's 11, came through the scoring of senior Tony Delk and freshman Ron Mercer. And, of course, the famed pressure defense and the ability to use college basket­ball's deepest roster. 
"We're a little bit like the Green Bay Packers," Kentucky coach Rick Pitino said. "The entire state of Kentucky owns our basketball team." 
Syracuse, a 14-point under­dog, has the most NCAA tour­nament victories without a title. A 36th NCAA win would have meant a first national championship. 
Now, this Syracuse team 
joins the one-point losers to Indiana in the 1987 champi­onship game in sustaining the most bitter defeats in school history. 
"We knew it would be tough," Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. "Kentucky made a couple of great plays when they had to. Delk is a great senior and a great play­er." 
Delk, voted the outstanding player, finished with 24 points and tied the champi­onship game record with seven 3-pointers. The Wildcats finished with 12 3s, critical in cracking Syracuse's 2-3 zone. Kentucky tied the championship game record for 3s by a team. 
Syracuse played only three reserves. They took one shot and did not score. 
Mercer came up with a career-high 20 points, all but six of the points the deep Kentucky bench provided. More important, the extra bodies enabled the Wildcats to keep up the defensive pres­sure; Syracuse finished with 24 turnovers, 19 more than it had in the semifinal win over Mississippi State. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
THINKING OF PRIESTHOOD? 
Check us out at: 
http://members.aol.com/frjohnr/ 
html/voc1.html 
e-mial: lrjohnr@aol.com 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55846 
Let's Rave Baby 

ILOST & FOU_ND I 
Found: In Turtle Creek parking lot: Silver Braclet with little suns on it. Call Brent at 273-6183 
Found: Car Key on Quad in front of O'Shag. Call236-9134 and leave message. 
I found a religious medallion in 
LaFortune last Friday night. If it 
belongs to you, call Rich at 
4-3314 
found: SUNGLASSES @ CJ'S on Monday (ST. PATTY'S 3/18). Call Jen @ x4805 to claim! 

WANTED 
MAKE MONEY NOW NOT 
SOMEDAY! 
Rapidly growing I 
Telecommunications co.needs 
Reps in this area. Great financial 
opportunity for lull & PIT position. 
Call today! (219) 287-2053 
Mark Wright Independent Rep & 
Area Coordinator lor Excel 
I'm headed to Rochester NY lor 
Easter. Call233-1259 if you need 
ride. justin 
WANTED: Good people to earn 
money by becoming reps lor 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 
299-1999 evenings. 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­
Teach basic English in Prague, 
Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching 
certificate or European languages 
required. Inexpensive Room & 
Board + other benefits. For info. 
call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 
Want to get cash lor your old 
Sega games? Call Jonathan 
X 1047 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & lull-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call1-206-971-3550 ext. C55844 
$ Cruise Ships Hiringl Students Needed! $$$+Free Travel (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaiil) SeasonaVPermanent, No Exper. Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 ex1C1114 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING NEXT YEAR? TEACH FOR AMERICA IS LOOKING FOR OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS TO TEACH UNDER-SERVED STU­DENTS IN URBAN AND RURAL AREAS. CALL 1-800-823-1230 DEADLINE APRIL 3RD. 

FOR RENT 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. 
VERY CLOSE TO NO. 
IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
NICE FURNISHED HOMES GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
NEED SUMMER HOUSING? 
Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at 
College Park lor rent. 
CALL X2915 for details. 
5 BR; 605 St Peter 
$925/mo 232-2595 
Room lor Fa11'96 
5-min drive! $250 incl 
utilities & extrasl 
1-4809/232-7175 
NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? 
CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK 
CONDOS 
273-1738 
IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. Grad. -Football games 219-277-7003 
Available in August 3-4 bedroom house -2 full baths relrig., stove, washer and dryer, fur­nished. Attached 2 car garage + off street parking. 234-1336 

FOR SALE 
Nissan Sentra, 1983, 90000 miles, 5 Speed, in excellent running condi­tion for$ 1400/obo. Call277-5106 or 1-5606. 
Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002 
1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner, immaculate, 2 lull baths, garage, finished lower level, walk to NO, range, dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator, w/d, $77,900,277-8898 
HOT! HOT! HOT! Lose 20 lbs. by summer break! New Metabolism Breakthrough. Results Guaranteed. Free gilt with purchase. $29.95 cost. Call1-800-334-1664. 

TICKETS 
(4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9 272-7233 

PERSONAL 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VII! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0a0a0o0 
JUST AN HOUR OR TWO TO HELP FEED THE HUNGRYI 
Come to Stepan Center today between 3 pm and 7 pm, to help make and distribute Easter food baskets lor the needy. Even a hall hour can help out! 
CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF Stan Kenton, Henry Mancini. Roberta Flack, Branford and Winton Marsalis, and Ed Shaughnessy, they've all been to CJF. Have you????? Colligiate Jazz Festival April12 and 13 at Stepan Center Be there!! CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF 
Have room lor 2 to Pittsburgh. Leaving late Wednesday. x1777. 
Look out, Harry Caray is back, and he's drunk as all helll 
Jebidiah Springfield says: A noble spirit embiggens even the smallest man. 
Ross Perot is the candidate lor all the crack whores across America 
Erotic Party -leading Poland into the future 
Calif. actress-writer wile & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
Oh yeah ...we know who he is. Except we call him by his real name: The Ad Manager's Whipping Boy ... 
Coming April12 and 13... The Collegiate Jazz Festival at Stepan Center. It's more fun than something that's really fun! 
REVEREND FUNK 
<><><><><><><><><><><><><> 
come see a groove so big it won't even lit in your moul 
DALLOWAY'S COFFEE HOUSE AT ST. MARY'S 
WEDNESDAY AT 9:00 
$NO COVER$ 
ITS NOT TOO LATE!!! 
Work Catering lor Graduation! -FREE Room/Boardl -$6.50 per hr. -May 11-19 
Housing Deadline: 4/4/96 
Sign Up: M-TH 9:30-5:30 Catering Office 631-5449 Lower Level of SOH 
I love you Dan Fannon! 
The Florida Panthers will crawl their way back to the top 
Johnnie, they're all coming your way.... I accept no responsibility lor your crude and tasteless humor (although I did think it was Iunny, so therefore I must be crude and taste­less as well..) 
ADOPTION~ 
I'm a very happy little girl named Caitlin who is adopted. I would love a baby sister or brother to play with. My parents are NO grads. Dad's a lawyer and mom plays with me lull time. We have a wonderful life, with plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love lor a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential &legal. 
OK, Kenny, here you go ..... 
NO baseball -the new tradition 
COME ON, LADIES!!! DO YOU HAVE BALLS? SIGN UP FOR WOMEN'S BOOK­STORE TODAY! Mon. and Wed. 7-9 & Tues. 11-1 &7-9 in LaFUN 
The House Croissant: one step below and esophageal orgasm. 
PC: Blame it all on .... the rain. 
I'll let her stay ..... lor now. She's not bothering me too much .... 
Hey eddie pooh-listen to me now, believe me later godmother. don't pull the bus over. don't call off the dogs or hold the phone. godmother. plain and sim­ple. 
blurndog­two years less than ...23. 
the 8ARENAKED LADIES rock my world the BARENAKED LADIES rock my world the BARENAKEO LADIES rock my world the BARENAKED LADIES rock my world the BARENAKED LADIES rock my world the BARENAKED LADIES rock my world 
Cora and Ash­1 think that was the last check. but i'll see what i can do. 
Shennie, How's the hangover? Happy 21! 
TOGA! TOGA! TOGA! Just kidding .... like I have time to think, let alone that. ... 
And the grand prize goes to ... You've won a bottle of flavored lotion that gets hot when you blow on it. Now what are you going to do? 
0101!!111!!! 
When I think of sexy blondes, Fred can't help but come to mind. 
I'm only taking out my belly ring when I get pregnant. What about you? 
Jed. I really do go to school here. I'm writing you this classified to prove it. Mystery chic. 
LSF-11 you need any help eating the contents of that basket... 
Regan-Where've you been?! missing you and breaks taken with entire backpack. 
My theory is that we should each get two freebies. 
diet coke 
I never thought this day would come. Want to go to Wings, etc. 
tonight? 
i thought it was Iunny. 
A freebie is a useful thing, especial­ly when one is drunk. This is all ­'s fault. 
i think i was framed. it was on the 
floor the next day 
Don't do any1hing I wouldn't do tonight. ... And how nice of you to get so 
Rumor has it somebody partied their bra off at Lucy Coopers! 
Come see Sabor Latino, George and the Freeks, Emily Lord, God in Salsa, Legion of Doom and more at the 
ZAHM HALL ACOUSTICAL JAM 
LaFortune Ballroom, Wednesday 
April3, 7-10 pm. Tickets $3 at the 
LaFortune Info Desk 
Benefitting La Casa de Amistad 
Youth and Community Center 
hey Ieahy, when's the next show 
with the ice machine? 
burgers and fries alter mass!! 

Tuesday, April 2, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 9 
pmtty much the same. Hutgers 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS
managed just six hits in six in­
Softball Tennis
nings, while the oiTense, led by continued from page 12 Knudsen (one RBI), Giampaolo continued from page 12 

Belles split weekend 
(two hits), and first baseman 
tum through the rest of the Kelly Howe (one HBI), lifted the came Indiana's Andrew Held 6­wnekend. Starter Joy Battersby Irish to a 4-0 win. 2,6-4. 

results in St. Louis 
pitehed six shutout innings in Starter Angela Bessolo drew The Hoosiers picked up their 

the sm:ond game on Saturday to twlp propel Notre Dame to a 5­0 vietory. Knudson and second basnrnan Mnghun Murray each drovtl in a pair of runs to secure the vie tory. 
"Jenna Knudson has really hmm a pleasant surprise for us at the plate," said Millnr. "She has improved her hitting so mw:h since the boginning of the ytmr. It's good to see her eon­trihutn the way she has for us." 
Kobata was buek on the hill in the third game of the series on Sunday, and the results were the starting assignment in the finale, and the freshman con­tinued to show signs of future stardom. In the 8-2 win, Bessolo limited the Scarlet Knights to just one run in five innings while striking out five in the process. 
"I didn't pitch as well as I'd like, but the weather was kind of a faetor," said Bessolo. "''m getting more confident each time out with the defense play­ing the way they have. llopdully, I ean keep improving through the end of the year." 
two points in two tough three set matches in which both Jakup Pietrowski, at No 2 sin­gles, and Brian Patterson at No. 4 were nipped by Kevin Gable and Hayden Gibson. 
Pietrowski has fallen into a bit of a rut lately but played well Sunday as he lost 6-1,5-7, 6-4. Patterson had been on a hot streak before Gibson outlasted him 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
"I thought that everybody played well enough to win to­day," Bayliss mentioned. "This time of the year everybody is tired and beat up and looking one match ahead, so it was nice to pick up a solid win." 
The doubles side saw the Pietrowski/Patterson tandem see their first action at No. 1 doubles. They dismissed Pope and Held without surrendering a game, 8-0. 
In the No. 2 doubles slot Sprouse teamed with sopho­more Daniel Hothschild to clinch the doubles point with an 8-4 win over Filipek and Gable. 
The Hoosiers managed to pick up a doubles win as the No. 3 duo of Gibbs and Stefan Behling defeated Simme and O'Brien 8­
5. Going into this match the Irish has lost four of their last five, but since their schedule has been so tough, their confi­dence was not shaken. 
Sprouse explained the team's attitude, "We were pretty loose going in. We knew that we had played some very tough compe­tition and we knew that we were due for a win. So, ev­eryone was eager to get that win." 
VONT'J'O'R(jTT' MOM! 
:Mother's Day is on its way! Take fiome a taste ofNotre Dame! 
~ 
(jreat 'Beginnings. (,jranc£ Tina{es. 
'The on{y cook6ook one neetfs for making fa6u{ous ayyetizers anac{esserts. 
(jreat for tai{gating anaentertaining. 'Easy to fo{{ow, triec£anatrue recipes. 
.J\ny .Mom wi{{ {ove tfiis junior League of Soutfi 'Bene{ cook6ook. 
.J\vai{a6{e at tfie Jfammes 'Bookstore. 







The Observer 
is now accepting applicationsfor: 
Circulation Drivers 
Ifyou have 11:00AM-2:00PM open for the rest of the year and possibly next year, please call Matt Casey at the Observer Office, 1-5313. 
By KATHLEEN POLICY 
Sporrs Writer 
The results of this weekend's matches at Washington University were mixed for the Saint Mary's tennis team. The team beat Augustana College 7-0, but lost to Washington University 1-7. 
The matehes started with bad weather in Saint Louis, and Belles Head Coach Katie Cromer said Augustana agreed to play to decision instead of playing the full match. The weather did not stop the action as the coaches did not pull the players off of the courts after they finished the fifth match. 
"We did as I expected against Augustana, but I don't think we played our best against them," said #1 singles player, junior Kate Kozacik. 
SMC lost all of their matches against Washington University except for freshman Morey Graham's win at #6 singles, 3­6, 6-1, 7-6. 
"I am happy with the play. I just wish we could have gotten over the hump and won more of the matches," Coach Cromer said. The matches were close with Kozacik losing 6-4, 6-4, and #2 singles player Nancy Sorota losing her match in three sets, 5-7, 7-5, 5-7. 
"Kate played a good match," Cromer said. "The girl she played from Washington took the #1 Division III singles play­er in the country from Hhodes College to three sets." 
"In doubles against Washington University, we 
were down 6-0, and came back to 7-4, but we could not catch up with that little margin for error," Kozacik said. 
Ann Underwood's absence 
from  the  line-up  hurt  the  
Belles this  weekend.  Normally  
the  #5  singles  player,  

Underwood missed the match for personal reasons. Thus, for the second time this sea­son, freshman Betsy Gemmer stepped into the #5 spot, and the rest of the team also adjusted accordingly. 
Going into the match, there was some concern over how the travel would effect the Belles. The traveling did not make a difference to the team, according to Kozacik. 
"The day kind of blended to­gether into one long day, but I don't think it had any effect on the play," Kozacik said. 
Kozacik also felt that her match against Augustana was not a particularly good one. 
"I started out slowly and did not do well in the first set, but really picked it up in the sec­ond set," Kozacik said. 
Cromer felt that the match was a good experience for the players because Washington's program is highly ranked in Division Ill. 
The Belles'host the Univer­sity of Chicago at 3 p.m. "I don't think that we will walk over them, but we should be able to win," Cromer said. "They were also playing at Washington this weekend and looked like a decent team, but I think that we can beat them if we play like we should." 

Recycle The Observer 
Make Money Now 
Rapidly growing telecommunications company seeks Reps & Trainers in this area. Positions transferable to other areas of the coun­try. Great financial opportunity for full and part time positions. Call today! 
Michael Summers 
Regional Director 
679-9257 
LSAT GMAT 

MCAT 
GRE. 
Are you prepared? We are. 
t Limit of IS Students per Class t Free Extra Help t The Best Instructors 
• Satisfaction Guaranteed 
THE , PRINCETON REVIEW 
Call today! Clas.~es are forming now. 

(800)865-7737 
or 1he E.T S
T P.R i1 n01 affthl!ed wtth Pnncclon 

The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/Michelle Sweet 
Junior southpaw Gregg Henebry will get the nod against the Falcons of Bowling Green as the Irish go for 
thier seventh straight victory. 

Baseball 
continued from page 12 
and Rich Sauget, who struck out five in two innings of relief work for his second save, com­bined to allow only six hits to the Bulldogs, who entered the game hitting at a .294 clip. 
"Brian (pitching coach Brian 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL -RecSports will be pffering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 2. 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8:00-11:00 p.m. in the Joyce Center. CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE -Course includes four sessions which meet on Tuesdays from 6:00 to 7:30 
p.m. The dates are April2, 9, 16, and 23. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8.00 for the class and is open to students, staff, and faculty. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required. --­
~ • Vintage Levis 
~i · Drop Necklaces • Hemp Chokers ~ THE • Toe Rings • Unique Dresses 
.t 


il STYLE 
1912 S. 111h (U.S. 31133) 2 'k miles north of state line Layaway & Belle Plaza, NilesCo., INC• Alterations Available 687-9123 





Teaching and 
Research Abroad! 
Announcing 
The Fulbright Competition for I997..98. 
All freshmen, sophomores, and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Thursday evening, April 11, 1996 at 7:00 PM in room 126 DeBartolo 
•AGreat Notre Dame Cfradition ofWinnine Fulbriehts • 
O'Connor) has worked very hard with these guys," said Mainieri of the Irish pitching staff. 
"He's got them believing in their abilities more. They're throwing strikes, and our two catchers are doing a great job of handling them from behind the plate." 
The Irish will continue their seemingly endless homestand 
• Silver Rings & Bracelets 
today, as they face the Falcons of Bowling Green, a team which has Mainieri concerned. 
"We have a lot of respect for Bowling Green," said Mainieri. "They beat us in our home opener here last season, and they have a good team again this year. We're playing good ball, though. We just want to keep it going." 
~ 1O% off ~ with Student t,; 
I.D. L 
f 
Hours: t-. M-F 1o-7 Sat. 1o-6 L) Closed Sunday t,: 
Tuesday, April2, 1996 
•Gm.F 


Notre Dame places ninth in tournament 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's golf team fin­ished tied for ninth at this week­end's 16-team Johnny Owens Invitational in Lexington Kentucky. Duke won the 52­hole event with a team score of 885, while the Irish shot a 918. 
Coach George Thomas isn't worried about his team's start, which he feels attributes to poor putting and weather. 
"We struck the ball real well and we competed real well. If our short game would have been more consistent, we could have trimmed fifteen to twenty strokes off of our final total," Thomas said. 
Thomas plans on his squad working on their putting this week as long as the weather cooperates. South Bend's eli­
4121 SOUTH MICHIGAN...SOUTH BEND 219/291-9200 
5327 NORTH GRAPE ROAD...MISHAWAKA 219/277-8121 
CONCORD MALL ENTRANCE... ELKHART 219/875-8511 
mate limited Thomas' squad to just two rounds of golf. 
"We were competing against a lot of Sun Belt schools down there," Thomas said, hinting at the disadvantage his linksters have to southern students who are able to golf year-round. 
"It's still early, the timing's just not quite there. It's tough being out of competition for three months. To improve, right now it's just important that we keep playing," Hepler said. 
After shooting a 309 and a 304 on Friday, the Irish fin­ished the invitational with a 305 on Saturday. Thomas feels his golfers need to shoot sub-300 scores to compete with top pro­grams, but he's not worrying yet. 
''I'm not disappointed in the guys, we're just in a little putting slump," he said. 
'li.JCsday, April 2, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 11 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 

MISTER BOFFO 
JOE MARTIN 

DILBERT 
I WISH I 1-\~D AN IVY LEAGUE. OEGREE SO 1 COULD e,E. PROMOTED TO VICE. PRE.~IDENT. 
A 5 E A CHAN H E R 5 
,. 
u 0 IT'S If'I\PO~SIBLE TO BE. 0 -' ~ VICE PRESIDENT 
~)"' 
Ill
,. WiiHOUT ONE. "' 0 
;! 
... I'LL BEl $100 
0 
Ill 
u I CAN TURN 
-~ A. R~T INTO A. w VICE PRESIDENT 
( 
SCOTT ADAMS 
0
,. 
~ 
"WE.'VE. RE.OR­.: GOOD, BUT 
u THfo,i WAS 
GANl'Z.E.D TO ~ TRY SI>.YING 
FOCU5 ON 
~ 
,. Ii AS THOUGI-\ 
OUR COI\E.
Ill. , 
'(OUR SOUL 
COMPETE NC't. '' 
. 
~ JUST ABANDOI'lE.D 
'C 
'<OUR 1;00'1'.
! 
;; 
::l ) 
"'g: 
Q 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t Twitch 6 Dispenser candy 9 Mumblety peg item 
14 When repeated, an Evergreen State city 
15 Dweller on the 
Mekong River te Countryish t 1 Book filled with 
legends 18 W.W. II tour sponsor 
19 Leave--on (influence) 20 Pirate's 
exclamation 23 Sweetie 24 Country dance 25 Maiden name 
preceder 
26 Sweet potatoes 27 Digs tunnels 31 March 17 celeb 34"-
Rheingold" 35 One of Frank's 
exes 36 Pirate's situation 41 Two-time 42 1948 pact: Abbr. 43 Filmdom's Dr. 
Kildare 44 Robbers 47 Fairway warning 49 Opposite of a 
ques. 50 Lascivious 51 The Beatles' 
-Pepper 54 Pirate's destination 59 Upper crust 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
60 Horse's morsel 81 Threat for a Wild West outlaw 62 "So long, amigo" 63 Arthur Godfrey played one 64 Drawbridges cross them 65 Barely 
noticeable 66 U.A.R. member 67 Cherbourg shes 
DOWN 
1 Swagger 2 Prefix with 
logical or genic 3 Tuckered out 4 Bulgarian, e.g. 5 Pricey Italian car 6 Feathers 
1 Writing pad support 

Puzzle by Deborah Trombley 
8 Kind of suit 
28 Gen. Bradley 
9 "Seinfeld" 
29 Beef
neighbor 
bourguignon ~-=+~~~ 10 Show song ingredient ~,-+-=+::-i 11 Dies -30 Fifth Avenue 12 Co-star of name 55-Down 3t Hit the deck? .;;,...+.:.,:..+::-+-:-+:-:-! 13 Lodge members 32 "Bye!" 33 Strategize
ITJN~W~~-21 Dreamy
~ acronym 34Sot'swoe 
~:-:+~:-+.::-t::T:-r-1 22 Lavatory sign 37 "--fast!" 1-+=+-+--1 26 Prattle 38 High-test, e.g. ~-:-:-+:=+.-=+::-! 27 Scrooge 39 "So sorry" 
exclamation 40 Liquid in drums 
45 Scopes trial locale, 1925 46 Kiddingly 47 Rankle 48 One who gives a 
hoot 
50 Not watertight 
51 Drinker's toast 
52 Beau-­
53 Lock 54 Heedless 55 He was Pierce 
on "M*A*S*H" 56 Hour on a grandfather 
clock 57 We, oui? 58 Hip 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Show greater enthusiasm when pur­suing your goals. An all-out effort at work could lead lo a bonus or better assignments. Exciting educational opportunities are featured next fall. Ambition counts big with those in authority. Be willing to work long hours to make a team project a resounding success. Innovative ideas command respecl early in 1997. Speak up if you see a better way lo do something. A new alliance benefits you both emotion­ally and financially. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY; country singer Emmy­lou Harris, actress Linda Hunt, L.A. Dodgers greal Don Sutton, singer Marvin Gaye. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Continue to show a heahhy respect for an employer's clout. Being a team player will help you make valuable contributions. Trust your intuitive hunches over co-workers' unsolicited advice. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are feeling much more opti­mistic today. Old friends miss you; gel in touch. Problems with an authority figure can be avoided. Show tact. Work from a background position and keep your head down. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Joining forces with a newcomer could change the course of your life. Proceed with both high hopes and caution. Keep your schedule flexible to accommodate last-minule meet­ings. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A hard day's work puts you in the mood for a little pampering. This could lead to an extravagant pur­chase, a high-calorie repast or even a long massage. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Romance heals up. Show your gen­erous, compassionate side. A friend requests your help with a household project gone awry. A compuler or other electronic item captures your interest. · 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Deal with any insecurities now. Once you banish old fears, you will be free to be the confident, capable person you have always been inside. A friend does you a favor. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A co· worker who wants to know you bet­ter, includes you in a family event. Accept this invilation if you are on lhe same wavelength. Take care of minor repairs before they become major. 
SCORPIO (OcL 23-Nov. 21 ): The issue of financial security may be weighing on your mind. Keep moving ahead. A therapist's help could be the key to resolving a fami­ly problem. 
SAGirfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Address the suggestions of a family member who is trying to be helpful but is not succeeding, Make a break with the past and gel on with your life. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Trust your feelings implicitly. Energy reserves will be there when needed. Getting together wilh new acquaintances could lead to a pleas­ant evening. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A good day to catch up with over­due correspondence. You find a new way to handle appointments. You may have to work overtime to meet a deadline. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Thoughts of past defeats could be daunting until you realize that we all have our share of failures. You have grown 1remendously as a person and can look forward 10 many exciling new triumphs! 
• OF INTEREST 
Toomas Hendrlk lives, Estonian ambassador to the United States will be giving a lecture entitled, "Estonia and Security Issues in the Baltic Sea Region" today at 
4:15 p.m. It is co-sponsored with the Nanovi Center for European Studies and the Center for East European & Russian Business Studies. It will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. ~·social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Service Learning Opportunities for Fall 1996-97" is now available to all interested students and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and in the Library Office of Campus Ministry. A blood drive will be held today in the Band Building until4 p.m. Walk-ins are welcome. Help feed the hungry... The World Hunger coali­tion needs your help to assemble and hand out Easter Food baskets to those in need. To volunteer, please come to Stepan Center today between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. Juan Mendez of the Human Rights Watch, Kellogg Institute. and the Center for Civil and Human nights, will be giving a seminar entitled "Accountability: New Themes and Challenges in Human Rights," today at 
12:30 p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Campus-wide Stations of the Cross will be held at 7 p.m. tonight beginning at the Grotto. An opportunity for individual confession will be available at tho Basilica afterward. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame North South Roast Top Sirloin of Beef Roast Turkey Breast Grilled Sole Spinach Fettuccine Alfrodo Seafood Medley Stir-Fry Whipped Potatoes 
Saint Mary's Eggplant Parmesan Rotisserie Chicken BeefLo Mein 

IH Team Tennis of Champions.. Men's and Women's 
Deadline: April 3 Captain's mM wIJlf~1n1©I~J ©IN.IILWil Joyce Center Auditorium 



631-6100 
May 2, 1996 





SPORTS 

Christian Parker leads Irish to sixth straight win 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Sports Editor 
Ah, memories. 
The Notre Dame baseball team had the chance to relive their MCC days yesterday, blanking Butler University 3­0 in a last-minute matchup at the Eck. 
A less than impressive throng of 47 was on hand for the contest, which was arranged this morning to help fill in the gap which was created in the Irish schedule after their series with Big East rival Villanova was can­celed last weekend. 
The win was the sixth straight and fourteenth of the last sixteen for the 18-7 Irish, and was marked by quality pitching and timely hitting. 
Christian Parker improved to 5-0 on the season, crafting a seven inning, six hit shutout in what was, at least statisti­cally, his best performance on the hill this season. 
"I've been pitching better the last few weeks," said Parker, who came into the game with an unblemished 4­0 mark but a 5.28 ERA. "I just figured I was going to go out there and go right at them this week. I've been pretty fortunate so far this season, but I knew today that I was going to have to go out there and put zeros on the board." 

Parker did just that, hitting his spots to the tune of three strikeouts and only two walks, while pitching out of serious jams in the sixth and seventh inning. 
Parker's control seemed to be much improved, as the pitcher who came into the game averaging a walk every 
1.4 innings allowed just two free passes in seven solid in­nings. 
"I thought Christian Parker threw great," commented head coach Paul Mainieri. That was as fine a display of control that I've seen him exhibit. He got the clutch outs when he needed them." 
And George Restovich got the clutch hit when the Irish needed it. 
The senior first baseman boosted his team high RBI total to 26 when he lofted a two out, two run double into the gap in left center in the bottom of the third inning, scoring Paul Turco and Scott Sollmann. 
The two runs would prove to be all the Irish would need, as both teams exhibited solid pitching on the mound. 
"Both their pitchers did a nice job," said Mainieri of Butler's Steve Magill and Jeremy Guier, who between them surrendered just seven hits on the afternoon. "They played well in the field also. We had to earn everything we got today." 
The Irish pitching, which seems to be improving by leaps and bounds, was also extremely solid, as Parker 
see BASEBALL/ page 10 
Baseball 
vs. Bowling Green, April 2, 4 p.m. 
Softball 
vs. Butler, April 2, 4 p.m. 
Track 
vs. Western Michigan, April6 
Tuesday, April 2, 1996 

Softball sweeps Rutgers 
Notre Dame dominates Big East debut 
By MIKE DAY Assistant Sports Editor 
Even in a new situation against an unfamiliar foe, it seemed just like old times. 
The way the Notre Dame soft­ball team opened up the Big East season, one would have tJ:lought they were back in the MCC wiping the floor with pow­erless league rivals. This time around, the competition may have been different, but the out­come was still the same. 
Indeed, the Irish experienced little trouble in their first ever Big East weekend, sweeping all four games against Rutgers to improve their mark to 22-10 overall and a perfect 4-0 in con­ference play. 
"I couldn't think of a better way to open up our first season in the Big East," said Irish head coach Liz Miller. "I think we kind of set the tone in the first inning of the first game, and that just kind of inspired us through the rest of the week­end." 
Notre Dame wasted little time showing Rutgers that they were ready to be accepted as the newest member of the con­ference. The Irish jumped all over the Scarlet Knights pitching for 10 runs in the bottom of the first inning. 
Katie Marten led off the inning with a single, and the Irish never looked back. Marten fin­ished the game with four hits in five at bats to go along with three runs batted in. Right field­er Jenna Knudson collected three hits and drove in a pair of runs, and center fielder Jennifer Giampaolo added two hits and two RBI's in the winning effort. 
"The way we swung the bats in the first inning was absolutely incredible," said Miller. "We set out to provide some support for (starter) Terri Kobata, but I didn't anticipate what hap­pened. I have never seen any­thing like that as long as I've been in coaching." 
As impressive as the Irish of­fensive juggernaut performed, Kobata matched the effort on the mound. 
The senior All-American lost a perfect game in the last inning but still finished her best outing of the year with 12 strikeouts in five innings. 
The Irish carried the momen­
see SOFTBALL I page 9 

Senior captain Mike Sprouse upset Hoosier sophomore Derrick Pope, 6-2, 6-4, and helped the Irish break their losing streak. 
Irish snap losing streak 
ByJOEYCAVATO Sports Writer 
Some teams look to rebound from a three game losing streak by returning home. However, the Notre Dame men's tennis team last home match was in February and their next home m.atch will be on the tenth of this month. 
So, playing in the same state was the next best thing as the Irish traveled again this week­end, but this time they stated inside the Indiana border. 
This past Sunday, the tennis squad looked to snap a three game losing streak as they headed to Bloomington to square off against the Indiana Hoosiers. After losing four out of their last five the Irish saw this match as a chance to crack back into the winning column. 
And crack back they did as 
Lacrosse 
at Harvard, April 6 
Women's Tennis 
at Texas, April4 
SMC Sports 
they defeated regional foe 5-2. The Irish got solid play from top to bottom of the lineup winning four of six singles matches in straight sets to improve their record to 1 0-7. 
After traveling to North Carolina and Alabama for their last five matches head coach Bobby Bayliss was happy to return to the heartland. 
"It was nice to play somebody from our part of the country," Bayliss remarked. "It was also good for us to pick up a solid win." 
Captain Mike Sprouse got back to his winning ways as he defeat­ed one of the top twenty players in the country in Hoosier sopho­more Derek Pope, 6-2, 6-4. 
At No. 3 junior Ryan Simme continued his great recent play. After playing at No 1 singles last year, Ryan was moved to No. 3 because foot surgery has ham­pered his game. However, Simme has picked up his play lately and has won four out of his last five matches including a convincing win over Bo Gibbs 6­3, 6-2. 
"After struggling early Ryan has been on the upswing as of late," Bayliss observed. 
Simmie thinks that his better play has been due to his lack of pain in his foot. 
"It was just going to take time to get back into the flow of things," Simmie explained. 
John J. O'Brien picked up an­other win Sunday as he contin­ued his solid play at No. 5 sin­gles. O'Brien earned a point for the Irish as he overcame Mike Filipek 6-4, 6-3. 
Brian Harris got into dual match action for the second time of the season as Jason Pun was out of the lineup. Harris over­
see TENNIS I page 9 
Tennis vs. U. ofChicago Wed., April3 p.m. 

• Men's golf gets off to a slow start 
Softball at Hope College Tues., April 2 
see page 10 
• 
Track kicks offoutdoor season see page 8 

• 
Saint Mary's tennis results 


see page 9 



